Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 19, August 1, 1782 to March 11, 1783
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_19/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 9]
Editorial Method and Apparatus v DLC DLC(ESR) DNA DSoC De-Ar DeHi ICHi InU-Li M-Ar MH-H MHi MSaE MWA MdAA MdHi MeHi MiDbEI MiU-C N NEh NHi NN NNPM Nc-Ar NcD NcU Nh-Ar NhD NhHi Nj NjHi NjMoHP NjP PHC PHi PPAmP PPIn PPRF PU R-Ar RHi RNHi Library of Congress Library of Congress, Early State Records Collection National Archives and Records Administration Society of the Cincinnati, Washington, D.C. Delaware Public Archives Commission, Dover Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington Chicago Historical Society Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomington Massachusetts Archives, Boston Harvard University, Houghton Library, Cambridge Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston Essex Institute, Salem, Mass. American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass. Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore Maine Historical Society, Portland Edison Institute, Henry Ford Museum & Greenfield Village Library, Dearborn, Mich. William L. Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Mich. New York State Library, Albany East Hampton Free Library, East Hampton, N.Y. New-York Historical Society, New York New York Public Library Pierpont Morgan Library, New York North Carolina State Department of Archives and His tory, Raleigh Duke University, Durham, N.C. University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, Concord Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord New Jersey State Library, Trenton, N.J. Newjersey Historical Society, Newark Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown, N.J. Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia Independence National Historical Park, Philadelphia Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia Rhode Island State Archives, Providence Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence Newport Historical Society, Newport, R.I.


[Page 10]
vi Editorial Method and Apparatus RPB-JH John Hay Library, Brown University, Providence, R.I. RPJCB John Carter Brown Library, Providence ScHi South Carolina Historical Society, Charleston ScU University of South Carolina, Columbia TKL Public Library of Knoxville, Tenn. Vi Virginia State Library, Richmond ViU University of Virginia, Charlottesville ViW College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va. ABBREVIATIONS AND SHORT TITLES Adams, Writings (Cushing) Adams, Samuel. The Writings of Samuel Adams. Edited by Harry A. Cushing. 4 vols. Boston: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-8. Bartlett, Records of RI. Bartlett, John A., ed. Records of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in New England, vols. 8-10. Providence: Cooke, Jackson & Co., 1863-65. Bio. Dir. of Md. Legis. A Biographical Dictionary of the Maryland Legislature, 1635-1789. Edited by Edward C. Papenfuse et al. 2 vols. Baltimore: Johns Hop kins University Press, 1979-85. Bio. Dir. Cong. U.S. Congress. Biographical Directory of the United States Congress, 1774-1989. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1989. Blount, Papers (Keith) Blount, John Gray. The fohn Gray Blount Papers. Edited by Alice B. Keith. Raleigh: State Department of Archives and History, 1952. Boudinot, Life and Letters Boudinot, J. J. The Life, Public Services, Addresses, and Letters of Elias Boudinot. 2 vols. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin, 1896; reprint ed., New York: Da Capo Press, 1971. Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C., ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Congress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36. Cal. ofVa. State Papers Virginia. Calendar of Virginia State Papers. Edited by William P. Palmer. 11 vols. Richmond: 1875-93; reprint ed., New York: Kraus Reprint Corp., 1968. Clinton, Papers (Hastings) Clinton, George. Public Papers of George Clinton, First Governor of New York, 1777-1795, 1801-1804. Edited by Hugh Hastings and J. A. Holden. 10 vols. New York and Albany: Wynkoop Hallenbeck Craw ford Co. et al., 1899-1914.


[Page 11]
Editorial Method and Apparatus vii DAB Dictionary of American Biography. Edited by Allen Johnson and Dumas Malone. Delaware Archives Delaware Public Archives Commission. Delaware Archives, 5 vols. Wilmington, 1911-16. Delaware Assembly Proceedings Delaware. Proceedings of the Assembly of the Lower Counties on Delaware, 1770-76, of the Constitutional Convention of 1776, and of the House of Assembly of the Delaware State, 1776-1781. Edited by Claudia L. Bush man et al. Newark: University of Delaware Press, 1986. Evans, Am. Bibliography Evans, Charles. American Bibliography. 12 vols. Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett) Hamilton, Alexander. The Papers of Alexander Hamilton. Edited by Harold C. Syrett et al. 26 vols. New York: Columbia University Press, 1961-86. Hening, Statutes Hening, William W. The Statutes at Large; Being a Collection of All the Laws of Virginia. 13 vols. Richmond: J. & G. Cochran, 1809-23. Iredell, Papers (Higginbotham) Iredell, James. The Papers of James Iredell. 2 vols. Edited by Don Hig ginbotham. Raleigh, N.C.: Division of Archives and History, 1976. Jay, Papers (Morris) Jay, John. John Jay, The Winning of the Peace: Unpublished Papers, 1780-1784. Edited by Richard B. Morris et al. New York: Harper & Row, 1980. JCC U. S. Continental Congress. Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. 34 vols. Edited by Worthington C. Ford and Gaillard Hunt. Washington: Library of Congress, 1904—37. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) Jefferson, Thomas. The Papers of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by Julian P. Boyd et al. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1950-. Jones, Letters (Ford) Jones, Joseph. Letters of Joseph Jones, of Virginia, 1777-1787. Edited by Worthington C. Ford. Washington: Department of State, 1889. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda) Idzerda, Stanley J. et al., eds. Lafayette in the Age of the American Revo lution: Selected Letters and Papers, 1776—1790. 5 vols. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1977—83. Letters of Virginia Governors Virginia. Official Letters of the Governors of the State of Virginia. Edited by Henry R. Mcllwaine. 3 vols. Richmond: Superintendent of Public Printing, 1926-29.


[Page 12]
viii Editorial Method and Apparatus Livingston, Papers (Prince) Livingston, William. The Papers of William Livingston. Edited by Carl E. Prince et al. 5 vols. Trenton: New Jersey Historical Commission, 1979-88. McRee, Iredell Correspondence McRee, Griffith J. Life and Correspondence of fames Iredell, One of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States. 2 vols. New York: Appleton, 1857-58. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson) Madison, James. The Papers of James Madison. Edited by William T. Hutchinson and William M. E. Rachal. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1962-. Md. Archives Archives of Maryland. Edited by William H. Browne et al. Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1883-. Morris, Papers (Ferguson) Morris, Robert. The Papers of Robert Morris, 1781—1784. Edited by E. James Ferguson et al. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1973-. N.C. State Records North Carolina. The State Records of North Carolina. Edited by Walter Clark. Vols. 11-16. Winston and Goldsboro, N.C.: N. I. and J. C. Stewart et al., 1895-1914. NHPRC National Historical Publications and Records Commission. N.H. State Papers New Hampshire. Provincial and State Papers. 40 vols. Concord, 1867-1943. NYHS Collections Collections of the New-York Historical Society. OED Oxford English Dictionary. Pa. Archives Pennsylvania Archives. 9 series, 119 vols. in 120. Philadelphia: J. Sev erns & Co., 1852-56; Harrisburg: State Printer, 1874-1935. Pa. Council Minutes Pennsylvania. Minutes of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, from its Organization to the Revolution. 6 vols. [Colonial Records of Pennsylvania, vols. 11-16]. Harrisburg: Theo. Fenn & Co., 1852-53. The Parliamentary Register Great Britain. Parliament. The Parliamentary Register; or, History of the Proceedings and Debates of the House of Commons . . . [1780-96]. Lon don: J. Debrett, 1781-96. 45 vols. PCC Papers of the Continental Congress. National Archives and Records Administration. Washington, D.C.


[Page 13]
Editorial Method and Apparatus ix PMHB Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. Public Records of Connecticut J. H. Trumbull and Charles J. Hoadly, eds. The Public Records of the Colony of Connecticut ... 15 vols. Hartford: Case, Lockwood & Brainard Co., 1850-90. SCHGM South Carolina Historical and Genealogical Magazine. Shipton, Harvard Graduates Shipton, Clifford K. Biographical Sketches of Those Who Attended Har vard College. Sibley’s Harvard Graduates. Boston: Massachusetts His torical Society, 1873-. Staples, Rhode Island Staples, William R. Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765-1790. Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870. Susquehannah Co. Papers Boyd, Julian P., and Taylor, Robert J., eds. The Susquehannah Com pany Papers. 11 vols. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1962-71. Walton, Records of Vermont Walton, E. P., ed., Records of the Governor and Council of the State of Ver mont. 8 vols. Montpelier, Vt.: J. & M. Poland, 1873-80. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) Washington, George. The Writings of George Washington. Edited by John C. Fitzpatrick. 39 vols. Washington: U. S. Government Printing Office, 1931-44. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence Wharton, Francis, ed. The Revolutionary Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States. 6 vols. Washington: U. S. Government Printing Office, 1889. WMQ William and Mary Quarterly. 3d series.


[Page 15]
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS xi cal Society, New Jersey Historical Society, New Jersey State Library, New London County Historical Society, Newport Historical Society, New-York Historical Society, New York Public Library, New York State Library, North Carolina Department of Archives and History, Univer sity of North Carolina, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, University' of Pennsylvania, Princeton University, Public Record Office (London), Rhode Island Historical Society, Rhode Island State Archives, Rosen- bach Foundation, South Carolina Historical Society, University of South Carolina, Virginia State Library, University of Virginia, College of William and Mary, and Yale University. And in addition we express our thanks and appreciation to Mr. Sol Feinstone, Mr. Andrew Fiske, Mr. Ronald von Klaussen, Mrs. Margaret T. Pendleton, Capt. J. G. M. Stone, and Mrs. Aileen Moore Topping. This work has benefitted not only from Edmund C. Burnett s pathfinding 8-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continental Congress but also from the generous cooperation of the editors of sev eral other documentary publications with a common focus on the rev olutionary era. From them the Library has borrowed heavily and to them it owes a debt it can never adequately acknowledge. It is a plea sure to give special thanks to the editors of the papers of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Henry Laurens, James Madi son, Robert Morris, and George Washington. Finally we owe thanks to the historians who served on the Advisory Committee on the Library s American Revolution Bicentennial Program, and especially to Mr. Julian P. Boyd, Mr. Lyman H. Butterfield, and Mr. Merrill Jensen, who generously acted as an advisory committee for the Letters project. Paul H. Smith Historical Publications Office Manuscript Division


[Page 16]
Chronology of Congress AUGUST 1, 1782-MARCH 11, 1783 August 1 Reorganizes adjutant general’s department. August 5 Receives Robert Morris’ funding plan. August 6 Revises John Jay’s diplomatic instructions. August 7 Reorganizes Continental Army. August 9 Receives British commissioners’ announcement that peace negotiations have begun at Paris. August 12 Authorizes Washington to negotiate prisoner exchange. August 14 Suspends inquiry into General Gates’ conduct at Camden. August 15 August 16 & 20 August 23 August 27 August 29 Rejects move to repeal peace commissioners’ instructions to be guided by French court. Debates Massachusetts’ petition to include fish eries claim in peace ultimata. Appoints judges to hear Connecticut-Pennsylva nia boundary dispute. Debates Kentucky statehood petition. Orders purchase of ship for packet service to Europe. September 3 Orders resumption of postal service to the Car olinas and Georgia; presents ship America to France. September 4 Sets fiscal quota for the immediate payment of interest on the public debt.


[Page 17]
Chrononlogy of Congress xiii September 6 September 9 September 10 September 12 September 14 September 16 September 17 September 19 & 20 September 24 September 28 October 1 October 3 October 10 October 11 October 14 & 15 Debates proposal to appeal to the states to cede western lands. Suspends issuance of bills of exchange to pay loan office certificate interest; instructs Wash ington on prisoner cartel. Sets state fiscal quotas. Endorses Robert Aitken’s proposal to print an American edition of the Bible. Authorizes solicitation of $4 million in foreign loans. Commissions Washington to negotiate prisoner exchange. Refuses to accept Henry Laurens’ resignation as peace commissioner. Debates report that Henry Laurens improperly petitioned parliament while imprisoned. Receives information from the chevalier de La Luzerne on recent peace maneuvers in Europe. Adopts plan of a treaty of amity and commerce with Sweden. Rejects New Jersey plan to retain Continental revenues for the payment of the state’s Conti nental troops. Reassures France on U.S. commitment to mili tary preparedness and to its no separate peace pledge. Appeals to Rhode Island and Georgia to adopt impost amendment. Sets day of thanksgiving and prayer. Debates promotion of general officers.


[Page 23]
List of Delegates to Congress xix Jesse Root Elected: May 9, 1782 Attended: August 1-23, 1782 Jedediah Strong Elected: May 9, 1782 Did not attend Congress Oliver Wolcott Elected: May 9, 1782 Attended: December 20, 1782, to March 11, 1783 DEIAWARE Gunning Bedford, Jr. Elected: February 1, 1783 Attended: March 10-11, 1783 Philemon Dickinson Elected: February 2, 1782 Attended: October 28? to November 2, 1782 Eleazer McComb Elected: February 1, 1783 Attended: March 10-11, 1783 Thomas McKean Elected: February 2, 1782 Attended: August 1 to September 20?; October 28? to December 31, 1782 Caesar Rodney Elected: February 2, 1782; February 1, 1783 Did not attend in 1782 or 1783 James Tilton Elected: February 1, 1783 Did not attend February-March 1783 Samuel Wharton Elected: February 2, 1782 Attended: August 1 to September 10?; October 14? to December 5, 1782; December 21, 1782 tojanuary 31, 1783 GEORGIA William Few Elected: January 9, 1782 Attended: August 1 to October 3? 1782 Noble Wimberly Jones Elected: January 9, 1782 Attended: August 1 to November 1, 1782


[Page 27]
List of Delegates to Congress xxiii NORTH CAROLINA William Blount Elected: May 3, 1782 Attended: August 1 to November 14?; December 2? 1782, to Febru ary 8? 1783 Benjamin Hawkins Elected: May 3, 1782 Attended: December 21, 1782, to March 11, 1783 Abner Nash Elected: May 3, 1782 Attended: November 4, 1782, to February 5? 1783 Hugh Williamson Elected: May 3, 1782 Attended: August 1, 1782, to March 11, 1783 PENNSYLVANIA Samuel J. Atlee Elected: November 21, 1781 Attended: August 12? to October 28? 1782 George Clymer Elected: November 21, 1781 Attended: August 1 to November 12, 1782 Thomas FitzSimons Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: November 18, 1782, to March 11, 1783 Thomas Mifflin Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: November 20, 1782, to March 11, 1783 John Montgomery Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: December 18, 1782, to March 11, 1783 Joseph Montgomery Elected: November 21, 1781 Attended: August 1 to October 28, 1782 Richard Peters Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: November 18, 1782, to March 11, 1783 Thomas Smith Elected: November 21, 1781 Attended: August 1 to November 12, 1782 James Wilson Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: January 2 to March 11, 1783


[Page 29]
List of Delegates to Congress xxv VIRGINIA Theodorick Bland, Jr. Elected: June 15, 1782 Attended: August 1 to November 12? 1782; January 20? to March 11, 1783 Joseph Jones Elected: June 15, 1782 Attended: September 5 to October 18?; November 18, 1782, to March 11, 1783 Arthur Lee Elected: June 15, 1782 Attended: August 1 to October 4, 1782; January 27 to March 11, 1783 James Madison, Jr. Elected: June 15, 1782 Attended: August 1, 1782 to March 11, 1783 John Francis Mercer Elected: December 18, 1782 Attended: February 6 to March 11, 1783 Edmund Randolph Elected: June 15, 1782 Did not attend August 1782 to March 1783


[Page 30]
Illustrations View of Philadelphia endpapers “An East Prospect of the City of Philadelphia; taken by George Heap from the Jersey Shore, under the Direction of Nicholas Scull Surveyor General of the Province of Pennsylvania.” This detail is from an engraving by Thomas Jeffreys based on an etching of the city pub lished in Thomas Jeffreys, A General Topography of North America and the West Indies. Being a Collection of All the Maps, Charts, Plans, and Particular Surveys, Thal Have Been Published of That part of the World, Either in Europe or America (London: R. Sayer, 1768). Number of Continental officers, noncommissioned officers, and pri vates, with their “Pay & Emoluments Per Year,” August 1782 16 The growing imbalance between the number of Continental offi cers and privates and the high cost of paying and subsisting the army led Congress on July 11, 1782, to direct the secretary at war to suspend the issuance of Continental commissions without prior approval. As John Taylor Gilman explained to Josiah Bartlett in a letter of July 9, “Figure to your self Sir the pay and Subsistance of at Least Thirty Field Officers, Eighty Captains & 160 subalterns besides a Number of Gen eral & Staff Officers (all belonging to one State) who have not private Soldiers Enough to give each Officer a Servant.” And to dramatize his concern, Gilman prepared this list showing the strength of the Conti nental units of each state and the cost of their “Pay & Emoluments Per Year,” which he sent to Bartlett on August 5. Letter from John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett, August 5, 1782, Bartlett Papers, Dartmouth College Library. David Howell 266 Howell (1747-1824) was born in New Jersey and graduated from the College at Princeton in 1766 but was invited by Pres. James Man ning to Rhode Island College, where he took the degree of A.M. and was appointed professor of mathematics and natural philosophy in 1769. He was also admitted to the Rhode Island bar at about the same time and subsequently embarked upon a successful law practice that led to appointments as justice of the peace in 1779, to the court of common pleas in 1780, to the state supreme court in 1786-87, and as Rhode Island attorney general in 1789. From 1782 to 1785 Howell served as a delegate to Congress, where he became the principal xxvi


[Page 31]
Illustrations xxvii opponent of the proposed Continental impost, setting himself adamantly against the nationalist proclivities of his predecessors Ezekiel Cornell and James M. Varnum. He consequently became embroiled in controversy with the principal nationalists in Congress, denouncing as exaggerations reports of the decline of Continental credit abroad, and leaking information to the press to support his position in violation of congressional secrecy rules. He prevailed, however, against intense pressures, and rallied the unanimous sup port of the Rhode Island Assembly against the impost, thereby doom ing the plan and ultimately forcing nationalists to bolder visions of centralized power. Howell served the last 12 years of his life on the United States District Court for Rhode Island in Providence. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54681). John Taylor Gilman 300 Gilman (1753-1828) undoubtedly inherited a predilection for financial affairs from his father, Nicholas, a New Hampshire ship builder, merchant, and state treasurer, a position John succeeded to himself upon his father’s death in 1783. He served in the New Hamp shire legislature in 1779-81, represented the state at the Hartford eco nomic convention of 1780, and was a delegate to Congress in 1782-83. Arriving in Philadelphia in the midst of a fiscal crisis, Gilman worked in behalf of a number of measures for restoring Continental credit by supporting the impost amendment, Robert Morris’ Bank of North America, various revenue measures for funding interest pay ments on loan office certificates, and reducing the size of the Conti nental Army. He also showed concern for the plight of supernumer ary officers created by the reorganization of the New Hampshire Line, backed the claims of the New Hampshire towns on the west bank of the Connecticut River, and worked for settlement of New Hamp shire’s Continental accounts, which he later became more directly involved in himself as a commissioner for settling state accounts with the United States in 1788-91. His fourteen years as Federalist gover nor of New Hampshire, 1794—1805 and 1813—16, stand as the state s record for service in that office. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54674). Elias Boudinot Boudinot (1740-1821), a conservative New Jersey lawyer, was active in the movement against the coercive policies of the North ministry and Gov. William Franklin, but also advocated caution in the rush to independence. He stepped onto the Continental stage when he was appointed commissary general of prisoners in June 1777, and he rep-


[Page 34]
XXX Illustrations July 1783, a period of intense concern over Continental finances. Although Rhode Island had strongly supported Continental policies during much of the war, Arnold and his colleague David Howell set themselves against the nationalist policies of their predecessors Ezekiel Cornell, William Ellery, and James M. Varnum, especially in opposing half pay to Continental Army officers and granting Congress authority to levy a Continental impost. Arnold frequently found him self under fire from congressional colleagues for opposing the impost, and early in 1783 he was accused of leaking a warning to two Vermont activists facing arrest for correspondence with the British. Arnold defended himself against the charge but was unable to produce the evidence that he declared would clear him; and his heavy involvement in the development of a 3,900-acre Vermont tract granted to him by Gov. Thomas Chittenden and his move to St. Johnsbury, Vt., in 1787 underscored the strength of his commitment to promoting Vermont interests. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54661). John Lewis Gervais 666 A wealthy South Carolina merchant-planter, Gervais (1741?-98) was born and educated in Germany, but his mercantile interests early took him to England and to South Carolina, where he became a partner of Henry Laurens in a project to bring German immigrants to the Ninety Six District, his residence for a number of years before he settled in Charleston. He supported the American Revolution from its begin ning, becoming a member successively of the Council of Safety, the Provincial Congress, the General Assembly, and the South Carolina Senate. In 1775 Gervais was also designated quartermaster to two South Carolina regiments, and in 1778 he was appointed both deputy paymaster general of the Continental Army in the southern depart ment and deputy postmaster general. A delegate to Congress in 1782-83, Gervais worked particularly to prevent the premature with drawal of Continental troops from the southern department, and to ensure observation of the peace treaty provision prohibiting the “car rying away” of slaves and other American property at the British evacu ation of Charleston and New York. Engraving by Albert Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54673).


[Page 38]
4 August 2, 1782 patches from Mr Adams & appealed to a letter written in his favour by Mr Adams, Congress related only simple facts; namely that the subject of the letters with which he was entrusted & those which Mr Adams sent at the same time by another conveyance evinced that he had not the full confidence of the minister & that Mr Adams Letter did not account for his past conduct and explain his future views. He appealed to the records of Congress and to the letter just read whether these were not facts truly stated. Mr T’s conduct was at least mysterious. Congress acted properly. He was against granting him a copy of the letter, but had no objection to sending it to the Executive of Massachusetts. An adjournment was called for and no question taken. 3 MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 80-81. 1 For the evolution and adoption of these resolves, see JCC, 22:425-27; and Samuel Osgood to Henry Knox, September 17, 1782. 2 This John Adams letter to Congress, which was originally read November 12, 1781, is in PCC, item 84, 3:366-69. 3 No record of this debate is found in the journals, but for Congress’ previous con cern over John Temple’s return to America, see John Hanson to John Hancock, March 1, 1782. For James Madison’s role in this debate, see also Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:3-5. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates August 2. [1782] A Letter from M r Jay was read containing an account of his negotia tions with the Spanish ministry from Oct. 3 1781 to April 28 1782, the date of the letter; 1 the delay, chicane & slight he met with and particu larly his embarrassments on account of the bills drawn on him and the necessity he was at last under of protesting some of the bills for want of money. As soon as the letter was read— M r Rutledge moved that a Com tl be appointed to revise the instruc tions given to M r Jay and report what alterations & additions if any should be made. This was seconded from every quarter of the house & a Corn 11 of five were chosen. M r Lowell then moved that the Letter of M r Jay of the 28 th April and the instructions given to the ministers for negotiating a peace should be referred to the same Committee. M r Madison called for a division. He approved the committing the letter but objected against the other part of the motion. It was a deli cate subject and ought to be handled with caution & circumspection. The introducing it at this time would give ground to suspect that there was something in the letter which gave rise to it. That the Letter


[Page 39]
August 3, 1782 5 contained new proof of the friendship of France. That if at the moment we were about to revise and alter the instructions respecting Spain a step was taken which might shew our want of confidence in France and give offence to that Court it might endanger our affairs. 2 M r Lee had no objection against dividing the question but could not be easy nor think himself justified to his constituents until he brought forward the subject contained in the other part. He did not approve the present mode of bringing it on, it was too indirect. He had made a motion which was before the house on which he was determined to call the yeas & nays. He then inveighed against the instructions of the 15 June, 1781, as derogatory to the honor, dignity and independence of the United States, contrary to the treaties made with France & which must expose us to the contempt of our allies and all the nations of Europe. M r Lowell thought this the most delicate way of introducing the subject & which he hoped would have met the sentiments of every member as well those who were in favour of as those who were against the instructions. That the subject must be debated, that the motion for referring them to a Committee with other matters did not involve the approbation or disapprobation of them by Congress & could give no offence. The Com u might think it proper to adhere to them & make no report or if they judged it proper to make any alteration they would have time to deliberate on the mode and manner. Several other members spoke. On a division the question for com mitting the letter passed in the affirmative & the other part of the motion was put off by adjournment. MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 81-83. 1 For this lengthy letter and its reading in Congress this day, see PCC, item 89, fols. 379—440; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:738-65; and JCC, 22:427-28. See also Jay, Papers (Morris), 2:96-98. 2 See also Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:14-16. David Howell to Welcome Arnold Dear Sir, Philadelphia 3 August 1782. Your kind Letter to Mr Webster,! [ f ln d, has induced him to think favourably of me as your Friend; I have been sundry times at his house, occasionally have dined with him & experienced every civility from him. I should no doubt have contracted a greater intimacy with him, entertaining a great opinion of his understanding & harmonizing with him in many points; but, Sir, he is the greatest stickler for the 5 per Cent I ever yet saw. And, no doubt, he will tell you that I am as


[Page 40]
6 August 3, 1782 much against it. I have avoided entring into the argument fully even with him; and on many occasions declined it totally after simply giving my opinion, for I found it as vain for me to oppose the torrent here, as it was for General Varnum on Town-meeting day, when I saw him engaged in a circle, of which you made one, as you must remember in the Parade—And in both cases it would be as ineffectual for either of as it would be to oppose Pawtucket-falls. The public creditors, this way, rule the roost; and the common people have less & less to do in government after you pass the North-river till you get to Florida, which our wise men have given to the ungrateful Spaniard— And where Tyrany is compleat. A wealthy farmer, and a good Whig, in the Jersies, could not tell me whether the people in the respective Coun ties choose their delegates in Congress as they do the members of their general Assembly & Council; or, whether they were chosen by the joint voice of both Houses: 2 In short, as you go Southward, Gov ernment verges towards Aristocracy. In New-England alone have we pure & unmixed Democracy & in Rhode Island & P[rovidence] P[lan- tation]s is it in its Perfection. I hope it may be long preserved. Should our little State have the credit of preventing the 5 per Cent from tak ing effect it would be to us an additional gem. I find a field sufficiently extensive for the exertion of every faculty I possess, nay more if I had them; Business to me entirely new daily arises, and such a variety of objects are presented that I am ready to admire what I have been doing all my days not to have turned my attention to them heretofore. But the truth is—the course of my Stud ies & thoughts has heretofore been confined to books, Systems & Speculations; I am now concerned with life itself. I think I shall not be of the Service I expected to be to the State soon; I have much to learn—I am about it; I loose no time. The establishment of funds to discharge, at least the interest of the national debt; and thereby, the revival of national credit, are the great objects before us at present. Fighting has grown out of fashion—little more of that is to be expected in this Country—but when we shall have peace God only knows; although there are appearances of it, and they seem to encrease & brighten; it may however be distant. The back-lands are a subject of conversation & which has been lately before Congress. There are two different opinions respecting them in Congress: six States are for acting upon them now, &, I think three against it, & two divided, one of which is ours. 3 Pray give me your opinion, or does it accord with our late instructions on that head? We expected the States who hold up extravagant claims to the west ward, might have been prevailed upon to have made liberal cessions to the Ud. Ss. after the example of New-York &, Connecticutt; but after the war is at an end and those lands shall have become more valuable, will they not prosecute their claims with more vigour? Now is


[Page 41]
August 3, 1782 7 the time to settle this matter, lest, after the war fresh flames should be rekindled in a dispute, which will then be considered of more conse quence. I am not for selling the lands, but should the Ud. Ss. hold such a vast territory by cessions from the respective States, it would certainly give them credit to the amount of their value, and would in time contribute to the discharge of our national debt. The States are extending their Settlements & claims daily. The lands will more & more be taken up by individuals & their claims will increase & gather strength and eventually defeat any future advantage to the Continent at large. Requesting you to make my best respects acceptable to Mrs Arnold, your Brother Thomas & all Friends, I am, Sir, with every Sentiment of esteem Your Friend & hble Servt, David Howell. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: “Welcome Arnold Esqr. Providence.” 1 Pelatiah Webster, a Connecticut bom merchant in Philadelphia and a frequent con tributor to the public prints of essays on political economy. See these Letters, 1:63-64, 13:386-87, 14:25, 362. He was at this time representing the “deranged” officers of the Connecticut line who were seeking congressional funding for the half-pay plan adopted October 21, 1780. Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 5:519-20, 522-24. 2 New Jersey’s delegates were chosen by vote of the state’s general assembly and coun cil “in joint meeting.”JCC, 23:711. 3 The committee appointed to report “effectual means of supporting the credit of the United States” had recommended that Congress decide upon the land cessions from Connecticut, New York, and Virginia as a preliminary to drawing upon western lands for revenue, but a motion to assign a date for taking the report into consideration failed on July 31 by a vote of six ayes and two noes, with Rhode Island and North Carolina divided and Delaware, Maryland, and New Hampshire unrepresented. See JCC, 22:423-24. David Howell to Nicholas Brown Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia 3 August 1782. Had leisure permitted me to follow the dictates of inclination, and could I have been so vain as to have imagined that a line from me would have contributed either to your instruction or amusement, I should not have remained so long silent. The favours received from yourself and kind family, justly entitle you to rank, were that desirable, among the foremost of my friends & give you the most perfect claim to my best services. Although I have written several Letters to those whom I used to esteeme my friends in Providence, I have received but few answers. I have written twice to your Brother John & three times to Governor Bowen, 2 but received no answer. What I have done to be thus deserted by my friends I am yet to learn; pleasanter would it be to return to my former retirement, where I was perfectly contented to


[Page 42]
8 August 3, 1782 remain, than to have been brought out on the public Theatre at the expence of the loss of all my friends. Through divine goodness & a strict regimen of diet I have enjoyed a perfect State of health, excepting a cold for a few days past, ever since I left home. Even my old complaint in my throat is so removed as to give me no inconvenience. Mr Ustic, as you must, no doubt have heard has arrived safe with his family in this City; he was well received, & as far as I can learn, is gen erally approved of & esteemed. But I have little intercourse with the people in the City, finding enough to do in the line of my immediate duty—To discharge which with advantage will require no small addi tional knowledge. Mr Hewes is perfectly friendly, has invited me to his Lodging. Mr James Pemberton has shewn me the same respect, but I have not yet waited on them. Providing funds to discharge at least the intrest of our national debt, & thereby reviving public credit is now the object of pursuit, & subject of much deliberation both in Congress & among our City politicians, to participate in whose deliberations I sometimes stop a moment at the Coffee-house. By examining the journals of Congress, in the hands of Governor Bowen you will observe what has been done about the back lands; I wish for your opinion on the Subject after you shall have obtained knowledge of what has been done in regard to them. Much is said about a peace, the papers will inform you of all public intelligence here; You know we have commissioners in Europe with full powers to negotiate. Britain wants a peace but I fear is not hum bled sufficiently to accept such terms as will be offered. Matters go as well in Holland as they do ill [in] Spain. Little is to be expected speedily from the Court of Madrid, according to the latest intelligence from our Minister there 28 April last: But a late private letter gives us hopes notwithstanding that the haughty Spaniard will open his eyes to his Intrest. The Summer has been cool & dry. I hear not but it is as healthy here as usual. Dr Binney is very friendly—his family well. I shall soon take lodgings with other Delegates at a Boarding-house; I find an inconvenience in being so much alone. Please to give my best regards to Mrs Brown, my old & good friend, to your mother, Mrs Van Derlight & all friends; & believe me to be your Friend, D. Howell. RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). Addressed: “Nicholas Brown Esqr., Providence.” 1 Nicholas Brown, a Providence merchant, has been identified in these Letters, 2:434n.l. 2 These letters have not been found.


[Page 43]
August 3, 1782 9 David Howell to Silas Talbot Sir, Philadelphia 3 August 1782. Yours of 13 Ulto. is now before me. You request me to get your accounts settled, or, at least to write you before the Assembly sits. On the receipt of your account, without Loss of time, I carried it to the Pay-master Generals; got his certificates and carried it, together with your account to the Comptroller, who sent it the same day to the Auditors. I called on him several times—he proposed his objections— I examined the resolves of Congress & consulted with General Cor nel—but the result as I wrote you, last month, was unfavourable to you. 1 The resolve for depreciation, as he says, does not include your case—your pay & emoluments as a Land-officer ceasing on your naval appointment in Sept. 1779 (If I do not mistake the date). The Auditor can only allow you nominal pay, and wisheth to be informed of the beginning and duration of your actual service in the Navy. I have written you this lest the other Letter above referred to Should not get safe to your hands. Whatever your commands may be, on this head in future I shall attend to, & execute them with pleasure. Regretting that I am no more successful in this application in your behalf, I am, Sir, your Friend & hble Servt, David Howell P.S. Best regards to friends. RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1439). Addressed: “Lieut. Col. SilasTalbot, Providence.” 1 See Howell to Talbot, July 17, 1782. Jonathan Jackson to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Phila 3d Augst 1782 I’ve not been unmindfull of my promise to you, to write you from this place after my Arrival—but really having had nothing worth your notice, I have considered it as no breach of Promise to omit troubling you with my impertinent Scrawls—your quondam Friends here have asked me how you do, & many have enquired if you are not coming on—how do Affairs stand with respect to you at home? has there been any further progress in taking up your Memorial or Remonstrance? I wish that it was settled & that I could see you here before I go. If you do come, let it be as early in the Fall as possible—for I think that I shall return in Novr. Is not Mr Sumner coming soon? 1 Mr. Osgood threatens leaving us before Novr and I am sure in addition to the State’s being unrepresented if I am left alone, I shall be but a poor Support to its Interests, for want of a more thorough knowledge of their internal Politics, having been out of that Line these several


[Page 52]
18 August 5, 1782 this will be the Case but to me it appears probable. I am Sensible that New Hamp, can bring this into the account against the United States, but from present appearances I am Inclined to think a very Consider able Period of time will Elapse before those Settlements are made. I am aware that some settlements have been already made in the State with officers &c. but perhaps the proportion when Compared with those which are Unsettled, is small. I would not wish this to the Injury of the N.H. Line, but it appears by Lt. Blanchard’s representation, that it would be much more agreeable to them, to have the settlement made here as they could then have their Subsistence Money Settled at the Same time. I have the Honour to be, Your most Obedt Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Undoubtedly the May 28 resolution of the Virginia General Assembly refusing “to authorize Congress to alter the mode appointed by the Confederation, for apportion ing the quotas of the respective states.” See JCC, 22:413; PCC, item 75, fols. 363—65; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:56n.6. Benjamin Huntington to Anne Huntington Dear Mrs. Huntington 1 Philadelphia August 5th 1782 The Pleasure of Writing to my faithful Partner is great but that of Receiving a Line from you is greater. It brings Tidings from my best Friend on Earth. By it I learn the State of the Dear Family for whose Happiness, Honor & Interest my deepest Concerns are employed. If a Temporary Absence from such a Friend is Painful, how unsupportable must a finale Separation be? But not to Anticipate Sorrows we ought to Reflect that our Present Enjoyments are the Gifts of Heaven to Pro mote our Happiness in this Imperfect State and that without them our Lives would be insipid. But the Hopes of a Blessed Immortality Rest ing on a firm Foundation of Purchase laid in Matchless Wisdom & Benevolence and Confirmed by the omnipotence of him whose Designs Cannot be Defeated, afford solid Consolation to the Mind even whilst we are driven in the Midst of Boisterous Events down the Troubled Torrent of Time. When we Consider that all our Infirmities, Sufferings, Pains, Bereavements & Mournings are designed by Heaven to bring us to that Pure Meekness of Spirit in which alone we Can Par take of Immortal Joy, the most Ponderous Distresses in this World become Welcome Corrections from the Hand of our almighty Parent. This Rapsody of thought’s Occured on Sitting Down to Write & upon Turning my Thoughts towards home. I am in Good Health and as happy as I Can be at so Great a Distance from my most Agreeable


[Page 53]
August 5, 1782 19 Connections. The Inclosed Paper Contains the News of the Day. Mr Chapman brings this and Can Informe you whither I appear to be as Fat as Ever. I Confess I Pitty the Horse that Brings home the heavy Load! The Speculators Exhibit Long Faces on the Arrival of two or three Ships from Europe Laden with Dry Goods which has put at least a Temporary Stop to their Sale of Goods at Extortionnous Prices. The Man who Deals Justly, Loves Mercy & Walks Humbly is of all Flesh the Most unsuitable Person to Manage a Trade in the Present Times. I am told a Law has Passed in Connecticut Exempting Such Persons as Refuse to Purchase British Goods for a Certain Time, from Part of their Taxes. I wish you to Look at that Law & take the Benefit of it if possible, but Dont Subject yourself to any Inconveniences for a Trifle or if a Compliance with that Law should Involve you in any Thing low or out of Character, I wish you to have no Concern with it. My Duty to my Mother and Love to the Children Each one in Par ticular. I wish Gurdon would Write Line or two as well as he Can and send by Mr Brown. The Boys here Dont write like him. My Regards to Capt Abel, Mr Witmore &c. This From your Benj Huntington RC (CtHi: Benjamin Huntington Papers). 1 Huntington had been married to Anne Huntington (1740-90), a second cousin, since 1765. See The Huntington Letters, ed. William D. McCracken (New York: Appleton Press, 1897), pp. 6, 13, 105. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Phla. Aug. 5th. 1782 (Frank 1 has arrived) 2 with (a long letter from Jay) 3 being a (sequel of), the (insulting) de(lays) d(isappointments) and (tergi)ver(sations which form) the (history of) his (mission). To make our (mortificati)on (complete he) was (finally suffered) to (protest t)he (bills) of Congress, (tho t|he (amount did) not (exceed twenty) five thousand (ster—g). The (blame of this seemed) justly to (fall) in (part on France) who probably meant to make that (display of her importance) to the {U. S). This circumstance with some other (passages) in (Jays letter) which cannot be here recited, were (fresh leaven to) the an{tigallic ferment) and (revived the motion) lately mentioned to you. 4 It (was again susp)end(ed by) an (adjournment) but will be (renewed and pressed) to a (decision). From the {present temper) of (Congress) I infer that the (decision) if not (reversive) of the (power given to France) in the (nego tiation of peace) will (denote such) a degree of (discontent and distrust as) will greatly (impair the confidence) on the (side of our ally) and


[Page 54]
20 August 5, 1782 may (if discovered inspirel the (enemy with new hopes) from a (pro traction of the war). It is very probable that this {affair will) eventually be (adjusted on) some (middle ground). The (venom against France) will not be (assuaged) withfout some) such (expedient). We are still without official information both from Mr. Adams, rela tive to the negociations with the States General, & from Doer. Franklin relative to advances made by the British Ct. at Versailles towards a general negociation. That such advances have been made may be inferred not only from private reports, but from repeated paragraphs in European papers. Whether they be sincere or insidious may be another question. Augst. 6th. A letter of the 14th of May has come to hand from Mr. (Jay) in which he says that he is (called to Paris by doctor Franklin). 5 This (call can only be in his) capacity of (minister for peace) and in consequence of a (prospect if not commencement of negotiations). He says nothing on the subject himself, but refers to (intelligence) which he takes for granted would previously (arrive) from (Paris). He congratulates Mr. Liv(ingston on the acknowlegement) of our (inde pendence) by the (United Provinces). This is the first official evidence of that event. The Committee as a member of which you prepared a certain report was yesterday (augmented to five and filled up). The present composition (of it promises a speedy and favorable report). 6 The (mid dle states are) rendered apparently very (ductile) by (their fears) of a (coalition between the eastern and southern in a change) of (the instructions for peace). Mr. (Montgomery) has given (notice to Congress) of his {intention to call for the report) on the (case of Vermont and to) lay before them such {information as he has acquired). 7 The French squadron which lately appeared off the Capes of Chese- peak are now off those of Delaware. The Ultimate destination of it is only a subject of conjecture. There is I believe {no reason to expect more than en passant advantages from it). In several of my late letters both to you & Mr. Ambler I have, inti mated the necessity of some {pecuniary remittances) and asked your friendly attention to that subject. Will you give me leave to repeat this request? Mr. Jones’s letter by yesterday’s post 8 informs me of his purpose of visiting Philada. forthwith. Besides the pleasure I take in gratifying you with every interesting communication I must own that some of the particulars mentioned above are meant to hasten if possible a like purpose in yourself. You will be able to distinguish the paragraphs in which each cypher is used without my specification of them.


[Page 56]
22 August 5, 1782 For the War Department 8,106,648.10 For the Marine Department 2,500,000.00 Civil List 181,214.38 Contingencies 212,137.42 11,000,000.00 Out of these estimates by proper arrangements which he hopes will take place he apprehends there may be a saving to the amount of two millions: and therefore he proposes only to call for 9 millions, and if the funds pointed out in the foregoing Letter be granted or others equally productive he proposes that of this 9 millions four should be borrowed and five raised by taxes within the year. He states the necessity of attending to the navy & presses an early decision on these matters. These two letters with the papers enclosed were referred to a grand Comtt appointed on the 22 July. 4 Some private business was then dis patched after which Mr Bland moved—“That the instructions given on the 15 June 1781 to the Comtt [i.e., Commissioners] for negotiating a treaty of peace be reconsidered & committed. 5 This was seconded by Mr Jackson, but as the day was too far spent it was agreed that the discussion of the sub ject should be deferred till next day & an adjournment was called for and agreed to. MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 83-84. 1 For Robert Morris’ July 29 letter to Congress, which is described by the editors of the superintendent’s papers as “the chief exposition of Robert Morris’s plan to erect a funding system,” and “the keynote document" of his public career, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:36-84; andJCC, 22:429-47. 2 That is, “sixteen” and “sixty.” Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:65. 3 For this July 30 letter, and a detailed analysis of Morris’ “General Estimates for 1783,” see ibid., pp. 91-103. JCC, 22:407-8. 5 For Theodorick Bland’s motion, see JCC, 22:429; and PCC, item 36, 1:361. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My dear sir Philadelphia August 6h 1782 1 The french fleet are now off the Capes of Delaware, of which they have given the merchants here notice. On the 14h May Mr. Jay was on his way from Madrid to Paris. He Confirms the Account of the British haveing Acknowledged our Independence. This with the Spirited pro ceedings of the Irish parliament must add greatly to the embarrass ments of our Enemy, and dispose them to think [Sensably?] of peace. Mr Foxs Speech in the House of Commons Seems Calculated to pre-


[Page 60]
26 August 6,1782 sure of the public so much in his power. Our funds in France are in hands equally rapacious & less responsible. This ravenous spirit prompted Dr. F. to do what amounts to an absolute robbery. It is this. Col. Laurens had obtaind a million & a half of Livres from the french Court, to bring over hither for the support of our credit. It was deposited in Specie at Amsterdam & by the order of Col. Laurens to be brought by Major Jackson in the S. Carolina. When Col. L. had saild, Dr. F. by threats & orders prevails on Major Jackson to give up the money, & has it remitted to him at a loss to the U.S. of 19500 livres, besides the disappointment & embarrassment of our Finances here. This transaction will I have no doubt pass also unpunishd & uncensurd. Your friends in Virginia were well when I left them, & remember you with affection. My respects to Mrs. Adams & rememberances to Genl. Ward & all our friends, Farewell. RC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Arthur Lee, though not signed. 1 See Committee on the Department of Finance to Robert ,Morris, July 19, 1782, note 1. 2 That is, John Swanwick, cashier of the department of finance. Thomas McKean to Samuel Adams Dear Sir, Philadelphia. August 6th. 1782. Perpetual employment in public business, some attention to my pri vate concerns, sickness & death in my family (for I have lost a promis ing daughter of ten years old) 1 have prevented my answering my friends letters for some time past. My neglect of you, I confess, is almost unpardonable, and I must rely on your goodness more than any thing I can urge for forgiveness; but why need I appologize to a friend, who, I know, has already excused me. Major Brown is well settled in Lancaster; my brother Judges & myself were present at the opening his Academy, for so it is stiled: he owes much to your recommendation, and gives general satisfaction. Your introduction of Mr. Jackson to me lays me under a particular obligation; I respect his character, and am much pleased with him as a member of Congress. The subject you mention in your favor of the 19th September last 2 is now likely to be taken into full consideration, I mean an American Navy: It is very much the conversation out of doors, and appears to be popular. The great losses lately sustained by the merchants from the too numerous captures by the enemy, engages the whole mercantile interest in the measure; in short, every thing seems not only to invite


[Page 61]
August 6, 1782 27 but to demand an immediate attempt to establish one. Money alone appears to be wanting to make a beginning. The acknowledgement of our Independence by the Dutch affords a dawn of hope respecting that matter. There is a large Committee appointed to devise ways for the re-establishment of national credit, and for the procuring money on Loan, of which I am a member.^ If we can obtain an undisputed title to the Western lands, that belonged to the Crown of Great Britain, and have been conquered by the blood & treasure of the United States, as a fund to borrow upon; and can by a land and poll tax, or otherwise, obtain sufficient sums for the payment of the inter est until one year after a peace, or until these lands can be sold for the purpose of discharging the principal, I am not without hopes of get ting as much money in the United Provinces of the Netherlands and amongst ourselves, as would answer our present purposes and build a dozen ships of war such as the Carolina; which construction would render the British frigates in a great degree useless in this country from the inferiority in strength, and be the cheapest with respect to both men and money. The Superintendant of Finance is very well inclined to these proceedings and will contribute all in his power to their furtherance. The arrival of the French Fleet, of thirteen ships of the line and three frigates, in the Chesepeake, where they staid a few days, and now at the capes of Delaware, where they purpose to continue five or six days, has afforded an opportunity to our merchants of getting out their vessels with safety, and fully proves the utility and necessity of a Navy; for the Enemy have all fled to New York and elsewhere, so that a cruizer is not to be seen. The indifference of the Spanish court to our credit & interest has been fully manifested to Mr. Jay in March last, by suffering a protest of several Bills drawn on him, tho’ the whole did not exceed £20,000 sterling. Our good Allies immediately furnished Doctor Franklin with six million of livres for this, or any other purpose we might apply them to. The capitulations of West Florida, Providence 4 &c., their late treatment of American vessels at the Havannah, their haughtiness and some lesser circumstances induced me heretofore to doubt of the pol icy of the Spaniards, but this last affair settles my opinion: I am apt to think, even their present Ministers may live to repent of their behavior towards us. The British nation appear to be prepared for a peace, and their new Ministry seem wisely to lay hold of the opportunity, afforded them by the success of Rodney in the West-Indies, to accelerate it: It is more than probable that Commissioners are now met on this great business. If preliminaries are not soon adjusted, Gibralter and the late conquests in the East-Indies may change Masters. Congress is at present composed of virtuous men, and were it not


[Page 62]
28 August 6,1782 James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear s, r Philada. 6th Aug. 1782. I shall pay due attention to the request contained in your favor of the 29th 1 relative to the slave of your nephew. Should I however be so fortunate as to recover him, the price of slaves here leaves no hope that a purchaser will be found on the terms demanded. We have had several arrivals since my last but are still without offi cial letters. The European papers, as you will see by the transcripts in the inclosed, teem with paragraphs relative to pacific negociations. The language & conduct of the New Administration of G. B. do by no means discountenance the supposition that they are more solicitous for peace than their predecessors, and less scrupulous as to the punc tilio of national honor. But the insidious policy which has so long directed the British Councils, should always restrain our hopes of peace from circumscribing our preparations for War. We expect every moment dispatches from our foreign Ministers which will elucidate the publications of the Gazettes. The French Squadron which lately appeared off the capes of Chesa- peak are now off the Capes of Delaware. I can say nothing as to its ulti mate destination. Our trade I hope will at least receive some transient advantages from its visit to the American Coast. for some diversity of opinions respecting the Fisheries and Western Lands there would be more harmony in that Body then I have hereto fore observed. This will be an important year. May God direct and overrule all our counsels to the establishing an honorable and lasting peace, and to the happiness of the United States in particular and Mankind in general. My expressions respecting the Spaniards would have been more guarded, but that this goes by Mr. Lowell, and [will] therefore get safe to hand. T I am afraid I shall tire you in telling you what you know as well as 1 do, and shall therefore subscribe myself what, with great truth and sin cerity I am Dear Sir, Your affectionate friend & most obedient ser vant, Tho M:Kean RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 That is, Mary McKean. 2 Adams’ September 19, 1781, letter to McKean is in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4 ^This^committee, to which McKean had been appointed on July 22, had submitted a report on July 31. See JCC, 22:407-8, 423. . 4 That is New Providence—a reference to the capitulation of the Bahamas to the Spanish May 8, 1782. Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), p. 299.


[Page 63]
August 6, 1782 29 I am Dr Sir with much regard Yr. frd & Sevt. J. Madison Jr. PS. Upon recollection, it will be impossible to dispose of the Slave in this State, there being a legal prohibition agst. it. Even his coming into will operate as a manumission, unless the case of runaways be provided for which I believe is the fact. I will enquire more accurately into [the] matter. RC (Margaret T. Pendleton, Wytheville, Va„ 1974). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson) 5 27 । Ibid., 4:442-43. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates August 6. [1782] The delegates for Pennsylvania yesterday informed Congress that the commander of the French fleet, which was now off the Capes of Delaware, had sent up a message that if the ships in the harbor were ready to put to sea he would afford them a convoy from the Coast; that the merchants & the State desirous of improving this opportunity were willing to make an attempt on Bermuda if the French admiral could send with them some frigates, and therefore they moved that a Corn' 1 might be appointed to confer with the minister of France on the subject. 1 This was refused but it was intimated to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs that he should confer with the minister & report. In consequence of this the Secretary for Foreign Affairs this morning reported “that he had conferred with the minister of France on the expediency & practicability of making an attempt on the island of Bermuda—that he had related to him what he had learned with respect to the present strength of the island & the security the posses sion of it would give to our commerce and that of France, & desired to know whether the Marquis De Vaudreuil had any orders that would prevent his undertaking this expedition or any object with which it would interfere. “That the minister replied that the operations of the fleet or the propriety of detaching any part of it must in some measure depend on the motions of the enemy—that he did not know that the marquis had any orders that would interfere with the plan mentioned—that he knew he had several objects advantageous to the United States, the execution of which he would concert with General Washington. The minister wished that this plan might be concerted with him, that if it should appear more advantageous than others which the Marquis had in contemplation he might take measures to carry it into effect. He observed farther that as this conquest would be on account of the U. S. it would be necessary to furnish it with an American garrison.


[Page 64]
30 August 6,1782 “That he (the SecT for Foreign Affairs) desired to know whether troops might not be spared from those on board the fleet to perform this service for the U. S. in case they should find it inconvenient to send a part of their own army. ‘That the minister replied that the whole land force in the fleet was too Inconsiderable to admit of a reduction, that they were designated to act as marines & for the security of the fleet in case they took a post to refital, that he concluded with wishing that the desire of Congress on this subject should be referred to the general, who upon confer ring with the Marquis de Vaudreuil would be best able to judge of the expediency.” 2 This report being read, M r Bland moved that the conference with the minister of France reported by the Secretary for Foreign Affairs be referred to the Commander in chief to take order if he thinks the measure alluded to expedient & not interfering with other operations of greater importance that have been concerted or may be effected. This brought on a debate. M r Lee was against referring it in the first instance to the Gen rl; it was one of those cases mentioned in the treaty which required a previ ous Convention to settle the compensation. If it was undertaken with out such a convention the French might conquer it for themselves or demand such a compensation that could not be granted. That the General could not settle the compensation, because it must be in money and the General had no right to appropriate money. M r Duane was against referring the report to the General because it would hold up the object in too strong a point of view. When the matter was first introduced it was only mentioned as an object that might be adopted in case the fleet was going off the coast, either oh their return to Europe or the West Indies. In this light he would have no objection against referring it to the General. That if the fleets staid any time on the coast there were other objects of far greater importance, such as the attack of N. York. He was therefore for com mitting it that it might be represented in the light in which it was first introduced. M r Jackson was of the same opinion, thought there were several other objects which required greater attention mentioned— an attempt on Halifax or the reduction of Penobscot. He was for committing. M r Rutledge thought that the motion was well guarded. He had no objection against accompanying the reference with a letter to explain the views of Congress, but was against committing. M r Clark was against committing and against referring unless the words “to take order” were expunged and the words “to report” were inserted. Several others spoke on the occasion. At length the question for commitment was put and passed in the negative.


[Page 71]
August 7, 1782 37 their Ministers for negociating with G.B. therefore no public measure can or ought to be taken upon it, in its present form. That it be & hereby is recommended to the several States in the Union, not to remit of their exertions for carrying on the war with vigor & effect. That the Commander in cheif be authorizd to empower the Com missioners he shall appoint to settle a general Cartel; to release Earl Cornwallis from his parole in return for a similar indulgence granted by his britannic M[ajesty] to the Honble. Mr. Laurens. 2 To our very great surprise, we have not received one line from you relative to our acknowlegement &c by the States general. Some of us suspect foul play with your Letters as Dr. Franklin has chosen to be silent on the subject, which no doubt is very mortifying to him & his Employers. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Endorsed by Adams: “A. Lee Esq. Aug. 7. Ansd. Oct. 10. 1782. Livingston a devoted Partizan of Vergennes and Franklin. The Instruction wh. Subjects us to the French Minister." 1 See Lee to James Warren, July ? 1782, note 1. 2 Considering its content and the altered appearance of the handwriting, this postscript was probably begun on August 9 and completed on or before the 12th. Wash ington’s August 5 letter to Congress and enclosed August 2 letter from Carleton and Digby, which are in PCC, item 152, 10:665-71, were read in Congress on August 9 and referred to Lee, John Rutledge, and John Witherspoon. To this committee was also con signed the reports of two committees appointed July 29 and August 7 together with vari ous letters relating to a partial exchange of prisoners. Lee’s committee proposed on August 12 resolutions which he partially summarized here. See JCC, 22:460n.2, 23:462-64; PCC, item 19, 6:401-2, item 185, 3:37, item 186, fols. 46, 48; and Washing ton, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 24:466. See also Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 9 and 12; and John Hanson to Washington, August 13 and September 1, 1782. Massachusetts Delegates to John Hancock Sir. Philadelphia Augst. 7th. 1782 We have this Day had an Interview with the Minister of France at his Request; & are desired by him to communicate to your Excellency, his Sentiments respecting two Frenchmen, 1 who, on Account of their dis orderly Conduct in assisting to break open the Goal or Workhouse, (the particulars of which we are not well informed of) are held to answer for their Misdemeanor, before the Judicial Authority of the Commonwealth. The Right of exercising which Authority, the Minis ter informs us, has been call’d in Question by the Consul of his most Christian Majesty, as also by the Commodore in the Ha[r]bor of Boston.


[Page 72]
38 August 7, 1782 He is in Opinion that neither the Consul, nor the Commodore have any Right to interfere in this Matter: And he appears to be well satisfied with the Proceedings hitherto made, by the Authority of Mas sachusetts against those Frenchmen. We have the Honor to be with Sentiments of the greatest Respect, your Excellency’s, most obedient and most humble Servants, Samuel Osgood Jona. Jackson RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Osgood and signed by Osgood and Jackson. 1 Not identified; but for further information on some of the incidents involving com plaints against disorderly French sailors in Boston, see the consular reports of Phillipe- Andre de Letombe in Archives Nationales: Affaires Etrangeres Serie BI: Correspon- dance Consulaire, 209:55-197. Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Phila. August 7th, 1782. We have reed, no Information respecting the negociation for peace, Said to be Carrying on in Paris, but through the Channel of British papers. Great tumults have taken place in New York among the Tory & refugees in Consequence of the advices from England & the measures taken by Sir Guy Carlton in respect to them. The garrison from Savanna have arrived at New York; unfortunately for us they had not been intercepted by the French Fleet, which they very narrowly escaped. Some additional Instructions relative to the Terms of peace are preparing by Congress to be Sent to our ministers in Europe. A flag Ship arrived this week loaded with prisoners from England, having on Board 216 who are Set ashore & permitted to go without any parole; another is hourly Expected; this measure is in Conse quence of an agreement made by Doctr Franklin to have them exchanged. 1 The enclosed papers will give your Excellency the news. Col. Dyer & Mr Huntington are well, as also is Mrs Trumbull. The Sci- tuation of my family makes it necessary I should return home, & as the State will be represented, I expect to Set out next week. With every Sentiment of respect & Esteem, I have the honor to be, your Excel lency’s Most obedt & most humble Servt. Jesse Root. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 For the arrival in America of prisoners recently released in England in accordance with an agreement reached between Benjamin Franklin and the Earl of Shelburne, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:175—76n.2; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:539, 547, 554, 562, 565. See also Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 28, 1782.


[Page 73]
August 7, 1782 39 Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Wednesday, August 7th. [1782] M r Rutledge moved for an addition to the instructions which passed yesterday 1 which was agreed to and the instructions as amended and finally agreed to are as follows: “Resolved, That the minister plenipotentiary at the Court of Spain be instructed to forbear making any overtures to that court or entering into any stipulations in consequence of overtures which he has made, and in case any propositions be made to him by the said Court for a treaty with the U. S. to decline acceding to the same until he shall have transmitted them to Congress for their approbation; unless the treaty proposed be of such a tenor as to render his accession thereto necessary to the fulfilment of the stipulation on the part of the U. S. contained in the separate and secret article of their treaty with his most Christian majesty. “That M r Jay be at liberty to leave Spain and to go into any other part of Europe when ever the state of his health may require it.” 2 The Com u for retrenching the expenditures of the United States in the several departments having reported a plan for arranging the army, 3 in which it was proposed the troops of each state should be formed into complete battalions of not less than 500 rank & file by draughting the junior into the senior regiments, that no more officers be retained than what were necessary to command the regiments and that the supernumerary officers should retire on half pay until called into service or be employed in the staff department. When the para graph respecting the retiring officers was under debate, M r Montgomery thought if the officers were liable to be called into service they ought to be allowed their full pay, as they could not enter into business or make solid arrangements for their future support and subsistance. M r Clark thought that the burthen of the half pay should be thrown upon the states which were deficient in their number of men & pre pared an amendment to that purpose. The amendment appearing in the light of a substitute was not admitted whereupon he moved and was seconded by M r Root to strike out the whole paragraph. M r Root was of opinion that according to the Articles of Confeder ation Congress ought to fix the number of troops necessary, assign to the States their respective quotas & call upon them to furnish those quotas, and that each State would be obliged to furnish its troops with the proper number of officers or would be answerable for the deficiency. M r Dyer. Of all the evils attending this war that of the half pay was never foreseen or thought of by the States. Having spoken for some time against a half pay establishment, he then undertook to obviate M r Montgomery’s objections and to shew that it was just and reason-


[Page 78]
44 August 8, 1782 reasons I shall be against touching the instructions given. But if any member thinks that anything farther can be done to secure to the United States the several objects claimed by them, I shall have no objections to that, it being well understood that no encroachment is to be made on the instructions given, but they are to remain in their full force. I shall therefore move that the motion before the house be postponed, and if that is carried I shall then move— That a Com“ be appointed to take into consideration and report to Congress the most advisable means of securing to the United States the several objects claimed by them and not included in their ultima tum for peace of the 15 th day of June 1781. 3 I now move that the consideration of the motion before the house be postponed. M r Witherspoon seconded the motion. Said that if he had been ag st the instructions at the time they passed, he would now from circum stances be against altering them. But he would remind gentlemen that the passing the instructions of the 15 June 1781, against which excep tions were now taken, was only the least of two evils which Congress were reduced to a choice of. A difference in sentiment had arisen between the Count de Vergennes & M r Adams respecting the use the latter thought he ought to make of the discretionary powers with w< h he was intrusted. This dispute was maintained by M r Adams with a per tinacity that gave just offence more especially as it must be allowed & Congress were sensible he was wrong. Besides this M r Adams entered into another dispute with Count de Vergennes on a subject which had no immediate connection with his mission. These disputes had given such offence that Congress were under the necessity either of recall ing him or passing the instructions. They chose the latter as the least injurious to their national dignity. He was satisfied at the time & is still satisfied that it did not lessen our security. The Court of France by her treaties with us was bound only to maintain our independence abso lute and unlimited as well in matters of government as commerce. These being secured she had a right to judge whether she would con tinue the war for other objects claimed by us, in the same manner as we had to judge whether we would continue the war on her account for objects not contained in the treaty. Our ministers were not restrained from urging everything they thought proper to obtain what we wished or desired. They could contend to the last and if obliged to submit they could enter their protest. Could they have done more if left quite at liberty? Congress adopted the only thing in their power to secure the rights of all the States. They added more members to M r Adams and those from different parts of the continent. This removed every suspicion or fear that the interest of one part would be sacri ficed to secure that of another. He then touched upon the jealousy which a change in our instructions w d excite, the opinion that would


[Page 79]
August 8, 1782 45 be formed of our instability & possibly of our ambition. G. B. had taken great pains to impress the Courts in Europe with an opinion that we aim at conquest. France had even imbibed some suspicion of that sort & therefore her former minister had in a free conference with Congress urged the necessity of moderation. He concluded with observing that as the confidence placed in France was a mere compli ment and not a giving up any real security, he should be against with drawing it and should therefor vote for postponing. 4 M r Rutledge said it was true France was bound to maintain the inde pendence of the States but he wanted to know what were the States. He did not enter into the war for himself or for those inhabiting the lands on the waters falling into the Atlantic, but for posterity; for those who would hereafter inhabit the country beyond the mountains to the extent formerly claimed by the crown of Great Britain as belonging to these thirteen States. He would continue the war forever rather than be circumscribed in narrower bounds. He should there fore be against postponing. The question being put passed in the affirmative. M r Madison then proposed his resolution and was seconded by M r Witherspoon. M r Rutledge resumed the debate; he was against the motion as explained. It is absolutely to ascertain our boundaries & define our other claims. He understood that the minister of France in a confer ence with the Com 11 who brought in the instructions of June 1780 had pressed them to fix the claims of the U. S. They ought to have done it; as they did not then do it it ought to be done now. They had no busi ness to suppose we had disputed boundaries. There were other matters that might come on the carpet in a negotiation for peace. We had with drawn the instructions and powers formerly given respecting a treaty of commerce with G. B.; we should say something on that matter. He therefore would propose to postpone the present motion & if that was carried he would move— That a Corn 11 be appointed to revise the instructions to the minis ters plenipotentiary of the U. S. for negotiating and concluding a treaty of peace with G. B. & to consider & report if any and what instructions should be given to them respecting such treaty & for negotiating a treaty of commerce with G. B. The motion for postpon ing being seconded by M r Dyer. Mr Witherspoon seemed to admit that the minister had desired the Com 11 to fix their boundaries; that it could not be done so as to make it an ultimatum to the satisfaction of all the States. He observed that the happiness of the people on this side of the Alleghany Mountains was a sufficient object to induce them to enter into the war; that some of the States had their boundaries fixed and determined; that the State he had the honor to represent was one of them; that it had not entered


[Page 80]
46 August 8,1782 into the war nor would it he believed be willing to continue it for the sake of boundless claims of wild uncultivated country; more especially as it was a matter of dispute & will undoubtedly occasion much con tention among the States to whom that country if ceded will of right belong that what relates to a treaty of commerce will come within the objects of the present motion; he is therefore against postponing it. M r Jackson wished to have an exposition of our rights made out and laid before the King of France, & that he should be informed nothing less will satisfy the people of this Country. M r Telfair. For his part he thinks it no matter who gives up our rights if they must be given up, whether the King of France or our ministers; he is for fixing our boundaries to the Mississippi. As to our claims beyond that to the South Sea he would leave them to discre tion. Something more was said but rather in the way of conversation. The question for postponing being put passed in the negative. On the question for agreeing to M r Madison’s motion, the yeas and nays being required by M r Telfair— New Hampshire, Mr. Gilman, No. } X Massachusetts, Mr. Osgood, Ay. 1 Mr.Jackson, Ay. J Rhode Island, Mr. Cornell, Mr. Howell, No. 1 No. J No. Connecticut, Mr. Root, Ay. Mr. Huntington, Ay. Mr. Dyer, Ay. New York, Mr.Duane, Ay. Mr. Scott, Ay. Newjersey, Mr. Condict, No. Mr. Witherspoon, Ay. Pensylvania, Mr. Smith, Ay. Mr. Clymer, Ay. Delaware, ' Mr. M c Kean, Ay. Mr. Wharton, Ay. Maryland, Mr. Hanson, Ay. Virginia, Mr. Madison, Ay. Mr. Bland, Ay. Mr. Lee, Ay. • Ay. Ay. Divided. • Ay. > Ay. X Ay.


[Page 81]
August 9,1782 47 N. Carolina, S. Carolina, Georgia, Mr. Williamson, Ay. Mr. Blount, Ay. Mr. Rutledge, Ay. Mr. Ramsay, Ay. Mr. Izard, Ay. Mr. Midleton, Ay. Mr. Telfair, Ay. Mr. Jones, Ay. Mr. Few, Ay. • Ay. Ay. Ay. The Com" was appointed consisting of M r Madison, M r Rutledge, M r Witherspoon, M r Jackson and M r Duane. MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 93-103. 1 JCC, 22:456-58. The Canadians were Dominique L’Eglise and Joseph Traversie, for whom see these letters, 11:119, 13:366-67, 371. 2 JCC, 22:458-59. 3 See JCC, 22:459-60; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:33-36. 4 Witherspoon also discussed the background of the adoption of thejune 15, 1781, instructions at even greater length in a letter to an unidentified correspondent which he probably wrote at about this time, for which see Witherspoon to Unknown, August ? 1782. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dr. Tucker Philada. Augt. 9th 1782 I have Just time to acquaint you by Express that Congress have this day received very important information, in a letter addressed to Genl. Washington by Sr. Guy Carleton & Admiral Digby in Q[ualit]y of Commrs. for making Peace 1 —in Which he informs the Genl, that that from Authority he is informd that Mr. Grenville has been sent to Paris with powers to negotiate a Peace with all the Powers at War and that he is now actually employd in that negotiation and that the King of G Br. has given orders to his ministers to empower Mr. Grenville to offer America her independancy as a preliminary to, not as a condi tion of the Peace. There are yet some suspicious circumstances attendg. this intelligence and the mode of Communication—it is not addressed to Congress—but to Genl. Washington—an offer of Exchange of Prisoners Sailors for Soldiers is made in the same letter &c. which I have not now time to descant on. I fear the Greeks and their offers—the Way to peace is open—untill I see the British fairly enter’d I shall not trust them—tho, I confess, appearances seem to


[Page 82]
48 August 9, 1782 Indicate more Sincerity than I have yet observed from that Govt. I must Conclude and am Dr. Sr. &c. &c. 2 [P.S.] There are a very Considerable number to the Amt. of 20 or 30 of the Mail Robbers taken up & secured. I believe they will be hanged. 3 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). In Bland’s hand, though not signed. 1 See Arthur Lee to John Adams, August 7, 1782, note 2. 2 Bland also wrote the following brief letter to Benjamin Franklin in Paris two days later: “At the request of Mr. James Hunter a Mercht. of Virginia—I have the honor to transmit to your Excelly. the enclosed addressed to you, and containing a letter from his Lady to a Lady in Paris, which he wishes to have a safe Conveyance through your Excellencys Hands.” Franklin Papers, PU. s The Pennsylvania Journal of August 7 had reported the capture of a large number of thieves and “Mail Robbers” operating in northeastern Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York. See also Pa. Archives, 1st ser., 9:596-606, 608-17, 628, 634; and Pa. Council Minutes, 13:342-44, 349, 372-73. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Philada. Augst. Ninth 1782. Extract of a letter from Carlton & Digby to Gen Washington, Aug. 2. 1 “We are acquainted Sir by Authority that negociations for a general peace have already commenced at Paris & that Mr. Grenville is invested with full powers to treat with all parties at war, & is now at Paris in execution of his Commission. And we are likewise Sir further made acquainted, that his Majesty in order to remove all obstacles to that peace which he so ardently wishes to restore, has commanded his Ministers to direct Mr. Grenville, that the Independency of the thir teen Provinces should be proposed by him in the first instance, instead of making it a condition of a General Treaty; however not without the highest confidence that the Loyalists shall be restored to their possessions, or a full compensation made them for whatever con fiscations may have taken place.” This is followed by information that transports are preparing to convey all American prisoners in England to the U. S. and a proposi tion for a general exchange in which Seamen are to be placed agst. Seamen as far as they will go, & the balance in favr. of G. B. to be redeemed by land prisoners, the former to be free—the latter not to serve in war agst. the 13 Provinces for one year. An embarcation tak ing place at N. Y. either for Charleston, either to reinforce that Garri son or replace it. 2 The preceding letter was published in N. York at the same time that it was sent to Genl Washington. 3 I commit this intelligence to your dis-


[Page 83]
August 9, 1782 49 cretion; making no other remark than that it clearly calls for our watchfulness at the same time that it flatter [s ou]r expectations. J. Madison. [P.S.] The departure of the Express does not leave me [time to] put this into a more decent form. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:40-41. 1 See Arthur Lee to John Adams, August 7, 1782, note 2. 2 This information actually came from Washington’s August 5 dispatch, for which see ibid. 3 Carleton and Digby’s letter was published in the August 6 issue ofjames Rivington's Royal Gazette. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Friday, Augst 9. [1782] This day a letter was rec d from Gen 1 Washington enclosing a copy of a letter to him from Guy Carleton & R. Digby dated New York, August 2, 1 & in which they acquaint him “that negotiations for a gen eral peace have already commenced at Paris & that M r Grenville is invested with full powers to treat with all the parties at war & is now at Paris in the execution of his commission,” that the ministers of G. B. are commanded “to direct M r Grenville that the independency of the thirteen provinces should be proposed by him in the first instance instead of making it a condition of a general treaty, however not with out the highest confidence that the loyalists shall be restored to their possessions or a full compensation made them for what ever confisca tions may have taken place,” that M r Laurens has been enlarged and discharged from all engagements without any condition whatever, after which he declared of his own accord that he considered Lord Cornwallis as freed from the parole. “Upon this point they desire his excellency’s sentiments or those of Congress.” That transports have been prepared in England for conveying all the American prisoners to this Country to be exchanged here, “that they are directed to urge the most speedy exchange.” They conclude with renewing the propo sition that all exchanges of men of the same description being exchanged sailor & soldier be exchanged man for man against each other, with this condition annexed, that our sailors shall be at liberty to serve the moment they are exchanged & that the soldiers so received by them shall not serve in or against the thirteen provinces for one year. Advice being received at the same time that this letter as soon as written was communicated to the inhabitants of N. York and printed in hand bills & Congress having received no advices from their ministers abroad of what was passing in Europe, it was judged


[Page 86]
52 August 10, 1782 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Root, and signed by Root, Dyer, and Huntington. 1 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 7, 1782, note 3. 2 See Connecticut Delegates to the Pennsylvania Agents, July 25, 1782. 3 See JCC, 22:418, 423, 24:43; and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 30, and August 7, 1782, note 4. 4 That is, the August 10 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Augs. 8th [i.e. 10] 1782. 1 I did my Self the Honor to write you by Mr. Lowell the 5th Instt. By Letters from his Excellency Genl. Washington receiv’d yesterday, are informed, that Sr. Guy Carleton has informed him that he with admiral Digby are appointed Commissrs. for making peace, this Com mission was receiv’d by a late Packett, it is probable a few Days will give further Information in this business. 2 This goes by Capt. Young, to Boston, who is Just Setting out—have not time to add, but that I have the Honour to be, Your most Obedt. servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). I Although Gilman clearly wrote “Augst. 8th,” this letter was almost certainly written on August 10—the day after Washington’s August 5 letter enclosing Sir Guy Carleton’s August 2 letter was read in Congress, as reported by Gilman in this letter. See Arthur Lee to John Adams, August 7, note 2. 2 See Gilman to Weare, August 15, 1782. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doct. Philadelphia Augt. 10th. 1782, 10 oClock at night Colo Wood delivered me your letter with the Buckles & Cash. We are amused here with peace, the foundation you will See in the inclosed paper. 1 Your good Sense will not Suffer you to rely much upon it. The British may be Sincere in what is given out but I Confess I Cant help Suspecting that it is Calculated to deceive however if the Opinion Should generaly prevail Among the people that peace is near at hand, it will be an Excellent opportunity of recruiting the Army during the War so that what they may have intended as An Injury may turn out to our Advantage. We must have patience a little time will dis cover their real intentions. I thank you for the little Sums of money you have from time to time Sent me, they have been of great Service. I would not have you Send me anymore. I am now in blast and expect my allowance will be paid monthly in future. I have reed the order on Mr. Palmer. Wish I could give you a lift, in paying for your house—


[Page 87]
August 10,1782 53 many purchasers of the Confiscated property are afraid from the diffi culty a raising money will have reason to repent. Should Executions take place great losses must be Sustained. Your neighbour I am afraid will be among the Sufferers. Crops of Corn you say will be very Short. Would it not be best to Stop Selling any more of my old Corn? Please to tell Taney to endeavour to Settle with all his Customers & receive payment before I return which I hope on God will be the middle of November at furthest. A Considerable detachment of Troops is making at New York intended it is said for Charles Town either to reinforce that Garrison or to relieve it. My best wishes Attend you and the Children. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). In Hanson’s hand, though not signed. 1 The August 2 conciliatory letter of Gen. Guy Carleton and Adm. Robert Digby to Washington, which the latter had enclosed with his August 5 letter to Congress, was printed in this day’s Pennsylvania Packet. David Howell to John Brown Sir, 1 Philadelphia 10 Angst. 1782 Since I wrote you 2 a report has been made from the Office of Finance, of requisitions for the Year 1783, which has been referred to a Committee. 3 As one of this Committee shall endeavour to Push for ward the Building a Navy, & request Your Advice on that Head. The estimate Accompanying it Amounts to Eleven Millions, but two mil lions are deducted on the Presumtion that Certain plans of Oecon- omy in contemplation will be Carryed into effect. Nine millions are the lowest that Can be required in the Opinion of the Superintandant of Finance, of which two millions & half (I wrote two millions only by mistake to Coll. Nightingle) 4 Are Allotted to the Marine Department. It is proposed to bestow particular Attention to the Marine & with all Convenient Speed to put it on a respectable footing. I wrote you in my last something About half pay. I have Since enquired into it more fully: in the estimate for the Currant Year 110,000 Dollars are allowed for half pay to Officers already deranged, or retired. Besides which there are Several Years arrearages due, & Annuetys granted to foreigners & to disabled Soldiers & Officers & the whole Corps of Invalleds a dead weight in Addition, & perhaps Juste enough, to a very Considerable Amount. By a resolve passed Since I came in which my Colleague & I were divided About 23/40 of Our Officrs are permitted to retire on half Pay during life, which will Amount for the ensuing Year of 1783, to 240,000 Dollars. 5 Hence the half pay list only for the Year 1783 will Amount to the enormous Sum of 350,000 Dollars. You may now Judge whither in my last I did not rightly conjecture That it would exceed the Net proceeds of the 5 Per Cent revenue.


[Page 94]
60 August 13, 1782 report has been (repeated} by the {committee} but a second experi ment has not been {made in Congress}.® Several of the middle {states seem to be facing about. Maryland} however preserves its wonted {jeal ousy and obstinacy}. In compiling the evidence of our title, I suppose you will of course be furnished with all Mr. Jefferson’s lights. 7 I have lately seen a fact stated by him w[h]ich s[he]ws clearly the ideas entertained in Virga, with respect to her territorial limits subsequent to the resumption of the Charter. In convention between Commissioners on the part of the Commonwealth of England & of the Grand Assembly of Virga, in 1651, by which the latter submit to the new Govt, it is stipulated that Virga, shall enjoy the antient bounds & limits granted by the Charters of the former Kings & that a new Charter shall be [sought?] from the Parliament agst. any that shall have intrenched [up] on the rights thereof. I forgot to mention to you by the last post that as Congress have adopted a scheme of settling the Accts, of the several Departments and of the Hospital among the rest by an itinerant Commissr. spe cially appointed for each, the Accts, of your friend Dr. Carter can not be audited here, and must be sent back to him. We have no very recent intelligence from the French Squadron. They are probably bearing towards Boston whither it is the current opinion that they are destined. It does not appear that they have as yet made any prizes, except a recapture of a Frigate which had Struck to the Sta. Margarita, a British-Spanish Ship of superior force. You will observe that I venture more tha[n ...] with respect to uncyphered comm [uni] cations. To this I am led not only by a scarcity of time, but by the diminution of the danger occasioned by the appre hension of 13 or 14 of the gang of Mail robbers who are now in the gaol of this City. 8 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:49-50. 1 See ibid., pp. 16-17n.3. 2 That is, William Blake (1739-1803) of “Newington.” s South Carolina delegates John Lewis Gervais, Ralph Izard, Arthur Middleton, David Ramsay, and John Rutledge. . . . 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in the official Virginia cipher 5 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 8, 1782; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:33-36, 53-55. For “your report,” see ibid., p. 22n.l3, and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 16, 1782, note 2. , 6 For the vote that “negatived” scheduling debate on the grand committee s July 31 report on the Connecticut, New York, and Virginia cessions of western claims, see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 31, 1782, note 3. There is no mention in the journals when the report was “repeated.” 7 See Madison to Randolph, March 18, 1782, note 6. s See Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker, August 9, 1782, note 3.


[Page 95]
August 13,1782 61 Edward Telfair to Samuel Stiles Dear sir. 1 Philadelphia 13th Augt. 1782. I am duely favored with your Letter from Portsmouth, enclosing one to Mrs. Stiles, which to my great mortification did not go in the Flag. Notwithstanding it Came to my hands the day before her depar ture, and when I went to the wharf, she had Sailed some hours with a fair wind, so that the opportunity was lost. I went on board of her some days before the receipt of your Letter to enquire after Mrs. Stiles & family, and from a Young man on board, I was informed they were all well about a month ago. I told him you were well and in Virginia, and gave a direction and requested the Cap tain to call on me, and that I would write Mrs. Stiles, which made me conjecture I should not loose the opportunity. From every information we have the best reason to conclude, that a Negociation for peace is now on foot at Paris, and from every appear ance, there is reason to conclude it will take place—insomuch am I satisfied in this measure as to hazard an opinion, that the chance is against your building a Vessel constructed for the present commerce if you have not gone to far, or can make a saving Sale, in my Judg ment, it would be adviseable, at this conjucture. I have wrote Mr Pringle 2 to deliver to you at Baltimore one ton of Bar Iron. Pray, let me hear from you. I hope soon to be relieved by some new hands coming on when I must think of doing something. I remain Dr. Stiles, Your very Obt. St. Edwd. Telfair RC (NcU: Mackay-Stiles Papers). 1 Samuel Stiles (1737?-1808), a Bermuda native, was a Georgia merchant and ship owner, who had previously been captured by the British while importing military sup plies. 2 Telfair’s letter to Mark Pringle has not been found. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sr. Philadelphia Augt. 13th 1782 We have been honord with your Excelly’s of the 1st Augt. 1782. 1 We have taken the liberty of conversing with the Secy, at War on that part of your letter, concerning the Works at York Town. That Gentn. expressd his surprise at the misinformation, you must have receivd of his Conduct in the affair—and with a wish to undeceive you has favord us with a Copy of the instructions, he gave concerning the Works together with a letter addressd to us on the Subject, both which, we have the honor of enclosing to your Excelly. 2 No Material event has taken place Since we had the Honor of writ ing to your Excelly. by Express, when we informd you of a letter


[Page 98]
64 August 14, 1782 John Hanson to Philip Thomas DearDoct. Philadelphia Augt. 14th 1782 Yours of the 4th is Come to hand. I wrote you on Saturday last which went by a man going to Frederick. I did not write by the last post as Colo Wood was to Set out from hence for Frederick in two or three days. Two flags are arived here and two it is said is gone to Boston from England with American prisoners, to the amount of about 1200 to be Exchanged. 1 I am Still afraid that the designs of the Enemy in acknowledging our Independance by their minister for negotiating a peace at Paris are delusory. The manner in which it has been communicated to Congress with other Circumstances induce that opinion. I hope my Countrymen will be too wise to depend much upon it. Time will discover their real intentions. I inclose you the papers. I Congratulate you on the evacuation of Savannah, a prelude perhaps to the Enemys abandoning Charles Town also. When the Enemy withdraw their forces from the Continent I Shall believe they are in Earnest about peace but not till then. We are well. God bless you & the Children. [P.S.] 1 pair Silk Stockings & 1 yd. Cambrick by Colo Wood, which should have gone by the former opportunity. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). In Hanson's hand, though not signed. 1 See Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, August 7, 1782, note. North Carolina Delegates to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, Philadelphia, August 14, 1782 1 We observe with the utmost satisfaction, that the General Assem blies of almost every State in the union, have been pleased to assure you, and through you to assure his Most Christian Majesty, of the sin cere pleasure they have received from the birth of an heir to the Crown of France. The General Assembly of North-Carolina, are among the few who have not addressed you on this auspicious occasion; but they would be wounded by the most transient suspicion, that such delay had arisen from the want of gratitude or affection for his Most Christian Majesty. It was their misfortune, that during their last session, in April, they had received no official information of the birth of a Dauphin, where fore they could take no public notice of that fortunate event; but fame had circulated the intelligence—it was universally believed; and we beg leave to assure you from our own knowledge, for we attended dur-


[Page 99]
August 14, 1782 65 ing the whole sitting of the Assembly, that the pleasing report of the birth of an heir to the Crown of France, was received with the most cordial pleasure by the citizens of North-Carolina; it filled every coun tenance with joy, and every heart with gladness: Every man found him self personally concerned in an event which contributes so much to the happiness of a people they esteem, and a Monarch they will con stantly revere. We request you would do us the justice to believe, that the citizens of NorthJCarolina will not fail to pray, that the Supreme Ruler of the Universe may prosper and preserve the Dauphin and his royal par ents; for we are fully convinced, that under God we are indebted for our early deliverance, the preservation of our liberties and establish ment of our independence, to the generous interposition of his Most Christian Majesty, and the persevering valour of the French nation. We have the honor to be, With the utmost consideration and esteem, Your most obedient, and very humble servants. Hugh Williamson, William Blount, Delegates in Congress from the State of North-Carolina. Reprinted from The Pennsylvania Gazette, August 21, 1782. 1 Although a French transcript of this document in the Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, Supplement, vol. 22, bears the heading “Presentee le 8. Aout, 1782,” it is clear that the delegates presented this address to the French minister this day. See North Carolina Delegates to Martin, August 18, 1782, note 2, and January 25, 1783. For Congress' earlier recognition of the birth of the dauphin, see Charles Thomson to Robert R. Livingston, May 10, 1782. John Rutledge to Horatio Gates Dear General, Philadelphia August 14, 1782 The resolution of Congress directing that an enquiry should be made into your conduct in the Campaign of 1780, has this day been repealed by a vote of every state present (ten). 1 The evidence before the committee which gave such unanimity to the vote, came from men the most honorable and the most capable of judging, Gen. I. Huger, Gen. Stevens, Major T. Pinckney, and Col. Marion, &c. 2 The first, third and fourth of these gentlemen shewed, that the movement made by you on Camden, was made on information given by them of the weak condition of that post, the certainty with which (had it not been unexpectedly reinforced) it would have been taken, and the important consequences that would have followed to the army and the state, from the capture thereof. And further, that the movement was not only a proper one under the view already taken, but indis-


[Page 100]
66 August 14,1782 pensable to the safety of Gen. Caswell and the North Carolina militia, who had by some misdirection, or want of judgment, placed them selves in your front and in a position most perilous. Of your order, march, and battle, and your personal bearing in the action and endeavors to rally the flying militia, they speak in terms the most favorable, and lastly, that when the heads of the two armies met in the night, and a prisoner gave information that Cornwallis was present with a large regular force, you called a Council of War and submitted the ques tion, whether thus advised, it would be proper to retreat? When nei ther Baron de Kalb, General Smallwood, General Caswell, General Guest, or General Stevens advised to the measure, and that the latter, considered and declared, the capture and information of the prison ers as a ruse of Rawdon to escape an attack. To this statement, I have but to add, that from the beginning of your suspension to the present day, no charges against you have been exhibited, nor has any person appeared as prosecutor or witness, either to Congress, to General Washington, or to General Greene. Wishing you health and happiness I am &c. J. Rutledge. Tr (NN: Bancroft Collection). 1 Although several motions for rescinding the resolution of October 5, 1780, had been defeated in 1781-82, Gates appealed to Congress once again on August 5 for “that Justice which I expect from their Equity” and his case was assigned to a committee, con sisting of Ezekiel Cornell, Arthur Lee, and John Rutledge, which reported in Gates’ favor on August 9 and again this day. See JCC, 23:465-66; and PCC, item 19, 2:403—4, item 154, 2:369-70, item 186, fol. 47. In a letter to Congress of August 24, Gates vowed to remove by his future conduct “every unfavourable Impression given of me for Two Years past, by Enemies of every kind," and announced his intention of “going to Vir ginia, where I shall prepare for taking the Field, as the Commander in Chief shall direct.” On August 27 Washington ordered Gates to join the main army at Newburgh. See PCC, item 154, 2:365-68; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:68, 84-85. 2 That is, Brig. Gen. Isaac Huger, Maj. Gen. Edward Stevens, Maj. Thomas Pinckney, and Col. Francis Marion. John Witherspoon to William Livingston Sir Philadelphia Aug. 14. 1782. I sent you by Col. Hooper a short & general Acct of Sir Guy Carlton & Admiral Digbys letter to Genl Washington though with little Doubt that you would know the whole before that Time. Inclosed is the News Paper of this Day with the Resolves of Congress upon that Subject. I have lately pushed with great Earnestness to bring on the Matter of the back Lands in which our State are so much interested & in which I believe your Excellencies Opinion very strongly concurs. We have succeded so far as to have the Matter twice recommended by the


[Page 101]
August 15,1782 67 Grand Committee to Congress. On the first Report of having it taken up there are 6 for it, 2 against it 2 divided so that it was only put off by the Rule of the House which requires 7 States to agree on every Ques tion. 1 From this you will perceive that we may easily have it brought on in Congress, but we have put it off till Maryland shall be represented which we expect soon. I shall be desirous to know your Excellencies Opinion whether we should agree to accept of the Cessions of N. York, Connecticut and Virginia in the mean Time provided that we can rid ourselves of the unreasonable Conditions annexed to the Ces sion of Virginia & keep the Door open to call for further Cessions from the other Southern Colonies—or if we should insist upon the Right of Congress to fix the western bounds of every State. The Rea son why I have proposed this Question is that I think the first of these might be carried but I have much Doubt of the other being carried through. Though I have some Expectation of seeing your Excellency next Week at Examination yet as this is uncertain I should be glad to hear from you on the above Subject. There is not the least Certainty in the many Articles of News from the English Papers. I am Sir Your Excellencys most obedt, humble Servant Jno Witherspoon RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 For the rejection of Witherspoon's motion to schedule debate on “the cessions of Connecticut, New York, and Virginia,” see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 31, 1782, note 3. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. 15th Augst. 1782. In my Letter of the 8th Instt. I Mentioned that Sr. Guy Carleton had Informed Genl. Washington that Adml. Digby, with himself were Appointed Commissrs. for making peace, & that the Commission was receiv’d by a late Packett. It now appears that, that Letter was Misunderstood. It was from this Expression that they had received Information as Commissrs. for mak ing peace &c. I Inclose you a Paper In which you will see Copy of their late Letter to Genl. Washington, with the Resolutions of Congress Annexed, have not any Information respecting this business, more than is Contained in the News-papers. The latest accounts from any of our Ministers in Europe was of the 28th of April. It is somewhat Extraordinary that there is not later Accounts from any of them. Our Prisoners are


[Page 104]
70 August 16, 1782 deserve a place in their Gazette. This will be Committed to the Care of our worthy W Livingston, and I trust it will get safe to your Hands, tho’ not soon enough to give you the first Intelligence of late Events which are the Subject of general Speculation. You will see in the papers the interesting Letter from Sir Guy Car leton and Admiral Digbey as Commissioners of Peace to General Washington. You will see too the Opinion of Congress on that Com munication, and that they have received no Intelligence touching Propositions for peace from any of their ministers. We know indeed that some negociation is commenced at Paris: because we have certain Information that Mr Jay has repaired thither from Madrid. The peo ple of England collectively, we are well assured, are heartily weary of the American War which they look upon as a Scourge and a Curse. The present Ministry, at least a Majority of them, we know were vio lently opposed to this war before they got into office. We know that they have used every Argument since they assumed the Administra tion, to impress on the Nation an Apprehension of Danger, and a deplorable Idea of their Finances and Prospects. We are told that Lord Stair has presented an Estimate by which it is demonstrated that their peace Establishment will amount to 13,000,000 Sterling yearly: And that lands have actually fallen from 30 to 20 years purchase. But after all these Circumstances are considered they do by no means Justify a Relaxation of our Efforts to compell the Enemy to quit the Country. While they retain their present Posts and are in force, we are bound to push our Operations with the utmost Vigour. It is singular that even by the latest Debates of Parliament the Idea is not lost that America may be induced to accept an Irish instead of an absolute Independance; and some are of Opinion that the former is the Independance which their plenipo. Mr. Grenville is authorized to propose. It woud be astonishing indeed if, after all their Experience, they shoud attempt so vain and absurd a Delusion; which coud only expose them to Odium, and increase the Breach which they pretend to be Solicitous to repair. You will readily conceive of our Solicitude to hear from our own Ministers which will alone enable us to clear up all doubts; and to form Conclusions on Just Grounds. In the mean time I congratulate you on the Evacuation of Georgia. By the last Accounts, the Enemy had retired to Tibee a small Island in the Neighbourhood of Savannah. I am of opinion they will not long retain their post in Charles Town: it ceases to be an Object unless they maintain constantly a naval Superiority in the American Seas. There are other Reasons, tho’ not conclusive, which Justify this Expectation. You have been informed of a small provision made for Col. Ja. Liv ingston shortly after my arrival here. 1 It is all I coud at present pro cure for him. Present my Compliments to him & let him know that I


[Page 106]
72 August 16,1782 their Fidelity and encourage their Zeal and Exertions against the com mon Enemy. If any thing further can be done it ought not to be neglected. To support our Fellow Citizens on that exposd Frontier is a first Duty. I find that you still labour under Infirmities which requires an uncommon degree of Patience and Fortitude to sustain. These happily for your Friends are Virtues which distinguish your Character. You have my earnest wishes that your Health may be restored and your useful Life prolonged for the Consolation of your Family and the service of your Country. I cannot part with the pleasing Idea that we shall yet spend many happy Hours in Social Enjoyments and mutual good offices; and talk over the Dangers we have encountered in the Retreats which we have contemplated with so much Satisfaction. When our Country is possessed of all the Blessings of peace and Safety, may we not hope that there will be a portion of Happiness reserved for her virtuous Citizens who have stood foremost in the Hour of Danger and drank freely of the Cup of Distress and Anxiety! I will indulge the Thought! Adieu my dear Friend; and believe me to be with unabated Regard and Affection, Your most obedient, humble Servant J as - Duane [P.S.] The Governour writes me that Mr. Lhommedieu will speedily relieve Genl Scott. Col. Hamilton will be prepared to set out in the Fall to give me a Requiem. 5 I shall with great pleasure present him to Congress & the Circle of my Friends & leave nothing unattempted to make him happy in himself & [. . .]able to the Community as far as will depend on the most favorable Impressions of his Virtues & Capacity. RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 Congress had resolved on June 24 that James Livingston “be permitted to draw from the contractors at Albany daily, five rations of provisions for the support of himself and family.”JCC, 22:345. 2 Alexander Hamilton was a member of the new delegation (with Duane, William Floyd, Ezra L’Hommedieu, and John Morin Scott), appointed by the New York legisla ture on July 22 to represent the state in Congress “for one year, from the first Monday in November, 1782.”JCC, 23:750-51. ■’The July 21 and 22 fiscal resolutions of the New York legislature enclosed in Gov. George Clinton’s August 4 letter to Congress were read and referred to the grand com mittee on the public credit this day. See PCC, item 59, 2:219-23, item 78, 6:139—42, item 186, fol. 38; and PCC, Miscellaneous Papers, M332, reel 5, fols. 723-26. For the legislature’s resolutions to “strengthen the general Government,” see Ezra L’Homme dieu to George Clinton, September 11, 1782, note 2. 4 Duane may be alluding here to Congress’ August 20 resolution on clothing “the Indians in our interests” (JCC, 23:525), in which case he could not have concluded this letter before the 20th, the day he also wrote to Gov. George Clinton by Walter Livingston. 5 Ezra L’Hommedieu resumed his seat in Congress on August 28; Alexander Hamil ton assumed his on November 25. Duane and L’Hommedieu then obtained leave of absence on November 27. See JCC, 23:533, 750, 755.


[Page 115]
August 20,1782 81 Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:68. 1 Madison’s August 13 letter to Pendleton, which Pendleton acknowledged in his of the 26th, has not been found. See ibid., p. 79. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Friend, Philada. Aug, 20th. 1782 In my last I informed you that the (motion to rescind the controul given to France over the American ministers had been parried and) 1 would probably (end in an adoption of your report).? It was (parried by a substitute so expressed as to give a) committee sufficient (latitude in reporting without implying) on the part of (Congress a design to alter past instructions). The composition of (the committee appointed according well with the object of the substitute a report was made that the expository report) should be {referred to the secretar)y for (for eign affairs) to be (by him revised and transmitted to the ministers in Europe and that the latter) should (communicate so much thereof as they) might (judge fit to his M[ost] Cfhristian] M[ajesty] representing to him &c),3 (In this train the business was going on smoothly) each of the (oppo site parties seemingly concur), from a {fear of something more distant) from {their wishes—when) Mr- L 1. 4 (The reading of) the (argument in favor) of (boundary drawn) from the {federal source) presentfed to Bland) a {snake in the grass). This (jealousy was sup)port(ed by Lee by) suggestions {which pointed to Franklin). The {arguments used by) these {gentlemen) raised {up the advocates) for the {federal pretensions) and the (mer its of this question) were (altercated) with a (warmth which ended) in (an adjournment). 5 Nothing could have been more (fatal to the report than) to {connect this dispute) with it in the {mind of Congress) and I have no longer any {hope of its success). I rather {surmise that a new struggle) will {ensue against the ob)no{xio)us {clause}. 6 I am at a loss to account for the impenetrability of the cypher in my late letters, of which your favor of the 6th instant 7 complains. I regret it too the more as I have since made liberal use of it. 8 The rule I have observed has been to select the colums beginning with the several let ters of the Key word, to arrange them in the same order in which the letters follow each other in the Key word and to use them in that rota tion; always beginning afresh after the use of a word, syllable or letter written in the usual character, & often throwing in these characters merely to break a sentence or paragraph into parts, & thereby circum-


[Page 117]
August 20, 1782 83 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:69-71. 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 2 See Madison to Randolph, August 13, 1782, note 5. 3 SeeJCC, 23:468-69; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:53-55. 4 That is, Lovell, thus indicating that Madison had switched in this paragraph from the official Virginia cipher to the cipher provided by James Lovell, for which see Madi son to Randolph, July 16, 1782, note 3. 5 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 16, 1782. 6 Madison apparently drafted this letter before attending Congress this day, when Arthur Lee and Theodorick Bland renewed their attack. See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, this date. 7 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:28-31. 8 That is, the Lovell cipher. 9 See Madison to Randolph, July 16, 1782, notes 2 and 3. 10 Not found. 11 See the following entry. 12 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:31n.l8. 13 Arthur Lee. 14 See ibid., pp. 28-29. isjohn Adams’ letter to James Searle of December 26, 1781, had been published in the July 10 issue of Rivington’s Royal Gazette. James Madison to Virginia Auditors Gentlemen Philada. Aug. 20th. 1782. Since the 20th. of March last, the date of my acct, last transmitted, I have received from Peter Whitesides & Co. in consequence of orders from Mr. Ross £251.5. Pennsylvania currency. 1 All my previous receipts are stated in my accts, of previous date. 2 The scale of depreci ation will reduce them to specie value. The time of my attendance on Congress is to be computed from March 20th. 1780. & the length of my journey hither at 260 Miles: as will likewise appear by my accounts formerly transmitted. As the Genl. Assembly have fixed a daily rate for the subsistence of the Delegates which I understand is to be retrospec tive as well as future in its application, 3 you will now I presume be able to strike the balance due to me. I beg the favor of you to furnish Edmund Randolph Esqr. with a warrant on the Treasury for this bal ance for my use: or in case that cannot be immediately ascertained, for such sum on account as he shall apply for & will be within the probable amount of it. I am Gentlemen with great respect Yr. obt. & hble servt. J. Madison Jr. Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:72-73. 1 In the preceding letter to Edmund Randolph this sum was correctly reported as £281.5. See also ibid., p. 73n.3. 2 See Madison to Thomas Jefferson, March 18, 1782, note 7.


[Page 119]
August 20, 1782 85 ments was that if our Claims could not be supported on the former ground they were to be relinquished & given up. M r Lee replied that the amendment was to take away an argument which our Ministers might use to their own advantage an argument which was groundless and fallacious; he called upon any gentleman to shew what foundation there was for it. None had attempted this. The reason was because it was not in their power. The Ministers ought to rely on solid argument This was to be found only in the titles of the States. If they were confined to these they would urge them with force, and he had no doubt they would prevail. M r Witherspoon said if there was any doubt that our Ministers would be unfaithful, let them be changed. If M r Franklin, whom the gentle man alluded to, was interested, let him move for his recal, he would second him. The facts and observations, as they now stood, required that the Ministers should in the first place urge the titles of the several States, if these prevailed the end was obtained, and the argument in question would not be brought forward. But if arguments drawn from old Charters, Charters granted at a time when the extent and limits of this country were without Charters and Titles interfering one with another whose limits were so extravagant that it was thought proper to curtail them in a former treaty, if arguments from this source should be found to have no weight with the mediating powers & other powers in Europe, and this he believed would be the case, would any Gentle man wish to preclude our ministers from using an argument which would have weight, an argument drawn from general security, the force of which had been admitted in former treaties, and would be admitted by every disinterested power of Europe. The several States were known to the powers of Europe only as one nation under the stile and title of the United States. This nation was known to be settled along the Coasts to a certain extent; if any European power was admit ted to establish colonies or settlements behind them, what security could they have for the enjoyment of peace? What a source of future wars! Was not this the principal argument urged by G. B. against France at the breaking out of the last war? Whether the uncultivated wilderness on the frontiers should belong to one state or another was a matter of little concern to the European powers. The only argument that would weigh with them was whether it was necessary for the secu rity of the United States that other nations should be excluded from that country, and particularly G. B., the enemy of these States. He should therefore be against the amendment. Sundry other gentlemen spoke and the amendment being insisted on and notice given by M r Bland that he meant to call the yeas and nays, which would bring the whole of the facts and observations upon the journals, by which means Congress would be under the necessity either of resisting the whole or of amending & making them an act of


[Page 120]
86 August 20, 1782 Congress, so that they would go as instructions and not merely as information, which was the thing intended; a motion was therefore made that the report be committed. And the motion for commitment being seconded, and having by the rules of the house a preference, was put and carried in the affirmative. The Com« chosen were M r Rutledge, M r Duane, M r Witherspoon, M r Howell & M r . 3 MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 142-45. 1 See Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 16, note 3. 2 The passages cited are found at NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 138-39; and JCC, 23:516-17. 3 That is, (Joseph] Montgomery, in Thomson’s “Committee Book,” PCC, item 186, fol. 50. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison g r Philadelphia Augt. [20?] 1 1782 We have been duely bond, with your Excellys of the 8th Inst. 2 Since our last such a dearth of Intelligence has prevaild that not one Cir cumstance worth relating has reachd this place or Congress from Europe or elsewhere. We have only to Inform your Excellency that among the Prisoners arrived at this Place from Mill & Fortune Prisons in England (from whence all the American Marine Prisoners have been sent to America) 3 were about forty belonging to our State who have applied to us for relief. Yr. Excellency well knows that no provi sion has been put into our power for such purposes—which are very frequently occurring—notwithstanding we have frequently urged the Policy and necessity of it. On this occasion, both policy & Humanity have dictated to us—to endeavor to procure by a draught on the trea sury of Virginia to the amount of about thirty Pounds Pensylvania Cur rency, which we hope will be honord, and for which we hope we shall stand exculpated—when tis considerd that inattention to this usefull body of men in their distress might deprive the commerce of the State of their Services—of which it at present stands so much in need. We have the Honr. to be most respectfully, Yr. Ecellys. Most obedt. Servts. Theok. Bland Jr. J Madison Jr A Lee. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:67. > The content of the letter, the delegates’ habit of preparing their official dispatches on post day (Tuesday), and the existence of letters to the governor for August 6, 13, and 27 makes the 20th the most obvious date for this letter. 2 See ibid., p. 37.


[Page 121]
August 21,1782 87 According to the Pennsylvania Packet for August 15 and 27, and September 3 and 5 and the Pennsylvania Journal for August 21, two flags had brought about 330 naval pris^ oners to Philadelphia from Mill Prison in Plymouth, and Forton Prison at Portsmouth, England, and another three ships had taken 700 more prisoners to Boston. On August ° f ‘ he Week re P° rted favorably on a memorial from the prisoners in Philadelphia, and Congress directed the Secretary at War to arrange with the Pennsylva nia Executive Council to have them lodged at the Philadelphia barracks and ordered the Agent of Marine to supply them with rations. See JCC, 23:469; and PCC, item 32 f±J 8 '^ ltem 186, foL 49 ’ See also J esse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, August 7 1782, note. ° John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir Philada. Augst. 21st. 1782. This is Just to acknowledge the receipt of the Letter you did me the Honour to write on the 3d Instt. and to inform you that I have noth ing to give you in return but a News-paper. While a Variety of Reports respecting matters of great Importance are Circulating we are Intirely destitute of Authentic Information, the last accounts from any of our Commissrs. in Europe was of the 28th April. 1 I am much Obliged to you for your Letters and the Inclosures & Shall be glad to hear from you frequently, I Shall write you as soon as I have any thing worth Communicating. I am with much Esteem, Your most Obedt. servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. If my old Colleague Mr. Robinson has not forgot me, (as I Sup pose by this time he has got a New Colleague) I Should be glad to hear from him. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Gilman apparently had forgotten John Jay’s May 14 letter which had been read in Congress on August 6. See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, August 5, 1782, note 5. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir - Philada. Augst. 21st. 1782. The Letter you did me the Honour to write on the 6th Instt. I received by Post the 19th (with the Inclosures), Permit me to Assure you Sir that I have a gratefull Sense of these favours. We are now in the same State of Uncertainty, respecting Affairs in Europe, as when I wrote you last, which was by Mr. Storer the 15th Instt. Have no Intelligence from our Commissioners there, for several


[Page 122]
88 August 21,1782 Months past, are in Anxious Expectation of what may be the Issue of the present Situation of Political Affairs. Believe the Enemy from Savannah have Arrived at New-York; it is generally Credited, that a large Number of Transports have lately Arrived there from Europe and it is said they have brought some few German & British recruits, it is reported that a British Fleet of Thirty sail of the Line under the Command of Admiral Pigot are now on this Coast, some say to carry off the Garrisons of New-York &c. and others, for other purpose, but all is Conjecture; I hope soon to be able to give you some Authentic Information on these Subjects. 1 shall be out of Money in a few Days, I do not know that I could sell a Bill if I was to Draw one on the State, and am very unwilling to make [he Experiment as I think it would be Injurious to the state, suppose, as hard Money is scarce in New Hampshire, that Bank Bills might be more Easily obtained there than Money. I should be glad to have some Bills sent me as soon as possible after you receive this, as I shall probably be out of Money before your Letters will reach me. I Shall not Attempt to draw any Bills on the State untill I hear from you, If I can possibly avoid it. I Inclose you a paper of this day, and have the Honour to be with much Respect, Your Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doctr. Philadelphia Augt 21 st 1782 I am favoured with yours of the 10th inclosing one from Lieut. Evans. 1 You will inform Mr Evans that nothing Can at present be done respecting his pay there is no doubt but he will get his money but the State of our Finances will not admit of Speedy payment. Am much pleased to hear you are all well. We Shall I hope be at home about the middle of November. Becky I hope will then be at home. We Shall want much to see her. You Alarm me about my Short Crop of Corn. Pray Sell no more grain or any thing Eatable. No further information respecting peace. We have had no intelligence from either of our Ministers abroad for upwards of four months which at a time so Criti cal is very distressing. We are in Anxious expectation of hearing from them, on whose information it is probable some Judgment may be formed as to the Issue of the negotiation. I hope for the best but I cant help Suspecting the designs of our Rascally Enemy, which may be to Effect by deceit, and Acts of Kindness, what they could not Accom plish by force. The french fleet it is Supposed is gone to Boston. Every thing remains quiet to the north ward—great Confusion in New York


[Page 125]
August 23, 1782 91 David Howell to Welcome Arnold Dear Sir, Philadelphia 23 Aug. 1782. I will suppose you have either never received, or had no leisure to answer my two former Letter s> & on this footing undertake to write you a third. You will no doubt be anxious to hear something about peace. It is the general wish, & I may add that of Congress too, while at the same time a manly firmness in persevering in our just claims and in our mil itary operation so necessary to vindicate them will mark their charac ter in this as well as in all former stages of the contest. Nothing has yet transpired officially about the negotiation on foot. Private Letter from Paris June 28 mentions that Plenipotentiaries from the belligerent powers were in close consultation at Paris & it was expected that a general pacification would take place. I need not assure you of my disposition for peace on good terms. A reduction of the Salaries of our forreign Ministers is in Contem plation & has been agitated in Congress this day. They have at present the enormous Sum of £2500 Sterlg per Annum. You will soon be informed of your appointment as one of the Seven judges to determine the long subsisting controversy betwixt Connecti cut & Pennsylvania respecting the Lands on the Susquehanna: The Court are Mr Whipple of N.H., Mr Welcome Arnold of R.L & P.P., Messieurs Brearley & Houston of N. Jersey, Messieurs Jones & Griffin of Virginia & a Mr Nelson. 2 All the judges were appointed by the mutual choice & agreement of the parties by their Commissioners. I hope you will not decline serving, as you will thereby not only dis oblige the parties who have chosen you but your Friends who under took to recommend you. It is a very high trust. It will at least make you known in the World. The allowance will be ten dols per day in full. At the moment of my writing this Letter you are as I suppose at So. Kingston deliberating about 5 per Cent. I hope you will not adopt it. You will thereby raise money for some States who will not raise any for you nor even for themselves. It is in contemplation to order a Conti. Tax of 1,200,000 Dols, to pay the intrest of the funded debts for 1783. This will be constitutional and in my opinion much better than the Impost; but should that be adopted, this will probably be laid aside. We wait the result of your present deliberations with impatience. Georgia has not yet agreed to the Impost. Please to write me fully the doings of the Legislature & the Senti ments of the people.


[Page 127]
August 27,1782 93 Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dr. Tucker Phila. Augt. 27th 1782 I have Just time to acknowledge the Rect. of your Postscript with the letter Enclosed. I am sorry in hearing from you that my fathers health is so bad—& am extremely destressd that he has never written me a line in answer to the numerous letters I have written to him. The circumstances you mention with respect to the Tobo. is what chiefly induces me to write to you by this post. I am not Surprized that Ross offers at length 22/6 per Ct. when the Superintendt. of finance gives for Tobo. deliverable in Virginia 25/. I shall accordingly dispose of the Qy. you say is wanting for present emergencies but no more being still of opinion that the Residue will quadruply pay for keeping or if I can get for it what I think it is worth may perhaps Sell the whole here. I hope you will advertize Fanny of this and tell her my opinion is that no Tobo. shd. be sold at present more than what is absolutely necessary—untill she hears further from me, as I can form the best Judgment of the time when it will be proper to sell it—and that I think it wd. be much preferable to let me get 25/ Shilling Va. Curry, here than 22/6 there. God Bless you & believe me to be, Yrs affecty. Theok. Bland RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sir Philadelphia Augt 27th 1782 Capt Heron 1 proposes to Settle with you Agreeable to the inclosed State, as I am unacquainted with the price of wheat at the Head of Elk and with the Custom respecting the allowance for deficiency of Weight, have wrote to Colo Hollingsworth for information and Shall do nothing till I hear from him. Mr. Heron insists that the price to be Allowed for the wheat was to be the market price at the time of deliv ery, And that the ballance of the money was not to be paid till Six or Seven weeks after the delivery of the last parcel but if you will take an order on Mr Rutland you Shall have one immediately on the full quantity of wheat being delivered. I wish to have your further Instruc tions by the next Post. Am obliged to the intendant for the attention to the Delegates. Since he has put our Supplys into the hands of Colo. Hollingsworth we have received our Allowances pretty regularly & whenever I may have Occasion to Call for the four hundred pounds of mine which your Excellency have been obliged to make use and to


[Page 128]
94 August 27,1782 which you were extreamly welcome, I hope you will be put to no inconveniency in paying it. It is time to attend Congress and therefore Conclude by assureing you that I am upon all Occasions, your Excel- lencys most humble sevt, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 Not identified. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. Aug. 27th. 1782. Your favor of the 16th 1 came duly to hand yesterday. The hints which it gives with regard to merchandizes imported in returning flags, and the intrusion of obnoxious aliens through other States, merit attention. The latter subject has on several occasions been men tioned in Congress, but I believe no Committee has ever reported a remedy for the abuse. A uniform rule of naturalization ought certainly to be recommended to the States. Their individual Authority seems if properly exerted, to be competent to the case of their own Citizens. The report touching the unpopularity of (General G} 2 was perfectly new to me. It may nevertheless be true. The letter reed, yesterday from the Govr. 3 is silent as to the appointment of Commissrs. to treat with the Southern Indians. We are still left without information concerning negociations in Europe. So long a silence of our Ministers at so interesting a crisis grows equally distressing & inexplicible. The French fleet has gone into Boston Harbor. The arrival of a British fleet on this coast is reported but disbelieved by many. The French Army is on its way Northward from Baltimore. It is to proceed in five divisions; the 1st of which is to be here about Friday next. Congress red. yesterday a letter from Genl Washington enclosing one to him from Carlton with the proceedings of the Ct. Martial in the case of Lippencut. 4 It appears that this Culprit did not deny the fact charged upon him but undertook to justify it as a necessary retali ation, and as warranted by verbal orders from the Board of Refugees. The Ct. decided this warrant to be insufficient, but acquitted him on the pretext that no malicious intention appeared. Carlton explicitly acknowledges & reprobates the crime, & promises to pursue it in other modes; complaining at the same time of irregularity in the step taken by Genl W. of selecting & devoting to execution an innocent & even a capitulant officer, before satisfaction had been formally demanded & refused. Genl. W. seems to (lean to the side of compas sion) but {asks the direction of Congress). What that will be may per haps be communicated in my next.


[Page 129]
August 27, 1782 95 The consideration of your territorial (report has been resumed). The expedient which was meant to conciliate both sides proved, as often happens, a means of widening the breach. The Jealousies announced on the side mentioned in my last, were answered with reciprocal jealousies from the other, & the {report) between the two was falling to the ground when a committment as a lesser evil was pro posed & agreed to. Mr. Jones & his family arrived on Sunday at Germantown without halting in this City. Himself, his lady & little son were all extremely sick during the whole journey. Mrs. Jones is still very much indis posed, & Mr. Jones considerably so. They do not propose to come into the City till the salubrity of Germantown shall have enabled them to encounter its noise & polluted atmosphere. 5 I cannot in any way make you more sensible of the importance of your kind attention to pecuniary remittances for me than by informing you that I have for some time past been a pensioner on the favor of H. S. 6 Will not the Agent of Mr. Morris 7 give a draught payable to me for notes payable to the bearer? Or may not the Notes be so endorsed as in case of accident to prevent payment to another? In either of these cases a remittance of notes (if they can be procured for me), by the post will be safe. But my present situation renders such a conveyance preferable to delay, even if neither of the foregoing expedients be practicable. Shew this paragraph to Mr. Ambler 8 if you please. As I do not find that any of my letters in which Mr. L s Cypher was used, have miscarried, I inclose you a Key exactly copied from mine. 9 If it arrives safe, and unlocks the past letters, it may be of future use. You w[ill] observe & inform me whether the seal of [this letter?] obviates all suspicion of its having been opened. Mr. H. & Mr. T. 10 present their very affecte. regard to Mrs. Ran dolph & yourself. The arrival of every post is succeded by immediate & anxious inquiries concerning the number of your little family to which I hope Mrs. R. is by this time able to furnish a satisfactory answer. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson). 5:86-88. 1 Ibid., pp. 58-60. 2 That is, Nathanael Greene. Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in the official Virginia cipher. 3 See ibid., pp. 57-58. 4 See Ralph Izard to Arthur Middleton, August 26, 1782. 5 Joseph Jones resumed his seat in Congress on September 5. See JCC, 23:547. 6 That is, “Haym Salomon a Jew Broker” written above line, undoubtedly at a much later date. 7 Daniel Clark. s Jacquelin Ambler, Virginia’s treasurer. 9 This key to James Lovell’s cipher has not been found. 10 Probably Samuel House and Nicholas Trist.


[Page 130]
96 August 27, 1782 Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Tuesday, August 27th [1782] The Com“ of the week, viz.: M r Gilman, M r Clark & M r Huntington having rec d a petition signed by a number of inhabitants of a tract of Country called Kentuckey reported that it should be read & filed. 1 The reading was first called for, and the purport of the petition was to state that the petitioners had, at the risk of their lives, settled a tract of country westward of the Allegheny Mountains on the waters falling into the Ohio, that the State of Virginia had lately granted large tracts of land within that district without any condition of settlements, that she had undertaken to form them into Counties and claimed jurisdic tion there, that being removed above 800 miles from the seat of Gov ernment, it could not be exercised with justice & energy; that they were in danger of losing their rights, if they must go to Richmond where the Supreme Court sat & there contend with the last Grantees; that they have taken an Oath of Allegiance & considered themselves subjects of the United States & not of Virginia, that the Charter under which Virginia claimed that Country, had been disolved; that in conse quence of the dissolution the Country belonged to the Crown of G. Britain & that by the revolution the rights of the Crown was devolved on the United States, and therefore praying Congress to erect them into a separate and independent State and admit them into the fed eral Union. M r Lee was surprized that the Com n had not explained in their report the nature of the petition, as they ought to have done, as that might have prevented its being read. The countenancing such peti tions was an insult to the State of Virginia. 2 As the petition had been read, the only thing now to be done was to refer it to the State of Vir ginia. The petitioners were subjects of that State, if they suffered grievances they should apply to the legislature of that State for redress, and not to Congress. What right had Congress to interfere? that the rights of the Crown devolved upon Congress was a ground less, an extravagant & idle supposition. Could they devolve on Congress before it had an existence? Congress derived its power from the Confederation, it had no right but what the Confederation gave it. The United States individually were in existence before Congress was. They were sovereign free and independent & retained all the rights of sovereign free and independent states, except what they voluntarily gave to Congress by the Confederation. That the rights of the Crown to the vacant Lands within the bounds of any state could not devolve upon Congress but on the individual state within the bounds of which the lands lay. M r Madison supported the propriety of referring the paper to the legislature of Virginia. The State he said had already taken measures


[Page 132]
98 August 27, 1782 Britain with regard to her former Colonies, & must bring on another revolution, which will be attended with convulsions & break, the peace of the union. If he is rightly informed, that plan is already in part adopted and is one of the grievances complained of by the people and the foundation of the present petition. He is apt to be jealous, but he thinks it right to be jealous in such a case as this. He wishes for full information. M r Howell observed that the right to the western Country was vested in the Crown of Great B. That by the proclamation of 1763 the King had prohibited his Governors from granting lands beyond the heads of the waters falling into the Atlantic; that by that proclamation reserved to himself the right of pre-emption; that the Crown of England claimed and had always exercised the right of setting off new govern ments—that both these rights devolved on the United States. Congress had acted upon the former when they passed the resolution recommending it to the states who claimed the western Country, not to make any grants of unappropriated lands. See Oct. 30, 1779, 3 in opposition to which the State of Virginia made grants of which the present petitioners now complain and the 11th Article of the Confed eration provides for the exercise of the latter right by the words “no Colony shall be admitted into the union until such admission be agreed to by nine States.” This is not to be confined to Colonies then or now in existence, but extends to any future Colony that may at any time be established or formed. M r Witherspoon began by observing that one of the gentlemen from Virginia said it could not enter into the thoughts of any man that the rights of the Crown devolved on the United States. He sup posed he intended that only as a figure in rhetorick, not as an asser tion that would be admitted. It certainly could enter into the thoughts of men and had actually entered into his thoughts, and it had entered the thoughts of the petitioners and into the thoughts of very many sensible men at the beginning of the present Controversy. The west ern uncultivated and unappropiated lands belonging to the Crown were considered and spoken of early in the controversy as fund for discharging the debts that might be contracted in the war by the U. S. It would appear a strange whim if a sentiment which occupied and engrossed the minds not only of speculative, but of illiterate men and of the bulk of the inhabitants of many of the States had not some solid foundation to rest on. For his part he thought it founded on truth, on justice, on the nature of things, and was warranted by the Laws of Society. This controversy was begun and the war was carried on by the united and joint efforts of the thirteen States. By their joint exertions and not by those of any one State the dominion of Great Britain was broken, and consequently the rights claimed and exercised by the crown devolved on all, and not any individual State. Why should one


[Page 135]
August 28, 1782 101 to the superintendent of finance who issued his report on September 7. See PCC, item 75, 2:371-72, item 185, 3:39, item 186, fol. 51; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:335-37. Morris proposed instead that the currency be received and destroyed by the commis sioners he had appointed to settle state and individual accounts and, in a far-reaching departure, recommended that states redeeming more than their quotas of old money be credited for the excess in specie at 40 to 1, thus favoring states like Massachusetts that held a surplus. For Congress’ rejection of Morris’ proposal to permit redemptions in excess of state quotas and Massachusetts’ effort to salvage the superintendent’s rec ommendation, see Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, September 19-25, note 10; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 26, 1782. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, August 20, 1782, note 3. James Duane to Alexander McDougall Dear Sir Philadelphia 28th Aug 1782 I received your favour of the 16th Instant with great Pleasure. Be assured that it requird no Representations or Arguments to engage my Efforts for the most speedy Decision on your Case. 1 I was suffi ciently awake to your personal feelings in such a painful State of sus- pence, and anxious, on publick Considerations, for your Resumption of Command. Nor was there in fact any delay but what was required for a deliberate Review of the proceedings of the Court martial. You know the Event. We saw you with pleasure rescued, by the Sentence of your Peers, from every Imputation which, in the remotest degree, coud reflect on your Honour or your Integrity. The single charge of which you are not acquitted Taxes yOur Prudence only; and not in Con duct, or with Regard to the publick, but in words respecting an Individ ual, and utterd in a social Hour! I refer you to General Scott for any particulars respecting the Ratification of the Sentence which you may be curious to know. With Truth, Sir, I can affirm that the high Estima tion in which your Zeal, your Merits and your Services had placed you remains unimpaired. I have been so long habituated to disappointment from the Profes sions, and the extreme Folly, of our Enemy, that I form Conclusions with respect to their Measures and that Sincerely with the utmost Cau tion. Pardon me then for confessing that you take greatly the Lead of me in Expectations of a sudden peace. I reserve my Judgement of this most desireable Event till we obtain Information of the state of Euro pean politics from our Ministers. It is a painful Reflection that we have no Intelligence from any of them for a most tedious period: Not even an official account of the Recognition of our Independence by the Dutch tho’ it must have happend so long ago as April. And yet, my dear Sir, I will not renounce the Hope of embracing you before the next Spring in our beloved Capital, and of felicitating with you on the Success of our Anxious Labours for the Indepen dence & Happiness of the United States. I am with the greatest Respect and personal Esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obedient & very huml Sert. Jas. Duane


[Page 136]
102 August 28, 1782 RC (NHi: McDougall Papers). 1 For the reading and approval of General McDougall’s court-martial sentence by Congress on August 15, see JCC, 23:468; and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 9, 1782. For McDougall’s court martial on seven counts of “conduct unmilitary and unbecoming an officer,” and modest reprimand for conviction on the seventh charge for having denounced Gen. William Heath as “a Knave,” see Washington, Writ ings (Fitzpatrick), 25:76-84; and Roger J. Champagne, Alexander McDougall and the Amer ican Revolution in New York (Schenectady, N.Y.: Union College Press, 1975), pp. 175-79. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Augst. 28th. 1782. I received your favour of the 14th Instt. (Inclosing a Letter from Mrs. Gilman) by Post the 26th. I wrote you the 21st Instt. since which have not any Intelligence either from Europe, or respecting the sev eral Reports mentioned in that Letter, cannot account for our being so long destitute of Intelligence from Europe. I have made Enquiry Respecting the Balsam mentioned in your Letter of the 6th. It is in such bottles as I think would not answer to send by the Post, I shall send it you by the first safe Opporty. I can find. I have received a Let ter from Genl. Bellows respecting Wages &c. due to One Capt. Holmes. Inclosed is an Answer thereto, 1 have not any thing to Com municate, worthy of your Attention. I Inclose a Paper of this Day and have the Honour to be, with much Respect, Your Obedt. servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. In my Letter of the 21st Instt. I wrote for some Money or Bills to be Sent me, hope it will be done before this reaches you; of the 500 Dollars which I received of the State, I brought away with me when I Left home 450 Dollars (although I had Expended several Hundred Dollars to prepare mySelf for the Journey) and I am now almost Desti tute of Money. J. T. G. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Not found. John Hanson to William Whipple and Others Sir 1 (Circular) Philadelphia August 28th. 1782 A dispute having long subsisted between the States of Pensylvania & Connecticut respecting lands claimed by them respectively, an appeal was made to Congress for settling the dispute agreeably to the ninth article of the Confederation, and the said States appearing by their lawful Agents were directed according to the tenor of the Confedera-


[Page 137]
August 28,1782 103 tion to appoint by joint consent Commissioners or Judges to consti tute a Court for hearing and determining the matter in question. In consequence of this direction they met and have appointed the hon- ble. W. Whipple Esqr. of New Hampshire, the Honble. Welcome Arnold Esqr. of Rhode Island, the Honorable David Brearly and William Churchill Houston Esqrs. of New Jersey, the Honble. Cyrus Griffin, Joseph Jones, and Thomas Neilson Esqrs. ofVirginia to consti tute a Court for hearing & determining the matter in question between the said States. 2 I have it in charge to inform you of this appointment and that you are to meet at Trenton in the State of New Jersey on Tuesday the 12th. day of November next. A Commission is making out and will be ready to be delivered at the time & place above mentioned. As the peace of two States and consequently of the whole Union depends upon an amicable settlement of this dispute, I trust you will view your appointment in so important a light, that it will be unnecessary, to use arguments to induce you to undertake the business and to meet punc tually at the time & place appointed. I have the honor to be with Sentiments of esteem & regard Sir, Your most obedient & very humble Servt. John Hanson Presidt. RC (Capt.J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). Addressed: “Honorable William Whip ple Esqr., New Hampshire.” LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 In the LB the following note follows this letter: “The same verbatim, To the Honor able Welcome Arnold, Esq. of Rhode-Island, The Honorable David Brearley and William Churchill Houston, Esquires, of New-Jersey, The Honorable Cyrus Griffin, Joseph Jones and Thomas Neilson, Esquires, ofVirginia, severally.” 2 For this August 23 order of Congress, see JCC, 23:461, 466-68, 528-29. For the con text of this action, see Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, June 5 and July 1, 1782; and Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:119-29. David Howell to Silas Talbot Dear Sir, Philada. 28 Aug. 1782. I waited on Gen. Gates at his lodgings at the time he proposed for the purpose I wrote you 1 but he was gone into the Country—and I have not seen him since to obtain his opinion. The papers you sent me have been in the Auditors hands several days; he informs me that he does not thereby deem himself autho rised to settle your accounts for the whole of the time as a Land-offi cer; but thinks your case so peculiarly situated as to well justify a par ticular application to Congress. This I will make for you, if you will sign & send to me a Petition; or, should you, as you hint in your last letter, come “in person ” I will assist you all in my power. Waiting advice I am, Sir, yours, &c. David Howell.


[Page 141]
August 30, 1782 107 MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 145-50. 1 See notes 3 and 5 below. 2 For Robert Morris’ August 23 letter to Congress and the settlement of the accounts of Capt. Francis Maxwell of the Symmetry, who had submitted his case to Morris, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:175-76n.2, 242-43; and PCC, item 137, 1:733-35. •’There is no mention of this debate in Thomson’s journals, but according to both his Committee Book and his endorsement on the committee report, the latter was sub mitted and recommitted on August 27 not 28. See PCC, item 19, 4:363-64, item 186, fol. 51, item 191, fol. 21. 4 That is, for the Treaty of Ryswick negotiated in 1697. 5 There is no mention of this debate in Thomson’s journals, but according to an order in the hand of one of his clerks this committee was appointed on August 26. It eventually submitted a report on May 6, 1783, which was recommitted on May 14, resub mitted on June 10, and adopted on June 11, 1783. See PCC, item 25, 2:221-25, item 186, fol. 51; and JCC, 24:390-91. For the 1778 ceremonial to which the committee was to propose “alterations and additions,” see PCC, item 25, 2:227-31. See also Theodorick Bland’s Draft Proposals, August ? 1782. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Friday Augt. 30th. P.M. 1782. I wrote you Per Post the 28th Instt. By accounts from New-York (which came in last Evening) it appears that the Enemy are about to Evacuate Charlestown. Having an Opporty. to Send by a Merchant’s Express who is Just Sit ting out for Boston, I Inclose you a Hand-Bill Just published here, 1 hope it will reach you, before you Set out for Concord, as the Express Intends to be at Boston in Eight Days from this, have no further Infor mation on this Subject than is Contained in the Hand-Bill. The first Division of the French Army from the Southward passed through this City this morning, the others are soon Expected, Sup pose they are going to Join our Main Army. I have the Honour to be, with much Respect, Your most Obedt. servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Not found, but on the evacuation of Charleston, S.C., see the following entry. Jonathan Jackson to Oliver Wendell Dear Sir Phila 30th Augst 1782 An Express of Mr Tracy’s returning Today, I am just set down to tell you that we have nothing new here excepting the inclosed hand bill respecting the Town of Charlestown So C—which leads many of its old Inhabitants to think it is evacuated by this time.


[Page 146]
112 August ? 1782 When Application was made to France that Court proceded with the utmost Caution. It was easy however from the whole Intercourse to perceive two things (1) That both The Court & Nation of France were very desirous that we should be supported & succeed (2) That at the same Time they were exceedingly doubtful whether it was safe for them to involve themselves much with us or openly to take our Part. This Backwardness arose plainly from two different Causes which seemed to have almost equal Influence (1) Jealousy of us least we should not adhere to our Resolutions but draw back & make Peace with England (2) A necessary Fear of the Power of England and par ticular its Naval Force. They have hardly even yet been wholly free of either of these apprehensions. The Affairs of the United States were never in a more critical situa tion than in December 1776 when Congress went to Baltimore—there never was a greater need for or greater Anxiety to obtain foreign Aid. The Number that attended Congress then was small but their Mea sures were decided & I believe judicious. I do not remember one Word of Despondency to have fallen from any Member or the most distant hint of a Desire to draw back & make submission to England. But the Means of persuading France to [in] terpose effectually was the great Subject of Deliberation & Discussion. At that Time there was a Letter or Letters mentioned from a P[er]son in France which intimated that we should make Propositions to France to induce them to support us in an effectual Manner & since this Sentiment was Spoke of coming from that Quarter that if we could put France in the Place of England they would certainly protect us. This came from no official Persons nor was directed to any official Body nor had we any Reason to suppose that it was done at the Sug gestion of the Court of France. I do not believe it was. The Proposi tion was not worthy of being taken into Consideration. There were however several Persons in Congress who reasoned in this Manner. It is plain we cannot be supported without foreign Aid. There is no Place to which we can apply with Probability of Success but France. We know she is disposed to assist us but We have been given no Sufficient Inducement to that Power to interpose. We have offered nothing to France but what we have offered to every ot her Nation. The Proposals mentioned were to offer France an exclusive Trade with the united States for a limited Time—or to offer them an exclusive Trade in some particular Articles—or to offer them a Distinction from other Nations in form of Freedom from Imposts &c. After a very deliberate & accurate Discussion it was the Opinion of a very considerable Majority of Congress to make no such Proposals. That they were contrary to the very Spirit of our undertaking—that if we were to be independent we could be independent of all the World—That to separate the united States from England was an


[Page 148]
114 August ?1782 in the West Indies had happened two years sooner than it did its Effects would have been perhaps fatal to us. From this state of Things & all that followed I am convinced that nothing could be more false than the Supposition of some Persons that France wanted the War to continue for the Purposes of Ambition & the greater Humiliation of her Enemy. On the Contrary France always discovered a Desire to have the War terminated & listened to any Proposal for this Purpose perhaps prompted or suggested the Offers of Mediation from Spain, the Emperor & Russia. This was the natural Consequence of the two Causes above assigned for her slow ness & Caution in entering upon the War. Mr John Adams was chosen for the Purpose & the Commission for negotiating a Peace with great Britain was given to him alone. The Instructions at first sent to him contained a Description of our Claims as to Territory & made the following particulars essentially necessary to our making Peace. The Extension of our Bounds to the 45 Degree of Latitude North & to the Mississippi westward—The right of fishing on the Banks of Newfoundland—And a free Navigation of the Missis sippi to the Mouth. When Mr Adams was in France he thought it best to intimate to the Court of England as from himself that he had a Commission for nego tiating Peace. The Court of France was of Opinion that that Time was not proper that things were not sufficiently ripe for it & that no such separate Intimation should be made & that it might encourage Eng land in the Expectation of Engaging in a separate Treaty with America & dividing the Allies, a thing which they earnestly desired & made repeated attempts to accomplish. In a Correspondence between Mr Adams & the D. de Vergennes on this subject & also on the Subject of the Act of Congress of the 18th of March 80—estimating the conti nental Money at 40 for 1, Mr Adams maintained his Opinions with a Tenaciousness which gave great Offence to the Court of France & indeed such was the Manner of his writing upon these Subjects that he was finally forbid to continue it by an express order de par le roi. In the year 1781 Congress entered upon the Reconsideration of the Instructions 3 formerly sent to Mr Adams particularly the making essential Conditions of the extensive boundary, of the fishing on New foundland & the free Navigation of the Mississippi. The last of these we heard from our Ministers was very disagreeable to the Court of Spain another viz the fishery not very agreeable to the Court of France who had not this Right by Treaty themselves, & the other We had Rea son to suspect that the English might be very tenacious upon nor did we know what might be the Sentiments of the Mediating Powers or the P[owers] of Europe in general as to our Right or the Expediency of our having such extensive Dominions. It was also to be considered that as none of these particulars was specified in the Alliance with


[Page 149]
August ? 1782 115 France the Question was necessarily reduced to this Form whether though France should not support us in these Claims we would con tinue the War ourselves unless they were granted. In this Situation after much & long discussion it was at last resolved as to all the three to depart from making them absolute & essential Conditions least at our Distance it should be a Bar to an otherwise honorable Peace. The Spirit therefore of the final Instructions was that the former should still serve to shew what we wished & thought we ought to Obtain but from a Desire of Peace we left it to our Minis ters in Conjunction with our Allies to do what Circumstances should discover to be wisest upon the whole. When these Matters were trans acting the Minister of France often intimated both to Committees in Conference with him & to particular Members of Congress that it would be highly agreeable to his Court that Congress should leave nothing as general or undetermined but say expressly upon every par ticular what they would & what they would not yield. It could not eas ily be known with Certainty whether this arose chiefly or only from their Jealousy of Mr Adams or whether they preferred upon the whole that as little should be left discretionary as possible least blame should be laid upon themselves. It was however my plan that this could not be complied with. To have been specific upon every Point & to have brought the States gen erally to agree upon them as to what might & what could not be given up would have required much more Time than could be allowed by the State of Affairs & probably it never could have been or with Cor diality & Unanimity at all. Besides these are some of the particulars that it was clearly impossible to be absolute & explicit upon for exam ple as to Boundary. How could it be said that it is the Interest of the United States to contract their Boundaries to the westward 100 miles in order to have other Points secured but no Necessity or Advantage as sufficient to make them come in 200 miles. How could the Congress judge of the Sentiments of the Public upon such Matters so as to be peremptory & to make a Demand at the Risk of our Indepen dence or our very Existance. Therefore it was without much Difficulty agreed to continue the Instructions in the general & discretionary Form. When the Instructions were therefore agreed upon Communica tions were made of them to the Minister of France & the Directions were given in the same Manner as always had been done to our Minis ter to make the most free & candid Communications of all his Pro ceedings to the Court of France & to avail himself of the assistance, friendship & Influence of that Court in all his Transactions. Then a Difficulty arose which was trying indeed, it appeared that this was not sufficient in the present Instance. The Minister read to the Commit tee the Letters of the D de Vergennes upon the Subject of Mr Adams


[Page 150]
116 August ?1782 complaining of him in the Strongest Terms & expressing their fears of the negotiations being marred by his Stiffness & Tenaciousness of Temper. It was natural to suppose & probably was supposed by the Members of the Committee that the Minister wished Congress would take that Commission from Mr Adams & give it to some other though no such thing was read to the Committee from D. de Vergennes let ters nor proposed by the Minister himself. When this Matter was reported to Congress a very serious Delibera tion was taken upon it. What Mr Adams had done by which he had incurred the Displeasure of the Ministers of the King of France had been undoubtedly from his Zeal & Attachment to the Interest & honor of the united States. His Ability & his unshaken Fidelity was well known. In such a Case to displace a Minister merely because he had given umbrage to some at the Court where he resided by an excess of well Meant Zeal seemed to be a most pernicious Example & probably would have the worst Effects upon succeeding ministers & therefore ought not to be done. The Writer of this Memorial of Facts in particular was clearly of Opinion that Mr Adams judged wrong in both the Points which he contested in his Correspondence with the D. de Vergennes the Reasons for which need not now be mentioned. Yet he was as clearly of Opinion to sacrifice a Minister of unquestionable Integrity ought not on any Acct to be submitted to merely because he had more Zeal than good Manners & therefore it was proposed that a Clause should be added to the Instructions to this purpose and that he should do nothing without the Consent & approbation of the Court of prance. Another Committee was appointed to confer with the Minister & made this Communication. But in Conference this also was in his Opinion insufficient. He repeated the Fears they had of Difficulties with Mr Adams & insisted that by this New Clause he was only bound negatively that he could not indeed do any Thing without the Con sent of the Court of France but he might obstruct every Measure & unless he were perfectly satisfied effectually prevent any Thing being done. When this was repeated to Congress the Matter appeared exceed ingly delicate & difficult. It was discussed at great Length. All the Objections against removing Mr Adams remained in their full force. But on the other it appeared humiliating at least if not dangerous to deliver ourselves up entirely to the Court of France. However after full Deliberation it was agreed by the Majority in Congress to add to the Instruction that he should be ultimately guided by the Opinion & fudg- ment of the Court of France. As This particular Resolution appeared so dubious to several Wor thy Members of Congress & there were so many Attempts to recon-


[Page 153]
September 1, 1782 119 Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Septr 1st 1782 We had the honor of your Excellcy favr by Brown with the bundle of papers which have not had time thoroughly to peruse. Browns suden & unexpected Departure this day prevents my giving that Answer & Intelligence which Duty required, I had while in Congress Sketchd out 2 or 3 letters for Coll. Williams, Esqr Wales, & Doctr. Gray 1 & in each just touched on some Subjects which designed this afternoon to have enlarged & rather farther elucidated to your Excel lency but this Moment after 4 oClock just returnd from Congress Brown Says he cannot wait a minute longer, therefore have only to ask pardon for being oblidgd to referr your Excellency to those letters which they will shew you, for a few Intimations which undigested are scattered in those letters 2 & shall take the earliest oppertunity to give your Excellency some further Information on our publick matters & for which I hope shall be better prepared as at present they lye unde cided in Congress. 3 Am with the most sincere respect, Your Excellcys Obedt Hie Servt. Elipht Dyer RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 These letters for William Williams, Nathaniel Wales, and Samuel Grav have not been found. 2 Governor Trumbull reported in his September 23 reply to Dyer that Samuel Gray had “sent me an Extract of what you mention to him, relative to the case between this State, and that of Pennsylvania.” Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:123. 3 See Dyer to Trumbull, September 25, 1782. John Hanson to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Sept. 1st 1782 Your Excellencys letter of the 28th ult inclosing an Extract of a Let ter from Sir Guy Carleton I received last Evening. Tomorrow Morning 1 they shall be laid before Congress and as soon as they decide on the Several matters you have been pleased to recommend to their Consideration their Resolutions thereon Shall be immediately transmitted. 2 I have the honor to be with the highest respect and regard, Your Excellencys, most obedt & very humble Servt John Hanson RC (DLC: Washington Papers).


[Page 156]
122 September 3, 1782 James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Sepr. 3. 1782. The cautious ear which your favr. of the 26 Aug. 1 shews that you gave to the communications of Genl Carlton is fully justified by the insidious marks they bear as well as by the general tenor of British proceedings. I am sorry that I am obliged to repeat my inability to add any new lights from Europe on this interesting subject. We are unhap pily left exposed to all the misrepresentations which the Enemy may please to practise upon us. , It appears from a New York paper that the British Commander in Charleston had given notice on the 7th. Ulto. to the Inhabitants that he meant speedily to evacuate that Garrison; with an offer to transport to Augustine or elsewhere such as chose to adhere to the British cause. This information will probably have reached you before this does. The fermentation at New York is said to be much increased by it. We have no other materials for ascertaining the probability of an evacuation of the latter port than you will be possessed of. I have seen nothing of the man in pursuit of your Nephews slave, from which as the French troops are now passing thro’ this place, I infer that he has fulfilled his mission & returned. A slight indisposition for some days past has kept me from being about as much as I other wise should I have however made application to Mr. de Marbois for his advice as to the most proper Course to be pursued; and he thinks it will be best to postpone a search under the orders of the Commanders till the army shall be stationary again. This will not I suppose be the case till they reach their destination.2 At present they march in several divisions and halt but one day here. The implication which the fre quent applications of this sort carry of at least a defect of vigilan[c]e against an illicit resort of slaves to the army renders them I believe rather unpleasant. If the overseer should not have recovered the slave & you have no acquaintances where the Army may finally halt, I will take every step in my power to have him found out 8c secured. The effects of the dry weather here although less than you describe them in Virginia are very considerable already in the markets, and particularly in the article of forage. On the other side the rumors of peace have produced some abatement in the prices of imported arti- cles. Mr. Jones & his lady are mending fast but are not yet sufficiently recovered to remove from their present salubrious situation into the /forgot to mention the unlucky accident which had happened to a ship of the line belonging to our Allies in Boston Harbour. As I observe however that it is published in the gazette, I need only con firm the fact.


[Page 159]
September 3, 1782 125 the emission of the 18th of March 1780, and the destruction of the old Continental money by Commissioners within the state, which was refer’d to the Superintendt. of finance to report generally upon as the steps to be taken on the Resolution of our Assembly, will be applicable to other states Similarly circumstanced. 1 The Resolution of Congress relative to the Garrison of York has, we are informed, by the Secretary of Congress, been transmitted to Yr. Excellency through the War department. 2 We shall endeavor to procure and send to Your Excellency, a Copy of a Copy of a Petition which was presented to Congress from Sundry Inhabitants (as set forth in the Petition) of Kentucky of a similar nature to three others which have at Sundry times made their appearance in Congress. 3 We think it may serve as a foundation for an inquiry, as well into the causes of the grievances set forth, as into the movers of such Petitions. We have only to remark that the Persons who deliver them, do not act the most open part but keep themselves incog, while some apologies (tho lame ones in our opinion) are offerd for the evi dent marks of Spuriousness these Petitions generally bear on the face of them, by Certain Gentlemen in Congress. We must observe, that this last Peti[ti]on, tho pretended to be a Copy of an original one is accompanied with no certificate of its being so; while the Petition is in one hand writting, and the names in four or five different hands, and not written by each subscriber. We leave to your Excellency the Propriety of laying it before the next Session of Assembly. The Grand Comme. for devising ways and means to pay the Interest of the National Debt, have among other things reported it as their opinion—“that the Western Lands, if ceded to the U.S. might con tribute towards a fund for paying the debts of these States”—But no part of their report has yet been acted upon. 4 A Rumor prevails that the combined fleets of France, Spain, & Hol land, have formd a Junction in the British Channel—& that they have fallen in with & taken eighteen or twenty of the Quebec fleet, but nothing Authentic has been received relative to this or any thing else from Europe since our last. We have the Honor to be with every possible respect Yr. Excellys. most obedt & very Humb. Svts. J Madison Jr. Theok. Blandjr. A. Lee RC (PWacD: Feinstone Collection, on deposit PPAmP). Written by Bland and signed by Bland, Lee, and Madison. 1 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, August 27, 1782, note 2. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, July 23, note 3, and August 6, 1782. 3 See Charles Thomson's Notes of Debates, August 27, 1782.


[Page 164]
130 September 9, 1782 Promise of half Pay for Life which was made the 21st of October 1780 has occasioned considerable Difficulty. It has obstructed the reducing of the Officers of the Army—because those who were opposed to half Pay, would not on that Condition Vote for a Reduction, & those that were for it, would not agree but upon that Condition. But how can the Legislature of Massachusetts take up the Matter? Will the State undertake to make a Compromise for the half Pay? There could be no Objection to this, if the State could do it with Safety & give no Offence to several States in the Union. But as it is altogether a national Matter, if the State should enter into any such Agreement without the Consent & Approbation of Congress; you are sensible from what you heard observed, when the Memorial from the Connecticut Officers was under Consideration, that some of the States will not agree to excuse any State in Requisitions for half Pay, notwi [th] standing it may have made a Compromise with its own Officers. If half Pay for Life is agreeable to the State, they can instruct their Delegates in Congress to be in Favor of it. But without such an Instruction, I beleive they will conclude that they are acting con formable to the Sentiments of the State, in opposing it. I have no doubt at present, But it will be finally referred to the several States to do in this Matter as Wisdom & Justice may direct. But whenever this is made a serious Question in Congress it will be warmly opposed; because some of the States are exceedingly in Favor of half Pay and will do all they can to make the discharging of it a national Matter, from a Supposition, that it will have a Tendency to cement the Union or, (which I think is more probable) from an uncertainty, whether, if it is referred, their own Legislatures will think it reasonable to give half Pay for Life to their Officers indiscriminately. The Arguments in Support of half Pay for Life must be drawn from the Sufferings & hard Services of the Officers—The Sacrifice they have made in their private Fortunes—And the Injury done to their Constitutions—That their Mode of Life in the Army has disqualified them for any other Employ. In Opposition to these Arguments, it will be said that no Country ever gave half Pay for Life, which did not maintain a standing Army— That in the American Army, as the Promise stands at present, it will be an exceeding unequal Reward. Our Officers are very numerous, & many of them have not per formed nine Months actual Service. That in the Distribution of Rewards, equal Justice ought to be a gov erning Principle—But many of our old & best Officers will receive a much less Reward, than younger Officers. I need not endeavor to prove this, by Doctr. Halley’s Calculations to ascertain the Value of Annuities. What Reason then can be given, why an Officer that left a Family which depended upon him for Support & Protection, & hazarded his


[Page 168]
134 September 9, 1782 dency to Support the Plan which Genl. Lincoln was about submitting to Congress. And I am perswaded that sooner or later the whole Mat ter will be referred, & recommended to the several States to do as their Wisdom may direct. 3 I must request you to excuse so long a Let ter upon a single Subject. I am, Dear Sir, with great Esteem, Your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 For the petition of the “deranged" Connecticut officers, which had been referred to the superintendent of finance on July 19, 1782, see Charles Thomson s Notes of Debates, July 30, 1782, note 2. 2 JCC, 18:893-97, 959-61. 3 Osgood later learned that this letter had been used to help ensure Massachusetts’ rejection of a petition of the state’s officers for half pay. Finding himself under “no small Degree of Anxiety” as a result, he was subsequently moved to defend and explain himself, for which see Osgood to Henry Knox, December 4, 1782. John Witherspoon’s Speech in Congress Mr President, [September 9, 1782] 1 I must entreat the attention of the house, while I endeavour to state this subject with as much brevity and perspicuity as I am master of. It is not easy to forbear mentioning, yet I shall but barely mention, the distressed and unhappy situation of many of the persons concerned in the public loans. I shall also pass by their characters, as whigs and friends to the American cause. I shall pass by the services which many of them have rendered, in their persons, by their friends, by their purses, and by their prayers. These are affecting considerations, which ought not, and which I am confident will not fail, to have their weight with every member of this house. Let us then, leave these topics alto gether, and let us confine ourselves to the duty and interest of the United States in their present situation, when the care of their affairs is committed to us who are here assembled. Public credit is of the utmost moment to a state which expects to support itself, at any time; but it is all in all in a time of war. The want of it defeats the wisest measures, and renders every department torpid and motionless. It cannot be denied, that by many unhappy, if not unwise measures, public credit among us has been reduced to the low est ebb, first by a monstrous and unheard of emission of paper money; next by an act of bankruptcy, reducing it to six pence in the pound; then by a table of depreciation. 2 There remained but one thing which preserved us some degree of respectability, that the promises made to lenders of money before a certain period, had been kept for three years; but now as the last and finishing stroke, this also is broken to pieces, and given to the winds.


[Page 169]
September 9, 1782 135 Let not gentlemen cry out as before, why distinguish these people from other public creditors? I do not distinguish them by asking pay ment for them alone; but I distinguish them, because their circum stances and disappointment give a new and disgraceful stroke to the credit of the United States. I distinguish them, because I hope that their sufferings and complaints may induce us to take some step towards the payment of all. Strange it is to the last degree, that this comparison should seem to set gentlemen’s minds at ease—because great injury has been done to one class, therefore the same may and ought to be done to another. In this way it would be very easy to rid ourselves of both, and to say, why all this noise about loan-office cer tificates? have not all the receivers of continental bills suffered as much or more than they, and had the immense sum of two hundred millions sunk in their hands? If this would be a good answer in one cafe, it certainly would in the other. Now is it proper or safe in our present situation, to refuse all kind of payment to the public creditors in this country, so numerous and so variously circumstanced? Let us examine it a little. We are now endeavouring to borrow, and have the hope of borrow ing money in Europe. Is this the way to succeed? Is it not possible, is it not highly probable, that our treatment of our creditors here, will soon be known there? Nay, are not some of our creditors interested in this very measure, residing there? Must not this repeated insolvency, neglect and even contempt of public creditors, prevent people from lending us in Europe? I am sorry to say it, but in truth I do believe that it is their ignorance of our situation and past conduct, that alone will make them trust us. I confess, that if I were at Amsterdam just now and had plenty of money, I would give what I thought proper to the United States, but would lend them none. It is to be hoped, that in time truth and justice will so far prevail, that our posterity will fee the necessity of doing their duty; but at pres ent we seem but little disposed to it. By making some payment to the public creditors immediately, and prosecuting the measures already begun for further security, we should obtain a dignity and weight abroad, that would procure money wherever it could be found. Let us next consider the effect upon our credit at home. It has ever been my opinion, that if our security were good, and our credit entire, so that obligations by the public would be turned into money at any time, at par or at little less, we should find no inconsiderable number of lenders. Every thing of this kind proceeds upon such cer tain principles as never to fail in any instance of having their effect. From the general disposition, that prevails in this new country, real estate is less esteemed, and money at interest more, that is to say comparatively speaking, than in the old. Now, whatever success we may have in Europe, I am persuaded we should still need, or at least be much the better of loans at home, which are in their nature


[Page 171]
September 9, 1782 137 indignation. They really are already sore; their minds will be rankled more than ever. They are looking with an evil eye upon some new men coming into play, and thinking themselves unjustly and ungrate fully used. I believe they are not so much without principle, as to turn their backs upon the public cause; but a spirit of faction and general discontent, upon such plausible grounds, may do it essential injury. They may combine to refuse their taxes; and if any such unhappy asso ciation should be formed, it would spread; and many from a blind attachment to their own interest, would pretend to be upon the same footing, though they have no concern in the matter: and if this dispo sition should become general, it would put an entire stop to all our proceedings. This discouraging prospect is not merely founded on conjecture. I have been told that there have already been meetings for entering into concert for refusing to pay taxes. Is it possible we can, in our circumstances, more profitably employ the sum mentioned in the motion, than in giving satisfaction to a deserving body of men, and in preventing evils of so alarming a nature. It is possible, Sir, that some are comforting themselves with their own sincerity and good intentions; that they ultimately resolve to pay all honourably; that they have taken, and are taking measures to pre pare for it. A sum of money is called for on purpose to pay the inter est of the public debts; and the five per cent, impost is appropriated to the same purpose. But, Sir, it will take a considerable time before the most speedy of these measures can bring money into the treasury; and in the mean time the late step of refusing to draw bills, has given such a stroke to loan-office certificates, that their value is fallen to a very trifle—the spirits of the people are broken—a gentleman told me the other day, I see the loan-office certificates are gone, as well as all the rest of the money. The inevitable consequence will be, that hard and irresistible necessity, or incredulity and ill humour, will make them part with them for a mere nothing; and then the greatest part of them by far will really be in the hands of speculators. When this is notoriously the case, I shall not be at all surprised to find that somebody will propose a new scale of depreciation, and say to the holders, you shall have them for what they were worth and generally sold at, at such a time. Past experience justifies this expectation, and no declaration we can make to the contrary, will be stronger than that of Congress in the year 1779, that they would redeem the money, 3 and that it was a vile and slanderous assertion, that they would suffer it to sink in people’s hands. I know particular persons also, who by believing this declaration, lost their all. Now, if this shall be the case again, public faith will be once more trodden under foot; and the few remaining original holders of certificates will loose them entirely, being taken in connection with those who purchased them at an under value.


[Page 176]
142 September 10, 1782 Osgood, John Rutledge, and James Madison) to whom he suggested giving the America to France to replace the lost Magnifique. Congress quickly concurred with the commit tee’s favorable report and the presentation was made to the chevalier de La Luzerne on September 4. See JCC, 23:543; PCC, item 28, fols. 233-34; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:302n.2, 303-4, 306. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, September 3, 1782, note 4. 3 See John Witherspoon’s Draft Resolves, September 6, 1782. 4 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:78n.l2. 5 Ibid., p. 95. 6 Ibid., pp. 91-92. 2 Neither Madison’s accounts nor the “scale of Depreciation” for Pennsylvania have been found, but see Madison to Virginia Auditors, August 20, 1782. David Ramsay to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Philada. Septr. 10th 1782 Your favor of the 14th of August came safe to hand on the sixth of September, for which I am much obliged to you. The prospect of an evacuation of Charlestown had reached us sev eral days before by the way of New-York. Prior to that we had sent in to Sir Guy Carleton the names of 429 persons to take the benefit of the flags which he had on a former occasion agreed to grant. 1 They are now in high spirits & determined to return as soon as possible. The evacuation of Charlestown will not terminate the troubles of the people of Carolina. I forsee much to be done & more to be suffered before the country will be completely organized in every depart ment. Now is the time for a spirit of moderation & sound policy to manifest itself. I very much fear the madness & unforgiving temper of some whigs. To reconcile, to unite, or as the chymists say, to amal gamate the people into one homogeneous body would be a divine work. I feel myse[l]f happy that my tour of duty lies in a distant part of America. This will be handed you by an express who carries to you a resolution of Congress countermanding your orders to repair to head quarters; 2 this resolution would not have been carried at any other season; but, it was said on all hands your army would be useless here till next Spring, & that you might as well remain in Carolina till February. I am there fore well pleased that the enemy did not evacuate as early as was at first expected. If you think proper to undertake the reduction of Augustine, the resolution is expressly worded in such a manner as to leave it fully in your power. It is certain that the Southern states would be greatly releived by a successful expedition into E. Florida. The people of that province will receive such a powerful reinforcement of refugees all insti gated by a spirit of revenge, & a wish to repair their broken fortunes, that Carolina & Georgia (when left without an army) would probably


[Page 178]
144 September 10, 1782 necessary Step for establishing the Tranquillity & Safety of the South ern States. 1 Congress have determind upon a Demand of 1,200,000 Dollars from the States, (to be raisd immediately by such Taxes as may be judged by the States proper & effectual,) for paying the Interest due on L.O. Certicates & other publick Debts when liquidated. The Resolves are ordered to be forwarded by the S. I. Finance together with a Copy of the Estimate of the domestic Debt—There being no fund in Europe for payment of the Interest due on L. Off. Certificates since 1st March last, The S. I. Finance was, by a Resolve yesterday, directed to order the Commissioners of the L. Offices in the several States to Issue no more Bills of Exchange for Interest which hath or may become due since that date. 2 In Consequence of the Loss of the Magnifique in Boston Harbour, Congress, to express their Sense of the generous Exertions of his most Ch. Majesty have directed the Agent of Marine to make a Tender of the America the 74 Gun Ship now in New Hamp to Monsr. de la Luzerne for the Service of his Majesty, which has been accepted. The British Genl. & Adml. have agreed to nominate Commissioners for settling a General Cartel, but from Circumstances we have no Expectation of it’s taking place soon. The Trial of Lippincut has been forwarded by Genl. Carleton to Genl. Washington, who transmitted it to Congress where the matter lies Committed. Nothing of moment has occurred since our last by Mrs. Mathews; we still remain without any Official Intelligence respecting our Affairs in Europe, nor have we any News of Importance except what may be containd in the papers inclos’d. 3 We have the Honour to be, Yr Excellency’s &ca. P.S. We inclose your Excellency a Copy of Genl. Washington’s Letter to us, and also the Copy he sent to us of his Letter of the 18th March last to Genl. Greene. A Letter reed, from the Genl, two Days ago men tions his having had Intelligence from New York of the sailing of Five Transports some days before under Convoy of the Warwick, having on board 1500 of the foreign Troops said to be bound toHallifax. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. Endorsed: “By Hey ward Septr. 18th. 1782.” 1 See South Carolina Delegates to Washington, August 17, 1782. 2 See JCC, 23:545-47, 553-55; and John Witherspoon’s Speech in Congress, Septem ber 9, 1782. 3 Among the “papers inclos’d” was a copy of Robert Morris’ June 18 letter to Theodorick Bland who had chaired a committee, of which David Ramsay was a mem ber, that had been instructed to explore “the practicability and means of procuring sup plies for the southern army by contracts.” See JCC, 22:244, 342; and Morris, Papers (Fer guson), 5:432-34.


[Page 179]
September 10, 1782 145 Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. Sept. 10. 1782. Your Excellency’s favors of the 23 and 30 Ulto. 1 were reed, yester day. Not recollecting that any resolutions of Congress declaratory of their ultimate sense with regard to confiscations, have been pub lished, we apprehend that some mistake must have led to your remarks on that subject.2 The Journals of Congress for 1779 are not yet compleated. As soon as they are you shall be furnished with a copy. The propriety of applications to the British Commander for a restitution of slaves having never been agitated in Congress, it is impossible for us to inform you with certainty in what light such a Step would be viewed by them. We can only say that in general, all separate & partial transactions between individual States and the Enemy are considered as disaccording with the Spirit of the confeder acy, that a solicitation of favors from the Enemy at this juncture may not be very politic, and that there does not appear to us any sufficient evidence that the application in question if made would be attended with success. 3 The loss of the Magnifique a French Ship of 74-Guns in the Har bour of Boston, was thought by Congress a fit occasion for testifying their sense of the exertions of our Ally in favor of the U States; and they have accordingly directed the Ship America to be presented to the Chevr. de la Luzerne for the service of his Most Christian Majesty. General Washington has moved with the chief part of his army down to Verplank’s point. Seven Ships of the line, part of a fleet from the West Indies commanded by Admiral Hood, are arrived at New York; and 1,500 foreign troops have embarked at that place for Halifax. The Gazette herewith enclosed contains all the intelligence which has yet transpired from the packet lately arrived at N. York from Eng land. Congress are still destitute of intelligence from their Ministers in Europe. The Minister of France is in the same predicament with respect to his Court. It may not perhaps be amiss to suggest to your Excellency that advantage will probably be taken of this seeming reverse in the prospect of peace, to Speculate on the Staple of Virginia. We hope our Country men will be on their guard against such artifices. We have the honor to be with sentiments of the highest regard, yr Excelly’s obt. servts. Theok. Bland Jr J. Madison Jr. A Lee Jos. Jones. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Bland,Jones, and Lee. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:113-14.


[Page 180]
146 September 11, 1782 i See ibid., pp. 74-75,90. . _ 2 Harrison had obviously misunderstood the delegates explanation of the August 2 Carleton-Digby letter which the delegates had quoted in their letters of August 9 and 13. ’ Accordingly Madison obtained congressional approval this day for a motion direct ing die secretary for foreign affairs to obtain and transmit to the commissioners in Pans “authentic returns of slaves and other property which have been carried off or destroyed in the course of the war by the enemy.” See JCC, 23:562-63; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:111-13. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw gj r Philadelphia Septr 11th 1782 Yours of Augt. 1782 inclosing Mr Attmores respecting the Brig Sally, Barry Hartwell Capt, Captured by Capt Champlin is just now come to hand have not had a moments time to look into the affair 1 or to enquire of Mr Wright Stanly who you Inform is Mercht. in this City and Agent for the Crew & the owners. I shall Immediately Attend to it & by the next post Advise you what can be done in the affair, but believe there is no Danger of the Courts sending their Marshal to New London to seize the Estate of your late Deceased brother or any of the owners; if there was an appeal from the Court at New Bern no doubt there was bonds given there to refund in Case that Judgement should be reversed or their remedy must be against the Marshal of that Court. I remember your brother formerly in his life time often men tioned this affair to me & of Mr Mifflins making application to him to refund the Vessell but never knew what was finally done in the affair. I will Consult & apply to the Register & know how the Matter stands but if you are possessed of all the papers which you say were sent to your brother they may be Needfull & perhaps you had better send them when you send the service & return of the Petition &c I sent you by Coll Root to be served on Coll Stanton on your other Affair. I wrote you by Coll Root who left this City to return home about a fortnight agoe 2 I gave him special Charge of those papers to send them to you as soon as he arrived at Hartford that you might procure Notice to be given to Coll Stanton to appear before the Court of Appeals at this place the 1st of Octobr Next at which time I have with much trouble prevailed on that Court to sit to hear & Determine your Petition for a New Trial in that Cause. I hope Coll Root has not faild to forward you those papers, tho least any Misfortune should happen have ordered Notice to be given to his Attorney here. I expect Brown, Govr Trum bull express to return here the latter end of this month by whom you may have opportunity to send them. Am Sr with sincere regards, Yr Hie Servt, Ehpht. Dyer RC (CtNIHi: Shaw Papers). Addressed: “Thomas Shaw, Mercht, In New London, Con- necticut.”


[Page 181]
September 11, 1782 147 1 For the case of the brig Sally, see these I slim, 7:425-26n.l, 16:26. 2 See Dyer to Shaw, August 23, 1782. John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir Philada. Septr. 11th. 1782 Your obliging Letter of the 17th Ulto. I received the 2d. Instt. I observe your Sentiments respecting peace, and those of our Friend. I have been so much of an Unbeliever in this matter, that I can scarcely expect my sentiments to have Weight, Yet I am sure your acquain tance with me is such that you will not think I have any Aversion to an Honorable peace, but on the Contrary that I Should rejoice most Sin cerely at such an Event, and my greatest anxiety is that the prospect appears to me so distant. You will see by the News-Papers accounts of the late Change in the British Ministry—what will be the Consequence time must Determine. I am Still of Opinion that the Enemy have Hopes of making a Seper- ate Peace with us, but if this is the Case they must be Disappointed. Our Independence and the Alliance with France must go Hand in Hand. Believe it may be depended on that abt. 1500 Troops have lately sailed from New-York, said to be for Hallifax, what their next destina tion may be I cannot Say, perhaps a Plundering Expedition. A Resolution has lately passed respecting Interest on Loan Office Certificates which suppose you will see by the time this reaches you. 1 Genl. Washington has removed Head-Quarters to Verplanks Point. The French Army from the Southward Marched through this City a few Days Since are now in the Jerseys. Twelve States are now repre sented in Congress. 2 It was Expected that Rhode Island would have passed the Impost Act but their Assembly broke up a few Days Since without doing it. Nothing done, or likely to be done respecting Vermont affairs, or the Western Lands. It is so long since we had any accounts from our Ministers in Europe that whether they are Dead or living I cannot Say. I have wrote in several of my Letters respect’g Money; I hope it will not be many Days before I receive some. I Shall be glad to hear from you fre quently. Please to make my Compliments to my Friends with you, and believe to be, with much Esteem, Your most Hum. Sent. John Taylor Gilman RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 See JCC, 23:553—55; and John Witherspoon’s Speech, September 9, 1782. 2 That is, except for New Hampshire. Gilman was the only New Hampshire delegate attending until Phillips White arrived November 4. JCC, 23:562, 707.


[Page 182]
148 September 11, 1782 John Taylor Gilman to John Langdon Si r> Philadelphia Sept llth 1782. Your favor of the 19th ulto I rec’d per post the 2d inst. I enclose you a paper of this day, by which you will see the accounts of a late change in the British Administration, and the King’s Proclamation. It appears at present that they are much elated at their Success in the West Indies and the accomodation of their affairs in Ireland. What their present intentions are, time must determine; have no authentic information from Europe for a long time; hope we shall Soon have Some accounts, which will unfold their present plans. I believe it may be depended on that 1500 of the enemy’s troops Sailed from New York a few days past, said to be bound to Halifax, but perhaps they are on a plundering expedition. I should not be much surprised at hearing of their having made a visit in your quarter. Whatever they may do on shore, I imagine they will make great exer tions to distress our Trade. General Washington has lately moved most of his Army. Head Quarters is at Verplanck’s Point. The French troops marched through this City some days since—are now in the Jerseys. Have not to add but that I am your most hble. servt. John Taylor Gilman Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare gi r Philada. Septr. llth. 1782. I Should have wrote you by last Post, but was then informed that I Should have an Opporty by a private Conveyance within One or Two Days, but was Disappointed. The Letter you did me the Honour to write on the 20th Ulto. I receiv’d the 2d Instt. I Inclose you Copy of a Resolution of Congress respecting the Ship America. I Likewise Inclose a Paper of this day by which you will be informed of the late Change in the British Ministry. It appears at present that they are much Elated with their success in the West-Indies & the accommodation of their affairs with Ireland. What their present Intentions are time must Determine. By Letters from Genl. Greene of the 13th Ulto. are Informed that he Expects the Enemy will Evacuate Charlestown about the beginning of October. I Shall write you again as soon as I have any thing worthy of your Attention.


[Page 183]
September 11,1782 149 I have the Honor to be, With due Respect, your most Hum Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Since finishing my Letter dispatches have been receiv’d from Mr. Adams. The accounts from Holland are very agreeable & in some par ticulars (which I am not at liberty to mention) Exceed Expectation 1 — have not time to add as the Mail is Just Closing. JT.G RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 For Adams’ letters, see Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, September 13, note 1. The accounts which Gilman found to “Exceed Expectation” undoubtedly concerned the progress Adams had reported in negotiating a loan in Holland of 5 million guilders. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Philadelphia, Sept. 11, 1782. A Ship arrived here last Evening from Holland, which Place she left the 28th of July: she is loaded with Goods on Account of the United States to the amount of Thirty Thousand Pounds Sterling. Letters by this Ship confirm the Report of the Capture of the great est Part of the Quebec Fleet. We have no Particulars of the Negotiations of a Peace so much talked of. Mr. Adams is still in Holland. Mr. Jay is in France. It is sup posed that the late Change in the British Ministry, will for some Time prevent a general Peace, as the present Ministry are much averse to the American Independance. Congress have for some Time been employed in devising Modes for establishing Funds in the different States on General Principles, for the Payment of Interest on Moneys which now on or hereafter may be loaned: a Land Tax is talked of, and also a Poll Tax, but as all the states must agree, when we consider, that the 5 pr Cent act is not yet complied with, I have not much reason to expect the several States will readily adopt this, if it should be recommended; it is agreed for the present to raise 1,200,000 for the Payment of Interest of Money loaned and for the Interest of debts due from the United States; the Inhabitants of each state to be paid their Interest out of the Monies to be raised in the State to which such Inhabitant shall belong or when the Money was loaned. The Quotas of the States as agreed on are dif ferent from the last Quota in respect to each other. Connecticut is 133,200; New York 54,000; New Jersey 66,000.' The Resolutions of our Legislature recommending the Con vention, 2 will not I believe have the Effect that many Gentlemen expected, as but very few States seem disposed to grant further Powers


[Page 186]
152 September 11, 1782 3 Francis Dana’s letter has not been identified, but Thomas Barclay’s July 13 letter to Robert R. Livingston from Amsterdam is in PCC, item 91, fols. 7-10. North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Martin Sir Extract, Philadelphia Sept. 1 It 1782 “Your favor of the 20th ult came to hand the 9th Instant, it is the only Letter we have received from your Excellency since our arrival here, tho the Interest of the State induces us to wish that we could inform Congress concerning the progress made in filling up the Con tinental Battalions and other incidents that are said to have happened there. 1 To instance a single one, it is reported that the Indians have been annoying the Frontier, and that a Party of Militia are sent out against them. At this very instant Pensylvania is pressing Congress for Continental Troops to join their Militia in an expedition against the Indians on their frontier. 2 The whole to be at the Continental expence. We shall hardly think it our duty to oppose this measure but if we knew that our Militia was employed on similar services we should certainly avail ourselves under the precedent of that Vote to claim the whole of our expence on the Indian expedition as a Continental Service.” We have the honor to be &ca. Hu Williamson Wm. Blount Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). > For Governor Martin’s August 20 letter, in which he found “nothing new to com municate to you since you left us,” see N. C. State Records, 16:402. 2 See JCC, 23:548-49, 575; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser., 9:626-27, 630, 635-36, 638-42. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 13th. 1782 We have this Week had the Pleasure of receiving Mr. Adams’s Let ters dated April 19th, 22d, 23d, 24th, June 9th, 16th, July 5th. 1 We have contained therein the particular Account of the seven united Provinces of the Netherlands having reed, him as the Minister of the united States. He has been invited to Paris to assist in the Negociation for Peace. The 5th of July he was not gone—And we have no direct Informa tion whether the negociation is going on, or not. We have also reed, a long Letter from Mr. Laurence. 2 He declines Joining in the Commn. for negociating Peace & is coming to Amer-


[Page 195]
September 17, 1782 161 Endeavour by their Emissaries to make a Seperate Peace with us, but this is Conjecture, for my Own part I am at a loss to know whether their withdrawing their Troops with those Views would be of any advantage to us; but if they should meet with any Considerable Loss in the Naval Way before the Close of the Year, they may be Lead to think Seriously of a Genl. Peace the Coming Winter. You have undoubtedly seen the Resolutions for Reducing Officers in our Army, and those other Resolutions respecting Interest on Loan Office Certificates. Congress have agreed to call on the several States for 1,200,000 Dol lars to pay the Interest of Domestic Debts, the plan is not yet Com- pleated but it is Intended that Bills be Drawn on the Several States for their proportions of this sum and that the Holders of public securities within Each State shall be Intitled to payment out of the Monies raised in such State before any others are paid, perhaps this Tax will not be agreeable to the Ideas of some, but what can be done better; the Resolution to prevent Drawing Bills was absolutely Necessary at the time it passed, as we did not then know of any funds on which we had a Right to Draw, and it is in my Opinion Ill policy to pay the Inter est of Domestic Debts by foreign Loans. I Suppose you have the Reso lutions of N. York (passed some time Since) with respect to Holding a Convention for the purpose of Considering the Articles of Confedera tion &c.3 That those Articles are Deficient and Imperfect in some degree must be allowed, but the Query is whether their is any, the least probability that a Convention would make any material alter ations for the better, which would probably be agreed to by the Sev eral States; I Suppose Our Legislature will be adjourned before this Reaches you, I Should Imagine that they have not come to any deter mination on this matter. 4 You will observe by the Resolutions for Reducing the Officers &c. that they are to retire agreeably to former Resolutions which gave Half pay, perhaps this will not be agreeable to our Legislature, but their was no other alternative, they would have been Continued drawing whole Pay, Subsistance &c. if this had not been done—the saving which will be made by this Reduction is Calcu lated at about 700,000 Dollars Per Annum. 5 In Two of my Letters to the Honble. the President of the State I wrote respecting Depreciation &c. due to the army for the years 1780 & 81. 6 I have not had any thing in Answer therefore Conclude my Suggestions on that Subject were not agreeable, but as I then thought, and Still think it to be an affair worthy the Serious attention of the State, I considered it as my Duty to mention it. In a Letter from Portsmouth of the 31st Ulto. which I Receiv’d Per last Post is a Paragraph to this purport after mentioning the time at which the Genl. Court was to meet my Honble. Correspondant adds “I hope we Shall then Send you a Colleague provided we can find a


[Page 196]
162 September 17, 1782 proper One but as disagreeable as your Situation is at present I Should think it would be more so to have a Colleague to divide with.” I Should not have taken so particular Notice of this Paragraph but I have had several other Letters from different Persons in which are Expressions somewhat to the Same purport; I am not Sensible of any particular Circumstance between me & either of the Gentlemen now in the Delegation, or between me & any One who I think is likely to be appointed that would probably Occasion Division of Sentiment in public affairs; but if it should be most agreeable that Two Delegates should Immediately come on, I hope no Sentiment of Delicacy or any other Consideration as it may personally respect me will prevent them for a Day, for Should Two Delegates arrive here before the time for which I was appointed Expires, I Shall be happy to See the State have a Vote here & Shall Immediately Retire with more pleasure than I came on. The general Tenor of my Letters will Evince with what Unre servedness I write you, but I Should be happy to give you, & through you any other Friends, more particular information on the Subject of our public affairs if the Conveyance was Safe. The Division & Dis traction in the Councils of our Enemy, the wretched State of their Finances, together with the United Efforts of those who are now Opposing them, will I hope Compel them to think Seriously of a general Peace before another Campaign, the war has now been car ried on for more than Seven Years & they can furnish themselves with Seventy times Seven Reasons if so many are necessary to Con vince their Cruel Obstinacy that they never can obtain their first object, Viz our Dependance on them. That Peace may be Speedily Established on an Honourable & permanent Basis, from which may flow Happiness to Society & much Felicity to Individuals, is the most Ardent wish of One who though he has Contributed but little to the Common Cause of his Country, yet has the happiness on the most Serious Reflection to Consider that his Mite has been always ready at his Country’s call. I am with Sincere Esteem, Your Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Please to make my Compliments to my Friends with you, I need not repeat my desires to have Letters from you frequently, hope in your next you will write me freely & fully. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See Gilman to Meshech Weare, September 11, 1782, note. 2 For the report of the congressional investigation into this “Vile Mismanagement” of the delivery of supplies from Holland, see JCC, 23:700-705. s See Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton, September 11, 1782, note 2. 4 The journals of the New Hampshire assembly for 1782 contain no mention of “any determination” on proposals for strengthening the Articles of Confederation. N.H. State Papers, 8:921-63. 5 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 7, 1782. B See Gilman to Weare, July 17 and August 5, 1782.


[Page 197]
September 17, 1782 163 Arthur Middleton to Edward Rutledge My dear Rutledge Philadelphia Sepr. 17th. 1782. By my friend Heyward I embrace an Opportunity of acknowledging the receipt of your favour by Mr Sansum, with many Thanks for the good Intelligence contained therein, & not without hopes that the flattering prospect of an Evacuation will have taken full Effect before this reaches you. We are sanguine here in these Expectations but &c. Having inclosed the Papers to the Governour, I have not a single Arti cle of News left for you, but as you are in the Cabinet, & of the family, I conclude you will have your full Share of the Feast, tho’ It may be as homely as that of Esop. I must however Congratulate you upon the Belgic Declaration; 1 who would have thought a Dutchman capable of any thing so magnanimous when there is little to be got by it except in Speculation. But remember a Frenchman was behind him with his Sword drawn—not but I suppose he might have done it without a Stim ulus—slow & sure—I hope will be verified as the Buttermilk begins to work, we may, should the war continue, soon expect to see the Days of Van Tromp & De Ruyter renew’d. The allied states now amount to Twenty, God grant an Encrease of them, but not one more in America at least for a Century. The Alterations in the British Cabinet may perhaps retard the advances towards a general Pacification, But I flatter myself their pre sent Delirium will soon have a Crisis, & they will once more come to their Sober Senses; one thing to me is next to certain, which is, that unless they close very soon & be content to pocket their Losses & their Infamy, the Price of wickedness, a Carte blanche will be the Conse quence, & that once more formidable & glorious People be sunk to the lowest pitch of weakness & Contempt; were I to turn Prophet I should not think much of hazarding a Prediction of the National Bankruptcy, the absolute separation of Ireland, (probably that of Scot land), & to crown the whole the Expulsion of the present Evil race of Geese Drivers, 2 & all the Curses attendant upon those Wars vulgarly called civil which lead to & are consequent of an entire revolution in governments. I am serious & write from reflexion. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 That is, the States General’s recognition of the independence of the United States by the United Provinces of the Netherlands. 2 The House of Hanover. Samuel Osgood to Henry Knox Dear Sir Philad. 17 September 1782. It will not appear strange to you that I have taken up my pen to


[Page 199]
September 17, 1782 165 think it is clearly otherwise—perhaps no one Office in the Army has been so uniformly the same as to pay and Emoluments as that of the Adjutant Generals. It has always had annexed to it the pay and emolu ments of a Brigadier General. The first Officer that filled it had the rank of a Brigadier General—the subsequent ones till the present had the pay and emoluments without the rank 3 —therefore from former precedents no argument can be raised in support of additional pay. It has been suggested that Colonel Scammell the late Adjutant General quitted the Office because the pay and emoluments would not sup port him. But from my intimate acquaintance with him I have good reason to believe he quitted the office from a very different reason. It seems to be advanced that the quantum of Promotion in the Officer that fills that Office shall alone govern the quantum of reward without having any regard to Services. I do not recollect ever before to have heard this advanced as a Rule for adjusting Rewards. But otherwise that similar Services generally entitle to similar rewards. With respect to this office I persuade myself Congress adopted the last rule and that let an Officer of which ever of the Grades it is confined to fill the Office his necessary and unavoidable expences would be great as those of any other Grade. Is the Opinion founded in Justice that if a Brigadier General fills the Office and has no additional pay then a Lieutenant Colonel in the same Office ought not to have any? I think the plain and natural construction of the resolution of Congress is that the pay and emoluments of a Brigadier General are a sufficient reward to induce the most confidential and best qualified Officers to undertake it except Major Generals for no one can sup pose that Congress expected they would reduce their own pay by accepting the Office—and the experience of six or seven Years would naturally impress them with this Sentiment that notwithstanding a Brigadier General filled the Office with Approbation and esteem at present yet if it should be our Misfortune to have him removed there from on any account Congress had no certain reason to conclude that all the military Geniuses best qualified for that Office were confined to the Grade of Brigadier Generals but on the Contrary that it might be possible that from three lower Grades a person might be found better qualified in every respect to execute the duties of that Office than Brigadier Generals. The opinion may have been a presumptuous one—But I believe it was really so. As to rewarding the services of this Office with Military promotion I believe very few Officers in the Army would be willing to consent to it. It would be attended with so many apparent ill consequences to the peace of the Army that no Argu ments need to be adduced in refutation thereof. That the pay and emoluments annexed to the Office are as great considering the duties as those annexed to a Brigadier General I will not presume to determine. I can easily conceive that the Office is


[Page 200]
166 September 17, 1782 highly confidential and of the utmost consequence to the peace and safety of the Army—the more so the more honorable. But I can easily conceive when a Brigadier General has no Brigade, when he can have no command in the Army unless in that Office rather than be idle and eat the bread of an impoverished and reduced Country without rendering any Services therefor, That duty as well as inclination would strongly urge him to accept of such an Office with the pay and Emoluments that have invariably been annexed to it. Surely General Hand will not presume to think that he is the only per son that has filled that Office with general esteem and approbation— he will not surely pretend that his duties are more numerous and mul tiplied than those of his predecessors or that his expences are necessarily greater. If my information is good his duties are not so great and consequently I cannot conceive that his expences are neces sarily greater so that I humbly conceive that Congress rather discov ered a liberal than a contracted and penurious disposition—There fore the policy of it stands upon the broad bottom of generous principles. Neither can there be a charge of inattention. Surely the subject was very carefully and very fully examined. It was not hastily adopted—it was several months under consideration and after much conversation on it by the Committee they unanimously agreed. The only objections in Congress against it were that the pay and emolu ments were too great. I think from this candid explanation every charge of inattention will be removed. How far it is destitute of respect or any thing else I will not determine—because if the Subject was carefully attended to, if it is founded on liberal principles which in my opinion is clearly the case, I have nothing to do with respect or deference in a public capacity farther than directed by my own Judg ment which I hope will ever be free and unconstrained. Thus Sir I have freely opened to you my Sentiments on a subject which I find has been the cause of very severe strictures. If I am wrong in my opinion, I hope to feel the weight of a rational conviction which I must acknowledge I do not at present. 4 Forgive me dear Sir for hav ing troubled you thus much and believe me to be with sentiments of the greatest esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obed. Servant Samuel Osgood RC (MHi: Henry Knox Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by Osgood. 1 Osgood had played an important role in preparing the August 1 “plan for regulat ing the department of the adjutant general.” The report adopted by Congress is in Osgood’s hand. See JCC, 22:425-27; PCC, item 21, fols. 279-82; and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 1, 1782. 2 That is, Brig. Gen. Edward Hand, who was reappointed as adjutant general under the new system on December 31. JCC, 23:733, 837. 3 Brig. Gen. Horatio Gates, and Cols. Joseph Reed, Timothy Pickering, and Alexan der Scammell had preceded Hand as adjutant general. 4 See also Osgood to Knox, December 4, 1782.


[Page 201]
September 17, 1782 167 South Carolina Delegates to John Mathews Sir September 17th. 1782 For fear of Delay or Miscarriage, We have thought it necessary to forward to your Excellency by Mr. Heyward the above Duplicate of our Letter sent some days ago by an Officer going to New London in Virginia, thence to be dispatched to you by Express. 1 By a Ship from Amsterdam, loaded with Cloathing &ca. to the Amt. of £22,000 Sterlg. for the United States, which arrived here some Days ago, We had the Satisfaction of receiving Official Intelligence from Mr. Adams, of the Acknowledgments of our Independence by the States General of the United Provinces, on the 19th of April, and of his Consequent Admission as Minister of the U States. Mr. Adams’s latest Date is of the 5th July, he was then at the Hague, & does not expressly mention an Intention of visiting Paris, nor have we any authentick Account of the then State of the Negotiations for a Peace; it is not improbable but Rodney’s Victory in the W Indies, together with the Death of the Marquiss of Rockingham & the Change in the British Ministry may occasion some procrastination in the Settlement of Preliminaries, Tho’ we are hopefull the success of the French in the East Indies, which we are willing & have reason to credit, will fully compensate for their Losses under Mr. DeGrasse’s Misfortune. Mr. A. has opend a Loan in Holland for 5 millions of Guilders, which is likely to succeed. Two French Frigates with a Convoy for this Port were some Days since chased into the Capes by some british Ships of force. One of them, a new Ship of 44 Guns (L’Aigle) commanded by Monsr. de la Touche, having money on board for the use of the French Army, being without a Pilot, was unfortunately run aground on the Shears; the money & Dispatches were sent on Shore, but from Accts, reed, we are apprehensive the Officers & Crew are made Prisoners—the Ship having been scuttled will be entirely lost. A Ship loaded on Acct, of the continent is said to have arrived at an Eastern Port. We have various reports from New York, some of which give us hopes of an intended Evacuation. We are anxious to hear of that of CTown, & wish to have it confirmed by Captn. Joiner whom we daily look for; The Carolina is moved down the river, & apparently will soon have a Crew. The Commodore will, we doubt not, acquaint you with particulars respecting her. We have inclosed the NewsPapers, and have nothing farther to add than that We are, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servants. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 Enclosure not found, but for the FC of the duplicate letter sent "By Heyward Septr. 18th. 1782,” see South Carolina Delegates to iMathews, September 10, 1782.


[Page 207]
September 19, 1782 173 the belligerent powers separately; but it was rejected with disdain. Our Independance was then proposed and the ardour of the British for peace, by their advances appeared unquestionable: But unfortunately for us, news of Rodneys Success in the W. Indies arrives, the Marquis of Rockingham dies, the Shelburn party prevails, good men resign, the Cabinet is divided, & a manifest tergiversation on the part of the British leaves little hopes from the negotiation till the event of this campaign shall decide upon the pretensions of the parties. Next win ter may give us peace. Ld. Shelburn & the old Ministry would fain patch up a peace by allowing us the same kind of Independance granted to Ireland, so lit tle do they yet know the Spirit of America. Dr. Franklin says the King hates us most cordially, and has not given up the Idea of keeping us yet somehow, or another under him; this no doubt is his view in placing Ld. Shelburn at the head of the Treasury, who is, notwithstanding his Jesuitical Speech, our inveterate enemy. Emissaries are to be sent out to this Country to sound the minds of the people and induce them by any means to return to some kind of a dependance on Britain. With this view English goods will be sent over, and perhaps the Post of New York kept more with a view to promote trade than to carry on military operations against us, yet some think it will be evacuated. It is the fixed determination of France, Spain & Holland not to make a Separate peace; they are fully convinced that their only safety against the insolent power of Britain lies in their Union. I hope none will be so deluded in this Country as to think there can be any safety to us in any dependance on Britain. Should we renounce our alliance with France, such an instance of perfidy would render us forever inca pable of forming such an one with any other power, & of course sub ject us entirely to the arbitrary will of Britain. Heaven forbid that this should be the fatal & disgraceful issue of a seven years war! You may rely upon it the Powers in Europe will not desert us, our intrest is too intimately blended with theirs. Our trade is courted by every commercial State. All that is wanting on our part is Prudence & Perseverance. I hope the Seat of the war will no longer remain here, let the issue of the present negotiation be as it may. It is a great object with us at present to restore public credit & give value to the promises we have made, or may make. Loans will then enable us to transmit our debt to posterity without inconvenience, to be paid when the Inhabi tants of this Country as well as its wealth shall be double & perhaps treble what they are at present. To this end it is essential that the intrest at least of our public debt be paid. This was the object of the Impost; you will see a tax of 1,200,000 Dols ordered for this purpose. This is a Substitute for the Impost & I hope we shall now hear no more about it. Our quota is reduced from the last, of Nov. 1781, about 1/9 but is yet too high. On this head I refer you to a late Letter to Gov. Bowen. 1


[Page 209]
September 19, 1782 175 more power to Congress. These resolves have been transmitted to Congress as well as to the Executives of all the States. They have been referred to a Committee, of which I was one, I opposed them tooth & nail & I believe none will have the hardiness to move in Congress for any thing more to be done about them. No future confederation will ever give equal Liberty to the people, or equal power to the Small States. It is boldly said that the affair of the Imposts being stopped by the petty State of R.I. fully shew that such little States have too much power. A great character in Connecticut queries to his friend in Congress whether it will not be necessary to impose a duty of 10 per Cent, on all goods brought out of R.I. By this you may see they well know that the Confederation empowers them to lay duties on goods as they pass our lines, either way. Let us stand fast in the Liberty wherewith we are made free. No alteration, rely on it, will be made in our favour. D.H. RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). 1 Not found; but see Howell to John Brown, September 10, 1782. 2 Not found. 3 Jonathan Arnold began attending Congress on October 10, 1782. JCC, 23:642. 4 Probably Rev. Thomas Ustick. 5 See Howell to John Brown, August 10 and September 10, 1782. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir. Philaa. Sepr. 25th [i.e., 19-25] 1782 1 I had the Pleasure of addressing you by the last Post. 2 I observed, that the Comee. for the foreign Department, of which you were one, had reported. 3 Their Report mentions the Number of Letters he has wrote to Doer. F , Mr. A , Mr. J , Mr. D , &ca; 4 The Files of Papers he has in his Office; the Boxes in which they are placed; The Books in which the Letters are entered &ca &ca &ca. Upon the whole, the Comee. approve of his Conduct, Attention & Punctuality—or in Words tantamount thereto. The Approbation of Congress was not call’d for, to the Report. But this with the Reports on the other Departments, are to be fil’d only, & not entered on the Journals. Complete & substantial Evidence of his Impartiality—And all is well. I told you whilst here, that I had my Antipathies. I cannot conquer them; & Heaven forbid that I should. Matters are all going exceeding well in Europe; Doctr. Franklin & Mr. Jay appear to be very happy at Passy. The latter, in explicit Terms, commends the former, as an able and prudent minister. His Abilities, he says, exceed any Man’s of his Age, that he ever saw 5 —agreed. We


[Page 211]
September 19, 1782 177 think, constitutes some Part of modern genuine Galvanism. They see but it is thro’ an obscure Glass, which removes the Object to a great Distance. They think it is not Time to adjust this Matter—the Reason why—I apprehend is, that as they have not got their Proportion, if any Thing should be done for us, it may prevent their obtaining it for nothing. I cannot suppose that (in your Profession particularly) you have lived to this Time, & never met with one Man, or one hundred, whom you could seemingly convince as to their Understandings, & yet not influence their Faculty of Volition. It will not be an agreeable Mat ter I am sure to the Legislature of Masstts. to take up the Subject with out the Provision of Congress. But if this Provision cannot be obtained—Necessity undoubtedly will oblige you to do it. I have heretofore observed that Masstts. is deficient probably several Millions of Dollrs. on the old Requisitions. You can therefore clearly provide for that Deficiency—and as to the Remainder, if you should do a Work of Supererogation; It will be much less censurable than Works of Derogation. When Congress, in early Times, recommended to the States to make continental money a Tender, V a 11 made it a Ten der to discharge Interest only. When Congress recommended to the States to revise the Laws which was as much as to say, repeal the Ten der Laws, V made then, the old Money a Tender, Paper Dollr. for hard Dollr. When Congress recommended to the same State to shut up her Land Office, with Respect to Lands beyond the Alleghany Mountains, she immediately laid out three Counties in that Country, & opened her Land Office. When Congress recommended to the State of V in the most pressing Manner, to raise her Quota of Troops, the Situation of the Enemy rendering it of the utmost Impor tance—her Legislature sit Ten Weeks, with the Recommendation before them, & no Notice was taken of it. Their whole Time was taken up about back Lands. These I call Works of Derogation. There is one Matter relative to that State, which I think is a Curiosity. Not long since they have had a Paper Currency circulating by their own Acts, one Dollar of which would discharge a Debt of forty hard Dollrs. Their old Money they continued a Tender, after the new forty for one Money, was issued; which last, was not made a Tender, so that one Dollr. of it was forty Times better than a hard Dollr. I have the Infor mation, in all these particulars, from such Authority that I cannot doubt of their being Facts. Thus far had I proceeded in my long Story, when I was agreeably disappointed by the Arrival of Mr. Tracy, & the Rect. of your Favor of the 9th of September. I can assure you that the Observation upon Genl. Lincoln, was very far from displeasing him. We enjoyed the Humor of it: It pleased me the more because it gives me an Opportu nity to rally him. It is the 20th of Sepr. 12 Our Debates this Day in Congress, have been acciden-


[Page 214]
180 September 19, 1782 never intends to return to America and therefore cannot be responsi ble to us, for any ill Conduct.) It was evident the first Day how the Question would terminate, the Yeas & Nays were as follows. G[ilman]—ay; O[sgood], J[ackson]—no; H[owell]—ay; D[yer], H[untington]—no; D[uane], LeH [ommedieu]—no; C[lark], C[ondict]—ay, B[oudinot]—no; Montgomery]—no, C[lymer], S[mith], A[tlee]— ay; McK[ean]-no; H[anson], C[arroll], W[right]—ay; L[ee], B[land]—no, J[ones], M[adison]—ay. All nays beyond. 18 Three Yeas in the whole. 19 I dont know how your Opinion would have been, if you had been present—But I rather flatter myself that you would have been with us. Mr. L is a valuable Man for the Eastward States, because, as I am well informed, he is a warm Sup porter of our Right to the Fishery. He considers it of the highest Importance to the Und. States—Whereas Mr. J y pretends to think them of very little Consequence. I am much in your Opinion with Respect to the Vanity of - 20 I hope they will not be able to disturb the public Peace & Tranquillity. Silent Operations may effectually defeat both of them. You observe, that the Excise will pay the first nine months Interest of the consolidated Securities. If the Fund is sufficient to Discharge Nine Months, In twelve, yearly, it is a very valuable Acquisition. Why not add one third more thereto, & make it completely sufficient? But I have not a clear Idea of consolidated Securities—whether or not, all the Govenmental Securities are consolidated? if not—it is difficult to form an Idea of Funds, without Knowing the Amo. of consolidated & unconsolidated Debts. I beleive Genl. Lincoln will not visit you this Fall—But will not fail thereof in the Winter—this I understand to be his present Determination. And I don’t know of any Thing that will prevent him. Then I doubt not, he will discover that happy Talent of solving Difficulties, at which, you say, he has so good a Knack. Tho’ he has not the happier Art, of removing entirely your Scepticism, when he has given a Solution—I have sported with the Genl, upon his great Ingenuity that Way—& observe to him that he wants but a small Addi tion thereto, which is, the Faculty of making People beleive him, with out which, he will loose much of his Labor. However, I do all I can, to pour in the Balm of Consolation upon his Soul, by putting him in Mind, that Newton, & all the great Men his Predecessors, wanted that same Faculty of making People beleive them at first, altho they could not clearly refute their Principles. But that you, whom we all know to be no Sceptic, should be unwilling to give your assent to the ingenious Plans, Systems, Corollaries, & Deductions of the ingenious General, when at the same Time, you acknowledge that you can not clearly confute them, will stagger my Faith. And like the repelling Power of Electricity you will keep me in a constant Vibration between you


[Page 215]
September 19, 1782 181 unless you should make me feel the Charge, as sensibly as you did the Gentleman in the House, who was dancing in & out, discharging & retreating, till you fix’d him by a dead Shot. I do not wish to flatter the Abilities of Genl. Lincoln, least he should grow too vain, & think him self really the Man alone of the Und. States. But he has been, & still is, of infinite Service to us, in his Office. He has succeeded in his Office beyond my most sanguine Expectations. I beleive for this Time, you will be very glad to lay me aside; but not before you have permitted me to add, with how much Esteem & Respect, I am, Dear Sir, Your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 Osgood added this date line after concluding the letter, which he clearly composed over a period of several days, probably on September 19, 20, and 25. See notes 12 and 17. 2 Not found. 3 Lowell had been an original member of the committee appointed on July 2 “to enquire fully into the proceedings of the department of foreign affairs,” but had returned to Boston long before they reported on September 18. See JCC, 22:370, 23:586-90; and PCC, item 25, 2:131-34. 4 That is, the letters of Secretary Robert R. Livingston to Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, John Jay, Francis Dana, “and others in foreign parts.” 5 Jay had made this observation in his June 25 letter to Secretary Livingston, his first report after his arrival in Paris. See PCC, item 110, 2:135-39; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:516-17. 6 That is, John Adams and Henry Laurens. 7 That is, Henry I^aurens’ x May 30, 1782, letter to Congress, in which he recounted the hardships he had experienced as a prisoner, the problems he had encountered in securing his exchange, and the cool reception he had been accorded by John Adams at The Hague. See PCC, item 89, fols. 225-32; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:454-59. 8 John Rutledge, from Laurens’ own state of South Carolina. 9 Cf. James Madison’s view of Laurens’ conduct in obtaining his release from impris onment as recorded in the following entry. 10 Robert Morris’ “Report to Congress”—on the subject of a Virginia proposal for destroying Continental currency pursuant to Congress’ March 18, 1780, resolves repudi ating the Continental dollar—had been read in Congress on September 9 and referred to a committee whose report was debated on the 18th. Morris’ report “interjected a controversial element far beyond the scope of the Virginia resolution,” however, in proposing “that states which delivered more than their quotas of the old money be credited for the excess at the rate of 40 to 1,” which would reward states such as Mas sachusetts. Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:335-37. The “enclosed Motion” was undoubt edly the one offered by the committee modifying Morris’ proposal by limiting the total of old bills to be credited to state account, which was adopted by Congress the same day after rejecting a motion by Osgood that would have preserved the spirit of Morris’ origi nal recommendation. See JCC, 23:590-91. For the October 21 response of the Massachusetts General Court protesting Congress’ rejection of Morris’ recommendation, which would penalize Massachusetts while rewarding states which had failed to comply with Congress’ original resolves for retiring old emissions, see PCC, item 65, 2:201-4; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 26, 1782. See also Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, August 27, note 2; Osgood to Lowell, October 23; North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Mar tin, October 25; and James Madison to Edmund Randolph, December 3, 1782.


[Page 216]
182 September 19, 1782 11 Virginia. 12 It seems clear that Osgood composed the portion of his letter preceding this para graph on September 19. 13 For this motion concerning Laurens by James Madison, see the following entry. 1 4 Arthur Lee. 15 For Robert Morris’ investigation of Alexander Gillon pursuant to “fresh Com plaints” provided by Benjamin Franklin, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:393-94, 396-97. 16 William Jackson, assistant secretary at war, had been secretary to John Laurens, spe cial envoy to France in 1781, and a party to some of the agreements reached with Com modore Alexander Gillon for the shipment of Continental supplies to America. Ibid., p. 397. 1’ When Osgood resumed his writing at this point can only be conjectured. He may have composed the remainder of the letter at a single sitting on September 25, the day he completed it, but the dashes penned across the following page suggest that there may also have been another interruption at that point. is These votes were cast by Williamson for North Carolina; Rutledge, Ramsay, Izard, Gervais, and Middle ton for South Carolina; and Jones and Few for Georgia. JCC, 23:593. 19 That is, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Maryland. Ibid. 20 Not identified. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates September 19th. [1782] The house having under consideration the report of a Committee respecting the Commissioners or allowance to be granted to the late Jos. Trumbull, Comn Gen' for his services. 1 Mr Madison arose and informed the house that since the passing the resolutions of the 17th, 2 he had come to the knowledge of a fact, which he wished to lay before Congress and on which he meant to ground a motion; and as it did not admit of delay, the vessel that would carry those resolutions being on the point of sailing he wished the present business might be postponed and accordingly made a motion to that effect. This being agreed to, he then proceeded to inform Congress that he had a great respect for the character of M r Laurens and entertained a high opinion of his abilities and integrity, and had therefore given his hearty concurrence and assent to the res olutions which passed on the 17th. But that since that time he had come to the knowledge of some matters, which induced him to think it would not be proper, at least, for the present, to forward those reso lutions or so much of them as respected M r Laurens. He would now state those matters to Congress, that they might judge. He had, he said, in his hand a pamphlet printed in London entitled “Parliamen tary Register,” and containing an account of the debates in the House of Commons from the month of Nov. 1781, to the latter end ofjan% 1782, among which were debates on a petition to that house from H. Laurens, a prisoner in the Tower, and that the petition was printed at


[Page 218]
184 September 19, 1782 sell, and who would ruin the character of any man for five shillings. That for his part he did not believe the petition was genuine. That it was altogether incredible that ever M r Laurens wrote or signed such a petition. That it was known M r Laurens was a man of sense, of firm ness & of integrity. That the petition which had been read was mean in sentiment and diction, and altogether unworthy a man of sense, that it was wrote in so humiliating a stile that to suppose M r L. to be the author of it would be to suppose him devoid of all understanding. M r Dyer said he could not believe it to be true. If M r L. had ever written or signed such a petition he would certainly have taken notice of it in his letter; he would have palliated and excused the action. He would have said that in an unguarded hour when under the pressure of sufferings and reduced by sickness he was prevailed upon to set his hand to such a paper, which he is now sorry for. Nothing of this appears in his letter; no mention is made of such a paper. He cannot think it therefore genuine. M r Jackson is of the same opinion. If he thought it genuine, he would be not for suspending but for recalling him, and passing a severe censure upon him. M r Noble Wimberley Jones believes it is not genuine, thinks it would be cruel to pass a censure, which this w d be, upon a man of such a known and established character as M r Laurens, even if he did write it, it was not to be wondered at, considering how he was neglected and what he suffered. He should not be condemned unheard. M r Bland spoke against the motion, vilified the publication, said that if notice was taken of such publications no man’s character would be safe; it would be easy for our enemies to publish such things of any man and to raise dissentions among us. M r Clymer always understood that the Parliamentary Register was a paper of considerable authority. The first publisher, Almon, was noted for his attachment to the American cause. He supposed the present publisher, who succeeded him, was actuated by the same prin ciples. It is not to be supposed that he would ruin the character & rep utation of his pamphlet by publishing a falsehood which could be so easily detected. M r Lee never heard that the “Parliamentary Register” was a paper of any authority. He wished the gentleman had shewn what authority it had. He knew it was an anti-ministerial publication, and supported by the minority for party purposes. M r Madison spoke again, professed the purity of his motives and his regard for M r Laurens’ character; urged the probability of the petition being genuine, and his readiness to make every allowance and excuse for M r L’s situation, but still persisted in the opinion that the dignity, honor, and interest of the U. S. required that Congress should agree to the motion.


[Page 219]
September 19, 1782 185 The question being eagerly called for by those who were opposed to the motion, M r Wright said it was a matter that required deliberation; it was not to be descided in so hasty a manner; that for his part he was deter mined to have the yeas and nays on the question when put, and he wished to have some farther time to consider the motion, and there fore moved to adjourn, which was seconded and agreed to. The petition is as follows: “The Right Hon b,e Charles Wolfran Cornwall, speaker of the hon- bIr the House of Commons. ‘The representation and prayer of Henry Laurens, a native of South Carolina, some time recognized by the British Com missioners in America by the stile and title of his excellency Henry Laurens, President of Congress, now a close prisoner in the Tower of London, most respectfully sheweth: “That your representer, for many years at the peril of his life 5 and fortune, ardently laboured to preserve and strengthen the ancient friendship between Great Britain & the Colonies & that in no instance he ever excited on either side the dissentions which separated them. “That the commencement of the present war was a subject of great grief to him, in as much as he foresaw and foretold, in letters now extant, the distresses which both countries experience at this day. “That in the rise and progress of the war he extended every act of kindness in his power to persons called Loyalists & Quietists, as well as to British prisoners of war, very ample proofs of which he can pro duce. “That he was captured on the American Coast, first landed upon American ground, where he saw exchange of British and American prisoners in a course of negotiation, and such an exchange and enlargement upon parole are mutually and daily practiced in America. “That he was committed to the Tower on the 6 lh of October, 1780, being then dangerously ill; that in the mean time he had in many respects, particularly being deprived with very little exception of the visits and consolations of his children and other relations and friends, suffered under a degree of rigor almost if not altogether unexampled in modern British history. “That from long confinement, and the want of proper exercise, and other obvious causes, his bodily health is greatly impaired, and that he is now in a languishing state, and therefore your representer humbly prays your honors will condescend to take his case into consideration, and under proper conditions and restrictions grant him enlargement or such other relief as to the wisdom and benignity of your honours shall seem fitting. Henry Laurens. “Tower of London, Dec. 1st 1781.”


[Page 225]
September 20, 1782 191 among us. Things had been published in English papers and pam phlets unfavorable to the character of some who were now members of Congress But Congress did not think them worthy of notice, and he did not see why they should take any notice of this. M r M c Kean went into a large encomium on M r L. He saw nothing criminal in the petition, nothing that affected the heart. He was inclined to believe it might be genuine. He had always considered the Parliamentary Register as a publication worthy of credit. He knew the original author was a friend to America, and that the paper was begun and undertaken at the instance of forty gentlemen opposed to the British Ministry and friends to America, and who supported it by annual subscriptions. He supposed it was still conducted under the same influence, and that it stated facts truly. But from his knowledge of M r L. and of the high opinion he had of his integrity and abilities he thought him worthy of trust and who would be very useful in the negotiation for peace, and therefore must vote against the motion. M r Williamson and M r Lee both spoke against the publication. M r Rutledge animadverted with great warmth on M r Clark’s obser vation, “that M r L. may have entered into engagement with the British Ministry,” and in a very loud tone of voice asked, does the member know he has entered into such engagements? If he does, let him pro duce his proofs. He does not understand this mode of [illegi ble] character by surmises. The character of persons in high offices of trust and confidence, and especially of public ministers ought to be sacred and not trifled with in that manner. The gentleman said he did not think there was a member on the floor who doubted the genuine ness of the petition. He did not understand such expressions. For his part he very much doubted—nay, he believed it was not genuine, and several others were of the same opinion. M r Lee and M r Dyer again spoke in favor of M r L. M r Jackson thought if the motion passed that it ought to have a preamble, and therefore he moved to affix a preamble stating that Whereas, that it appears M r L. presented such a petition. This brought on a new debate, or rather a conversation, & it being intimated that if the preamble was insisted on the yeas and nays would be called on the question, the preamble was withdrawn. At length the question was called, and the yeas & nays being required by M r Wright on the ques tion to agree to the motion. New Hampshire, Mr. Gilman, Massachusetts, Mr. Osgood, Mr. Jackson, Rhode Island, Mr. Howell, Ay. ) X No. 1 No. f No. Ay. | X


[Page 226]
192 September 20,1782 Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, N. Carolina, S. Carolina, Georgia, Mr. Huntington, Mr. Dyer, Mr. Duane, Mr. L’Hommedieu, Mr. Clark, Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Condict, Mr. Montgomery, Mr. Smith, Mr. Clymer, Mr. Atlee, Mr. McKean, Mr. Hanson, Mr. Carroll, Mr. Wright, Mr. Jones, Mr. Madison, Mr. Bland, Mr. Lee, Mr. Williamson, Mr. Rutledge, Mr. Ramsay, Mr. Izard, Mr. Gervais, Mr. Middleton, Mr. N. W. Jones, Mr. Few, No. 1 No. J No. No. Ay. Ay. No. ) X No. No. Ay- No. Ay. No. Ay. Ay. Ay- Ay- Ay. Ay. Ay. Ay- No. No. Divided. No. } X No. No. No. No. No. ■ No. No. So the motion was lost. 3 MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 160-69. 1 See the preceding entry. 2 That is, Edmund Burke. See ibid., notes 3 and 5. 3 For Madison’s continuing interest in Laurens’ status, and the subsequent debate over Congress’ obligation to absolve Lord Cornwallis from parole in view of Laurens’ release from captivity, see Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 24; Madison s Notes of Debates, November 22 and 25, 1782; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:163-65, 302-5.


[Page 227]
September 21, 1782 193 James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 21st Septr. 1782. Your Excellency’s dispatches by Barclay came safe to hand and claim our serious Attention. 1 Yesterday they woud have been commu nicated had not an unexpected Business employd Congress to a late Hour and rendered it impracticable. Every Saturday being assigned for the Grand-committee “on the Publick Credit” Congress adjourned till Monday. This unavoidable Delay induces us to dispatch Barclay and trust to some other Conveyance to transmit the Result of the Information with which you have been pleased to furnish us. Barclay’s apprehension that his money woud not hold out, and the dilatory progress of every Measure which respects Vermont, gave us no Choice on this Occasion. If it was not for the distresses of our Friends I shoud not be sorry, that this Commotion has taken place, especially as Ethan Allen is the author of it. His character is well known and odious, and there cannot be a plainer Omen of the sinking Cause of Vermont than that it is committed to his Management. What will be the Opin ion of Congress it is difficult to determine. If Jersey and Pensylvania have changed their Sentiments something may be done to the pur pose. I do not so far despair of Maryland as to believe she will persist in an Error which has been injurious to her best Friend. But I travel in the wide Field of Conjecture; and a few days may convince me that I have made a false Estimate. This is all I think necessary to add to our Publick Letter which Mr. Lhommedieu prepared whilst I was at the Grand committee. . . , 2 I beg you to believe me to be always, with the truest Regard and Affection. Reprinted from Burnett, letters, 6:490-91, from a document located in the New York State Library before the Albany fire of 1911. 1 Clinton’s September 16 letter and enclosed documents concerning the arrest and conviction of several residents of Cumberland County, N.Y., by Vermont officials for their support of New York’s authority in the disputed territory were read in Congress on September 23, and referred to a committee consisting of Theodorick Bland, Arthur Middleton, and Joseph Montgomery, but was reassigned on October 10, with a petition from Charles Phelps, to a new committee consisting of Bland, Daniel Carroll, Eliphalet Dyer, Montgomery, and John Witherspoon. The committee’s report was submitted on October 15 and read the 17th. See JCC, 23:596n.2, 645n.l, 663-64; PCC, item 40, 2:297-300, 323-25, 339-44, item 186, fols. 58, 61; and Ezra L’Hommedieu to Clinton, October 9 and 16, 1782. For the New York delegates’ unsuccessful efforts to obtain a congressional decision on the committee’s report, see James Duane to Clinton, October 30; and L’Hommedieu to Clinton, October 23, and November 5, 1782. 2 See New York Delegates to Clinton, this date.


[Page 228]
194 September 21, 1782 James Duane to John Morin Scott Dear General Philadel. 21 st Sept r 1782. Tho’ I have scarcely time, I feel too sensibly your polite attention to be excused from acknowledging the Receipt of your favor of the 1 st Instant by Major Story. I have given this young Gentleman the best advice in my power, and if Mr. Morris inclines, to employ him, will go as far in his Commendation as your Letter, and the acquaintance I have with him, can justify. 1 I am obliged to you for your account of Week’s adventure. It hap pened too near home not to be interesting; and yet whatever may be the appearance from the passivity of the British and the Despair of the Tories; I do not think peace; no not even the evacuation of our native City, so near as is generally apprehended. The naval success of the enemy have hardened the Heart of the British Pharaoh and rekindled his expiring wishes for our subjugation. The Treaty at Paris goes on feebly and all eyes are fixed on the military Operations which will give a Complection to its further Progress at the close of the Campaign and not sooner. But I need not enlarge. Mr. Secretary Livingston has obtained permission to attend for a few weeks on his private Affairs in our State. He will open the Budget and gratify your Curiosity in all points, and I wish you to see him. Barclay has brought us an account of Allens exploit in Cumberland. On Monday we shall introduce the subject under great advantages from this fresh Insult on Congress and aggression on our State. 2 I observe all your Kindness respecting my late ill luck. I shoud not be satisfied with myself if I suspected your James unjustly, and I almost repent at what I hinted; but believe me it was the general opinion from his loose character. No man can more sincerely deprecate the vice of Suspicion than I do. It is too much the reverse of the first of all virtues, Charity, to be pardonable. This family of both sexes commission me to present to you their respectfull Compliments. Be pleased to make mine to your good Lady & Children and to be assured that I am with very great regard—Dear General, Your affect. & most obed. humb. serv. Jas. Duane. MS not found; reprinted from Historical Magazine and Holes and Queries, 2nd ser. 5 (Jan uary 1869): 255. I For Maj. John Story's application to Robert Morris for employment, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:393, 395. See also ibid., 2:59n.6. 2 See the preceding entry, note 1.


[Page 229]
September 21, 1782 195 New York Delegates to George Clinton S’r, Philadelphia Septr. 21, 1782. We have been honoured with your Dispatches of the 16th Instant relative to the violent Outrages committed by Ethan Allen and others on the peaceable Inhabitants of our State residing on the New Hamp shire Grants. 1 Congress having adjorned on Fryday until Munday, we have had no oppertunity, with any kind of Propriety, to lay the Infor mation before them, but shall do it before any other Business is taken up on Munday Morning. As in all Probability the Papers will be com mitted and it may be some Days before any thing finally is determined on, we thought it unnecessary to Detain Barckley, especially as he is anxious to return as soon as possible. This New and unexpected Violence, offered, in direct Opposition to the Recommendations of Congress, to those peaceable Citizens who have always strictly adhered to the same, and the dangerous Con sequences which may ensue from such evil Examples, will we trust induce Congress immediately to interpose and exert their Authority for the Releif, and Protection of those unhappy People, our Fellow Citizens, now made Prisoners by a lawless Power. Your Excellencey may rest Assured that we shall exert ourselves to the utmost for their Releif, and that Measures may be Adopted for the future Protection of the Adherents to our State who reside in that Dis trict of Country. There are not so many States at present in favour of the Indepen- denc of Vermont as there were last Year and altho a Majority of the States present are opposed to it, yet it is very doubtful if any Decision can now be obtained on the controversy submitted to Congress con formable to their Act of the [24th] of Sept. 1779. We shall however attempt it, if we can find there is the least probability of Success. Our Act of the Legislature for quieting the minds of the Inhabitants in the Northeastern Parts of the State 2 has had a good Effect, and we have reason to beleive if the Disputes about the Cessions of the back Lands belonging or claimed by the southern States are settled, few or none of the States in the union will interest themselves in favour of the Vermont Independence. We shall give your Excellency the earliest Intelligence of any Deter mination Congress shall make on the Communications we have been honoured with. We have nothing new since the Secretary of foreign Affairs left this Place. He will give you a more particular Information of our Intelli gence from Europe than we are able to do by writing.


[Page 230]
196 September 21, 1782 We have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedient and very humble Servants, Jas. Duane Ezra LHommedieu. Reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 6:489-90, from a document located in the New York State Library before the Albany fire of 1911. "In the writing of L’Hommedieu, except the complimentary close and Duane’s signature.” 1 See Duane to Clinton, this date, note 1. 2 See JCC, 22:281-86; and John Morin Scott to Clinton, May 21, 1782. Abraham Clark to Robert Morris Sir, Septr 22nd [i.e. 23] 1782 1 You have enclosed for Perusal a Letter from Mr. Pollock. The Com mittee to whom the same is referred desire you will as soon as possible give them such a State of the Matters therein mentioned as your Means of Information may enable you to do. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 50) From the text copied into a letter from Robert Morris to James Duane of October 11, 1782. > Clark wrote this letter in behalf of a committee (consisting of himself, James Duane, and Hugh Williamson) appointed on September 23 to take into consideration a Septem ber 18 appeal from Oliver Pollock for the settlement of his accounts as commercial agent of the United States in New Orleans. Morris returned this copy of it (the only form in which it survives) to Duane, in the understanding that Duane was “the Chairman of that Committee,” with a number of enclosures explaining the claim and a recommenda tion for the speedy settlement of Pollock’s accounts. The date of Clark s letter is obvi ously in error, as September 22 was a Sunday and the committee was appointed on September 23. For Pollock’s letter, the committee’s appointment, and Morris’ response to Clark’s inquiry, see PCC, item 50, fols. 1-13, 17-26, item 186, fol. 58; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:560-63. See also John Hanson to Estevan Miro, October 31, 1782. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr. Pha. Sepr. 24th. 1782 The post brought me yr favor of the 20th Instant. Before I say any thing about news I must mention that you have been misinformd rela tive to my appointment by Congress. It has I suppose taken its rise from a letter I receivd on my way up from Mr Morris desiring me to act as receiver of the Continental taxes,' which I immediately informd him upon my arrival here I coud not do consistent with our Constitu tion, at least so it might have been Construed. There were other rea sons which wou’d have been Sufft. to have induced me to decline the offer. Rhode Island is very obstinate Agt the 5 per Ct. Whether they will give way at their next session (in October) is very uncertain.


[Page 231]
September 24, 1782 197 The paper will give you some particulars of the loss of the Eagle a French Frigate in this bay: She was Commanded by Captn Le Touche who had a Commission from his King for the protection of our Trade. This Vessell carried 28 24-pounders besides 12 of a lesser weight— quite new, had on board a crew & everything compleat for the Cuadaloupe now at Baltimore which was to compose part of la Touch’s Squadron. Mr Marbois tells me that two hundred thousand livers were lost. The Enemy have got the Eagle off & I suppose into New York by this time. Several persons of distinction came over in her, they got on shore among them one or two stiled princes. Our dis patches were not later than the 29th of June. Mr Granville was then at Paris. The death of Lord Rockingham and the alteration in the Min istry in the beginning of July will probably retard the negotiations, if not brake them up. I think we may not expect peace very speedily. Is it possible to obtain abt £150 of my order from the Treasury? I am in very great want of it: please to let me know if any thing can be done. Please to present my Compt. to yr Lady. I am my Dear Sir with great regard & esteem, your affectionate humble servt, Dani. Carroll RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 For Robert Morris’ August 8 letter to Carroll, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:153-54. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir Philadelphia Sept 24th 1782 I am honored with your Excellencys letter of the 20th And Agree able to direction inclose the papers you mention. I hope you will have it in your power to Settle the matter at Annapolis upon much better terms than I believe it would ever be Settled here. The remainder of the wheat Mr. Heron Says he has received. The Capture of the Eagle is unfortunate to us as well as the french. She with five other frigates were intended for the protection of our trade, the loss of which is severely felt here and in a very Considerable degree Effects the State of our Finances. The little demand for pro duce occasioned by the want of trade renders the payment of Taxs very difficult, and to which the very great deficiency in the payment of the Sum last required by Congress, may in a great measure be attributed. Not more than one Eightieth part has yet been received, from which you may Judge of the State of the Continental Treasury. No official letters from France later than the 29th June and they Con tain nothing very Material. No mention is maid of the negociation. I inclose you the last paper And have the honor to be with the greatest esteem, Your Excellency’s most humble Servt, J.H. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988).


[Page 233]
September 24, 1782 199 trade. The loss of which is Severely felt and in a very Considerable degree Effects the State of our Finances. The little demand for pro duce Occasioned by the want of trade renders the payment of Tax’s very difficult, and to which the very great deficiency in the payment of the sum last required by Congress may in a great measure be attributed. Not more than one Eightieth part has yet been received from which you may Judge of the State of the Continental Treasury. Inclosed you have this days paper. We are well Caty remarkably so and join in love to you and the Children. No official letters from France later than the 20th June And they Contain nothing material. No mention is made as to the progress of the negociation. I am very affectionately, Yrs. J H 2 RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). 1 Not found. 2 Hanson also wrote another letter to Thomas this date, for which see the preceding entry, note 3. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Sepr. 24th. 1782. I am very glad to find that the recovery of Mr. Pendleton’s slave hath at length been accomplished. I shall immediately relieve Col. Jameson from the task I had consigned to him. 1 The sum of the intelligence reed, by the French frigates is that Mr. Grenvilles visit & propositions looked for a while very auspicious, but that the hopes inspired by the naval success of the English in the W. Indies had reversed the prospect; and it was expected that tergiver sations on the part of the Ct. of London would spin out the negocia- tions till the chances of the campaign should be tried. Whilst Shel burne guides the helm, nothing but some dreadful calamity, or some national commotion, or the fear of one or other of them, can secure us peace. His obstinacy of temper & notorious aversion to our inde pendence, abetted by the same sentiments in the King, will protract the war as long as means & pretexts can be found for it. The Frigate which my last informed you had been run aground in this Bay has been got off by the Enemy & carried to N. York. 2 Among other articles of Prize, nearly 50,000 Dollars fell into the hands of the Captors. Our generous Ally has given us a fresh token of friendship by remit ting to us all the interest due or which wd. accrue during the war on the advances he has made to us; together with the expence of the loan obtained for us last year in Holland. He has also agreed to accept the


[Page 240]
206 September 25, 1782 the Office, the Judgment of reversal I find to be at the same time with the other respecting Coll Stanton the Judgment counts on an Appeal Notice & no appearance of the Appellee to defend therefore reverse as to the Vessel, you mention the papers or files were sent you by mis take they will shew whether there was an appeal taken & whether Notice was given. I have also applyd to Mr. Stanley who informs me that no appeal was taken that he knows of & believes there was None & that the Cause was most Clear not only to Condemn the Cargoe but Vessel. As I wrote you before I dont see how they can carry their Judg ment into Execution against the Estate of Capt Shaw, but if any rem edy it must be Against the Marshal (whoever he was) in Nth Carolina but if they should recover of him you might possibly meet with Trou ble afterwards but as none of the papers can be found We cannot at present preferr a petition for a New Trial in that Cause. The hour for post to depart is just at hand which oblidges me to write in Utmost haste & perhaps in correct as I cannot revise. Am with sincere Esteem, Yr Hie Servt, Elipht Dyer RC (CtY: Shaw Papers). 1 For Shaw’s admiralty appeal, see Dyer to Shaw, July 22, August 23, and September 11, 1782. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Si r Philadelphia Septr 25th 1782 Mr. Brown went of so sudden that I omitted complying with your request in sending back the Copy of the Deed from the Indians to the Susqh. Company & having now an oppertunity by Mr Pumroy I send it by him. I rather Suspect we shall not have a Quorum that is the Num ber of 5 of the Judges Agreed upon to hear & determine our Cause with Pensylvania, who will meet at Trenton at the time Appointed. 1 Govr Rutlidge now a Member of Congress was one we Agreed upon at first & on whom we much relied absolutely refused. Mr Jones of Vir ginia was afterwords Agreed to in his room. Mr Jones has since Arrived in this Town as delegate & absolutely refuses to Attend at Trenton & says he must return to Virginia to attend their Assembly before that time. Genii Nelson of Virginia is one Agreed to, the Gen tn here from Virginia give it as their opinion that he will not be Induced to come on any Account, & that their Assembly being to sit about that time will also prevent him. The 2 Gentn. Agreed upon in the Jerseys will doubtless attend as they are on the spot, they were it is true agreed to, but it was with a View that the Gentn from Virginia attended, Whom we lookd upon as a Counter ballance to those in the Jerseys, tho as to them we are informd they are Gentn of knowledge,


[Page 241]
September 25, 1782 207 Integrity & Impartiality—but one or both may possibly have some Bias. Judge Griffin as he now lives in this City will doubtless attend as he has not refused; he belongs to Virginia, is a Gentn of good under standing, of great Integrity & Candor but if Genii Nelson should not attend and either Genii Whipple or Mr Arnold should fail which is suspected, there will not be to the Number of 5. You are sensible it is not in my power to agree to any other, & whither it will be best I can not determine. I am sensible it would put the State to a great Expence to have the Gentn. proposed to come to Trenton to Assist on the Trial if the Judges should fail to attend, beside Coll Root seemd to be doubtfull whether he could come & by what I hear it is Uncertain as to Doctr Johnson. Mr. Huntington seems to think he cannot tarry so late in the fall. If Judge Huntington & Mr Ellsworth one or both should set out seasonably to take their place in Congress they one or both might be appointed agents with me in the Cause. I think it would by no means be out of Carracter forjudge Huntington to undertake with me in the Cause, both belonging to the State in simular situa tions there, & the Magnitude of the Cause will fullyjustifye us. I would not be understood to Wish Doctr Johnson or Coll Root to be super seeded, but this I propose if they should refuse to attend & as it would save expence to the State, or if Mr Huntington present could be per suaded to tarry he would no doubt be Very acceptable. There is a Mr. Beaudinot of the Jerseys, now, and for sometime a member of Congress from that state is well known to the Gentn. who have attended Congress from Connecticut. I entertain a Very good opinion of him and Esteem him an Able Lawyer & Councellor a Gentn of good reputation. I should think it not Amiss but of real policy to employe him in our Cause. He is of an Establishd reputation in the Jerseys believe he has allways entertained a favourable Opinion of our Cause. 2 of our Judges are from the Jerseys the Cause may be adjournd more than once before decision, he will be on the spot. I only hint these Matters & Submit it to Consideration; expence I know is to be regarded, especially in our low Estate but we must find money or our Cause must fall. I find that is the Dificulty with most Gentn. I am Compelld to tarry, tho only sent here on a pinch I meant to have been at loose to have left Congress when I pleased but soon found my self Confined or to have left the State without representation which I never yet Esteemd my self at Liberty to do, when I had accepted the trust, but my Cash is near expended. I cannot stay with reputation Nor can I get home. I must tarry till after the 12th of Novembr perhaps a fortnight longer which fear will bring me into a difficult season to tra vail. My time will be expired at Congress about the 1st of Novr. If I could obtain what the State owes or in part for past services for Assem bly & Supr Court Debentures, attending Council of Safety &c I would not ask the State but would Spend my own money, but some I must have soon, hope it may be provided in Mr Morris’ bills procurred


[Page 244]
210 September 25, 1782 RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). • New Hampshire’s share of the $1,200,000 recently requisitioned for 1783 “for the discharge of Interest on Our Domestic Debts” was $48,000 or four percent; the state s share of the Continental requisition of $8 million for 1782 had been $373,598 or 4.7%. See JCC, 21:1090, 23:564. 2 See James Duane to George Clinton, and New York Delegates to Clinton, Septem ber 21, 1782. 3 See Gilman to Weare, September 18, note 1, and 2d letter of October 2, 1782. David Howell to the State of Rhode Island [September 25? 1782]' P.S. Since Genl. Cornell has Abdicated his Seat in Congress & since writing the above the Committee aforesd. on Back-Lands have reported a Sett of Resolves on that Subject in favor of our Claims but on the Question to agree to their Report Six States only were in favor of it, and it was lost for want of a Seventh.2 This Loss may be to us Irreparable. So Necessary is it for the State to have Constant Represen tation in Congress. N.B. By Art. 5. Confederation “Nor shall any person being a Delegate be Capable of holding any Office under the United States for which he or any other for his Benefit receive any Salary, fees or Emoluments of any kind. ” By a Resolve of Congress May 7th. 1782 “Resolved that the SuperInten dant of Finance be and hereby is Authorized to appoint an Inspector for the Main & another for the southern Army to take care that the Contracts for Sup plying Rations be duly Executed by the Contractors, &c. ” “That the Pay to each Inspector be One Hundred & Sixty Six Dollars & two thirds of a Dollar per month in full of all allowances. ’’This amounts to the round sum of two thousand dollars per annum. Genl. Cornell will not deny that he was nominated to one of those places immediately on the passing the above resolve if not before, and has had the business in contemplation from that time till he entered on it. He cannot deny that he, as a member of Congress, created the place, ascertained the salary & placed it in the gift of one of the Servants of Congress. That he afterwards while a delegate of the State of R.I. &c, and of course representing its sovereignty, in contravention of the 5th article of Confedn. accepted that place of that servant—abdicated his seat in Congress—and left the State unrepresented. I have related facts, upon them I rely. I should illy discharge the duties I owe my constituents should I restrain the truth for fear of giv ing offence. I know not that fear neither does it become my station. 3 D.H.


[Page 251]
October 1, 1782 217 can system. Except that of N.Y. where one of the ays was from policy given against the motion of which he was probably the prompter. 1 However they have at last fed the one man’s pride, vanity & all arro gating disposition by putting him sole in the Commission for negoci- ating with Sweden, which woud not have been done had he not writ ten that it was the particular desire of the King of Sweden communicated to him by the Ambassador of that Court at Versailles, that he might be the person. It was an omission, for which I am blameable, not to have inserted this in the Commission, that if a fic tion or a mere compliment, & I suspect it was one or the other, the falsity or the vanity of it might have appeard. The words of his Letter are these—“The Ambassador from Sweden to this Court applied to me lately to know if I had Powers that woud authorise my making a treaty with his master in behalf of the U.S. Recollecting a general one that was formerly given to me with the other Commissioners I answered in the affirmative. He seemd much pleased 8c said the King had directed him to ask the question, 8c had charged him to tell me, that he had so great an esteem for me, that it woud be a particular sat isfaction to him to have such a transaction with me. I have perhaps some vanity in repeating this; but I think too, that it is right the Congress shoud know it, & judge if any use can be made of the repu tation of a Citizen for the public Service.” 2 It is with sorrow, I inform you of the death of young Col. Laurens, 3 who was killd lately in a skirmish with the British near Charles-town. He is as much a public as a private loss; 8c I am much afraid it will be an accumulation of misfortune on his most worthy Father too great for him to bear. The Enemy have revokd the order for the evacuation of Augustine; but all their motions tend to that of N. York 8c Charles-town. They are to strengthen the garrison of Quebec, recal their indian parties from our frontiers, 8c bend all their force against the french 8c Spanish Islands. How far we can in prudence pursue them thither with our land forces, is not yet the subject of discussion. Remember me to Mr Laurens if in Europe, 8c to Mr. Dana when you write to him. Farewell Octr. 5th. Congress have resolvd not to conclude any Peace but in confidence 8c concurrance with our Allies 8c to prosecute the war, till a peace satisfactory to all can be obtaind. All preparations for Negoci- ation are to be referrd to the Commissioners in Europe. 4 Genl. Lee died here a few days since 8c was buried with great honor. 5 RC (MHi: Adams Papers). In Lee’s hand, though not signed. 1 On September 20 Congress had refused to overturn its resolve of the 17th rejecting Henry Laurens’ resignation as a peace commissioner, for which see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, September 19 and 20; Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, September 19-25, note 17; andjames Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 24, 1782, notes


[Page 252]
218 October 1, 1782 4-6 In this cryptic reference to the New York vote, Lee was apparently suggesting that James Duane would have preferred to vote for Madison’s motion, but voted against it “from policy" because "he was probably the prompter ” . 2 Benjamin Franklin had reported this request of the Swedish king in a June 25 lette to Secretary Robert R. Livingston, and on September 28 Congress adopted a commis sion and instructions for Franklin as sole commissioner to negotiate a treaty of amity and commerce with Sweden. See PCC, item 82, 2:164-72; Wharton, Diplomat Correspon dence 5:510-13; andJCC, 23:592, 610-24. 3 For the death of John Laurens, Henry Uurens’ eldest son, who was killed August 27, 1782, in a skirmish with a foraging party in South Carolina, see Elias Boudmot to Lewis Pintard, October 2, 1782, postscript. 4 For the resolves Congress adopted on October 3 and 4 to reassure the French court that the United States intended to continue to adhere to the terms of the alliance, see James Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 24, note 2; and Arthur Middleton Memorandum, September 24-October 4, 1782. . , , , Lee had been preoccupied throughout the summer with what he perceived to be the inordinate role of the French in the peace negotiations. See for example, Lee to James Warren August ? 1782, note 1. Further evidence may be found in the following undated notes (in the Lee Papers, MH-H), which Lee later titled Proposals of the french Minister to Congress. M. de la Luzerne, 1782.” Apparently drafted in Congress on September 24 or shortly thereafter, they were taken from the conference commit tee’s report of its September 23 meeting with La Luzerne, for which see JCC, 23’597-603. “That the U.S will not be contented with a separate peace—but wall continue the war till their allies shall have concluded their own peace, wch. will shew G.B. that their Inde pendence will not satisfy' them but that they will pursue the bntish troops wherever they C3 “6th page. That the U.S., will not be satisfyd with the acknolegement of their Inde pendency: but will continue the war in all ways in their power till their Allies are satisfy & if the british troops are removd from the U.S. they will pursue them wherever they Ca “D b emands of France. To treat generally. 2d. To make the treaty of Paris the basis of the negotn. with alterations as to Africa, India, the Fishery, & commercial regulations in Europe, accordng. to equity & the [degrees?] of the negociatg. Powers “Full Powers sent on this to Mr. G. [Thomas Grenville] to declare the Independancy previously & then to treat on the Conditions proposed above. P Lee had obtained a leave of absence on October 4 and apparently left Philadelphia shortlv after writing this October 5 postscript to Adams. JCC, 23:639. •> Gen Charles Lee, who had been dismissed from the Continental Army in 1780 b who had recently abandoned the seclusion of his Virginia estate to live in Philadelphia, died on October 2 and was buried in Christ Church graveyard. See these Letters, 14.344, and DAB. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dr Philada. Ocr. 1. 1782. We have red. no addition since my last to the intelligence from Europe: except an anecdote mentioned in a letter from the Marquis de la Fayette, which exemplifies the tergiversation of Mr. Grenville. On his interview with the Ct. de Vergennes he said that the uncondi tional acknowledgment of American Independence was a preliminary point to which the King had agreed. The Ct. de Vergennes in order to


[Page 253]
October 1,1782 219 proceed with certainty & precision wrote down this declaration & requested Mr. G. to put his name to it. The latter immediately deserted his position & refused to abide by any thing more than that the King was disposed to grant the Independence of America. It is said with great confidence that a fleet is gone from N. Y. to Charlestown to remove the Garrison, & the evacuation of the former place continues to be a subject of conjecture & conversation. Some naval preparations at N. Y. are thought to indicate a projected expedi tion agst. the French Ships at Boston or Portsmouth. Genl W. has sent to Congress intelligence red. from Canada of the following tenor: 1 “that despaches have arrived informing the Govr. that a reinforcemt. of 3 or 4000 troops may be expected from Europe & 1500 foreign troops from N. York—that the upper Country will be strengthened by a reinforcement of its posts—& the fortifications of the lower put into the most defensible state, that it was in contempla tion of the Cabinet to point the whole force of the Nation agst. the French & Spanish settlements in the W. Indies, that indian incursions are no longer to be permitted into our Frontiers—that Cambell had given notice of this to the Indians, assigning as the motive, that the compassion of the King to his American subjects had been excited by their professions of sorrow for what they had done. A Seneca Sachem replied that the American & French had beat the English, that the lat ter cd. no longer carry on the war—that the Indians knew it well & must now be sacrificed or submit to the Americans—that it was time to attend to their own concerns & listen no more to his lies. Ample presents, the salve always applied to Indian discontents were adminis tered, but the Indians went home little satisfied with their condition.” The Genl, thinks this intelligence bears strong marks of authenticity. In haste adieu RC (NN). Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:177-78. 1 See John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee, this date, note. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. Ocr. 1. 1782. Your Excellency’s favor of the 20th. of Sepr. was reed, yesterday. 1 Whatever curiosity or wonder might be excited by the letter in the post office addressed to you from Sr. G. Carlton with an endorsement by the Commander in chief, we cannot suppose that they had any other object than the views of the Writer, or that they included the slightest jealousy of your Excellencys patriotism. 2 The paper No. 1 herewith inclosed is a copy intelligence transmit ted to Congress by Genl Washington, and leaves us nothing to add


[Page 254]
220 October 1, 1782 under that head. No. 2 is an extract from the proceedings of Congress which may throw some light on the probable event of the territorial cessions. 3 The situation to which we are reduced by the impossibility of nego- ciating bills on Virginia obliges us to renew our intreaties that some effectual & speedy steps may be taken for adequate remittances to us. It is unnecessary We are persuaded to multiply words on this subject to your Excellency who will so readily conceive the cruel distress which must attend a disappointment, and who is so much disposed to obviate it. We have the honor to be Yr. Excelly’s Obt. & hble servts. J. Madison Jr. Jos. Jones. A. Lee RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Jones, and Lee. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:176. 1 See ibid., pp. 147-48. 2 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 30, 1782, note 1. 3 For the enclosed intelligence from Washington and September 25 committee report on western land cessions, see John Hanson to Thomas Sim I.ee, this date, note; and JCC, 23:604-6. Both are in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir Philadelphia Octr. 2d 1782 Yours of the 28t Ultimo was delivered by Martin, but have nothing in return to give you in the News way—excepting some Intelligence from Canada, that is not yet Public. [Gen] Heldiman has news of a designed reinforcement of 3 or 4000 Men from England & 1500 Hes sians from New York. That all the Posts in the upper Country & in Canada are to be reinforced—as the whole british Force is to operate agt the French & Spanish Settlements in the West Indies—all the Indian War is to be entirely stopped. On this Occasion the Indians to the amount of 4 or 500 were called together by Coll. Campbell their Agent, & told that they must not go to war agt the Americans any more, as the King had taken Compassion on his American Subjects who had expressed their Sorrow for what they had done. The Seneca Chief replied that the Americans had beat the English and the latter could no longer carry on the war and that the Indians knew it well and must now be sacrificed or submit to the Americans, that it was Time to attend to their own Concerns and listen no longer to their Lies!! They went away greatly disatisfied, and seem desirous of Peace


[Page 255]
Octobers, 1782 221 with us. I take it for granted that Charles Town will be evacuated, but greatly doubt it as to New York. Our Bay is again blocked up, but all our European News is very favourable. I am sorry to say our friend Mr F. is very backward in paying his Bal lance. His is ungenerous Usage, considering how long he has had the money. I shall press old Cto. to accomplish Payment. I send you in Gold £32.2.0 which together with the Lands at £5.8.0 makes the full of your last Quarter-rent. My kind Love to Mrs. P., Patty & Johnny. 1 Am My D [r Sir], Yours most Affectly E Boudinot [P.S.] Wednesday 4 oClock—We have news from Genl Greene of the 29 Augt. 2 The Enemy were embarquing their heavy Artillery. Genl Lesslie had the Impudence to send out & demand Provision sufficient for their Voyage as payment for it. This was refused and he sent out a foraging Party, which was drove in with the Loss of the brave Coll. Laurens Son of the late President, which will be most sensibly felt in that Country. The Papers of this Day are nothing but Scurrility abt Elections & not worth sending. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 Boudinot also wrote a letter this date to his daughter Susan, filled with fatherly advice and concluding: “There is nothing new here in the gay World. The Commercial Misfortunes of this Capital, moderates the Extravagance of the City greatly. There are a great number of the French Nobility here, but they also reed a check by the Loss of all their finery in the Frigate that was taken at the Capes.” Stimpson-Boudinot Papers, NjP; and Boudinot, Life and Letters, 1:253-54. 2 Gen. Nathanael Greene’s August 29 letter enclosing an August 27 report of Gen. Mordecai Gist was read in Congress this day and is in PCC, item 155, 2:527-29, 531-34. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir Philadelphia Octobr 2nd 1782 After Continued care & almost daily Application I have at length Succeeded to your Wishes. 1 Have procured Mr Paca to come from Mary-land the Court was appointed to be held yesterday. We appeared but Mr Lewis who had been Coll Stantons Attorney in the former Trial sent word that he was then unwell and could not Attend. I Informd the Court of the Necessity of a hearing, that we might give Notice to the Court in Rhodisland before Judgment should be given on the bond on which the Court was adjourned to this Morning at which time Mr. Paca one of the Judges was taken Very ill a considerable Strong feaver confind in bed but as he found the cause so Urgent he Consented the Court should be held in his Chamber where we attended and was heard on the Petition & the


[Page 257]
October 2,1782 223 John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Octr. 2d. 1782. I am Honored with your’s of the 14th Ulto. in which is Inclosed a Vote of the Honble. the Legislature appointing me a Delegate for the Term of One Year from that time. 1 Permit me to Assure you Sir, and through you the Legislature of the State that I have a gratefull Sense of the Honor done me by this repeated mark of their Confidence. I am Likewise informed that the Honble. Phillips White Esqr. is appointed a Delegate, Hope he will soon be here as the State has been too long Unrepresented. I cannot now inform you how long I can remain here, but if Mr. White should come on soon I Shall not leave the State unrepresented, without giving them timely Notice. I Informed you in my last that I was Intirely destitute of Money, a Mr. Swanwick of this place called on me and informed that the Honble. John Langdon Esquire had directed him to pay me a Ballance of Money which he had in his Hands, and to take my Bill on the State for the Same; I have received it & Drawn a Bill on you for the Amount being Seventy five Dollars & 51/90 this will give me relief for a few Days. By recent accounts it appears very probable the Enemy Intend to keep a very Considerable force in Canada. The last accounts from New York leave the matter doubtfull whether they will Evacuate that place this fall, but think it is most probable it will be Evacuated. Have no late accounts from Charlestown. Our last Accounts from our Com- missrs. in Europe leave the matter of Negociations altogether in a State of Uncertainty, the progress of the preparatory Steps was very Slow. The present British Ministry are much divided in their Senti ments respecting American Affairs. The Conduct of the United Provinces is a great matter in our favour, believe most of the Powers of Europe now look on us as an Independent Nation. Great-Britain must come to it, though the full acknowledgment of our Independence and a general Peace under present Circumstances will be a bitter Pill to them. I have the Honor to be, with due Respect, Your most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See N.H. State Papers, 8:950. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Octr. 2d. 1782. I now Send you Twelve Setts of Commissions which I received from


[Page 258]
224 October 2, 1782 the Secretary of Congress. I am favoured with an Opporty of a private Conveyance to Boston, hope they will soon reach you. 1 Sending them by Post is in some Degree unsafe, but in Addition to that when large Bundles are Franked, I believe they frequently meet with Delay. I am Sensible that you have had much less advantage from Such Franks than many other Persons, as you have had Considerable Sums to pay for Postage. I Shall be happy in Sending you any papers which you may want during my Stay here. I need not Mention to you that I Shall be highly pleased to have Judge White for a Colleague, my Opinion of his Integrity & firm Attachment to our Common Cause is well known; I only have to wish that he may be as well Satisfied on that Head as I am, and that we may be well United in our Sentiments respecting public affairs, while we are together. I Hope he will be here soon, but (if he cannot come sooner) hope he will not fail of being here by the first Monday in November; by the Articles of Confederation a New Congress then Meet, a New President is Chosen & some other matters Transacted which I Should be much pleased to have a Voice in, and it is well for every Member who Expects to Spend any Considerable time in Congress to be here at that time. My Letter to you of the 25th Ulto. will Evince how Necessary money is here, hope Judge White will bring me a Considerable Sum. Bank Bills are always paid on Sight, but if those cannot be Obtained & other Notes are Sent me, hope they will be Such as are now due. I find by my Copies of Letters that the number which I have wrote to you is something large, but that the Contents is very Small, which almost dis courages me from Attempting to write so frequently, but I Shall Con tinue my Letters untill Judge White Arrives and then, after he has wrote you as many Letters as I have I will take turns with him. I cannot conclude without adding another wish that he may be here soon. I need not acquaint you that this Letter is not Intended for the perusal of the Legislature. Please to make my Compliments to my Friends with you. I Inclose you a News Paper, and have the Honor to be with the most perfect Consideration, Your Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Gilman to Weare, September 25, note 3. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doctr Philadelphia Octo 2d 1782 I received a letter from A. by the last post, he presses my returning by way of Annapolis, which, with the pleasure I should have in being with you there, are very great inducements to take that rout, but I am


[Page 264]
230 October 5, 1782 RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). I Washington informed Witherspoon in an October 8 response that the question of a "partial Exchange” had been submitted to Congress. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:245-46. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr. Pha. Oct. 5th. 1782. I do myself the pleasure of inclosing the paper of the day; you will See an article from Brussells dated the 29th of July—it is taken from a Letter to Mr Arthur Lee from Mr E. Jennings. 1 I see no prospect of a speedy peace. I believe the British will bend their force this fall & winter agt the French West Indies; whether their whole force from the United States is very doubtfull; N York is too convenient a port to annoy our Trade from to quit it, & yet to retain it with a sufft. force for its security might frustrate their other views. I inclose a copy of a late act of Congress respecting the pay of the army—tho’ I Suppose you will receive it Soon officially. 2 I mentiond what you desird to the President, he has or will give you an answer himself. Pray who do you expect will be your Successor? I sincerely wish you & yours all manner of happiness, & am My Dear Sr. with great esteem, Yr very affectionate & Obt Serv Dani Carroll P.S. is it possible to obtain the money I mentiond. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 The brief extract from Edmund Jenings’ letter to which Carroll refers, printed in this day’s issue of the Pennsylvania Packet under the heading “Extract of a letter from Brussels,” reads: “I cannot think that Lord Shelburne can continue in place, there is certainly a gen eral distrust of him. “The English affairs in India are in the utmost Confusion, in consequence of which the stocks fall.” 2 The enclosed October 1 resolves, designed to prevent the states from paying their Continental troops directly and withholding their quotas from Congress, were enclosed with Superintendent Robert Morris’ circular letter to the states of this date. See JCC, 23:631; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:444-45, 496-97. Arthur Lee to Robert Morris Sir Philadelphia 5th October 1782 My Nephew Ludwell Lee will have the Honor of presenting you this. He is exceedingly pressed for money to Pay his entrance with a


[Page 266]
232 October 7,1782 27th & 28th of last Month2 I have enquired about Madame Oster, & hear that she is an amiable, & agreeable Woman, so that I shall be glad to hear that you have determined to come together. General Lee died in this City a few days ago. Mr. Richard Beresford is engaged to be married to the Widow Charles Elliott, Mr. Ferguson’s Daughter. I wish to know how you like Mrs. Cooper. The Companion her Hus band brought with him when he visited you, & his Letters in praise of Prescot, do not incline me to think very favourably of him. I was in hopes that Mr. Dundas would have quitted Paris, & followed the for tunes of his friend Fuller. Do not neglect to draw all the Money, as soon as you can with propriety, from Leipzig. Since my last Letter to you on this subject, I have additional reasons for wishing to have it done soon. I am My Dear Wife, Your Affectionate Husband, Ra. Izard. RC (NN: Miscellaneous Folders). 1 Alice De Lancey Izard (1744?-1832), who was married to Izard in 1767, had remained in Paris after his return to America in July 1780, awaiting the recovery of South Carolina before returning to their home there. 2 Not found. Jonathan Arnold to William Greene gj r) Philadelphia October 8th. 1782. I have the honor to inform, that I arrived in this City the 5th Instant, since which Congress having been engaged on business by Committees, and interrupted by the City Election, I have not gained such acquaintance with the public measures now pursuing, as enables me to give useful information. This I doubt not will be done by the Letters of my worthy Colleague Mr Howell. On my way to this place I passed thro’ the grand American Camp, where I met with General Cornell, who left Philadelphia some days before—the General informed me of an Appointment he held under the Financier General, which may perhaps prevent his immediate return. I have the Honor to be. Your Excellency’s Very huml Servt. Jona Arnold RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors).


[Page 267]
October 8, 1782 233 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My very dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 8th. 1782 It is not an uncommon Thing, that the last should be first, and the first last. This was the Case with your two last Letters. The one by Mr. C served principally to lead me to the use of the Cover of your last, as you had reed the Cash which I hope was right. We have great reason to expect the Evacuation of Charles Town, but as to New York, it certainly depends on Orders by the next Packett. We have been amused here these several Days with a report from New York that Rodney with the Jamaica Fleet are all taken and that Gibralter has Capitulated, but all this wants Confirmation. Will enclose the Papers. I sent you one loose, last Post tho’ it was not worth reading. As to your secret Instructions I fear nothing can be expected, as there are so many Harpies laying in wait on all sides. I have not given your Letter to Mr. M 1 tho’ I have been on the Eve of it several Times—shall not do it at present. Our Ambassador 2 has been engaged in a Duel, or I might say two and has had a caning in the Bargain, but has come off thro’ them all with great honor, to the no small Credit of the Family. However the particulars are not worth telling. He has retired for the winter to his Seat at Borden Town, where he is over Head & Ears as he was elsewhere. But poor Mr. R— — his Sister is in truly deplorable Circumstances. She lays in Bed totally helpless, having both her feet quite useless. Along side of her, an only Daughter, her principal dependance in point of assistance, laying unable to Stir from some defect in the spinal Marrow of her Back, and whose only hope is in a speedy Death—without money— without Connections & without Hope. Some humane Gentn. have taken her two Sons, and put them to School. My Heart bleeds for her, while He on whom she has a right to depend, is sunk in an unmanly Gloom. Pray forward the Enclosed as soon as possible. I enclose a Letter from Holland. Mr. F. has not paid the money. I am very uneasy. I wish you to write me, that Mr R. has informed you of it, and urge me to see it paid. My Love to Miss Pintard and tell her that [?/] is not comon for hon orable Members to be so much like little Girls, as to peep into or open Letters committed to their Care—but that sometimes uncles see Let ters after they are opened properly—and therefore little Misses should be very careful of their Spelling, especially those who have been to boarding School in a City.


[Page 268]
234 Octobers, 1782 Love to Mrs. P. & Patty Am D Sir, Yours most Afftly, Bdt. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 That is, Robert Morris. 2 Not identified. Daniel Carroll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Dear Sir, Pha. Oct. 8th. 1782 On casting up my affairs here, I Find I shall be under very great difi- culties, unless I can receive a part of the Ballance due me for last year, the order I recivd from the Govr & Council amounts to £497.18.4 Specie: I am therefore indued to apply to you for some assistance, in hopes you can let me have about £200 of the Ballance. If the money cannot be drawn immediately, an order from you payable in two months wou’d probably relieve me. I rest assurd you will do every thing in your power & beg to hear from you. Our family consist of Wright, Hamersly, Duane, Home de Dieu, Madison, Izzard & myself. Your report on the Cession has not yet been taken up 1 —a vote was lately taken on some general propositions on that Subject, & lost Six States being only in favor of them. 2 Rhode Island, New Hampshire & Delaware were unrepresented; it is now intended to bring on the question on the Cession of N. York, as Soon as there are Seven States on the floor for it. R. Island is now represented, Delaware we expect in a day [or] two, & New Hampshire next week; there will be Seven States without the last, if the Delegates from Connecticut do not change their mind. The New York Cession being accepted, 3 it is prob able the States from the Northward of Patowmack will be united on the future questions relative to the Wn. Territory. I am Dear Sr. with esteem, Yr. Mo. Obt Servt. Dani Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). Addressed: “The Honble Dani of St Ths. Jenifer, Intendant of the revenues of the State of Maryland, Annapolis. 1 Although Jenifer had not attended Congress since the previous November, he had been a member of the committee to which the “Cessions of lands by the States of Vir ginia, New York, and Connecticut” had been referred on October 2, 1781. See JCC, 21:1032,22:184,223. 2 Undoubtedly the September 25 vote on the propositions offered by John Wither spoon on September 6, for which see JCC, 23:604-6; and Witherspoon’s Draft Resolves, September 6, 1782. s For the acceptance of New York’s cession on October 29, see James Duane to George Clinton, October 30, 1782, note 1.


[Page 269]
Octobers, 1782 235 Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sr, Pha. Octr. 8th. 1782 I return you many thanks for your favour of the 30th Uko. & have by this opportunity wrote to the Intendant; If he does not relieve me, & the Council shoud Continue of the same opinion, I shall be under very disagreable Circumstances. You may probably know the result from the Maj. himself. I have wrote to Col. Stone on the Subject of yours of the 3d, I beg leave to refer to it. Col. Stone’s merit is well known to several members of Congress, & when the business of the 5 per Cent is taken up will I have no doubt be attended to if he shou’d Continue [in the] same mind after what I have wrote to him. 1 Please present my comps to Mrs Lee. I am Dr Sr. sincerely & affec tionately, yrs, Dani Carroll RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 Lee had apparently recommended the appointment of Thomas Stone as Maryland collector of the 5 per cent impost, which was also the subject of the following brief October 7 letter from Superintendent Robert Morris to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. “I have already informed our mutual Friend Thomas Stone Esqr. that the Appointment of the Collectors of 5 per Cent Impost remains in Congress and that I apprehend your Delegates will be called upon to Nominate. It will always afford me pleasure to render Service to Gentlemen of such worthy Character as Colo. Stone.” Morris, Papers (Fergu son), 6:523. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Philada. Octor 8th 1782 We have to apologize for not writing by Mr Brown when he went last from this Place that he went out of Town sooner than was expected & no Letter was Prepared. The Journals of Congress since May last are not Printed. As soon as Done they will be forwarded as usual. Congress have at Length directed the same Commissioners who are appointed to settle the Accounts of the several States with the Conti nent, to Receive, Count and Destroy the Continental Bills Collected in the several States. 1 The Estimates of Expence for the Service of the Year 1783 are Still in Agitation and will soon be Compleated. Two Millions and Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars will be Requested of the States in Such Proportion as Congress shall determine, and will doubtless be in the Same Proportion as was lately assigned in the Requisition of twelve


[Page 270]
236 October 8, 1782 Hundred Thousand Dollars for Payment of the Interest of bor[ro]wed Monies, which is in our Opinion too high on our State. The amout to be Raised by the States will be 4,000,000. 2 It is uncertain whether the Judges appointed to Try the Cause between Connecticut and Pensylvania will meet; as no answer is yet Reed from the Gentlemen at a Distance, a few Days Time will Deter mine it but we must be Ready at all Events on our Part. The Talks about Peace Subsides and all Overtures on that Subject on the Part of Great Britain appear to be Insidious. Congress have Resolved not to Listen to any Proposals of a Separate Peace or Truce but will strictly Adhere to their Alliance with France, whose Court are greatly Please to see the Same Done by each Particular State. The Ordinance for Regulating the General Post Office has been Considered and Lies for a third Reading. 3 A Loan of five Millions of Guilders is Negociating in Holland, one Million of which was Raised in July last and Subscriptions going on slowly. The Cessions of the Western Lands as made to the United States by Connecticut, New York and Virginia are not in Terms agreeable to a Majority in Congress. The States Southward of Maryland are Very Fond of their western Charter-Territories and the States which have no such Territory Challenge an Equitable Share in those Lands and Chuse to Receive an Unconditional Cession without any Reserve. The State of Rhode Island still neglects to grant the Duty of five Per Cent on Importations &c by which the whole Measure is Impeeded. Thus Every State may in her Turn lay her Fatal Liberum Veto upon the Doings of all the Rest in the Most Essential Concerns of General Finance. Every Member of the Diet of Poland enjoyed the same Lib erty untill they became an easy Prey to their Neighbours. The King of Sweeden has by his Ambassader at Paris Proposed a Treaty of Amity & Commerce with the United States of America and desires it may be Remembered that he is the first King Who Unsolicited made us such an Offer. His Sweedish Majesty Expresses himself in flat tering Terms upon the Satisfaction he Should have in Negociating this Business with Dr Franklin. A Commision & Instructions for that Purpose are gone to our Ministers in Europe. As our expected Term in Congress is nearly Expired we hope some Gentlemen will come on and take their Seats by the first Monday of Novr next at which Time the State will be otherwise Unrepresented. 4 We are with the greatest Respect Your Excellencys most H[ble] Sevts. Elipht D[yer] Benj Hunting[ton] RC (Ct: Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., Papers). Written by Huntington and signed by Hunt ington and Dyer. 1JCC, 23:590-91. 2 See Dyer to Trumbull, October 19, 1782, notes 4 and 5.


[Page 271]
October 8, 1782 237 s The ordinance for administering the post office had been read for a second time on October 2 and was adopted by Congress on October 18. JCC, 23:632, 669-79. 4 Oliver Ellsworth and Oliver Wolcott did not arrive to take their seats in Congress until December 20. However, as Dyer’s credentials were being extended by the Con necticut Assembly at this very moment, the state was not left unrepresented when the new Congress convened on November 4, although it was a few days later when Hunt ington returned home and Dyer departed for the Connecticut-Pennsylvania trial at Trenton. See JCC, 23:707-8, 714, 717, 822-23; and Dyer to Trumbull, November 8, 1782. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir, Philadelphia October 8th 1782 I am honored with your Excellencys two letters of the 3d and 4th instant. It would give me pleasure at all times to be serviceable to any Gentleman honored with your Excellencys recommendation, and more especially when it is in favour of one for whom (as in the pre sent instance) I have a personal esteem & regard. But I must inform your Excellency that untill all the states have passed similar Laws granting the 5 Per Cent Duty, no Commissioners Can be appointed. Hitherto the State of Rhode Island has refused or delayed to Adopt the measure and before it is probable any thing will be done, my time in Congress will have Expired. I have bespoke a hat, price Six pounds, it shall be Sent to your Excellency by the first Opportunity. No news in Town worth Commu nicating, nor any intelligence from our ministers abroad since my last. Inclosed is this days paper, and have the honor to be with esteem and regard, Dear Sir, Your Excellencys most humble Servt, J.H. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). Joseph Jones to Edmund Pendleton Dr. Sr. Phila. 8th Octr. 1782 I had written you a long letter the last week but Madison insisting it was his turn and that he had done the same and been full on the sev eral matters contained in mine I the more readily suppressed it as it wod. throw our correspondence into the regular channel. We have the last week no European intelligence of consequence. Our Col league Mr. Lee received a Letter from Mr Jennings at Brussells dated the 29th ofjuly the latest account I have heard which says the negocia- tions were not suspended—that it was apprehended Ld. Shelbourne wod. not continue long in Administration as he was universally dis trusted. But I fear he has so much the confidence and Sentiments of


[Page 273]
Octobers, 1782 239 negociated (with the doctor in particular). A Plenipotentiary (commis sion has in| consequence issued for that purpose). The (model) trans mitted (by Congress is pretty analogous to the treaty with France), but is (limited in duration to twelve years). Mr. L[ovel]l. 7 Notwithstanding the particular {desire of the k)ing of (Sweden—Lee, Izzard) and (Bland) particularly the first & last, (strug gled) violently {to deprive) the (doctor of the honour) intended (him). Their (struggles and) man{oevres) however had (no other effect) than to (display their extreme enmity). I have put the above article of intelligence in cypher because secrecy was requested by (the doctor). The request has not I find been very scrupulously attended to by others. 8 A letter was red. yesterday from Mr. Dana, bearing date the begin ning of March. He had not then committed the step of which he had rendered us apprehensive, and assigns as the reason of the delay, the incompatibility of (the mediatorial character of the Empress with its success). You will recollect the doctrine maintained in his former let ters on this subject. 9 In the answer to the communications of the French Minister rela tive to the current negociations at Versailles, Congress after renewing their usual assurances (took occasion to press) upon his (M.C.M. in) very {strong terms the objects) confided {to his discretion) including expressly {the free navigation of the Mississippi). This I hope has (appeased in some the rage) for (varying the plan of our ultimatum). How far it will be (acceptable at Versailles) I can not say. When that (paragraph of the answer was read public [to] the minister here by the) committee, {his) emotion was {expressed by a) strong & universal {suffusion of the face). The Declaration of Congress published in the inclosed paper, will {however sweeten the pill). 10 Such a Declaration altho’ in some respects {objectionable was judged upon the whole advisable at the present juncture). Our {ministers in Europe) particu larly {Jay urged it) much. Commisrs, Emissaries & Spies are (announced in all their letters as the probable vehicles of) British poi son. We all know that this poison requires no antidote here. But we can not contest the judgment of our {ministers in Europe as to what) may be {best calculated for that meridian). Doer. Lee set out the day before yesterday for Virga. 11 His arrival at Richmond will give you access to such of the transactions of Congress as I may have from time to time omitted. L 1. 7 {He left) this {place) I believe in not {the best of humours). In {Congress he) has {been frustrated) in several favorite (objects) And from the (press he has) been (most rudely) hand(led. The paper) of (Saturday is) a {mild sample) of {his sufferings). Whether the {charge upon which) these {attacks are) made, (be true or not) I can not (decide). On the first supposition, my (feelings would) have been {irri tated) into a (disavowal) & the (general com)ment (on his silence) shews that {prudence would) not have {repressed them). 12


[Page 274]
240 October 8, 1782 In the paper which I inclose to Mr. A. 13 is the act enabling the King to conclude a peace or truce with the colonies. At the date of the late despatches from France, the passing of the bill was disbelieved, and the supposed delay of it till the next session considered as one index of the hostile views of British Court. As there are 2 papers which come out now on Tuesdays 14 I shall divide them between you & Mr. A. so that an interchange will supply you both with the whole of the news. We have not a word further from N York. At the meeting of the Comrs. for settling a cartel, a remonstrance was presented by those on the part of the U. S. on the subject of accts. &c. The Comrs. on the other part refused to receive it or to send it [to] Sr. G. Carlton. Genl Washington has inclosed it to him in a letter which has not yet been answered. 15 This is all we as yet know of the negociation. I hope you will execute your plan of framing a fresh Cypher. 16 In case of a conveyance I will send the printed sheets I promised. But do not suffer this expectation to interfere with your own purpose. Farewell. [P.S.] Genl. Lee died here on Wednesday last after a short illness. Penet &c. we hear from Mr. de Marbois has become a bankrupt, of which the State of Virga, will take notice. 17 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:186-88. 1 See ibid., pp. 165-66. 2 Ibid., pp. 150—51. s Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, October 1, 1782. 4 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:169. 5 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in the official Virginia cipher except where indicated. 6 Forjacquelin Ambler’s letter of October 5, see ibid., p. 182. 7 The words printed in braces in this paragraph were written in James Lovell’s cipher, for which see Madison to Randolph, July 16, 1782, note 2. 8 Among “the others” not adhering to Congress’ vow of secrecy in foreign affairs were Abraham Clark and David Howell, for whom see David Howell to John Carter, October 16; and Madison’s Notes of Debates, December 6 and 13, 1782. 2 Francis Dana's March 5 letter to Robert R. Livingston was read in Congress on Octo ber 7. See PCC, item 89, fols. 610-17, item 185, 3:44; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 5:223-25. For Dana’s former “doctrine,” see Madison to Randolph, April 23, 1782, note 6. 10 These congressional resolutions of October 4 had been published in the Pennsylva nia Gazette for October 5. u Congress had granted Arthur Lee leave of absence on October 4.JCC, 23:639. 12 For “these attacks" on Lee’s conduct, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:190nn.23-25. Another reaction to Lee’s behavior in Congress is the following satirical poem by Arthur Middleton without date, but written during his 1782 term in Congress, which came to a close October 15. “He stands upon A vantage ground, With Clouds & Dark ness thrown around; & on the Spur of each Occasion, He pesters us with Nonsensation; When’ever Lee’s puzzled, looks about, And each assertion clothes with Doubt.” To the word “Nonsensation” Middleton footnoted a mock Latin quotation, “Longitudo verbi, magnitutidem Stultitiae exprimit,” which he attributed to a “Bathologius Bentleius.” Middleton Papers, ScHi.


[Page 275]
October 9,1782 241 13 Jacquelin Ambler. ' 4 David C. Claypoole’s Pennsylvania Packet and Eleazar Oswald’s Independent Gazetteer, which had begun publication in April 1782. 15 A copy of Washington’s October 2 letter to Sir Guy Carleton had been laid before Congress on October 7. See JCC, 23:640n.3; PCC, item 149, 1:717-18; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:231-32. 16 Randolph had promised Madison a “fresh Cypher” more secret than the official Virginia cipher and less complicated than Lovell’s, for which see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:166, 307n.l. Randolph’s nomenclator, which Madison received in early December, is described and printed in Ralph E. Weber, United States Diplomatic Codes and Ciphers, 1775—1938 (Chicago: Precedent Publishing Inc., 1979), pp. 88-89, 342-46. 17 See the following entry, note 4. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sr. [October 8, 1782 ]' We are honoured with your Excellencys favor of the 28th ult. 2 by this weeks post and are sorry the occurrences of the past week furnish us with nothing material for your entertainment. The enclosed determination of Congress on the application of the legislature of New Jersey respecting partial payments made by other States to the Troops of their particular lines being of general concern, we take the earliest opportunity of conveying to your Excellency for your information, although we have no doubt it will soon be transmit ted through the proper channel. 3 Virga, having had considerable dealings with the house of Penet & Co. we think it necessary to communicate to your Excellency, that we are informed of their failure by such authority as [cann]ot be doubted. 4 With great respect we are, Yr. Excellencys most obed. sevts. James Madison Jos. Jones RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Jones and signed by Jones and Madison. Endorsed: “Lr f m Virga Delegates, Octr. 8. 82.” Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:185. 1 Manuscript torn; see endorsement. 2 See ibid., p. 169. 3 For the “enclosed determination” see Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, October 5, 1782, note 2. 4 The delegates had learned of the bankruptcy of Penet, d’Acosta Freres et Cie, of Nantes from the marquis de Barbe-Marbois, for which see the postscript to the preceding entry. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 9th Octobr 1782. Being much engaged and nothing offering worth your attention I did not write to your Excellency by the Post. Mr. L’hommedieu how-


[Page 276]
242 October 9, 1782 ever informed you of the State of Vermont Business at that time. 1 Since, Mr. Phelps has arrived and I believe his Eloquence will be well employed. He has opportunities; his singularity draws attention, and he overflows in the plenitude of his Communicative Powers. He is, how ever, terribly distressed; without Cloaths fit for the season: without money or Credit to pay for his board: and leaning on the scanty support which the exhausted purses of your Delegates can afford. What is to be done for him? I hope your Excellency may be able to remit the supply for which 1 took the Liberty to write; otherwise I must hasten home. It is my wish to wait for Relief as I suppose Col. Hamilton & Col. Floyd will be here pretty early in the ensuing month—but propriety must yield to necessity. Capt. Rutgers delivered me a kind message from your Excel lency which I understood; but how can I think of disposing of your property at less than you value it, for my Accommodation? We have no news of a late date from Europe. The Combind and British Fleets were left by the last Accounts on the English Coasts in a Situation which may produce an Important Conflict. In my opinion, however, neither side will wish to hazard an Engagement on which so much depends. There is no doubt but the British are inferior to the combined powers in numbers; but they think they have an advantage in this Admiral Don Cordova, the Spanish Admiral, who commands the Expedition. I am sorry to hear of my Friend Benson’s illness. If my good wishes prevail he will speedily recover. Accept the Colection of papers which I now transmit for your Amusement. They contain all the news. As soon as I can write to the purpose on the Vermont business I shall not fail. 2 In the meantime it would produce little advantage on so beaten a subject to trouble your Excellency with Conjectures. Be pleased to present my respectful Compliments to your Lady; and to believe that I am with inviolable Regard & Esteem, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s affectionate & most obedt. humble Servt. Jas. Duane. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:43-45. 1 See L'Hommedieu to Clinton, this date. See also Duane to Clinton, and New York Delegates to Clinton, September 21, 1782. 2 See Duane to Clinton, October 23, 30, and November 15, 1782. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare gi r Philada. Octr. 9. 1782. I wrote you Two Letters on the 2d Instt. which Hope you will timely receive; I have not a Single Article of Intelligence to give you, more than is Contained in the News-Paper which I Inclose. Collo. Laurens


[Page 278]
244 October 9, 1782 I am glad you have accepted the very Honorable appointment to which you refer. 3 The States, who have chosen you are both very happy in the choice & have full confidence in your judgment & incor ruptible Integrity. I am &c. David Howell RC (PHi: Jenkins Collection). Addressed: “The Hon’ble Welcome Arnold Esqr., Provi dence.” > Not found; but see Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, October 15, 1782. 2 For Rhode Island’s “Categorical answer” rejecting the Continental impost, see How ell to Arnold, November 17, 1782, note 1. 3 That is, as one of the commissioners to resolve the Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, for which see John Hanson to William Whipple et al.. August 28, 1782. David Howell to Theodore Foster Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia 9 Octob. 1782. Your very obliging & complimentary Letter 21 Ult. came duly to hand by our friend Dr Arnold 5th Inst. & is now before me. The apolo gies you make about writing to me were perfectly needless. No body writes more freely to a friend than I do, or perhaps requires more can dour & indulgeance—“Hane veniam damus, petimusque vidssim. ” 2 I can scarcely excuse you for not writing me before; I expected it. I had writ ten you one Letter, which I did not send for several reasons. If you, who are at home duly considered the great intrest you have in the Conduct of your Servants abroad you would take more pains to give them necessary information & useful hints from time to time as well as to enquire strictly into their Conduct. I wish my Constituents to know every Sentiment I have advanced & every vote I have given; If I have been wrong I may then be convinced of it & put right; If I have been right I shall receive that approbation from the good & virtuous which every honest Servant of the public is entitled to—This is the reward I covet, this is the object of my wishes & while I pursue the good of my Country I am sure to obtain it in Spite of envy itself. For many particulars about revenue, taxes, powers of Congress &c. I refer you to my Letter to his Excellency Gov. Greene of Sept, last. 3 I hope you will read it over & take some pains to see that it is not misin terpreted. It was written in great haste. As the Genl. Assembly will set in Providence & Congress are about to require of them a final & cate gorical answer in regard to the Impost I hope every exertion will be made on the occasion by the friends of Liberty & a free trade. I want much to be there but it is impossible; should it be adopted I shall no longer consider myself as the Representative of a Sovereign & free State but wish to be recalled to sink again into retirement on my little farm where I have spent the pleasantest part of my days; But I cannot


[Page 281]
October 9, 1782 247 I beg your Excellency to rest assured that I shall do everything in my Power [to obtain a ?] Decision of Congress in favour of our unhappy fellow Citizens on the New Hampshire Grants and am with great Regard and Esteem, Your Excellencys most obedient and very Humble Servt, Ezra L’Hommedieu Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:41-43. 1 See James Duane to Clinton, and New York Delegates to Clinton, September 21, 1782. 2 But for Congress’ acceptance of New York’s cession, see Duane to Clinton, October 30, 1782. Ezra L’Hommedieu to John Tayler Dear Sir. Philadelphia October 9. 1782. I conclude you are so busily imployed in fixing up old Vessels and procuring Boards & other Articles for the New York Market in Expecta tion of a sudden Evacuation of the Port that you have had little or no Time to write to your Friends. I expected to have heard from you before this Time when I saw you last; I should be glad to know what suc cess you have had in purchasing Vacant Lands upon the Plan we agreed on at Albany, and whether you have got an Apprisal of the confiscated Lands for which you made a Deposit of Certificates. I am now more induced to believe than ever I have been, that no restitution will ever be made of Tory Property confiscated or sold. The Ministers from these States, as also the Court of France, have been so well informed of the insuperable Obsticles and of the want of Power in Congress & of the Impractibility of their inforcing in the several States any such Measures, that I have no Expectation that such an Article will ever be agreed to, and if it should be, it never will be complied with by the different States. I expect at my return home to be possessed of some money which I should be glad to lay out either in Vacant or confiscated Lands if there should be any Advantageous Purchases to be made. We have no late authentic News from Europe, by the last Accounts it was not expected a Peace would suddenly take Place, the present british ministry still entertaining the delusive Hopes of making a seperate Peace with these States. Some are of Opinion The Enemy will leave New York as well as Charles Town this Fall in order more effectually to opperate against the french in the West Indies the next winter. Be so good as to let me hear from you as soon as you may find it convenient to write. With respectfull Compliments to Mrs. Taylor, I am Dear Sir, your most Obedt Servt, Ezra L’Hommedieu RC (N: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: ‘John Taylor Esquire Albany."


[Page 295]
October 15, 1782 261 {cloathing ordered) from (Holland in Gillons ship) by (Col. Laurens). The report on the subject which was (drawn by Bland) was {one of the most signal monuments) which (party zeal has produced). By (mutilat ing and discolouring) facts in the {most shameless manner) it {loaded Franklin) with the whole (guilt and) proposed finally a {severe repre hension of) him. This {unfair) hostility did {not meet with) the {expected) countenance {of Congress). After being considerably {exposed a recommitment took place) with {an addition to the com mittee). 6 The States which {covet the backlands) 7 are by no means satisfied with the present {prospect of being gratified). It is in {contemplation} I am told (to renew the attempt) for a fresh {recommendation) on this subject. Unless a (clause excluding the companies be annexed Vir ginia) will of course {oppose the measure). I am (not sanguine how ever) that the (opposition) will be {effectual). There are not {a few members) and some of them too not the least {respectable) who altho’ unfriendly to {the companies dislike) such a {condition as being unnecessary to Virginia and dishonorable to Congress). I am just informed that an Express which came yesterday evening to the Minister of France from Boston reports with certainty that a Vessel had arrived there after a short passage from Amsterdam. Whether the Express brought dispatches for Congress is not said. The Minister of Fr. is informed by his Correspondt. at Boston, that the Combined fleets had proceeded from the Channel towards Gibralter, that the fall of this Garrison was strongly expected, that the British fleet had returned into Port, that the French Trade from the W. Indies had arrived safe, and that the French affairs in the East Indies were in gen eral in a very favorable posture. These are all the particulars which I have been able to provide for this post. If any dispatches have come for Congress, the next mail will be more satisfactory. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:199-200. 1 For the “offensive paragraph” in an Arthur Lee letter to Mann Page, see ibid., pp. 183-84, 338-39. 2 See the preceding entry, note 5. 3 At this point in the manuscript Madison copied a nearly identical “extract of a letter from Sr. G. Carlton to Genl Washington dated N.Y. Sepr. 12. 1782,” which he sent to Pendleton, this date. 4 For speculation on the nature of Dr. James McClurg’s “reconnoitreing,” see Madi son, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:20In.5. 6 Words printed in braces in this paragraph were written by Madison in a James Lovell cipher. 6 On July 12 Congress had instructed a committee chaired by Theodorick Bland to review the financial arrangements made by Lt. Col. John Laurens during his mission to France and “to make strict enquiry into the causes of detention of the money, goods &c.” Bland’s committee reported on September 26, but its report was recommitted October 11 when Madison and Daniel Carroll were added. Upon reconsideration on November 1 Congress dismissed those parts respecting Commodore Alexander Gillon


[Page 296]
262 October 15, 1782 and referred “several papers mentioned therein” to Robert Morris. See JCC, 22:384, 23:700-706; and PCC, item 19, 3:449-55, item 186, fol. 62. For the background and dis position of this case, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:112nn.5 and 6, 407-10, 5:201n.7; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:396-97n. 7 Words printed in braces in this paragraph were written by Madison in the official Virginia cipher. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 15th. 1782. On this all important Occasion we cannot be silent; A moment remains before the post sets off the Last which can Arrive at Provi dence before October sessions of Assembly. The object of a Seven years war has been to preserve the Liberties of this Country, and not to assume, into our own hands the power of governing tyrannically. It has been on our part a contest for freedom not for Power; This has been the prize for which we have so nobly contended. This, the goal for which our course, so unremittingly pur sued has been directed. This the sacred palladium of all our hopes. We know your early, continued, and persevering Zeal in your Coun try’s cause, We cannot doubt your firmness. To quicken your memory, awaken your feelings and to fix your attention is the object of this Letter. Congress have demanded of you an immediate answer in regard to the Impost, 1 should it be brought on whilst the least doubt remains in regard to its propriety, it will be safer to reject it. It can afterwards be adopted should evidence finally preponderate in its favour, but should it once be adopted—the fatal dye is cast—it is to us irrevocable. Let no man therefore vote in its favor with a single remaining doubt. For this advice we have a great Authority—“He that doubteth is damned if he eat. ” 2 It applies in this case precisely. A perpetual grant is demanded of you. We say Perpetual—for that it will eventually be such is as clear as the Meridian sun. It is to be granted to Congress, until all their debts are paid. They have power to contract as many debts as they please, and are not to account with you for their Conduct. Will not Half Pay, Pensions and other Pretexts, per petually involve you deeper & deeper in Debt, and render it still more necessary to continue this grant, to perpetuity than it is to make it in the first Instance. Consult the voice of Nature, consult the Histories of Mankind—nay consult your own experience and give an answer, and let that answer govern your vote on this Occasion. This being the case permit us, Sir, to demand of you—What right you have to make a perpetual grant of money? Will not succeeding Assemblies discover that you have invaded their rights? Will not pos terity complain that you have given away their Money, which on every principle of the present revolution they would be entituled to do


[Page 299]
October 15, 1782 265 bear immediately on the Towns, and the Towns in all on the Individu als, the broad basis of Power, which reared, and supports the whole fabric. The impost would break in upon this beautiful proportion, and empower Congress by their Own Officers, to bear with their own weight directly on Individuals. This would disturb the general Har mony, derange the elegant proportion and endanger the welfare of the whole building. The Continental Treasury is to be supplied from the several States agreable to Article 8th, by successive requisitions. When a new requisi tion is made, the purposes for which it is to be Appropriated, are to be pointed out to you—and it is to be accompanied with particular Esti mates. You are at the same time to be informed what has been done, with your last Quota, and on a full consideration of the representa tions so made to you, you are to grant your money like freemen, from time to time. Bound only, as a sovereign & Independent State, by your sentiments of Justice, of Virtue and by your Sacred Honor. This is the voice of the Confederation. We shall not on this Occasion repeat the well known objections against the measure, That it would instead of lessening increase the public burthens of the Country, by the additional expence of numer ous Tribes of Officers, concerned in the Revenue. That Congress are not to account for the Amount or Expenditures of it—That it would draw a larger proportion of the public debt from us, as a Commercial State and as Consuming in Consequence a larger proportion of Imposts, than any other State—That it would not be equal between Individuals, bearing harder on the poor & labourious, who are the strength of a State, Upon those who have large families, and add to the Strenth of the State by increasing its Subjects—That it would require a Military, force to execute it, and bring in Standing Armies— That our Coasts must be lined with Cutters, Guarda Costas, Gallies &c to prevent running goods—That it would multiply Oaths & bring on depravity of Manners &c &c—That a proportionate share of the back Lands, is unjustly withheld from us—& finally that the Measure would not under all these Embarrassments, be productive of, or afford, any considerable revenue. These Objections are not only well founded but so notorious, we shall not dwell on them, but conclude by Observing that a measure against which so many objections lie, and with so much weight, and which when once adopted cannot be revoked—Ought not to be adopted at all. To adopt it partially and on Condition, as some States have done would discover an Aversion to the measure mixed with fear of declaring real Sentiments. It is a Measure which must be adopted entire or not at all. We cannot doubt but the measure will be postponed, or finally rejected by a large Majority—of the Virtuous & patriotic Legislature of Our State, which has from its first Settlement preserved its Liberties


[Page 304]
270 October 16, 1782 our Importunity we had not been able to get a Report from the Com mittee on the Vermont Business. 1 Delays have since been made. The Committee moved for an Addition of Members, as Mr. Middleton was about leaving the City and could not attend; Mr. Caroll, Doctor With erspoon and Colo. Dyer were chosen and a Report was brought in and read this morning, a Copy of which is inclosed; 2 and altho it is far from giving that immediate Releif and Protection to the Sufferers which I had reason to beleive was agreable to the sentiments of the first Committee, yet considering the Complection of the Present, at lea[s]t the majority, who have been advocates for the Vermont Inde pendence, we could not expect much more. They say ’tis in vain to keep the Peace of that Country, till the great Question is determined respecting their Claims, which Determination ought to be immedi ately made, but I fear under this Colour of Tactics the Decision will from Time to Time be postponed, and the unhappy Sufferers in Cum berland left to the mercy of their Enemies. I hope my fears are groundless, and that a speedy Decision of the Controversy, agreable to the Resolutions of the 24th of Sept. 1779 will take place. I am under no apprehensions at present that a Vote of Nine States could be obtained in favour of the Vermont Claims of Independence, even if it could be supposed that Nine States had a Right by the Confederation to make a New State in the Present Case; Yet it is doubtful, whether Seven States will join in opposing that Claim and desiding agreable to the aforesaid Resolutions, which I think is the only consistant Princi ple Congress can act upon at Present. I shall do myself the Honour of communicating to your Excellency by the first Conveyance the Progress that is made in this Business, and am with the utmost Respect Your Excellencys Most Obedient and very Humble Servt Ezra LHommedieu P. S. we have no News except what is contained in the News Papers herewith inclosed. Reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 6:509-10, from a document in the New York State Library before the Albany fire of 1911. 1 See L’Hommedieu to Clinton, October 9, 1782. 2 See Duane to Clinton, September 21, 1782, note 1. As the enclosed report was sub mitted on October 15, L’Hommedieu may have drafted this letter on the 15th and recopied it October 16. David Ramsay to John Eliot My dear Sir, Philada. October 17th 1782 I return you many thanks for your favor of Septr. 29th with the inclosed oration. I am particularly obliged to you for your anxiety to furnish me with a copy of Doctor Warren’s but, I have the pleasure to inform you, that this came in the first collection you were so polite as


[Page 305]
October 18,1782 271 to send me. I agree with you that it is the best in the whole sett. I have not received the one pronounced in 1781 by Mr Dawes. 1 Our Carolina exiles are in daily expectation of flags to return them home by water. I have not forgot your compliments to our common friend Mr Smith, nor to Miss Polly who seems to have engrossed a share of your attention. While the report of the burning of Charlestown was prevalent, they were deeply affected, but later accounts have not only contradicted that; but give us good reason to beleive that the enemy have already, or very soon will evacuate that state. Even though this event was certain, I should continue in Philada till next spring. I mention this as I suspect that you were apprehensive of my having returned to Charlestown. Whether there or here, I shall always feel a particular pleasure in corresponding with a friend whom I so highly value as I do Mr Elliott. We have been alarmed for several weeks past with an apprehension of a drought to such a degree as to threaten a famine. This extends, as I am informed all the way from Massachusetts to North Carolina. Corn is very generally destroyed. Thank God the last night & this day have been distinguished with refreshing showers. It has often been observed that war is succeeded by famine. I wish that this may not be our case. The farmers here have lost their second crop of hay in con sequence of which horsekeeping is very high. I flatter myself that the ensuing winter will produce peace. A seven years war is long enough. This present war has already lasted as long as either of the two last wars between France & England. If it had not been for the unlucky defeat of the 12th of April I beleive that we would now have been in possession of peace. The longer it is delayed I hope we will be better prepared for it, & more disposed to relish its blessings. One revolu tion in a life time is fully sufficient. For my part, I never wish to be concerned in a second one, & shall be very happy to pass the remain der of my days in the languid indifference of private life, peace & tranquility. That I may enjoy this kind of happiness in its highest per fection I long for that state which you so feelingly describe as replete with bliss; but, how long I must first wait is to myself unknown. With the greatest regard & esteem, I am your affectionate friend & very h sert, David Ramsay RC (MHi: Andrew-Eliot Papers). Addressed: “Revd. John Elliott, Boston. Free, David Ramsay." 1 For the orations that Eliot sent to Ramsay, see Ramsay to Eliot, July 17, 1782, note 2. David Howell to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir. Philadelphia 18 Octob 1782 Your acceptable favor of the 1st Ult. came duly to hand and is now before me. The friendly manner in which you are pleased to recollect


[Page 308]
274 October 18,1782 takers in full for procuring the money of the lenders, the principal is to remain fixed 10 years; then to be paid in five equal, yearly pay ments One per Cent, on the intrest for receiving & paying it out yearly. More than one million was filled last June & there was a good prospect of its being filled by our last advice. Congress have resolved to make application for four million Dollars in addition. But perhaps I am relating things well known. You will be informed of the result of the late meeting of Commis sioners for establishing a general Cartel—no other will be consented to. By the resolve of Congress 4 you will see they have endeavored to guard the people against the insidious views of the Enemy. My official Letters to the State will discover that I never yet conceived the British Cabinet sincerely disposed to establish peace on honorable terms. Their necessities crouded hard before Rodneys affair in the W. Indies. Thos Fitzherbert has a Commission to treat with France, &c. & with all other princes & States concerned, without naming the U. States, & the negotiation is still protracted, his Mulish Majesty has not yielded to our Independance. Next winter effectual negotiations may take place. You will observe that distrust is the mother of Security. You think we have had too much of this at home & too little abroad. A virtuous jealousy even over our own rulers is proper; when it rises too high it is injuri ous; where it is extinct, liberty expires. In this, as in most things there is a medium, and happy are that people who discover it- As to our ene mies, we have every thing to fear from their arts, & their intrigue; but nothing from their arms at present. Our foreign alliances, which may soon be more numerous, secure to us, under the blessing of heaven, a safe & honorable peace. When no more Laurels shall remain to be won in the South, 1 shall be one of the many, who will bid you a cordial welcome to your native place. , _ „ I must pray you to present my particular regards to Deputy Govr Hudson, my old college mate 5—and, others, if such there may be within your present circle, to whom I am known And to believe me to be with every Sentiment of esteeme, Dear Sir, Your sincere Friend. David Howell N.B. You will excuse incorrectness. I hate copying & this letter is too long. P.S. President Manning is now in this City—Dr. Arnold & myself attended his Lecture last Evening. He informs that the Institution under his Care is to be revived. 6 The house building repaired & a teacher procured. Several young gentlemen have entred this fall. I earnestly wish to see learning throughout the U. States asume its for mer appearance. There is a close connection betwixt Learning & free dom; this is established by the best writers as you well know. I hope


[Page 309]
October 18, 1782 275 your little Son makes good progress where he is at present; Dr. With erspoon, who lodges at the same house with me, informed me a few days ago that he was well, & I have reason to think, from the Drs Con versation that great attention is paid to him in the family. D.H. RC (RNHi: Revolution Collection). 1 Not identified. 2 See Bartlett, Records of R.I., 9:541-43, where the missing name is “Christopher Lip- pitt,” but “West” does not appear in the list of brigadiers. 3 That Howell was not entirely candid on this point is suggested by the fact that he had “twice before . . . sought election to Congress” (in 1778 and 1781), and that he was well aware that his campaign against Varnum and the impost amendment had greatly increased his popularity in Rhode Island. See Irwin H. Polishook, Rhode Island and the Union, 1774-1795 (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press, 1969), pp. 69, 73. 4 Howell was probably referring to the congressional resolve of October 4 that urged states “to be vigilant and active in detecting and seizing all British Emissaries and spies ” JCC, 23:639. 5 That is, Richard Hutson, deputy governor of South Carolina. 6 That is, Rhode Island College, later Brown University. Thomas Smith to the Pennsylvania Council Gentlemen Octr. 18 th. 1782. By a resolution which is just now passed, General Washington is at liberty to continue or abandon the Post at Wioming, as he shall judge most for the public good, the former resolution on that subject notwithstanding—indeed the former resolution was optional in the General. But from his Letter on this subject, I have good reason to believe that the Continental Troops will be withdrawn, unless a repre sentation is made to the General of the apparently pernicious conse quences of such a measure. 1 I objected to any new resolution being pass’d at present 1. Because it was not necessary, the former resolution leaving the matter in the discretion of the general. 2dly. Because Harmony subsisted at present between the two con tending States of Pennsylvania & Connecticut, which had not been interruptd since those Troops were Stationd there; But if they were withdrawn, either the one Party or the other might get the exclusive Possession of the Post, and then it would be easy for the Party in Pos session to raise obstacles to the decision of the dispute, & procrasti nate it to a dangerous length, and I ventured to predict that this would be done or at least attempted, and even should it be decided notwithstanding all attempts which might be made to prevent a deter mination and that determination should be against the Party in Pos session, I dreaded the Consiquences. 3dly. That this Post was the Keystone of protection to a great extent


[Page 310]
276 October 18,1782 of the frontiers of Pennsylvania, and I was so unfortunate as to be decidedly of an opinion directly the reverse of that of the general, respecting the peaceable disposition of the Indians—and may Heaven grant that the event may prove my want of judgment on this point! and that countermanding the Expeditions may be followed by salutary effects! I give Council this information in order that, if they are of opinion there is any weight in my sentiments, they may make such representa tions to the General as they shall judge the good of the State may require. 2 There is perhaps a necessity for removing the Troops there at Present, if they are so undisciplind & their conduct so irregular & unmilitary as represented; but that operates only as a reason for their being replaced by others 8c not for evacuating the Post. The Council, will, I hope excuse my offensiveness on this occasion and ascribe it to my anxiety for the Peace of the frontiers. I am Gentlemen, your very humble Servant, Thomas Smith 3 RC (PHi: Provincial Delegates Collection). 1 For Congress’ October 18 resolve authorizing the withdrawal of the Continental gar rison at Wyoming, which had been suggested by Washington in an October 14 letter to Benjamin Lincoln that was referred to Congress on the 16th, see JCC, 23:665; PCC, item 149, 2:57-60; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:257. For “the former resolution on that subject,” see these letters, 16:444, 450, 460, 480. 2 For the Pennsylvania Council’s October 19 letter to Washington asking that he not withdraw the Wyoming garrison “until the determination of Congress is known,” and Washington’s October 26 response explaining that he had only suggested removing the troops “for the sake of discipline” and would never remove them “without [Congress’] express direction,” see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 9:653-54; and Washington, Writings (Fitz- patrick), 25:301-2. 3 Smith’s attendance as a delegate is difficult to document, and appears to be very intermittent from the journals. Burnett, letters, 6:1. But his accounts for the quarters April 21 to July 20, and July 21 to November 12, 1782 (when a new Pennsylvania delega tion was elected), explicitly assert that he was absent only three days during the entire period. Thomas Smith Accounts, Gratz Collection, PHi. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. gj r Philadelphia, Octob. 19th, 1782. Since our last by Brown letters have been received, 8c by other intel ligence we are informed, that five of the Judges or Commissioners agreed upon to hear and Determine the great cause between Con necticut 8c Pensylvania have accepted their Trust, and propose meet ing at the time and place appointed, viz., Genl Whipple from New Hampshire, Mr Welcome Arnold of Rhodisland, Judge Brairly 8c Mr Huston of New Jersey, & Judge Griffin of Virginia. We rather think it unfortunate for us that Govr Rutlidge of South Carolina, 8c Mr Jones


[Page 311]
October 19, 1782 277 of Virginia have refused, & that we hear nothing at present from Genl Neilson of Virginia. We had in our agreement much reliance on those gentn; tho the others have a good carracter for Candor & Impartial- lity, the local situation of four of them are not so agreable as we could wish; tho’ it is generally Agreed that the Extended Charters of several of the United States will be considered as very material in determining the extent & Limits of the 13 United States, when their Sovereignty and Independance are Acknowledged in a Peace establishment, to be improved against the Claims of Great Britain, and to Limit the Terri tory of Canada. Yet those States who have not those extended Char ters effect to Consider them in every other respect as Vain and Nuga tory, & that every of the States have an equal right to every part which had not before the war been located and appropriated to Individuals; which has occasioned many Disputes of late in Congress, tho the most of the States Claiming under these extensive Charters seem willing to cede at least a very considerable part of their Western claims unappro priated, to the use & benefit of the United States towards defraying the General expence of the war, which, if done to the satisfaction of the other States, would very much heal the present disputes and con ciliate the matter; Otherwise I much fear it may be productive of great Animosity & Contention which may terminate to the disquiet & Injury of the whole. New York have made their Cession without Condition; tho I have but a little opinion of their right, yet it has its effect. Con necticut have made a reserve of the Jurisdiction in their Cession which seems to be disagreable, and for my part I know of no advantage it will be to the State; for the fear of a Considerable part of the State, and what operated strongly against our Western Claim some years agoe, was the extending the Jurisdiction of Connecticut into that Western Country, that I could wish, if there is no more objection than I at pre sent see against relinquishing the Jurisdiction, that that Condition or reservation in our Cessions might be taken of[f]- I am sure it would give great satisfaction to Congress, and Imagine it might Opperate kindly & beneficially in our Cause. The Cession of Virginia is still more disagreable, as they make a Condition that the United States pay the Expence they Claim in defending & securing that Country in some former as well as later Indian warrs, & that Congress also Guar- rantee to them the remainder of their Western Claim, which has wholly prevented Congress at present Accepting the Cessions. And it is proposed to recommend to the States who have allready, as well as others which have not, to be Liberal in their Cessions & free from embarrassing Conditions & Restrictions; as Congress suppose they may be of great use & service in securing and discharging the publick Debts to enure equally and proportionally to the benefit of the whole; the Deligates from Virginia give some Incouragement of the Liberality of their State therein, and how far the State of Connecticut may pro ceed I must Submit to their wisdome & good discretion, but wish


[Page 317]
October 21, 1782 283 RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Arnold and signed by Arnold and Howell. 1 The enclosures were undoubtedly resolves of October 18: (1) setting the states' quo tas of the $2 million requisitioned for 1783, and (2) requesting the states to require the payment of Continental taxes to Continental receivers appointed by the superintendent of finance. Rhode Island’s 1783 quota of $48,000 amounted to 1/41.75 of the total, whereas its quota for fiscal 1782 ($216,684 of $8 million) had been a 1/37. See JCC, 23:1090, 23:666,669. 2 Congress had called upon the states "to lay taxes for raising their quotas . .. sepa rate from those laid for their own particular use,” which were to be turned over by state collectors to Continental receivers. Arnold and Howell had attempted to delete the sec tion pertaining to the Continental receivers, especially their authority “to recover monies” from the state collectors. See JCC, 23:668-69. ’ See JCC, 23:660. David Howell to Nicholas Brown Dear Sir, Philada. 21 Octob 1782. I spent last Evening at Capt. Anthonys in Company with Mr. Man ning. I yesterday dined with the Minister of France & in my card of acceptance promissed to bring with me Cozen James, but he was pre viously engaged to dine with Col. Biddle. I shall however take some opportunity to introduce him to the Minister. However you seemed to scruple my excuse of want of leisure, I have of late, and indeed the whole of my time since I have been in this City been as busy as ever I was in my life. I have written a quire & half of paper in two weeks, besides attending Congress every day—Saturday & Sundays Excepted. By the enclosed paper you will see that the proceedings of our Commencement are noticed here. On the representation of the Legislature of New Jersey you will see that Congress secretly adhere to the 8th Art. Confederation so far as it justi fies Continental appropriation of money. 1 They as a body will part with no right, or priviledge vested in them by the Confederation; but on the contrary recommend it to the States to enlarge them. I more & more admire the wisdom that framed the Confederation, that sacred Palla dium of all our hopes. Long may it remain entire! From your sincere friend, David Howell. P.S. Please to remember me kindly to all Friends. Perhaps it would not be amiss to comment to the people on the enclosed resolution— should you receive this before the Assembly rises. RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). Addressed: “Nicholas Brown Esquire, Merct., Providence.” 1 Howell was referring to Congress’ rejection of a New Jersey petition to pay its troops directly and have that sum applied to its Continental tax quota. See Abraham Clark to John Mehelm, September 26, 1782, note.


[Page 318]
284 October 22,1782 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 22d. 1782 Your Letter to Mr R. was safely delivered but Bills are plenty at 6/ Cash, so that it will not do to draw at present. As to Butter there can none be had here under 2/4 & 2/6. Flour (comon) is at 20/ but expected to fall as soon as the Mills can grind. I am surprized at your supposing a doubt about my return this Fall, if my Health is spared. I am decided on my not attending in Congress this winter unless something very unexpected & extraordinary relating to Peace should turn up. If this should be the Case and I should be delayed in the Spring, you know I shall be in great want of a Gardner, especially as I expect to put the Garden at E Town in order, and therefore readily take you at your Word, and engage you as early in the Spring as possible, and hope you would not look out for Employ elsewhere. Capt. Cunningham is not arrived, when he does, shall inform you. We received advices from Mr Adams as late as the 18th Augt. 1 All I can say of the news, is that we have a Copy of a Commission from the Court of Brittain, appointing Allen Fitzherbert Esqr. Minister plenipo to repair to the Court of his good Brother the French King and there to meet the Commissarys, Comrs. or Plenipo’s 2 of their high mighti nesses the States General and of any other King, Power or States whosoever engaged in the present war and with them to agree &c on Terms of Peace. Mr. Fitzherbert arrived in Paris and opened the nego tiation the 8th Augt. The English I believe have had a trimming in the East Indies and the Siege of Gibralter is determined on in Earnest. The Combined Fleets have gone to Cadiz for that Purpose, but as they are but five or Six Ships superior to the English, I take it for granted that the Garrison will be relieved. No Packett yet arrived at New York—very little News transpires at present from that City. There will be no necessity for any order for the Hay, Mr Richey will deliver you what you want, only give him a rect for it that he may charge it to me. I enclose the Paper of the Day. Mrs. Boudinot has a different one. 3 Love to all your Fireside. I am my Dr. Sir, Your’s most Afftly, Bdt. [P.S.] Mr. Morris says your Instructions &c &c are all ready. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). ■John Adams’ August 18 letter to Robert R. Livingston, enclosing a copy of Alleyne Fitzherbert’s commission as British peace commissioner was read in Congress on Octo ber 17 and referred to committee. See David Howell to John Carter, October 16, 1782, note 2.


[Page 319]
October 22, 1782 285 2 A very free translation of “Commissarium, Procuratorum & Plenipotentiarium.” See PCC, item 93, 2:183. s This day Boudinot also wrote an affectionate letter to his wife, explaining the plea sure he received from her letters, his eagerness to return to their “beloved Cottage,” and his attempts to purchase various household articles. Stimson-Boudinot Papers, NjP. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr., Pha. Oct. 22d. 1782 I have receivd your favor by Post and shall attend to the contents. Expecting that you had wrote to the President about Ware, I have not calld on him since my return, but shall this day. The Intendant gives me no hopes of receiving a Shilling from him for the last years Balla[nce]—which lays me under very great dificul- ties. I wish to Attend part of the next sessions. Even Supposing I shoud be continued in the Delegation to Congress—without some assistance I do not know how I shall move from hence. The Delegates inclose the Commission from the British King to Mr Fitzherbert—please to let Mr Carroll have a copy; he will probably translate it. I must refer you to the papers for what intelligence there is. Present me to yr. Lady—with great esteem & regard, I am Dr Sr, Your Aff. & Ob. Ser. Dani Carroll RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, this date, note 1. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Ocr. 22d. 1782. The address of your favor of the 14th instant to me 1 coincides with the order which Mr. Jones & myself had settled. It would have been the more inconvenient too for him to have had his turn this week, as the dregs of his late indisposition are working themselves off to his no small disturbance. His lady seems now to be pretty well restored. The Vessel, whose arrival at Boston was I suppose mentioned last week by Mr. Jones, brought Congress a letter from Mr. Adams dated Hague Aug. 18th. Inclosed in it was a copy of a Plenipotentiary Com mission issued July 24 to Mr. Fitzherbert who succeeds Mr. Grenville. This Gentleman has been for some time the British Minister at Brus sels, and possesses I understand no talents for the management of serious & intricate negociations. His commission like the late act of Parliament is a child of Shelburne’s policy and will suit any events


[Page 326]
292 October 22, 1782 Connecticut, which has a very extraordinary claim to some western Lands, also New York & Virginia have made Cessions to the United States of part of their claims, but they have not yet ceded all that is required, nor are the Terms, especially those of Virginia acceptable to Congress. If North Carolina should be induced to give up any part of her western Territory, we presume she will presume at least require the following preliminaries. 1st. That the whole expence of our Indian expeditions shall pass to acct, in our quota of the Continental expences. 2d. That an actual valuation shall be made of all lands & their improvements claimed by any State before the Cessions shall be confirmed. 3d. That the sundry accounts of every state shall be liqui dated & its claims fully established, that so their several Quota’s may be fixed of the debt already contracted or to be contracted. 4th. That the Lands thus ceded shall be Disposed of to the best advantage by the consent of at least nine States for payment of Public Debts. 5. That if any seperate State should ever be erected on any of those lands, part of the Public Debt shall be transfered to such State according to the value of the land it contains. It may be infered from these hints that we suspect that some of the States may prove an overmatch for ours in the art of rendering accounts. Craft is on some occasions an over match for honesty; & we confess that when we observe the studied caution with which some of the States seem to elude any attempts to fix a foederal quota; when we observe the manner in which some of them have laid Continental money and are now claiming to pay it in at 40 for one, as part of their quota; and when we attend to the Steps that have been attempted, of less consequence, but in the same spirit, we are induced to think that caution is necessary; and our State will certainly require that other People should be honest if they are generous. In a word as it is certain that the subject of vacant Lands will be resumed by Congress and it is more than probable that our State with some others, will be required to make cessions of part of its vacant territory, we have thought it our duty to mention the progress of the debate and to propose such con siderations as seem to merit any attention on the adverse side of the question. We shall ever maintain the indisputable claim of our State to those Lands, against any pretensions or claims whatever; but if the state from motives of Peace or profit should be disposed to relinquish any part of her claims, it will not be infered that our opposition had been groundless. On the General subject of supplies we need hardly inform you that our Army is extremely clamorous; we cannot pay them, we can hardly feed them. There is no money in the Treasury and we are obliged to draw upon the foreign Loans before they are perfected. We know that our State will not be able to raise the quota that is assigned to her for the year 1783, but we are confident she will do all in her power. We have attempted to fix her quota as low as possible & from a Paper we


[Page 329]
October 23, 1782 295 No. 4 is a Memorial from Simon Nathan. 4 The Executive office will supply all the necessary information touching the subject of it, and will enable your Excellency & the Council to decide on the answer which Justice & the honor of the State may dictate. We only beg that it may be transmitted to us as early as convenient. We have the honor to be with the highest esteem Yr. obt. & humble svts. Jos. Jones J. Madison Jr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Madison and signed by Madison and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:207-8. 1 Not found. 2 See Madison to Edmund Randolph, this date, note 1. 3 Not found, but perhaps the resolutions of October 16 and 18, setting the total req uisition and the states’ quotas for 1783, which Robert Morris sent to Harrison on the 23rd. SeeJCC, 23:658-60, 665-69; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:648—49. 4 For Nathan's October 17 memorial to the Virginia delegates and the state’s response to his claims, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:202-3, 228-30. Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Dear Sir Philadelphia Octr. 23d 1782 I have long been of opinion that in all great Questions, which are agitated in Congress, especially relating to domestic Concerns, the Delegates from each State should consult their respective Con stituents, when it may easily be done, at least as to general Principles. The Legislature being now met, I must beg leave, through your Excel lency, to state to them the leading Facts of a very important and inter esting Question now under the Consideration of Congress, and which is set down for determination on Wednesday next; on which I hope for the Legislatures Instructions; on such general Principles as will necessarily lead to the final determination. The dispute I refer to, is that of the People on the New Hampshire Grants, calling themselves the State of Vermont. When I took my Seat in Congress, I found this Controversy on the Table of Congress, having been submitted to their determination previous to the Confederation, by the States of New Hampshire & New York, and the People stiling themselves as the State of Vermont, on the principles of the Confederation then in an incom plete, unfinished State. A Hearing was thereupon had before Congress, when the States of New Hampshire & New York produced many Documents in support of their different Claims (Massachusets one of the claiming States, not attending but agreeing to relinquish their Right, provided the districk was made an independant State) the first founded on this Territory being within their Purchase under the Plymouth Company, & long possessed by them—the second adding to a continual Claim the determination of the King in Council in the


[Page 331]
October 23, 1782 297 mine, any part of a former Colony (who have separated from the same, at the begining of the revolution, and are in the actual Exercise of an independant Sovereignty de facto) to be independant de Jure and receive them into the union as a fourteenth State? 2d. Can Congress as sovereign Guardians of the United States, when they conceive the general Safety of the common Cause shall require it, recieve into the Union as a separate State, any Territory & People in the actual Possession of Sovereignty & Independance de facto, without examining into & determining the Right & Title of such People de Jure? 3d. In the present State & Circumstances of the People styling themselves the State of Vermont, ought Congress to recieve them into the Union, as an independant State agreeable to the resolves of 7th & 20th Augt 1781? 4th. In Case Congress shall refuse to recieve them (as is most likely) ought the Delegates of New Jersey to agree to the sending the Continental Army or a sufficient part thereof, in the sd. Territory, to subdue the Inhabitants to the obedience & Subjection of the State or States that claim their Allegiance? In the past Altercations on these Subjects, your Delegates have gen erally considered the Congress as sovereign Guardians of the whole Union, and that they ought to prefer the general Good, to every pri vate Interest of a particular State. That the shedding the Blood of our Citizens, and all civill war among ourselves, at so critical a period, should be strenuously avoided. That a sovereignty & Independance de facto, was a sufficient reason under these Circumstances for Congress to admit into the Union, without examining into the Right de Jure, agreeable to the strong reasoning of his most Christian Majesty, in his Answer to the Justificative Memorial of the King of Great Brittain, sent herewith. If your delegates have acted contrary to the Opinion of their Con stituents, they wish to be set right, while it is in their Power to prevent any evill Consequences arising from it. We have reason to believe, that the Matter will certainly be brought on, on Wednesday next. I have two Reasons for pressing the Sentiments of the Legislature on this Subject. 1st. It has been asserted, that we have been acting con trary to the Opinion of our State. 2dly. I claim 1000 acres of Land in this Territory under the Titles of New Hampshire &’ New York both, and altho I consider them as of but very trifling Value, yet it may here after be objected, that I was influenced by considerations, which I hope ever to despise. Your Excellency by laying this Letter before the Legislature, and communicating their Sentiments will much oblige me. 1 I have also another Matter relative to the Interest of the State, to lay before the Legislature, that I think worthy their Notice. The united States are looking forward to the calling in the Quota’s of the States,


[Page 332]
298 October 23, 1782 of the Continental money. An Alarm has gone forth, that the State of Massachusets has in their Treasury so large a Portion of this Paper, that some of the defeciency States will be obliged to purchase of her at a high rate. I have lately discovered that Connecticut has sent an Express Messenger to Virginia & purchased a Sum equal to her defi ciency, at a very low Rate indeed. If our State has not made up her Quota, it would certainly be a prudent Step to appoint some Person to purchase the Sum wanting with out delay. It can be now had in Vir ginia, at 5 or 600 for one. It is my Duty to make this Communication, the Legislature will make such use of it, as they may think convenient. I have the Honor to be with great respect & Esteem, Your Excel lency’s Most Obedt. Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot [P.S.] This Letter was to go by Mr. Condit, but he left Town without acquainting me with it. 2 RC (NjP: Boudinot Papers). 1 In response to Boudinot’s letter, the New Jersey legislature instructed its congres sional delegates to support independence for Vermont provided the state’s officials complied with the conditions set forth by Congress on August 7 and 20, 1781. Journal of the Legislative Council of New Jersey, October 28-30, November 1, 1782, pp. 7-11. DLC(ESR). 2 Boudinot subsequently enclosed this letter with his October 24 letter to John Coven- hoven. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philada. 23d Octob’r 1782. I am apprehensive your Excellency’s Patience has suffered a severe Trial by our Silence on the Subject of the Grants. Nothing is done of moment to this Hour, but I must admit that the prospect seems fair for a Decision favorable to our Wishes. There is however always some thing in our Way. . . . P. S. Mr. L’hommedieu makes up the news papers for your Excel lency; and will send you Copy of a late Resolution of Congress which touches the Grants in a tender point. . . . P S I wrote the preceeding before I went to Congress; while on the Floor we were honord with your Excellency’s dispatches of the 14 and 15 Instant by Mr. Osburn and the several Enclosures were communi cated without Loss of time to Congress. 1 They came seasonably and will be of use. . . . Reprinted from Burnett, letters, 6:521, from a document located in the New York State Library before the Albany fire of 1911. > For the October 14 and 15 depositions of William Shattuck and Henry Evans con cerning Shattuck’s seizure by Vermont officials, which Clinton had enclosed with these


[Page 343]
October 23, 1782 309 made in their Declarations here, respecting the Acknowledgment of our Independence, and We have pretty good Information, That some of the Ministry still flatter the King with the hope of recovering his Sovereignty over the United States, on the same Terms, as are now making with Ireland. The above Acknowledgments, I learn from indis putable Authority was made by Mr. Grenville in these Words. That the King of England being disposed to acknowledge, and declare directly the Inde pendance of America, It would be no longer a conditional Article of the Treaty. Satisfaction was expressed, That the King of Great Britain was in a Dis position to treat with all the belligerant Powers, and that He intended to make a direct acknowledgement of the Independance of the United States of America, and that this power would no longer be a conditional Article of a gen eral Pacification. The proceeding Advices extend to the first of July. None have been received, since Lord Shelburne has been appointed Prime Minister of England except the suceeding Article. Yesterday a Letter was delivered Congress from their Minister plenipotentiary at the Hague, dated the 18th of August, 6 informing, That Mr. Fitzherbert, lately a British Minister at Brussels, was appointed, July the 24th, in the Room of Mr. Grenville, Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of Versailes, To treat of Peace with the King of France and all the belligerant Powers, and states. Doctor Franklin has advised Congress, That the Ambassador from Sweden at the Court of Versailes had applied to Him to know, if He had Powers, that would authorise Him to make a Treaty with his Master, in behalf of the United States. The Doctor recollecting a general Power, that was formerly given to Him, and the other Commissioners, answered in the Affirmative. The Ambassador seemed much pleased, and said, The King had directed Him to ask the Question, and had charged Him to tell the Doctor, That He had so great an Esteem for Him, That it would be a particular satisfaction to his Majesty to have such a Transaction with Him. The Ambassador added, That He hoped it would be rememberd Sweden was the first Power in Europe, which had voluntarily offered it’s Friendship to the United States without being solicited. Proper and full Powers were dispatched to the Doctor relative to this Business, The eleventh of this Month. As our Minister at the Court of Versailes earnestly recommends that the above Com munication may for obvious Reasons be kept secret. I flatter myself, That the honorable House will admit, & adopt the propriety of the Recommendation. Congress have lately received additional, and the most undoubted Testimonys of the Friendship and firm Attachment of our illustrious Ally to the United States, not only in his decissive answer to the Court of Great Britain respecting a seperate Peace, but in his Majesty’s benevolent Consideration of our Situation with Respect to pecuniary Affairs. He has very Kindly dispensed with our Obligation to pay Interest on the national Debt due to this Prince, up


[Page 344]
310 October 23, 1782 to the Date of the last Dispatch to his Minister here (The 25th of June)—But has also exonerated Us from all Expences (above five hundred Thousand Livres) accruing upon negociating the Loan of Ten Millions of Livres in Holland last year, and for the payment of which, He became Guaranty for the United States. Besides these most friendly Exemptions, his Majesty has directed the Sum of Six Millions of Livres to be at the Disposition and Service of Congress. Under cover you have Sir the printed Journals, continued from the Date of the last, which I had the Honor of transmitting to the former Council, down to the twentieth of August, and the Resolutions of Congress marked No. 1, with Regard to the Supplies for next Year, and No. 2, The Demand from the States, of One Million and Two hundred Thousand Dollars for the payment of Interest to some of the publick Creditors, as is more particularly explained in the Resolve last mentioned. Six Millions of Dollars is in the Opinion of the several Departments of Congress too small a sum for the various Expences of next year, But Congress has only made a Requisition of two Millions of Dollars from all the States. This They have done from a Hope, That They shall be able to borrow the rest in Europe. For this purpose They have resolved, That a Sum not exceeding four Millions of Dol lars, exclusive of the Money, which Mr. John Adams may obtain by the Loan now negotiating in Holland be borrowed in Europe on the Faith of the United States of America, and applied towards defraying the Expences which shall be incurred, and of those which during the pre sent War, have been incurred, for carrying on the War. And that the Superintendant of Finance and the Secretary of Foreign Affairs take Order for carrying the above Resolution into Effect, transmitting the same without Delay to the Ministers plenipotentiary of the United States at the Court of Versailes, and at the Hague. Maryland and the smaller States have several Times attempted to bring the Object of the Western Lands to a Decission, But They have failed hitherto for Want of New Hampshire being present, and Con necticut not chusing to become a Party in the Dispute, pending the Adjustment of Preliminarys for establ[ish]ing a Court (agreable to the articles of Confederation) finaly to settle the Claim, it makes upon Pennsylvania. This is now done, and We have Reason to be assured, That the Delegates of Connecticut will unite with Us and the Rest of the smaller States in voting to take up the Report of the Committee upon the Western Lands, and accepting the Cession of New York. If the Honorable House will be pleased to recur to my Letter of the Tenth of June, They will see what Effect the acceptance of the Cession of New York will have upon the unwarrantable Claim of Virginia. It is proposed to move in this important Matter in the Course of next Week, and be assured Sir, I will not fail to keep the House informed of the progress of our proceedings. I have now only to add, That I


[Page 345]
October 23, 1782 311 pray you will be so kind as to present my respectful Duty to the honor able Council, and to believe that I am with great Regard, Sir, your most Obedient, and most humble Servant, Sami. Wharton [P.S.] The papers mentioned in page 9, I was not able to procure two setts of; But I have sent the Resolves to the Honorable House of Assembly, certified by the Deputy of Congress. 7 RC (De-Ar: Legislative Papers). Addressed: “Honorable The Speaker of the Council of the State of Delaware,’’John Cook. 1 Wharton also sent a copy of this letter to Simon Kollock, speaker of the Delaware assembly. 2 Wharton wrote “Assembly” in the copy addressed to Kollock. 3 Wharton was probably citing the marquis de Lafayette’s June 25 letter to Robert R. Livingston, which is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 5:43-47. 4 Probably Benjamin Franklin, whose letters to Livingston of June 25 and 29 contain information reported here. See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:510-13, 533-35. 5 Wharton noted at the bottom of the page: “This Bill has since been enacted into a Law.” 6 John Adams’ August 18 letter to Livingston had been read in Congress on October 17, but a related resolution on the alliance with the United Provinces was passed on October 22. See JCC, 23:682; and David Howell to John Carter, October 16, 1782, note 2. 7 That is, “No. 1, with Regard to the Supplies for next Year, and No. 2, The Demand from the States, of One Million and Two hundred Thousand Dollars. . . .’’ See JCC, 23:564, 665-66. John Witherspoon to Nathanael Greene Sir Philadelphia Oct 23. 1782 Your Favour of the 28th of August reached me about ten Days ago & having only learned last Night that an Express sets out this Morn ing at 10 oClock for the Southward I embrace the Opportunity of writing though it cannot be at great Length. I hope you have before this Time received a Letter from me by Dr Brownson 1 though Expe rience tells us that Letters by private Conveyances are very precari ous. I am not certain to what you refer when you say you have read my Plan for Education 2 having published several different Occa sional Essays on that Subject but your Approbation of it is very agree able. Having had Reason to bless God for a very excellent & well conducted Education my self I have from my youth up given particu lar Attention to the Theory of Instruction & Government in general & particularly family Government. I have observed in passing through Life that it is not easy for any Person to attain to higher or nobler Principles or a finer Turn of mind and Manners than is to be formed in the family or among the Persons with whom he is cheifly conversant. The Instruction of Masters is occasional & temporary— Daily Intercourse is perpetual and uniform & therefore its Influence


[Page 346]
312 October 23, 1782 although insensible is great and lasting. I have also said often that as it is credible to think what the Earth would produce if it were always put in Condition to profit, (so to speak) by every Hour of Vegetation even in the Coldest Climates so it is incredible what early Advances a Child would make if no Opportunity of enlarging the Mind were lost. I not only agree with you that your Son is of an excellent Capacity but I think he has more Things about him that render him fit for profiting upon my System than almost any Boy I ever saw. He is exceedingly lively & active, full of Ambition, remarkably affectionate & familiar, inquisitive & talkative so that those who un[der]take the Pains to answer his Questions and gratify his Curiosity may easily com municate all the Information which his years render him fit for receiv ing. He is also of a very gentle & tractable Nature so as to be very easy to all that are about him. Finding by your Letter that what I mentioned to Mr Pettit at first is perfectly agreeable to you, I will do my best to answer your Views & laying the Foundation in Piety & Morality shall take all possible Pains to give him every other Accomplishment as he advances in years. At present my Brother in law teaches him and my grandson a little younger than he to read english & I believe all the Family will care fully observe such Directions on the Subject as 1 shall give them from Time to Time. Mrs Green & you may be assured that he is at present perfectly well & very happy in his Situation. I left home on Monday last & expect to return the End of next Week for altogether. Your leaving it to me to settle the Terms is very generous and I shall after conversing with Mr Pettit write you on that subject particularly in the next Letter. Your Remarks on the State of public Affairs are very just & you could not please me more than by Caution in not writing freely on such Subjects. We have had great Reason to see the Folly of some of our Friends in that Way. The Fate of Letters is very uncertain. Things seem to be at a Stand in Europe till the New english Ministry fix their Plan. The Negotiation however is not broken off. What you see in the News Papers of Allen Fitzherbert Esqr being the english Plenipoten tiary I believe is true as also that the Dutch are likely to enter into a commercial Treaty with the united States. With my best Respects to Mrs Greene I have the Honour to be, Sir your most obedt humble Servt, Jno Witherspoon RC (NjHi: Bamberger Autograph Collection). • Probably Witherspoon’s August 19 letter to Greene, which discusses the education of the general’s son, George Washington Greene, in much the same terms as in this let ter. The letter is not reproduced in these Letters, but is located in the bMS Am 1649.3 collection at MH-H. 2 Probably, Witherspoon’s “letters on Education," which first appeared in the Penn sylvania Magazine in 1775-76. See Varnum Lansing Collins, President Witherspoon: A Biog raphy, 2 vols. (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1925), 2:249-50.


[Page 352]
318 October 29, 1782 and the last Week Congress Assigned the 30th Instt. further to Con sider of, and determine this matter. Several Persons are now here who say they have been Robbed of their property, and that their persons are banished, by the authority of Vermont, in Consequence of their adherence to the Government of New York. 2 Without doubt you have full Information of those Transactions so that I need not be particu lar. The present Situation of these matters seem to require that a Final Determination should now be made, but their are many Obstacles in the way. Various Resolutions on this Subject have been passed at dif ferent Periods, and at present their seems to be much division of Sen timent respecting the matter. What will be Concluded on, or when a Final Determination will take place I cannot say, but should be glad that the Honble the Legislature would give such Instructions respect ing the matter, as to them Shall seem meet. I Suppose the Tax of Two Million Dollars is forwarded you by the Superintendant of Finance. 3 You will see that the Quota Assigned to New Hampshire is in the same proportion as that of the late Tax of 1,200,000 Dollars, for payment of Interest; This proportion is not so high as that of the last Year to the Eight Million Dollars, but it is my fixed Opinion, that it is much more than it ought to be. Have no late Authentic accounts from Europe. A Packett from Fal mouth has lately Arrived at New-York, do not know what Instructions the Commander there may have received but from the Newspaper Accounts It would seem that they are Determined to prosecute the War; whatever their Ideas may be, it is Incumbent on us to be pre pared for the Worst. Have no late accounts from Charlestown; whether New-York will be Evacuated this Fall is altogether uncertain, believe they are tolerably well prepared to Stay, or to Embark on Short Notice. The Ministry of Great Britain are Changed so frequently, and their Sentiments so Var ious respecting American affairs that it is Impossible to Determine what will take place next; the present session of their Parliament, as it respects American Affairs, is Considered as a very Important One. Late accounts from New-York (though not Authentic) Say, that Immediately on the Arrival of the Falmouth Packett, a Frigate was dis patched to Charlestown and that, that place is not to be Evacuated at present. I have for some time past been Daily Expecting the Arrival of Judge White, but am hitherto Disappointed. I Inclose you a News Paper of this day and have the Honor to be, Your most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 See Gilman to Weare, September 25, 1782, note 2. 2 See James Duane to George Clinton, October 23, 1782, note. 3 For Robert Morris’ October 23 circular letter to the states, see Morris, Papers (Fergu son), 6:648—49.


[Page 353]
October 29, 1782 319 John Hanson to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 29th October 1782. I have the honor to acknowlege the receipt of your Excellency’s two favors of the 25th with the letters inclosed, which will be submitted to the consideration of Congress at their meeting this morning. 1 Our attention seems to be principally directed to Europe and the Indies for intelligence; but none more recent than that transmitted by your Excellency has yet reached us. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excellency’s Obedt. & very humb. Servt. John Hanson RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Hanson. 1 Washington’s two October 25 letters, the one reporting recent naval intelligence, the other enclosing letters from the comte de Vergennes and from the mother of Capt. Charles Asgill containing “a very pathetic and affectionate Interposition in favor of the Life of Capt Asgill,” are in PCC, item 152, 11:1-14; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 25:295—96. The letters from Vergennes and Mrs. Asgill pleading for the captain’s life were referred this day to the committee previously appointed to report on Washington’s August 19, 1782, letter on the Joshua Huddy-Richard Lippincott affair, and became the basis for the committee’s recommendation, adopted by Congress on November 7, that Washington be directed “to set Captain Asgill at liberty.” See JCC, 23:691, 695n, 715; PCC, item 19, 1:183—84, item 186, fol. 64; and Ralph Izard to Arthur Middleton, August 26, 1782, note. For congressional concern that freeing Asgill might be interpreted as a sign of weakness and lack of resolve to retaliate against similar enemy acts “of cruelty or violence contrary to the laws or usage of war," see also JCC, 23:716-20. Little information on the congressional debates over Asgill’s fate is found in the jour nals, but from the following extract from the “reminiscences” of Elias Boudinot, a mem ber of the committee appointed on October 28 to report on the subject, it is clear that they were long and spirited. “Congress took the Matter under full Consideration, during which Genl Sir Guy Carl ton arrived at New York with the title of Commander in Chief & the preliminary Articles of Peace were announced. Genl Washington then wrote to Congress that he had first proposed the Retaliation on Capt. Asgill as an Act of Mercy on the Whole, to put a Stop to the Enemy destroying the Lives of our Citizens in the Future as they had done in Times past—That he had determined to carry it into Execution, not being satisfied with the Result of the Court-martial—But that unexpectedly the preliminary Articles of Peace had wholly changed the Ground—The Execution of an innocent Person ought to have an Object in view to prevent the unnecessary shedding of Blood—That the Exam ple now could not have any Effect as there would be nothing for it to operate upon &c. &c. That therefore he should stay the Execution of Capt. Asgill without an express Order from Congress to the Contrary. “A very large Majority of Congress were determined on his Execution, and a Motion was made for a Resolution positively ordering the immediate Execution. Mr. Duane & myself considering the Reasons assigned by the Commander in Chief conclusive, made all the Opposition in our Power. “We urged every Argument that the Peculiarity of the Case suggested, and spent three Days in warm Debate, during which more ill Blood appeared in the House, than I had seen. Near the close of the third Day, when every Argument was exhausted, without any appearance of Success, the Matter was brought to a Close, by the Question being ordered to be taken. I again rose and told the House, that in so important a Case,


[Page 355]
October 29,1782 321 James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Octr. 29th. 1782 A continuance of Mr. Jones’s indisposition has procured me the office of answering yours of the 21st. instant. 1 His relapse has been more severe than I was aware, and will keep him a prisoner in his room for some time to come. His disorder is at present rather troublesome than alarming. Mrs. Jones luckily has got pretty well over her indisposition. You will find from the paper inclosed that a packet has lately arrived at N. York.2 Rivington labours to dissipate the gloom which the prospect of peace had spread over the Loyalists, but his publications on this head carry no marks of authenticity. It appears indeed that the Shelburne party is struggling hard against the Independence of the U. States: But without a naval victory or a Russian Alliance, neither of which are within the compass of probabilities, the ambition of pursu ing the war will not I hope be able to withstand the parliamentary elo quence and national distresses which will be opposed to it. It is reported that immediately on the arrival of the Packet counter-orders were dis patched to Stop the evacuation of Charlestown. The naval victory related in the letter from the Hague of the 17th. of Aug. is probably a fabrication of the Stockjobbers, several letters of subsequent dates hav ing been reed, from Holland which report nothing of the kind. 3 Some Intelligence has lately come to hand from the Frontiers of N. York which speaks a language less pacific with respect to that quarter than the late letter from Sr. G. Carlton. Which of them speaks most the language of truth must be left to the event. The British fleet at N. York has been very industrious in preparing for sea, and will probably soon leave that place. Its destination can only be conjectured. The West Indies are the object which first pre sents itself. RC (NN). Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:223. 1 See ibid., n.l. See also Joseph Jones to Pendleton, November 12, 1782, note 1. 2 The public news that Madison discusses in this and the following letter appeared in the October 28 Pennsylvania Gazette and this day’s Pennsylvania Packet. 3 These included Charles W. F. Dumas’ letter of August 16-19 and John Adams’ letter of August 18, 1782, for which see David Howell to John Carter, October 16, 1782, note 2. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. Ocr 29th. 1782. Our Stock of European news has reed, no other addition since my


[Page 356]
322 October 29,1782 last than what has transpired from the packet lately arrived at N. York and is published in the inclosed Gazette. Some intelligence has been reed, from the Frontiers of N. Y. which revive the apprehension of further inroads from Canada and of a cooperation on the part of the Vermonteers. The tenor of Carlton’s letter to Genl Washington on this subject and other circumstances render this article at least extremely doubtful. The British fleet at N. Y. has been busy in preparing for sea and will probably soon depart from that Station. The W. Indies most naturally occur as the object of its destination. It is said their preparations have been much expedited by the most direct & undisguised (supplies from the people of New Jersey). 1 Congress have been occupied for several days past with the case of (Lippencut referred to them) by (General Washington). 2 On one side it was urged that the disavowal and promises by the (British comman der) the (abolition of the) obnoxious (board of refugees) and the gen eral (change of circumstances) rendered (retaliation unnecessary (and in)expedient. On the other side it was contended that a (departure from the resolution) so (solemnly) adopted and (repeated) by (General Washington and) with equal (solemnity ratified by Congress) would be an (indelible blot on our) character, that after the confessions on (the part of the enemy of the deed) complained (of a) greater (inflexibility on our part) would be {looked for), that after such confessions too (the enemy) would never suffer the {innocent to perish) if {we persisted in demanding the guilty) and finally that if they should suffer it, (the blood) would (be on their heads not on ours). No definitive (resolu tion has yet passed on the subject). All the {intermediate steps) have been very properly entered {on the secret journal). General Lincoln has just returned from the army. He has not yet made report to Congress. 3 He says I understand that his visit has had a very {salutary operation but) that some {pay must be found for the army). Where it is to be {found God knows). The State of the public (finances) has already (compelled the superintendant to) give a dis charge to the former contractors, and to accept of a new contract by which (thirty) Per Ct. is added to the price of a ration in consideration of credit for (three months). He has on this occasion written a press ing exhortation to the States, which I suppose is accessible to you. Mr. (Carrol) moved yesterday a (resolution for accepting the) territo rial cession {of New York). It stands the order for to day. 4 I regret much on this occasion the {absence of Mr Jones). Mr. Jones’s relapse was more severe than my last supposed. He has been since confined to his room & chiefly to his bed, and will remain a prisoner for some time. His disorder however is in a favorable train, and at present rather troublesome than dangerous. Col. Bland returned a few days ago from his excursion to Bethlehem, which has


[Page 357]
October 29, 1782 323 been very beneficial to his health. 5 Doer. Lee I suppose is with you. The approach of Novr. revives my attention to your return. I communicated to Mrs. T. 6 the paragraph in your favr. of the 18th inst. announcing the birth of your little daughter, and in return am charged to announce her affectionate congratulations. Mine I hope will always be presumed on every event which can add to the happi ness of your family. Yrs. Affecy. J.M. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:224-26. 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in the official Virginia cipher. 2 See John Hanson to Washington, this date, note. 3 See Madison to Randolph, October 22, note 8. Benjamin Lincoln’s October 30 letter concerning the “expectations of the Officers of the Army” was read in Congress the same day and referred to a committee chaired by Daniel Carroll which submitted its recom mendations to Congress on November 12. They were debated on the 14th and recom mitted on the 18th. On November 20 “Such part as relates to the pay of the Army” was referred to superintendent of finance Robert Morris to report. See JCC, 23:699n.2, 730—32, 745; PCC, item 21, fols. 303-8, item 149, 2:105—12, and item 186, fols. 65, 66, 67. 4 Although Charles Thomson did not record this motion in the journals his endorse ment on the draft indicates that its consideration was postponed to this day. Madison apparently wrote this letter before Congress voted seven to one to accept New York’s cession. See JCC, 23:693-94; and PCC, item 36, 1:401. 5 See Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker, November 1, 1782, note 1. 6 That is, Eliza House Trist, wife of Nicholas Trist. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Philada. Oct 29th, 1782. We yesterday reed, your Excellency’s favor of the 19th instant. 1 The contents of the inclosed paper 2 are the whole of the foreign intelli gence which has arrived since our last. Some intelligence has been transmitted to Congress from the fron tiers of N. York relative to preparations and designs in Canada which are far from corresponding with the pacific assurances held out in S’r G. Carlton’s late letter to Genl. Washington. How far the intelligence is well founded must be left to the event. The British fleet at N. York had been busily making ready for sea and it is expected will soon sail from that Station. We have no intelligence of its destination. The W. Indies are the natural object of conjecture. It is reported that on the arrival of the Packet at N. York Counter orders were immediately despatched to stop the evacuation of Charlestown. We have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Yr. Excellency’s Obt. Sevts. J. Madison Jr. Theo ‘k. Bland Jr.


[Page 362]
328 October 30, 1782 Notice for Trial in the cause vs Stanton will arrive in season at least by the 8th of Novembr the day Assigned & for which have Engaged Judge Paca to come up from Maryland. Since my last* to you have received a New appointment from the Assembly as Delegate in Congress for the Year Ensuing which will Oblidge my tarrying here this Winter tho’ on many Accounts with much reluctance, I find all my Wages if I was ever to receive them would not pay for extraordi nary Expences in Cloathing & otherwise at this place. I have never received my Wages for part of the 2 last years I was here before, nor on my Superior Court and Assembly Debentures for about 2 Years last past when in the State, which in fact straitens me for money, there will be fees to pay in the office to the Register &c tho I know not at pre sent how much. If you had any body in this City to draw upon to sup ply me with £20 or £30 it would be a favour. Mr Huntington will set out for home before the Trial comes on. I mean to Assist all in my power in the cause & hope to be able by my Next to give you a favourable Account of the Issue. Am Yr Hie Servt, Elipht Dyer RC (CtY: Shaw Papers). 1 See Dyer to Shaw, October 2, 1782. David Howell to Nicholas Brown Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octob 30 1782. Your very acceptable favour of 15 Inst, came duly to hand per Post, the enclosures as well as contents were agreeable. I am happy to find that abler pens have at length enlisted in so good a cause. The opposi tion to the Impost, I am convinced, gains ground in Congress as well as in this City. I have taken great pains to explain the principles of Liberty & to shew how the Confederation will secure it to us, & I can assure you that great Charter of our Liberties is lately more frequently quoted & growing into that sacred veneration to which it is entitled. When I first came here, Genl. Cornell called it a rope of Sand & I found he had catched the expression from others. The States are not to be held together by the strength of penal laws & coercion, but by their mutual intrest—And if a wise & just policy is adopted it will continue in future the intrest of the States to remain confederated as much as it now is, or has been. Every measure which tends to greive one member of the Union, tends to a Dissolution; for nature teaches to seek redress: And Self preservation, among Laws, is Lord paramount. I did not mean to give it as my opinion that no more would be done to inforce the Impost; far otherwise, my Letters will shew the pains I have taken to counteract such efforts. But the tax of 1,200,000 was framed & urged by those, who had little, or no remaining hopes from


[Page 363]
October 30, 1782 329 an Impost, while the others consented to the measure. This I con ceived at least a confessed judgment in all that the impost was a fund of remote consideration & from which no present hopes could be entertained. Since the recommendation, or rather demand of an immediate & definitive answer of our State in regard to the Impost a motion was made in Congress to appoint a Committee to draw up a spirited address to our State on the Subject & it was suggested that the Dele gates ought also to write in favour of a measure so necessary, or they would be chargeable with the consequences. The loss in Mr. Morris’s Contracts for want of mony was also laid at our Door. This all together raised me to a pitch. “Mr. President, The measure now proposed is indeed very extraordinary. You have recommended the Impost; Your Financier has written frequently & largely to the State on the Subject; you have sent to the State a Deputation of two respectable members of this house to referee the measure, to which embassy you have not yet reed an answer. But three days ago you passed a resolve requiring an immediate & definitive answer on this head; Unless the present mea sure is calculated for downright coercion, or to overawe & terrify the lit tle State of Rhode Island to adopt the impost against their intrest & judgment I am at a loss for its object. “I hope, Sir, that the State I have the honor to represent, tho the least in the Union & the last to decide upon this Question, will do it with the same deliberation & independance of Spirit, uninfluenced by the determination of the others, as the largest State in the Union and the first which adopted the measure had a right to. Every State, Sir, is equally Sovereign & independant. Every State has an equal right to the advan tages of the Confederation & to be bound only by their own consent. I hope we shall never sacrifice the essential object of the war as a means of supporting it. This would rather have a contrary tendancy. We have drawn our Swords in defence of a good Constitution & for the priv- iledge of being governed by laws of our own making. While you con tinue to the people these objects they will support you to the last penny in their purse & the last drop of their blood. Infringe their rights, invade the Confederation, & you can no longer assure yourself of the peoples support. I hold in my hand, Sir, a reciept of taxes from the little State I have the Honour to represent for the Month of Septr. to the amount of upwards of 4,000 Dollars which I beg leave to read.— This may be thought a small Sum; but examine the treasury, you will find the State has paid more than five times its avarage proportion of the monies reed. Had all the States in the Union paid in propor tion Mr. Morris’s loss would not have happened. His calculations were made on the tax of 8 millions constitutionally required & not on an imaginary impost. Who then is accountable for that loss? “Gentlemen would indirectly blame us for not enforcing the Impost by letters to our State. Every necessary information has been laid


[Page 366]
332 October 30, 1782 the Rect. of a Letter Yesterday via New York from the Count de Ver gennes would probably remove them. The Mother of the unfortunate Asgill, with the utmost maternal Tenderness, addressd the Count in Behalf of her Son. He as a private Man, writes, with the Approbation of the King, & much more, even that of the Queen. Tho the Letter does not demand the Liberation of Asgill absolutely—I think it is not much short of it. It is now before a Committee—had not this Letter been reed, there were a thousand Chances to one in Favor of Asgill—now, if we liberate him, we in a Measure loose the Honors of a merciful Dispo sition. I could have wished to have had the Act noble & conspicuous on our Part, as flowing spontaneously from our own Tenderness..Yesterday on a Motion of the Delegates of Maryland the Cession of New York was taken up & after lengthy Debate the Yeas & Nays were taken upon the Question & seven States were in Favor of accepting that Cession, it is entered in the affirmative. But a Question arises, are seven States competent, by the Confederation, to such Acceptation. It is affirmed by some & denied by others. You will find in the Journals for 81 & 82 Page 334 the following Resolution of New York “That it is the Sense of this Legislature, that Congress have not any Authority by the Articles of Confederation in any Wise, to intermeddle with the for mer territorial Extent of Jurisdiction or Property of either of these united States except in Cases of Disputes concerning the same between two or more States in the Union, nor to admit into the Union, even any british Colony except Canada without the Consent of nine States, nor any other State whatsoever, nor above all to create a new State by dismembring one of the thirteen united States without their universal Consent.” 2 Taking for granted that the Vote of Yesterday was carried in the affirmative—what can Congress do with the Territory? Can they upon the Principles of the Confederation erect & take into the Union a new State? Does the Confederation empower Congress to accept of any Thing that looks like a Fund, independent of the united States? Does it authorize & empower Congress to grant a patent or Charter with Powers of Jurisdiction? Can Congress in any Manner whatever become the Fountain of such Power? If not, what will become of the said Terri tory? I think many Difficulties will inevitably occur in the Management of this congressional Territory. Indeed, at present, I believe no Friend to these States dare show his Head within a hundred miles of the Country. It is possessed by Indians & some Britons. What a well founded Prospect does this Tract of Country afford the United States for discharging all their Debts? Mr. Jackson will see you probably as soon as this will arrive. Two Days he has been detained by Rain—I don’t urge that a Colleague may be forwarded because I must conclude there is one already upon the Road. Permit me to add, that with the greatest Truth & Sincerity, I am, Dear Sir, your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood


[Page 367]
October 31, 1782 333 [P.S.] Yesterday a Note from the Minister of France w[as] handed to Congress, setting forth that immense Quantities of Provisions went in, to the Enemy from New Jersey. 3 I beleive it is too true: it is said they Pay for it in Cash only & give for Beef 2/6 Currency per lb. The above Note will be forwarded to our Governor next Post. The Minister I apprehend supposes that those Provisions will enable the british to operate against our Allies more powerfully in the West Indies. Dyer says such Propects of Gain will carry them thro’ Hell Gate—to obtain it. I am rather in Opinion that it cannot be prevented. Capital Laws will not be executed—And others will be evaded. RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 Not found. 2 For this November 19, 1781, resolution of the New York Assembly, entered in the proceedings of Congress for April 4, 1782, see JCC, 22:172. Osgood is quoting from the David C. Claypoole edition of the Journals, for which see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 17,767. 3 See Elias Boudinot to William Livingston, this date. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir Philadelphia Octobr 31st 1782 I have for a month or two past began I believe not less than 5 or 6 letters to you, with an expectation the Affair of your late brothers 1 Account would be brot to a Close & to have finishd by letter with that Information but by expectations have been as repeated frustrated & I had to thro my letters in the fire. The First Comtee reported that it was their opinion, that the monies expended, tho all before the Scale of Depreciation should be reduced to its real Value according to a Scale of Depreciation fixd by this State which began Depreciation in Jany 1777 & brot it to 2 for one before Septr 1777, which would reduce the sum & Consequently the Commiss about one quarter & even that was opposed. Congress recommitted it to the same Comtee to advise with the Financier and after about a month they reported again a Gross sum Viz about 29,000 dolls to be due which would be about the same sum as it would amount to by their first report, and that was opposd again, & again Committed to the same Comtee but one of them being Absent they added Another Gentn from North Carolina, a proper representative of Mr Burk who formerly made the opposition. When the Commissions was first Granted, the 2 others Who had had their report so often rejected would not concern them selves but little about the Affair but left it much to Doctr Williamson who had made the most opposition in Congress, and Notwithstanding all my Urging & pressing the Matter he kept the papers I believe about six Weeks before I could get the report in Again. By the way in the last Commitment Congress threw up the Commissions wholly &


[Page 369]
November 1, 1782 335 these claims, in part because of their entanglement with Pollock’s similar claims against Virginia, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:560-63, 675, 7:385, 423, 482; JCC, 23:680-81; and Virginia Delegates to Bernardo de Galvez, May 4, 1783. For Pollock’s previous efforts to reach a settlement with Congress, see these Letters, 13:256-59, 17:207; and James A. James, Oliver Pollock: 7 he Life and Times of an Unknown Patriot (New York: D. Appleton-Century Co., 1937), pp. 269-84, 347-55. 2 A “duplicate” of this letter was also sent to Miro on March 3, 1783, with a brief cover letter from Hanson’s successor Elias Boudinot, both of which are in Papeles de Cuba, Legajo 2370, fols. 427-29, Archivo General de Indias, Seville (DLC microfilm). The let terbook copy of Boudinot’s letter is in PCC, item 16, fol. 179. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dr. Tucker Philada. Novr. 1st. 1782 I received yr. Short note enclosing a small letter from my Father to you, for which I am much obliged to you—and altho the description of his Situation is by no means such as I could have wishd—it is how ever better than I had reason to hope for from the information that I had received of his low state of health. At any rate it relieves me from much anxiety to hear from him frequently. My own state of health has been such as has lately obliged me to leave Congress for eight or ten days, and make an excursion to the upper & more healthy parts of this Stated I thank God it has been attended with considerable benefit to my health. I shall endeavor much to pay you a Visit before Christ- mass—but we have been so embarrassed on acct of money matters, that unless we can alter our arrangements for the better I do not see how it can be accomplishd. Mr. Pollocke of New Orleans will deliver you this. I take the liberty of recommending him to your notice—he will inform you of his purpose in going to Virginia 2 —as far as you can yield him your aid or Influence I doubt not it will be done. If I can procure it before he sets off—I shall Send you a Copy of McFingall a Poem written by Mr. John Trumbull of Connecticut, after the manner of Hudibrass but in my opinion Surpassing the original. 3 Indeed from the manner in which tis treated, the different Character of the peo ple, and the different Subject—I think it may fairly be deemed an original. Your taste & Judgement will however stamp on it the seal of merit better than any comment of mine can do. I congratulate you on the birth of another Son and hope you will make my congratulations acceptable to my Sister and assure her (if need be) of my most affec tionate wishes for her health & happiness God Bless you all. T Bland 4 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 Bland had gone to Bethlehem, Pa., for reasons of health, apparently leaving Congress on or about October 17 and returning “a few days” before the 29th, for which see JCC, 23:656, 690; and James Madison to Edmund Randolph, October 22, note 10, and October 29, 1782, note 5.


[Page 372]
338 November 4, 1782 Elias Boudinot


[Page 381]
November 5, 1782 347 former mode. An adjournment suspended the vote on the question for referring the case to the Secy. & Genl, to take order. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:236-37. 1 For the proposed exchange of captains Jacob Schreiber and Jacques Marie Blaise, chevalier de Segond, and the repeal of this authorization the following day, see JCC, 23:712, 714, 715: and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:237n.l. 2 That is, Madison. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Novr. 4 [i.e. 5], 1782. In consequence of your letter of 28th. Ult reed, by yesterdays mail, 1 notifying your intended visit to the Courts at Richmond I shall address this to that place, and continue so to do until otherwise instructed. Mr. Jones has once more got abroad, and will resume his alternate pen next week, although it should happen otherwise it will be best for you to observe the rotation last settled in your address. We abound in reports from Europe but are wholly destitute of cer tain intelligence, other than is contained in the Newspapers. The acci dental loss of the Royal George has at length been announ[c]ed circumstancially from N. York, and may be critically felt in the expedi tion of Admiral How[e] in favor of Gibralter. A letter from Mr. Carmichael of the 8th July as well as more recent advices tell us that the preparations against this Garrison transcend all example and almost all conception. The effect of them is probably decided ere this and will soon be known to us. Mr. C. says he had discovered that the Mediation of the two Imperial Courts had been renewed by their Min isters to that of Madrid and that he suspected England to be at the bottom of it; but the silence of later letters from other sources as to this point leaves it rather improbable. We are informed by a letter from Genl Washington of the 30th. Ulto. that the army is going into its winter cantonments, that a part of the B. fleet composed of 14 Ships of the line 1 of 40 guns & 7 frigates with 14 transports sailed from N. York on the 26th supposed to be going to the W. Indies & to have no troops on board; and that he has been informed that immediately on the arrival of the last packet two vessels were dispatched for Charlestown. Yesterday being the anniversary for the choice of a President, Mr. Boudinot of N. Jersey was placed in the chair for the ensuing year. The principle of rotation, altho’ in no instance less proper, is applied with great firmness to the one in question by the States which have not yet filled the chair of Congress or which least expect a turn on any other principle. The territorial cessions have again been a subject of deliberation in


[Page 383]
November 5, 1782 349 Besides the effect which may be expected from this (coalition with New York} on (territorial questions in Congress}, it will I surmise prove very (unfriendly to the pretentions of Vermont. Duane} seems not unjapprized of the} advantage which (New York has gained} and is already {takeing measures for a speedy vote on that question}. 3 Upon the (whole New York has either} by (a fortunate} coincidence of cir cumstances, {or by skilful management or by both} succeeded (in a very important object: by ceding a claim which was tenable} neither {by force nor by law she has} acquired (with Congress the merit of lib erality} rendered the (title to her reservation more respectable and} at least dampt (the zeal with which Vermont has been abetted}. If you should be (surprized that} these considerations did not {dissuade Con necticut from an unqualified acceptance of the cession of New York} you will only be (affected) as others (were at the time}. The truth is, (they were surprized at it themselves after it was too late and} would gladly (have revoked their error}. You were also informed in my last of the situation in wch. the affair of Lippencut remained. In the midst of our {perplexities} a letter arrived from Gel. Washington inclosing an intercession from the Count de Vergennes in favor of the life of young Asgill, founded on a most pathetic and importunate Memorial from his Mother. The Ct. writes to Gel. Washington, as he says not in the quality of a public Minister, but of a man who feels the force of Mrs. Asgill’s supplica tions. He backs his intercession however, with the desire of the King & Queen who were much affected with the Memorial, observes that, altho’ Asgill is no doubt a prisoner to the U. States, yet as he became such by an event to which the arms of his Majesty contributed, the interest he takes in behalf of this officer, is the more admissible, & sig nifies that if the British Commander should not in this instance fully comply with the demands of Justice there is reason to believe that future instances of barbarity will be prevented. The judgment {formed of} this (intercession by} different (members is very different}. All (indeed agree that} retaliation {cannot be exe cuted in the face of it. But some} are of (opinion) that (it) luckily {affords and ought to be made the ground of rejtreat {from that mea sure; while others suppose) that {our honour will be more wounded by such a public mark) both {of our obsequiousness to France and of her disapprobation of our views than by a retreat of ourselves on the ground of) Carlton’s (promise to continue his pursuit of the) mur derer. (Some think also that an omission in our act of the wish) expressed (on the part of the King & Queen of France) may (give umbrage. Others again) infer from the circumstances {of the letter from the Count being) addressed to {General Washington not to Congress and in his private not official quality) that a (public notice of it cannot be expected and) that (a private) explanation {by the secre-


[Page 387]
November 5, 1782 353 RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 Although Osgood dated this letter “Novr. 6,” he probably wrote it on November 5, the date the action on Vermont reported in the first paragraph as happening “this Day” was recorded in the journals. Moreover, Osgood subsequently reports that the Novem ber 4 election of Elias Boudinot as president had occured “Yesterday.” See JCC, 23:708, 713-14. 2 Osgood’s negative vote was recorded in the journals, but because Massachusetts did not have two delegates in attendance the vote was not tallied. JCC, 23:694. 3 For Henry Laurens’ September 5 letter, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 4, note 4. 4 That is, Maj. Gen. Benjamin Lincoln, secretary at war. 5 For the disposition of Lincoln’s October 30 letter reporting “the Officers senti ments on the present situation of the army,” see Madison to Edmund Randolph, Octo ber 29, note 3. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison S’r, Philadelphia Novr. 5th 1782. We have been honord with your Excell’ys of the 26th of Octr. by this post. 1 Congress have been informed by the Comm’r in Chief that the Army are gone into Winter Cantonments, the main body Hutting in the Vicinage of New Burgh on the North River (where head Quar ters are fixd for the Winter;) by the same letter we are informed that 14 British ships of the Line, one 40, and Seven frigates with fourteen transports Saild on the 26th Ulto. from N. York (supposed for the W. Indies no mention is made of any troops being embarqued with them) and also that on the arrival of the last Packet two Vessels were Immediately dispatched to Chas. Town; of the evacuation of which place we have yet received no Authentic intelligen[ce] and indeed it remains a doubt (rather increased by the dispatching the two Vessels above mentioned) whether this measure will take place, Since the late Change in the Ministry. We are told by a letter from Mr. Carmichael that the firmness of the Answers of the States to the Overtures of the British Court (through S’r Guy Careleton and admiral Digby) has had a very good effect, and has even met with the personal applause of the King of Spain, and that the the Opinion of the foreign Ministers at that Court is that the Wisest thing Great Britain can do is to Conclude a treaty acknowledging the Independence of America. It is also said the Imperial and Russian Ministers have reed, fresh orders to offer the mediation of those two Courts, but this is unconfirmed Conjecture. We do ourselves the Honor to Enclose for Yr. Excell’y the Vote of Congress for accepting the Cession of N. York. Elias Boudinot Esqr. of N Jersey was Yesterday elected our President for the Ensuing year. We have the honor to be with perfect Esteem Yr. Excelly’s most obedt. Se’ts, 2 J. Madisonjr. Theo’k Bland Jr.


[Page 388]
354 November 5, 1782 Reprinted from Burnett, letters, 6:532, “Copied from the original, then in the posses sion of Mr. Stan.V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 Not found. 2 In their brief weekly letter of November 12, Bland and Madison acknowledged Har rison’s letter of the 2d and reported that “Since our last nothing of Material] Conse quence has happend, nor has any news of Importance arrived from Europe that is well Authenticated. The Enclosed News Paper contains all the Intelligence of every kind.” Brian Riba Auctions, July 13, 1991, item 177. Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love, Philadelphia Novr. 6th. 1782 I have wrote you in the hurry & Confusion of the Times, twice since Monday Morning. I therefore need not repeat the important Transac tions of that Day. Suffice it to say, that every day will appear a Week till you arrive here. The Office I now fill—your Friends—the Season of the Year—and what, I hope will have its weight, your affectionate Hus band—all—all require You to make no delay. I am conscious this is a heavy Task, and how you are to execute it, I know not. God only knows, who can & will help you. In the first Place you must plan the state of your Family during the winter. I think it will be absolutely necessary, for Mr. Remsen to stay in the Office if possible. As to Dickey I scarcely know what is best, but on the whole I think he had best be with his uncle Elisha, as I fear this Town would be ruinous to his Studies—however this must be the Subject of Consideration. Phillis if not Lena too must be brought along, or if Prince can wait on Tea Table perhaps he might do instead of Lena. Every Thing must be sold that you can spare. If you make a Vendue (which I hope will not be necessary) you must give 6 Months Credit for the unsaleable articles, provided Security is given, otherwise the money to be paid down. I mean to keep the small Steers & the youngest Colt. Give directions to Baird to saw the Logs, into weather Boards—Inch Boards and a few Plank & Joice, as the Timber will Suit—and Josey must hale 1 them as fast as Sawed. Josey must get as many more Logs in the winter as he can—and must go to School as often as possible. I wish Mr. Pintard could manage it so as to go into the House. You must bring your Plate, best Linnen—particular convenien- cies & Family Books with you—dont forget the political Essays & four Volumes of Treaties. I shall want all my Books of Acct—my Will &c. You must muster all the money you can. There is a Bond from a Man in Mendum assigned to me by Mr Conklin, try to get as much on it as pos sible—and also call on both of the Mr. Conklins who owe for the Planta tions and get what you can of them. You must put the Care of my Swamp Lands near home, into the Hands of Mr Southerd, and those over by Long Hill to Mr Ludlow— and Mr Sayres will take Care of those near him. As to your coming here, my present Plan is for you to load the Waggon which Josey will drive and you & Sukey to come to Prince-


[Page 391]
November 6,1782 357 some points being singular, in regard to the Impost, half-pay, &c. The business being entirely new—The Members of Congress generally unknown to me. My Colleague 1 opposed to me in important objects, added to other embarrassments too well known to be mentioned, I found it difficult at all times to possess myself in the manner I could have desired. Since Dr. Arnolds arrival & the fine air of Octobr & Nov. I have been well in health & cheerful as usual. I doubt not the Assembly will have rejected the Impost before you will receive this. Half-pay is struck out of the estimate for 1783. The officers I expect will be referred to their several States for gratuities or impositions in lieu thereof. Congress have accepted the cession of claims to Western Territory made by New York a few days ago, & those of Connecticutt & Virginia will be accepted also when they shall have been disencumbred of cer tain exceptionable conditions. So that there is a good prospect of car rying the most material points I have been labouring after. The Independance of Vermont is the only object that cannot be started. It meets with every opppsition you can imagine. You must have heard that the intended expeditions set on foot by this State against the Indians at Sandusky & Genesee are laid aside. I opposed them in Congress as believing that the Massacreing of the Moravian Indians 2 lead on to the outrages suffered by our Frontiers. Your humanity will lead you to enquire about the facts of Asgill the intended victim to attone for the death of Huddy. His parents have written a most affecting letter to the French Court requesting their intercession in favour of their Son. Count De Vergennes in conse quence of it has in his private capacity & not as Minister sent a Letter to Congress interceeding for the life of that unfortunate young offi cer. He mentions that the King & Queen of France are greatly affected at the expected fate of the victim—that they wished their feel ings on the occasion to be known on this side of the water and that should it be consistent with the national honor of this Country his release would be a very grateful event to their Majesties. The Count adds that as Asgill is a Prisoner of York Town, he hopes it will be remembred on this occasion that the laurels of that day were acquired by the joint arms of France & America & that his Intercession may receive some weight from that Consideration. Sir Guy Carleton had ordered a Court-martial on Leppincut, who acquitted him; these proceedings had been sent out to Genl. Washing ton & enclosed by him in a Letter to Congress. This Letter with all the paper in the case had been referred to a Committee which had made a report in the case & that report had been under consideration in Congress & warmly debated before the arrival of the Letter of Count De Vergennes. The report of the Committee would have taken Asgills life, but it met with opposition. I moved to have that part of the report struck


[Page 392]
358 November 6, 1782 out which would affect his life; I was seconded by Mr L’homedieu from N. York. A vote was taken & it was struck out, whereupon the report was recommitted. In this Stage the Intercession from the French Count found the business. The Counts Letter with that of Asgills parent to him are referred to the same Committee and they set this day on the business. I hope & {expect} [don’t] doubt but their report will be such as to save the life of the Innocent. 3 I believe, in some possible cases retaliation may be just; but I think the present after what has taken place would rather have the appearance of per petuating the barbarities of war than of restraining them. I see your Friends Pemberton, Wall, Benezet, &c. sometimes. I fre quently attend the 6 O’Clock Evening meeting in Market Street. I have enclosed you a fragment of a piece written by a disowned Quaker—the other part is not by me. In the enclosed News paper you will observe the noble Sentiments of President Dickinson in regard to personal Liberty* He is chosen a member of the Supreme Executive Council in this State; and it is expected will be chosen President of this State tomorrow; there is about to be a change of men & measure I am told in this State. You will excuse bad writing thro’ haste. David Howell. [P.S.] I [have bee]n to speak to Dr. Borden about the old house but [have] reed no answer. RC (RHi: Moses Brown Papers). Addressed: “Mr. Moses Brown, Providence.” 1 That is, Ezekiel Cornell. 2 See Charles Thomson to William Moore, April 9, 1782. 3 For the final decision on November 7 to free Capt. Charles Asgill, see John Hanson to Washington, October 29, 1782, note. 4 The concluding paragraphs of Pres. John Dickinson’s October 29 address to the Delaware Assembly, which was printed in this day’s issue of the Pennsylvania Journal, contain the following “noble Sentiments.” ‘The laws require very considerable amendments to be made, for preventing substan tial justice being defeated or delayed by unnecesary and injurious forms; for ascertain ing with precision the statutes prior to the revolution that are to be regarded as parts of our jurisprudence; for securing the inestimable benefits of the writ of Habeas Corpus; and for fixing the trial by jury on such a solid basis, as will guard as much as possible against its being shaken by the dreadful efforts of party rage, if that blind and destruc tive power, from which we are now so happily free, should in times to come attempt to pull down the pillars of our courts, for supporting which the precious blood of our brave fellow citizens has been so nobly offered and liberally poured out. Regulations of this sort will be among the best inheritances we can leave to our posterity. “Another amendment humanity compels me to propose: That persons manumitting healthy slaves, not advanced in years, should not be obliged to give security for their maintenance, and that slaves should not be sent upon sale, or otherwise, to places dis tant from their usual residence, by which means affectionate and near relations are cru elly separated from one another, and the remainder of their lives extremely embittered. The Legislatures of the several neighbouring states, moved by a deep sense of the divine favours to them in this contest for their own freedom, and by an enlightened commiser ation, have lately passed laws for alleviating the afflictions of this helpless, and too often abused part of their fellow creatures. I entertain the warmest hopes, that the Legislature of this state will emulate the most generous and wise examples of this kind.”


[Page 402]
368 November 9, 1782 intercession of the King & Queen of France that Captain Asgil be spared on the full persuasion that the enemy having disapproved & condemned the murder of Captain Huddy will not repeat such out rages, Congress on so respectable a request have discharged Capt. Asgil & beside requiring that Sir. G. Carlton shall, as he has promised make further attempts to discover & punish the murderers of Captain Huddy, they have given a General Instruction that the Commander Officers of our several armies whenever any outrages are commited by the enemy contrary to the Laws of War, or practices of humanity, after demanding reperation, unless it is immediately made, they Shall forthwith retaliate. 5 We have the honor to be &c, Hu Williamson Wm Blount 6 Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 The references are actually to resolves of October 3, 1780, and December 10, 1781, for which see JCC, 18:893-97, 21:1163-64; and these Leiters, 16:146, 153, 18:244. 2 JCC, 22:451-53. 3 JCC, 23:642. 4 JCC, 23:710-11. 5 See John Hanson to Washington, October 29, 1782, note. 6 Although he did not join Blount and Williamson in signing this letter, Abner Nash had also been representing North Carolina since the convening of the new Congress November 4. JCC, 23:708. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. Novr. 10th. 1782. I put under this cover the newspaper of Saturday last, and a poeti cal production of N. England which has much applause bestowed on it. 1 We have reed, no intelligence from Europe since my last. I have inclosed to the Govr. a copy of a late letter from Carlton which breathes a much less concilating spirit than his preceding correspon dence. 2 No steps have been taken by Congress as to the Cessions since the acceptance of that of N. York. Asgill is directed to be set at liberty, without any special reason being assigned for it, and G1 Washington instructed to call upon G1 Carlton to fulfil his promise to pursue the guilty. If the interval between this & the post produces any thing, you shall then have it farewell, J. M. RC (DI.C: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson). 5:267. 1 That is, John Trumbull’s MT'ingal, for which see Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker, November 1, 1782, note 3. 2 See Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 8, note 3.


[Page 403]
November 10, 1782 369 Samuel Wharton to George Read Dear Sir, Philadelphia, November 10th, 1782. By Mr. Grantham I send you a bundle of newspapers, besides what is contained in this letter. By those of the later date you will perceive the alarm sounded, through these vehicles of abuse, against our old friend. But, to the keen mortification of the opposing party, he was elected President and General Ewing Vice-President, a worthy and intimate friend of Mr. Dickinson, versus General Potter. 1 I never have known so general a joy diffused among all ranks of the people as was exhibited on this choice of our early associate. The procession from the State [House] to the Court-house was very numerous and respectable, and there the people manifested their felicity by affectionate and repeated acclamations. The gentlemen who opposed Mr. Dickinson are low-spir ited, and are afraid something effectual will be done to establish his reputation and that of the present Asssembly. Your former neighbor was deep in the politics [of this opposition], but has a certain versatility about him that accommodates [him] to the powers in being. He asked your other old friend to accompany him, after the procession was over, to Mr. D ’s, for the purpose of congratulating him [on his elec tion], etc.; and crowds of other citizens are daily doing the same. What will be done by the State of Delaware in respect of their President I am ignorant of, but he tells me we shall see in the next newspapers what he said to the Assembly here in relation to this matter. Congress has ordered Captain Asgill to be liberated. This was done in consequence of letters from General Washington, by which it was obvious this was his wish, and from a letter he received from Count de Vergennes, expressing an earnest desire from the king and queen of France, who had been prevailed upon to intercede in behalf of Cap tain Asgill. The mother of this gentleman wrote to the Count de Vergennes one of the most pathetic letters I ever read. Although Congress has freed Asgill from his confinement, yet they have instructed the com mander-in-chief to inform Sir Guy Carlton, in the most pointed terms, that they rely upon his promise of making strict inquisition after the murderer of Captain Huddy; and, in order to prevent all further appli cations to them from any persons, they have resolved that, in case the enemy shall commit any actions contrary to the law of nations, the commander-in-chief, or the general who may command in the South ern department, after retribution has been demanded by them or either of them, and justice refused or delayed beyond the time limited in their requisition, shall have authority to execute retaliation. This will make the enemy very cautious in their future proceedings, and there will not be reliance, as heretofore, upon the various opinions of a large deliberative body.


[Page 404]
370 November 10, 1782 No news from Europe, since I wrote you last, except what you will find in the within papers, under the New York head, upon which we place no dependence. The siege of Gibraltar, and the expected con flict between the British and combined fleets, engrosses all our atten tion; if the event should be favorable to the two branches of the House of Bourbon, or the English should be much worsted in the East Indies, a general pacification will most probably take place next spring or summer. Count Rochambeau’s army (I mention this in con fidence, not to be repeated) will, we have reason to think, embark for the West Indies. As to South Carolina we can say nothing, as Congress has received no late letters from thence; but it is alleged that part of the garrison of Charleston has embarked, etc.—see the last newspa per. I have not yet received the law you wrote for; President Boudinot has again written to the printer for it. I wait for the index of 1779, which is not yet finished, otherwise I would send you a complete set of the Journals of Congress. Will you wait for the index, or shall I despatch the Journals without it? You can exchange the volume of 1779 for one, when it is printed, with the index. Mrs. Wharton is get ting better; she and my children join me in affectionate regards to Mrs. Read, yourself, and children. Adieu. Yours, very sincerely, S. Wharton. MS not found; reprinted from William T. Read, Life and Correspondence of George Read (Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1870), pp. 369-71. 1 For John Dickinson’s election as president of Pennsylvania on November 7, see Pa. Council Minutes, 13:413-16; and Milton E. Flower, John Dickinson. Conservative Revolution ary (Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1983), pp. 209-11. See also Wharton to John Dickinson, February 17, 1782, note 2. Charles Thomson to Robert Morris Sir, Nov. 11.1782 Charles Morse one of the clerks in My Office died yesterday and has left a widow advanced in years & very infirm, in low circumstances. He has been a considerable time in the Office and was very assiduous & attentive. At the time when Salaries were paid in Continental currency and the clerks in the several Offices were allowed to Sign bills of credit to augment their pay he devoted his whole time to the business of the Office, for which he expected some extra allowance. If you should concur in sentiment I could wish his widow might be allowed the quarter’s wages which would have been due at the end of next month. His last illness has involved expence above his circumstances & his past services merit some reward above his pay. 1 I shall be glad of your answer to this, and am, with respect, Sr, Yr Obedt humble Servt Cha Thomson


[Page 405]
November 12,1782 371 FC (DNA: PCC, item 49). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 According to his official diary, Morris immediately told Thomson that he approved of making this payment to Morse’s widow but that Thomson “must obtain Consent of Congress," which he did the following day. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:41-42n.6, 66; and JCC, 23:723n.l. The same day Congress also decided simply to postpone action on memorials from George Bond, the deputy secretary of Congress, and “the clerks on the civil list” for an increase in their salaries. JCC, 23:722. James Duane to Robert Morris 12 Novem. 1782 Mr Duane presents his Compliments to the honorable Superinten dant of Finance, and acquaints him that the Committee on his office will make him a Visit to Morrow morning. The Dispatch of business is become necessary as the Committee will soon be dissolved now being reduced to three members. 1 They wish the Superintendant may have time to furnish them with the Account they before requested, and such materials as are neces sary to place the Business of the office in a fair & full point of View. 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 142). In the hand ofjames Duane. 1 That is, Duane, Thomas McKean, and Samuel Osgood, because the other two origi nal members of the committee appointed July 2 to oversee the office of finance, Abra ham Clark and Arthur Lee, had returned home. See Committee to Robert Morris, July 19; Committee Minutes, July 30, 1782; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:44—46. 2 For this “Account,” which was prepared by the register of the treasury Joseph Nourse, see ibid., pp. 62-63. Joseph Jones to Edmund Pendleton Dr. Sr. Phila. 12th Nov. 1782 My favor when it reaches you, which probably was left in Caroline, will be found to be the act of my friend Madison at my request, being then unable to fullfill my engagement. 1 I am now better tho’ not well, so well however as to entertain hopes of again taking my seat in Congress sometime this week. 2 I shall thank you for the decision of the Court on the great constitu tional question you mention, if which, and the adjournment of it from the Genl. Court into the Court of appeals, we were informed by Mr. Randolph. 3 The question is no doubt difficult and important, of which I cannot at this time so well judge, as after perusing the clause of the constitution, which I have not by me, but mean, so soon as I am able, to go out to look over. If my memory does not fail me the consti tution vests the power in the Delegates—the difficulty I suppose pro-


[Page 406]
372 November 12, 1782 ceeds from the subsequent Law being the act of the two Houses—was there any subsequent resolution of the Delegates independent of the appendage sending it to the Senate for concurrence? Will not a deter mination of the Court, upon a construction of the meaning of the Constitution, different from that assumed by the two branches of the legislature, exalt the judiciary above the legislative? Does not correc tions of abuses and violations of the constitution more properly belong to the people at large than to the Courts of Law? And are not Judges to do the Law, rather than refine upon constitutional principles? These, and other questions, delicate and perplexing, upon a cursory view of the subject, strike me, and no doubt have been learnedly investigated. The controversy must have excited the curiosity and attention of the public and the decision draw after it important consequences. We have been entertained for some time past by Mr. Rivington with the jargon of News you mention, which, together with a late letter of Sr. Guy Carltons to Genl. Washington on the subject of the proposed Cartel, couched in different language and conveying different Senti ments from what he lately held, seems to indicate a change of mea sures under the Shelbourne Administration more hostile to our claims than those adopted by Ld. Rockingham. Certain it is the King and Shelbourne are averse to the independence of America and from them we are not to expect it, but from necessity—whether that neces sity really exists, and they puff off their yet ample resources for prose cuting the war, with the view of obtaining better terms of peace a little time will discover—certain it is also that upon the departure of Mr. Grenville, Mr. Fitzherbert repaired to France with full powers to nego- ciate a peace with the united provinces of the Netherlands, and all princes and States concerned—under these words we conceive Amer ica to be comprehended, but it is said such was not the Idea of the King who granted the Commission. The language may serve the pur pose of manoeuvre & delay, the object, I think, of Great Britain, to see the events of the Campaign—when if nothing propitious to them turns up, and the parliament shall countenance the measure, peace with independence may be our portion—but good fortune no doubt will urge our proud Foe to a prosecution of the War rather than sub mit to what she deems ignoble terms of peace. Mr. Asgill, from the delay that has taken place in consequence of the correspondence between Genl. Washington & Genl. Clinton and after with Sr. Guy Carlton on his Case, and the submission of it by the Comd. in Chief to Congress for final decision, will escape the doom to which his lot had consigned him—Congress having lately directed the Genl, to release him, and to demand a compliance of Sr. Guy with his assurances, that every measure in his power shod, be employed to detect and bring to punishmt. the guilty, as by the inquiry instituted by them. Lippincut, the supposed offender, had been acquited of the charge—this busi-


[Page 408]
374 November 12, 1782 RC (Mr. Andrew Fiske, Shelter Island, N.Y., 1980). 1 “I am obliged to leave this place in a few Days,” L’Hommedieu wrote to David Stephens on November 10, “and am very sorry that I could not receive the Money on Capt Thompsons order, as it is much wanted by those that are concerned in the Priva teer. I have left the order with Colo William Floyd (who is a Member of Congress for the State of New York) who you may find by inquiring at Mrs Houses at the Corner of fifth Street in Markeet Street or you may send the money, if it will be more convenient to you to Colo Summers who will take a Receipt of Colo Floyd for you for whatever Sum you may pay. I beg you will pay it as soon as possible as the Accounts of the Privateer cannot be settled nor a Distribution made ’till this is received. If you do not pay it soon the owners may be obliged to send a Man on purpose from Connecticut to Egg Har bour, which will cost them half as much as the Debt. I have desired Colo Summers to give you every Assistance you may want in his receiving & paying the Money and taking Receipts, and least this Letter may not come soon to your Hands I have requested him to write to you and Urge the Necessity of the speedy payment of the Money. It is need less for me to say more on the Subject as I trust you will pay it in a very short Time. As soon as it is paid Colo Floyd will give a Bill for the Same Sum on Persons at Middletown in Connecticut which will be very convenient for the agents of the Privateer.” Andrew Fiske Collection. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday 12 Novr. [1782] 1 The reappointment of Mr. Jefferson as Minister Plenipo. for negoci- ating peace was agreed to unanimously and without a single adverse remark. 2 The act took place in consequence of its being suggested that the death of Mrs. J. had probably changed the sentiments of Mr. J. with regard to public life, & that all the reasons which led to his original appointment still existed and indeed had acquired additional force from the improbability that Mr. Laurens would actually assist in the negociation. “A motion was made by Mr. Rutlidge, declaring that when a matter was referred to any of the departments to take order, it was the sense & meaning of Congress that the same should be carried into execu tion.” 3 On this motion some argued that such reference amounted to an absolute injunction. Others insisted that it gave authority, but did not absolutely exclude discretion in the Executive Departments. The explanation which was finally acquiesced in as most rational & con formable to practice, was that it not only gave authority, but expressed the sense of Congress that the measure ought to be executed; leaving it so far however in the discretion of the Executive Department, as that in case it differeed in opinion from Congress it might suspend execution & state the objections to Congress that their final direction might be given. In the course of debate it was observed by 4 that the practice of referring matters to take order, especially where money was to be issued, was extremely exceptionable inasmuch as no entry of such proceedings was made on the Journals, but only noted


[Page 410]
376 November 12, 1782 as counterfeit & returned upon me. 5 The note is also inclosed in Mr. Jones’ letter. I am yrs. affecy. J. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:270-71. 1 That is, Madison’s letters of November 5 and 10, 1782. 2 This day Robert R. Livingston submitted to Congress John Adams’ letter of March 19 and Charles W. F. Dumas’ letter of July 9, 1782, for which see PCC, item 84, 4:25-60, item 93, 2:75-77, 83-86, item 185, 3:48; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:246-65. 3 Sec Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, November 19, 1782, note 2. 4 For Randolph’s letter, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:230-31. For the arrival of the “promised Cypher,” see Madison to Randolph, December 3, 1782, note 10. 5 For the “commission” which Madison executed and the “note of Mr. Morris,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:64nn.l 1-12, 272n.8. James Madison to Edmund Randolph In Congress Novr. 12. 1782 Resolved, That the appointment of T. Jefferson Esqr. as a Minist. for Nego. peace made on the day be & the same is hereby renewed; & that on his acceptance thereof he be invested with all the powers & subject to all the instructions which have been or may be issued by Congress to the Minist. Plenipo. for nego. peace, in the same manner as if his original appt, had taken effect. This Resolution passed a few minutes ago 1 I sent you a line for the post but I fear too late. This catches Doctr. Tucker in the Street pro ceeding by the State House. 2 You will let it be known to Mr. J. as quickly as secrecy will admit. An official notification will follow by the first oppy. 3 This will prepare him for it. It passed unan. & witht. a sin gle remark adverse to it. On this subjt. again by the post next week or by Col. B. if earlier. 4 Adieu. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Addressed: “The honble Edmd. Randolph favd. by Dr. Tucker who will deliver it himself if he can—if not by the hand of Col. Monroe." Madi son, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:272-73. 1 Madison’s Notes of Debates, this date, note 2. 2 Dr. Thomas Tudor Tucker was leaving Philadelphia, having petitioned Congress for pay and allowances as a Continental surgeon. See JCC, 23:752-53; and Madison to Ran dolph, November 14, 1782, note 1. See also these iMers, 17:371. 3 For secretary for foreign affairs Robert R. Livingston’s “notification" and Jefferson’s response, indicating that he hoped to arrange his Virginia affairs and pay his respects to Congress by the end of December, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:202, 206, 207n. 4 See Madison to Randolph, November 14, 1782.


[Page 411]
November 12, 1782 377 Member of Congress to Unknown [November 12, 1782] 1 “Young Captain Asgill, some Time ago allotted as a Victim of Retali ation, to atone for the Murder of Captain Huddy, is liberated by Direction of Congress. No Reasons being assigned in this Resolve, the World are left to conjecture at the Motives which induced it. It appears undeniably true that Lippencut was the real Murderer, and that he had many Accomplices with him—some actually assisting in the Fact, others advising, directing and approving it. Subsequent to the Threat of Retaliation, several Things have taken Place to render its Execution less necessary in the Opinion of many. The British Com mander in Chief has reprobated the Fact in unequivocal Terms; he has instituted a formal Trial by Court-Martial, in which, after much Parade, Lippencut was acquitted. He has promised to pursue the Inquisition, so far as Justice will admit, to detect and deliver to Punish ment the Guilty. He has dissolved the infamous Board of Refugees, and declared it as his Intention, and that of his Court, to conduct the War on liberal and humane Principles; and his official Conduct has not yet belied this Profession. In Consequence of a well written and most moving Letter from the distressed Mother of Asgill, Count de Vergennes, in his private Character, has addressed our Commander in Chief on this Subject. 2 He paints in high Colours the Effects of this Letter on the Court of Versailles—the Youth and Innocence of the Victim—the Tears of the Mother—the Distraction of the Father, and the Ruin of the Family, have excited royal Compassion and Interces sion. The Count further adds, that it would not only be a most grate ful Thing to their Majesties to have Asgill restored to his inconsolable Parents and Friends, but they hope it will be considered on this Occa sion that he is a Capitulant of York-Town, and that the Laurels of that Day were acquired by the joint Arms of France and America. “How far these Considerations, or any others that may be suggested, will justify this Measure, must be submitted to the Decision of the civi lized World, and Posterity; I shall only observe, that as the chief End of Retaliation is to prevent a Repetition of Injuries, when that End is sub stantially obtained, forbearing to execute a Threat is a double Victory.” MS not found; reprinted from the Providence Gazette, December 7, 1782. 1 This document was printed under the following heading: “Providence, December 7. Extract of a letter from a Gentleman in Philadelphia, dated November 12” It seems clear from the details about Charles Asgill’s fate contained in it, that this letter could only have been written by a delegate to Congress, perhaps one of the Rhode Island delegates attending at this time, Jonathan Arnold or David Howell. Cf. David Howell to Moses Brown, November 6, 1782. 2 See John Hanson to Washington, October 29, 1782, note.


[Page 412]
378 November 13, 1782 Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love. Philadelphia Novr. 13th. 1782. It is matter of real grief & sorrow to me that I should ever be the cause of a distressing or uneasy Hour to one who I esteem above all the Honors or Riches of this transitory Life. I feared greatly that the Change of Station would not be pleasing as I was sure the derange ment of my Affairs and the additional Labour cast on you, would be perplexing—but I remembered & doubt not but you will remember, that God has ever been the director of our Paths and the Guide of our Ways. It is not the first Time that he has led us in the Way which we knew not—and set our Feet in a strong Place. We have embarked in his Service, and it is our part to see that we do his Will and act with a single Eye to his Glory & all will be well. Your affectionate & tender Letter was reed, as usual with a hearty & earnest welcome. Mr Remsen had arrived here the Evening before, & returned this Morning. As to directions I cannot collect my Thoughts sufficiently to aid you—In general dispose of those Things that you can sell to advantage—especially the Waggon, Plough &c unless they may be wanted. Let the Boards be put under cover, and all the Logs at the Mill properly sawed & secured. The Hay had best be kept & Mr. Pintard to sell it towards the Spring, say Feby. I gave £12 per Ton here & 3 Dollars for Carting. Let the Stack in Mr. Southerds field be first used. As to Servants I have one good Negroe Man & can get another—but on serious Consideration, I think you had best bring Jude as a Chamber maid, on two Conditions—the first she must work very hard—the 2d she must get no more Children, tho I fear her Virtue here. On these Terms I could make out to charge so much for her service as to cloath her very well—say 7/6 per week. She must leave her Child with Mama. I think this would be much best, as Mr Pintard has a Wench—and Phillis will be better under her Mother than a Stranger. I will enclose a list of the general Furniture, which will direct you what to bring. The House is very indifferently fur nished, and the Finances are two low to get any more. I suppose the necessary Et cetera’s for first begining of the winter such as Wood, Hay, Wine &c will require at least 1500 Dollars. You had best bring one Suit of Curtains, or perhaps Susan must go without. The Horses I wish you could sell provided a tolerable Price could be got for them. The big Horse grows very old & I wish to be rid of him at the proper Price of £30. As to Mr. Remsen, he must either lodge in the Office & board with Mr Pintard, or take a number of Books & all the Papers to his lodging and have the Key of the office to go in occasionally, as you think best. I have referred him to you & he says he will do any Thing you are of opinion will Answer. There are no Broaches of any kind in the


[Page 416]
382 November 14, 1782 It is very late, and I can only add that I should have been very glad to have seen you. My kind Love to Mr. & Mrs Smith, Sister &ca. Am My Dr. Brother, Yours Afftly, Elias Boudinot [P.S.] Do ask Mr. Hunt, at what rate he could furnish me with 150 Bushles of good Oats—and also whether he knows of a pair of well broke large able Coach Horses—Bays 15'/2 Hands high, to be had rea sonably. I am looking out for a pair—let me know [. . .] Coll Coven- hoven, Sammy [....] RC (NjP: Stimson Boudinot Collection). 1 Approximately one-half page missing. 2 Not identified. ’ That is, Samuel Sterrett, who had been private secretary to President John Hanson and continued in the post under Boudinot. See PCC, item 142, 2:329-30. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday. 14 Novr. [1782] 1 The proceedings were confined to the report of the Committee on the case of Vermont entered on the Journal. 2 As it was notorious that Vermont had uniformly disregarded the Recommendation of Con gress of 1779, the report which ascribed the evils prevalent in that dis trict to a late act of N. Y. which violated that recommendation was generally admitted to be unjust & unfair. Mr. Howel was the only member who openly supported it. The Delegates from N. Y. denied the fact that any violation had been committed on the part of that State. The temper of Congress on this occasion as the yeas & nays shew was less favorable to Vermont than on any preceding one—the effect probably of the Cession of N. York. In the course of the debate Mr. Howel cited the case of Kentucky as somewhat parallel to that of Vermont, said that the late erection of a separate Court by Virga, for the former resembled the issuing of Commissions by N. Y. to the lat ter, 3 that the jurisdiction would probably be equally resisted & the same violences would follow as in Vermont. He was called to order by Mr. . 4 The President & the plurality of Congress supported & enforced the call. 5 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:273-74. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote: “Wednesday 13 Novr. no Congress." 2 See Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton, November 13, note 1; and James Duane to Clinton, November 15, 1782. 3 For the “case of Kentucky,” see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 27, 1782. 4 At a later date Madison inserted “Madison.” 5 For an interpretation of the rules of procedure on which Madison called David Howell “to order,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:275n.9.


[Page 417]
November 14, 1782 383 James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. Novr. 14th. 1782 By a line dropped for the post, tho’ perhaps too late to get into the mail, and by another by Dr. Tucker who soon followed, I informed you of the reappointment of Mr. Jefferson, 1 that the act passed unani mously & without even an unfavorable remark. Col. Bland by whom this goes, conveys an official notification from Mr. Livingston, under cover to Col. Monroe. As you will probably in consequence of it, if not before have an interview with Mr. Jefferson, no observations on the subject are necessary. I confide in his acceptance and flatter myself with the pleasure of soon seeing him in Philada. I inclose you the late papers which are very barren, but contain every thing which falls under the head of news. I am yr. affe. friend, J Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:275. 1 See Madison’s second letter to Randolph of November 12. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir. Philadelpa. Novr. 14th. 1782 Is it not the Duty of every sincere Friend to the State of Mas sachusetts, to examine with more Accuracy & Attention her territorial Interests, than has hitherto been done since the Commencement of the War? I apprehend we have a much fairer Opportunity now, to obtain a Just Decision of the Extent of our Country, than it was possi ble for us to have, whilst under the irresistable Controul of a Power that could say, thus far shall ye extend & no farther. Power & Policy dictated to Masstts. the most humiliating Submissions to unrighteous & arbitrary Decisions upon her Limits, Decisions destitute of every Principle of Justice, & if once admitted, would destroy every Idea of civil Society: for Compacts & Covenants the most solemnly entered into, would be vain & chimerical. Tho’ it may not admit of positive Proof, I think no rational Person can doubt, that for many years previ ous to the War, the Policy of Great Britain was, to curtail & lessen the Influence of Masstts. as much as possible: Two of the neighbouring Provinces were much better calculated to answer the Views of arbi trary Power, than chartred Governments. Masstts., Rhode Island & Connecticut, could alone, in the thirteen United States, be properly so called. The first, from her Extent of Territory must one Day become formidable of herself, unless she could be reduced to a Tenth Part of her indisputable Boundaries: for it is evident that we do not exercise Jurisdiction over more than a Tenth of the Territory con tained in the Indenture made by the Plymouth Company to Sir Henry


[Page 418]
384 November 14, 1782 Roswell & others, which never was pretended to be annull’d or vacated. I am influenced to write respecting Territory, because since my Attendance in Congress, very tedious & disagreeable have been the Debates respecting the Newhampshire Grants. 1 Very much Time has been lost to very little Purpose. We cannot make them independent in Congress. We cannot obtain a Vote to receive them into the Union. What, in this Case, must be done? Shall we suffer that Tract of Coun try to be an Asylum to all those, who choose to avoid the Burthen of supporting our Independence? Who, in this point of View, will Experi ence so great a Diminution of its Citizens as Masstts.? It is in my Opin ion greatly for our Interest that she should be independent or not immediately. Perhaps upon every Consideration, the last is most for our real Interest. For I cannot suppose Masstts. can wish for an Addi tion of a Number of small States in the Union. Upon the Principles of the present Confederation, they have a Share of Power much beyond what their Interest entitles them to: And I am perswaded that it was not possible to bring them to consent to proportion their Power by their Interest & Ability. The small States even now, watch the larger with a very Jealous Eye. And all of them unite in Favor of receiving more States into the Union. But I am more seriously impressd with the ill Policy of it on our Part, for many Reasons, than I have heretofore been. It is true that Nine States on the 20th of Augst. 1781 seemed to vote in Favor of the Independence of Vermont. 2 Whoever reads the Journals of Congress, will think that they were seriously in earnest about receiving them into the Union But Congress are much altered, & there must be a great Change, before Nine States can be obtain’d in their Favor. I begin to think there never will be, unless Vermont can make herself so formidable, as to become an Object of much higher Consideration than she seems to be at present. New York is using every conceivable Way to gain Ground in that Country. She protests solemnly as a State, against the Independence of Vermont; & denies the Power of Congress to make her so. Will Masstts. tamely suffer New York to establish civil & military government there, whilst Congress are in vain attempting to decide on a Question, which New York say is not submitted to them. Whilst the last are making as many Friends there as they can, you are rejecting them. This is in every View bad Policy, if the State mean to prosecute their Claim (in Case Vermont is not made independent) which I cannot doubt but they will do. You are not unacquainted with Charles Phelps or his Character at least: 3 he has been here several Weeks; & is one, among a Number of others, whose Property is confiscated & whom Vermont have banished from their State. Charles with two others formerly Inhabitants of Masstts. in a Petition to Congress, declared themselves to be Citizens of the State of New York. I was very well prepared to meet Charles from the Papers you had put into my Hands. I remonstrated to him, against his calling himself a Citizen of the State of New York; & told


[Page 419]
November 14, 1782 385 him that 1 had his own Arguments in his Hand writing, to prove that, that Part of Vermont, where he lived, was within the indisputable Boundaries of Masstts.—that I was very sorry to find that he persisted in acting inconsistently. It must weaken all his Applications—But as to hurting his Reputation or Credit, I did not suppose it would, for it was too notorious that for a long Course of years, he had been playing himself off upon Newhampshire, Masstts. & New York: that every Body acquainted with his Negociations, must consider him as destitute of every Principle of Consistency. He said he did not know what Papers of his Writing, I might have—But he had not altered his Sentiments as to Masstts. having a clear Right to about fifty Townships in the Coun try of Vermont. He said he could not submit to the arbitrary Govern ment of Vermont. Masstts. has refused to afford any Protection, she has rejected the People. But New York have not; They have a Claim, & are determined to defend it, & to succour all the People who will acknowledge themselves to be their Citizens. Where else, therefore, can I go but to New York. It is in vain for me to apply to Masstts. How ever inconsistent Charles may otherwise be, there is Weight in these Observations. They suggest to me that Masstts. ought to have adopted another Mode of Conduct with Respect to those People. If her Dele gates in Congress had favoured their Independence, the State should not have rejected the People: for their Disaffection & consequently different Attachment may be a weighty Argument against you, whilst it gives an Ascendancy to the New York Interest. The local Position of the Country favors Masstts. much more than New York. We can either protect or subdue them, which, in her present Situation, the other cannot do. New York make a great Noise about the Resolutions of Congress of the 24th of Sepr. 1779 & the 2d of June 1780. 4 The first of these Reso lutions, appears to me to be inconsistent with the Nature of civil Gov ernment: It contains a Recommendation both to the State of New York, & the People of Vermont to be peaceable: That neither exercise Jurisdiction over any, but such as chearfully submit to it. The Gover nor of New York has, within the six Months past, issued Commissions civil & military, without any Restrictions in those Commns. so that he has attempted to establish Government at large. The Legislative Power of Vermont knowing this, make a severe Law to imprison, conficate, & finally banish all such as deny their sovereign Authority. That Law has been executed with Rigor upon many Individuals. Charles was a Judge of an inferior Court under New York, the other two had military Com missions dated the 5th of last June. Whilst the East & West Wings, as they were call’d, continued united with Vermont, the very People now here supported it & would not have taken Commissions from any other State. But as soon as those Wings were cast off, these People cast off Vermont also; and knowing that New York, & no other State, would receive them, they resorted thither. But I believe there is no Doubt but they would have resorted to Masstts. as their Relations &


[Page 420]
386 November 14, 1782 Acquaintances are all there, if the State would have countenanced them in Vermont. Upon the Principles of the aforesd. Resolution, the People may, as often as they please, change from New York to Ver mont, & from Vermont to New York. If New York have not exceeded us in Policy, it is not for Want of any Care & Vigilance of theirs. They possess not only a great Fund of Intrigue, but it is accompanied with unremitted Zeal. New York whilst a royal Government, was moduled upon the Principles of Arbitrary, despotic Power. The Predominancy of british Interest in her Favor on this Account, was very apparent—& New York knew the Advantages of it well; which is a very plain Reason to me, why they appeared at first very cold, not to say opposed to seek ing a Redress of Grievances, by the last Appeal. The sensible Men were nearly all, deeply interested in unreasonably large Grants of Land; & tho Truth & Justice were against them, must have considered, that with Britain they could have obtained their Point, & an immense Territory—But with America confederated, her uncertain vague & encroaching Pretensions must be examined with an Eye of Reason, which they will not bear. They could therefore but conclude, that their Interest was closely connected with Britain, & the Moment they relaxed from that hold, the Principles of Tyranny & Injustice would favor them no longer. New York had set their Eye & nearly their Foot, upon a Territory which would have one Day of itself bid Defiance to powerful Nations—very little exposed by Sea, she is by Nature cacu- lated for the best Defence in the World. The Extent of Country which New York Claims, is vastly beyond what I had conceived—well might Doctr. Douglass in his Map published in the Year 1757 5 Color about one third of the Continent for New York. The Territory claimed con tains about one & Twenty Times as much Land, as the old Colonies of Masstts. & Plimouth in their present State. But New York have ceded to the united States all the Land westward of a Meridian Line to be drawn Twenty Miles Westward of Niagara Falls; confining themselves to a State that contains about Nine Times as much Land as the above mentioned Colonies. I am sorry to take up your Time by adding more to an unreasonably long Letter—But I have Just read several Passages in it to Genl. Lin coln. He charges me with being more of the Politician than he sus pected. I dont know what he meant to convey by the Word Politician. I am sensible, some Things I have wrote should be perfectly confiden tial—those I confide to you not as maturely digested Sentiments. I did not doubt but you would consider them as such. I think notwithstand ing the General’s Charge, his Sentiments do not differ greatly from mine—to your Candor I submit the whole to be Judged & dispos’d of as you may think proper. Since writing the above, I happened to take up a Paper which con tained Minutes, in a Hand writing well known. 6 They claim a Place


[Page 422]
388 November 14, 1782 Banished to return. 9 New York will look upon this as an Insult; and Vermont will exult. I am, dear Sir, your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 Osgood was also a member of the committee that reported November 12 on the question of legal authority in Vermont, which arose from a September 16 letter of New York governor George Clinton and petitions of Charles Phelps, William Shattuck, and Henry Evans. See JCC, 23:723-26; Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton, November 13, note 1; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, this date. 2 For this resolution, declaring that the recognition of Vermont independence would be conditional on her acceptance of boundaries set by Congress, see JCC, 21:887-88. 3 For Phelps’ “character,” see these letters, 14:40n.l and 333n.2. 4 See ibid., 13:546-54, 15:239-40, 255-57, 267. 5 Osgood may be referring to one of the maps that was added as an appendix to the 1757 printing of William Douglass, A Summary, Historical and Political, of the First Planting, Progressive Improvements, and Present State of the British Settlements in North America. 2 vols. (Boston: Rogers and Fowle, 1749-51); Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 7,885. 6 The author of the “minutes” is not identified; but Osgood inserted the minutes at the end of this paragraph. 7 See note 1 above. 8 JCC, 15:1095-99. 9 JCC, 17:482-84. Jonathan Arnold to Daniel Cahoon Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 15th. 1782. The inclosed 1 was written in haste in expectation of an opportunity to send it directly but as the person who now takes it by the way of Providence, does not set off ’til afternoon I snatch a moment to make some addition. News we have none more than the inclosed Paper contains. Congress have for several days been on the affair of Vermont, and upon the whole it appears that the present members will do nothing to their Advantage. I have it from the Friends of N.Y. That it is most probable—a new State will be finally formed on Connecticut River, its western line the Chain of Green Mountains and its eastern, they care not where—but I tho’t the Gentn might have imagined that N. Hampr. had its public feelings as well as NY—and would as much conceive themselves injured by a diminution of Territory as they. 2 I think it would not be amiss to suggest this to the Friends of N. Hampr. and let them know, that it is not improbable N.Y. Policy may, if Vermont is not supported in her present claims, set such a project on foot, in order to secure the lands West of the Mountains and on the Lakes, to themselves, at N. Hamp’s, expence, and that (as the only sure means of preventing such an event,) it is the Policy of N. Hampr. to concede in the Clearest & most decided manner to Vermont’s


[Page 424]
390 November 15, 1782 James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 15th Novem’r 1782. 1 I had some Reason to hope that a decisive Act might before this have passed respecting the district of the Grants; but as not more than eight States are now represented, and I am under an indispens able necessity of returning home speedily, I despair of it. I trust so entirely to your Excellency’s Candour that I do not fear we shall be accused of Want of Zeal for our Jurisdiction, or respect for our offi cial Instructions: every thing on our part has been urged to produce a Determination: but this business, clogged by the heavy pressure of eastern Influence, has always moved heavily. A wish to procrastinate still prevails; even the most candid are apprehensive of the Conse quences of driving the Vermont Faction to despair and no Pains are spared by the interested to sound this Alarm and give it every possi ble Impression. There seems however no danger that many of the States will ever Vote for the Independance of Vermont. If Justice was out of the Question, there are political Obstacles of vast weight: and the favorable Change of our Circumstances entitle us to hope that we shall never again see the dangerous Crisis to which we were reduced when the p s 2 Resolutions of the 20th of August 1781 unhappily took place. In the mean time the unhappy Sufferers from the late cruel Out rage demand our Compassion and our protection. A Report highly injurious to the Rights and the Honour of our State, fabricated by a Mass, and R. I. Delegate, was this moment rejected by all the States present, Rh. I. only excepted and New Hampshire divided. 3 It has served to shew a clear alteration of Sentiment, with respect to Ver mont; and leaves an opening to introduce some Motion in favour of those our distressed and much injured Fellow Citizens: but noth ing which promises salutary Effects can be hazarded in so thin a Congress. . . . Be pleasd ... to hurry on Hamilton and Floyd my worthy Col leagues. Reprinted from Burnett, letters, 6:541-42, from a document located in the New York State Library before the Albany fire of 1911. 1 Duane probably drafted this letter on November 14, the date Congress rejected the Vermont report which Duane indicates occurred “this moment” and which is entered on the journals of the 14th. See JCC, 23:723-26; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 14. 2 Perhaps, “pernicious.” 3 See note 1.


[Page 426]
392 November 17, 1782 ing to me & will eventually redound to the credit of our State & I hope to the benefit of the whole Union. 1 That this important vote was passed after such a perfect under standing of the subject, with so much deliberation & with entire una nimity are circumstances which bid defiance to all future attempts from the advocates of that measure. I am sorry youd forgot to mention in yours the names of the Commit tee appointed to write a Letter to Congress on the Subject. Without knowing their names a suitable Letter cannot be written to them & after your next to me I fear it will be too late to address them. You will please to write them not to assign the withholding the Back Lands as a reason. That reason was better calculated to influence the State than to sat isfy Congress—And besides, New-York cession of claims has been accepted & that business got into a good train. I wish to receive the Instructions you mention as soon as possible, 2 my stay being short. 3 The Load of ill will jealousy & envy drawn on me, by the part I have taken in this affair has placed me in a very disagreable Situation. The approbation of the well informed & virtuous of my constituents in addition to that of my own Conscience has hitherto sustained me & is all I expect. Pray give my respects to those in your present circle, if any, to whom I have the Honor to be known; & believe me to be with singular esteeme, Dear Sir, your most obedient & very humble Servt, David Howell [P.S.] Dr Arnold’s respectful Comps. & good wishes attend you. 4 RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Addressed: “The Honble Welcome Arnold Esquire, Tren ton. To the Care of Honble Mr. Houston.” 1 Howell was referring to the vote in the lower house of the Rhode Island assembly unanimously rejecting the proposed five percent impost amendment (actually by 53 rather than 54 representatives), official notice of which reached Congress on December 12. See JCC, 23:788-90; and Staples, Rhode Island, p. 399. 2 For these delegate instructions from the Rhode Island Assembly, see Bartlett, R.I. Records, 9:612. 3 However, Howell’s departure was delayed when he was subsequently charged with vio lating Congress’ secrecy rules, undoubtedly in large part in retaliation for his role in mar shalling Rhode Island’s opposition to the impost amendment. See Howell to John Carter, October 16, note 2; and Jonathan Arnold to William Greene, December 18, 1782. 4 Postscript in the hand ofjonathan Arnold. David Howell to Theodore Foster Dear Sir, Philadelphia 17 Nov. 1782. Yours of 29 Ult. came duly to hand by Dr P. Bowen, last evening. I hope, Sir, your apprehensions about the approaches of Tyranys


[Page 432]
398 November 18, 1782 envious eye on the large States & wish to make us all of the Pigmy breed. The assembly of this State have just received accounts that the Inhabitants in General over the Allegany Mountain are disposed to declare themselves Independent. There is the utmost reason to believe that the People of Vermont & their abettors in the minor States are endeavouring to persuade the People in General on the Western Waters to revolt. A Petition was some time ago handed to Congress said to be from some People on the back of Virginia, pray ing to be erected into a State. 2 On enquiry there was much reason to believe that the Petition did not originate in the Western Country & it is doubted whether three of these People had ever seen it. Having mentioned those facts, I flatter myself that you will think with me That the utmost attention is required by our State to prevent if possible any bad impressions from being made on the Citizens of the State on the Western Waters. The Spirit of our Government is so moderate & the general disposition of the Western Inhabitants is so good that I am at least convinced that our subjects will be among the last who will run riot. As the State has shewn &, I am persuaded ever will shew the utmost Inclination to gratify their wishes & provide for the Regular administration of Justice among them. I have the honor to be, Hu Williamson Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See James Madison to Benjamin Harrison, November 15, 1782. 2 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 27, 1782, note 2. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. Novr. 19th. 1782. I find by your favor of the 8th that your occupation with the Courts has continued to be a bar to the completion of the Cypher. 1 It is very little missed however on my part as yet, the scantiness of intelligence being still unremoved. We have indeed reports without stint, but they are often most frequent when they have least foundation. Such of them as have the best title to notice, will be found in the newspapers. The proceedings of Congress for a week past have been equally unproductive of epistolary matter. For one half of the time we have failed in making a House, and the remaining half has been spent on minute objects. Col. Bland set out on friday last. 2 He carried with him an official notification to Mr. J n of his reappointment. I wrote to the latter, informing him of an excellent passage if he could be ready for it in about a month, but urging a previous visit to this place as indispens able. 3 Altho’ strictly speaking such a visit may not be essential, since the commission & instructions referred to in his appointment are at


[Page 433]
November 19, 1782 399 the place of his destination, yet, I wish him to be made sensible of the salutary information which may here be added to them. Col. Bland also carried to the Govr. an extract of a letter from Genl. Irwin at Fort Pitt, which displays in full colours the avidity of the Western people for the vacant lands & for separate Govts. 4 On this subject Richmond I suppose will afford better information. I take for granted that every material article of it, with the steps taken by the legislature with respect to Western affairs in general, will fall within your correspondence. The prospect derived from the impost of 5 Per Ct. seems to be pretty thoroughly blasted by a unanimous & final veto by the Assembly of Rhode Island. 5 This State by its Delegates (who fully represent the aversion of their Constituents to the impost) voted in Congress that 6 million of Dollars were necessary for the year 83, that 2 Million were as much as the States could raise & as ought to be required by Con gress, and that applications for loans in Europe ought to be relied on for the residue. 6 And yet they absolutely refuse the only fund which could be satisfactory to lenders. The indignation against this perverse sister is increased by her shameful delinquency in the constitutional requisitions. The Tribunal erected for the controversy between Connecticut & Pennsa. was I hear to be opened today. 7 The Judges who compose it are Mr. Whipple of N. Hamshire, Mr. Arnold of Rhode Island, the Chief Justice & another gentlemn. of N. Jersey & Mr. C. Griffin of Virga. Mr. Rutledge, Mr. Jones & Genl Nelson have declined the ser vice. On the part of Penna, appear Mr. Wilson, Mr Reed, Mr. Brad ford & Mr. Sergeant. Mr. Osburne assists in the capacity of Solicitor. On the part of Connecticut are deputed Mr. Dyer, Mr. Root, & Doer. Sami. Johnson. The first & the last I am told are on the spot. It is sup posed that the first object of Cont. will be to adjourn the cause to a distant day on the plea that many of their essential documents are beyond the Atlantic. In a national view it is not perhaps advisable to invalidate the title of this State however defective it may be, untill a more important controversy is terminated. I will make the earliest communication of the issue of this trial. You will not forget a like promise which your letter makes with respect [to] the case lately decided by the Court of Appeals. 8 Mr. Jones ventured yesterday for the first time since his relapse, into Congress. The Representation of Virga, untill a reinforcement arrives will be precarious. Can you give me no encouragement on this occa sion from your own purposes? RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:288-90. 1 See ibid., pp. 262-64. 2 That is, Theodorick Bland left Philadelphia November 15. 3 Madison’s letter to Thomas Jefferson has not been found, but for Jefferson’s “reap pointment” see Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 12, note 2.


[Page 434]
400 November 19,1782 4 See Madison to Benjamin Harrison, November 15, note 1. s See David Howell to Welcome Arnold, November 17, note 1. 6 The October 16 vote on the requisition for 1783 was not recorded in the journals, but for the positions on state quotas taken by Rhode Island delegates David Howell and Jonathan Arnold on October 18, see JCC, 23:658—60, 665—69. 7 The court of commissioners appointed by Congress in August to meet at Trenton, N.J., on November 12 to hear evidence in the Connecticut-Pennsylvania land dispute had delayed their proceedings for a week until a sufficient number of the principals involved had gathered. See John Hanson to William Whipple and Others, August 28; Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, September 25 and October 19; Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:144-247; Robert J. Taylor, “Trial at Trenton,” WMQ 26 (Oct. 1969): 524-47; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:74-87. 8 SeejosephJones to Edmund Pendleton, November 12, note 3. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 19th. 1782 The pretended territorial Limits & Boundaries of the several States will be a Source of no small Difficulty & Dispute. The constant Object of the small States will be, to lessen the Extent of the great ones. Will any then in the small States be disinterested Judges in Case they should be appointed conformably to the Confederation, to sit in Judg ment upon the Limits of a large State? Should, for Instance, Masstts. claim a great Part of the Territory of Country, that N. York has ceded to the confederated States, which Cession Congress or seven States say is accepted; how can she obtain a fair Decision? Not only New York, but all the States, who were in favor of that Acceptance, will be against us, from interested Motives. I see but one Way whereby Masstts. can bring back the States to an Equilibrium: which is for Masstts. to cede all the Land between their North & South Boundaries, Beginning Westward at the Missisippi & extending Eastward about Two hundred Miles farther than the Cession of N. York. This would leave a very large Extent of Territory to N. York & would probably be an effectual Plan to oust them, as it would be a strong Lure to the small States. It would be difficult for them with all their Policy to combat Interest. But would this be a political Measure for Masstts.? If the Chance is against her gaining Ground in that Country, it would be unwise to be at any Expence about it. But if, notwithstanding, she could throw a large Tract of Territory into the Hands of the United States to be appropriated for the Discharge of the public Debt: The Question then with Masstts. must turn upon two Considerations first, What Probabil ity there is, that such a Fund will be productive—& secondly, whether Policy points out any Necessity of restricting New York within smaller Limits. I think it is not to be questioned, but N. York will immediately Pro ceed to locate the Lands now contained in their assumed Boundaries, which will not be in Favor of Masstts.


[Page 435]
November 19,1782 401 It is well known that Maryland refused to confederate for several years, because that she had no Security that she should enjoy her due Proportion of the vacant Lands within the united States. Congress to obviate this Difficulty, earnestly recommended to the several States having or claiming vacant Lands, to make liberal Cessions to the united States. Virginia, N. York & Connecticut made Cessions. New York Cession was signed & executed by the Delegates of that State in Congress, the same Day that the Delegates of Maryland signed the Confederation—but was not accepted by Congress, till last October. Then a Question arose whether Congress could by the Confederation accept of the Cession of any State. Upon this, one of the Maryland Delegates 1 made the following Observations to me. Maryland refused to confederate, till Congress recommended as above, upon the Strength or expected Success of that Recommendation, she confederated, & took the Risque of the States making Cessions upon herself. If they had made none, she would not have been released from her Obligation. But if Cessions are made, & Congress determine that they have no Power to accept of them—Maryland is not then bound by the Confederation—for Congress know what their Objections were against confederating, (those Objections are now in the Secretary’s Office) & took proper Measures to remove them. But if they will not carry those Measures thro, Maryland is not to be bound by what she has done. It was not intimated to me that Maryland would withdraw in Case Congress should reject the Idea of Cessions, but only that they would have a clear Right so to do. I am not so clear in the Matter myself. I am, dear Sir, Your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 Not identified; but the Maryland delegates attending Congress when the New York cession was accepted were Daniel Carroll, John Hanson, William Hemsley, and Turbutt Wright. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. Novr. 19th. 1782. We had the honor yesterday of your Excellency’s letter of the 8th inst. 1 on the several subjects of which we must postpone an answer untill the next mail. We are sorry to be obliged to repeat our inability to add any intelli gence relative to the negociations for peace. Various reports prevail of the surrender of Gibralter, but they amount to nothing more than a small degree of probability. The investiture of Jamaica is also reported, but rests on still more slender testimony. There seems to be


[Page 436]
402 November 19, 1782 every proof of the evacuation of Charlestown short of an official report of it. Col. Bland set out on friday last for Richmond. 2 To his information we beg leave to refer for a full state of all precedent circumstances. We have the honor to be with great esteem Yr. Excelly’s obt. & humble servts. Jos. Jones J Madison Jr 3 RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Written by Madison and signed by Madison and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:288. 1 See ibid., pp. 257-58. 2 That is Friday November 15. On his return home, Theodorick Bland sent the Vir ginia Board of Auditors on December 7 “a scale of the Actual State of depreciation as it took place in Philadelphia during the Currency of Paper Money,” with a request that the Virginia delegates’ accounts “be settled as soon as possible by the Monthly average of the enclosed Scales,” and allowing them “48/ Specie per diem” in consequence of an act of the Virginia Assembly at their last session. Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 3 According to a copy of the “Rules for conducting Business in the United States in Congress Assembled” maintained by Elias Boudinot covering the period May 4, 1781, to May 15, 1783, Congress this day adopted the following additional rule which is not recorded in the journals. “Resolved That when a Proposition consists of a negatived Resolution & a negatived Amendment, such resolution is out of order.” Emmet Collection, no. 441, NN. For the congressional rules in force at this time, see JCC, 20:476—82, 22:75—76. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My Dr. Sir Philadelphia Novr. 20t 1782, 5 oClock PM I have been waiting with great Impatience for the Arrival of my Family, but am disappointed. I can only let you know that I am well, & cover the Papers if I mean to improve this Post. We have some tolera ble Foundation to believe that Gibraltar has surrendered, and that a large Reinforcement has arrived at Martinico. Kind Love to Mrs. P. & Johnny—also remember me to all Friends. Am My Dr. Sir, Yours Afftly. Elias Boudinot RC (MWA: Nathaniel Paine—Irving’s Life of Washington Collection). John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir, Philada. Novr. 20th. 1782. In my Letter of the 29th Ultimo I Informed you that the affairs of Vermont were then under Consideration, much has been said on this Subject but no Conclusion made—almost all agree that it is absolutely Necessary to make a final determination of the matter, but are at a loss to know what is best to be done.


[Page 446]
412 November 22, 1782 Franklin had taken in the measure; that finally the Marquis de la Fayette, who in consequence of the liberation of Cornwallis had undertaken an exchange of several officers of his family, would also participate in the mortification; that it was overrating far the impor tance of Cornwallis, to sacrifice all these considerations to the policy or gratification of prolonging his captivity. On the opposite side it was said that the British Govt, having treated Mr. L. as a Traytor not as a Prisoner of war, having refused to exchange him for Genl Burgoyne, and having declared by the British Genl at N. York that he had been freely discharged, neither Mr. L. nor Congress could be bound either in honor or justice to render an equivalent; and that policy absolutely required that so barbarous an instrumt. of war, and so odious an object to the people of the U. S. should be kept as long as possible in the chains of captivity; that as the latest advices rendered it probable that Mr. L. was on his return to America, the commission for peace would not be affected by any mark of disapprobation which might fall on his conduct; that no injury could accrue to Doer. Franklin, because he had guarded his act by an express reservation for the confirmation or disallowance of Congress; that the case was the same with the Marquis de la Fayette; that the dec laration agst. partial exchanges 6 untill a Cartel on national principles sd. be established wd. not admit even an exchange antecedt. thereto. These considerations were no doubt with some the sole motives to their respective votes. There were others however who at least blended with them, on one side, a personal attachment to Mr. L. and on the other, a dislike to his character, and a jealousy excited by his supposed predilection for G. B., by his intimacy with some of the new Ministry, by his frequent passing to & from G. B. by the eulogiums pronounced on him by Mr. Burke in the House of Commons, and by his memorial whilst in the Tower to the Parliamt. The last considera tion was the chief ground on which the motion had been made for suspending the resolution which requested his continuance in the Commission for peace. In this stage of the business a motion was made by Mr. Duane, 2ded. by Mr. Rutlidge to postpone the consideration of it; which being lost, a motion was made by Mr. Williamson to substitute a Reso lution declaring that as the B. Govt, had treated Mr. L. with so unwar rantable a rigor & even as a Traitor, and Cornwallis had rendered himself so execrable by his barbarities, Congress could not ratify his exchange. 7 An adjournment was called for in order to prevent a vote with so thin & divided a house. 8 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:302-3. 1 For Laurens’ May 30 letter, see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, September 16-17, 1782. 2 For this committee’s appointment and September 25 report, see JCC, 23:606-7; PCC, item 186, fols. 56, 58; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:163-66.


[Page 447]
November 23,1782 413 s The report was recommitted on September 26, reconsidered on November 21 and again recommitted. See PCC, item 186, fols. 59, 69. 4 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:301. 5 For this September 17 resolution and the September 20 motion for its suspension, see JCC, 23:584-85, 593; and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, September 19 and 20, 1782. 6 For this October 16 “declaration,” see JCC, 23:661. 7 The motions of James Duane and Hugh Williamson are not mentioned in the jour nals for this day, but Williamson renewed his motion on November 25 when it was, according to Charles Thomson’s endorsement, “Got rid of by dividg the question.” See JCC, 23:753; PCC, item 19, 3:457-58; and Madison's Notes, November 25, note 4. 8 Following this entry Madison wrote, “No Congress till Monday Novr. 25.” Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir. Philadelphia Novr. 23d. 1782 We have this Week had Debates in Congress upon two Subjects of great Importance; I flatter myself, that some of the Observations con tained in this Letter, will not be unacceptable. One, was the Necessity of a speedy Liquidation of the Accounts of the several States with the united States. The other was, respecting the Mode prescribed by the Confederation, to ascertain what proportion each State in the Union ought to bear in the Requisitions for Money. The Debates arose upon the Report of a Committee upon a Memorial of the Assembly of Penn sylvania, respecting Interest due on public Securities. To satisfy the State, the Committee observed, That Congress had taken Measures to obtain an Impost, That they had lately accepted the Cession of Land from New York—And as to the Liquidation & Adjustment of Accounts, they referred the State to the Act of Congress of the 20th of Feby. last. This Report was attacked from several Quarters, but from none so warmly as from South Carolina. Mr. Rutledge observed, that the first Thing taken Notice of, could afford no Satisfaction to the State; for we had not obtain’d the Impost; & if we had, the Amount of it must be appropriated to the Discharge of the Interest on the foreign Loans. Those Loans must be placed on safe Ground. Our Honor & future Interest will require it. As to an Impost, he lik’d it very well in this View. But what does it signify to be constantly talking about an Impost—& placing our whole Depen dence upon it? have not Rhode Island lately declared unanimously that they will not grant it? & consequently no State has granted it. As to the accepted Cession of Land, it was an idle chimerical Notion, to suppose that, that would afford any Hope or Satisfaction to our Credi tors. He had no Faith in it: It would prove to be nothing, but another South Sea, or Mississippi Scheme. Besides, what Right have those to the Land who made the Cession. It is my clear Opinion, that they have none at all. Why should we deceive ourselves, by hoping or expecting any Aid from it—surely we ought not.


[Page 448]
414 November 23, 1782 As to referring the Assembly to the Act of Congress of the 20th of Feby. they were already possess’d of it. But it will not to do to pass over this Matter so lightly. We must know the Reason why the Intention of that Act is frustrated. It is in vain to tell us that Commissioners cannot be obtained for fifteen hundred Dollars per Year to go to the several States & liquidate the Accounts. But if they cannot, (which I cannot suppose to be the Case) the Accounts must be adjusted & the Act must be made more effectual. This is the first Thing to be attended to. It is the general Complaint of a great Number of the States, that they have large Accounts against the Continent unadjusted. This Adjust ment is absolutely necessary, as we cannot provide Funds for our Debts, till we know the Amo. of them. The Obstructions therefore, must be examined into & removed immediately. The next Step is to ascertain the Proportions of the several States according to the 8th Article of the Confederation. Why is this only constitutional Mode of calling for Money delayed? It is true that some Part of some of the States, is in the Hands of the Enemy. But it is probable, that a Part of New York only, will be so in a short Time. But if it was otherwise, it is no Reason for our not pursuing the Mode pointed out to us. It is the only sure Ground on which we can stand. It is said not to be a good Mode. But will the States unanimously alter it? No they will not. What can Congress then do? Nothing but to pursue the Plan prescribed to them. When they have obtained a Valuation of the States, & the Amount of the Debts due to their own Citizens, they can call for the requisite Sums of Money with Authority. Here they stand on safe Ground And I have no doubt either of the Ability or Intention of the United States, to discharge all their Debts honestly. It is in vain to think to force the smallest State in the Union into Measures which they dislike. The Confederation has not given to Congress an Impost, Excise, or Pole Tax. Nor can they speak authoritatively on these Mat ters to the States. There will be many Difficulties undoubtedly in obtaining a Just Valuation of the States—and I am of Opinion, that a better & much easier Mode, would have been, to have made Numbers the governing Rule of Proportion, including Whites & Blacks; there is no good Reason why Blacks should not be included. But there is only one Way left us—& notwithstanding it is attended with Difficulties, I don’t conceive them insurmountable. We must make the Attempt, & I have no doubt we shall succeed, so far as to obtain a Valuation. It may not be a true one; perhaps this is impossible in the Nature of Things—But we must at all Events obtain the best we can. These Observations are so nearly conformable to my own Senti ments, that I thot it better to give you the Purport of Mr. R’s than my own. He appears to me very liberal & disinterested.


[Page 449]
November 23, 1782 415 The Report of the Committee was recommitted, in order to remove the Obstructions in the Way of a speedy Settlement of Accounts. A Committee was appointed to Report a Plan for taking a Valuation. Whilst this Matter was debating, I tho’t I discovered an Indifference in some of the Members towards a speedy Liquidation of Accounts. The first Part of the Motion was, to Report a more effectual Mode for the Settlement of Accounts. This was opposed & negatived. The other Part of the Motion, being a Direction to the Committee to Report a Plan for taking a Valuation. Mr. R. withdrew it. He said he wanted no Valuation, if there was to be no Adjustment of Accounts. This bro’t about an Accommodation. The first was recommitted; & the second was committed. I am on the last, & have been enquiring for the Laws of Massatts. to see our Valuation Acts but cannot find them. They know very little about such Acts this Way. I am induced to beleive that the 8th Art. of the Confederation is favourable to Masstts. provided we can obtain a Valuation as nearly Right, 1 as we have Reason to expect. A View of the Number of Square Miles in each State will enable you to form a Judgment upon the same Principles that I do. But whether the Rule is equal or unequal, is not the Question. It is the only Rule & we shall obtain no other, unless upon a fair Experiment it is clearly found to be altogether inadequate to our national Purposes. It is as preposterous, as vain & triffling, to be constantly exclaiming against the Confederation, because it has not vested Congress with a Power of Taxing & coercing &ca. Let us try it’s full Strength before we pass a hasty Judgment upon it. Altho the Pow ers are not competent to all Things—Time may discover such latent Powers in the Confederation, as may in vain be wished to be altered. I have taken considerable Pains to collect from the Maps, the Extent of the several States in the Union. I find the Claims of the united States make a Square of Eight hundred & forty two Miles on every Side. In this View, I think it is as near the Truth as can be expected. The Sum total of the following Number of Square Miles set against the sev eral States &ca will give a Territory of the above Dimentions. Square Miles New Hampshire 10,425 21 2 Old Colonies of Masstts. & Plymouth 8,750 as now limited Eastern Country 20,000 56 Rhode Island 2,700 5 Connecticut 5,100 10 New York 70,560 141 403 160 24 111 45


[Page 456]
422 November 26, 1782 in honor or justice, to render an equivalent, whilst policy strongly inculcated that so barbarous an instrument of war and so odious an object to the people of the U. S. should be held as long as possible in the chains of captivity; that as the latest advices rendered it probable that Mr. L. was at this time on his return to America, the dignity of the Commission for peace could not suffer from any mark of disap probation which might lie on his public conduct; that Doer. F.’s char acter was guarded against injury in the case by an express reservation in his act for the allowance or disapprobation of Congress; that the same might be said with respect to the Marquis de la Fayette; that the solemn declaration made by Congress agst. any partial exchanges untill a cartell should be established on national principles would not admit even of a ratification of an exchange antecedent to that declaration. These were the ostensible reasons for the opposite opinions on this question. We may well suppose however, that with some mem bers at least they were secretly corroberated, on one side by {personal attachment to} Mr. L. and on the other by a dislike {to his character and a distrust excited by circumstances) which I some time ago related to you. It is to be observed at the same time that several mem bers who admitted the force of this last consideration, were led by the arguments first stated, to oppose the opinion of those who urged it. The Question was at length suspended at the request of some new members who wished for further information. 10 There is some reason to believe that it will be followed by an attempt to {rescind the appointment). The obstinacy of Rhode Island in rejecting the Impost, is a subject of very general and {pointed crimination) not only among {the public creditors and their friends) who deem it equivalent to a {denial of jus tice) but among the most {enlightened patrons of the foederal inter ests) who pronounce it a {blow to our credit abroad) as well as {our future credit at home). And in truth who can combine this considera tion with the paltry {payments on the last requisition of Congress and not shudder at the prospect). This obstinacy on the part of R. I. is sup posed, on good grounds, to be much {cherished by the) limited man ner in which other {states have acceded to the impost) from which she infers a latent repugnance to the measure. Would it not then be pru dent (in Virginia to) revise and {enlarge her act of compliance}? If {her example} should prove {less efficatious} than might {be wished} it would at least {have a conciliating effect on other states and gain her general credit}. I see no possible objection; unless indeed, she wishes the {plan to be frustrated); in which case I can only give it as my firm opinion that a thorough knowledge of public affairs would speedily


[Page 460]
426 November 27, 1782 I have the honor to be, with Sentiments of the most sincere Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt & most Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 These letters, which were read in Congress on November 4, 8, and 25 respectively, are in PCC, item 152, 11:17-36. The first and last of these are also in Washington, Writ ings (Fitzpatrick), 25:307-8, 350-51. 2 The enclosed November 27 resolve directed Washington to apprehend Luke Knowl ton and Samuel Wells of the New Hampshire Grants because they were reported to have been “in a dangerous correspondence and intercourse with the enemy.” Their commu nication with the enemy, especially the royal attorney general of New York, William Smith, had been the subject of the deposition of Christopher Osgood of Providence, which was sent to Washington by the deputy governor of Rhode Island, and had been referred to committee with the injunction “To be kept secret.” Osgood’s deposition was also the catalyst for Congress' follow-up resolve of December 3 directing that the execu tives of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New York be furnished with a copy of “Osgood’s declaration, in order that they may have due information of the trea sonable practices with which some of their subjects are charged. See JCC, 23:756, 760-61; PCC, item 19, 3:397-99; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:352-53; and Boudinot’s letters of December 11 to Thomas Chittenden and to Washington. David Howell to Silas Talbot Dear Sir, Philadelphia 27 Nov. 1782. Yours of Nov. 4th is before me—Sd answered it sooner had your account been settled.' I send you a copy of the State of your account. Your certificate for the ballance 1340 53/90 Dollars bears intrest from the 19th Instant. I shall bring it with me on my return, which I expect will be in a few days. Enclosed I return you all the Letters & papers in your case. For Depreciation on your nominal pay you are to apply to the State agreeably to the resolve of Congress. Your accounts have been settled on similar principles with others no particular favour could be obtained in your case. Your case is hard but you have fortitude to bear it. Money is not to be had. I could wish to have served you in this, which to you is an affair of Consequence, in such a manner as to have better justified your long prepossession in my favour; what I could, I have done & hope it will give you Satisfaction. Please to present my regards to all friends & let them know I hope to see them soon. I am Dear Sir, your Friend & humble Servt, David Howell. RC (CtMyHi: Talbot Papers). Addressed: “Lieut. Colonel Silas Talbot, Providence.” i See Howell to Talbot, October 23, 1782, note.


[Page 461]
November 27,1782 427 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday Novr. 27th [1782]. The report of the Committee on the letter from the Lt. Govr. of R. Island (see Novr. 25) was made & taken into consideration. 1 It was moved by Mr. McKean to insert in the first clause on the Jour nal, after directing the apprehension by Genl W. “in order that the sd persons may be brought to trial.” The reason urged for the motion was that it might appear that the interposition was not meant to supercede civil process farther than the necessity of the case required. Agst. the motion it urged that it would lead to discussions extremely perplexing & dilatory, & that it would be more proper after the appre hension sd have taken place. The motion was lost 6 States only being for it. With respect to the main question it was agreed on all sides that it was indispensable to the safety of the U. S. that a traiterous inter course between the inhabitants of Vermont & the Enemy should be suppressed. There were however two modes proposed for the purpose viz the direct & immediate interposition of the military force accord ing to the Report, and 2dly. A reference in the first instance to the act ing Authority in Vermont, to be followed in case of refusal or neglect of Justice on the offenders, by an exertion of compulsive measures against the whole body. In favor of the 1st mode it was sd. that it would be the only effectual one & the only one consistent with the part Congress had observed with regard to Vermont; Since a reference to the Authority of Ver mont which had itself been suspected & accused would certainly be followed at the best by a mere mock trial; and would more over be a stronger recognition of its independence than Congress had made or meant to make. In favor of the 2d mode it was alledged that the body of the people in Vermont were well attached to the Revolution, that a sudden march of military force into the Country might alarm them, that if their Rulers abetted the Traitors, it wd. disgrace them in the eyes of their own people, and that Congress would be justified in that event to “split Vermont up among the other States.” This expression as well as the arguments on this side in general came from Mr. Howell of R. I. whose object was to render the proceedings of Congress as favorable as possible to the Independence of Vermont. In order to compromise the matter Mr. Arnold moved that the Commander in chief sd. be directed to make a previous communica tion of his intentions & the evidence on which they were founded to the persons exercising authority within the district in question.


[Page 471]
December 2, 1782 437 Hugh Williamson to James Iredell Dear Sir: Philadelphia, Dec. 2, 1782. Your favor of the 13th ultimo came to hand by this day’s post. The Secretary for Foreign Affairs had called on me some days ago to know what answer I had got on the subject of the memoir, 1 and, supposing that it had missed its passage, I had made out another copy which would have been sent on to-morrow. I had not recollected the circuit of courts. Of news, there is none in town, civil or military, foreign or domestic, since a foolish fellow, four months ago, blew out his brains, as a proof that he had none; or what is nearly the same thing, he killed himself, because a coquette proved to be nothing but a coquette. Since that event nobody has ever killed themselves for the amusement of the public, nor does this town produce any news! To say that balls and dances are frequent is saying little, for we have them every night. Should I say that such are the late improvements in lux ury, and the true style of living, that many of the citizens have found the means of spending more in one year than they make in two, you might be surprised, for “nemo dat quod non habet,” 2 but they con trive to spend what they have not. I hope the unsociable mode of mak ing entertainments where the face of a lady does not appear, will not reach our country. This body is torn to pieces with factions, not Whig and Tory, but Whig and better Whig. The Tory is a third party, and I think rather more numerous than either of the others. 1 become daily more in love with our own State, and should I become more in love with the ladies of our State, you would readily believe me, especially should I give you the description of a true city lady in full dress—head, hoop, and all, but I don’t love caricature; to draw after the life might obtain that name. Now that I have naturally mentioned women, pray, how is your fair kinswoman on the other side of the Sound? Is she almost half French, half American? for as the wife is half, often the better half of her hus band, I suppose the husband should be half of his wife. I wish I could think of this matter with a pulse perfectly regular. But a thousand things will happen not exactly as a lady could wish, and if we are not philosophers, we ought to be. I shall hardly hear whether dances or any other amusements held you in Edenton to pass the evenings, in fact I can hear of no domestic occurrences. Nobody has ever written me whether any vessel, prize, or merchant ship, has arrived at Eden ton for the last six weeks. Be assured that I am with the utmost esteem, Your obedient servant, H. Williamson.


[Page 476]
442 December 3, 1782 4 See Madison's Notes, November 14, 1782. 5 That is, September 24, 1779. 6 The motions made by Thomas McKean and Abraham Clark this day were recorded under the date December 5 by Secretary Thomson, who noted that the second motion was initiated by David Howell and seconded by Clark. See JCC, 23:765-67. 7 It is not clear why Daniel Carroll visited Trenton, but for William Whipple’s pres ence there, see Madison to Edmund Randolph, November 19, 1782, note 7. 8 That is, the third paragraph in Thomas McKean’s resolution proposing that Con gress compel Vermont to restore confiscated property if she refused to do so willingly. 9 See Madison’s Notes, November 27, note 4. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend Philada, Deer. 3d. 1782. Applications from the States of N. Hamshire & Massachusetts con cerning (the old paper) 1 of which they (hold a surplus) have called the attention of Congress once more to that subject. 2 The Superintendant on a Reference to him reported in (rigid adherence to his) maxims of (public faith) that credit should (be given for all surpluses at the rate of one for forty). This proposition was readily {negatived by Congress). Whereupon a motion was made by Mr. (Osgood) that {the states) should (be credit[ed]) according to the {current value at the time of redemption) which with one of the {letters from Massachusetts was ref- ered to a grand committee). The |commi| &c. {are unanimous) that {the burden of redeeming the old paper) as well as all other {public burdens) ought to be equitably apportioned on the States. On the {mode and the rate a diversity of ideas prevail). One expedient sug gested was to (call anew on the states to) sink (the money) and leave them (to level its) inequalities by) negociations (among themselves). This met with very little countenance. Another was to declare that as soon as the entire (sum should be taken up by the states from their) respective citizens Congress) would proceed to charge the several {surpluses on the) deficient {states at such rate as equity might pre scribe). The objections against this were that it gave no immediate sat isfaction to the (complaining states and) would prolong the internal (embarrassments of the states) which obstructed (the requisitions of Congress). Lastly it was (proposed to) authorise the Commissioners who are (to traverse [the] country) for another (purpose to take up the unredeemed (bills and) form them into a part {of the common debt) by (issuing to the) individuals (specie certificates at the rate of| ; and to apply the like rule to an (adjustment of disproportionate) redemptions (of the states). This expedient was upon the {whole least disrelished by the committee and is now under their) consideration. Its reasonableness, and its {fate both) will depend much on the scale by which as well the {redeem[ed] as the outstanding bills is to be val-


[Page 477]
December 3, 1782 443 uedj. 3 In all questions relative to this subject, the defect of informa tion under which we lie makes it difficult for us to deduce the general interest from a just & fair comparison of particular interests. To sup ply in some degree this defect with regard to Virginia I shall enclose to Mr. Ambler for his answers, a number of queries, of which I herein add a copy for you. 4 Some of the queries indeed have a greater refer ence to other subjects. If you can assist Mr. A. or can enlarge the plan by other queries I beg you to do it. If the sense of the {leading mem bers of the assembly) can be conveniently (gathered it| might {also be of use). A public {consultation) would {violate the secresy) which is judged necessary {to prevent a revival of Speculation and) which (led me to the use of the) cypher on this occasion. The Secy, of F. Affairs communicated to me a few days ago his determination speedily {to resign his office). He asked me in the course of conversation whether I thought Mr. (Jefferson) would {pre fer the vacancy to his foreign appointment). I answered him in the negative. He then asked whether I supposed he would {accept the) commission of (Jay at Madrid in case the latter) should prefer {the sec- retariship of foreign affairs and be) appointed to it. I told him I could not answer that question but doubted much whether {Congress) would {consent to part with the) services of {Mr. Jay as a negociator of peace). I wish you to mention this conversation to and acquaint me with the result. The want of a Cypher with him will be an apology for omitting a direct communication. Through your hands also it may be accompanied with explanations if requisite. I leave it to your self to decide how far it may be worth while to {feel the pulse of our friend Mclurg) with respect to the {vacancy in question). Mr. M s apprized me two evenings ago that a French {frigate will sail from this port in about three weeks and that it is probable) Ct. R— —u and the Chevr. Chatt x {will take their passage in her than in the frigate in the Chesapeak). 5 If the {river) should not {be threatened with ice the time of her sailing) may possibly {be procrastinated). Should this obstruction not take place {before the middle of January) there will {be some chance of another frigate at this port). These cir cumstances may {be very interesting to Mr. Jefferson and) I beg you to give him the earliest notice of them. If I could suppose that these and other considerations could leave any uncertainty, as to {his coming hither) in the first instance, I would press that point anew, being more & more convinced of its utility, not to say necessity, and finding that it is generally viewed in the same light. The merits of the Controversy are like to be brought under trial of the Court at Trenton, the Agents for Connecticut having been foiled in every plea for an adjournment. But I do not hear that any progress is made from which the issue can be presumed. 6 The Legislature of this State has just published for consideration a bill subjecting to the penalties of Treason all attempts for erecting an


[Page 483]
December 4, 1782 449 he can have no prospect in his application here. It hath long been the Custom, in the Eastern states especially, to exchange for their Citizens such as are not Strictly Speaking Continental Prisoners, by which I mean those not taken at a Continental expence, they even exchange those taken by Privateers under Continental Commissions, this hath long been their practice. I cannot say what their conduct is at present but suppose the same they have heretofore practised: in this View of the matter I should not hesitate were I in your Excellencys place to send into New York for Capt. Dehart one of the Prisoners in Jersey as he is one of our Citizens, and perhaps the only one a Marine Prisoner, and the Prisoners with you taken neither at Continental expence or by a Continental Commission, as I am informed. Most of the prisoners coming out on Parole are to stay it is said untill called for, any sent in for such would not exchange them, but be Creditted in the general Account for past Arrears. Mr. Deharts parole entitles him to a dis charge upon one’s being sent in for him and should he return to New York and wait till all Arrears are paid up, and those taken before him exchanged, it is pretty certain he must remain a prisoner till the end of the War: his only prospect of exchange rests with your Excellency, who I am persuaded will grant him every favour his case may entitle him to, any other than such I would not Ask or even wish for. I have the honour to be, with great respect, Sir, your Obedt. Hum ble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 Not identified. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir, Philada. Deer. 4th. 1782. I Enclose Copy of a Resolution respecting the promotion of Offi cers in the Line’s of the Several States. 1 I Suppose this Resolution has been transmitted you by the Secretary at War, but perhaps the propri ety and Necessity of the measure may not so readily appear to the Honble. the Legislature; to which I shall only Say that it was Unani mously adopted by Congress after the most mature Deliberation. I have no doubt but all the other States will promote their Officers agreeably to the Resolution and hope the State of New-Hampshire will promote their’s as they will be Essentially Injured with respect to Rank if that is not the Case. Have not a Single Article of News of any kind more than is Con tained in the Papers. I have the Honor to be, Your Most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman


[Page 489]
December 4, 1782 455 Richard Peters to Horatio Gates Dear Sir 4th Deer. 1782 I have been favour’d with your Letter enclosing one for the Baron to whose Abilities & Exertions I am happy to see you pay so deserved a Tribute. 1 Your Approbation will be of Service to him & must afford him particular Satisfaction, as you are a Judge of the Trade. When Mrs. Gates appears I will gladly pay my Compliments to her & deliver your Letter. Mr Morris has received your Letter & I think he told me he would answer it. I have just heard of the Post being about to depart & therefore I can only add that I am, with sincere Esteem, Your obed Servt, Richard Peters RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Gates’ letters to Peters and to Baron Steuben of November 22, 1782, are on reel 13 of the microfilm edition of the Horatio Gates Papers. Phillips White to Josiah Bartlett Sir Philadelphia Deer. 4 1782. Agreeable to your desire I now sit down to write your Honr. a few lines, but have nothing new of Consiquence. Mr. Gilman, wrote to the Honl. President, on the affair of Vermont, the Day before I arrived here, since which I gave a few hints respecting the same, 1 it appears that something should be done soon, it looks likely to me, that the final Desision will greatly depend on the inclination of New Hamp shire, & New York, for which reason it is highly necessary that we have instructions. If nothing was done on the subject the last session of the Genl. Court, I hope there will be something done, the begining of the next. The Deligates from N. York appear to be very earnest to have a final determination, the Members from said State at present are Mr. Floyd, and Mr. Hambleton, who we think are more cordial than some others have been &c. No official account from the southward, people are in doubt respecting the evacuation of Charleston. We hear that Murrimitism prevails among you, and that several wor thy members of the Genl. Court are converted, if so, doubtless they can give a reason of their hope. I remain with sincere respect Sir your Huml. Servt, P. White P.S. I would not have you think that I am covetous, by my sending only half a sheet, the reason of my doing it, is on account of a com plaint that the members incumber the mail, with large Letters, &c &c.


[Page 494]
460 December 6,1782 Elias Boudinot to George Read Si r> Philadelphia December 6. 1782 It gives me very particular satisfaction to have the honor of present ing you the commission of the United States in Congress assembled, whereby you are constituted one of the Judges of the court of appeals in all cases of capture on the water &C. 1 Your established character as a Gentleman, Lawyer and man of integrity leaves me no room to doubt but this appointment will do honor to Congress, produce the happiest consequences to the good Citizens of these States, and, I hope, real satisfaction to yourself, from the consciousness of serving your Country with fidelity. I have the honor to be &c. &c. E.B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For the election of Read and John Lowell to the court of appeals on December 5 (“one in the room of Mr. Paca, resigned, and one in the room of Mr. Hosmer, deceased”), see JCC, 23:746, 749, 758, 765, 797. See also James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 7, note 3; and Boudinot to John Lowell, December 11, 1782. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday 6 Deer. [1782] An ordinance extending the privilege of Franking letters to the Heads of all the Departments was reported & taken up. 1 Various ideas were thrown out on the subject at large; some contending for the extension proposed, some for a partial adoption of it, some for a total abolition of the privilege as well in members of Congress as in others; some for a limitation of the privilege to a definite number or weight of letters. Those who contended for a total abolition, represented the privilege as productive of abuses, as reducing the profits so low as to prevent the extension of the establishment throughout the U.S. and as throwing the whole burden of the establishment on the mercantile inter course. On the other side it was contended that in Case of an abolition the Delegates, or their Constituents, would be taxed just in proportion to their distance from the seat of Congress; which was neither just nor politic, considering the many other disadvantages which were insepara ble from that distance; that as the correspondence of the Delegates was the principal channel through which a general knowledge of public affairs, was diffused, any abridgment of it would so far confine this advantage to the States within the neighbourhood of Congress: & that as the correspondence at present however voluminous did not exclude from the mail any private letters which wd. be subject to postage, and if postage was extended to the letters now franked the no. & size of them would be essentially reduced, the revenue was not affected in the man ner represented. The Ordinance was disagreed to & the subject recom-


[Page 495]
December 6,1782 461 mitted wth. the instruction to the Committee giving them ample lati tude for such Report as they should think fit. A Boston Newspaper containing under the Providence Head an extract of a letter purporting to be written by a Gentleman in Philada. and misrepresenting the state of our loans, as well as betraying the secret proposal of the Sweedish Court to enter into a Treaty with the U.S.; with the view of disproving to the people of R. Island the necessity of the Impost of 5 PerCt.; had been handed about for several days. From style and other circumstances, it carried strongly the appearance of being written by a member of Congress. 2 The unanimous suspicions were fixed on Mr. Howel. The mischevous tendency of such publica tions & the necessity of the interposition of Congress were also general subjects of conversation. It was imagined too that a detection of the per son suspected would destroy in his state that influence which he exerted in misleading its counsels with respect to the Impost. These circum stances led Mr. W a n 3 to move the proposition on this subject. It was opposed by no one. Mr. Clarke supposing it to be levelled in part at him, rose & informed Congress, that not considering the article rela tive to Sweeden as secret in its nature, and considering himself at liberty to make any communications to his Constituents he had disclosed it to the Assembly of N. Jersey. He was told that the motion was not aimed at him, but the doctrine advanced by him was utterly inadmissible. Mr. R d e 4 observed that after this frankness on the part of Mr. C e as well as from the respect due from every member to Congress & to himself, it might be concluded that if no member present should own the letter in question, no member present was the author of it. Mr. H. was visibly perturbated, but remained silent. The Conference with the Committee of the Legislature of Penna, with subsequent information had rendered it very evident that unless some effectual measures were taken against separate appropriations & in favor of the public Creditors, the Legislature of that State, at its next meeting, would resume the plan which they had suspended. 5 Mr R d e in pursuance of this conviction moved that the Superin- tendt of Finance be instructed to represent to the several States the mischeifs which such appropriations would produce. It was observed with respect to this motion that however proper it might be as one expedient, it was of itself inadequate; that nothing but a permanent fund for discharging the debts of the public would divert the States from providing for their own Citizens; that a renewal of the call on R. Island for the impost ought to accompany the motion; that such a combination of these plans would mutually give efficacy to them, since R. Island would be solicitous to prevent separate appropriations & the other States would be soothed with the hope of the Impost. These observations gave rise to a Motion of Mr. Hamilton, which stands on the Journal. 6 Against Mr. Rutledge’s part of the motion no objection was made, But The sending a deputation to Rhode Island was a subject of considerable debate, in which the necessity of the


[Page 504]
470 December 9, 1782 We have the honor to be With perfect respect, Yr Excellency’s Most Obedt. Hum. Serv. Wm Floyd Alex Hamilton Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:56-57. 1 See JCC, 23:765-69; and ibid., pp. 57-58. Clinton was also sent a copy of these resolves with a brief letter from Pres. Elias Boudinot of December 14. PCC, item 16, fols. 166-67. 2 The New York legislature had passed an act on April 14, 1782, confirming title of all land grants made “under the name” of the “state of Vermont,” which John Morin Scott had presented to Congress on May 21. See JCC, 22:283—86; and Scott to Clinton, May 21, 1782. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 10, 1782 As usual, Monday Morning made us happy by your Favour of the 7th Instt. in return for which his Excy has the honor of enclosing you a number of Letters from Madeira & what is of more importance, a very valuable small Bundle that contains Riches indeed, from the same Place. I had the honor of opening the Captains to gratify her Excys. Curios ity which I hope will not be unpardonable. She has got about again this day & I hope will be entirely relieved from her Pains in the Teeth. I am sorry the Colts will be so much Trouble, but 1 do not know what to do with them. If there is stable Room, I wish all of them were stabled to prevent their Injuring the Neighbours. I will try hard to dis pose of the oldest if possible. As to the Hay I am not uneasy about it, as I know it will be very high in the Spring. I have been already applied to for five Tons by a Person 15 Miles from the Ridge, who pro posed carting it that distance. It will be £7 & £8 per Ton in the Spring. We have reed the Sweet Meats, Candle Sticks &ca. We now want the Broaches only, having purchased the others. Mrs. Hetfield had better wait till a Cow Calves before she takes one, unless she can swap one to suit her. I have sent two Boxes of Sugar at abt 800 wt. to Mr Mar- quier’s at Trenton to wait Mrs. Hetfields Order also a Box of Choco late wt 50 lb. If you write to Marquier he will deliver it. Patty is well & has gone to dancing School. Now for News. Gibralter is relieved—the Combined Fleet having been driven off at the very Time, Lord Howe was ready to run in—his Lordship Catched one Sp. Man of War & drove another on Shore. The Siege is raised & we hope now that they will be ready to act in the West Indies. This is unpalatable News—to Counterbalance it, the French have succeeded in an Expedition to Hudsons Bay, where they have taken of the Company’s property to the amount of £500,000 Sterl. & destroyed all the Companys Settlements & brought off the Inhabitants. 1 I reed Letters this day from Genl Greene of the 12th


[Page 505]
December 10, 1782 471 Ultimo—he speaks of the Evacuation as a certainty. They only waiting for Admiral Pigott. The Trade of this Country will be protected this winter. I must beg that you will send me a good parcel of your best Melon Seed, saved of your good Melons. I must also beg the Favour of your drawing a sett of Bills on your Friend in Holland for the monies remitted him on my Acct, as I want to send for some few Articles for her Excly—and perhaps I may stand a chance now to get them Freight free in some public Vessel. I believe all the reports about an Evacuation of New York take their Rise from an intended embarkation of 5000 Men for the West Indies. I enclose the Papers as usual. Our kind Love to Mrs. P. & Johnny and all Friends. I hope you let Mr Livingston see the Papers, as they will divert him. Our Love to their Family. Am My Dr Sir, Yours Afftly. B [P.S.] Please to send to Mrs. Hetfeild 2 of the thickest coarsest blan- ketts, and one of the old bed quilts. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 For the capture of the posts of the Hudson’s Bay Company by a French expedition under the direction of the comte de La Perouse, see Edwin H. Rich, The History of the Hudson’s Bay Company, 1670-1870, 2 vols. (London: Hudson’s Bay Record Society, 1958-59), 2:84-89. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday 10. Deer. [1782] A Motion was made by Mr. Ramsay directing the Secy, at War who was abt. to visit his family in Massachussetts, to take Vermont in his way, & deliver the Resolutions passed a few days since to Mr. Chitten den. 1 For the motion it was urged that it would insure the delivery, would have a conciliating effect, and would be the means of obtaining true and certain knowledge of the disposition & views of that people. On the opposite side it was exclaimed agst. as a degradation of so high a servt. of the U. S. as exposing him to the temerity of leaders who were on good grounds suspected of being hostile to the U. S. and as treating their pretensions to Sovereignty with greater complaisance than was consistent with the eventual resolutions of Congress. The motion was rejected. A motion was made by Mr. Gilmon that a day be assigned for diter mining finally the affair of Vermont. 2 The opposition made to the motion itself, by Rhode Island & the disagreement as to the day among the friends of the motion prevented a decision & it was suf fered to lye over. 3


[Page 507]
December 10,1782 473 By Mr. Jefferson’s letter to the Office of F.A. and a private one to myself, he may be expected here about the end of this month. 9 It is improper therefore to address any thing to him. The Grand Committee have had another meeting on the subject mentioned in a late letter. The scheme of Mr. Fitz n’s was adopted with the (rates of) depreciation (left blank). The ideas on this point varied from forty to one hundred and fifty and upwards for one. 10 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:394—95. 1 See Madison’s Notes, December 4, 1782. For a discussion of the threat this Pennsyl vania proposal posed to Continental management of the public debt, see E. James Fer guson, The Power of the Purse (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961), pp. 221-23. 2 See Madison’s Notes, December 6, note 6. 3 At this point in the text Madison inserted in the margin: “I make use of the Official Cypher as more familiar & equally proper here,” for which see Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, April 23, 1782, note 5. 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 5 See the following entry. 6 Not found, but for the governor’s reply of January 4, see Madison, Papers (Hutchin son), 6:1 In.1. 7 For Richard Harrison’s October 25 report to Robert R. Livingston on “the unfortu nate Issue of the siege of Gibraltar,” see PCC, item 92, fols. 411-13. 8 See Madison’s Notes, November 28, note 1, and December 2, note 2. 9 For Thomas Jefferson’s November 26 letters to Livingston and Madison, see Jeffer son, Papers (Boyd), 6:206-7; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:326-27. 10 See Madison’s Notes, December 7, 1782. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison [December 10, 1782] 1 The public Creditors have for sometime past been extremely urgent for some effectual & permanent provision in their favor; and seeing but little prospect of obtaining it from the United States are turning their applications to their own States. Those who are Citizens of Penn sylvania in particular have adopted this policy and the Legislature hav ing reed, no Satisfactory answer to two Memorials presented to Congress in their favor have been on the point of appropriating to their use a part of the requisition of Congress allotted for more essen tial Objects. Should such a measure be resorted to by one State it would probably be received by the Others as a Signal to take care each of its separate interest. The Effects of such a Step on the Union itself, on the Common Defence, on our national Character and on the Councils of the Enemy need not be traced. The apprehension of them by Congress produced the inclosed Instructions to the Superin tendant of finance. The resolution which follows deputing three of their Members to Rhode Island to enforce the impost of 5 per Ct. was thought a precausion no less essential. 2 For besides the tendency of


[Page 509]
December 11,1782 475 Elias Boudinot to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia, December 11th. 1782. Congress are equally affected and alarmed by the information they have received, that the Legislature of your State, at their last meeting, have refused their concurrence in the establishment of a duty upon Imposts. They consider this measure as so indispensible to the prose cution of the War, that a sense of duty and regard to the common safety compel them to renew their efforts to engage a compliance with it; and in this view they have determined to send a Deputation of three of their Members to your State, as expressed in the inclosed Res olution. 1 The Gentlemen they have appointed will be able to lay before you a full and just representation of the public affairs, from which they flatter themselves will result a conviction of the propriety of their solicitude upon the present occasion. Convinced by past expe rience of the zeal and patriotism of the State of Rhode-Island, they cannot doubt that it will yield to those urgent considerations which flow from a knowledge of our true situation. They will only briefly observe, that the increasing discontents of the army, the loud clamours of the public creditors, and the extreme dis proportion between the current supplies and the demands of the pub lic service, are so many invincible arguments for the fund recom mended by Congress. They feel themselves unable to devise any other, that will be more efficacious, less exceptionable or more generally agreeable; and if this is rejected they anticipate calamities of a most menacing nature, with this consolation however, that they have faith fully discharged their trust, and that the mischiefs which may follow cannot be attributed to them. A principal object of the proposed fund is to procure loans abroad. If no security can be held out to Lenders, the success of these must necessarily be very limited. The last accounts upon the subject were not flattering; and when intelligence shall arrive in Europe that the State of Rhode-Island has disagreed to the only fund, which has yet been devised, there is every reason to apprehend it will have a fatal influence on their future progress. Deprived of this resource our affairs must, in all probability, rapidly hasten to a dangerous crisis, and these States be involved in greater embarrassments than they have yet experienced, and from which it may be much more difficult to emerge. Congress will only add a request to your Excellency, that if the Leg islature should not be sitting, it may be called together as speedily as possible to enable the Gentlemen whom they have deputed to per form the purpose of their mission. I have the honor to be, with sentiments of high respect and esteem, your Excellency’s, &c. E. B.


[Page 512]
478 December 11, 1782 which it is their wish your Excellency could forward, as directed, by some trusty Hand, who will take a receipt of the delivery, which may be returned to Congress. For your Excellency’s information only, I also enclose a copy of the resolutions referred to. By some private advices from New-York, it is Said that an embarka tion of 5000 Men for the West Indies is taking place in that City. I have the honor to be, with the highest sentiments of respect and esteem, Your Excellency’s Obedient & very humb. Servt. Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s December 4 letter, reporting “that the English Fleet had penetrated the Road of Gibraltar,” is in PCC, item 152, 11:37—39; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 25:394. 2 See Boudinot to Chittenden, this date. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton Dear Sir, Philadela. Deer. 11th 1782 Since my last of this day week 1 Congress have been Attempting vari ous measures respecting promotions but nothing certain is yet fixed upon. A report hath been again brought in Similar to the one rejected, with this addition that you and two others by name be Appointed Brigadiers. I consent to agree, in case the last clause is first taken up & passed, or to pass the whole together. I cannot give you any Assurance, but from present Appearances I must request that you do not think of resigning untill I can inform you of something deci sively done that will settle the business one way or other. 2 Genl. Wash ington hath wrote more pointedly in your favour than the Letter that Accompanied yours 3 —and the prospect in your favour is much greater than at any former time. You are not to consider any Opposi tion to your promotion as Arising from any Objection to you person ally; all proceeds upon political Views in the different members. I must repeat my request that you desist from resigning, you can with propriety delay this till the first of January, while we have reason to expect in a day or two this business may be compleated here. Genl. Lincoln hath interested himself in your favour in Consequence of Genl. Washingtons last Letter to him. Colo Shepperd of Massachusets hath resigned & gone home. I am, Dear Sir, Your Obedt. Hum Servt. Abra. Clark RC (NjHi: Bamberger Autograph Collection). 1 Not found. 2 For the promotion of Colonel Dayton, see the letters to him from Clark of Decem ber 16 and from Elias Boudinot of December 25. 3 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:329, 395.


[Page 517]
December 16, 1782 483 several days before Post day, or loose the Opportunity, my Time no longer being at my own disposal. You[r] favour per Post is before me, and am really sorry that the Capt’s Letter was omitted, which was never discovered till the rect of yours this Morning—It is now reme died. We have as usual had a hearty Laugh at your Letter—and diverted ourselves at the Idea of your seeing it in Rivingtons Paper. I think it is most time to expect another Capture of the Mail & therefore you should begin to consider, how you would relish becoming so public a Man. A Frigate will go for Brest in about 8 or 10 Days, in which is a Capt of my Acquaintance. I can send Letters to Madeira very fre quently. I am clear you had best stable the Colts &c. Mr Wallace will call on you for 5 Tons of Hay; if you think it can be spared, let him have it out of my Stacks—if not he can get it of Ricky on Mr Liv ingston’s Estate acct. Mrs. B. engaged to let Southerd exchange a Cow. Manage the foddering of the Hay in such Manner as you think best. I reed, the Bills of Exchange, but had not adverted to my part of the money remitted being some in the Hands of Mr Donaldson & some in Mess Cromelines—So that I cannot proceed unless you can manage it so that I can get at that in Mr Donaldsons Hand too. Sammy has remitted monies to Holland & drawn a Bill in Favour of Mr D. to pay off his Debt—now as Mr D. is dead, could not Sammy give you a Bill in full of Mr D’s Debt, and you let me have it on the acct of my part of the monies in his Hands, or any how else, so that I could get the Cash in Holland or France. As to News the Charles Town Garrison is said to be arrived at N York but it wants Confirmation. Our Advices from Europe are still flat tering. I am not at liberty to say more—you know I have been a Prophet abt. the Events of this Year—I still am sanguine. Capt Barry in a Conty Frigate, 1 taken 5 Jamaica Men & some Ameri can Privateers. 12 or 14 More—several others with two British Line of Battle Ships, went to the Bottom in a violent Storm. I will take Care of the rent. Patty is bravely, tho’ you seem to forget her. All well and desire to be remembered. Am my Dr Sir, Yours Afftly 2 [P.S.] You will see by this, that tho Presidt. I am still under petticoat Government and dare not contradict, tho’ it is some Comfort that no body will believe her. Her Character is as bad here as it was at the Ridge—were she is well known. Pray remember that the office in snowy weather is leaky and that my Papers & Books may be injured. I must beg the Favour of you to get Mr Southerd to see that the Boards at Bairds saw Mill are brought home & properly put away in the waggon House, as fast as my Logs are sawed and also to get as many more Logs out of the swamp as possible & charge it to me.


[Page 518]
484 December 16, 1782 Yesterday Letters from Virginia informed that a flag had arrived there in 5 days from Charles Town with the news of the evacuation of that place. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 That is, the Continental frigate Alliance. 2 At this point, Boudinot’s wife Hannah penned the following postscript before Boudinot added a final postscript of his own. “I would Just Inform you that I had no hand in opening your letter from the captain, as Patty and I both had letters we heard all we wanted to hear. Mr. President open'd it to hear what he said about the seeds* and I supposed he had enclosed all. Patty has got a cold, and so has Susan, but they are not very bad. My love to Mrs. Pintard, and Johnny”—to which she appended the follow ing comment, keyed to the asterisk at the word “seeds.” “But his head is so full of proclamations that he cant remember any thing more than an hour.” Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton Dear Sir, Philada. Deer. 16. 1782 Congress last Thursday took up the report for establishing a Line of promotion for Brigadiers Similar to the one I lately informed you was rejected, which, owing to a Number of New members or some other Cause, was passed: to this was added a Clause for promoting your self & Colonels Grattan & Putman 1 —but as the former part of the report had passed it was thought improper to pass this as it might not agree with the plan just established especially with regard to your self, as your Appointment would depend upon what state whose troops those of New Jersey may be Brigaded with. If it should be with New York, you can have nothing to expect, but if with Delaware I suppose you will succeed of Course. This the secretary at War gives me strong rea sons to believe will be the case—but however must rest with the Com mander in Chief; As the secretary at War set off yesterday for Boston 2 & will call at head quarters, by which time the General will be in pos session of the Resolutions, you may be able to know on what gound you stand by applying to the Commander in Chief. The Delaware Reg iment is now it is said on their way from the southward to join the main Army and may be joined to our Troops if the measure meets with the generals approbation. Matters being thus Circumstanced, It will not be in my power to give you any further information respecting this business. All rests with the General in forming Brigades. I am, Dear Sir, Your Obedt. Humble servt. Abra. Clark RC (PPIn: Independence Hall Collection). । See JCC, 23:790-91. 2 Notwithstanding Clark’s testimony that the secretary “set off yesterday,” there is a letter from Benjamin Lincoln to Congress dated “War Office, Dec. 16, 1782,” in PCC, item 149, 2:207-8.


[Page 519]
December 17, 1782 485 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday Deer. 16. [1782] 1 The answer to the objections of Rho. Island, as to the Impost, Penned by Mr. H. 2 passed without opposition, 8 States being Present of which Rho. Isd. was one, a few trivial alterations only being made in the course of discussion. Mr. H. 3 contrary to expectation was entirely silent as to his affair. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:407. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote “Saturday Deer. 14th. No Congress.” 2 That is, Alexander Hamilton, who chaired the committee appointed December 12 to respond to Rhode Island’s November 30 notification that its assembly would not adopt the impost and who prepared the bulk of this “answer” giving reasoned argu ments why Rhode Islanders should “retract their dissent." Congress’ vote on this report is not recorded in the journals. See JCC, 23:788-90, 798-810; and Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:213-3. 3 David Howell. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Hon’d Sir (Private) Philada. Deer. 17th. 1782. I have received your kind favour of the 29th Octr. per Genl. Whip ple. Your’s of the 26th Ultimo. (Respecting Mr. Blanchard’s Memo rial) with the Inclosure’s came to hand on the 9th Instt. and was Answered on the 11th (per Post) which hope you will timely receive. 1 Those Two are all the Letters have been favored with from you Since that of the 14th Septr. I Expected an Answer to mine of 29th Octr. respecting the affairs of Vermont, but we are Intirely Ignorant of all the Transactions of the Honble. the Legislature at their November Session (Except that of Mr Blanchards Memorial). By the latest accounts from Europe, it appears probable that Nego- ciations for Peace will be seriously Entered upon soon, but their are many (Seperate) Interests to be adjusted which will probably require much time. The present designs of our Enemy are not known to us with so much Certainty as could wish, but it is the general Sentiment that they have relinquished the Idea of further prosecuting the war on this Continent. Indeed it is time for them for they have persisted in it to their Own (as well as our) great Injury. The Importance of the United States is daily Increasing (abroad) But our affairs at Home are not in a pleasing Situa tion by any means. The want of Revenue is very great, our Army are unpaid, public Creditors Clamorous, and when we add to this a want of Confidence in the public and in the Several States towards each other our Embarrassments will appear (as they are in fact) very great, but we have Struggled through many difficulties, and our present trouble’s


[Page 520]
486 December 17, 1782 should by no means Operate as an Encouragement to our Enemy to prosecute the war, for they have repeatedly Seen (and I doubt not will again if necessity requires it) these United States rise Superior to all dif ficulties. From some Information already received, are daily Expecting further Information respecting Negociations for Peace. I Have (few Days Since) been informed that application has been made to New Hampr. for Compleating their Two Battalions; this was unknown to Congress, and had I been informed of it Seasonably should have given my Sentiments on the Subject. I Sent a list of the Army to Collo. Bartlett some Months Since, 2 my Views were that you might know what number of the Troops in service belonged to N.H. I am Sure the State has made Exertions the year past (in raising Troops much beyond their abilities, and as I See no real Necessity for raising men at present, shall be pleased if they have rejected the proposition. No accounts from Charlestown since our Letter of the 11th Instt.; nor further proceedures respecting Vermont. Genl. Whipple is at Trenton, I Expect he will be here sometime next Week. [Public secu rities here, are sold at about Three, for One in Specie]. You will receive by Mr. White’s Servant the Journals of Congress (which are Just published) from April to Novr.—if the State has not a Compleat Sett to that time, and I am informed what are deficient, I will Endeav our to procure and Send them if Opporty offers. You will receive a Bottle of Dr. Hill’s Balsam. I wrote Collo. Bartlett on the 23d Octr. but have had no answer to that Letter; It is very agreeable to be informed of the Transactions in the State from time to time. I return you my most Sincere thanks for your Letter by Genl. Whipple and shall Esteem it a happiness to serve you in what I may. I have marked this as private, my meaning is that it is not Intended for the perusal of the Honble. the Legislature, but you will please to make such other Communication of it as you may think proper. Please to give my Compliments to my Friends with you. I am, with great Respect, Your Obedt. & Hum. Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. The Journals mentioned in this Letter cannot be obtained to Send by this Conveyance will send them first Oppty. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See New Hampshire Delegates to Weare, December 11, 1782. 2 See Gilman to Josiah Bartlett, August 5, 1782. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday Deer. 17th. [1782] Mr. Carroll in order to bring on the affair of Mr. Howel moved that the Secy, of Foreign Affairs be instructed not to write to the Govt, of


[Page 521]
December 17, 1782 487 Rhode Island on the subject. 1 The state in wch. such a vote would leave the business unless the reason of it was expressed, being not adverted to by some, and others being unwilling to move in the case, This motion was incautiously suffered to pass. The effect of it however was soon observed, and a motion in consequence made by Mr. H. to subjoin the words, “Mr Howel having in his place confessed himself to be the Author of the publication.” 2 Mr. Ramsay thinking such a stigma on Mr. H. unnecessary, & tending to place him in the light of a persecuted man whereby his opposition to the Impost might have more weight in his State, proposed to substitute as the reason “Congress havg. reed, the information desired on that subject. [”] The yeas & nays havg. been called by Mr. H n., Mr. H. grew very uneasy at the prospect of his name being thereby brought on the Journals; and requested that the subject might be suspended untill the day fol lowing. This was agreed to & took place on condition that the ne[ga] ti[v] ed counterdirection to the Secy, of F.A. should be reconsid ered & lie over also. 3 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:411. 1 For Congress’ instructions to Robert R. Livingston to write to Gov. William Greene regarding “the affair of Mr. Howel,” see Madison’s Notes, December 12, 1782. 2 For the full text of Alexander Hamilton’s motion, see JCC, 23:812. 3 Daniel Carroll’s motion, which was reintroduced the following day, was struck from the journals. Ibid. For David Howell’s defense of his conduct, see Madison’s Notes, December 18, note 2. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. 17th Deer. 1782. Since the appointment of the deputation to Rho. Island Congress have reed, a copy of the refusal of the Legislature of that State to con cur in the impost, with the reasons on which the refusal is grounded. The reasons assigned are 1st. the inequality of the tax which will bear hardest on the commercial States, and peculiarly hard on Rho. Island which is the most commercial. 2dly. the inexpediency of admitting to a collection within the State of so large a tax an officer unknown to the Constitution, and unaccountable to the authority of the State. 3dly. the danger to public liberty from such an accession of weight to the foederal Government. I give this recital from memory and there fore only as the substance of the objections. They are in the hands of a Committee who will report such observations as they may deem a fit answer to them. 1 The deputation has not yet set out, but probably will in the course of the week. 2 Vermont has been again on the tapis. Its only advocates were the delegates of Rho. Island who are charged with interested views in the case, and those of N. Jersey who are fettered by instructions from their


[Page 523]
December 17, 1782 489 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:414-16. 1 Since Alexander Hamilton’s committee reported the preceding day, it is clear that the first portion of this letter was written before Madison attended Congress on Decem ber 16. The closing paragraphs, especially the last referring to the Tuesday post, were written on the 17th. See Madison’s Notes, December 16, note 2. 2 Hamilton’s committee recommended this day that the Rhode Island deputation “ought to proceed as soon as possible.” JCC, 23:811-12. 3 See Madison’s Notes, November 27, note 4, and December 3 and 5, 1782. 4 For Isaac Tichenor’s mission to Congress earlier in the year, see John Morin Scott to George Clinton, April 2, 1782, note 1. On December 18, a November 16 letter from Jacob Cuyler, former deputy commissary general of purchases, enclosing a November 8 letter from Tichenor, his former assistant, was read and referred to a committee chaired by Madison. Tichenor was being sued in New Hampshire for personal debts he incurred when purchasing provisions for the army. Congress decided to refer his case to that state for settlement. See JCC, 23:819n.l, 822; PCC, item 78, 6:155-61; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:232, 235. 6 Nathanael Greene’s October 28 dispatch “relative to the right of postliminium on the recapture of moveable property by the Army” had been read on December 10 and referred, together with nine supporting documents, to a committee consisting of Madi son, Alexander Hamilton and John Rudedge. See PCC, item 155, 2:552-97, item 186, fol. 72. The committee’s report was delivered December 18 and taken under considera tion on the 23rd, for which see Madison’s Notes, December 23, note 1. 6 For Congress’ earlier ordinances establishing procedures for captures on water and appealing to the states to pass laws regulating the seizure and condemnation of British manufactures on land, see John Hanson to the States, January 6, 1782. 7 That is, Congress had the right, under the 9th article of the Articles of Confedera tion, to establish courts to determine “finally appeals in all cases of captures.” JCC, 19:217. With the coming of peace, however, it became unnecessary for Congress to cre ate such a court. 8 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in the official Virginia cipher. 9 Congress had received on December 13 three letters from Benjamin Franklin, dated August 12, and September 3 and 26, and on December 16 had read John Jay’s brief dispatch of September 28. Both had sent copies of George Ill’s revised commis sion to British negotiator Richard Oswald authorizing him to treat with “thirteen United States of America” rather than thirteen “colonies or plantations.” See PCC, item 82, 2:201-15, 236-44, item 110, 2:142, item 185, 3:50; and Wharton, Diplomatic Corre spondence, 5:655-57, 682-84, 763-64, and 779. 10 That is, the Pennsylvania delegates expected a favorable result in the state’s bound ary dispute with Connecticut, “hollow” being a colloquial term for “thorough" or “com plete.” OED. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sr, Phila 17th. Dece. 1782. We are honoured with your Excellencys favor of the 7th. 1 Our last communicated the measures that had been taken for supplying the unfortunate captives then on their way to Virginia, 2 which we hope will meet the approbation of the Executive. We have heard nothing further of those expected by way of New York—should they be sent


[Page 524]
490 December 17, 1782 out, and their situation call for our aid, it shall be afforded them in the manner recommended by your Excellency, tho’ we fear our exer tions to obtain them relief by draughts upon the State, or the Sale of Tobacco, will prove ineffectual. Perhaps a similar course may be taken by them when they arrive, as with those already gone forward. We shall make the attempt, and resort to the mode you advise, only in case of necessity. The inclosed Copy of a Letter from the Secretary of Congress to Mr. Clarke on the subject of the pasports for shiping Tobacco to New York, 3 will shew the conduct of Mr. Thompson in the business and enable you to obtain a Satisfactory explanation from Mr. Clarke. 4 We very sincerely wish on account of the public, as well as for the convenience of the individuals more immediately concerned, your account of the evacuation of Charles Town may be verified. Here that event is very doubtfull. A Letter lately received from Capt. Barry of the Alliance Frigate 5 informs us of his good fortune in taking and carrying into 1’Orient four of the Jamaica fleet, loaded with abt. 1200 Hhds. of sugar, 400 Hhds. of rum, a quantity of Coffee, logwood &c. He also writes, that the Ramilees had foundered at Sea, that the crew were saved, and dis tributed among the fleet, part of them being on board the prises cap tured by him. He farther says, it was reported, another Ship of the line was lost. We are respectfully, yr. Excys. obed. servts. Jos. Jones J. Madison Jr RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Jones and signed by Jones and Madi son. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:412-13. 1 See ibid., p. 381. 2 The delegates may have discussed aid to Virginia’s frontier captives in their “last” letter of December 10, of which only a brief extract has been found, but for a review of “the measures that had been taken,” see Virginia Delegates to Harrison, November 26, 1782. 3 See Charles Thomson to Daniel Clark, May 3, 1782. 4 In his November 30 letter to the delegates Harrison has asked about Thomson’s reasons for issuing a “Licence” to Clark, Virginia agent of Robert Morris, to ship tobacco to New York in exchange for British goods sold to the United States by York town capitulants following Cornwallis’ surrender. In so doing Harrison renewed a con troversy with Morris that had first erupted in May 1782. See Madison, Papers (Hutchin son), 5:312; Madison to Edmund Randolph, May 29, note 4; and Committee of Congress to Harrison, May 31, 1782. For the instructions to the Virginia delegates adopted by the state’s assembly on December 28 concerning the settlement of accounts, the tobacco contract, and congressional requisitions, see ibid., pp. 457-64; and Madi son’s Notes, January 28, note 1, January 31 and February 10, 1783. 5 An extract from Capt. John Barry’s October 18 letter to Robert Morris had been read in Congress on December 13. See JCC, 23:798n.l; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:625.


[Page 525]
December 18,1782 491 Jonathan Arnold to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia December 18th. 1782 I have to inform you that altho’ Mr. Collins arrived here this day week, Mr. Howell is still here, and how much longer he will be detained is unknown, Congress having taken such measures affecting him personally, and relative to his public Conduct—which renders his stay of absolute necessity. 1 He has vindicated himself with a firmness becoming a representative of a free State, and as the Liberties of the State, and its rights, by Confederation I conceived to be invaded by the Measures pursued against him, he has had every support I could afford him. This has drawn on me the attention of Congress, and I am included with Mr. Howell in a Resolution of this day for referring to a Committee a Certain Motion, made by Mr. Howell & seconded by me 2 wherein were asserted the Rights of a Delegate, and the Dangerous tendency, of the measures pursuing—to their priviledges, and to the Liberties & priviledges of the United States—in the form of a declara tion & protest. I have not time to copy & enclose it by this, but shall forward it by the next Opportunity. Where & when the matter will end, is impossible to say but hope it will not change the resolution of the Assembly in respect to the Impost (which I am persuaded—it is Calculated to do). I am certain it cannot, when the matter is fully known—and instead thereof it may fix their opinion as expressed in the third Reason, which they stated to Congress—when their [they] Communicated their refusal therewith. Mr Collins being absent, & the post just setting off, I have not the Opportunity to write jointly with him. I have the Honor to be with the highest respect for your Excel lency & the Honorable Assembly—Your most hum Servt. Jona Arnold RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). I For the debate on David Howell’s publication of privileged information, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, December 6, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18, and 20, 1782. 2 After rejecting Howell’s motion. Congress appointed a three-man committee to rec ommend “measures as it will be proper for Congress to take [on the motion]." On December 20 Congress adopted the committee’s report recommending that Howell’s and other related resolutions be sent to the executive of Rhode Island and the secretary for foreign affairs. See JCC, 23:814-19, 821-22; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, December 20, 1782. Alexander Hamilton to George Clinton Dear Sir: Philadelphia, December 18, 1782. I shall very shortly be out of cash, and shall therefore be much obliged to you to forward to me the State allowance. It will answer as


[Page 526]
492 December 18,1782 well in Mr. Morris’ notes as in Specie provided the notes have not more than a fortnight or so to run. It will be better if they are due. (A disappointment in this will greatly embarrass me, and from what your Excellency said, I take it for granted it cannot happen.) Nothing new, except a pretty probable account of the evacuation of Charles Town. I have die honor to be, with great esteem, Your most obedient servant. 1 MS not found; reprinted from Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:225-26. 1 Hamilton also wrote this day to his wife Elizabeth, urging her to travel to Philadel phia at “the first good snow” and suggesting that she use some of the money “you will probably receive . . . from Governor Clinton for me.” Ibid., pp. 226-27. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday Deer. 18th. [1782] This day was cheifly spent on the case of Mr. Howel; 1 whose behaviour was extremely offensive, and led to a determined opposi tion to him, those who were most inclined to spare his reputation. If the affair could have been closed without an insertion of his name on the Journal, He seemed willing to withdraw his protest; 2 but the impropriety which appeared to some & particularly to Mr. H n in suppressing the name of the author of a peice wch. Congress had so emphatically reprobated, when the author was found to be a member of Congress, prevented a relaxation as to the yeas & nay. 3 Mr. H. therefore, as his name was necessarily to appear on the Journal, adhered to the motion which inserted his protest thereon. 4 The inde cency of this paper, and the pertinacity of Mr. H. in adhering to his assertions with respect to the non-failure of any application for for eign loans, excited great & (excepting his Colleagues or rather Mr. Arnold) universal indignation and astonishment in Congress; and he was repeatedly premonished of the certain ruin in wch. he wd. thereby involve his character & consequence; and of the necessity wch. Congress wd. be laid under of vindicating themselves by some act which would expose and condemn him to all the world. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:419-20. 1 See Madison's Notes, December 17. 2 David Howell’s “declaration and protest,” in which he denied Congress’ authority— under the 5th article of the Articles of Confederation—to restrict information that he thought proper to communicate to his constituents, is in PCC, item 36, 1:459-62; and JCC, 23:814-16. For a review of Howell's position in the “extract controversy,” see Irwin H. Polishook, Rhode Island and the Union, 1774-1795 (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern Uni versity Press, 1969), pp. 88-93. 3 Madison is referring to the unrecorded vote on the motion introduced the preced ing day by Daniel Carroll that was this day reintroduced and completed by Alexander Hamilton, who moved that Robert R. Livingston be discharged from his December 12


[Page 527]
December 20, 1782 493 instruction to write to the governor of Rhode Island because Howell had “acknowl edged himself the author of the extra[c]t of the letter quoted in the report of the Com mittee that day.” See PCC, item 36, 1:465; and JCC 23:813-14, 817-18. See also Madi son’s Notes, December 12, note. 4 This vote was not recorded in the journals. Hamilton, however, considered the entry of Howell’s protest on the journals to be “highly derogatory to the honor & dig nity of the United States in Congress Assembled” and moved that a committee be appointed “to report upon such measures as it will be proper for Congress to take (to exhibit the transaction) thereupon.” See PCC, item 36, 1:467. Congress appointed John Taylor Gilman, Hamilton and Madison to the committee after soundly defeating a motion by Jonathan Arnold and Howell to Strike out the quoted passage concerning the derogatory nature of Howell’s protest. See JCC, 23:814-19. For the committee’s report, see the following entry, note 4. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday Deer. 20th. [1782]' A motion was made by Mr. H n2 for revising the requisitions of the preceding and present years, in order to reduce them more within the faculties of the States. 5 In support of the motion it was urged that the exorbitancy of the demands produced a despair of fulfilling them which benumbed the efforts for that purpose. On the other side it was alledged that a relaxation of the demand would be followed by a relaxation of the efforts; that unless other resources were substituted either the States would be deluded by such a measure into false expec tations; or in case the truth sd. be disclosed to prevent that effort, that the Enemy wd. be encouraged to Persevere in the war agst. us. The motion meeting with little patronage was withdrawn. The Report of the Committee on the motion of Mr. H. 4 pro posed that the Secy, of Congress should transmit the several acts of Congress with a state of foreign loans. The object of the Committee was that in case Rho. Island should abet or not resent the misconduct of their Representative, as wd. most likely be the event, Congress might commit themselves as little as possible in the mode of referring it to that State. When the Report came under consideration it was observed, that the Presidt. had always transmitted acts of Congress to the Executives of the States, and that such a change on the present occasion might afford a pretext if not excite a disposition in Rho. Island, not to vindicate the honor of Congress. The matter was com promised by substi[tu]ting the Secy, of Fn. Afrs. who ex-officio corre sponds with the Governors &c, within whose department the facts to be transmitted as to foreign loans lay. No motion or vote opposed the report as it passed. 5 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:422-23. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote “Thursday Deer. 19th. see Jour nals.”


[Page 528]
494 December 20, 1782 2 That is, Alexander Hamilton. 3 For this motion, which was not entered in the journals, see PCC, item 36, 4:65; and Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:229. 4 For the appointment of this committee, see the preceding entry, note 4; for its report, see JCC, 23:821-22, and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:422. s Robert R. Livingston did not actually write to Gov. William Greene until January 4, for which see PCC, item 119, fols. 205-12. The reason for this delay in complying with Congress’ directive apparently lay in the efforts of the three Rhode Island delegates in late December and early January to have Congress further direct the secretary to include in his letter specific extracts from letters of Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and the marquis de Lafayette that they felt supported Howell's position. See Madison’s Notes, January 3, 1783, note 3. Daniel Carroll to William Paca Dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 21st. 1782. I forwarded last Thursday under Cover to Mr. Calhoun, 1 two Letters from the Minister of France, 2 one for your Excelly. the other for the Commanding officer of the French Marine in Chesapeake, and I now do myself the honor of sending with this, a Copy of a Memorial from the Assembly of Massachusetts, on a Subject which may eventually interest our State. 3 I request you Sir to communicate it to the General Assembly, likewise a Copy of an answer from Congress to the objec tions made by the Assembly of Rhode Island to the granting the 5 per Cent on imported goods. Three Members, Messrs. Osgood, Mifflin and Nash are appointed to proceed to Rhode Island on this Subject. I beg leave to Mention, that it is the Sense of Congress no other Copys Should be taken of the Answer at present, than those which the Delegates are permitted to Send to the Legislatures or Executives of their respective States. The enclosed is from the War office in answer to your Commands, respecting the Marine prisoners. 4 The Superintendant has informed me that Col. Rawlings is one of the Contractors for the ensueing year for the States of Maryland and Delaware. 5 I have the honor to be with the greatest respect and Esteem, Yr. Excellency’s Most Obedt. and very Humble Servt. Dani. Carroll N.B. The letters from the Minister were Sent by a Capt. Montgomery who promised to deliver them to Mr. Calhoun. Deer 23d. A French Frigate, the Danse is arrived. She left Rochford the 8th of November. The late Snow Storm drove her on Shore in this Bay, but she is now off. She brings Money for the French Army and dispatches to the Minister, dated the 14th of October. The Communi cation will not be made from them under two or three days, but we hourly expect the dispatches from our Ministers by Genl. De Partial [Du Portail] who Came in the Frigate.


[Page 529]
December 21, 1782 495 It appears by the Gazette of France that a Treaty of Amity and Com merce, and a convention on recaptures were Signed on the 7th of Octr. by Mr. Adams and by Seven deputies empowered for that pur pose by the Seven United Provinces of the Netherlands. The Success of the French in the Hudsons bay was compleat—the factories entirely distroyed, and the Property to a considerable amount carried off. Nothing Certain from the East Indies. In general the State of affairs in that quarter is thought to be unfavourable to the British. Deer. 24th. Dispatches were received yesterday from Messrs. Franklin and Jay and the Marquis, De La Fayette, dated about the Middle of October. The Commission to Mr. Oswald is received, it empowers him to treat with the Commissioners of the thirteen United States of America. If it is possible to obtain a Copy in time I shall Send it by post. The Secretary for Foreign Affairs is directed to Send one to each State. I have the honor to be &c. D.C. Tr (MdAA: Ridgely Transcripts, MdHR4016). 1 Not found. 2 Not identified, but perhaps elicited by Paca’s December 13 letter to the chevalier de La Luzerne concerning French naval assistance for protecting Maryland shipping in the Chesapeake. See Md. Archives, 48:322. 3 See Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, September 19, note 10; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 26, 1782. 4 Not identified. 5 See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:141, 189-90. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Saturday 21 Decr.[1782] The Committee to confer wth. Mr. Livingston was appointed the preceding day in consequence of the unwillingness of several States to elect either Gel. S 1—r, Mr, C r or Mr. R d, the Gentlemen previously put into nomination, & of a hint that Mr. L. might be pre vailed on to serve till the Spring. 1 The Committee found him in this disposition and their report was agreed to without opposition. 2 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:429. 1 Congress had designated December 19 as the day for selecting Robert R. Liv ingston’s successor as secretary for foreign affairs and on the 18th Elias Boudinot and Thomas FitzSimons had nominated Philip Schuyler and George Clymer respectively for that post. Thomas McKean had also nominated Joseph Reed, but had withdrawn his name. See PCC, item 186, fol. 1. On December 19, rather than “the preceding day,” Congress rejected these nominees, appointed Madison, John Rutledge, and John Taylor Gilman as a committee “to confer with the secrety for foreign Affairs on the subject of his department,” and postponed the order of the day “till Thursday next.” PCC, item


[Page 533]
December 24, 1782 499 Ally, with whom they had made a Junction, but no official Acct, has come to hand and this Intelligence cannot be given as certainty.” From Mr Adams “We have at length got the Consent of all the Cities & Provinces and have adjusted & agreed upon every Article, Word, Syllable, Letter & Point in the Treaty of Commerce and Clerks are employed in making out fair Copies for Signature, which will be done this week. Amidst the innumerable Croud of Loans, which are opened in this Country, many of which have little success, I was much afraid that ours would have failed. I have however the Pleasure to inform you that I am at least one Million & an half of florins in Cash or about 3 Millions of Livres, which will be an Aid to the Operations of our financier.” 1 I need make no Comments on this Intelligence, the first of which so expressly admits the Independancy & national Character of these States—on this Occasion I most cordially congratulate your Excel lency and the Legislature. I had the honor of recieving your Excellency’s Letter of the thir teenth Instant, 2 and am sorry you were troubled with unnecessary duplicates of the resolutions of Congress enclosed in mine of the 11th, but as I mentioned to Mr Clark my design of enclosing them to your Excellency, I took it for granted he would not also send them— my having a Secretary makes it easier for me to transmit them. I write this in a great hurry, being unwilling to keep so important a piece of Intelligence back a Moment. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt Hble Sert, Elias Boudinot P.S. I forgot to mention that by a French News Paper reed by this Ves sel, it appears that the Treaty with the united Provinces, was signed on the 7th Octr. RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 Boudinot sent this same news in a similar letter of this date to his brother Elisha, which is in Boudinot, Life and Letters, 1:280—82. * Livingston’s December 13 letter is in Livingston, Papers (Prince), 4:498-99. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 24th. 1782 A Frigate has lately arrived from France & went on Shore in our Bay in the Snow Storm, but has luckily got off again. Her dispatches are just come up and I heartily congratulate you on Great Brittain’s hav ing admitted our Independance, by sending Mr. Oswald to Paris with a Commission to treat of Peace with Commissioners from the 13


[Page 534]
500 December 24, 1782 Colonies, which our Commissioners absolutely refused to treat upon—in Consequence whereof Great Brittain has given up the Mat ter and issued a formal Commission to treat with “any Commissioner or Commissioners from the 13 united States of America" and to enter into all the necessary Stipulations as with an Independant Nation. The Rubi con is therefore Past and I am happy that my Expectations are likely to be fulfilled. It is also said that Madrass is taken. I am not at liberty to say more than is contained in the following Extract. “From several asiatic Accts, there is great probability that Madrass has been taken by the French Troops which have landed at Porto Neuvo and the Army of Hyder Ally with whom they have made a Junction, but no official Acct has come to hand, and this Intelligence cannot be given as a cer tainty.” From Mr. Adams—“We have at length the Consent of all the Cities & Provinces, and have adjusted & agreed upon every Article, Word, Syllable, Letter & Point in the Treaty of Commerce and Clerks are employed in making out fair Copies for Signature, which will be done this week. Amidst the innumerable Crouds of Loans, which are opened in this Country, many of which have little Success, I was much afraid that ours would have failed. I have however the pleasure to inform you that I am at last 1 '/z million of florins or 3 million of Livres in Cash, which will aid the operations of our Financier.” 25th. My being extremely hurried & the Posts hour just at hand I can say but little about private Affairs. I now understand you about the Hay, but I believe it will make but little difference—as the Estate of Mr. Livingston is obliged to make an Allowance to Ricky in quantity between that put up in Summer & when delivered in Winter, he will certainly expect the same from you, as a Ton in Summer, will not make much more than 1500 lb in winter. I wrote him before I left home that I would have nothing farther to do with the Sales, and that he must see to the disposal of the Hay & Grain himself. The Price in the Summer was 60/ but it must then have been taken away, but when the Ex[ecuto]r sends about the rest you can settle that as you please, or with Ricky who perhaps will sell the rest. I do not think there will be a necessity for Mr. Wallace to take any from Ricky as there will be enough of mine for him & you & me too, as I left above Twenty Tons or thereabouts, but on no Acct do not cramp yourself. I am sorry you had so much Trouble with the office tho it is only what I expected, as we have had the same every winter. I despair of getting Patty at a sewing School, as nothing will do here but dancing or Musick. I have by two several Conveyances reed the enclosed from Madeira. You had best send immediate Notice to Mr Remsen & Van Zandt of the News abt. Oswalds Commission, as it may prevent their being imposed on in the Mercantile way. I have the strongest Confidence that our hopes will be fully answered by March.


[Page 535]
December 24, 1782 501 Mrs. B., Susan & Patty join me in the most affectionate Compli ments of the Season, to Mrs. P., Johnny & Self. Am Dr Sir, Yours &c, B. [P.S.] Remember me to Mr. Dennis, Livingston, Mr Morton &c &c. I sincerely condole with Mr Dennis in his Loss. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday24 Deer. [1782] The letter from Mr. Jay inclosing copy of the intercepted letter from 1 was laid before Congress. 2 The tenor of it with the comments of Mr. J affected deeply the sentiments of Congress with regard to (France}. 3 The policy in particular manifested by (France) of keeping us tractable by leaving the British in possession of posts in this country awakened strong jealousies, corroborated the charges on that subject, and with concomitant circumstances may engender the opposite extreme of the gratitude & cordiality towards {France}; as the closest friends on a rupture are apt to become the bitterest foes. Much will depend however on the course pursued by Britain. The liberal one 4 seems to be pursuing will much promote an alienation of temper in A. 5 from (France). It is not improbable that the inter cepted letter from Marbois came thro’ his hands. If G.B. therefore yields the Fitsheries & the back territory, A. will feel the obligation to her not to (France) who appears to be illiberal as to the 1st & favorable to Spain as to the 2d object; and consequently has forfeited the confi dence of the States interested in either of them. Candor will suggest however that the situation of (France) is & has been extremely per plexing. The object of her blood & money was not only the indepen dence, but the commerce and gratitude of America; the commerce to render Independence the more useful, the gratitude to render that Commerce the more permanent. It was necessary therefore she sup- posedzthat America should be exposed to the cruelties of her Ene mies, and be made sensible of her own weakness in order to be grate ful to the hand which relieved her. This policy if discovered tended, on the other hand to spoil the whole. Experience shews that her truest policy would have been to relieve A. by the most direct & gener ous means, & to have mingled with them no artifice whatever. With respect to Spain also the situation of (France) has been & is peculiarly delicate. The claims & views of Spn & A. interfere. The former attempts of B. to seduce Sp. to a separate peace, & the ties of (France) with the latter required of her to favor Spain, at least to a certain


[Page 543]
December 25, 1782 509 Alexander Hamilton to George Clinton Sir Philadelphia, Decemr. 25. 1782 Perhaps before this reaches you, you will have heard that the British have impliedly acknowleged our independence—by giving a commis sion of the 23d. of September to Mr Oswald to treat with The thirteen United States of America. Many are sanguine in expecting that peace will be the result of the Negotiations, for my part I have hopes, but if it should not be the case I shall not be much disappointed. There are many jarring interests that will not be easily adjusted. I have the honor to be, With perfect respect, Sir, yr most obed A Hamilton [P.S.] As Mrs Hamilton may be on the route I take the liberty to inclose a letter 1 for her which I request the favour of you to forward or return as circumstances shall dictate. Reprinted from Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 26:430. 1 Not found. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 25th. 1782 I have enclosed you a Letter which I suppose contains your Com mission. 1 Genl. Lincoln was to have taken charge of it—but the Presi dent of Congress accidentally omitted the Opportunity and after that I expected to have had the Pleasure of delivering of it myself—after having taken my leave of Philadelphia & riding eight or Ten Miles; after having expended all my Money And reducing myself to a dis agreeable Situation, public Considerations influenced me to return very chearfully. Genl. Lincoln will undoubtedly have informed you of the Reason of my going Eastward; you may inform him that Congress approved entirely of the Committee’s Conduct & that they will not go forward very soon & probably not at all. 2 I wish to mention severally Things to you respecting Mr. Jay which would please you extremely & give you an exceeding good Opinion of him. His Conduct of late must be very satisfactory to all those who wish to participate in the Fisheries. His Determination has most agree ably disappointed me. But I have not Time to give any farther Infor mation by this Post. I am, very sincerely yours, S. Osgood


[Page 549]
December 28, 1782 515 do. The Letter by General Du Portail should have enclosed a Copy of that which was lost in the Congress; & that by Mr. Cochran should have been accompanied by a copy of the one you wrote a fortnight before, & delivered to Mr. Cuming, which I have never received. Mr. Barclay’s Letter by the Intrepid, & yours of 13th Octr. inform me of the death of M. de Clonard, for which I am exceedingly sorry. Pray present my affectionate regards to his Lady, & assure her that I most sincerely participate in the affliction which must be felt by all the friends of so valuable a man. The kindness, & attention which you have repeatedly informed me you have received from Madame de Clonard, will always endear her to me. The last accounts from Europe flatter us with the prospect of Peace; I most ardently hope that we may not be disappointed. Should that happy event take place before you leave France, it will be a Thousand times more welcome to me, as it will enable you to come over in greater safety. We have not yet received an account of the evacuation of Charles Town. Above two Months ago the Enemy abandoned all their outworks, & confined themselves to the Town. They likewise embarked all their stores, & the greatest part of their Cannon, & sent off a part of the Garrison. The remainder must have been detained by counterorders: if we do not hear soon of their having left it, I fear they will endeavour to keep it during the War. If they evacuate it, I shall once more be enabled to support my family comfortably at home, which will be a degree of hap piness to which I have for several years been a stranger. If Peace should be concluded this Winter, you will come either to Philadelphia or New York. If the War is to be continued, & you leave France as early as March, I should be glad that you would come to Baltimore. If you embark so late as that you may probably come on the coast of America in June, or July, I think Boston would be the best place for you to come to. Mr. Barclay has been very kind in offering to afford you any service in his power. He is a worthy man, & very capable of advising, & assisting you, & therefore I desire that you will apply to him to pro cure you the accommodations of a proper Vessel. Bring with you a Machine to copy Letters, if you can get one, & some of the paper proper to be used with it. Dr. Franklin copies his Letters with a Machine. It is a very useful contrivance, & saves a great deal of trou ble. My health continues very good; but I am tired of public business, & am anxious to return home with my family, to my Farm at Goose Creek. Make haste then my Dear Wife to assist me in carrying this plan into execution. I am pleased with the account you give of your German Servant, & wish that you would bring him with you instead of Richard. The piteous application the latter made to me before I left Europe, was one of the strongest reasons for my wishing to have him. As he seems satisfied with living with Mr. French, I am by no means desirous that he should come to me. On the contrary; for if his


[Page 551]
December 29, 1782 517 journey by land to South Carolina at the time. He has been infa mously persecuted by Usher, & Horner. This entre nous. RC (ScU: Izard Papers). William Blount to John Gray Blount Dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 29th 1782 Your’s of the 23d Novr. I received by [. . .] last Post and is the only one that I have received since the One by Mr. Blackledge. The one you mention to have wrote me “as early as September” and sent to Col. Ashe inclosing a “Sett of Bills” drawn by Mallett & Jewkes on Oliver Pollock for 535 s Zi Dollars nor the letter of Advice I have not seen nor heard of. Inclosed I found a Bill for 535 3 /4 Dollars which you call the first of the other Set, drawn by Mallett and Jewkes on Oliver Pollock Philadelphia. Soon after my Arrival here Mr. Nash sent me a Bill for 500 Dollars drawn by Mallett and Jewkes on Oliver Pollock (at some few days sight). 1 I presented the Bill and Mr. Pollock refused to accept it to be paid at the Sight it was drawn at but said he would accept it to be paid in Novr. or Deer, which I permited him to do. In Novr. he went to Vir ginia soon after Mr. Nash arrived here to whom I delivered the Bill. As the time of Payment drew near Mr Nash wrote him requesting to Know to whom he should here apply for the Mony when it became due in Case it should be inconvenient for himself (O.P.) to return here by that time and the following is his Answer. “Richmond Deer. 13th 1782. Sir, Your favour of the 3d Inst, is now before me and with Respect to the Bill in your favour for 500 Dollars, I am sorry to inform you it will be out of my power to discharge it before the later End of next month at which time I hope to have the Honor to hand the amt. in Person. I am &c. O.P. To the Honble A Nash Esqr.” I have recited the Circumstance respecting Mr Nashe’s Bill to prove two Things to you, the first is that he does not pay the Bills in Novr. or Deer, the time chosen and fixed on by himself and the other is that he will not be here before the later End of January but the Day before I purpose to set out for Carolina. Another Bill in favour of H. Toomer came into my Hands drawn by Mallett and Jewkes on O. Pollock for One hundred and Seventy Odd Dollars at ten days Sight. Before he went to Virginia I waited on him and presented the Bills for Accep tance which he refused to do unless I would admit of an Acceptance to be paid in Deer, which I declined. This Bill was by H. Toomer intended to reimburse me in part for the Mony I advanced his Brother Anthony. Mr. Pollock is a Man who unfortunately for him has a great Deal of Mony due to him both by the U. States and the S. of


[Page 552]
518 December 29, 1782 Virginia on which I fear he too much depends for the raising of Mony to discharge his debts or Bills; tho’ when he first arrived here he told me that he had a quantity of Beaver Furr in the Hands of some Gen tlemen of this place on which he principally depended to raise Cash and yesterday Inquiry was made of One of them about that Furr and from the Answer received No Hopes can be entertained of that fund producing any thing. I have put the Bills the ones you sent me and the One Toomer sent me into the Notary’s Hands and they are noted for Nonacceptance and when the days expire at which they respectively become due they will be protested for Non-payment. Should the other Set arrive I shall put them in the same Train. Observe this Protest will be founded upon Mr. Pollock being not to be found at the place mentioned as his Residence in the Bill Viz. Philadel phia therefore I hope it will not affect his Credit as it certainly would was he on the Spot and should he arrive here as he says he will by the last of January I shall offer him the Bills protested as they certainly will be without Damage or Charge of Protest and if he takes them up it will be fortunate for me if not they must recoil on the Endorsor & Drawers. I am &c & Wm. Blount Philadelphia January 4th 1783. The above is in Substance a Copy of a letter written to you by the last Post but I expect this will reach you before that does. By the last Post I also wrote you several other letters. 2 Wm. Blount RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 For Abner Nash’s efforts to collect on this bill, see also Blount to Pollock, December 26, 1782. 2 Not found. James Madison’s Notes of Debates [December 30, 1782] From Teusday 24 Deer, the journals suffice untill Monday 30 Deer. A motion was made by Mr. Clarke seconded by Mr. Rutlidge to revise the instructions relative to negociations for peace, with a view to exempt the american Plenipotentiaries from the obligation to con form to the advice of France. 1 This motion was the effect of impres sions left by Mr. Jay’s letters & the intercepted one from Marbois. 2 This evidence of separate views in our ally, and the inconsistency of that instruction with our national dignity, were urged in support of the motion. In opposing the motion many considerations were sug gested, and the original expediency of submitting the commission for peace to the counsels of France discanted upon. The reasons assigned


[Page 554]
520 December 30, 1782 These considerations still justified the original measure in the view of the members who were present & voted for it. All the new members who had not participated in the impressions which dictated it and viewed the subject only under circumstances of an opposite nature disapproved it. 5 In general however the latter joined with the former in opposing the motion arguing with them that supposing the instruc tion to be wrong, it was less dishonorable, than the instability tht wd. be denoted by rescinding it; that if G.B. was disposed to give us what we claimed, France could not prevent it; that if G.B. struggled agst. those claims our only chance of getting them was thro the aid of France; that to withdraw our confidence would lessen the chance & degree of this aid; that if we were in a prosperous or safe condition compared with that in which we adopted the expedient in question, this change had been effected by the friendly succours of our ally, & that to take advantage of it to loosen the tie, would not only bring on us the reproach of ingratitude but induce France to believe that she had no hold on our affections but only in our necessities; that in all possible situations we sd. be more in danger of being seduced by G.B. than of being sacrificed by France; the interests of the latter in the main necessarily coinciding with ours; those of the former being dia metrically opposed to them. That as to the intercepted letter, there were many reasons which indicated that it came through the hands of the Enemy to Mr. J. that it ought therefore to be regarded even if gen uine, as communicated for insidious purposes; but that there was strong reason to suspect that it had been adulterated if not forged; and that on the worst supposition, it did not appear that the doctrines maintained or the measures recommended in it had been adopted by the French Ministry and consequently that they ought not to be held responsible for them. Upon these considerations it was proposed by Mr. Wolcott 2ded. by Mr. Hamilton that the motion of Mr. Clarke should be postponed, which took place without a vote. Mr. M[adison] added that the letter from Doer. Franklin of the 14 Oct. 1782 6 shd. be referred to a Com mittee with a view of bringing into consideration the preliminary arti cle proposing that British subjects & American Citizens sd. recipro cally have in matters of commerce the privileges of natives of the other party; and of giving to the American Ministers the instruction which ensued on that subject. This motion succeeded and the Com mittee appointed consisted of Mr. Madison, Mr. Rutlidge, Mr. Clarke, Mr. Hamilton, & Mr. Osgood. 7 The contract of Gel. Wayne was confirmed with great reluctance; being considered as improper with respect to its being made with individuals, as admitting of infinite abuses, as out of his military line, & as founded on a principle that a present commerce with G.B. was favorable to the U.S. a principle reprobated by Congress & all the


[Page 557]
December 31,1782 523 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher supplied by Randolph, for which see Madison to Randolph, October 8, 1782, note 16. 5 For the arrival of the army deputation in Philadelphia and the submission of their “representations" to Congress, see Madison’s Notes, January 6, 1783, note 2. 6 For the Virginia assembly’s December 17 instructions to its delegates, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:408-10. 7 That is, the tempest in the Virginia assembly created by the revelation of anti French statements made by Arthur Lee in a private letter to Mann Page, for which see ibid., p. 400. 8 Madison apparently sent Randolph installments of his notes from Thomas Jeffer son’s memorandum for the marquis de Barbe-Marbois in late January and again in February 1783. See ibid., pp. 7-14; and Madison to Randolph, February 18, note 5, and February 25, 1783, note 5. 9 See Madison to Randolph, December 3, 1782, note 4. 10 For this important case concerning the application of British treason law in Vir ginia, see xMadison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:184n.3, 218-19nn.9-10, 384n.4. Daniel Carroll to William Paca Dear Sr Pha. Deer. 31st. 1782. Mr. Marbois calld yesterday with the enclosed. I was not at home but suppose it to be on public business & therefore inclose it under a Frank—if it should prove otherwise please to settle it with the post Office, i With great respect, &c I am yr Exys Mo Obt Sert, Dani Carroll 2 RC (MdAA: Red Books). I In hisjanuary 3 response to Carroll, Paca explained that the marquis de Barbe-Mar bois’ letter was simply a cover for a packet from Matthew Ridley, who was Maryland s agent in France reporting “on Business of a public Nature, which' he was commissioned to transact.” See Md. Archives, 48:336. 2 Carroll also wrote the following additional letter to Paca this date: “I have nothing of importance to communicate since my last. The Secretary for Foreign affairs informs me, that he sent a copy of Mr Oswalds Commission by last post.” “It would give me pleasure to hear that the letters from the Minister of France had got safe to hand & what I sent by last post.” MdAA, Red Books, 4:119. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday Deer. 31. 1782. The report of the Committee made in consequence of Mr. M’s motion yesterday instructing the ministers plenipo. on the article of commerce, 1 passed unanimously as follows: “Resolved that the Minis ters Plenipy for negociating peace be instructed, in any commercial stipulations with G.B which may be comprehended in a Treaty of peace, to endeavor to obtain for the Citizens and inhabitants of the


[Page 563]
January 1,1783 529 mentioned. I reed, by this Weeks Post from the Secretary 2 an Account of the Amount of my Drafts & a Caution not to make them too fre quent by Direction of the Council. I must confess it appears not a lit tle extraordinary to me. It gives me Pain least you should meet with Difficulty, on Account of the Order I gave you. If this should be the Case, I wish you not to press the Board very hard if you can negociate it in Boston for a short Time, & write to my Brother Isaac Osgood at Salem, I doubt not but he will be able pretty punctually to discharge it, I have by this Post requested him to do it; 3 in Case you request it, & inform him when & where. I have inclosed you a Copy of the Secre tary’s Letter to me & my Answer thereto. 4 I dont recollect that we have any foreign News of Importance since you left us which can be communicated, Tho I am at a Loss to know whereabouts we were in that Respect, at that Time. The Prospect of Peace is not less flattering—perhaps more—yet I should feel much happier to see the Treaties Signed—for I think there are many Con siderations, if not on our Side, elsewhere, that may prevent a speedy Peace. The Arrangement of Newhampshire, Rode Island and New Jersey Lines are postponed to the first of March next; & also three Regi ments of Pennsylvania. But I think it is radically wrong; I am very sorry to differ with you in Opinion—But the Delegates of N Hampshire & Rhode Island declared in Congress, that their States would not com ply—& I think that when they know that Masstts. & Connectt. are not call’d upon who are equally defect, in their Compliment as those two States; that they will not be at a very great partial Expence. However it is done. 5 We have done another very wrong Thing for Baron Steuben. We have referred a Motion to the Financier to take Order for 2,400 Dollrs. in favr. of the Baron on Acct, of Pay. We have repealed all for mer Allowances of extra Pay, Subsistence, forage, Waggons &ca for himself & family, & ordered in Lieu thereof three hundred Dollrs. per Month. 6 It is not right. However if the Army are content with it, Amen! The Committee of the Army arrived yesterday. 7 Coll Brooks breakfasted with me this Morning. I can’t now recollect all the wicked Things we have done since your Departure. Mr. Gorham has been confined for ten or twelve Days but is growing better. Mr. Lovell is now confined he has had a very disagreeable Turn of Feaver & Ague &ca. One Day about Dusk he came down from his Chamber & seemed to be in a strange Condition; the Doctr. was present. Jack insisted upon it that his Legs were so big that he could not move them. His Hands, His Head, His Body were all so big that he could not possibly stir. The Doctr. Thot he was vapoury—felt of his Pulse; & did not find them bad—he bantered him, but to no Purpose; about half an Hour after, he was taken with a most violent fit—nobody was in the Room when he was first taken—they found him in the middle of the floor


[Page 564]
530 January!, 1783 perhaps in half a Minute after he was seized. Mr. Gorhams Boy & mine seized him to prevent his injuring himself—for he Jam’d his Head against the floor & kicked most violently. The two Boys were no match for him. The Neighbourhood & the Doctr were soon rallied. After he came out of it, he was very weak & remained so for three or four Days; he seems to be getting a little better now. I have not men tioned to him the Condition he was in. It is now about two Hours since the New year commenced, there fore it is Time for me to bid you Adieu, S. Osgood [P.S.] The Judges at Trenton have determined unanimously in favor of Pennsylvania. I have not had Time by this Post to write my Brother at Salem. If you meet with Difficulty on Account of the Draft—I shall be glad to know it as soon as may be for I can make Provision for the Payment thereof. I think you will Judge that I have wrote a very mod erate & decent Letter to the Secry. It was not dictated by my feelings— because I apprehend they may think differently upon a State of Facts. If they do not I shall only return a Month or two sooner for it. I wish you a happy, yes, a thousand happy New Years. Jany. 8th. Greaton, Dayton & Putnam are Brigrs General. 8 RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 See Osgood to John Lowell, December 25, 1782. 2 That is, John Avery. 3 Not found. 4 Not found. 3 For this December 31 suspension of plans for consolidating several Continental reg iments of New Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island, see JCC, 23:837; and John Taylor Gilman tojosiah Bartlett, January 9, 1783. 6 See JCC, 23:833-34. 7 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, December 30, 1782, note 5. 8 See Elias Boudinot to Elias Dayton, January 7, 1783. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Sir Philadelpa. IJanry. 1783. I wrote to you by the last Post. 1 Nothing Material has since occurred except that the Judgment of the Court Appointed to determine the Controversy between Connecticut and Pennsylvania has been read in Congress, by which they have unanimously decided that Connecticut has no Right to the Territory, nor Jurisdiction over the Country in Dis pute. The Reasons for the Sentence are not assigned—and conse quently the Judgment will not Apply as a Precedent in deciding Other Cases. I hope that Pennsylvania will quiet the Settlers under the Claim of Connecticut, and wish that a Stipulation of this Nature had been entered into previous to the Tryal.


[Page 565]
January 2,1783 531 Nothing Material has otherwise occurrd since my last. We shall probably soon be better able to judge wheather G Britain seriously intends to settle a Peace—or wheather her Designs are insidious and delusive. 2 As you pass the Post office dayly you will, there enquire every Post for any Letters of Mine. France has remitted the Interest due from the States to her, prior if I remember Right to last July. You will never suffer any Paragraphs in any of my Letters to be printed. Yours, O Wolcott RC (Ct: Oliver Wolcott, Jr., Papers). 1 See Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr., December 25, 1782. 2 Wolcott also wrote a similar letter this day to his wife Laura, an extract from which is in RobertF. Batchelder Autographs Catalog, no. 51 (May 1985), item 32. And on the 9th he sent her the following brief family letter. “I wrote to Rhina yester day by the Post, at which Time I did not know of Mr. Whitman’s being about to Return. By Rhina’s Letter of the 23 Ult. I learn that you have had a severe Turn of the Rhurna- sism. I fear that you expose your Health greatly by an attention to the Health of Juba— you will consider that your Own Life and Health is of infinetely more consequence than his. I wish that he might be provided for, but let it be done in a Manner consistent with your own Safety. I have not heard how he is since I left home, but if he continues as he was I think it perfectly consistent with your Duty to dispose of him in the best Manner you can for his Benifit. I have but a Moments Time to Write. May the Almighty bless you. I am well, yours, Oliver Wolcott.” Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers, CtHi. David Ramsay to John Eliot Dear Sir, January 2d 1783, Philada. I am much obliged by your last kind letter of the first of December. You are right with respect to Dr. Warrens oration. I only have the one that was pronounced in 1775 which in my opinion is the best of the whole collection. 1 The account you give of Mr Austin is truly deplorable. What a pity that so bright a sun should set so soon & what is worse set under such a cloud. 2 The evacuation of Charlestown is an event though much desired not yet authenticated. The last southern post brought some disagree able accounts of Gen. Green being obliged to retreat but this also is not properly ascertained. You ask my opinion on the subject of Dr Whites performance. 3 I have not read it but they who have say that it puts ordination on a presbyterian footing. He is a candid catholic worthy man & most excellent citizen. I think it probable that his plan will be adopted & in that case our churches will only differ from theirs in the forms of wor ship. Your speaker Mr Gorham has the esteem of Congress & is reckoned a man of abilities & integrity. He has mentioned nothing about Mr


[Page 566]
532 January 2, 1783 Burgess. 4 My private opinion is that he will gain nothing by applying to Congress. The inconsistency of so soon departing from their own resolution respecting British Subjects would hold them up to public view as a fickle unsteady body if they relaxed in favor of any individual however deserving. The present sense of many members is that the stronger evidence a British subject produces of his attachment to America the more fit he would be to be employed by the enemy. I know nothing of that Gentlemans character; but let it be ever so good I do not believe that Congress would break through their late resolu tion for his sake. If peace should be established British subjects will have the same liberties of coming to America that other Europeans have. They among them who are our freinds must not take it amiss that we cannot embrace them before that period. My private senti ment is that there are many freinds to America absolutely considered in G. Britain but, I suspect the freindship of all of them to America independent and allied to France. The last I consider as the anchor of the former & would do nothing that would in the most remote man ner hurt it. The papers will inform you that negociations are going on, that a new commission is made out empowering Mr Oswald to treat with the States of America. Lord Shelburne is so double a character that I sus pect his sincerity in all this. God grant I may be mistaken. With the greatest esteem & regard, I am your real freind & very humble servt, David Ramsay RC (MHi: Andrew-Eliot Papers). 1 See Ramsay to Eliot, July 17, 1782, note 2. 2 Jonathan Williams Austin, the author of one of the orations in the “collection” under discussion, had died in 1779, but Ramsay’s lament is probably a reference to Austin’s dishonorable discharge from the Continental Army in 1776 after pleading drunkenness in mitigation of a court-martial charge, and failure to gain reinstatement because of uncertainty over his sobriety. See Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:120-22. 3 A reference to The Case of the Episcopal Churches in the United States Considered (Philadelphia: David C. Claypoole, 1782), by the Rev. William White (1748-1836). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 17,802. 4 For William Burgess’ naturalization petition to the Massachusetts General Court, see Arthur Lee to Samuel Adams, January 29, 1783, note 3. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday 3d. Jany. [1783] 1 The vote of thanks to the Minister of France which passed yesterday was repealed in consequence of his havg expressed to the President a desire that no notice might be taken of his conduct as to the point in question & of the latter’s communicating the same to Congress. 2 The


[Page 567]
January 4, 1783 533 temper of Congress here again manifested the transient nature of their irritation agst. France. The motion of Mr. Howel put on the Secret Journal gave Congress a great deal of vexation. This expedient for baffling his scheme of rais ing a ferment in his state & exposing the foreign transactions was adopted only in the last resort; it being questioned by some whether the articles of confederation warranted it. 3 The answer to the note of the French Minister passed unanimously & was a further testimony of the abatement of the effects of Mr. Jay’s letter &c. The proceedings of the Ct. in the dispute between Cont. & Pa. were after debates as to the meaning of the confederation in directing such proceeding to be lodged above 4 the acts of Congress entered at large on the Journals. 5 It was remarked that the Delegates from Cont. par ticularly Mr. Dyer were more captious on the occasion than was con sistent with a perfect acquiescence in the decree. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:6. i Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote “Thursday Jany 2d. Nothing requiring notice.” 2 For the resolve to thank the chevalier de La Luzerne for “informing Congress that a naval force would be detached from the West Indies for the protection of our trade,” see JCC, 24:3. 3 The Rhode Island delegates had been attempting to secure extracts from various letters from Europe reporting optimistically on American credit abroad, thus vindicat ing their opposition to the impost amendment. After acrimonious debate this day the matter was postponed and “committed” by the vote of 9 to 1. Madison was apparently troubled that Congress also then adopted a motion to have the proceedings of this debate recorded only on the secret journals, thereby infringing article IX of the Articles of Confederation guaranteeing that Congress would “publish the Journal of their pro ceedings monthly, except such parts thereof relating to treaties, alliances or military operations, as in their judgment require secrecy;.. . and the delegates of a state, or any of them, at his or their request shall be furnished with a transcript of the said Journal, except such parts as are above excepted, to lay before the legislatures of the several states.” See JCC, 19:220-21, 23:832-33, 837, 24:32-36. See also David Howell’s letters to John Carter ofjanuary 6; andjonathan Arnold to Howell, March 8, 1783, note 1. 4 Madison later wrote “among” above the line and lined out “above.” 5 Article IX of the Articles of Confederation also provided that “the judgment or sen tence and other proceedings... [in controversies between states, would be] transmit ted to congress, and lodged among the acts of congress for the security of the parties concerned." See JCC, 19:218, 24:6-32. Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Dr. Sir Philadelphia Jany. 4th 1783 I do myself the honor to enclose a Letter to your Excellency at the Request of the Honorable Mr. Jefferson, 1 who goes in a few Days for Europe.


[Page 574]
540 January 6, 1783 Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir. Philadelphia Jany. 6th. 1783 I have not had either Opportunity or a Subject on which to write you of late. In my last 1 informed you that I expected to have been in Boston this Winter. It is now a Matter of Uncertainty. After Genl. Mif flin, Mr. Nash & myself had left Philadelphia & rode about Eight or Ten Miles, Mr. Nash accidentally mentioned that he had seen a pri vate Letter before he left the City informing that Virginia had repealed their Impost Law. We immediately enquired thro whom the Information came & found the Channel to be so good that there could remain but little Doubt as to the Fact. This convinced us all that it was in vain to go to Rhode Island till the Matter was fully ascer tained. We returned rather chagrined & informed Congress of the Reason who were entirely ignorant of the Matter except three or four Members. That Body approved of our Conduct, & in about two Hours after the southern Post arrived & confirmed the Intelligence. This has at present put an End to the Deputation’s proceeding. Mr. Morris dif fers from us in Opinion. He thinks we ought to have gone forward. But Congress seem to be unanimous that it is best, at least to postpone it for the present. I am extremely distress’d with the embarrassed Situation of Con gress. They must finally be borne down. It is impossible for them to hold their Station if the War continues unless they are furnished with more ample & liberal Means to carry it on. Extremes frequently pro duce their opposites too much or too little Power in Congress are both ineligible. You know their Powers as to the great national Objects under their Direction. However it may not be amiss to suggest the probable Consequences which may take Place from the present weak & debilitated Constitution of the united States & the almost entire Loss of Confidence in Congress in a great Measure arising therefrom. Many of the Systems with the Trompery of paper Money are all done away by Congress. Their late Systems have operated well. The Arrangements are prudent & lessen inconceivably the Expences of the united States. Congress have much to say for themselves on this Head within the last Eighteen Months. But if they cannot by prudent Man agement obtain the Confidence of the People & the several Legisla tures. If they will not Join heartily in supporting Congress, Disunion & Dissolution can scarcely be avoided. This Event however some may think of it lightly is a very serious Matter & must be pregnant with infi nite Mischief; how far European Powers may become interested in the Scene is impossible to divine. But I think, the probable Danger is much against us. We begin to open to a new Scene of Politicks a brit- tish Interest is strongly suspected even among those who are zealous for the Independence of these States. It is foreseen that at the close of


[Page 575]
January 6,1783 541 the War a strong french & brittish Interest will become exceeding manifest. The french Court undoubtedly expect & intend to claim as much Merit as Decency will allow of for their Aids & Assistance. We surely ought as a sensible & generous People to acknowledge fully the important & beneficial Consequences of those Aids. But as a People conscious of our own sovereign Rights & as brave as generous, we ought never to fetter ourselves with an unnecessary Byass towards any Power on Earth. We ought to think & act as an independent People. But this I fear is not possible. If we may not charge many in important Stations with the most humiliating Servility—We may at least say that if their Conduct is the Result of Deliberation, if it is a fair Index of their Intentions, it does not wear the Appearance of an independent Mind. None but an F n 2 can be blind to the Politicks of the Court of V s either his Understanding or his Heart must be impeached unless we suppose all our other M s distitute of Sagacity & Good ness of Intentions—for they have all fallen into the same Channel of thinking & have viewed Things in a very different Light from that M— —r. This Mr. Jay informs us plainly is the Case with him & the D r. And if he perseveres in his independent Way of thinking, it will not be long before Suspicions Insinuations, & Party Interest will lessen his Importance there. But these are very secret Matters & Honor forbids my mentioning several Things that have a strange Aspect. Two power ful Interests opposed to each other which may be the Case & a Disso lution of our Union will probably be Sources of as many Calamities as the present War. I think it is for our Interest to be united notwith standing some States may & will finally bear a very unequal Part of the present Contest. But they will not wish to seek for a Remedy which would encreace the Injury. Their alternative must be to choose the least Evil; and of all temporal Evils War is among the greatest. Our national Debt is about thirty Millions of Dollars—near Twenty five Millions of which is due to the Inhabitants of the united States. Seven teen Millions & probably a little more, are upon Interest—so that Twelve hundred thousand Dollars is a Computation low enough for the annual Interest. That Sum Congress have required for the sole Purpose of discharging the Interest to March 1783—can you point out in what Way Congress can do Justice to their Creditors & obtain about 6,000,000 of Dollrs. for the Support of their Army & the civil List. I do not think our national Debt together with the Debts of the several States so enormous that the Abilities of the united States equally exerted are not or rather will not be fully competent to the Discharge thereof. But I fear that the national Debt never will be discharged upon the Principles of the Confederation unless Peace makes a much greater Alteration in some of the States than I have any Reason to expect. That they will assume a new Face soon after the Close of the War cannot be doubted But that they will be heartily & Jointly dis-


[Page 576]
542 January 6, 1783 posed to comply with the Requisitions of Congress a future Day will alone determine. No rational Man can suppose that during the War the united States can raise seven Million & a half of Dollars annualy (which is the Amount of the Estimates upon the lowest possible Calcu lation) in the common Way of Taxation. Some other more energetic & productive Plan must be adopted or the oeconomical Plans of Congress must fail in the Execution. And if they should fail before Peace is established the Consequences are very much to be dreaded. Peace may or may not be made this Winter says Mr. J in a Let ter of the 13th of last October. 3 But the Brittish Commission to Mr. Oswald to treat with the Commissioners of the thirteen united States of America viz. Newhampshire & so on—appears to me to have in some Measure closed the Dispute with Respect to our Independence: & several agree with me in Opinion that this being no longer a Ques tion to be solved by the Sword the Court of St. James will be in Haste for a Peace. That they are seriously and anxiously disposed for such an Event appears from good Authority. And Should they be wise enough to make a very liberal Peace with us & cede all their Rights to our extensive Claims to Territory & grant us the same Priviledges in the Fisheries which we formerly enjoyed & also a Freedom of Trade in their Ports to be reciprocal—should they be governed by such truely wise & political Principles for themselves of which there is much Rea son to suppose they are more sensibly impressed than they have ever before been. What will clogg the Wheels of Peace—surely America looks with the utmost Anxiety for that happy Event. Heaven forbid that it should be otherwise than happy. It is natural to suppose that if great Britain acknowledges our Independence, she will make Peace with us upon such liberal Terms as to obliterate as much as possible a Remembrance of past Injuries. But is this a Conduct in them to be wish’d for by, & that will be pleasing to every European Power? It is a political Question & there may be many political Manoevres before it can be fully answered. The more contracted & limited Congress find their Powers as to the very important Objects that fall under their gen eral Direction in a Time of War, the more dependent that Body is made, the more servile & obedient will they become to foreign Influ ence. How can it be otherwise? If we cannot carry on the War our selves, it matters not whether it it is owing to the Inability of the Peo ple, or to the Weakness of our Constitution—either of them will oblige Congress to have recourse to similar Measures. They must to their own Humiliation solicit foreign Aid in either Case And I am fully convinced that Congress have been really necessitated to sollicit Aids in the most humble Terms more from a Want of Energy in their own Constitution than from the real Inability of the People. We have rea son to beleive that the “ultimately to govern” &ca. originated in Part from this Cause. The States to the southward of this saw plainly their


[Page 577]
January 6, 1783 543 Danger. They were perswaded that the Power of the Union was at that Time insufficient for their Protection. They deprecated a Submission to Great Britain & to avoid it saw no other Way but by courting for eign Aid at the dear Expence of their own Honor & Dignity. This burning of Incense at a strange Alter is political Blasphemy against the Sovereignty of America. But this is the Course of human Nature when we see our Danger & are unable to help ourselves we generally apply for Assistance. And thus a Congress without Power may be the Escurial 4 of American Dignity. The above Reasons have lately been urged in Justification of passing that base, servile Clause. The Servility ought to be had in the greatest Detestation even if it was not possible for us to receive any Injury by it. But however in this particular Instance, the above Reasons are ostensible at this Time. I don’t recol lect that they were urged with much Warmth. Genl. Ward may recol lect better the general Course of the Business, it pass d in about two Days after I entered Congress. I think the true was this, & always shall be in the Opinion Mr. Adams was sole Commissioner for Peace. The Count de V s 5 found him by no Means a pliable Man. There had been a Warm Dispute between him & Mr. Adams & the Count had declared to Mr. Adams that he would never write to him again—this I take to be the true Reason & the others such as the Weakness of the southern Governments & the extremely embarassed Situation of our Finances are now very plausible Excuses. They were at that Time both true. But it may be remarked that we have not received any Considera tion for the Surrender. Mr. Laurens had finished his Negociation long before & we have received no Subsidy or Loan, since what he obtained. The Count de Grasse was ordered to the Chesapeak before that could reach france & you are a Judge of the Rest. The Powers of Congress as to internal Government are very limited but as to external Matters such as Treaties and Alliances they are very extensive. The first being found by Experiment incompetent the last will be resorted to. And in this Way the United States may laid pros trate at the Foot of a foreign Power either from pretended Necessity or political Intrigue. If it had been possible to have given more of the one & less of the other our Honor might have been preserved more inviolate. I wish there may never be an Occasion for another War after this has terminted. But I think we ought to get thro this as honorably as we can, by endeavoring to establish such Systems for discharging the Debts that have necessarily accrued as to leave finally our Honor & Honesty unimpeach’d. It is in vain to triffle & piddle about the Mat ter. If Congress cannot discharge they must not contract Debts they must not obtain any foreign Loans. They must not hold out any longer vain & delusory Promises to the Army. It is impossible for them to exist with only one or two Months Pay in two Years.


[Page 581]
January 6, 1783 547 Court. It is true that by the last Letters from Mr. Adams 11 he had obtain’d from Individuals about £80,000 Sterlg. The Interest of which commenced many Months ago as also for about £100,000 Sterg more the Interest of which Sums yearly must be paid with Punctuality or our Credit in Europe with Individuals will sink entirely instead of rising. How this can be done without appropriating a Part of the Capital for that Purpose I know not. That we have fail’d in no late Application for Loans is a wicked Misrepresentation. It is calculated to give an exceed ing bad Opinion of Congress to all their suffering Creditors. It con veys an Idea to the public that Congress can obtain as much Money as they stand in need of & that the Facility with which they can procure it ought rather to be check’d than encouraged by establishing of perma nent Funds. Would you, or any other Person beleive from that Repre sentation that Congress have not obtain’d any Money in Europe for nearly two Years excepting what Mr. Adams has obtain’d. Mr. Lau rens’s Negociation is the latest Money we have obtaind from the Court of V s which is little short of two years notwithstanding we have made two very pressing Applications since—one of them particularly long enough ago to have reed, an Answer. Doctr. F n was so strongly impress’d with an Opinion that we must fail in the Applica tion that he postponed it for farther Directions—which he received in positive Terms. As to the Court of Madrid Congress I hope will never make another Application there: after the unwearied & pressing Solicitations of Mr. j—y for many months to that Court for about £25,000 Sterg after being triffled with & encouraged from Time to Time, he was finally obliged to the great Dishonor of the United States to suffer to be protested Bills drawn on him to that small Amount. The Count de Vergennes writes in the most pointed Terms against our placing Dependence upon Assistance there. Mr. Adams writes very discourag ing as to his future Prospects. Spain will not assist us in this Way. In what part of Europe then is our Credit so well established that we can make Applications for Loans with any Prospect of Success? I know not. Indeed I think it is not fair & honest for Congress to ask a foreign Individual to loan them money in their present State of Imbecility Notwithstanding the above State of Facts, which are literally true. Mr. H 1 persists in declaring that his Sentiments can be supported from the Letters of our foreign Ministers & is very assiduously attempt ing to have a great Part of their Correspondence in his Possession as well as that of the public by introducing them or such Parts as he con ceives will best answer his Purpose as Preambles to a Motion & calling for the Yeas & Nays to bring them upon the Journals so that he may have an attested Copy which Congress have not usually given. He left us this Week, & you may probably see him figuring away in the Provi dence Gazette.


[Page 589]
January?, 1783 555 In August last a Commission was granted by the Court of London to Richard Oswald Esquire of the City of London impowering him to treat for and conclude with the Colonies of North America or their Commissioners a Peace or Truce. Our Ministers at Paris refused to treat with Mr. Oswald under this Commission objecting to the Word Colonies. On the 27th September Mr. Oswald produced another Com mission from the Court of London dated September 21st impowering him to treat for and conclude with the Commssioners of the Thirteen United States of North America Viz New Hampshire, Massachusets &c &c—a Truce or Peace. On the 14th of October our last Official Accounts are dated (from Paris) when and where the Peace Negocia- tors appeared to be going on very amicably but by the same Con veyance We are informed by one of the Negociators that Notwith standing the peaceable Aspect the Negoci[a]tions have, that he should not belive the British were sin [c]ere in what they said about Peace untill they had signed and sealed a Treaty to insure it. In this Business of Peace making there is no less than five diffrent Interests to consult and accomodate so that however sin [c] ere all Parties may be in their wishes to Compleat it, It will unavoidably be a Work of consid erable time, if effected at all, And as to what will be the Event of this Business the People here are much divided in Opinion for my own part my Opinion too frequently goes with my Wishes and no Man more fervently wishes for Peace than I do. I write to no other of my Friends of this Subject and you may give as many of them Extracts from it as you please, particularly Govr. Caswell, James Coor & Doer. Guion. My Merchantile Friends I need not mention. Now to yourself & T & T. O. 3 let me say that the best informed People here are very clear that Peace will arise out of the present Negociations and of this Opinion I am, but as it is truly a Work of great Magnitude I can form no opinion as to the precise time when it may be expected. These let ters of this Package will come to you from Edenton by Express & you must pay the Expence. I am &c Wm. Blount RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 See Blount to Pollock, December 26, 1782. 2 Nevertheless, Blount probably did not leave Philadelphia before mid-February. Writing from Baltimore February 15, Thomas Jefferson reported that Blount had not yet arrived there en route home, though expected. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:243. And in a 1785 “Deposition of his Service in Congress,” Blount claimed eight months service from “the second Day of July 1782 to the second Day of March 1783 both Days inclu sive . . . including the Time taken up in going to and returning from Congress." Blount Papers, McClung Historical Collection, TK1.. 3 Titus and Thomas Ogden, merchants of New Bern, N.C. Blount, Papers (Keith), 1:33.


[Page 596]
562 January 8, 1783 In Consequence of this another Committee was appointed upon us both—which and their report given in on the 18 Deer, is in Extract No. 2—by this the Secretary for foreign Affairs is to transmit to the State—together with the doings of Congress “an Authenticated State of the several Applications for foreign Loans, and the result thereof.” Apprehensive whether the same turn of thinking wch. actuated the first committee in their report—might not affect in stating those mat ters—(apart from other & personal Considerations) And judging it would be more satisfactory to your Excellency and the Assembly to have the Letters & papers themselves, wherby to form a State con formable to your Judgments—rather than to take the Constructions, comments, glosses, & Colourings of either party every leisure hour Until the 2nd day of January was taken up in procuring a knowledge of the Letters &c necessary to be forwarded—on this Occasion, in addition to what was already Ordered. Which being summed up in the form of a Resolution—I moved it, seconded by Mr. Collins and the yeas & nays being called—various manoevres were tried to prevent its effect, but in vain. Until I was surprized by a motion to transfer the Motions, with the subsequent proceedings to the secret Journals, which was carried, altho’ the Motion did not upon a scrutiny contain any thing under injunction of secrecy, nor related to any matter pointed out by the Articles of Confederation—as the subjects for those Journals. It would have given me great satisfaction to have been able to forward a Resolve of the purport of (No. 4)—but of this by the proceedings above mentioned I am prevented. 5 Discouraged from a further trial Mr. Howell set out to return on the 6th Instant. Although by these matters his stay has been protracted about Two weeks, yet I cannot doubt but your Excellency & the Honorable Assembly will be with me in Opinion that the time has been spent, in discharging a duty, and for the Honor and Interest of the State. Thereby a Capital & I hope fatal stroke has been given to a system, which had it prevailed, I have no doubt would either have involved the Country in fresh & unsuspected scenes of distress—or terminated in the destruction of the Liberties of the States as established by Con federation, and I am persuaded by the convictions which already appear, similar attempts will not be soon made in Congress to infringe the rights of a Member of their body. 6 No Official intelligence is yet arrived of the Evacuation of Charles T own —but it seems now beyond a doubt to have taken Place. This is the only important news, and on which please to Accept my Congratu lations. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect your Excellency’s Very huml. servant, J ona Arnold


[Page 597]
January 8,1783 563 RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 See JCC, 23:771-72; and Arnold to Greene, December 6, 1782. 2 See JCC, 23:788-90. •’ See JCC, 23:791-93. 4 See JCC, 23:813-19; and Arnold to Greene, December 18, 1782. 4 See JCC, 24:32-36. 6 On January 14 Congress nevertheless adopted a resolution rebuffing the Rhode Island delegates and reaffirming its demand for secrecy on “the subject of foreign loans,” and calling for Rhode Island officials to prevent the proceedings involving How ell from “appearing in the public prints.” See JCC, 24:45-46; Elias Boudinot to Greene, January 16; and Rhode Island Delegates to Greene, February 4, 1783. See also James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 3, note 3. Oliver Ellsworth to Abigail Ellsworth Dear Nabby, Philadelphia Jany. 8th 1783. I have not yet heard a word from Windsor or Hartford since I left home, but hope I have now letters on the road which will affoard me the great pleasure of hearing that you are all well & do not suffer at all by my absence. 1 I feel myself bound by [...]& promise to write you a line by ever[y oppor] trinity tho’ I should have very little to say, which is the case at present. You will percieve by the enclosed paper that Charleston is at last really evacuated; which reduces the Enemy in these United States to the single Post of New York. With love to Nabby & a smack for the little boy & a thousand good wishes to you all—I remain unalterably your— OE RC (CtHi: Ellsworth Papers). 1 Ellsworth had returned to Congress on December 20. JCC, 23:822. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Jany 8th. 1783. I received your favor of the 9th Ultimo, on the 31st. Genl. Whipple sets out to-morrow morning by him I shall send you some Commis sions & Journals of Congress. As it is uncertain how long he may be on the Road, and this being Post Day I Just Inclose you a Paper by which you will see that Charlestown is Evacuated. I shall write you by Genl, Whipple, more fully. 1 I have the Honor to be, Your most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). ’ See Gilman to Weare, January 9.


[Page 599]
January 8, 1783 565 wished for peace—if G. Britain was not pretty sure, that the ultimate concessions in the course of the treaty wch. she had determined to make would ensure to her peace, would she be so weak As in effect to acknowledge American Independence? Would she not rather, at least affect to claim us as her subjects & keep this claim open for contin gencies during the war? No doubt she would—have not the British Councils declared to the world the impracticability of recovering their lost Colonies & have they not now opened a treaty with them as sovereign & independt. states? Yes—wherefore then carry on the war, can we suppose that in her exausted condition, she is capable of futur- ing projects of conquest Agt. her other Enemies to make good what she has lost here: The Idea is too chimerical therefore on the whole, I conclude & give it as my chimney corner opinion that all parties are prepared for peace. Nothing I do assure you my Dear Sir is more true than that poor America is prepared for peace, indeed it may be said she is prepared for nothing else. In the early periods of the war Con gress possessed powers very different from what they do now. They Could order the raising of Regiments, could organize armies & what is of particular consequence they held the purse strings of America, that is so long as paper could be found, they could find money—possessed fully of the Confidence of their Country they could turn even rags to Money. Midas like what e’re they touched they turned to gold, but alas! this gold has all turned to rags again & the art is lost lost, forever, see McFingal, & they are able now only to apply to their constituents for money, who are either not able or not willing to pay. Perhaps you will say, let them exercise their power of borrowing as other sovereigns do who enter into war, but I answer if they will borrow as other nations do, they must provide & appropriate ample Funds for paymt. of Interest & principal as other nations do. Promises wont do any longer & what funds I ask you have Congress in their power— none—they made one attempt to bring the states into a consent that they might Tax imports as far as 5 per Cent & after advocating the propriety nay necessity of the measure as a prop to Credt. for two years they have at length the mortification to find it wont go down. The little State of R. Island has had it in her power to blast the well grounded hopes that were conceived of such a measure & Virga, has since on this head gone retrograde. A deputation from the N. army is now before Congress stating their distresses & prophesying what will be the probable consequence if practising any longer on the patiance of the Soldiery. God grant us you will say a happy issue out of all our troubles; so we all say but this wont get the Cart out of the mire. The truth is Sir the fault is in the Constitution of Congress & if these dis tresses should happily point out a remedy in the right place and way, we shall by & by say as we have often had reason to say before, all is for the best, you will guess to what my hopes glance—things will soon be


[Page 600]
566 January 8,1783 better or worse. Our representation is now very full all the delegates being here, but as our Finances are not calculated but for the support of a bare representation Mr Blount & myself will go home soon. 2 The Doctor is satisfied to stay over his time wch. is very agreeable to me. Please to present my best respects to Mr. Johnston, yr. Lady &c. & believe me to be wth. the sincerest regard, Dear Sir, yr. obt. Hble Servt. A. Nash RC (N'cD: Iredell Manuscripts). 1 Edmund C. Burnett and Griffith J. McRee misdated this letter January 18, 1783. Burnett, letters, 7:19. 2 Little is known about Nash’s final days in Philadelphia. He was not present for the congressional roll call votes of February 6; and Thomas Jefferson later reported that Nash arrived in Baltimore on February 13 en route to North Carolina and that William Blount was soon expected. See JCC, 24:116; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:243. John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir (Private) Philada.Jany 9th. 1783. It is so long a time since I had the pleasure of a Line from you, that I Scarcely know whether you wish to hear from me however I shall Hazard a few Lines. Your last Letter was dated Octr. 5th. You will see by my Letter to the Honbl. the President what has been done respecting Conti. Money; as I think their is not any the least prospect of any thing being done to good purpose at present I Imag ine the Delegates of Massachusetts will not move the Subject again very soon, and I Shall not unless I hear from the state on the Subject. I have seen the Resolve of the Genl. Court for Compleating their Battal ions in Consequence of the Application of Genl. Washington. 1 This was a plan agreed on by him & the Secretary at War. It was altogether unknown by Congress (Except some Individual Members) untill about the 25th of'December. I had been Informed of it by a Letter from the Army but not in time to write to the State previous to the November session, otherwise I Should have hazarded my Sentiments on that Subject in Contradiction to the Application. The Arangement of the 7th of August Ought to have taken place in the N.H. Line. Congress were Informed a few Days Since (about the 27th December) that application had been made, and that New Hamp, had agreed to raise their Troops, which was the principal Argument made use of for Suspending the Arangment which Resolution I Inclose you. 2 I am for General Arangements & requisitions I by no means wish to see the State of New Hampshire backward in Complying with the General Requisitions of Congress, But in this Case, I think in the first place that it is not probable we shall want more men, and in the Second if we did they ought to be raised from those States who are much more


[Page 602]
568 January 9, 1783 Hope the State have Appointed Delegates to relieve us the begin ning of April. Nothing further done respecting Vermont & please to make my Compliments to my Friends with You. I am, Your most Hum Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Mr. Jefferson of Virginia who was Appointed one of our Commis- srs. for making Peace is Just Setting out for Europe. RC (NhD: Josiah Bartlett Papers). 1 For this November 23, 1782, New Hampshire General Court resolve, see N.H. State Papers, 8:951. 2 Gilman enclosed Congress’ December 31 resolution suspending the August 7, 1782, resolution for reducing the number of officers in the Continental regiments of New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Newjersey. JCC, 23:837. 3 See Gilman to Bartlett, August 5, 1782. 4 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 9—10, 1783. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada.Jany 9th. 1783. You will receive herewith (by favor of Genl Whipple) the printed Resolutions of Congress from May to November 1782, you have like wise a Package Containing the Blank Commissions which we wrote to the Secretary for. You will see by the Papers that Charlestown is Evacu ated, this will give great relief to the Southern States, we have not had any Accounts from General Greene in particular Except what was taken from a New York Paper. The Subject of Continental Currency has been repeatedly debated, Committed, reported upon &c. On the 7th Instt. it was taken up. I Inclose you Copy of the proceedings, as by which you will see that the proposition for receiving of it at the rate of Forty for One, as also that of Seventy Five for One is rejected. 1 I believe their is no State in the Union which have Collected the Quota Assigned them Excepting New Hampshire, Massachusetts & Rhode Island. It appears that about One half part of the whole Money Emitted by Congress have been paid into the Treasury’s or is now in the hands of Individuals in those Three States; The State of Massachusetts have made repeated Repre sentations to Congress on this Subject, what measures they will take next I cannot Say; but I think their is not a prospect of any thing being done in Congress at present that will give Satisfaction to those States who hold more than their proportion of the Money. Their is a Committee of Officers from the Army now here, they want some Money to relieve their present Necessities to be paid Immediately; a Settlement and Security for the Arrears of Pay, Rations &c.; and Secu rity for the Half Pay promised them by the Resolutions of Congress;


[Page 603]
January 9,1783 569 this business is now under Consideration, what can or will be done I cannot Say. 2 Are daily Expecting some further Accounts from Our Commission ers in Europe by which we may be able to determine the Intentions of the Enemy respecting Peace. I have the Honor to be, Your most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: Revolutionary War Correspondence). 1 For these proceedings, on the report of a grand committee of which Gilman was a member, see JCC, 24:39—42. 2 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 7, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursdayjany 9th & Fridayjany 10 [1783], 1 On the report 2 for valuing the land conformably to the rule laid down in the foederal articles, the delegates from Connecticut con tended for postponing the subject during the war, alledging the impediments arising from the possession of N.Y. &c. by the enemy; but apprehending (as was supposed) that the flourishing state of Con necticut compared with the Southern States, would render a valuation at this crisis unfavorable to the former. Others particularly Mr. H[amilton] & Mr. [Madison] were of opinion that the rule of the con federation was a chimerical one, since if the intervention of the indi vidual states were employed their interests would give a biass to their judgments or that at least suspicions of such biass wd prevail; and without their intervention, it could not be executed but at an expence, delay & uncertainty which were inadmissable; that it would perhaps be therefore preferable to represent these difficulties to the States & recommend an exchange of this rule of dividing the public burdens for one more simple, easy & equal. The Delegates from S. Carolina generally & particularly Mr. R dge advocated the propri ety of the constitutional rule & of an adherence to it, and of the safety of the mode in question arising from the honor of the State. The debates on the subject were interrupted by a letter from the Superin tendant of Finance: informing Congress that the situation of his department required that a committee sd. be appointed with power to advise him on the steps proper to be taken; and suggesting an appointmt. of one consisting of a member from each State, with authority to give their advice on the subject. 3 This expedient was objected to as improper, since Congress wd. thereby delegate an incommunicable power, perhaps, and would at any rate lend a sanc tion to a measure without even knowing what it was; not to mention the distrust which it manifested of their own prudence & fidelity. It was at length proposed & agreed to, that a special committee consist-


[Page 604]
570 January9, 1783 ing of Mr. Rutlidge, Mr. Osgood, & Mr. [Madison] should confer with the Superintendt of Finance on the subject of his letter and make report to Congress. After the adjournment of Congress this Commit tee conferred with the Superintendt who after being apprized of the difficulties which had arisen in Congress, stated to them that the last acct, of our money affairs in Europe shewed that contrary to his expectation and estimates there was 3'/2 Million of livres short of the bills actually drawn, that further draughts were indispensable to pre vent a stop to the public service; that to make good this deficiency there was only the further success of Mr. Adams’ loan, and the friend ship of France to depend on, that it was necessary for him to decide on the expediency of his staking the public credit on these contingent funds by further draughts, and that in making this decision he wished for the sanction of a Committee of Congress; that this sanction was preferable to that of Congress itself only as it wd. confide the risk attending bills drawn on such funds to a smaller number, and as secrecy was essential in the operation as well to guard our affairs in general from injury, as the credit of the bills in question from debase ment. It was supposed both by the Superntendt & the Committee that there was in fact little danger of bills drawn on France on the credit of the loan of 4 Million of dollars, applied for, being dishonored; since if the negociations on foot were to terminate in peace, France would prefer an advance in our favor to exposing us to the necessity of resorting to G. B. for it; and that if the war sd. continue the necessity of such an aid to its prosecution would prevail. The result was that the Committee should make such report as would bring the matter before Congress under an injunction of secrecy, and produce a resolution authorising the Superintdt. to draw bills as the public service might require on the credit of applications for loans in Europe. The report the next day of the Committee to this effect was accordingly made & adopted unanimously. 4 Mr. Dyer alone at first opposed it, as an unwarrantable & dishonorable presumption on the ability & disposi tion of France; Being answered however that without such a step, or some other expedt. which neither he nor any other had suggested, our credit would be stabbed abroad and the public service wrecked at home; and that however mortifying it might be to commit our credit, our faith & our honor to the mercy of a foreign nation, it was a morti fication wch. cd. not be avoided without endangering our very exis tence; he acquiesced and the resol. was entered unanimously. The cir cumstance of unanimity was thought of consequence, as it wd. evince the more the necessity of the succor and induce France the more readily to yield it. On this occasion several members were struck with the impropriety of the late attempt to withdraw from France the trust confided to her over the terms of peace when we were under the necessity of giving so decisive a proof of our dependance upon her. It


[Page 606]
572 January 9,1783 3 For Morris’January 9 letter to Congress, see PCC, item 137, 2:107—8; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:287-88. i See JCC, 24:43-44. 5 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following instruc tional note—“See Jany. 13, last page, & insert here what is there as of Friday 10th”— which has been followed in this text. 6 For the assignment of this committee (Richard Peters, John Taylor Gilman, and Hugh Williamson) on December 23, and its report submitted this day, see PCC, item 23, fols. 47-48, item 186, fol. 76; and JCC, 23:828-29. 7 Madison later inserted “faintly” above the line and crossed out “fully.” Phillips White to Josiah Bartlett Sir Philadelphia Janry 9th 1783 I have not been favoured with a line from you, I want to hear how Publick affairs go on in New Hampshire, (the Eastward mail did not come in this week). We have no official account of the Evacuation of Charleston, but have no reason to doubt of the truth of it as published in the inclosed Newspaper. The affair of Continantal Bills now remaining in the hands of individ uals &c was debated yesterday in Congress. 1 It was put to vote to sink them at 40 for one, and at 75, both negatived, the members from those States that have more than their Quota did not wish to have it tried at a lower rate, some of the Southward members mentioned a much lower rate, there were more that voted for 40 than for 75, it was on the princi ple of policy, that rate being what it was set at March 18, 1780. I perceive that the State of New Hampshire have been trying to raise more men for the Army which I am sorry for, as they have already more in the army than their proportion with most of the other States, and as Congress is at a loss to know what measures to take to Quiet the minds of those already on Duty, not only of New Hampshire line but of all the others. There is a Committee here from the Northern Army who have presented a memorial &c to Congress, of their grieveances, both officers & soldiers are uneasy for want of present pay, & of the uncertenty of future pay, the Officers of half pay in particular. Mr. Morris informed me that he had appointed Mr Stephen Gorham of Boston Commissioner on Continantal Accounts for the State of New Hampshire. 2 Doubtless there will be no objection to the appointment, he is a person of Integrity & ability has been employed in Committee for three years past on Continantal & other Publick accounts. I remain your Honours most Humble. Sert, P White RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 This debate actually occurred on January 7. See Gilman to Weare, this date, note 1. 2 This appointment of Stephen Gorham (1747-1826), a Boston merchant and brother of Massachusetts delegate Nathaniel Gorham, was approved by the New Hamp shire assembly at its February session. N.H. State Papers, 10:607.


[Page 608]
574 January 10,1783 Eliphalet Dyer


[Page 609]
January 10, 1783 575 found them here. York had again revived the affair of Vermont before I left Congress but could not prevail While I remained. Congress I percieve are Indeavouring to play the same game with them as Great Britain with America and believe after solemn plighted faith being Violated as they will call it right or wrong they are to expect no more Success. By a late Resolve threatning them' with Authority & force if they do not Imediately restore the Persons & Estates of some dissaf- fected persons who had Undertaken to Undermine their Government and had taken offices under New York State to Execute their Laws on Vermont I believe will Nestle them. The last Declaration I made in Congress before I went to Trenton was to forewarn them against such measures as Vain, fruitless, ineffectual & which would only rebound with Contempt on their own heads; I did not think the measure would prevail, urged that the Motion from York might lye by till my return & for the New England States to be more fully represented, but as soon as gone York Influence carried every thing, & Congress will suffer the Contempt they have, against faithfull Warning brot on themselves. A principle matter which Governs against Acknowledging Vermont an Independent State (after a most solemn Engagement) is the Strength, weight & Influence it may in future give the New England States in Congress, Yet it seems no policy will influence New England; which brings me to the Unhappy Issue of our Late Tryal with Pensylvania, 2 Chargrind and dissapointed, I know you will say why did not we get the Cause postponed. We Indeavoured to the utmost of our power in Congress but in vain; we were there forced to proceed, we then had to agree upon our Judges. As I could not trust Congress in any one step thot it best to agree, & when we had agreed & as I thot a good Choice they found means to Induce one on whom we had great dependence Viz the late Govr Rutledge a Gentn of skill, ability & Integrity to refuse. That frustrated my plan much, but for reasons I can give you Verbatim, it was forced, and as we had finally agreed on 3 from Vir ginia, 2 from New England, Houston from the Jerseys, I will own I thot we were safe, but so Providence ordered the 2 from Virginia, one of which a learned Judge Jones, failed of attending, by means of which I believe Eventually we lost our Cause; 3 a Cause of Magnitude indeed, & which on every' legal ground & principle, as well as policy to the United States in General, the New England in particular ought to have been given in favor of Connecticut but Unhapily New England Judges I believe were most against us. They have merely given their opinion in short vs. Connecticut without reason or principle Assignd, & in one thing I will own they were wise, that is they agreed they would not ever give to the parties or any other person the reason or principle on which they founded their Judgement, for if they did I am sure every sensible Impartial man must Condemn them, but if we may Conjecture there is no doubt with me that they left every' Legal solid


[Page 621]
January 15, 1783 587 The great State of R Island has put her Veto upon a Measure judged Necessary by every other State and wheather any other Persua sives than such as were wont to be made use of by polish Electors will convince them of their error I am not able to Say. Virginia it is Said has repealed her Act Vesting a Power in the U States to collect the Imports. How We are to Support our foreign Credit without establish ing a certain Revenue I am not Able to conceive, if Something more effectual shall not be done, to support National Credit, We have Rea son to fear Consequences the most destressing. The money collected by the States is Very inconsiderable, and no certain advise has been reed, that one or Two of them has collected any for the Service 1782. A Committee of the Army are attending Congress for Pay, and for a more effectual Security for the Emoluments which the Acts of Congress intituled them to Their Application is gone to a Committee who have not yet reported. It is in Contemplation to order a Valuation of the Lands and Houses of the respective States agreably to the Articles of Confedera tion, which perhaps will be adopted, but I fear that the Dificulty of carrying such a Measure into Execution will only discover its insuffi ciency. 2 And unless some other Principle shall be adopted more cer tain and definite upon which the pecuniary Assessments shall be made I shall not Apprehend that any Thing material will be done. But however we must Attempt to proceed upon such Principles as are agreed to, till others can be established, I hope that some Proposals will be made to the States to adopt more adequate Principles. The Legislature of this State have met this day. I have thot it my Duty to make all the Interest in my Power that this State shall quiet the Susquehannah settlers. 3 I think that they will do it, and I hope lib erally. I have spoken to Sundry influencing Gentlemen upon the Sub ject who seem to be well inclinded, And very frankly declare that they will do all in their Power to Satisfy and establish the Settlers in their Possessions. If this shall be effected which I have but little doubt of, it will prevent a Number of innocent People from suffering that Dis tress, which they ought to have been secured against by a Stipulation previous to the Tryal of the Cause. By the Blessing of God I injoy Health. I have already wrote you two hasty Letters. You will frequently write to me. I shall wish to know wheither Frederick is at the College, and how he behaves himself. You will present my Compliments to Mr Lyman and Mr. Mosely— and if they will Favour me with their Letters I will duly Acknowledge them. May the divine Being guide, protect and Bless you. Yours with the kindest Regard, Oliver Wolcott P.S. I wish that you would let me know wheather in your Opinion the Sept. 2d Tax is so collected that the Treasr could discharge a Draft upon him of perhaps one hundred or one hundred and fifty pounds


[Page 623]
January 16, 1783 589 Ultimo. In the Papers enclosed you have Extracts from his Letter. The Enemy carried off 5000 Troops, which far exceeded our Ideas of their Strength. Genl Greene lay within 13 Miles of them, tho his Army did not consist in the whole of every denomination of more than 2000 Men. They took off about 7000 Negroes, which they had plundered from the Inhabitants. I am sensible that the difficulties you mention as attendant on your Office, will & must ensue—but I am Confidant you have gone too far to recede, and that you will not give Satisfaction, unless you make the Experiment and let your Objections be the result of Experience. As to the Arrangement of Vouchers, tho’ this may be necessary, yet you may proceed on others that are ready for settle ment. Indeed I think you should receive in all applications & then fix days for final Settlement—which will save great Trouble in atten dance. Mr Morris has no authority to settle Prices, & Congress can never descend to the minutia of detail. I have paid Mr Robertson 95 Dollars more on Acct, as on my last & belonging to the same Person The Card Racks, are the same identical Things you refer to, made of tin, Japanned, about 14 Inches long, with a Memorandum of the Days of the week, as some People are very apt to forget them in the hurry of Business—to prevent which they are tolerable good Con trivances. You undoubtedly fixed on the best pair of Branches as I know your Judgment is so good, that you could not be mistaken especially as there is but that one pair in the House. Those purchased of Mr. H being here already. As to the Logs I meant that some should be cut as well as haled, which Mr. Southerd said he could do in the hard weather. As it is a matter of so much Importance that you should know with Certainty whether a Peace will take Place; or not, in order to ascer tain the quantity of wood necessary to be cut, I would advise you for the Present by way of diversion, to get not more than 20 Cords and I will let you know positively by the Middle of May, whether we shall have Peace next Spring or not. I have reed another Pacquet from Marsden, the Communciation is encreased via St. Thomas’s, Teneriffe, Grenada &c. I obtained the Bills from Sammy amounting to £129.10. Sterl. dated Deer 30th 1782—so that I must beg the favour of you to send me the Note with a proper discharge in his Favour. Hanny & Susan Join me in Love &c &c—Patty is at School & well. Remember us to all Friends as if named & tell Mr Van Zandt I have reed & forwarded his Letter. Remember us also to old Mama. Am Dr Sir, Yours very Afftly, B RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers).


[Page 625]
January 16, 1783 591 perforin the Duties of the Office During the Winter Except Such part of the time as will be necessary for him to be in the State of New York. I shall not fail to communicate to your Excellency Every matter of Consequence that I may be at Liberty to do that shall Relate to the Interest of these States in General, or to the Interest of our State in particular. I Yesterday Reed a Letter from my Son 3 at Middletown; he was in a bad state of health when he wrote. I am afraid he will not get Clear of that fever—perhaps Mr L’hommedieu will be at the Legislature when this Comes to hand. I hope he will write me Respecting my Sons health. My best Respects to Mrs. Clinton, and am, Sir, your Excellencys most Obedt and humble Servt, Wm. Floyd. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:62-63. 1 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 15, note 1. 2 That is, Robert R. Livingston. 3 That is, Nicoll Floyd (1762-1852). John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett Sir Philada. Jany 16th. 83. On the 15th Instt. I received your favor of the 28th Ultimo. Their was no Mail from New England last week, the Mail of this week (tho. it usually comes in on Monday mornings) did not arrive untill yesterday, 1 Mr. White received your Letter of the 23d per same. 2 Am sorry to find that the Honble Court have not made any order on the Subject of Vermont affairs. Some time past I was Induced to think, this business would have been settled Speedily, but that prospect has almost Vanished, it has been repeatedly debated and might now be taken up again if their was any prospect of any thing being done towards a Conclusion of it. You mention the Subject of Depreciation &c., I have no Copy of my Letter to you of the 9th Instt. but think I Mentioned, that a Commtee. of Officers from the Army was here; the Subject of those Settlements, Half-Pay &c. is now under Consideration. As to the Frigate you Mention, she run on Shore in a Storm, Cut away her Masts &c. (which were lost) but is got off, & now here. Yesterday Dispatches were received from Genl. Greene respecting the Evacuation of Charlestown, the Enemy left it very Quietly in Con sequence of an Agreement that they should not be Molested on their Retiring; the Southern States are Once more freed from the Enemy, I wish they would be so wise as to Quit New-York & Penobscot immedi ately, they have Traversed our Country, (almost every part of it) but their present possessions are small.


[Page 626]
592 January 16, 1783 As to a General Peace I have wrote my Sentiments per Genl. Whip ple and it is Unnecessary to repeat them. Genl. Whipple spent several Days here, 3 I conversed with him very freely on the Subject of Vermont & several other matters. He informed me, that if the next meeting of the Assembly should be at Exeter, that he would go there for the purpose of giving such information as he had obtained here respecting our affairs and to him I must beg leave to refer you. Have now under Consideration a Mode for Ascertaining the Quotas of each State agreeably to the articles of Confederation. Our Letter of the 11th Ultimo 4 mentioned our desire that Dele gates might be Appointed to relieve us the beginning of April, if am not Informed whether any Appointments have been made, if not hope it will be done early next session which (by your Letter) appears probable will be in February tho. I am not Informed to what time the Assembly did adjourn—another part of that Letter was on the Supply of Money which hope will be seasonably provided. By the Paper I see their is a very great proportion of New Members in the Assembly wish it may prove to be for the Interest of the State. I wrote you a Letter on the 23d Octr. but have not been informed whether it reached you. What is done respecting the New Constitution? What is doing with the Confiscating Act? Who are Members of the Commtee. of Safety? Have no Official Accounts from Europe of later date than I have Mentioned in former Letters. Please to make my Compliments to my Friends with you. I am, with much Esteem, Your Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Mr. White desires his Compliments to you. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 That is, Wednesday. 2 Neither of Bartlett’s letters mentioned in this paragraph have been found. s William Whipple, receiver of Continental taxes for New Hampshire and one of the judges in the proceedings at Trenton on the Connecticut—Pennsylvania territorial dis pute, had recently visited the superintendent of finance to discuss the collection of taxes. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:282. 4 See New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare, December 11, 1783. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada.Jany 16th. 1783. Your favor of the 30th Ultimo 1 (on the Subject of Vermont affairs) came to hand yesterday. Am Sorry to find that the Honble the Legisla ture have not given any direction in that matter. The Legislature of New York are now in session, and from some information which I have had this Day, think it is probable they will repeal their Act by


[Page 636]
602 January 22, 1783 Months ago. Mr Morriss supposes him to be now at Hartford. When ever I shall write any Letter to Hartford I shall inclose some News papers from which Mr Goodwin will be able to make such Abstracts as he pleases. This is all I can properly do for him and this will probably Answer his Purpose, as I shall write frequently. I reed, no Papers by the last Post, & unless they Shall be inclosed in white Paper as a com mon Letter, I know by Experience that I shall receive but few of them. You will inform me of all Material Matters transacted by the Assem bly. I am glad to hear of the Efficacy of our Taxation. Few if any of the States furnishes so much according to our Quota, as We have done the Two last Months; some indeed are criminally remiss. Nothing has yet been done upon the Application of the Officers from the Army, a Report of a Committee has just been made. I wish our Ability to pay the Army was more considerable than it is. At pres ent it is not in our Power to furnish them with any tho I hope some thing will be effected of this kind before long. I am glad that our State has Sent some Money to their Line. We may dayly [expect?] to get such Intelligence from Europe as will enable us to judge wheither We are to expect a speedy Peace or the Continuance of the War. Some Fellows in Chester County in this State, who Sustain a high popular Reputation, have seised a large Quantity of Cloathing sent by Sir Guy Carleton to our Prisoners at Lancaster under the Protection of a Passport from Genl Washington, upon an Idea that they are con traband. 1 This kind of seisure seems to be countenanced by a Law of this State. The Legislature here are now setting. They say that they cannot make any Ex Post Facto Law to give Relief, the Executive have neither Power nor Energy. The Supplys are detained in that County— fresh Seisures I am told are dayly making, in Manifest Violation of the Laws of Nations, and to the indelible Reproach of the U. States. These Proceedings are clearly in Violation of the Articles of the Confedera tion, but are suffered to continue thro the Ignorance, Weakness and Party spirit, which are most conspicuous in this State. If this Evil shall not be speedily redressed which every sensible Man here, and many of their insensible ones of which they have great Numbers, seem con vinced is Necessary to be done, 1 hope that Congress will order a Mili tary Force to compel a Restitution of the Goods—for the granting a Passport is a necessary incident of War, and which therefore they may constitutionally render efficacious. What People indeed will ever put any Confidence in us if our Passports will not protect them? No Act of this Legislature has yet passed with Regard to the Wyoming Settlers. 2 Many Gentlemen assure Me that if it shall be in their Power they Shall be treated with great Liberality. I flatter myself that it will be done. I shall extremely regret if those who have settled under a publick Incouragment shall in any respect suffer with regard to their Possessions. My kindest respects to Mr. Lyman and his Lady. Yours, Oliver Wolcott


[Page 637]
January 23, 1783 P.S. I wrote to you by the last Post. 603 RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Jr., Papers). 1 See the preceding entry, note 1. 2 But for the response of the Pennsylvania Assembly “Respecting the Decision of the Connecticut Claim,” see the Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:265-67. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday 23 Deer, [i.e., January 1783] The Report of the come, last mentioned 1 consisting of a state of the variations in the Treaty of Amity & commerce with the States General from the plan proposed by Congress, of a ratification of the sd Treaty & of the Convention, & of a proclamation comprehending both was accepted & passed; the variations excepted wch. were not meant to be entered on the journals. 2 Both the Committee & Congress were exceedingly chagrined at the extreme incorrectness of the American copies of these national acts, and it was privately talked of as necessary to admonish Mr. Adams thereof, & direct him to procure with the con currence of the other party a more correct & perspicuous copy. The Report of the Come, as agreed to, havg. left a blank in the act of ratific- tion for the insertion of the Treaty & Convention, & these being con tained both in the Dutch & American languages, the former column signed by the Dutch Plenpos. only & the latter by Mr. Adams only, the Secy, asked the direction of Congs, whether both columns or the American only ought to [be] inserted. On this point several observa tions were made & different opinions expressed. In general the mem bers seemed to disaprove of the mode usd & would have preferrd the use of a neutral language. As to the request of the Secy. Mr. Wilson was of opinion that the American Columns only sd. be inserted. Several others concurred in this opinion; supposing that as Mr. Adams had only signed those columns, our ratifications ought to be limited to them. Those who were of a different opinion, considered the two parts as inseparable & as forming one whole, & consequently that both ought to be inserted. The case being a new one to Congress, it was pro posed 8c admitted that the insertion might be suspended till the next day, by which time some authorities might be consulted on the subject. A come, consisting of Mr. Madison, Mr. Mifflin 8c Mr. Williamson reported in consequence of a motion of Mr. Bland, a list of books proper for the use of Congress, and proposed that the Secy, sho’d be instructed to procure the same. 3 In favr. of the Rept. it was urged as indispensable that Congress sd. have at all times at command such authors on the law of Nations, treaties, Negociations 8cc as wd. render their proceedings in such cases conformable to propriety; and it was observed that the want of this information was manifest in several important acts of Congress. It was further observed that no time ought


[Page 642]
608 January 24,1783 as gently as possible appointed a Come, consisting of Mr. Rutlidge, Mr. Wolcot & Mr. M[adison], to confer with the Executive of Pa. on the subject. In the first conference the Executive represented to the Committee the concern they felt at the incident, their disposition to respect & support the dignity & rights of the federal Sovereignty; and the embarrassments in which they were involved by recent & express law of the State to which they were bound to conform. The Come, observed to them that the power of granting passports for the purpose in question being inseparable from the general power of war dele gated, to Congress, & being essential for conducting the war, it could not be expected that Congress wd. acquiesce in any infractions upon it; that as Pa. had concurred in this alienation to Congress, any law whatever contravening this power of Congs, was necessaryly void, and cd. impose no obligation on the Executive. The latter requested fur ther time for a consideration of the case & laid it before the Legisla ture then sitting; in consequence of which a Come, of their body was appd. jointly with the Executive to confer with the Committee of Congress. In this 2d conference the first remarks made by the Come, of Congress were repeated. The Come, of the Legislature expressed an unwillingness to intrench on the jurisdiction of Congress, but some of them seemed not to be fully satisfied that the law of the State did so. Mr. Montgomery lately a member of Congress observed that altho’ the general power of war was given to Congress yet that the mode of exercising that power might be regulated by the States in any manner which wd. not frustrate the power, & which their policy might require. To this it was answered that if Congress had the power at all, it could not either by the Articles of Confederation or the reason of things admit of such a controuling power in each of the States, & that to admit such a construction wd. be a virtual surrender to the States of the whole federal power relative to war; the most essential of all the powers delegated to Congress. The Come of the Legis[latu]re repre sented as the great difficulty with them, that even a repeal of the law wd. not remedy the case without a retrospective law which their Con stitution wd. not admit of, & expressed an earnest desire that some accomodating plan might be hit upon. They proposed in order to induce the siezors to wave their appeal to the law of the State, that Congress wd. allow them to appt, one of two persons who sd. have authority to examine into the supplies & decide whether they compre hended any articles that were not warranted by the passport. The Come, of Congress answered that whatever obstacles might lie in the way of redress by the Legislature, if no redress proceeded from them, equal difficulties wd. lie on the other side, since Congress in case of a confiscation of the supplies under the law which the omission of some formalities reqd. by it wd. probably produce, would be obliged by honor & good faith to indemnify the Enemy for their loss out of the


[Page 645]
January 24, 1783 611 taken for that purpose, as soon as the State of the public finances will permit, to make such payt. & in such manner as he shall think proper till the further order of Congress. With respect to the 2d art. so far as relates to the settlemt. of accts, that the several States be called upon to compleat the settlemt., without delay, with their respective lines of the army up to the 1st 9 day of Aug. 1780; that the Supert. be also directed to take such measures as shall appear to him most proper & effectual for accomplishing the object in the most equitable & satisfactory manner, havg. regard to former reso lutions of Congs. & to the settlemts. made in consequence thereof. And so far as relates to the providing of security for what shall be found due on such settlemt.—Resolved that the troops of the United States in common with all the Creditrs. of the same, have an undoubted right to expect such security, and that Congress will make every effort in their power to obtain from the respective States, general & substantial funds adequate to the object of funding the whole debt of the U. S. and that Congs, ought to enter upon an immediate & full consideration of the nature of such funds & the most likely mode of obtaining them. With respect to the 3d Article the Comme. are of opinion that it will be expedient for Congs, to leave it to the option of all officers entitled to half pay, either to preserve their claim to that provision as it now stands by the several resolutions of Congs, upon that subject or to accept years 10 full pay to be paid to them in one year after the conclusion of the war in money or placed upon good funded secu rity bearing an annual interest of 6 prCt.—provided that the allowance to widows & orphans of such officers as have died or been killed or may die or be killed in the service during the war shall remain as established by the resolution of the day of . H With respect to the 4 & 5 Art. the Come, beg leave to delay their report untill they have obtained more precise information than they now possess on the subject.” The 1st Clause of this report relative to immediate pay passed yes terday. 12 The Supt. had agreed to make out 1 month’s pay. Indeed long before the arrival of the deputies from the army he had made contingent & secret provision for that purpose; and to ensure it now he meant if necessary to draw bills on the late application for loans. The words “conformable to measures already taken” referred to the above secret provisn, and were meant to shew that the payment to the army did not originate in the Memol. but in an antecedent attention to the wants of the army. In the discussion of the 2d clause, the epoch of Aug. 1780 was objected to, by the Eastern delegates. Their States havg. settled with their lines down to later periods, they wish now to obtain the Sanction of Congress to them. After some debate, a compromise was proposed by Mr. Hamilton by substituting the last day of Deer. 1780. This was agreed to without opposition altho several members disliked it. The


[Page 646]
612 January 24, 1783 latter part of the clause beginning with the word Resolved &c. was considered as a very solemn point, and the basis of the plans by which the public engagements were to be fulfilled & the union cemented. A motion was made by Mr. Bland to insert after the words “in their power” the words, “consistent with the Articles of Confederation [”]. This amendment as he explained it was not intended to contravene the idea of funds extraneous to the federal articles, but to leave those funds for a consideration subsequent to providing Constitutional ones. Mr. Arnold however eagerly 2ded it. No question however was taken on it, Congress deeming it proper to postpone the matter till the next day, as of the most solemn nature; and to have as full a repre sentation as possible. With this view & to get rid of Mr. Bland’s motion, they adjourned; & ordered all the members not present & in town to be summoned. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:117-28. 1 The assistant secretary at war, William Jackson, had submitted this case to the con sideration of Congress on January 17, which was referred to a committee consisting of Madison, John Rutledge, and Oliver Wolcott. See PCC, item 185, 3:52, item 186, fol. 80. 2 See JCC, 24:82-83. As Madison is the principal source of information on this trou bling episode, which raised the specter of state infringement of congressional authority, an issue to which he was ever sensitive, it can be followed most effectively in Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:123-25, 229-31, 265-68, as well as in his notes of debates for this date and for February 13 and 20, 1783. 3 That is, Alexander Hamilton, whose report in answer to the Pennsylvania memorial has not been located. For speculation on its identity, however, see ibid., pp. 125-26n.l7. 4 For its reconsideration and adoption, see JCC, 21:99-105; and Madison’s Notes, Jan uary 30, 1783. 5 For Robert Morris’ January 24 letter of resignation, and a lengthy analysis of the congressional response to it, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:361-71. 6 For the ramifications of this unanticipated response to his letter, and the ultimate removal of the secrecy ban, see ibid., pp. 463-74. 7 At this point Madison later added “with the States General,” for which see Madi son’s Notes, January 23, 1783. 8 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following note: “drawn by Col. Hamilton.” For this response to the memorial from the army, and the commitment of this responsibility to a subcommittee of the grand committee on the me morial, see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:243-45; and Madison’s Notes,January 13, 1783. 9 Madison later lined out “1st” and added “blank" above the line. 10 For the debate on filling this blank, see Madison's Notes, January 25, 1783. 11 That is, 24th day of August, 1780. See JCC, 17:770-73. 12 Madison later lined out “yesterday” and interlined “without opposition." John Rutledge to Nathanael Greene Dr. Sir, Philada. January 24. 1783. I congratulate you, most heartily, on the Evacuation of Charles- Town, & rejoice, that this Event, greatly interesting to the United States, particularly fortunate for So. Carolina, & for which they are so


[Page 650]
616 January 25, 1783 Mr. Gervais, voted agst. the reconsideration. The consequence was that S. Carola, was divided & six votes only in favr. of the Reconsidera tion. Mr. Hamilton havg. expressed his regret at the negative & explained more exactly the interference of the change of the Epoch with the measures & plans of the Office of Finance wch. had limited all State advances & settlemts. to Aug. 1780; Mr. Rutledge acknowl edged the sufficiency of the reasons & at his instance the latter date was reinstated. On this 2d. question Cont. also voted for Augst. 4 Congress proceeded to the 3d clause, relative to the commutation of half pay. 5 A motion was made by Mr. H. to fill the blank with “six.” This was in conformity to tables of Dr. Price, 6 estimating the officers on the average of good lives. Liberality in the rate was urged by several as necessary to give Satisfaction & prevent a refusal of the offer. For this motion there were 6 ayes, 5 noes; the Southern States & N.Y. being in the affirmative, the Eastern & N.J. in the negative. Col. Bland proposed 6'A erroneously supposing the negative of 6 to have pro ceeded from its being too low. It was on the contrary rather doubtful whether the East. States wd. concur in any arrangemt. on this head; so averse were they to what they call pensions. Several having calculated that the annual amount of half-pay was between 4 & 500,000 Drs, and the interest of the gross sum funded at the rate of 6 years, nearly % of that sum, Congress were struck with the necessity of proceeding with more caution & for that purpose committed the report to a Commit tee of 5. 7 Mr. Osgood, Mr. Fitzimmons, Mr. Gervais, &c. 8 MS (DI.C: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:129-32. 1 For the ratification of this contract with the court of France on January 22, see JCC, 24:50-64, especially the concluding paragraph beginning “Now know ye,” p. 63. For previous parallel “acknowledgmts.” that Secretary Thomson may have had in mind, see JCC, 11:457-58, 20:638-40, 22:68-70. 2 That is, on the memorial from the army, for which see Madison’s Notes, January 24; and JCC, 24:93-95. s For the vote on this issue, see JCC, 24:93-94. For Robert Morris’ opposition to extending the states’ responsibility for the pay and depreciation of their Continental troops beyond August 1, 1780, which would undermine his authority for settling army claims after that date, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:150-52. 4 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: “The day of August being re-instated before question on the whole paragraph was taken Mr. Ghorum objected to the word ‘general’ before funds as ambiguous, and it was struck out; not however as improper if referring to all the States, & not to all objects of taxation. Without this word the clause passed unanimously, even Rhode Island concurring in it." 5 See JCC, 24:95; and Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:243-45. 6 Apparently the tables published in the appendix to Dr. Richard Price’s Observations on Reversionary Payments; on Schemes for Providing Annuities for Widows, and for Persons in Old Age; on the Method of Calculating the Values of Assurances on Lives; and on the National Debt (London: T. Cadell, 1771). The 7th edition of this work, published in 1812, also includes Price’s essay “Observations on the Expectations of Lives . . .,” which was pub lished in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society for 1769, and was cited by the editors of the Madison Papers in connection with this reference to Dr. Price. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:131n.9.


[Page 651]
January 27, 1783 617 7 For the debate on this committee’s report, see Madison’s Notes, February 4, 1783. 8 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following note: “On the motion of Mr. Wilson Monday next was assigned for the consideration of the Resolu. in the 2d clause of the Rept. on the Memorial from the army. He observed that this was necessary to prevent the resolu. from being like many others—vox et preterea nihil ['a voice and nothing more’].” Hugh Williamson to Alexander Martin Dear Sir, Philadelphia Jany 25th. 1783 On the 18th of August Mr. Blount & myself had the honor to enclose you the Copy of an address that we had presented on the 14th to the Minister of France together with his answer. 1 Some Days ago the Delegates received from the Minister of France an official Communication of which the enclosed is a Copy. 2 This you will be so good as to communicate to the General Assembly. We flatter ourselves that the attention which the Court of France has been pleased to pay to the address will justify the opinion we had formed with respect to the propriety of such a measure. I have the honor to be &ca, Hu Williamson Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See North Carolina Delegates to Martin, August 18, 1782, note 2. 2 A transcript of the chevalier de La Luzerne’s January 10 letter of thanks to North Carolina is in the Governors’ Letterbooks, 5:372, Nc-Ar, a translation of which has been printed in N.C. State Records, 16:726. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday 27jany. 1783. A letter from Genl. Washington was red. notifying the death of Lord Sterling & inclosing a report of the Officer sent to apprehend Knowlton & Wells. (See )J The following is an extract from the report “he (one Israel Smith) further sd. that Knowlton & Wells had reed, a lettr. from Jonathan Arnold Esqr. at Congress part of which was made public, which informed them that affairs in Congress were unfavorable to them & wd. have them look out for themselves. What other information this letter contained he cd. not say—I found in my March thro’ the State that the last mentioned gentleman was much in favor with all the principal men in that State I had any con versation with.” 2 Mr. Arnold being present at the reading informed Congress that he was surprized how such a notion should have prevailed with respect to him; that he had never held any correspondence with


[Page 652]
618 January 27, 1783 either Knowlton or Wells; and requested that he might be furnished with the extract above. In this he was indulged without opposition. But it was generally considered, notwithstanding his denial of the cor respondence, that he had at least at second hand, conveyed the intelli gence to Vermont. 3 A long petition was read, signed as alledged by near two thousand inhabitants (but all in the same hand writing), of the territory lately in controversy between Pa. & Va. complaining of the greivances to which their distance from public authority exposed them & particularly of the late law of Pena, interdicting even consultations about a new State within its limits; and praying that Congress wd. give a sanction to their independence & admit them into the Union. The Petition lay on the table without a single motion or remark relative to it. 4 The order of the day was called for, to wit the Resolution of Saturday last in favor of adequate & substantial funds. 5 This subject was introduced by Mr. Wilson with some judicious remarks on its importance & the necessity of a thorough & serious dis cussion of it. He observed that the U. States had in the course of the revolution displayed both an unexampled activity in resisting the enemy, and an unexampled patience under the losses & calamities occasioned by the war. In one point only he said they had appeared to be deficient & that was a cheerful payment of taxes. In other free Govts, it had been seen that taxation had been carried farther & more patiently borne than in States where the people were excluded from the Govts., the people considering themselves as the sovereign as well as the subject; & as receiving with one hand what they paid with the other. The peculiar repugnance of the people of the U. S. to taxes he supposed proceeded first from the odious light in which they had been under the old Govt, in the habit of regarding them; 2dely. from the direct manner in wch. taxes in this Country had been laid; whereas in all other countries taxes were paid in a way that was little felt at the time. That it cd. not proceed altogether from inability he said must be obvious: Nay that the ability of the U. S. was equal to the public burden might be demonstrated. According to the calculations of the best writers the inhabitants of G. B. paid before the present war at the annual rate of at least 25s. Sterlg per head. According to like calculations the inhabitants of the U. S. before the revolution paid indirectly & insensibly at the rate of at least 10s. Sterlg per head. According to the computed depreciation of the paper emissions, the burden insensibly borne by the inhabitants of the U. S. had amounted during the first three or four years of the war to not less than twenty Million of dollars per annum, a burden too which was the more oppressive as it fell very unequally on the people. An inability there fore could not be urged as a plea for the extreme deficiency of the revenue contributed by the States, which did not amount during the past year to V2 a million of dollars, that is to Ve of a dollar per head.


[Page 654]
620 January 27, 1783 that lands were already sufficiently taxed; that polls & commerce were the most proper objects. At his instance the latter part of the motion was so amended as to run “establishment of permanent & adequate funds to operate generally throughout the U. States.” Mr. Hamilton went extensively into the subject, the sum of it was as follows: he observed that funds considered as permanent sources of revenue were of two kinds, 1st. such as wd extend generally & uni formly throughout the U. S. & wd. be collected under the authority of Congs. 2dly. such as might be established separately within each State, & might consist of any objects which were chosen by the States, and which might be collected either under the authority of the States or of Congs. Funds of the 1st kind he contended were preferable; as being 1st more simple, the difficulties attending the mode of fixing the quo tas laid down in the confederation rendering it extremely complicated & in a manner insuperable: as being more certain; since the States according to the seed, plan wd. probably retain the collection of the revenue and a vicious system of collection prevailed generally through the U. S. a system by which the collectors were chosen by the people & made their offices more subservient to their popularity than to the public revenue—& as being more oeconomical, since the collection would be effected with fewer officers under the management of Con gress, than under that of the States. 7 Mr. Ghorum observed that Mr. Hamilton was mistaken in the repre sentation he had given of the collection of taxes in several of the States; particularly in that of Massachussetts, where the collection was on a footing which rendered it sufficiently certain. Mr. Wilson having risen to explain some things which had fallen from him; threw out the suggestion that several branches of Revenue if yielded by all the States, would perhaps be more just & satisfactory than any single one; for example an impost on trade combined with a land tax. Mr. Dyer expressed a strong dislike to a collection by officers appointed under Congress, & supposed the States would never be brought to consent to it. Mr. Ramsay was decidedly in favor of the proposition. Justice he said entitled those who had lent their money & services to the U. S. to look to them for payment; that if general & certain revenues were not provided, the consequence wd. be that the army & public Creditors would have soon to look to their respective States only for satisfaction; that the burden in this case wd. fall unequally on the States; that rival ships relative to trade wd. impede a regular impost & wd. produce confusions amg. the States; that some of the States would never make of themselves provision for half pay and that the army wd. be so far defrauded of the rewards stipulated to them by Congress; that altho’ it might be uncertain whether the States wd. accede to plans founded on the proposition before the house, yet as Congress was convinced of its truth & importance it was their duty to make the experiment.


[Page 656]
622 January 28, 1783 Jonathan Arnold


[Page 657]
January 28, 1783 623 cations as I shall be necessitated to make, in developing this at present dark & mysterious affair, unnecessary. I have the Honor to be, with the highest esteem, consideration & respect, Your Excellency’s Obedient & very humble Servt. Jona. Arnold RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 That is, Washington’s January 20 letter, which was read in Congress on January 27. It contained an accusation that Arnold had sent a letter to Vermont warning Luke Knowl ton and Samuel Wells of their impending arrest for a “dangerous correspondence and intercourse with the enemy,” thereby eluding Capt. Ebenezer Macomber, who had been sent by Washington to carry out the arrest. Arnold did acknowledge writing to Vermont leaders Thomas Chittenden and Jonas Fay at about that time, and promised to produce copies of the letters, but ultimately failed to, for which see Arnold to Washington, Febru ary 11, 1783. See also James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 27; Elias Boudinot to Washington, November 27, 1782, and January 29, 1783; Washington, Papers (Fitzpatrick), 25:350-51, 394, 407-8, 26:53-54, 96, 144-45; and Walton, Records of Vermont, 2:259-60. 2 However, for a letter suggestive of Arnold’s connections with developments in Ver mont, see Arnold to Daniel Cahoon, November 4 and 15, 1782. Elias Boudinot to Benjamin Lincoln My dear Genl Philadelphia Jany 28th 1783 I was Honored with the recp 1 of your Letter of the 9th Inst pr Post—I having nothing new to Communicate and the design of this is to Comply with my promise, in Acquainting you, that, altho’ there is no immediate Business that demands your presence yet I believe if you could return By the middle of Feb y or thereabouts without any great Inconvenience to your private affairs, that it would give great sat isfaction to Congress 1 —I do not mean to hurry you, but only to hint my opinion on the appearance of things at present. Mrs Boudinot & Miss Susan return the most respectful & affectionate Compliments to Mrs Lincoln & yourself. . . . I am my Dr Sir with great Esteem, Your most Obedient & very Hble Servt, E. Boudinot. MS not found; reprinted from Boudinot, Life and Letters, 1:287-88. 1 Lincoln had been on a trip to visit his family in Massachusetts since December 15 or 16, having obtained leave from Congress on December 11. See JCC, 23:783; and Abra ham Clark to Elias Dayton, December 16, 1782, note 2. His January 9 letter to Boudinot is in neither the PCC nor Lincoln Papers, MHi. Daniel Carroll to William Paca Dear sr. Pha. Jany 28th. 1783 I have to acknowledge the receipt of your favors by two posts. I waited on the Minister of France, & made the communication you


[Page 658]
624 January 28, 1783 requested. The Assistant Secretary at war informs me, that he has for warded the appointment for Majr. Davison. 1 I have the honor to be with great respect & esteem, sr. Your. mo. Obet Servt, Dani. Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). । See Md. Archives, 48:337, 345. The Maryland Council had recommended Maj. John Davidson to the post of “Intendant of Naval Prisoners at Baltimore.” James Madison’s Notes of Debates Tuesday Jany. 28th. 1783 The subject yesterday under discussion was resumed. A division of the question was called for by Mr. Wolcott so as to have a distinct question on the “words to be collected by Congress” wch. he did not like. 1 Mr. Wilson considered this mode of collection as essential to the idea of a general revenue, since without it the proceeds of the rev enue wd. depend entirely on the punctuality, energy & unanimity of the States, the want of which led to the present consideration. Mr. Hamilton was strenuously of the same opinion. Mr. Fitzimmons informed Congress that the Legislature of Penna, had at their last meeting been dissuaded from appropriating their rev enue to the payment of their own Citizens Creditors of the U. S. instead of remitting it to the continental treasury; merely by the urgent representations of a Committee of Congress & by the hope that some general system in favr. of all the public creditors would be adopted; that the Legislature were now again assembled; and altho sensible of the tendency of such an example, thought it their duty 8c meant in case the prospect of such a system vanished to proceed immediately to the separate appropriations formerly in contemplation. On the motion of Mr. [Madison] the whole proposition was new- modelled as follows; ‘That it is the opinion of Congress that the establishment of perma nent 8c adequate funds to operate generally throughout the U. States is indispensibly necessary for doing complete justice to the Creditors of the U. S., for restoring public credit, 8c for providing for the future exigences of the war.” The words “to be collected under the authority of Congress [”] were as a seperate question left to be added afterwards. Mr. Rutlidge objected to the term “generally”, as implying a degree of uniformity in the tax which would render it unequal. He had in view particularly a land tax according to quantity as had been pro posed by the office of finance. He thought the prejudices of the peo ple opposed to the idea of a general tax 8c seemed on the whole to be disinclined to it himself, at least if extended beyond an impost on


[Page 661]
January 28, 1783 627 States separately, might at any time & on various pretences, be diverted to State-objects. 3dly. That jealousy which is as natural to the States as to individuals & of which so many proofs have appeared, that others will not fulfil their respective portions of the common obliga tions, will be continually & mutually suspending remittances to the common treasury, until it finally stops them altogether. These imper fections are too radical to be admitted into any plan intended for the purposes in question. It remains to examine the merits of the plan of a general revenue operating throughout the U. S. under the superintendence of Congress. One obvious advantage is suggested by the last objection to separate revenues in the different States; that is, it will exclude all jealousy among them on that head, since each will know whilst it is submitting to the tax, that all the others are necessaryly at the same instant bear ing their respective portions of the burden. Another advantage attending a general revenue is that in case of the concurrence of the States in establishing it, it would become soon est productive; and would consequently soonest obtain the objects in view. Nay so assured a prospect would give instantaneous confidence & content to the public creditors at home & abroad, and place our affairs in the most happy train. Again it will take from the States the opportunity as well as the temp tation to divert their incomes from the general to internal purposes since these incomes will pass directly into the treasury of the U S. 3 That the consequences of with respect to the Union, of omitting such a provision for the debts of Union also claimed particular atten tion. The tenor of the memorial from Penna, and of the information just given on the floor by Mr. F one of its delegates rendered it extremely probable that that State would as soon as it sd. be known that Congress had declined such provision or the States rejected it, appropriate the revenue required by Congress, to the payment of its own Citizens & troops, creditors of the U.S. The irregular conduct of other States on this subject enforced by such an example could not fail to spread the evil throughout the whole continent. What then wd become of the confederation? What wd. be the authority of Congress? Wt. the tie by which the States cd. be held together? What the source by which the army could be subsisted & cloathed? What the mode of dividing & discharging our foreign debts? What the rule of settling the internal accts? What the tribunal by which controversies amg the States could be adjudicated? It ought to be carefully remembered that this subject was brought before Congress by a very solemn appeal from the army to the justice & gratitude of their Country. Besides immediate pay, they ask for per manent security for arrears. Is not this request a reasonable one? will it be just or politic to pass over the only adequate security that can be


[Page 663]
January 28, 1783 629 to. The State of Virga as appears by an Act yesterday laid before Congress, has withdrawn its assent once given to the scheme. This cir cumstance cd. not but produce some embarrassment in a representa tive of that State advocating the scheme, one too whose principles were extremely unfavorable to a disregd. of the sense of Constitnts. But it ought not to deter him from listening to considerations which in the present case ought to prevail over it. One of these considera tions was that altho’ the delegates who compose Congress, more immediately represented & were amenable to the States from which they respectively come, yet in another view they owed a fidelity to the collective interests of the whole. 2dly. Altho’ not only the express instructions, but even the declared sense of constituents as in the pre sent case, were to be a law in general to the representatives, still there were occasions on which the latter ought to hazard personal conse quences from a respect to what his clear conviction determines to be the true interest of the former; and the present he conceived to fall under this exception. Lastly the part he took on the present occasion was the more fully justified to his own mind by his thorough persua sion, that with the same knowledge of public affairs which his station commanded, 4 the Legislature of Va would not have repealed the law in favor of the impost & would even now rescind the repeal. The result of these observations was that it was the duty of Congress under whose authority the public debts had been contracted to aim at a general revenue as the only means of discharging them; & that this dic tate of justice & gratitude was enforced by a regard to the preservation of the confederacy, to our reputation abroad & to our internal tranquility. Mr. Rutledge complained that those who so strenuously urged the necessity & competency of a general revenue operating 5 throughout all the States at the same time, declined specifying any general objects from which such a revenue could be drawn. He was thought to insinu ate that these objects were kept back intentionally untill the general principle cd. be irrevocably fixed when Congs, wd. be bound at all events to go on with the project, whereupon Mr. Fitzimmons expressed some concern at the turn wch. the discussion seemed to be taking. He said that unless mutual confidence prevailed no progress could be made towards the attainment of those ends wch. all in some way or other aimed at. It was a mistake to suppose that any specific plan had been preconcerted among the patrons of a general revenue. Mr. Wilson with whom the motion originated gave his assurances that it was neither the effect of preconcert with others, nor of any determinate plan matured by himself, that he had been led into it, by the declaration on Saturday last by Congs, that substantial funds ought to be provided; by the memor[i]al of the army from which that declaration had resulted, by the memorials from the State of Pa. holding out the idea of separate appropriations of her revenue unless provision were made for the public creditors, by the


[Page 669]
January29, 1783 635 1 The delegates had acknowledged receipt of these letters the week before, for which see Virginia Delegates to Harrison, January 21, note. In his January 4 letter Harrison had enclosed copies of: (1) an act repealing the state’s ratification of the impost pro posal, (2) a resolution on Virginia’s payment of its financial quota for 1782, (3) a reso lution on the loss of state vouchers for money expended on behalf of Congress, (4) a resolution, with supporting documents, concerning the Yorktown merchant-capitulants contract, (5) instructions to the Virginia delegates against treaty provisions for the resti tution of loyalist property, (6) a resolution concerning an exchange of cannon with the Continental army. Theodorick Bland had presented most of these papers to Congress on January 27. On the 31st those relating to the Yorktown contract, lost vouchers and quota payment were referred to a committee of five, chaired by Thomas FitzSimons, that reported on the first two of these items February 6, upon which Congress took action on the 10th. The committee failed to report, however, on the resolution regard ing the quota and it was consequently discharged on May 6, 1783. See JCC, 24:96, 106, 121-23; PCC, item 75, fols. 375-83, item 185, 3:53, item 186, fol. 81, item 191, fol. 34. For the Yorktown contract, see Madison to Edmund Randolph, May 29, 1782, note 4. See also Madison’s Notes, January 27 and February 10, 1783, note 1. The Virginia dele gates did not submit their instructions regarding the restitution of loyalist property until March 20, 1783. See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 20, 1783, note 1. 2 For this latest episode in the Simon Nathan “affair,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchin son), 6:14n.8, 30n.8; and Virginia Delegates to Harrison, February 4, 1783. 3 See Madison to Randolph, this date, note 9. Elias Boudinot to George Washington My dear General, Philadelphia 29th January 1783 The unexpected and melancholy news of the death of the late Major General Lord Sterling, contained in your Excellency’s letter of the 20th instant, was laid before Congress immediately on the receipt. 1 The special services rendered to his Country by that Nobleman, from the very earliest period of the present war to the day of his death, has not only rendered his memory, in the highest degree, respectable to Congress, but has entitled him to the warmest approbation of his Coun try. Congress exceedingly regret this loss, not only as a valuable character in the Army, possessed of great bravery, perseverance and extraordinary military talents, but as a very important Citizen of the United States. They sincerely condole with your Excellency and the Army on this sor rowful occasion. I am instructed to make this communication to your Excellency by the particular order of Congress, whose sense of the great merit of this Officer, will be best understood by the copy of their resolution for this purpose, which I do myself the honor to enclose. 2 Congress approve of the circumspection with which your Excel lency has managed the business relative to Vermont, and hope it will yet be carried into excution, altho’ there is great reason to believe, from the circumstances being now known to some of the Eastern States, that it may be prevented. 3 The honorable Gentleman alluded to in the report of Capt. McComber—has declared, upon his honor, that he has not wrote a


[Page 671]
January 29, 1783 637 Letter wrote previous to the adjournment suppose it is probable they may be in session before this reaches you. Have no late Accounts from Europe, nor any other News of Importance. I have the Honor to be, Your Most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: Revolutionary War Correspondence). 1 For the adoption of these January 25 resolutions concerning the payment of Conti nental troops, see JCC, 24:93-95; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 25. Nathaniel Gorham to John Lowell Dear Sir Philadelphia Jany 29th. 1783 I observe that the publications in the Boston news papers indicate a speedy peace, and by some letters I have received from thence I find they have made considerable impressions, but I conceive those publi cations are in some respects made in much stronger terms than advices received will justify, and in consequence thereof the people & perhaps the Government may fall into a secure and lethargic state, which at this time would be peculiarly unhappy and perhaps destructive. Congress by their advices can only determine that the appearances of peace are rather encouraging than otherways, but any person of tolerable information must be sensable that the ministry of Great Britain never will dare, and that the King (if he has the power) never will chuse to accede to the independence of this Country without the approbation of parliament. And how that body would act was such a question submitted to their consideration is I think problematic. If the warr continues another year the distress of Congress must be in the extream their embarresments being now very great. No prospect at present of further foreign loans—and four hundred thou sand dollars only being received out of the 8 millions voted for the service of the year 82—and Virginia have sent forward an vote of their assembly purporting that they can pay only two hundred thousand out of the 1300000 dollars which is their proportion of that requisition. And demands press us on every side, a committe from the army who have received no pay this two years insist upon some imediate pay ment, as allso a determination relative to the half pay—and that per manent security be given them for the ballance of their present pay. The publick creditors here are violently clamorous for their interest money. And Mr. Morris exceedingly distrest to make good his several engagments. Judge then of our situation which is truly embarresing & will be increasingly so unless that State can be prevaild upon to establish some permanent & adequate funds.


[Page 674]
640 January 29, 1783 And to John Adams he wrote: “The sen ility, envy, & avarice of the old man you men tion (Franklin) have been the more pernicious to our cause, as he is most unaccount ably rooted in the opinion of many, and nothing but success will in their eyes justify a conduct founded upon opposite principles.” Sparks Transcripts, MH-H; Lee Family Papers microfilm, reel 7. 2 Adams’ letter is in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:275-76. 3 William Burgess (“very lately arrived from England, by way of Holland”), Adams explained, had recently petitioned the Massachusetts General Court to be naturalized. “The senate declined sustaining his petition and gave him lease to withdraw it. A few days after, an authenticated resolution of congress came to hand, recommending it to the states not to admit any British subject whatever. Yet this man has had interest enough to prevail on the assembly to permit him to go to congress, to have it decided there whether he comes within the meaning of their resolution, because his arrival here was prior to the reception of the resolution by this government.” Ibid., p. 275. No evidence has been found, however, to indicate that Burgess submitted his case to Congress. 4 Lee seems to have exaggerated his role in this matter. The October 4 resolution at issue is embodied in a report written by James Duane (as chairman of a committee of which Lee was not a member), and the provision opposing the admission of British sub jects into the United States was added as an amendment by James Madison. See JCC, 23:637-39; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:180-82. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday Jany. 29th. 1783. Mr. Fitzimmons reminded Congress of the numerous inaccuracies & errors in the American column of the Treaty with Holland 1 and proposed that a revision of it as ratified should take place in order that some steps might be taken for redressing this evil. He added that an accurate comparison of it with the Treaty with France ought also to be made for the purpose of seeing whether it consisted in all its parts with the latter. 2 He desired the Committe who had prepared the ratifi cation to give some explanation on this subject to Congress. Mr. [Madison] as first on that committee informed Congress, that the inaccuracies & errors consisting of mispelling, foreign idioms, & foreign words, obscurity of the sense &c were attended to by the Com mittee & verbally noted to Congress when their report was under con sideration; that the Committee did not report them in writing, as the task was disagreeable, and the faults were not conceived to be of suffi cient weight to affect the ratification. He thought it wd. be improper to reconsider the act as had been suggested, for the purpose of sus pending it on that or any other acct, but had no objection if Congress were disposed to instruct Mr. A. 3 to substitute with the consent of the other party a more correct counterpart in the American language. The subject was dropped, no body seeming inclined to urge it. On the motion of Mr. Rutlidge & for the purpose of extending the discussion to particular objects of General Revenue Congress resolved itself into a Committee of whole to consider of the most effectual means of restoring public credit; and the proposition relative to gen-


[Page 676]
642 January 29, 1783 tioned from wch. this revenue was to be sought, was a poll tax. This he thought a very proper one, but unfortunately the Constitution of Maryland which forbids this tax is an insuperable obstacle. Salt he thought a fit article to be taxed, as it is consumed in a small degree by all and in great quantities by none. It had been found so convenient a subject of taxation, that among all nations which have a system of rev enue, it is made a material branch. In England a considerable sum is raised from it. In France it is swelled to the sum of 54,000,000 of livres. He thought it would be improper to levy this tax during the war whilst the price wd. continue so high, but the necessary fall of price at the conclusion of it wd. render the tax less sensible to the people. The sus pension of this particular tax during the war would not be inconve nient as it might be set apart for the debt due to France on which the interest would not be called for during the war. He computed the quantity of salt imported into the U. S. annually at 3 Million of Bushels, 8c proposed a duty of '/a of a Dollar per bushel which wd. yield 1,000,000 of Drs. This duty he observed wd. press hardest on the East ern States on acct, of the extraordinary consumption in the fisheries. The next tax which he suggested was on land. 1 Dollar on every 100 Acres according to the computation of the Superintendt of finance would produce 500,000 Dollrs. This computation he was persuaded might be doubled; since their could not be less than 100 Million of Acres comprehended within the titles of individuals which at 1 Dr. per 100 Acres would yields 1,000,000, of Dollars. This tax cd. not be deemed too high 8c would bear heaviest not on the industrious farmer, but on the great land-holder. As the tax on Salt would fall with most weight on the Eastern States, the equilibrium would be restored by this which would be most felt by the Middle and Southern States. The impost on trade was another source of revenue which, altho’ it might be proper to vary it somewhat to remove particular objections, ought to be again 8c again urged upon the States by Congress. The office of Finance has rated this at 500,000 Dollars. He thought a peace would double it in which case the sum of 3,000,000 Drs. would be made up. If these computations however should be found to be too high there will still be other objects which would bear taxation. An excise he said had been mentioned. In general this species of taxation was tyrannical 8c justly obnoxious, but in certain forms had been found consistent with the policy of the freeest States. In Massachussets a State remarkably jealous of its liberty, an excise was not only admit ted before but continued since the revolution. The same was the case with Penna, also remarkable for its freedom. An excise if so modified as not to offend the spirit of liberty may be considered as an object of easy 8c equal revenue. Wine 8c imported spirits had borne a heavy excise in other Countries, and might be adopted in ours. Coffee is another object which might be included. The amount of these three objects is uncertain but materials for a satisfactory computation might


[Page 678]
644 January 29, 1783 conduct of Virga, in first giving & afterwards withdrawing her assent to the Impost recommended by Congress. Mr. Elseworth thought it wrong to couple any other objects with the Impost: that the States would give this if any thing; and that if a land tax or an excise were combined with it the whole scheme would fail. He thought however that some modification of the plan recom mended by Congs, would be necessary. He supposed when the bene fits of this continl. revenue should be experienced it would incline the States to concur in making additions to it. He abetted the opposition of Mr. Wolcot to the motion of Mr. Rutlidge which proposed that each State should be credited for the duties collected within its ports; dwelt on the injustice of it, said that Connecticut before the revolu tion did not import 1/50 perhaps not 1/100 part of the foreign mer chandize consumed within it; and pronounced that such a plan wd. never be agreed to. He concurred in the expediency of new-modelling the scheme of the impost by defining the period of its continuance; by leaving to the States the nomination, & to Congress the appointment of Collectors or vice versa; and by a more determinate appropriation of the revenue. The first object to which it ought to be applied was he thought the foreign debt. This object claimed a preference as well from the hope of facilitating further aids from that quarter, as from the disputes into wch. a failure may embroil the U.S. The prejudices agst. making a provision for foreign debts which sd. not include the domestic ones was he thought unjust & might be satisfied by immedi ately requiring a tax in discharge of which loan-office certificates should be receivable. State funds for the domestic debt would be proper for subsequent consideration. He added as a further objection against crediting the States for the duties on trade respectively col lected by them, that a mutual jealousy of injuring their trade by first imposing such a duty would prevent any from making a beginning. Mr. Williamson said that Mr. Rutledge’s motion at the same time that it removed some objections, introduced such as would be much more fatal to the measure. He was sensible of the necessity of some alter ations, particularly in its duration & the appointment of the Collectors. But the crediting the States severally for the amount of their collections was so palpably unjust & injurious that he thought candor required that it should not be persisted. He was of opinion that the interest of the States, which trade for others, also required it, since such an abuse of the advantage possessed by them would compel the States for which they trade, to overcome the obstacles of nature & provide supplies for themselves. N. Carolina he said would probably be supplied pretty much thro’ Virga, if the latter forebore to levy a tax on the former, but in case she did not forbear, the ports of N. C. which are nearly as deep as those of Holland, might & probably wd. be substituted. The profits drawn by the more commercial States from the business they carry on for the others, were of themselves sufficient & ought to satisfy them.


[Page 679]
January 29,1783 645 Mr. Ramsay differed entirely from his colleage (Mr Rutlidge). He thought that as the consumer pays the tax, the crediting the States col lecting the impost, unjust. N. Carolina, Maryland, N. Jersey & Con necticut would suffer by such a regulation and would never agree to it. Mr. Bland was equally agst. the regulation, he thought it replete with injustice & repugnant to every idea of finance. He observed that this point had been fully canvassed at the time when the impost was originally recommended by Congress, & finally exploded. He was indeed he said opposed to the whole motion (of Mr. Rutlidge) Noth ing would be a secure pledge to Creditors that was not placed out of the Controul of the grantors. As long as it was in the power of the States to repeal their grants in this respect, suspicions would prevail, & wd. prevent loans. Money ought to be appropriated by the States as it is by the Parliament of G. B. He proposed that the revenue to be solicited from the States should be irrevocable by them without the consent of Congress, or of nine of the States. He disapproved of any determinate limitation to the continuance of the revenue, because the continuance of the debt could not be fixed and that was the only rule that could be proper or satisfactory. He said he should adhere to these ideas in the face of the act of Virga, repealing her assent to the impost; that it was trifling with Congs, to enable them to contract debts, & to withold from them the means of fulfilling their contracts. Mr. Lee said he seconded the motion of Mr. R. because he thought it most likely to succed; that he was persuaded the States would not concur in the impost on trade without a limitation of time affixed to it. With such a limitation and the right of collection, he thought Virna., R. Island & the other States probably wd. concur. The objec tion of his Colleague (Mr. Bland) he conceived to be unfounded; No act of the States could be irrevocable, because if so called it might notwithstanding be repealed. But He thought there wd. be no danger of a repeal, observing that the national faith was all the security that was given in other countries, or that could be given. He was sensible that some thing was of necessity to be done in the present alarming crisis; and was willing to strike out the clause crediting the States for their respective collections of the revenue on trade, as it was supposed that it wd. impede the measure. Mr. Hamilton disliked every plan that made but partial provision for the public debts; as an inconsistent & dishonorable departure from the declaration made by Congs, on that subject. He said the domestic Creditors would take the alarm at any distinctions unfavorable to their claims; that they would withhold their influence from any such mea sures recommended by Congress; and that it must be principally from their influence on their respective legislatures that success could he expected to any applications from Congs, for a general revenue. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:158-69. 1 See Madison’s Notes, January 23, 1783.


[Page 686]
652 February 3, 1783 Elias Boudinot to Frederick A. Muhlenberg Sir, Philadelphia, 3d February 1783. I have the honor to enclose a copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th ult. in answer to the Memorials of the Legislature of the 28th of August and 12th of November last. 1 The nature and great importance of the subjects have been the principal causes of the long delay of this Answer; but I hope it will yet serve the purposes of the Legislature and meet their expectations. 2 A misinformation of your not sitting on Saturday was the, cause of its not being sent on that day. I have the honor to be &c, E.B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “The Honorable Frederick A. Muhlenberg, Esq. Speaker of the Assembly of Pennsylvania.” 1 See JCC, 24:99-105. For the context of this congressional action, see James Madi son’s Notes of Debates, November 20, December 4, 1782, and January 30, 1783; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:143-48. 2 Although this congressional response to Pennsylvania’s plea for funding the Conti nental debt failed to meet the demands of Pennsylvania creditors seeking the payment of interest on Continental certificates, it did open the way for the Pennsylvania Assembly to adopt its own compromise program for the temporary relief of the state’s public creditors and enabled Congress to shift its attention to paying the arrears due the Continental Army. For a discussion of the Pennsylvania Assembly’s March 21 funding act (providing for a one-year assumption of interest payments to its own citizens), which gave Congress time to adopt a funding plan of its own on April 18 (although it failed to receive the nec essary unanimous ratification of the states), see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:146-47. Elias Boudinot to William Livingston D. Sir, Philadelphia Febry. 4th. 1783. I had the Honor of recieving your Excellency’s Letter per Post, and agreeably to your request, enclose a Copy of the Act of Congress referred to. 1 I laid your Excellency’s Letter before Congress, who thought noth ing farther necessary, on this Occasion. We have nothing new, worthy of Communication, but am in daily expectation of important advices from Europe. I duly forwarded your Excellency’s Letter to Mr. Jefferson, 2 by Express I was sending to that Gentleman. I have the Honor to be with great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt Hble Servt. Elias Boudinot RC (MHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Boudinot may have enclosed Congress’ March 27, 1781, ordinance for curbing “all intercourse” with the enemy, and the admission of aliens and their property, for which see JCC, 19:314-16; and these letters, 17:119-20n.2. In his February 2 letter to Congress, which is in PCC, item 68, fols. 603-6, Livingston reported that he had recently “detained” two gentle-


[Page 691]
February 4,1783 657 the estate of his brother’s widow, Elizabeth Harrison Randolph. See John J. Reardon, Edmund Randolph: Biography (New York: Macmillan Co., 1974), pp. 74-75. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 3 For the “ambiguous” nature of Randolph’s cipher, see Madison to Randolph, Octo ber 8, 1782, note 16. 4 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:179-80. 5 In a letter of November 22, 1782, Thomas Townshend, secretary of state for the home department, had informed the governors and directors of the Bank of England that the negotiations in Paris would conclude decisively “either for peace or war” by the December 5 meeting of Parliament. The preliminary articles of peace were signed on November 30. Copies of Townshend’s letter, with some variations, appeared in Free man's Journal and the Pennsylvania Packet of January 29 and 30, respectively, and the Vir ginia Gazette of February 1, 1783. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia February 4th. 1783. Since the departure of Mr. Howell Congress have been principally employed in attending to Complaints contained in a Memorial from the Officers & Army, and devising means for their relief and satisfac tion; And in investigating means to restore Public Credit—by satisfy ing the demands of the Public Creditors—the importunities of both having become very urgent. Upon the first the Committee have reported That such payment as the State of the Foederal Treasury will admit shall be immediately made which is agreed to. They further reported That the Arrears of Pay &c, should be adjusted & settled and Public securities bearing the Interest of Six per Cent—Issued for the payment of the Balances due. That the Officers should be at Liberty to commute, for half pay by the amount of a Certain term of years whole pay—for which they shall recieve Certifi cates—on Interest payable Annually. These propositions have had sev eral partial discussions but are yet undetermined. With respect to half pay our Instructions bind our votes, and as the proposed commutation is a change in form & in name, rather than in nature & substance we shall oppose it. A proposition is intended to be made for referring the Officers to their respective States for Compensation, in such manner as they shall think fit—and agree to with them—and whereby they will be at Liberty to consider the length of services, and particular Merits of each—but this we have no hopes will succeed at present. This is an Affair which greatly embarrasses Congress. The Officers, consider their resolution as a solemn contract, and declare a faithful & painful performance on their part. The advocates for complying with their demands, urge in addition thereto That that resolution passed— at a most critical juncture when it was the only expedient, left to pre vent the dissolution of the Army—That the National faith has been committed—past recall—That an attempt to abridge them in their expectations, would not only be dishonorable but, dangerous &c &c.


[Page 692]
658 February 4, 1783 When any thing is offered against the principle and the sense of the Legislature & people of Rhode Island declared—We are extremely mortified to be told That the State is foreclosed from any opposition at this day. That their Consent has been once given fully & absolutely in favor of Half Pay—and that it is too late now to make objections— or declare what are the present Opinions of the State—on the sub ject—and the Journals of Congress produced to show that General Cornell, had committed the State—by giving their vote in favor of that Measure—&c &c &c. We shall however continue on the ground our Instructions place us, unless different advice and direction should render a change necessary. 1 The Mode for obtaining a general estimate throughout the States— now an object of great attention—and considered as a preparatory step to the means of restoring public Credit—has been under Consid eration of a Grand Committee who reported to Congress, afterwards the House formed itself into a Committee of the whole, and Several days have been spent thereon but it is not yet Completed—in our next We hope to be able to inclose the result. These matters ended—it is expected the Propositions for an Impost will be again renewed. From the variety of Opinions which have lately been thrown out on that subject—it is presumed it will make its appearance in a form & upon principles materially different from the former recommendation on that subject. The treaty of Amity, Commerce &c between the United States & United Netherlands, contained in the paper herewith inclosed has been ratified by Congress, and Copies duly Authenticated, sent off to be exchanged. 2 No foreign Letters have of late Arrived. We have the Honor to be with the highest respect, Your Excel lency’s Very humble servants, John Collins Jona Arnold P.S. My last Letter of a Public import 3 and which related particularly to the proceedings of Congress towards my late Colleague Mr. How ell—it is the wish of Congress should at present remain a secret with the Assembly. I have therefore to request it may be read in a Clear house as, is customary on such Occasions. This day an address from Govr Chittenden was read, containing Animadversions on the Conduct of Congress towards the Territory of Vermont—which was Committeed. 4 J Arnold RC (R-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Arnold and signed by Arnold and Collins. 1 In a May 10, 1783, letter of instruction Governor Greene reaffirmed that the Rhode Island Assembly remained resolutely opposed to “half pay to the officers of the army,” and directed the state’s delegates to do all “in your power to obtain a repeal of the late resolution of Congress for allowing the amount of five years’ whole pay to the said offi cers.” Staples, Rhode Island, p. 440.


[Page 693]
February 5,1783 659 2 Copies of the Dutch treaty were also sent to the states in Pres. Elias Boudinot’s cir cular letter of February 8. 3 See Jonathan Arnold to Greene, January 8, 1783. 4 For Thomas Chittenden’s lengthy January 9 letter to Congress, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, this date, note 1. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Philadelphia Feby. 4th. 1783 Neither this post nor the preceding one brought us any letter from your Excellency. The affair with Nathan is now under arbitration. There is a refer ence in the case sent us of a Certificate from Clarke & Todd that the Bills were negociated at the current depredation. But we find no such Certificate among the Papers transmitted to us, which is likely to turn the arbitration against the State. 1 Congress have under their Consideration the Papers we were directed to lay before them. 2 We have not receivd any material Intelligence since our last. We have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Yr. Excellencys most obedt. & most Huml. Servts. Jos. Jones. J. Madison Jr. Theok. Bland Jr. A. Lee RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Bland, Jones, and Madison. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:192. 1 Harrison forwarded this certificate from George Rogers Clark and John Todd on February 15, for which see ibid., p. 241. See also Virginia Delegates to Harrison, January 28, note 2. 2 Ibid., note 1. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts General Court Philada. Feby. 5th, 1783. To the Honorable Senate & House of Representatives of the Com monwealth of Massachusetts. Having taken a Seat in Congress, I thought it adviseable to resign my seat in Council, & have signified the same to his Excellency the Governor. 1 In October last I had the Honor of informing you, that the grant made me for past services, as a Delegate from this Commonwealth in Congress, did not amount to one half the sum, in real value, that the Genl. Court have thought proper to allow several of my Colleagues


[Page 695]
February5,1783 661 express & perpetual rule which they judged improper. This expedient was assented to, and Congress accordingly went into A Committee of the whole The points arising on the several amendts. proposed were 1st. the period beyond wch. the rule of the first valuation sd. not be in force. 2 On this point Mr. Collins proposed 5 years, Mr. Bland 10 years, Mr. Boudinot 7 years, N. Jersey havg instructed her Delegates thereon. 3 The Cont. delegates proposed 3 years—on the question for 3 years, N. H. no, Mas: no. R. I. ay, Cont. ay. all the other States no. On the ques tion for 5 years, all the States ay except Cont. 4 The 2d. point was whether & how far the rule sd. be retrospective, on this point the same views operated as on the preceeding. Some were agst. any retrospection, others, for extending it to the whole debt, and others, for extendg it so far as was necessary for liquidating and closing the accounts between the United States and each individ ual State. 5 The several motions expressive of these different ideas were at length withdrawn, with a view that the point might be better digested, & more accurately brought before Congress. So the rept. was agreed to in the Come. & made to Congress. When the question was about to be put Mr [Madison] observed that the report lay in a great degree of confusion, that several points had been decided in a way too vague & indirect to ascertain the real sense of Congs, that other points involved in the subject had not reed, any decision; and proposed the sense of Congs, shod, be distinctly & successively taken on all of them & the result referred to a Special Come, to be digested &c. The question was however put & agreed, 6 the votes as they appear on the Journal. The reasons on which Mr. Hamiltons motion was grounded appear from the preamble. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:195-97. 1 See Madison’s Notes, February 4, note 10. 2 John Rutledge’s motion on this subject is recorded by Madison in his notes of debates for February 4. 3 Boudinot was probably in error, as New Jersey had indicated in a 1778 “representa tion" on the Articles of Confederation a preference for adjustments in land valuations every five years (JCC, 11:649), and apparently had not deviated from this position. In any event, the New Jersey delegates subsequently voted aye “on the question for 5 years," after voting no on the previous motion for three. 4 With Delaware and Georgia unrepresented, and Maryland and Rhode Island each represented by a single vote. 5 At this point Madison wrote and then lined out: “This was generally satisfactory except to Mr Dyer & Mr Mercer who supposed that as in that case the requisitions of Congs, would be the sum apportioned it would operate too much in favr of the States which wd. be underrated in the first valuation.” The mention here of John Francis Mer cer, who took his seat in Congress on February 6, suggests that the debate on ‘The 2d point” recorded in this paragraph took place on February 6, the sole evidence available for ascertaining the chronological division of this composite entry. 6 Madison later changed “agreed" to “negatived," to reflect the actual 5 to 2 vote on this proposed resolution. JCC, 24:116.


[Page 696]
662 February5,1783 Phillips White to Josiah Bartlett Sir Philadelphia Febry 5 1783 Reed your favor of 23 Deer. Among other things you press hard that the Affair of Vermont may be settled. It has been taken up in Congress often since I have been here, but the different Opinion of members has prevented any determination. The southern members are greatly opposed to their Independence, and there are not a Sufficient number of the States that are for subjugating them to N. York or N. Hampshire, and even if it was Resolved in Congress to bring them under either of said states, or divide them between both, I am of opinion it Could not be Carried into execution. Yesterday was reed, in Congress, a long remonstrance from Thomas Chittenden Esqr., 1 against the proceedings of Congress which passed some time since, requiring the Inhabitants of said Territory to restore Certain persons who they had Banished. He therein mentions the resolve of Congress wherein they were to Cast off the two wings & then [fe] received into union, inserted also a copy of a Letter written by General Washington recommending the measure, & intimating that there would be no difficulty of being received after that was done. Note—the General wrote said letter (as is said) by desire of several members of Congress. Mr. Chittenden fears not the Army it seems, by the drift of his letter, & wonders that Congress should meddle with the affairs of their state—they are willing to dispute the affair with N. York—he says that it has been an Independent State a number of years, but on the whole is willing to enter into union with the thirteen States. We have nothing new from Europe but are in expectation of Something soon. I have heard the fate that the plan of government met with, by often sifting I hope the vile part will be done away. Religious disputes none here, each one worships where he pleases & there are many denominations & places of worship. I will not trou ble you with more but Subscribe myself your most humle. Servt, P White RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). 1 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, February 4, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday Feby. 7 [1783]. On motion of Mr. Lee who had been absent when the Report was yesterday negatived, the matter was reconsidered. 1 The plan of takg the sense of Congs, on the several points as yesterday proposed by [Mr. Madison] was generally admitted as proper. The first question propd. in Come, of whole by [Mr Madison] was; Q: Shall a valuation of land within the U. S. as directed by the articles


[Page 697]
February?, 1783 663 of confederation be immediately attempted? 8 ays—N. Y. only no. The States present, N. H., Mas., Cont., N. Y., N. J., Pa., Va., N. C., S. C. R. I. 1 member, Maryd. 1 do. By Mr. Wilson Q: Shall each State be called on to return to the U. S. in Congs, assd. the no. of acres granted to or surveyed for any person, and also the no. of buildings within it? 8 ayes—N. C. no—supposing this not to accord with the plan of referring the valuation to the States, which was patronized by that delegation, a supplement to this question was sug gested as follows. Q: Shall the male inhabitants be also returned, the blacks & whites being therein distinguished? Ay. N. C. no for same reason. Cont. divided. By Mr. M[adison], Q: Shall the States be called on to return to Congs, an estimate of the value of its lands with the buildings & improvements within each respectively? After some discussion on this point in wch the inequali ties which wd. result from such estimates were set forth at large; and effects of such an experiments in Virga, had been described by Mr. Mercer, and a comparison of an average valuation in Pa. & Va. which amounted in the latter to 50 PerCt. more than in the former, altho’ the real value of land in the former was confessedly thrice that of the latter had been quoted by [Mr. Madison] the apprehensions from a referrence of any thing more to the States than a report of simple facts increased, and on the vote the States were as follows, N.H., Mas., NJ., Pa., Va., no: Mr. Bland ay. Mr. Lee silent. Cont., N.C., S.C., ay. N.Y. divd. So it passed in the negative. Q: by Mr. [Madison], shall a period be now fixed beyond which the rule to be eventually estabd. by Congs, shall not be in force? Ay, unanimously. By Mr. [Madison] Q: What shall that period be? Cont. was again for 3. years, which being negd. 5 yrs passed unanimously. Q: by Mr. M[adison] shall the rule so to be estabd. have retrospec tive operation so far as may be necessary for liquidating & closing the accts, between the U.S. & each particular State? Ay—Cont. no. Mr. Dyer & Mr. Mercer understood this as making the amt. of the several requisitions and not of the paymts, the standard by which the accts, were to be liquidated and thought the latter the just quantum for ret rospective apportionment. Their reasoning however was not fully comprehended. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:197-200. 1 See Madison’s Notes, February 5-6; and JCC, 24:117. After adoption of Lee’s motion, Congress was resolved into a committee of the whole, whose proceedings this day were also recorded by Charles Thomson, although the secretary had never entered such committee debates in the journals of Congress. See PCC, item 36, fols. 448-50, 467-69; and JCC, 24:118-19. In a number of instances Thomson’s notes contain slightly fuller information than Madison’s.


[Page 699]
February 10,1783 665 Daniel Carroll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Sir, Pha Feby 10th. 1783 I have this day been favord with yours of the 7th Instant. There must have been a mistake respecting what you say of Govr Lee. I coud not have intended to convey the Idea mentiond. Underneath is an acct of what I have reciv’d from Hollingsworth since my return. In consequence of the information you have given me, I have wrote the inclos’d to the Govr & Council 1 —& take the liberty of requesting you to deliver it—please to put a Seal to it, when you have perus’d it. Congress pass’d a resolution lately respecting the pay & deprecia tion due to the Officers, & Soldiers. It does not go beyond the first of Augt 80. 2 I will send the resolution by this post if possible—at any rate by the next. I shall attend to your requests abt the advertisement, Starr, & the news papers; & when I can say any thing certainly about peace, & other Material intelligence which I may be at liberty to Communicate, you shall hear from me. The Ladies with the Gentlemen of your acquaintance present their Compt. & I am, Sr., very respectfully, your Mo Obt Servt, Dani. Carroll Reed, of Mr Hollingsworth in Sept. £100. . . Do Novr. 54.5 Do Deer. 100. . . Do Jany 60 £314.5— NB—Bailee due & encreasing every day. Allowance from 20th Augt. to abt the 20 Novr. @ 35/ abt. £157.10 from abt 20 Novr. to the 10th of Feby @ 40/ abt. 160. £317.10 RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 Not found. 2 See James iMadison’s Notes of Debates, January 25, note 3. John Lewis Gervais to Battaile Muse Dear Sir, Philadelphia 10th. Feby. 1783 Your favour of the 31st of December last I had the pleasure to receive on the 20th January by which I observe that you have moved from Fauquier to Berkeley County. I shall inclose my Letter to Mr Mer cer & request him, if a post goes from Fredericksburg to Winchester, to send it that way, otherwise to forward it by some safe opportunity.


[Page 701]
February 10, 1783 667 I am sorry to find that although I was right in my conjecture, a disa pointment has happened, however this must be met with resolution. The comfort is, that if one went another will. No doubt you have heard that the British evacuated Charles Town on the 14 of December last—houses they did not burn, but they car ried off a great many Negroes although they pretended to give orders to the contrary, however I know it will give you pleasure to be informed that I have recovered the greatest part of mine, my Letters say— “you have lost some but not many. ” Much is talked of peace—I think in less than a Month we shall know whether that happy event is to take place soon, the news pub lished on that Subject to day is vague & uncertain. I am much obliged to you for your Kind offers of Service, & wish it may be in your power to Sell the Indigo Soon, the product of it would come very Seasonably—particularly as I intend to go Southwardly next April & shall want every thing I can Scrape together to get away from here, yet as much as I am necessitated—I would not wish you should put yourself to any inconveniency on my Account. But if it should be in your power to remit me any thing I think it would be best to send it to Mr. James Mercer who, could easily send it to me from Fredericksburgh. Mrs. Gervais desires her Compliments to you. We are all well & hearty now. I Inclose a news paper and am with great Regard, Dear Sir, Your most Obedient Servant, John Lewis Gervais P. S. You’ll oblige me much to send me an answer soon. RC (NcD: Battaile Muse Manuscripts). James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday Feby. 10 [1783]. The Report of the Committee on the Resolutions of Va. concerning the contract Under which Tobo. was to be exported to N. Y. and the admission of circumstantial proof of accounts agst. U. S. when legal vouchers had been destroyed by the enemy. 1 Mr. Mercer informed Congress that this matter had made much noise in Va. that she had assented to the export of the first quantity, merely out of respect to Congs, and under an idea that her rights of Sovereignty had been encroached upon; and that as a further quantity had been exported without the licence of the State, the question was unavoidable, whether the authority of Congs, extended to the act. He wished therefore that Congress wd. proceed to decide this question. Mr. Fitzimmons in behalf of the Committee observed that they went no farther than to examine whether the proceedings of the officers of Congs, were conformable to the Resols. of Congs. & not whether the latter were within the power of Congs.


[Page 702]
668 February 10,1783 Mr. Lee. sd. the Rept. did not touch the point that, the additional quantity had been exported without application to the State, altho’ the first quantity was licenced by the State with great reluctance, in consequence of the request of Congs, and of assurances agst. a repeti tion, and that the Superintendt & Secy, of Congs, ought at any rate to have made application to the Executive before they proceeded to fur ther exportations. Mr. Rutlidge sd. the Rept. went to the very point, that Va. suspected the Resols. of Congs, had been abused by the Officers of Congs. & the Rept. shewed that no such abuse had taken place; that if this informa tion was not satisfactory, and the State sd. contest the right of Congs, in the case, it wd. then he proper to answer it on that point, but not before; He sd. if the Gentleman (Mr. Lee) meant that the Come, authorised by Congs, on the day of 2 to make explanations on this subject to the Legislature of Va. had given the assurances he men tioned, he must be mistaken: for none such had been given. He had he sd. formed notes of his remarks to the Legl. but accordg to his practice had destroyed them after the occasion was over, and there fore cd. only assert this from memory, that nevertheless his memory enabled him to do it with certainty. Mr. Lee, in explanation sd. he did not mean the Come, that the abuse complained of was not that the Resolun. of Congs, had been exceeded, but that the export had been undertaken without the Sanc tion of the State. If the acts were repeated, he said, great offence wd. be given to Va. The report was agd. to as far as the Tobo. was concerned without a dissenting voice. Mr. Lee uttering a no, but not loud enough to be heard by Congress or the chair. The part relating to the loss of Vouch ers, was unanimously agd. to. 3 Come, of the Whole. The Rept. for valuation of land amended by insertion of “distin guishing dwelling houses from others.” 4 The Come, adjourned & the report was made to Congs. 5 Mr. Lee & Mr. Jarvais moved that the report might be postponed to adopt another plan to wit “to call on the States to return a valuation: and to provide that in case any return sd. be not satisfactory to all par ties, persons sd. be appd. by Congs. & others by the States respectively to adjust the case finally. [”] On this question N. H. was divd, Mas. no, R. I. ay, Cont. no, N. Y. divd, N.J. no, Pa. no, Va. no, Mr. M. &J. no, Mr. L. & B. ay. 6 N. C. ay, S. C. ay. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:212-15. 1 See JCC, 24:121-23; and Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, January 28, 1783, note 1. 2 That is, 22d day of May 1782. See JCC, 22:289-90; and Committee of Congress to Benjamin Harrison, May 31, 1782. 3 These votes were not recorded in Secretary Thomson’s journals. JCC, 24:123.


[Page 704]
670 February 11,1783 From the personal knowledge I have of that young gentleman, who I ever esteemed, as a person of Probity I cannot suppose him capable of designing an Injury to me And Therefore conclude he has either inadvertently imposed on himself or has been villainously imposed upon by others—in this Affair. It is my misfortune not to have preserved Copies of Letters which I have written from this City to Governor Chittenden & Major Fay—as I have no doubt they would have fully explained the mistake, for which purpose, I will procure the Originals to be transmitted me as soon as possible. 2 I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Obedient & hume Servt. Jona Arnold ENCLOSURE Interrogatories to be answered under Oath by Capt. Ebenezer Mackomber, of Lt Col. Olney Regiment, 3 in Consequence of the fol lowing Paragraph in a Report he gave on his return from executing Special business in the Territory of Vermont, which report bears date January 7th. 1783, which Paragraph is in the following words. “He” (Israel Smith,) “farther said that Knowlton and Welles, had recieved a Letter from Jonathan Arnold Esquire at Congress, part of which was made public, which informed them that affairs in Congress, were very unfavorable to them, and would have them look out for them selves—what other information this Letter contained he could not say.” 1. When said Smith gave you the information alluded to above was the Conversation immediately respecting the said Knowltons’ & Welles’s absence from home—or was it relative to the affairs of Vermont, and the proceedings of the people of that Territory? Please to relate the whole of the Conversation you had with sd. Smith in that matter. 2. Did Said Smith tell you he had ever seen such a Letter, as your report mentions him to have given information of, or did he say by what means he came by his knowledge of the letter he spoke of? 3. Did said Smith tell you or did you learn from any other person, when, where, and in what manner the Letter he spoke of or part thereof was made public? and if you did please to relate the whole that passed in those respects. 4. Was any other person or persons present when you had your con versation with sd Smith? and if so please to name them. 5. Did any person or persons whatever, assist you in drawing up said report, either by advising, dictating or directing as to the manner and matter thereof—or by correcting, adding to, diminishing from—or in any wise altering or amending such draft as you might have drawn up of yourself—or that was drawn up by your direction—or by copying or transcribing the same? And if any person or Persons whosoever did advise or Assist you in all or any, or either of the foregoing Particulars, please to name him or them—with his legal addition, Occupation, or


[Page 706]
672 February 11,1783 where he is for the present, & Dr. Holten not inclining to live where there was no mem ber of Congress, has taken a chamber at Mrs Sands, for the present, but has to return his thanks to Mr Collins for his kind assistance.” Holten Papers, DLC. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday. Feby. 11 [1783]. The Rept. made by the Come, of whole havg. decided that the mode to be grounded on the return of facts called for from the States, ought now to be ascertained. 1 Mr. R dge propd 2d by Mr. Gilman, that the States sd. be required to name Comrs. each of them one, who or any nine of them sd. be appd. & empowerd. by Congs, to settle the valuation. 2 Mr. Ghorum 3 was agst. it as parting with a power which might be turned by the States agst. Congs. Mr. Wolcot agst. it; declares his opinion that the confederation ought to be amended by substituting numbers of inhabi tants as the rule; admits the difference between freemen & blacks; and suggests a compromise by including in the numeration such blacks only as were within 16 & 60 years of age. Mr. Wilson agst. relinquishing such a power to the States; proposes that the Comrs. be appd. by Congs, and their proceedings subject to the ratification of Congs. Mr. Mercer for submitting them to the revision of Congs. & this amendment reed. 4 Mr. Peters agst. the whole scheme of valuation, as holding out false lights & hopes to the public. Mr. Rutlidge thinks Comrs. appd. by the States may be trusted as well as Comrs. appd. by Congs, or as Congs. Mr Wilson observes that if appd. by the States they will bring with them the spirit of agency for their respective States, if appd. by Congs, will consider them selves as servants of U.S. at large & be more impartial. Mr. Ghorum 2ded. by Mr. Wilson, proposes that to postpone in order to require the States to appt. Comrs. to give Congs, information for a basis for a valuation—on the question N.H. no, Mas. ay, R.I. ay, Cont. ay, N.Y. ay, N.J. ay, Pa. ay, Va. no, N.C. no, S.C. no. 5 To make the resolution more clear, after the words “or any nine of them,” the words “concurring therein” were added. Mr. Rutledge says that subjecting the acts of the Comrs. to the revision of Congs, had so varied his plan that he sd. be agst it—on the main question N.H. ay, Mas. ay, R.I. ay, Cont. ay, N.Y. no, N.J. no, Pa. ay, Va. ay. (Mr. Madison no), N.C. ay, S.C. ay. 6 So it was agreed to & the resolution declaring that a mode sd. now be fixed struck out as executed. The whole report was then committed to a special Come, consisting of Mr. Rutlidge, Mr. 7 to be formed into a proper act. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:215-17. 1 See JCC, 24:124; and Madison's Notes, February 10, 1783. 2 See JCC, 24:125. 3 Madison originally wrote “Dyer,” which he lined out and replaced with “Ghorum.”


[Page 707]
February 11,1783 673 i See JCC, 24:125. 5 In the vote on this motion in PCC, item 36, 3:459, Rhode Island is recorded as divided and South Carolina ay. JCC, 24:126. 6 This vote is not recorded in JCC. 7 Madison later inserted “Gorham & Mr. Gilman" in this blank. James Madison to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. Feby. 11th. 1783. Your Excellency will receive this from the hand of Mr. Dunlap who will represent the advantages which his press at Richmond will derive from a payment of the allowance made for his losses in establishing it. Being sensible of your Excellency’s disposition to attend to every application as far as its merits may require, and may depend on your self, especially when the public interest may be in any manner included, I should have forborne to trouble you on the present occa sion, had not my agency in the original contract with Mr Dunlap given him a claim to at least a line introducing his case to your Excellency. 1 I am Sir wth great respect Yr Excellency’s obt & hble servt. J. Madison Jr Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:218. 1 For John Dunlap’s role in establishing James Hayes’ press at Richmond, see these Letters, 16:683, 730, 752, 17:60-61; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:218n. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. Feby. 11th. 1783 Your favor of the 31 ofjany. was safely brought by Mr. Thomson. That of the 7 inst. came by yesterday’s mail. 1 The anecdote related in the first was new to me; and if there were no other key, would suffi ciently decypher the implacability of the party triumphed over. In answer to the second I can only say at this time that I feel deeply for your situation: that I approve of the choice you have made among its difficulties, and that every aid which can depend on me shall be exerted to relieve you from them. Before I can take any step with pro priety however it will [be] expedient to feel the sentiments of Congress, and to advise with some of my friends. The first point may possibly be brought about by your letter to the Secy, of F. A. which I suppose came too late yesterday to be laid before Congress, but which will no doubt be handed in this morning. 2 The time of Congress since you left us has been almost exclusively spent on projects for a valuation of the land, as the federal articles require, and yet I do not find that we have got an inch forward towards the object. The mode of referring the task to the States which


[Page 713]
February 12, 1783 679 3 The “enclosed hand-bill” has not been found, but according to the Pennsylvania Packet of February 11 a handbill had been printed in Baltimore February 5 containing rumors by way of the West Indies that a preliminary peace treaty had been signed and that they appeared to be corroborated by the captain of the Iris “just arrivd from St. Thomas’s.” 4 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, February 10, 1783. Jonathan Arnold to William Greene Sir. Philadelphia Feby. 12th. 1783. We are this moment in a Committee of the whole—at work upon the Affair of Impost. 1 Nothing is yet completed, to inform you of, I was in hopes, by this post to have been able to have transmitted the Mode for Obtaining a general Estimate but after many days agita tion—by doing, and undoing—it is yet unfinished. As I concieve it a matter of vast import—I shall lose no time in forwarding it when a final decision thereon shall have taken place. As to the Impost, it appears to me most probable it will be recommended anew with some very material Alterations—but yet so as that very strong objections will lie against it. My health for the week past has been such that nothing but the most absolute necessity could have induced me to go out of my quarters. But when matters of such consequence were on the Tapis, I should have held myself inexcusable, to have been absent & the State thereby unrepresented—tho’ by such exertions I have not had all the satisfaction which I wished. Enclosed are Returns from the Registers Office of a Genl view of Expenditures & receipts of Monies to Deer. 1781. 2 Shall if Health permits write you a Public Letter by your brother who is well & expects to be on his return in the next week. I have the Honor to be, with great respect & esteem, Your very hume Servt. Jona Arnold RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, this date. 2 Undoubtedly A General View of Receipts and Expenditures of Public Monies, by Authority from the Superintendent of Finance, from the Time of His Entering on the Administration of the Finances, to the 31st December, 1781. . . .Joseph Nourse, Register. Register’s Office, November 18, 1782 (Philadelphia: David C. Claypoole, 1782), for which see JCC, 23:889; Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 17,765; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:62. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My Dr. Sir, Philadelphia Febry 12 1783 I have been detained so long in Congress that I have not time to write you but a few Words. Enclosed you have a Cypher, 1 which I


[Page 714]
680 February 12,1783 believe you will seldom use, as it is very troublesome—you write the Fig ures without any stops but a very small space to distinguish the number as thus 294 398 295 136 264 447 220.2 i have reed. 2000 Dollars of Mr Alexander Fullerton in part of the purchase money for your House & have entered into an Agreemt. for the Conveyance. I have consulted Mr R & some friends about the Bank. The Interest last 6 months was 4>/ 2 Per Cent & will Increase—but the Capital being raised to 4 Millions, there are so many Shares to be sold by the public that a very intelligent Friend thinks that for one Year after Peace, the shares will not sell easily. Afterwards they may rise & be in demand. I therefore shall wait your further orders. Send me the Deed Per Post dated at the Time of Execu tion. I hope you will not feed out any of the Hay over the Stable, till the rest is all gone as it is the best Hay put there on purpose for the Sum mer & it is high Time the Stacks were taken off the mowing Ground. I reed, of Sammy £129.10 Sterl in full of Principal & Interest of his Note to Deer. 30, 1782 so that you can credited it accordingly. I reed a Letter lately from Trenton informing that you are blamed by the Legislature for not proceeding in your Appointmt 3 & the Vice Presidt of the Coun cil complains of your not answering a Letter he wrote you on the Head. I think you had best begin or resign. Opportunities to Cadiz offer every Week—do let me hear of Lewis or what you may know abt him. As I am pretty sure of Peace & that speedily, and I am confident it will not be prudent for you to go New Rochelle on Acct of the Ban ditti that will be strolling the Country for some time to come, and it will not do to be in New York till matters get settled, what think you of going into the House at Elizabeth Town, till you see how matters go, at least till Fall. I reed Mr. Remsens Letter but have not time to answer it, but by next Post, I will inform myself with Certainty of the State of Things in N C and write him explicitly on the Head and on the other Matters he mentions. Mr. Mortons Papers are all either in the Pigeonholes, or in the Iron Chest, but he must be careful not to deliver up any of the Mortgages but only Jacob Lewis’s Bond & Lord Stirlings Agreemt. I Can think of none others. But the Deed for the Land & the Bonds on payment of Ballance must first be made as you ought not to Trust the least. I wish him to wait at Baskinridge till next Post. Peace is greatly talked of here, and we are in hourly Expectation of certain News. By the York Paper of the 8th they had no News there. Love to all. Am Yours Afftly, E B RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 Not found. 2 Over these numbers Boudinot interlined the words “Knowledge is good.” 3 That is, in his appointment as commissioner for settling New Jersey’s Continental accounts, a post to which he had been nominated by superintendent of finance Robert Morris and approved by the New Jersey Assembly on May 22, 1782. See Livingston, Papers (Prince), 4:410-11.


[Page 715]
February 12,1783 681 Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir Philadelphia Febry. 12th 1783 I receivd your favor of the 26th Ulmo. Can Assure you I have not been inattentive to your cause tho I have had many other Objects of Consequence to attend to, I heretofore Informed you 1 that I had pro cured an Engagement of a Court of Appeals to be held on the 8th of Novembr., there were then but 2 Judges one present at Philadelphia the other viz Mr Paca belonged to Mary-land. He agreed to the time of the Court & Engaged to attend at that time, to which Notice was given Genii Varnum came from Providence & made that long Journey on purpose but Alas Mr Paca was in Nomination for governor of Mary- Land, Election was drawing near, and he never came, and all was frus trated for that time. Then I procured the Court adjourned to some time in January. Before that time Mr Paca resigned & Mr Lowel of Boston and a Mr Reed of Delaware State appointed. It was some time before Congress could be Ascertaind of their Acceptance, but we have no expectation Mr Lowell will make a Journey to Philadelphia. I early applied to Judge Griffin to write to Mr. Reed who lives but about 40 miles from this place & to adjourn the Court forward to a time at which he might hope Mr Reed would attend, but as yet hear Nothing from Mr Reed, I am Constantly applying to Judge Griffin on the Sub ject he has been always attentive to the business, I am pressing the matter, the necessity of a Tryal soon, as the Court at Rhodisland have notwithstanding Notice of a New Trial, persisted to give Judgment on the Bond, which Judgment they mean to persue. He has now engaged me himself to goe down, to Delaware State in a few days see Mr Reed himself & urge his attendance at least by the beginning of April, as I hope to set out for home sometime in that month, & every thing in that Court is so dilatory that I fear if I cannot succeed with all my Importunity, that if I leave it, it never will be done, I shall persue, & persue, to my Utmost. Mr Wharton to whom you referr me is now at Baltimore, expect his return in a few days when shall apply for the £20.0.0 as I am in want enough, my tarry has been here so long, expences so great, the Supply from the State so small, that I fear I shall not be able with all to Clear out in the Spring. Hope I shall not fail to recieve the £20.0 at least. Congress are now every moment Intent on laying some sure fund at least for the Intrest of the Debts due from the United States on Loan office Certificates, & Other, we are fully Impressed with the Necessity of it, now is the time; by some late Accounts which are in the publick papers great expectations of a Peace are raised, so much all the merchts in this City are allarm’d and much perplexd, a few days must decide, as we expect direct accounts from Europe every day. I have not had time to goe to the Office & look over the papers but I think it is by the Evidence pretty well estab-


[Page 722]
688 February 12,1783 174—86; and Edmund S. Morgan, The Gentle Puritan: A Life of Ezra Stiles, 1727-1795 (New Haven; Yale University Press, 1962), pp. 349-56. 3 See Wolcott to Frederick Wolcott, February 19, 1783. 4 Wolcott also wrote a brief letter this day to his wife Laura, enquiring about the fam ily’s health and reporting that “I have inclosed some News papers to Dr Smith, which I have desird him to let you have. A few days must convince us wheather we are to have Peace or War.” Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers, CtHi. Elias Boudinot to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Febry 13th. 1783. This moment being reminded that Major Edwards is just setting off for Charles Town, I am obliged to catch a Moment in Congress, to ask you how you do, and most heartily to congratulate you on the repossession of the important Post of Charles Town. You have reason to rejoyce on many Accounts, and I do assure you that every Friend of the united States has the greatest reason to join with you on so interesting an Occasion. Many Letters from the west Indies, announce the prelimineries of Peace having been signed on or about the 10th of December last. I believe the next arrivals from Europe will bring us the good News. We are deeply engaged in Congress, on the important Business of funding & securing the public Debts, in which the Pay of the Army is included. At the Instance of the nothern Army, we have also a Com mutation for their half pay under Consideration. Since writing the last Sentence, the King of England’s Speech is arrived, and he say’s “That provisional Terms are made with the ameri- can Colonies, to take Place when preliminaries with France are signed, which will be in a few Days.” 1 Capt. Barre 2 is sent on to this Country with the News & is hourly expected. The Business of Congress calls me from writing. Must beg that my best Compliments may be made acceptable to Mrs. Greene. I am with great respect, Dr Sir, Your very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (CSmH: HM 22762). 1 George Ill’s December 5, 1782, speech before Parliament was printed in the Febru ary 15 issues of both the Pennsylvania Journal and the Pennsylvania Packet, under the dateline “New York. February 9, 1783.” 2 Boudinot apparently confused Capt. John Barry with Joshua Barney, whom Ben jamin Franklin had commissioned to carry official peace dispatches to Philadelphia. Alexander Hamilton to George Washington Sir Philadelphia, Feby. [13]' 1783 Flattering myself that your knowlege of me will induce you to receive the observations I make as dictated by a regard to the public


[Page 723]
February 13,1783 689 good, I take the liberty to suggest to you my ideas on some matters of delicacy and importance. I view the present juncture as a very interest ing one. I need not observe how far the temper and situation of the army make it so. The state of our finances was perhaps never more critical. I am under injunctions which will not permit me to disclo[se] some facts, that would at once demonstrate this posi[tion] but I think it probable you will be possessed of the[m] through another channel. It is however certain that there has scarcely been a period of the revo lution which called more for wisdom and decision in Congress. Unf[or]tunately for us we are a body not governed by reason [or] foresight, but by circumstances. It is probable we shall [not] take the proper measures; and if we do not a few [months] may open an embarrassing scene. This will be the ca[se] whether we have peace or a continuance of the war. If the war continues, it would seem th [at] the army must in June subsist itself to defend the [country;] if peace should take place it will subsist itself to pr[ocure] justice to itself. It appears to be a prevailing opini[on in] the army that the disposition to recompence their s[ervices] will cease with the necessity for them: and that if they [once] lay down their arms, they part with the means of ob[taining] justice. It is to be lamented that appearances aff[ord] too much ground for their distrust. It becomes a serious inquiry what is the true line of policy? The claims of the army urged with moderation, but with firmness, may operate on those weak minds which are influenced by their apprehen sions more than by their judgments, so as to produce a concurrence in the measures which the exigencies of affairs demand. They may add weight to the applications of Congress to the several states. So far an useful turn may be given to them. But the difficulty will be to keep a complaining and suffering army within the bounds of moderation. This Your Excellency’s influence must effect. In order to it, it will be adviseable not to discountenance their endeavours to procure redress, but rather by the intervention of confidential and prudent persons to take the direction of them. This however must not appear: it is of moment to the public tranquillity, that Your Excellency should pre serve the confidence of the army without losing that of the people. This will enable you in case of extremity to guide the torrent, and to bring order, perhaps even good, out of confusion. ’Tis a part that requires address; but ’tis one, which your own situation as well as the welfare of the community points out. I will not conceal from Your Excellency a truth which it is necessary you should know. An idea is propagated in the army that delicacy car ried to an extreme prevents your espousing its interests with sufficient warmth. The falsehood of this opinion no one can be better acquainted with than myself, but it is not the less mischievous for being false. Its tendency is to impair that influence, which you may


[Page 724]
690 February 13, 1783 exert with advantage, should any commotions unhappily ensue, to moderate the pretensions of the army and make their conduct corre spond with their duty. The great desideratum at present is the establishment of general funds, which alone can do justice to the Creditors of the United States (of whom the army forms the most meritorious class), restore public credit and supply the future wants of government. This is the object of all men of sense; in this the influence of the army, properly directed, may cooperate. The intimations I have thrown out will suffice to give Your Excel lency a proper conception of my sentiments. You will judge of their reasonableness or fallacy; but I persuade myself you will do justice to my motives. I have the honor to be, With great respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt servt. Alex Hamilton [P.S.] General Knox has the confidence of the army & is a man of sense. I think he may be safely made use of. Situated as I am Your Excellency will feel the confidential nature of these observations. 2 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). FC (NN: Miscellaneous Folders). In the hand of Alexander Hamilton. 1 This date is taken from Hamilton’s endorsement on the FC (“To His Excellency General Washington, Feby. 13t. 1783”); he left a large space blank between the month and year in both his draft and the RC. Washington endorsed the latter “From Alexr. Hamilton Esq. Feby. 1783,” and he referred to it simply as “your favor of Febru ary” in his March 4 response to Hamilton. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:185-88. John C. Hamilton, the editor of the first edition of Hamilton’s papers, inserted a “7” in the space between the month and year in the RC, over which someone later penned “13," undoubtedly after having seen Hamilton’s draft. John C. Hamilton’s “7” probably derived from his misreading of the superscript “y” of the “Feby.” in Wash ington’s endorsement, which resulted in the publication of the letter under that date in both his and the Lodge editions of Hamilton’s papers, as well as in Edmund C. Bur nett’s edition of delegate letters. See The Works of Alexander Hamilton, ed. John C. Hamil ton, lOvols. (New York: John P. Trow, 1850), 1:327-29; The Works of Alexander Hamilton, ed. Henry Cabot Lodge, 12 vols. (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904), 9:310-13; and Burnett, Letters, 7:33-35. The matter is of considerable interest because Hamilton’s fail ure to date it undoubtedly reflected a measure of his uncertainty in the use he would make of the letter—one in which he presumed to advise the commander in chief on preserving “the confidence of the army without losing that of the people” on the eve of what historians have come to label the “Newburgh Conspiracy.” It was not properly dated until the appearance of the Syrett edition of Hamilton’s papers in 1962, which mistakenly asserts that the RC was actually dated “Feb 13th” by Hamilton. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:253-55. 2 For another expression of Hamilton’s views on the worsening “Situation of the army," voiced during a subsequent evening meeting with a number of delegates, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, February 20, and note 7. The “confidence of the army" in Gen. Henry Knox is also reflected in a number of letters to him written from Philadelphia to keep him abreast of the congressional response to the army’s demands during this critical period, which are in the Knox Papers, MHi (DLC microfilm). Of special interest are letters from Gouverneur Morris dated February 7 and 28; from baron Steuben dated February 25; and from Gen.


[Page 726]
692 February 13, 1783 added that the exertion of force would not under these circumstances meet the sense of the people at large. Mr. Ghorum sd. he denied this with respect to the people of Massachussetts. Mr. Lee on the part of the Come, said that the D. de Lauzun had been recurred [to] as being in the neighbourhood & having Cavalry under his Command which would best answer the occasion; and that the report was founded on wise & proper considerations. Mr. Mercer, Mr. Williamson, Mr. Ramsay & Mr. Wilson & Mr [Madi son] strenuously opposed the Report, as improper altogether as far it related to the French Legion, and in other respects so until the State of Pa. sd. on a summons refuse to restore the articles seized. Mr. Rutledge with equal warmth contends for the expediency of the measures reported. Mr. Mercer & Mr. M[adison] at length proposed that Congress sd. assert the right on this subject & summon the State of Pena, to redress the wrong immediately. 5 The Report was recommitted, with this proposition & Mr. Wilson & Mr. Mercer added to the Come. The Speech of the K. of G. B. on the 5th Dcr. 1782. arrived & pro duced great joy in general except among the Merchts. who had great quantities of merchandise in Store the price of which immediately & materially fell. The most judicious members of Congs, however suf fered a great diminution of their joy from the impossibility of dis charging the arrears & claims of the army & their apprehension of new difficulties from that quarter. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:229-31. 1 See Madison's Notes, February 12; PCC, item 149, 2:229-32; and JCC, 24:128n. 2 That is, 24th day of January, for which see Madison’s Notes, January 24, 1783. 3 Although Nathaniel Gorham’s committee report did indeed recommend the use of military force to recover the goods seized from the Amazon, there is no explicit mention of Lauzun’s legion in it. See PCC, item 149, 2:241; and JCC, 24:128n. 4 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: “This was an oblique allusion at whose enmity to the French was suspected by him &c.” In the space left blank, Madison later inserted “Mr. Lee.” 5 See Madison’s Notes, February 20, 1783, note 4. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. Feby. 13th. 1783. The Chevr. de la Luzerne having just given me notice that he shall send an Express to the Romulus in V2 an hour, I sieze the opportunity of inclosing a copy of the British Kings Speech which presages a speedy establishment of peace. What effect this circumstance may have on your mission is at present uncertain. For myself I cannot think that any thing short of a final & authentic ratification ought to be listened to in that view. But I am told that it is the opinion of Mr. Morris that no ves-


[Page 727]
February 13, 1783 693 sei will sail from any American port whilst the critical uncertainty con tinues. Whether any & what changes may be produced in the orders to the Romulus will be known from the Commander. Adieu, J. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:231-32. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. Feby. 13th. 1783 I heartily congratulate you on the dawn of peace presented in the inclosed paper. 1 Apprehending that the commercial sagacity of this & intervening places, may sieze the crisis to speculate on the Staple of Virga., we have judged it prudent to despatch a messenger with the intelligence to the Government. 2 Private letters will also scatter it along the road. I will not damp your joy by dwelling on prospects which have that tendency; but it will not be improper to hint to you, that there is much reason to believe that the {cloud, which has been some time lowering on) 3 the (North River 4 will not be dispeled by the rays of peace). The opinion seems to be (well founded that) the (arms which have) secured the (liberties of their country will not) be (laid down until justice) is (secured to those who have wielded them and that dan gerous convulsions) would be (hazarded by orders) for that purpose. I have not time to add more at present. Farewell, J .M. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson). 6:232-33. 1 Undoubtedly a copy of George Ill’s December 5 speech before Parliament, for which see Elias Boudinot to Nathanael Greene, this date, note 1. 2 See Arthur Lee to Benjamin Harrison, this date. s Words printed in cipher in this text were written by Madison in a cipher supplied by Randolph. 4 That is, among the troops of Washington’s main army stationed at Newburgh, N.Y., on the Hudson, or North, River. John Montgomery to Robert Magaw Dear Sir Philada 13th Febry 1783 I Congratulate on the Pleasing Prospect of Peace which I am per- swaded is agreed too before this. You have the Kings Speech which arrived here this morning from New York. We Exspect a farther Confi- mation of this great news by Capt Barry who we are Evry day Exspect- ing from France. Amirrica will be free and I have reason to belive that the terms of pease for us will be favourable. Poor torris must now


[Page 729]
February 14, 1783 695 RC (PHi: Wayne Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Matthew Prior, “The Ladle,” 11. 165-66. The Literary Works of Matthew Prior, ed. H. Bunker Wright and Monroe K. Spears, 2 vols. (Oxford: The Clarendon Press, 1959), 1:207. 3 Thomas Peters, the fourth child of Richard and Sarah Robinson Peters, was born in November 1782. Nellis Peters Black, Richard Peters, His Ancestors and Descendants (Atlanta: Foote & Davies Co., 1904), p. 118. Alexander Hamilton to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia, Feb’y 14th, 1783. In a letter which I wrote lately to General Schuyler, 1 I informed him of the import of the answer from Vermont, and what had been done with it in Congress. The Committee to whom it was referred have not yet reported; but I have little expectation of decision. Congress have been for some time employed on matters of the 1st importance, devising a plan for carrying the 8th Article of the Confed eration into execution, and for funding all the debts of the United States. General principles with respect to the 1st object have been agreed upon, and are referred to a Committee to be digested into form. The plan is crude, and will be opposed in its last stage, but per haps it will be adopted by a majority. With respect to funds we have made little progress, and from the turn of the debates, I have not san guine hopes of proper measures. Whenever any thing has been matured it will be communicated to the State. I congratulate your Excellency on the strong prospect of peace which the late speech of the British King affords. I hope the conclu sion of the war may not be the prelude of civil commotions of a more dangerous tendency. It is to be suspected the Army will not disband, till solid arrangements are made for doing it justice; and I fear these arrangements will not be made. In this position of things it will be wise in the State of New York to consider what conduct will be most consistent with its safety and inter est. I wish the Legislature would set apart a tract of territory, and make a liberal allowance to every officer and soldier of the Army at large who will become a citizen of the State. A step of this kind would not only be politic in the present posture of affairs, but would embrace important future consequences. It is the first wish of my heart that the Union may last; but feeble as the links are, what pru dent man would rely upon it? Should a disunion take place, any per son who will cast his eye upon the map will see how essential it is to our State to provide for its own security. I believe a large part of the Army would incline to sit down among us, and then all we shall have to do will be to govern well. These are loose but important ideas. I wish they may occur with their


[Page 738]
704 February 18,1783 In support of such an alteration it was urged that it would lessen the opportunity of collusion between collector & importer, & would be more equal among the States. On the other side it was alledged that the States had not objected to that part of the plan, and a change might produce objections that the nature & variety of imports would require necessarily the collection to be advalorem & on the great part of them, that the forming of a book of rates 5 wd. be attended with great difficultes & delays, and that it would be in the power of Congress by raising the rate of the article to augment the duty beyond the limitation of 5 PerCt. and that consideration would excite objec tions on the part of the States. The motion was negatived. A motion was made by Mr. Hamilton 2ded by Mr. Wilson; that whereas Congress were desirous that the motives & views of their mea sures sd. be known to their Constituents in all cases where the public safety wd. admit, that when the subject of finances was under debate the doors of Congs, sd. be open. Congs, adjourned it being the usual hour & the motion being generally disrelished. 6 The Pa. delegates said privately that they had brought themselves into a critical situation by dissuading their Constituents from Separate provision for Creditors of U.S. within Pena, hoping that Congr. wd. adopt a general provi sion, and they wished their Constituents to see the prospect them selves & to witness the conduct of their Delegates. Perhaps the true reason was, that it was expected the presence of public creditors numerous & weighty in Philada. wd. have an influence & that it wd. be well for the public to come more fully to the knowledge of the public finances. Letter red. from Wm. Lee at Ghent notifying the desire of the Emperor to form a commercial treaty with U.S. & to have a residt. from them. 7 Comd. to Mr. Izard, Ghorum & Wilson. 8 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:249-52. 1 See Madison’s Notes, February 12, 1783. 2 Madison added this word at a later date. s At this point Madison inserted an “x” to which he keyed the following note: “Virga. Mr. Jones, Mr. Madison, Mr. Bland no. Mr. Lee, Mr. Mercer, ay.” 4 See JCC, 24:140-41; and PCC, item 136, 2:25. 5 For the “Book of rates” Madison had included in his January 23 “List of Books to be imported for the use of Congress,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:92, item 192. 6 See JCC, 24:140; and PCC, item 21, fol. 337. Years later Madison made the following observation on the necessity for sitting within closed doors. "It was necessary for the old Congress to sit with closed doors, because it was the executive as well as legislative body; names of persons and characters came perpetually before them; and much business was constantly on hand which would have been embarrassed if it had gone to the public before it was finished.” Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:252n.l4. 7 William Lee’s March 31, 1782, letter from Brussels rather than Ghent to Secretary Robert R. Livingston, reporting that “It has been mention’d, to me by a Gentleman in the Government here, that the Emperor is disposed to enter into a commercial treaty with America,” is in PCC, item 90, fols. 539-42; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:291-92.


[Page 739]
February 18, 1783 705 8 See Secretary Thomson’s “Dispatch Book,” PCC, item 185, 3:54. In his “Committee Book,” Thomson also recorded that the committee was “Renewed” on July 23, with Stephen Higginson and Richard Peters replacing Gorham and Wilson, and that the committee was “Discharged Septr 29th" before submitting a report. See PCC, item 186, fols. 84, 113. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. Feby. 18th. 1783. Your two favors of the 14th one of them inclosing a letter to Miss Floyd were reed, by yesterday’s mail. 1 The last paper from N.Y. as the inclosed will shew you has brought us another token of the approach of peace. It is somewhat mysterious nevertheless that the preliminaries with America should be repre sented by Secy. Townsend as actually signed and those with France as to be signed, as also that the signing of the latter would constitute a gen eral peace. I have never been without my apprehensions that some tricks would be tried by the British Court notwithstanding their exte rior fairness, of late, and these apprehensions have been rendered much more serious by the (tenor of some letters) 2 which (you have seen) and particularly by the (intimation of minister of France to Mis ter Livingston). 3 These considerations have made me peculiarly solici tous that your mission should be pursued as long as a possibility remained of (your sharing in) the (object of it). Your (portrait of your amanuensis) 4 is I conceive drawn to (the life). For all un(confidential services he is a convenient instrument). For any (thing farther) ne (sutor ultra) cre{pidam). 5 The turn which your case has for the present taken 6 makes it unnecessary to answer particularly the parts of your letter which relate to the expediency of a flag—and the extent of its protection. On the first point, I am inclined to think that the greatest objection with Congress would have been drawn from the risk of a denial. On the second I have no precise knowledge, but the principle would seem to extend to every thing appertaining to the mission as well as to the per son of the Minister. Nor can I conceive a motive to the latter indul gence which would admit of a refusal of the former. I am impatient to hear of the plan which is to dispose of you during the suspense in which you are placed. If Philada. as I flatter myself, is to be your abode, your former quarters will await you. I am Dear Sir Yr. Affecte. friend, J. Madison Jr. [P.S.] An answer to Miss Patsy’s letter is in the same mail with this. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison Papers (Hutchinson), 6:254-55. 1 See ibid., pp. 234—38. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in a cipher supplied by Jefferson, for which see Madison tojefferson, February 11, 1783, note 3.


[Page 741]
February 18,1783 707 only provisional may in some measure explain it, but in that case it would seem to be without real use. In consequence of this prospect the departure of 7 has been suspended untill the further orders of Congress. I had a letter from him yesterday but he had not then been apprized of this resolution. He had seen the Speech & had I doubt not anticipated it. 8 What course he will take during the suspense I cannot say. My wish is that he may return to this place where he will be able at least to pass away the time with less tedium. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Written by Madison, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:256-57. 1 See ibid., pp. 207-8. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in a cipher supplied by Randolph. 3 That is, Richmond. 4 See Madison’s Notes, February 17, 1783. 5 For this reference to Jefferson's “remarks" on Virginia for the marquis de Barbe-Mar- bois, see Madison to Randolph, December 30, 1782, note 8, and February 25, 1783, note 5. 6 See Madison to Randolph, February 13, 1783, note 1. 7 That is, Thomasjefferson. 8 See the preceding entry. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Philadelphia Feby. 18th. 1783 We had the honor of receiving your Excellency’s letter of the 7th 1 & shall communicate what it contains relative to the supply of the Post at Winchester to the Financier, & transmit you his answer. We have reason to believe that he intends renewing the Contract. 2 On the 14th we dispatchd a messenger, with the King’s Speech, to your Excellency. 3 This is the only authentic information that has yet reachd us relative to Peace. The reports from N. York are, that the Preliminaries were signd the 13th of Deer, between the American & british Commissioners; but not by those of France & Spain. It can hardly be long, before we are better informd on this subject. We enclose the Resolutions of Congress on the Tobacco shippd in the Flags, & on the Settlement of the State Accounts. 4 With sentiments [of] respect & consideration, we have the honor to be yr Excellency’s Servts. J Madison Jr. Theok. Bland jr. Jos. Jones. A. Lee John F. Mercer RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Bland, Jones, Madison, and Mercer. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:253.


[Page 742]
708 February 18,1783 1 See ibid., pp. 200-201. 2 This day Arthur Lee sent an extract of Governor Harrison’s letter to Robert Morris who replied on the 20th renewing the contract for supplying the post at Winchester, Va. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:443-44. 3 See Arthur Lee to Harrison, February 13, 1783. 4 See Madison’s Notes, February 10, note 1. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir Philadelphia Febry 19th 1783 I receivd your favor of the 3d of Febry. I had in Answer to yours of the 26th of January which was sent you on the 12 th Instant gave you full Information on the matter therein proposed. I have not yet been able to see Mr Wharton, he is not yet returnd from Mary’land tho expected every day. Imediately on receiving your’s 2 days agoe, I again applyed to Judge Griffin. He has again adjourned the Court to the first monday in April, fully expects Mr Reed the other Judge will then be present, Judge Griffin assured me he would advertise it in the pub lick papers. I understand Mr Lewis of this City attorney is engaged in behalf of Stanton, but if you have oppertunity to give them Notice or Information it may not be Amiss, but suppose not Necessary. It seems by Mr Helmes’ letter that you have never favoured him with the Copys from the Registers office in the Court of Appeals. I long agoe sent you Duplicates of the Decree of the Court granting a New Trial. The moment that was done it intirely Vacates the former Judgment rendered for a reversal and the matter now stands before the Court of Appeals as the Cause did before any Trial had and there is in fact no reversal of the first Judgment, nor any forfeiture on the bond. Genii Varnum came down here in behalf of Stanton &c on Notice of a New Trial, there was no Court, that could not revive the first Judgment of the Court of Appeals but it is Nullifyed. It really behoves them to have another Trial, for now the first Judgment before the Admiralty Court remains good & Valid tho possibly it has been Suspended for a time. I think the Assembly most assuredly in the present State of the Case will Suspend the operation of the Execution. It has been Impossible to have a Trial here for the reasons I have heretofore given you, there has been no Judges existing for a Considerable time, now there is, & no pain is spared to get them togeather. The 1st Monday in April is the time appointed. Am Yr Hie Sert, Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Am oblidgd to write in midst of Debate in Congress which com mand my attention ever moment, believe my letter will be Very Imper fect. Receive it as it is. ED RC (CtY: Shaw Papers).


[Page 744]
710 February 19,1783 FC (MSaE: Samuel Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten, and endorsed by him: “Copy of a letter to Mr. Benjamin Chase Feby. 19th 1783.” 1 Benjamin Chase (1715-1814), a farmer and Holten’s neighbor in Danvers, Mass. The Historical Collections of the Danvers Historical Society & (1918): 64; 10 (1922): 70. 2 That is, John Fritz Folkersamb, who began practicing medicine in Danvers during the Revolutionary War, and in 1785 was still seeking recompense for his service with John Paul Jones. Ibid., 6 (1918): 63-65. See also Holten to Folkersamb, March 19 1785. Arthur Lee to James Warren Dear Sir, In Congress Feby. 19th. 1783 Since I wrote to request you to send me a Certifyd Copy of the Resolve of the Assembly for granting me 6000 Acres of Land; 1 Mr. Gorham tells me that it has expird, & he believes was renewd. Whether It has or not, I still beg that I may have a Copy of the first res olution for it is that I want. If however it shoud have expird, you will permit me to beg your attention to having it renewd upon the best terms which your knowlege of the subject may suggest. 2 I cannot but hope that Peace is near, & yet it seems extraordinary that neither Congress, the french Minister, nor Genl. Carleton has any intelligence on the subject. As to the neglect with which Congress is treated that is neither new nor undeservd; but that all other sources of official intelligence upon a matter so very interesting & important, shoud be equally dry, is astonishing. The mode of settling the Quotas of the States, & of establishing funds for the payment of our debts are questions now before Congress. I wish we had your assistance in discussing them. The Con federation is a stumbling block to those who wish to introduce new, & I think arbitrary systems. The vanity of being wiser than others, & of being able to amend whatever is already done, enlists many under this banner, who do not mean any thing undue. But these Dispositions are often moulded to their measures by artful men, & others without intending it, are made to minister to their pernicious purposes. Please to make my respects acceptable to Mrs. Warren, & to all our friends. I have the honor to be, with the greatest esteam, Dear Sir, Yr. most Obedt Servt. Arthur Lee RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 See Lee to Warren, April 8, 1782, note 2. 2 Warren’s March 14 response to Lee is in the microfilm edition of the Lee Family Papers, and Richard Lee, Life of Arthur Ue, LL.D., 2 vols. (Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1829), 2:278-79.


[Page 745]
February 19, 1783 711 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday February 19. [ 1783] 1 The motion made yesterday by Mr. Hamilton for opening the doors of Congress when the subject of finances should be under debate was negatived, Penna, alone being ay. 2 A motion was made by Mr. Hamilton seconded by Mr. Bland to postpone 3 the clause of the report made by Come, of the whole for altering the Impost, viz, the clause limiting its duration to 25 years, in order to substitute a proposition declaring it to be inexpedient to limit the period of its duration: first because it ought to be compen- surate to the duration of the debt. 2dly. because it was improper in, the present stage of the business, and all the limitation of which it wd. admit had been defined in the Resolutions of 1782. 4 Mr. Hamilton said in support of his motion that it was in vain to attempt to gain the concurrence of the States by removing the objec tions publickly assigned by them against the Impost, that these were the ostensible & not the true objections: that the true objection on the part of R. I. was the interference of the impost with the opportu nity afforded by their situation of levying contributions on Cont. &c which red. foreign supplies through the ports of R. I: that the true objection on the part of Va. was her having little share in the debts due from the U. S. to which the impost would be applied; that a removal of the avowed objections would not therefore, remove the obstructions whilst it would admit on the part of Congs, that their first recommendation went beyond the absolute exigences of the public; that Congs, having taken a proper ground at first, ought to maintain it till time should convince the States of the propriety of the measure. Mr. Bland said that as the debt had been contracted by Congress with the concurrence of the States, and Congs was looked to for payment by the public creditors, it was justifiable & requisite in them to pursue such means as would be adequate to the discharge of the debt: & that the means would not be adequate if limited in duration to a period within which no calculations had shewn that the debt wd. be discharged. On the motion the States were N. Hamshire divided, Masts, no, R. Island ay, Cont. divd, N. York, ay, N. Jersey ay, Pena, ay, Virga, no Mr. Bland ay, N. Carolina ay, S. Carolina ay. Mr. Rutlidge said he voted for postponing not in order to agree to Mr. Hamiltons motion but to move & he accordingly renewed the motion, made in the Come, of the whole; viz that the Impost should be appropriated exclusively to the army. This motion was seconded by Mr. Lee. Mr. Hamilton opposed the motion strenuously, declared that as a friend to the army as well as to the other Creditors & to the public at large he could never assent to such a partial dispensation of Justice;


[Page 746]
712 February 19,1783 that the different States being differently attached to different branches of the public debt would never concur in establishg a fund wch. was not extended to every branch; that it was impolitic to divide the interests of the civil & military Creditors, whose joint efforts in the States would be necessary to prevail on them to adopt a general revenue. Mr. Mercer favored the measure as necessary to satisfy the army & to avert the consequences which would result from their disappoint ment on this subject: he pronounced that the Army would not dis band until satisfactory provision should be made, & that this was the only attainable provision; But he reprobated the doctrine of a perma nent debt supported by a general & permanent revenue & said that it would be good policy to separate instead of cementing the interests of the Army & the other public creditors, insinuating that the claims of the latter were not supported by justice & that the loan office certifi cates ought to be revised. Mr. Fitzimmons observed that it was unnecessary to make a separate appropriation of the Impost to one particular debt, since if other funds sd. be superadded, there would be more simplicity & equal pro priety in an aggregate fund for the aggregate debt funded: and that if no other funds should be superadded it wd. be unjust & impolitic: that the States whose Citizens were the chief creditors of the U. S. wd. never concur in such measure; that the mercantile interest which comprehended the chief Creditors of Pena, had by their influence obtained the prompt & full concurrence of that State in the Impost; and if that influence were excluded the State wd. repeal its law. He concurred with those who hoped the army wd. not disband un[less] provision sd. be made for doing them justice. Mr. Lee contended that as eve[r]ybody felt and acknowledged the force of the demands of the army, an appropriation of the Impost to them wd. recommend it to all the States: that distinct & specific appropriations of distinct revenues was the only true System of finance, and was the practice of all other nations who were enlight ened on this subject; that the army had not only more merit than the mercantile creditors; but that the latter would be more able on a return of peace to return to the business which would support them. Mr. [Madison] said that if other funds were to be superadded as the gentleman 5 who made the motion admitted, it was at least premature to make the appropriation in question; that it wd. be best to wait till all the funds were agreed upon & then appropriate them respectively to those debts to which they sd. be best fitted; that it was probable the impost would be judged best adapted to the foreign debt; as the foreign Credi tors could not like the domestic ever recur to particular States for sepa rate payments, and that as this wd. be a revenue least felt, it would be prudent to assign it to those for whom the States wd. care least, leaving more obnoxious revenues to those Creditors who wd. excite the sympa thy of their Countrymen and cd stimulate them to do justice.


[Page 747]
February 19, 1783 713 Mr. Williamson was agst. the motion; said he did not wish the army to disband untill proper provision should be made for them; that if force sd. be necessary to excite justice, the sooner force were applied the better. Mr. Wilson was against the motion of Mr. Rutlidge, observed that no instance occured in the British history of finance in which distinct appropriations had been made to distinct debts already contracted; that a consolidation of funds had been the result of experience; that an aggregate fund was more simple & would be most convenient: that the interest of the whole funded debt ought to be paid before the principal of any part of it; and therefore in case of surplus of the impost beyond the interest of the army debt, it ought at any rate to be applied to the interest of the other debts, and not, as the motion pro posed, to the principal of the army debt. He was fully of opinion that such a motion wd. defeat itself, that by dividing the interest of the civil from those of the military Creditors the provision for the latter would be frustrated. On the question on Mr. Rutledge’s motion the States were N.H. no, Mas. no, Cont. no, N.J. no, Virga, no, Mr. Lee & Mr. Mercer ay, N.C. no, S. Carolina ay. On the clause reported by the Comee. of the whole in favor of limit ing the impost to 25 years, the States N.H. ay, Mas. ay, Cont. divd., 6 N.Y. no, N.J. no, Pa. ay, Va. ay, Mr. Bland no, N. Carolina ay, S. Car olina ay. So the question was lost. On the question whether the appointment of Collectors of the Impost shall be left to the States, the Collectors to be under the con- troul of & amenable to Congs, there were 7 ays—N.Y. & Pena, being no & N.J. divided. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:258-64. 1 There is no entry in Secretary Thomson’s journals for this date. 2 See the next to last paragraph of Madison’s February 18 Notes of Debates. 3 According to a copy of the “Rules for conducting Business in the United States in Congress Assembled" maintained by President Elias Boudinot covering the period May 4, 1781, to May 15, 1783, Congress this day adopted the following additional rule con cerning “a Question to postpone," which is not recorded in the journals but may have been occasioned by this motion. “Determined by a unanimous Vote,” Boudinot wrote, “that on a Question to postpone to take up another Question, debate may go into the Merits of Question at large, not Entd.” Emmet Collection, no. 441, NN. For the congres sional rules in force at this time, see JCC, 20:476-82, 22:75-76, 24:98, 109, 131; and Vir ginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, November 19, 1782, note 3. 4 Apparently December 16, 1782, for which see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:213-23, 261-62; and JCC, 23:798-809. 5 Madison later added “Mr. Rutledge” at this point in the MS. 6 Madison inserted an asterisk at this point to which he keyed the following note: “Cont., Mr. Dyer ay, Mr. Wolcot no.” 7 Madison inserted a “dagger” at this point to which he keyed the following note: “Pa., Mr. Wilson & Fitzsimmons no.”


[Page 748]
714 February 19, 1783 Oliver Wolcott to Frederick Wolcott Dr Child, Philadelpha. 19th Feb. 1783 I expect that you will receive this Letter at N Haven as I have heard that the College 1 winter Vacancy would End before this Time. You cannot suppose but that I have frequently enquired about you, and am glad that this Enquiry has been so much to my Satisfaction, and that my Expectations of you have been so fully answered. I do not know wheither your Situation is the most eligible that might be chosen, but if any Inconvenience attends it, it will be less felt now than at another Period, tho I shall be Very sorry if you do not injoy the best advantages for Improvment in Learning, as that is the object of your Pursuit and my Wishes; as to what respects your Cir cumstances you will be directed by your Mother. You are now at that Time of Life which is the most interesting and important to yourself, as your Conduct for a few years to come will (if God shall spare your Life) probably give you that Character as to Morals, Virtue and Learning which you will likely have thro the future Periods of Life. My Solicitude for your Wellfare induces me most ardently to Wish that a strict Regard for the Precepts of Religion, the most Suiteable Behaivour, and the best use of Time may distinguish the whole of your Conduct. I am happy in being perswaded that you will do well. We have been expecting for several days to hear that Peacee was agreed upon amongst the contending Powers. I hope that you will hear that it is so before that you shall receive this Letter, in a manner consistent with the Interest and Safety of this Country. By the Blessing of God I am well. May the Almighty Bless you— your’s with the kindest Affection, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtLHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 That is, Yale College, where Frederick was a student. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Sir Philadelpa. 19th Feb 1783 I have been favoured with your Letters of the It and lOt and thank you for the Intelligence therewith communicated. Soon after my com ing here I waited on Mr Morriss and informed him that the State had for a long Time impatiently expected Mr Smith to come forward, he told me that he had not long before Sent him his Commission and Instructions, and that he would Very soon be upon this Business. After that I had not heard any Thing of him, and supposed that he was at Hartford, as I wrote to you some Time ago, and knew nothing to the contrary till I reed, your last Letter. I have since waited upon Mr Mor-


[Page 757]
February 21,1783 723 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:270-77. 1 See Madison’s Notes, January 29, 1783, note 5. 2 Madison originally wrote “constitution," which he then deleted for “compact,” but subsequently lined out “compact” and rewrote “constitution." 3 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: “Among other reasons privately weighing with him, he had observed that many of the most respectable people of America supposed the preservation of the Confeder acy, essential to secure the blessings of the revolution; and pennant funds for dis charging debts essential to the preservation of Union. A disappointmt to this class wd. certainly abate their ardor & in a critical emergence might incline them to prefer some political connection with G. B. as a necessary cure for our internal instability— again Without permanent & general funds he did not concieve that the danger of convulsions from the army could be effectually obviated—lastly he did not think that any thing wd. be so likely to prevent disputes among the States with the calamities consequent on them. The States were jealous of each other, each suppose itself to be on the whole a creditor to the others. The Eastern States in particular thought them selves so with regard to the S. States (see Mr. Ghorum in the debates of this day). If general funds were not introduced it was not likely the balances wd. be ever be dis charged, even if they sd. be liquidated. The consequence wd. be a rupture of the con federacy. The E. States wd. at sea be powerful & rapacious, the S. opulent & weak. This wd. be a temptation—the demands on the S. Sts would be an occasion— Reprisals wd. be instituted—Foreign aid would be called in by first the weaker, then the stronger side; & finally both be made subservient to the wars & politics of Europe.” 4 That is, “imaginary.” 5 See JCC, 24:144; and Madison’s Notes, February 27, when the report of this com mittee was first taken up. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philadelpa. 21 Feb. 1783 I wrote to Rhina by the last Post. 1 I think that I have wrote to you or some of the Family by every Post for several Weeks past. I hear but sel dom from owing I beleive to the want of oppertinity to write by—such as you shall have I hope that you will embrace. We have no material News since We had the British Kings Speech. The Non Arrivals induce an opinion that the Vessells for these Ports wait till that Event is ascertained, which is much expected has taken Place in Europe. By the Blessing of God I still injoy Health. Take the best Care in your Power of your own—and may the Almighty Protect and Bless you and the Family. Our Happiness depends upon his Favour. My Love to our Children. Yours affectionately Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers). 1 Not found.


[Page 759]
February 24,1783 725 The truth is the ability of a country to pay taxes depends on infinite combinations of physical and moral causes, which can never be accommodated to any general rule, climate, soil, productions, advan tages for navigation, government, genius of the people, progress of arts and industry, and an endless variety of circumstances. The diversi ties are sufficiently great in these states to make an infinite difference in their relative wealth—the proportion of which can never be found by any common measure whatever. The only possible way then of making them contribute to the gen eral expence in an equal proportion to their means is by general taxes imposed under Continental authority. In this mode there would no doubt be inequalities and for a considerable time material ones; but experience and the constant operation of a general interest which by the very collision of particular interests must in the main prevail in a Continental deliberative would at length correct those inequalities, and ballance one tax that should bear hard upon one state by another that should have a proportional weight in others. This idea however was not at the period of framing the confederation, and is not yet agreeable to the spirit of the times. To futurity we must leave the dis covery how far this spirit is wise or foolish. One thing only is now cer tain that Congress having the discretionary power of determining the quantum of money to be paid into the general treasury towards defraying the common expences, have in effect the constitutional power of general taxation. The restraints upon the exercise of this power amount to the perpetuating a rule for fixing the proportions which must of necessity produce inequality, and by refusing the federal government a power of specific taxation and of collection, without substituting any other adequate means of coertion do in fact leave the compliance with Continental requisitions to the good will of the respective states. Inequality is inherent in the theory of the con federation, and in the practice that inequality must increase in pro portion to the honesty or dishonesty of the component parts. This vice will either in its consequences reform the federal constitution or dissolve it. If a general standard must be fixed numbers were preferable to land. Modes might be devised, to ascertain the former with tolerable precision, but I am persuaded the experiment will prove, that the value of all the land in each state cannot be ascertained with any thing like exactness. Both these measures have the common disadvantage, of being no equal representative of the wealth of the people; but one is much more simple, definite and certain than the other. I have indulged myself in these remarks to show that I have little expectation of success from any mode of carrying the article in ques tion into execution upon equitable principles. I owe it however to myself to declare that my opposition did not arise from this source.


[Page 760]
726 February 24, 1783 The confederation has pointed out this mode—and though I would heartily join in a representation of the difficulties (of which every man of sense must be sensible on examination) that occur in the execution of the plan to induce the states to consent to a change, yet as this was not the disposition of a Majority of Congress, I would have assented to any mode of attempting it which was not either obviously mischievous or impracticable. The first plan proposed 3 as Your Excellency will see was an actual valuation of each state by itself. This was evidently making the inter ested party judge in his own cause. Those who have seen the opera tion of this principle between the counties in the same state and the districts in the same county cannot doubt a moment that the valua tions on this plan would have been altogether unequal and unjust. Without supposing more liberality in one state than in another the degree of care, judgment and method employed in the execution would alone make extreme differences in the results. This mode had also the further inconvenience of awakening all the jealousies of the several states against each other. Each would suspect that its neighbour had favoured itself, whether the partiality appeared or not. It would be impossible to silence these distrusts and to make the states sit down satisfied with the justice of each other. Every new requisition for money would be a new signal for discussion and clam our, and the seeds of disunion already sown too thick would be not a little multiplied. To guard against these evils the plan proposes a revision by Con gress; but it is easy to be seen that such a power could not be exercised. Should any states return defective valuations, it would be difficult to find sufficient evidence to determine them such—to alter would not be admissible, for Congress could have no data, which could be pre sumed equivalent to those which must have governed the judgment of Commissioners under oath on an actual view of the premisses—to do either this, or to reject would be an impeachment of the honor of the states which it is not probable there would be decision enough to haz ard—and which if done could not fail to excite serious disgusts. There is a wide difference between a single state exercising such a power over its own counties and a confederated government exercising it over sovereign states, which compose the confederacy. It might also hap pen, that too many states would be interested in the defective valua tions to leave a sufficient number willing either to alter or to reject. These considerations prevailed to prevent the plan being adopted by a Majority. The last plan may be less mischievous than the first, 4 but it appears to me altogether ineffectual. The mere quantity of land granted and surveyed with the general species of buildings upon them can cer tainly be no criteria to determine their value. The plan does not even


[Page 766]
February 25,1783 732 officers; and that it would apportion on the States that part of the public burden with sufficient equality. Mr. Dyer said that the original promise of Congress on that subject was considered by some of the States as a fetch upon them, and not within the spirit of the authority delegated to Congress. Mr. Wolcot said the States wd. give Congs, nothing whatever unless they were gratified in this particular. Mr. Collins said R. I. had expressly instructed her delegates to oppose every measure tending to an execution of the promise, out of monies under the disposition of Congress. On the other side it was urged that the half pay was a debt as solemnly contracted as any other debt; and was consequently as bind ing under the 12th article of Confederation on the States, 2 & that they could not refuse a requisition made for that purpose; that it would be improper to countenance a spirit of that sort by yielding to it; that such concessions on the part of Congs, wd. produce compliances on the part of the States, in other instances, clogged with favorite conditions; {that a referrence of the officers to the particular States to whose lines they) belong, would not be satisfactory to the officers of those States who objected to half pay, and would increase the present irritation of the army; that to do it without their unanimous consent would be a breach of the army contract by which the U. S. collectively were bound to them; and above all that the proposed plan, which discharged any par ticular State which should settle with its officers on this subject, altho’ other States might reject the plan, from its proportion of that part of the public burden, was a direct and palpable departure from the law of the Confederation. According to this instrument the whole public bur den of debt must be apportioned according to a valuation of land, nor cd. any thing but unanimous concurrence of the States dispense with this law. According to the plan proposed so much of the public burden as the 'A pay sd. amount to, was to be apportioned according to the number of officers belonging to each line; the plan to take effect as to all those States which should adopt it, without waiting for the unani mous adoption of the States, and that if Congress had authority to make the number officers the rule of apportioning one part of the public debt on the States, they might extend the rule to any other part or the whole, or might substitute any other arbitrary [rule] which they should think fit. 3 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:282-85. 1 See JCC, 24:146-47. For the antecedents of this debate, see Madison’s Notes, Jan uary 13 and February 4, 1783. See also these letters, vols. 8, 9, 12, 13, 15, and 16 under entries indexed “half-pay plan.” 2 Which provided that “All bills of credit emitted, monies borrowed and debts con tracted by, or under the authority of congress, before the assembling of the united states, in pursuance of the present confederation, shall be deemed and considered as a charge against the united states.”JCC, 19:221. 3 Madison later completed this entry to read: “The motion of Mr. Gilman was nega tived, see the ays & noes on the Journal,” for which see JCC, 24:148.


[Page 770]
736 February 26, 1783 John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada Feby. 26th. 1783. I wrote you a Letter last Post, 1 and then Expected it would have been in my Power to have given you some further accounts from Europe respecting the Negociations for Peace by this, but am still des titute of Authentic information, as it is a long time since Letters were received from our Commissrs. in Europe. It is an (almost Universal) Opinion here, that Peace is nigh at hand, are daily Expecting a Pack- ett from Europe; for my own part, though I have but little doubt but Peace is nigh at hand, yet the Object is so great and so desirable that a Confirmation of it would be highly pleasing. By the latest accounts from New York, it does not appear that the Enemy have any late direct Intelligence from Europe. The business respecting Funds, Half-Pay, Rations &c. and that of Vermont, remain in much the same State as when I wrote you last on those Subjects. I have the Honor to be, Your most Hum. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Gilman to Weare, February 19, 1783. Nathaniel Gorham to Caleb Davis Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia Feby. 26 1783 Mr. Bingham of this place who was some time Agent for the Board of Warr at Martinico has in his hands a ballance due to Government, which he informs me he is ready to pay to any person authorised to recive it. I suggest to you the propriety of furnishing me with a power of attorney or an order on him for it, which would prevent the neces sity of my drawing money for my support here out of the Treasury, where it is wanted for other purposes. I am uncertain wither it lay with you or the Committe of accounts to adjust those ballances. However if a power comes it must be accompanyd with the several votes of Court for disolving the Board & placing the powers in other hands. I have wrote to my Brother on the subject, 2 do confer with him on the sub ject. The Leiut Governor in a Letter to Doer. Holten 3 represents the exertions of Massachusetts—(which you & I know are great) and com pares them with some of the other States and asks wither we think the people will long bear it. We can only answer that the powers of Con gress are not adequate to the means of doing justice between the States—and that while the States continue so jealous of Congress they cannot be made so. I perceive the Boston News papers contain inflam-


[Page 771]
February 26,1783 737 atory peices against the impost which with other circumstances may possibly so farr prevail as to induce a repeal—but I am more & more convinced that those States which have beene forward will never obtain justice untill funds are established—and Unless such establish ments are made or some alteration in the articles of confederation take place the union must ere long dissolve. Virginia have now only one Regiment of Soldiers & have paid no more than 35 thousand dol lars of the 8 millions & have sent word to Congress that they can pay very little more on that requesition & at the same time are very averse to funds—the army very desirous of their two years wages and a sett[le]m[ent], and if a peace as expected Soon takes place what shall we do with them if they refuse (As some people expect) to disband. Our situation will be bad enough—the publick creditors are very clamourous for their interest—and Congress under all those dificultys a mear shadow. I write this in confidence as some people would say from those sentiments that my head was turnd that I was intoxicated with power &c. not considering that in a few months I should be as much under the power of Congress as any man whatever—but let such people be some time in Congress & they will alter their opinion. I am with esteam Sir Your friend & humble sevt, Nath Gorham [P.S.] Inclosed is a few news papers. Do write me an account of your politics—and excuse haste. RC (MHi: Caleb Davis Papers). 1 Caleb Davis, who has been identified in these letters, ll:288n.l, was serving as the Massachusetts agent for purchasing military supplies. 2 Not found. 3 See the following entry. Samuel Holten to Thomas Cushing Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia 26th February 1783 I have been honor’d with yours of the 9th inst., & thank you for your favorable opinion of my attentions. I am sensible it is difficult for me to give such an answer as will be satisfactory why the burthens of the war are not more equably borne, but no doubt you are sensible it has been so from the beginning of the contest; & permit me to ask whether it is in the power of Con gress, constitutionally, to prevent it, they seem to be sensible of it, and are endeavoring to take such measures as may be most likely to remove the burdens, so justly, complained of, & to prevent the like in future; it is easy for people to say why don’t Congress do this or that, but the inquiry shou’d be what are they authorized to do. You are pleas’d to mention the situation of the eastern part of our state, but I am not able to comprehend what you have reference to in


[Page 772]
738 February 26,1783 the late movements of the enemy respecting the eastern parts; My col leagues as well as myself are not insensible of the situation of that peo ple, & Congress, as I apprehend, was well informed respecting that part of the country when they gave their instructions to their ministers to negotiate a Peace; therefore as Congress have great reason to expect that peace will soon take place, I have no expectation that any further instructions will be sent to our ministers at present, & we have this satisfaction that Mr. Adams who is one of our negotiators is undoubtedly acquainted with that part of the country. I must beg leave to refer you to the inclosed newspapers for the intelligence of the day. I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, your most obedient; S. Holten RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). FC (MHi: Holten Papers). Endorsed by Holten: “Copy of a letter to I.t. Governr. Cushing Feby. 26th. 1783." 1 Thomas Cushing, a former delegate to Congress, 1774-76, was lieutenant governor of Massachusetts. Samuel Holten to James Sullivan Dear Sir,i Phila. 26th February 1783. I have been honor’d with your attention of the 9th inst. & so far as respects the Eastern part of our state I must beg leave to refer you to mine of the 11th 2 where I had the honor of addressing you on that subject; but if the war shou’d continue it appears to me that we ought to have assistance from the continent to drive that nest of Tories & Britains out of the state. I think it is kind in you to bring into remem brance a person so well qualified & justly intitled to fill so important a place as your are pleasd to mention & if such an appointment shou’d become necessary I shall attend to the same. I inclose you a newspaper which contains the intelligence of the day. I am, with great respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 James Sullivan, who was a non-attending delegate to Congress from Massachusetts in 1782-83, has been identified in these Letters, 4:75n.l, 2 Not found. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday Feby. 26 [1783]. Mr. Lee observed to Congress that it appeared from the Newspa pers of the day that sundry enormities had been committed by the


[Page 774]
740 February 26,1783 as soon as the plan of revenue sd. be prepared for recommendation to the States it would be proper for Congs, to take into consideration & combine with it every *object which might facilitate its progress, & form a complete provision for the tranquility of the U. States. The Question on Mr. Hamilton’s motion was postponed. 6 The letter from Mr. Morris requesting that the injunction of secresy might be withdrawn from his preceding letter signifying to Congress his purpose of resigning was committed to. 7 *He 8 had in view the followg. objects—1. the abatements proposed by Mr. Hamilton. 2. a transfer into the common mass of expences of all the separate expences incurred by the States in their particular defence. 3. an acquisition to the U. States of the vacant territory. The plan thus extended would affect the interest of the States as follows, viz. N. Hamshipire would approve the establishment of a General rev enue, as tending to support the confederacy, to remove causes of future contention, and to secure her trade against separate taxation from the States thro which it is carried on. She would also approve of a share in the vacant territory. Having never been much invaded by the Enemy her interest would be opposed to abatements, & throwing all the separate expenditures into the common mass. The discharge of the public debts from a common treasury would not be required by her interest, the loans of her citizens being under her proportion. See the Statement of them. 9 Massachusetts, is deeply interested in the discharge of the public debts. The expedition to Penobscot alone interests her, as she sup poses, in making a common mass of expences: her interest is opposed to abatements. The other objects wd. not peculiarly affect her. Rhode Island as a weak State is interested in a general revenue as tending to support the confederacy and prevent future contentions, but against it as tending to deprive Her of the advantage afforded by her situation of taxing the commerce of the contiguous States, as tending to discharge with certainty the public debts, her proportion of loans interest her rather against it. Having been the seat of the war for a considerable time, she might not perhaps be opposed to abate ments on that account. The exertions for her defence having been pre viously sanctioned, it is presumed in most instances, she would be opposed to a common mass of expences. 10 In the acquisition of vacant territory she is deeply and anxiously interested. Connecticut is interested in a general revenue as tending to protect her commerce from separate taxation by N. York & Rhode Island: and somewhat as providing for loan office creditors. Her interest is opposed to abatements, and to a common mass of expences. 11 Since the condemnation of her title to her Western claims, she may perhaps consider herself interested in the acquisition of the vacant land. In other respects she wd not be peculiarly affected.


[Page 775]
February 26, 1783 741 N. York is exceedingly attached to general revenue as tending to support the confederacy and prevent future contests among the States. Although her citizens are not lenders beyond the proportion of the State, yet individuals of great weight are deeply interested in provision for public debts. In abatements N. York is also deeply inter ested. In makg. a common mass also interested, and since the accep tance of her cession, interested in those of other States. N. Jersey is interested as a smaller State in a general revenue as tendg to support the confederacy, and to prevent future contests and to guard her commerce agst. the separate taxation of Pensylvania & N.Y. The loans of her Citizens are not materially disproportion] ate. Although this State has been much the theatre of the war, she wd. not perhaps be interested in abatements. Havg had a previous sanction for particular expenditures, her interest wd. be opposed to a common mass. In the vacant territory, she is deeply and anxiously interested. Penna, is deeply interested in a general revenue, the loans of her Citizens amounting to more than 'Zs of that branch of the public debt. As far as a general impost on trade would restrain her from taxing the trade of N. Jersey it would be against her interest. She is interested against abatements; and against a common mass, her expenditures having been always previously sanctioned. 12 In the vacant territory she is also interested. Delaware interested by her weakness in a general revenue as tend ing to support the confederacy & future tranquility of the States; not materially by the credits of her Citizens. Her interest is opposed to abatements & to a common mass. To the vacant territory she is firmly attached. Maryland. Having never been the Seat of war & her Citizens being creditors below her proportion, her interest lies agst. a general revenue, otherwise than as she is interested in common with others in the sup port of the Confederacy & tranquility of the U. S., against abatements, and against a common mass. The vacant is a favorite object to her. Virga, in common with the Southern States as likely to enjoy an opu lent and defenceless trade is interested in a general revenue, as tending to secure to her the protection of the Confederacy agst. the maritime superiority of the E. States; but agst it as tending to discharge loan office debts and to deprive her of the occasion of taxing the commerce of N. Carolina. She is interested in abatements, and essentially so in a com mon mass, not only her excentric expenditures being enormous; but many of her necessary ones havg. red. no previous or subsequent sanc tion. Her cession of territory would be considered as a sacrifice. N. Carolina, interested in a general revenue as tending to ensure the protection of the Confederacy agst. the maritime superiority of the E. States and to guard her trade from separate taxation by Virginia and S. Carolina. The loans of her Citizens are inconsiderable. 13 In


[Page 777]
February 26,1783 743 4 There is no mention of this motion or vote in the journals, .but for a previous men tion of Maj. Ichabod Burnet, see Madison’s Notes, January’ 17, note 3. 5 See JCC, 24:138; Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:259-60; and Madison’s Notes, February 17, 1783. 6 For Hamilton’s view on this subject, see also Hamilton to George Clinton, February 24, 1783. 7 That is, to Nathaniel Gorham, John Rutledge, and Oliver Wolcott, but contrary' to the impression left by Madison here (and made explicit in his Notes for the 27th), Congress actually took action on Morris’ request this day and “annulled . . . the injunc tion of secrecy” on his January 24 letter as requested. See PCC, item 186, fol., 85; JCC, 24:151; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:361-71, 462-74. 8 That is, Madison himself, who wrote this long note across the bottom portion of this and the next eight pages of his notes. Madison also repeated the substance of this note in a memorandum that he prepared for Thomas Jefferson several days later, after the latter’s return to Philadelphia from Baltimore, for which see Madison’s Memorandum on a Revenue Plan, March 6? 1783. 9 That is, the statement of the loan office debt listed at the end of Madison’s note. 10 In contrast (in appraising Rhode Island’s interest in “a common mass of expences”), Madison wrote “Not opposed to abatements, nor agst. a common mass,” in his Memorandum on a Revenue Plan, March 6? 1783. 11 Cf. “in favor of common, having often employed militia without sanction of Cong.,” in ibid. 12 Cf. “Not interested in abatemts. nor common mass, but has espoused both,” in ibid. 13 At this point in ibid., Madison added “but their claims for supplies must be great.” 14 That is, to the next page of Madison’s manuscript notes, where he wrote the follow ing figures on the loan office debt. 15 Madison apparently derived these figures from the superintendent of finance, but had difficulty in reporting them. For example, he omitted Georgia from the list, set down Georgia's total of $90,442.10.1 opposite South Carolina (instead of that state’s debt of $218,042.48.3), and reported figures for both New Hampshire and Connecticut different from Morris’ tabulation. Finally, the sums Madison listed here actually total $11,219,367.80.7, rather than $11,437,410.80 as given, and compared to the figure $11,400,485.64.1 that Morris reported to Congress on March 10, for which see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:546. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott Sir, Philadelpa. 26 Feb. 1783 I write to some of you every week altho I have but little to say except to inform you of my Hea[l]th and some ordinary personal occurences as We have not had much News which may be depended upon since receiving the Kings Speech. The Negotiations by the best Accounts were proceeding, and suppose that they would probably terminate in a Settlement. This I do not mention upon any special Knowledge which I have of the Subject but upon Probalities as they may be learnt from Facts. I have heard nothing from home since Rhina Letter, I should have expected it by the last Post, but he brot no Letters East of the Hudson, as that River had been impassable. Take care of your Heath. My Love to my children. May the almighty bless you and them. Yours affectionately, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers).


[Page 778]
744 February 27,1783 Daniel Carroll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Dear sr. Pha. 27 Feby 1783 The inclosd will show that nothing to be expected from Mr. McClanaghan. I waited on him—he made objections—I wrote to him (copy inclosd), he sent the inclosd answer, 1 & the Letter for you. Whatever his motives may be for refusing payment, the effect is the same to us. I Say to us, for Mr. Hemseley is now here, & I shoud have thought it proper to have made a division with him. You must know by experience the situation I am in—at least in a degree, but there are very particular Circumstances, which contribute to make that situation more distressing than you ever Knew it. It will appear in the same light to you when I shall have the pleasure of see ing you, & communicating those circumstances. I inclose this to Mr Calhoun, with a particular request to him to for ward it to you, that no time may be lost, which realy the situation I am in will not admit. With respect, & esteem, I am sr. Yr. Mo Obt Ser, Dani Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 The following February 26 letter to Blair McClenachan, and McClenachan's reply, are in the Red Books, 10:33—34, MdAA; and Calendar of Maryland State Papers: The Red Books, 3 vols. (Annapolis: Hall of Records Commission, 1950-52), 1:212. “When 1 had the pleasure of seeing you this morning, I was in hopes, that the acct, sent me by the Intendant of Maryland, cou’d have been adjusted, & the Balla, paid; But finding you had some objections I look’d over his letter to me, wherein he says that he expects less than the half of the 5 hogsheads will more than make good pillage, and on looking over the agreemt. you enterd into with him, I find that no allowance is to be made where Tobacco hogsheads are not broke, by which I understand that difference of weight, was not to be accounted for, but where it was occasiond by pillage. Under these circumstances, I do not suppose the Balla, can be exactly ascertaind at this time— but as Mr Jenifer, on this acct for Supplying me with a Sum of money, please to let me Know whether it wou’d be agreable to you to discharge so much of the acct, as it may amt. too without calculating the 5 hogsheads, which may remain to be accounted for agreable to the terms of the agreement—if not, you will please to favor me with an answer, which I shall have an opportunity of forwarding this Evening.” Joseph Jones to George Washington Dr. Sr. Philada. 27th February 1783 Your favors of the 14th Deer, last and the 11th inst. have been duly received 1 —a series of ill health through the fall and the greatest part of the winter and which untill very lately rendered my attendance in Congress seldom and very irregular must be my apology for suffering the first to remain so long unanswered. Congress have been for some time past almost wholely employed in devising some general and adequate funds for paying the interest and


[Page 779]
February 27, 1783 745 in time sinking the principal of the public debt as well as to provide for future loans should the continuance of the War render borrowing necessary—difficulties apparently insurmountable presented them selves in almost every stage of the business, owing to the different cir cumstances of the several States, and the necessity, that the subjects selected for taxation to form the funds, should operate throughout them all, generally and equally, or nearly so to make them acceptable. After opening and discussing a variety of questions, no object has been yet discovered, to which so few objections lie, as the impost duty formerly recommended to the States, and which, with some alter ations from the former plan to obviate the objections that have been raised, has been agreed to in a Comtee. of the whole and will I think be finally adopted. What this duty, when granted by the States will amount to annually, is very uncertain—in time of peace there can be no doubt but it will be considerable and for years prove an increasing fund, but it is thought by no means adequate to the payment of the interest and sinking the principal of the national Debt. Other means have therefore been considered in aid of the impost Duty—Land, Polls, Salt, Wine, Spirits, Tea &c, these last being what are called luxu ries it is thot may bear a small tax in addition to the impost duty. I fear at present few of these will go down, and that we shall be obliged at last to rest the payment of the public debt upon the mode prescribed by the Confn. (requisitions proportioned on the States according to the value of land, buildings &c, a plan for obtaining which scale of proportion has been digested and agreed upon in Congress and will immediately go on to the States,) and the produce of the 5 Per Cent duty if granted. A small poll tax, did not the Constitution of Maryland stand in the way, might probably succeed, as it wod. operate more equally perhaps then any other, and may be adopted, allowing Mary land to substitute some other adequate and productive fund in its room. A short time will bring to a conclusion our efforts on this busi ness, which I am in hopes will terminate in the adoption of such mea sures as may be acceptable to the States, and produce the granting such funds as will restore public credit, give value to the great mass of depreciated certificates, and enable Congress to render, to every Class of the public Creditors, ample justice. Congress have the purest inten tions towards the public Creditors, and will use their best exertions in obtaing from the States the means to do them speedy and compleat justice—such is their opinion of the merit and services of the Army that did it not wound the sense of justice, they want not the inclina tion to give them the preference to any other class of Creditors but equity and sound policy forbid discrimination and Partial distinctions. One ground of discontent in the Army, and on which they found the opinion, that justice is not intended to be done to them, is the delay in complying with their requests—but with those acquainted with the deliberations of public bodies, and especially of so mixed a Body as that of Congress, allowances will be made for slow determination.


[Page 788]
754 March 2, 1783 prospects are general Confusion, Clamour & tumult & intestine broils, Commotions and divisions here I am full of anxiety & perplex ity, exert my feeble Efforts to reduce expences & but in Vain. Nothing can be more unpopular in our assembly. I am wearied out being here. My prospects are no better by all the accounts I recieve from my own Country if I return home. The Numerous Civil list & expensive sallaries have been all adopted in the 2 last years when I had no part here and a foundation laid for a great part of the troubles we are now Involved in. I have indeavoured with all my might to gain some relief, but with little Success, as it is ten times as difficult to undoe what has been done & establishd as to have prevented when proposed. The objection to revoke half pay or to referr them to the states is principally this that a former Congress have engaged it, the States by Confederacy are bound by it, it is a solemn Compact with our officers, we cannot retract it, tho ever so unwise & Imprudent when done & they are terrifyed even with the threats of the Army to do themselves Justice & represent Connecticut officers the most Clamorous & pressing & call on Congress to secure their protest against trusting the State. A Comtee from the Army has been here all winter Petitioning Congress waiting for the result both as to pay, security for their pay & halfpay. For that they propose a Commutation. All our calculations upon lives have been set at Work & they make out about six years full pay (no rations) after the War to be the amount on an Average. Congress have Voted or nearly Voted 5 years whole pay after the War as a sufficient Compensation. As we can not get off the half pay Establishment, had we not better Comply with that than to be entangled with half pay for life? I wish I knew there would be no end in enumerating our Dificulties and holding out Our prospects, Peace or War. God almighty Governs the World, he has Delivered us out of many Troubles & fears, he still is able, let our Trust be in him & we are Calm. Let Tempest roar, he can still their rage & the Tumult of the People. We know many things are wrong. They always have been so and allways will, which requires more Labor, Patience, and Exertion. If the People clamour against me I know I have indeavoured their good, if I must suffer for others & they have the Praise, it is my lot, I have been accustomed to it, I hope I shall be Content, I expect not praise but blame, it has been the lot of their best friends & of those who have exerted themselves the most with the greatest fidelity to serve them. I have not, I cannot expect any better. I do not serve them on Wages, it is to do my Utmost for them & then expect their reproaches. Experience has taught me. I am not dismay’d (hie murus Aheneus esto, Nil conscrire sibi nulla pallescere Culpa) 1 ie, in my publick Conduct. As to the Event of the Susqh Cause 2 we must Submit to Providence. We had the weight of Congress, they would hear to no delay, they pushed with Violence & we had nothing to hope, if we had left them to have Nominated the Men they would


[Page 790]
756 March 3, 1783 ligence. All that we know about the situation of the Pacific negotiations amounts to the Philosophers ne plus ultra viz, that we know nothing, Conjecture indeed has an extensive field to range in. The King of G.B. speech has opend the gate, where Imagination has free liberty to range and glut itself. The Commercial world have been thrown into a con sternation—the Political into a Stupor. Bets run high & spirits low alternately—for my part—having a propensity to reason with the rest of my fellow creatures—I have hazarded my conjectures also. I build them on the following grounds. Great Britain has evidently given up the Idea of the Conquest of America. She has now (and will if the war continues have a still greater) inferiority of Naval force to that of the combined powers with which she is engaged—no prospect of any effec tual aid from any ally. She must therefore be on the defensive at sea; her finances as appears from the Speech are not in the best state— what therefore can she hope from another campaign and that defen sive, both by land & sea in the East, W Indies, in America & Europe— add to this her councils divided by strong opposition, & her ministers not firmly seated in their places. My conclusion is that England must have peace—that the Allies will dictate it. No war supplies appear to have been calld for at the opening of the Parliament. No intelligence has been received further than that containd in the speech, a Packet (the Washington) was in waiting to bring over the result of the negotia tions, no account Authentic, of the sailing of the combined fleet. All these contribute to evince that the negotiations are still going on, and not far from a conclusion. I leave you to Judge of the event. I think they are strong Symptoms of approaching [....] I must request the favor of you to inform me in your next, of the Progress you have made in my land Warrant—and what you suppose to be the real Value of it, as I propose selling it if I have an offer worth accepting. Mr. Jefferson is here I have not seen him since his return. Mr. Morris has sent in his resignation of the office of Finance. Adieu, believe me to be yrs. affectionately, Theok. Bland Jr. RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Daniel Car roll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Dear sr. Pha. March 3d. 1783 I wrote to you by the Saturdays post to Baltimore under cover to Mr Calhoun who was desird to forward it so that an answer might be obtaind by this post. 1 I hope it reachd you in time. You will see that nothing is to be expected from Mr McClanaghan. I am in such arrears that I hope the Supply will be ample & Sufficient to releive me, as well as for the Supply of the Delegates in general.


[Page 793]
March 4, 1783 759 Phillips White’s Petition Phila. March 3rd, 1783 To The Honble. Congress of the American United States, the Sus- criber in behalf of Edmund Sawyer of Newbury in the Common Wealth of Massachusetts Esqr, Sheweth That the said Sawyer, was a vender of Tickets in the United States Lottery, that on the nineteenth day of March A.D. 1781 he Inclosed Eleven prize Tickets of the third Class, in a Letter directed to Joseph Bullock Esqr. of Philadelphia, in order to get Certificates for said prizes, at the same time he also Inclosed a Loan Office Certificate of 300 Dolls in order to receive the Interest due thereon. Said Letter with its inclosure was Carried into New York, the Mail in which it was sent, being taken by the Enemy, Whereby said Tickets and Certificate are lost as to the proper owners. He therefore prays that you will take the affair into consideration and pass such order thereon (as that the owners of said Tickets, & Certificate, may receive their Just due) as you in your Wisdom shall think proper, and Your Petitioner shall ever pray. 1 Phillips White MS (DNA: PCC, item 42). In the hand of Phillips White. 1 White’s petition was referred this day to the superintendent of finance “to report thereon.” See JCC, 24:160; and PCC, item 42, 8:249-57. For Robert Morris’s March 7 report on the memorial and its referral to a congressional committee on March 29, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:511; and JCC, 24:181, 27:402. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir Philadelphia March 4th 1783 I recievd yours by Brown but have not as yet Conferrd with Burrell 1 on Subject of your Letter. In his Computation the Ballance remaining due to the Estate of your brother is about £30,700 dolls. I believe he means to give the Securities drawing an Intrest from the time due which you see will make considerable addition whereby I Imagined you were quite safe in ordering the sum requested to Mrs. Trumbull the whole of which & much more I know is gained on my & her being here but however must Submit; knowing my self to be Unable to have supported her here I could not have Consented to her coming had it not been on a Supposition it might be advantageous in our Sollicita tion for Justice in the matter referrd to, & believe it has had its Effect. I expect to be at home in the Spring, the State does not supply me for my own Expenditures, how to pay off Mrs Trumbulls I know not. Coll Wadsworth has been so kind as to furnish her with some, & Nothing


[Page 795]
March 4, 1783 761 mont are in much the same State as when I wrote you last. 1 I Inclose you a Paper by which you will see Mr. Morris’s Letters in which he proposes to Quit the Office of Superintendant of Finance. 2 Indeed our Finances are in a deplorable Situation & when they will be in a better State I know not. I have the Honor to be, Your most Huml Servt. John Taylor Gilman 3 RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Gilman to Weare, February 26, 1783. 2 Gilman probably enclosed this day’s issue of the Pennsylvania Packet containing Robert Morris’January 24 letter of resignation and February 26 request to have the con gressional “Injunction of Secrecy . . . taken ofT his resignation, although Morris had arranged for their initial publication in the Independent Gazetteer on March 1. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:462-74. For the public furor that followed Morris’ publication of these letters, see Arthur Lee to Samuel Adams, March 5, note 2. 3 Gilman also wrote a letter this day to Josiah Bartlett, from which the following extract was printed in Robert F. Batchelder Autographs, catalog no. 21 (March 1978), item 179. “I reed, this from Dr. Rush last week, but not in time to send by post. I did not know of this oppty. by Mr. Brown until just now otherwise I would have wrote you & some other friends but I have not a word of news. You will see my letter to the Prest. [i.e. Weare] hope soon to have news that Peace is agreed to, my faith is very strong on this subject, perhaps it is too much founded on my wishes. ...” James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday March 4. & Wednesday March 5. [1783] The motion of Mr. Hamilton on the Journal relative to abatement of the quotas of distressed States was rejected, partly because the prin ciple was disapproved by some, and partly because, it was thought improper to be separated from other objects to be recommended to the States. 1 The latter motive produced the motion for postponing. 2 The Committee to whom had been referred the letters of resigna tion of Mr. Morris reported as their opinion that it was not necessary for Congs, immediately to take any steps thereon. 3 They considered the resignation as conditional, and that if it sd. eventually take place at the time designated, there was no necessity for immediate provision to be made. Mr. Bland moved that &c (See Journal of Mar. 5) 4 This motion produced on these two days lengthy & warm debates. 5 Mr. Lee & Mr. Bland on one side disparaging the administration of Mr. Morris, and throwing oblique censure on his character. They con sidered his letters as an insult to Congs. & Mr. Lee de[c]lared that the man who had published to all the world such a picture of our national character & finances was unfit to be a minister of the latter. 6 On the other side Mr. Wilson & Mr. Hamilton went into a copious defence &


[Page 798]
764 March 4, 1783 Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Phila March 4th. 1783 We have receiv’d your Excellency’s Letter of the 26th. Ult, 1 enclos ing a copy of the king of Great Britain’s speech, wch tho’ much muti lated, is in substance, the same with the genuine one transmitted you by Express. That, & the two Letters of Lord Townshend are the only pecies of intelligence, that bear the marks of authenticity respecting the final adjustment of Peace in Europe. To this moment Congress are without official information of the formal signing of any Treaty by the belligerent Powers either partially or generally. The Minister of France, is we apprehend, without intelli gence on the important head, & we have no reason to suppose that they are in a state of less uncertainty at N York. Fluctuating reports respecting this subject, as various in their nature, as the interested sources from whence ’tis probable they spring, prevail here. For them we refer to the papers enclosed, & with much respect, are Yr. Excellency’s most obedient & humble servants, A. Lee John F. Mercer Theok. Bland Jr. J Madison Jr. Jos. Jones We fear the certificate respecting Nathan’s account has arriv’d too late, to influence the determination of the arbitrators. 2 Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:307. Written by Mercer and signed by Mercer, Bland, Jones, Lee, and Madison. 1 For Harrison's letter of February 24, not the “26th," see ibid., p. 281. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, February 4, 1783, note 1. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Sir Philadelphia 4 March 1783 I have been favoured with your Letter of the last. I had before informed you by my last Letter 1 that Mr Morriss told me he would immediately write to a Mr Thompson of Boston to undertake the Business of Settling our Accounts, this I suppose he has done as he told me positively that he would do so. If I shall be able to give you any Infor mation respecting the Instruction which will be given to the Commis sioner I will Inform you farther on this Head, but I have no Idea that any other Rule can be given but to conform to the Acts of Congress. The additional Duty imposed upon the Paytable will increase the Severity of your Service and Responsibility. I have no Doubt of your Fidelity, but I fear that your Diligence in Businss and in Reading will


[Page 810]
March 7, 1783 776 States, all reasonable expences which shall have been incurred by the States without the sanction of Congs., in their defence agst. or attack upon British or Savage enemies, either by sea or by land, and which shall be supported by satisfactory proofs, shall be considered as part of the common charges incident to the present war, and be allowed as such. (11) That as a more convenient and certain rule of ascertaining the proportions to be supplied by the States respectively to the common Treasury, the following alteration in the articles of confederation and perpetual union between these States, be and the same is hereby, agreed to in Congress, & the several States are advised to authorize their respective delegates to subscribe and ratify the same, as part of the said instrument of Union, in the words following, to wit. (12) “So much of the 8th of the Articles of Confederation & perpet ual Union between the thirteen States of America as is contained in the words following to wit ‘All charges of war &c (to the end of the paragraph)’ is hereby revoked and made void, and in place thereof, it is declared and Concluded, the same having been agreed to in a Congress of the United States, that all charges of war, and all other expences that shall be incurred for the common defence or general welfare, and allowed by the U. S. in Congress assembled, shall be defrayed out of a common treasury, which shall be supplied by the several States in proportion to the number of inhabitants of every age, sex & condition, except Indians not paying taxes in each State; which number shall be triennially taken & transmitted to the U. S. in Congs, assembled, in such mode as they shall direct and appoint; provided always that in such numeration no persons shall be included who are bound to servitude for life, according to the laws of the State to which they belong, other than such as may be between the ages of .” 5 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:317-18. 1 This report, which Madison copied into his notes with his March 7 entry, is in PCC, item 26, fols. 438-40; and JCC, 24:170-74. For an analysis of it, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:311-16. For the appointment of this committee and the previous con sideration of its work, see Madison’s Notes, February 21, note 5, and February 27, note 4. The report adopted April 18 as finally amended is in JCC, 24:257-60. 2 Three of these printed copies, with annotations reflecting amendments offered dur ing debate before adoption of the final report, are at PCC, item 26, fols. 411-13. 3 For the following figures, which are found in neither Madison’s draft report nor these notes, but were added by Thomas FitzSimons to one of the printed copies deliv ered this day, see ibid., fol. 413. 4 For the placement of this paragraph in Madison’s draft, see the following note. 5 At this point Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: “In the draught as laid before the Come, by the (7) paragraph was placed last of all, so as to render the plan indivisible. In the (10) paragraph the word ‘reasonable’ before the word ‘expences,’ was not inserted; but to the paragraph were added ‘provided that this allowance shall not be extended to any expences which shall be declared by nine votes in Congress to be manifestly unreasonable.’ In other respects the original draught was unaltered; except that a former resolution of Congress in the words of the (6) para graph was incorporated by the Secy, before it went to the press.”


[Page 811]
March 8, 1783 777 Jonathan Arnold to David Howell Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 8th. 1783. My last ended abruptly, 1 the mail was about to be closed—however I had nothing to add to the subject which was last mentioned. The Committee the next day reported on the subject of Finance—this by direction is now a secrecy, I hope ’twill be out timely to send it per post. I have had an interview with Dr Rush—but as he engages to write I shall refer to his Letter. The Assembly of this State, are enter ing on Measures for the relief of their own Creditors—and I observe the Mr. of C. from this S. 2 who were most zealous advocates for Conti nental Measures—have of late become more passive and upon the whole—Opposition to Court-measures, & men, seems to gain ground as fast as might be expected. Mr. Baily consented without hesitation to print what you requested. 3 He said your character stood Fair—and was daily rising in the eyes of the People of this City. I am told a pam phlet is now in the press, in favor of 5 per Ct. as soon as published will forward one. I conclude it to be the United efforts of A Junto— Mr. Carrol, Mr Madison, Mr Hamilton, Mr. Fitzsimmons—in doors— & the Supr. of F with his Assistant 4 out—may yet influence such Measures—as however agreable to others, must be reprobated by our State. Yesterday’s Paper 5 (inclosed) has an extract of a Letter from R.I. which must have been published with no very good intent that obliged me to present the Public with another—for Tuesday’s Paper 6 —which I mean also to inclose. The paper of Feb. 1st I have not reed. 7 I shall if possible procure it—and get Cato inserted in the Papers of this City—agreable to your request. I think the difficulties which formerly subsisted on that head are pretty well over. The Sdt. of F seems greatly on the decline in the estimation of many, some late drafts for Acts &c. have been disgustful—especially one which is severely criticised, and the Arbitrary Principles it embraces, justly exposed in the Public Papers by Valerius. I was told yesterday—that in New Jersey—a Certain Court favorite— whom he had appointed to an Office in that State, 8 with a Modem Salary—was opposed by the people and threat’ned with immediate ruin, &c, if he attempted to Act—from which and other Circum stances, I am inclined to believe he was happy in forming some excuse for the resignation of an Office—which it was growing dangerous to hold—and as a prudent man foreseeing the evil he is willing to with draw—& hide himself. That with him all who have been duped thro’ weakness, or who from principles, have supported those unconstitu tional propositions which have so long gulled & perplexed the public may shrink into obscurity—and the imperious tone of—By G—d you shall—be no longer heard in this Land of Liberty is my hearty prayer.


[Page 812]
778 March 8, 1783 You will long e’re this recieve the doings of Congress so far as was in my power to Communicate them. As to the result, of the Committee on my Motion—That with all the papers—& a State of the Foreign Affairs, was directed to be confidentially sent to the Govr & Assem bly—by the S for F A. and which he informs is done—all which was entered on the secretjournals. 9 If you should come back this Spring I think your triumph would be complete, and in that case only—I should be happy—that my Little bark—should “attendant sail. Enjoy the triumph & partake the Gale.” For the suppression of that part of the proceedings which was on the public Journals—so that it should not be printed in Course in the papers for Public inspection—and which it was the Anxious wish of many to see—and the carrying the Close of the Affair to the secret Journals—are evidences of a Conscious —and if genuine sor row, & the most bitter Contrition could erase—& bury in Oblivion the whole I believe it would have been done long since. You see I am punctual to your request. It gives me pleasure that I can return you satisfactory Answers—without sacrificing truth at the shrine of Adulation. March 10th. Your agreable favor of 12 fol. Pages has come to hand part is answered in my last Package. My next 10 shall shew my attention to the remainder. I feel much for the domestic Happiness you so lusciously describe & enjoy—my hermitage affords nothing to return you on that head. I most heartily wish it did. This day we had another vote on the score of half pay—and Com mutation—it was again negatived 12 States & 36 Members present. 11 We have a Long Letter this day from the Supr. of F. containing a Plan more in detail. 12 I wish the N England Convention, would be speedy in their movements, as the sense of the People there is now so gener ally known—some plan may be devised eligible and which when once well done would tend to supercede counter movements in Congress. I always was of Opinion something was necessary in Aid of “dry TAXA TION.” From a conviction by experience that the resources of which the States are really possessed could not be draw out in that way fast enough to keep pace with the public exigencies, & preserve its Credit but—why cannot Congress as well trust the States to Collect the Rev enues—they may adopt—(when they have a right to coerce the pay ment of Constitutional requisitions) as the States trust Congress with Powers, which become formidable in Proportion as they are Concen trated? is a riddle to me. I dare say no State has it in intention to rid itself of the Public debt without payment—therefore being left to Collect its own proportion it would be more likely to increase its exertions than otherwise.


[Page 813]
March 8, 1783 779 I hope to hear from you at Hartford soon—and shall enclose your minutes Left for the report, you allude to, 13 in hopes it may refresh your Memory. Mr Ellsworth after having the Papers several days set out home 8c they were handed me by general Woolcot. He tho’t best—to postpone any report, until Congress had gone thro’ the Plans then entering on but which yet are incomplete. I have presented your Compliments to the Gentn named who thank you & return theirs—also to several others unnamed to whom I tho’t it would be agreable—& not improper. Mrs. And Mr Marshall, Nancy & Polly Join me in Compliments to Mrs. Howell 8c yourself & in good wishes for the Olive Branches round about your Table. Please to make my respectful Compliments to all friends who enquire after me—and believe me sincerely, your friend 8c hum Servt, Jona Arnold RC (InU-Li: Lafayette Collection). 1 Perhaps the letter to Howell from which the following extract was printed in the April 12 issue of the Providence Gazette under the heading “Extract of a letter from Philadelphia, dated March 4, 1783.” “Upon examining the Pennsylvania Packets, for the last of February and beginning March, I find the proceedings had against you are not printed with the other proceedings of Congress; they never were, to my knowledge, ordered to be suppressed. I never observed the omission till this moment.” Immediately below this extract the following passage from another letter was also printed with the heading “Extract of another letter from Philadelphia, dated March 3,” which was apparently from Arnold to Howell as well. “For the suppression of that part of the proceedings which was on the public journals, so that it should not be printed in course in the papers, for public inspection, and which it was the anxious wish of many to see, and the carrying of the close of the affair to the secret journals, are evidences of a .’’ For the “suppression" of the congressional proceedings related to Howell’s contro versy with Congress, see alsojames Madison’s Notes of Debates, January 3, 1783, note 3. 2 That is, members of Congress from this state. 3 Not identified. 4 That is, Robert and Gouverneur Morris. 5 Not identified; but the Pennsylvania Packet of March 8 printed a February 6 letter from Rhode Island supporting the collection of Continental revenues and the use of congressional coercive power. 6 The Pennsylvania Packet of Tuesday, March 11 printed a February 1 letter from Rhode Island opposing the Continental impost and congressional coercion. 7 That is, the Providence Gazette. 8 Perhaps Lewis Pintard, who had been appointed by Robert Morris commissioner of accounts for New Jersey, and whose resignation is discussed in Elias Boudinot’s letters to Pintard of February 12, 18, and 25. 9 For Arnold’s motion to instruct the secretary for foreign affairs to send to Rhode Island “sundry extracts of public letters from Europe," which was adopted January 14, see JCC, 24:32-36, 45-46. See also Howell’s letters to John Carter of January 6; and Arnold to William Greene, January 8, 1783. 10 Not found. 11 According to Secretary Thomson’s journal, there were 35 members present for this vote. See JCC, 24:179. 12 Robert Morris’ March 8 letter, which has been described as “the response of the Superintendent of Finance to the funding plan that had been evolving in Congress since January,” has been analyzed at length in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:513-38. 13 Not identified.


[Page 818]
784 March 11, 1783 The peremptory style & publication of Mr. M’s letters 2 have (given offence to many without} 3 & {to some within Congress. His enemys of both} descriptions are (industrious in displaying their im}propriety. I wish (they had less handle for} the {purpose}. The plan before Congress for the arrangemt. of our affairs is to ask from the States a power to levy for a term not exceeding 25 years the 5 perCt. impost, with an additional impost on salt, wine, spirituous liquors, sugars & teas; to recommend to them to establish & appropri ate permanent revenues for a like term for the deficiency; the pro ceeds to be carried to their credit; the whole to be collected by per sons amenable to Congs, but appd. by the States; to complete the territorial cessions; to enable Congs, to make abatements in favor of suffering States; Congs, on their part declaring that all reasonable mil itary expences separately incurred by the States without their sanction either by sea or land shall be part of the common mass; and propos ing to the States a substitution of numbers in place of a valuation of land; Slaves to be equal to 1 free man. 4 The fate of this plan in Congs, is uncertain, & still more so among the States. It makes a decent provision for the public debts & seems to comprehend the most dangerous sources of future contests among ourselves. If the substance of it is rejected, and nothing better introduced in its place, I shall consider it as a melancholy proof that narrow & local views pre vail over that liberal policy & those mutual concessions which our future tranquility and present reputation call for. Mr. J son 5 is still here, agitaded as you may suppose with the sus pense in which he is kept. He is as anxious as myself for your going into the Legislature. Let me know your final determination on this point. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:326-27. 1 See ibid., p. 302. 2 That is, Robert Morris’s, for which see John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare, March 4, 1783, note 2. 3 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in a cipher supplied by Randolph. 4 See Madison’s Notes, March 6-7, 1783. 5 That is, Thomas Jefferson. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sr, Pha. March 11 th. 1783 It is not in our power to give you any intelligence. There are no less than 3 packets due at New York, Rivington says, for Novr., Deer. & Jany & we may add allmost another for Feby.


[Page 824]
790 Index Board of Associated Loyalists: dissolved, 377, 512; mentioned, 94 Bond, George, 525, 783 Booth, James, 406 Borden, William, 24, 358 Boston, Mass.: Boston Massacre orations, 271; mentioned, 80, 94, 100, 144 Boston Gazette, 481 Boudinot, Elias: letters from, 169, 220, 221, 233, 257, 284, 295, 313, 316, 324, 326, 335, 339, 354, 356, 378, 381, 402, 407, 409, 417, 425, 430, 447, 460, 470, 474, 475, 476, 477, 482, 498, 499, 506, 526, 533, 535, 556, 588, 590, 595, 597, 623, 635, 652, 664, 679, 688, 700, 724, 730, 735; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; portrait, xxvii, 338; health, 170; votes, 180, 192, 340; legal practice, 207, 355, 381, 680; recommends Elias Dayton, 257; on Vermont independence, 295-97; western land interests, 297; on fiscal policy, 298, 641; on Huddy-Lippincott affair, 319-20, 349-50; offers parental advice, 324-26; religious views, 325-26; elected president of Congress, 339-40, 343, 346-47, 350, 353, 364, 425; servants, 340; military pay committee, 352; makes domes tic arrangements, 354—55, 378-79, 409-10; slaves of, 378, 536; seeks secretary, 381; and congressional rules, 402; purchases presidential coach, 407; recommends Joel Barlow, 417; seeks arrest of British spy, 447; recommends Philip Schuyler, 495; presi dential conduct, 503; administers Caldwell orphan fund, 507, 590; on apportionment of quotas, 661; cipher letters, 679-80; on congressional rules, 713, 762; mentioned, 229, 352, 370, 650 Boudinot, Elisha: letters to, 381, 499; mentioned, 354, 409, 447, 598, 730 Boudinot, Hannah Stockton (Mrs. Elias): letters to, 170, 285, 339, 354, 378; ☆ letter quoted, 484; mentioned, 409, 447 Boudinot, Susan: identified, 326; letters to, 221, 324 Bouille, Franfois-Claude-Amour, marquis de, 405 Boundaries, as peace terms, 73, 114 Bourbon, Louis-Henri-Joseph, due de, 308 Bourbon (Continental frigate), 431 Bowdoin, James, 639 Bowen, Jabez: reelected deputy governor, 272; mentioned, 7, 173, 251, 331, 418, 729 Bowen, Dr. P., 391, 392 Boyer, Jacob, and Samuel Hodgdon inquiry, 438—40 Bradford, William: and Trenton trial, 399; mentioned, 326 Brantsen, Gerard, appointed Dutch plenipotentiary, 288 Brashira, Mr., 448 Brearly, David: letter to, 102; ☆ appointed Trenton trial judge, 51, 91, 103, 276, 399; and Trenton trial, 577 Breeze, John, 730 British army: strength, 216, 219-20, 225; frees prisoners, 433; mentioned, 128, 147. See also Carleton, Guy; Prisoners of war British navy: European operations, 150-51; prizes, 158, 167-68, 197-200, 522; provision ing, 326; casualties, 336; relieves Gibraltar, 472; blockades Chesapeake Bay, 674; men tioned, 88, 100, 128, 158, 316, 342, 347, 350, 353, 375, 394, 423. See also Digby, Robert; Hood, Samuel; Howe, Richard; Rodney, George Brodhead, Daniel, 753 Bromfield, Henry, 229 Brooks, John, mission to Congress, 522, 529, 538-39, 539, 544, 557, 571, 579-81 Brown, Mr., 381 Brown, Andrew, 26 Brown, James, 283, 331 Brown, Jesse, 89, 119, 206, 208, 235, 276, 363, 576, 753, 757, 759, 760, 761 Brown,John: letters to, 53, 138; mentioned, 7, 174, 251 Brown, Joseph, 56, 251 Brown, Moses, letters to, 23, 356


[Page 826]
792 Index Casualties. See British army, casualties; Continental Army, casualties Caswell, Richard, 66, 555 Cathalan, Etienne, 516 Catherine II, empress of Russia: mediation efforts, 114, 341, 350; mentioned, 160, 239, 288 Catholics, Roman, of Canada, 189 “Cato,” 777 Cattle, 14, 409 Cavalry, Continental, 132, 692 Ceylon, 79 Champagne, RogerJ., Alexander McDougall and the American Revolution in New York, 102 Champlin, Samuel, and Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 146 Channing, William, 56, 272 Charles I, king of England, 721 Charles III, king of Spain: mediation efforts, 113—14; mentioned, 334, 341 Charleston, S.C.: evacuation, 107, 121-23, 141-42, 148, 171, 174, 219, 221, 225, 231, 233, 286, 316, 323-24, 339, 345, 347, 350, 353, 370, 394, 396, 402, 406, 423-24, 429-30, 432, 448, 455, 469, 476-77, 480, 484, 490, 508, 514, 515, 531, 534, 536, 562-63, 568, 573, 583-86, 588-91, 612, 667; return of refugees sought, 142, 271; men tioned, 17, 23, 34, 36, 48, 53, 55, 64, 70, 74, 127, 228, 246, 247, 397 Chase, Benjamin: identified, 710; letter to, 709 Chastellux, Franfoisjean de Beauvoir, chevalier de, 436, 445, 516 Chesapeake Bay: French naval protection in, 494-95, 556; blockaded, 674 Chester County, Pa., and violation of Continental flags of truce, 600-602, 607-9 Chittenden, Thomas: letter to, 474; ☆ Jonathan Arnold correspondence, 623; rebuffs congressional compromise offer, 653, 655, 662, 682-83, 701, 769; mentioned, xxx, 471,477, 585, 590,658, 670 Chocolate, 470 Cipher letters: James Lovell cipher, 19, 81, 95, 239, 260, 351; Virginia cipher, 21, 59, 94, 123, 140, 157, 200, 238, 287, 322, 348, 420; Elias Boudinot cipher, 679—80; men tioned, 504, 559, 656, 674, 693, 705-6, 733, 763 Civil list: 1783 estimates, 22; pay increases urged, 371; reduction of diplomatic salaries proposed, 408; salaries criticized, 463-64; secretary’s office estimates, 525; requested by Connecticut delegates, 755; mentioned, 754 Claims. See Accounts Clark, Abraham: letters from, 156, 196, 211, 438, 448, 465, 478, 484; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; votes, 31, 180, 192; on Spanish alliance pro posal, 33; on half-pay plan, 39; committee of the week, 96; opposes Virginia’s land claims, 97; on diplomatic protocol, 106; appointed boundary commissioner, 157; defends Henry Laurens, 190; Oliver Pollock claims committee, 196; on retirement of paper currency, 211; and secrecy rule, 240; finance oversight committee, 371; land valuation committee, 405; supports Vermont independence, 428; charges Samuel Hodgdon with fraud, 438-40; criticizes Continental salaries, 440; opposes Vermont censure, 441; on secrecy rule, 461; opposes peace commissioners’ subordination to France, 518, 548; peace terms committee, 520; Robert Morris resignation committee, 763; mentioned, 30, 499 Clark, Daniel: and tobacco exports under Yorktown capitulation, 490, 678; mentioned, 95, 423, 424 Clark, George Rogers: and Simon Nathan claim, 659; mentioned, 35 Clark, Joseph, 272 Classical allusions and quotations, 57, 245, 306, 437, 705, 754, 770 Claypoole, David C., 241, 333 Clinton, George: letters to, 63, 77, 79, 149, 193, 195, 241, 245, 269, 298, 303, 327, 359, 379, 390, 395, 456, 466, 469, 470, 491, 509, 527, 577, 590, 664, 695, 701, 724, 768; mentioned, 72, 317, 345, 385, 683, 771


[Page 827]
Index 793 Clinton, Henry, 296 Clinton, James, promotion, 258, 456 Clonard, Monsr. de, 515 Cloth, price, 317, 432 Clothing: imported, 160, 178, 261; prisoners, 601; mentioned, 198, 424, 446 Clymer, George: attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; votes, 31, 46, 180, 192, 340; Joseph Trumbull’s accounts committee, 186, 605; nominated secretary for foreign affairs, 495, 504; mentioned, 184 Coaches, price, 407 Cochineal, 287 Cochran, Mr., 514, 515 Cocoanuts, 287 Coddington, Francis, 535 Coffee, 287, 490, 642 Cohen, Jacob, 124, 141, 158, 202 Cohen, Sheldon S., ‘The Parnassus Articles,” 687 College of New Jersey, commencement, 174 Collins, John: letters from, 534, 657; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv, 491; elected to congress, xxiv, 272; votes, 481; on apportionment of quotas, 661; on half-pay plan, 732; men tioned, 560, 562 Collins, Stephen, letter to, 671 Commerce. Sw Trade Commissary general’s department: Samuel Hodgdon fraud investigation, 438-40; seeks debt protection for commissary of purchases, 489 Committee of Congress (finance oversight), confers with Robert Morris, 371 Committee of Congress (on Bible publication): letter from, 118; recommends Aitken Bible, 118 Committee of the week, 96 “Common Sense” (Thomas Paine), 126 Condict, Silas: attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; votes, 31, 46, 180, 192; committee on army petition, 539; mentioned, 298 Confederation, Articles of: quota apportionment amendment recommended, 18; admission of states under, 98-99; taxation under, 120; revision recommended, 150, 161, 174-75, 577-78; conflicts of interest under, 210, 269; requisitions under, 252, 264, 282-83, 291, 404, 406, 413-16, 569, 578, 581-83, 656, 661-63, 683, 695, 699, 720, 724, 768, 776; lauded, 328; territorial jurisdiction under, 332, 348; fiscal authority under, 451; judicial authority under, 489; freedom of communication under, 492; publication of congressional proceedings under, 533; limits of congressional author ity under, 719; congressional debts under, 732; mentioned, 330, 612, 633, 737 Congress: chronology of, xii; debates adjutant general’s regulations, 3; debates John Temple’s loyalty, 3-4; debates John Jay’s instructions, 4-5, 32, 39; debates western land cessions, 6-7; debates capture of Bermuda, 29-30; debates military retrench ment, 39; debates peace instructions, 40—46, 68—69, 114—16, 518—20, 523—24, 548; debates peace overtures, 57; debates prisoner exchange, 57-58, 120; publishes peace overtures, 62; rescinds battle of Camden inquiry, 66, 90; delays hearings on western cessions, 66-67; authorizes clothing Oneida Indians, 72; votes troops for southern defense, 75; orders relief for returned prisoners, 87; and Huddy-Lippincott affair, 92, 248-50, 322; debates Kentucky petition, 96, 123; commissions Trenton trial judges, 102—3; debates diplomatic protocol, 105—6; devalues Continental dollar, 114; recom mends American edition of the Bible, 118; debates suspension of loan office interest payments, 134—35; presents America to France, 140, 144—45; countermands withdrawal of southern troops, 142-43, 172; strengthening of recommended, 143, 150, 161, 174-75, 540, 577-78; suspends loan office interest payments, 144; sets fiscal quotas, 149, 208-9, 279, 282-83, 286, 288, 310; ratifies Dutch loan, 157; debates Henry I-an iens’ resignation, 159, 179—80; investigates Oliver Pollock s claims, 196, 334, rejects


[Page 828]
794 Index Henry Laurens’ resignation, 217; reaffirms Franco-American alliance, 218, 239; opposes state payment of Continental troops, 230, 241; orders destruction of Conti nental bills, 235; secrecy rule violations, 239; procrastination criticized, 248; requests decision on Continental impost, 252-54, 262, 273; accepts New York land cession, 255, 327, 332, 336-37, 357, 359; orders Alexander Gillon inquiry, 261; investigates breach of secrecy rule, 268, 482, 491-93, 546, 560-62; authorizes withdrawal of Wyoming garrison, 276; authorizes foreign loans, 289-90; delays Vermont debate, 296, 379; seeks pacification of Vermont, 303-6; pardons Charles Asgill, 319-20, 349-50, 361-62, 365, 368-69, 377; orders suppression of trade with the enemy, 326, 333; debates Rhode Island resistance to Continental impost, 329-30; investigates Joseph Trumbull’s accounts, 333; elects Elias Boudinot president, 339-40, 343, 346-47, 350; debates Vermont independence, 342, 349, 382, 384-90, 395-96; autho rizes partial prisoner exchange, 346; debates discretionary powers of executive departments, 374-75; rules, 402, 646, 655, 660, 713, 762; debates apportionment of quotas, 404, 413-16, 569, 581-83, 654, 661-64, 668, 672, 697-98, 724-29, 739-42; debates public creditor demands, 404, 413, 450-52, 461, 472-73, 609, 618-21, 624-30, 640-45, 647-50; debates Cornwallis-Laurens exchange, 411, 417-18, 421-22; debates retirement of old emissions, 418, 466-67, 503; orders arrest of Vermont spies, 426-28; acquits commissary Samuel Hodgdon, 440; debates Vermont censure, 441, 457-58; reassigns John Paul Jones, 450; censures Vermont, 458, 465, 468-69, 474, 476; debates extending franking privilege, 460; urges Rhode Island ratification of impost amendment, 462, 467-69, 472-75, 485, 549-50, 557-58; adopts prisoner work release program, 479; quarters French troops, 482; debates appeals in cases of cap ture on land, 488, 497, 502; debates quota reductions, 493; debates Marbois’ opposi tion to U.S. fisheries claims, 501-2; suspends deputation to Rhode Island, 502, 504, 510, 540; adopts Savannah capitulation convention, 521; commends Rochambeau, 526-27; receives army petition, 538; debates consular convention, 538-39; discontinu ity of policies criticized, 539; confers with army deputation, 556-57, 571, 579-81; debates shortfall in foreign funds, 570; debates army grievances, 579-81,595, 610-16; censures David Howell, 588; authorizes impressment of French seamen from Ameri can ships, 596; debates Dutch treaty, 599, 640; and state violation of Continental flags of truce, 600-602, 607-9, 691-92, 718; ratifies Dutch treaty, 603, 610, 632, 634, 658, 664; rejects proposal for congressional library, 603-4; sets scale of depreciation, 604-6; debates Robert Morris’ resignation, 609-10, 761-62; adopts army pay propos als, 615-16, 636, 657, 665; restores postal service to Georgia, 633; responds to public creditor demands, 652; debates half-pay plan, 653-54, 748-51; debates Continental impost revision, 685, 691, 702-4, 711-13, 717-18; adopts land valuation plan, 697-98, 706, 709, 715; rejects holding closed debates, 704, 711; suspends Jefferson’s diplo matic mission, 707; debates funding proposals, 715, 717-18, 720-23, 733, 749-50, 774-76, 782-84; exhorts states to maintain representation, 724; delays decision on 1783 military plans, 735. See also Accounts; Committees of Congress; Journals of Congress Congress, president of. See Boudinot, Elias; Hanson, John; President of Congress Congress, secretary of. See Thomson, Charles Congress (French ship), 514 Conklin, Josiah, 354 Connecticut: boundary dispute with Pennsylvania, 51, 91, 103, 206; Continental officers seek half pay, 51, 129, 595; fiscal quota, 149, 236, 280, 415, 775; state impost pro posed, 175; cession of western claims, 236, 576; and Trenton trial, 277-79, 443; condi tions of western cession reconsidered, 336-37; and import duties, 644; and apportion ment of quotas, 740, 772; loan office debt, 742; Continental accounts, 764. See also Trumbull, Jonathan, Sr. Connecticut Assembly, reaffirms Franco-American alliance, 363 Connecticut Courant, 511, 687 Connecticut delegates: letters from, 51,235; request civil list, 755


[Page 829]
Index 795 The Constitutions of the Several Independent States of America, 669 Consular convention, negotiated with France, 538-39 Continental Army: strength, 15-16, 133, 433; New Hampshire troops, 17, 566, 572; retrenchment proposed, 39, 51, 161; casualties, 58; redeployed, 141, 145, 147-48; for eign officers, 170, 526, 691; New Jersey troops, 212; state payment of proposed, 212, 283, 403; pay and allowances, 214-15, 479; state payment of opposed, 230, 241; discon tent, 288, 352, 689-90, 693, 719, 733, 746, 753, 763; rations contracts, 315, 322, 346, 494, 496; winter quarters, 337, 341, 347, 350, 353, 360, 397; North Carolina troop defi ciency, 366-67; clothing shortage, 424; arms and ammunition, 445; recruitment, 486, 566-67, 572; and recaptures on land, 488, 496-97, 502; mission to Congress, 522, 529, 538-39, 544, 556-57, 571, 573, 579-81, 600, 610, 613; reorganization postponed, 529, 535; pay proposals adopted, 615-16, 636, 655, 657; land grants for recommended, 695. See also Adjutant general’s department; Commisary general’s department; Continental officers; Judge advocate general’s department; Prisoners of war; Quartermaster gen eral’s department; Southern military department; Washington, George Continental loan office; suspension of certificate interest, 137-38, 144, 208; appoint ments to separated from Continental receivers, 155, 226; Maryland redemption plan, 467; certificate debt, 742 Continental Navy: pay and allowances, 9; build-up advocated, 26, 53; rules and regula tions, 79; seniority disputes, 80; captures prizes, 483, 490 Continental officers: seek half pay, 7, 51, 129-33, 212, 453, 544, 595, 616, 653-54, 731-32, 747-51, 754; pay and allowances, 9, 15-16, 70; supernumeraries, 39, 366-67, 535, 596; brigadier promotions, 258, 556; pay arrearages, 299, 479; promotion plan, 449-50; pay grievances, 452-53, 613-14; seniority disputes, 478; promotion policy, 484, 506; send deputation to Congress, 522, 529, 538-39, 544, 549, 556-57, 568; reduction of, 568; disability grants, 671 Conway Cabal, 57 Cook, John, letters to, 306, 406, 497, 535, 549, 664, 724 Cooke, Joseph, death, 269 Cooper, Joseph: identified, 156; letter to, 156; ☆ appointed boundary commissioner, 157 Cooper, W. B., xxix Coor, James, 555 Copyright: Continental protection sought, 646—47, 687, 716; and Connecticut law, 647 Cordoba, Luis de, 242, 303 Corn: dearth of, 53, 88, 90, 92, 271; mentioned, 14, 126, 290 Cornell, Ezekiel: letter from, 80; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv; elected to Congress, xxiv, 272; on adjutant general’s allowances, 3; votes, 31, 46; committee on army retrench ment, 40; on half-pay plan, 53; Camden inquiry committee, 66; recommends Silas Talbot, 80; seeks Rhode Island quota reduction, 138; appointed inspector of Conti nental contracts, 139, 272; returns home, 174, 232; conflict of interest charged, 210-11, 215, 269, 337; defended by congressional colleagues, 215; denounced for opposing half pay, 306; supports baron Steuben, 330; mentioned, xxvii, xxx, 9, 255, 328, 343, 358 Cornwall, Charles Wolfran, 185 Cornwallis, Charles, 2d earl of: exchange proposed, 37, 57-58, 120; released, 49, 170, 293; and Isaac Hayne execution, 248; ratification of exchange debated, 411-12, 417-18, 421-22; mentioned, 66, 105, 192, 231, 341, 350 Coromandel Coast, 79 Cosand, Job, 598 “A Countryman,” opposes Continental impost, 393 Court of appeals: Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 89, 146, 205, 221—22, 328, 681, 708, 757; judges appointed, 229, 457, 460, 468, 477; vacancies unfilled, 405; judges nominated, 454; mentioned, 55, 360, 416 Covenhoven,John: identified, 313; letter to, 313; mentioned, 298 Cox, John, 559, 680


[Page 838]
804 Index 588; upheld by Rhode Island Assembly, 588; mentioned, xxx, 190, 232, 377, 408, 485, 657’ Howell, Richard: identified, 169; letter to, 169; ☆ declines judge advocate appointment, 169 Huddy, Joshua: execution, 92, 248, 361; mentioned, 365, 369 Huddy-Lippincott affair: investigated by Congress, 248—50; mentioned, 92, 94, 319-20, 322, 349-50, 357, 361-62, 365, 368-69, 372, 377 Hudson, Barzillai, 511 Hudson’s Bay Company, posts captured, 471-72, 495 Huger, Isaac, on General Gates’ conduct at Camden, 65 Hunt, Mr., 326, 382 Hunt, Gaillard, 74, 418 Hunt, John, 108 Hunter, James: letters to, 256, 766; ☆ tobacco sales, 256-57; mentioned, 48 Huntington, Anne (Mrs. Benjamin): identified, 19; letter to, 18 Huntington, Benjamin: letters from, 18, 51, 235; ☆ attends Congress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii; votes, 31, 46, 180, 192, 340; committee of the week, 96; returns home, 237, 328, 364; mentioned, 38, 207, 279, 363 Huntington, Enoch, 508 Huntington, Samuel, elected to Congress, xviii Hutson, Richard, 275 Hyder Ali, 498, 500, 504, 505, 507 Illinois country, 35 Imports. SeeTrade Impost, Continental: revenue estimated, 54; Rhode Island opposition to, 158, 243-45, 246, 251-54, 268, 329-30, 559-62; collectors recommended, 235; Rhode Island deci sion on requested, 251-54, 262-65, 273; rejected by Rhode Island, 391-93, 396, 399, 406 422 487, 560, 587; Rhode Island reconsideration urged, 462, 467-69, 472-75, 485^ 494; Virginia ratification repealed, 502, 504, 513, 521, 524, 540, 635, 656; yields estimated, 642; revision debated, 679, 685, 691, 702-4, 711-13, 717-18; mentioned, 5, 6, 91, 147, 150, 155, 168, 236, 237, 343, 345, 357, 450, 461, 565, 567, 599, 706, 733, 745, 749, 752, 774, 782 Independent Gazetteer, 241, 761, 768 India, 498, 500, 504, 505, 507 Indian affairs, middle department, 152 Indian affairs, southern department, 94, 152 Indians: deed land to Susquehannah Company, 206, 278; Canadian, 216, 219-20, 225, pacific disposition reported, 228, 276; British use of disavowed, 259, 267, mentioned, 217, 292, 380, 387. See also Creek Indians; Delaware Indians; Miami Indians; Oneida Indians; Seneca Indians; Six Nations Indigo: price, 317, 432; mentioned, 287 Inflation. See Paper currency Ingersoll, Jared, and Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 89 Ink, 525 Intercepted letters, 82 Interest: on loan office certificates suspended, 134-38, 144, 157, 208; on bills of exchange, 154; on foreign loans, 157, 273, 290, 307, 345; and state payment of on Continental certificates, 652; mentioned, 657, 680 Interstate relations: Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 51, 91, 103; Delaware- New Jersey boundary dispute, 156; New Jersey-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 156; Pennsylvania-Virginia boundary dispute, 618, 632. See also Confederation, Articles of, Lands, western; Trenton trial; Vermont Intrepide (French ship), 514 Iredell, James: letters to, 437, 564, 698; Smith’s Academy trustee, 698-99 Ireland, 148, 163, 173


[Page 840]
806 Index 192, 704; supports motion to investigate Henry Laurens, 183, 188, 201; delegate expenses, 220, 786; declines Trenton trial appointment, 276, 399; on land valuation, 405; opposes Virginia repeal of impost ratification, 521, 524; on half-pay plan, 655; on fiscal policy, 744-46; advises Washington on army discontent, 746; on Vermont inde pendence, 747; mentioned, 20, 200, 409, 521, 522, 632, 656, 686, 696 Jones, Noble Wimberly: attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; votes, 31, 47, 182, 192; opposes presentation of America to France, 140; defends Henry Laurens, 184 Jordan, John, and Samuel Hodgdon inquiry, 439 Joseph II, Austrian emperor: mediation efforts, 113-14, 341,350; mentioned, 704 Journals of Congress: printed, 145, 235, 310, 333, 370, 549, 601; secret journals, 533; mentioned, 99, 341, 663 Judd, William, and Connecticut officers’ petition, 595 Judge advocate general’s department: Richard Howell appointed judge advocate, 169; mentioned, 40 Kalb, Johann baron de, 66 Kempenfelt, Richard, death, 336 Kentucky: settlers petition Congress, 96, 123, 125, 398; prisoners released, 420, 424; mentioned, 382 Knowlton, Luke: corresponding with the enemy charged, 417, 426-27; arrest sought, 617, 623, 636, 670-71,765 Knox, Henry: letters to, 163, 452; and army discontent, 690, 719, 763 Kollock, Simon, letter to, 306 Kosciuszko, Thaddeus, 497 Lafayette, Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, marquis de: letter quoted, 537; mentioned, 213, 218, 238, 311, 412, 421, 422, 495, 496, 503 Lafaytte (French transport), 178 La Luzerne, Anne-Cesar, chevalier de: letters to, 64, 482; ☆ confers on Bermuda expe dition, 29-30; on Massachusetts’ prosecution of French seamen, 37; confers with Congress, 115, 202; receives America from Congress, 140, 144-45; reports peace pre liminaries, 239; urges curbing trade with the enemy, 326, 333; congressional com mendation, 532; thanks North Carolina assembly, 617; and transportation for Jeffer son, 696-97; mentioned, 76, 121, 158, 170, 200, 204, 218, 259, 261, 283, 363, 409, 446, 494, 497, 519, 521, 523, 527, 556, 623, 692, 705, 710 Lands, western; as revenue source, 6-7, 125, 290-91, 337, 345, 359, 413, 451, 641; Vir ginia cession, 60, 261; hearings on state cessions delayed, 66-67; Virginia claims, 84, 277; Virginia’s Kentucky claims challenged, 96-99; curbs on purchase of Indian lands proposed, 128—29; cession of state claims, 140, 210, 234, 236, 254, 292, 310, 343, 576; New York cession, 246; Connecticut claims, 277; Pennsylvania claims, 278; New York cession accepted, 327, 332, 336-37, 348, 352, 357, 359, 456; state cessions free of con ditions urged, 336; independence movement reported, 380, 391, 394, 397; small state—large state conflict over, 383—85, 400—401; New York claims, 386; Laurel Hill separatists petition Congress, 618, 632; mentioned, 27, 35, 73, 245, 552 Langdon, John; letter to, 148; mentioned, 223 Langdon, Woodbury, elected to Congress, xxi Laperouse, Jean Francois de Galaup, comte de, captures Hudson’s Bay posts, 471-72 Latima, Charlotte, British spy, 447 La Touche-Treville, Louis-Rene-Madeleine Le Vassor, comte de, 167, 197, 201 Laurence, John, letter to, 480 Laurens, Henry: elected to Congress, xxiv; exchange proposed, 37, 57-58, 120; released, 49, 170; appointed peace commissioner, 110; relations with John Adams, 151-53, 176; declines peace commission, 152, 201; dispatches received, 159; resigna tion debated, 159, 179-80; treatment as prisoner, 176, 182-91; investigation of pro-


[Page 841]
Index 807 posed, 178-80, 182-92, 201; exchanged, 293; plans return to America, 341, 343, 350, 352; ratification of exchange debated, 411-12, 417-18, 421-22; accused of pro-British bias, 638; mentioned, xxx, 36, 55, 59, 216, 231, 243, 374, 397, 519, 543, 684, 767 Laurens, John: death, 217, 221,225, 227, 231, 242-43, 397; mission to France, 261; men tioned, 182, 418 Lauzun, Armand-Louis de Gontaut, due de, 170, 691 Law, Richard, elected to Congress, xviii Lawrence, John, 588, 647, 651 Lead, Virginia mines, 446 Lee, Mr., 677 Lee, Arthur: letters from, 25, 34, 35, 50, 61, 86, 109, 124, 145, 168, 204, 216, 219, 230, 634, 638, 639, 659, 678, 691, 707, 710, 764, 767, 786; ☆ attends Congress, xxv, 632; elected to Congress, xxv; on adjutant general’s allowances, 3; supports John Temple, 3; anti-Gallican views, 5, 25, 35-36, 41-42, 110, 218, 523; finance oversight committee, 25, 371; criticizes Benjamin Franklin, 26, 110, 216-17, 239, 640; on Franco-American alliance, 30; votes, 31, 46, 180, 192, 704, 713, 739; on Spanish alliance proposal, 32—33; on peace commissioners’ instructions, 40-42; prisoner exchange committee, 58; Camden inquiry committee, 66; on Virginia’s land claims, 73, 84-85; opposes Kentucky petition, 96, 123; diplomatic protocol committee, 106; returns home, 159, 218, 239; foreign dispatches committee, 171; disparages John Almon, 178, 183; defends Henry Laurens, 184, 191; delegate expenses, 220, 786; seeks advance on Con tinental account, 230-31; lampooned by Arthur Middleton, 240; diplomatic compen sation, 408; currency committee, 467; on Continental impost, 599, 656, 685; on fiscal policy, 609, 625, 630, 643, 645, 711-12, 718; accused of pro-British bias, 638; on half pay plan, 653; recommends Thomas Wiggans, 654; Vermont committee, 655; on apportionment of quotas, 662, 668, 739; and exports under Yorktown capitulation, 668; committee on truce flag violations, 691; on Continental coercion of states, 692; compensation from Massachusetts, 710; on states’ rights, 721-22, 734; denounces loy alist depredations, 738-39; quota abatements committee, 739; criticizes Robert Mor ris, 761-62, 767-68; and “Lucius” essays, 762, 768; mentioned, xxviii, 12, 81, 230, 237, 261,323, 558, 631,650 Lee, Charles: death, 217, 232, 240; mentioned, 476 Lee, Ludwell, 230 Lee, Richard Henry: accused of pro-British bias, 638; mentioned, 639 Lee, Thomas Sim: letter from, 784; letters to, 22, 79, 93, 121, 151, 196, 197, 198, 215, 230, 235, 237, 258, 285, 342; ☆ attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; recom mends Thomas Stone, 235; delegate expenses, 785; mentioned, 665 Lee, William: letter to, 639; seeks Austrian trade treaty, 704 Legal tender, 177 L’Eglise, Dominique, 47 L’Emeraude (French frigate), 436 Lennox, Charles, 3d duke of Richmond, 151 Leslie, Alexander, 121,221 Letombe, Philippe-Andrejoseph de: protests Massachusetts’ prosecution of French sea men, 37—38; mentioned, 260 A letter Addressed to the Abbe Raynal (Thomas Paine), 108 Lewis, Mr., 355, 598 Lewis, Jacob, 680 Lewis, Mordecai, 781 Lewis, William, and Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 221,708 L’Hommedieu, Ezra: letters from, 149, 195, 226, 245, 247, 269, 303, 315, 344, 359, 373, 379, 395; letter to, 682; ☆ attends Congress, xxii, 72, 154; elected to Congress, xxii, 72; votes, 180, 192, 341; recommends Abraham Yates, 226; lodgings, 234; land specu lation, 247, 344; opposes Vermont independence, 303—4, 359, 379; on fiscal policy, 345; and Huddy-Lippincott affair, 358; leave of absence, 469; mentioned, 78, 193, 241,298, 456, 591,702


[Page 844]
810 Index in congressional policy, 539; on apportionment of quotas, 569, 582—83, 661—63, 672, 698; confers with Robert Morris, 570, 649; urges solicitation of foreign loans, 578; army grievances committee, 581; on secrecy rule, 594; congressional library commit tee, 603-4; drafts book list for congressional library, 604; and state violation of Conti nental flags of truce, 608; explains inaccuracies in Dutch treaty, 640; on fisheries claims, 646; admiralty court committee, 653; on half-pay plan, 653—55, 732, 749; rec ommends John Dunlap, 673; criticizes John Adams, 674; on Continental coercion of states, 692; on holding closed debates, 704; on army pay proposals, 718-19; public credit committee, 722, 749, 752, 774; on states’ rights, 723; on abatement of Conti nental quotas, 739—42, 772-73; mentioned, 237, 371, 373, 409, 777 Madison, James, Sr., letters to, 528, 686 Magaw, Robert, letters to, 512, 677, 693 Magnifique (French ship), 142 Mail. See Intercepted letters; Post Office Malcom, William, 481 Mallett & Jewkes, 511, 517, 553 Manning, James, 274, 283, 331 Mantz, Mr., 126 Marbois. See Barbe-Marbois, Francois, marquis de Marchant, Henry: nominated to court of appeals, 454, 457; mentioned, 55, 56 Margaretta (H.M.S.), 60 Marine agent. Ser Agent of Marine Marine department: 1783 estimates, 22; and prisoner rations, 104; mentioned, 80 Marion, Francis, on General Gates’ conduct at Camden, 65 Marsden, Mr., 589, 731 Marshall, Christopher, 174 Martin, Alexander, letters to, 13, 76, 120, 152, 289, 313, 366, 397, 617, 633, 664, 724, 780 Maryland: adopts naval regulations, 79; census, 121; threatens to repeal Continental impost, 245; adopts Continental impost, 253; fiscal quota, 416, 775; seeks French naval protection, 495; taxation, 642; unrepresented, 724; and apportionment of quo tas, 741, 772; loan office debt, 742. See also Lee, Thomas Sim; Paca, William Maryland Assembly: redeems loan office certificates, 467 Maryland delegates: letters from, 758, 784; assert obligation of states to cede western claims, 401 Massachusetts: prosecutes French seamen, 37; seeks credit for retirement of old emis sions, 101, 176, 211, 298, 305, 313-14, 418-19, 442, 494, 568, 676; opposes half-pay plan, 130-34; unrepresented, 341, 350, 353; and Vermont controversy, 351; western land interests, 383-88, 400-401; opposes admission of new states, 384; fiscal quota, 415, 775; Continental officers, 452; taxation, 642; compensates Arthur Lee, 710; com plains of disproportionate Continental contributions, 737—38; loyalists, 738; and apportionment of quotas, 740, 772; loan office debt, 742. See also Hancock, John Massachusetts Assembly, letter to, 659 Massachusetts delegates: letters from, 37, 676; on fisheries’ claims, 73 Mathews, John: letters to, 143, 167, 664; ☆ requests troops for South Carolina, 74-75; mentioned, 141, 172, 430, 448 Maxwell, Francis, seeks settlement of prisoner accounts, 107 Mehelm, John, letter to, 211 Melons, 536 Mercer, James, 665, 667 Mercer, John Francis: letters from, 678, 707, 764, 785, 786; ☆ attends Congress, xxv, 632, 661, 675; elected to Congress, xxv; denounces Arthur Lee, 638; on apportion ment of quotas, 661, 663-64, 672, 698; and exports under Yorktown capitulation, 667; on Continental impost, 685, 706, 733; committee on truce flag violation, 692; on Con tinental coercion of states, 692; on fiscal policy, 702-3, 712, 717-18, 720, 763; votes,


[Page 845]
Index 811 704, 713, 739; on state violation of Continental flags of truce, 718; on states’ rights, 722, 734; on half-pay plan, 748-49; delegate expenses, 786; mentioned, 432 M'Fingal (John Trumbull): publication of, 335, 785; mentioned, 368, 565, 646 Miami Indians, neutrality of, 655 Middleton, Arthur: letters from, 74, 143, 163, 167; letter to, 92; draft memorandum, 203; draft resolve, 214; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv; elected to Congress, xxiv; votes, 31, 47, 182, 192; requests troops for South Carolina, 74-75; defends Henry Laurens, 179; Vermont committee, 193, 270; reaffirms Franco-American alliance, 203-4; returns home, 204; proposes pay raise for southern troops, 214; lampoons Arthur Lee, 240; supports Vermont independence, 246; mentioned, 60 Middletown, Conn., 508 Mifflin, Samuel, and Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 146 Mifflin, Thomas: attends Congress, xxiii, 423; elected to Congress, xxiii, 430; Rhode Island deputation, 462, 467—69, 472—75, 480, 494, 510, 540; congressional library committee, 603-4; and Joseph Trumbull's accounts, 605; on Continental impost, 685; mentioned, 607, 755 Militia: North Carolina, 152; Pennsylvania, 152 Miller, Nathan: letter to, 57; mentioned, 272 Miller, Samuel, 535 Mill Prison, 87, 100 Minor, Mr., 256 Miro, Estevan: letter to, 334; urges settlement of Oliver Pollock accounts, 334 Mississippi River: navigation of, 21, 114, 239; mentioned, 35 Money. See Paper currency Monroe, James, 383, 656, 766 Montesquieu, Charles-Louis de Secondat, baron de La Brede et de, 170 Montgomery, Capt., 494 Montgomery, John: letters from, 512, 677, 693; letter to, 429; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii, 430; promotes Dickinson College, 677 Montgomery, Joseph: attends congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; on adjutant general’s allowances, 3; on Vermont controversy, 20, 77-78; votes, 31, 180, 192; com mittee on John Jay’s instructions, 32; on half-pay plan, 39; peace terms committee, 73, 86; western lands committee, 129; Vermont committee, 193; ambivalence on Ver mont independence, 246; military arrangements committee, 367; Cornwallis exchange committee, 411; Samuel Hodgdon inquiry committee, 439-40; confers with congressional committee, 450-52; and state violation of Continental flags of truce, 608; mentioned, 678 Mood, Fulmer, “The Continental Congress and the Plan for a Library of Congress in 1782-83,” 604 Moore, Capt., 535 Moore, William, 596 Moravian Indians, massacre of, 357 Morgan, Edmund S., The Gentle Puritan: A Life of Ezra Stiles, 1727-1795, 688 Morgan, George, 35, 380 Morrill, James R., The Practice and Politics of Fiat Finance, 315 Morris, Gouverneur, 779 Morris, Robert: letters to, 196, 230, 370, 371, 407, 684; ☆ funding proposals, 21-22, 301, 782; estimates impost revenue, 54; opposes state plan to retire old emissions, 101, 181; and Bank of North America, 104; appoints inspector of Continental contracts, 139, 269; proposes presentation of America to France, 141-42; appoints Continental receiver, 154, 196, 226-27; investigates Alexander Gillon, 178; investigates Oliver Pol lock claims, 196; opposes state payment of Continental troops, 212, 230, 403; and pay of southern troops, 215; celebrates Dutch recognition of U.S. independence, 227; rejects advance on Arthur Lee’s account, 231; recommends Thomas Stone, 235; instructs accounts commissioners, 279, 536; negotiates rations contracts, 315, 322,


[Page 846]
812 Index 494, 496; and Oliver Pollock accounts, 336; and finance oversight committee, 371; on retirement of old emissions, 418, 442; recommends in kind quota payments, 420, 424; and Samuel Hodgdon inquiry, 439; instructs Thomas Barclay, 472; opposes state pay ment of Continental creditors, 472; and tobacco exports under Yorktown capitula tion, 490; urges sending deputation to Rhode Island, 540; confers with army deputa tion, 556-57; announces shortfall in foreign funds, 569-70; nominates commissioners of accounts, 572, 589, 680, 716, 764; confers with Continental receiver, 592; resigna tion threat, 609-10, 630, 729, 740, 748, 753, 756, 761-62, 765-68, 784; army pay pro posals, 611, 615, 636; 1783 revenue estimates, 646; estimates Pennsylvania debt, 648; confers with Congress, 649; reports Continental loan office debt, 743; civil list report, 755; mentioned, 21, 25, 27, 80, 95, 111, 143, 144, 157, 170, 194, 205, 255, 284, 302, 310, 320, 329, 356, 375, 393, 431, 446, 448, 455, 462, 537, 538, 539, 599, 602, 668, 686, 692, 696, 700, 714, 730, 759, 778, 779 Morris’s notes, 207, 209, 492, 767 Morse, Charles, death, 370 Morton, Mr., 355, 501, 598, 680 Mosely, Mr., 587 Moultrie, William, promotion, 258 Mowry, Daniel, accuses William Ellery, 56-57 Muhlenberg, Frederick A., letter to, 652 Mumford, Paul, 272 Mumford, Thomas, 208 Murrimitism, in New Hampshire, 455 Muse, Battaile: identified, 317; letters to, 316, 431, 665 Muse, George, 317 Nantes, Fr., 241 Nash, Abner: letters from, 512, 564; letters to, 534, 781; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii, 368; elected to Congress, xxiii; nominated president of Congress, 341, 350; votes, 341; land valuation committee, 404, 534; Rhode Island deputation, 462, 467—69, 472-75, 480, 494, 502, 510, 540; delegate expenses, 511-12, 517; committee on army petition, 539; on foreign affairs, 564-65; returns home, 566; and Joseph Trumbull’s accounts, 606; mentioned, 397, 503, 697 Nathan, Simon: claims against Virginia, 295, 597, 634, 659, 764; mentioned, 436, 678 Naturalization: in Massachusetts, 532, 640; mentioned, 94 Navy. See British navy; Continental Navy; Dutch navy; French navy Negroes. See Slaves Nelson, Thomas: letter to, 102; ☆ appointed Trenton trial judge, 91, 103, 206, 277; declines Trenton trial appointment, 399; mentioned, 256 Netherlands, United Provinces of the: acknowledges U.S. independence, 20, 27, 90, 163, 167-68, 198, 227, 293, 307; receives John Adams, 152; treaty with U.S., 158, 268, 495, 498-500, 503, 505, 507, 599, 603, 610, 632, 634, 658, 664; and separate peace overtures, 160, 173; commercial treaty proposed, 268; appoints plenipotentiary, 286, 288; seeks U.S. trade, 286-87; inaccuracies in U.S. trade treaty debated, 640; eco nomic health of, 724; mentioned, 56, 68, 149, 151, 157, 160, 236, 273, 279, 281, 372, 767, 780 New Bern, N.C., 555, 633 New Hampshire: opposes Vermont independence, 14; Continental troops, 17; unrepre sented, 147, 162, J91, 223-24, 234; privateer commissions, 171, 223; fiscal quota, 210, 318, 415, 775; seeks credit for retirement of old emissions, 211, 418—19, 442; Conti nental officers, 299, 479; seeks settlement of Continental accounts, 299-301; and Ver mont claims, 388-89, 593; recruitment, 486; troop quotas, 566-67, 572; and appor tionment of quotas, 740, 771-72; loan office debt, 742. See also Weare, Meshech New Hampshire delegates: letter from, 479; request instructions on Vermont contro versy, 402—3, 480


[Page 852]
818 Index Howell, 588; opposes half pay, 658 Rhode Island College: reopened, 274; mentioned, 331 Rhode Island delegates: letters from, 254, 262, 282, 467, 657; ☆ oppose use of Conti nental receivers, 282-83; oppose Vermont censure, 457, 468; oppose deputation to Rhode Island, 467 Rice, 14, 287 Rich, Edwin H., The History of Hudson’s Bay Company, 1670—1870, 471 Richey, Mr., 284 Richmond, 3d duke of (Charles Lennox), 151 Richmond, Va., establishment of press at, 673 Ridley, Matthew, 523 Risk, Mr., 355 Rivington, James, 49, 83, 321, 372, 483, 597, 784 Robertson, Mr., 169, 536, 589 Robinson, Ephraim, 87 Rochambeau, Jean Baptiste-Donatien de Vimeur, comte de: letter to, 526; ☆ redeploys French troops, 123, 551; announces French troop withdrawal, 496; congressional commendation, 526-27; mentioned, 34, 370, 436, 445, 504, 516, 785 Rockingham, 2d marquis of (Charles Watson-Wentworth): death, 167, 173, 197, 208, 286, 433, 573; mentioned, 372, 432 Rodney, Caesar, elected to Congress, xix Rodney, George, 27, 79, 113, 167, 173, 233, 274 Romaine, Dr., 340, 379 Romans (NewTestament), quoted, 267 Romulus (French frigate), 436, 674, 692 Roosevelt, Mr., 396 Root, Jesse: letters from, 38, 51; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; votes, 31, 46; on Spanish alliance proposal, 33; on troop quotas, 39; on peace commis sioners’ instructions, 40; returns home, 89, 146; and Trenton trial, 399, 576; men tioned, 207, 208 Roper, Mr., 431 Rosenthal, Albert, xxx Rosenthal, Max, xxvii, xxx Ross, David, 82, 83, 93, 124 Roswell, Henry, 384 Rowan, David, 677 Royal George (H.M.S.), 336, 347 Royal Society, 616 Rum: price, 209; mentioned, 90, 490, 752, 774 Rush, Benjamin, 597, 633, 761, 777 Rush, Jacob, confers with congressional committee, 450-52 Russell, John R., 638 Russell, Thomas, 80 Russia, trade needs, 287. See also Catherine II Rutgers, Anthony, 242 Rutland, Thomas, 93 Rutledge, Edward, letter to, 163 Rutledge, John: letters from, 65, 74, 171, 534, 612; ir attends Congress, xxiv; elected to Congress, xxiv; on John Jay’s instructions, 4; votes, 31, 47, 182, 192, 341; committee on John Jay’s instructions, 32; on Spanish alliance proposal, 33-34; debates John Jay’s instructions, 39; on peace commissioners’ instructions, 41, 45; committee on peace terms, 47; appointed Trenton trial judge, 51; opposes Cornwallis’ exchange, 58; pris oner exchange committee, 58; Camden inquiry committee, 66; requests troops for South Carolina, 74-75; peace terms committee, 86, 520; and Huddy-Lippincott affair, 92, 365; denounces British prisoner of war policy, 105; western lands committee, 129; recommends gift of America to France, 142; committee on Henry Laurens' resigna-


[Page 853]
Index 819 tion, 159; defends Henry Laurens, 188-91; declines Trenton trial appointment, 206, 276, 399, 575; nominated president of Congress, 341, 350; seeks to limit discretionary power of executive departments, 374-75; Vermont committee, 387; land valuation committee, 404, 534; Cornwallis exchange committee, 411; on fiscal policy, 413-16, 624, 629-30, 640-41, 643, 648, 702-3, 711; currency committee, 419, 467; secretary Livingston resignation committee, 435; confers with Pennsylvania assembly, 450-52; on secrecy rule, 461, 593-94; opposes state payments to Continental creditors, 461; prize ordinance committee, 489; foreign affairs department committee, 495; on appeals in cases of capture on land, 502; opposes peace commissioners’ subordina tion to France, 518, 548; Savannah convention committee, 521; committee on army petition, 539; on apportionment of quotas, 569, 581-82, 654, 661, 672; confers with Robert Morris, 570; army grievances subcommittee, 581; and state violation of Conti nental flags of truce, 608; on army pay proposals, 615-16; admiralty court committee, 653; and exports under Yorktown capitulation, 668; valuation committee, 672; com mittee on truce flag violations, 691; on Continental coercion of states, 692; public credit committee, 722, 749, 752; Robert Morris resignation committee, 743, 763; mentioned, 30, 36, 50, 60, 176, 204, 417, 644, 649, 650, 686, 696 Rye, 14, 126 Sage, Comfort, 598 St. Augustine, Fla., 142, 217, 430, 448 St. Clair, Arthur, 596 Sally (brig), 146 Salomon, Haym, 95, 781 Salt: taxation of, 642—43, 749-50, 752; mentioned, 14, 774 Sands, Mrs., 672 Sands, Comfort, 577 Sandusky, 357 Sansum,John, 143, 163 Savage, Thomas L., 474 Savannah, Ga.: evacuation, 36, 38, 58, 62, 64, 68, 70, 521; mentioned, 17, 23, 34, 397 Sawyer, Edmund, lottery ticket loss, 759 Sayres, Mr., 354 Scammell, Alexander, 166 Schenectady, N.Y., 128 Schott, John Paul, and Wyoming Valley petition, 601 Schreiber, Jacob, exchange authorized, 347 Schuyler, Philip: letter to, 69; ☆ recommends strengthening Congress, 150; nominated secretary for foreign affairs, 495, 504; mentioned, 228, 695 Scott, John Morin: letter to, 194; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii, 72; on adjutant general’s allowances, 3; votes, 31, 46; returns home, 154; mentioned, 78, 101,470 Scull, Nicholas, xxvi Searle, James: letter intercepted, 82; mentioned, 448 Sears, Mr., 730 Secrecy rule: breaches of, 239, 481-82, 491-93, 537-38, 546, 560-62, 588; reaffirmation proposed, 571; and peace negotiations, 593-94 Secretary at war. See Lincoln, Benjamin Secretary for foreign affairs. See Foreign affairs, department of; Livingston, Robert R. Secretary of Congress. See Thomson, Charles Seeds: melon, 536; beet, 700, 731; carrot, 700, 731 Segond, Jacques Marie Blaise, chevalier de, exchange authorized, 347 Segur, Philippe-Henri, marquis de, 238 Seneca Indians, 219, 220 Sergeant, Jonathan Dickinson, and Trenton trial, 399


[Page 857]
Index 823 United Provinces. See Netherlands, United Provinces of the Usher, Robert, 517 Ustick, Thomas, 8, 174 “Valerius": attacks John Dickinson, 513; mentioned, 777 Vandalia Company, 381 Van Norder, Mr., 355 Van Tromp, Maarten, 163 Van Zandt, Mr., 500, 589 Varnum, James M.: and Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 708; mentioned, xxvii, xxx, 6, 272 Vaudreuil, Louis-Philippe de Rigaud, marquis de, 29, 62, 452, 551, 758 Vaughan, Benjamin, 633 Vauguyon, Paul-Francois de Quelen, due de la, 646 Verac, Charles Olivier de Saint-Georges, marquis de, 289 Vergennes, Charles Gravier, comte de: relations with John Adams, 44, 114—16, 543; appeals for pardon of Charles Asgill, 319, 349, 357, 361, 365, 368-69, 373, 377; men tioned, 35, 37, 202, 213, 218, 246, 268, 497, 502, 521, 546, 547, 646 Vermont: independence opposed, 14, 270, 382; retaliates against New York citizens, 78, 193, 195, 209, 242, 246, 298, 317-18; independence claim reviewed, 295-97; cessation of hostilities urged, 303-6; independence debated, 342, 349, 359-60, 379, 388-90, 395-96; independence debate delayed, 351; statehood opposed, 384-88; correspond ing with the enemy charged, 417, 426-27; censure proposed, 441, 457-58; censured, 458, 465, 468-69, 474, 476, 479; rebuffs congressional compromise offer, 653, 662, 682-83, 701, 769; and threatened military coercion, 746-47; mentioned, 20, 35, 147, 327, 357, 455, 456, 527, 568, 575, 578, 591, 658, 695, 771 Viomenil, Antoine-Charles du Houx, baron de, 158, 169, 238 Virgil, quoted, 57, 770 Virginia: maintains York and Gloucester garrisons, 34; directed to reinforce Fort Pitt, 40; cession of western claims, 60, 140, 236, 261; opposes Kentucky petition, 96; seeks restitution of slaves, 145; legal tender act, 177; and Simon Nathan claims, 295, 597, 634, 659, 764; land cession conditions opposed, 327, 336; and Oliver Pollock accounts, 334-35; fiscal quota, 416, 775; receives released prisoners, 420, 424; seeks credit for in kind quota payments, 420, 424; Continental troops needs, 424; redemp tion of old emissions, 444-45; seeks ammunition, 445-46; lead mines, 446; protests tobacco exports under Yorktown capitulation, 490, 667, 678; boundary dispute with Pennsylvania, 618, 632; fiscal quota default, 619, 635, 648-49; opposes restitution of confiscated property, 635; loyalists, 656; and apportionment of quotas, 741, 772-73; loan office debt, 742; opposes Vermont statehood, 747. See also Harrison, Benjamin Virginia Assembly: authorizes revision of quota formula, 18; seeks authority to retire old emissions, 100, 124-25, 181; debates constitutional limits of judicial authority, 371-72; repeals impost ratification, 502, 504, 513, 521, 524, 540, 550, 567, 599, 635, 656; on peace terms, 559 Virginia auditors, letter to, 83 Virginia delegates: letters from, 34, 50, 61, 86, 100, 124, 145, 168, 204, 219, 241, 267, 294, 323, 353, 401, 424, 445, 473, 489, 505, 524, 584, 597, 634, 659, 678, 707, 764, 786; ☆ seek legislative instructions, 35; pay and allowances, 84; seek relief for returned prisoners, 86; delegate expenses, 100, 220 Virginia Gazette, 657 The Vision of Columbus (Joel Barlow), 417 Wadsworth, Jeremiah: negotiates rations contracts, 315, 346; mentioned, xxix, 396, 759 Wales, Nathaniel, 119, 755 Walker, Timothy, elected to Congress, xxi Wall, Nicholas, 174, 358 Wallace, Mr., 483, 500, 598


[Page 861]
Advisory Committee Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Program John R. Alden* James B. Duke Professor of History Emeritus, Duke University Julian P. Boyd* Editor of The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Princeton University Lyman H. Butterfield* Editor in Chief Emeritus of The Adams Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society Jack P. Greene Professor of History, University of California at Irvine Merrill Jensen* Editor of The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution, University of Wisconsin Cecelia M. Kenyon* Charles N. Clark Professor of Government Emeritus, Smith College Aubrey C. Land University Research Professor Emeritus, University of Georgia Edmund S. Morgan Sterling Professor of History Emeritus, Yale Unversity Richard B. Morris* Gouverneur Morris Professor of History Emeritus, Columbia University George C. Rogers, Jr. Caroline McKissick Dial Professor of American History, University of South Carolina * Deceased 827 U.S. Government Printing Office: 1992


[Page 867]
'■.fe
