Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 16, September 1, 1780 to February 28, 1781
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_16/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 5]
September 1, 1780-February 28, 1781 Paul H. Smith, Editor Gerard W. Gawalt and Ronald M. Gephart Associate Editors LIBRARY OF CONGRESS WASHINGTON 1989


[Page 6]
A '-n Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data , (Revised for vol. 16) Letters of delegates to Congress. 1774-1789. Includes bibliographical references and indexes. Supt. of Docs, no.: LC 1.34:16 1. United States. Continental Congress—History— Sources—Collected works. I. Smith, Paul Hubert, 1931- JK1033.L47 973.3'12 76-2592 ISBN 0-8444-0616-3 (v. 16) ISBN 0-8444-0177-3 (set) @ The paper used in this publication meets the requirements for permanence established by the American National Standard for Information Sciences “Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials” (ANSI Z39.48-1984) For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, D.C. 20401


[Page 10]
vi Editorial Method and Apparatus RHi Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence ScHi South Carolina Historical Society, Charleston Vi Virginia State Library, Richmond ViHi Virginia Historical Society, Richmond ViU University of Virginia, Charlottesville ViW College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va. abbreviations and short titles Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) Butterfield, Lyman H., et al., eds. Adams Family Correspondence. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1963-. Adams, Writings (Cushing) Adams, Samuel. The Writings of Samuel Adams. Edited by Harry A. Cushing. 4 vols. Boston: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-8. Austin, Life of Gerry Austin, James T. The Life of Elbridge Gerry, with Contemporary Letters to the Close of the American Revolution. 2 vols. Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1828-29. Bartlett, Records of R.I. Bardett, John R., ed. Records of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in New England, vols. 8-10. Providence: Cooke, Jackson & Co., 1863-65. Bio. Diet, of Md. Legis. A Biographical Dictionary of the Maryland Legislature, 1635-1789. Edited by Edward C. Papenfuse et al. 2 vols. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1979-85. Bio. Dir. of S. C. House Biographical Directory of the South Carolina House of Representatives. Edited by Walter B. Edgar et al. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1974-, Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C., ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Congress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36. Clinton, Papers (Hastings) Clinton, George. Public Papers of George Clinton, First Governor of New York, 1777-1795, 1801-1804. Edited by Hugh Hastings and J. A. Holden. 10 vols. New York and Albany: Wynkoop Hallenbeck Crawford Co. et al., 1899-1914. DAB Dictionary of American Biography. Edited by Allen Johnson and Dumas Malone. Davies, Documents of the American Revolution Davies, K. G., ed. Documents of the American Revolution, 1770-1783. 21 vols. Dublin: Irish University Press, 1972-81.


[Page 11]
Editorial Method and Apparatus vii Evans, Am. Bibliography Evans, Charles. American Bibliography. 12 vols. Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34. Freeman, Washington Freeman, Douglas S. George Washington, a Biography. 7 vols. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1948-57. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett) Hamilton, Alexander. The Papers of Alexander Hamilton. Edited by Harold C. Syrett. 26 vols. New York: Columbia University Press, 1961-86. Hening, Statutes Hening, William W. The Statues at Large; Being a Collection of All the Laws of Virginia. 13 vols. Richmond: J.& G. Cochran, 1809-23. Jay, Papers (Morris) Jay, John. John Jay, the Making of a Revolutionary: Unpublished Papers, 1745-1780. Edited by Richard B. Morris et al. New York: Harper & Row, 1975. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) Jefferson, Thomas. Papers of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by Julian P. Boyd et al. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1950-. JCC U.S. Continental Congress. Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. 34 vols. Edited by Worthington C. Ford et al. Washington: Library of Congress, 1904-37. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda) Idzerda, Stanley J., et al., eds. Lafayette in the Age of the American Revolution: Selected Letters and Papers, 1776-1790. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1977-. Lee, Letters (Ballagh) Lee, Richard Henry. The Letters of Richard Henry Lee. Edited by James C. Ballagh. 2 vols. New York: Macmillan Co., 1911-14. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson) Madison, James. The Papers of James Madison. Edited by William T. Hutchinson and William M. E. Rachal. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1962-. Md. Archives Archives of Maryland. Edited by William H. Browne et al. Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1883-. Mason, Papers (Rutland) Mason, George. The Papers of George Mason, 1725-1792. Edited by Robert A. Rutland. 3 vols. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1970. Morris, Papers (Ferguson) Morris, Robert. The Papers of Robert Morris, 1781-1784. Edited by E. James Ferguson et al. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1973-.


[Page 12]
viii Editorial Method and Apparatus W C. State Records North Carolina. The State Records of North Carolina. Edited by Walter Clark. Vols. 11-26. Winston and Goldsboro, N.C.: N.I. andJ.C. Stewart et al., 1895-1914. N.H. State Papers New Hampshire. Provincial and State Papers. 40 vols. Concord, 1867-1943. OED Oxford English Dictionary. Pa. Archives Pennsylvania Archives. 9 series, 119 vols. in 120. Philadelphia: J. Severns & Co., 1852-56; Harrisburg: State Printer, 1874-1935. Pa. Council Minutes Pennsylvania. Minutes of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, from Its Organization to the Revolution. 6 vols. [Colonial Records of Pennsylvania, vols. 11-16]. Harrisburg: Theo. Fenn & Co., 1852-53. PCC Papers of the Continental Congress. National Archives and Records Administration. Washington, D.C. PRO Public Record Office. London. Public Records of Connecticut Hoadly, Charles J., et al., eds. The Public Records of the State of Connecticut. 11 vols. Hartford: Case, Lockwood & Brainard Co., 1894-1967. Risch, Supplying Washington’s Army Risch, Erna. Supplying Washington’s Army. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1981. Roche, Joseph Reed Roche, John F. Joseph Reed: A Moderate in the American Revolution. New York: Columbia University Press, 1957. Staples, Rhode Island Staples, William R. Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765-1790. Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870. Sullivan, Letters (Hammond) Sullivan, John. Letters and Papers of Major-GeneralJohn Sullivan. Edited by Otis G. Hammond. 3 vols. Collections of the New Hampshire Historical Society, vols. 13-15. Concord: New Hampshire Historical Society, 1930-39. Susquehannah Co. Papers Boyd, Julian P., and Robert J. Taylor, eds. The Susquehannah Company Papers. 11 vols. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1962-71. Warren-Adams Letters Warren-Adams Letters, Being Chiefly a Correspondence among John Adams,


[Page 13]
Editorial Method and Apparatus ix Samuel Adams, and James Warren. 2 vols. Massachusetts Historical Society Collections, vols. 72-73. Boston: Massachusetts Historical Society, 1917-25. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) Washington, George. The Writings of George Washington. Edited by John C. Fitzpatrick. 39 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1931-44. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence Wharton, Francis, ed. The Revolutionary Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States. 6 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1889. WMQ William and Mary Quarterly. 3d series. Wright, The Continental Army Wright, Robert K., Jr. The Continental Army. Washington: Center of Military History, United States Army, U.S. Government Printing Office, 1983.


[Page 14]
Acknowledgments This edition began in 1970 as a project of the Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Office, now incorporated into the Library’s Manuscript Division as the Historical Publications Office. The Library has had a long tradition of publishing scholarship on the period of the American Revolution. Its monumental edition of the Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (34 vols., Washington, 1904-37) is a predecessor of the present work and will be a companion to it. The editors wish to thank the Ford Foundation for a substantial gift which has been indispensable to the progress of the edition. Our appreciation is also extended to the innumerable individuals who have contributed to enriching the holdings of the Library of Congress to make it the premier institution for conducting research on the American Revolution. The photocopies of the more than twenty-two thousand documents that have been collected for this project have been assembled through the cooperation of several hundred institutions and private individuals devoted to preserving the documentary record upon which the history and traditions of the American people rest, and it is to their work that a documentary publication of this nature should ultimately be dedicated. Unfortunately, all the many contributors to this collecting effort cannot be adequately recognized, but for permission to print documents appearing in the present volume we are especially grateful to the following institutions: the American Philosophical Society, Archives du ministere des affaires etrangeres (Paris), Archivo General de Indias (Seville), Boston Public Library, William L. Clements Library, Columbia University, Connecticut Historical Society, Connecticut State Library, Dartmouth College, Duke University, Greenfield Village and Henry Ford Museum, Harvard University, Haverford College, Henry E. Huntington Library, Indiana University, Jervis Library Association, Koninklijk Huisarchief (The Hague), Maine Historical Society, Maryland Hall of Records, Maryland Historical Society, Massachusetts Archives Division, Massachusetts Historical Society, Minnesota Historical Society, Pierpont NIorgan Library, Nforristown National Historical Park, National Archives and Records Administration, New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, New Hampshire Historical Society, Newjersey Historical Society, New Jersey State Library, New-York Historical Society, New York Public Library, New York State Historical Association, New York State Library, North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, University X


[Page 17]
Chronology of Congress xiii October 4 October 6 October 10 October 13 October 14 October 16 October 17 October 18 October 21 October 23 October 24 October 25-31 October 30 October 31 November 1 November 3 November 4 November 7 November 9 November 10 November 13 Adopts instructions for John Jay on navigation of the Mississippi River and southwestern boundaries. Elects officers for hospital department. Adopts Virginia proposal to reimburse state expenses related to cession of western lands and to require that ceded lands ‘ ‘be disposed of for the common benefit of the United States.” Appoints Daniel Morgan brigadier general; creates third chamber of accounts. Votes memorial for Baron de Kalb; commends various officers and troops for bravery at the battle of Camden. Receives proceedings of the Hartford conven tion of New England states. Adopts letter of instruction for John Jay. Instructs John Adams on peace negotiations; sets day of prayer and thanksgiving. Endorses proposal to receive Cherokee delegation; revises Continental Army estab lishment. Receives report on the victory at King’s Mountain. Sends urgent appeal to the states on the present distresses of the army. Debates ways and means proposals. Confirms Nathanael Greene’s appointment to command of the southern department. Orders cavalry reinforcement to southern department. Authorizes drawing additional bills of exchange on Benjamin Franklin. Rewards captors of Maj. John Andre. Apportions $6 million specie tax, to be collected chiefly in kind; appoints William Palfrey consul to France. Authorizes prisoner-of-war exchange. Adopts letter of appeal to the states on present emergency. Adopts measures to curtail enemy fraudulent use of American privateer commissions; directs steps for reducing forage expenses. Commends troops engaged in the victory at King’s Mountain.


[Page 18]
xiv Chronology of Congress November 14 November 16 November 17 November 22 November 23 November 24 November 27 November 28 November 30 December 1 December 4 December 6 December 7 December 9 December 11 December 15 December 19 December 21 December 22 December 23 December 27 Authorizes capital punishment for persons supplying the enemy with provisions or military stores. Receives Committee at Headquarters report; confers with Pennsylvania officials on provisions embargo. Resolves to appeal to France for 25 million livres in aid. Adopts appeal to the king of France; appoints William Geddes paymaster general. Rescinds election of William Geddes as paymaster general. Receives report on treasury inquiry. Adopts measures for outfitting Continental ships; adopts additional privateer instructions. Extends half-pay provisions to general officers; instructs Franklin on procuring aid from France and cultivating commerce with Morocco. Adopts revised commissary regulations. Adopts statement endorsing Arthur Lee’s conduct abroad. Prohibits unauthorized military purchases; appoints Simeon De Witt geographer to the Continental Army. Commends Benjamin Tallmadge’s troops for Long Island raid; halts removal of Convention Army from Virginia. Observes day of prayer and thanksgiving. Adopts instructions for consul to France, William Palfrey. Appoints John Laurens “envoy extraordinary” to France. Resolves to appoint a minister to Russia. Appoints Francis Dana minister to Russia. Debates impact of John Laurens’ appointment on Benjamin Franklin’s mission in France; launches study of the conditions of Henry Laurens’ imprisonment. Appeals to the states to fulfill Continental troop quotas. Adopts instructions for special envoy to France, John Laurens. Instructs Benjamin Franklin on John Laurens’ mission to France.


[Page 19]
Chronology of Congress XV December 29 January 3 January 5 January 6 January 8 January 9 January 10 January 12 January 15 January 17 January 19 January 24 January 31 February 2 February 3 February 5 February 7 February 8 February 12 February 15 Commissions John Adams to negotiate a treaty of amity and commerce with the United Provinces. Appoints committee to confer with Pennsylva nia officials on the mutiny of the Pennsylvania Line. Empowers the mutiny committee “to take such measures as may appear necessary to quiet the disturbances”; threatens retaliation for British mistreatment of American prisoners. Revives committee for the reorganization of the executive departments. Endorses proposal to receive Delaware Indian delegation. Recommends prosecution of former clothier general James Mease for “a high abuse of office.” Authorizes establishment of a permanent office for the department of foreign affairs. Endorses treasury inquiry report acquitting commissioners of the chambers of accounts. Adopts new fiscal appeal to the states from New Hampshire to Pennsylvania. Appoints John Cochran director of the hospital department and John Pierce paymaster general. Opens debate on fiscal crisis. Receives report on the mutiny of the Pennsylvania Line. Receives committee of the whole recommendation for a 5 percent impost. Rejects Pennsylvania appeal for an emergency pay response for the Pennsylvania Line. Recommends state action to empower Congress to levy a 5 percent impost. Commends General Parsons’ troops for their attack at Morrisania; defines alien property rights under the Franco-American treaties. Adopts plan to create departments of finance, war, and marine. Receives news of Gen. Daniel Morgan’s victory at Cowpens, S.C. Receives Maryland act authorizing ratification of the Articles of Confederation. Authorizes expenditures for the support of the eastern Indian department; authorizes John Jay


[Page 20]
xvi Chronology of Congress February 19 February 20 February 22 February 23 February 24 February 27 February 28 to recede from previous instruction insisting on the free navigation of the Mississippi River. Orders inquiry into the causes of the delay in the shipment of clothing and arms from France. Orders the reinforcement and resupply of the southern department; appoints Robert Morris superintendent of finance. Assigns March 1 for completing and ratifying the confederation. Debates and recommits report on the Hartford economic convention. Doubles postage rates; adopts plan for ratifying ceremonies. Commends John Paul Jones for “distinguished bravery and military conduct, . . . particularly. . . over the British ship of war Serapis”-, elects Alexander McDougall secretary of marine. Postpones election of secretary at war to Octo ber 1; imposes restrictions on ornate military uniforms and decorations; refers old business to the new Confederation Congress.


[Page 21]
List of Delegates to Congress This section lists both the dates on which delegates were elected to terms falling within the period covered by this volume and the inclusive dates of their attendance. The former are generally ascertainable from contemporary state records, but the latter are often elusive bits of information derived from the journals of Congress or extrapolated from references contained in the delegates’ correspondence, and in many cases the “facts” are inevitably conjectural. It is not possible to determine interruptions in the attendance of many delegates, and no attempt has been made to record interruptions in service caused by illness or brief trips home, especially of delegates from New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania living within easy access of Congress. For occasional references to such periods of intermittent service as survive in the correspondence and notes of various delegates, see the index under individual delegates. Until fuller information is provided in a consolidated summary of delegate attendance in the final volume of this series, the reader is advised to consult Burnett, Letters, 5.1v- Ixiv, for additional information on conjectural dates of attendance. Brief biographical sketches of all the delegates are available in the Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971, and fuller sketches of more than half of the delegates can be found in the Dictionary of American Biography. CONNECTICUT Andrew Adams Elected: May 11, 1780 Did not attend in 1780-81 Oliver Ellsworth Elected: May 11, 1780 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 Samuel Huntington Elected: May 11, 1780 Attended: September 1, 1780, to February 28, 1781 Richard Law Elected: May 11, 1780 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 Jesse Root Elected: May 11, 1780 Attended: November 23, 1780, to February 28, 1781 xvii


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress Roger Sherman Elected: January 6, 1780 Attended: September 1 to October 3, 1780 Oliver Wolcott Elected: May 11, 1780 Attended: November 29, 1780, to February 28, 1781 DELAWARE John Dickinson Elected: December 22, 1779 Did not attend in 1780-81 Thomas McKean Elected: December 24, 1779; February 10, 1781 Attended: October 9-26, November 16-24, December 18? 1780 to February 28, 1781 Thomas Rodney Elected: February 10, 1781 Attended: February 27-28, 1781 Nicholas Van Dyke Elected: December 22, 1779; February 10, 1781 Attended: September 1-16?, September 20-October 9? 1780 GEORGIA Benjamin Andrew Elected: January 11, 1780 Did not attend Congress William Few Elected: January 11, 1780 Attended: September 1, 1780, to February 28, 1781 Lyman Hall Elected: January 11, 1780 Did not attend in 1780-81 Richard Howly Elected: January 11, 1780 Attended: September 1, 1780, to February 28, 1781 Edward Telfair Elected: January 11, 1780 Attended: September 1-12? 1780 George Walton Elected: January 11, 1780 Attended: September 1-21?, October 20? 1780 to February 28, 1781


[Page 27]
List of Delegates to Congress xxiii Jared Ingersoll Elected: May 31, 1780 Attended: September 5?-November 23, 1780 James McLene Elected: May 31, 1780 Attended: September 1-October 25? 1780 Timothy Matlack Elected: May 31, 1780 Attended: September 1-November 23, 1780 Joseph Montgomery Elected: November 23, 1780 Attended: December 8, 1780, to February 28, 1781 Frederick A. Muhlenberg Elected: May 31, 1780 Attended: September 1-October 28, 1780 James Searle Elected: May 31, 1780 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 William Shippen, Sr. Elected: November 12, 1779 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 Thomas Smith Elected: November 23, 1780 Attended: February 3-28, 1781 Henry Wynkoop Elected: November 23, 1780 Attended: December 19, 1780, to February 28, 1781 RHODE ISLAND John Collins Elected: May 3, 1780 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 Ezekiel Cornell Elected: May 6, 1780 Attended: September 1-December 19, 1780 Daniel Mowry Elected: May 3, 1780 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 James Mitchell Varnum Elected: May 3, 1780 Attended: December 19, 1780, to February 28, 1781


[Page 28]
xxiv List of Delegates to Congress SOUTH CAROLINA Thomas Bee Elected: February 1, 1780 Attended: September 1, 1780, to February 28, 1781 Nicholas Eveleigh Elected: May 27, 1780 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 Francis Kinloch Elected: February 1, 1780 Attended: September 1-November 9? 1780 Henry Laurens Elected: February 1, 1780 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 John Mathews Elected: February 1, 1780 Attended: September 1, 1780, to February 28, 1781 (on mission with Committee at Headquarters, April 25 to September ?; committee discharged August 11) Arthur Middleton Elected: February 1, 1780 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 Isaac Motte Elected: May 27, 1780 Attended: September 1, 1780, to February 28, 1781 VIRGINIA Theodorick Bland, Jr. Elected: June 21, 1780 Attended: September 1, 1780, to February 28, 1781 James Henry Elected: December 14, 1779; June 21, 1780 Did not attend September 1780 to February 1781 Joseph Jones Elected: December 14, 1779; June 21, 1780 Attended: September 1-7, 1780; January 29-February 28, 1781 James Madison, Jr. Elected: December 14, 1779; June 21, 1780 Attended: September 1, 1780, to February 28, 1781 Meriwether Smith Elected: June 21, 1780 Attended: February 20-28, 1781 John Walker Elected: December 14, 1779 Attended: September 1-November 24, 1780


[Page 38]
4 September 1, 1780 ent controversy, but was well affected to this country, and was deter mined if possible to get from under the power of the Enemy, with all his effects, and Settle in Some one of the united States. These things were not only Said by himself, but confirmed by Doctr Wm. Smith late of Long Island, who has been for Some years a Surgeon in the continental Hospital, & Served with fidelity and reputation. Your Excellency We believe has Some knowledge of him, both he & Dr. Howell are well known to Col. Floyd. It was well known to Congress that his Effects were chiefly English goods, which he had obtained by drawing a prize in the British State Lottery. There was Nothing Mandatory in the Protection Granted by Con gress, or that interfered with the Laws or Government of any States, but it was a notification that Congress approved of his coming off from Long Island with his effects, and a protection against capture by cruisers under commissions from the United States. There is a general resolution of Congress, that persons coming from Great Brit ain or Ireland with their effects to Settle in these States Shall be exempted from capture, and a Protection was lately granted to Doctr. Shields & Some other Gentlemen from Ireland, to bring their effects to this City. And does not Justice as well as policy require that Citizens of any of the united States, Should be protected in coming with their property from under the power of the Enemy, who have not for feited that right by any Crime against their country? If this person has been Guilty of any fraud by covering Illicit Trade under his Protection, we wish he may be detected & Suffer; but we have No Suspicions of that kind, but believe he has an honest bona fide intention to get, and keep clear of the enemy. The Several resolutions which concern the States, will be forwarded to Your Excellency by the President. We are with Sentiments of the Greatest respect, Your Excellency’s Obedient humble Servants, Roger Sherman Benj Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Sherman and signed by Sherman and Benjamin Huntington. 1 Congress had recently received two August 21 letters from Governor Trum bull. One concerned the seizure of George Howell and was read in Congress on August 28; the second enclosed a copy of the proceedings of the convention of com missioners from Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire and was read in Congress on August 29. See JCC, 17:788, 790, 792, 795-96; and PCC, item 66, 2:75, 91-92. 2 Official notice of the American defeat at Camden, S.C., came in an August 20 letter of Gen. Horatio Gates, which was read in Congress on August 31. JCC, 17:797; and Samuel Huntington to General Washington, August 31, 1780, note. 3 This committee, of which Sherman was a member, had been appointed August 11. JCC, 17:723. 4 See Sherman to Trumbull, July 22, 1780, note 2. 5 See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, August 29, 1780, note 3.


[Page 40]
6 September 1, 1780 The Propriety of a full Examination into the Circumstances of this Case is obvious and will doubtless be made by the proper Authority. The Practice of admitting proper Characters to remove from under the British Government with their Effects and unite with us was adopted upon mature Deliberation, as founded, not only on Princi ples of Justic & Humanity, but Policy. The Instances have been frequent, and tho’ Congress are very jealous & cautious not to admit an Enemy, or be deceived by an Impostor, and if Howell on Exami nation should be found such it will be the first Instance I have known or heard of. Your Excellency will recollect the resolution of Congress in Favor of Persons with their Effects coming from Ireland to settle in these United States, exempting them from Capture, which hath ever been in Force from the Commencement of Captures by Sea; and the Case of an Inhabitant of these United States who hath the Misfortune to fall under the Power of the Enemy within their Lines is a much Stronger Case in Favor of the Subject if he be a Friend to his Coun try and hath Opportunity to escape with his Effects. The Case of Mr Howell will depend upon the Character & Con duct of the Man, but the Principles upon which Congress acted, are the same by which they have been uniformly governed in repeated Instances, ever Since the Declaration of Independance. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect and Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Trumbull’s August 21 letter to Huntington with its several enclosures is in PCC, item 66, 2:91-113. For an explanation of the “Passport granted to him,” see Hun tington to Thomas Mumford, August 26, 1780, note 1. George Howell had been granted a passport by Congress in July to convey per sonal property from Long Island to Rhode Island, a decision that was protested by Connecticut on the grounds that he was an “inimical” person and had obtained his passport by deception. In his August 21 letter to Congress, however, Trumbull had focused on the states rights implications of the case as much as the impolicy of Congress’ approval of Howell’s petition, and it was this concern more than any other that explains the congressional response to Trumbull’s complaints. The gover nor had been brutally blunt, and the emphasis given to his letter by the words under lined touched a sensitive nerve in most delegates. “I could not conceive,” Trumbull explained to Huntington, ‘ ‘that Congress under the proposed articles of Confedera tion have a right to, or much less in the present unconnected, unfederated state of the union, would assume such diction as the permission conveys— ‘Commanding’ all Gover nors, Generals &c to afford protection in pursuance of his said permit.” PCC, item 66, 2:91-94. Thus it is not surprising that the committee to whom Trumbull’s let ter was referred disavowed any congressional intent “to contravene the laws, or interfere with the civil police of any State,” but Congress nevertheless stopped short of disavowing its decision, content to await the outcome of further investigation,.and instead merely ordered Huntington to explain to Trumbull the circumstances of George Howell’s application.” SeeJCC, 17:788, 795-96.


[Page 44]
10 September 2, 1780 as great and as gallant an opposition as it was possible so small a Force could make against one so vastly superior”. This account I suppose the General gives from the known and established valor of the Troops; it could not be from his knowledge of the Action, for he does not appear, by his Letter to have seen the regular Troops after two oClock in the morning when the first skirmish took place. As the State of Maryland was deeply interested in this Action, I thought it my Duty to move that the Letter should be published, but Congress determined and I now believe very wisely, that it should not. It must be known sooner or later, and whenever it is, you will join with me in pronouncing it a very extraordinary one. I Shall forbear at present to make any observation lest my resentment should carry me beyond the bounds of propriety and Justice. Col. Ramsey who will have the Honour of delivering you this Letter will explain to you the line of March, the order of Battle, and the State in which our troops were left—from the last information we can collect from the Gentelmen sent by General Gates with the Intelligence. It is believed, for my own part I have no doubt, knowing what passed previous to the action, that their Fate is a severe one: Tho I hope it is not so bad as their fugitive General expresses it in the two first lines of his Letter. “In the deepest distress and Anxiety of mind, I am obliged to acquaint your Excellency with the total Defeat of the Troops under my Command.” Reports, which the two officers bring, say that many officers fell; among the rest General Smallwood, Col. Gunby, Majr. Winder, Majr Roxburg, Capt. Brooks (reduced to a certainty), Col Armong &c &c &c. 4 I trust this voluminous Catalogue will considerably diminish when we have a more accurate account; some of our officers will no doubt escape. Till then, or the return of a Flag sent in by General Gates, we must remain in the dark. For further information on this melancholy subject, I refer you to my friend Col. Ramsey. I am, Sir, with the highest respect and Esteem, Yrs, J. Henry Junr. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 For the Maryland Council’s August 26 letter to its delegates, see Md. Archives, 43:266-67. Since Maryland’s embargo law was contingent on the continuation of the embargo in Pennsylvania and Delaware, the Council had directed the delegates to make inquiries concerning “the Revival of the Pennsylvania Act, and the Conduct . . . of Delaware.” 2 Robert R. Livingston had introduced several proposals designed to bolster the credit of the United States, among them a recommendation that the states “repeal all embargoes and other restrictions” on trade except those intended to prevent trade with the enemy, which were referred to a committee on ways and means on August 22. See JCC, 17:758-59. 3 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, September 1, 1780, note 2. 4 That is, Gen. William Smallwood, Col. John Gunby, Maj. Levin Winder, Maj. Alexander Roxburg, Capt. Benjamin Brooks, and Col. Charles Armand-Tuffin, marquis de la Rouerie.


[Page 46]
12 September 2, 1780 in 1781 to answer the charges against him are located in the Bright and Huntington autograph collections, NRom. For evidence that persons other than his Connecticut accusers thought that Howell was a British agent—e.g., William Smith, a prominent New York loyalist, and Abraham Woodhull, one of Washington’s spies—see Historical Memoirs from 26 August 1778 to 12 November 1783 of William Smith. . ., ed. William H. W. Sabine (1958; reprint ed., New York: Arno Press, 1971), p. 312; and Morton Pennypacker, General Washington’s Spies on Long Island and in New York (Brooklyn: Long Island Historical Society, 1939), pp. 95, 270-71. 2 See Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, September 1, 1780. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular. Philada. September 2. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 26 Ulto, earnestly recommending to the several States to take the most speedy & effectual Means in their Power for drawing in their respective Quotas of the Continental Bills of Credit to be destroyed either by Tax or by exchanging for them new Bills emitted pursuant to the resolution of the 18 of March last at a rate not less than forty for one, that the whole of the new Bills may be issued. 1 Also recommending to the several States to raise by Taxes payable in the new Bills above mentioned or Specie their respective Quotas of three Million of Dollars agreeable to the Apportionment of the 7 of October 1779 and pay the same into the Treasury of the United States as soon as possible, the Payment to be fully completed by the last Day of December next, each State to be allowed Interest from the Time it is paid; to be hereafter adjusted according to a resolution of the 6 of October 1779. You will also observe by this Act Provision is made for Payment of the public Debts due in any of the States in the Departments of the late Quarter Master Greene & Commissary Wadsworth, as also the present Commissary General of Purchases. And in Order to prevent the Possibility of a Depreciation in the new Bills it is earnestly recommended to the several States not to issue Bills of Credit for a Currency on any Account whatever in such Manner as to have in Circulation a greater Amount than their respective Quotas of the new Bills. And in Order that Justice be done to the Creditors of the United States for Supplies furnished the Army or Transportation thereof, Provision is made by this Act that such Creditors be paid the just Value of their Debts, to be ascertained in the Manner expressed in the Act, and all Debts due to the United States are to be justly paid in like Manner. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellencys most obedient & most humble servant, S.H.


[Page 49]
Septembers, 1780 15 angry with Somebody, as neither Congress or the Minister have yet received a single Letter brought by the Alliance twenty days ago. Your most obedt. J L RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:409. 1 These bills had been drawn to settle the balance due John Adams on his accounts with Congress, for which see Lovell to John Adams, May 4, and to Abigail, May 14, 1780. Lovell had been holding them for the opportunity of a dependable conveyance, having previously discussed them in the following undated note— which has an August 29 postscript—to Abigail. “I have this day only reed. Bills of Excha. for the Balce. of Mr Adams’s Accounts. I doubt not you will think just as I do about the whole Business. It has had an ungraceful Air. “Augst. 29th. I cannot tell when I wrote the few Lines above, but I well know I have not had any private Hand to send by, nor will I this day send by the Post. These Bills will sell better than at 90 days Sight and much better than at 6 months. But better or worse I believe you had best forward them to Mr. A. My opinion however ought to have no Weight in Comparison of your Uncle Smith’s.” Adams Papers, MHi. 2 An April 10 letter of John Adams had been read in Congress on September 1, but one of May 23 had been previously received on August 2\.JCC, 17:749, 798. However, as Adams wrote three letters to Congress on April 10, it is not known which of them was actually read on September 1. None of the copies in PCC indi cate having been read on September 1, although one is endorsed “Rec’d Sept. 4. ” PCC, item 84, 1:437-46. Nathaniel Peabody to Ephraim Blaine Sir. Morris Town Sepr. 3d. 1780. It is the earnest request of General Schuyler, and Mr Mathews, the latter being gone to Philadelphia, and the former to the State of New York, as well as my own, that you will be pleased to furnish us, with a monthly return of the supplies furnished by the state of Pensylvania, from the 1st of May, to the 11th of August last, and which you will send, as soon as possible, inclosed to me at this place. 1 I am, Sir, With great respect, Your most, humble Servt, Nathl. Peabody Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). 1 Peabody, who had been assisting in the preparation of the committee at headquarters’ report of its proceedings while convalescing at Morristown, was writing to the commissary general of purchases on behalf of the committee even though it had been formally “discharged” the previous month. See John Mathews to Philip Schuyler, August 23, 1780.


[Page 61]
Septembers, 1780 27 Benjamin Huntington


[Page 70]
36 September?, 1780 all except one Regt, of Nth. Carols, commanded, on the occasion by a continental Col. Dixon. These with the Regulars bravely stood & pushed Bayonets to the last. When overpowered by numbers they retreated well and being pursued by Horse repulsed and compleately vanquished them. A Wounded officer is confident that only two of the Party escaped. Col. Sumpter who had been successful in taking a Party of the Enemy a day or two before with 40 amunition Waggons was overtaken by Horse and lost all again with some muskets into the Bargain. Genl. Nash & Govr. Jefferson write most agreably as to the Spirit with which this Defeat is repairing. Ten such are nothing if—if there is enough of Virtue to support a paper Currency. While the new money is as silver and gold eastward it is far otherwise here. I cannot attribute the Conduct of their People to a settled Enmity to our Cause but to a damnably debauched Temper, too much riveted, which was generated by a depreciating medium, if solid Coin only was in this Quarter it would require much time to correct the most exorbitant Disposition of the People who chop & change. No decission is yet made upon those Parts of yr. Letters which demand one. I have before told you that the Disposition here is the same as you discover upon all the Points but a definite order cannot be passed to govern you under all Contingencies considering how opposite to one another they may prove in a short Space of Time. I have not lately heard from Mrs. Adams. Doctr. Holten writes me Aug 21 that he had not seen Mr Lee who was gone to visit Mrs. A at Braintree. I have sent him Bills of Exch. on Doctr. F 2 at 60 days Sight for 500 dolls, 501 */ 4 having been decided as the Balance of yr. acct. I have told you that R I 3 charged in a Lump 1600 Louis per An. Expences and that his Bal. was pd. He said he did not go to Vouchers of Barbers & Taylors and Bakers Bills in his private and therefore not in his public Concerns. Which of the Precedents already set the other Gentlemen will follow may be easily guessed. My own family was in a distressed Condition. Wife, only Daughter & oldest Son in Bed the whole family a Sacrifice to Extortion and much involved. I have sold myself for 14 years, 4 I imagine by staying here almost 4 even if the same generous Allowance should be made to me as was to you for Service. Being here and master of Books & files & Dates I will not seriously think of quitting till A.L. is as far gone as R. I. 5 Give my Love to all your Connexions. I suppose Gerry will write often by way of Gardoqui from Marblehead in Boston. The army is to have pay made good. The Genl. Officers are to have a 7 years provision proportionate to their pay and to receive Lands also proportionate. Widows & Children to have the Benefit of late Husbands & Fathers. In short we had once an Army fighting for


[Page 72]
38 September?, 1780 official papers ready, except the letter, the subject of this discussion which he expected from the grounds mentioned, applied to Mr. Glascock, the Speaker, respecting it, who told him that the Committee had not yet drawn it up. That he believes it to have been post-poned, on account of other pressing business, until near the rising of the House, which it did abruptly, many of the members being obliged to go out with the Militia; not, however, without ordering the letter to be completed, and the Speaker being of the Committee, was directed and said that he would sign it: but before it was done he went into South-Carolina, telling the underwritten, with whom he lived at the time, that he had desired the Committee to subscribe his name to it. And the underwritten now officially & solemnly declares, that, previous to his dispatching the Express to Congress, the honorable Richard Howly, esquire, Chairman of the Committee, delivered him the said letter or address, signed with the name & addition of the Speaker; and which folding up to the size of his packet, he superscribed it with the usual address, and transmitted the same to the President of Congress, as he deemed it his duty to do. He would content himself with having answered as to the authenticity of that paper, as far as he knows or is concerned; but he cannot forbear to observe, that some indulgence is due to the proceedings of a Country, surrounded by and full of Enemies, where members of the Legislature were obliged to sit in Council at day, and scout against the Enemy by night, and where some irregularities, by consequence, ought to be expected in the transaction of public business. Should the merits of the particular clause in the said address, respecting Brigadier-general McIntosh, and its counter-part contained in Mr. Glascock’s letter—signed it is true by him-self, but written by the panegyrist of that Officer—be made the subject of inquiry, he shall not fail to present a memorial of facts upon that point. Done at Philadelphia, the 7 day of September, 1780. Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 73). Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Memorial G. Walton, Read Sept 8. 1780. Referred to the comee on the letter of 12 May from W. Glascock.” 1 For the background of this case, which focused on the removal of Gen. Lachlan McIntosh from the Continental service in the southern department the previous February, see these Letters, 14:420. The May 12 letter of Speaker William Glascock denying active participation in McIntosh’s removal had been read in Congress on September 6 and assigned to Samuel Adams, James Duane, and Abraham Clark. This committee sought testimony from the two Georgia delegates in Congress— ex-governor Walton and present governor Richard Howly—who had led the anti McIntosh faction in the Georgia assembly. Walton’s “Memorial,” printed here, was read in Congress on September 8 and was closely supported the following day by statements from Howly and Georgia assembly clerk George Seegar, who was


[Page 77]
September 9, 1780 43 Nicholas Van Dyke to Caesar Rodney Honor’d Sir, 9 Septr. 1780. Inclosed you have this Day’s Paper, which Contains no Intelligence either from North or South—at present a dead Calm as to News prevails, how soon the Winds may change & stir up Something interesting I cannot precisely predict but from any Information at present I can apprehend nothing of importance very soon; the Object of New York depends you know on the Arrival of the 2d Division of our Ally’s Fleet should that be later than I wish, a Southern Expedition must take Place. I doubt not but your Excellency’s Patriotism has lately suffered Distress & Persecution; by Means of the very gloomy Accounts from the South; glomy indeed we had reason to apprehend our Situation there to be, from the early very imperfect Accounts received, but Sir, it has fortunately turned out that we had the worst Part first; by Letters lately from North Carolina & Virginia we find that Matters are not half so bad as was expected, the regular Troops & one Regiment of North Carolina Militia behaved in such a Manner as to make good their Retreat, and do great Execution on the Enemy, particularly their Light Horse, which they have in a great Measure destroyed, at least Governor Nash says a large Part of the Horse in their Retreat they nearly destroyed; the Enemy have Suffered much more than we have, and had the Militia stood five or Six Moments longer the Day in all Human Probability had been our’s, & the Enemy totally routed, defeated & ruined, Smallwood & Juest 1 are safe; also Rotherford & Gunby, Decalb wounded as tis s[aid]. Only Part of the Delaware Regiment is supposed to have been in the Action; our Loss in Waggons, Arms &c is Considerable, tis said Smallwood brought off his Artilery, if so he has done great things indeed; our Strength there now is greater than before the Action, & I have no Doubt but that very soon we shall drive the Enemy to Charles Town—they are sickly & this Blow they must severely feel. Sir, I have been informed since my last Arrival here that Complaints are made by the Marylanders that they are prevented sending their Produce to this Market, to this I cannot make any Answer as I have not yet heard by whom this has been done in that State or how it has happened. Mr. Gaddis complained to me Yesterday that a few Barrels of Flour he had at Appogumomy Landing designed for his Family’s Use in this Town, was there detained; & he was obliged to buy Flour here, I directed him to write to your Excellency being perswaded, if his Flour was stopped as alledged under the Laws of the State, you would be able & very willing to Distinguish his Case, & take such Measures as to give Releif, he proposed to put a Letter into my Hands to be forwarded, but has


[Page 78]
44 September 9, 1780 not yet done that. I wish to hear from you on this Subject, also by every good Opportunity, on any you may think Necessary to write, I could write often, could you direct Persons coming up here to call on me when in Town—my Time being taken up in Congress & on Committees I miss seeing Many who come up here. There is a handsome Pair of Horses in Town for Sale, about 7 years old, Bays & of good Sise, & well broke as tis said, & I cannot speak precisely as to the Price, but believe they may be purchased reasonable; I know your Excellency stands in Need of another Pair, I therefore move that your Honor would be pleased to sell your old Horses & Carriage & renew them by Purchase, or if you please purchase & then sell, however your Answer on the Subject I shall observe. Please present my Complims. to Miss Willson. I have the Honor to be, with great Esteem, yr. Excellency’s Most obdt. Hble Servt. Nichs. Van Dyke RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 That is, Gen. Mordecai Gist. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 10th. 1780. Offensive opperations are no longer talked of for this Campaign. Our Thoughts are now Turned to consider what our Army will be on the first of January Next, which appears Molancolly but our thoughts are here interupted by reports still more Molencolly that of our present Army starving. I have letters from Genl officers Dated Hackinsack Sepr. 5th Avering the Army had been served with meat only two Days in Seven including the 5th And no prospect of Any. It is my private opinion if the states do not comply more fully with the recommendations of Congress the Army will disband. Can we expect they will stay in the field with out pay or Subsistence. It is well known Congress have no money at Command, either to pay for Subsistance or wages. Who is to blame I cannot say but I am confident it is in our power to give the Troops meat if we cannot give them pay, which hath not been the case for half the days the Month past. The Army now live principally by plunder both for meat & forrage. And will if they keep together I fear soon become freebooters. And I think every man must feel for the Inhabitants where the Army marches. Since I wrote you last 1 Intelegance hath been receivd from Governor Nash that Genl Smallwood and Guist with about 300 of the Maryland & Deleware Troops cut their way throg[h] the Enemy after General Gates left them and made their retreat good to Sharlott


[Page 80]
46 September 10, 1780 with the earnest recommendations of Congress, as shall speedily accomplish an Event so important & desirable as the final ratification of the Confederation by all the States. I have the Honor to be, &c, &c, S.H. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 The enclosed “report,” which was designed to induce the landed states to “a liberal surrender of a portion of their territorial claims” in order to secure Maryland’s ratification of the Articles of Confederation, was a belated congressional response to an offer from New York to cede her western claims, which had been referred to committee in June. See JCC, 17:806-7; and Joseph Jones to Thomas Jefferson, June 30, 1780, note 3. The issue was an old and troubling one, which Congress hoped to avoid becoming embroiled in anew by simply appealing to the states to reconsider the grounds of Maryland’s opposition to ratification, as well as Virginia’s “remonstrance” against Maryland’s pretensions, and New York’s offer to restrict her western claims. These were fully set forth in “the several papers” enclosed by Huntington, which are conveniently reprinted in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:625-34; and Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 6:190-208. They consisted of (1) a “Declaration” and (2) “Instructions” by the Maryland Assembly to her congressional delegates, both of December 15, 1778; (3) Virginia’s “Remonstrance” of December 14, 1779; and (4) New York’s act of cession of February 19, 1780. For Virginia’s response to this renewed effort to secure Maryland’s support for the Articles of Confederation, see James Madison to Joseph Jones, September 19, note 1; and Samuel Huntington to the States, October 16, 1780. 2 Huntington apparently failed to send the copy of this letter intended for New Hampshire at this time, however, for it was intercepted by the British in Connecticut on October 20 with a packet containing letters dated as late as October 10. See C.O. 5, 100:288-89, PRO; and Davies, Documents of the American Revolution, 16:426. For the capture of the eastern post rider on October 20, see Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, October 10, 1780, document note. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir, Sepr. 10. 1780 I omitted to give you the Exchange—73 to 75. I send you the Index of the Journals of 1778. August this year is not yet printed as I made Claypole 1 stick as close as possible to the Index. I have already hinted to you, I believe, that the affair at the southward on the 16 of Augst was not so very fatal as we were induced to think by Genl Gates’s first Letter of Information. Baron de Kalb, indeed, is said to be mortally wounded but Guest, Smallwood, Rutherford, Butler & another whose name has slipped me, are well as is Col. Gunby. 300 of the Maryland & Delaware Line are also safe, one Regt, only of the militia stood; That was on the Occasion commanded by a continental Col. Dixon. You know a vile People as to the depreciating Art I am sorry Massachusetts Money appears among them before their own Pensylvanian. The Army & Navy are not to be charged with Interest on the new


[Page 83]
September 11, 1780 49 present my Compliments to Mr. Thos. Burke, and inform him, that with perseverence I have procured a place in the Hospital Department, for my unfortunate countryman of whom we Spoke before he left Philada. Adieu Dear General, may that God whos mercies are Over all his Other Works guide & protect you—and be not discouraged. John Armstrong [P.S. ] I shall write my Son by Major MaGuill—then intend to retire, my Strength, talents & constitutional time in Congress, being very near a period. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). A continuation of Armstrong to Gates, September 3, 1780. i Maj. Charles Magill, Gates’ aide-de-camp. 2 Undoubtedly Gates’ August 30 letter to Congress, for which see the postscript of Samuel Huntington to Gates, September 12, 1780. John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton Dear sir Philadelphia Sep. 11th 1780 I have been Confined to my Room a fortnight, and was so unwell When the last post set out, that I was not able to Write, I am now on the recovery, and hope to be able to attend Congress in a day or two. I inclosed you Some time ago a Curious Historical Annecdote, delivered in may last, by sir John Dalrymple, to the Court of Spain. 1 As you have Said nothing about it, am afraid it has not Come to hand. Congress received a letter by Express from Gen Gates dated Hillsborough August 20th giving an Account (tho’ a very Confused one) of His unfortunate Defeat near Camden, on the 16th. He says he marched about 10 oClock in the night of the 15th, to possess himself of an advantageous peice of Ground about Seven miles from Camden. About 2 oClock in the Morning His light Horse was attacked by those of the Enemies but were repulsed. Upon this he halted the Army, and nothing more happened till about break of Day, When he was attacked by the Whole furie of the Enemy. His Army was drawn up with the Virginia Militia on the left, the North Carolina militia in the Center and General Gist on the right—General Smallwood was in the rear, as a Corps De’reserve. The Militia to a man fled the first fire, and left our brave regulars to Sustain the Whole force of the Enemy. General Gates went of[f] with the Militia, endeavouring to rally them, but to no purpose, and while he was thus engaged He Says the fireing between the two Armies Ceased, by which he Concluded all was over, and therefore made the best of his Way to Hillsborough Where he arrived the 19th performing a Journey of 196 miles in less than four days. He Knows nothing


[Page 84]
50 September 11, 1780 of What became of the Regulars, but says he should immediately Send off a flag to gain the necessary information. Saturday last an Express Arrived from Governor Nash dated the 26th Advising that Generals Smallwood, And Gist, had bravely Cut their Way thro’ the Enemy With about 400 men—that the Militia were again Collecting, that they had got together between two and three thousand, regulars included. This day another letter has been received from Gen. Gates With a list of the Officers that are Safe to Wit Generals Smallwood and Gist, Colos. Williams, Gunby and about 700 privates. The list also Contains the Names of those officers that are missing, but I have not Seen it, neither Can I procure a Copy to Send you by this Opportunity. Baron de Calmb is Dead of His wounds. Our loss on the Whole about 500 and that of the Enemy as many. We have also lost all our Baggage Waggons and Eight pieces of Cannon. Our main Army is in the greatest distress for want of provisions Were Without meat from the 21st to the 26th and Some have not had one day With another not one third allowance. The general moved into the neighborhood of Fort Lee with a View of Stripping that part of the Country of the remainder of its Cattle Which after a most rigorous exertion afforded only two or three days supply and this Consisting of milch Cows and Calves of one or two years old. This manner of procuring is very distressing and attended With ruin to the morals and discipline of the Army, during the five days Which small partys were Sent out to procure provisions for themselves, the most enormous excesses were Committed. It has been no inconsiderable Support to our Cause to have had it in our power to Contrast the Conduct of our Army With that of the Enemy, and to Convince the Inhabitants, that While their rights were Wantonly Violated by the British Troops, by ours they were respected. This distinction must now unhapily Cease, and we must assume the Odious Character of the plunderers instead of the protectors of the people, the direct Consequence of Which must be to Aleniate their minds from the Army, and insensably from the Cause—in short, if this method of procuring provisions for the Army is not very speedily prevented, by an exertion of the States in Sending forward Supplies the Army must disband, and we are undone. It is reported and Credited by many that a french fleet of 18 Ships of the line and some frigates are on the Coast. They were Seen it is Said Some days ago to the Northward of our Capes. Our new raised Battalion is ordered by the general to the Southward. My Compliments to the family And Am with the most Sincere respect, Dr. sir, your most hble Servt, J° hn Hanson RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). 1 For this “Curious Historical Anecdote,” see Hanson to Carroll, August 29, 1780.


[Page 95]
September 12, 1780 61 campaign will inspire our Enemy as well as to give greater authority & vigor to our public councils, they have recommended in the most pressing terms to the States claiming unappropriated back lands, to cede a liberal portion of them for the general benefit. As these exclusive claims formed the only obstacle with Maryland there is no doubt that a compliance with this recommendation will bring her into the confederation. How far the States holding the back lands may be disposed to give them up cannot be so easily determind. From the sentiments of the most intelligent persons which have come to my knowledge, I own I am pretty sanguine that they will see the necessity of closing the union in too strong a light to oppose the only expedient that can accomplish it. Another circumstance that ought greatly to encourage us under disappointed expectations from the campaign is the combination of the Maritime powers in support of their neutral rights, and particularly the late insolent and provoking violation of those rights by the English Ships at St. Martins. It is not probable that the injured will be satisfied without reparations & acknowledgements which the pride of Britain will not submit to, and if she can ever be embroiled in an altercation with so formidable a league, the result must necessarily be decisively in our favour. Indeed It is not to be supposed after the amazing resources which have been seen in G. Britain when not only deprived of but opposed by her antient colonies, and the success of the latter in resisting for so long a time the utmost exertion of their resources against her, that the Maritime powers who appear to be so jealous of their rights will ever suffer an event to take place which must very soon expose them to be trampled on at pleasure of G. Britain. I must beg you once for all to excuse the inaccuracies with which the hurry of the post day will deface my letters. With sincere regard I am, Dr Sir yr. Obt friend & Servt. James Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:80-82. 1 See ibid, pp. 65-67. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the States, September 10, 1780. John Mathews to Catharine Livingston Philadelphia Septr. 12th. 1780 Your 1 friend Mrs. Morris 2 is much indisposed, owing, as I am told, to a severe cold caught by bathing, in this late chilly weather. By accounts yesterday & the day before from the Capes of Virginia, a fleet of twelve sail of the line, & seven frigates passed by there a few days ago, bound to Rhode Island. It is a part of the French West


[Page 96]
62 September 12, 1780 India fleet, I suppose intended to cover the junction of the second division of their fleet from Europe, with the one already at R.I. Our affairs to the Southward wear a much better aspect, than was at first represented, we shall be able in a very little time, again to look the myrmidons in the face. I wrote to you the 8th 3 mentioning our intended visit to you, in order to deprive your domestic friends of your agreeable society, that others may have an opportunity of participating of it, they can’t be so niggardly, as to think of Keeping you entirely to themselves, however dear, & thereby depriving the rest of your extensive acquaintance of an equal share of happiness. Why Lord! if you were to be buried at Elizabeth this winter, you wou’d get the hip. I hope soon to receive your orders to hold myself in readiness to march at an hours warning, which I shall obey with the greatest pleasure and punctuality: indeed we are already making preparations for the jaunt. The piece of a news paper containing some verses was the only thing in it worth your purusal, therefore took them out that I might not incumber your letter. I imagine the verses to be Mrs. D’Lancey’s. I also send you this days paper. Whilst Peabody remains at Morris town, I have no doubt of your getting them safe, but when he comes away I shall follow your directions, & direct them to the Printer at Chatham. Adieu my most Amiable friend, & believe me ever unalterably the same, J no Matthews [P.5. ] My best respect to Mamma, Sister Susan & c. RC (MHi: Ridley Papers). 1 Mathews had apparently become acquainted with Catharine Livingston (1751-1813), daughter of New Jersey governor William Livingston, and other members of the family while traveling extensively in northern New Jersey as a member of the Committee at Headquarters from April to August 1780. Six letters in the William Livingston Papers, MHi, reveal the extent of his friendship with Catharine as well as his infatuation with her older sister Susan or Susannah (1748-1840). In these letters to the Livingston sisters Mathews expressed great concern over Susan’s delicate health and great delight in her goodness of heart, her good sense, her easy politeness & affability.” Although letters from Susan, his “Charming Friend,” have apparently not survived, Mathews read them with “excessive joy.” The Livingston Papers also contain a rendering of verse from Paradise Lost in Mathews’ hand, dated “August 21: 1780, ” in which he characterized Susan: “Grace was in all her steps heav’n in her eye, in every gesture dignity and love. ’ ’ For these Mathews letters in the Livingston Papers, see under the dates May 29, July 20, October 1 and 30, 1780, and March 17 and April 18, 1781. A seventh letter, to Susan, written in “May 1781,” is in the Norton Collection, OCIWHi. 2 Probably Mary White Morris, wife of Robert Morris, at whose home Catharine often stayed when in Philadelphia. 3 Not found.


[Page 106]
72 September 16, 1780 Congress are determined to use every possible Means in their Power to prevent any future Distress in the Army for Want of Provision. It is supposed from the best Computation, of the Quantity of Beef called for by these resolutions should be furnished, it will be more than sufficient for the daily Consumption of the Army, in which Case the Surplus, of the most suitable Quality will be barrelled for future Use. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant, Sam Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. i See JCC, 18:828. Huntington’s September 20 letter to Gen. William Smallwood notifying him of this promotion is in PCC, item 15, fol. 110. For his letter to Skinner, dated September 16, see ibid., fol. 109. 2 See Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., September 15, 1780. Roger Sherman to Jean Holker Sir. Philadelphia. Septer. the 16th. 1780. I laid your Letter of the 11th Instant, before the Committee, 1 and on Consideration of your representation of the circumstances of the Case they agree to Receive the 243047 dollars in Continental Currency, due for provisions furnished By Peter Colt. If you draw an order for the payment of it, please to draw in favor of Michael Hillegas treasurer of the united States. I called Several times at your house to have Some farther Conference respecting Ephraim Blaine’s account you Say I omitted to enclose. I had it before me when I wrote, and cant find it among my papers since, But will furnish you with another coppy if need full. I am with due Respect, your humble Servant, Signed Roger Sherman Tr (DLC: Holker Papers). In a clerical hand. 1 That is, the “committee to whom were referred the accounts of Mr. Holker,” which was appointed on August 28 with Sherman as chairman. Before the committee made any recommendations to settle the accounts, however, Congress adopted a motion offered by Sherman on October 3 to discharge the committee and refer the accounts to the Board of Treasury. JCC, 17:787, 790, 18:893. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia September 16 1780 Congress have not yet come to a Single resolution Respecting Vermont Though it has been five Days on the Tapis. 1 New York Seems Disposed to have a Determination against its being an


[Page 107]
September 16, 1780 73 Independant State, & then to have Comissrs. appointed to Say whether it falls to New York or New Hampr. General Foulsom & myself have opposed this & urged the appointment of Commisioners in the first Instance, both upon principles of policy, & upon a Conviction of the want of power in Congress To take any other Steps agreable to the Articles of Confederation. I Last Evening received Letters from Several Persons of Note in that Quarter & the adjacent Parts of New Hampr Expressive of the Sentiments of the people assuring me that a Division of the grants will be Disagreable to all; That if Congress are Determined they Shall not be Independant Seven Eighths of them will Petition Congress to Reunite them to New Hampr. Colo Alcott 2 of Vermont waited on me & assured me that this was the General Sentiment of the People. I Shall therefore be Less violent in my opposition to that Question in future. I am Exceeding happy to find that New York have appointed three Gentlemen 3 of high Spirits & all Deeply Interested in the Event To appear as agents for that State breathing out nothing but Death & Slaughter against those people who have So Long Set their authority at Defiance & painting the Bitter Enmity which they have Ever Discovered against the Yorkers. To this I have Endeavored to oppose the moderate Spirit of New Hampshire; her readiness to Acquiese in the Determination of Congress & Even though the Land is Clearly within her Limits to Submit to its being a Seperate State if Congress Should find it for The good of the whole. I have assisted the Yorkers in Establishing the Fact of an utter aversion in those people to Live under their Jurisdiction; & at the Same time have taken Care to mention the Harmony which has Ever Subsisted between them & New Hampshire. This I find is Likely to have the Effect Intended. The Members begin to See that If the Lands are adjudged to NewYork the Continent must be Involved in a war to Inforce the Determination of Congress which Can only be avoided by adjudging it to New Hampr. & I am Convinced this will finally Turn the Scale in favor of New Hampshire. 4 I wish to have forwarded to me as Soon as possible one of the New Hampshire Law Books in which is Governor Wentworths Commission as the Secretary has only furnished me with an Extract from it without Date. I am Indeed ashamed of the papers furnished from New Hampshire & hope for Success rather from Political Considerations than from any other motive. A material paper is the prohibition to the Governor of New York in 1767 to Exercise Jurisdiction or grant Lands in that Territory. This I cannot obtain. New York agents are possessed of but will not produce it. I apprehend it must be in the Secretarys office; the Several papers which I wrote for when at Home or Such of them as can be procured ought to be forwarded. The Southern Members are as Ignorant of the History of New England as we are of the Lands under the Poles. I procured Some useful papers in Connecticut & hope to


[Page 108]
74 September 16, 1780 obtain more before the final Tryal. I Shall also be glad of Every Evidence that New Hampshire can furnish; & of their Instruction from time to time. We have nothing new Since Genl. Gates’s Defeat. I have Seen a private Letter from Genl. Smallwood giving a particular Account of the Action. The Loss on our Side was about two hundred, the Enemys five hundred, the Brave Marylanders after being Deserted by the Militia & the Commander in Chief performed wonders, & Retired with Regularity. General Smallwood had not heard of General Gates when he wrote as he had retired 200 miles from the place of Action before he wrote the Letter which So much frightened those who believed it of which I never was in the number. We have this Day reed. Intelligence from New York that the Second Division of the French Fleet is on the Coast. I rejoice that Genl Washington gives New Hampshire Credit for Complying with the requisitions of Congress better than any other State. I wish her to Continue her Exertions as the Army is Literally Starving & I fear will Disband. We are using Every Exertion to Remedy the Evils which Surround us, but it is a very Late Hour for the Business, though I hope not too Late. I have the honor to be most respectfully, Dear Sir Your most obedt Servt. J no Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Vermont Controversy). 1 See Samuel Adams to John Lowell, September 15, 1780. 2 Col. Peter Olcott of Norwich, Vt., was in Philadelphia as an agent of Vermont and he was one of the agents summoned by Congress on September 19 to attend its debates on the controversy. JCC, 18:839-40. See also Samuel Adams to John Lowell, September 15, 1780, note 3. 3 That is, James Duane, Robert R. Livingston, and John Morin Scott. 4 For an assessment of the success of Sullivan’s tactics, see John Morin Scott to George Clinton, September 26, 1780. Nicholas Van Dyke to Caesar Rodney Honor’d Sir, 16 Septr. 1780. Your Excellency has or soon will receive an Application from Congress requesting an immediate Supply of 500 Head of Beef Cattle; 1 the same request has been made on Pennsylvania & Newjersey, the army at present is very near being without Meat, owing to the Change in the Quarter Master’s Department having caused some Delay in forwarding Supplies of that Article from the Eastward; the wheels are now begining to move & I hope our Army will not again be reduced to such Distress, they have a tollerable Supply of Flour, but it will be very Necessary that the several States exert themselves in sending forward Flour, & short Forage while the


[Page 110]
76 September 16, 1780 Navigation is open & the Roads good; I informed Congress that our Assembly at their last Sessions, had in Compliance with the Requisition from Head Quarters 2 made Provision for to supply the Cattle required, Monthly—and under that it was probable some Cattle might soon be procured; pray Sir urge the Purchasers or Collectors of Supplies in the respective Counties to an immediate Exertion, to procure the Cattle; and send them forward, even 1, or 200 in a Drove; could Mr. Blane have Notice when any Number can be at Wilmington he would Convey them from thence; under the Act of Assembly refered to if my Memory serves me, Cattle were to be purchased & Certificates given for them, or seised, or to be received in lieu of the Monthly Tax, it is necessary they be procured either one or other Ways, I shall endeavor to have the Expence of driving paid by Mr. Blane or the Quarter Master as soon as possible. I can give you nothing New, I write in a hurry, the City is very sickly—but not so Mortal as sickly. By late Accounts from the Southard, our Force is more respectable than ever, and in a fair Way to drive & beat Cornwallis by defeating him, & not by being defeated, it is pretty clear that such another Victory would ruin his Lordship. With Complimt. to Miss Willson, I am yr. Excellency’s Most obdt. Hble Servt., Nichs. Van Dyke RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 'See Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, September 15, 1780, note 2. 2 See Committee at Headquarters to the States, June 2, 1780. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dear Tucker Philadelphia Septr. 17th 1780 Your agreeable favor of the 10th of August being almost the first thing that presented itself to my view on my arrival at this City— exclusive of the regard I have for the writer—demands in Justice my devoting this first Leisure hour I have had to answer it. 1 A fever (as I am told of south Carolina Origin calld the Broke Bone fever) which has confined me three day to the house but which is now going off, even, affords me this Leisure, you are therefore not to expect any thing very concerted, as it has quite deranged every Idea, tho it has not obliterated those warm sensations of Friendship which prompts me to write, when prudence might dictate a little restorative repose. Your early Salutation of me in the Epistolary way believe me was not the least agreeable object which insinuated itself as it calld my attention from the Hurly Burly of a tavern—the nonsense of Complementary Visits &c., &c. to the Calm retreats of Matoax and Farmingdell. 2 I Join Issue with you as to the God Plutus. You wd no doubt wish to know what is doing in This City, and with our


[Page 111]
September 17, 1780 77 Northern Army and that of [our?] Officers. So multifarious and important are the Busineses before Congress at this time, that it wd. Puzzle Apollo to give you a Competent Idea of the Business now transacting in the Short Space of a letter—the Providing an Immediate, and a permanent Plentifull Supply of transport and Provision for our Army, which has, been frequently reduced almost to a Starving condition, & Shocking to relate in the midst of so plentifull a Country as the United states, has been forced to live on Plundering or in more modest terms Foraging on its own Citizens. The formg a Plan for a Permanent Army, to be raised on liberal and general Principles—removing every Barrier to a Completion of the Genl. Confederacy &c, &c, &c, &c. But really my head is not at present in a Situation to write on Politics. Our Army & that of our allies inactive waiting the arrival of the 2d division of the French fleet & Army which we have heard is on the Coast—but have not yet heard of its arrival—consisting of 19 Ships of the Line. A Short time will no doubt determine what are to be the Capital operations of the Campaign. I shall not forget your Commissions but if you knew how totally my time was engrossed you wd. not be surprised shd. I be more tardy in the Execution of them than you perhaps expect. Fanny 3 who tarrys over my writing table and is this moment looking very stedfastly at me is frequently the subject of my private meditations, and I more than ever experience the sweet satisfaction of having some momento of one who is absent and is the object of our love & affection. We frequently talk to each other, and discant on various Subjects and sometimes the Conversation grows so interesting that it forces from me a wish to transform the Picture into life. Give her both our loves and best affections. The Extravagance of this place exceeds all bounds. My head Ach’s. I must Cut Short this letter with my love to the Boys of whom I beg you will assure them I am fully mindfull & that I will not forget my Promises to them. I am at present fixd in the Lodgings [that ] Bland Had formerly (Randolphs) but am somewhat uncertain whether I shall continue in them. Till my next adieu, God Bless you, Theok. Bland [■RS. ] I have enclosed you Some Papers—the best way of Conveying news. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 'See also Bland’s September 6 answer to this same letter. 2 Matocks or Mattoax was a Tucker plantation in Chesterfield Co.; Farmingdell or Farmingdale a Bland estate in neighboring Prince George Co., Virginia. 3 That is, Frances Bland Randolph, Bland’s widowed sister, who had married Tucker in 1778.


[Page 112]
78 September 18, 1780 John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir, Philadelphia September 18th 1780 This day I had the pleasure of receiving yours of the fifteenth, inclosing 365 Dollars. The Bundle of money which you was so very Kind as to procure for me I received. It Came in good time, but will not last long in this most Expensive place, and therefore must beg the favour of you to procure Some more for me, as soon as you Can, it must be of the old Continental money. The new will not pass here. Have been with the Coach maker. He has promised your chariot, Shall be finished by the last Week in October. Our Army Continues much distressed for want of Meat. They get one meal only in three days, and how long that Scanty Allowance will Continue, is uncertain. The Jersey Inhabitants, in whose State the Army is, are plundered daily by partys from the Army, without a possibility of restraint, are not the worst of Consequences to be dreaded, from the Armys thus Careing for themselves—may it not be expected that even the people of the Jerseys, who have upon all Occasions exerted themselves in Support of the Common Cause, will at length have their affections Alienated from the Army, & look upon them as plunderers, and Enemies, rather than the protectors of their Rights. Is it not most Shameful that our Army Should be Starving, while the Country abounds with provisions? To what Can it be imputed? Is it from a want of inclination in the States, to Comply with what has been repeatedly required of them by Congress? Or is it from inattention to the public Cause, or inabillity to render the necessary Supplies? I hope neither of these is the Case. Satisfied I am, that our resources are abundantly Sufficient, and that the bulk of the people Continue firm in the opposition—from the disjointed and deranged State of our finances proceed all our embarrassments, and how to extricate ourselves is the difficulty. There Seems to be a fatality attending every measure, that has been adopted for that purpose. The most probable Schemes have by Some means or other been rendered ineffectual. The Resolves of the 18h March promised fair, but am afraid Will not Answer the end proposed. How is the old money to be got in and the new put into Circulation while our Taxes are Anticipated and paid of in Certificates? Our present Situation is truly Alarming. Our Army in want of every thing; no money in the Treasury and our Credit Exausted. Congress had advice today of the Arrival of Admiral Rodney at the Hook on the 13th, 1 with twelve Ships of the line, And four frigates, and that they had taken & brought in with them a french frigate— that 5000 Troops were to be Sent from N.Y. to the Southward. It is reported that the Combined fleets from the West Indias is on the Coast—if so the french will be Superior and may put a Stop to the


[Page 113]
September 18, 1780 79 embarkation at New York. Fryday last General Smallwood was by the unanimous Vote of Congress promoted to the Rank of Major General. Am Sorry to Acquaint you that this Morning dyed much lamented Mrs. Reed the Presidents Lady. My Compliments to Mrs. Lee and am with the greatest esteem & regard, Dr sir, Your Excellencys most hble Servt, John Hanson 2 [RS.] No late Accounts from the Southward. 3 RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). ■Before departing for his Hartford conference with the French, Washington had forwarded on September 16 a copy of a letter of the 14th from Brig. Gen. David Forman with information that Adm. George B. Rodney “with twelve sail of the line & four frigates are Arrived off Sandy Hook from the West Indies.” Both letters were read in Congress this day. See JCC, 18:836; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:49n; PCC, item 152, 9:175, 179. Forman’s letter is not in the Washington Papers, DLC. The information was “confirmed beyond a doubt” in a September 18 letter from Nathanael Greene, acting in behalf of the absent Washington. This letter was read on September 20 and referred to the delegates of Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia. Copies were also sent to the governors of Maryland and Virginia. JCC, 18:841; and PCC, item 155, 1:431-32. 2 This day Hanson also wrote a nearly identical letter to Charles Carroll of Carrollton, for which see the Carroll Papers, MdHi. 3 Hanson’s next letter to Lee, dated September 23, consisted merely of a single line covering a recently intercepted letter from the Earl of Cornwallis to Lt. Col. Nesbit Balfour, the British commandant at Charleston, S.C. Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, MdHi. Samuel Huntington to Nathanel Greene Sir, Philada September 18. 1780 Enclosed you will receive the Copy of a Letter from Genl Gates to his Excellency Governor Jefferson this Moment come to Hand. 1 How far the Intelligence respecting the Designs of the British to take Post at Cape Fear & Portsmouth, are well founded, Time will discover. I have thought proper to give you the Intelligence immediately, such as it is, which you will please to forward to his Excellency Genl Washington without Delay. I have the Honor to be &c, &c, &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). ■For Horatio Gates’ September 9 letter to Thomas Jefferson containing the reports of two British deserters on Lord Cornwallis’ designs against North Carolina and Virginia, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:620-21, 647-48; and PCC, item 71, 1:417-22.


[Page 114]
80 September 18, 1780 Nathaniel Peabody to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Morristown. September 18th. 1780. Your agreable favor of the 6th instant came safe to hand the 8th. And I should have done myself the pleasure of acknowledging it much sooner, had it not been that I waited in hourly expectation to receive some intelligence from Mr. Matthews which might be worth your reading, but alass! I am disappointed, for tho’ he has wrote me Several letters, he has omitted giving me the information I wish to obtain. 1 Nothing in my present situation, except seeing and conversing with my friends, could be more agreable than receiving letters from them, and give me leave to assure you, Sir, there is not one among the few I dare at this day call friends, whose correspondence I should higher value, or whose letters would be more eagerly and gratefully embrac’d, than those you shall at any time favor me with. The very polite and affectionate manner, in which you have express’d your wishes, respecting my health, and welfare, cannot fail to impress on a generous mind indelible sentiments of friendship, and excite grateful returns. When with horror I contemplate the ill timed, and worse calculated revolutions, alluded to in your letter, the convulsions they must occasion, and the train of distressing embarrassments that will consequently result therefrom, I am overwhelm’d with astonishment, and fill’d with holy indignation at the paracidical conduct of the authors. That “thing” for conducting your late department 2 appear’d in bye corners, and your letter of resignation thereupon sent to congress before I left camp. And I have the Satisfaction of reflecting, that I then fully join’d with my colleagues, in representing to congress, the probable consequences of your resignation, and of making a change of men or measures at so late a period in the campaign, and have shar’d largely in the honor of being censured for giving our sentiments upon the subject. And have to regret our sentiments had not then been more fully expressed,, in language emphatical, as the subject is important, which would then, as now, satiated my mind. When with a distress’d army, and injured country, I condole the loss of your abilities in the Q.M. Generals department, At the same time I do most cordially congratulate you as a friend, a Gentleman, and a general in our army, on the happy occasion of your being freed from an office, the duties of which you had faithfully discharged, with so much toil and fatigue, and which had ended in discontent and unmerited disgrace. But let me add I feel a degree of solace in reflecting that the rancour of our enemies, the enemies of our country, promp’d them no farther. The whole of the late conduct of C ss relative to you, Sir, and to the committee, had it appear’d in any other age than the present,


[Page 118]
84 September 19, 1780 department, for which see JCC, 17:615-35; and Samuel Huntington to Greene, July 26, 1780, note 2. 3 That is, Timothy Pickering. 1 Horatio Gates. 3 Gen. 49:14-15. 6 Peabody is probably referring to his long August 6 letter to Josiah Bartlett, in which he had characterized Congress as a “Grand Multiform’d Sanhedrin” which was “often times in the midst of a Fog.” Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philadelphia Sept 19 1780 In a Letter to Mr Appleton of the 17th 1 I desired him to inform you that I was well. I thank God I continue so, tho I am very sollicitous to know how it fares with you and my dear Connections in Boston. Our Friends at that Distance may be in their Graves before one may even hear of their previous Sickness. You cannot wonder then that I am in Anxiety every Moment. Upon this Consideration alone, the publick Service so far from ones Family, must be conceivd to be a Sacrifice of no small Value. The Man who has devoted himself to the Service of God and his Country will chearfully make every Sacrifice. I will not fail daily to commend you to the Care and Protection of Heaven, in Hopes of seeing you the next Spring. By a Letter of good Authority from Hillsborough in North Carolina dated the 9th of Septr we are informed that Colo Marian of South Carolina who commanded a Body of Militia had surprisd a Party of the Enemy near Santee River escorting 150 Prisoners of the Maryland Division. 2 He took the Party & releivd the Prisoners, & was on the March to Cross Creek, where General Gates had sent Lt Colo Ford with proper officers to conduct them to Hillsbro. When they joyn, our Loss in Continentals will be small in Comparison of what was expected. Pray send the Inclosd to Captain James Shepherd. Remember me to my Family & Friends. Adieu my dear, S Adams [Ry] My worthy Friend Arthur Lee is not yet arrivd. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Adams is referring to a copy of Gen. Horatio Gates’ September 9 letter to Thomas Jefferson, which was read in Congress this day. JCC, 18:837. It was also the subject of a note written by John Fell this day, which Fell appended as a postscript to the following brief September 18 letter to Moore Furman. “I hope you will excuse the freedom I take, in troubling you, to forward the inclosed letters [not found], for my Once good friend Mr. Parker, it came inclosed to me this day from Baltimore. . . . “Tuesday 12. 0 Clock We have just now had a Letter read from General Gates acquainting that a Coll Marrian of So Carolina, had Retaken all the Maryland


[Page 119]
September 19, 1780 85 Line consisting of 150, that they were then on their way to Hillsborrough, this is a good afair, As the Enemy now have very few Prisoners, taken with General Gates.” Jenkins Collection, PHi. Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia September 19th. 1780. Your two letters of the 30th of August and 9th of Sepr. I have had the pleasure to receive. That there have been and still are some members in Congress of a persecutting Spirit is not to be doubted or wondered at when we reflect that one of the best judges of Mankind choose only Twelve out of the whole lump, and one of his number was of that class. But to suppose that Congress take their tone from that Class appears to me rather censorious. And if we may Judge from their final determinations I think the Contrary will appear. A change of measures in the QM Generals department was in some measure become necessary. Clamours run exceeding high against the department in general and wheither upon Just or unjust grounds made but little difference the clammour was gone forth and persons of Influence were not wanted to blow the Cole. At the same time I altogether reprobate the making any general chainge in either of the great departments of the Army during the time they are in the field let the plan be almost ever so bad, but as soon as the Army was gone into Winter Quarters I should have agreed most cordially to many of the Alterations that are made and should have thought some others necessary upon principals of expediteing the business as well as that of Cteconomy. People in different stations of life are apt to think indifferently of each other as they do not feel the force of the difficulties that attend the other. The Gentlemen of the Army feel the difficulties and hardships that they are exposed to with all the severity attending, and are perhaps too apt to suppose they arise from want of Attention in Congress or a wicked disposition to distress them when perhaps the real cause arose from a train of disappointments that no humane prudence could foresee. I have lived the life of a Soldier for five years and I can say upon the word of an honest man I never passed a Summer so disagreablely as I have the present. Every day furnishing a new Catelogue of Complaints from the Army and other publick Creditors with out the means of Satisfying them on one Side, On the other a Series of Letters from governors and presidents in answer to letters pressing the states for money seting forth the exhausted state of their several Treasurys and the inability of their consituents to pay the Quotas of Taxes assessed upon them. After all what shall Congress do, Curse the states as some of the gentlemen of the Army


[Page 122]
88 September 19, 1780 of Virginea and North Carolina to use their utmost exertions to raise and feed an Army merely by piece meal with out any fixed plan. And by a letter receivd yesterday from the governor of Virginia 2 it appears a faction in favour of the Britons had lately broke out in three or four of the back Countys of that state where they had been always heretofore considered friendly to these states. A very Considerable Number had Inlisted tojoyn the Enemy but their plan was discovered and they were prevented. A letter came by the same hand from General Gates Informing that he had Intelegence, that Cornwallis was preparing to imbark his troops at George Town and go from thenc to cape Fare and then through the Country to Virginia and that he Cornwallis had parties out Collecting Waggons for that purpose And that four Thousand Troops from N York was to immediately take possession of Portsmouth in Virginia. How far this Intelegence is to be relyed on I cannot say. The old gentleman lays great stress upon it. But I thought sometimes last summer he was too fond of beleiving every story from the Enemy especially if it tended to distress us. I am with sentiments of Esteem, your most obedt,Hum Servant, E Cornell RC (OCIWHi: Norton Collection). 1 The committee considering the arrangement of the army, appointed to study proposals contained in Washington’s August 20 letter to Congress and consisting of Cornell, Samuel Adams, Joseph Jones, Thomas McKean, and John Morin Scott, brought in a report this day. It was debated the following day and adopted on September 21. However, Congress decided on the 22nd to suspend its action “until the Comee shall make a farther report”—chiefly on the subject of the artillery, cavalry, and engineer regiments and supernumerary foreign officers—which was finally submitted and adopted on October 3, 1780. See JCC, 17:786, 18:839, 842-44, 893-97; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, October 4, 1780, note 1. See also John Mathews to Washington, September 24, 1780, note 2. 2 Gov. Thomas Jefferson’s September 14 letter was read in Congress this day. JCC, 18:837. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir: Philadelphia, Sept. 19th, 1780. I do myself the honor to write your Excellency by this post; and am sorry to acquaint you that, notwithstanding public business of the most pressing nature is now suffering before Congress, we have spent three days to no purpose in the affair of Vermont, and are still engaged in the same business; and when we shall get clear of it I know.not, or what we shall do in the affair. The Yorkers treat the matter almost beyond the bound of modesty. I can only say I am sorry from my heart that Congress has taken up the matter, by their former resolution, in the manner they have And let us do what


[Page 123]
September 19, 1780 89 we will, I fear the most fatal consequences will follow I cannot give you particulars at this time. 1 By intelligence from several quarters, it appears the enemy are preparing to push their operations to the southward by the taking possession of Portsmouth, with a body of troops from New York, while Cornwallis endeavors to join them from the southward. Congress has in contemplation to raise an army of thirty-two thousand non-commissioned officers and privates, to be in the field by the first day of January next, at farthest, to serve one year at least, to consist of four regiments of cavalry, four of artillery, forty-nine of infantry, and one of artificers; the whole to be proportioned to the several states, and all the rest and residue of the regiments and corps to be reduced on the first day of January next. The above is the report of a committee which is not yet considered, and probably will undergo some alterations, but I think the substance will pass. 2 Our loss of Continental troops in the late infamous flight on the 16th of August, near Camden, is very inconsiderable to what was expected from the tenure of Gen. Gates’ letter of the 20th of August, from Hillsborough. Our people have retaken one hundred Continental prisoners, as the enemy were conducting them to Charleston. I have the honor to be your Excellency’s Most obedient, humble servant, Ezekiel Cornell. Reprinted from Staples, Rhode Island, p. 313. 1 For the “affair of Vermont” in Congress, see Samuel Adams to John Lowell, September 15; and John Sullivan to Meshech Weare, September 16, 1780. 2 For this report, see the preceding entry, note one. James Duane to Mary Duane Philadelphia 19th Septemr 1780 I long my dearest Polly most impatiently to hear of your own and our Childrens Health not having yet been blessed with a Line. Any Letters you favour me with will come safe by the Post. I have Reason to be thankful that I have not felt the least Indisposition since we parted and I want nothing but an assurance of your welfare to make me easy and resigned to the Station hard as it is to which my Country has appointed me. Indeed she wants all the Services of her Oldest Citizens, as our affairs are much perplexed for the Want of money. The Enemy we learn are again in Motion. Where they will make their assault is uncertain. Some think they will reinforce Lord Cornwallis in South Carolina; others that they will attempt to make a Lodgement in Virginia. None suppose that further Attacks upon the State of New York are probable. The first point to be settled


[Page 125]
September 19, 1780 91 regular Troops have acquired unfading Glory! I find with great Satisfaction that the Legislature of New York have fallen in with the Views of the Eastern Convention and particularly to strengthen the Hands of Congress and enable them to enforce their Decisions: We can never manage the publick Interests with Success till this Disposition becomes general: Nor can any thing else under the divine Blessing, be necessary to give Us a decided Superiority over our Enemies. We have now obtaind military Knowledge in an eminent Degree, we have internal Resources and Reputation abroad: we have a great and respectable Ally: of what then are we destitute but Vigour and Confidence in Government, and publick Spirit in Individuals. I shall be happy to be honourd with a Line after your Interview at Hartford if your Leisure admit. 3 I hope it will prove some Relaxation from the severe and anxious Cares which have fallen to your Share too long and with too much Weight. Permit me to add that I am with every Sentiment of the most affectionate Attachment and most perfect Regard, Dear Sir, your most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington wrote identical letters of September 9 to Duane and to Joseph Jones. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:18-19n.32. 2 See Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene, this date, note 1. 3 For Washington’s October 4 reply, written after his September 20-22 “Interview at Hartford” with the comte de Rochambeau, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:117-18. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doct. Philadelphia Sept. 19th 1780. I this moment received your two letters of the 3d and 9th Instant which I read with Satisfaction, all but the Account you have given of Janeys 1 health which is very distressing. You will let me Know by every post how She goes on. I wrote you by Mr. Pool giving you an Account of the Defeat of our Southern Army. The Accounts we have Since had from that quarter is more favourable than Could be expected Considering the Situation in which Gen. Gates left them, from the best Intelligence we have, not more than two hundred of the Regulars are missing. Our Army is Still much distressd for want of meat. They get one meal only in three days, and how long that Scanty allowance will Continue is uncertain. The Jersey Inhabitants in whose State the Army is, are plundered daily by partys of the Army, without a possibility of restraint—are not the worst of Consequences to be dreaded from the Armys thus Careing for themselves? Will not the affections of those people who


[Page 126]
92 September 19, 1780 have upon all Occasions Exerted themselves in Support of the Common Cause, be at length Alenated from the Army, and look upon them rather in the light of Robers and Enemies than the protectors of their rights? Is it not most Shameful that our Army Should be Starving and drove into Such measures, while the Country abounds with provisions? I am willing to believe that all our embarrassments proceed rather from the disjointed and deranged State of our finances, than the want of inclination or Ability in the united States to Carry on the War. Still I cant help thinking, that a want of proper Exertions in them, is in a great degree the Cause of the present distresses of the Army. Congress Can do no more than recommend—but as I observed before our difficulties principally arose from the want of money, and there Seems to be a fatality attending every measure that has been adopted to put our finances into order— the most probable Schemes have, by Some means or other been rendered ineffectual. The resolves of the 18th March promised fair, but am afraid will not answer the end proposed. How is the old money to be got in, and the new put into Circulation, while our Taxes are anticipated, and paid off with Certificates? Our present Situation is truly Alarming—the Army in want of every thing—no money in the Treasury, And our Credit Exausted. God grant us a Speedy, Safe and Honourable Peace. Congress had advice to day of the Arrival of Admiral Rodney at the Hook with twelve Sail of the line and four frigates 2 —that they had taken and brought in with them, a french frigate—that 5000 Troops are to be Sent from new york to the Southward. It is reported And I hope with good foundation that the Combined fleet from the West Indias is on the Coast. If so the french will be Superior, And may prevent the embarkation at new york from taking place. Last fryday General Smallwood was by an unanimous vote of Congress promoted to the Rank of Major General, And in my Judgment ought to take the Command of the Southern Army at least that our runaway General ought to be Suspended And an Equiry made into His Conduct. Am Sorry to Acquaint you that yesterday Morning Dyed much lamented Mrs. Reed the Presidents Lady. It is now Just 12 oClock the time the Post is Setting out, must therefore Conclude With my most affectionate Love to Mrs Hanson And Janey, who I hope will take all possible Care of her Self, use Exercise, and Conform to every thing that may Contribute to restore her to health. My love to Sammy and the little ones, who I hope are well, tho you have said nothing about them. My Compliments to my neighbours and friends And let Mr Potts Know the necessary enquiry Shall be made. Jack Addisons is a mad Scheme, in my Opinion it will ruin him. I have wrote you a long letter in hast. I am now very well tho’ have been much indisposed for a fortnight past. Farewell—Yrs. &c 3


[Page 128]
94 September 19, 1780 James Madison to Joseph Jones Dear Sir Sepr. 19th. 1780. Instead of a confirmation of the good news respecting the french fleet mentioned in my last, I have the mortification to inform you that it is pretty certain that Rodney has arrived at the Hook with 12 sail of the line from the W. Indies & 4 frigates. The report however still continues that a french fleet is somewhere on the coast. The arrival of Rodney is a proof that it had left the W. Indies and was conjectured to be coming hither. It is further said that 5 or 6000 troops would embark at N. York on the 25th inst. either for Virga, or S. Carolina. This is by no means probable. The danger of such a measure is too President Reed’s Lady has been buried this morning. She and Mr. Brymner the great musician were taken off by the Dysentery. Mr. Hodge, who was in France connected with the famous Cutter, was returning with 13 others from Sth. Carolina and died at Bohemia 40 miles off having survived all the others. Tricket our Stationer and Monsr. Damon our Brussels news monger are gone also; in short, 30 died on the night that Damon did. I hope you have better air and better Water than we; to say nothing of Wine as I am not in Capacity to draw any Comparisons about so strange a Liquor. We are in the Labyrinths of Vermont and are also driven to be contriving how to buy some Portion of that western World which the Big Knife 1 pretends to give to us. Give my Compliments to Mr. Gerry to whom I shall write by Col. Wigglesworth the Bearer of his Letter & order to me. Your affectionately, James Lovell RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 That is, Virginia. For further information on the discussion of the Virginia delegates’ proposals concerning the western lands, see the following entry. James Madison to Joseph Jones Dear Sir Sepr. 19th. 1780. Instead of a confirmation of the good news respecting the french fleet mentioned in my last, I have the mortification to inform you that it is pretty certain that Rodney has arrived at the Hook with 12 sail of the line from the W. Indies & 4 frigates. The report however still continues that a french fleet is somewhere on the coast. The arrival of Rodney is a proof that it had left the W. Indies and was conjectured to be coming hither. It is further said that 5 or 6000 troops would embark at N. York on the 25th inst. either for Virga, or S. Carolina. This is by no means probable. The danger of such a measure is too


[Page 130]
96 September 19, 1780 September 10, 1780. That day, before departing for Virginia where he hoped to persuade the assembly to accede to Congress’ appeal, Jones had introduced three resolutions establishing Virginia’s conditions for the proposed cession. See JCC, 17:808. Jones stipulated that the western territory be organized into states of specified size, that states ceding western land be compensated for maintaining military and civil establishments in the territory, and that all but military bounty lands be considered part of a “common fund,” thus voiding the tides to Indian lands acquired by private parties. The latter condition was a direct attempt to nullify the purchases of the great land companies. They were based, it should be noted, on suggestions that Jones had solicited from Virginia assemblyman George Mason, for which see Mason, Papers (Rutland), 2:655-63; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:72-78. Jones’ motion, which had been seconded by Madison, was referred on September 9 to a committee, consisting of Madison, John Henry, Whitmell Hill, Roger Sherman, and Artemas Ward, that reported on the 15th. Congress debated the report on September 18 and again on October 10 when it partially adopted the Virginia position by agreeing that western lands, once ceded, should be “settled and formed into distinct republican states” on an equal footing with the existing states, and that the cost of maintaining a military, though not a civil, presence in the territory should be reimbursed. By a tie vote, however, Congress postponed a decision on the validity of Indian land purchases, a source of contention that was not reconciled until 1784. Nonetheless, with this action Congress took the initial step in the creation of a national domain in the western territory. See JCC, 18:815-16, 828, 836, 915-16. See also Madison to Jones, October 17, 1780, note 1; and Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, January 30, 1781. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Philada. Sepr. 19th. 1780 Dear Sir I was in hopes when I wrote my last that I should be able by this post to congratulate you on the arrival of the french fleet from the W. Indies But so far is this from being the case, that it comes from authority which seems to have a just claim on our faith that Admiral Rodney is actually at the Hook with 12 Sail of the line & 4 frigates. It is still said however that a french fleet is somewhere on the coast. The arrival of Rodney is certainly an evidence that it had quited the Islands and was suspected to be coming hither. It is also given out at New York that a reinforcement of 4000 troops will arrive next month from England. Another part of our reports is that 5 or 6000 troops will embark at N. York on the 25th inst. for Virga, or S. Carolina: but it is not to be supposed that such a measure will be hazarded in the present ticklish state of things. 22 Sail of the Quebeck fleet are carried prizes into N. England. 1 I am Dr Sir with sincere respect, Yr. obt friend & Servt. J. Madison, Junr. P.S. The mortality in this place exceeds any thing ever remembered. The only person of note that occurs at present is the Lady of President Reed who fell a victim to it yesterday morning.


[Page 131]
September 20, 1780 97 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:93. 1 Washington had reported the capture of these prizes in his letters of September 9 and 10 which were read in Congress on the 12th and 14th, respectively. SeeJCC, 18:819, 824; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:21, 23-24. James Duane to Robert Livingston My dear & ever honourd Sir, Philadelphia 20th Septemr 1780 I make it a Rule to miss no opportunity of writing to you or my Polly; to both I have it not always in my power, and I wish you may consider what I address to her as equally intended for your own perusal. The News papers, to one or other, I shall forward by every opportunity. Our Loss of Men in the late General Engagement in South Carolina, tho’ from General Gates’s Account it appeard to be total, turns out inconsiderable: the Prisoners of the Maryland Line having been fortunately retaken. It may however be set down as a misfortune of considerable Extent as the Army then collecting for the Relief of South Carolina was dispersed, some of the Cannon taken, and the Militia much disgraced. Had they stood firm it is plain, from every Circumstance, that the Victory on our side woud have been decisive. A respectable Army is again collecting and will soon be ready to take the Field. The gallant Maryland Corps is reinforced by 500 Recruits of that Line, so that they will be much more formidable than before the late action in which they gave proof of Valour & Discipline scarcely to be paralleled. Admiral Rodney is arrived at the Hook with 8 or 10 Ships of the Line; and the combined fleet of France & Spain expected on the Coast. A naval Engagement therefore is not improbable. In the mean time great Embarkation is making at New York, it is said for Virginia; & that Sir Henry has invited the disaffected Refugee families of that State & Maryland to accompany him. The armed Neutrality for the freedom of Navigation may produce serious Effects. England declines the Claims of and Regulations of the Empress And the States declare that they will have Satisfaction for the Insult offerd to Count Byland their Admiral totally rejecting the Justification of that Transaction as explaind in the British Memorial. I continue to enjoy my Health but am most anxious to hear of that of my Polly and the Families of the Manshion from any of whom I have not a Line since my arrival. Will you be so good as to advise with Brother John respecting the disposal of my young Horses. The black Horse if at a moderate Expence I shoud like to keep to ride, the Mares maybe sold, for they do not answer Expectation not at all matching; and I cannot at present


[Page 133]
September 20, 1780 99 vide Magazines to supply them in Case of removal, although at the same Time it is to be hoped that Circumstances will not render their removal necessary; but that must be left to your Wisdom in Council to determine in Case of an Invasion. 1 Should you find the Measure necessary you will give seasonable Information thereof to Gover Lee to whom I have transmitted a Duplicate of the Act enclosed. 2 Should the report of the reinforcement of a french Fleet on this Coast prove true, there cannot be any Fear of an Invasion of Virginia. Your Excellency may be assured Congress will use every Exertion to supply Tents & Arms for the Militia of Virginia & Maryland, and at the same Time recommend to those States to leave no Steps untried to furnish those necessary & important Articles. I have The Honor to be &c, &c, &c, S.H. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). ‘ See JCC, 18:842. 2 Huntington’s letter to Gov. Thomas Sim Lee of Maryland is in the Red Books, MdAA; and PCC, item 15, fols. 111-12. 3 This day Huntington also sent a second letter to Jefferson (and to Gov. Thomas Sim Lee), enclosing a September 18 letter from Gen. Nathanael Greene. PCC, item 15, fols. 110-11. Greene had warned of the preparation of a British fleet at New York under the command of Adm. George Rodney destined for the Chesapeake. PCC, item 155, 1:431-34. Samuel Huntington to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, Philada September 20. 1780 I do myself the Honor to transmit you the Act of Congress enclosed of the 19 Instant, by which you will be informed, that in your Absence they will readily continue their Intercourse with the Embassy of his most Christian Majesty through M de Marbois as his Majesty’s Charge des Affairs in whose Abilities, & Attention to the Interests of the Court of France & these United States they have just Confidence. 1 I have the Honor to be, &c, &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 18:836-37. La Luzerne had just notified Congress of his impending absence from Philadelphia “for some weeks,” primarily to visit Rochambeau and Washington in New England, in a letter of September 16 which is in PCC, item 95, 1:154-57; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:59. Huntington also sent a nearly identical letter this day to the marquis de Barbe- Marbois enclosing the same congressional resolution. PCC, item 15. fol. 115.


[Page 135]
September 21, 1780 101 of December next, when the ensuing Delegation will commence. Perhaps the Empowering of one to give the Vote of the State for the remainder of the Year would be preferred; I only mention it. I would have requested that a Member might be appointed in my room, and myself no longer continued in the Delegation, but that the Time is not long, and I would not wish, by any Act of my own, to shew an Inclination to retire wholly from Congress at this Time of Difficulty. Were I to be thought of in the Appointment for the ensuing Year, my Reasons for declining would be instantly conclusive to every Body. In Addition to what is said above, I beg Leave further to remark; if it so happens that none of the present Delegates are in the appointment next year, the Gentlemen who then attend will find themselves much at a Loss, be their abilities what they may, and the Interests of the State may possibly suffer in some Point where a little Experience of any one Member, would secure it. With a View to Cases of this Nature, some of the States appoint their Members at two different Periods in the Year, six Months or thereabouts distant from each other, one Half at one the other at the other, that should a total Change take Place at either, they may not still be without one or more in Congress to whom the Routine of Business is familiar. I submit this Matter without further Explanation except that should Objections occur, it is my Wish no Concerns of mine, however near or interesting, may interfere with the essential Business of the State, or take up the Time of it’s representatives. 1 I am, Sir, your obedient humble Servant, Wm Churchill Houston RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Addressed: “Honorable the Chairman of the Joint meeting.” 1 Some of the concerns Houston voiced here were resolved on November 24 when the joint meeting of the New Jersey Council and Assembly elected three experienced delegates, Houston, Abraham Clark, and John Witherspoon, along with William Burnet and William Paterson, to constitute its new slate of delegates. However, New Jersey continued to require the vote of “any two or more of them” to cast the state’s vote in Congress. See JCC, 18:1111-12. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir Morristown 21 Sepr 1780 In my last, 1 I inform’d you of my ill state of health, and my Circumstances, but then hop’d to recover my health, and finish the report of the Committee, in a fortnight, which time is now expired— and I am not in a Situation on any account to Set off for home, tho, I recover my health daily—and hope in about two weeks from this to be able to ride so as to set out—by which time the report will be Compleated. Admiral Rodney with ten ships of the line and a


[Page 136]
102 September 21, 1780 Number of Small Craft has arrived off the hook—but as Genl Folsom who is now on his way home 2 will be able to give you the Common News here it is needless for me to write. As to those Cabinet matters I happen to be possess’d of I must defer mentioning till I see you which I hope will be in Short time. I am Dear Sir, your most obdt, & very Huml Sert, Nathl Peabody [PS.] Complements to those that wish well to our Cause. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See Peabody to Bartlett, August 6, 1780. 1 Nathaniel Folsom had obtained a leave of absence from Congress on September 15.JCC, 18:831. Richard Howly to Horatio Gates Sir. Philadelphia Septr. the 22d 1780 Major Magile, after being detained, for Some time, Setts off. The appearance of matters is Somewhat different, to that which it bore at the departure of Col. Senf. We then had an acct, of the Arrival of the French fleet and now we have certain advices of the Arrival of Admiral Rodney with ten Sail of the line at Sandy hook—and only the old report of the French fleet being on the Coast. Should this not be the case, I am in pain for the Ships under the command of the Chevalier de Ternay. We have accounts of an Embarkation preparing at York, the destination as is Said, for Virginia but nothing Certain—a Very few days will throw full light on this business. Congress will be desirous of hearing from you often—the accts, of the redemption of the 150 Marylanders was reed, with Satisfaction. We are Sensible of the many difficulties which attend you—especially in a line of offensive operations, which it is the Wish of your friends you might be Enabled to undertake as Soon as possible. May I have the honor to be, Sir, with much truth, yr. huml. & Obedt. Servt. Richd. Howly [PS.] I send you a few English papers. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council Gent. Philadelphia Sep. 22d. 1780 This will be handed to you by Colo Blane, who will lay before your Excellency and Honors, A Resolve of Congress, 1 recommending


[Page 137]
September 22, 1780 103 to the State of Maryland, to furnish five hundred head of Cattle, for the immediate use of the Army. The great distress the army have for some time past been under, and which Still Continues for want of meat, have induced us to approve of that resolution, and beg leave to recommend it to your Excely and Honors, as a measure absolutely necessary to be Complyed with; and hope you will give Colo. Blane every Assistance in your power in procuring them—if by Complying with the above resolution a Deficiency in the Quota of Meat heretofore required by Congress of the State of Maryland, Should be Occasioned, we think the State will Stand Justly excused. We have the honor to be with much esteem, Your Excellencys & Honors most hble Servts. Daniel of St Tho Jenifer John Hanson John Henry RC (MdHi: Red Books). 1 See JCC, 18:843. The resolve was actually transmitted to Gov. Thomas Sim Lee by Pres. Samuel Huntington in a letter of September 23, in which he explained that Col. Ephraim Blaine was “prevented by indisposition” from going to Maryland as planned. Red Books, MdAA; and PCC, item 15, fols. 117-18. Nathaniel Peabody to Benjamin Lincoln Dear sir, Morris Town Sepr. 22d 1780 The small though agreable personal acquaintence, I had the honor of having with you, at the time I found you in a disagreable situation at Bennington; 1 induces me now to address you. I have for some time been unwell at this place, but am now on the recovery, and employed in finishing the report of the Committee of Congress lately sent to Head Quarters, which will detain me here for the space of ten days yet to come, and hearing you were at Elizabeth Town have desir’d Mr. Brown, a gentlemen who has for some time been employed in our Office, to take the liberty of calling on you with my compliments to request, if it should be convenient in your present tour to come by way of Morris Town that you will not fail to honor me with a Visit. I most sensibly feel for you on account of your situation, and for the many fatigues, trials, and distressing embarrassments you have had to encounter, in defence of our native Country, since your entering the present glorious conflict, and which so far as has come within my knowlege, you have surmounted with a judgment, and fortitude that would have done honor even to the first General in America Though I am not insensible that the ignorant and envious will always endeavor to place even unavoidable misfortune and censure in the same class.


[Page 138]
104 September 22, 1780 In hopes of the pleasure of a visit from you, shall beg leave to subscribe, your sincere friend, Most Obedt. & very humble servt. Nathl Peabody. RC (NjR: New Jersey Letters). In the hand of Benjamin Brown and signed by Peabody. i That is, at the time of the Battle of Bennington in 1777. 2 Peabody also wrote a second letter this day, to Abraham Skinner the new commissary of prisoners, asking his assistance in procuring spectacles for his failing eyes. . “My late illness has made it Necessary for me to have recourse to artificial Eyes as Auxiliaries to the Natural ones and induces me to trouble you upon the occasion. If you Can without too much trouble and will be so very obliging as to procure three pair of Green Spectacles, with double Jointed Stell Springs, viz 1 pr. for a person about 35 years old, 1 pr. 40 & the other pair from 50 to 60—and one pair of spectacles of white pebble, with Silver bows & Springs double Jointed—these to be Number 22, and Genteel with a Suitable Case—and send them with an acct, of the Cost and Expense to me at Colo Harrisons Morristown that I can have them within ten or twelve days at furthest, I will pay the hard money for them on Sight of your order to any person you shall please to direct. . . . P.S. I should not have troubled you on this occasion but there is not a pair to be found here that will Suit, and thought it probable you might procure them at Eliza Town or elsewhere in your Travels.” Miscellaneous Revolutionary Correspondence, Nh-Ar. Samuel Huntington to Timothy Pickering Philada September 23. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 22 Instant, authorizing the Board of Treasury to deliver you Bills of Exchange to the Amount of six thousand five Hundred & six Dollars for the Purpose of purchasing Tents for the Use of the southern Army. 1 I am Sir &c &c, S.H. PSI was honored with your Letter the Day you left the City. 2 S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). i JCC, 18:846. 2 Not found, but apparently one dated September 16, the day he set oil for the army,” according to his letter of that date to Charles Marshall. Pickering Papers, MHi. Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philada September 24. 1780 * You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 19 Instant, 1 directing the Commander in Chief to enquire of Sir Henry


[Page 141]
September 24, 1780 107 of that inchanting metal called gold, & there will be one strong incentive to their accepting the largest sum, which is, the people have strongly imbibed a notion that the war cannot last more than a year or two longer, therefore I suppose they will readily enough imbrace the old proverb “a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.” Much more may be said on the subject, but your Excys experience, & knowledge of these matters renders it unnecessary. This was the plan sir I proposed, but after a very long, & warm debate, it was rejected, & what I have before mentioned, substituted. I am extremely anxious to have yr. Excys opinion on this matter, therefore must earnestly request it of you, I mean it only for my private information, as the business is already determined, & I suppose will not be altered. 3 There is one objection I am aware of, that is, the enormous expense it would create. To this I would answer it is better at once to incur the most enormous expense, & let there be an end of it, than to be every year running into very heavy expences, to answer little, or no valuable purpose, on the contrary, rather tending to throw our affairs into the utmost confusion. The reduction of the batallions, & consequently of a great many oficers, yr. Excy will at once see the propriety of keeping private, untill finally determined by Congress. 4 I have the honor to be, with the highest respect And the most sincere Esteem, Yr. Excys most Obedt servt, Jno. Mathews RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Mathews to Washington, September 15, 1780 2 A report on a new arrangement of the army had been submitted on September 19 and “agreed to” on the 21st, but because planned revisions in the artillery, cavalry, and engineer regiments had not yet been reported, Congress voted the following day to suspend the resolves and Secretary Thomson added the following note in the margin of the journals to explain his revised entry. “By a vote of the house on reading the journals next morning [i.e., September 22] it was resolved that this be taken of[f] the journal until the Comee shall make a farther report.” The provisions adopted on September 21 were therefore subsequently incorporated into the journal entry of October 3 when additional committee recommendations were adopted that day, and both sets of resolutions were combined under the later date in the printed edition of the journals prepared by Gaillard Hunt. See JCC, 18:893-97; PCC, item 1, 29:35-38, 96-97; and Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene, September 19, 1780, note 1. For an analysis of the provisions of the arrangement of October 1780, which specified the organization of the Continental Army for 1781 and required the states to provide recruits for not less than one year if they were unable to meet their quotas with troops enlisted for the duration of the war, see Wright, The Continental Army, pp. 154-61. 3 For Washington’s October 4 reply, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:113-16. 4 For Mathews’ continued discussion of the new arrangement for the army, see Mathews to Washington, October 17, 1780.


[Page 152]
118 September27, 1780 And in the mean Time I wish to be informed of what particular Discoveries you may have made as particularly as may be. I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 For Greene’s letters to Huntington, which were received on September 26 and 27 respectively, see JCC, 18:867—68; and PCC, item 155, 1:435-42. 2 With his letter of the 25th, Greene had enclosed one of the same date from Alexander Hamilton reporting “the blackest treason.” “Arnold has fled to the Enemy,” Hamilton explained. “Andre the British Adjt. Genl, is in our possession as a spy. His capture unravelled the mystery—West Point was to have been the sacrifice.” Since Greene was in command at Headquarters during Washington’s temporary absence, he was advised to put the army under marching orders immediately in case yet unknown aspects of the plot were still in train. Hamilton s letter is in Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:440-41; and PCC, item 155, 1:443-44. Samuel Huntington to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia September 29, 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 28 Instant, by which I am ordered to transmit you the other Papers enclosed to which it refers. 1 The Originals were found among General Arnolds Papers in this City which have been lately seized. I have the Honor to be, with Sentiments of Esteem & respect, your Excellency’s most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The enclosed resolve simply explained that Benedict Arnold’s recently seized papers in Philadelphia indicated that he had formerly had commercial connections with John R. Livingston, who as a precautionary measure was apparently to be watched in case Arnold’s treasonous plot had unsuspected ramifications involving former associates. SeeyCC, 18:871. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia September 29. 7 oClock P.M. 1780 I am honored with your Excellency’s Despatches of the 26 Instant, which will he laid before Congress in the Morning. 1 We had before received Intelligence from General Greene, that Genl Arnold was gone over to the Enemy. Immediately Orders were given to search & seize his Papers & Effects to be found here, which was speedily executed, but I am not yet advised of what particular Discoveries have been made.


[Page 153]
September 30, 1780 119 With Congratulations on your Return to the Army, I have the Honor to be, your most obedient Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. i JCC, 18:876. Washington’s letter to Huntington concerning Benedict Arnold’s treason is in PCC, item 152, 9:199-202; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:91-93. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir Philada. 30 September 1780 A new apportionment of the Quotas of Men in the several States will take Place in a little Time. It has, in my Opinion, been too long delayed, as the Troops for the next Campaign ought to be in the Field by the 1st of January coming, to give proper Opportunity of Manoeuvring and fitting them for active Field-service. I hope it is the settled sentiment of the State, and of their Representatives in Legislature, to make no more Enlistments for short Periods, but to take measures for raising a solid permanent Force to serve during the War. I am convinced, from the most satisfactory Examination, that the Disbursements we have this year made in New-Jersey for partial Recruits, would have nearly, if not quite, produced our Proportion of Enlistments for the war. Perhaps I might say they would have done a great Deal more. It gives me Pleasure to inform you that the Preference of recruiting for the War is become general, and, if diligendy practised upon, will be of inumerable good Consequences to the Union in general, and to each separate State in particular; more especially those which are the Seat of the War, or in the Vicinity of it. The Legislature will be glad to begin their Preparations early. This Circumstance is essencial to their Success and Effect. I have therefore used all possible Attention to get them the necessary Information. Our Quota will be about 1200 Men; I say this, not with perfect Certainty, because the Resolutions are not yet passed but with a Probability which may be pretty securely relied on; and if it should be a few over or under, it is better to risque that than to suffer the least Delay. The return of our Brigade the 1st current is as follows 1 Regiment 247 Rank and File 2 Do 320 3 Do 263 on Spencer’s of the addi[ti]onal 59 889 There are a few more in some other Corps, I cannot ascertain what is the Amount. Nor do I know what Number of these are upon limited


[Page 154]
120 September 30, 1780 Enlistments, but believe not many. However your Excellency by writing to the Commander in Chief, will obtain full Satisfaction upon every Particular; and he will give it with the highest Pleasure on hearing the State are adopting means to render their Quota of Force [ope]rable; as it has been the Source of inexpressible wretchedness and Suffering to him, when his Army has, from Time to Time, mouldered away under his Eyes, upon short Engagements. We may set down our present Deficiency from 250 to 300 Rank and File; perhaps the Medium between these Extremes will be tolerably exact. This is upon the Quota expected to be established, which will, we hope, be more nearly conformed to our Ability and just Proportion than some of the former have been. 1 I will not venture to say that this, that or the other mode of raising these men will be the best. The wisdom of the Legislature, comprehending fully the Ideas and Circumstances of the People in every Part of the State, will decide judiciously on this Object. I will only say that a few hard Dollars on the Drum-head, are a mighty Engine in recruiting; not indeed decisive with all, but with most who take up the Profession of Soldiership. A Specie-tax to the Amount, can, I should think, be collected without Difficulty; for if we compute every recruit to cost from 50 to 55 Dollars, which is not the lowest Bounty, the Duplicates would not average perhaps more than 6/3: and would it not be better for a man of any Substance or Business to pay ten Times that Sum, than submit to the Inconveniences we have suffered for several years past. The State of Maryland have lately raised about 500 Men to serve during the war, by assessing the proportionate number on each District throughout the State, the Districts to produce the Men as they could get them; the Bounty to be raised by Assessment of the taxable Estates of the District. If I am not mistaken, the Mode is similar to that we have more than once taken to raise Men for a few Months. Will endeavour to procure and forward a Copy of the Law, as it may possibly be preferred to try different Methods, if they can be prevented from interfering in their Operation. I have been informed that some of the States who have Militia with the Army for the present Campaign, have recruited many of them for the War by putting some hard Money into the Hands of their Officers at Camp; and that some have been enlisted for that Period on the Notes of the Officers, engaging to pay the Bounty in hard Money at a stipulated Time. Perhaps some of the Men we have there might be obtained in this Way; and as it would not take long to raise so small a Tax as is before mentioned, it may be worth considering whether we had not better set about it immediately. It is to be hoped that the Clothing for the Army will arrive from abroad in some short Time, and a Suit to each Man enlisting, which the


[Page 155]
September 30, 1780 121 Comander in Chief is empowered to order, would be no inconsiderable Temptation. On the Circumstance of the Bounty, mentioned above, I observe, that it seems to be the Sum generally thought of. In hard Dollars it would make a powerful Show, especially as such have, for Some Time past, been very little in Sight. Gentlemen from the different Counties will be able to determine whether any Thing less would be sucessful, or whether more will be necessary. It is pretty certain Congress will fix upon that, or Something near it. The Adopting and Executing of decisive Measures to fix a respectable Army in the Field for the Continuance of the war, will have a great Effect in securing an early Peace. The Nation we contend with, being old and settled in its Forms of Government and War, are more alarmed at seeing fixed Institutions and established Resources, though they should not be the most perfect and pro ductive, than they are with the most formidable temporary Expedi ents. It would therefore be a desirable Thing to have a constant, standing mode of keeping our Quota of Troops full from Campaign to Campaign, and Time to Time, without being under the Necessity to pass a Law for that Purpose every Year, and perhaps oftener; and this, even if we were in Expectation of a Peace within a few months, because that is a matter of Uncertainty, and this would be a Means of procuring it. One of the Recommendations of Congress will be as has been the Case heretofore, to keep a proper Officer or Officers constantly employed in the State for enlisting Recruits, and to direct the Officers at the Army to pay constant attention to the same Thing when Militia or temporary aides are detached to serve with them on Special Occasions. For this Purpose Money ought to be lodged in the Hands of the Executive, and of the Commanding Officer of the Troops of the State. I have written your Excellency thus particularly, because I have this Subject greatly at Heart, and am convinced that the Interest of the State is much concerned in it. I hope in a little Time to be able to forward you the Proceedings of Congress respecting it, but as these may be delayed longer than is expected “I could wish the Occasion not to be lost, as every Day is precious. I am afraid the Army will crumble down again this Fall by the Expiration of Enlistments, and the State will again find it self in the perilous Situation it has seen more than once. It is true it wd be little available if only we perform the Duty we owe ourselves and to our Country, and the other States are delinquent. This however would not hold as an Excuse and the less so as we are most immediately interested. But I have better Hopes of all the States, some of whom are already at Work. I have to beg Your Excellency will communicate this Letter with the Assistance which your Advice and better Reasoning is able to


[Page 160]
126 October 2, 1780 succeeded, and was twenty miles in his Return, when he was stopped by 4 Militia Men, without an officer, who being directed by Inspiration, would not suffer him to pass without a Search, in which the above papers were discovered, and they conducted him to the nearest Continental officer, as a Spye who immediately dispatched an Express to inform Arnold that there had been a Spye in his Camp, and that he was apprehended, at the same time described him so as to satisfy Arnold that it was Andree, on which, he immediately pushed down the River to a British Frigate, then lying about 15 Miles below; had this event took place it must have affected us more than any stroke we have reed since the War; as our Army would have been immediately cut off from the total supply of Meat, and had the British pushed their Arms into the Eastern States, there would have been no Regular Army to oppose them, and no Bread to have supported the Militia had they collected, in fact, I look on such an escape as equal to a small Victory. On Arnolds running to the Enemy, his papers at this place were siezed, and several of our speculating Gentry are discovered as being connected with him in Scenes of villainous Traffic with the Enemy &c. Yr. Friend Jas. Maise’s Reputation suffers no small stain in consequence of these discoveries, among others; none of them have been apprehended yet, but suppose necessary steps will be fallen upon to punish such Treason. 1 RC (Nc-Ar: Burke Papers). 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Hill to Burke, October 9, 1780. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 2 October 1780 Your Excellency has doubtless received, officially from the President, the Resolutions of Congress of 26 August last; 1 the Journals of that month for the Use of the legislature have also been forwarded. The Recommendation for drawing in the old Bills of Credit, by Tax or Excha[nge] is exactly conformable to the Provisions made by the Act of Assembly of 9 June last. Our State was almost the only one who took the Precaution of [setting] an Exchange; all now see the Propriety of it. Without Doubt that [. . .] is an apparent Loss to the Community, if the Bills can be made to circulate at,] or nearly at, their value; but it does not appear to me a real [. . .] Detriment of having the old Bills in Circulation along with the new [. . .] length of Time, would be much greater. It is certainly the univer[sal in]terest to have the old Bills destroyed as soon as possible, and I add [. . .] also; after these are sunk as the law prescribes, it will be the Wisdom [. . .] Country to have no more Paper-credit. When Trade is free we may [have] Specie enough; nothing ever made Paper Necessary


[Page 161]
October?, 1780 127 to us but the Dependence of America on Great Britain. It is only a Sign of the Sign of Wealth delusive and ensnaring by making People think they are richer than they are while it is but a mortgage on their future Industry, for which they will ever pay more than it is worth. Necessity only could justify the Use of it in the present Instance. Two Things I will mention tending greatly to help the new Bills Credit when issued. Taxes as high as the People can conveniently pay, as near as possible to the publick Expenditures; and the Payment of these Taxes in the new Bills or Specie. If Taxes could keep Pace with th[e] Expenditures the Bills would be in full Credit at all Times to the End of their Term; therefore Taxes payable in them must be a good Mean[s.] With this View the three-Millions-Tax is recommended to be raised with[in] the present year, payable in these Bills or Specie. In our State, however and some others, it will not have the fullest Opportunity, as Certificates for Debts, due from the Community to Individuals, are intended to be received and must be made so from Necessity. Our Quota of this Tax is a fif[th] Part of the monthly Assessment of the State, as settled 7 October 1779, name[ly] 180,000 Dollars, or sixty-seven thousand five Hundred Pounds. If the Certificates in the States were proportionably distributed in the several Counties this Tax would be very easily paid, especially if proper Barriers were erected against Fraud, and they were allowed to be transferable. There are more than Certificates enough to pay it. It would be politick also, as we thereby discharge so much of our national Debt in an easy Way, while other States pay Money. The Transference of Certificates I have ever been opposed [to] as it has a direct Tendency to depreciate circulating Money by increasing it’s Quantity without Limitation, and could only be advis[able] on the prospect of getting in the Certificates at once. We cann[ot rep]ay them in Money consistendy with other Calls, and their Source of [disco]ntent to the People is very great. But if the Certificates are not [jus]tly distributed, or cannot become so by Transfer, there may be a Difficulty] in collecting this Tax which ought to be considered, provided the Taxes [. . .] by the Act of 9 June last are as much as can possibly be paid in Money [. . .] or none of the old Bills come in by Exchange, they must come in by Tax; if they do come [in] by Exchange, the Taxes laid by the Act just mentioned May be paid at a fourtieth Part in Specie or the new Bills. However, as those Parts of the State which have no Certificates, or but few, have probably sold their Produce for Money, which is therefore more plentiful in those Parts; and as most People I find, consider the Taxes in themselves very easy and light, I would willingly hope that the Legislature will put this recommendation in Practice without Loss of Time. It will be of great Advantage to the Publick by paying Debts, and, it would seem, of no less to the State when duly attended to.


[Page 162]
128 October?, 1780 I find it is the Opinion of many that the United States could tax up to the Expenditures of the War, if Economy were properly established in the publick Departments. This with me, is a doubtful Position. Certain it is we could come much nearer it than we have hitherto. It has been the principal Business of Congress for some Time past, to retrench Expenses; and in this View the Scarcity of Money has been of real Use. One third is paired off already, and much may and will yet be done. I am, with great Respect, your Excellencys obedient humble Servt, Wm Churchill Houston RC (NN: Livingston Papers). RC torn. 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, September 2, 1780. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 2 October 1780. Enclosed your Excellency will please to receive my humble Respects of 30th ult and of this Day. No. 1, Letter from General Greene, comanding the Army in the Absence of the Comander in Chief, to the President of Congress, of Date 25 Septr. ult. 11 o’Clock at Night; enclosing No 2, of that Day’s Date, from Lt Col. Hamilton, one of General Washington’s Aids. No 3, Letter from General Washington to the President of Congress, dated 26 Septr. ult, enclosing No 4 from B. Arnold to General Washington, dated 25th. No 5 Summary of late Intelligence from New-York. 1 Being scarce of Time, am to beg your Excellency will Communicate the Intelligence contained in these Papers to the Legislature. Instead of abstracting the News respecting Arnold’s Treason and Flight, I have sent the Letters which contain all the authentick Particulars we have received. The Materials are before a Committee and a proper State of Facts will be published by Order of Congress. On Saturday Night last Arnold was carried in Effigy through the Streets of this City, and burnt at the Coffee-House, with his Friend the Devil, in the Presence of thousands of Spectatours. I am, with great Regard, your Excellency’s humble Servt. WC Houston RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 The numbered enclosures concerning the discovery of Arnold’s treason, which are in Houston’s hand, are in the Livingston Papers, NN. For the reception of these letters in Congress, see Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene, September 27 and to Washington, September 29, 1780.


[Page 163]
October2, 1780 129 Benjamin Huntington to Oliver Ellsworth Dear Sir. Philadelphia Octor.[2?] 1780 1 You will before this arrives have some Account of the Infernal Treason of Genl. Arnold who has in Fact been a Scourge to America Since the beginning of the Present War. The Inclosed 2 Contains what has been already Published Concerning him and his Associates in this Part of the Country. His Effigies with that of his Master were Carried through the Streets of this City in the Evening of the thirtieth of Septr and Burnt at Market Street Wharf amist the Shouts of the Greatest Concourse of People I ever Saw. His Plot was at once to Betray the Commander in Chief with the Marquis De la Fyatt and Deliver up West Point into the Hand of the Enemy, but it was happily Discovered by Means of the British Adjutant General taken as a Spy. I shall Transmit you the Next Publications which will Doubtless give a full Account of the Affair as Represented to Congress. Mr Sherman will Give you an Account of the Late Doings of Congress to Whom I Refer you. I must beg Your Care to Inform the Gentlemen who Come next to Congress that they Must bring Money from home for their Expences as Congress have Resolved that the Delegates Draw no more from the Continental Treasury unless under Absolute Necessity meaning the Necessity of Such Delegates as Represent States in the Hand or Power of the Enemy. I wish to be Relieved before my Term Expires but shall be at Liberty the first of Novr. at all Events, 3 the Gentlemen will not Neglect to be here by that Time. I hope you will find it in your Way or heart (I Care not which) to Come yourself. I have Wrote the Inclosed Application to the Pay Table for a Draught of 160 Dollars of the New Emission for the Purpose of my Expences and to Clear my Debts before I Can Come home. I will Esteem it a Great Kindness if you will Present them the Enclosed Draught & Git the Money and Transmit by the Gentlemen who are Coming, it must be Exchanged for Old Continental as the New will not Pass here and I am afraid it will not for some Time as it has not yet appeared in this City and has some Powerful Enemies who will Do all they Can to Prevent its Passing at all. Any Trouble you Shall be at on my Account will be Retaliated with Pleasure & Gratitude when in my Power. I am with Esteem & Respect, Sir your Most Obedt. Huml Servt, Benj Huntington RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.5). Addressed: “To Hone. Oliver Ellsworth Esqr., Hartford, Connecticut. Per Hone Mr. Sherman.” 1 Although Huntington omitted the day from the dateline of this letter, he probably wrote it on October 2. Roger Sherman, who carried this letter to Connecticut,


[Page 164]
130 Octobers, 1780 obtained a leave of absence from Congress on October 2 and apparendy last attended Congress on October 3. JCC, 18:891, 893. 2 Probably the Pennsylvania Packet of September 30. 3 Actually Huntington’s credentials stated that he had been appointed to represent Connecticut “until the first Monday of November next,” or November 6, 1780. JCC, 16:219. Since he was subsequently entrusted with the delivery of a November 9 letter to Connecticut, it is clear that he remained in Philadelphia to the end of his term. See Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, November 9, 1780. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Phila. Octr. 2d. 1780 I have been confined to my room almost a week and a great part of the time to my bed. As soon as I can travel with safety I shall set out for Maryland. 1 Congress have it not in their power to do much service at present having neither Credit or Money, in such a distressed situation, who could wish to be of that body? I do not know what is to be done with Gates. Our Brave Officers & Troops are prevented from receiving that Tribute which is justly due to their Merit, because it can not be done through him, and to do it through another channel would be condemning Gates it is said unheard. As General Smallwood is a Majr General I think the Command ought to be given to him. The Commander in chief probably has, or soon will appoint a Successor, for I take it for Granted that Gates will undergo a Court of enquiry as to his precipitate flight. We have not heard from Genl Washington for several days. What has been done with Andre is not known; whether he is to be executed as a Spy, or pardoned on discovery of accomplices, is yet uncertain. We have reason to believe that the Spaniards have Sailed from the Havannah with upwards of 20 Sail of the Line & 20 thousand Troops for Pennsacola & Augustine. But not a word from the French Fleet I am apprehensive they have quitted these Seas. With my respectful [...],! am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate friend, Daniel of St Thos. Jenifer RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Jenifer’s illness prevented him from leaving Philadelphia for another week, for which see John Hanson to Lee, October 9, 1780, note 3. For Jenifer’s involvement in an effort to alter John Jay’s instructions regarding the free navigation of the Mississippi River a few days later, see James Madison s Notes on Marbois “Observations,” October 6-16? 1780, note 2.


[Page 166]
132 October?, 1780 This matter will be Debated tomorrow & I hope the Most Decisive Measures will be pursued. Spain has requested to know if we will build Frigates for her, this will be Determined tomorrow & I hope in the affirmative as it will be a means of Introducing Large Quantities of Specie among us—which must Eventually become our Circulating medium as paper cannot much Longer answer the purpose—it is Easy to keep up the Credit of paper by Seasonable Taxes; but to restore it to Credit after it has been Imprudently Suffered to Depreciate requires more than Humane wisdom. I have the honor to be with the highest Sentiments of Esteem & Respect Dear Sir yr most obedient & very Humble Servant, Jno Sullivan RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Probably Sullivan’s letter to Weare of September 16. Nathaniel Folsom had obtained leave from Congress on September 15. JCC, 18:831. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philade Octobe 3d 1780 1 I had the Pleasure last Week of receiving your very affectionate Letter of the 14th of Septr by the Post. You did not tell me expressly that you was well; a material Circumstance which you must never omit to mention. It is a great Satisfaction to me to be informd that Mr Arthur Lee was respectfully treated by my Friends. My Friends are his, and I beleive on the same Principle. But Mr 2 has not seen him. Is not Mr my Friend? He professes to be such, and I verily beleive he is as much so as he can be. If I could always adjust my Ideas of Politicks to his Views, I might perhaps ensure the most flattering Expressions of his Friendship. I expect soon to see it announcd in the Papers that Mr Hancock is elected Governor of the Common Wealth of Massachusetts. 3 I confess I did not foresee that Boston would have been so united as I find they were, when two such Candidates as he and Mr. Bowdoin were set up. Their respective Characters, Abilities and Merit were well-known to the Electors, who therefore acted with their Eyes open. It is to be presumd they have been influencd to this Choice by the pure Motives of publick Affection. A due Attention to the Administration of Government I fancy, will soon determine whether they have acted with Wisdom or not. By the inclosed Papers you will observe that the late General Arnold, after having committed the blackest Treason against his Country, has thrown himself into the Arms of its Enemies. The Particulars youl see in the Paper. You know that I have had my Suspicions of this Traitor, and therefore it is not wonderful that I


[Page 172]
138 Octobers, 1780 James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Sir, Octr. 3d. 1780 Your Favor of Sepr. 18th reached me yesterday. I believe I have acknowledged the Rect. of those by Col. Wigglesworth, already by post. I have certainly written an Answer by him tho’ he is yet not yet gone. 1 His affair was only finished yesterday. He will deliver you all your Bills of Exchange and Loan Certificates. I could use none for Want of yr. Endorsemt. as I did not timely think of that Circumstance & take Certifts. of the Interest Money in my own Name. I presume it will not derange you if I draw on you for 5325 Dollars by him to repay me for 2451 11/90 Commissary 1718 Horses 570 To Shelden 520 Tickets 66 60/90 Mr. Smith to equalize a Certif[ica]te 5325 71/90 I wish you had not gutted the Story about d d R s. It is hard to tell whether we are Rogues, Raskals or Rebels. I do sincerely desire to know the Story so as to conduct my self on good Grounds. It has strong Features. I ask the names. Even as it is I do not think I shall be able to refrain from putting Mr. Mathews upon Exculpation. 2 Arnold has now, for the first Time, shocked you with his Baseness of Heart. He has made it difficult to tell what is undue Jealousy in such a War as ours. He has turned People mad here. There is an infamous use made of his Doings in this Day’s Paper regarding Genl. Lee it is diabolically far strained. I am far from well tho’ I have been forced into the Practice of Tartar Emetic, Sal Merseille & Warm Baths. From feverish Weathers we have a Change of the cold bilious Kind. I notice what you say very justly about Embarrassments. It took the Frogs Time to know the Difference between a Log & a Stork. Let other Societies take time to examine minutely their Tertium-Quid. I shall endeavor to follow your Wishes if Jones arrives here from France while I am on the Status. Mrs Clymar hopes to be brought to drink your Health by Way of a Salt Mackrel. She only does it now by Way of motherly Affection. Whenever you have made any Settlemt. of yr. Accts, let me know the mode of Estimating my Time & Service that I may endeavor to settle my affairs in that Kind. Mr. & Mrs. Plater are here. She submits to the Trouble of lodging up two Pr. of Stairs rather than not be in Philada. with her Husband


[Page 173]
Octobers, 1780 139 and He I presume wishes to be near his former Intimates. I wish it was so that I could better their Accommodations. Yr. affectionaly, J.L. [RS-] Mr. Adams desires very particularly that I would send Compliments while his “shaking hand” is otherwise necessarily employed. RC (MHi: Gerry Papers). 1 See Lovell to Gerry, September 26, 1780. 2 See Samuel Adams to James Warren, this date, notes 4 and 5. James Lovell to Samuel Holten Dear Sir Oct. 3d. 1780. I thank you for your Remembrance of Sepr. 21st. I hope your absence of four weeks was for the purpose of enjoying Health, not to seek it. Oh Doctor, I feel at this moment, Let me say it without wilful offence to any Class of Men! I feel, Doctor, like a forlorn old cold sour Batchelor. Tartar Emetic warmed me a little but Sal Sennet has made me blue to the Fingers Ends. A pretty Figure of a Gentleman I am indeed to go to Congress in raw northeast drizly weather to contrive how to raise feed cloath & pay an Army without one dollar in the Treasury! Very genial Employment to be sure it will be to listen to all the minute Detail of the Circumstances of a black-died treason! By the Bye Doctor, you are so good a Soul that “Altho’ you have been a little perplexed about his accounts, you could not have thought that the honorable Gentleman would have done Juft so as he has done.” You see I am not too sick to divert myself by taking you off in your own Style: for I am sure you have not been brought to say any Thing more uncomplimentary of Major General Benedict Arnold. Oh, dear Doctor, this Laugh of mine has its attendant Sigh. To what alas! are we exposed in this best of earthly Struggles! When will our Country be at Rest & her Liberty secured?!!! I have I think already done myself the pleasure of sending you the Journals you mention. I renew the numbers which you may give into the Secretary’s office for common Use if you find your own compleated since your Date of Request. Your Friend & h. Servt. James Lovell [Ris'.] Compliments to Mr. Avery. I thank him for returning the Index. I will not omit water Carriage for the Journals of 1778 for him tho’ he has not yet acknowledged those sent by Capt. Burke for 1777. He told me once he had not got them but I suppose he


[Page 176]
142 Octobers, 1780 Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council Gentlemen Philadelphia Octo 3d 1780 From the last return of the Clothier Gen’s, dated in August, there appeared to be about one thousand Suits of Clothing on hand; besides which, there are in the hands of the different purchasing Agents, Cloath enough for 3500 Suits, linen for 20,000 Shirts, Baize (which was a Considerable time Ago ordered to be Milled) for 14,000 Blanketts, a great Sufficiency of Shoes, and Variety of Articles for the Summer Season, Such as linen Overhalls, Hunting Shirts &c. Out of the Stock which was on hand in August, the new raised Maryland regiment has been Supplied. The deficiency of Clothing, which is necessary to be made up, depends principally on the Supplies expected from France, which it is more than probable will not now Arrive in time—be assured we Shall allways endeavour to have Strict Justice done our Troops, in the distribution of what Cloathing there is now on hand, and also of Any that, may hereafter be procured, but as most of what is now on hand, lyes in the Eastern States, and will be transported to Head Quarters, it is probable the Army there will be first Supplied. 1 We have laid your two letters respecting General Gates’s drafts, before Congress, who have not yet Come to any determination on the Subject. 2 We have the honor to be with the most perfect esteem, Your Excellency and Honors most Obed. & humble Servants, Geo. Plater J. Henry Jun John Hanson RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Henry and signed by Henry, Hanson, and Plater. . (‘ Although not explicitly stated, the delegates appear to be answering the Council’s request of September 22 for an account of the “Cloathing annually imported” in order to determine if Maryland troops had received a proportionate share. See Md. Archives, 43:299-300; and the delegates’ September 26 letter to Thomas Sim Lee, note 3. 2 There is no indication in the journals when the Maryland delegates presented the council’s “two letters” of unspecified date to Congress, but for their intention to submit the council’s September 19 letter on the subject of “Gates s drafts on the morning of September 26, see the delegates’ letter of that date to Thomas Sim Lee, note 5.


[Page 177]
Octobers, 1780 143 John Mathews to Nathaniel Peabody Philadelphia Octr. 3d. 1780 Yours of the 23 & 29 Ulto. 1 came safe to hand yesterday. The one of the 23 contains a variety of important matters, as well as [. . .] enclosures, which I shall now reply to. What am I to understand by “Genl. Greene’s letter of resignation to Congress.” We have received no such letter, therefore, am both puzzled & alarmed. 2 Pray explain this matter to me as soon as you can, untill when, I shall feel great anxiety. Great part of your other extracts were new, for which I am much obliged to you. Arnold’s affair rests where it did, when I wrote you last, we have received no further information respecting it. You ask me what is done about a P 1. 3 I think of all the men of ambition I have ever met with in the course of my peregrinations (which have not been confined within a very narrow compass) S.H. bears away the prize in tryumph. So far from his manifesting the least disposition to quit, he seemed to be highly pleased with the opinions of his [you may fill the space as you please] “that he had a right to set there for life.” This is true Republican doctrine. Ay! you may laugh, or get into a passion about it—but I tell you it must be so, because the Greatest Republican^ in America said so. Damnation sieze such Sycophants! Who will sell their consciencies to the Devil for the sake of carrying a favourite point? After four hours hard struggle, all we could obtain was, that all future P ts, should be for elected for one year only, but maugre every exertion, they obtruded their favourite upon us for another year. Could Old Randolph 5 have risen from the Dead, & been in the chair, I wou’d have opposed his continuance, with the same activity & spirit, I did the present person, on the principles of true Republicanism, more especially when I so evidently saw, an elevated station had made a man forget himself, who from being a very modest one, had so strongly inbibed the sweets of power, as to become a very conceited, & ambitious one. Did the man possess abilities for the station, I could have acquiessed with a tolerable degree of content, but when I know he possesses no one requisite for it, I must confess my feelings are egregiously hurt. I think, had almost any other man been in his situation, when he found how extremely disagreeable his continuance in office was, to a number of members, he would have made it a point to have had a new election, & taken his chance, but he verifyed the Old proverb “A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.” I have much more to Say on this subject, but will reserve it for a tete a tete. 6 I come now to the most interesting part of your letter, i.e. the opening, & garbling your letters. Great God! how humiliating is it


[Page 179]
Octobers, 1780 145 resignation as quartermaster general, for which see his endorsement above and the Committee at Headquarters’ letters to Samuel Huntington, July 27, and to Greene July 28, 1780. 3 The question had arisen because September 28 marked the anniversary of Samuel Huntington’s election as president of Congress. The same day John Henry moved “That the rule laid down in the Articles of Confederation respecting the election of the President of Congress [i.e., to a one-year term] be henceforward observed,” but only Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia supported the motion. Nevertheless, after agreeing unanimously that “no rule or practice of the house” limited the term for which a president was elected, the delegates went on to affirm that henceforth “the continuance of the President in office shall not be longer than one year from this day, and that all future elections shall be agreeable to the rule marked out by the Confederation.” JCC, 18:869-71. 4 Probably Samuel Adams. 5 Peyton Randolph, the first president of Congress. 6 For a characterization of Mathews’ attack on Huntington, see Larry R. Gerlach, Connecticut Congressman: Samuel Huntington, 1731-1796 (Hartford, Conn., American Revolution Bicentennial Commission of Connecticut, 1976), pp. 66-68. 7 See Mathews to Catharine W. Livingston, September 12, 1780, note 1. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Mr. McCarrick Sir 1 Philadelphia 4 Oct 1780 Your Letter of July 22 to the honorable James Searle Esqr introducing Mr Magnall 2 was put into my hands, and leads me to take the freedom of recommending to your care a packet for the Honorable Mr Jay at Madrid, to whom, by order of Congress, the business on which Mr Magnall came is communicated. With an offer of mutual services, and in the name of the Committee of Foreign affairs, I am your Friend, Signed James Lovell FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). In a clerical hand. 1 Lovell later identified his correspondent as “Mr. McCarrick of St. Cruz” de Tenerife, in a June 4, 1781, letter to John Jay. 2 Mangnall, often spelled Magnall, an American sailor, had been detained by Spanish authorities after he, Thomas Shuker, and several other former American prisoners sailed a “captured” British cutter, the Dover, into Santa Cruz de Tenerife in the Spanish Canary Islands, while attempting to reach the United States. The Americans claimed the Dover under Congress’ October 14, 1777, resolution awarding crews of British ships the prize value of their ships if they could capture and bring them into American ports. In this case, the Spanish governor of Tenerife seized the Dover and claimed it as a lawful prize of a British owned ship, thus disregarding the captors’ claims under American law. As a result the Americans appealed to Congress to plead their case with Spanish authorities. Thomas Shuker first wrote from Tenerife on April 27, 1780, pleading the crew’s case, but the letter, which was read on May 26, 1780, elicited no response from Congress. John Mangnall then wrote letters of July 15 and 16, 1780, from Tenerife which were read on August 23 and assigned to the Committee for Foreign Affairs. The issue might have died there if Mangnall had not reached Philadelphia, from whence he addressed Congress on September 22, apparently prodding Congress to direct John Jay to intervene with Spain to preserve the benefits of the October 14, 1777, resolution for the Dover’s captors.


[Page 185]
October 6, 1780 151 that New Hampshire had no Title and New Hampshire that New York had None: That therefore it belonged to Neither: That the Charter to the Duke of York comprehended New Jersey And Delaware and parts of Connecticut and Pensylvania and coud not be admitted to establish a Title: That there were several independant Nations besides Vermont in the Bounds of the United States: the Cherokees, Creeks &c. That He therefore moved that the Resolution under Consideration shoud be postponed to make place for another which he moved—to witt—the People of Vermont declared an Independant State. But he was not seconded. Mr. Maddison. Expressed his surprize that the Motion shoud be represented as unfair or indirect. That he intended it to bring the true Question before Congress: for that if the District in Question was comprehended within the Jurisdiction of one or more of the United States, it must necessarily follow, that the Inhabitants coud have no Right to set up an independant State. That it had been clearly proved to lie within New York or New Hampshire: for as these States were bounded upon each other there coud be no Room between them for another Jurisdiction. That Congress (having the Rights of peace and war coud not and.') by the original Union of the States must have a {Controuling) Superior [deciding ?] power over the states and that 4 Mr. Howly. That Gendemen had not touched on the true Grounds which ought to decide the present Question. The Right ought not to be considered: it was premature and tho’ much might be said upon it, at this time it was improper. The Expediency of a Decision in the critical Situation of our Affairs ought alone to be the Basis of the determination. He then insisted that it was no time to controvert our Jurisdictions but to oppose the common Enemy. After expatia- tions on this Topic, he said that he must make some Remarks on the Right. That the people ought to be considered as direlict for New Hampshire had given up & abandond them: And that the King of Great Britain had no power without their own Consent to annex them to New York. That they never did Acquiesce under that Government. That the Crown of England coud not like an arbitrary German prince make over his People as if they were a Flock of Sheep. That New York did not begit the Inhabitants of the Grant: that they had treated them cruelly, imprisond their persons and seized their Lands: that they had a Right to become Independant on the same principles which had Authorized these States to shake off the British Yoke. Mr. Ingersole That 5 MS (NHi: Duane Papers). In the hand of James Duane. 1 Apparently a motion by James Madison of September 16, which had become a focal point of the New Hampshire Grants debate. JCC, 18:832-33. 2 In the margin beside this paragraph, Duane wrote the following list of “Speakers.” “Honl Messrs. Huntington Cont, Bland Virg, Maddison Virg, Howley


[Page 186]
152 October 6, 1780 Georgia, Ingersole Pens., Matthews S. Car, Henry Maryl, Van Dyke Del., Bee S. Carol.” However, only his account of the remarks of Huntington, Bland, Madison, and Howly were recorded here. 3 The speaker here was undoubtedly one of the Huntingtons of Connecticut, but both Benjamin and Samuel were attending Congress at this time. 4 This account of Madison’s speech ends abruptly here. 5 Duane’s notes end abruptly at this point. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir Philada. 6 October 1780 I have this moment stopt Mr Ray who was geting into his Carriage to inform your Excellency that the Vermont business is to be decided this Evening; The Event uncertain from the Strange and unjustifible Measures of the Vermonteers which I shall explain in my next. 1 The Requisition for the draft on the Treasury meets with opposition from the Example-, as the four tenths of the new Emission is All the present dependance of Congress to pay & move the Army: this as well as the Resolution respecting the Change of a Supply of Beef for Flour are under Commitment. You Sir will see the necessity of preserving in every Event a Magazine for the Forts in the high Lands and I trust Measures will be taken by the State that no Contingency will oblige the Garrison to evacuate it for want of provisions. General Scott has been confind by Indisposition near a month and is really in a bad way having lost his Appetite and daily loosing his Strength. I have advised Dr. McKnight to remove him home. In the mean time both he & I [are involved] in debt having no provision from the State. I entreat your Excellency to advise me on this Subject, Having in vain written to the Legislature and to the Treasurer. Mr Ray is impatient for my Letter which obliges me to break off. Accept my respectful compliments to Mrs Clinton And the most perfect Esteem and Regard for your Excellency. NB The Chancellor is on his way home & will give you the politics & news. I am Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedt & very humble Servt. Jas. Duane P.S. Arnold struck off the List of Generals with Infamy. Genl. Gates recalled for a Court of Enquiry. Commander in Chief to appoint a Successor. 2 No news of the French Fleet. Spaniards in motion to the Southward: nothing important from Europe. A new Arrangement of the Army agreed to & Submitted to the General for his opinion if approved to take Effect. RC (PHi: Jenkins Collection). 1 See the preceding entry, and Duane to Clinton, October 7, 1780. 2 Congress took this action on October 5. See JCC, 18:906; and Samuel Huntington to George Washington, this date.


[Page 192]
158 October 6, 1780 entre 1’Espagne et les Etats unis de l’amerique” enclosed with his letter of the 17th, see Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondence politique, Etats- Unis, 14:68-73, 106-15, 118-35, 139-47. For discussions of Marbois’ purposes in preparing his “Observations,” all of which rely too exclusively upon the marquis’ own account of the episode, see Paul C. Phillips, The West in the Diplomacy of the American Revolution (1913; reprint ed., New York: Russell & Russell, 1967), pp. 180-83; Kathryn Sullivan, Maryland and France, 1774-1789 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1936), pp. 88-90; and William E. O’Donnell, The Chevalier De La Luzerne. French Minister to the United States, 1779-1784 (Bruges: Desdee de Brouwer, 1938), pp. 109-11. For evidence that Jenifer may have been less active in this attempt than Marbois hinted to Vergennes, because of illness that kept him from attending Congress and his eagerness to return to Maryland at this time, see Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Thomas Sim Lee, October 2, 1780. Rendon, on the other hand, seems to have learned of the congressional debate on Jay’s instructions some time after Madison’s committee had been appointed, and accordingly consulted Marbois, probably after the latter and Jenifer had already sought to influence Madison. At Marbois’ suggestion, Rendon thereupon prepared a letter dated October 14 which Marbois employed in his own campaign to gain the ear of Congress, and which succeeded to the degree that the French and Spanish concerns over Jay’s instructions were fully aired in committee of the whole. Rendon’s explanation of Congress’ proceedings on the subject, which he clearly derived from second and third hand reports, is found in the following letter to Jose de Galvez, Spanish minister of the Indies. “I have been informed confidentially,” Rendon wrote to Galvez on October 20, “that the receipt of an official paper from their minister Mr. Jay has caused in the Congress different controversies about the cited claims [i.e. “freedom to navigate the Mississippi River”], and that far from giving up such privilege, they were deciding unalterably to obtain it, based on the fact that by no other way will they be able, without insuperable difficulty and enormous costs, to export the productions which will be supplied by the vast territories which they posses on the Ohio, which flows into the Mississippi, down which they propose to navigate and to go out into the Gulf of Mexico. “This information, and the knowledge of how much effort had been expended in this matter, as well as my inexpressable desire for the glory and augmentation of the Royal Dominions of our Gracious Sovereign, impelled me to consult M. Marbois, charge d’affaires of His Most Christian Majesty in the absence of the minister plenipotentiary, to request that as far as his authority permitted he would endeavour to prevent the Congress from passing the resolution regarding those claims, and that on the contrary it change the instructions which to that effect had been given to its minister, by virtue of the fact that the members had offered that in various conferences which they had held with the previous minister plenipotentiary of France, M. Gerard. M. Marbois answered my plea by saying that he knew positively that the Congress was discussing the matter at present and that the majority of its members were determined not to change in any manner the articles which deal with that privilege in the said instructions which they gave to their minister, but that, nevertheless, if I should write a letter to him with that request, he would by virtue of it make a representation to the Congress, explaining the injustice and baselessness of its claims, and he would bring to bear all his influence to dissuade the Congress from that resolution. “Consequently I proceeded to write the letter, with the date of the 14th instant, limiting its content entirely to the points expressed above, and the said M. Marbois introduced his representation, explaining in it with the greatest energy that no right afforded them that privilege, making them comprehend that in no manner would the King our Sire agree to its concession, as well as that it was surely the time to choose means of gaining the powerful protection of that sovereign, whose sponsorship would facilitate their greatest successes, and that on the contrary they were acting


[Page 193]
October 6, 1780 159 to offend his Royal benign inclination to favour them. That paper was read in a plenary cession of the Congress, and it seems to have caused the greatest effect on the representatives, for the said M. Marbois has told me that several of them have promised him to accede and to cooperate for the achievement of whatever contributes to the satisfaction and desire of our Gracious King, assuring him that the majority has agreed to that, and therefore the conferences have ceased for now discussion of the matter. “The notable defect of not having the necessary facility for communicating these facts to your Excellency in cipher deprives me of the distinguished honour of relating them in all their details, for all that has happened and may occur as a result of them requires that they not be risked as is public news to the danger that the inexperience or carelessness of the captain who convey them to European ports might allow the enemy to know of them, an accident that could be extremely adverse. Therefore, M. Marbois has said that he will send to his Court the documents which give the particulars, so that Your Excellency can thus be informed. I offer my obedience, etc.” Audiencia de Santo Domingo, Legajo 1233, Archivo General de Indias, Seville, (Aileen Moore Topping translation, Manuscript Division, DLC). s See JCC, 16:114-15. 4 Since this manuscript has been damaged, readings in brackets here and below have been taken from the three-volume edition of The Papers of James Madison (Washington: Langtree & O’Sullivan, 1840), vol. 1, Appx., pp. iii-v, edited by Henry D. Gilpin less than four years after Madison’s death. John Mathews to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Octr. 6th. 1780 Congress having Ordered a Court of enquiry on the conduct of Majr. Genl. Gates as Commander of the southern army, And directed your Excellency to appoint an Officer to that command, 1 I am authorized by the Delegates of the three Southern States to communicate to your Excellency their wish that Majr. Genl. Greene may be the Officer appointed to the Command of the Southern department, if it would not be incompatible with the rules of the Army. 2 I have the honor to be, with the highest respect & the most sincere Esteem & regard, yr.Excys most Obed, servt. Jno. Mathews RG (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The October 5 resolutions ordering a court of inquiry for Horatio Gates and the appointment of a new southern commander were adopted on a motion of Mathews and seconded by Whitmell Hill of North Carolina. JCC, 18:906. 2 Washington offered Nathanael Greene command of the southern department on October 14, so informing Congress the following day. See Washington, Papers (Fitzpatrick), 20:181-83, 189-90; andPCC, item 152, 9:297-99. Greene’s October 16 letter of acceptance is in the Washington Papers, DLC. On October 22 Washington prepared instructions for Greene and notified Congress of Greene’s acceptance. On the 27th Greene also informed Congress of his appointment and requested information concerning Congress’ plans for the prosecution of the war in the south. Washington, Papers (Fitzpatrick), 20:238-40, 244-45; PCC, item 152, 9:323-24, item 155, 1:447-48. That day Congress referred these letters from Washington and Greene to a committee of five, chaired by William Sharpe, which


[Page 194]
160 October?, 1780 reported the 30th. Congress thereupon approved and specified the terms of Greene’s appointment. JCC, 18:982, 994-96. See also Samuel Huntington’s letters to Greene and to Certain States, October 31, 1780. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir [October 7, 1780] 1 Yesterday I wrote to your Excellency by Mr. Ray. As I then led you to expect Congress went in the Evening upon the Subject of Vermont and altho’ there was a great disagreement in Opinion the Debates took a Turn most injurious to New York which could not have {been) looked for and clearly satisfied me that several States were disposed to support the Independence of our revolted Citizens. The Deleg[ates] of Pensylvania act under the Influence of Instructions from their Legislature requiring them to consent to no Act of Coercion agt any people friendly to the Revolution nor, to suffer at this critical Conjuncture the Time of Congress to be taken up by the Concerns of any particular State. General Cor[n]el the Delegate from Rhode Island has declard that many of the principal People of that State & the Officers & Soldiers of their Cont. Bat. 2 have accepted Grants under the assumd States. It is even affirmed that the Governour is one & that he has desird the Delegates to take Care of his Interest. General Cornel has candidly confessed that he cannot Vote agt the Independ, of Vermont because it woud in effect Vacate those Grants. The Delegate from Delaware 3 who did not hear a Word of the Evidence pronounced his opinion clearly that Congress coud not interfere. Some other Members doubted their own Authority. Col Bland a New Member from Virginia bluntly proposed a Resolution that Vermont shoud be declared independent tho his Coleagues are of a different opinion; nor was he seconded. 4 Nothing therefore is to be expected from Congress. 5 The Embarrasmt of our publick Affairs & the bold Declarations of the Vermonters that they have allies & can make a separate peace are not I presume without Influence on this Occasion. But the Acts of our Antagonists & the shameful prostitution of the disputed lands to gain a party in some of the States have in my Judgement no inconsiderable weight. I am of Opinion that our Legislature must depend on their own Wisdom to manage this unhappy Business. I refer you to Mr. Knolton who has acted with the utmost firmness, Diligence & propriety for further Information. The Time of my retiring from Congress swiftly approaches merely for want of a Supply of money to defray necessary Expences. I feel myself Hurt to be obliged to mention this Subject again. But it is


[Page 196]
162 October?, 1780 and to commissary general of prisoners Abraham Skinner to implement an October 6 resolve of Congress calling upon New York to deliver 200 barrels of flour to Skinner for this use. See JCC, 18:906-7; and PCC, item 15, fol. 128. Samuel Huntington to the Marquis de Barbe-Marbois Sir, Philada October 7, 1780 I have the Honor to transmit you as Charge des Affaires of his most Christian Majesty in the Absence of the Honorable the Minister of France the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 5 Instant by which you will be informed of their Sentiments relative to the regulations contained in the Declaration of the Empress of Russia respecting the rights of Neutrality; 1 that willing to testify their regards to the rights of Commerce, and respect for the Sovereign who hath proposed & the Powers that have approved those regulations, they have directed the Board of Admiralty to prepare & report Instructions for the Commanders of armed Vessels, 2 Commissioned by the United States, conformable to the Principles contained in that Declaration respecting the rights of neutral Vessels; and have also authorized the Ministers plenipotentiary of these United States, if invited thereto, to accede to such regulations conformable to the Spirit of the Declaration, as may be agreed upon by the Congress expected to assemble in Pursuance of the Invitation of her Imperial Majesty. It is the Desire of Congress that these Sentiments & Proceedings on the important Subject contained in the Act enclosed should by the earliest Opportunity be laid before his most Christian Majesty our great & good Ally. I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 The “Declaration of the Empress of Russia” had been sent to Congress by John Adams in a letter of April 10, 1780, that was received and referred to committee on September 2. The committee’s recommendations were debated on September 26, but were then recommitted to a second committee which submitted its report to Congress on October 4. That report, the work of Robert R. Livingston, provided the substance of the resolves adopted the following day which were enclosed with this letter to Marbois. SeeJCC, 17:802, 18:864-67, 899, 905-6; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:606—8; and PCC, item 25, 1:337—42, item 84, 1:337—40. For the receipt of the news in July that the formation of a League of Armed Neutrality was under discussion in Europe, see also Huntington to James Cogswell, July 22, 1780, note. 2 For these instructions, which Congress eventually adopted on November 27, see JCC, 18:1008, 1097-98.


[Page 197]
October?, 1780 163 Willie Jones to Abner Nash Dr. sr. Philad. Octr. 7th. 1780 I wrote to you fully a few days per fav. of Mr. Stanley; but he has been detained by bad Weather, and is now here. Mr. Sharp arrived the Day before yesterday, 1 by whom I received your favors of 10th & 14th ulto. Congress yesterday resolv’d that Genl. Washington order a Court of Inquiry on the Conduct of Genl. Gates as Commander of the Southern Army; and that he appoint an Officer to take that Command, in the Room of Genl. Gates, until the Inquiry shall be had. I will write to you again soon. I am, Dr. Sr., Yours sincerely, Willie Jones RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Jones probably drafted this letter on October 6, since William Sharpe actually took his seat in Congress on October 4 and the resolves of “yesterday” mentioned in the next sentence were adopted on October 5. See JCC, 18:898; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, October 6, 1780. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Philadelphia Octr. the 8th or 9th Dr. Tucker I dont know which Tit for Tat I have Just time to write you that I am well, there is no news but what I wrote you in my last except that Majr. Andre was hanged the 2d Inst. He died like a Gent and a Soldier as tis said—the Small circumstance of the Rope excepted. Josua Smith of N-York will tis expected hurry in a few days one of Arnolds Accomplices and the Underworker of his Villainous plot. Poor Clarkson Arnolds former aid is in Goal here, on Suspicion of having been engaged with Arnold in some nefarious practices in Commerce. Seagrove has been confined (but we hear is baild) on the same acct, and your Acquaintance C 1 has likewise been examined and admitted to Bail without confinement. Wonderfull discoveries are said to be made by Arnolds papers—but the Business of Congress which is at this Juncture of the most important and interesting nature engrosses my whole attention so that I have no time to inquire into the particulars of these matters. God Bless you all my love to Fanny and the boys and Girls if in the Plural Number. God Bless you all adieu & beleive me to be, yrs. most affectly. Theok. Bland RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 That is, Maj. Mathew Clarkson, James Seagrove, and apparently William Constable.


[Page 198]
164 Octobers, 1780 John Sullivan to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir Philadelphia October 8th 1780 I was on Tuesday Last honored with your favor of the 27th ulto. 1 & you will believe me when I tell you that I was Compelled to wait till Sunday to give an answer. Every moment of my time Last week was Employed in Congress & in Committees; & I flatter myself that this will Sufficiently apologize for Delaying the acknowledgment. I am Exceedingly unhappy that I was So unfortunate as to be Deprived the pleasure of Seeing you on my Journey as I was Equally Desirous of a private Conversation which prudence forbids us to Commit to paper. I am Convinced of the Fact you are pleased to mention Respecting persons being prejudiced against me as I have often felt the Effect of it; but am at a Loss to know Individuals & by the misfortune of not Seeing you must for the present remain in Ignorance. I am much Indebted for the part you have Ever taken respecting me & the opinion you have been pleased to form of my publick Conduct & hope no future Transactions of my Life will Compell you to alter your Sentiments. I cannot perswade myself but my Dismission from the Army in the manner I was Conducted furnishes the most Striking Evidence of prejudice in the Southern States against the Northern: but a Contrary Conduct at that time could not have prevented the Same Event from taking place. 2 I have Examined the Copy of your Letter to Colo Bartlet 3 & think it replete with Solemn Truths Such as at this Day we Compell Congress to hear with Patience, this will at Least Excuse you from the Crime of high Treason; I have Conversed with Mr Mathes 4 respecting the affair but hear no mention of your Letter from any Quarter. I think your friend Mathes an honest & Sincere man, he is Joined with a number of us who are Determined to Eradicate party Spirit & Silence or at Lest Lessen the Influence of party men. I Sincerely thank you for the Intelligence you Inclosed respecting Arnold &c and I Shall be happy in keeping up a Constant Correspondance with you. The Journals of Congress belonging to you were Left by General Foulsom at my Lodging. I wish you to Inform me how I may foreward them. Those which come out in future I shall Inclose you from time to time as they are published. We have no foreign Intelligence & Indeed none of the Domestic kind Save that of General Gates’s being recalled from the Southern Department & ordered to be tryed for his Conduct. 5 I take the Liberty of Inclosing you a Letter to General Foulsom which I brought from Exeter but being mislaid by my Servant was not Delivered to him. I beg you will forward it by a Safe Conveyance.


[Page 206]
172 October 9, 1780 Timothy Matlack


[Page 207]
October 9, 1780 173 him—and asked him a question—respecting the propriety of certificates being paid in the case when Bills were contracted for. He G. observed the impossibility of the Public paying their contracts—he G. observed that if justice was not to be attended to it was in vain to apply for it. Applyed to B. Wr.—and was informed that B.T. would now attend it. He applied & met Mr Foreman ought of their hours who did not understand the business—and declared that the business, had never been laid before the business [board?]— but it appeared notwithstanding in the minutes. Mr. F. said there was a lapse some where—for that it had never come to the Knowledge of the board. C. refered to the Minutes—F. could not find it, but C. showed it him—he said it must have been when he was abroad for six weeks. C. said it had been neglected in the treasury office. Qu[estion]. Mr. F. Hopkinson. For what particular purpose was that contract made? A[nswer], To Supply the first Virginia troops with cloathing; which I was informed they could not proceed without them. Qu. Have the Treasury board compleated that contract; is the amount paid? An. No: not a farthing of it. I ought to have said that Mr. Gibson requested the state of the Contract to be committed to writing. Qu. Have the Treasury board issued any warrants for the payment of their Contracts? A. No. those Contracts were principally for the use of the troops Marching to the Southward—some few for other purposes. Qu. by Mr. Gibson. What was it that Mr Forman had said to you? An. That Mr Forman said he would answer upon his Memory that it had not been made to the board on the business. Afterwards that it must have been Made in his six weeks absence—And that he was very much surprised to hear him say that Justice was not concerned in it. Qu. What was it that the Board of war answered to you? An. That the Board of war found fault with the Treasury for delays. The words not remembered; but this was the sentinent. Qu. Repeated. An. That the Board, in their conversation on the subject blamed the Treasury as raising unnecessary delays and objections in their business. Qu. by Mr Forman. Was this application to the Treasury from the Board of war; or from the Congress? An. He did not certainly know, but supposed from the Board of War. Qu. by Mr Gibson. Was you ever treated by the Treasury or any of them with undue pride or insolence &c? An. Except in the instance of the reply, that they were not considering the justice of the case—And that he thought Mr. Forman


[Page 212]
178 October 9, 1780 I gave yesterday respecting the Board of Treasury,” which are in PCC, item 62, fols. 351-71. For Pettit’s “business with the Treasury. . . . Some time last spring,” see Thomas Burke to Pettit, May 15, 1780, note. 7 Matlack appears to have left the hearing at this point in the proceedings. The following question and answer were recorded by Thomas McKean, and the next several entries are in an unidentified hand before Matlack resumed the minutes. 8 Sharp Delany, one of the managers of the Continental lottery. 9 James Mease, former clothier general. 10 Philadelphia printer John Dunlap. 11 Ephraim Blaine, commissary general of purchases. 12 Michael Hillegas, treasurer of the United States. 13 Probably Charles Lee, secretary of the Board of Treasury. 14 For the continuation of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, October 11, 1780. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia, Oct. 10, 1780 I do myself the honour to write to your Excellency by this day’s post; and when I reflect that I have been honoured by only two letters from you since I arrived at this place, 1 I fear my scrolls have been disagreeable, but shall continue them until I am informed. The arrangements of the army hath passed in Congress in the same form I mentioned in my last. 2 So far as respects the reducing officers, is referred to General Washington for his opinion on the mode proposed before it will be published. So far as it respects the number of troops and time of service for the ensuing year, is ordered to be sent to the respective States, 3 which I apprehend you will receive before this will reach you, by which you will see our quota is five hundred and eighty non-commissioned officers and privates. I trust the State will have no objection to the number, and I flatter myself they will take measures to have the quota compleated for the war, and in the field by the time limited, at least it is my most earnest wish; and I hope to be so happy as to have the Honourable General Assembly to concur with me in sentiments. Congress is busily employed in Committee and otherwise, in reducing the public expences and devising ways and means for raising money and supplies, and preparing an estimate of the national expense for the year ensuing. The affair of the Hampshire grants is yet before Congress undetermined, and I am not able to say positively what will be done, but have reason to believe Commissioners will be appointed agreeable to the confederation, to enquire into and settle the claims between the States of New York and New Hampshire, and report to Congress: after which it is probable the independence of Vermont will be taken into consideration. Congress have ordered an enquiry to be made into General Gates’s


[Page 213]
October 10, 1780 179 conduct during his command to the southward, and that he be suspended from his command until such enquiry be made; and directed General Washington to send a Major General to take the command of the southern army. Your Excellency was pleased to inform, in your letter of the 25th of July, that the General Assembly had, at their last session, adopted the resolution of Congress of the 18th of March last, and fixed sufficient funds for the redemption of the State’s quota. I expected the act would have been sent forward long before this, but as it hath not come to hand, I wish to know the reason, that I may be able to answer Congress when I am called upon, which hath been done often. 4 I have not the least doubt but it hath been kept back upon just principles, and I wish the prospect of the new bills having a quick circulation, was greater than I have any assurance of in those States that have received them. Congress last week compleated the system of the hospital department, 5 and made choice of the necessary surgeons, physicians, and hospital officers, by which means more than fifty surgeons, &c. have gone to the right about by the number being lessened, by which means I am sure much money will be saved, and I trust the sick will be better taken care of. I have the honour to be, with every sentiment of respect and esteem, Your Excellency’s most obedient humble servant, Ezekial Cornell. Reprinted from the New York Royal Gazette, “Extraordinary,” October 25, 1780. Tr (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). In the hand of Cornell, who informed Greene in a letter of November 9 that he made this copy after learning that the original was intercepted on October 20 at Stratford, Conn., along with the entire packet of the “eastern” post. This was the first of two “eastern” packets captured within a month at Stratford Landing. Selected letters from both were subsequently published in James Rivington’s Royal Gazette. See also John Sullivan to Meshech Weare, November 15, 1780. 1 These letters, of July 22 and 25, are in PCC, item 64, fols. 478-85; and Staples, Rhode Island, pp. 296-97. 2 See Cornell to William Greene, September 19, 1780. 3 See Samuel Huntington to the States, October 6, 1780, which was also among the letters captured by the British on October 20. 4 A copy of the Rhode Island act arrived on October 16. See Cornell to Greene, August 15, note 2, and October 17, 1780. 5 See Samuel Huntington to William Shippen, October 9, 1780.


[Page 215]
October 10, 1780 181 Sentiments and vigorous Exertions; and with your Excellency I pray God That the fatal Delusion which has marked our Conduct may end here. When the Enemy turn their Eyes to the Southward they see too much Imbecility not to be encourged to attempt to extend their Conquest and improve Advantages which they have derived in no small Degree from our own Temerity and Misconduct: I believe we shall not want Men to oppose them, Virginia having made Efforts the Expansiveness of which is incredible, and North Carolina being equally disposed to act vigorously tho’ not so capable to raise their Quota for a fixed and certain period. I wish we may have it in our power to provide the necessary Supplies: your Excellency too well knows and feels our difficulties and Embarrasments, and that they are only to be surmounted by great Exertions. I flatter myself that you do me no more than Justice in believing that Duty and Inclination equally demand my Assiduous Endeavours to correct our past Errors and draw forth our Resources. I am much obliged to your Excellency for your Account of the Interview at Hartford; 3 and beg you to believe that no Man can be with greater Affection and personal Estatchment, than I am, My dear General, Your most Obedient and very humble Servant, Jas Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:117-18. 2 For Washington’s lengthy October 11 response to Congress, and the October 21 resolutions adopted in consequence of his “Representations,” see ibid., pp. 157-67; and Samuel Huntington’s first letter to the States, October 26, 1780. 3 In his October 4 letter to Duane, Washington had explained that his “Interview at Hartford” with the comte de Rochambeau and the chevalier de Temay had “produced nothing conclusive because neither side knew with certainty what was to be expected.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:76-81, 118. John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton My Dear sir Philadelphia October 10th 1780 I am much obliged to you for your favour by the last post. The Letters inclosed Shall be taken Care of. Mr McCarty is now in Town. I now inclose you the Crisis Extraordinary 1 and the last papers, to which I beg leave to refer you for news. All expectations of the Arrival of the French fleet seems now to be at an end. Ternay by raising fortifications on Rhode Island has it is thought Secured His fleet and the Army Against Any Attack of the Enemy. This being the Case, And Clinton haveing failed putting in Execution his designs Against West Point, it is probable his next object will be to the Southward. The Climate is favourable for a Winter Campaign, and a number


[Page 224]
190 October 11, 1780 Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes Tuesday October 11. 1780 Present Mr. McKean, Mr. Walker & Mr. Matlack. Mr Huston. 1 Has sat at the treasury board for six months, that in the first about 3 months they did business as may be said with open doors—that it was found very inconvenient especially when applications became very frequent, that he does not precisely recollect the hours appointed; but was of opinion that there was a real occasion for setting apart particular hours to hear application, and others for the Purpose of drawing reports to Congress. That as to the particular hours appointed he had never given his dissent to the times. Offered in Evidence Minutes of Treasury Board. April 1 1780. Present Mr. Huston, Mr. Burke, 2 Mr. Forman. And Advertisement of the hours for receiving business by application— appointing the hours from 12 ’til two and from four to five. Second charge 3 of assuming a dangerous power of preference to particular warrants &c. Mr. Huston. Ordered, That the Treasurer be directed to discharge the warrant in favour of Mr Pettit, for forwarding the troops to the southward, should be paid in preference of all others—agreably to the spirit of the order of Congress for the forwarding that purpose— But that it was not understood to extend generally to all cases. This necessity continued when the Maryland troops passed forward. 22nd April 1780. Minutes of the Board of Treasury. Present Mr Gibson, Mr Huston & Mr Burke. “That the Treasurer pay such monies only upon warrants accompanied by a letter of advice from this Board.” Mr. Hopkinson. Appeals to the minutes for a reprimand given to Mr Hillegas for advancing a small sum to clerks in the offices when in great distress—and shortly after giving a draft in favour of Mr Forman for the sum of 30,000 dollars which was directed to be paid. Minutes forbiding payment by the Treasury but on special order. May 2. Present Gibson, Burke, Huston, Order to Mr. Forman for 30,000 Dollars. 1st June. Order for payment on the 24th with many others—intermediately others were paid. Minutes, June 16. Present Gibson, Forman, Henry, 4 Denning. The Treasurer have advice to pay the warrants on him contained in his return dated the same day. Ordered that the strictest attention be paid to the orders of 22nd April & 2nd May last respecting monies [that] may be in the Treasury. The examining of the account admitted and the accot. having been seen before and the facts agreed the same was not now examined. Note alteration in general of the manner of [arranging the names


[Page 225]
October 12,1780 191 of the Commissioners present after 22nd April—the Commissioner always first named. Remarks by Mr Gibson. The Treasury Board is no board of Account. The accounts are to be kept by the Chamber of Accounts— and the Treasury only keep Journals. That inconsistent or erronious orders have been founded on the Errors of returns from the Treasurer of Loans. 5 Adjourned to 10 tomorrow morning.® MS (DNA: PCC, item 62). In the hand of Timothy Matlack. A continuation of the committee minutes of October 9, 1780. 1 New Jersey delegate William Churchill Houston. 2 North' Carolina delegate Thomas Burke. 3 Actually this was the third charge directed against the treasury commissioners by Francis Hopkinson, for which see Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes, October 9, 1780, note 1. 4 Virginia delegate James Henry, who was elected to the Board of Treasury on May 10, 1780, in the place of James Duane. JCC, 17:420, 18:1230. 5 The miscellaneous papers related to this inquiry located in the PCC also include two pages of detached notes in Matlack’s hand whose precise relationship to the minutes of proceedings cannot be determined. As the first of these consists of a comment on “incorrect Orders &c,” they are quoted together here in the absence of a better place to intrude them. “As to incorrect Orders &c. The Superintends, of the Press say they have received such, but imputed them rather to the Inatention of the Secretarys & Clerks in the Treasury office than to the Fault of the Board itself.” PCC, item 62, fol. 87. “Mr. Hopkinson. Sent his account, which he desired might have been setled, that it was desired to have been sent, Mr. H. proved that he had sent it sealed to the Board. He was then told it was lost and a second and a third account was sent in different form. “Mr. Nicholson has obtained leave of absence from the Treasury Board without the chamber of accounts being consulted. “Q. To the Managers of the Lottery put by Comsonssrs. of Treasury. Have you discovered in the Board of Tr. any degree of undue pride or Insolence of office? “A. We have always been treated with due respect & civility by the Comonss. of the Treasury. “Q. The same. To the Superintdts. of the Press. “A. The same as above.” Ibid., fol. 388. 6 For the continuation of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, October 12, 1780. Charles Thomson to John Jay Sir, Philada Octr. 12. 1780 I have received your letter of 27 May And the duplicate with the Prints for which I am much obliged and will embrace the first oppertunity of transmitting one set of the Prints agreeable to your request to Gen. Schuyler. 1 I have been anxious with respect to your being informed regularly of what is passing here. Many things have happened of which you ought to be acquainted. I perceive the


[Page 227]
October 12, 1780 193 these embarassments, they set every engine to Work to continue & encrease them by counterfeiting the currency, multiplying their emissaries to deny its credit, tampering with our Army and at the same time prosecuting the War with a greater degree of vigour than they had done from the commencement of it. To the honour of our country I must inform you that history cannot produce such Instances of fortitude, patience & perseverance as were exhibited by our virtious Army. Though exposed to hunger & nakedness amidst the rigours of a most inclement winter they struggled through with unparrelled firmness & notwithstanding the tempting bribes and offers of the enemy And the incredible hardships they suffered the desertions were comparatively few. Congress finding it necessary, in order to baffle the designs of our enemy and curb intestine avarice to adopt more decided Measures, resolved on the 18 March to call in by taxes & burn all the Money heretofore emitted to the amount of 200 Millions of dollars in the Course of one year And in lieu thereof to issue Ten Millions new money which was to be issued as fast and no faster than the old was brought in, At the rate of 20 of the old for one of the new. And it was resolved that in the payment of taxes gold and silver should be received at the rate of 40 for one, at which rate also the new money was to be received by Which means its value was fixed & those Who had amassed large quantities of the old paper were disappointed in their hopes of Converting it into gold. They proceeded further and fixed the value of certificates for money loaned from Sept 1777 to March 1780 rating the value of the money on every day between those two periods, that the lender might receive the full value of the Money lent both in principal And Interest and that the public Might not be loaded with a debt for which they received no equivolent. For it was urged with great reason as contrary to every rule of right and Justice that the landed property which is the principal object of taxation should be loaded with the burden of paying off a certificate for Instance of two hundred dollars, which was procured with the price of three bushels of wheat and less with that Number of silver dollars which are in reallity Worth from 80 to 100 times the value of the Money lent. These regulations were deemed so just & equitable that the people acquiesed and the states have generally enacted laws conformable thereto. By these means the debt incurred by a War of six years was fixed at about one or two & twenty Millions of dollars—a War which has cost our enimies upwards of sixty Millions sterling. I ought to have observed to you that of the ten millions to be issued in lieu of the 200 Millions which were ordered to be paid in by taxes & burned Congress assigned six Millions to the states to enable them to purchase the specific articles required of them, reserving 4 Millions for paying the Army and defraying the expences of transportation and other incidental charges. But while these


[Page 229]
October 12, 1780 195 approaching, in which his troops must suffer greatly for want of tents, encouraged by sundry successes against the enemy’s outposts he was induced to march towards Camden with the hopes of driving the enemy from thence and establishing his headquarters in that village, where he would have been able to put his troops under cover and supply them plentifully with provisions, and confine the enemy to the low country, in which case they would have been obliged either to retire into Charlestown and leave him the command of the country, or by attempting to keep the field would have exposed their army in the sickly season to a loss by death equal to a defeat. Unfortunately he failed in the attempt. The battle of the 16 of August, which you have a particular account of in the public papers, broke up the army he had collected & forced him back into North Carolina. The Maryland and Delaware regulars acquired great honor in that action & had they been properly supported by the Militia would in all probability have made it a glorious day for America. The Character of the general has suffered by his rapid flight, and a court of enquiry is ordered on his conduct. The check, however which the enemy received from the regulars, who did not amount to more than 1000 in the action prevented them from improving the victory they had gained. And the spirited conduct of the militia immediately after the action a party of whom under Col. Marian rescued 150 of our regulars who had been taken prisoners on the 16th and captivated the escort that was conducting them to Charles town, and another party of about 200 under col. Williams on the 19 August engaged between four and five hundred British, killed 60 on the field and took 70 prisoners—this spirited conduct with some other successful enterprizes of less note has reanimated our people and disheartened the enemy, so that the consequences of the defeat are not so distressful as might have been apprehended. The armies in this quarter have hitherto had an inactive campaign. The arrival of the first division of the French Fleet and army gave us sanguine hopes of regaining New York. But the detention of the second division & the superiority of the British fleet have disappointed our hopes and expectations. The fleets in the West Indies seem to have spent the summer in Maneuvering. Upon the junction of the French and Spanish fleets they directed their course for Jamaica and had they improved the opportunity, it is the general opinion they would have succeeded & subdued that island without any difficulty, as the garrisons were chiefly withdrawn and there was no fleet to guard the harbour. But by some unaccountable delay they suffered a fleet under Walsingham to get there before them and a reinforcement of troops to be thrown into the Island, which as the hurrican season was coming on rendered the attempt impracticable and secured it at least for the present. Hereupon the combined fleet seperated, the Spanish steered for Havannah & the French put into


[Page 230]
196 October 12, 1780 Cape Francois. The count de Guishee after some stay left the cape, directed his course Notherly And coasted along our shores. This it is supposed Alarmed Rodney to that degree that anxious for the safety of Fleet & Army at New York he immediatly left the windward island and with a fleet of 14 or 15 sail of the line & some frigates steered for that place where he now is. The late providential discovery of Arnolds plot which appears to have been for a considerable time in agitation has induced a belief that Rodney had something farther in view than meerly counteracting the design of count de Guichen. In a Controversy and revolution such as this where former friendships & intimacies subsisted between the contending parties And where men of upright intentions took different sides & men of all characters were engaged in the contest, it would not have been strange or uncommon if conspiracies had been formed, but to the honor of the American army Arnold is the first and I believe the only American officer Who has during this war entered into a conspiracy to betray his country. You know the character of the Man, he was brave but avaricious, fond of parade and not very scrupulous abt the means of acquiring Money to defray the expences of it. He had married a young woman who had been distinguished by gen Howes Mischianze knights & her Father was not remarkable for attachment to the American cause. The expensive manner in which he lived in Philadelphia reduced his Finances and the accounts he exhibited against the public under went a scrutiny at the board of treasury not much to the advantage of his honor & honesty; which joined to his disappointments in the case of the Active & the result of the court martial instituted on the complaint of the council of Pensylvania soured his temper & rendered him a fit object for Clintons views. By letters found among his private papers it appears that Captain Andree one of Sr. H Clintons aids had commenced a correspondence with Mrs. Arnold in 1779 under pretence of supplying her with Millinary. Whither it was continued till it was ripened into the plot of betraying West Point into the hands of the enemy I will not undertake to say But that the scheme had been some time in agitation appears evidently from this, that while the enemy were making preparations for executing their purpose, And giving out that their design was against Virginia the same reports were circulated in Lord Cornwallis camp in South Carolina, and measures were taken to make us believe he meant to second the expedition by marching through North Carolina & forming a junction with Sr. Henry on his arrival in Virginia. At this time Rodney arrived at New York and it is conjectured the design was as soon as they had gained possession of West Point & cut off the communication between the western & southern states, to turn their whole force against the French fleet & Army at Rhode island. This it is true is but conjecture But it must be confessed the object was great and had Rodney succeeded he would


[Page 235]
October 14, 1780 201 to the North Carolina assembly from Hillsborough in September before his departure informing them that he had learned from Burke that delegates “can no longer obtain supplies of money from the continental treasury to bear their necessary expenses” and explaining that without an advance from the legislature “I cannot conceive it in my power to proceed on my journey.” See JCC, 18:898; and Sharpe to Burke, September 9? 1780, Legislative Papers, Nc-Ar. James Duane to Mary Duane My dearest Polly Philada. 14t October 1780 I last Evening met with Mr. Bush who is returning to Fishkill. I cannot neglect so fair an opportunity of droping you a Line tho’ I wrote you by Tuesday’s post and have nothing material to communicate but to assure you of my Health. Convinced of your Affectionate attention to me I believe it woud be a pleasure to you to hear from me every day. It must contribute to make our Seperation less Irksome when by frequent Communications we are assured of each others Welfare; and I earnestly wish that in future a Line may be forwarded once a week to the Post Office that I may have my Share of Satisfaction in a point essential to my Happiness. I enclose for your Amusement the new’s paper of the day. The Enemy are active to the Southward but it appears to me that by pushing their Advantages too far they may easily be ruined. They do not seem to improve upon the Misfortunes which by a similar Conduct they experienced in New Jersey, by aiming at too much they lost All, and were compelled to retreat under Cover of their Shiping with Disgrace. General Washington has taken effectual Care to secure the passes at the high Lands; so that with Gods blessing our own State will not be distressed by Sir Henry Clinton. I am only apprehensive of further Ravages on our Frontiers from the Indians. It is a delightful Season here and healthy. I forgot to mention that the Continental Sloop Saraghtoga has taken four valuable prizes two of them Jamaica Ships loaded with Sugar and Rum. They are not arrived and in some danger as there are two British frigates cruizing on this Coast. Present my dutiful & affectionate Regards to our Parents, Friends and Relations. Kiss and bless our dear children for me: Assure Miss Polly that I shall esteem her punctual Correspondence an infinite pleasure; & believe me to be always my dearest Polly, your most faithful & affecte Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers).


[Page 236]
202 October 14, 1780 Samuel Huntington to John Bradford Sir, Philada October [14] 1780 1 You will receive herewith enclosed the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 9 Instant, by which you are directed to sell all the Canvas in your Possession except what the Navy Board of the Eastern Department may deem sufficient for the immediate Use of the Navy or suitable for Soldiers Tents; 2 and also to sell all other Goods in your Possession belonging to the United States, and pay the Money arising from the Sales agreeable to the Orders of the Board of Admiralty. Enclosed is the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 30 of August, by which you will be informed of the Mode adopted to make Payment to Mr Duarte. 3 You may probably have further Directions on this Subject from the Board of Treasury before this comes to Hand. I am with much respect, sir, your obedt. Servant, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “John Bradford Esquire Conti. Agt. Boston.” 1 Although the date of this letter was left incomplete, it appears in Huntington’s presidential letterbook between two letters of October 14. See PCC, item 15, fols. 133-35. 2 Congress adopted the enclosed resolve in response to a query from Bradford of August 28, which had been referred to the Board of Admiralty. See JCC, 18:838-39, 911-12; and PCC, item 37, fols. 317-21, item 78, 4:15-18. See also Huntington to Timothy Pickering, October 23, 1780. 3 See JCC, 17:794-95. In his letter to Congress of September 28, Bradford had reported that “I see not the least prospect of procuring Bills for Captain Duarti. . . . shoud be very happy if a mode coud be pointed out how I might avail my self of Bills for the purpose.” PCC, item 78, 4:19. Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia October 14. 1780 I have received your Despatches of the 27 Ulto. & 5 Instant, and have forwarded Copies with their Indosures to his Excellency General Washington agreeable to your Request. 1 Colonel Morgan is appointed a Brigadier as you will observe by the enclosed Act. The enclosed Letter addressed to him contains his Commissions. 2 I have the Honor to be, with great Respect, Sir, your obedient Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington to Washington, October 9; and the following entry.


[Page 237]
October 14, 1780 203 2 See JCC, 18:920-21. Huntington’s letterbook copy of the enclosed letter to Col. Daniel Morgan is in PCC, item 15, fol. 133. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Octor 14th 1780 By the enclosd Copy of an Act of Congress of the 13th instant, your Excellency will be informd of the promotion of Col. Morgan to the rank of Brigadier. From the representation respecting the Situation & Circumstances of affairs to the Southward this measure was thought in a degree indispensible. I hope it may be attended with happy Consequences. The enclosd Copies of dispatches from Govr Jefferson & Genl. Gates from No 1 to No 9 will give your Excellency the latest intelligence we have receivd from the Southern department. 1 I have been honourd with your Obliging letter of the 7th instant with the important dispatches to which it refers, the Proceedings relative to Majr Andrae are Ordered to be published under the care of Judicious persons to inspect the press. 2 I have the honour to be, with the highest Esteem & Respect your Excellencys humble Servt, Sam Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 These enclosures consisted of the following letters: No. 1. Horatio Gates to Congress, October 5; No. 2. Gates to William Smallwood, October 3; No. 3. Gates to Thomas Jefferson, October 5; No. 4. Jethro Sumner to Gates, September 24; No.5. William Davidson to Gates, September 26; No. 6. Sumner to Gates, September 29; No. 7. Gates to Jefferson, October 3; No. 8. Sumner to Gates, October 1; and No. 9. William Washington to Gates, October 4. All are in the Washington Papers, DLC. 2 See JCC, 18:918. Washington’s letter of the 7th concerning the possible publication of documents pertaining to Maj. John Andre’s trial and conviction is in PCC, item 152, 9:209-13; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:130-34. John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir, Philadelphia Octr. 14th. 1780 A variety of causes render it necessary for Mrs. Mathews to return to Carolina: & as a flag will go there in a few days; I take the liberty of thus early solliciting your Excellency to apply to Sr. Henry Clinton for a permit for herself, & a Negroe Man & Maid servant to go in the flag. The Board of War will inform you of the name of the Vessel. If Sr. Henry Clinton should make any difficulty about admitting her to return when it would be convenient to her (as it is impossible to specify any time for her stay there) rather than she should not


[Page 238]
204 October 14,1780 go, I would agree to her remaining there, and depend on fortune for our meeting again. My situation here is truely distressing, I have no dependence, but on an empty treasury for my support, & when the little money I have left, is exhausted, I know not where I am to apply for more. Although the duties of my station demand of me to undergo every species of inconvenience & distress, yet I don’t think I can with any degree of propriety impose the same task on her. Could I see the least prospect of an alteration for the better, in our affairs, I could be content to wait with patience, but when on the contrary I daily see them grow worse, & the treasury cannot furnish as much money, as will support these few Delegates, who have no other resources, think it sufficient, for me to bear the mortification that must necessarily ensue alone. There is another reason which renders Mrs Mathews presence indispensibly necessary in Carolina (as it is impossible for me to go there.) I have not a friend remaining in that country, but what are prisoners of War, several are amongst those unfortunate persons sent to St. Augustine: so that my affairs are left entirely at the mercy of Negroes, & an insatiable enemy. As to my own particular property, that I entirely give up, unless we should ever recover the country by force of arms. But as Mrs. Mathews has an Estate there independent of mine, I could wish to put it in her power to save that for herself & family. I am led to expect she will be successful in her application on this head; as our State never confiscated a shilling of the property of the Partisans of the British government, but permitted them to dispose of & retire with it, therefore, however they may dispose of my private estate, they can on no principle whatever with hold from her, her seperate estate. She is now the only person who can with propriety make the claim & discriminate between the two estates. This sacrifice of domestic felicity, I think we owe to our posterity, that they might not be left totally destitute. P.M. Since writing the above, we have received letters from the southward. A copy of Genl. Gates’s, with it’s inclosures will be transmitted you by the President. But our Delegates have one from Governor Rutledge which speaks much plainer than Gates does. 1 He is likewise on the spot. I expect Hallifax in North Carolina will be Lord Cornwallis Head quarters in less than a month, unless some very vigorous and decisive measures are immediately taken to reinforce the Southern army—not with Militias but regular troops, that can be kept together, and depended on. The British army, in full force, is now between Gates, & the most fertile, best effected, & most populous part of No. Carolina, so that every resource of men & provisions, are now entirely cut off from thence. The people in every part of the country are flying before the enemy, & endeavouring


[Page 239]
October 16, 1780 205 to save what part of their property they can. Gates’s army is very weak, especially in cavalry, & the enemy are very strong. The last accounts we have of them, they were three miles this side of Charlotte in full march. I see nothing to prevent their pursuing any route they please, through any part of No. Carolina. I am extremely anxious to hear, who the person is, appointed to the Southern Command. I hope your Excy. will find it eligible to confer it on Genl. Greene, as the person that I am convinced will be highly acceptable to all the Southern States. An able commander was never more wanted, than is now in that quarter, & the sooner he gets there, the better. I will just take the liberty of asking yr. Excy. whether you think it would be possible to spare Majr. Lee’s corps to act with the southern army this Winter for after all the exertions they have made there in the course of six months, they have equiped no more than 82 horse. I should be obliged to you sir, to inform me of the result of your application to Sr. Hy. Clinton as soon as you conveniently can. I have received your Excys favor of the 4th inst. 2 but have not time to reply to it at present. I mean to do myself that pleasure by the first opportunity that offers, but hope you will not in the mean time think me negligent as it is my earnest wish at all times, to give you the most convincing proofs that, I am with the highest respect And the sincerest Affection, Yr. Excys. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews P.S. Mrs. Mathews’s Christian name is Mary, the two Servants Simon, & Caty. The name of the Vessel The Genl. Smallwood— Thos. Finley Sailing Master. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Although he clearly dated this letter “Octr. 14,” Mathews undoubtedly began writing it the preceding day, for the Horatio Gates letter of October 5 mentioned here was read in Congress on October 13. See JCC, 18:920; the preceding entry, note 1; and PCC, item 154, 2:267-81. For the October 4 letter from Gov. John Rutledge, which was also laid before Congress on the 13th, see “Letters of John Rutledge,” South Carolina Historical and Genealogical Magazine, 17 (October 1916): 139-40. 2 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:113-16. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir, Philadelphia Octo. 16th 1780 The Saratoga one of the Continental frigates, is just returned from a Cruize of about four Weeks and has taken four Jamaica men, with rum and sugar—one of them mounted 22 Guns, one 20, and another 18. She was parted from her prizes a few nights Ago, in a fog, on Soundings, two of them it is said are arrived in the river, and the


[Page 243]
October 16, 1780 209 Mr. Hopkinson—Observes that his complaint was of the injustice of having his account now rejected for want of Vouchers without having made the objections in any reasonable time, and in a case in which the nature of the business did not admit of a Voucher. Mr. Geddis—Then offered in testimony, a representation of the Facts respecting that account of Mr Hopkinson, the same have been handed at first into the Chamber of accounts then the Treasury from Congress as is usual, that it was passed in the Chamber of Accounts from the knowledge the Commissioners had of considerable part of the business being actually done and from the knowledge they had of Mr. Hopkinsons character—That it was returned without a recommitment and was not taken upon again because it was not referred (or recommitted)—until it was recommitted—That the Chamber of Accounts not being permitted to correspond with any persons it was not in their power to give Mr Hopkinson notice that his account was rejected for want of Vouchers. Upon this Mr. Gibson observed to Mr Geddis that he said he had passed Mr Hopkinsons account “because he knew Mr Hopkinson”—And being about to take a note accordingly—Mr Matlack desired Mr Gibson not to take a note of the kind which his observation implied his intention to do— as it was uncandid and disingenious and so far so as to render it indispensibly necessary to make the observation—to prevent its being done. An altercation ensued and the note was not then taken. Mr. Gibson observed, that if the account of Mr. Hopkinson was passed there were others who also had equal claims. Observation by Mr Hopkinson—That the reason assigned in the report rejecting his account was want of Vouchers, but now the reason assigned was, that the service had not been rendered. Mr. Gibson. Intended to have spoken to this complaint on another occasion, but if it is necessary to speak to this complaint now he is ready to do it. (The Committee left the time of defending against the charge to Mr Gibson & Mr. Forman.) Mr. Gibson, to answer to the letter containing the charge against himself & Mr. Forman. Is sorry to find they have offended the Committee—it was the effect of their feelings and not of any intention to offend. If any thing has happened which ought to have offended, he asks pardon—is not conscious of having done anything intentionally. They are the butt of complaints from the nature of their office—which they have endeavoured to fulfill their duty as honest industrious servts & hopes for Candour. Intends to trace the business thro—And therefore begs leave to shew what was the manner of doing business in the former board. The Board instituted in 76 as a kind of Council to superintend and direct others. The stile always Mandatory. Instances—April 30, 1776—[p. 219?]—respecting Col Flowers. The stile the present board


[Page 244]
210 October 16, 1780 has pursued and continued their rules—always referring to the practice of the former board as authority. The board acted as a Council to direct & superintend the whole business; for this reason the Chamber of Accots. instituted. The Council keeps a Journal of all applications in concise descriptions & referring to the Files where the Originals are preserved. And produced a book of Columns in which the business is arranged. Lesser matters are then finally issued. Those of more Consequence; such as relate to reports made to Congress are continued in their Journal. Rules of office for fixed hours was fixed from necessity and the time depended on the time of the Members of Congress. The increase of papers in the files rendered the adopting the rule indispensibly necessary—otherwise the board could not possibly have obtained leisure to consider of the business before them. 1780 21 March Do. Rules then adopted read. 237-239. (Note, After this time an hour in the afternoon was fixed for reviewing applications vizt. from 4 to 5.) These rules adopted upon Mature deliberation and from experience. And within 10 days, the business was within command— And since then they have been able to do the business of every application. The applications being in writing, were short and if explanation was wanting the party could be sent for. The explanations with the Chamber of Accounts in writing was particularly advantageous as the directions given could be full & explicit and they would remain to be referred to and would speak for themselves. Having thus given a view of the manner of doing business—I shall not take up the time of Committee with remarks—but proceed to consider the evidence against the board. Observes the Testimony of Mr. Caldwell, does not appear to prove anything in point; but if anything was intended to be drawn from it he should be glad to know it—And the inquiry being pointed to Mr. Hopkinson—he replied, that Mr Caldwell had frequently complained to him of the uncivil reply he had reced. and Delays he had met with from the board and he H. had asked his evidence on the subject. Mr Gibson—observes—That Mr. Caldwell had not provided his vouchers in time and an intervening resolve of Congress prevented his obtaining the bills which he requested—That the delay was in consequence of Mr. Caldwells neglect—and the final disappointment by an alteration in the measures of Congress. That there was always one or more of the Treasury attending in the hours appointed for reviewing applications, with very few exceptions and always the clerk is regularly there. As to Mr. Petits evidence—The Correspondence is before the Comt. Mr. Dunlaps complaint relates to the conduct of the former board


[Page 245]
October 17, 1780 211 the account bearing date Sept. 26th. 1779. (Note. But the account has not yet been settled.) Report of the Chamber of Accots. Septr. 21. 1779 on this account, 2 deducting near one half the charge. Directors of the Lottery. Delanys observation related to the former board. Errors—Typographical, in the form of the bills 3 was first discovered by the Treasury board, or perhaps, by the inspectors of the press, no proof of the Bills being given to the Treasury before the whole were struck off. That the error was perhaps advantageous, the same being communicated to the Commission at Paris. Mr. Hillegas’s complaint unjust, because he ought to pay regard to the orders of the board. But Qu. How far private orders could controul formal Solemn public orders. Mr. Hopkinson was always welcome from his manners &c. Respecting incorrect orders Acknowledged an error—Bills in error not in the form; but in the number of bills—And an error which may readily be pardoned, “considering the Difficulty of Calculations. ” The Clerk is [ . . . ] able for the error of [ .... ] Adjourned to Wednesday 10 oclock. 4 MS (DNA: PCC, item 62). In the hand of Timothy Matlack. A continuation of the committee minutes of October 12, 1780. 1 Hopkinson’s difficulties with the board over the settlement of his accounts concerning “fancy work” he performed designing “devices for monies, seals, Flags &c’ ’ has been discussed at length in George E. Hastings, The Life and Works of Francis Hopkinson (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1926), pp. 240-54. 2 This report is in PCC, item 62, fols. 448. 3 Evidence concerning the erroneous bills of exchange at issue in this dispute is filed with the committee’s papers at ibid., fols. 389-91, 425-47. 4 For the continuation of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, October 21, 1780. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Phil. Oct 17, 1780 Yesterday I had the pleasure of receiving your Letter of the 27 of Septr. by the hand of my valueable Friend Mr Arthur Lee. As it was three weeks old I had a Right to expect another by the Post, but am disappointed. I have ever esteemd Mr Lee one of the most virtuous, active & able American Patriots. This opinion, you know, I have long entertaind of him, and therefore you justly conclude, that he meets with the most cordial Reception from me. You was mistaken when you supposd that I had heard who were chosen into the highest Places under our new Constitution. We are


[Page 246]
212 October 17, 1780 not so well informd. I had Reason to believe that Mr Hancock would be the Governor. I am disposd to think, that my Fellow Citizens had upright Views in giving him their Suffrages. Many Circumstances have combind to make this Election appear to be politically necessary; and if the People, who are now blessd with so great a Privilege, will exercise that Watchfulness over Men whom they exalt to Places of Power, which their Duty & Interest should lead them to do, I flatter myself that his will prove a happy Choice. You may wonder at my saying so; but I think I am not misguided in my Judgment in this Instance. If they have now chosen a wise & virtuous governor, a few only will be disappointed; if otherwise, Many will see their Error, and will be indued to greater Vigilance for the future. I am far from being an Enemy to that Gentleman, tho’ he has been prevaild upon to mark me as such. I have so much Friendship for him, as to wish with all my Heart, that in the most critical Circumstances, he may distinguish between his real Friends & his flattering Enemies. Or, rather between the real Friends of the Country & those who will be ready to offer the Incense of Flattery to him who is the first Man in it. This will require an accurate Knowledge [of] Men. I therefore again wish that he may have the most able faithful Councellors to assist him in the Administration of Affairs. Can I say more? If, with the best Advice he is able to hold the Reins of Government with Dignity, I wish him a Continuance of the Honor. If he renders our Country secure in a flourishing Condition, I will never be so partial & unjust as to withhold my Tribute of Applause. Adieu my dear, SA RC (NN: Adams Papers). Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 17th. 1780. I had the honour to receive your Excellencys favour of the 4th Instant, by yesterdays Post, with the inclosed Newspaper containing the Act of the Hone, the General Assembly for funding the Money to be emited persuant to the Act of Congress of the 18th of March. 1 The Act of the General Assembly is refered to the Board of Treasury. 2 As soon as the Money is struck I shall endeavor to forward it to the State without loss of time. How soon that business will be accomplished I am not able to ascertain, but fear it will be some time. You may depend on my best endeavors to obtain a grant of money for the State, and I wish I could say that I expected success in the business, But when I consider the large sums due to the States of


[Page 247]
October 17, 1780 213 New York and New Jersey and the late application made by them to Congress for relief, and that they received for Answer that it was inadmisable even to give them a draught on the Loan office for a part of the four tenths in their own states, I think I am not warranted to give you any encouragement that the request will be granted in our present distressed situation. At the same time I could wish to have an exact account of the Moneys furnished by the State to the D.Q.M. General as I am confident no grant can be obtained on general principals. Necessity obliges me to hint to your Excellency that my circumstances for want of Cash is not altered for the better, since I mentioned that subject before, I do not complain but submit my case to your own feelings and rely on the Justice of my Constituents for relief. Our affairs to the south wear at present a gloomy aspect. The Enemy have by the last official accounts Marched in force into North Carolina and taken Post at Sharlotte and I fear (by the complection of affairs) soon to hear they have nearly possesed themselves of that state. General Gates hath lost all confidence with the people in that Quarter and in a particular manner with General Smallwood who is the next in command, General Washington hath not informed Congress of the officer ordered to take the Command of the southern Army. I wish it soon to take place for at present you may depend all is in disorder and the Utmost confusion. I have the honour to be with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect your Excellencys most obedient Humble Servant, Ezek Cornell P.S. I received a large packit from Virginia Inclosed to your Excellency containing sundry Acts passed in that state, which I do my self the Honour to forward by this days Post. I have also Inclosed two News papers containing a particular detail of Majr. Andres conduct and the Infamous Arnolds Address to which is aded another prepared for the press by Mr. Secretary Thomson. 3 Major Andres Tryall is now in the Press as soon as Published I will do myself the Honour to inclose one to your Excellency, Yours E.C. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 See Cornell to William Greene, August 15, 1780, note 2. 2 JCC, 18:932. 3 See Charles Thomson’s Parody upon Benedict Arnold’s Address, this date.


[Page 252]
218 October 17, 1780 and as they have not yet been heard of it is feared they have fallen back into the possession of the Enemy. Baron Stuben just come to town brings a report that an embarkation left N. York on Thursday, but no confirmation has yet arrived from Gl. Washington or any other official source. Adieu, James Madison Junr. [P.5. ] By a letter just reed, from the Continental Agt. at Statia by the Commercial Committee, the Capture of the British fleet by the Spaniards is brought pretty nearly to certainty. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:140-41. John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir Philadelphia Octr. 17th. 1780 At the time I wrote to you respecting that part of the system for the army, that had been agreed on by Congress, I had despaired of it’s being submitted to your opinion. 1 I had moved for it, but my proposition was rejected, on a principle, that the whole should go together. We have received your Excys. sentiments on this very important subject, such, as I evidently foresaw would be the result of your serious consideration. 2 Your observations are incontrovertible, & unless Congress are so bigoted to the Idol they have set up, & are determined to reject every principle that can have the least tendency to invalidate the foundation on which it is erected, they must ultimately adopt the plan you propose. No other, I am convinced, can ever answer our purposes. But even in this case a most tremendous inconvenience arises—for here is the month of October better than half spent, & probably, before Congress come to a final determination, November will be arrived, & then there remains only two months for prosecuting this great work. The time is certainly too short for it’s completion. I consequently dread the arrival of the first day of January. Had Congress put this business in the train, that was proposed early in Septr. so much precious time would have been saved, as, in all probability would have given success to the plan. However, we must now use our best endeavours to put things on as good a footing as the nature of the case will admit of. Yr. Excys letter of the 11th inst. is committed to the same committee who brought in the former report, together with that report, but nothing is, as yet, done in it. My plan respecting the annual recruits was only meant to render the System as useful as possible, for if an alternative must be admitted into it we should endeavour to derive every possible advantage from it. I therefore thought it best, to have the power to detain the men,


[Page 256]
222 October 18, 1780 delegates were clear to decide on the claims of the Vermonters, which they seem now to evade. Tr (MH-H: Sparks Collection). Only this brief extract transcribed for Jared Sparks has been found. 1 For the “business of Vermont,” see Duane to Clinton, October 7, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Richard Howly Sir, Philada October 18, 1780 By the Act of Congress of the 25 of September on the report of a Committee on Mr Glasscock’s Letter and the Memorial of Mr Walton, I am directed to transmit you Copies of the said Act & report, with the Papers therein referred to which are all enclosed. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 18:861. For the background of this case concerning the removal of Gen. Lachlan McIntosh from his post in the southern department in February 1780, see George Walton’s Memorial, September 7; and Richard Howly’s Statement, September 9? 1780. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philada October 18. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 10 Instant wherein they have resolved that the unappropriated Lands that may be ceded or relinquished to the United States pursuant to the Recommendation of the 6 of September last shall be disposed of for the Common Benefit of the United States, be formed into distinct Governments, and granted & settled as expressed in the Act and the reasonable Expences incurred in subduing British Posts &c on such ceded Land shall be reimbursed. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S. H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 18:915. See also Huntington to the States, October 16, 1780. Samuel Huntington to William Smallwood and Mordecai Gist Sir, Philada October 18, 1780 1 Notwithstanding the Event of the Action near Cambden the 16


[Page 257]
October 18, 1780 223 of August last, I have the Pleasure to present you with the Thanks of Congress expressed in the Copy of their Act enclosed of the 14 Instant to yourself in particular and the brave Officers & Troops who distinguished themselves by their Bravery & Valour on that Occasion. 2 I have the Honor to be, with Esteem & respect, &c &c &c, S.H. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To Major General Smallwood. The like verbatim to Brigadier Genl Gist.” 1 The RC of this letter sent to Mordecai Gist is dated October 16. Stewart Signers of the Declaration Collection, NjGbS. 2 See JCC, 18:924. 3 This day Huntington also wrote a brief letter to Quartermaster General Timothy Pickering, pursuant to a resolve of October 16, authorizing him “to furnish Col. [Jean-Baptiste] Ternant with two good Horses,” in compensation for “two good riding horses [impressed from him] during the siege of Charlestown, by order of the State of South Carolina.” See PCC, item 15, fol. 136; and JCC, 18:932-33. Willie Jones to Abner Nash Dr sir Octr. 18, 1780. 1 I wrote to you of the 1st Octr. & 10th to which I refer. The Resolution of Congress directing Genl. Washington to appoint an Officer to take the Command of the Southern Army, instead of Genl. Gates, was immediately sent to Head Quarters; but the General has not informed Congress of his proceedings thereupon, nor can I advise you who will be appointed to that Command. Genl. Gates sent us Dispatches three or four days ago, advising that Ld Cornwallis had penetrated our State as far as Charlotte, these Dispatches were immediately forwarded to the Commander in Chief, and I have some small hopes that he will be thereby induced to detach some troops to the Southward, perhaps Lee’s Corps, for every Idea of acting to the Northward is now laid aside. However, I am not sanguine in this Expectation. We have Reports every day of Reinforcements going from N. York either to No. Carolina or Virginia; but nothing which can be depended on. I hope both those States will consider it as a thing certain, that Reinforcements will be sent from N. York, in the course of the ensuing Winter. The Newspaper will inform you of the Capture of the British Et. & Wt. India fleet outward bound. A Letter to the Commercial Committe gives a more authentick accot. as thus, the British fleet consisting of 58 Sail, fell in with the combined Fleet in the Night, the Ramilies and Thetis escaped to Madeira, where the former remained eight days, and only four Merchantmen came in, the Southampton Frigate escaped and brought the first Intelligence to


[Page 258]
224 October 18,1780 St. Kitts, the Ramilies is since arrived at Jamaica, the Thetis was dispatched to give Adml. Geary Intelligence of the Combined Fleet. From these Circumstances it is conjectured that about 50 of the British Ships were captured. I hope to leave this place in three Weeks, but this depends on Remittances from Carolina—for I have long been out of cash. I am with the greatest truth, Dr. Sir, Your most obed & Humble Servt. Willie Jones P.S. It is said that Genl. Washington, upon Arnolds appointment to the Command at West point, gave him the Names of several Gentlemen of the first Rank in N. York, (thro’ whom he obtained Intelligence of Sir Henry Clintons Motions) together with the plan of Correspondence; all which the execrable Villain Arnold disclosed on his Arrival at N. York, and the aforesaid Gentlemen were consequently apprehend & confined in Irons; and, if this be the Case, will probably lose their Lives. W. Jones RC (NcU: Revolutionary War Papers). •Jones originally dated this letter “Octr. 17,” but then wrote over the “7,” apparently after he added the postscript. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia October 19. 1780 I have been honored with your several Letters viz, the 11, 13, & three of the 15 Instant, with the Papers to which they refer. 1 Enclosed your Excellency will herewith receive the Copy of an Act of Congress of this Day, authorizing you to carry into Execution the Proposals enclosed in your Letter of the 15 Instant or any other you may judge proper to make respecting the Commissaries of Prisoners to reside with the American & British Armies respectively. 2 I have also enclosed a Number of the printed Acts of Congress containing a Plan for conducting the Hospital Department, also an Act of Congress of the 14 Instant directing a Monument to be erected to the Memory of the late Major Genl the Baron de Kalb, and giving the Thanks of Congress to Generals Smallwood & Gist &c, & the Troops who distinguished themselves by their Valour in the Action near Cambden on the 16 of August last. With the highest respect, I have the Honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 These letters are in PCC, item 152, 9:247-76, 293-300; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:157-67, 175, 189-92. The former is a remarkable 18-page


[Page 260]
226 October 21, 1780 2500 Foot and thirty or forty Horse,” thought destined to the “Southward.” See JCC, 18:956; PCC, item 152, 9:319; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:203. Huntington also sent this intelligence from Washington under cover of a brief letter to Maryland governor Thomas Sim Lee this day. PGC, item 15, fol. 140. John Sullivan’s Memorial To the Honorable the Continental Congress: Humbly Shews John Sullivan Philadelphia October 21 1780 That when he had the Honor of Commanding the Army at Rhode Island his Army was for a Long time Destitute of Provisions & that the Commissaries after repeated applications Informed him that it was out of their power to Supply the Troops; where upon he applied to Messrs Clark & Nightingale for Supplies who Employed one Amasa Sessions Esqr by whose Instrumentality the Troops were kept from Perishing. That the Commissaries who had refused to furnish Provisions Commenced a prosecution against Said Sessions for purchasing the Same & after a hearing thereon he was Acquitted of the Charge 2 but in his Defence against a Suit Commenced without Color 3 & Lengthened out by Every malicious Stratagem that Could be Devised, he Expended Large Sums of money which have been repaid him by Said Clark & Nightingale for which & for the provisions furnished they have forwarded the Accounts Inclosed requesting payment from your memorialist. He Therefore prays Congress to order the Accounts to be Liquidated & paid & your memoralist Shall pray &c, J no Sullivan MS (DNA: PCC, item 41). In the hand of John Sullivan. 1 Sullivan presented this memorial to Congress on October 21, when it was read and referred to the Board of Treasury. JCC, 18:958. 2 Amasa Sessions also filed a countersuit over these charges at about this time, for which see Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 3:342-43. 3 That is, without right or cause. Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes Saturday October 21st. 1780. Present Honble Mr McKean, Mr. Walker. The error of the order of the 1st of June was acknowledged by Mr Gibson & Mr Forman exhibited an Amendment of the number of bills ordered to Maryland by which he conceives the order will be found incorrect only in a single instance. Mr. Gibson—Produced Mr. Hopkinsons account to shew that the


[Page 268]
234 October 22, 1780 Numbers killed & taken falls considerable short of the Number they are Stated at, and yet, the Numr. of Arms said to be taken exceeds their Numr. of Troops—in the first [ . . . ] part might have escaped and in the latter they might be carrying spare Arms with them. These matters must be left to be cleared up when we Obtain more particulars relative to the affair. The killed, prisoners, and Numr. of Arms I suppose Major Tate gives by conjecture only, and not from any Actual Acct, taken, which when ascertained may differ considerably. The copies I did not take with a view to sending from me or they would not have appeared quite so rough. With this good News, we also reed, this day disagreable intelligence from the Northward. 2 Butler & Brandt with a Number of British & Tories had made an incursion from Canada, Landed at the head of South bay, taken Fort Ann and Fort George with their small Garrisons: The same or another party from the Westward had invested Fort Schuyler but had not ventured upon an Attack—some Continentals with the Militia were on their March to relieve the Fort. The Enemy had burn’d many houses, barracks of grain & hay &c in their rout. This expedition Governor Clinton thinks was intended as a Cooperation with the British up the North River in Case Arnolds Treachery had succeeded, which being defeated he thinks they will make but a short stay. Two of the Saratogas Prizes it is said have arrived safe in the River and are coming up. Of the other no Certain intelligence hath been reed, tho’ some think she is got into Sinepuxant, as such a like Vessel was lately seen, as Supposed standing in there. Congress lately agreed upon a Reduction of the Continental Regiments granting to all Reduced Officers one Years pay—since which they have engaged half pay for life to all such. The Natural Consequence you may be sure was to grant the half pay for life to all that continued in the service. This Proceeding extraordinary as it is met with no Opposition but from the four New England States & New Jersey, the Opposition from one of the Eastern States was but feeble. 3 It gives me inexpressible pain to see Congress Sporting away the publick money and increasing our debt at the very time we are in a Perfect State of bankruptcy. Were our Finances in ever so good a state, the Measure is inconsistant with our ideas of liberty and Maxims of Government to pension for life such a Number Among us; it is also unjust with regard to those who were not long since dismissed on one Years depreciated pay without the depreciation made up to them for the time of their service, and many others through Necessity, want of employ, or ill treatment have lately left the Army without any future allowance or depreciation of money for past Services granted to them. Congress appears to be tumbling down fast and will I believe soone retain no more than a Name and that I fear not a good one. Some late appointments in the Medical


[Page 269]
October 22, 1780 235 Line will not I believe add much to their decayed Reputation. But I shall say no more on this disagreeable Subject, Assuring Your Excellency I am, with due respects, Your Obedt. & Humble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 News of the American victory at Kings Mountain on October 7, contained in letters of Horatio Gates, Jethro Sumner, and William Davidson that Thomas Jefferson had forwarded to Samuel Huntington, was read in Congress the following morning. See JCC, 18:963; PCC, item 71, 1:461-68, 471; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:32, 42. 2 This “disagreable intelligence” concerning enemy incursions on the New York frontier was the subject of an October 14 report from Gov. George Clinton enclosed in Washington’s October 16 letter to President Huntington, which was read in Congress on the 23rd. See JCC, 18:964; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:192-93; and Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 6:294-95. 3 The reorganization plan adopted by Congress on September 21 and October 3, which reduced the total number of Continental infantry regiments to 49, portended the creation of new supernumerary officers and the demoralization of others whose positions would be threatened by mergers with reorganized regiments. Similar reductions in 1778-79 had produced a flurry of resignations, and to avoid a repetition of that experience Washington was asked for recommendations on implementing the new plan. Warning of the delicacy of the situation now looming and advising “great caution, in any reforms that are attempted,” Washington recommended “an ample provision both for the Officers who stay and for those who are reduced.” By this he meant changing the existing system of half pay for seven years to half pay for life or whole pay for seven years, and Congress had opted for the former. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:157-59; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, October 4, 1780. The initial vote on the proposal for half pay for life was actually supported by both New Hampshire and Rhode Island—represented respectively by John Sullivan and Ezekiel Cornell, themselves general officers—although in the final vote on the arrangement revisions Cornell joined Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New Jersey in opposing a motion “to agree to the whole as amended. "JCC, 18:958-61. See also Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, October 24; and Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, October 26, 1780. George Walton to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia, 22 October, 1780 Major Woodruff 1 will have the pleasure of presenting You with this, which I beg you will take as an introduction from me. He is a zealous adherent to our cause, brave as a soldier, and valuable as a citizen. As his Sufferings by the war have been very great, I should be happy if any thing should present itself, that you would dispose of it in his favor. I am, Sir, with great regard, your most obedient servant, Geo Walton RC (OCIWHi: Norton Collection).


[Page 271]
October 23, 1780 237 of the 21 Instant, directing Mr John Bradford Continental Agent at Boston to deliver to your Order all the Duck in his Hands suitable for Tents, the Property of the United States, to be made up into Tents for the Army, reserving only so much thereof as in the Opinion of the Board of Admiralty is necessary for the immediate Use of the Navy. 1 The Board of Admiralty are also directed to give the necessary Information on this Subject immediately to the Agent. I am Sir &c &c &c, S.H. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 JCC, 18:962. See also Huntington to John Bradford, October 14, 1780. 2 This day Huntington also sent a routine resolve of the 21st to Dr. William Rickman notifying him that his request to resign as director of Continental hospitals in Virginia had been adopted, a request that he had recently repeated in a letter to Congress of October 4. See PCC, item 15, fol. 142, item 78, 19:319-20; and JCC, 18:962, 1066. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia October 23. 1780 Permit me to congratulate your Excellency on the Success of the southern Militia over Colonel Ferguson a Noted British Partizan as related in the Paper enclosed. 1 By various recent Accounts from the Southward, the Spirit of the Inhabitants seems at length to be rising, and many that have been in the Power of the Enemy appear not a little displeased with their new British Master. I have also the Honor to transmit your Excellency the Proceeding of a Board of General Officers respecting Majr Andr£ published by Order of Congress. I am Sir, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, your most obedient Servant. Sam. Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Abraham Clark to William Livingston, October 22, 1780, note 1. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia October 23. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed two Letters from the Chevalier du Buyson (who was one of the Baron de Kalbs Aids, made Prisoner with him and now on Parole) desiring Leave to return to Europe, together with the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 21 Instant, referring his request to your Excellency to act thereon as you shall think proper. 1


[Page 272]
238 October 23, 1780 I have also the Honor to transmit you enclosed the Proceedings of a Board of General Officers respecting Major Andre published by Order of Congress. 2 And am, with every Sentiment of respect, your Excellency’s most obedient, humble Servant, Sam Huntington President P.S. Your Excellencys Despatches of the 16 & 17 Instant have been received. 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The chevalier Dubuysson des Hayes, who had been taken prisoner at the battle of Camden in August, had written to Congress seeking action on his exchange. The matter was referred to the Board of War, which simply recommended that his case “be referred to the Commander in Chief to act thereupon as he shall think proper,” a recommendation that Congress endorsed October 21. SeeJCC, 18:824, 862, 934, 958; and PCC, item 78, 7:301-3. In his October 29 response to Huntington, Washington explained that he had written to Sir Henry Clinton on the subject, but could not accord special status to Dubuysson without prejudicing the claims of other prisoners of equal rank captured prior to August 1780, a position he explained directly to Dubuysson and repeated to Congress in March 1781 when the matter was again brought to his attention. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:168-69, 399-400, 22:479. 2 For this 21-page pamphlet, which was printed at Philadelphia by Francis Bailey, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 17,043. 3 These letters are in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:192-3, 203; but only the latter is in PCC, item 152, 9:319-20. This day Huntington also sent a second letter to Washington, enclosing intelligence just received from Gov. Thomas Jefferson concerning the victory at Kings Mountain, for which see Abraham Clark to William Livingston, October 22, 1780, note 1. Nathaniel Peabody to James Lovell Dear Sir Morris Town Octr 23d 1780 I take the Liberty of inclosing to your Care a certificate from Colo. Pickering for £874.3s paid him on acct of horse keeping at the public Stables Philada.—which I beg youl Lodge with the board of Treasury for my discharge. I also forward a Draft from Coll Pickering on his Lady for 5615 Dollars, and should take it as a particular favour if you will be so oblidgeing as to wait on Mrs. Pickering with my Compliments and see if it is agreable to her to discharge it. I was to have calld. on her myself at Philada. but an Unforeseen occurrance will prevent for the present and I find Expences here more than I Expected which will occation the want of more money than I Can now Command. Colo Pickering was to have wrote advice of the matter to his Lady, but when I saw him Neither he nor I Expected the money would have been so soon wanted, so it is Unlikely that She will be prepard as he Said She would be under the Necessity of borrowing the money.


[Page 284]
250 October 24, 1780 extra regiment to march southward, see Md. Archives, 43:335. When the delegates submitted Lee’s letter on October 25, Congress immediately ordered the funds disbursed. See JCC, 18:972. 4 Richard Bennett Lloyd of Kent County, Md., had received permission to travel to New York City to retrieve personal property, including household furniture, belonging to his second wife, Elizabeth. He may have been accompanied by his Kent County neighbor, John Scott. See Md. Archives, 43:342; and Biog. Diet, of Md. Legis., 2:542-43, 718-19. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dr Sir, Oct 24. 1780 Your Favors of the 5th & 10th reached me yesterday. The chief Subject roused Contempt & Indignation; but that serious Company was interrupted by Risibility who pleaded your Mode of Delineation as a forcible Summons; it became thus impossible to prevent jocular Opinions from being mixed with very grave Verdicts. I have no Clue to the “Reasons assigned’’ in my own Case. If they do not appear in writing officially I should be glad to know them that I may form a proper Judgment of the Event. It was a Thing really “unexpected”; but I shall find myself under the Necessity of showing you in some other Letter a State of Facts here that will throw your 2/8 or 9/ at 40 for 1 into a proper Point of View. 1 I am not well and must therefore oeconomize in the epistolary Way. Excuse me for this Post to our Friend the Doctor 2 whose kind Letter of the 9th I have received. Permit me also to refer you to the within Scrawl 3 which was intended for another not a Member of Congress, and therefore, upon second Thought, turned over to you. There has been great Success at the Southward, but at the Northward there is a drawback. The Green Mountaineers are able to drub the Enemy but I fear they will not till after N. Yk. has smarted. Genl. Greene is to go to the Command in the Carolinas. Col. Wigglesworth will soon be on his way with all your “Profits.” I shall not charge him to keep it a dead Secret that you are not quite ruined by the War. My Colleagues live at Mrs. Millars with Palfrey but that Lady has consulted Mrs. Sword or Soward and consequently has raised her Price to the concerted one which Lodge Alley and Mifflin’s Corner had demanded, 7 at 75 pr. Week soon I fear to be 78. Mrs. M also got in the same Way the secundary Lye that the Mass. Delegates were moving only on a Pence Account. Yr. Friend and h Svt. J L [P. 5. ] We have a Confirmation from Cadiz of the Spanish Success mentioned in the Gazettes and further that 5 Ships were taken with Provisions going into Gibralter and a Frigate driven on Shoar. 4


[Page 285]
October 24, 1780 251 RC (NN: Gerry-Townsend Papers). 1 See Lovell to Gerry, October 3, 1780. 2 That is, Samuel Holten. 3 For Lovell’s enclosure, a letter of this date composed for William Gordon, see the following entry. 4 This “Confirmation” arrived in a letter from Richard Harrison of August 17 that was read in Congress this day. JCC, 18:968. James Lovell to William Gordon Dear Sir Octr 24th. 1780 Your Favor of the 11th reached me yesterday but the inclosed was not open. I have forwarded it. I catched some of your “Grief’ consequent upon your “little Hope.” Arnold’s Baseness of Soul was not unknown to many as Mr. Gerry can assure you from hearing Treasury Examinations. 2 But it is material to prove this in yr. Letters to Europe by authentic Anecdotes; as, really, his Fame was there great & unsullied. I shall deliver your conditional promise to Doctr. Lee. His adversarial Demon is not yet asleep. Prudence commands some Decision here that may accord with his & our own Honor but not implying a judicial Scrutiny into past Accusations & Defences. 3 4/5 of the Allegations of his Enemies were of a Kind not to be decided at all. A & B say he is not fit to be employed among a “gallant People.” C [&] D assert the Contrary. A B say that he is mean. C D that he is only a Republican CEconomist. A B say that he corresponded with Berkenhout. The Rest of the Alphabet may prove the Negative if they can. He is an injured man, but “our public Distresses ought to be attended to before the Concerns of any Individual”—very plausible! But in this Case tis a public Concern; And in my humble opinion strong Opposition to a simple Committment of a Letter from an Officer lately in an exalted Station abroad shows more of party than patriotic Spirit. I hope however that we may finish, at present, in some Way similar to what was done in Mr. Izard’s Case a few weeks ago. Two Yeas and Nays & 5/8 of a Day’s Session were the consequences of my motion 4 for Commitmt. of Doctr. L’s Letter for the Purpose of avowing national Principles for his Recal and not leaving Room for the Supposition of any Judicial Proceedure of ex- parte Opportunities; and for the further Purpose of directing him to communicate in writing whatever he might think essential to the public Good immediatley, or the Right Settlement hereafter of Business now in Transaction abroad. Jemmy 5 was the primum, secundum & ultimum mobile of the Opposition tho’ calling God to Witness that he had no personal Prejudice.


[Page 286]
252 October 24, 1780 RC (NN: Gerry-Townsend Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed, and endorsed by him: “Doctr. G Jamaica Plain.” 1 Although he composed this letter for Gordon, Lovell had second thoughts about disclosing its contents to one who was “not a member of Congress” and therefore sent it to Elbridge Gerry, for which see the preceding entry. Presumably Gerry could personally relate the substance of it to Gordon, thereby avoiding the indiscretion of revealing specific details of congressional proceedings, a fine distinction Lovell often condemned when judging others. Since the document remains with a collection of Gerry papers, it seems clear that it was not delivered to Gordon. 2 For Gerry’s role in the congressional review of Benedict Arnold’s accounts, see Gerry to Samuel Huntington, May 18, 1780. 3 See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, this date, note 6. 4 For the voting on Lovell’s motion to commit Arthur Lee’s October 17 letter to committee, see JCC, 18:951-54. 5 That is, James Duane. Ibid. James Madison to Joseph Jones Dear Sir Philada. Octr. [24,] 1780 1 Your favor of the 9th which ought to have come on Monday last did not arrive till Thursday. That of the 17th came yesterday according to the expectation. 2 I wish it was in my power to enable you to satisfy the uneasiness of people with respect to the disappointment in foreign succour. 3 I am sensible of the advantage which our secret enemies take of it. I am persuaded also that those who ought to be acquainted with the cause [of] it are sensible of it; and as they give no intimations on the subject it is to be inferred they are unable to give any that would prevent the mischief. It is so delicate a subject, that with so little probability of succeeding, it would perhaps be hardly prudent to suggest it. As soon as any solution comes out you shall be furnished with it. I have informed Pleasants that you would write to him from Richmond, and on application to Pemberton was promised a written sketch of his terms which I have not yet received. If it comes before this is seeded I shall enclose it. 4 We continue to receive periodical alarms from the Commissary’s & Quarter Master’s departments. The season is now arrived when provision ought to be made for a season that will not admit of transportation, and when the monthly supplies must be subject to infinite disappointments even if the States were to do their duty. But instead of Magazines being laid in our army is living from hand to mouth, with a prospect of being soon in a condition still worse. How a total dissolution of it can be prevented in the course of the winter is for any resources now in prospect utterly inexplicable, unless the States unanimously make a vigorous & speedy effort to form


[Page 287]
October 24, 1780 253 Magazines for the purpose. But unless the States take other methods to procure their specific supplies than have prevailed in most of them, their utmost efforts to comply with the requisitions of Congress can be only a temporary relief. This expedient as I take it was meant to prevent the emission of money. Our own experience as well as the example of other Countries made it evident that we could not by taxes draw back to the treasury the emissions as fast as they were necessarily drawn out. We could not follow the example of other Countries by borrowing, neither our own Citizens nor foreigners being willing to lend as far as our wants extended. To continue to emit ad infinitum was thought more dangerous than an absolute occlusion of the press. Under these circumstances the expedient of specific requisitions was adopted for suppling the necessities of the war. But it is clear the success of this expedient depends on the mode of carrying it into execution. If instead of executing it by specific taxes, State emissions, Commissary’s & Q. master’s certificates which are a worse species of emissions, are recurred to, what was intended for our relief will only hasten our destruction. As you are at present a legislator 5 I will take the liberty of hinting to you an idea that has occurred on this subject. I take it for granted that taxation alone is inadequate to our situation. You know as well as I do how far we ought to rely on loans to supply the defect of it. Specific taxes as far as they go are a valuable fund but from local and other difficulties will never be universally and sufficiently adopted. Purchases with State money or certificates will be substituted. In order to prevent this evil and to insure the supplies, therefore I would propose, that they be diffused and proportioned among the people as accurately as circumstances will admit, that they be impressed with vigor & impartiality, and paid for in certificates not transferrible to be redeemable at some period subsequent to the war at specie value and bearing an intermediate interest. The advantage of such a scheme is this, that it would anticipate during the war the future revenues of peace, as our Enemies and all other modern nations do. It would be compelling the people to lend the public their commodities, as people elsewhere lend their money to purchase commodities. It would be a permanent resourse by which the war might be supported as long as the earth should yield its increase. This plan differs from specific taxes only in this that as an equivalent is given for what is received much less nicety would be requisite in apportioning the supplies among the people, and they might be taken in places where they are most wanted. It differs from the plan of paying for supplies in state emissions or common certificates in this, that the latter produce all the evils of a redundant medium, whereas the former not being transferrible can not have that effect, and moreover do not require the same degree of taxes during the war. We were informed a few days ago by Genl Washington that the


[Page 313]
October 27, 1780 279 fairly I think you will find no cause to blame me for neglecting you. The Matters before Congress are at this time so weighty—so numerous, so important, so interesting—and most of them so essential to be kept secret untill they are prepared to be known that you will readily excuse my not entering on the subject—which were I at liberty freely to write on would take almost a Quire of Paper to give you any Satisfactory Idea of. We have had a pretty full confirmation of the Combined fleets of Fr & Spain having taken almost the whole of a fleet of Eng. E & W Indiamen (5 of the former) outward Bound to the amount of about 50 part of which in a letter from a Gentn. at Cadiz to the Pr. of Congress are said to be safe arrived at that Port and the others daily expected. Don Barcelo before Gibraltar has also taken five or Six Provision Ships sent with Supplies to that place by the English—This with the News of our southern success has operated on us like a Cordial. Give my best affections and love to Fanny & the Boys & Girls. I hope by this time they are all well. I have written to the Boys & have sent them presents. Dick Meade who carries this will tell you all the news &c. &c. God Bless you. Theok. Bland N.B. There were one thousand Highland Soldiers taken in the Captured fleet. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 “Sapponi” may have been a Tucker plantation unit on the Sapony River in Prince George Co., Virginia. “Matoax” was Tucker’s plantation in nearby Chesterfield Co. See Bland to Tucker, September 17, 1780, note 2. 2 That is, in his medical, in contrast to his musical (“Cantator”) capacity. Apollo’s functions were “especially music, archery, prophecy, medicine, and the care of flocks and herds.” The Oxford Classical Dictionary, ed. M. Cary et al. (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1949), p. 68. 3 That is, whim or caprice. Nathaniel Peabody to Nathanael Greene Dear General Morristown Octor. 27. 1780 I take the liberty to inclose to your care a Letter from Dr. Shippen to Mrs. R. H. Lee, as also one from your Humble Servant to Mr Lee which I have put under a flying seal, 1 and which you will please to Close before it is deliverd. I most Sincerely Congratulate you on the dawn of success both Southward & Northward the particulars of the latter you will have in the fish kill paper which Martin has took with him. The Tories have took the Mail going east between fish kill & Danbury and Carried to N. York. 2 The Marques with his light Infantry undertook an Expedetion to Staten Island this morning but, as I am inform’d to his Great


[Page 314]
280 October 27, 1780 Chagrean, when he arrived at the place of embarkation instead thirteen boats which were ordered to that place he found but five, which were totally inadequate to warrant the undertaking, and after waiting, till too late, without being Supplied, he was under the disagreable Necessity of returning with the Mortification of being disappointed in a Capital object. 3 This has raised a Clamour against him whose right it is to reign uncontrouled, in kingdom of Transportation!! 4 But hold! I am this moment inform’d that the Marques waited Some hours before the five boats arrived. I am exceedingly pain’d for this unhappy event—fear the Consequences will be unfavourable for the officer who neglected his Duty, which may possibly blow up the Coals of dissatisfaction between the Army, and those who ought to Support it. I am happy to find that the loss of Charlestown So. Carolina has not prevented our Bills of Exchange from being accepted in Spain. His Excellency is Exceedingly pleased with the News from the Southward, says if rightly improve’d it may be a lucky opening to greater & more Sucessful events. I reced. the Philada paper of the 24th on the evening of the 25th which I forwarded to H. Quarters so that it arrived by Sunrise the 26th. Arnold has publish’d a flaming proclamation of a Tennor that Corresponds with the rest of his Conduct. 5 , The Enemy in New york are all in motion, And Not a little Alarm’d at Some thing. It is reported here that the french fleet have left R. Island. With Great esteem, I have the Honr. to be, Sir, Dear Genl. Your most obedt. And very Humbe Servt., Nathl Peabody RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 See the following entry. 2 See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, October 10, 1780, document note. 3 For the cancellation of General Lafayette’s planned attack on Staten Island, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:206-11. ♦ That is, Timothy Pickering, Greene’s successor as quartermaster general. 5 Probably Arnold’s October 20 broadside proclamation To the officers and soldiers of the Continental army who have the real interest of their country at heart, and who are determined to be no longer the tools and dupes of Congress, or of France. ... I rejoice in the opportunity I have of inviting you to join his majesty’s armys (New York: James Rivington, 1780). See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 16,789; and Davies, Documents of the American Revolution, 16:422. Arnold, who had been granted a brigadier’s commission by the British, was in the process of forming the American Legion in the Provincial Service of the British army. Nathaniel Peabody to Richard Henry Lee Sir, Morris Town, State of New Jersey Octr 27. 1780 I have been duly honored by your agreable favour of the 24th


[Page 315]
October 27, 1780 281 Ultimo, Inclosing a letter to the director general, 1 which has been delivered. Since the 22d November, the date of a letter you mention to have received, I have wrote two other letters, 2 containing such matters as I should be unwilling to have fallen into the possession of some persons, whose heads and hearts, are unworthy of my confidence, and who I fear have filch’d those letters under way, as you make no mention of having received them. It appears to me, Sir, your apprehensions are well founded, when you observe, “I fear the season is much too far advanced for any decisive operations to be attempted against New York, this Campaign” &c., and that your queries claim the highest attention when you farther add, ‘‘may not the winter be most profitably employed in retaking Charles-Town, and recovering the two southern States, from our enemies &c”. The reasons you mention in favour of the attempt, are weighty, and the successes, which have lately attended our Arms in that quarter render the operations you have proposed, both for the winter & spring, less hazardous. The spirited exertions of your state in raising three Thousand recruits for the Continental Army, and One thousand good western Militia, at so critical a period, evinces a redoubled attachment to our cause, and add much to the prospect of success in our operations in that vicinity. I cannot quit the subject, without congratulating you, my dear Sir, on the appointment of Major General Greene, to take the command of the southern Army. That gentlemans great abilities in the field, his extensive knowledge of the various departments in the Army, gives him the advantage of almost every other General Officer in America, in immediately reducing to order and System an Army and affairs, which at present are almost ‘‘without form and void”. But alass of what avail will be the exertion of the greatest Generals, unless fully aided with men, money, and the other necessary supplies? In the present deranged situation of our public affairs, can this aid be furnished? Our Treasury is empty—Our Military and ordnance stores in that quarter are much exhausted—and I fear, the resources of that Country under its present embarrassments will prove incompetent for those other supplies. Your Zeal and exertion in the cause of our distressed Country on every former occasion forbids my mentioning a single argument to induce your utmost efforts in the present alarming conjuncture. General Greene entertains a high opinion of your influence and abilities, and wishes for your assistance, in support of such measures as he may find necessary to adopt for recovering the southern states, or rather what is more probable, to prevent the Enemy, from making further progress, and as the General is a gentleman in whom you may place the most unreserved confidence, not only as an Officer,


[Page 321]
October 30, 1780 287 If I at any time send you a surplus Journal you can deliver it to Mr. Avery. I now forward July & Sepr. I suspect you will find one of the former in the Secretary’s Office with your name. It is not however a Matter of Importance equal to the Search. Genl. Green & Baron Steuben are going to the Southward. 1 The Enemy have landed in Virginia and I presume mean to take Post at Portsmouth according to what was long ago mentioned in Campbel’s Letter which has been printed but the Kentucks’-mad Folks have not been alarmed by that Notification. Govr. Jefferson writes with a proper Spirit and Nelson acts with the same But the latter is not able to prevent the Invaders from securing such Passes as suit their Views. I fear we call for too many men to have a proper Army. I think myself Soldier enough to do the Business of this Continent with 25000 well armed, well cloathed and well fed Effectives, much better than with double the Number deficient in those three points. I hope Mass, will rival all the other States in Vigor for the next Campaign. I am persuaded you do not comprehend how much depends upon her. You did not carry home contemptible Ideas enough of the Negro States, or of this great Braggadocio. My Eyes are better than when I last wrote but alas I have lost my Spectacles and have had 3 laborious writing Days without them to which were added Evenings and Nights, therefore now to Bed. Affectionately Yours, James Lovell RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 For the appointment of Generals Greene and Steuben to southern commands, see Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene, October 31, 1780. John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir Philadelphia Octr. 30th. 1780 I Received your Excellencys favor of the inst 1 a few days ago by Genl. Greene. And am extremely obliged to you for your kind care, & attention respecting my application for Mrs. Mathews’s going to Carolina. Permit me at the same time to assure you sir of her most grateful acknowledgemt. for your benevolent intentions towards her. I was surprized the Board of War had not wrote to you about the flag, however the matter seems now to be pretty well fixed. I am made happy by Congress having at last agreed on the plan for the army, on such a footing as is likely to produce the desired effect. Had they but done this at first, there would have been little doubt of it’s success, but there is yet room to hope for important benefits from it, tho’ late. By a letter this day received from the Governor of Virginia, we


[Page 326]
292 October 31, 1780 The Enemy have been lately reinforced at new york with about 800 Germans, and about 1200 British Troops. This may enable them to Send Some more men to the southward, many they Cant Spare from New York, and their other posts. Last night an Express Arrived from the Southward Confirming the Account we before had of the Enemys landing at Portsmouth and advising that Cornwallis had left Charlotte, and was making a rapid retreat to Camden. 1 Our people were hanging on his rear, And it is thought would be very troublesome to him. I have the honor to be with the highest Esteem and regard, Dear sir your Excellencys most hble Servt, John Hanson Some Cash would be very Acceptable. General Green is now in Town on his way to take the Command of the Southern Army. He will leave this place in a day or two. Baron Stuben is also to Join the Southern Army As is Major Lees Corps of Light horse. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 See John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton, October 30, 1780, note 3. This intelligence was also reported in the following brief note of this date by James Lovell to [Elbridge Gerry?]. “Cornwallis is retreating in some Confusion as appears by his leaving the Camp Kettles on the Fire and 5 Loaded Waggons 5 miles on his Road from Camden. We have this in Letters from Gen. Gates. Tuesday, 31 Octr.” Gerry-Townsend Papers, NN. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philada October 31. 1780 By the Act of Congress of the 30 Instant herewith enclosed, your Excellency will observe, that Major General Greene is appointed to take the Command in the southern Department; and you will receive the necessary Information of the Powers & Instructions given to him by Congress; and that it earnestly recommended to the Legislatures & Executives of the several States from the Delaware State to Georgia inclusive to afford him all necessary Aid & Assistance. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To the Supreme Executive Powers from Delaware to Georgia inclusive.” i See JCC, 18:994-96. 2 To his letter to Virginia governor Thomas Jefferson, Huntington added a postscript acknowledging the receipt of letters from Jefferson of October 10, 15, 22, and 25. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:85.


[Page 327]
October 31, 1780 293 Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia October 31. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed, an Act of Congress of the 30 Instant, by which you will be informed that they have approved of the Appointment of Major Genl. Greene to the Command of the Southern Army, and of the Powers & Instructions they have given him during the Time he shall retain that Command. Your Letters of the 16 & 18 Instant 1 with the Despatches enclosed have been received, as also Copies of several of your Despatches thro’ Governor Jefferson, the Defeat of the Col. Ferguson with his Party, and the Retreat of Ld. Cornwallis with the other agreeable Intelligence you have communicated are important Events, which I hope may be attended with still greater Success. I am, Sir, with much Esteem & Respect, your most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Actually a single letter of October 16, with a postscript of the 18th. SeeJCC, 18:997; and PCC, item 154, 2:299-314. Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia October 31. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 30 Instant, by which you will be informed that your Appointment to the Command of the southern Army meets with their Approbation; and that Major General the Baron de Steuben is directed to repair to that Department under your Command. 1 That the Army for that Department will consist of all the regular Regiments & Corps raised or to be raised from the States of Delaware to Georgia inclusive until the farther Orders of Congress or the Commander in Chief. That all the Powers given to Genl. Gates while in that Command are now vested in you, and that the Acts of Congress during that Period be considered as Instructions to you in that Department. You Sir are also authorized to organize & employ the Army under your Command in the Manner you shall judge most proper, subject to the Controul of the Commander in Chief; and it is earnestly recommended to the Legislatures and Executives respectively in that Department to afford you every necessary Assistance & Support, and you are authorized to call for the same. The Heads of the several Staff Departments are directed to furnish


[Page 332]
298 Novembers, 1780 Treasure will remain in Status quo another Season. I can give you Amusement for Amusement whenever we meet to make a regular Exchange of Anecdotes. Matters in the southern Department wear a more pleasing Countenance than some time ago. Cornwallis retreats rapidly and I think will get his wings cropped, before he reaches Camden. Yours as ever, J L 4 [P.S.] I send a Journal for Sep. RC (NhHi: Peabody Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Lovell was probably working on Cornwallis’ October 7 cipher letters to James Wemyss and Nisbet Balfour, which are in PCC, item 51, 1:527-35. 3 That is, Lovell’s son, James. 4 The delegates of South Carolina also wrote the following letter this day, probably to the newly appointed commander of the southern department, Nathanael Greene, concerning prospects for the exchange of a prisoner from their state. “We beg leave to introduce to You the bearer of this, Captain Le backer of the 1st South Carolina Continental Regiment. Should You esteem his exchange practicable, & should it not interfere, in your opinion, with the right of others in captivity to a previous exchange, we can safely recommend him as an officer of merit, & as one who may render service.” Seige of Yorktown Collection, NNPM. The letter was written by Francis Kinloch, and signed by Kinloch, Thomas Bee, John Mathews, and Isaac Motte. No further information on the fate of Captain Le backer has come to light. Benjamin Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Novr 4th 1780 I Understand the President has not Informed your Excy. of the Reasons why our Cloathing & Military Stores Purchased in France by Dr Franklin are not Imported which is truely a Heavy Disappointment to Congress and Obliges them to Recommend to the States to Provide Cloathing for their Troops the Ensuing Season the Necessity of which is Obvious. 1 I think it my Duty to acquaint your Excellency that those Necessary Articles were Purchased In Good Time by Dr. Franklin and Ordered to be Shiped on Board the Alliance, That forty Cannon, Sixty seven Chests of Arms and two Hundred Barrels of Powder of about Ninty Eight Tons Weight in the Whole were Shiped. (The Cannon I Suppose for Ballast or at Least ought to be) And by means of Disputes and Animosities Subsisting between Capt J. Paul Jones & Capt Landais and Some other Gentlemen whose Duty it was to Promote the Service, Dr. Franklins Express Orders for Shiping the Cloathing was Disobeyed and the Importation wholly Prevented. This is a sumary Conclusion from the Facts that appear from Letters and


[Page 334]
300 Novembers, 1780 Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson [November 5, 1780] 1 The great depreciation of money and the extravagant prices of every thing here together with the difficulty of negotiating Bills renders it absolutely necessary that some stable provision shoud be made, & some fixed mode adopted for supplying us with money, other wise we shall not be able to exist, we shoud be glad to be informed on this head as soon as possible. 2 Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:160. 1 The endorsement on this brief extract, probably written by Jefferson’s clerk, indicates that it was prepared from a November 5 letter from the Virginia delegates that has since been lost. The original may have been written by Theodorick Bland whose financial distress in Philadelphia was apparently more acute than that of his fellow delegates—James Madison and John Walker—and whom Jefferson specifically mentioned in submitting this extract to the Virginia House of Delegates. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:121. 2 From his November 10 letter to James Madison it is clear that Joseph Jones had been striving “to forward money to the Delegates” since he had returned to Virginia in September, but found he “could not effect it.” Indeed, the House of Delegates approved the accounts submitted by the delegates, but failed in its fall session to increase their compensation, leading Bland to complain to Gov. Jefferson the following June that “My Finances are as well as my Credit entirely exhausted.” See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:96n.4, 160n.l, 170n.l0, 289n.8; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:73. George Plater to Thomas Sim Lee Philadelphia Novr. 6th 1780. Dear Sir I am honor’d by your Favor of the 3d for which be pleased to accept my Acknowledgments. We have various flying Reports of fortunate Events having taken Place in the South, & waited impatiently the Arrival of this Days Post, expecting it to bring Confirmation; but we are as yet without it, notwithstanding some have come in a pretty direct Line. A Letter of short Date from Mr. Curson in St Eustatia mentions a Disposition in the Dutch to War, 1 that they have fifty Sail of Ships, & that the Admiral in that Hand pays great Regard to the American Flag by regularly returning every Salute. A Paragraph in a late N York Paper, complaining of the Perfidy of some Powers which (as they think), ought to be more attached to Britain, seems to give Strength to the above Observation. I am much obliged by your Attention to our Wants, & as you say you shortly expect a considerable Sum, I will take the Liberty to draw. Mrs. Plater begs to be presented to your Lady, & I entreat you to believe


[Page 335]
Novembers, 1780 301 that I am with the highest Respect, yr Excellency’s most obt. & obliged hble Servt, Geo Plater RC (MdHi: Revolutionary Collection). 1 There is no letter in PCC of “short Date” from Samuel Curson, the Continental agent in St. Eustatia, relating to “a Disposition in the Dutch to War,” but for the drift of the United Provinces into direct conflict with Great Britain during the fall of 1780, see Friedrich Edler, The Dutch Republic and the American Revolution (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1911), pp. 148-73; and Jan Willem Schulte Nordholt, The Dutch Republic and American Independence, trans, by H. H. Rowen (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1982), pp. 146-57. William Sharpe to Matthew Locke 6th Novr. 1780 Specific supplies for the southern Army. Quota of North Carolina. To furnish against the first of January next. 1 3000 Barrels of Beef 7000 Do. pork 2 2000 Do. Flour 4000 Gal. Rum or other Spirts equivalent To furnish on or before the first of March 1000 Barrels of Flour 2000 Gal. Rum Against the first of May 2000 Barrels of Flour 4000 Gal. Rum Against the 15th July 1000 Barrels of Flour 11,000 Gal. Rum 991 Bushels Salt 10,000 C. Weight of Beef to be delivered to the order of the Commissary Genl. NB: an accurate account ought to be kept of all the Beeves, Hogs, Sheep &c taken either from Whig or Tory or at least the number of rations supplied by our State—which will all stand part of Our quota & be charged to the Continent. Wm. Sharpe RC (PRO: Cornwallis Papers, P.R.O. 30/11/43). Addressed: “Matthew Locke Esquire.” 1 Matthew Locke is identified in these Letters, 8:648n.l. If there was a covering letter enclosing this list of enumerated items requested of North Carolina under the resolve of November 4 (for which see John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carroll ton, October 30, 1780, note 2), it has not been found. 2 Listed as “5000 barrels of pork” in the journals. JCC, 18:1016.


[Page 338]
304 November?, 1780 There is I believe no doubt of an intended Congress at the Hague not of Ministers from the Belligerents but neutral powers under the auspices of Russia; and as the avowed object of it is to establish the liberty of the Seas which G. B has so little respected, and is highly approved by France & Spain as well as all the neutral Maritime powers, it must necessarily prove unfavorable to G. B. and consequently friendly to our views. Congress have thought it advisable to testify their approbation of the liberal principles held out by Russia as the basis of the proposed negociation, and have accordingly by a public Act adopted them so far as to direct the Board of Admiralty to prepare instructions for their Armed Vessels conformable to them. 2 Doct. Lee and Mr. Izzard particularly the latter have been here some time, and I believe are not very reserved in their reflections on the venerable Philosopher at the Court of Versailles. Mr. Izzard I understand is particularly open in his charges against him. Doctr. Lee on his arrival applied to Congress for a hearing on the subject of Mr. Deanes allegations, if any doubt remained of the falsehood [and] malice of them, but nothing final has been done as yet in Consequence of it. 3 I have had great anxiety lest the flame of faction which on a former occasion proved so injurious should be kindled anew, but as far as I can judge the temper of Congress is in general by no means prone to it, although there may be individuals on both sides who would both wish & endeavour it. Not a word has been heard of the Saratoga’s prizes. A partial exchange of Prisoners we hear is agreed on, but have no official account of it. 4 Genls. Lincoln, Thomson, & du portail it is said are included in it, having been set against Philips & Reidezel. I have but few inferior officers named, except Col. Laurens. A gentleman in Statia writes to the Commercial Committee of Octr. 3d that a Dutch war is seriously talked of at that place, 5 that the Dutch are certainly preparing a formidable marine, and that open protection & respect is now given to American Vessels in the same manner as to those of other Independent Nations. If this fact be truely represented, and it is mentioned with strong circumstances of credibility, it is probably one of the fruits of the neutral combinations set on foot by Russia. Congress have just finished an estimate of supplies for the ensuing year requiring of the States the value of 6 Millions of Drs. in specie. The principal part of the requisition consists of specific articles, the residue specie or the new emissions, receivable as specie. 6 If the States fulfill this plan punctually there is no doubt that we can go smoothly through another Campaign and if they would forbear recurring to State emissions & certificates, in procuring the supplies, it may become a permanent & effectual mode of carrying on the war. But past experience will not permit our expectations to be very sanguine. The collection & transportation of specific supplies must necessarily


[Page 340]
306 November?, 1780 Proposition by Mr Sullivan for Draughting an address to the People to Induce them to Lend their Coin & Bullion & also an address to the respective Legeslatures requesting them to Encorage the Loan. Agreed. {Proposition by Mr Clark that the address be to the Legislatures of the States & the Supply reced through them. Agreed. > Proposition by Colo Bland that the Several Legislatures be Directed to call in their State Emissions & not Issue any more Bills of Credit but by advice of Congress. Agreed. Question, by Mr. Sullivan whether is the money if obtained to be Deposited in the General Treasury or in a Bank. Agreed to a Bank. Proposition by Mr. Sullivan, That The Manager of the Bank or Strike & Sign a number of notes from a hundred pounds to an Eighth of a Dollar, a Quarter of which to be payable in one year, one Qr in two years another in 3 years & The Last Quarter in 4 years on Interest of Six per Cent Without Date. That the State Treasurers be Authorized To receive Coin & Bullion & Date & give out notes in Exchange. Agreed, That Congress recommend to the Several States to pass Laws Enabling them to Lay Imposts on Importations for raising a revenue to Defray the Expence of the war & for paying the Debts of the united & States & to take Every possible measure for Encouraging Exportation. That the State of Maryland be Called upon immediately to Accede to the Confederation and in Case of Neglect to Call upon the other twelve States to Confederate. That the States be called upon Respectively to pass Laws Establishing Funds for Redemption of the Bills Emitted by virtue of the resolution of the 18th of M^arch Last & also for Authorizing Congress to Lay Embargoes in time of War. That a manager of the Bank be appointed by Congress. That the Bank be Regulated in the following manner. 2 Agreed, That some Mode must be adopted to establish the Credit of Congress. Agreed, by messrs Bland, Clark & Sullivan that this can only be done by calling in Buillion. Said by Mr Matlock, this is not the only way; a Tax founded on Established Faith, will answer the same Purpose. Questions How can Bullion be called in and in what time? How can a Tax founded on established Faith be made & Collected and in what time? Mr Bland Proposes a Bank (or rather Several different Banks under the same Regulations)


[Page 344]
310 November?, 1780 That all notes be redeemable on Sight at the Treasury after the Time of payment is Elapsed with the Interest Due at the time they are presented—and that the Interest on all notes be paid annually if requested. That in receiving paper Bills of the aforesd. Emission by the respective Collectors of Taxes the Interest due thereon be allowed up to the time of their being received And that Congress may if they find it necessary re-Issue Such Bills for Defraying the publick Expences or may hold them out of Circulation if they think proper. That for a present Supply of Specie all the Continental vessels of war and all the Publick Stables & the Barracks at Cambridge & all Naval Stores be Sold for Specie & Deposited in the Treasury Subject to the order of Congress to be Drawn out in Specie or by notes without Interest payable in one year & in Case notes are Issued thereon Congress may Draw one half the Specie so Deposited by them, provided they first make a requsition for a Tax in specie for the amount so Drawn with the Interest of the whole payable in one year. This will not be Liable to the objections made to Mr Blands Plan, Because Congress will Ever have it in their power after the whole sum is Deposited to obtain the Loan of one half in Specie for a year & of Course one third more money is represented than is really in Stock without Injury or Danger to the Lender as to the Residue remaining inactive in Bank while we are paying Interest for it two answers can be given 1 st that we never need pay Interest for more than two thirds of what is really in Circulation, & that the money kept out of Circulation Serves to uphold our Credit & by remaining out of Circulation will Lower the prices of Articles & in the natural Course of Commerce Draw money from other nations to fill up the vacuum & Introduce that Level of money which must take place among all Commercial Nations. 2dly that Should the money itself be Thrown into Circulation you can only have two thirds as much in Circulation as upon the Plan proposed and This Instead of revolving round the Bank as a Centre will fly to those nations with whom we have Commercial Connections under the Disadvantages of a Ballance of trade against us—which would soon Leave us in as great want of Specie as at present—for which reason I recommend all foreign Loans that may be obtained to be Deposited in the Treasury under the foregoing regulations. The 2d objection to Mr Blands proposal can have no force against this plan. He recommends that all Treasurers Notes of which the time for payment is Elapsed be received by the Collectors in Lieu of Specie allowing Interest thereon, up to the Day of payment provided they be paid in one month after the Collectors warrants are Signed but in no Case to allow more than a months Interest after the Date of Such warrant.


[Page 349]
Novembers, 1780 315 to be attributable in part to the breakdown of arrangements made by Benjamin Franklin to secure clothing from France on loan, it was recommended that “a consul be appointed to reside in France, whose duty it shall be, in addition to his consular functions, to receive and forward all supplies to be obtained in that kingdom for the use of the United States.” Palfrey was immediately put in nomination for this post by Virginia delegate John Walker, but the appointment was not actually made until November 4, after a salary for the position had been decided upon on the 3rd. See JCC, 18:914, 918, 962, 966, 973-79, 1009, 1018; and PCC, item 25, 1:291-93, item 31, fols. 69-74. Palfrey immediately notified Congress of his acceptance of the appointment; his commission and instructions were adopted on December 9. See PCC, item 165, fol. 545; and JCC, 18:1041, 1134-37. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philada November 8. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 3 Instant expressing the high Sense they entertain of the virtuous & patriotic Conduct of John Pualding [Paulding], David Williams & Isaac Van wert, and granting to each of them a Pension of two hundred Dollars during Life, with a silver Medal to be delivered to each of them by your Excellency, so soon as they can be procured by the Board of War. 1 I have also enclosed three other Copies of the above mentioned Act of Congress, which you will please to transmit to those three worthy Militia Men above named. I have the Honor to be &c, &c, S.H. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Paulding, Williams, and Van Wert were singled out for this special recognition because of their capture of Maj. John Andre, which had foiled Benedict Arnold’s conspiracy to surrender West Point to the British “notwithstanding the large bribes offered them for his release, noble disdaining to sacrifice their country for the sake of gold.” See JCC, 18:918, 1009. For Alexander Hamilton’s description of their role in Andre’s capture and Washington’s October 7 recommendation that they be granted “a handsome gratuity” for preventing “our suffering one of the severest strokes that could have been mediated against us,” see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:463-70; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:133 2 This day Huntington also wrote a brief letter to Colonel Armand-Tuffin, marquis de La Rouerie, informing him that his recent request for a brigadier’s commission had been denied because such a promotion would be “inconsistent with the Arrangement of the Army.” See PCC, item 15, fol. 153; and JCC, 18:1010-11. For Armand’s persistent efforts to obtain this promotion, see also these Letters, 12:22, 14:410.


[Page 350]
316 November 9, 1780 Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 9th. 1780 I do my self the honour to write your Excellency by the express that goes to Carry the recommendation to the several States for levying a Tax equal in value to Six Million of Silver dollars to be paid as is therin recommended, 1 Upon which I beg liberty to observe that the provisions is called for upon the most accurate calculation the Nature of the business would admit and upon the most mature deliberation. Congress were unanimous of opinion that a lesser quantity could not be relyed on with safety . The Tax is proportioned both as to the Supplies and money agreable to the proportion on which the first fifteen Million Monthly Tax was recommended. Great care hath been taken that the states be called on for such kind of provision as each state could best Supply. It is probable there may be some disproportion in the prices of the several Articles which is intended to be remedyed by a resolution reserving the whole for a liquidation at a future day. The consideration of this business took up much of the time & attention of Congress and they were fully sensible of the burdens their Constituents groaned under at the same time found themselves under the absolute necessity of making the recommendation. They could devise no alternative. I hope our state will adopt the recommendation and find their resources adequate to the requisition. Much is said upon the subject of an Armed Neutrality and some politicians Conjecture it strongly forebodes a general peace. I confess I am not sanguine in my expectations on the subject And can assure you Sr. Congress have not received the most distant official hint that a peace is even conjectured by those Neutral powers. I inclose to your Excellency a Coppy of my letter of the 10th Ultimo that fell into the hands of the Enemy Since Mr. Rivington hath been so kind as to publish it. 2 His motives for so doing I am at a loss to gess, but I must do him that Justice as to say he hath given the publick an Accurate Coppy. General Greene left this City on Saturday last on his way to joyn the Southern Army as did also the Baron Stuben. We have had no news from the Southard for a considerable time— it is generally beleived the Enemy have reimbarked their Troops at Virgina tho Congress have no official account. Where they are gone is not known but it is probable further southard, A letter from Genl. Washington was read in Congress yesterday informing that an embarcation was taking place in NYork supposed to reinforce their Armies to the Southard. 3 Congress have receivd no official letters from abroad for several week past, And I have no further Intelegence worth your Notice. I have the honour to be your Excellencys most obedt Huml Servant Ezek Cornell


[Page 351]
November 9, 1780 317 NB. I apprehend you have not seen the araingment of the Army Mentioned in the Inclosed Coppy as they fell into the hands of the Enemy at the same time My letter did 4 But as the araingment was after wards altered and sent forward which I trust you have receivd it is not so matireal. I shall be more cautious in future in writing as you can easily Judge of my feeling if some of my letters you have receivd had met the fate the one did of which the inclosed is a Coppy. E.C. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 The circular letter sent to the states by President Huntington this date is in JCC, 18:1038-40. 2 See Cornell to Greene, October 10, 1780. 3 Washington’s November 4 letter containing this report was read in Congress on November 8. JCC, 18:1031; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:289-90. 4 See Samuel Huntington to the States, October 6, 1780, document note. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia November 9. 1780 I have been honored with your Excellency’s Letter of the 27 Ulto, with the Appointment of Delegates for the State, in which the Powers of the Delegates are not in the least defined, or any mention made what Number of them are authorized to represent the State. 1 I should suppose there is some Act of Assembly, either general or special, relating to this Subject, otherwise it must require at least a Majority of all the Delegates named in the Appointment to represent the State. Genl Woolcott is not yet arrived. Mr B. Huntington’s Time is expired. I find the Post was robbed of my official Letters of the 6 Ulto addressed to the four eastern States, covering Dispatches relating to recruiting the Army, as your Excellency had conjectured; 2 but presume the Intelligence the Enemy obtained thereby must be very disagreeable to them, and as Events have turned up hope it will not retard the recruiting Service. A Copy of that Arrangement was transmitted to the Commander in Chief, to obtain his Sentiments thereon and in Consequence of his Opinion & express Desire, some Alterations have been made in the final Arrangement, which was completed the 21 of October, and transmitted to the several Eastern States, under Cover of my official Letter of the 26 October by a faitful Messenger, who I presume hath delivered them safe long before this. B. Huntington Esqr who will deliver this, cannot wait until the Duplicates of the Despatches which were taken by the Enemy are made out, but they shall be forwarded soon. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect & Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington


[Page 352]
318 November 9, 1780 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. > Trumbull’s letter is not in PCC, but for the credentials of the Connecticut delegates that were apparently sent with it, and which were read in Congress on November 6, see JCC, 18:1021—22. 2 For the capture of Huntington’s October 6 letters and a number of others posted at about the same time, see the document note at Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, October 10, 1780. William Sharpe to William Lee Davidson Novr. 9th [1780] 1 P.S. I forgot to inform you 2 that Genl. Lincoln with upwards of an hundred Officers are lately exchanged. And that the commanders in Chief are about to negociate a general exchange, including the convention troops and our Militia. Genl. Washington is instructed to endeavour to obtain a condition, that, the convention and other british prisoners shall not take the field nor bear Arms before the first of May. 3 However humanity dictated an immediate exchange, yet our present critical situation to the southward made it a great question in policy; was the exchange to take place immediately and the enemy at Liberty to Arm and send forth their liberated troops it might be a fatal stroke to the State of No. Carolina; because in that State we have not Arms, Stores &c at present to put into the hands of Our liberated troops & Militia in order to make a vigorous defence, therefore the Delegates of No. Carolina have been the means of keeping back the exchange a few weeks past and of quallifying the measure as above mentioned, 4 with a view to get Genl. Greene in command, get forward some Arms, Stores &c—and get time to draw out and organize a little Army, that may promise us some defence, all which I hope will sufficiendy justify our conduct to our brave and virtuous Officers and Soldiers who are in a distressing captivity. We have been so opposed in this business of delaying the exchange, by some of our neighbouring Delegates, who has a passionate fondness for their friends, that we have been threatned with the displeasure of those in captivity. These things have but little effect on the minds of men determined to do what appears to be right. We are so well assured of the patriotism of Our Officers & Soldiers, that they would at the risk of their lives endure six months or perhaps twenty months longer confinement rather than obtain liberty at the risque of a whole State. Wm. Sharpe RC (PRO: Cornwallis Papers, P.R.O. 30/11/106). Addressed: “Genl. Davidson.” ‘ Only this partially dated postscript to Sharpe’s intercepted letter has been found. 2 Gen. William Lee Davidson (1746-1781), who had served in northern campaigns with units of the North Carolina Continental Line, was militia commander of the


[Page 353]
November 10, 1780 319 Salisbury district. He was killed February 1, 1781, at the battle of Cowan’s Ford, N.C. DAB. 3 Washington’s letter of November 7, informing Congress of the exchange of Gen. Benjamin Lincoln and “about one hundred forty of our Officers,” had reached Philadelphia this day. Congress, meanwhile, had instructed Washington to seek the exchange of “all Continental Prisoners of War.” See Samuel Huntington to Washington, November 12, 1780. 4 It is unclear from the journals how the North Carolina delegates had been “the means of keeping back the exchange a few weeks past,” but for the background of the present attempt to revise Washington’s prisoner exchange instructions, see William Churchill Houston’s Proposed Report, July 10, 1780. The delegates’ suggestion that they had succeeded in “qualifying the measure” reported at note 3 above, however, does not appear to be the case. North Carolina was the only state to vote against the clause of the instructions permitting Washington to decide whether or not the restriction on the use of the Convention troops in the southern campaign before May 1, 1781, would be made an ultimatum in such negotiations. See JCC, 18:1030. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia Novr. 10th. 1780 The subject I am now to address your Excellency upon gives me pain. At the same time necessity obliges me to inform you that I am destitute of Cash. I receivd, before I left the state, £4000 supposed at that time to be sufficient for Sixty days Expence. I have obtained from the Continental Treasury with much difficulty 5000 Dollars all which is expended and I am much in debt and liable to be duned every day in the week which I am obliged to submit to without any prospect of being able to make payment unless I can obtain releif from you Nor shall I be able to live in the place much less get home. I do not pretend to Claim your attention from any merit or demands I have a right to upon any other principals then that of the treatment of former delegates. I hope you will pardon the freedom I have taken in this letter as it was dictated by my feeling and not my wishes. I have the honour to be your Hum Servt, E Cornell NB. My Board is at present Six Silver Dollars per Week Exclusive of any kind of licquor and half that sum for a Servant. The Exchange is at least Eighty for one—And the New Money will not pass at forty for one. My Horse costs me Twenty Continental Dollars per Day in the Continental stable which is less then I can get him kept for in any other place. E.C. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors).


[Page 355]
November 11, 1780 321 Willie Jones to Unknown Dear Sir Philad. November 10. 1780. I received your favor of the 10th of October, since which nothing very material has occurred. The Delegates for the State of No. Carolina, from the hour of my Arrival at this place have been endeavouring to obtain arms & Military Stores for the Southern Department, but with very little Effect. Five or six hundred Tents, and about as many muskets are at length prepared, and left (to be forwarded) in Care of Colo. Phebecker by Order of Genl. Green, who, together with Baron Stuben, set out for No. Carolina five or six Days ago. Colo. Lees Corps marched two Days past from this place for the Southward. We are informed by Genl. Washington that another Embarkation is going on at New York, supposed to be destined for the Southward. I think the Enemy will push hard this Winter for the Conquest, or at least for the possession of No. Carolina, for which Reason it will be good policy to make the utmost possible Exertions, let the Expence attending them, or the Duty in the Field fall ever so hard upon our Constituents. There are many Reasons to justify such Measures, too obvious to need repeating to you; but I will mention a single one; a powerful armed Neutrality is about to hold a Congress in Europe, and how far their Views may extend is unknown; possibly they may dictate a peace to the Belligerent powers, and, if so, it is to be dreaded that an Uti possidetis will be one of the articles. The Idea of taking New York (the favourite child of Congress and of Genl. Washington for two years past) may possibly prove the Ruin of the Southern States. With the most sincere Regard for you and your family I remain, Dear Sir, Your most obedt. Servt. Willie Jones RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams NIy dear Betsy Philade Nove 11th 1780. I have receivd no Letter from you since the 9th of October. Some Accident prevented the Arrival of the Eastern Post last Monday and he is now not expected till the next. I hope I shall then receive a Line from you, to let me know at least that you are well. If you do not acknowledge the Receipt of my Letter of the 10th of October, 1 I shall conclude that it fell into wrong hands; for the Post that took Charge of the Letters from hence of that Date, was robbd of his Mail in Connecticut and it was carried to New York. I am uncertain


[Page 358]
324 November 11, 1780 1 That is, Mary’s brother Henry Livingston. 2 Hugh Keeler. 3 Alexander McDougall, a tenant at Duanesborough. George Walton to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 11 November, 1780 Your Excellency will be pleased to recollect, that, sometime since, the delegates of Georgia addressed you respecting lieutenant Morris, of the Southern artillery, and to which you answered, that you would transmit the proposal to Sir Henry Clinton. A considerable time has now elapsed, and Mr. Morris remaining in a disagreable state of suspence, I cannot forbear to entreat your farther attention to his case. 1 Congress, in the former part of the present year, referred an application from the same State, to the Commander in chief. It was respecting Samuel Elbert, esquire, Colonel and principal Officer in the line of the State, and Brigadier-general of the militia, who being a prisoner of war, the Government was very solicitous to procure his exchange. 2 Should you have done any thing in consequence of this reference; Should be happy in having it in my power to make the communication. Major-general Lincoln, during his command of the Southern Army, made a proposition to hdajor-general Prevost, to exchange Elbert for Governor Wright: but the latter objecting that he ought to be considered as a prisoner, it was referred to the decision of Sir Henry Clinton. General Lincoln can advise particularly respecting this business and I rely upon your Excellency’s moving in it to a proper length. 3 . Mr. & Mrs. Matthews inform me that an application is about to be made to Sir Henry Clinton, thro your Excellency, for permission for the latter to go in a flag to Charles-town; and Mrs. Walton’s Sister, (who is now with us,) having an Estate of Negroes in Georgia; Seems inclined to embrace so good an opportunity of going there. I request, therefore, that you will apply also for leave for Miss Ann Sarah Camber, to go to Savannah in Georgia, by way of Charles town in South-Carolina. 4 As it will be her wish to return to her sister, by this or some other flag, I leave it to your Excellency to determine, whether it is necessary to mention such intention—or whether it may not be left open, and for her to depend upon a passport to return from the Commanding Officer there? If there could be no doubt of Sir Henry’s agreeing to give a permission to return at leisure, I could wish it asked for, altho it might encrease the difficulty of getting her negroes. Miss Camber is hopeful of returning this winter; but I think it improbable.


[Page 359]
November 12, 1780 325 I have the honor to be, with great respect, your Excellency’s most Obedient servant, Geo Walton RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). i For Lt. Thomas Morris’ exchange, see Georgia Delegates to Washington, August 2, 1780, note. 2 See these Letters, 14:412. 3 In his November 19 response, Washington reported that nothing had been done regarding Elbert’s exchange because negotiations for a general exchange of prisoners had been “broken off, for want of proper powers on the part of the British Commissioners,” but added that he was “ignorant of any transactions between General Lincoln and General Prevost on the subject.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:366. 4 In his reply, Washington indicated that he had “requested liberty for Miss Camber to go to Charles town . . . upon the same terms as those asked for Mrs. Mathews.” See ibid.; and John Mathews to Washington, October 14, 1780. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia November 12. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, Copies of several Acts of Congress, of the 4th, 7th, 9th & 10th Instant. 1 By that of the 4th, the several States therein mentioned, are called upon to levy a Tax equal to Six Millions of silver Dollars, to be paid partly in specific Articles of Provision, & partly in Money, at the Times & in the Manner expressed. By the Act of the 7th (a Copy of which will be forwarded to Genl Greene) your Excellency is authorized to effect an Exchange of all Continental Prisoners of War & now in Possession of the Enemy, and of the Hostages given in Canada; all Officers on Parole & Officers Violators of Parole, & Militia actually taken in Arms & remaining Prisoners of War, for an equal Number of Prisoners in our Hands, including the Convention Troops if an Exchange can be affected upon the Terms mentioned in the Act. 2 It is needless to remark to your Excellency how exceedingly the Individuals of our Troops in Captivity feel themselves injured, if they are not exchanged in the Order of their Captivity; as I take it to be a rule you have ever adhered to, when not inadmissible from peculiar circumstances, which have caused a Deviation therefrom in some particular Cases. The Act of the 9th will inform your Excellency that the Hospital Chaplains are discontinued, & Brigade Chaplains from Time to Time are to attend the established Hospitals. The annexed Order enjoining the Officers of the Cavalry to purchase no more Horses on public Account without the Order of Congress, was passed several Days before your Letter of the 7th Instant came to Hand which mentions the Propriety of such Practice


[Page 362]
328 November 13, 1780 1 Not found. Writing in behalf of the committee on the southern department, Mathews undoubtedly sent Greene excerpts of Washington’s November 4 letter to Congress concerning the arrival of Gen. Alexander Leslie s forces in Chesapeake Bay and intelligence of a possible second British embarkation at New York “destined to the South,” for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:289-90. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, November 12, 1780. 3 See Huntington to Greene, November 16, 1780. John Henry to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadela. Nov. 13. 1780 Last Spring Mrs. Stevinson my unfortunate Relation, made an application to the General Assembly, for permission to visit her Husband Doctor Stevinson a refugee in New-York. 1 Since her residence in that City, from Indispossition and distress of Mind, she has been totally deprived of her sight. In this melencholy Situation, without the Hopes of soon re-visiting her native Country, the absence of her Children, greatly augments her afflictions. Her eldest child does not exceed nine years of age the other two of course must be younger. Their Innocence and youth will cover them from public resentment and their incapacity to injure the State influence your Excellency to afford them an oppertunity of enjoying the Comforts and protection of a parent. The criminality of the Father I trust will not reach his unoffending offspring. If an application should be made to your Excellency and the Council, in their behalf, for permission to go into New York, it will afford me some Satisfaction, to hear that their request was not rejected. 2 Could the State be any way interested or affected by their detention I should not interest myself in their behalf, but as they are incapable of harm, no reasonable objection can be made. For the News of the Day I shall refer you to my letter to the General Assembly. 3 I am Sir with the highest sentiments of respect, Yrs, J. Henry RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). i In November 1779 the Maryland Assembly had granted Mrs. Ann Stevenson permission to apply to the commanding officer at Elizabeth, N.J. , for leave to visit her husband Henry in New York and to return. See Md. Archives, 43:24. 2 In March 1781 the Council granted permission for the Stevenson children to join their parents in New York, for which see ibid., 45:350. 3 Not found.


[Page 369]
November 14, 1780 335 us, I am unwilling to decide because my fears dictate the worst. The inroads of the Enemy on the frontier of N. York have been most fatal to us in this respect. They have almost totally ruined that fine Wheat Country, which was able and from the energy of their Govt, most likely, to supply Magazines of flour both for the main Army & the NW posts. The Settlemt. of Schoarie which alone was able to furnish, accordg to a letter from Genl Washington 80,000 bushels of grain for public use has been totally laid in ashes. Genl Washington in a letter to Congress of the 4th inst: mentions that another embarkation was on foot at N. York. In another of the 7 he says he had received no further intelligence on the subject, but had reason to think such a measure was still in contemplation. From the last letter it appears that by the late exchange abt. 140 officers including Genls. Lincoln, Thomson, Waterbury & du portail & Col. Laurens are liberated, as also all our privates amounting to 476. The General had acceded to a further proposal of Clinton for exchanging almost the whole residue of Our Officers for Convention Officers with out attaching any privates to them. Reports of the 2d division of the French fleet are again reviving as you will see by the inclosed paper. It is also said that Rodney has sailed from N. York with 10 Ships of the line for Europe, but if there be any reality in the first report, it is more likely he is gone out to meet the french. The Cork fleet is not yet arrived, and very serious apprehensions begin to prevail at N. Y. on account of it. Mr. Walker has been detained since the expiration of his service by an indisposition. He will set out in two or three days. 3 Col. Pendleton informs me that Mr. Henry has resigned his place in Congress and intimates his fears that you may follow his example. I hope he is mistaken in the first as I am assured by your requ[est?] concerning Pemberton that he must be in the last. If Mr. Henry however should have resigned I intreat you to see that the vacancy is judiciously filled; and if any thoughts of it have been indulged by your self, I intreat you still more strongly to dismiss them. I have not yet received an answer from Pemberton, and have not had time since yours came in hand to apply for it. 4 I was unwilling to appear very anxious about the matter. You shall know what is to be expected from him by next Post. I make no apology for inaccuracies & bad writing because you know the manner in which we are obliged to write for the post, and having been prevented by Company from doing any thing last night I am particularly hurried this morning. Dr sir, J. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:172-74. 1 Ibid., pp. 161-63. 2 Madison is referring to the requisition for money and provisions which Congress adopted on November 4, for which see John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton, October 30, 1780, note 2. If he proposed a specific amendment while the measure


[Page 370]
336 November 14, 1780 “was on the anvil in Congress”—that states not be permitted to use their own “certificates and emissions” in meeting assigned quotas—it was not recorded in the journal. In a direct vote on October 26 Madison had supported that portion of the measure which permitted the states to pay the monetary portion of their quota in “bills of credit of the emissions directed by the resolution of the 18 of March last.” SeeJCC, 18:981. 3 For John Walker’s departure from Philadelphia, see Walker to George Weedon, October 24, 1780, note. 4 For Edmund Pendleton’s November 6 letter regarding James Henry s resignation and Jones’ November 10 inquiry concerning Pemberton, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:164, 168-70. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton D r sir Philada. Novr. 14th. 1780 Yr. favor of the 6th inst: 1 came to land yesterday. Mr. Griffin 2 by whom you appear also to have written has not yet arrived. It gives me great pleasure to find that the Enemy s numbers are so much less formidable that [than] was at first computed, but the information from N. York makes it not improbable that the blank in the computation may shortly be filled up. Genl. Washington wrote to Congress of the 4th inst. that another embarkation was going on at that place, and in another letter of the 7th he says that although he had received no further intelligence on the Subject, he had reason still to believe that such a measure was in contemplation. Neither the amount nor the object of it however had been ascertained. The inroads of the Enemy on the Frontiers of N. York have been distressing & wasteful almost beyond their own example. They have totally laid in ashes a fine setdement called Schoarie which was capable Gel Washington says of yielding no less than 80,000 bushels of grain for public consumption. Such a loss is inestimable, and is the more to be regretted because, both local circumstances, and the energy of that Govt, left little doubt that it would have been applied to public use. I fancy the taking of Quebec was a mere invention. Your letter gave me first account of such a report. A different report concerning the 2d. division of the French fleet has sprung up as you will see by the inclosed paper. It is believed here by many, and some attention given to it by all. It is also said that Rodney has saild from N. York with 10 Ships for Europe. If he has sailed at all & the first report be true also, it is more likely that he is gone out to meet the french. The late exchange has liberated abt. 140 Officers & all our privates at N. Y. amounting to 476. G. Washington has acceded to a proposal of a further example of the Convention Officers without attaching any privates to them, which will liberate almost the whole residue of our Officers at that place.


[Page 372]
338 November 15, 1780 John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Schulkill Falls November 15th 1780. 1 Some time has Elapsed, since I wrote You last owing to my having been ill, with the Fever which raged in the City. I was not confind more than a Week, yet it left me so Enfeebled that an attention to the Business in Congress; and on Committees which met every Morning and Evening not only prevented my Writing but reduced me so low that I was compell’d to move to this Place for recovery of Health from which I ride into the City every Morning to meet Committees at Nine, attend Congress afterwards; and return at Night, this Deprives me of that Leisure which I would wish to Employ in giving You every possible Information respecting our Publick Affairs. I am sorry to say that they are far from affording Pleasure to the Friends of America; former Congresses undoubtly had their Difficulties; and whether any other set of Men under their Circumstances would have done better is not Easy for a Judicious Mind to Determine. Events have however proved their Error and call aloud for a speedy reformation. Perhaps most of our Difficulties have arisen from an Ignorance of Finance, & the want of System in every Department. A new Army is now Arrainged the States now called upon for Men and Specific Supplies. All Publick Departments are now Arranging upon oeconomical Principles. The several and expensive Navy Boards will be Abolished. The War Office and Treasury Board regulated. A Committee is appointed for arranging our Finances. A Loan from France solicited in the most pressing and Positive Terms: and a regular System will soon take Place. Perhaps it may be thought a late Hour for this reformation, but is it not better late than never? Every Days Experience proves that many of our Distresses arise from a want of Power in Congress to carry any of their Measures into Execution. They send Requisitions to the States, some comply, some do not; and the Consequence of this is too Obvious to need Explanation. Hence it is that our Army is often ready to Perish with Hunger and Cold. I am happy to find that New Hampshire stands formost in Her Compliance with the requisitions of Congress. At present we have no Money in the Treasury, some States have not yet receiv’d their new Money or call’d in their Old. This with the Artful Industry of Tories, and Speculators has Depreciated the Old Money to Eighty five and even to a Hundred and ten for one in this City. This of course more than doubles our National Debt; for as the Bills of the 18th of March must be redeemed with Silver and Gold, and are Issued at forty for one Five Million of Silver Dollars must’be employed to redeem the two Hundred Million of Dollars Emitted: When at only Eighty for one two Millions and a half of


[Page 378]
344 November 16, 1780 Also the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 14th Instant, by which you will be informed of the Measures Congress have adopted respecting Colls Armand’s & Lee’s Corps, and the several other Subjects therein mentioned, in Consequence of your Letter of the 7th Instant. 2 Your Excellency will please to note, that a Return is to be made to Congress of the Officers of the Engineering Department, including those of the Companies of the Sappers & Miners; and distinguishing such as in your Judgement it will be necessary to retain in the Service. 3 I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient and very humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington to George Clinton, this date. 2 In his letter to Congress of November 7, Washington had submitted a critique of the “new arrangement” of the Continental Army adopted on October 21. The enclosed November 14 resolve simply endorsed Washington’s recommendations for augmenting the Continental Cavalry, authorizing him to incorporate the survivors of the late Casimir Pulaski’s corps into that of Colonel Armand’s and to complete both Armand’s and Henry Lee’s cavalry corps “according to the late establishment.” See JCC, 18:1049, 1051-52; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:311-12. s Washington had pointed out that in the new arrangement of the Continental Army, Congress had entirely ignored the engineering department. The enclosed resolve invited the commander in chief to constitute the department as he saw fit, which although long delayed was eventually implemented in his general orders of June 6, 1781. See JCC, 18:1052; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:312, 399, 22:165. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philada November 17. 1780 The Intelligence contained in the enclosed Copy of a Letter just received from General Washington is of such a Nature, I have thought proper to transmit the same to your Excellency by Express. 1 Your several Despatches of the 26 Ulto, 3d, 7 & 10 Instant have been duly received. 2 I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Endorsed: “N.B. Similar Letters, excepting the last Clause, to Governor [Thomas Sim] Lee and General [Nathanael] Greene.” 1 Huntington’s enclosure was Washington’s letter of November 14 warning that Admiral George Rodney’s fleet, “with the transports which have been sometime preparing,” was about to set sail from Sandy Hook, their destination “generally believed to be to the Southward.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:246. 2 For Jefferson’s letters, see JCC, 18:1004, 1066; PCC, item 71, 1:491-94, 499-520; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:69-71, 92-93, 98-99, 110.


[Page 379]
November 17, 1780 345 Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular. Philada November 17. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 14th Instant representing the criminal Practice carried on by Individuals from some of the States in supplying the Enemy with Provision. And recommending to the Legislature of the respective States; by whom it hath not been already done; to enact Laws inflicting capital Punishment on all such Persons as shall directly or indirectly supply the Enemy with Provisions or military or naval Stores; and adopt the most vigorous Measures for the Execution of such Laws. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Congress adopted this “Act” in response to a November 7 warning from General Washington “that the enemy at New York derive great supplies of provisions from a trade with the adjacent states,” and that the laws of the states designed to prevent this abuse were inadequate to the purpose. See JCC, 18:1052-53; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:314. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia November 17. 1780 I enclose your Excellency Copy of a Letter of the 10 Instant, just received from Governor Jefferson, with the Copy of an intercepted Letter (referred to in the Governors) from General Leslie to Lord Cornwallis; which in some Measure discovers the Designs of the Enemy at the Time they landed in Virginia. 1 I have this evening received your Letter of the 14th Instant, and shall immediately forward the Intelligence it contains to the Southern States. 2 With every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, I am, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See JCC, 18:1066; PCC, item 71, 1:517-20, 522; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:110-11. 2 See Huntington to Thomas Jefferson, this date.


[Page 387]
November 18, 1780 353 Offices who in the Commencement of the present Contest when the Event was doubtful used every Artifice to destroy that Theatre upon which they can now appear with so much Safety and Satisfaction Though this may easily be accounted for from the Principles which Govern the Human Heart Yet I confess I am not Able to decide upon the Conduct of those who have from the earliest Period been high in their Professions have condemned the doubting, the Timid and the Neutral American and yet Use all their Influence to Promote those very Persons in Opposition to others who have every Claim that Principles of Gratitude and Patriotism can Inspire to draw their Esteem and Influence. When I discover a Conduct like this I cannot help observing that it is possible for some Men to Possess the best of Principles for the most Pernicious Purposes. That Your Excellency may long experience the Gratitude of a Brave and Generous People equal to the Merit You have ever discovered both in Publick and Private Life is the most fervent Wish of Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedt. and most Humble Servant. Jno Sullivan RC (MiU-C: Hancock Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by John Sullivan. One of several delegate letters intercepted by the British and published in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, for which see Sullivan to Meshech Weare, November 15, 1780. 1 That is, James Bowdoin. Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes Saturday November 18th. 1780. Present Mr. McKean, Mr. Bee, Mr. Ward, Mr. Sharpe, & Mr Matlack. Also Mr Gibson, Mr Forman, Mr Geddis, And Mr Nicholson. 1 Mr Huston 2 introduced and desired to give evidence on the charges exhibitted by the Com. of Treas. Agt. the Chambers of Accots. and the sd. charges were read whereupon Mr. Huston was requested to proceed. Mr. Gibson rose and having made some observations on the propriety of having heard Mr Hustons evidence first in order desired that the question then in his hand on paper might be proposed. Mr Gibson was informed—That the Committee adhered to the mode of hearing the evidence first—and that afterwards he would be at liberty to ask any questions he pleased. 3 Mr. Huston asked to what points he was to answer. It was replied—the charges of indolence &c as stated. 4 While I attended the Treasury 10 Novr. 1779—for six months— The Board met at 9 in the Morning—the Members of Congress at


[Page 391]
November 18, 1780 357 Qu. By Mr. Govett to Mr. Nicholson. At what time did I usually attend at the Chambers in the morning & afternoon? An. You were generally first there. Qu. Was I ever absent two, three, or four days at a time, except when I was confined by sickness, or detained in consequence, of the death of my child? An. [Approximately one-quarter page left blank.] Mr Duane' 1 produced on the part of Mr Gibson. Qu. Do you recollect whether Mr Gibson reserved the chamber on the second floor for his own use, at the time he let the house to the Treasury? 12 An. He does not remember particulars but it is impressed on his mind and have no doubt that the sd. room was reserved to Mr. Gibson—who lodged in the house and the papers were considered as being secured by his residence there which was a public benefit. 13 MS (DNA: PCC, item 62). In the hand of Timothy Matlack and Thomas McKean. A continuation of the committee minutes of November 17, 1780. 1 John Nicholson, a clerk in the chamber of accounts, whom the commissioners had attempted to have removed in July for “leaking” their correspondence and writing a “Burlesque Parody” of their conduct. See PCC, item 62, fols. 381-88, 397-400, 452-55. 2 New Jersey delegate William Churchill Houston, a member of the Board of Treasury from November 9, 1779, to May 9, 1780. JCC, 15:1447, 18:1230. 3 The following detached note located among the committee’s papers, in the hand of Timothy Matlack, may have been written in connection with this episode. It bears upon both the repeated efforts of Gibson and Forman to dictate the committee’s procedures and their complaint that Matlack’s hostility jeopardized their right to an impartial hearing. “Note. That Mr. Gibson demanded then to be heard on the charge against the Com[missioner]s of Treasury. “The charges exhibitted against the Chamber of accots. is in writing. And the Testimony on which these charges are founded is mentioned to be such as are there mentioned—among the evidences Mr. Huston was not mentioned. “The charges against the Com. Treas. was the original and distinct thing. The charges of the Com. of Treasury against the Chamber of Accots. was instituted afterwards by the Com. of Treasury and it was evidently the design of the Com. ofTr[easury] to involve them together. This I objected to.” PCC, item 62, fol. 393. 4 That is, the second of Forman’s and Gibson’s charges. See the committee minutes of November 17, note 4. 5 See the committee minutes of October 26, note 15. 6 These “interrogatories to be proposed to Mr Houston,” which are in the hand of John Gibson, are incorrectly filed in the middle of the committee minutes for this date written by Matlack and McKean. They read as follows: “Interrogatories to be proposed to Mr Huston. “Qn. 1. As you sat Six Months at the Board of Treasury, from the Commencement of the present Establishment, we wish to know your sense of the Conduct of Ezekiel Forman and John Gibson during that Time, with Respect to Insolence and undue Pride of Office, and what is your opinion of the Expediency, of fixing Rules and Regulations, for the Government of the Treasury, & of executing the Business thereof. “Qn. 2. While Col. Troop acted as Secretary to the Board; & Prior to Mr


[Page 393]
November 19, 1780 359 John Sullivan to the Officers of the New Hampshire Line Gentlemen Philadelphia November 19th 1780. 1 It is with Infinite Anxiety and Concern that I hear of the Difficulties arising among You respecting the New Arrangement of the Army. I am well convinced of the Sufferings of our Officers and have with Pleasure viewed the Fortitude and Firmness with which they Encountered and Surmounted every Difficulty and this even without any rational Hope of ever being put upon a respectable Military Establishment. But this Event has now taken Place and the Army has every thing to hope which can reasonably be expected or desired by Men who have ventured their All in defence of their Country; and even those who are to retire have proper and generous Provision made for them. But should this bring about a Contention for the Preference (not for remaining in Service but) for retiring will not this cast a shade over all their virtuous Actions and induce Mankind to believe that Interest and Ease have gained the Ascendency over Publick and Military Virtue. Those Members of Congress who exerted themselves to obtain a proper and Honorable Establishment for their Officers had so good an Opinion of their Military Ambition that they believed there would be a contention among them for remaining in Service but by no means for retiring and I shall be exceedingly mortified if I am Compell’d to Change my Sentiments especially with respect to the Newhampshire Line. I am Informed some doubts have arisen respecting the Resolve of Congress which I wish to explain. Congress directed a meeting of the Officers of each State (not for determining who should go home) but to fix upon proper Officers to Command the Regiments of the respective States and where they could not agree it was to be determined by Seniority the Obvious and Natural Constructions is that where the Corps could not be Established by agreement they were to be compleated by Seniority. Whoever would put a different Construction upon it must suppose that Congress meant at once to get rid of all their old and Experienced Officers and to put the Army under the Command of Young and Inexperienced Men. This Construction is not only against the natural and obvious meaning of the Words but against common Sense and reason, and I confess I was not a little surprised to hear that some Officers in the Newhampshire Line had supposed that this was the meaning of Congress. Permit me Gentlemen to Intreat Your Perseverance in gaining the Object so long and Nobly contended for: and You may rest assured that those brave Men who continue in Service will have in


[Page 394]
360 November 19, 1780 Addition to the Applauses of a grateful Country every Emolument which the nature of our Service will admit. I have the Honor to be with the most Perfect Attachment Gentlemen, Your most obedt Servt, Jno Sullivan RC (MiU-C: Sir Henry Clinton Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by John Sullivan. 1 This letter was one of several intercepted by the British and subsequently published in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, for which see Sullivan to Meshech Weare, November 15, 1780. It was originally enclosed in a letter of this date to Col. Alexander Scammell, adjutant general of the Continental Army and an old friend of Sullivan’s, for which see the following entry. Scammell was asked to show this “address” to General Washington, and, if he approved, then to the officers of the New Hampshire Line to clarify the seniority provisions of the new arrangements for the army adopted by Congress on October 21. The New Hampshire officers, Sullivan had learned, were apprehensive over pending reductions in the number of officers in their regiments, and especially over the provision ordering “the officers of each state to meet and agree upon the officers for the regiments to be raised by their respective states, from those who incline to continue in service; and where it cannot be done by agreement to be determined by seniority.” The resolves at issue had been drafted by Sullivan as a member of the committee appointed to consider revisions of the new army arrangements recommended by Washington, and in the original version had included a provision that would have designated officers to be retained “by lot.” See PCC, item 19, 6:307; and JCC, 18:960. John Sullivan to Alexander Scammell Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia Novem 19. 1780 Having been informed of some difficulties in the New Hampshire Line respecting the late arrangement, I enclose you an address to the Officers which I beg you will present after shewing it to his Excellency and receiving his approbation without which I would not wish to have it communicated, as I do not conceive myself authorised to address any part of the army without his concurrence. I am Dear Sir, your most obedient Servant, Jno Sullivan Tr (MiU-C: Sir Henry Clinton Papers). 1 Col. Alexander Scammell (1744-81), adjutant general of the Continental Army, was a former law clerk of Sullivan. DAB. For the purpose of this letter, see the preceding entry. Both documents were included in the following letter of this date to New Hampshire governor Meshech Weare.


[Page 395]
November 20, 1780 361 John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novemr 19th. 1780 As I was informed that upon the new Arrangement of the Army there was a Contention among the New Hampshire Officers for retiring which gave much uneasiness to His Excellency General Washington, I took the liberty of addressing them in writing, a Copy whereof and of my Letter to Colonel Scammell is inclosed, 1 hope they will meet the Approbation of the Honorable Assembly. I have the Honor to be, most respectfully Dear Sir, your most obedient Servant, Signed, Jno. Sullivan Tr (MiU-C: Sir Henry Clinton Papers). 1 See the two preceding documents, copies of which were enclosed in this intercepted letter to Weare. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia Novr 20th 1780 In your Letter of the 17th of Septr 1 which is still before me you say, that “the Tongue of Malice has always been employed against me,” and in mentioning it, you discover the Feelings of a Friend. It may perhaps in some Measure relieve those Feelings, if I tell you that it serves to make me the more watchful over my self, lest by any Misconduct, I should afford Occasion to malicious Men, to say that of me which would give me just Cause to be ashamd. It is said to be a Misfortune to a Man, when all speak well of him. Is it then an Advantage to a Man, that he has Enemies? It may be so, if he has Wisdom to make a good Use of them. We are apt to be partial, in our own Judgment of ourselves. Our friends are either blind to our Faults, or not faithful enough to tell us of them. The malicious Man will utter all Manner of Evil of us, and contrive Means to send it post haste to our Ears; and if among much Slander, they say some Truths, what have we to do, but to correct past Errors, & guard against future ones. The Report you mention as propagated of me, is groundless. 2 Would any Man in his Senses, who wishes that the War may be carried on with Vigor, prefer the temporary and expensive Drafts of Militia, to a permanent and well appointed Army! But Envy knows no other Business than to calumniate. Mr Penny has deliverd me your Favor of the 2d Instant. 3 He has also brought us a Paper which exhibits a Picture of the Times. You express too much Resentment at the Ingratitude which you imagine has been shown to your Friend 4 —that his Name has not been found in any of the Lists, and especially that he could not be supported


[Page 401]
November 20, 1780 367 1st of December last—by which, he says, it will appear how far they have done their duty. On examination the list exhibitted does not contain the dates of the reference, therefore—Ordered That the Treasury do furnish the Committee with a list of the Accotts, referred to the Chambers of accots—in order that the Committee may judge of the neglect. 2 Determination of the Treasury 1 July 1780. (a Copy) Note. The 2 quire of Paper in Trickets accotts. not d[elivere]d. 3 Is it deducted in the accotts. allowed by the Treasury? Mr. Gibson exhibitts Mr. Geddis’s accott., allowed by the Chambers, as an instance of partiality. 4 MS (DNA: PCC, item 62). In the hand of Timothy Matlack. A continuation of the committee minutes of November 18, 1780. 1 John L. Clarkson, a clerk in the treasury office. 2 The material Gibson actually “delivered” to the committee this day has not been identified, but two compilations of “Accounts Reported on by the Chamber of Accounts . . . together with the dates of references from the Auditor Genls. Books from the 1st December 1779 to the 8th day of September 1780,” are at PCC, item 62, fols. 557-58. 3 For William Trickett’s accounts “for Stationary,” see ibid., fol. 558. 4 For the conclusion of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, November 23, 1780. Virginia Delegates to George Morgan [November 20? 1780] 1 The delegates from Virginia Inform Mr. Morgan in answer to his letter of the 16th Instant, 2 That as the State they represent have finally decided on the Subject to which his proposition relates, it could be manifestly improper for them to attend to it 3 —they think it their Duty to add that if they were less precluded they would not reconcile with the respect due from every State to its own Sovereignty and honor, an appeal, from its own decisions, to a foreign tribunal, in a case which involves the Pretensions of Individuals only—and not the Rights or pretensions of any foreign State. Tr (Vi: Executive Papers). In the hand of Theodorick Bland but not signed. Entitled: “Copy of Answer Given to the letter Signed Jacob [i.e., George] Morgan addressed to the Virginia Delegates, &.c.” 1 This undated copy of the delegates’ reply to George Morgan’s letter of November 16 was enclosed in Theodorick Bland’s November 22 letter to Thomas Jefferson in which he also sent “A true Copy” of Morgan’s letter. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:176-77; and Bland to Jefferson, November 22, 1780, note 1. This letter is probably the one referred to in item no. 558—“The Original Minute Book of the Indiana Company”—in A. S. W. Rosenbach Catalogue No. 7 (November 1917) as “Theo. Bland to George Morgan, Nov. 20, 1780 relative to the claims of Virginia,” which has not been found.


[Page 402]
368 November 20, 1780 2 In his letter to the delegates Morgan had proposed that the “dispute in Question between the State and the Company” be submitted to arbitration by a panel chosen by Congress “in the Same Manner as is directed by the Articles of Confederation in like Cases, between State and State.” 3 In May 1779 the Virginia assembly had voided the purchase of Indian lands within its territory and reopened its land office, an action which Morgan, as agent of the Indiana Company, had protested the following September in a memorial to Congress, for which see Hening, Statutes, 10:50, 97-98; and these Letters, 14:134. In this instance, however, Morgan was undoubtedly responding to the states’ recent effort to nullify Indian land purchases by the great companies, for which see James Madison to Joseph Jones, September 19, 1780, note. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia Novr. 21st. 1780 I had the honour to receive your Excellencys favour of the 1st Instant by yesterdays post. And have taken due notice of the contents, and so far as respcts the New Bills beg leave to refer you to the offical information from the Treasury board that is inclosed. But when it is struck I fear there will be a difficulty in forwarding them unless I under take the Business my self which I shall do if not done without. I have examined at the Treasury Board for information respecting the Bills of Exchange you mention they will not own that Mr. Clark* hath wrote for any. There is Bills ready as soon as a safe conveyance can be had I dare not give my recept for them to go by the post. But shall miss no safe opportunity to forward them. So far as respects the postage of the Blank Commisns. &c I beg leave to observe that Governor Jefferson made a similar Complaint and nothing more was done then the passing the Inclosed Resolution, 2 At the same time it appeared to be the sense of Congress that the state aught to pay the sum charged and carry the same to the Accompt of the United States. As the matter hath been so late before Congress I cannot suppose you would wish me to Urge the matter over again. I cannot have too high an opinion of the Honl the General Assembly on account of the particular favour they have done me, in thier liberal Grants to Enable me to return home as soon as releivd, 3 which I hope will soon take place when I shall be so happy as to have the pleasure of giveing you a more particular account of our publick affairs then either time or prudence will permit at this time. I have the honour to be with every sentiment of Esteem, your Excellencys most obedt Humble Servant, Ezek Cornell RC (MiU-C: Sir Henry Clinton Papers). One of several delegate letters intercepted by the British and published in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, for which see John Sullivan to Meshech Weare, November 15, 1780. 1 That is, Joseph Clarke, general treasurer of Rhode Island. 2 In the absence of Greene’s letter the precise nature of Greene’s concern can


[Page 410]
376 November 22, 1780 letter that Bland intended it to be a joint communication with James Madison. The two clearly disagreed, however, over the Virginia assembly’s instructions concerning the navigation of the Mississippi River which had been laid before Congress in August. See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, August 22, 1780, note 4. Bland had, however, adopted the position taken a few days earlier by the Georgia delegation, for which see the Georgia Delegates Proposed Resolutions, November 18. For Madison’s views on his disagreement with Bland, see Madison to Joseph Jones, November 25, 1780. 3 Bland also wrote a purely personal letter the following day to his brother-in- law, St. George Tucker, in which he mentioned that “I dine with Monsr. de la Luzerne tomorrow, and must therefore make use of every leisure moment to Volatilize my Imagination, fixd as it has been so long a time with the weighty affairs of the State.” Tucker-Coleman Papers, ViW. Treasury Inquiry Committee Minutes Thursday Novr. 23rd, 1780 Present Mr. McKean, Mr. Bee, Mr. Ward, Mr Sharpe & Mr. Matlack. The Commissioners of the Chambers of accots. laid before the Committee their defence in writing and the same was read. 1 At two o’clock T Matlack retired. 2 MS (DNA: PCC, item 62). In the hand of Timothy Matlack. A continuation of the committee minutes of November 20, 1780. 1 “The Commissioners General Defence,” which responds seriatim to each of the five charges directed at them by Ezekiel Forman and John Gibson, is in PCC, item 62, fols. 343-50. It is endorsed: “Received & read in Committee Novr. 23d. 1780.” 2 This day not only brought these hearings to a close, but also marked the end of Timothy Matlack’s congressional career, as he was not included on the new slate of delegates to Congress elected by the Pennsylvania Assembly on November 23. See JCC, 18:1087. But his work on the committee probably did not end when he “retired” from the committee chamber “At two o’clock” this day, since the draft committee report on this investigation is in Matlack’s hand. PCC, item 62, fols. 464-65. The point would be of little significance were it not for the fact that the report actually submitted to Congress the following day is in the hand of John Walker, who had had no formal role in the committee’s proceedings since November 6, when his congressional term had ended. His involvement in the submission of the committee’s report is nevertheless obvious, and doubtless can be attributed to the committee’s sensitivity to charges by Forman and Gibson that they could not get an impartial hearing from McKean and Matlack. As Walker had been explicity exempted from the commissioners’ accusations, it seems clear that his assistance was requested as a diplomatic gesture, for the committee’s report was clearly drafted by Matlack, and the final work differs from his draft in a few minor particulars only. See JCC, 18:1091-92; and PCC, item 19, 3:179-82, item 62, fols. 464-65. However, to judge from the committee’s noncontroversial major recommendation— that “The Treasury should be under the direction of a single officer, accountable to Congress”—the precaution would seem to have been unnecessary. Still, Forman and Gibson were not mollified, and continued to press their case against the commissioners of accounts, even after the latter were formally acquitted in January


[Page 411]
November 24, 1780 377 1781 and Congress began to formulate plans for executive departments, ultimately placing the treasury under the direction of a superintendent of finance. For documents bearing on this final chapter of Forman’s and Gibson’s fruitless maneuvers, see PCC, item 62, fols. 521-56, 621-28, 631-38. Although this treasury investigation had occupied Congress many months and ended inconclusively, it does provide insight into the difficulties of congressional oversight of the administrative offices and suggests significant erosion of congressional authority, morale, and competence. Another minor episode related to the inquiry which occurred this final day of hearings points to a similar conclusion. According to the journals, Jared Ingersoll interrupted this morning’s congressional proceedings by observing that William Geddes, one of the commissioners of accounts under investigation, had been elected paymaster general of the army the preceding day without any acknowledgment “that a complaint had been exhibited against the chambers of accounts,” whereupon Congress immediately resolved that Geddes’ election “be set aside. ” JCC, 18:1067, 1079, 1085. Whether any members of the committee had been in attendance when Geddes was nominated or elected is not known, but in any event the episode must have provided an embarrassing moment and reflects poorly on the quality of congressional deliberations at this time. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philade Nove 24 1780. Yesterday I wrote to Mr Wells, 1 and in haste because I was informd that Dr Craigie was then instantly setting off for Boston. As he has waited another Day, I have the Opportunity of acknowledging the Receipt of your Letters of the 25th of October & the 8th of Novr which were brought to me by the Post. You seem, my Dear, to express more Concern than I think you ought, at certain Events that have of late taken Place in the Common Wealth of Massachusetts. 2 Do you not consider that in a free Republick, the People have an uncontroulable right of chusing whom they please, to take their Parts in the Administration of publick Affairs? No Man has a Claim on his Country, upon the Score of his having renderd publick Service. It is the Duty of every one to use his utmost Exertions in promoting the Cause of Liberty & Virtue; and having so done, if his Country thinks proper to call others to the arduous Task, he ought chearfully to acquiesce, and he may Console himself with the Contemplation of an Honest Man in private Life. You know how ardently I have wishd for the Sweets of Retirement. I am like to have my Wish. You are witness that I have not raisd a fortune in the Service of my Country. I glory in being what the World calls a poor Man. If my Mind has ever been tincturd with Envy, the Rich & the Great have not been its objects. If I have been vain, Popularity, tho’ I had as much of it as any Man ought to have, is not the Phantome I have pursued. He who gains the Approbation of the Virtuous Citizens, I will own may feel himself happy; but he is in Reality much more so, who knows he deserves it. Such a Man, if he cannot retreat with Splendor, he may with Dignity. I will trust in that all gracious Being,


[Page 416]
382 November 25, 1780 You will please to make my best compliments agreeable to your Lady and believe me to be your Sincere friend and humble Servant. FC (MHi: Ward Papers). In the hand of Artemas Ward, and endorsed by him: “Doctr. Gordons June 7. 80, answered in Novr by Mr. Penney.” 1 This date has been derived from Ward’s endorsement indicating that the letter was sent “in Novr by Mr. Penney,” and from a comment by Samuel Adams on November 22 that he expected Timothy Penny to “set off for Boston in a few days.” Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams, November 22, 1780. 2 Gordon had written to Ward to propose that Congress undertake an investigation of the dispute in which he had become embroiled with Alexander Hamilton over allegations that Hamilton had advised an uprising against Congress. More precisely, a rumor had circulated in early 1779 that Hamilton had declared “that it was high time for the people to rise, join Genl. Washington and turn Congress out of Doors,” and Hamilton’s friends had traced the origin of the rumor, through Francis Dana, to Gordon. Hamilton thereupon had called on Gordon to “disclose the authority on which your information to Mr. Dana was founded,” and failing to obtain satisfaction issued a challenge to a duel. Gordon, a minister, had of course declined the invitation, and brought the matter to the attention of Washington and to the Massachusetts delegates in Congress. Washington advised Gordon that if he wished “to exhibit any charge against Colo Hamilton cognizable by a military tribunal,” he had only to signify his intent and declare when his witnesses would be ready to proceed. Ward, meanwhile, found no sentiment among his colleagues for bringing the case before Congress. For the many documents related to the controversy, see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:90-92, 108-9, 127-28, 140-43, 149-50, 153-56, 162, 168-69, 184-85, 187-88, 222, 224, 313-17; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:322-23. For Ward’s reluctance either to press the matter in Congress or to advise Gordon on a course of action, see the following note. 3 Ward’s “answer in Season,” concerning the “dispute between you and Colo. Hamilton” discussed in the preceding note, also survives among the Ward Papers at MHi. It too is undated, and reads as follows: “Dear Doctor, Your favour of the Seventh Ult came duly to hand. I have had some conversation with my Collegues relative to the matter in dispute between you and Colo. Hamilton. We were unanimously of the opinion that considering the present Situation of our Publick affairs it was not proper to move that matter in Congress, or even to mention it. The Situation of the Army being critical & publick business being pressing, the moveing that matter would have a tendency to Injure the Publick Service which we were fully satisfied you would not even wish to take place. Therefore we thought it best (all things being taken into consideration) to pass it over, not doubting that this line of conduct would meet your approbation. “I arrived in this City on the thirteenth of June last, have been as well as usual, ‘till within a few days, the heat having been very Intense has opperated much on me, but however hope to be able to endure ‘till the weather changes. “I have nothing of News to write you, which you will not learn from the papers or otherways.” John Sullivan to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir Schulskill Falls 26th 1780 I am Honored with your Favor of the 19th Inst. 1 Am Sorry you have received no Letters Lately from me [...] perswaded This Arose frpm your mentioning [...] were about to Set out for New Hampshire


[Page 417]
November 26, 1780 383 Several [...] Since after which I Directed two Letters to you at [New] Hampshire one of which I apprehend is Lodged in New York. Rivington has not Published it though am almost Confident it went by that Post. 2 The Reason [is] I Suppose That he found nothing in Favor of that [...] Through the whole of it. I mentioned in the fo[...] Those the Journals of Congress Left by you & requested to know how they were to be forwarded, as They are weighty in Every Sense of the word. My being Compelled to move out of the City for my Health has prevented my writing you as often as I otherwise Should have done. We have no news here but what is Contained in the Inclosed Gazette. Congress move on but Slowly in rectifying the Errors which Seem to Surround us. There Seems however a Disposition for attempting a reformation. As I write from This Place it is impossible to Inclose you a Journal of Congress by this opportunity. I wish you a good Journey to New Hampshire & a happy Sight of your Family & Friends. You may depend on hearing from me by Every opportunity. I have the Honor to be with the most [...] Sentiments of Esteem, Dr Sir your most obedt. Servant. Jno. Sullivan RC (NhHi: Peabody Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Only Sullivan’s October 8 letter to Peabody has been found. Although several of his intercepted letters were later published, none of his correspondence with Peabody was printed in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette. John Sullivan to John Stark Dear Sir Philadelphia November 26th 1780 I am favored with your Letter of the 13 Instant & am Sorry for the Decline of your Health. I am happy to hear that the Late allowances made for the Army 1 are So pleasing & I am happy in assuring you that the Tide has Turned & now Sets Strongly in their Favor. I wish it may Continue. The allowance of half pay is undoubtedly Extended to General as well as other officers but no Provision is yet made for those whose want of Health Compells them to retire. 2 My advice to you is to Send a Request to Congress to retire for recovery of your Health which I will Take Care Shall answer Every Purpose. In it You will please to mention that whenever your Health will permit you will Chearfully return to the Field. 3 I am in haste Dear Sir Your assured Friend & most obedt Servant Jno Sullivan RC (NhHi: Stark Papers).


[Page 418]
384 November 26, 1780 1 See the following entry, note 2. 2 Congress explicitly declared on November 28 that general officers were entitled to the same half pay benefits for life that were recently extended to continental officers who served to the end of the war, but no mention was made of officers who retired for “want of health.” See JCC, 18:1100; and Sullivan to Stark, November 28, 1780. 3 Stark continued on active duty in the Continental Army until the war’s end. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia Novemr 26th 1780 I am honored with your Excellencys Favor of the 20th Instant 1 — and feel myself under the greatest obligation for your obliging Condescension in Consenting to a Continuation of my Letters. Sensible of your Situation & Course of Business I feared to write Lest your Politeness Should Divert your attention from important matters & Lead you to answer Even where an Answer appeared unnecessary. But I now take the Liberty of assuring you that I Shall not Expect Frequent or Lengthy answers. When the Nature of my Letter requires & your Liesure will permit I Shall promise myself an answer & not otherwise. I Shall take the Liberty of Informing your Excellency from time to time of Those Points which Turn up in Congress & are interesting to the Publick in General or the Army in Particular & Shall Continue This without Expecting regular or Frequent answers. I am happy that the Late Regulations are Pleasing to your Excellency; 2 & with you Lament that They were not Sooner adopted: But I can with great Truth assure you that they are not now the offspring of Choice but necessity which perhaps has been Lately Painted in more Striking Colors & has been more realized than formerly. I am Sensible of the injurious Consequences of Sending out requisitions at so Late a Period 3 But I flatter myself That The States will yield a Chearful & Speedy Compliance as I have Seen An Act from Connecticut and Answers from other States which promise much toward a Speedy Supply. I will Endeavor to have it mentioned in Colo Palfreys Instructions to obtain materials in preference to ready made Cloathes for the reasons you mention. Colo. Palfrey is appointed Consul & Commercial agent. 4 The means you have been pleased to point out are Fortunately Adopted. Congress have in the most Decent & at the Same time in the most pressing Terms Solicited a Loan & I have Long Since without the knowledge of Congress Solicited the French Minister and Mr Marbois to favor the application which they have already Done by writing to the French Court warmly in favor of it. 5 I am fully Sensible of the Evils arising in the Cloathing Department,


[Page 424]
390 November 27, 1780 2 See JCC, 18:1095; PCC, item 71, 1:521, 527-30; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:115-16, 128. 3 For the origin of this report, see Huntington to Nathanael Greene, this date, note 2. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Novr. 27th. [1780] The enclosed 1 is from no new Admirer. But it will not be less Wellcome on that Score to a Female devoid of Coquetry. It came under Cover to the hon. Mr. Bee from Commodore Gillon, who has been so kind as to aid Mr. A by interpreting, in Holland. 1 Mr. A is authorized to negociate the money matters that were entrusted to Mr. Laurens and had actually received his Powers by the happy Arrival of the hon. Mr. Searle who sailed from hence in the Jay on some Affairs for the State of Pensylvania. Mr. A was well Sepr. 25. I wish I may be able to say Something to him of the same kind about you before Col. Palfrey sails; it may serve as a Douceur. He writes not to me. He is as captious as P 2 I will not say who, because the eastern Post has failed Today, and possibly there may be in the Office at Fish Kill a “Thank you for forwarding the Bills of Exchange” and an “I wish you happy” with a P at the Bottom of it. I have not yet seen the Carolina Mr. Brown to prove to him of what worth is a good Word from you. It shall Wellcome to me even the “Countenance” of a Saracen. I hear nothing yet of Capt. P. Jones. I have 3 Commissions respecting Goods to come by him. They are from 3 much esteemed Friends. I will not say of which of the Commissions I am most proud, for I wish to avoid even the Appearance of being a Flatterer in these Days of Slander when even Portia has “been left” to miscall my Honesty. Now, Daughter of Eve, for a few Dashes in the News-way. Russia, Sweeden & Denmark are jointly doing Right to their mutual Commerces. Holland is all Tameness, pretending to expect that the northern confederating Powers shall guarantee her east india Interests as a preliminary to her joining the Confederation. England releases Captures made upon the 3 first mentioned Nations, but condemns the Hollanders. Minheer I should think will not much longer hold out under such evident Indignity. The british Force has suddenly left Portsmouth in Virginia without destroying their Works or taking the collected negroes with them. There is a Report that they relanded higher up the Bay and have cooped in our Friends on the Neck to the amount of 5000. I suspect


[Page 425]
November 28, 1780 391 this to be the Fabric of a Speculator. There is more than a single Account that French Ships were off Charlestown Bar. I forgot to tell you that Mr. A is turned a french Surgeon and is anatomizing Govr. Hutchinson. I will give you a Sketch of the Skeliton if I can find Time by next post day. 3 A Foreigner who has travailed much and knows several Languages told me last Evening that he knew of Nothing that pleased him so much for the Occasion as the Quaker’s Farewell. JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:21-22. 1 Lovell enclosed a John Adams to Abigail letter of September 25, for which see ibid., 3:424-25, 4:51. 2 That is, Portia—Abigail Adams. 3 Lovell was referring to Adams’ “anatomizing” of former Massachusetts governor Thomas Hutchinson in a June 27, 1780, letter to President Huntington, which Abigail allowed to be published anonymously in the Independent Chronicle (Boston), January 4, 1781. It is in PCC, item 84, 2:145-51; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:794-98. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia 28th Novemr 1780 I last wrote to your Excellency by General Scott. 1 We have since received dispatches from Holland 2 and have the satisfaction to find that Mr Adams has received his powers to execute the Trust reposed in Mr Lawrence now a Prisoner of war in England. The Claims of Ireland are still unsatisfied and they have passed an Act to prevent, by a severe duty, the Importation of unrefined Sugar from England; insisting that it shall be brought directly from the Islands into their ports; and claiming in every other Respect a perfect Equality with what they call their Sister Kingdom. The Courtiers in that parliament were averse to this Measure, but the Patriot Councilor Yelverton told them that his Argument should be concise. If they woud not agree to it, he tvoud put himself at the head of the Associators. This is a mode of reasoning which proves irresistible. By the way is it not the highest Insolence that while the Claims of Ireland are submitted to from [ . . . ] and preparations to enforce them by Arms; Americans are persecuted as Rebels for exercising the same Right? Holland continues to be rent into Faction. The Statholder, under british Influence, restrains some of the provinces from acting with vigour: While the Republican party in all seem resolved to support our Cause and are earnest for Close Alliance with Us. In England the Crown has acquired additional strength by the misconduct of the People headed by Lord George Gordon. It is said the late Elections have proved unfavourable to the Patriots, and that several of the most distinguished have lost their Seats in Parliament. But it is a general


[Page 426]
392 November 28, 1780 Opinion that the Convention of the Neutral powers will have a much greater Effect upon the British Cabinet than the Eloquence of Angells. Lord Shelbourn in their House of Peers declared that it was to be taken for granted that the united States woud be admitted to that Convention as an Independant people. Indeed All Accounts agree that the great Powers of Europe are altogether advocates for our Freedom, and the ministerial writers in late publications whine and complain that All mankind are Ingrates, and that they are left without an Ally to contend against France Spain & America; they might add Ireland to the Catalogue: for the Liberation of that Kingdom will eventually press them to the Quick, and tend to the Destruction of her Commerce as much as anyother Cause. In the mean time they have manifested a servility in offering Assistance to the Russian fleet, that Armed merely to humble their maritime power, which cannot fail to render them contemptible. With the same low Condescension they have endeavour[ed] to sooth and cajole the Courts of France and Spain and seem prepared to sacrifice every Sentiment of Glory, & every Prospect of national Advantage if America can be deserted and left to their Vengeance. These Courts however seem resolved to pursue the War, and France, in every Event, to maintain her Alliance. Besides the Ties of Honour, their future Safety, and a desire to recover the disgraces of the last War; both these Nations are become responsible for their Conduct to the Northern Powers: Nor can any thing Justify them to themselves or to Europe. While these States by vigorously persevering to establish their Freedom call down the Admiration and Respect of Mankind. From Intelligence out of our Capitol, it appears that the Enemy expressed great Chargin and disappointment on examining the new Arrangement for the Campaign which they intercepted. They had hoped, it seems, that we were to much broken to attempt a formidable Opposition. If the Views of Congress are seconded by the states, and the Army & Supplies which we have requested punctually produced: it is the general Opinion that the Enemy will relinquish the American War and think seriously of preserving their remaining Dominions. One decisive Effort will be of more Avail than languid & precarious operations for years. But these Observations need not be made to your Excellency who has long been impressed with the Necessity of vigorous Measures to expell the Enemy. The late Hurricane in the West Indies has produced such Horrible Devastations; that nothing equal to it has happened perhaps Since the Deluge. Only partial Accounts have yet come to hand: but the Tempest continuing many days with unabated Violence; it may be concluded that its Effects have been dreadful in the Islands both Windward & Leeward. It must prove a fatal Blow to Britain: but our Ally has a great Share in the Calamity. The Loss of Shipping and Lives must be prodigious.


[Page 427]
November 28, 1780 393 I cannot but say, excepting in the Case of Vermont, that I never enjoyed so much Satisfaction in the proceedings of Congress as at this Time. There is a decision and spirit in their measures which had become indispensably necessary. They have made All the Preparations for the next Campaign with the utmost Unanimity and to the entire Satisfaction of the Commander in Chief. I continue alone to represent the State. It is a Confidence which I endeavoured to deserve by unremited Application; and by devoting my whole Time to the publick Business. Habit, and a great Share of Health, make it tolerable; and a Hope that I am serviceable to the Country reconciles me to continue so long in a Station on some Accounts undesireable. The Want of a decent Support from the State is among the Number of discouragements which give me disquiet: there are others which must occur to your Excellency of a Nature much more general and consequential. Be pleased to present my most respectful Compliments to Mrs. Clinton and Col. Benson. I have the Honour to be with the utmost Respect; and Affection, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedient & very humble Servant, Jas Duane Tr (DLC: George and James Clinton Papers). 1 See Duane to Clinton, November 14, 1780. 2 These dispatches consisted of ten letters from John Adams and Charles W. F. Dumas that were read in Congress on November 21.JCC, 18:1095. Those from Adams, dated June 12 (two), 16, 17 (two), 29, and September 24 and 25, 1780, are in PCC, item 84, 2:118-52, 161-64, 265-72; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:779-84, 787-98, 823-24, 4:66-69 (except for one of the letters of June 17, although both are in the Adams letterbooks, MHi). Dumas’ letters, both dated September 12, are in PCC, item 93, 1:464-70, one of which is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:55-56. John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton Dear sir Phil. November 28th 1780 I was in full Expectation of receiving a line from you by the last post but was disappointed. Mr. Hall 1 in his last has given Some Account of the proceedings in the House of Delegates. He writes me that the Confiscation Bill had passed their House by a very great Majority. Should the measure be adopted it might be made to Serve a most valuable purpose, that of drawing the Bills emitted under the resolve of the 18th March into Circulation and establishing its Credit. Let part of the Confiscated property as much as may be necessary, be laid off in Small Lots, (Lands in 100 Acres) and Valued in hard money, by persons on Oath. Those Lots to be made over to any person who Shall first offer to pay the Valuation either in hard money


[Page 428]
394 November 28, 1780 or in Bills of the new Emission. By this means every one would have it in his power to realize his money, in property of the full Value of hard money to obtain the new money to Answer this purpose every one would be induced to Exchange the old Bills for the new at 40 for one, which would in a short time, it is probable bring all the new money into Circulation and establish its Credit, the fund being ready And equal in Value to Gold and silver. The president of Congress has promised to send by this post, a Copy of a late Law passed in Connecticut, respecting a Cession of some part of the back Lands. 2 We have had nothing from Virginia or any other state on that Subject. The Eastern states are making the most Vigorous Exertions, And it is said there is not the least doubt of their Compleating their number of men by the first of February, and their Quota of Supplies of provisions and money will be furnished. I hope every State Will See the necessity of the like Exertions. Nothing is so likely to give us peace as a formidable Well Appointed Army, Well Supported and a proper Arrangement of our Finances. The loss of men our State has Sustained, to the southward, Occasions a greater deficiency in our Quota of Troops than We shall I am afraid be able to make up. We shall I suppose after the Addition of the new raised regiment want at least 1300 men, but Should We fall Short (all things Considered) We Shall not be justly lyable to blame, but if it is possible, our full Quota I hope Will be made up. Provisions we have plenty of, so that We Shall be able to Comply with what is required of us in that respect. I am much pleased to See your name in the Delegation to Congress. I hope it will be agreeable to you to Attend, and Wish you and Mr Johnson Coud immediately Come up. The Major I Suppose Cant Attend till the session is at an End. Mr. Platers time is out And my being here Alone will be to no purpose. The state will be unrepresented. 3 No news from the Northward for a long time nor any of Consequence from Europe. Wish the Account from the southward of the Enemys having left Virginia may be true. I write in great haste. My Compliments to the Gentlemen of the Senate And Am With usual respect and Esteem, Dear sir, Your most hble servt, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). 1 That is, John Hall (1729-97) of the “Vineyard,” Anne Arundel Co., Md., who served almost continuously in the lower house of the Maryland assembly from 1762 to 1795. Bio. Diet, of Md. Legis., 1:386-88. 2 Although the Connecticut legislature had passed a resolution in October offering to cede its ungranted territory contested by Pennsylvania to the United States, there is no indication that Samuel Huntington sent ‘ ‘ a Copy of the late Law’ ’ to the states at this time. For the Connecticut resolution, which was not formally submitted to Congress until January 31, 1781, when it and similar acts from New York and Virginia were referred to a committee of seven, see^CC, 19:99-100; and Julian


[Page 429]
November 28, 1780 395 P. Boyd and Robert J. Taylor, eds., The Susquehannah Company Papers, 11 vols. (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1962-71), 7:63-66. 3 The Maryland delegation elected in November 1780 consisted of Hanson, Carroll, Thomas Johnson, and “The Major,” Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. Neither Carroll nor Johnson chose to attend, resigning on January 3 and 16, 1781, respectively. A special election, which was held in January and certified February 3, added Daniel Carroll and Richard Potts to the delegation. Since George Plater’s time was “out” December 5, the state was unrepresented until Hanson was joined by Daniel Carroll in February, as Maryland required the presence of two delegates to cast its vote in Congress. Jenifer and Potts did not arrive until late in the spring. See JCC, 17:509, 19:138, 20:498, 629; and Bio. Diet, of Md. Legis., 1:198, 405, 2:486, 496. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sir Philadelphia Nov. 28th 1780 I wrote you by Capt Carberry who promised to deliver the letter himself and was the reason of my not writing to you by the last post— have nothing now worth Communicating, no news from the northward for a long time, nor anything from Europe of any Consequence. Your Carriage is finished and the man is impatient for his money. The Merchants here have had A meeting, And have reduced the Exchange to 75 which is Submitted to And every one takes the money at that Exchange. How long it will now Continue is uncertain. I therefore think it would be prudent to Send up the money as Soon as you Can. I Congratulate you on your reelection— And am much pleased it was Unanimous, hope your next will be in the Same manner being on all Occasions With the greatest esteem And respect. Your Excellencys most Obedient Servt, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 28 November 1780 By our Advices Yesterday from the Southward 1 we find that the Enemy continue to retreat in South Carolina and that they are in great Distress for Supplies and much debilitated by Sickness. Our Troops will probably be still more straitened than they, because they have to follow on a Route which the Enemy have gleaned. Vast Expenses are before us, and our Resources slowly produced. It has often occurred to me how uncomfortable is the situation of Congress, without Power, and without Means, and yet berated for all Defects in the publick Operations and looked to for what every Body knows


[Page 430]
396 November 28, 1780 it is impossible they should have. Every little Trapstick of a Quarter master or Commissary or Forage-picker, who has spent the publick Money himself and either has bought Nothing to feed the Army or Transport, or has paid Nothing for what he has bought, gets in a Passion and swears at Congress all over the Country that they do not furnish Money and will not pay their Debts. He owes Nobody; Congress owes; though neither they, nor any of their Members have ever seen or heard of him. It is a curious Situation when every little peddling Scoundrel or broken Shopkeeper can make Congress a Debtour to all the Amount he can prostitute the publick Credit for. I long to see the States in earnest to have none but honest, respectable Officers of their own, and that none should be appointed in the Continental Staff, because Congress can never know them, except in the highest Branches of the Departments; and I wish how soon the States may feel the Length and Breadth of their Resources because there is the only Fork. Congress ought to have more Power or the States more Vigour and Attention. The Advices from Virginia are that the Enemy have embarked their Forces from Portsmouth, 2 but had not sailed the 19th inst. A report comes from Baltimore that when our Troops marched down Portsmouth, and a Number of Citizens went in through Curiosity, the Enemy stood up Nansemond River and landed to occupy the Isthmus so as to insulate them and cut off all Retreat. It is mentioned that near 5000 are thus taken in. The Enemy said to be about 3000. If the Ancient Dominion cannot refuse these, what are they worth? However the whole is private Intelligence; nothing official; and few believe any Thing of it. Many Circumstances make it probable that there is a French or Spanish Fleet or a Fleet combined of both, on the Southern Coast; but am afraid they have suffered in the Hurricane which has made such Havock in the West-Indies. If they have escaped this, they may be of effectual Service to us. I have received the Nomination and Election of Delegates. 3 Find that my Name is continued which I little expected. Several of the Gentlemen who have not been carried, could have attended much better. However as there are five, I cannot think of refusing. If I have any Reputation, it stands me in Hand to preserve it, and not shrink from Duty, for I have Nothing else left. If my Credit goes, I may safely say, I have literally Nothing. I hope to see your Excellency in a few Days, when I shall wish the Liberty of giving you a better Detail of Intelligence—both at Home and abroad. I have the Honour to be, your Excellency’s very humble, and most obedt Servant, WC Houston RC (NN: Livingston Papers).


[Page 431]
November 28, 1780 397 1 These “Advices” were two November 19 letters from Gen. Nathanael Greene, which were read in Congress the previous day. JCC, 18:1095. 2 The “Advices from Virginia” were enclosed in a November 19 Thomas Jefferson letter that was read in Congress on November 27, for which see JCC, 18:1095; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:128-29. 3 For Houston’s concerns over New Jersey’s representation in Congress and the election of a new slate of delegates for the state on November 24, see Houston to John Stevens, September 21, 1780. James Madison to Joseph Jones Dr. Sir Philada. Novr. 28th. 1780 Yrs. of the 18th came yesterday. 1 I am glad to find the legislature persist in their resolution to recruit their line of the army for the war, though without deciding on the expediency of the mode under their consideration. Would it not be as well to liberate and make soldiers at once of the blacks themselves as to make them instruments for enlisting white Soldiers? It wd. certainly be more consonant to the principles of liberty which ought never to be lost sight of in a contest for liberty, and with white officers, & a majority of White Soldrs., no imaginable danger could be feared from themselves, as there certainly could be none from the effect of the example on those who should remain in bondage: experiance having shewn that a freedman immediately loses all attachment & sympathy with his former fellow slaves. I informed you in my last that I had engaged Pleasants’ house for you. Pemberton would come to no agreement on the subject. I have received the £2000 your share of the draught on Meade & Compy. and the residue of the draught has all been paid. I will endeavor to send you the Journals by the first opportunity. They are too heavy to go by post. I wrote to you too [two] days ago by Col. Grayson on the subject of the Mis pi. Mr. Walker set out a few days ago, accompanied by Mr. Kinlock, who is soon to be in a very near relation to him. The Books of Accts, are on the way. We have enclosed to the Govr. a copy of an Act of the Legislature of Connecticut ceding some of their territorial claim to the United States, which he will no doubt communicate to the Assembly. 2 They reserve the jurisdiction to themselves, and clog the cession with some other conditions which greatly depreciate it, and are the more extraordinary as their title to the land is so controvertible a one. The evacuation of Portsmouth was received with much satisfaction, but a story from Baltimore that it was a manoeuvre & ended in the Enemy’s running up Nansemond and entrapping our army below although exceedingly improbable has thrown us into an uneasy suspence. By accounts from the W. Indies there has been in the Windwd. Islands one of the most violent & desolating hurricates ever


[Page 432]
398 November 28, 1780 known. The British Islands have been laid almost entirely waste, and most of their shipping with their crews lost. Such an event with the interception of the destined supply of provision by the Combined fleets in Europe, cannot fail to bring on great distress if not a general famine. The French islands have also suffered severely. The Association of the Merchants for fixing the depreciation seems likely to prove a salutary measure. It reduced it from 90 & 100 to 75 at once, which is its present current rate; although it is observed that many of the retailers elude the force of it by raising the price in hard money. I am Dr Sir Yr. Affecty J. Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:209-10. 1 Ibid., pp. 182-84. 2 The letter to Thomas Jefferson enclosing “a copy of an Act” by the Connecticut legislature has not been found. For the Connecticut resolution, see John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton, this date, note 2. Isaac Motte to Thomas Bee Dear Sir, Treasury 28 Novr. 1780 I find in the Report on Mr. Bryan’s Letter, the sum of fourteen hundred Dollars is mention’d to have been advanced by him for the Continental Troops in March 1778. It appears upon examining the Certificates that 800 of the 1400 were paid in, the 9th March 1777, the other 600 were pd. 2d March 1778, which will make a great difference & to the prejudice of the old Gentleman, therefore must request you wou’d get it rectified (if possible) this morning, & let me know what is done, as soon as you can—it appears to be a mistake of Colo. Walton’s—it may with ease be soon altered. 1 I am, Dear Sir, Yr. very hble Serv, Isaac Motte RC (DNA: PCC, item 59). 1 Jonathan Bryan had recently been released from confinement on Long Island, where he had been held since his capture in January 1779 in the aftermath of the fall of Savannah, and Congress had just voted to reimburse him for money he had advanced for the Continental troops in Georgia in March 1778, “according to the value of the money at that time.” JCC, 18:1094. What Motte had just discovered was that if Bryan was actually reimbursed the equivalent of $1,400 as of March 1778, he would suffer a loss equal to the depreciation of 800 Continental dollars from March 1777 to March 1778. Apparently there was no objection to rectifying the wording of the original resolution as Motte suggested, and a revised resolution to correct the oversight in George Walton’s original motion was immediately adopted this day. JCC, 18:1099. The November 25 resolution authorizing Bryan’s reimbursement had been sent to him with a brief letter from Samuel Huntington of the same date. PCC, item 15, fol. 167. For Bryan’s November 12 letter to the South Carolina and Georgia delegates, written just after his release by the British and setting forth his claim


[Page 435]
November 29, 1780 401 4 Washington’s letter on measures he had taken concerning the exchange of prisoners had been read in Congress on November 24. See JCC, 18:1089; PCC, item 152, 9:373-76; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:376-78. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia November [2]9th 1780 1 I was this morning Honored with your Excellency’s favor of the 25th Instant; 2 I shall be happy to See the Chavalier De Chaltelieux and to pay him every mark of respect & attention in my Power. The Confidence your Excellency is pleased to place in me is exceeding flattering and I can with great Truth assure you That no person Desires more to Comply with your wishes, relieve you from the anxiety you Suffer; (from Difficulties which as Commander of the Army you never ought to Experience), or to render your Troops happy in their Situation than myself. The appointment of General Smallwood was in the old State way. 3 I did not oppose it for Political Reasons but I took that opportunity of Delivering my Sentiments against those irregular and unmilitary promotions and upon various occasions Since and am happy to find that There is now a Large majority of the House of my Sentiments so that I am Convinced There will be no more of those irregular appointments. Of Course General Clinton & General Knox will not be Superceeded. The Latter if Driven to resign would be an irreperable Loss to the Army. I have conferred with a number of the most Confidential & most powerful members and have Secured their Interest—so far as to assure me that the Event which your Excellency apprehended can never take Place. As I have been fortunate Enough to Disswade a majority of the members from pursuing the old mode I expect Soon to be called upon to point out a new one Liable to no objections and here I confess I shall be at a Loss owing perhaps to my want of Capacity, or possibly to the Confusions of having one Large Army Composed of Thirteen Small ones & wish your Excellency would be so oblidging as to give me your Sentiments upon it and what you would wish to be the Rule of Promotion. To Rise Regimentally to the Rank of Captain and afterward in the Line of the State to a Colonel (which I take to be the Rule) admits of no great Difficulty, but the Rule has been Extended to Brigadiers & even to Major Generals. Now Let us Suppose that Major Generals are to be Created from the Eldest Brigadiers & the former Rule is to Stand good for promotions of Colonels to Brigrs, is not this a perpetual Bar to promotions of Colonels who belong to States which Supply but one or two Regiments? Colonels of Such States may of Course be compelled


[Page 437]
November 30, 1780 403 to occupy that House; and immediately repaired to my Duty in Congress. The Officer tho’ at Liberty, after the Caution, I had given him, to use his own Discretion, thought fit to follow and renew the Conversation; the purport of which, on my part, was no more than to recommend him to take Advice before he proceeded further: for he appeared to me to be ignorant of his Duty. Nothing then can be more untrue than that I offered him the Slightest Injury by word or Action. From a Complaint so destitute of Foundations, is it not to be suspected that this Attempt to execute a Process against Effects, of which neither the Officer nor any with him, appeard to have the least Knowledge, was calculated for the mischievous purpose of enciting disturbance and giving Affront? Permit me, Sir, to add, that in my Opinion the Reasons for protecting, in all Nations, the Persons, Houses & Effects of foreign Ambassadours apply with at least equal Force to the Members who constitute the general Government of the united States. Shall their Apartments be intruded into, their papers be exposed, and their Effects seized in a civil Case too with which they have no Connection? Shall they be stripped of every Accommodation, and disqualified from pursuing the great Duties of their Mission? Shall there be no Redress but thro’ a tedious Course of Law in which, at the Expence of their Independance, and of the Sovereignty represented in their persons, they must submit to be Suitors? It is easy to see that a Government thus constituted must be incompetent to the great Purposes of publick Safety. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 James Duane had become embroiled in a legal dispute with a Pennsylvania deputy sheriff, when the sheriff attempted to search Duane’s residence for goods belonging to a debtor. Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed had written to Duane on November 30 after receiving a complaint from the deputy sheriff that “he has been molested in the service of an Execution on the Effects of one Bulkeley, by a delegate in Congress who upon enquiry he finds to be Mr. Duane.” Reed protested that the “Sheriff must have misunderstood the interference, as We cannot suppose Mr. Duane would think himself authorised to forbid an Officer of this state proceeding to execute process on the effects of another person.” Duane Papers, NHi. Despite Duane’s claims of congressional immunity in this letter, the Pennsylvania authorities remained determined to execute the seizure order. Duane later capitulated in the face of renewed efforts by Reed and the sheriff, for which see Duane to Reed, December 16, 1780. For the background to this case, see James Madison to Joseph Jones, October 10, 1780, note 5.


[Page 440]
406 November 30, 1780 might have communicated to Mr. A some Request for his Aid respecting your little Invoice. The Ariel is momently expected. There is not a Line from Mr. Dana public or private that I know of. We have reed, but a single one since he went and Mr. A never mentions his name in all his 86 Letters, but in one early concerning money matters. I do see his hand writing in one Copy now arrived, dated June 26th 2 so that he was then in Health as you may tell his charming Wife in Case she has no better Information. I am too pressed with Business to write much to you—Palfrey will go in 10 days. There has been much Manoeuvre you know, for a Resident instead of Secretary to Doct. F , and since you left us, for an Envoy extraordinary. The Cat is out. Only Hamilton stood in Nomination for Secy, to Doct F.; Pinckney being a Prisoner. Under a motion for a Secy, to the Commission, 3 Mr. Henry has been nominated, and no less a Personage than the former Mover of all the droll Efforts—Mr. Mathews. Mr. J A laments that young Laurens refused. He presses for a Consul; prays that no Frigate may ever again be under either Minister or Consul there but have orders from our Navy Boards, to be strictly obeyed. Our Distress for money is extreme. We can pay neither our civil officers, nor our Army nor our Loan Interest nor send a Brigade of Waggons out of this City when they are 3 days loaded, much less purchase Salt provisions which are daily at Sale under our Noses by the Marshal of the Admiralty, and which are essential for any Embarkation of Troops at critical Moments. The merchantile Plan of fixing the old Paper at 75 when it was 100 and upwards turns out to be a sterling Philadelphianism; for the majority of them went home to their Stores and put 25 per Cent on the hard money prices while the Dutchmen stick to the old Paper Depreciation or the Exchange. Adieu my Friend, J- L. RC (MHi: Gerry-Knight Collection). 1 Not identified. 2 That is, John Adams’ June 26 letter to Congress is in the hand of Francis Dana, for which see the preceding entry, note 2. 3 At this point Lovell inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following observation in the margin: “The Subject is now open for a large Discussion by the order for chusing a Secy, being postponed that the present State of our Commissn. at Versailles may be considered. We have only 2 letters from the Doctr—March 4 & May 31, this year.” The context of Lovell’s observation was the congressional decision on November 22 to appeal to the king of France for a loan of 25 million livres, at which time John Henry was nominated “for the office of secretary to the (.ministerplenipotentiary of the United States') Embassy at the Court of Versailles.” The substitution of “Embassy” for “minister plenipotentiary of the United States” in Secretary Thomson’s journal involved more than verbal quibbling, of course, for at stake was the status of both the new appointee and the minister to France, Benjamin Franklin. The idea of soliciting a loan from France was an attractive one, but the


[Page 442]
408 December 1, 1780 remains of his little army under Lord Rawdon were retreating to the Same place & our forces in pursuit of them were not in a Situation to promise certain expectation of Cutting off their retreat. I have the Honour to be, with Esteem & Respect, your humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (Ct: Jonathan Trumbull Papers). 1 Although receipt of Lawrence’s letter is not recorded in the journals, the Board of Treasury’s December 4 report on it is in PCC, item 136, 4:740-41. For Congress’ acceptance of Lawrence’s request to resign as commissioner of the Continental Loan Office in Connecticut, the subject of the report, see Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, December 15, 1780. 2 Lawrence was also the treasurer of Connecticut, in which capacity Huntington was addressing him here. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia Decemr 3rd 1780 Since I Last wrote you nothing has turned up worth your notice except General Leslie’s having evacuated Virginia and was Seen going off by Water; 1 I am apprehensive he is gone to Join Lord Cornwallis at Carolina. Congress are employed in making new arrangements and rectifying Errors. 2 Party Spirit is kept Down with some Difficulty. Vermont affair Sleeps at Present; I apprehend it will revive in a Short Time. The merchants of Philadelphia have given The most Striking Proofs of their Patriotism; when the Exchange took a Sudden Rise from 75 to 125 They were called upon by the assembly & Entered into an association to fix the Exchange at 75 & published it in the Gazette. This Satisfied the assembly and Congress for a Season. They went Home, Doubled the Specie prices of their Articles and receive 75 paper Dollars for one Silver one & of Course receive near Double the value for their Articles which they would have done had Congress and the assembly been Silent upon the Subject. 3 I hope this kind of Patriotism will not extend itself to New Hampshire. I have the honor to be with the most perfect Esteem Dr Sr Your most obedient Servant, Jno Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 News of the British withdrawal from Virginia arrived in a letter from Thomas Jefferson of November 26, which was read in Congress on December 4. See JCC, 18:1120; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, December 4, 1780, note 1. 2 Sullivan was himself deeply involved in “rectifying Errors” in the Continental financial system at this time, for which see Sullivan’s Committee Notes, November 7-23, 1780. 3 See William Churchill Houston to William Livingston, November 21; and James Madison to Joseph Jones, November 28, 1780.


[Page 444]
410 December!, 1780 Samuel Huntington to Arthur Lee Sir, Philada December 4. 1780 I do myself the Pleasure to transmit you the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the first Instant, by which you will be informed, that they approve of your retaining the Picture of his most Christian Majesty which was presented to you from that Monarch That there is no Charge against you before Congress properly supported, and you may be assured, your recall was not intended to fix any kind of Censure on your Character or Conduct abroad. The same Allowance is to be made to your Secretary as was made to Mr Stockton, Secretary to your Brother the Honble Wm. Lee. The other Articles in your Account, with the Vouchers, are referred to the Board of Treasury for Liquidation. 1 I am Sir, with Sentiments of Esteem & respect, your most obedient & most humble Servant, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 18:1114-15. The issue of Samuel Stockton’s allowance had been settled on October 14, for which see ibid., pp. 926-27. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular. Philada December 4. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th Ulto, recommending to the several States immediately to inform the Commissary General (Coll. Ephraim Blaine) or the Deputy Commissary, that is, when he acts to the Southward, of the Names of the principal Agent or Commissioner in the respective States for supplying the Army, and to oblige them to give Information from Time to Time to the Commissary General, or his Deputy with the southern Army, as the Case may be, of their Prospects of complying with the requisitions made to them or the respective States. 1 The live Stock to be furnished by the several States is to be delivered to such Store keepers within each State, at such Times and in such Quantities as the Commissary General or Deputy Commissary shall direct, under the regulations of Congress of the 15th of July last. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant. S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 18:1109-11. President Huntington also sent a copy of these resolves


[Page 445]
December!, 1780 411 to Quartermaster General Timothy Pickering this day, for which see PCC, item 15, fol. 171. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia December 4. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th Ulto respecting the Department of the Commissary General. I am informed by Letter from Govr Jefferson that the Brittish have all reimbarked and left, the Chesapeake. 1 By Dunlaps Paper enclosed you will be informed of the Success of the Corps under Genl Sumpter against Majr Wemyss. 2 I have also to acknowledge the receipt of your Despatches of the 28th Ulto. 3 I have the Honor to be, with Sentiments of the highest respect & Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Apparently a letter of November 26 from Thomas Jefferson to Huntington that has not survived but had been read in Congress this date. SeeJCC, 18:1120. The editor of Jefferson’s papers surmised that Jefferson had merely sent Huntington an extract of his November 26 letter to Washington, but it seems unlikely that Huntington would have penned this comment to Washington in such a case. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:161n. That Huntington later acknowledged a letter from Jefferson “of the 25 of November,” but never one of November 26 is puzzling but probably of no significance. See Huntington to the States, January 9, 1781, note. 2 Huntington must have written this paragraph in anticipation of the appearance of an issue of John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet, for no account of Gen. Thomas Sumter’s recent “Success” against Maj. James Wemyss in South Carolina appeared in the Packet until December 6. 3 Only one letter from Washington of November 28 has been found. PCC, item 152, 9:381-84; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:418-20. John Sullivan to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia Decembr 4th 1780 I am this day honored with your favor of the 13 Ulto. 1 Acknowledging the receipt of mine of the 10th of October. I have since wrote you 2 respecting The Trunk of Mr Smiths Son concerning which he Seems very Indifferent. The Board of Admiralty have not given any answer, when they do Shall write you immediately. 3 I think the old money will agreable to your wishes be drawn out of circulation and the new money take its Tour.


[Page 446]
412 December 4, 1780 I rejoice at the appointment of yr Brother and hope he will come forward. Gates has been unfortunate. Green has gone to take the Command from him. Arnold has proved himself what I ever knew him. I Inclose you the paper which contains all the news. I beg you to present my most respectful to Mrs Langdon; and that you will believe me to be with the most perfect Esteem, Dear Sir, your most obedient Servt. Jno. Sullivan P.S. The French Embassador wants a few Large Sheets of the American Glass. I wish you will be kind Enough to forward a few of them for which I will See you reimbursed. J S RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 John Langdon’s November 13 letter to Sullivan is in Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 3:199-200. 2 Not found. 3 Sullivan was responding to a query from Langdon about funds for the 74-gun ship of the line America under construction under Langdon’s supervision at Portsmouth, N.H. He also wrote to Langdon again on this subject, apparently just five days later, as follows: “I have often Conversed with the Board of Admiralty who after Devising Every Method for Supplying Money for finishing the 74 and being Disappointed in all have recommended to Congress the Sale of the Ship as the only way left to Save the Expence already Incurred. This may possibly Save our money but not our Credit. What will be done in Consequence of their Recommendations I cannot Say. “I think we read in John Bunyan or Some of the good old Books ‘That no man Buildeth an House but he first Sitteth Down & counteth the Cost.’ Quere whether this rule Extends to the Building of Ships. Doubtless if you were to Consult a Lawyer upon this Point he would to Display his knowledge in the oriental Languages answer you in these words ‘ubi eadem ratio ibi idem Jus,’ but I have an Aversion to this kind of reasoning because it carries a reflection against that Honorable Body of which I am a Member. I would rather recommend Consulting a Casuist who may perhaps find Some Salve for it.” This letter, which is in the private collection of Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., is dated only “Philadelphia 9th 1780.” The America, which was destined to remain on the stocks nearly two more years, was ultimately given to the French government just as it was nearing completion. JCC, 23:543. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir Philadelphia Deer 5h 1780 I am honored with yours of the 1st Instant by the post. We have no news here, but a late Expedition of Major Talmadge Against Fort St George on Long Island, the Success of which you have An Account of in the papers. 1 I am much obliged to your Excellency for the Attention you pay to the supplying us with money—and hope you will have it in your power to Send me Eight or ten thousand Dollars by the next post.


[Page 447]
Decembers, 1780 413 I have not by me to pay One Weeks Board, you will be pleased to inclose my part by its Self. Mr Henry left Philadelphia Monday was a week, 2 And is by this time I suppose Arrived at Annapolis. Mr. Plater talks of Setting out this Week on his return home but I suppose he writes you by this post. Your Carriage is Compleatly finished. And the sooner you Send for it the better. My Compliments to Mrs Lee And Am with much respect, Dear sir Your Excellencys most hble Servt, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 For Congress’ commendation of Maj. Benjamin Tallmadge for his capture of the garrison at Fort St. George on November 23, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, December 9, 1780, note 2. 2 That is, Monday November 27. James Lovell to Samuel Holten Dear Sir Deer. 5 1780. Your favor of Nov. 16th with a Gazette reached me yesterday. You suffered so much in your mind & Body when here that I will not send you any of the ill pictures which with various Signatures come daily on to our Table. I hope you will find much Satisfaction in the short Letter from Genl. Gates. Wemyss was a very valuable officer to the Enemy. You may amuse yourself also as one of the medical Class by reading the Epistle of Rush to Shippen in which you will find the Writer has relieved himself a little upon me. 1 Shenstone’s Benevolence made him wish that he could afford to have his Pockets picked frequently. I feel a portion of his Spirit operating upon me at this Time; When I see poor Rush swelled near unto Bursting. I cannot doubt but that he finds some Relief by throwing about his Slaver and Froth, therefore when it falls upon my Cloaths I slight the Injury because he finds so much Ease in his terrible Case. I have said to some of you my Friends last Week that Mr. Adams had in a masterly & Independent stile defended the Resolves of March 18 against the opinions of Count de Vergennes. 2 He showed that the true value of our Paper was its current Rate. That the public Faith which is said to be broken is a mutual Contract between the public and the Individuals who compose it, that either may break it, the Public by not paying the promisory Note when it has had an equivalent or the Individual by not giving that Equivalent when he takes the Note. That Government will wrong the Public by paying off Notes, current at 40 for 1, by 40 hard for 40 paper as much as if they paid 40 hard for 1 paper when the Emission was current at par. He says no Distinction can be made between Frenchmen & other


[Page 449]
Decembers, 1780 415 By Letters from Spain reed, yesterday I find that our Friend Jos. Gardoqui will be here to succeed Don Miralles. 2 Spain is slow towards Alliance, well disposed as to money for our Use, but, be assured, she wants it herself there, She may help us nearer home. She was upon a Scheme of getting some in France which Necker found out & stopped by his Influence. 3 I shall not be able to hint these Things to Mr. Gerry. In short, I believe I shall soon be obliged to omit taking Pen in hand except on Committees; I shall otherwise neither serve the public nor my friends with Propriety. Your Friend & humb Servt. J L [P. S. ] Some Constitutions of Bodies politic may be supposed to be so good in themselves that, like some human Frames, they may not want a skilful Physician to watch them. They may only now & then stand in need of an half bred Apothecary and his assistant, with their Ivory Tube. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 These “Salaries” (actually “given” on September 13 and 25 not 23), were those of “officers on the civil list,” which included Warren as a commissioner of the Eastern Navy Board. See JCC, 18:822-23, 854, 1055-56, 1119. 2 That Don Diego Gardoqui would be the new Spanish agent in the United States was reported by William Carmichael in an August 22, 1780, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:38-41. Congress also received simultaneously letters from Carmichael of September 6 and 9, and from John Jay of September 16, 1780. See ibid., pp. 51-54, 59; and JCC, 18:1120. 3 Lovell wrote in the margin beside this paragraph: “No printing.” James Madison to Joseph Jones Dear Sir. Philada. Deer. 5th. 1780 I had yours of the 25th Ulto. by yesterdays post. 1 I congratulate you on the deliverance of our Country from the distresses of actual invasion. If any unusual forbearance has been shewn by the British Commanders, it has proceeded rather I presume from a possibility that they may some time or other in the course of the war repossess what they have now abandoned than from a real disposition to spare. The proceedings of the Enemy to the Southward prove that no general change of system has taken place in their military policy. We had letters yesterday from Mr. Jay & Mr. Carmichael as late as the 4 & 9th of September. 2 Mr. Jay informs us that it is absolutely necessary to cease drawing bills on him; that 150,000 d’rs. to be repd. in three years with some aid in Cloathing &c is all that the Court will advan[ce] for us. The general tenor of the letters is that our affairs there make little progress, that the Court is rather backward, that the navigation of the Mississippi is likely to prove a very serious


[Page 450]
416 Decembers, 1780 difficulty, that Spain has herself been endeavoring to borrow a large sum in France on which she meant to issue a paper currency, that the terms & means used by her displeased Mr. Necker who in consequence threw such discouragements on it, as in turn were not very pleasing to the Spanish Minister, that Mr. Cumberland is still at Madrid labouring in concert with other Secret Emissaries of Britain to give unfavorable impressions of our Affairs, that he is permitted to keep up a correspondence by his Couriers with London, 3 that if negociations for peace should be instituted this winter, as Spain has not yet taken a decided part with regard to America England will probably chuse to make Madrid rather than Versailles the seat of it. However unfavorable many of these particulars may appear, it is the concurrent representation of the above Ministers that our disappointment of pecuniary succour at Madrid is to be imputed to the want of ability and not of inclination to supply us, that the steadiness of his Catholic Majesty is entirely confided in by the French Ambassador, and that the mysterious conduct of Mr. Cumberland and of the Court of Spain towards him, seems to excite no uneasiness in the Ambassador. The letters add that on the pressing remonstrances of France & Spain Portugal had agreed to shut her ports against English prizes, but that she persisted in her refusal to accede to the armed neutrality. The receipt of the foregoing intelligence has awakened the attention of the Georgia Delegates to their motion of which I informed you particularly by Col. Grayson. 4 It has laid even since it was made undisturbed on the table. This morning is assigned for the consideration of it, and I expect it will without fail be taken up. I do not believe Congress will adopt it without the express concurrence of all the States immediately interested. Both my principles & my instructions will determine me to oppose it. Virga. & the United States in general are too deeply interested in the subject of controversy to give it up as long as there is a possibility of retaining it. And I have ever considered the mysterious & reserved behaviour of Spain, particularly her backwardness in the article of money as intended to alarm us into concessions rather than as the effect of a real indifference to our fate or to an alliance with us. I am very anxious notwithstanding to have an answer to my letter by Grayson. We had a letter yesterday also from Mr. Adams who was at Amsterdam; 5 and Several others from him a few days before. 6 Searl who carried despatches relating to the object of Mr. Laurens’ Mission had fortunately arrived; though Mr. Adams gives no very sanguine idea of a successful result. The news of the fate of the Quebec & Jamaica fleets, arrived in London pretty nearly about the same time and had a very material effect both on stocks & on ensurance. Information from the W. Indies gives a tragical picture of the effects of the tempest. Martinique has suffered very considerably in their


[Page 453]
Decembers, 1780 419 Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council Gentlemen [December 5, 1780] 1 Your Letter of the 22d last relative to the Cattle at the Head of Elk did not come to our Hands ’till the 2d inst. & yesterday we laid it before the Congress—they have refered it to the Board of War with Directions to take immediate Order. 2 We have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect, Gentlemen, Yr most obt. & very Hble Servts. Geo. Plater John Hanson RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Plater and signed by Plater and Hanson. 1 The Council’s “letter of the 22d last” had been laid before Congress “yesterday,” December 4, 1780. See JCC, 18:1116. 2 The Council’s letter brings into relief one of several factors that contributed to the breakdown of the state supply system. In this instance the Council had responded to Congress’ urgent appeal of September 21 for 500 head of cattle by ordering the Maryland commissaries to procure whatever cattle were available and to drive them to the Head of Elk, the Continental receiving depot in Maryland designated by the commander-in-chief. There, however, Continental agents “refused to receive and forward the Cattle to the Army alledging it to be no part of the Business of their respective Departments.” Having no money, Maryland officials were then compelled to sell some of the cattle “to Buy provision to support and keep the rest alive.” The Council complained bitterly of the “Evils” of a system under which the states complied with congressional requests only to have “our Designs frustrated ... by the Neglect of those whose peculiar Province it is to convey Supplies to the Camp.” It is not known what action the Board of War may have taken. See Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council, September 22, 1780; PCC, item 70, fols. 445-48; and Md. Archives, 45:221. George Plater to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 5th 1780 The enclosed was this Day put into my Hand which I have now the Honor to forward to your Excellency. 1 My Time being this Day expired which by the Constitution I cou’d sit in Congress, I am preparing to get away & hope soon to have the Pleasure of seeing you in Annapolis. I wish some of the new appointed Members wou’d come forward to keep up a Representa tion. 2 Mrs. Plater offers her Compliments to your Lady & I am with the highest Respect, Dear Sir, Yr most obt Servt. Geo. Plater RC (MdHi: Revolution Collection). 1 Not found. 2 For the state of the Maryland delegation at this time, see John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton, November 28, 1780, note 3.


[Page 455]
Decembers, 1780 421 will not admit of a Compliance with the request contained in your Memorial. 1 I am Sir &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Varick (1753-1831), former deputy mustermaster of the northern department and aide to Gen. Benedict Arnold, had been seeking the restoration of his rank as lieutentant colonel in the Continental Army since the abolition of the muster department in January 1780. He had set forth his case in an August 25 petition that was referred to the Board of War on September 14, but Congress, adopting the board’s recommendation, rejected his appeal on September 28. He had not been notified of this decision, however, undoubtedly because of the coincidence that news of General Arnold’s treason had just reached Congress on September 27, casting a cloud of suspicion over Varick and others of Arnold’s official family. Varick had since been cleared of complicity in Arnold’s plot by an official inquiry, and had thereupon renewed his previous plea in a November 25 letter to Huntington which was read in Congress on December 5. His anxieties over his military future were not relieved until May 1781 when General Washington appointed him “recording Secretary at Head Quarters” and set him to organizing and transcribing his official correspondence. See JCC, 18:824, 871, 1120; PCC, item 41, 10:317-24, item 78, 23:181-84; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:112-15; and these Letters, 6:597-98. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia December 6. 1780 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, Copy of several resolves of Congress of the 4th Instant, in which you will observe the Officers are prohibited from making any Contract or Bargain, or giving Orders for the Purchase of Articles for the Use of the Troops; in the Department of Cloathier General, Quarter Master General, or Commissary General of Purchases, except in Cases of Necessity, as mentioned in the Resolve of which your Excellency or any Commanding Officer of a Detachment will be able to judge, as the Case may happen. This Resolution is in Consequence of repeated contrary Practices, which have occasioned Difficulties, as reported by the Board of War. 1 You will also please to observe the Augmentation of the Pay allowed to the Officers in the Inspectors Department That the Corps of Mare Chaussee are continued upon their former Establishment And that Mr Simeon De Witt is appointed Geographer to the Army in the room of Robert Erskine deceased. 2 I am Sir, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington.


[Page 456]
422 December 6, 1780 1 See Huntington to Nathanael Greene, this date, note 2. 2 These three resolves are in JCC, 18:1118. Huntington also sent a copy of the third of these with a brief covering letter to Simeon DeWitt of December 13. PCC, item 15, fol. 180. 3 Huntington also wrote letters this day to Dr. David Jackson notifying him that Congress had accepted his resignation “agreable to your request, and to Pres. Joseph Reed informing him that Richard Bache and Thomas Smith had been appointed “to endorse the Bills that shall be emitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania pursuant to the resolution of Congress of the 18th of March last. See PCC, item 15, fols. 176-77; and JCC, 18:1119-21. James Duane to George Washington My dear General. Confidential Philadelphia 9th December 1780. I shou’d not so long have restrained the Expressions of a Heart flowing with the most affectionate and respectful Attachment if Care had not been taken to communicate our Intelligence officially. In the mean time I have never found it so necessary to devote my Attention to the publick business. Amidst pressing distresses it will give your Excellency pleasure to be assured that Congress have deliberated with unanimity, and decided with firmness; and that every thing within their power is nearly accomplished for vigorous Efforts in the Course of the next year. If the States will draw forth their Resources: If our Ally will seriously cooperate by assuming a naval Superiority in the American Sea: If we are seasonably furnished with the Cloathing, Arms and Ammunition which we have reason to expect; and obtain the Aid of money which we have once more attempted to borrow: If these Circumstances in any tolerable degree Combine, your Excellency will at last see a prospect, under the divine blessing of finishing the war with Glory. But it is obvious that we have many difficulties to encounter! Government instead of possessing the Confidence and the Dignity necessary to enforce it’s Councils, is surrounded by clamorous Creditors and insidious Speculators, and what is worse the Intemperance of our Friends conspires with the malice of our Enemies to render it odious. Congress may err: they are not exempt from State and personal prejudices; they are liable to be deceived; but nothing is more certain than that in the common Cause their Intentions are pure, their Zeal, their Cares, their pains, unbounded; and the Time will come, when if their measures are not admired they will be approved. Indeed, Sir, an honest and disinterested Patriot requires uncommon Fortitude to render himself responsible in an hour of such intollerable Licenciousness: those who place their Happiness in Reputation retire from a Theatre where, while they are torturd by publick distresses, they are in danger of disgrace! The Intreagues of Speculators are more and more alarming. Our paper


[Page 457]
December 9, 1780 423 money lately suffered a Convulsion, without any apparent Cause, which threatned its total dissolution. Not contented with the infinite Evils which they have entailed on their Country; they have practiced their Arts on the Cabinet of France; and with such Success that one of our ministers received a formal Intimation that the Chevalier de la Luzerne woud be instructed to remonstrate against the act of the 18h of March as a violation of publick faith, 1 and an Injury to the trading part of that nation which ought to be repaired. Mr. Adams has acquired Applause by a Memorial to Count de Vergennes on this Subject full of Good Sence and dignity. The Necessity and the Justice of that memorable System are vindicated by Reasons and Facts which force Conviction. The Capital Figure which the french factors made in drawing on the Depreciation and their avarice in striving to exact Specie for the nominal Sums of the Bills; when it is notorious that they raised the price of their Commodities in proportion to the current Exchange are exposed; and it is demonstrated that instead of suffering they greatly profited by that national Calamity. Nor is the proper Inference neglected that a Government capable, in a free Country, of executing a Plan so disgusting to the self interested, must possess unlimited Confidence, and be established on the firmest Basis. I am perswaded that this Seasonable Representation will remove every prejudice, and prevent the Effects of an Attempt big with Ruin! Another great difficulty which embarrasses us is the absolute Dependance which we are compelled to place on the Exertions of the States individually. A failure in one may draw upon us insupportable distress. If the Supplies of provisions shoud be punctually furnished the transportation alone is an Expence of such magnitude that I never think of it but with anxiety, especially when we consider how deeply pecuniary Taxes are anticipated by Certificates in the hands of the Farmers. There is a remedy but whether we have a sufficient degree of publick Spirit to apply it can only be known by Experiment. Why shoud not the opulent contribute, the whole or a large proportion of their plate? Why shoud not the Farmer break in upon his Capital if his annual produce is incompetent. Nothing is clearer than that this woud be the truest CEconomy as a foundation woud be laid to terminate the war by a great and decisive effort. These are Resourses in the power of every Legislature, and I shall think them inexcuseable if, seeing the necessity to be so urgent, they shrink from the Burthen. A Duty on Imports, Exports and prizes will be strongly recommended by Congress, and if approved by the States, it must produce a considerable Revenue. 2 We have made an Estimate of the national Expence for a year from next January. Except the Quarter master’s branch it is tolerably accurate. I shoud be happy if our means to defray it were certain and adequate: but this is not to be relied on, unless we are effectually


[Page 458]
424 December 9, 1780 roused by a Sense of our common danger, and the necessity of concluding with Glory and Expedition a war of devastation. Every liberal hand must be opened; every patriotic heart must be animated, every publick and private effort must be exerted to strengthen and support our Army, to give weight to our national Councils, and secure them obedience at home and reputation abroad. Without the first the Courage, Perseverance and military Accomplishments of our General must be frustrated: without the last it woud be madness to hope for Credit, Alliance or Respect from foreign Powers. After a studied Contempt of the Power of our Enemy which has marked the progress of our Contest, too great a dependance on foreign Succour claims the Rank in our political Errors. I speak of the publick opinion, exempting Congress as I ought from a share in this folly. Charmed with a Revolution so friendly to the Rights of human nature, and so humbling to the Insolence of Brittain, the People were too apt to imagine that the Coffers of Europe woud be emptied into our Lap without reserve. But to say nothing of the Dutch experience has shewn that the Spaniards on whom we principally relied, are not to be moved by disinterested Considerations. That Cabinet does not imitate the French in Liberality. They view the Contiguity of those States to the Sourse of their Treasures, and their rising greatness, with a sufficient degree of Jealousy. They are cautious of our Alliance unless they can acquire solid advantages. They are courted by England and tempted by offers which tho’ they cannot accept without sacrificing their Honour, their family compact, and the Esteem of the Northern powers; they yet seem to countenance as a mean to lead us to concessions of which we cannot think without Reluctance. On no other principle are Cumberland’s residence at Madrid, or the dilatoriness which has accompanied the Treaty to be reconciled. With respect to a Loan, if their Inclination was ever so prompt, it appears to me either that their Funds are not productive; or that their CEconomy is even worse than our own. They might however interpose their Responsibility as they have already done for the bills which we have drawn, and for the Cloathing which they have supplied, and it woud afford us essential Relief. Those Hints will open another Field of Embarrassment, the Extent of which your Excellency will fully perceive. I shall only add to the Catalogue that we have advice that Sir Henry Clinton has written to his Court for a strong Reinforcement, or leave to retire from his command; that he has received an Approbation of his Conduct in flatering Terms, and a promise of Support, and that orders are accordingly issued for raising a Regiment of Cavalry and nine of Infantry. But while we are called upon to examine our own Circumstances with Candour least we shoud be deceived by a false Estimate, our Enemies, it is evident, do not repose on a bed of Roses. They continue


[Page 459]
December 9, 1780 425 to be disturbed by the Spirit of Independance which pervades Ireland. The Commons of that Kingdom lately hesitated to agree to a duty, amounting to a prohibition, on raw Sugars from England. Yelverton their patriot declared that the Irish Trade shoud in all respects be upon a perfect equality with the British. He rejected the Idea of a disparity between the Sister Kingdoms with Contempt; and threatned the Courtiers that if they persisted in their opposition he woud put himself at the Head of the Associators and establish the Freedom of Commerce by Arms. This is an Argument which carries conviction. Strange that in Ireland it shoud be consistent with Loyalty and in America be branded with the Appellation of Rebellion, and under that absurd Idea serve to colour over every Species of Inhumanity and Vengeance! 3 In the West Indies from the late destructive Hurricane, and on the Ocean by a train of capital losses, the Enemy have sufferd most severely and in the tenderest point, their Trade, the Sourse of their Wealth and Credit! Their internal dissentions, which instead of being extinguished are only smotherd by the Vigour which the temerity of Gordon threw into the scale of their Government, is a malady which hangs heavy upon their Administration. The Convention of the neutral maritime powers which has aimed a fatal blow at the Sovereignty of the british flag and the imminent danger of their being involved in a war with Russia, Denmark, Sweden and Holland if they persist in a Claim so odious, and of drawing down the Resentment of their own subjects and universal Contempt if they extinguish it: The late Insult offered them by Portugal in shutting their ports against their Ships of War and Prizes: The Impracticability of their raising more Troops in Germany: The favourable Light in which our Independance is viewed throughout Europe; and the evident Satisfaction it gives even the princes on whom they most relied to see the british Dominion, Commerce and naval Strength circumscribed: Their disappointment in not being able by the most disgraceful Sacrifices to detatch Spain from the War: Their failure in Ways and means the present year: the immensity of their national debt and current Expenditures: All those Circumstances combined with the necessity of renewing their Preparations to oppose the belligerent powers at the very moment they looked for submission from America are more than sufficient to form a Contrast between us and our Enemies by no means to our disadvantage; Nor does it seem presumptuous to think that if we endeavour to deserve the Blessing; Peace, Liberty and Independance must before long crown our Wishes. I have drawn this Letter to an immoderate Length: ascribe it to a desire of possessing you of my own View of our publick Affairs as far as I am at Liberty. I will only add that the Visit of the French Noblemen has given


[Page 461]
December 10, 1780 427 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The enclosed extract was from an October 17 letter of Jonathan Williams to the Committee for Foreign Affairs (PCC, item 90, fols. 611-14), which was read in Congress on Monday December 11. JCC, 18:1141. 2 This day Huntington also wrote a second letter to Washington, enclosing Congress’ resolution of December 6 commending Maj. Benjamin Tallmadge, manager of Washington’s secret service operations, for his successful raid against Fort St. George at Mastic, Long Island, on November 21-23. JCC, 18:1116, 1122; and Washington Papers, DLC. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia Decmr. 10th. 1780 I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency, that the b[e]arer of this carrys the blank bills of Exchange and One Hundred & Thirty Thousand dollars to be emitted persuant to the resolution of Congress of the 18th of March last, to be delivered to the keeper of the Continental loan office in the state of Rhode Island. I will not com ment on the difficultys that hath attended this business. 1 Inclosed is a resolution of Congress appointing the Hone. Jonathan Arnold and Joseph Clark Esqr. or Either of them to be sighners of the said New Bills on the part of the United States. 2 I hope it will be agreable. Colo. Palfrey late Paymaster Genl, to the Army sails on Tuesday next for France, to take upon himself his Consulship in that Kingdom agreable to his appointment. 3 Congress hath for a considerable time past been principally im- ployed in foreign affairs which are Called secret J It appears by a Cork paper of the 6th of Octr. last that the Hone Henry Lawrens was Commited to the Tower of London on suspicion of High Treason by the High Constable in Consequence of a Warrant Signed by Lords North, Stormont & Germaine. The want of Money for publick use and the distress ariseing from that source is beyound the power of my pen to discribe And the prospect of releif appears small. Notwithstanding the Loan offices are kept open and Certificates given for a Silver dollar with Interest untill paid, upon the recept of Forty Continental dollars, yet so low is publick credit that not one farthing is receivd, in any of the Middle States. From which I think there is little prospect that our state can receive any relief on account of any former advancements of money for the use of the United States. You will plese to pardon me for once more mentioning the Necessity there is of sending to your Delegates in Congress the Exact amount of the Moneys advanced to Colo. Bowen D QM Genl. As it doth not appear to me there is the least probability of obtaining that sum any other way then from the four tenths of


[Page 463]
December 11, 1780 429 2 Sullivan’s enclosure, a lengthy description of the history, geography, political system, and economic prospects of New Hampshire, is also in the Miscellaneous Bound Collection at MHi. It has been printed in Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 3:229-39, from a slightly variant text held by the Henry E. Huntington Library. Similar queries sent by Marbois to Thomas Jefferson on February 5 resulted in the latter’s famous Notes on the State of Virginia, for which see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:58-59, 6:141-42. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dear Tucker Philadephia Deer. 11th 1780 Even the neglect of my Friends—the disparity between the Leisure they enjoy and that which I have and the Business of public events to fill up a page shall not prevent my continuing to give them some tokens of my remembrance of them—be it long—or be it short, and at this moment I do not know how long this will be. Well the Philistines have been upon you and you are rid of them. I congratulate you. Does there now need any Rhetoric to convince our Countrymen that the best thing they can do is to oppose their Enemy at a distance from them—and at the same time to make use of the respite they have to arrange and Organize their Militia, to repell them when attacked at home? Cannot this Maxim be inculcated into all ranks of Men that weakness is a temptation for strength to exercise itself upon—shall we ever be found unguarded, and will no experience teach us to be armed, ie to have a Competent number of men in the field during the War—Sat Verbum. The Confederacy of the neutral Maritime Powers is at length Compleat. Portugal has at last acceeded to it. Catharine of Russia has astonishd all Europe with this stroke of Policy—by which she has put a Bridle on the ungoverned ambition of Britian to be the lord of the Ocean, and checked the hasty Strides of her Rival Power to Lord it over that Element. Heaven itself whose dicisions are always unerring seems to have acceeded to this League, by Cutting at so critical a Juncture the Sinews of these two nations in the storm it has pourd forth on their W.I. Islands. These great events may possibly all turn to the advantage of this rising republic, let us not be supine, and unprepared to avail ourselves of them, let peace whenever it comes find us firmly confederated, and with a powerfull force in the field—let all lesser considerations of triffling temporary advantages give way to the great public Good. You Mentiond in yours to me some time ago an account of Mr. Banisters against Mr. Randolphs Estate. If I can find it among my Papers I will send it with an order for payment—if not—it can easily be made out again & proved, and My Father can give the Order—which Mr. Ozborne will execute or enable you to do it. We have here at Present three or four or five noblemen of the first distinction from the french Army in Rhode


[Page 464]
430 December 11, 1780 Island—Viz the Marquis de la Fayette, the Viscompte de Noailles, the Count de Deux Ponts, the Count de Damas, & the Baron de Montesquieu, Gr.-Son to the famous writer of the Spirit of Laws, besides a Majr. Genl. Chattelux a Man of Science in the Belles Lettres, & of great Military Consideration 1 —the Court of America begins to shine. Tell Fanny that unless she writes to one of us soon I will disclaim her—tell her talking of writing will no longer do—tis a stale trick. Tell her however I love her as well as ever & that the latter part of this letter being in her way is principally for her. Give my love to the Boys & Mr. Hearne & now for bed it being past eleven o Clock. God Bless you all. Do not let the post come empty handed as he has been accustomd of late to do. Yrs. affecty, Theok. Bland [P.5. ] Madame will give you the Tittle Tattle of the Place in her next which is on the Stockes but not finished. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 In addition to Lafayette and the well known chevalier de Chastellux, these French noblemen consisted of Louis-Marie, vicomte de Noailles (Lafayette s brother-in- law); Guillaume, comte de Deux-Ponts; Joseph-Fran?ois-Louis-Charles-Cesar, comte de Damas (aide-de-camp to Rochambeau); and Charles-Louis de Secondat, baron de Montesquieu (aide-de-camp to Chastellux). John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton Dear sir Philadelphia Deer. 11th 1780 Your favour by the last post, I am much obliged to you for. I am very Sorry to be informed, that the principal object of the meeting of the General Assembly has not yet been taken into Consideration, I mean that of procuring Men and Supplies for the Army; yet from the good Opinion I entertain of the present leading Members of each House, I flatter my self every thing of importance Will be Attended to, before you rise. The Trustees having protested our Bills Will be favourable to the Veiws of those Who are for Confiscation. Immediately on the receipt of your letter, Which was late this afternoon, I went to Mr. Morris’s to make the enquiry you desired me, but Mr. Morris was too Ill to be Spoke With, Which prevents my giving you the information you Want, at present. Advices from Spain and France of the 25th September, and 15th October say, 1 that Genl Clinton had requested to be recalled, unless a reinforcement of 10,000 men, was immediately Sent him that a vessel had Sailed from England, With despatches Containing assurances, that the King entirely Approved of His Conduct—that he Should be Aided With all the Supplies in their power, And that orders were given for raising Nine Regiments of foot, And one of


[Page 465]
December 11, 1780 431 Horse, to be Sent out Early in the spring. That nine Sail of the line and a number of Transports, With 4000 Troops, would Sail from Brest in a day or two, destined to reinforce Admiral Ternay. The King of Spain is much pleased With the Resolution of Congress, permitting the Exportation of flour for the use of His fleets and Armies, in the West Indies, and desired that his thanks might be Conveyed to Congress, for Such a proof of their friendly disposition, And the Minister gave the strongest Assurances, that his majesty Would never Consent to a pacification With England which did not include the Interest of America. Measures for Sending Commissioners from G B to treat with Congress, is under Consideration of the privy Council, And it is thought would be adopted. Mr. Cumbaland Still remains at Madrid—the Abbe Hussey, his Coadjutor has received A Pastport to go to Lisbon, and from thence to London, And return With the Ultimatum of that Court. (Is it not Something Misterious that a Secretary to Lord George Germain one of the King of G B Ministers Should be permited to reside at the Court of His most Christian Majesty in time of war?). England hath not yet Compleated her last years Loan. All the powers will find it difficult to procure money to Carry on the War. France hath allready begun to Tax, and it is probable must Continue to do so. The great Neutral powers of Europe Seem to regard the present War, as an Event favourable to the Augmentation of their Commerce, and Will probably do so untill one or other of the Contending parties, appear to have a decided Superiority. Portugal it is Said, Seems better disposed to the Allies than heretofore. The Combined fleet at Cadiz, Consists of 45 Sail of the line besides frigates &c—the Count DEstaing Commands the french part of the Fleet, and the Whole was ready to put to Sea. Mr.Laurence was taken on his passage to Holland and Conveyed to London, And is Committed to the Tower on a Charge of High Treason. The Main Army is gone into Winter Quarters. My Compliments to Mr Carroll and the Ladies, And Am with the greatest regard Dr sir Your most hble Servt, John Hanson [P.^. ] It would give me great pleasure to see you here. RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). 1 The advice from Spain was William Carmichael’s letter of September 25 which was read in Congress on December 9, 1780. See JCC, 18:1132; PCC, item 88, fols. 91-98; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:69-72. The intelligence of “15th October” from France regarding Sir Henry Clinton’s demand for 10,000 reinforcements has not been identified, but for an extract from an October 17 letter of an Arthur Lee correspondent containing the same information, which the committee on the southern department sent to Nathanael Greene, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:236n.l. See also Committee of Congress to Greene, December 12, 1780, note 1.


[Page 466]
432 December 11, 1780 John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir Philadelphia Deer 11th 1780 I am favoured with your two letters by the last post. You desire me to pay the money inclosed to the Coachmaker, but none was inclosed. Public Bills are now Selling at 60 and 65, that is one Dollar in Bills for Sixty Continental. Private Bills Sell Something higher. I have not Consulted the Coachmaker whether Bills will Suit him— but if they do not, they may be turned into Cash. Shall have the Crest painted on your Carriage, Agreeable to the impression you inclosed. I have not Seen Any Horses for Sale That I think would Suit you. A pair of Elegant Horses would be Cheap indeed at £5000 and wish I could light of a pair for you, at that price or higher. I am Sorry to hear, that the principal end of the assemblys being Called together, has not yet been under their Consideration, I mean the raising men And Supplies for the Army, Yet from the good Opinion I have of the present leading members, I flatter myself, that all matters of importance will be Attended to before they rise. Advices from France and Spain of the 25th Sep., and 15th October, Say that General Clinton had requested to be recalled, unless a reinforcement of 10000 men was immediately Sent him—in Consequence of which, a vessel had Sailed from England with despatches, Containing assurances, that the King entirely Approved of his Conduct, and that he Should be Aided with Supplies to the utmost of their power, and that orders were given for the raising Nine Regiments of foot and one of Horse to be Sent out Early in the Spring. That nine Sail of the line and a number of Transports with 4000 Troops, would Sail from Brest in a day or two, to reinforce Admiral Ternay. The Sending Commissioners from G.B. to treat with Congress, is under Consideration of the Privy Council, and it was thought would be adopted. Mr. Cumberland Still remains at Madrid, but his Coadjutor the Abbe Hussey, has received a pastport to go to Lisbon, and from thence to London, And returns with the ultimatum of that Court. (Is it not Something Misterious, that a Secretary to Lord George Germain A minister of the Court of G.B. Should be permitted to reside at the Spanish Court in time of war?) The great Neutral Powers of Europe, seems to regard the present war, as an Event favourable to the Augmentation of their Commerce And will probably do so, untill one or other of the Contending parties, appear to have a decided supremacy. The Combined Fleet at Cadiz, Consists of 45 Sail of the line, besides frigates &c, the Count D Estaing Commands the French part of the fleet, and the whole was ready to put to Sea. Mr. Laurence on his passage to Holland is taken and Carried to London and is Committed to the Tower on a Charge of high Treason.


[Page 467]
December 11, 1780 433 I hope you will have it in your power to send me 10000 Dollars by the next post, my Finances are lowe indeed. With every Sentiment of Esteem, I am, Dear sir, Your Excellencys most hble Servant, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). Samuel Huntington to Joseph Clarke and Jonathan Arnold Sir, Philada December 11. 1780 By the enclosed resolve you will be informed that Congress have been pleased to appoint you and Mr Jonathan Arnold Commissioners on the Part of the United States, either of you to endorse the Bills that shall be emitted by the State of Rhode Island pursuant to the resolution of Congress of the 18th of March last. 1 I am Sir &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “Mr. Joseph Clarke. The like to Mr Arnold.” 1 For this December 9 resolve, seeJCC, 18:1138. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve with a brief letter to Rhode Island governor William Greene this day. PCC, item 15, fol. 179; and Letters to Governors, 16:7, R-Ar. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia Decemr 11th 1780 I am honored with your two favors of the 20th Ulto. with the Inclosures. 1 They came to hand this morning. The one respecting Mr De La Tour was immediately referred to a Committee of which I am a member. We Shall immediately wait on the French Minister, Examine the Laws refered to, Setde the Point with him & immediately report to Congress. The Result Shall be Communicated to you without Loss of Time. 2 I am Sorry that General Bayley Should Suffer himself to believe a Report which has no foundation in Truth: 3 I never opposed a Decision of the Vermont Dispute. I opposed the mode urged by the New York Delegates which was for Congress to give Judgement without the Intervention of Commissioners. I urged that this was against the Confederation & That the Judgment would be invalid but I urged the appointing Commissioners to Decide the Claim. I was Ever of opinion that the time Chosen was very improper and feared those Consequences which by Allens proceedure Seem but too likely to follow. I knew that it was not a Time for America to


[Page 477]
December 14, 1780 443 Samuel Huntington to Richard Bache Sir, Philada December 14. 1780 Enclosed you will receive the Copy of an Act of Congress containing several Particulars relating to the Post Office; among others you will observe you are to order the Post riders to travell through Connecticutt at a Distance from the Sea Shore, in such Manner as may render the Mail secure from Attempts of a like Nature with that which lately happened at Stratford. 1 I am Sir &c &c &c S. H. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). This letter to the postmaster general was addressed: “To Richard Beache Esquire.” 1 For the enclosed “Particulars relating to the Post Office,” see JCC, 18:1142-43. The directive concerning the protection of post riders was adopted in response to the embarrassment experienced after riders for the eastern post had been captured twice in less than a month “on the lower road in Connecticut” at Stratford Landing, for which see JCC, 18:1004, Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, October 10; and John Sullivan to Meshech Weare, November 15, 1780. 2 This day Huntington also wrote to Drs. Moses Bloomfield and Moses Scott notifying them that their resignations from the hospital service of the middle department had been accepted. PCC, item 15, fol. 182; and JCC, 18:1149. For their December 6 protest against the recent reorganization of the medical department and “the ungenerous distinction between the medical Gentlemen and those of the Line” signified in the new arrangements, see PCC, item 78, 4:53-60. Samuel Huntington to John Laurens Sir, Philada December 14. 1780 I have the Pleasure to transmit you the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress by which you will be informed they have been pleased unanimously to elect you an Envoy Extraordinary, to repair to the Court of Versailes. 1 I am Sir &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15) 1 For Laurens’ appointment as a special agent to solicit aid from France, see JCC, 18:1130, 1138, 1141, 1177-78, where he is designated a “minister” rather than an “Envoy Extraordinary.” The latter designation reflects the original wording of Secretary Thomson’s journal, but in all three passages pertaining to the debate on the subject, “envoy extraordinary” was lined out and “minister” substituted after adoption of a motion by James Duane on December 21 “to alter the stile and title of the minister.” For the context of this appointment and discussion of the purpose of Laurens’ mission, see James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry, November 30, note 3. See also Thomas McKean to John Adams and Oliver Wolcott to Jonathan Trumbull, December 18, 1780. For Laurens’ reluctance to accept the post and his belief that Alexander Hamilton should be the envoy selected to go to France, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:252, 254, 257, 267.


[Page 478]
444 December 14, 1780 Samuel Huntington to Joseph Reed Sir, Philada December 14. 1780 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, the Copy of a resolve of Congress of the 12th Instant, by which you will be informed of the Measures they have adopted for relieving & supplying the Garrison at Wyoming, and for removing every Subject of Jealousy & Discontent. And that to relieve the present urgent Distresses of the Garrison, it is requested that the State of Pennsylvania would order the Supplies which were stopped by Lieut. Hunter on their Progress to Wyoming to be immediately forewarded to that Garrison. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S. H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 The commander of the Wyoming garrison, Col. Zebulon Buder of Connecticut, had complained to the Board of War on October 26 that his troops were in dire need of provisions, which until recently had been supplied by Pennsylvania. The board had thereupon written to the Pennsylvania Council concerning Butler’s distress, and received a November 20 reply from President Reed explaining the state’s reasons for stopping the flow of provisions to Wyoming, which Pennsylvania considered a Connecticut outpost in a disputed area in which officers of that state were attempting “to establish their Claim and extend their Settlement” in violation of resolutions of Congress of December 1775. The Board of War had accordingly forwarded the letters of Butler and Reed to Congress, which referred them on November 23 to a committee consisting of George Clymer of Pennsylvania, Jesse Root of Connecticut, and George Plater of Maryland. Theodorick Bland of Virginia, who replaced Plater on the committee on December 6, was the author of the report and resolutions submitted and adopted on the 12th, which were designed to circumvent the ‘ ‘jealousy subsisting between the States of Connecticut and Pennsylvania on account of a territorial claim” by making Wyoming a truly Continental outpost. JCC, 18:1090, 1126, 1147-48; and PCC, item 27, fols. 115-16, item 148, 1:219-28. See also Huntington to George Washington, December 16, and to Jonathan Trumbull, December 24, 1780. Reconstruction of the congressional response to this case has been made more difficult by the fact that the Board of War’s November 23 letter to Congress is twice referred to erroneously in the journals as one of the 28th (JCC, 18:1147), and that the passages from the congressional resolves of the 12th deleted by Gaillard Hunt in the printed journals appear only in Bland’s draft report and not in Secretary Thomson’s manuscript journals (cf.JCC, 18:1148, and PCC, item 1, 30:24, item 27, fol. 115). However, a number of the principal documents pertaining to this episode have been conveniendy gathered in the Susquehanna Co. Papers, 7:66-78. James Lovell to John Adams My dear Sir Private 14 Deer. 1780 In my Letter of the 9th 1 I mentioned the Receipt of yours to the Presidt. of June 26. I inclose a Resolve passed in Consequence of the Report of a Comtee. Lovell, Houston & a judicious amiable Col. Motte of Sth. Carolina. 2 On the morning of the date of the Resolve a Duplic. of that letter had been reed, covering two Papers more


[Page 479]
December 14, 1780 445 than had been inclosed in the Original, one of which was of a nature to encrease the worth of the Resolve to you; because you ought to be thence induced to think that very suitable Retrospect will be made to the[m] {but rement que vous) 3 if at any time hereafter we should see or hear of a {je crains Monsieur Adams) . 4 He is but a superficial observer of Man & Things who does not know that Truth may shake hands with Falsehood when the Scrutiny is merely which of the two is the Cause of Offence. In the Copies which Mr. Searle gave you respecting Mr. Laurens and his Powers you should notice {well the secretary) because on that ground you may advance rightly as to {J. Thaxter}. 5 If you have any doubts on this head I will at any time and in full season remove them by Extracts from our home Constitutions. I communicate to you by this Opportunity part of what you will preceive I requested an other some time ago to make known to you. If Bell and Josiah or either of them reached France or Spain safely with their papers to your knowledge you stand in no Necessity of forwarding. 6 It is not for the most obvious reason only that I now send them. {Georgia & S.C.) if we properly see them in this meridian {are not) wisely resolutely on good Foresight like {Virg.) in opposition to the unreasonable {exclusive river claim of Madrid) countenanced in some degree perhaps by {Gaul as} I think it was clear in the Reign of {Gerard here). (J- J a y- wiU) as appears to me manage knowingly & firmly apprehensive at the same time of what I last suggested tho {Carmfichael]) seems either from inclination or Blindness to lean the other way, which is I suppose one of the Causes of the Chagrin which has been very confidentially communicated to {G. Morris) and thence in like manner to me, arising from the Reflection of having forwarded himself the {choice of C. } 7 to be {secretary] } . I was always a { Gerardite } . JL Mr. Laurens had my very particular request to tell exactly what ought injustice & Propriety to be done in the Case of {Dumas. Is he) alltogether an Instrument in the hands of {Dean & F & the French minister} 8 in Holland. An Expectation is formed of something beneficial to {his wife & child} Pensionaries of {this union}!!! RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Not found, but this was probably the letter that Lovell had sent “by Mr. Palfry,” who was lost at sea. See Lovell to Adams, January 2, 1781. 2 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Adams, December 12, 1780. 3 That is, “the purpose of recalling you.” Words printed in braces in this text were written by Lovell in cipher. 4 That is, “I fear Mr. Adams”—an allusion to a statement by the comte de Vergennes (“je crains Monsieur Lee”) that had been used to discredit Arthur Lee as American commissioner in France in 1779. See these Letters, 12:410-11.


[Page 480]
446 December 14, 1780 5 John Thaxter, private secretary to John Adams. Apparendy Lovell is referring to the allowance of £300 for a secretary to Henry Laurens, as American commissioner to the United Provinces, whose duties Adams inherited by virtue of Laurens’ capture by the British. JCC, 15:1235. 6 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Thomas Bell and James Josiah, and to John Adams, October 28, 1780. 7 That is, William Carmichael. 8 That is, Silas Deane, Benjamin Franklin, and Paul Francois de Vauguyon, French minister in Holland, who subsequendy clashed repeatedly with Adams. See James H. Hutson, John Adams and the Diplomacy ojthe American Revolution (Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1980), pp. 87-95. Artemas Ward to Unknown Sir Philadelphia Deer. 14 1780 Your favour of the fourteenth Octor last was duly delivered, 1 & I am much obliged to you for the same, & am rejoiced to hear of your welfare, & that of your family. You are pleased to mention with a note of admiration the merciful Interposition of Divine Providence, in the detection of Arnolds Traitrous Conspiracy. It is really a very great mercy & I sincerely wish we may all be truly thankful therefor, not only in word, but in deed; & not only for that particular favour, but for the many undeserved interpositions of Divine Providence in our behalf, through the whole course of the present war. May we not truly say that, this war has been attended with as signal favours almost, as attended Gods anoint[ed] people? If we take an impartial retrospective view Thereof, shall we not have true reason to be astonished at the many remarkable deli[verances] which have been wrought out for us? I have observed from the beginning of the war to the present Period, that when we were weakest & the most exposed the greatest things have been accomplished, and when we have to the human eye appeared, to be in the best Situation, and the fairest prospect before us, the least has been done. And those men & things in which we have placed great confidence, have rendered us but little Service. I readily concur with you in Opinion, that it is of importance that men in power and high places of trust should be watched. I am also of opinion it is of the highest importance that those who have a right to elect into office or places of trust, should be more careful to make choice of honest, sensible, religious men than they commonly are. They ought to avoid that man who will not shake his hands from holding of bribes, as they would their greatest adversary. And that man who makes a mock of all religion & ridacules every thing of a Serious nature is one in my opinion who ought to be carefully shuned & avoided. Towns and Counties making a bad choice of Representatives, will be a means of bad delegates in Congress being chosen, & bad delegates in Congress will also make bad appointments


[Page 481]
December 15, 1780 447 of men to the offices that they have a right to fill with officers! From hence appears that each town or County has a share in every appointment, immediately from the highest to the lowest officer, &, that a bad choice of Representatives leads to a bad choice of a General officer. From this view of the matter also appears the importance of towns and Societys being well instructed in their duty in this respect. FC (MHi: Ward Papers). In the hand of Artemas Ward. 1 Not in the Ward Papers or otherwise identified. Samuel Huntington to Job Sumner Sir, Philada December 15. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of a resolve of Congress of the 14th Instant, expressing their Sentiments in Answer to your Memorial of the 17th Ulto respecting your rank in the Line of the State to which you belong. 1 I am Sir &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Capt. Job Sumner of the Third Massachusetts Regiment had originally appealed to Congress in August 1779 to settle his claim to seniority in the Massachusetts Line, and after waiting more than a year for relief he resubmitted his case to Congress in a memorial of November 17, 1780. On December 14 Congress adopted a Board of War recommendation that Sumner be informed that he had erroneously interpreted his seniority claim, because the date of his appointment by Gen. Philip Schuyler upon which he based his appeal governed only his rank “in the army at large,” and “no alteration was intended to be made in the line of the State to which he belonged.” See JCC, 18:1099, 1150; and John Jay to James Wilkinson, August 18, 1779, note 3. Notwithstanding this response from Congress, Sumner immediately appealed to General Washington for relief from the “injury” that he believed he had experienced, although to no avail. See his letters to the general of December 23, 1780, and January 2, 1781, in the Washington Papers, DLC; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:36, 140-41, 282. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia December 15. 1780 By the enclosed Copy of a resolve of Congress of the 14th Instant, your Excellency will be informed that John Laurence Esq hath resigned his Office as Commissioner of the Continental Loan Office in Connecticutt; and it is recommended to the State to appoint a Commissioner to that Office in his room. 1


[Page 482]
448 December 15, 1780 With every Sentiment of respect & Esteem, I have the Honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant. Sam. Huntington President RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 This resolve was adopted in pursuance of a Board of Treasury recommendation in response to a November 10 request by Lawrence to resign, for which seeJCC, 18:1150-51; and Huntington to John Lawrence, December 1, 1780. Huntington also sent a copy of the resolve to Lawrence this day with a brief cover letter that is in PCC, item 15, fol. 183. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia December 15. 1780 Enclosed you will receive the Copy of a resolve of Congress of the 14th Instant, refering the Petition of Coll. Loring & Papers therein mentioned which are also herewith enclosed, to your Excellency. 1 I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellencys most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Lt. Col. Jotham Loring of the 3d Massachusetts Regiment had been courtmartialed and dismissed from the service in August 1779 for fraud and disobedience to orders. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:89-90. After the lapse of more than a year, however, he appealed to Congress for a reconsideration of the case, which Congress debated and postponed on November 3, 1780, and then on December 14 decided simply to refer to the commander in chief. JCC, 18:1004, 1152. His petition has not been found among the Washington Papers or PCC, but for Washington’s April 6, 1781, letter to Loring explaining why he could not order a rehearing, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:423-24. James Duane to Joseph Reed Sir, Philad., 16 Decern., 1780. The Sherif some days since handed me a Letter as from your Excellency but unsigned. 1 It was nevertheless treated with all the Respect which was possible, and the Sherif was left at Liberty to examine every Apartment without Interruption. He was only told that the House was our possession, and that in the first Instance it must be presumed in Law that the goods belonged to the Occupants, that the bare assertion of the Defendant Bulkly coud be no proof to the Contrary, that there were beside interfering claims, and that he ought to call a jury to ascertain the property, for his own justification and to avoid oppression; and that otherwise he must proceed at his peril. This Remonstrance having no Effect the House


[Page 487]
December 16, 1780 453 Delegates of Virginia [is gone?] Home 6 with his own Eyes open & a full Purpose to endeavour to persuade [. . .] of that State in a great Measure to relinqish their absurd Claims & [. . .] Cessions of Land to the united States. If this should be the Case there will be an excellent Fund of Credit. I am sorry to say that a family there 7 was always a Party strong enough to prevent foreign Loans so now the Prospect of obtaining them seems more dubious than ever. This Morning or last night an Express arrived with a long Letter from Gov. Rutledge of So. Carolina to the Delegates of that State giving an Account of the position of the Forces on both sides & some little skirmishes. The English have a Post at Camden well fortified & a pretty considerable Garrison in it, another Post at 96, another at Augusta. Lord Cornwallis with the principal force supposed about 10,000 the east side of broad River within I think about 40 Miles of Charlestown. Our forces are in a good many different Bodies round them, Sumpter lower down than they & nearer Charlestown. There is an authentic Account by a Letter from Col. Marrian of his having surprised with 150 Men a Party of the English of 200 in which Encounter about 14 or 15 were killed, between 20 & 30 taken Prisoner & I believe 80 Horses with a considerable Quantity of Arms & Baggage. The Governor also says there was a Report which gained considerable Credit though no Official Accounts have come that Col. Tarlton had attacked Sumpter & was repulsed with great Loss though they did not know the number as they carried off their Dead, that Tarlton himself was mortally wounded & Sumpter our Commander wounded in the Arm but not dangerously & that Sumpter who is a very watchful Officer had learned they were coming against him in great Force & retired some further up the River. Gen. Green had not arrived but was daily looked for. A Colonel (not named) & some Justices had dismissed a great many of the Tories taken on Kings Mountain on their giving Bail for their Appearance at Court & put the Officers on Parole. The Officers broke their Parole & run off & many of the privates again joined the Enemy. I should be glad to know what our Council & Assembly have done respecting the Supply of the Army & to see the Votes of the Assembly. The Exchange of Money here is nominally 75 really 100 at least, for hard money itself cannot be bought at less than 100 if for that and the merchants have raised their Goods 25 per cent universally so that what is called the hard money Price at the Exchange is so much advanced as to answer the same purpose as raising the Exchange. Your Excellency may shew this Letter as it is to the Vice President, 8 Mr Houston & Dr Scudder. To others I would rather you should communicate what news may be in it in your own Words. I am your Excellencies most obedt., humble Servant, Jno Witherspoon


[Page 488]
454 December 16, 1780 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Tr (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Not found. 2 This resolution of the convention of northern states meeting in Hartford, Conn., was clearly modeled on one adopted by the New York legislature and at the assembly’s direction proposed to the convention. See James Duane to George Clinton, November 14, 1780, note 5. The proceedings of the convention had been presented to Congress on December 12. JCC, 18:1141; PCC, item 33, fols. 391-416. 3 For the appointment of Francis Dana as American envoy to Russia, see Samuel Huntington to Dana, December 20, 1780. Witherspoon was a member of the committee appointed on December 11, with Theodorick Bland and James Duane, to study the desirability of sending an envoy to St. Petersburg, which had been recommended by Arthur Lee. See JCC, 18:1139, 1155. 4 There is no indication in the journals that a poll of the Congress took place, but Benjamin Franklin’s activities were being scrutinized by Congress, and as a result John Laurens and William Palfrey were appointed special envoys to France. For similar doubts of Franklin’s capabilities, see James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry, November 30, 1780, note 3; John Sullivan to Meshech Weare, December 11, and Thomas McKean to John Adams, December 18, 1780. 5 This information was transmitted in a September 25 letter from William Carmichael, who had reported that Spanish officials had “received intelligence’’ that the Privy Council would probably” adopt a plan “to send commissioners » w >th Congress.” SeeJCC, 18:1132; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6 That is, Joseph Jones, for whose return to Virginia see James Madison to Joseph Jones, September 19, 1780, note 1. 7 That is, the Lee family. 8 John Stevens. Samuel Adams to John Adams My dear Sir Philada Deer 17. 1780 I have written several Letters to you & Mr D since the 28th of June when I last arrivd in this City. 1 I think I committed one to the Care of our Friend Mr Laurens, who is unfortunately carried to England. Mr Palfrey, who is the Bearer of this, is appointed Consul in Prance; and besides his Consular Functions, he has it in Charge to forward such Cloathing, Arms &c as are or may be procured there for the Use of our Troops. Great Exertions have been made the year past, in which old Massachusetts has borne her full Share, to be in Readiness to cooperate with our Ally, in an Attempt to give our Invaders a decisive Blow. But the second Division of the french Squadron being blocked up in Brest, & a Reinforcement to the Enemy arriving from the West Indies, they have had the Superiority at Sea. This was not our only Misfortune; for had the whole naval Force arrivd which we expected, I am inclind to believe we should have faild for Want of a Sufficiency of Powder. By an unpardonable Neglect in some body, that essential Article was not sent, as it ought to have been, in Season. I have called it an unpardonable Neglect. It appears so to me. My Judgment, however, may be too severe.


[Page 489]
December 17, 1780 455 I confess, I feel much chagrind, while I think that tiny thing has been omitted, which might have been done, to have finishd the War with a glorious Campaign. But Disappointments, tho vexatious, ought not to disconcert us. They do not. No Difficulties should discourage us in the Support of a Cause, so righteous in the Sight of Heaven as I believe ours to be, and so interresting to Mankind. Our Creator has given us Understanding, Strength of Body and a Country full of Provisions. We must make a good Use of them, hoping that His Blessing will crown our virtuous Struggle. He helps those who make proper Exertions to help themselves. Such Exertions are now making. The States are called upon for an Army of 35,000 Men; and from past Experience of the great Expence; as well as Inutility of temporary Drafts, they are resolvd to have a well appointed Army early in the Field & inlisted for the War. And effectual Measures are taken for the Purpose of providing Magazines in Season for its Subsistence. The People at large, as far as I can learn, are as determind as ever to support their Independence, & for that End to carry on the War with Vigor. If our Ally can furnish us with a decided naval Superiority, I think there will be the fairest Prospect of bringing this great Contest to a happy Conclusion the next year. Altho’ the Enemy have gaind the Possession of Charlestown, they have not succeeded to their Wishes in that Quarter. They do not find the People so pliable as they flatterd themselves they should. Notwithstanding Cornwallis’s boasting Letter to Lord George of “a compleat Victory obtaind the 16th Instant by His Majesties Troops under my Command, over the rebel southern Army,” that brave Army checkd the Progress of the Troops under his Command on the 16th of August; 2 and the Militia have since, in several Instances, given him ample Proofs of a firm Attachment to the publick Cause, as well as Bravery and Alertness which he did not expect, and which I beleive have disconcerted their general Plan. The Hands of those People, if not already, will very soon be taught to war & their Fingers to fight. Arnolds Conspiracy was to have wrought Wonders but gracious Heaven defeated it. We have so often seen in the Course of this Conflict, the remarkable Interpositions of divine Providence in our favor, as to convince me, that the Attempts of our Enemies to subdue us, will be but gnawing a File. Your publick Letters have been well receivd. I have been favord with only two from you since you left Boston. 3 One was deliverd to me by my worthy patriotick Friend Mr A Lee, & the other by the ViCount de Noailles, who lately spent a few Days in this City. He appears to be a most amiable young Nobleman; & I believe you have not said too much in the great Character you have given him. The very short time he stayed here & the Business I have been engagd in, prevented me the Honor, which I very much covetted, of conversing with him frequently.


[Page 491]
December 18, 1780 457 you this trouble, and for assuring you that I am with perfect respect, Yr. Excys, most obedt. & obliged Humbe. St. Theok. Bland Tr (DLC: Burnett Collection). 1 That is, Anne-Alexandre-Marie-Sulpice-Joseph de Montmorency, marquis de Laval (1747-1826), and Adam-Philippe, comte de Custine-Sarreck (1740-93). For the letters of introduction to Jefferson from the French minister, La Luzerne, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:215. Samuel Huntington to John Adams Sir, Philadelphia December 18. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed, a Duplicate of my Letter of the 30th of July, with a List of the original Letters and Duplicates which I have had the Honor to receive from you since that Time. 1 The Pleasure & Satisfaction which I have received from the Perusal of those Letters, especially that of the 26th of June with the Despatches accompanying it, makes me lament the Want of Leisure to answer your Correspondence. But Necessity compells me to confide in the Committee of foreign Affairs to give you the needful and particular Intelligence from this Part of the World. It is expected a Secretary for foreign Affairs will soon be established, and constandy devoted to the Business proper for such Department; which will remedy many Disadvantages we at present labour under. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, sir, your most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (MHi: Adams Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Huntington’s list of Adams’ letters has not been found, but the journals indicate that letters of the following dates had been received by Congress since his letter to Adams of July 30. JCC, 17:685, 749, 798, 803, 18:817, 841, 853, 1072, 1095, 1107, 1116, 1149. March 8, 10, 12, 14, 14, 20, 24, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 30 April 3, 10, 29 May 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 16, 19, 20, 20, 23, 26, 27, 28 June 1, 2, 2, 4, 5, 10, 12, 12, 16, 17, 17, 26, 29 August 22, 23, 24 September 4, 24, 25. Except for those of May 28 and August 24, these letters are in PCC, item 84; and most of them are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:539-824 passim, 4:36-38, 41-42, 45, 66-69.


[Page 492]
458 December 18, 1780 Samuel Huntington to John Jay Sir, Philadelphia December 18. 1780 Since writing my Letter of the 6th of October last 1 (a Copy of which is enclosed) I have been honored with yours of July 10th & September 16th; 2 by the latter I am happy to find that we may expect soon to receive further & more particular Intelligence from you. Congress, it is probable, will soon establish an Office for foreign Affairs, to be managed by an Officer stiled Secretary for foreign Affairs, who will be constantly devoted to the Business of that Department, which it is to be hoped will remedy many Disadvantages we have hitherto laboured under, and give our Ministers at foreign Courts more frequent, better & earlier Intelligence than they have hitherto received from us. In the Course of the last Campaign the Enemy at New York have been pretty much confined under the Protection of their Ships and Fortifications. The Particulars of their Eruption into the Jerseys under Kniphausen, and the repulse they met with, you must have been informed of before this. The Enemy from Canada have repeatedly attacked the western & northern Frontiers of New York, by the Way of the Mowhawk river and Lake Champlain, marking their route with their usual Devastation, but were soon compelled to retreat with Precipitation. Since the unfortunate Action near Camden and retreat of General Gates, our People, principally Militia of the Southern States, have been frequently skirmishing successfully with the Enemy, and have driven in most of their out Posts. The brilliant Success of the Militia over Colonel Ferguson at Kings Mountain, you must have learnt from the Papers. The Enemy from the last Intelligence were in Possession of Camden and some other inland Posts in South Carolina. Should they not be reinforced soon, it is probable they must have recourse to their old Practice of retiring to the Sea Coast under the Protection of their Shipping. General Greene by Order of Congress hath taken Command of the southern Army, which will be reinforced so as to make a respectable Army in the Course of the Winter. We are waiting and wishing for a naval Force to command the American Seas; and with the Smiles of Providence might soon expect in that Case to expell the Enemy from the United States. Necessity obliges me to confide in the Committee for foreign Affairs to give you the needful and more particular Intelligence. Please to make my Compliments acceptable to your Lady & believe me to be with sincere Esteem & regard, sir, your most obedient & humble servant, Sam. Huntington RC (NNC: Jay Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. Endorsed by Jay; “Reed. 13 March 1781. ansd. 21 Apr. 1781.’’


[Page 494]
460 December 18, 1780 the Colonel, killed near 100 and taken 112 prisoners. All is quiet in the neighbourhood of New-York. The Enemy seem to bend their whole attention and force to the Southward. They had detached 2000 men to Portsmouth in Virginia under General A. Lesley, with a view of forming a junction with Lord Cornwallis; but being totally deceived in that expectation, after staying in that neighbourhood upwards of three weeks, making a small fortification there, burning some churches & dwelling houses according to their custom, they re embarked on the 23d last month, intending it is supposed for Cape- Fear in North Carolina, but we have as yet no certain accounts of their landing. So much for news. You should have more, but the Bearer, Mr. John Benezet, 2 purposing to sail early tomorrow morning prevents it. Permit me, Sir, to introduce this Gentlemen to your acquaintance. He proposes to reside for some time in France, as a Merchant; he is one of a considerable House here, has been a staunch Whig from the first dawn of the contest, and has always bore the character of a sensible & polite Gentleman. I am, dear Sir, Your most obedient & very humble servant, [P.S. ] Be so good as to present my very respectful compliments to Mr. Dana. FC (PHi: McKean Papers). In the hand of Thomas McKean. 1 See these Letters, 14:162-63. 2 John Benezet, merchant and business agent for William Bingham, was lost at sea during this voyage. See Samuel Huntington to John Benezet, March 9, 1780, note 1; and Robert C. Alberts, The Golden Voyage. The Life and Times of William Bingham, 1752-1804 (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1969), p. 101. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia Decemr 18th 1780 The Avarice of Connecticut & the Jealousy of Pensylvania have brought on a Dispute which could not be Settled but by a Resolution for your Excellency to relieve the present Garrison of Wyoming with Troops not Drawn from the Line of Either of Said States. Leaving it in your Descretion to Determine whether a Garrison was necessary at that Place. A full persuasion that you wish to Exercise this & Every other Discretionary Power for the Publick good Induces me to take the Liberty of offering my opinions which is That if a Garrison is not maintained at that place, The Indians by having the River Free for their Canoes will Cut off all the Inhabitants at Wyoming: on the west Branch of Susquehannah and all the Frontier Setders Down to Easton. This from my knowledge of the Country appears to be the inevitable Consequence of removing the Garrisons. Your


[Page 495]
December 18, 1780 461 Excellency will give This Hint Such weight as it may appear to merit & believe me to be with the most zealous attachment, Your Excellencys most obedt Servt, Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For this December 12 resolution attempting to mollify the contending Pennsylvania and Connecticut partisans in the Wyoming Valley, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, December 16, 1780. Oliver Wolcott to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia 18 Deer. 1780 The Most Material Matters which have been transacted in Congress Since my Arrival 1 has been an Appointment of an Envoy to the Court of France, and a Vote to Send a Minister to the Court of Russia. The Expediency of Sending an Envoy to the Court of France was much doubted of by a Number of Gentlemen—As Nothing was proposed to be transacted of that particularity and Importance but what might properly be done by our Residentiary Minister at that Court. That the Measure might excite wrong and Very improper Apprehensions. That it might be understood by Dr Franklin and the World in general as wearing an Appearance unfavourable to his Character, which while he was in so Important an Office Prudence as well as Justice Oblidged us to Support. That instead of an Envoy Our Minister in France ought to have the Aid of an Active intelligent Secretary, an Aid which every other Minaster in less important Service had been furnished with. But upon a Division it was carryed And Col Laurens a Gentleman it is Said of real Abilities is charged with this Commission. The Vote to Send a Minister to Russia met but with little opposition upon the Consideration of the Influence of that Court upon the Generi Affairs of Europe and as paying a Respect to a Princiss of the greatest Dignity. Mr Dana may probably be Sent to that Court. 2 Mr J Adams is charged with the Commission which the late President Laurens was to Execute. 3 Mr. Williams writes from France that the Reason why no more of the Cloathing has not been Sent has been owing to a Quarrel between Capt. Landais and Some of our other Officers. 4 The Occasion of this Delay will be enquired into. The Rest of the Supplies may probably soon be in America. Mr. Vergennes wrote to Mr J Adams then in Paris with Regard to the Measure adopted by Congress for cancelling their Currency at a Discount, & Manifested Some Apprehensions he had, that Congress might not be able to Vindicate the Justice of the Measure. Mr. Adams I think returned a Very convincing Answer in which


[Page 496]
462 December 18, 1780 in a particular Manner he Stated the true Principles upon which Congress proceeded, and in my Apprehension clearly shewed that Justice dictated the Measure. It is presumed that the Minister will be Satisfied with the Propriety of the Act. No unfavourable Symtoms Appear which indicate any Want of Cordiality in that Court. Your Excellency has probably heard that the Count de Sartine is removed from the Marine Department. 5 The Reasons for this are not known, it is Said that this Gentieman had no professional Acquaintance with Naval Affairs, and that the most perfect Amity had not Subsisted between him and the Count de Estaing. We have pretty undoubted Information that Portugal has Acceded to the Plan of Neutrality proposed by Russia. There is a very probable Account that Sr Harry Clinton has Sent to the British Court for Ten Thousand additional Troops or that he might be permitted to Return Home, that this Court have Signified to him their intire Approbation of his Conduct, and have it is Said determined to Send him the Succours asked for to carry on their Military Operations to the Southward. By Accounts from the Southward We learn that our affairs there, are becoming more prosperous—Small Advantages are pritty frequently gained upon the Enemy. Lord Cornwallis Apprehends it Seems that he can put no Confidence in the People who have reed, his Protection, in this probably he is not Mistaken, this has induced him to Excercize a Most Severe Government over them, which has Occasioned Many of those People to join our Troops. Every Defection increases his Severity which has a proportionable Influence upon the People and as they will find the Government perfectly insupportable it is to be hoped that Exertions will be made by them adequate to repel the Violence which oppresses them. Your Excellency has probably been informed that a rapid Depretiation of the old Bills had taken place in this Town, this Occasioned the Inhabitants to Meet, who paid the Discount at 75 for one—the immediate Consequence of this was an Advance of the Specie Price upon all Vendables—so that not the least Advantage has been derived from the Measure. The practical Discount is about one hundred for one. What seems to have been the immediate Cause of the Depretiation has been a Vast Influx of the Bills from the Southward. In S. Carolina & Georgia they can be but of little use, in N. Carolina who have not yet Adopted the Money System of Congress, they are Very low, but yet pass at twice the Value of a late State Emission which they have issued. In Virginia who it is said are issuing a State Emission the Depretiation is also Very great. This Occasions the Money to be brought here to Exchange or realize. These Causes will probably Continue to Operate for some Time as the old Money is but a Very little of it Yet cancelled, and a large part of Taxes paid in Certificates and State Emissions Made. I believe


[Page 497]
December 18, 1780 463 there are none of the New Bills of Congress Emitted South of the Jersys. This State have put out a few of them and made them a Tender at 75 for one. Pensylvania are about to pass an Act relative to the New Money System. What will be the Ultimate Fate of the New Bills cannot be known absolutely but upon tryal. The State Emissions of Connecticut, Pensylvania and Maryland which were well funded now pass in the Relation to the old Bills one for forty. Bills of Exchange Sell here at 75 per Cent. I suppose this is nearly the Case in all the States. An Evidence that there is no high Demand for Specie for commercial Purposes Abroad—or that Bills of Exchange are plenty. I suppose that they must continue So while a French Fleet and Army are in this Country and while Congress at the same Time continue to draw upon their Commissioners in Europe. Upon those Principles But little Specie will go from Us except what Shall be clandestinely Sent to N York which will not probably be Very great, and which upon every Principle ought to be totally prevented. The large Expenditure of Specie by the French Army and Navy in the Country, and but Very little of it Sent Abroad will Rapidly Increase the Quantity—And may probably if continued but for even a Short Time produce a Redundancy especially, in the Northern States. That will be a Cause of Luxury, Dissipation and Injustice. The Doings of the Convention who met at Hartford are in the Hands of a Committee. 6 The Object of Finance will come under Consideration. But the Effect of these Deliberations will probably be Slow and perhaps Unproductive. We have No Money in the Continental Chest—and have but a little Prospect of having it Supplied. As the Post is going out of Town shall only add that Since Writing the above Some Alteration has been made by Congress in the Slate of their New Ministers—And Mr Dana is appointed for Russia. 7 I am Your Excellencys Most Obedt. Servant, Oliver Wolcott P.S. Before I close up my Letter I cannot but Express the Chagrin that almost every Man must feel on Reflecting that the old Bills which are fit but for little Else but to Make the Tail of a Paper Kite with at least their Value May not be worth more than 500,000 £ Sterling Should so extremely Imbarrass our Affairs, And that it seems to be an Evil which will probably continue for a long Time to Oppress Us in the way in which We are proceeding. Congress will consider the Object of Finance as a Very Delicate Affair as it truly is. Every one is interested in the Subject—And the Opinions of Mankind in Regard to it are Very different. To Do Justice to the Possessors of the Bills to Obviate the Misschief, which they Occasion and to Maintain the Honour and Reputation of the Publick in Regard to those Objects, are Difficulties of a peculiar Nature. Congress have been so much Criminated for what they have already done upon this


[Page 506]
472 December 20, 1780 your attention and regard. I know he will deserve them; and I know you too well to doubt, in that case, his obtaining them. Having lately left the Scene where our affairs labor under the greatest difficulties, I mean the southern department, it will probably not be disagreeable to you to know my Sentiments relative to them. Some Events, it is true, were unfortunate, but to me, they Seemed rather the result of Misconduct, and a precipitation that contemmed all precaution, than of weakness. Nothing can be a stronger proof of that determined, unconquerable Spirit, which Animates all America, than what appeared in the State of North Carolina immediately on the defeat of General Gates near Campbden. The rout of his army was as compleat as can be imagined. The utter loss of Tents, Wagons, and every Camp Necessary made it impossible for his Troops to keep the field. Want of magazines, which, through some defects in the Staff departments, had been neglected, rendered it almost impossible to collect the Scattered Soldiers. Appearances could not be more desperate. Even the General gave up all hopes of defending the Country, and thought of nothing but the Safety of the remains of his regular Army. But, under all those Circumstances, the People, tho laboring under all the distresses inseperable from an unprovided Soldiery, flew to Arms with the greatest alacrity; resolving that the Enemy should not find their Country an Easy prey if even they should not be able, finally, to withstand them. They had the Success that such spirit in a people will always Command. They obtained a most compleat victory over one of the principal divisions of the British Army, with Numbers much inferior to those they Conquered. They harrassed the other division with incessant skirmishes, until they obliged them to retreat a considerable distance into South Carolina. The war may impoverish and distress us: we may be many times unsuccessful. Our armies may be dispersed: our finances deranged, but a people, pervaded by such a spirit as animates all America, never can be Conquered. I refer you to some other Correspondent for details. The spirit of the people appears to me, and, I am persuaded to you also, of far more interesting Consequence. I am Sr with much regard and Esteem, Your obedt. Set. Tho Burke FC (Nc-Ar: Burke Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke. 1 See Thomas McKean to Adams, December 18, 1780, note 2.


[Page 508]
December 20, 1780 I am perswaded that your Wisdom, and the Desires you have manifested to promote the Happiness & Prosperity of these States will readily induce you Sir to lend any Assistance in your Power to forward their Designs, consistent with the Honor & Interest of his most Christian Majesty. 2 I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, sir, your most obedient and very humble Servant, Sam Huntington President RC (Archives du Ministfere des affaires etrangerts: Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, Supplement, 18:378-81). 1 For the delegates’ decision to seek this loan from France, and the text of Congress’ letter to Louis XVI embodying this appeal, see JCC, 18:1068, 1080-85. See also Huntington’s letters to John Laurens, December 14, 1780, and to Laurens and to Benjamin Franklin, January 1, 1781. 2 Congress’ hope that La Luzerne would lend his assistance “to forward their Designs” for obtaining this loan was chimerical. The French minister had repeatedly attempted to discourage such an undertaking, and indeed, according to his December 28 dispatch to Vergennes, upon receiving this letter he arranged a meeting with Huntington to restate his conviction that such a loan could not possibly be obtained in France. Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 14:452-61. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Philadelphia December 21. 1780 Sir, Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, a Letter from Brigadier General Starke of the 10th Instant, requesting from Congress Leave of Absence on Account of his ill State of Health, with a resolve of Congress of the 18th, Instant refeiring the Letter to the Commander in Chief to take Order. 1 I have the Honor to be, with the most perfect respect, your Excellency’s most obedt & most hbble Servant, Sam. Huntington Presidt P.S. I have been honored with your Letter of the 15 Inst, by Majr Franks. 2 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See JCC, 18:1156. Gen. John Stark’s December 10 letter to Huntington is in the Washington Papers, DLC. 2 For Congress’ response to Washington’s December 15 letter, which is in PCC, item 152, 9:401-4, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:477-79, see Huntington to the States, December 22, 1780.


[Page 510]
476 December 21, 1780 to mention, that the British ministry have carried all before them in the late general elections. Most of the eminent characters in the opposition are left out—namely, Mr.Fox, Mr. Burke, Mr. Wilkes, with a number of others, whose names I do not recollect. An unsuccessful attempt was made to oust Sir George Saville. My best respects to Mr. Barker and all my other friends. You will observe there are some circumstances in this letter which should be communicated with caution. Tell Mr. Smith I will write to him soon; and let him see this. Present my love to my sister Iredell, my sister Blair, Nelly, and the children; tell them I think of them with all imaginable tenderness. Though I am now writing at two o’clock in the afternoon, it is so dark I can scarcely read what I write. Adieu! and believe me ever, My dear Sir, Your affectionate brother and most obedient servant, Sam. Johnston MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:479-80. 1 Johnston took his seat in Congress on December 29. JCC, 18:1203. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Honorable Sir Philadelphia 21 Dec 1780 The bearer William Palfrey Esqre our late paymaster general has been appointed Consul in France, with powers adequate to a general Agency in our Commercial Concerns there. But while I take up my pen to introduce him to your patronage, I ought to use it, rather perhaps by way of apologizing for myself in the line of Member of the Committee of Foreign affairs from whom you will find no Letter. There was a prospect of much business being committed to you by this opportunity, but it was altogether depending upon the President and Secretary to transmit it, which it seems, they were prevented from doing by an arrangement being but partly accomplished, which Congress have thought fit to connect with those affairs. 1 The proceeding is of a nature not to admit of my enlarging upon it; because neither my head nor my heart Suggests any thing of Eulogium; and my conscience forbids me to pursue the usual Stile of Minorities. The Journals which I send will Show that we have had no Letter from you since that of May last, except two Short ones lately, respecting the private concerns of two Officers, Baron Arendt and an other whose name is not now on my Memory. 2 Col. Palfrey will be able to give you information additional to the Gazettes, I am Sir your mo. H. Servt, Signed James Lovell FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). In a clerical hand. 1 For the “additional instructions” for Franklin adopted by Congress on


[Page 511]
December 22, 1780 477 December 27, see Samuel Huntington to Franklin, January 1, 1781. For some further actions of Congress related to Franklin’s role as minister to France, see Huntington to Francis Dana and to the chevalier de La Luzerne, December 20, 1780. 2 Capt. Thomas Hutchins, whose memorial had been enclosed with Franklin’s letter to Congress of March 16, 1780. See JCC, 18:1107; and PCC, item 82, 1:219-22. For “Baron d’Arendt,” the subject of a May 22 letter from Franklin, see Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, January 1, 1781, note 3. Virginia Delegates to William Livingston Sir Philada. Deer. 21st. 1780 We received this morning a letter subscribed by Peter Thornton informing us that he is the son of a gentleman in Virginia, 1 that he lately made his escape from N. York and is now detained by your Excellency till some testimony shall be given by the Delegates from Virga, in his favor. Although we are total strangers to the youth, and are very imperfectly informed of his case, yet as we have no reason to doubt his being the son of the gentieman he calls his Father, whom we know to be of respectable character & family and firmly attached to the independance of this Country, we venture to request your Excellency to permit him to proceed on his journey to Virginia. If on his arrival here we shall have reason to suspect the reality of his professions, we shall take the necessary steps to frustrate the views of Impostors. We have the honor to be with the highest respect & esteem Yr. Excelly’s Most obt. & humb Servts., James Madison Junr. Theok. Bland RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Written by Madison and signed by Madison and Bland. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:254-55. 1 Peter Thornton was the son of Col. Anthony Thornton (1726-82) of Ormsby, who had been a sheriff, judge and member of the Committee of Safety in Caroline Co., Va. Although Peter is not noted in W. G. Stanard’s “Thorntons of Virginia,” William and Mary Quarterly, 1st ser., 5(1896): 58-59, 6 (1897): 54-57, 109-13, it is apparent that he was the second of six sons bom between 1748 and 1760. Why he was in New York at this time and how he escaped is unclear. Gov. Livingston undoubtedly provided Thornton with the necessary pass in response to this appeal, however, for within a week Peter was in Philadelphia prepared to carry a letter by Theodorick Bland to Virginia, for which see Bland to George Weedon, December 28, 1780, note 2. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular Philada December 22. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of an


[Page 512]
478 December 22, 1780 Act of Congress of this Day together with the Extract of a Letter from the Commander in Chief of the 15th Instant to which the Act refers. 1 The Nature & Importance of the Subject is so fully stated in the Inclosures, and the Necessity of a Compliance with the requisition so obvious, it would be superfluous to attempt any aditional Motives to call forth the effectual Exertions of the respective States to compleat their Quotas of the federal Army with the necessary Supplies. I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). This letter was sent “to the several States from New Hampshire to North Carolina inclusive.” The enclosures that went with it were also sent to South Carolina governor John Rutledge with a brief cover letter from Huntington of December 24. PCC, item 15, fol. 191. 1 The enclosed December 22 resolve contained an exhortation to the states to complete their quotas of troops for the Continental Army “without loss of time, . . . [and] to furnish the supplies of provisions and money assigned for their support.” See JCC, 18:1182; and Huntington to George Washington, December 21, 1780. For the extract Huntington actually enclosed from Washington’s letter, concerning Britain’s “Intentions ... to send further reinforcements to America . . . [and] to revenge herself upon us” in retaliation for the recent growth of the League of Armed Neutrality, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:686-87. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir Philadelphia 22 Deer 1780 Your Very Oblidging Letter of the 18t Instant is reed. I am but little Surprized at the Vexation Oliver Meets with in his Business. 1 I saw the Inveteracy which some felt towards him—and Very much doubted of the Expediency of his holding his Business especially after I saw that Mr. Hubbard had determined not to continue in Office. I knew that the office would be but poorly supplyd with Money— That there was no Forage provided—That some knavish Fellows were determined to Embarrass and Misrepresent every Part of his Conduct to get the business for themselves or for such as were like them—as well as to gratify their malice against me for Opposing some of their Villanys. These were sufficient Reasons with me to be extremely dubious as to the Expediency of his being in this Business. His Wish was not to be idle, and hoping that Matters might not be so uncomfortable for him as I feared, I was upon the whole willing that he should be gratified, and I believed that he would Discharge his Duty in the best Manner he was able. But I am extremely glad that he has determined to quit the Business, and more so under Circumstances so agreable as those you mention. You may be assured Sir, that this as well as other Acts of your Kindness excites my Warmest Gratitude. Might this youth be in a Situation agreable and Usefull to himself and beneficial to others it would give me that


[Page 518]
484 December 25, 1780 upon the value of the Estate of those of his Subjects who quit His kingdom to pass into another or upon the sale of an Estate descending to a Foreigner who will not come to inhabit in the Country. This Right varies much from an Hundred to ten per Cent according to the amount of Sales of the Estate which the Heir or Lagetee would carry out. The Sovereign has a legal Hypothecation and the preference of payment in such Goods. In some Countries This Right is by common Law, in others such as France after the treaty of abolition of Droit dau Bane it is exercised only by retention.” This expression is become the Style in the Treaty of abolition and is found in our Treaty of Commerce by superabundance & by an Exercise of foresight in the Parties contracting. The King of France therefore by abolishg those Rights respecting the Americans in effect permitted their Estates to descend to the Heir or to be taken by the Executor or Administrator and permits them to depart from His Kingdom with all their Effects without substraction or diminution. What He now requests from the American States is to pass Laws granting like Privileges to His Subjects. I have the Honor to be, with much Esteem your most obedt Servant, Jno Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Sullivan. 1 For the dispute between “Portsmouth and Mr De latour,” see Sullivan to Weare, December 11, 1780, note 2. 2 Under article 13 of the 1778 Franco-American Treaty of Amity and Commerce, subjects of the United States were to be exempt in France from the “droit d’Aubaine” and “droit de detraction,” and subjects of France were to enjoy, “in all the dominions of the said states, an entire and perfect reciprocity relative to [these] stipulations.” See JCC, 11:429; and Samuel Huntington to the States, January 18, 1780. 3 Charles Molloy, De Jure Maritime et Navali; or A Treatise of Affaires Maritime and of Commerce (London: J. Bellinger, 1676). John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia 25th Decemr 1780 I have the Honor to Inclose you a number of Queries Made to Me by the Secretary of the French Embassy with Copies of My answers. 1 This Gentleman is one of those usefull genius’s who is Constantly in Search of knowledge he is about to write the History of America or rather to give a Geographical Description of it. As much advantage will arise from our Commerce & Constitutions being well known: As Mr Adams has wrote from Holland to Congress pressing upon them the necessity of Taking measures for this purpose


[Page 520]
486 December 25, 1780 prospect of success in a farther continuation of the war, and their hopes of subjugating us, if they still retain any, must rest wholly on the derangement of our finances. If these can be put upon a proper footing, we shall soon see an end of our troubles and have nothing to fear from the ambition or malice of our enemy. The arrangement and right management of our finances is therefore an object of the greatest importance. Our resources are great if we can but adopt wise plans to call them forth. For although some individuals have suffered by the war, yet the people in general are rather enriched. Our farms are cultivated as formerly, our harvests have been plentiful and our future prospects are favorable & flattering: A spirit of oeconomy and frugality prevails. Our farmers in general possess freehold estates and are thereby unencumbered with rents. We are not burthened as in other countries with the maintenance of expensive clergy. From all which causes we are in a condition to apply a greater part of our income and of the product of our labour to the public exigencies and are able to bear a greater load of taxes than most other nations in the world. The great question is, in what manner ought these taxes to be levied? There are two methods in use; one by a direct application to the people for the sums necessary; the other by imposts and duties. The latter is a mode of drawing money from the people insensibly. For although the money is at first paid by the importer, exporter or possessor of the article, upon which the impost or duty is laid, yet as he who advances the money always takes care to indemnify himself by adding it to, or deducting it from the price, according as the impost or duty is laid on articles of home consumption or foreign exportation, the money is refunded to him by the people and generally with a considerable additional sum for having advanced it. But little attention is paid to the duty as it is blended with the price of the commodity. This is a favorite scheme of levying taxes in monarchies and aristocracies, where large sums are expended that will not bear a public examination, But in republican governments, such as are established in America; it is dangerous and inexpedient. When people are called upon for taxes and feel the burden of them, they are more attentive to abuses and misapplication in the expenditure and will of consequence be more watchful to prevent their rulers from bribing the people, as is often the case, with their own money and subverting the public liberty by means put into their hands for securing and defending it. The people of America are in general sensible and intelligent; Convince them that taxes are necessary and they will cheerfully pay them. It appears to me that during the present controversy, the people have been always readier to pay than the legislatures to lay or call for taxes. Before Governments were established it was no doubt


[Page 522]
488 December 25, 1780 advanced to upwards of an hundred for one. People at length began to see their folly and soon became convinced that by raising their prices they diminished their fortunes. They therefore stopped short and by general consent brought it back to 75 for one, at which rate it now seems fixed. This operation has produced one good effect. It has changed the ideas of the people and brought them back to the old mode of estimating things by specie prices. There is scarce a man now to be found who rates his estate or the commodities he wants to buy or sell in continental currency. Government should therefore avail itself of this change and, in order to redeem the old currency and provide supplies adequate to the public exigencies, should call for taxes, the first to be paid in specie or continental money equivalent at the rate of 75 for one and all future taxes in specie or new money at par. By this means a state may in a month or six weeks by a vigorous exertion call in & redeem its whole quota of the old currency without overburthening its inhabitants and lodge in its treasury a large sum of the new money, which by calling for & collecting the future taxes every two or three months at farthest may be brought into credit and circulation without any compulsory laws and rendered equal in value to Gold and silver. By which means the public treasury may be supplied, debts discharged, the army recruited and paid & Congress enabled at the opening of the campaign effectually to co operate with our ally and probably bring the war to a speedy and happy issue. Congress having in their act of 18th March last resolved that new money should be emitted in a certain proportion as fast as the old is brought in and cancelled and having determined that the quantity of the new money should not exceed ten million dollars have directed that six tenths of the new as fast as issued be delivered to the states and the remaining four tenths reserved for the payment of the army and other public demands. Suppose a state not to have called in and cancelled any part of the old continental currency. Let it take a fifth of its whole quota of the two hundred millions; divide that by fifty and call for a tax equal to that fiftieth part to be paid within a month or six weeks at farthest either in specie or continental currency at the rate of 75 for one. If any Gold or Silver is received let it be exchanged for continental currency at the same rate, and the whole amount of the tax in that currency being brought in and cancelled, the six tenths of the new money issued in lieu thereof which the state will receive will be sufficient within a trifle to redeem the remainder of the quota which is uncollected. Let the state then proceed to call for another tax to the same amount to be paid within a month or six weeks in specie or new money only at par and direct all those who have old continental currency to bring it in and receive new money in lieu


[Page 532]
498 December 25, 1780 By some such mode as is here pointed out the resources of the states may be called forth with ease to the inhabitants and with the least possible expence; the public credit may thereby be restored, the exigencies of government provided for, contracts made and the articles wanted procured on the most advantageous terms; and by thus arranging our finances and convincing our enemies that we are in a condition to carry on the war we shall I am persuaded soon bring them to acknowledge our independence and to grant us peace on honorable terms. But as our present demands are urgent and immediately wanted no time should be lost in calling upon the people to pay in two or three monthly taxes agreeable to the last assessments in the mode heretofore accustomed until such time as a law can be made to the effect and for the purposes abovementioned. As for the mode of raising recruits for the continental army and regulating the militia of the state I must reserve my thoughts for some future occasion, and will only add here that I am much mistaken if the state find any great difficulty in furnishing its quota of men provided it adopts the foregoing plan or some one similar and proceeds with vigor and resolution in carrying it into effect. I am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate, Cha Thomson P.S. As the whole success of the foregoing plan depends upon the punctual collection of the taxes, I find upon farther inquiry, that the Connecticut law pays a particular attention to that matter and provides that the sheriff upon receiving the warrant from the Treasurer shall first call upon the collectors & seize their effects. But if they cannot be found or if their effects are not sufficient he shall then proceed and levy upon the effects of the select men & listers, who in that case are empowered by the law to indemnify themselves by rating & collecting from the inhabitants of the town a sum sufficient to reimburse themselves for all losses & damages. The town, also has power to call the collectors to account as often as they think proper, to take security for the faithful discharge of their duty, to remove them at pleasure & appoint others. In short they have a sovereign controul over them & are at liberty to guard against their laches 2 or unfaithfulness in such way as they may judge best. RC (PPL: Logan-Dickinson Collection). i See JCC, 16:262-67. 2 In law, “Negligence in the performance of any legal duty.” OED.


[Page 533]
December 26, 1780 499 Thomas Bee to Benjamin Huntington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 26 Decemr. 1780. I am much Obliged to you for the agreable Intelligence contained in your Letter of the 8th respecting the Prize taken by Capt. House, an account of which we also received from him in a Letter yesterday. I am in hopes this Prize will enable us to remit something handsome to our distressed Prisoners in Chas. Town who are suffering every hardship the British can inflict on them. They have lately taken up Thirty more of the principal Inhabitants to be sent to St. Augustine, without the Shadow of a charge against them except the Influence they may have on the other Inhabitants a few of whom have been induced by their Threats to take protection from them—We have no Advices from the Southern Army since Genl. Green has taken the Command, but I fear the reinforcement Genl. Leslie carried from Virginia, will prevent our doing much this Winter. I am glad to find your assembly are using their best endeavours to answer the requisitions of Congress—if we could once get into the Field an Army for the War, we may with the assistance of our Ally easily drive our Enemies from the Continent next Campaign. The President, & my Colleagues beg to return their best respects wishing you the Compliments of the Season, & a return of many happy New Years. I am Sir with sincere Esteem, your most hum servt, Tho. Bee RC (NRom: Huntington Collection). Addressed: “The Honble Benjamin Huntington Esqr. at Norwich in Connecticut.” Thomas Burke to John Laurens Phila. 26th De’r 1780. 1 Qu. What Methods have been taken for raising men & what prospect of Success? 1 Ansr. A Law is in force for raising men on a bounty of One prime Slave and a Tract of (I believe) 200 acres of Land to every Soldier for the War who shall compleat the term of Service, and to the family or representative of Such as may die in Service. Besides this a bounty of money was appointed, but the depreciation has made it Inconsiderable. This act has had little or no Success, nor do I expect any from that or any other Expedient for raising regular Troops so long as the Circumstances of the war require so many of our Militia in the field. Very few can at any time be found to inlist voluntarily, because landed property is very easily acquired, the Climate is mild, and the Soil either fruitful for agriculture, fit for raising Stock, or for


[Page 534]
500 December 26, 1780 producing Naval Stores. The War has exhausted all or most of the men who might be calculated upon for voluntary inlistments. 2 Qu. What methods for procuring Supplies? Ansr. A specific Tax is laid, which, on the lowest computation, will yield 500,000 bushels of Indian Corn, or other provisions Equivalent. Besides this the Commissioners are authorised and required, if necessary, to take, for public use, one half of all the provisions which can be found in the State above what may be necessary for the Support of the Inhabitants. Powers are given for calling forth Teams &c for transportation but this is a very difficult business, and destructive to the agriculture of the State. So many of our Wagons and Horses have been destroyed, disabled, or lost in the late affair near Cambden, and, before that, in the distant Service to which the Militia were called, that the Country retains but a very scanty Supply for its agriculture for which they are Essentially requisite. Teams, however, and carriages have been supplied for the movements both of Militia and regulars, but in Consequence thereof the agriculture has been very much Neglected. Commissioners are appointed with ample powers for employing the resources of the State in the purchase of Arms, Amunition, cloathing and other foreign Supplies. I cannot Say I expect much from their Efforts, but rather wish these Supplies might be sent from abroad. A money Tax of 7 14 per cent on the gross value of property valued at 7 for 1 on the specie price. 3d Qu. What towards relinquishing Vacant Lands for the use of the United States? Ansr. This has never yet been submitted to the Legislature] nor indeed do I know upon what principle it is requ[ested]. I believe it will be difficult to Convince the State that a [large] part of her property should be made Common Stock w[hile] others retain all their more Valuable property entire and unaffected by such a Contribution. This is Conjecture. The Question cannot be pointedly answered. Sir, In the foregoing you will find all that at present Occurs to me on the Questions propounded to me by Mr. Mathews on your behalf. 2 I wish my answers could be more agreeable, but the truth must be told to you, and your prudence will best point out the use you may be able to make of it. If I can give you any farther Satisfaction I will do it with great pleasure. I am S’r with Regard and Esteem, Your very obd. S’t. Thos. Burke RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For the purpose of these queries, see the following note. 2 John Mathews had originally served on the committee that drafted Laurens’ commission and instructions as minister extraordinary to France and on December


[Page 538]
504 December 26, 1780 in a manner destitute. You will exceedingly oblige me if you will inform me by the first post whither one can be obtained, and on what terms. (Hard money I have none.) If it is not possible to get a good waiting man please let me know whether an honest farmer boy can be had & the terms, and perhaps he may be taught to make a waiter—honesty is the most necessary quallification. I am sorry to give you so much trouble but cannot get a good boy to purchase to the southward. Our affairs to the southward wear a better aspect, the voluntary exertions of the Militia since the defeat of Genl. Gates, has repulsed the enemy in various rencounters with their out posts & thereby have obliged their main body to retreat out of North Carolina with precipitation. Sundry private letters say, that Genl. Sumter who commands a small body of So. Carolina Militia defeated Colo. Tarleton about the 20th Novr. but have not received it officially. We are not informed of Genl. Leslie since he left the chessepeak bay. With great esteem, I am, Sir Your Most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Decembr. 27th 1780 The want of a Safe Conveyance, and my Sons having the Small pox in the family, of which he is got well, prevented my writing to you Sooner. Inclosed are Extracts of letters which passed between the Count Vergennes Minister of France & Mr John Adams—which need no Comment. 1 Also a Copy of a letter wrote to the board of war from the President & Council of Pensylvania, 2 avowing & Justifying their orders to Lt. Hunter to Stop Supplies Carrying on to Wyoming by order of the Commissary Genl; and the Subsequent resolution of Congress respecting that Post; 3 the whole being of Such a nature & Complexion I thought it my duty to Communicate the Whole to your Excellency that you may write to Genl Washington on the Subject in Case you Shall think it proper & necessary. The tenour of the armed Neutrality among the northern powers, the States which have acceeded to it & their naval force; with the manner in which it is received in Britain, the inclosed papers will Explain nothing is Clearer than that this Confederacy does most pointedly Counteract the Veiws of Britain with respect to America, for it legitimates a free trade with us without Exception—which has been interdicted by great Britain. Messr. Guichen arrived at Cadiz on the 24th of Octr. with a Convoy of 140 Sail of Merchantmen,


[Page 539]
December 27, 1780 505 where was also Count de Estang with 74 Ships of the line. Mr. H Laurance is Committed to the Tower on a Charge of high Treason. Mr Adams is impowered to negociate the business in Holland which Mr Laurence was to have done. Mr Frances Dana is appointed our Minister at the Court of Petersburgh to acceede to the neutrality & to negociate other business which may be beneficial to these States. Col John Laurence is appointed to go to France to enforce the reasons for granting us the aid Solicited from thence & to Send over the Supplies So much wanted for our Army. The british Ministry hold up to their people an Idea of paccification; to keep up the Credit of their funds & quiet their minds of the people under the heavy losses they have Sustained in the Summer past—and to amuse their Enemies while they are Secretly Meditating war & reveange. The Kings Speech at the opening of the new parliament, it is Said, Contains nothing very Important only with respect to America he is please to observe, that those rebellious Subjects who rise against Government must be reduced to distruction or the Constitution must fail. Overtures have been made by the british ministry to the Court of Madrid, for an accommodation which that Court rejected unless France Should be included—to which the british Minister replied—that France was So Connected with America that they Could not treat without America, to this the Spanish Minister answered, that his Court was no less bound to France than France to America. The System of Government over these States as at present exercised is extremely defective. The Sovereign power of war & peace, having no permanent funds in its possession, nor the means of establishing any Must feel itself weak & prevent or defeat almost every measure however necessary & render the Execution languid tardy & oft times wholly abortive—The wealth of the States Constitutes the great fund on which we must depend for Credit abroad & for resources at home—and while these are drawn forth at the volition of each State, by recommendatory requisitions only it is in the power of any State to defeat the most important measure. The union of these thirteen States, for their mutual interest & Safety, Constitutes a republic of States or political persons—of which great republic, each State Constitutes one Member or Subject— over which Congress is appointed to preside and it is as necessary that Congress Should exercise the powers of Coercion over the particular States for the general purposes of the Confederacy as it is that the Confederacy Should Continue in its present form—or that each State Should exercise Such power over its particular Citizens for the weal of the State—and this power is so far from infringing upon the right or Sovereignty of the particular States—that it is as necessary for the preservation of them as the union itself. The result of the Convention at Hartford has been laid before


[Page 540]
506 December 27, 1780 Congress and is Committed—I flatter myself it will Serve to facilitate Some usefull & necessary regulations. The business of Finance in the present Situation is destressing & extremely embarassed—had all the States punctually Complied with the resolution of the 18th of March with respect to sinking the old bills & Issuing the new—& had the new Issued in the time, quantity & Credit proposed, four tenths only is to go into the Continental Chest—which would be a very inadequate Supply—but few of the States have Issued any of the money, Some have not taken resolution even to Comply—& the new bills Issue with an evident depreciation, besides I dont See how it will be practicable to Sink the old bills by Taxes on account of the unequal manner in which they are distributed in the States— Some have a great Surplus while others lack of their quotas—to Stop the Circulation by a resolve of Congress is a Stroke of power which has been already but too often repeated for the Credit of public bodies—it is easey to See how Such an exertion of power must disagreably effect the Credit of the New money—for individuals will distrust the faith of that body which in any Instance makes use of its power to alter or rescind As engagements to the Prejudice of Individuals. By the System ten million of dollars only was to be put into Circulation, one sixth to be sunk annually; besides this the States must be taxed annually to raise the Current Supplies—the year is very far elapsed—the measure but partially Executed in any & not even attempted in Some. Query will it be posible for the States now to Carry this System into Execution—& at the Same time raise the necessary Supplies for the next year. The pay of the army which is in arear Eight months will Swallow up the 4/10. The resources of a Country are to be estimated by the wealth of its Citizens and the means established for drawing that wealth into public use. The ordinary method of doing this is by taxation; and as this must be laid on by general rules in equal proportion, Scarce any State is able by this means to raise more than one half of what its inhabitants are able to pay because while one part is Oppressed the other Scarcely feels the burden, recourse ought therefore to be had to other means to releave the necessities of the public by more equal exactions—& this I think may be done by duties & Imposts in the Continental way if Judiciously laid & Carefully Collected 4 —for if they are laid by the particular States for their particular benefit—it is easy to See that the Collection will be vastly unequal—for one State may Import for many others who Consume the articles & of Consequence pay the duties which the State that Imports takes the benefit of—whereas if laid in a Continental way & for Continental use no State will pay for more than it Consumes & none Share in the profit beyond its Just quota. Again if these duties are laid indiscriminately on all the necessaries of life it must distress the poorer Sort which ought to be releived—but if they are laid upon luxuries


[Page 547]
December 30, 1780 513 Intelligence of the Success of Gen Sumpter & Lt Col. Washington contained in the enclosed Despatches No. 1 & No. 2. 1 It is said a reinforcement is gone from New York to South Carolina, and that Admiral Rodney with nine Sail of the line is gone to the West Indies. From the Situation & Disposition of the Powers in Europe, Russia in particular, by the latest Intelligence, Congress have thought it expedient immediately to send a Minister to the Court of Petersburgh, and for the Sake of Despatch, among other Considerations, have appointed the Honble Francis Dana Esquire (now in Europe & Secretary to Mr J. Adams) to that important Mission. The Appointment ought not to be published at present for obvious Reasons. Colonel John Trumbull was in London the 25th of October last, and had been there some Time in Company with Mr West the celebrated Painter. This Intelligence I have received from a Gentleman just arrived in this City from London who tells me he saw Mr Trumbull and conversed with him & a Number of other Americans who had taken an active Part in the War in America, and appeared Openly in the City & no Notice taken of them by Authority. From my present Situation & Engagement Necessity obliges me to depend upon my Colleagues to give your Excellency more particular & frequent Intelligence than I can possibly do, which I have no Doubt they will faithfully perform. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See the preceding entry, note 2. Samuel Adams to John Scollay My dear Sir Philade Deer 30 1780 I receivd your favor of the 6th Instant, but not till the 25th. The Post has been very irregular of late, & our Letters grow old before we receive them. It is a Shame that the Mail has been catched a second time in the same trap. I inclosd to you a Warrant on Mr Appleton for the Amount of your Demand for boarding the orphans of our late Friend Genl Warren. I think I did not send the Letter by that Post. But being uncertain I informd you in a subsequent Letter of my having sent the Warrant, and desired you to inform me whether it had come safely to hand. I expect to hear from you in Answer


[Page 554]
520 December 1780 Samuel Huntington to the Sultan of Morocco [December 1780] The Congress of the Thirteen United States of North America, to the High, Potent and Most Noble Prince, The King and Emperour of Morocco. Most noble and puissant Prince! We, the Congress of the Thirteen United States of North America, have been informed of Your Majesty’s favourable Regard to the Interests of the People we represent; which has been communicated by Mons Etienne D’Audibert Caille, of Salee, Consul for Foreign Nations unrepresented in Your Majesty’s States. 1 We assure you of our earnest Desire to cultivate a sincere and firm Peace, and Friendship with your Majesty, and to make it lasting to all Posterity. In Order that we may demonstrate more fully the high Value we place upon the Amity of so enlightened and magnanimous a Prince, we have given the necessary Orders to our Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of His Most Christian Majesty, the King of France, and a proper Person will receive Powers to enter into Negociations for settling a Treaty of Peace and Commerce with such representative of Your Majesty as you may please to appoint. This, from Your Majesty’s great Wisdom and Generosity, we have no Doubt will be adjusted to the mutual Advantage of both Nations. In the mean Time should any of the Subjects of our States come within <your Majesty’s) Ports or Territories, we flatter ourselves they will receive the Benefit of your Protection and Benevolence. You may assure yourself of every Protection and Assistance to your Subjects from the People of these States whenever and wherever they may have it in their Power. We pray your Majesty may enjoy long Life and uninterrupted Prosperity. Signed in, and by Order of the Congress of the thirteen United States of North America, Day of the Month of December in the year of our LORD Christ 1780 and of our Independence 5. FC (DNA: PCC, item 98). In the hand of William Churchill Houston. 1 See the preceding entry. Artemas Ward to Unknown Sir [December 1780] 1 Your Letter of the twenty fourth of Novr. last is at last come to hand; for which I return you my warmest thanks. With astonishment I read the several pieces of Intelligence. In the year 1760 Octor. 25.


[Page 555]
December 1780 521 Artemas Ward


[Page 556]
522 December 1780 G the third came to the Throne. What declerations & Promises did he make? What fulsome addresses were presented to him? On the 25 of Octor. 80. 2 came to the throne [. . .] has he promised & recommended in words, and what fulsome nonsense has been presented to him, by way [of] addresses? Has the conduct of the two gr[eat men] anyways comported with their former declarations & engagements? I [ think ] not at all. The conduct of the last has been such if I am righdy informed, that the Jealousy of all ought to be awakened, Lest the morals of the people are debauched by his evil examples &[...] State we become a profligate Commonwealth. However I am always for making the best of every thing—I think it is a smile in Providence that he has discovered himself so clearly to the people and so early after his acession (as it is called in one of the acts). Unless the people are Stupedly blind (which I don’t think they are) they will see their error, and if proper measures are taken previous to the next to rouse the Genious of old Cato to address them in the mouth of & in the manner mentioned by my friend, great good will arise to the Community. People many times run into excesses for want of consideration & when this is the case there is no more effectual way to bring them to a sense of their duty than, to address them in a serious, and Solemn manner. It is of importance that it should be done in due season; should it be delayed untill the people are habituated to these Views it will be more difficult to bring them off & there will be danger of a general corruption of morals. Should this corruption spread we shall have reason to fear that destruction will follow. I am sometimes ready to fear that, this Generation must be moved of[f] the Stage [before?] Peace, Liberty & Righteousness will flourish on this Continent in a manner wished for. The Stiff necked Israelites of old, were made to wander in the wilderness untill the rebellious generation were dead before the tribes of Israel were permitted to enjoy the Promissed land. Innumerable have been the remarkable appearances of Divine Providence in favour of this people but alass how unmindful have they been of the Hand that supported and the Ar[m] that saved them. If there was that attention paid to Virtue and Religion which ought to be, and a sincere desire to acknowledge God in all our ways we might then have grounds to hope in the Divine favour for deliverance from a[ll] the Calamities we now feel. But so long as the people with their rulers at their head are in pursute of folly & vanity, we have no reason to expect anything [but] that the hand of the Lord will be stretched out against us & we be made to feel [the] terribleness of His wrath. It is the duty of every one to exert himself to info[rm] the ignorant and to reclaim the vicious, to stir up the minds of all to a sense [of] their duty, that the great exertions of our Pious ancestors to establish a re[fuge] for Liberty & Righteousness on this continent may not


[Page 565]
January 2, 1781 531 2. There is due the greatest part of the 200,000,000 of Dollars issued on paper bills of Credit: the whole ought to be redeemed by a monthly 15,000,000 Tax, required by Congress the 18th of March & to be paid in at 40 for one by the 1st of April next . . . 10,000,000 to be issued on new bills at par with Silver (in Place of the 200,000,000) payable with Interest at 6 per Cent—each State to fund its Quota on Solid Security and to Sink it’s Share of principle & Interest by Annual Taxes: so that the whole shoud be cancelled at the End of Six years. 4/10ths of the New Emissions to be paid into the Continental Treasury and 6/10ths for the use of the Governments of the respective States. At present then consider the money of the Emissions of 200,000,000 of Dollars as creating a debt of 10,000,000 of Specie Dollars. 3. There is a Sterling Debt contracted on bills of Exchange drawn on Holland, Spain and France to the amount up to October 1780 of 295,048.12.6 Sterling. 4. If the Taxes demanded shoud be anticipated by Quarter Masters & Commissaries Certificates for Supplies to the Army in the year 1780, which is pretended, tho I State it Hypothetically: Then there will be due from the publick on these Certificates in Specie Value a further debt of 2,358,604 Specie dollars. The Grounds of this last Computation are conjectural and do not deserve entire Credit, but there [are] no materials to arrive at greater Certainty. 5. The Supplies of Cloathing, Artillery, Arms & Ammunition by France & Spain And the Commercial transactions form another capital Article of national Debt which I have not Materials at hand to ascertain. 6. The Pay & Subsistence Due to the Army is very Considerable & nearly a Million of Specie Dollars: Besides debts due on the Staff & Civil List to a large Amount. II. Question. At what Sum do you estimate the Expences of the War from January 1781 to January 1782? Answer Estimate of provisions required from j Value Specie dollars the States by a Tax in kind j 4,357,012 A Tax on the several States in Specie i to be laid out for Forage estimated at. . . . j 1,642,988 The Expence of the Quarter Masters depart- । ment estimated on general principles at. . j 5,000,000 Pay and Subsistance of the new Army for \ one year estimated accurately at j 5,114,897,30/90 Specie dollars 16,114,897.30/90 N.B. Cloathing, Arms, Ammunition & other Supplies, you have the Estimate, and they are to be procured from France and Spain. NB. Material for Col Laurens to be informed that our Minister at Madrid gives us assurances that Spain has promised a Supply of Cloathing &c.


[Page 566]
532 January 2, 1781 The raising the new Army for the War must prove a vast additional Expence to the people. I want data to fix it with any tolerable precision At a modern estimate every Recruit will receive a bounty of 100 Specie dollars: on 20,000 it will amount to Two Millions specie Dollars. For extras you may make such an Addition as will bring the whole, exclusive of the Supplies of Cloathing, Arms & Ammunition expected from Europe. Twenty millions of Specie Dollars. III. [Question.] What are the Ways and Means for defraying the Expences of the War for the year 1781? Answer. The last Campaign having been carried on chiefly by the Certificates of the Quarter Masters & Commissaries for Supplies, the Taxes of that year must necessarily be supplied to satisfy those Certificates; in other words the Certificates must be received for the Taxes; And no money being in the Treasury; we must look forward to the predictions of the year 1781. 1st. Then the Tax of Specific Supplies & ।Specie dollars the Tax for forage amount to J 6,000,000 2d. If the plan of the 18th of March succeeds, 1 we shall draw from it into the Treasury j 4,000,000 3. The People by draft or Contributions \ will answer the Country [ . . . ] | 2,000,000 3d. We depend on a foreign Loan for । 25,000,000 Livres equal in specie dollars to j 5,000,000 4. The produce of domestic Loans is uncertain. 5. So is that of an Impost of Trade if the States will agree to it.— 6. In the same manner every other plan of finance we attempted admits of no Certain Conclusions. Upon the whole it is clear from these hasty Hints that Whatever may be the Success of our own Exertions the Loan of 25,000,000 of Livres in Europe is indispensably necessary: for a brilliant Campaign And this tis the point which Col. Laurens is interested to maintain. Jas. Duane Philada. 2d Jany 1781. If you shew this to the General 2 he will be able to correct one article, the Number of Recruites to be raised. 3 I only guess at it. With respect to Bounty which will be allowed each I am certainly within the mark: Virginia gives £1000 Conti, in hand, a Negroe between 10 and 30, or £60 specie & 300 Acres of Land at the End of the War to every Voluntier And one is to be issued on these Terms by every Class of 15 Inhabitants, the State only giving the Land. P.S. As you did not proceed this morning according to your Intentions I have an opportunity of giving you further Information. IV. [Question.] What are the pay & Subsistance of a Regiment of


[Page 570]
536 January?, 1781 2 Huntington’s reference to a resolve of the “29th” appears to be an error, but for Congress’ December 28 endorsement of Greene’s appointment of Edward Carrington, secJCC, 18:1201. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day to Quartermaster General Timothy Pickering, PCC, item 15, fol. 196. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, January 1, 1781, note 4. Samuel Huntington to the Comte de Vergennes Sir, Philadelphia January 2. 1780 [i.e., 1781] I have the Honor to introduce to your Excellency the Honorable John Laurens Esquire a Lieutenant Colonel in the American Army. 1 This gentieman is the Son of his Excellency Henry Laurens Esquire late President of Congress, hath distinguished himself in the Service of his Country in the present Contest, is a Person of amiable Endowments, and comes charged with a Special Commission to the Court of Versailles. I am convinced your Excellency will receive him in a Manner Suited to his Merit and Character. I have the Honor to be, with Sentiments of the highest Respect & Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servant, Samel. Huntington Tr (Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, vol. 11). 1 See Huntington to Laurens, January 1, 1781. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia January 2. 1781 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, an Act of Congress of the 29th Ulto relative to the Exchange of Prisoners. 1 I have also enclosed an Act of the 1st Instant, with an Extract of a Letter from the Honorable John Adams Esquire of the 23d of August. 2 Your Excellency will please to observe on this Subject your Opinion is desired on the Expediency of ordering the Forces of his most Christian Majesty now at New Port in Rhode Island, to take Post in Virginia. From the Plan for future Operations which it is presumed you have concerted in Conjunction with the Count de Rochambeau, as also many other Circumstances incident to your Station, you are best able to determine the Expediency of the proposed Measure; and I need not inform you that as Congress have thought proper to make the Proposal, your Opinion will give them entire Satisfaction on the Subject.


[Page 571]
January 2,1781 537 The enclosed resolve respecting Lt Colonel Wm Smith it is to be hoped may prove agreable to your Wishes, and from his particular Circumstances create no Disatisfaction in the Army. 3 Your Excellency will note the last resolve respecting the Officers lately exchanged or now in Captivity, how far it may be carried in to Execution I am unable to determine. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President P.S. I have been honored with your Despatches under the 20th, 22d & 27th UI to. 4 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The enclosed resolution essentially authorized Washington to proceed with negotiations for a partial exchange of prisoners, ignoring the restriction that unsettled accounts for provisioning prisoners be provided for in the agreement. This extension of his authority had been agreed to after he had suggested “the expediency” of proceeding with negotiations with Sir Henry Clinton for a partial prisoner exchange, “leaving the liquidation of all accounts of prisoners [/or subsistence} from the commencement of the War, to future discussion.” See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:443-44; and JCC, 18:1156, 1201, 1203-4. See also Huntington to Washington, November 12, 1780. 2 The enclosed extract from John Adams’ August 23 letter to Congress contained the warning that recent British peace initiatives (i.e., “the errand of Mr. Cumberland to Madrid”) were “a mere finesse of the British ministry” to disguise plans already in motion “to prosecute the war with vigor in North Carolina and Virginia the ensuing fall, winter, and spring.” In light of this warning of “probable operations of the enemy against the southern states,” Washington was requested to explore the “expediency” of arranging the transfer of the French forces at Rhode Island to Virginia. See JCC, 19:2-3; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:41. 3 See James Duane to Washington, this date, note 2. 4 JCC, 18:1203, 19:1. These letters are in PCC, item 152, 9:404-15, 421-22; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:501-5, 21:1-2, 22. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir Janry. 2d. 1780 \i.e., 1781] Your Favor of Sept. 20th reached me at Christmas. 1 1 inclose you a Resolve 2 but am not able to give you a Copy of what I officially wrote to cover it by Col. Palfrey and by Way of Boston. 3 You will oblige me by returning a Copy of that Letter which ought to appear on the Books of the Comtee. for fom. affairs, those Books being soon I hope to be placed in some regularly established office. Col. Laurens being on his Way to France via Boston will be able if he sees you to communicate more in one Evening than I could in many Sheets. I can only say that we are {bankrupt with a mutinous army] 4 The latter owing very much to the {delay of cloathing]. I


[Page 572]
538 January?, 1781 hope you will remark that so long ago as Oct 26. 1779 the Powers you now have were voted to Mr. Laurens, 5 and would have been earlier, but from fear of embarrassing those whose Friendship we wished for. You will hear from yr. Family minutely I presume by Col. J Laurens. Affectionately yours, JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Endorsed by John Adams: “Mr Lovel, Jany. 2. 1781, Col. John Laurens.” 1 The FC of Adams’ September 20, 1780, letter to Lovell is in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 Perhaps Congress’ December 12 resolve praising Adams’ “industrious attention” to American affairs. JCC, 19:1147. 3 See the letters to Adams from the Committee for Foreign Affairs and from Lovell of December 12 and 14, 1780, respectively. 4 The words printed in braces in this text were written by Lovell in a cipher based on the first two letters of the key word “Cranch.” 5 The powers vested in Henry Laurens in 1779 to negotiate a treaty and loan in the United Provinces had been granted to Adams on December 29, 1780. See Samuel Huntington to Adams, January 1 and 9, 1781. Lovell’s interest in Adams’ authority to negotiate a Dutch loan can also be seen in the following document, which is in Lovell’s hand although located among a group of undated manuscripts in the Samuel Adams Papers. Whether it was actually drafted by Lovell or perhaps by the committee appointed to instruct Adams is not known, but it contains significant information on the terms Congress expected to negotiate and details of how such a transaction might be arranged. “Plan of a Negociation, to Amt. of one Million Guilders, at the Charge of the United States of America. “His Excellcy. John Adams Esqr. Minister. Plenipo[tentiar]y of the sd. United States &c. &c. &c specially authorised to make a Loan, will distribute one thousand obligations, each for one thousand Guilders at the Interest of five pr. Ct. pr. An. to be paid on Coupons of 25 every six months. “The Reimbursement shall take place at the End of the tenth year, and at every of the first four Years following, each a fifth part, on two hundred obligations, by Way of Lottery to be made thereof in Time. “For the punctual payment of the Interest and Restitution of the Principal, the sd. States will be engaged jointly & each of them in Solidum for the whole. “The Obligations & Coupons will be signed by his Excellcy. John Adams Esqr. & countersigned by Messrs. John De Nieufville & Son, and prothocoll’d by the Notary Anthony Myluis where the authentic Translation of the Power will be to be seen And the Ratification will be deposited. The Subscription will be at the House of the aforementioned Messrs. John DeNieufville & Son on the first of March 1781 which will be the Date of the Obligations.” Samuel Adams Papers, NN. James Lovell to Samuel Holten Janry. 2d. 1781. Sir Some days ago I got Sight of one of my Letters to Mr. Gerry published by Jemmy Rivington, but tho’ I wrote to you on the same Novr. 20th. 1 1 do not find thro’ the same Channel what was the nature of the Scrawl. I have, at some time, told you that I should aim to


[Page 573]
January?, 1781 539 persuade my Colleagues to keep back the last Rule laid down by the Assembly for the Government of the Delegates of Mass, in Congress because from the very wording of the Resolve as well as from your Letter of a Date which I cannot now recollect, I am convinced that the intent was to oblige not more than 3 to attend on the Duties of the Delegation. 2 I have so far prevailed as to get the Gentlemen to wait for some Explanation, but we have agreed to be all together punctual in attending to give our Voice, that we may not become culpable if such was the real intent of the Resolve; but this very day proves what I before wrote, that I could be much more usefully employed in my Chamber than here in Congress, a packet boat being under absolute order for Sailing to France. The Paper of Dunlap is not a news Paper Today. Yours affectionately J.L. MS not found; reprinted from Essex Institute Historical Collections, 13 (July 1876): 224. 1 Not found. 2 See Lovell to Holten, December 19, 1780, note 1. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Jany 2d. 1781. Yesterday’s post was the first that has failed to bring me a line from you since our correspondence commenced. I hope it has not been owing to any cause which concerns your health. We had it yesterday from under Genl Washington[’s] hand, that another embarkation is actually departed from N. York, amoun[ting. . .] to abt. 2500 troops. There is little d[oubt] that they will steer the same course with the preceding detachments. 1 Congress are under great anxiety for the States agst. which this accumulating force is to be directed, and the more so as the principal means of their defence is so little in their power. It is not so much the want of men as the want of subsistance, arms & cloathing, which results from the want of money that gives the greatest alarm. A disposition appears to do every thing practicable for their relief and defence. Mr. Harrison writes from Cadiz that the Combined fleets in that port, including 18 Ships from the W. Indies under Guichen, amounted to 68 Ships of the line. He offers no conjecture as to the manner in which they will be employed. 2 I am Dr Sir Yrs Sincerely, J. Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:272. 1 See Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, January 1, 1781, note 4. 2 In a letter dated October 23, 1780, merchant Richard Harrison notified the Committee for Foreign Affairs that “M. De Guichen with all his Convoy is now entering this Bay,” without specifying the number of ships. PCC, item 92, fol. 383.


[Page 580]
546 January 4, 1781 Means for obtaining the Exchange of the Honorable Henry Laurens Esquire. 1 From your own Inclination, as well as in Compliance with the Desire of Congress, I am perswaded you will make use of every Means in your Power to have that Gendeman liberated from his present Confinement and exchanged as soon as possible. Similar Directions are also given to the Honorable John Jay Esquire. 2 I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, sir, your most obedient & most humble Servant, Sami. Huntington President RC (PU: Franklin Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. i See JCC, 18:1179. 2 Huntington’s nearly identical letter of this date to Jay is in the Jay Papers, NNC. Samuel Huntington to Jean de Neufville & Son Gentlemen, 1 Philada January 4. 1780 [/.<?., 1781] 1 have herewith enclosed for your Information the Copy of a resolve of Congress of the 21st Ulto respecting two Bills of Exchange therein mentioned. 2 It is proper you should be further informed that Baron de Wulffen had no Demands on Congress, 3 or any right to expect they would answer his Drafts. But in Consideration of the Desires you have repeatedly manifested to serve these United States, Congress immediately ordered those Bills to be taken up and the Amount thereof paid for the Honor of the Indorsers; although they thought proper to have the Bills protested. I have received your Letters of the 10th of March & 28th of September, 4 and several others which are not now before me. I am Gentlemen &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Jean de Neufville & Son, an Amsterdam firm seeking to expand its American business, had originally developed contacts with the United States through C.W.F. Dumas, Benjamin Franklin, and William Lee, and had explicitly offered its services to Congress in July 1779. It subsequently negotiated bills of exchange drawn on Congress, aided John Paul Jones in outfitting American vessels in Dutch ports, and worked to promote the missions of agents such as Jacob Diriks, Henry Laurens, and John Adams to obtain Dutch loans. Its extensive correspondence concerning American affairs is located primarily in PCC, item 145, and in “Papers Relating to Foreign Affairs” of the Miscellaneous Papers of the Continental Congress (microcopy 332, reel 4), DNA. 2 JCC, 18:1121, 1179-81. 3 Although the Board of Treasury had been authorized to honor the bills of baron


[Page 581]
January 5, 1781 547 de Wulffen, Congress wished to make it clear that he had acted improperly and that the bills would be paid only out of concern for its own honor and that of Neufville & Son. For the little that is known of de Wulffen’s efforts in America to obtain a Continental commission, see the letter of Richard Peters to the committee to which this case had been referred, filed with the committee report to Congress in PCC, item 26, fols. 241-43. 4 Actually letters of May 10 (not March 10) and September 28. The former was erroneously endorsed by Charles Thomson and entered on the journals as one of “March 10 1780” when it was received on November 20. See JCC, 18:1072, 1094; and PCC, item 145, fols. 23-25, 41-44. Samuel Huntington to John Hancock Sir, Philadelphia January 5. 1781 I have been honored with your Excellency’s Favour of 1 wherein you mention that my Letter of the 10th of September last, covering Despatches respecting the western Lands had not come to hand. This Failure I cannot account for, as the Letter was circular and has been received by the other States. It was addressed to the President of the Council of Massachusetts, and possibly may have been mislaid & by that Means not come to your Knowledge. 2 Agreable to your Desire I have herewith enclosed duplicates of that Letter and the Desptaches it covered. And am with the highest respect and consideration your Excel lency’s most Obedt. & most Humble. Servant. Sami Huntington President RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). 1 Hancock’s letter was dated December 20, 1780. PCC, item 65, 1:472-75. 2 Huntington’s assertion that this circular letter “has been received by the other States” was in error, because the copy directed to New Hampshire had been intercepted by the British, for which see Huntington to the States, September 10, 1780, note 2. However, his surmise that the letter for Massachusetts “may have been mislaid” was apparently correct, for both of Huntington’s letters are in the Revolutionary War Letters, 203:76-77, 105-6, M-Ar. Samuel Huntington to James Reed Sir, Philada. January 5. 1781 While I sympathize with you the Misfortune you have sustained in the Service of your Country & especially the Loss of your Sight; it gives me Pleasure to inform you that Congress have not been unmindful of your past Services & present Situation. By their resolve of the third Instant, a Copy of which is enclosed, you are entided for the future to receive all the Emoluments of Officers retiring from Service by Virtue of the resolves of Congress on that Subject. 1


[Page 582]
548 January 5,1781 And it is recommended to the Executive of the State of New Hampshire to make up to you the Depreciation of your Pay from the Time of your Appointment to the Date of this resolve. 2 And in future to pay you on Account of the United States the Sums you are entitled to receive in Virtue of this Act of Congress. I am Sir &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Brig. Gen. James Reed of the 3d New Hampshire Regiment had lost his sight after contracting smallpox in the autumn of 1776, and had returned home, though without being retired, in January 1777. Although he had continued to draw his pay, he had not received rations or subsistence and had gradually been reduced to poverty through the continued depreciation of the Continental dollar. He had also recently learned that he would not be eligible for some of the benefits extended to general officers by Congress in August 1780, and that without specific additional action by New Hampshire he would not receive the depreciation allowance due Continental officers. He had presented his case in a letter to John Sullivan of October 3, 1780, that was referred to the Board of War on December 14, and at the board’s recommendation Congress adopted the enclosed resolve to provide him relief. See JCC, 18:1150, 19:17; and PCC, item 78, 19:327-30. 2 See the following entry. Notwithstanding this action, Reed was unable to obtain the redress from New Hampshire hereby recommended, and in November his case was again brought to the attention of Congress, which accordingly adopted another, similar resolution on December 14, 1781, repeating this recommendation that the state “make up” the depreciation of Reed’s pay. See JCC, 21:1092, 1167-68; and PCC, item 78, 21:121-31. Samuel Huntington to Meshech Weare Sir, Philada January 5. 1781 You will receive herewith enclosed the Copy of an Act of Congress of the 3d Instant, by which you will be informed that Brigadier General J. Reid is entitled to receive the Emoluments of Officers retiring from Service by virtue of the resolutions of Congress on that Subject And to pay him in future on Account of the United States the Sums he is entitled to receive from Time to Time by Virtue of the resolves of Congress. 1 The Misfortunes of this Officer, sustained in the Service of his Country, and his present Circumstances seem to render his Case peculiar. I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. P.S. I have received your letters of November 20th & Decemr 19. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 For Weare’s letters, which were read in Congress on December 11 and January 1 respectively, see JCC, 18:1140, 19:1; and PCC, item 64, fols. 152-55, 162-65.


[Page 584]
550 January 6, 1781 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia January 6. 1781 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, the Copy of a report of Committee and consequent resolve of Congress; with Copies of Letters from Mr Abraham Skinner & Mr David Sproat, and Memorial from George Lyman & others Prisoners in the Provost at New York. 1 By these Despatches you will see the cruel Treatment exercised by the Enemy towards the Prisoners in their Hands, and that in the Opinion of Congress an Exercise of the Law of retaliation is become necessary. Driven by Necessity from the unwarrantable & inhuman Practices of the Enemy, Congress have adopted the Measures directed in the foregoing resolve, which your Excellency will please to observe so far forth as they relate to your Province. I have also enclosed two Acts of Congress of the 2d & 3d Instant; by the former your Excellency will be informed of the Mode in which Colonel Armand may be permitted to recruit his Corps, and by the latter of the resignation of Doctor Shippen. 2 I have the Honor to be, with the highest regard, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 These enclosures, all of which are in the Washington Papers, consisted of Congress’ January 5 resolves on prisoner treatment, a December 26 letter from commissary of prisoners Abraham Skinner to Thomas Bradford, a December 30 letter from commissary of naval prisoners David Sproat to a Captain Griffm, and a December 28 memorial to Congress from George Lyman and six other captive “Masters of Whale Boats.” See JCC, 19:24, 27—28; and PCC, item 53, fols. 141—44, 149-54. 2 See JCC, 19:9, 15. News of the acceptance of Shippen’s resignation as director general of hospitals had been communicated to the doctor by Huntington in a brief letter of transmittal on January 5. PCC, item 15, fol. 201. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir Jan 6th. 1780 [1781] I hope the Papers which you will receive by this opportunity will give you personal Satisfaction as well as facilitate the Purposes of yr. Commissions. I have already sent several Copies of the Doings of Congress of Deer. 12th. 1780 as follows. 1 “Congress took into Consideration the Report of the Comtee. to whom was referred the Letter of June 26 from the honble. John Adams, whereupon, Ordered That the sd. Letter be referred to the


[Page 589]
January?, 1781 555 them, and faith shall be pledged for their security. It is recommended to them for their own Safety to move behind South River, and whenever they request it a Body of British troops shall protect them. It is needless to point out the Inability as well as want of Inclination in Congress to relieve them or to tell them the Severities that will be used by the Rebel leaders towards them should they think of Returning to their former Servitude. It will be proved to the Commissioners they Choose to Send that the Authority from whence this Comes is Sufficient to Ensure the Performance of the above proposals. To the Person appointed by the Pennsylvania Troops to lead them in the Present struggle for their liberties and Rights. By order of the Committee of Congress, (Copy) J no Witherspoon RC and enclosure (DNA: PCC, item 152). In the hand of John Witherspoon. 1 For Henry Clinton’s efforts to exploit the mutiny of the Pennsylvania troops, and the misfortunes of the two British emissaries (John Mason and James Ogden) who carried the enclosed “Proposals” to the mutineers inviting them to seek “the Protection of the British Government,” see Van Doren, Mutiny in January, pp. 115-19, 150-59; and Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, pp. 167-68, 188-90, 205. 2 See the committee’s letter to Joseph Reed, this date. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to the Commander at Brunswick or Elizabethtown Sr. 1 Trenton Jany. 7th 1781 The Committe of Congress now at Trenton have received authentic information that Commissioners 2 are sent to Amboy from N York to treat with the Pennsylvania troops (we Suppose tis South Amboy that is meant but it would be prudent to have both the Amboys in View). The Committe are of opinion you shd take such measures as appear most prudent and practicable, to get possession of those Commissioners. We are, Sr. Yr. most obedt. svts. In be half of the Committe, Jno Witherspoon P.S. The above is submitted to your Judgement accordg to the Situation of Affairs & the other Intelligence you may have received. 3 RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written by Theodorick Bland with postscript and signature by John Witherspoon. 1 This letter is addressed to “The Commanding Officer at Brunswick or Elizabeth town” in Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:188. 2 Witherspoon’s meaning is unclear, but he is probably referring to unidentified additional emissaries sent out by the British to treat with the Pennsylvania troops rather than the two seized this day who are the subject of the preceding entry. See, for example, Van Doren, Mutiny in January, p. 119.


[Page 590]
556 January?, 1781 3 Actually New Jersey had already taken steps “to surround Princeton and control the mutiny if possible,’’ stationing Continental troops at Morristown, Pompton, and Chatham, and positioning the militia at Brunswick, Elizabethtown, and South Amboy and along various roads to New York. Ibid., pp. 101-2. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to Joseph Reed Sir, Trenton Jany. 7th. 1781 The Committee of Congress are obliged to your Excellencys Communications by Col. Shields, 1 we esteem it a happy prelude to a return of the Troops to their Allegience. We doubt not your Excellencys improving so favourable a Symptom to bring the Matter to as speedy, safe and honorable an Issue as possible. The Committee will wait here for your further Communications of the progress you make and prepare themselves for every Event, to aid your Endeavours and to give them all the success, that the Powers vested in them by Congress can enable them to do. In name of the Committee in Genl Sullivan’s Absence, 2 Jno Witherspoon RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written and signed by Witherspoon. 1 If Reed’s “Communications” by Hugh Shiell were in writing, they have not been found. Reed wrote to the committee on January 6 at “3 o’clock,” but apparently sent the letter to Thomas Barclay with the notation: “This letter was designed for the committee, but as they came over the river, I send it to you to save repetition.” Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:164-65. 2 The cause of John Sullivan’s “absence” is not known, but he did sign the committee’s letter of this date to Washington, which was also written at Trenton, and for which see the following entry. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to George Washington Sir, Trenton January 7th. 1781 The Committee appointed by Congress to quiet the disturbances of the Pennsylvania Line &ca. think it proper to inform your Excellency that they arrived at this Place last night after dark; And that President Reed who acts in concert with us has proceeded to the neighbourhood of Princetown at which place those Troops are now posted. We Are happy to inform your Excellency that some favourable appearances of a speedy and honorable, as well as a safe Accommodation has appeared in their Conduct this Morning, as they have given an earnest of their Sincerity and intentions by no means


[Page 594]
560 January 8,1781 The foregoing Terms being accepted the Committee resolved that upon the Soldiers of the Pennsylvania Line delivering up the British Emissaries sent to corrupt them and submitting to their proper Officers they will publish a free and general Pardon for all Offences committed by the non commissioned Officers & Soldiers of the said Line from the 31st of Deer, last to this Time. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written and signed by John Sullivan. Enclosure (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of John Witherspoon. 1 This is a reference to the first of the three letters Reed wrote to the committee this day, which is printed in Campbell, Bland Papers, 2:46-48; and Reed, Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2:327-29. The second and third letters, written at “half past 2’oclock” and at “7 o’clock, P.M.,” are also in the Bland Papers, 2:44-45, as well as in the Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2:326-27. 2 One of these enclosures consisted of the following “Proposals,” signed by Reed and James Potter, printed here from a broadside copy in the Washington Papers, rn c “PROPOSALS “Made to the pon-commissioned Officers and Soldiers of the Pennsylvania Line, at Princeton, ‘January 7, 1781. “His Excellency Joseph Reed, Esquire, President, and the Honourable Brigadier- General Potter, of the Council of Pennsylvania, having heard the Complaints of the Soldiers, as represented by the Sergeants, inform them, that they are fully authorized to redress reasonable Grievances, and they have the fullest Disposition to make them as easy as possible; for which End they propose, “First. That no non-commissioned Officer or Soldier shall be detained beyond the Time for which he freely and voluntarily engaged, but where they appear to have been in any Respect compelled to enter or sign, such Enlistment to be deemed void, and the Soldier discharged. “Secondly. To settle who are and who are not bound to stay, three Persons to be appointed by the President and the Council, who are to examine into the Terms of Enlistment;—where the original Enlistments cannot be found, the Soldier’s Oath to be admitted to prove the Time and Terms of Enlistment, and the Soldier to be discharged upon his Oath of the Condition of the Enlistment. “Thirdly. Where-ever any Soldier has enlisted for three Years or during the War, he is to be discharged, unless he shall appear afterwards to have re-enlisted voluntarily and freely.—The Gratuity of One Hundred Dollars given by Congress, not to be reckoned as a Bounty, or any Men detained in Consequence of that Gratuity.— The Commissioners to be appointed by the President and Council, to adjust any Difficulties which may arise on this Article also. “Fourthly. The Auditors to attend as soon as possible, to settle the Depreciation with the Soldiers and give them Certificates.—Their Arrearages of Pay to be made up as soon as Circumstances will admit. “Fifthly. A Pair of Shoes, Overalls and Shirt will be delivered to each Soldier in a few Days, as they are already purchased and ready to be sent forward, whenever the Line shall be settled.—Those who are discharged to receive the above Articles at Trenton, producing the General’s Discharge. “The President hopes that no Soldier of the Pennsylvania Line will break his Bargain, or go from the Contract made with the Public—and they may depend upon it, that the utmost Care will be taken to furnish them with every Necessary fitting for a Soldier.


[Page 595]
January 8,1781 561 “The President will recommend to the State to take some favourable Notice of those who engaged for the War. “The Commissioners will attend at Trenton, where the Clothing and the Stores will be immediately brought, and the Regiments to be settled with in their Order. A Field-Officer of each Regiment to attend during the Settlement of his Regiment. “Pursuant to General Wayne’s Orders of the 2d Instant, no Man to be brought to any Trial or Censure for what has happened on or since New-Year’s Day, but all Matters to be buried in Oblivion. Jos. Reed James Potter.” *In the printed broadside from which this text is taken, “Princeton” was inserted to correct “Trenton.” Similarly, in the two paragraphs following the fifth article, “President” was penned in to replace “Governor.” 3 The committee’s proposals, printed here as an enclosure, arrived too late to have an impact on this day’s negotiations, which resulted in a tentative settlement. The copy of the committee’s proposals in Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:138, bears an endorsement by Reed: “Received after my proposals were made and accepted and therefore not offered.” Reed’s response to this letter is in Campbell, Bland Papers, 2:49-50. *In the printed broadside from which this text is taken, “Princeton” was inserted to correct “Trenton.” Similarly, in the two paragraphs following the fifth article, “President” was penned in to replace “Governor.” 3 The committee’s proposals, printed here as an enclosure, arrived too late to have an impact on this day’s negotiations, which resulted in a tentative settlement. The copy of the committee’s proposals in Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:138, bears an endorsement by Reed: “Received after my proposals were made and accepted and therefore not offered.” Reed’s response to this letter is in Campbell, Bland Papers, 2:49-50. Georgia Delegates’ “Observations” [January 8, 1781] 1 Observations by the Delegates of Georgia. From the most recent accounts that have been received from Europe, there is the greatest reason to expect that a new commission will issue from the court of London, for the purpose of again sounding the temper of America, upon the subject of a pacification; in which the state of Georgia, and perhaps that of South-Carolina, will not be regarded as part of the American Union, but excluded as having been again colonized to England by new conquest. The uti possidetis also has been much talked of in Europe, as a probable basis for the peace; and this report, although rejected with marks of abhorrence by all descriptions of men in America, circulates with terrors, as it is pretended to be drawn from the armed Neutrality. The people who would be particularly affected by the operation of such principles, ought to fear every thing; although justice, humanity and the interests of America, and her friends, forbid them to dread any thing. They united in the one cause, and have sacrificed their blood and fortunes in it’s support; and therefore it would be unjust and


[Page 596]
562 January 8, 1781 inhuman, for the other parts of the Union, separately to embrace the result of the common efforts, and leave them under the yoke of a bankrupt and enraged tyrant. To preserve the States entire, is the object of the alliance with France, and it cannot be the interest of the other great branch of the family compact, that we should again make a part of the British empire. We will not, however, enter into any farther discussion of this subject, than will be sufficient to shew the importance of the question as it respects our own State, leaving to others to speak of their interests. In point of commerce, no part of North-America has given such presages of importance, as the colony and state of Georgia. From the conclusion of the last war, when it could scarcely be called a province of England, to the commencement of the present, the rapid increase of it’s exports is scarcely to be equalled in any part of the world, as appears by Brown’s aggregate, [see page ll] 2 and other authentic documents. The principal articles of exportation before the war, were rice, indigo, and skins, to Europe, and lumber, horses, and provisions to the West-Indies: but since, the necessities of the citizens, and the liberty left to every man to pursue his own schemes, have been the source of new discoveries. Tobacco has been cultivated with the most astonishing success, by men who have emigrated from Virginia. Upon trial, it has been found, that both the climate and the soil are better adapted to the cultivation of this plant than those of Virginia: the vegetation being more rapid, and the season longer, the planter is enabled to produce two good crops in the year; whereas one only can be obtained in Virginia and Maryland. The face of the earth is less broken, and, therefore, the soil is richer, although of the same species: nor is the quality otherwise than superior. About the beginning of this war, Mr. Hammond made several hogsheads from a field at the Walnut Hills near Augusta, which, being sent to London, sold for a farthing per pound more than the best from Virginia and Maryland; although he had not all the conveniences (it being the first attempt) necessary for the well-curing the plant. It is a fact, that, had the State remained uninterrupted by the enemy’s army, two thirds of the planters, in the year 1779, would have turned their attention almost wholly upon tobacco, it being in more demand than rice or indigo. Upon several other trials also, it has been found, that hemp and cotton grow in the greatest luxuriance, and may be cultivated to much advantage: and the interior country abounds in iron ore. Advantages such as these, apply of themselves: but when we consider the amazing variety, and extensive usefulness of the productions of this State, the parties in this war against England must see, in a still stronger point of view, the necessity of keeping it out of her hands. This is not all: an object of still greater importance must be considered. The coast of Georgia is approached by a gradual ascent from the gulph


[Page 597]
January 8, 1781 563 of Florida, which runs nearly parallel with it; and her bars and inlets are superior to any on the southern part of the Continent. She has besides, the best timbers in the world for building ships of war: her islands and seaboard abound in live-oak trees; the wood of which is the firmest and most resisting against assaults, and the least prone to decay, of any which has yet been discovered. Some time before this contest, the British merchants in Georgia were encouraged by government, to build large merchant vessels of this timber, with a view to convert them into frigates, in case of a war which was then near taking place with France. The scheme, however, was not pursued far, on account of the dispute with America. Congress too, since the war, have been so sensible of the utility of getting ships of this wood, that, in the latter end of the year 1776, they directed the Marine Committee to send persons to Georgia to cut timbers for a seventy-four gun ship, and four frigates. Moulds were made in Philadelphia, and Mr. Donaldson was employed, and went and cut the timbers, and planned a continental yard upon Sutherland’s Bluff, along side of which a seventy-four gun ship, it is said, can ride with perfect safety, and near which place the timbers now lie. This gentleman, upon his return to Philadelphia, reported to the marine office, that the best of timbers of every kind, for building any number and sizes of ships, might be had in Georgia. However, this plan of augmenting the American marine could not be prosecuted, the enemy having got possession of the coast in the latter part of the year 1778. An extract of an official letter to the Marine Committee, now in the admiralty-office at Philadelphia, from Mr. Wereat, the Agent of Congress in that State, and who had resided upon different parts of the Sea-board upwards of twenty years, will give some idea of the importance of this object. He says: “The live-oak timber in this State is exceeding good and plenty: it is to be found for large ships, in the greatest quantity, upon the sea-islands. The largest I have observed is on the island of Black-beard, which is not far from the middle of our coast. Sappelo inlet is the best water of any on this part of the continent: from the best information, there is about five fathom at high water, and a fine bold channel from thence up to Sutherland’s Bluff, on the main land, distant about twelve miles, on and near which place there is good timber. “There is likewise to be got near this spot, fine pine timber for plank, which may be cut from thirty to fifty feet long, and upwards. “There is another place about forty miles to the southward of the former, very proper for the same purpose, called Brunswick, which has a communication by St. Simon’s inlet, at the south end of the island of that name. It has a good bar, and a forty gun ship has been in there at the first settlement of the country by General Oglethorpe. If I recollect right, there is twenty-five feet upon the bar at high water, and a good channel.


[Page 606]
572 January 8,1781 have been hurt by any Branches of our Operations, all Endeavor should be made to lighten the Harm. But I need not address [. . .] to your Kind Feelings towards sufferers, I will only say on this as Tully did on most Occasions “I recommend her Case, and wish she may find my Recommendation to have been useful.” I missed by a few Moments the Opportunity of bidding your very amiable Wife 3 a tender Adieu. I would not have told her, as I do you, that I love and esteem her greatly, but really my Friend I would have tryed to imprint it on her Cheeck. I see Jemmy Rivington has catched you. He is a Telltale Scoundrel, is he not? You would smile to hear what Work Interpreters make here of my References to some Salt Mackrel which Gerry promised to send to Mrs. Clymar. And they make my Abreviation of Massachusetts relate to romish Mass. Genl. Warren’s Account with the Commercial Comtee. is mistaken for Something against Religion because his name was gutted Genl. W , 4 The Draughts you made are nearly discharged by the Treasurer, and I have reed, the last Payment from Mr. Hodgden for the Goods sold to him. I do not recollect whether I have not before desired to know whether any Thing is so decided [....] for yr. Deputies: as to enable me to form a Judgment about my Son’s Situation 5 with Col. Hatch. 6 I hope he is enabled to feed and cloath himself. Your Friend and humble Servt. James Lovell [P. S. ] Majr. Rogers was yesterday brought Prisoner, taken near Penobscot R. RC (MHi: Pickering Papers). 1 Not identified. 2 Lovell wrote in the margin at this point: “30 dollrs.” 3 That is, Rebecca White Pickering. 4 For the meaning of this cryptic reference, see Lovell to Elbridge Gerry, November 20, 1780, notes 3 and 6. 5 Which of Lovell’s several sons is referred to here is unclear, but the eldest, James, was an adjutant in Henry Lee’s Corps then serving in the Carolinas. 6 That is, Col. Jabez Hatch, deputy quartermaster general for Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island. Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Jany. 8th 1781 About 8 oClock last Monday night the Pensylvania line mutinyed the 1st & 5th Regiments remained on the ground, but were forced by the others to Join, Two Captains were killed, Several Subalterns & privates wounded in attempting to Suppress them—they marched in a body to Prince Town, in Spite of every Effort their officers to


[Page 607]
January 8,1781 573 reduce them to order—where they remain under the Command of the Sergeants with guards posted, Genl Waine, Cols. Stewart & Buttler are at Prince Town, to whom the Mutineers have Sent a guard. President Reed went to Princetown last Friday & a Committee from Congress are at Trentown. Their Greivances are 1st: that many of them enlisted for three years or during the war—& are held in Service over the three years by vertue of Such enlistment. 2nd: that they have not received their pay or Cloathing—but what had great influence in raising the mutiny was—recruiting Officers Coming among them with hard money to enlist the Seven months men who had received large Sums for the Seven months Service. This was too much for them to bear. Last Saturday a Spy with a guide from Genl Clinton Came into their Camp with proposals a Copy of which is enclosed. They took them both & Sent them with the proposals to Genl Wayne—who Sent them to Trenton where they are Safely lodged in goal. Two vessels arrived yesterday from France but bring no public despatches. They were but partly freighted Saw the public Cloathing at LOreant Could have Brot. Some of them but no body appeared to Ship them altho, they advertised their want of freight—however they Say that a large east India man is Coming round to LOreant to take them in—they say that 9 Ships of the line & 4,000 Troops are at Nants ready to Sail Supposed to be for America. No New material from the Southward Since my last—the embarkation that lately took place at Newyork under Arnold, Genl. Washington Informs Consisted of about 1600 men and Are supposed to be gone to the Southward. The Time for paying the army is arrived—the plan of the 18th of March last is productive of very little Money yet—& appears more & more dubious. I think there must be a total reform of the system. Congress must exercise the proper powers & Establish all the necessary Executive boards & offices— and as the Wealth of a nation is the aggregate wealth of its Citizens— the spring of industry and economy the prospect of advantage, which, prospect, will be more or less Opperative according to the Opinion the people have of the Justice of the government under which they live, the Security it affords to property & the liberty it gives to every one to make the most of what they have to put off in an honest way to remove therefore all fetters & our embarressments on Trade, except with the Enemy, omit to force upon any person paper bills for money—& to take measures to encourage Industry & CEconomy, & to revive the Confidence of the people in the Justice of their rulers. I think is the only natural & wise method to extricate Ourselves from our present embarrassments into which we are brot. in Some measure by unnatural Expedients. This will lay a foundation to enable the Citizens to pay largely for the public use of & give government firmness & Support—but


[Page 610]
576 January 9, 1781 storm, which we have the best reason to imagine they had to encounter. This circumstance we flatter ourselves, will be attended with many advantages, as it will necessarily cause delay on their part, & give the longer time for your reinforcements coming in. And further, that our Express, will reach you before they can, & although the notice of their approach may be short, yet it will be of consequence. We are Sir, with much Esteem & regard, yr. most Obedt. servts. In behalf of the Committee, Jno Mathews Chairman RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written and signed by John Mathews. 1 Not identified, but perhaps copies of the resolutions concerning prisoners of war that President Huntington sent to Greene and to the states this date. 2 See the Committee to Greene, January 4, 1781. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to Samuel Huntington Sir, Trenton, Jany 9th 1781 Since our Last Dispatch by Mr.Duer forwarded this morning 1 we have received further Intelligence from President Read 2 Informing that the Pensylvania Line had <agreed>in consequence of a recquisition for that purpose & the Terms offered them to March to this Town. They are now viz 2 o’Clock within two miles of Town & Some of them are already Arrived. We flatter ourselves that they will here receive their officers and that The unhappy Dispute will be brought to a favorable Issue. Should we be Disappointed in our hopes Yet the bringing forward, the Troops to this place will be gaining a great point in Case other than Lenient Measures Should become necessary. I have the honor to be with much Esteem yr. Excys most obedt. Servt, by order of the Committee, Jno. Sullivan RC (DNA: PCC, item 152). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 Apparently the committee’s January 8 letter to Huntington. 2 Undoubtedly the second and third letters from Joseph Reed of January 8, for which see the Committee to Reed, January 8 (2d letter), note 1. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to William Livingston Trenton Jany. 9th. 1781 Sir, In Committee of Congress The Committee of Congress think it absolutely necessary as they have received information from his Excellency Govr. Reid that the


[Page 612]
578 January 9, 1781 for the term of three years or during the war, excepting those whose terms of enlistments are not expired, ought to be discharged immediately with as little delay as circumstances will allow, except such soldiers who have voluntarily re-enlisted—in case that any soldier should dispute his enlistment, it is to be settled by a committee, and the soldier’s oath. The remainder of his Excellency’s & the Honbl. Board of Committees proposal is founded upon honour and justice, but in regard to the Hon’ble Board setting forth that there will be appointed three persons to sit as a Committee to redress our grievances, it is therefore, the general demand of the line, and the Board of Serjeants, that we shall appoint as many members as of the opposite to sit as a Committee to determine justly upon our unhappy affairs, as the path we tread is justice and our footsteps founded upon honor. “Therefore we unanimously do agree that there should be something done towards a speedy redress of our present circumstances. “Signed by order of the Board, Wm. Bouzar, Sec’y.” Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to George Washington Dear General, Trenton J any 9 th 1781 I have the Honor to Inclose your Excy. by Direction of the Committee a Copy of a Letter from Govr Read 1 with Copy of the proposals made by the Committee to the Mutineers 2 of the Pensylvania Line by which first it appears That they are Determined to Accept of the Terms offered & we flatter ourselves That this unhappy Dispute will Soon be brought to a favorable Issue. I have the Honor to be, Most Respectfully yr. Excys most obedt Servt, Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 This January 8 letter has been printed in Campbell, Bland Papers, 2:46-48; and Reed, Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2:327-29. 2 See the enclosure to the committee’s second letter to Joseph Reed, January 8, 1781. Samuel Huntington to John Adams Sir, Philadelphia January 9. 1781 You will receive herewith enclosed a Duplicate of my Letter of the first Instant and the several Papers it covered; to which are now added and herewith transmitted two Letters of Credence under Cover, the one addressed to the Prince Stadtholder, and the other to their high Mightinesses the States General, with Copies of both for your Information. 1 With the highest respect, I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President


[Page 619]
January 10, 1781 585 Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny Draft Proclamation [January 10, 1781] By the Committee of Congress appointed to Quiet the Disturbances in the Pensylvania Line &c A Proclamation 1 Whereas Certain Propositions have been Made to the Troops of the Pensylvania Line by the President of the State of Pensylvania & assented to by the Committee of Congress Empowered to Act in Conjunction with the Supreme Executive Council of that [Sta]te for Quieting the Disturbances aforesaid. A[nd W]hereas The Committee of Congress willing To do Justice [and] Extend mercy [ev]en to those who have violated the Laws of these united States and Induce them by Lenient m[easur]es to return to Their Duty [and] Allegiance do hereby in behalf of the united States ratify & Confirm the [. . .] aforesaid and are ready to p[roceed] to the Execution of the promises held forth [to the] Troops of the Pensylvania Line. And w[e immedi]ately Authorize Commissioners to Setde any [and all?] Claims [and] redress the Grievances [complained] of by sa[id] Troops And we do by This [Proclamation Publish & Declare a Free Pard[on to a]ll Such non Commissioned officers and soldiers of the Pensylvania Line as shall immediately Return to Their Duty and Submit themselves to their proper officers and will fully Indemnify them from Punishment for any offence Committed by them or Either of them from the 31st Day of December Last to the Date hereof given at Barclays House near Trenton, the 10th Day of Jany 1781. MS (ViHi: Bland Papers). In the hand of John Sullivan. 1 It is not known whether this proclamation was actually adopted and distributed by the committee. Only this damaged draft, which was retained by Theodorick Bland, has been found. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to Samuel Huntington Sir Barcleys House Jany 10th 1781 I have the Honor to Inform Your Excy by Direction of the Committee That the Insurgents marched into Trenton Yesterday and are now in Conference with President Read who has the proposals of Your Committee to Communicate, And there Seems Some Prospect of bringing this Dispute to a happy Issue. Every measure


[Page 620]
586 January 10,1781 has been pursued by the Committee to Accomplish the Business Intrusted in them. I have the Honor to be, with the most perfect Esteem, Yr. Excys Most obedt Servt, J no - Sullivan RC (DNA: PCC, item 152). Written and signed by John Sullivan. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to Samuel Huntington Si r Barcleys House Jany 10th 1781 I have now the honor of Inclosing your Excellency by Direction of the Committee, The answer of the Pensylvania Troops to Certain Requisitions made by us by which it appears that they are Sincerely Disposed to Setde the Dispute upon Reasonable Terms 1 and we doubt not of having the matter brought to a Speedy Issue. General Clinton has Sent another Emissary with additional proposals of a more advantageous & alluring nature. The Messenger came to General Wayne & Revealed the purpose of his Mission & now remains with him. 2 We also Inclose your Excellency Copy of the Last Intelligence received from the Jersy Shore. Messrs Barcley and McClanaghan Inform us that they have a vessel ready to Sail for France from Philadelphia & have generously offered to Detain her untill this unhappy Dispute is Terminated Lest Some unfavorable impression Should be made in Europe respecting our affairs. This Generous offer we have Embraced & will give you the Earliest Notice of the Accommodations that the vessel may not be Detained Longer than is necessary and that Congress may have an opportunity of Transmitting by that vessel a True State of the Affair. I have the honor to be most respectfully yr Excys most obedt Servt, Jno Sullivan RC (DNA: PCC, item 20). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 This enclosure was apparently the following note of this date to Pres. Joseph Reed from Daniel Connell on behalf of the board of sergeants. “Pursuant to your Excellency’s demand concerning the two Emissaries from the Brittish the Board of Committee—Resolved that those Men shou’d be delivered up to the Supreme Authority in order to shew that we wou’d remove every Doubt of Suspicion and Jealousy. Also that the Men may disperse upon being discharged—they delivering up their Arms, &c.” See PCC, item 20, 2:107-8; and Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, 2:205. 2 The identity of this “Messenger’ ’ is not known, but for the story of the additional emissaries sent out by Sir Henry Clinton at this time, i.e., in addition to John Mason and James Ogden, see Van Doren, Mutiny in January, pp. 168-76.


[Page 622]
588 January 11,1781 Pennsylvania troops; James Potter represented the Pennsylvania Council, and delegate Samuel J. Adee, formerly lieutenant colonel commandant of a Pennsylvania musket battalion, represented Congress. For the work of the commission, see ibid., pp. 194-203. See also Atlee to Joseph Reed, January 16, 1781. Committee on the Pennsylvania Mutiny to Samuel Huntington Sir, Barcley’s House Jany 11th 1781 I have the Honor to inform Your Excellency by Direction of the Committee That the Two British Emissaries who were yesterday Delivered up by the Pensylvania Troops have been Tryed and Condemned by a Board of officers & will be Executed This morning. This Cuts off all Prospects of a reconciliation between the Troops and Sir Henry Clinton. The Commissioners appointed to Determine who ought to be Discharged are now Sitting. 1 Genl. Waine has gone to Penny Town 2 to bring in the Commanding officers of the Respective Regiments to Take their Command & we flatter ourselves that This Day will Terminate the affair. They have not as yet Dissolved their Board of Serjeants Though it is probable they will do it upon the Arival of their officers. I have the Honor to be with the most perfect Esteem Your Excellys most obedient Servant, Jno. Sullivan RC (DNA: PCC, item 152). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 See the preceding entry, note 2. 2 That is, Pennington, N.J., about ten miles west of Princeton, where the displaced officers of the Pennsylvania line had collected following the mutiny to await their reinstatement. The committee’s prediction that the officers were about to resume their commands was premature, since the estrangement of the mutineers from their officers was one of the sticking points in reaching a settlement. For the continued “stubborn resentment” of the men with their officers, and the unhappiness of the Pennsylvania officers over the subordinate position to which they had been relegated during the mutiny, see Van Doren, Mutiny in January, pp. 196-200. Charles Thomson to Richard Peters Sir, J an y U- 1781 Baron d’Arendt preferred a memorial to Congress, desiring to have an act passed approving the reasons of his absenting himself over the time allowed by his furlough. 1 This was referred to the board of War. He now complains that the board has not reported on that matter and he desires to know whether Congress will continue him in service and employ him in negotiating between the United States & the court of Prussia or in the line of the Army or in both. As to


[Page 625]
January 12,1781 591 & West for their Misconduct as represented in your Letter of the 6th of December last. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 For Reed’s December 6 letter, which charged that former Clothier General James Mease and his deputy William West, in collusion with Benedict Arnold, had in 1778 taken from citizens of Philadelphia “great quantities of Merchandize not necessary for the Army, which were converted to their private emolument,” see PCC, item 69, 2:306-10; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:639. For the enclosed resolve recommending that Pennsylvania proceed with the prosecution of Mease and West, “in the name of the United States,” see JCC, 18:1129-30, 1149, 1164, 19:40-41; and PCC, item 20, 2:137-38. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia January 12, 1781 Your Excellency will be informed by the enclosed Copies No 1 & 2 of the 8th Inst., that Brigadier General Hand is appointed Adjutant General 1 —And also of the Measures Congress have adopted to procure Specie for the Use of the Prisoners in New York & its Vicinity. 2 I have also enclosed the Deposition of George Bateman No. 3, giving an Account of the Manner in which our People, Prisoners with the Enemy are treated. 3 I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect & Esteem, sir, your most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 19:39. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve to Gen. Edward Hand this day. Hand Papers, PHi. 2 See JCC, 19:38; and Huntington to the States, January 9, 1781. 3 Copies of the enclosed December 19 deposition of George Batterman concerning the mistreatment he had endured because of his resistance to British recruiters after he had been captured as a passenger on a voyage to Rhode Island from the West Indies, are in the Washington Papers, DLC; and PCC, item 53, fols. 145-48. The deposition was one of a number of documents submitted to the congressional committee on prisoner mistreatment whose recommendations had been adopted and sent to Washington the previous week, for which see Huntington to Washington, January 6, 1781, note 1. It was printed in the Pennsylvania Packet, January 16, 1781. Charles Thomson to John Hancock Sir, Philadelphia Jany. 12th. 1781. I have received the letter which you have done me the honor to write on the 21st December and have given directions that greater


[Page 639]
January 16, 1781 605 particular State—and thereby extend the publick Credit by establishing a Revenue purely National. We cannot Say but that Sentiments of this kind may be thot improper. But when We find Ourselves charged in our political Capacity with the Violations of Ingagments—And feel the loss of National Credit—these Sentiments Appear to us just. What has been principally talked of and expected, to obtain this End, has been a Cession to the United States of their unlocated Territory and that the States Vest Congress with exclusive Power to regulate Foraign Commerce and to lay reasonable Dutys upon Imports and Exports. This is a Measure Not yet agreed to, and We cannot Say what will be done in Regard to it. Before We close this Letter We cannot but express our Grief that a People who generally possess the most Ardent Desires to establish their Libertys upon the fullest Conviction of their high Importance, That a Country abounding with Men and Supplies, yet from a Defect in their Constitution or Councils or both of them, should not seem to have it in their Power to call them forth with more-Advantage— And altho our past Experience has proved to us that our Exertions have been Aided by the Almighty—And that our Cause is supported by Two of the Belligerent Powers of Europe and countenanced We believe by all the Rest, except our open and professed Enemys, yet We seem to be in a Condition as if We did not possess those Advantages. This Strange Situation can hardly be otherwise Accounted for, than that the National Principles from whence Union and Force are to be derived are not properly established—And it may with equal Propriety be Said—That proper Arrangments to Ascertain and check the publick Expenditures have not yet been made—And that there is a general Defect in the Establishment of the civil executive Departments Acting immediately under Congress. These Objects are likewise in Contemplation and may possibly be put upon a more Advantagious footing. We have No Intilligence to communicate to your Excellency but what you will find in the publick Papers. We are with every Sentiment of Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient, humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott Jesse Root RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Wolcott and signed by Wolcott and Root. 1 Samuel Huntington’s January 15, 1781, circular letter to the states is in JCC, 19:57-61.


[Page 641]
January 16,1781 607 very fast below them, I am in hopes the Virginians will Exert themselves on this occasion and Catch that Scoundrel Arnold. Congress are Endeavouring to Devise Some mode to pay for the flour Seised by Virtue of your Excellencys warrant for that purpose to our State agent, and Communicated to Congress by General Washington. However desireous they may be to make Compensation for the provisions thus Obtained Yet they are put to Difficulties to know from whence the money can be obtained for that purpose. 1 By the Circular Letter from Congress which you will Receive about the time youl Receive this, 2 your Excellency will Discover the Embarrassd Circumstances of America—and it is to be hoped that the Delinquent States when they See the Danger which awaits them and the Continent in General, by Reason of their neglect or inattention, that they will be Induced to Exertions beyond what they have Yet made. Congress are fully Sensible of the Exertions of the State of New York in this Contest, But as that Letter is Circular, it is proper that our State Should Receive one. After Wishing you the Compliments of the Season I Subscribe my Self your Most Obedt. and humble Servt. Wm.Floyd RC (N: Clinton Papers). Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 6:578-80. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 The question of compensation for New York’s flour was brought before Congress on December 29 in an extract from George Clinton’s December 15 letter to George Washington, who enclosed it in his December 22, 1780, letter to Samuel Huntington. The letters were referred to a five-man committee chaired by Floyd. JCC, 18:1203; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:1-2. 2 See JCC, 19:57-61. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia January 16. 1781 I have the Honor to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Copy of a Circular Letter to the several States from Pennsylvania to New Hampshire inclusive, which will give you the needful Information of the present Measures Congress have adopted to procure the Pay of the Army &c? Hope that your Excellency’s Letter to the Eastern States, on the same Subject (Copy of which I have been honored with) may have a good Effect; 2 yet to me it seems absolutely necessary that more certain & permanent Funds should be obtained to defray the Expence of the War than hath been hitherto devised, and which ought to be the principal Object of Congress, and will, I trust, claim their continued Attention until accomplished in the best possible Measure our Circumstances will admit.


[Page 644]
610 January 16, 1781 The trade of this City has just suffered a very severe blow. No less than seven fine Vessels have been taken out of an Outward bound fleet & carried into N. York. I am Dr. Sir Yrs. very sincerely, James Madison Junr. [P. y ] The Emissary from Clinton with his guide were executed on Saturday morning last. 3 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:286-87. 1 Not found. 2 For the Virginia assembly’s appointment of this “Delegate Extraordinary,” see Madison to Joseph Jones, December 12, 1780, note 3. 3 The British emissaries had in fact been executed on Thursday, January 11. North Carolina Delegates to John Laurens Sir Philadelphia Jany. 16th. 1781 A particular knowledge of the State of the country which we have the honor to represent in Congress, being so necessary for enabling you to give a just Idea of the situation of the affairs of the united States to his most Christian Majesty and his Ministers, and your own attention having been so much engaged in the business of the field, as probably to have prevented your attending to the acquiring of such knowledge, we presume our Ideas will not be entirely useless and therefore we offer them to you. 1 North Carolina, which once afforded great abundance of provisions for its own inhabitants and a considerable quantity for exportation, has, by natural casualties and the events of the war, been reduced so as to afford but a scanty supply for the inhabitants. The events of the war have occasioned embargoes and great difficulty of exporting bulky articles, such as provisions and consequently lessened the demand; the objects of agriculture soon were confined to the support of the husbandman and his family and very little surplus was produced. Considerable drafts of the husbandmen were frequently made to oppose the Indian and British enemy who attacked the States of South Carolina and Georgia, and this also very much deranged the agriculture of the country. For near twelve months past the western country has been the theatre of the most wasteful ravage committed reciprocally by irregular bands of Whigs & Tories—by troops who were very ill supplied—by the enemy under Ferguson before the defeat at Kings Mountain and by those under Lord Cornwallis before his retreat from Charlotte. Natural casualties have been peculiarly unfavourable. One year the crops very generally failed on the upland through extreme drought and the low lands on the rivers, which are in general exceedingly


[Page 645]
January 16,1781 611 fertile and productive were wasted by innundations which were the effect of heavy rains that succeeded the long drought. The next year a blast destroyed the wheat so generally that it became difficult to procure seed for a very small proportion of the grounds which were usually cultivated for that grain, so that the succeeding crops, tho very good, were very small in quantity. The last season was happy in affording fine crops of every thing and had not the derangements before mentioned circumscribed agriculture in general and its product near the seat of the war, provisions could be had in great plenty for a considerable army. What remains in the western part of the country must be brought very slowly and with great difficulty to the magazines from which the troops are to be supplied, because the constant waste of carriages and draught cattle had made transportation extremely difficult. The lower part of the country which is not exhausted and would furnish a good quantity of provisions, is so remote from the scene of war in the back country that in our present circumstances no aid can be derived from it by land transportation. The resources of Virginia are very plentiful but are also at too great a distance to be relied on for extensive operations. Thus Sir, you see we are in a very ill condition to oppose an enemy who can convey their supplies up the rivers of South Carolina near to the [scene of] action, while ours are at a prodigious distance widely scattered, capable of transportation only by land, and the means of that transportation extremely difficult. From this view you will clearly perceive how important an object it is to attack the enemy on the sea coast in such force as to oblige them to withdraw their troops from the interior country and this under the auspicies of a naval superiority. The scene of war would then be removed to a country where positions could be taken with advantage and supplies furnished in abundance through the navigable rivers, bays and sounds of Virginia, North and South Carolina. With the highest consideration, we have the honor to be, Sir, Your Most Obedient and most humble Servants, Tho Burke Wm. Sharpe Sam Johnston RC (NcD: Henry Laurens Manuscripts). Written by Sharpe and signed by Sharpe, Burke, and Johnston. 1 For other efforts to provide Laurens with current information on conditions in various states, see Thomas Burke to Laurens, December 26, and Oliver Wolcott to Laurens, December 27, 1780.


[Page 649]
January 20, 1781 615 I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, Sir, your most obedt & most hbble Servant, Sami. Huntington President RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For the enclosed resolve and the recommendations of the Board of War upon which it was based, see JCC, 19:65-66; and PCC, item 147, 6.1-11. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Si r Philadelphia January 18. 1781 Your Excellency will be informed by the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 17th Instant that Doctor John Cockran is elected Director General in the room of Doctor Shippen resigned, 1 That Mr John Pierce is elected Paymaster, 2 and also that some Alterations are made in the late Plan for conducting the Hospital Department. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington to John Cochran, this date. 1 See JCC, 19:48, 65, 72. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day with a brief cover letter to Pierce. PCC, item 15, fol. 220. Samuel Huntington to Caesar Rodney Si r> Philadelphia January 20. 1781 I have the Honor to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Copy of a resolve of Congress of this Day, by which you will be informed that I am directed to represent to the Executive of Delaware State the Necessity of forming Magazines of Flour contiguous to the Army. And to request you in the strongest Terms that the Quota of Flour from your State may be sent forward by Water to Trenton without Delay. 1 You will readily conceive the Difficulty of Land Carriage for any great Distance at this Season, and from the latest Accounts respecting the State of the Magazines of Flour near the Army, should the Quota of Flour from the State of Delaware fail of being forwarded agreeable to the foregoing request the Consequence is much to be dreaded. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, Sir, your most obedt & most hbble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (CtY: William Griswold Lane Collection). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. i JCC, 19:73.


[Page 656]
622 January 23,1781 We have reed, no fresh or certain information of the designs of F. and Spain in assembling so great a force at Cadiz. There does not appear to be any object in that Quarter except Gibralter. Should the attempts be renewed agst. that place, it will prove that the former has not that absolute sway in the Cabinet of the latter which has been generally imagined. Nothing could have prevailed on the French to recall their fleet from the Islands at the time they did but the necessity of humouring Spain on the subject of her hobby horse. I am glad to hear that Arnold has been at last fired at. It sounded a little unfavorably for us in the ears of people here that he was likely to get off without that proof of a hostile reception. If he ventures an irruption in any other quarter I hope he will be made sensible that his impunity on James River was owing to the suddeness of his appearance & not to the want of spirit in the people. I am Dr. Sir Yrs sincerely, J. Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:297. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson S r. Philadelphia Jany 23d. 1781 It is with much concern that we have learnt from Your Excellencys and the Baron de Steubens letters to Congress, 1 the Misfortunes our Country has sufferd from the Invasion under the command of the detestable Arnold, and that he has ventured with impunity even to our Capitol. We have some reason to Imagine that the same plan of operations which induced Clinton to send him there will occasion him to remain in our Bay and continue that alarm to our state and Maryland which he has so successfully begun in order to Harrass our Militia, encrease our expences, waste our resources destroy our Magazines and Stores when he finds it practicable, and by thus distracting us prevent our sending the necessary Succours to the Southern Army. This Sr. is a game we are open to at every period of our short enlistments, and in a great measure exposed to for want of a Militia organized to take the field, a few Gun boats or Galleys, and some good fortifications in the most advantageous Situations on our Rivers for defence, but this late event has renderd this so obvious, that we are fully persuaded our Country will now see the necessity of adopting arrangements very different from what have been of late trusted to. We have been anxiously expecting to hear that some steps were taken at Rhode Island in Consequence of our application to the Minister 2 —but it is more probable you will hear before we do. Shd. that event take place, which we have spared no pains to have accomplished; and of this we have little doubt shd.


[Page 662]
628 January 27, 1781 fixing the Time to the first of August last conformable to the Pay in the Line of the Army. 4 I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President P.S. I have been Honourd with your favour of the 23d instant. 5 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The enclosed petition from eight American prisoners, dated “Long Island, November 5, 1780,” which had been read and referred to committee on December 9, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. SeeJCC, 18:1132, 19:92-93. In his February 13 response, Washington explained that he could not exchange the petitioners because the British claimed that they must be exchanged at the rank they held in their militias, which would both inflate their exchange value and encourage the enemy to conduct raids to capture militiamen simply to exchange them for British regulars. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:219. 2 See JCC, 19:76-77. 3 These words were omitted by Huntington’s clerk from the RC but appear in the presidential letterbook, PCC, item 15, fol. 225. ♦ JCC, 19:90-91. 5 This letter, which was read in Congress January 29, is in PCC, item 152, 9:515-16; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:135-36. John Sullivan to Alexander McDougall Dear Sir Philadelphia Jany 27th 1781 As you have had the Politeness to undertake in the affair between Mr Burk & myself it becomes my Duty to acquaint you with the Facts. 1 I am Convinced you would never Espouse the Cause of any Man who had been guilty of ungentlemanly Conduct or Condemn one who has not willingly Transgressed by a wanton Departure from the Rules of Propriety. As it is imposible to know how this Dispute may Terminate: a Desire to vindicate my own reputation; and to Enable you Clearly to Decide upon the Justice, & Propriety, of the Part you have been polite Enough to undertake: I take the Liberty of Laying before you the following State of Facts. A few Days after the Battle of Brandiwyne I received a Letter from a member of Congress in these words, 2 “I find Some of the Southern members are Determined to ruin your reputation, one of them has accused you of the most Shameful Conduct at the Battle of Brandiwyne in which action he pretends to have had a Considerable hand & asserts that he assisted to rally your broken Troops which you had not Sufficient Skill to do yourself & that to your ill Arangement, bad Disposition of your Troops & misconduct the Loss of the Battle Ought to be attributed: Congress have in Consequence Suspended you from the Service.” As no name was mentioned I was totally at a Loss to Guess the Person. I was rather Led to believe


[Page 663]
January 27,1781 629 Alexander McDougall


[Page 664]
630 January 27,1781 it was Either Mr Penn or Mr Smith, the former of which I know corresponded with Major Taylor who was my accuser in the affair of Staten Island. With how much Justice this accusation was made you who have Sat in Judgment upon the affair can Easily Determine. 3 I had been informed that Mr Penn was warm in Supporting that Accusation against me In Congress. I was Informed that both Mr Penn & Mr Smith were members of Congress & that Mr Smith was a near relation of Lieut Colo Smith who was an assistant to Major Taylor in the affair of Staten Island. I had been Informed that they were both in the Action of Brandywine. I was therefore Led to believe it was one of those Gentlemen but could [no<] Determine with Certainty. I recollected to have Seen Several Gentlemen on Horseback riding in a field where General Washington was near a mile & a half from the Place of Action. I Supposed them volunteers but was Informed that there were among them Some members of Congress but who I did not then inquire, my Letter therefore of the 6th of October 4 was Like Drawing a Bow at a venture & had Mr Burk Sent to Inquire whether I meant to Censure him for any thing he had Said against me in Congress I Should have replyed that I never once heard that he had Mentioned my name. He was the first Person that gave me the Information by Letter 5 in which you will find that he not only Tells me what he had Said in Congress but makes a number of assertions founded in mistake. So far then as respected Mr Burks Declarations in Congress it became my Duty to remove Every impression it had made & in my Letter to Congress Inclosing the written Declarations of General Washington & others I considered Mr Burk as a member of that Body & I think Treated him with Decency but in his Letter written to me wherein he undertakes to Accuse me to myself &. Threatens to call me to Account as a Gentleman & Demands an Explanation of my Letter; I by no means Considered him as a member of Congress but as a Private Gentleman & as Such replied to his assertions made to myself, after which I considered all our Correspondence as between two private Gentlemen & that he had Either by Accident or Design Deprived himself of the Robes of Authority. I am not Clearly convinced that a member of Congress has a right to Take what Liberties he thinks proper with the Character of an officer and I think I can never be brought to believe that he can have a Priviledge of writing to any Gentleman Accusing him of want of Capacity & Every thing that would make him contemptible in the Eyes of the world & the other be Barred from replying with Spirit becase his Accuser was a member of Congress. I therefore considered myself at full Liberty at Least to return Acrimony for Acrimony. I am not possessed of the Correpondence, But I understand Mr Burk has all but my Last Letter from Rhode Island about which we Shall have no Difficulty as the words Said to be Exceptionable are 6 “The Several assertions in your Letter are as far from Truth as I Deem


[Page 665]
January 27,1781 631 the assertor to be from a Gentleman of Honor or Candor.” These words or Some others of the Same purport were undoubtedly used. But then it was in return to a Letter full of Invectives against me repeating the Charges which were first urged by him against me. I knew that Mr Burk had Seen the written Declaration of the principal officers who were with me in the Battle of Brandiwine in which they Declare me not Guilty of the Blunders, the want of presence of mind &c of which he had Accused me, as also the Declaration of the Maryland Officers That they had the utmost Confidence in Me & the Declarations of the Commander in Chief Acquitting me of any kind of Neglect & Declaring that though the falsity of the Intelligence Transmitted through me proved unfortunate yet he Should have Deemed me Culpable if I had withheld it. I at the Same time had been Informed previous to the receipt of this Letter That Mr Burk had through the Influence of Major Taylor been violently against me in the affair of Staten Island. I could not therefore As I was unacquainted with Mr Burk but by writing Avoid Supposing that he Shew a great want of Candor in refusing to alter his opinion upon the Evidence Sent to Congress & of Honor in not acknowledging the Error. Perhaps if I had had the pleasure of being personally Acquainted with Mr Burk I might have Supposed his Conduct to have proceeded from an unbounded zeal in the Cause of his Country & the too great Credence he gave to persons in whom he then thought he might Confide but under the then Circumstances I could not Surely form any favorable opinion of him. Besides I Supposed myself at as full Liberty to give Mr Burk my opinion of him as he had to give his opinion of me to myself in a Letter to which mine was only an answer & further I conceived and yet do, that if any Gentleman writes me a Letter full of invectives I have a Right to return a Language of the same kind, in vindication of myself without Examining Strictly into the Truth of the assertions provided his assertions are unjust for he is in that Case the first aggressor. In Support of this opinion unless I Should be convinced of Error, I am ready to make the Last appeal. I would never wish it to be believed in any Event, that I appealed to Arms to Try the Issue, whether Mr Burk was not a man of Honor, Candor or Integrity but to vindicate my right to retaliate when I am first attacked without Cause. Thus Sir have I given you a faithful narrative of the whole Transaction which you will find fully Supported by the papers. This will Enable you whatever may be the Issue of this Dispute to vindicate my reputation & Justify the friendly part you have politely agreed to take. I have the Honor to be very respectfully, Dr Sir, your most obedient Servt, Jno Sullivan RC (NHi: McDougall Papers). 1 General McDougall had recently accepted Sullivan’s invitation to act as his


[Page 672]
638 January 29,1781 with this subject I will take the liberty from time to time of informing you of our determinations. In the mean time, what I have already mentioned may serve to fill up some of your vacant hours, to contimplate on. The policy or impolicy of the plan, is a matter of no small moment. In a letter lately received by Congress from Mr. Dumas (a private Agent imployed by them in Holland) he says, The British Minister at the court of Petersburgh, has offered on the part of his Master to accede to the northern Convention, provided the United Provinces were excluded. This has alarmed their High Mightinesses not a little. And I fancy will induce an immediate recession in their demands of a guarantee of their East India possessions. The blundering policy of the British Ministry for the last five or six years, must open a most fertile field for a commentary by the historian of those days. Had they studied ’till dooms day for a mode to strengthen the northern league, they could not have devised a more effectual one; for this brings Holland immediately into an accession, which has been the only thing hitherto wanted, to compleat that formidable confederacy. Be pleased to make my compliment to Mrs. Livingston, & the young ladies. I have the honor to be with the highest respect & regard, Yr. Excys. most Obedt. Servt. Jno. Mathews P.S. Maryland have at length agreed to Confederate. This may be relyed on. RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 Congress was considering measures for enhancing Continental revenues proposed on December 18 by the committee on finance, on which Mathews had served. See John Sullivan’s Committee Notes, November 7-23? 1780, note 1. For the five percent ad valorem import duty that Congress proposed to the states, see Samuel Huntington to the States, February 8, 1781, note 1. Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Jany. 29th 1781 Virginia has Ceded to the united States a large territory of Country lying Northwest of the Ohio, Extracts of which I enclose to you. 1 Maryland we are very Credibly Informed has acceded to the Confederation tho’ no official accounts have yet arrived. 2 By a letter received this day from Mr John Adams Dated in Octr. 3 we have reason to beleive that as the king of great Britain has got a Minister & parliament more to his mind we may lay aside thoughts of peace & prepare for war—for it is his Opinion that great Britain will never acknowledge our Independance as long as there is a british Soldier in our Country nor even till long after. He writes that there


[Page 673]
January 29,1781 639 is Some prospect of a rupture between the united Provinces & great britain. Every days Experience Convinces us of the miseries that flow from want of System in government, of proper arrangement in our finances & on almost every department, & of that ruinous policy which influenced Congress to divide out to the different States the prosecution of the war. The new money So far as it is Issued has been Issued by the States at different values. Some at 1 for 40, by others as equal to Silver, & passes underall the disadvantages of State emissions one State refusing to take the Bills of another, & the bills of Pensylvania which Were Issued equal to Silver & have a tendry law to Support them armed with dreadfull punishments suffer a discount of 25 per Cent. I wish we may grow wise by the Things we experience, natural Causes uniformly produce the Same effects & to follow where reason & nature points is the perfection of humane Policy—the greatest difficulties we have to encounter arise from measures, from having governed too much in particular matters more than from any other Cause—for many particular regulations have Certainly encreased the difficulties they were designed to prevent. Sir, my Ideas of this business differ from most people. I Consider the aggregate wealth of the Individuals as the wealth of the nation & would give full Scope to their wishes & exertions to acquire wealth in a lawfull way, Cautiously guarding against any illicit trade with the Enemy & would fix Certain modes of calling into public use So much money as they were able to pay & the public wants required, this would be the best way of establishing funds, and as the resources of our Country would be almost inexhaustable under the Smiles of heaven if properly encouraged & Cultivated in this way I think we Should Soon become formidable not only to our Enemies but to all the world. Congress are about to recommend to the States to lay duties to the amount of four per Cent on all articles of foreign growth & manufacture imported into these States for the purpose of a revenue 4 —although I like the thing I dislike the mode. I think that Congress alone Can regulate the Trade & with Success Can lay duties on imports for the purpose of raising a revenue and I think they ought to be invested with power for this purpose & the States might grant to them the avails for any limmitted term of time or for a particular purpose—as they should Judge proper to Suspend a regulation of this kind which everyone must see is the most equitable way of raising a Considerable revenue, upon the Concurrence of thirteen States is at least to Suspend it upon uncertainty. Some are for Calling in the plate in order to establish funds but this would be unequal & be attended with great loss. There are but two kinds of public funds that I at present think of; one is money in our Treasury—the other is money in the pockets of the Citizens, the means of acquiring it with established means of Calling it out when the public Exigences require it. The latter I prefer, it is the best fund in the world—give


[Page 674]
640 January 29, 1781 every encouragement to industry & economy take of[f] every restraint but that of trading with the Enemy, & in the Course of one year if we are blessed with fruitfull Seasons the resources of the Country would be nearly doubled, Specie be introduced in plenty & we Should be relieved from a depreciating medium, our Credit be established & we enabled to prosecute the war with a vigor that must Strike our Enemies with terror & astonishment—whereas at present the farmer, the mechanic & the merchant are all discouraged & in Consequence the army is ready to mutiny for want of provisions & pay. It is my Opinion we are in more danger from the regulations that have been adopted & are pursuing than from all the forces of briton. Your Excellency will pardon the free manner in which I write as it is in Confidence & proceeds from an anxious mind & believe me to be with the highest Esteem & Respect your Excellencys most obedt humble Servt, Jesse Root RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 See Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, January 30, 1781, note 3. 2 See James Duane to George Washington, this date, note 2. 3 That is, John Adams’ October 14, 1780, letter to Samuel Huntington, which was one of several from Adams read in Congress this day. See JCC, 19:96; PCC, item 84, 2:305-6; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:97-98. 4 See the preceding entry, note. Jesse Root to William Williams Dr Sir Philadelphia Jany 29th 1781 I refer you to my letter to his Excellency for Sundry matters which I Shall not repeat in yours. 1 Congress have agreed to appoint a Minister of foreign affairs—a Minister of finance—and there is a report upon the table for appointing a minister of war—& a minister of the Marine. 2 The two latter are to Supersede the board of war & of admiralty as the Minister of finance is the board of Treasury. The new Continental money makes its entrance into the world under many disadvantages. Massachusetts has Issued theirs 1 for 40. Pensylvania & Jersey have Issued theirs 1 for 75. The other day an application was made to Congress to exchange with the loan officer the money of other States for that of Pensylvania as the money of other States would not pass in Pensylvania—a Resolve passed accordingly in less than 24 hours. We were alarmed that all the money of Massachusetts would be brot. in for Exchange Soon if the resolve was Continued upon which it was rescinded as hastily as it passed. In Short we know not what to do. The new money of the different States is neither equal to Silver nor to itself. Maryland has opened an Exchange at the treasury & offers one dollar of the new for 40 of the old but the people will not


[Page 675]
January 29,1781 641 exchange at that rate. New York have represented to Congress that they have not the old Continental in their State to answer their quota—that the Commissary & Quartermasters Certificates to a very large amount are in the hands of their people which must be taken in taxes, that although there are quantities of flour &c in their State to Spare there is not money to purchase it. Is not this a wonderfull paradox—that there is in the States, for its so in this State, Such a plenty of money that it is worth nothing—at the Same time a vast plenty of provisions & goods & yet no money to purchase them—& the people Complaining they Cant pay their rates. These things Cannot Stand together, too much money Certainly there is here in Circulation—& that’s the source of the mischeff. Call that into the Treasury—& enable the public to pay their debts & the people can then pay their rates—besides it would force people to bring what they had to market to get money to pay their taxes. In Short it would make the money valuable & the prices reasonable & of Consequence more plenty for the plenteousness of money does not depend on the nominal amount in Circulation but on the real amount in value & the proportion it bears to other things. Pardon this hasty Scroll & accept my respectfull Compliments to you & your lady & believe me to be with much respect, your most Obedt, humble Servt. Jesse Root RC (CtHi: Williams Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 Congress had created the Department of Foreign Affairs on January 10, but according to the journals Congress did not resolve to appoint a minister of finance until February 7, at which time the creation of departments of war and marine were also approved. See JCC, 19:42-44, 71, 123-24, 126-28. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia Jany 29th 1781 After my return to this City I had the Honor of your Excellencys favor of the 16th Instant. 1 We 2 found that the almost total Dissolution of the Pensylvania Line by Furlough or Discharge was absolutely necessary & a re-incorporation the only remedy that could be applied for as a body they would have been Troublesome if not Dangerous. They are Trying to Inlist again and I fear too many of the Disorderly ones will get in. Should that be the Case perhaps it might be a wise measure to keep them always Seperated & Intermixed with other Troops on Detachments or in Garrison but I See I have already gone too far & I beg your Excellencys Pardon. I did not mean to Dictate but only to remind you that there are among them too many unprincipled Irish & English men ungovernable in their Nature &


[Page 676]
642 January 29,1781 who are not to be Trusted Long together. As the Jersey Line under took to follow their Example having not the Same reasons as they had recvd both pay & Cloathing, I am happy to hear that Your Excely. adopted a mode for reducing them which with the former would have been highly impolitic & I believe impractacable. I pray That this Flame may not Extend further. I know it is a Trying time with the Americans in General but above all I Lament The Tryals you are Compelled to go Through But I am Convinced we Shall Soon be in better Circumstances. Our Political Disorder has in my opinion Come to a Crisis & the next Campaign we Shall See the Republick rising into Action with new vigor. We are now making Some Arrangements which Evidence the Recovery of our Reason. A Minister of Foreign affairs, one of Finance, a Minister of War & of Marine are to be appointed. Maryland has Acceeded to the association. Virginia has granted Congress all the Lands west of the Ohio. Our Plan of Finance is nearly Through we mean to try for a Loan of Coined Specie & Plate from Individuals in which I Doubt not we Shall Succeed as we mean to Convince them that they will be repaid in Specie. By this means we Intend Establishing a Bank to Support Paper for though paper Bills may well Enough Represent Silver & Gold That really does Exist yet when they are used as a Circulating media to represent Silver & Gold which does not Exist & probably never may—this medium is but the Shadow of a Shade. If this Loan can be obtained & Colo. Laurens Should be Successful in France I am Convinced we Shall be in a very respectable Situation next year & Even if he is unsuccessful, in a much better than we have been for years Past. I promise myself much from our Present & past Distresses. I find that Congress & assemblies begin to Rouse from their Slumber & Individuals are now Alarmed for the Publick Safety who have for years past been Employed in amassing wealth. America has undoubtedly abundant Resources but we Seem to have had neither Efficient Powers or Skill to call them forth. I wish your Excellency would be So oblidging (when you have Liesure to favor me with another Letter) as to give me yr opinion with respect to Colo Hamilton as a Financier. Your Excellencys Letter with a Flying Seal was Delivered to the President & immediately read in Congress 3 & I think you may rest assured that Every Exertion will be made to Prevent Similar Disturbances. I am happy to find That Amidst all the Disorders in the Pensylvania Line they gave Such undeniable Evidence of their attachment to the Cause of their Country Even if it answered no other purpose but that of preventing unfavorable Impressions in Europe. I have the Honor to be very respectfully, Dear General Your Excellencys Most obedient Servant, Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers).


[Page 679]
January 30, 1781 645 in performing their Tours, which induces me to prefer private Conveyances. I have the Honor of being, with great Respect, your Excellency’s most obedient and very humble Servant, J M Varnum RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Ezekiel Cornell, who also wrote a letter to Greene this day, which is printed in Staples, Rhode Island, pp. 326-28, did not return to a seat in Congress until November 19, 1781. JCC, 21:1123. 2 Greene’s January 5 letter to Cornell and Varnum is in Staples, Rhode Island, pp. 323-24. Thomas Burke to William Bingham Dr Sir Philada. January 30th. 1781 I shall not fail to make the Enquiries Necessary for enabling me to answer the Question you ask me relative to the Minister for foreign Affairs, nor to Communicate the result to you as soon as my own mind Shall be Satisfied. As in my Judgement you are the most proper person I can think of for that department, you May rely on my best endeavours to impress on other Gentlemen Sentiments Similar to my own. 1 Your Conduct in the departments you have hitherto filled gives every reason for relying on you in future, and has proved your abilities to be equal to the most arduous and delicate affairs. If you are appointed to this new office I shall Consider it an acquision to the public Service and believe me, Sir, it will give me much pleasure, Since at the same time that the public will be well Served my private feelings will be gratified. I am with Sincere regard and Esteem, your very obt Svt, Thos Burke [F. S. ] My Compliments to Mrs. Bingham. RC (PHi: North Carolina Manuscripts). 1 The department of foreign affairs was created on January 10 and Robert R. Livingston and Arthur Lee were nominated secretary for foreign affairs on the 17th, but the day set for the election (January 22) passed without action. On February 7 Richard Law was added to the list of nominees and two days later Congress set aside February 12 for the election, but an election was not finally held until August 10. See JCC, 19:42-44, 65, 74, 125, 133. For Burke’s explanation of why he had not yet nominated Bingham, see Burke to Bingham, February 6? 1781.


[Page 680]
646 January 30,1781 William Floyd to Unknown Dear Sir Philadelpha Jany. 30th. 1781 I Reed, yours of the 21st Instant by Mr. Barclay, as also the Letter with which he was Charged from our Legislature, we Immediately laid it before Congress and got it Refered to a Committe of five, 1 there appears a hearty Disposition in Congress to Relieve our State, from the Disagreable Situation they are in; if it is in their power, But their Embarrassments are Such, that it will be attended with Great Difficulty, however I hope they will be able to do something, of which we Shall Duly Advise you. The Spirit the people on the manor has Shewn I think Threatens the State with Disorder and Confusion and if that Spirit Should prevail pretty Generally through the State the most Disagreable Consequences are to be apprehended. I am very happy to hear that Messiurs Philips and Smith are Exchanged. 2 . . . It is with great pleasure I can Inform you that the State of Virginia has Ceeded to Congress for the use of the United States, all their Claims to that Tract of Country to the Westward of the River Ohio, And that the Legislature of Maryland has Agreed to Ratifie the Confederation—this we Consider as a most Capital Event in favour of this Country, and have Every Reason to Expect that many Good Consequences will Result from it. I must beg leave to Refer you to the Inclosed papers for the News and particularly to the paper of this day, which Contains our latest accounts from Virginia and Carolina. From Sir your Most Obedt. and humble Servt. Wm. Floyd RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). i The January 17, 1781, letter of Pierre Van Cortlandt, president of the New York Senate, and Evert Bancker, speaker of the assembly, asking for relief from the burden of supplying the Continental Army and New York s Indian allies, was read in Congress on January 29 and referred to a five-man committee chaired by John Sullivan. A follow-up letter of February 5, 1781, from Gov. George Clinton was referred to the same committee, which submitted a report on March 2. After debate on March 6 and 7, the report was apparently allowed to languish. It was later listed as a postponed report (PCC, item 37, fol. 371). SeeyCC, 19.95, 145, 225 236, 241; and PCC, item 20, 1:365-69, item 67, 2:340-61. 2 Undoubtedly William Philips and John Smith, who had been captured by the British on Long Island and whose exchange is discussed in Clinton, Papers (Hastmgs), 6:403, 514.


[Page 681]
January 30,1781 647 James Lovell to Abigail Adams Madam Jan 30. 1781 I find by your Letter ofJanry. 3d 1 that you are “more reconciled to ambiguities & Cyphers now, from the Necessity of them, than formerly”; I therefore inclose an Alphabet for your use. You are “not a litde thank full that the Robberies were committed now rather than a Twelvemonth ago”; malicious Reference! vindictive momento! 2 Yesterday Letters were reed, from Mr. Adams up to Oct 24. 3 He is greatly irritated at the vile Treatment which Mr. Laurens meets with in the Tower. Oct. 14 4 “repeated Letters from London confirm the Account of Mr. Laurens’s being in the Tower, so close a Prisoner that neither his old Correspondents, nor even his Refugee Relations tire suffered to speak to him. “There have been so many Precedents of Exchanges, Mr. Lovell as well as the Major Generals Sullivan, Sterling, Lee and others having been exchanged as Prisoners of War, that it is very extraordinary they should now treat Mr. Laurens as a Prisoner of State. It is not however merely a Proof that Passion & Caprice govern their Councils. I conceive it is intended to signify to the Tories in America whom they believe to be more numerous than they are, and to their Officers & Troops, serving in that Country, that now they have obtained an Election to their Minds they are determined to prosecute the War, with Vigor, and to bring America still to unlimited Submission. For however our Countrymen may have flattered themselves with Hopes of Peace there is nothing farther from the Thoughts of the King of England, his ministers, Parliament or Nation, for they are all his, than Peace, upon any Terms that America can agree to. There is no future Event more certain in my Mind than that they never will acknowledge American Independence while they have a Soldier in the united States. Nay, they would not do it even after their Troops should be all drawn from the Continent.” Oct. 24 5 “I have reed, several Letters from London concerning Mr. Laurens. It is certain that he has been treated with great Insolence by the Populace in his Journey from Dartmouth to London, and that he is confined to a mean Appartment in the Tower, denied Pen & Ink, and none of his Friends have been able to obtain Leave to visit him excepting his Son & Mr. Manning, and those positively limited to half an hour. He is ill of a Lax, much emaciated & very invective against the authors of his ill Usage. I saw a Letter last night from Mr. {Manning himself} 6 so that there is no doubt of the Truth of this account. This deliberate, this studied manifestation to all the World of their Contempt & Hatred of all America, and of their final Determination to pursue this War to the last Extremity cannot be


[Page 682]
648 January 30,1781 misunderstood. The Honor, the Dignity, the essential Interests, and the absolute Safety of America require that Congress should take some Notice of this Event. I presume not to propose the Measures that might be taken because Congress are in a much better Situation to judge.” Affectly. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Abigail’s January 3 letter is in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterheid), 4:57-58. . , 2 Adams and Lovell were probably referring to Lovell’s playfully suggestive letters ofjanuary 6 and 13, 1780, whose publication would have gready embarrassed them. 3 JCC, 19:96. . . . ♦ John Adams’ October 14, 1780, letter to Samuel Huntington is in PCG, item 84, 2:305-8. . . _ 5 John Adams’ October 24, 1780, letter to Samuel Huntington, is in ibid., pp. 309-10. . L T V A J KJ 6 Lovell actually wrote these two words in cypher even though John Adams had written “Manning himself’ in his letter to Huntington. Ibid. John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir, Philadelphia. Jany 30th. 1781. As the intelligence received yesterday possibly may not be conveyed to you through any other channel at this time; and being well assured it will aford you much satisfaction to be informed of it: I have therefore taken the liberty of communicating it to you. Tho the information does not come officially from the state, yet it comes in such a manner that it is to be depended on—That Maryland has at last agreed to Confederate. We have the resolves as they passed the lower house, which have since passed the upper house. 1 This is a most important circumstance & comes very seasonably to our relief: for C have been disputing for a long time past, what powers were necessary to enable them to prosecute the business entrusted to them, and were at this moment, as far from agreeing about it, as when we began. I hope now we have some certain principles to act upon, we shall be steady & decisive. Tho’ the powers of the confederation are very inadequate to a vigorous prosecution of the present war, yet we must endeavour to make the most of them we can, and it is better to have some authority to regulate us, than, (as for some time past has been the case,)to have none. Virginia has agreed to a cession of their back lands, with some reservations. This is also a very important matter, our present circumstances considered. I flatter myself it will give us some credit, which we stand much in need of, and may possibly give a spring


[Page 683]
January 30, 1781 649 to our affairs. Congress have been seriously engaged for the last ten days in a committee of the whole, considering of ways & means for defraying the expences of the present year. They have agreed to call on the states for a duty of four Per Ct. on all goods imported—the like duty on all prize goods, and one eighth of a dollar per ton on all foreign shipping. This it is computed will produce about 6 or 700,000 specie dollars. This is but a trifle when compared with our wants, but however we are going on. Please to make my most respectful compliments to Mrs. Washing ton. And believe me to be, My Dr. Sir, With every sentiment of respect & Esteem, Yr. Excys. most Obedt. servt, Jno. Mathews P.S. This has been wrote almost in the dark, & in great haste. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The Maryland resolves are printed in JCC, 19:138-40. William Sharpe to Nathanael Greene Dear General, Philadelphia Jany. 30th. 1780. In one of the papers inclosed you have an account of the defection of the Pennsylvania line, about one third I am told are discharged from service. About a week ago part of the Jersey line followed their example, but was soon suppressed without any bloodshed. The Commander in chief has determined to bring all mutineers in future, if any should happen, to unconditional obedience. This is a very serious event and strikes a deep blow against the subordination of the Army. If it stops here it may have salutary effects on the councils and efforts of America. All is quiet at New York. Genl. Clinton was much elated on hearing of the revolt in the Pennsylvania line; but on hearing of the execution of his emissary and guide he droped into sadness. Not a word from Capt. Paul Jones—nor a word from Gibera[l]ter. The news from the paracide Arnold you will be fully accquainted with from Virginia. With the highest esteem and regard, I have the honor to be, Sir, Your Most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe P.S. The legislature of Maryland has instructed their Delegates to Sign the confederation, and Virginia has ceded to the united States her claims of Lands west of the Ohio river on some small conditions. This opens a flattering prospect. RC (NNC: Berol Collection).


[Page 684]
650 January 30,1781 South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadelphia 30 January 1781 William Parker Esqr. one of the Treasurers of the State of South Carolina who will Deliver this to your Excellency goes on to Virginia for the purpose of removing the Public Papers under his charge to some place of safety as he may be under difficulties respecting Waggons or other means of Transportation, we have taken the liberty of introducing him to your Excellency, and asking such aid herein as circumstances may require & shall be in your power to furnish. 1 We are with Esteem, your Excellency’s most humble Servants, Tho. Bee Isaac Motte Jno. Mathews RC (IMunS). Written by Bee and signed by Bee, Mathews, and Motte. 1 The delegates of South Carolina and Georgia had expressed their concern to Congress on January 16 that the treasury and public papers of those states deposited in Virginia for safekeeping “may be in danger of falling into the enemy’s hands.” Congress thereupon allotted $20,000 “to enable them to remove the said public papers to some place of greater security.” See JCC, 19:63. For Jefferson’s order of April 14 to local officials to provide wagons for Parker, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:440-41. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philada. Jany. 30th. 1781 We were honored yesterday with your Excellency’s favor of the 15th inst. inclosing Mr. Anderson’s explanation of his letter to Capt. Trott, and that of the 18th enclosing instructions as to the Mississippi & requesting sundry military supplies, in promoting which no exertions shall be omitted on our part. 1 Your Excellency’s letter to Congress on the subject of the Convention Prisoners & the unequal apportionment of the general resources with respect to the two great Departments was also received yesterday and referred to a Commit tee. 2 The Resolutions of the General Assembly ceding the Territory N. West of the Ohio to the United States was laid before Congress at the same time. 3 Although nothing has been yet done declaratory of their sense of them and although they are not precisely conformable to the recommendations of Congress on the subject, we flatter ourselves that the liberal Spirit which dictated them will be approved & that the public will not be disappointed of the advantages expected from the measure. We have pretty good though unauthenticated information that Maryland has already acceded to the federal Union. Since the Extinguishment of the Mutiny in the Pennsylvania line,


[Page 685]
February 1, 1781 651 some commotions founded on Similar complaints have taken place in that of New Jersey. But we have the pleasure to inform you that the prudent & Seasonable remedies applied have re-established order & discipline among the troops. We have the honor to be with the most perfect esteem & regard, Yr. Excelly’s. Most Obt. servts. Jos. Jones. James Madison Junr. Theok. Bland RC (DLC: Continental Congress Miscellany). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Bland, and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:300. 1 For Jefferson’s letters to the delegates of January 15 and 18, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:376, 398-400. 2 Although five letters from Gov. Jefferson were read on January 29, his second letter to Samuel Huntington of January 15, which is in ibid., pp. 369-70, was referred to a committee of three, whose report was read in Congress on February 15. See JCC, 19:95-96, 144, 147-48. 3 Jefferson had enclosed these January 2 Virginia resolutions in his January 17 letter to Huntington, for which see JCC, 19:96; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:386-91, where the resolutions are printed in full and the editors provide a lengthy discussion of the difficulties that the text sent to Congress later presented. For the congressional background of these resolutions, see James Madison to Joseph Jones, September 19, 1780, note. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philada Feb. 1st 1781 My last was by Major Clarkson. 1 He is a young officer of military Merit. I wish you would entertain him with a Dish of Tea. Our new Era of Government, I fancy, has occasiond a Revolution in political Circles & a Change of Connections. I cannot otherwise account for the long Silence of my Friend Doctor Cooper. I used to correspond with him very confidentially. We indeed thought aloud together. But I have receivd only one Letter from him since I left Boston, which was deliverd to me by Mr A Lee. I considerd it as a Compliment to that most deserving Patriot, rather than a Letter of Friendship to me. I have written several Times to him, 2 & once desired particular Information, which he might have given me without offending any Man, but he has not done it. I hope the Doctor does not think his Letters troublesome to me. He has no Reason to think so. But, he chuses to close the Correspondence, & you know, that I am disposd on such Occasions, to retaliate. It sometimes affects my Feelings, but I shall never be in Debt on that Score. You may let the Dr read this Letter if he pleases, but no other Person; for when I think amiss of the private Conduct of a Friend, I let none know it, but him & you; Indeed I shall say nothing to you at present that I would not wish him to know. 3


[Page 691]
February 1, 1781 657 no pretence for delay, without rendering themselves absolutely odious & becoming responsible for Consequences. It is not doubted but Prussia will accede to the Convention; and probably the Emperor will do the same; for the Empress was so well pleased with his Visit that she gave him a Man of War. It is clear Portugal accedes. To this foreign Intelligence, I may add that Virginia relinquishes her Claims northwest of the Ohio under certain Conditions; and Maryland confederates. Are we to sleep upon these Events or to rouse ourselves to one general Vigorous Exertion? Surely the latter. Yrs. affectly, J L [P.S. ] As I send to Secy. Avery 3 the Virginia Act at large you will gain further Knowledge of it. Mr. J. A. thinks that a Minister with Credentials from these United States to their High Mightynesses and to the Stadholder would be very agreable at this Juncture; and promote his Business there: He is trebly fortified. 4 RC (CSmH: Cooper Collection). 1 That is, Armand-Charles-Augustin de La Croix de Castries, comte de Charlus, son of the marquis de Castries, the newly appointed French minister of marine. 2 That is, by Charles W. F. Dumas, in an October 4, 1780, letter to Congress, which was read onjanuary 24, 1781. See JCC, 19:78; and PCC, item 93, 1:472-78. 3 Lovell’s letter to John Avery has not been found. 4 John Adams had made this statement in an October 11, 1780, letter to Congress. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:95. For Adams’ appointment to this position, see Samuel Huntington’s letters to Adams, January 1 and 9, 1781. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear Sir 1 Feb 1781. I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your Favor of the 3d of last month by Capt. Deveaux who appears to be a very modest discrete Gentleman, but I fear he will not find any agreable military Post of Employment. I am most sensibly affected with what gave you encreased Pain the nearer you approached to your Home. I wish you may find Consolation from every Source which Philosophy & Religion furnish. A Report prevails this morning that a Speech of the King of England is circulating in which he presses for Peace, but all my foreign Information bespeaks virulent War. Holland cannot well delay to join fully with the northern Powers, as the Plenipoes of the Provinces have sent Dispatches from Petersburgh containing Articles of Compact similar to those which the other Powers have come into; and also two Articles particular,


[Page 692]
658 February 1, 1781 one to promote the Recovery of the Vessels taken from the Dutch by England—the other to secure Holland by the Power of the New Confederacy from all Insult or Injury with which she may be threatned for having become a Member. As to the Puff which Britain makes about a late Compact with Denmark it is founded in an Agreement for a free Export of salted Provision from Danemarc and a Consent on her Part not to export what She cares little about, Tar, Sail Cloth &c. &c. But this Explanation of an old Treaty does not lessen the Obligation of the Court of Danemarc to support the Rights of the other Parties of the new Confederation, nor does that Court appear to wish to be quit of such Obligation. 1 I yesterday reed, the inclosed from Doctor Gordon. 2 He is a Lover of friendly Correspondence, but I really have not Time to do his attentions Justice. Present my affectionate Regards to your Lady and be assured of my continual Regard as yr Friend, and humble Servant, James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 The enclosed letter from Dr. William Gordon, dated “Jamaica Plain Jany 17, 1781,” is in the Gates Papers, NHi. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Feb. 1. 1781 Mr. Ross having breakfasted with me this morning put the inclosed memdum. into my Hand, 1 agreable to a Request made upon my first receiving yr. Letter. I will attend to the Arrival of the Box, and follow your former Instructions. Jones had not sailed the 14 of Novr. but was soon to be on his Way. Maryland has been induced, by the curious Cession of Virginia, to join fully in the Confederation. This will be of much advantage to our Cause abroad. We are bogueing about a Fund to be obtained from the States for sinking all our Debts. We cannot show to our own People or to Foreigners any Certainty of their Interest being punctually paid, so that we can have but little prospect of Loans at present. I have requested Something of Doctor Holten which I wish you to aid. 2 You know the Quibbles here. Endeavor that our State may have black & white for all their Advances on continental Account; I cannot yet find how they are clearly warranted in their Advances to Agent Allen. I am murdered by a Toothach but I must go out, for Mr A 3


[Page 693]
February 1, 1781 659 is critical about our giving the Voice of the State without 3 being present, tho we have suppressed an Instruction that looks like it till we can know whether such was the Intent of the Court. If it was I hope a 4th Delegate will let us know it from his own Lips. Yrs. affectly. JL [P. S. ] “What does Mr. Gerry never send his compliments, does he never say any Thing about us? does he not about me?” Mr. Gaviz quasi dixisset Gerry Mr. Ross could not make out better with Carmichaels memdum. RC (DLC: Gerry Papers, photostat). 1 This memorandum has not been identified. 2 See Lovell to Samuel Holten, January 29?, 1781. 3 That is, Samuel Adams. For discussion of the subject of this paragraph, Massachusetts’ requirements for casting the state’s vote in Congress, see Lovell to Holten, December 19, 1780, and January 2, 1781. Charles Thomson to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Secy’s Office Feby 1st. 1781. I received yesterday from the Board of Admiralty your letter of the 19th Ulto. with 43 bonds enclosed. 1 As I have reason to apprehend that Your Excellency has not received my letter of the twenty Eighth day of July last covering fifteen Commissions &c for armed Vessels, I enclose you a copy thereof together with the Act of Congress therein referred to by which You will perceive that the Commissions &c issue from this Office as formerly. 2 I now take the liberty of transmitting You twenty four blank Commissions, bonds and Instructions for Armed Vessels for the use of your State; when more are wanted they shall on Application to this Office be immediately forwarded. I am, with great respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. humble Servt. Cha Thomson Secy. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Trumbull’s January 19 letter to the Board of Admiralty is in PCC, item 37, fols. 351-52. 2 See Thomson to the States, July 28, 1780. Virginia Delegates’ Proposed Instructions [February 1, 1781] 1 The Delegates from Virginia have received an instruction from the General Assembly of that State 2 which authorises them to inform


[Page 694]
660 February 1, 1781 Congress, that the zeal of their Constituents to promote the general object of the Union and to remove as far as depends on them every reasonable obstacle to the speedy conclusion of an Alliance between his Catholic Majesty & these States has so far prevailed over all considerations of a particular interest, that they have consented to withdraw the claim urged in their former instructions to their Delegates on the subject, 3 to the navigation of the river Mississippi, except of such part thereof as forms their Western boundary: provided such cession shall be insisted on by Spain; and relying on Congress for their utmost endeavours to obtain for that & the other States having territory on the said river a free port or ports below such territory. In pursuance of the object of this instruction the Delegates aforesaid purpose that the following letter of instruction be immedi ately transmitted to the Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States at the Court of Madrid. Sir Congress having, since their instructions to you of the day of 4 relative to the claim of the United States to the free navigation of the river Mississippi & to a free port or ports below the 31st degree of N. Latitude 5 resumed the consideration of that subject, & being desirous to manifest to all the world & particularly to his Catholic Majesty the moderation of their views, the high value they place on the friendship of his Catholic Majesty and their disposition to remove every reasonable obstacle to his accession to the Alliance subsisting between his M. C. Majesty & the U. States, in order to unite the more closely in their measures & operations three powers who have so great a unity of Interests, & thereby compel the common Enemy to a speedy, just & honorable peace, have resolved, and you are accordingly hereby instructed to recede from the instructions above referred to, so far as they insist on the free navigation of that part of the river Mississippi which lies below the 31st degree of N. L and on a free port or ports below the same; provided such cession shall be unalterably insisted on by Spain, and provided the free navigation of the said river above the said degree of N Latitude shall be acknowledged & guaranteed by his C Majesty to the Citizens of the United States in Common with his own subjects. It is the Order of Congress at the same time that you exert every possible effort to obtain from his C. Majesty the Use of the river aforesaid with a free port or ports below the said 31st degree of N. Latitude for the Citizens of the United States, under such regulations & restrictions only as may be a necessary safeguard against illicit commerce. 6 MS (DLC: Peter Force Collection). In the hand of James Madison. Endorsed by an unidentified hand: “Motion Respecting the Mississipi;” and by Charles Thomson: “by the delegates of Virginia, Feby. 1. 1781.”


[Page 703]
February 3, 1781 669 by Caution, tho’ containing general Truths. I lament, with the most Serious inquietude, the contents of this letter; but as they are dictated by the clearest conviction, you have my cordial approbation in making them Known, either to a Select circle, or the Legislature, as your discretion may direct. From the first period of the depreciation of the continental Currency, the Cords of Government were relaxed; and with the rapidity of the former, the latter has Kept pace. All expedients, such as fixing prices, making Tender Laws, laying Embargoes &c, instead of alleviating, naturally increased the Evil. Congress, in order to make one great Effort towards reducing the public Debt and restoring public Credit, on the 18th of March last made their Resolve for Sinking the old, & emitting new Bills. Their Intentions, I mean the intentions of the Majority, were undoubtedly good; But, if a plan can be judged of by its Effects, they could not have adopted one more fatal to the great Objects they had in Contemplation. Its operations have been various in the different States. Some accepted it readily; some with delay; And others not at all. The consequences were that there was no Money in the Treasury. Creditors grew uneasy; Credit was Stretched upon vague promises; without the possibility of a performance. The Army unpaid, as it has been for more than a year; unclothed & unfed; & therefore mutinous. The requisitions upon the States for Specific Supplies were owing to the want of money; & these supplies have been as uncertain as the Measure was impolitic, and unjust; as it would necessarily make Some States Lenders to others without the consent of the former. Indeed Sir, we have neither Money to pay the interest of our Debts, nor credit enough to contract new ones. We are destitute of every requisite for the ensuing Campaign, and have it not in our power to extricate ourselves from Such an alarming Situation, while we Know from the surest Information, that Great Britain is exerting every Nerve to make the most decisive Operations. Notwithstanding these really distressing Circumstances, the Country abounds with Resources. Every article of Provision is in the greatest Plenty; Dry Goods are by no means Scarce, and West India Produce is very cheap. Pennsylvania alone has more Grain & Flour this moment, exclusive of what would suffice the Inhabitants, than is Sufficient for an Army of Fifty thousand men the Term of a Year. Money is by no means Scarce. Its true, the fluctuating circumstances of the Paper Currency may have made its circulation unequal, but still it is in the Country: And if there is not a Sufficiency of Specie, there is Plate enough to make up every deficiency. Our Perplexities do not arise from Poverty or the want of Men, but from the absolute want of Government. It is a fact as demonstrable as any Proposition in Euclid, that where a Number of Sovereign, Independant States are mutually engaged in War, neither of them is adequate to any of its conclusive Purposes: Hence


[Page 704]
670 February 3, 1781 the necessity of a federal Union, by which the Wisdom, the Virtue, the Strength & Resources of the whole may be Conjointly centered & exerted. In this fundamental principle however we fail. For it is notorious that Congress have not the power of calling forth the Resources of the country. It is probable, I confess, that the Confederation will Soon be concluded; But then, we shall be just where we are now, in a perfect state of Imbecility. By the Act of Confederation Congress are not vested with the Powers requisite in Time of War. They are authorized to make War or Peace; but they are not competent to the means of Supporting Either. Suppose they call upon the States for money or supplies, and some of them neglect or refuse, as they invariably do, where is the Power of Compulsion? And without that it is evident, the best Measures may be frustrated. We have stumbled upon Expedients too long; We have too long trifled with Objects of the greatest Magnitude; We have trusted to Heaven for Success to our Arms, while we have neglected to improve the Means with which the God of Nature has blessed us. Among confederated States there must be a Supreme Controul, equally effective upon all. I am confident, from Observation, History and Reflection that the present War never will be carried on with Success, till Congress, or some other Body, are invested by the States with all the Powers necessary to command the Resources of the Country. Trade & Commerce, those great Sources of National Wealth, should undoubtedly be Subject to exact Regulation; but if each State should undertake the Matter Seperately, every Gentleman of common Understanding will readily perceive the Confusion & innumerable Frauds, relatively to each other & to Individuals, that must result. Congress therefore should be intrusted with this Power, & of laying Duties; by which the United States would derive a considerable Revenue. If they could once command a certain, permanent Revenue, National Credit would be restored, and large Sums could be borrowed on the faith of a Bank which might easily be established. Those modes only of drawing money into the National Treasury, which are least felt, & of conseqence most satisfactory to the People at large, should be adopted. Industry is the most obvious Source of Wealth; and indeed without its being generally encouraged, Commerce itself must cease; Taxes must cease and War must cease by terminating in Conquest. The fewer the Embarrassments therefore which are thrown upon the people the better. They should always have a Sure market for the produce of their Labour, and certain pay. To this end Embargoes should never be tolerated but upon the most pressing occasion; Such as at the Investiture of a Place, where the Siege may probably be turned into a Blockade. Of the necessity of which the General Congress, or the Commander in Chief upon the Spot should be the judge in Time of War. In Peace perhaps the Case might be different.


[Page 705]
February 3, 1781 671 Hence exportations of every Kind, excepting articles wherein there is a real scarcity should be encouraged. From Policy like this, we should find all discontents removed; The citizens would feel reiterated Spirit and Vigour, Wealth would be diffused in abundance, & the Means of Government rendered familiar & by no means burdensome. I will suppose for a moment that the Expenses of the current Year will amount to Twenty Millions of Dollars including the Arrearages of the armys pay & the Interest upon Loan Office Certificates & foreign Debts, exclusive of the expenses of each particular State for supporting its own Internal Police. Where is this sum to come from? The New Money, supposing it to be productive, which I don’t believe but in part, is equal to only half its nominal value in Specie. The Continent therefore would gain only five Millions of Dollars. Little is to be expected from Requisitions upon the States; For some collect their Taxes slowly, & some not at all. If we rely upon a Loan from France, we shall be deceived; For the Minister of France will reason in this way—France & the United States are jointly engaged in a War with Great Britain; It is necessary for the good of both the Allies that as Great Force as possible should be exerted against the common Enemy; but the quantity of this Force depends upon the Ways & Means of both Countries, and the manner in which they are applied; Now it is evident that with the same sum of money France can exert treble the Force that America can, under her present impolitic Systems; Therefore, the minister will very rationally conclude that to lend the United States Money will equally injure them & France. From whence then are we to obtain the fifteen millions? I acknowledge that such an immense Sum can not be collected in the course of a year. No Country is able to carry on War by Taxation, or any other mode of collecting Money from Individuals in an equal Ratio. But there is easy way of making Six millions represent Twenty, which turns ultimately into an internal Debt. That is, when a Bank is well formed, Notes may Issue to a large Amount; & when the Holders find that they can receive their real money by applying to the Bank they will soon give over the trouble of exchanging, as they become fully confident in the Security, and find paper of a light carriage. Whenever Paper represents Money, it is valued nearly in proportion to the Substance; but the misfortune of our paper has been, that it represented Retd Estate & all the articles of living without being funded upon any thing Substantial. It is well known that the real cash of Great Britain amounts to no more than Eight Millions Sterling; Yet their circulating medium in Notes, Inland Bills &c is immense. The same takes place in France, Holland & all the trading Nations. We certainly can effect the Same; But different councils will ever produce different Systems, and these Systems will of course destroy each other. Therefore the powers of revenue must be in one body throughout the Union. I hope Congress will Send


[Page 706]
672 February 3, 1781 to the States, in a very Short time, Some plan, by which they may be invested with proper Authority. But in this Idea I am exceedingly mortified, & indeed vexed to the last degree. A plan of revenue has been before them and dwelt upon nearly three weeks; & upon my honour they have made no greater progress than a man of Sense would have done in three Hours. But you will say the delays of deliberative Counsels are a Natural Sacrifice that civil Society must make to obtain an excellent political Form of Government; True; But our delays are infinitely greater than they need be. There are a certain number of Members who have been in Congress a long time, & think themselves possessed of all Knowledge. A question can’t be started however trivial but they make formal speeches, for fear the young members should misconceive the subject. And if the matter, as that just mentioned, should be of amazing consequence much the more time is thought necessary to properly enforce it. But if it requires immediate despatch, then great deliberation is essentially requisite. There are Some who make their ideas the standard of all Judgments; And if a particular Word in a Report should not exactly suit their mechanical genius’s a long Debate ensues. I assure you Sir, they often make me think of Neals History of the Puritans, 2 in which the Speeches made in the Long Parliament are recorded at Length. And I have not failed to tell them upon the Floor that their Fate will be Similar to that of the former, unless they pursue different modes & measures. In matters of this consequence, I mean while the Revenue is in Serious Question, the Duke de Sully tells us every moment taken up in Debate is lost; & possibly may never be recalled. A Titus could weep that he had lost a Day; but we, I am almost constrained to Say it, have lost years. I now come to the conclusion; If Congress are not speedily vested with adequate powers for commanding the means to carry on the War with Energy; and if they do not exert those properly, a few months will put an end to their Existence. What kind of Administration will Succeed, God alone Knows. I have one consolation however, that we shall not be conquered by Great Britain; The people wo’nt Suffer it, But our calamities may be inexpressibly augmented by such a change. While I continue here I shall Spare no pains of Body or Mind to serve my Country; but I am determined to acquit myself in the eyes of God & Man of any fatal consequences that may attend our Public Measures. I might write Governor Bowen & several other Gentlemen; but I can say no more to them than this Letter contains; and I believe you will be sufficiently fatigued in reading it. My best respects to all Friends. I am Sir, with every Sentiment of Esteem, your Very Obedient & most humble Servt. J M Varnum


[Page 707]
February 3, 1781 673 Tr (RHi: Wilkins Updike Papers). Addressed: “The Honble. John Innes Clark Esq., Providence, Rhode Island.” 1 John Innes Clark, a Providence, R.I. merchant, was an assistant in the upper house of the Rhode Island Assembly. Bartlett, Records of R.I., 9:58, 382. 2 Vamum was probably referring to Daniel Neal, The History of the Puritans ■ ■ ■ ; 4 vols. (London: 1747-52). John Witherspoon to William Livingston Sir Philadelphia Feb. 3. 1781 Your Excellencys favour of the 29 of January I receivd on the 31st & that Day had it read in Congress & referred to the Board of War whose Opinion upon it Which they did not return till this Day that I called for it You have enclosed. 1 I gave Yesterday to Mr Stevens our Treasurer a Copy of the Act of the Virginia Assembly ceding the Lands to the N.W. of the Ohio to be sent to you. The New York Delegates are furnished with Powers to Settle their western limits & Connecticut has made an Act with a Kind of Cession but more ambiguous than any of them. Probably when Mr Stevens returns he will carry you a Copy of this also. They are all referred to a Committee but it will be some Time before we can determine what Measures shall be taken in Consequence of them. Virginia has also departed from their Order to their Delegates to insist upon the free Navigation of the Missisippi in order to pave the Way for bringing Spain completely into that Alliance. No Step is yet taken in Consequence of this. We wait for Mr Jay’s next Letter. I have the Honour to be Your Excellencys most obedt hum, Jno Witherspoon P.S. Being apprehensive that my Letters to the North Country have not gone forward I have again written by what I suppose is a safe Conveyance. 2 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 The enclosed February 3 Board of War letter to Witherspoon explained that Lt. Col. William Klein had been separated from the Continental Army on June 21, 1779, and given “one year’s pay and subsistance, to enable him to return to Europe,” since the plan for raising a corps of German deserters had been abandoned. See JCC, 14:754-55, 19:103. 2 See the following entry. These “letters to the North Country” [i.e., Bennington, Vt.] have not been found, but they were probably letters of December 4 to Thomas Chittenden and Matthew Lyon, which the two Vermont leaders acknowledged in their responses of January 30 and March 13 which were intercepted and printed in the April 21, 1781, issue of James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette. Livingston, who had been granted the 30,000 acre township of Royalton by New York in 1766, was seeking confirmation of his title from Vermont, a subject that Witherspoon had apparently pursued when on a congressional mission to the New Hampshire Grants in June 1779 (see these Letters, 13:102-3). In his January 30


[Page 708]
674 February 3, 1781 intercepted letter to Witherspoon, Governor Chittenden responded optimistically on the “solicitation in favor of Governor Livingston,” concluding with an expression of goodwill for Samuel J. Atlee, Witherspoon’s colleague on the 1779 Vermont mission. And in his March 13 response to Witherspoon, Lyon echoed Chittenden’s optimism over Livingston’s prospects, while advising Witherspoon against selling his own lands in Cavendish, Vt., as land prices were temporarily depressed. “I am very glad to find that you are in Congress,” Lyon also went on to explain, “and hope through your means (who know the situation and people of this country) that honourable body will be made to see and act what shall be most for the interest of America with regard to Vermont, before it be too late.” For Livingston’s and Witherspoon’s interests in Vermont lands, see also Witherspoon to Livingston, May 8 and 15, 1781. John Witherspoon to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir. Philadelphia Feb. 3, 1781. Having some Business of consequence to transact in the North Country & the Conveyance of Letters being at present so uncertain, I have taken the Liberty, on the Suggestion of a Friend of yours here, to request the favor of you to transmit the inclosed, 1 by the first safe Opportunity that occurs, to Bennington. I need send no News as your Delegates will doubtless acquaint you with every thing here worth communicating. Please to accept my Thanks for your great and vigorous exertions in the Common Cause, with which I have been long acquainted, & believe me to be, Sir, your Excellency’s most obedt. humble Servant, Jno. Witherspoon. Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 Not found. See the preceding entry, note two. Joseph Jones to Theodorick Bland Dr. Sr. 4th. Febry 1781 This being a leisure day Mr. Madison and myself were [out] when your Servant came wanting the remainder of the £22750 pensa. Currency intending in consequence of what you mentioned to us of your present wants to take out what wod. serve us till the next payment came round and send you the remainder. We have been as sparing as we well could that you might receive such a proportion of it as might ease you of those disagreeable applications you mention. The bundle now sent contains 17240 dols. which with what you had the other day will amount to thirty eight thousand two hundred and thirty three dollars for wch. you will please to give me a receipt also a duplicate that the original may when I have an opportunity be transmitted to the auditors office and my acct, credited for the Sum—


[Page 715]
February 6, 1781 681 The Revolt of the Pennsylvania line is at length finally terminated, about 1,200 remain in service but the whole are either discharged or furloughed for a short time, that their tumultuary disposition may subside, and some preventatives be applied to a future measure of that sort. The Jersey line followed their Example, but were nippd in the Bud of Revolt, a large detachment march against them, and they were instandy brought to unconditional Submission, their leaders hangd on the Spot, by their followers and a thorough contrition and return to duty was the immediate consequence. I hope mutiny has had its course and will now subside—but does not these events strongly impress on the minds of every well wisher to his Country that it is necessary the Citizens of America shd. turn their thoughts from Party animosity and Private gain to replenishing the Public Coffers with the Sinews of War and opposition. I can hardly here help repeating two lines of a severe Satire that has lately appeard agt. our Publick measures. “An army naked, and unpaid, The Public lean on foreign Aid.’’ No news Authentic from Europe, but that Portugal has acceeded to the armd Confederacy; England determined to push the War in America, spight of every other Consideration—its Minister has a Garbled House of Commons completely to his mind. Count Vergennes has had some communications with Mr. A. to whom he made advances, passing over Dr. F for an explanation of our Act of 40 for one (18 March last) in behalf as he said of the Subjects of his master trading to America. Mr. A. fully answered (but did not Satisfy) him in a Manly, firm and rational manner—the Arguments of the latter were so close and conclusive in vindication of the Justice and Judicious proceedings of the Councils of America that the former beat the Charrades, and returnd again to the Usual Channel of his Communication, not without some marks of displeasure at being so unexpectedly foild. This is all the European news; Congress have come to a resolution to demand of the States, power to lay Duties not exceeding 5 per Ct. on all foreign Imports, to raise a fund for a loan for carrying on the war, the necessity of which is apparent, and that it be general is not less so. Tis for this reason Congress desire to have the power vested in them, to avoid procrastination & partial impositions. Genl. Parsons has lately (25th ult) attacked the Enemies lines at N.Y., Burnt the Huts of Delaneys Corps, killd about 100, taken between fifty & Sixty Prisoners, destroyd their Bridges of Communication over Harlaem River, burnt their Magazines of forage, and taken two or three Hundred Cattle and Horses with the loss of about 13 killd and as many Wounded. I have the Honr. to be with my best respects to my Friend Yr Brother


[Page 716]
682 February 6,1781 Arthur who with yr Son is I expect by this time with you Yr. most obedt Sert, Theok. Bland [P.S. ]The above is a fact and may be relied on, as the report has been made to Congress by the Genl. 2 P.S. I have sent a full detail of a Plan of defense on the Principles mentiond within in a letter to Genl. Nelson 3 with a request that you wd Join yr forces for having it carried into Execution if it meets your approbation. RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). 1 For Lee’s January 26 letter imploring Bland to “press every motive and strain every nerve, to procure an adequate naval aid” for the capture of the forces under Gen. Benedict Arnold, see Campbell, The Bland Papers, 2:57-58. 2 For “the report [concerning Parson’s New York attack] . . . made to Congress by the Genl.,” see Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Washington, February 9, 1781, note. 3 Not found. Thomas Burke to William Bingham Dr Sir [February 6? 1781] 1 I find upon making My observations that the Election of A Minister for foreign affairs will probably fall upon Mr. Madison from Virginia. He is a Young Gentleman of Industry and abilities, but I fear a litde deficient in the Experience Necessary for rendering immediate Service in that department. However his local Situation makes him more desireable to the Southern Gendemen, and every one to whom I have Spoken of you have expressed themselves handsomly, but objected to the chusing So many Officers in One State of the Union. This is the only objection, and in a New Jealous republic it is impossible to Surmount Such objections. I would not venture to Nominate you unless upon knowing My Opinion of your Success you may desire it. For tho it is my own wish that it might fall upon you yet I would not venture to make the experiment unless I had pretty clear ground to hope that you might be appointed. If you wish to be Nominated let me hear from you in the morning. I am D Sr, your obet Set, Tho Burke RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). 1 This letter was undoubtedly written after Burke had made inquiries concerning the feasibility of nominating Bingham for the office of secretary for foreign affairs but before Richard Law was placed in nomination on February 7. See Burke to Bingham, January 30, 1781. Burke anticipated that further nominations would be accepted on the 7th and therefore asked for Bingham’s response “in the morning.”


[Page 717]
February 6, 1781 683 Bickering in Congress, however, prevented the immediate election of a secretary and Robert R. Livingston was not chosen until August 10. Joseph Jones to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sr. Phila. 6th Febry 1781 We yesterday reed, information that General Parsons with a party of our Troops had passed over to Morrisana, attacked the Enemies Post there burnt ab. 40 barracks, a quantity of Forage and brot. off 52 prisoners. The bridge of Boats wch. the Enemy had over Harlem River was also destroyed. A late New York paper mentions the sailing of three Ships of the line of the French Squadron at R. Island and that part of Graves Fleet had put to Sea in pursuit of them. If this intelligence be true it is probable you have already or will soon hear of them in the Chesepeake. Mr. Dunlap informed me this morning he had not heard from Mr. Hays these five weeks and that every thing necessary for prosecuting the business under the latter upon his coming up with some Cash to bear the expence of transporting them to Virga, shod, be forwarded in a week after his arrival and that He was surprised Mr. Hays was not come and that he had been so long withot hearing from him. I mention this to your Excellency that if any thing on the part of the Executive is necessary to be done towards forwarding this matter it may be attended to and the Press got as soon to work as possible. 1 Respectfully I am Yr. Exlys. obed Servt. Jos. Jones P.S. Maryland has certainly acceeded to the Confederation. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 For the efforts of the Virginia government to establish a press in Richmond, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:579-80, 4:396, 431-32; the Virginia Delegates to Jefferson, February 20; and Jones to Virginia Auditors, March 16, 1781. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Philada. Feb 6. 1781 I have, this Post, reed your Favors of Janry. 9th, 23d, 24th wth. one for Miss Dalley & another for Major Ryan. You mention one for Mr. Lee as accompanying the first Date, but it was not inclosed. He is gone to Virginia. I shall send him a few Lines, 1 and will at the same Time relate this Circumstance. I think, however that he must have reed, the very Letter and written you an Answer. I have an Idea that I forwarded one, in such Season.


[Page 721]
February 8, 1781 687 Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular. Philada. February 8. 1781 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, two important resolves of Congress of the 3d & 7th Instant Recommending to the several States, as indispensably necessary, that they vest a Power in Congress to levy, for the Use of the United States, a Duty of five per cent, ad Valorem at the Time & Place of Importation, upon all Goods, Wares & Merchandize of foreign Growth & Manufacture, which may be imported into any of the said States, from any foreign Port, Island or Plantation after the first Day of May 1781, except Arms &c as therein expressed. Also a like Duty on all Prizes & Prize Goods. 1 The Monies arising from the said Duties to be appropriated to the Discharge of the Principal & Interest of the Debts already contracted or which may be contracted on the Faith of the United States for supporting the present War; and the Duties continued until the said Debts are finally discharged. You will observe from the Tenor of the resolves, that if any one or more of the States immediately pass a Law vesting in Congress the Powers requested, it cannot take Effect or operate to any Purpose until all the States, that are not prevented by the Events of the War, shall have passed similar Laws. 2 That is, at present, all the States except South Carolina & Georgia, and when all the states have passed the necessary Laws, the Monies arising from the Duties are to be applied to their Benefit, exclusive of the remaining States unless such States shall pass similar Laws the first Session after the Events of the War will admit of the assembling their Legislatures, and Congress have not the least Doubt of their Compliance as soon as Circum stances shall put it in their Power. The Necessity of the Duties & Imposts being raised under one general & uniform Direction, is an Idea that will readily suggest itself. I am specially directed to urge the Necessity of immediately calling the Assembly, if not already convened, for the Purpose of vesting Congress with the Powers mentioned in the enclosed resolutions. Although it may be improbable any Person not particularly acquainted with the daily Business in Congress should have an adequate Conception of the Difficulties & Embarrassments that arise for Want of some certain & permanent Fund to support the national Credit and cement more effectually the common Interest of the United States; yet, I doubt not, the Wisdom, Knowledge & Penetration of the respective Legislatures will view those Embarrassments as very great. It ought to be remembred that Loans are not to be obtained without some certain & permanent Fund established at least to discharge the


[Page 722]
688 February 8, 1781 annual Interest punctually. That, in the present State of our Finnances the Army must be in a great Measure supported by the States separately, in a precarious Manner & perhaps very unequally: and a Train of Embarrassments, too tedious to need Enumeration, must ensue which have already been felt in a Degree & must greatly increase. I have only to add, that it will be of Importance to transmit to Congress the Acts that may be passed in Consequence of the enclosed resolves as soon as possible. I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 19:112-13. A motion for recommending “That the states be requested to pass laws enabling Congress to levy an impost” had been offered in Congress as early as March 18, 1780 (JCC, 16:261), and since October had been repeatedly mentioned as a possible solution to restoring Continental finances. For a discussion of congressional interest in the issue and the views of a number of delegates on such an augmentation of congressional power, see Edmund C. Burnett, The Continental Congress (New York: Macmillan Co., 1941), pp. 475-81. See also John Sullivan’s Committee Notes, November 7-23? 1780; and James Madison’s Motion, February 3, 1781. 2 For this February 7 resolve, designed to avoid the embarrassment of failing to obtain assent for this recommendation because states occupied by the enemy would be unable to convene their legislatures, see JCC, 19:124-25. James Lovell to Samuel Holten Dear Sir Feb. 8th, 1781 I have received your Favor of January 18th. and have delivered the one inclosed to Doctor Duffield. The Speech of the King of Engla’d to his Parliament and the narrative of Brigadier Morgan’s Success shall be inclosed for your Information. 1 At the latter you must rejoice with Fear. It was in itself the most compleat Action of this War: but I do not force [foresee?] adequate Consequences. Our Army there is no match for Cornwallis, and if he pushed suddenly he will ruin Genl. Greene, who from dire necessity has been obliged to conduct himself by Detachment one of which being ruined, the whole will probably be involved in the Fortune: But if he had the 6000 he wants he could not feed them together, as to the King of England’s Speech it may be construed for War or Peace, for, the only thing that can be gathered from it is that he thinks he had got a Parliament absolutely devoted to his Will. It is that which gives him more than Ordinary Satisfaction. Our Prospects as to Money do not brighten. You may be assured that 115 were yesterday given for 1 and this at a time when every Body complains of the Want of Old Bills. I think much of this Harm arises from the Tender Acts of this


[Page 723]
February 8, 1781 689 State. It is supposed that the next Publication of Exchange will be at 100 this is the story propagated as the foundation of demanding upwards of 100 for 1. But, why should I say any Thing on this Head. You well know the People here and their vile Practices. I am Affectionately Yours, J. L. Tr (DLC: Burnett Collection). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett, “from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 See William Floyd to George Clinton, this date, notes 1 and 4. Jesse Root to Oliver Ellsworth Dr Sir Philadelphia Feby 8th 1781 Your favour of 15th ulto. I reed, per last post. I am glad to hear that the Collecting & recruiting business goes on So well in Connecticut. Genl de Portail arrived in Town a day or two ago from the Southward but brings no News more than is in the paper. Virginia has made a Cession of their Claim lying Northwest of the Ohio to the united States with Some Savings. Maryland we are very Credibly Informed has acceeded to the Confederation. No official papers have yet come to hand but I beleive the fact is unquestionable. Congress have asked the States to empower them to lay duties & Imposts on imported articles to the amount of five per Cent. 1 The necessity of a revenue—the ease of raising a Small Sum in this way—& the utter impracticability of its being effected in any other manner must Strike every person with Conviction of the propriety of the measure. I dont think the rule proposed for laying on the duties is the best but it is the best Congress would do at present. I think the duties ought to be varied according to the nature & usefulness of the articles. Some articles will bear a very high duty while others will bear but little or none—but it is to be observed, that the duties of 5 per Cent will rise higher upon articles of luxury than others in proportion as they are dearer. Congress have been newly arranging their Executive departments, have established an office of Secretary for foreign affairs—a minister of finance who is to Superintend & order All matters of revenue & Expenditure—a Minister of war—& a minister of marine. 2 Genl Leslie has arrived to the Southward with about 2,500 Troops. The new bills get out but Slowly, labours under the disadvantages of State emissions & have various Credits which greatly embarrasses business. I Shall leave Congress about the Middle of April So as to get home by 1st of May at furthest. The President & Genl Woolcot design to go home about the Same time. The legal Exchange here is 75 but the real Exchange is 110—which produces this ill effect that every thing is raised that proportion in hard money. Please to give


[Page 724]
690 February 8, 1781 my Compliments to Mrs Ellsworth, with much Esteem & respect, your most Obedt., humble Servt., Jesse Root P.S. I Congratulate you on the Excellent Success of our arms to the Southward under Genl Morgan the particulars of which I enclose with the Kings Speech. RC (NN: Emmet Collection, no. 623). 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, this date. 2 See William Floyd to George Clinton, this date, note 2. Jesse Root to Benjamin Huntington Dr Sir Pensylvania Feby 8th 1781 Your favour per Brown I was honoured with—am obliged to you for the Communication. Virginia has Ceeded to the united States -their Claim of territory lying northwest of the river Ohio with Some Savings—& Maryland has acceaded to the Confediration, Tho, the official acct., has not yet arrived to Congress. Congress have requested the States to envest Congress with a power of laying Imposts & duties on foreign goods &c imported into the States for raising a revenue—to the amount of five per Ct. The necessity & propriety of this must be obvious on a moments reflection. Congress have newly arranged their Executive departments, have established the following Offices— Superintendent of finance—Secretary for foreign affairs—at war—& Marine. Genl Parsons Successfull Expedition to Morrisania you have doubtless heard. The enclosed paper Contains an account of Some important Successes obtained by Genl Morgan over a detachment of the Enemy under Lt Colo. Tarlton at the Southward. With esteem & respect, your most obedt. humble Servt, Jesse Root RC (NRom: Bright Collection). Artemas Ward to Unknown Sir Philadelphia Feby. 8. 1781. Your favor of the twenty fifth came to hand by the last post; 1 I am much obliged to you for your information. I wish I could see the act you mention. You say the principles of it are Just and Righteous and that a few months practice upon it will restore our lost Credit. If it does that, it will be exceedingly fortunate for us that it was passed. Its being opposed by the three mighty men mentioned does not surprise me, for their conduct may be accounted for without any difficulty. Although the conduct of one of them in one certain


[Page 728]
694 February 9, 1781 one or two frigates sent into our Bay, but I have redoubled these applications and enforced them with the strongest Arguments I could address ever since the Sailing of Arnold from New york, having been always apprehensive that his design was on our Country. I am now happy to inform your Excellency, that in Consequence of our Joint application the Arms are on board a frigate intended to be sent as above mentiond; and of inclosing you a Copy of a letter from the Count De Rochambeau, which was this day received by Congress, 2 through Genl. Washington; besides which the Minister of France has communicated to me, and Charged me with Secrecy to every Soul, but your Excellency, with whom he wishes it to remain inviolate untill executed—that Mr. Des Touches the Present Commr in Chief of the French Fleet, has determined to put to Sea (in consequence of the disaster that has happend to the British Fleet, which gives him a Superiority) and either Give Battle to, or Block up the British fleet in Gardner’s Bay in either of which cases he is determined to send one or two Ships of the line and two frigates into our Bay, an Express being about to set off tomorrow I thought it necessary to give your Excellency this Intelligence that every preparation might be made by land, as well as that Pilots might be orderd with the Utmost secrecy and dispatch to attend at the Capes for their arrival, should fortune favor us in this Critical and interesting affair as we expect. Your Excellency will be not less aware of the importance of being prepared on land to cooperate with these vessels shd. they arrive, than of sending on board proper pilots and Conductors, with every necessary intelligence of the Situation, state and strength of the Enemy by land and Sea as also the most convenient stations and Harbors for the Ships of our Ally in Case of necessity. I cannot conclude my letter without takeing notice how much we are indebted to his Excellency the Chevalr. de La Lucerne for the frankness with which he has Concurred and the cordiality with which he is enclined to promote every measure that we have Jointly, and I have individually had the honor to proprose to him for the good of the common Cause, and for the particular benefit and relief of our State. I have the honor to be with the greatest Sincerity Dr. Sr. Yrs. most affectionately, Theok. Bland RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:567-68. 1 For the delegates’ application to the chevalier de La Luzerne for transportation by sea of “the Arms belonging to our state which came in the Comite,” see Virginia Delegates to Samuel Nightingale, Jr., December 30, 1780, note 2. 2 Bland’s copy of Rochambeau’s letter to Washington of January 29 informing him that two British ships of the line and a frigate had run aground in a storm and that the chevalier Destouches hoped to send a ship of the line and two frigates to cruise the Chesapeake and interrupt British communication between New York and the South is in the Executive Papers, Vi. See also Joseph Jones to Jefferson, February 10; and Virginia Delegates to Jefferson, February 13, 1781.


[Page 729]
February 9,1781 695 Abraham Clark to the Board of War Gentlemen, Philada. Febry. 9. 1781. A Number of Applications for a Jail keeper are referred to you to report upon; any report you make need not in my Opinion be confined to the Petitioners in Case you can find a person more Suitable. 1 I am just informed Mr. Byers would gladly Accept that employment and I cannot think of one more fit under every point of view & such an Appointment would extinguish his Contract. 2 I am, Gentlemen, your Obdt. Humble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (DNA: PCC, item 42). 1 With this letter, Clark enclosed the petitions of seven candidates seeking appointment as “keeper of the state prison in the room of R[obert] Jewell, deceased,” which were referred to the board of war by resolution of Congress this day. JCC, 19:133. In addition to the petitions for these candidates—Benjamin Armitage, Thomas Felten, Joseph Jewell, William Lawrence, Francis Proctor, Joseph Van Dyke, and Elijah Weed—others were submitted to the board during the next few days in behalf of John Harrison, Henry Murfits, George Nagel, John White, and Philip Will. See PCC, item 42, 4:229-77, 5:225-28. The petition of John White was also endorsed by delegates Samuel Huntington and Alexander McDougall; and Rhode Island delegate James Varnum wrote a brief letter of recommendation in behalf of Francis Proctor. Ibid., 4:232-33, 264-67. Elijah Weed was appointed to the post on February 26. JCC, 19:197. 2 Although James Byers failed to secure this appointment, Congress did release him from his contract as Continental cannon founder in August, which he had requested in a petition submitted to Congress on January 2. See JCC, 19:9, 21:902; and PCC, item 41, 1:323-25. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia Feby 9th 1781 Your favour of the 18th ult with the inclosures we have been honour’d with, The States quota of Journals for the year 1778 are in Mr Shermans Chest at Mrs. Cheesmans. The vols. for 79 are not out of the press—the monthly Journals for Novr last we inclose to your Excellency—we Shall pay particular attention to the resolve of Assembly respecting the Journals—& forward them by the earliest Opportunity. Congress have Considered it to be indispensibly necessary, that they have Some established funds on which to depend, and among the ways & Means of effecting this, none appeared more natural, easy & equitable than Imposts & duties on articles imported into the Country—provided they are imposed by one rule & take effect at the Same time in all the States—and the avails are appropriated for


[Page 733]
Febrary 10, 1781 699 The cross roads where Lord Cornwallis detached Lieut. Colo. Tarleton to beat up Morgans quarters is near the head of Fishing Creek & about 20 miles west of Winsborrough. Grindels ford on Packelet where Genl. Morgan had encamped several days is about 30 miles distant, and a little to the west of south from the cross roads and about a mile below the junction of Lawsons fork with the north fork of Packelet. The Cowpens is about 15 miles from Grindels ford on the high lands between Packelet and Broad river at the sources of Bush Creek, of Packelet & Suck Creek, of Broad river and within 3 miles of the boundary line between No. and So Carolina. The Cowpens is about 25 miles distant and a little to the east of south from Kings Mountain. Wm. Sharpe [P.y ] From Genl. Greene’s head quarters to the Cowpens, at least 120 miles—So. Wt. direction. Genl. Morgans Camp near Cain Creek is about eight miles west of Kings Mountain. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 This brief undated description of the Carolina backcountry was enclosed this day in President Huntington’s letter to Washington, for which see the preceding entry, note 2. For a continuation of this description and further intelligence about the area, see Sharpe to Washington, February 27, 1781. Samuel J. Atlee to George Washington Sir, Philada. Feby. 10th. 1781. Your Excellency will receive by this Opportunity, an Address from a Number of the Officers in behalf of themselves and others, captured in 76. 1 They are preparing a Remonstrance to the Assembly of this State at their present sitting, but wou’d wish your Excellencys countenance in the Measure. To you, Sir, as the Father of the Soldiery they look up, not doubting ample Redress from their Country, shou’d their Representation be back’d by your powerfull Influance. I cant help joining the Petitioners, being in the same Predicament with them, notwithstanding my Claim laid in to the Commissioners at White Plains for settling the Arrangement of the Army. The early period of the War, and the powerfull Armaments your Excellency had to contend with, must imphattically plead in favour of the Few who then composed your comparatively small Force. Numbers, less unfortunate, tho’ I trust not more deserving, have been provided for, whilst your unfortunate Sons, after nobly contending in the first Stage of the War, and suffering a long and


[Page 737]
February 10,1781 703 January 9, 23, and 24, with their numerous enclosures relating to the victory at the Cowpens, S.C., plus a letter from Gen. Daniel Morgan of January 20. They were read February 8 and referred to a committee of three, chaired by Thomas Burke, which received additional instructions the following day to consider “the state and condition of the southern army and ways and means of supplying their wants.” The committee reported on March 8 and the following day Congress commended Morgan and his officers and his troops for their conduct the preceding January 17, but took no action in regard to supplying the southern army. That responsibility had been assumed by a committee appointed February 13 that reported on the 20th. See JCC, 19:129-30, 133, 142, 176-79, 245, 246-48; PCC, item 155, 1:505-16, 533-48; and Samuel Huntington to Greene, February 20, note 1, and March 10, 1781. 2 Mathews is apparently referring to a letter, which has not been found, sent by the committee appointed to correspond with the commander of the southern department, of which he was a member. 3 See JCC, 19:137. 4 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 8, 1781. James M. Varnum to Catharine Greene Madam, 1 Philadelphia 10th February 1781. Your very polite Letter, recognizing my Billet from E Greenwich, I had the Honor of receiving some days since, For which you will be pleased to accept my sincerest Acknowledgements. Inclosed, I have the Pleasure of transmitting the real Account of a most interesting & important Action in South Carolina. An Event so splendid, I think has not its Parellall in the Annals of the present War. While we feel our Hearts warmed with the most lively Emotions at the Success of a Measure, dictated by an Husband and a Friend, (for this Action was the necessary Consequence of a Predisposition in the Cantonments) we shall not, I trust, loose Sight of those Uis of Fortune, that ever attend the brightest Prospects, to snatch an illfated Hour, into wch. they may pour the Cup of Inquietude. I have just received a Letter from the General, 2 and am perfectly acquainted with his Situation. My unremitted Attention shall not be wanting to place him upon a more equal Footing with Lord Cornwallis; But from our Baseless Circumstance, I am morally certain he must retire before the Enemy for a Time. Expresses frequently go from hence to Genl. Greene’s Head Quarters. Any Letters you may be pleased to honor me with the Care of, shall be most religiously sent forward. This City abounds with agreable Circles, of wch. the fair Sex do honor to h[uman] Nature. I find myself respected with every kind of polite and friendly Attention, & feel all the Felicity than can be enjoyed seperate from domestic Endearments. I have the Honor of being, Madam, with the greatest Esteem, your most obedient devoted & humble Servt. J M Varnum


[Page 738]
704 February 10,1781 RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers, photostat). 1 Catharine Littlefield Greene (1755-1814), wife of Gen. Nathanael Greene and niece of Rhode Island governor William Greene, for whom see John F. and Janet A. Stegeman, Caty. A Biography of Catharine Littlefield Greene (Providence: Rhode Island Bicentennial Foundation, 1977). 2 That is, Nathanael Greene. Samuel J. Atlee to Joseph Reed Dr Sir, Philada. Feby. 11th. 1781. Every exersion in my Power has been employed in the important office Councill was pleased to intrust with me, 1 I flatter myself with full Satisfaction to that Honble Board. It will give me infinite pleasure to find any Gentlemen Council shall please to appoint as my Successor in office, shall perform the Duties with greatest Satisfaction to the Publick and to the Board for whence he derives his Powers. Since receiving your Excellency’s Letter I have been looking round for a person to execute that important office. I fear for it’s per formance. Col. Hubly I believe to be a Worthy Man and good Soldier. I have not sufficient Knowledge of him to judge whether he will be enable to rule so great and so divided a people as the County of Lancaster— he ought to be a person will known in the County, and of sufficient Interest there. 2 Mr Cunningham I presume is better acquainted with him than I am. I am Sir with great regard, Your very Hble Servt. Sam J Atlee 3 RC (InU-Li: Lafayette Collection). 1 That is, as the Lieutenant of Lancaster County, Pa. 2 For the Pennsylvania Council’s appointment on February 14 of Col. Adam Hubley “to be Lieutenant of the county of Lancaster, in the stead of Colonel Samuel J. Atlee,” See Pa. Council Minutes, 12:628. 3 Atlee also sent Reed the following letter on behalf of Lt. John H. Finley of the 5th Pennsylvania Regiment the following day. “I cannot possibly avoid interesting myself in Favour of a poor unfortunate person the son of a late worthy man—the late President Finley of New Jersey. “The young man was a Lieut in Col. McGaws Regt, and taken prisoner at Fort Washington, about 2 months since he was exchanged, he is now in a pitious situation having neither Friends, Cloathing or Cash. “I hardly knew him this morning when he waited upon me, I must therefore in behalf this distressed officer beg of Councill to inquire into his situation and provide him some immediate relief.” Provincial Delegates Collection, PHi. For the exchange of Finley in October 1780 and the concern of General Washington that he and a number of fellow prisoners be provided for until able to return home, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:291-92.


[Page 739]
February 12, 1781 705 Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia February 11. 1781 I have received your several Despatches accompanying your Letters of the 28th of December, 9, 23 & 24 of January. 1 The Action at the Cowpens was conducted in such a Manner as does the highest Honor to Genl Morgan and the brave Officers & Soldiers under his Command. The Standards taken from the Enemy will be very acceptable to Congress. Every Exertion will be made to furnish the southern Army with the Necessaries they are so much in Want of. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, Sir, your most obedient Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Greene Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 19:70, 129. These four letters, which were read in Congress on January 18 and February 8, are in PCC, item 155, 1:497-536. Committee of Congress to Charles Pettit Sir, Philad. 12 Feby 1781. Congress have appointed a Committee to State the publick debts. Those which are due in your Department and especially on Certifi cates for Supplies ought to be provided for, as the last are a great Obstruction in collecting the Taxes. I am directed to apply to you for a general Estimate founded on the best Materials & Information in your power, distinguishing the debts due on Certificates & to request it may be furnished as soon as possible. If you shoud be unable to comply you will be pleased to assign the Reasons for the Satisfaction of Congress. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedt Servt, Jas. Duane, for the Committee RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Written and signed by James Duane. Addressed: “Col. Pettit A.Q.M.G.” 1 This committee, consisting of Duane, William Sharpe, and Oliver Wolcott, had been appointed on February 7. The committee’s report (in Duane’s hand), with extensive supporting documentation, was submitted to Congress on February 19 and “referred to the Committee of the Whole.” See JCC, 19:125, 160-73; and PCC, item 34, fols. 19-257. Pettit’s February 17 response, which was incorporated into the report, and an enclosed “Estimate of the debts supposed to be due from the Quarter Master’s department contracted under Major General Green, Quarter Master General,” are in PCC, item 34, fols. 201-6.


[Page 742]
708 February 13,1781 2 William Carmichael’s letters to the Committee for Foreign Affairs of November 28 and December 19 (not December 24), 1780, were read in Congress on February 12 and debated on February 14. JCC, 19:140, 146. 3 Lt. Col. Uriah Forrest undoubtedly carried Carroll’s February 17 letter to Lee, which continues the information contained in this letter. ♦ Probably councillors James Brice, John Hoskins Stone, and Samuel Turbutt Wright. See Carroll to Lee, February 20, 1781, note 2. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear sir [February 13, 1781] The late arrival of the Post gives me opportunity only to acknowledge the Receipt of your favors of Jan 26 & Feb 1, and to make a few remarks. I have forwarded the Letter to Doctr. Lee under cover to his Brother Richd. 1 at whose Seat at Chantilly the Doctr arrived the day of the date of yr. last to me. I will deliver the one to Ryan. I see you are right as to a Surplus 100 Dollrs., my memory did not accord with yr. memorandum which expresses 570 I remitted 690. The St. Vincents acct. 2 is highly probable and the Report of D’Estaings Course agrees with some hints from Carmichael. The Cherokees broke out on the Frontiers of the southern States. Col. Campbel of the Augusta Country has given them a dire Blow, cutt off many, taken some prisoners and burnt 13 of their Towns. “The Resolve of Novr. is still adhered to.” All Versatility in Appearance so far as the Journals of Congress will be avoided if we should be permitted to suppress altogether what we have hitherto done out of Regard to the Interest of the State, what Congress will think is an Obligation for 3 to be present to vote. I assure you that the State will unavoidably suffer if there is not one at least more at Philada. than are essential for a Voice. There are great Questions now before Congress and the Confederation being compleat there will be continually such for a Time; and I have lately perceived what I judge an Aim to take notice of our mode of voting, The Resolve of Novr. being known to some members; but I had rather be censured by the State for suppressing it than that the State should lose its vote when I have the Cholic or Mr Adams or Mr Ward some other Disorder. Your affectly, J L RC (NN: Gerry-Townsend papers). Endorsed by Elbridge Gerry: “Phil. Lettr. Hon. Mr. Lovell, Feby [13?] ansd Mar. 1. 1781.” 1 Not found. 2 The “St. Vincents acct. ’ ’ was undoubtedly a reference to a report of the French repulse of a British attack on St. Vincent on December 15, 1780. William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity (New York: Longmans, Green & Co. 1926), p. 253.


[Page 743]
February 13,1781 709 James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Feby. [13] 1 1781 I have your favor the 5th instant by the post. 2 Col. Harrison arrived here yesterday, 3 and as he mentions no circumstance which indi cated an intended departure of the Enemy, I am afraid your intelli gence on that subject was not well founded. Immediately on the receipt of your former letter relating to an exchange of C. Taylor 4 I applied to the Admiralty department, and if such a step can be brought about with propriety, I hope he will be gratified, but considering the tenor of their treatment of naval prisoners, and the resolutions with which it has inspired Congress, I do not think it probable that exchanges will go on easily, and if this were less the case, a mere passenger under the indulgence too of a parole, can scarcly hope to be preferred to such as are suffering the utmost hardships and were made prisoners in public service. A vessel arrived here a few days ago from Cadiz which brings letters of as late date as the last of Deer. Those that are official tell us that England is making the most strenuous exertions for the current year, & that she is likely to be but too successful in the great article of money. The Parliament have voted 92000 seamen, and a considerable land reinforcement for their Southern Army in America is also sd. to be in preparation. Private letters by the same conveyance mention that the blockage of Gibralter is going on with alacrity, and that the garrison is in such distress as flatters the hope of a speedy capitulation. If Mr. Pendleton your nephew 5 is still with you be pleased to return him my compliments. With great respect I am, Dr Sr, Yr. Obt. servant, J- Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Endorsed by Pendleton: “James Maddison Esq Feb. 13. 1781.” Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:311. 1 See Pendleton’s endorsement; and his March 5 reply acknowledging Madison’s letter of “the 13th past,” ibid., 3:5. 2 See ibid., 2:306-7. 3 For Benjamin Harrison’s mission to Philadelphia, see Madison to Joseph Jones, December 12, 1780, note 3. For Harrison’s reports to Gov. Jefferson of February 12 and 19, 1781, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:589-90, 655-57. 4 For the exchange ofCraddock Taylor, see Madison to Pendleton, December 26, 1780, note 2. 5 That is, Henry Pendleton. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philada. Feby. 13th. 1781 By the Speaker Harrison who arrived here the day before yesterday we were honored with your Excellency’s favor of the 26th. Ulto. 1


[Page 744]
710 February 13, 1781 We shall communicate your answer to the Baron d’Arendt, and if his claim against the State be supported by proper evidence shall take the best steps in our power to discharge it. 2 A Vessel just arrived from Cadiz has brought Congress two letters from Mr. Carmichael, from one of which dated Madrid Novr, 28th. 1780, the following is extracted: “From the best information I have been able to collect I am sorry to tell you, that the nation (British) will be able to borrow the sum demanded for the expenditures of 1781, which with the usual vote of credit at the end of the session will amount to 16 Millions Sterling at least. The scheme of the Ministry to effect this is not yet public but I am told it will be on Similar conditions to that of the present year. 92,000 men are voted for the marine, and I have reason to think a considerable reinforcement will be sent early to the Southward and that agreeable to a proposition of Sr. J. Amherst the Enemy means to occupy and fortify strongly a post near the Mouth of Chesapeak from which, with a strong Garrison & naval force, they hope to interrupt the navigation of the bay and by frequent incursions prevent the States of Maryland & Virginia from sending supplies of men &c &c. to the Carolinas. Among the troops mentioned to be embarked there are three regiments of Light Dragoons. Your servants nearer G. B. will however give you more accurate information. I am persuaded that our Ally will take early measures for defeating these designs. This latter information is derived indirectly from conversations with men in a situation to be well informed.” 3 Private letters by the same conveyance add that the blockade of Gibraltar was continued with great vigor, and that the Garrison began to be severely distressed. We have the honor to be with great respect & esteem, Yr. Excellys obt. & hume Servants, Jos. Jones James Madison Junr. Theok. Bland, Jr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Bland, and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:308-9. 1 For Jefferson’s letter, which he concluded with a request for “Letters of Marque ... by the first Opportunity,” see ibid., pp. 2:298-99; »r Jefferson. Papers (Boyd), 4:456-57. This request was actually referred to Secretary Charles Thomson, who accordingly sent Jefferson the following response on February 19. “Enclosed you will receive twenty four blank Commissions with blank bonds and Instructions for private Armed vessels; You will please to give orders that the bonds when Executed be returned into this Office. When more are wanted they shall on the first notice be sent by, Sir, Your obedt. humble servt. Cha Thomson secy. Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 2 For the “claim” of baron d’Arendt, see Virginia Delegates to Jefferson, January 1, 1781, note 3. 3 Not identified.


[Page 745]
February 14, 1781 711 Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia Feby. 13 1781 We are Just informd from Genl. Varnum a Member now in Congress from Rhode Island that he has receivd Certain Intelligence that the Culloden of 74 Guns is drove on Shore and all her Crew except 17 men Perishd—the London of 90 Guns is driven out to Sea dismasted and two other 64 Gun Men of War Were dismasted entirely and all their Guns thrown over board in the late Storm. Since writing the above We have procured the acct, from Genl. Varnum in his own hand, which We have the Honor to Enclose. 1 It is moreover added that on hearing the above the Enemy at N. York sent orders to Arnold to retreat from Virginia. 2 Heavenly Storm. We are Yr. Exclys Most obedt. Serts, Jos. Jones Theok. Bland RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Bland and signed by Bland and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:310. 1 Not found. 2 The rumor of orders for Arnold’s withdrawal from Virginia proved false. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia February 14. 1781 By Letters just come to hand from Mr. Carmichael at Madrid, I am informed that the Son of Count de Rochambeau is safe arrived in France. 1 Our last Reports from Virginia say that the British were fortifying at Portsmouth, that their Operations indicated a design to take Post there. How far Credit ought to be given to the Account contained in the Paper enclosed, that all the Shiping & Troops in the Chesapeake are ordered to leave the Bay & repair to New York, I am unable to determine; but ardently wish that Monsr des Touches might be in Circumstances to make them a Visit before they get out of the Bay. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 William Carmichael had reported this information in his December 19 letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, read in Congress on February 12, for which see Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, February 13, note 2.


[Page 748]
714 February 15,1781 offensive in my letters, and not to the Letter to Congress which contained an affront to A member who tho not named was, neces sarily, known to the whole assembly and which existed long before I wrote any letter. If the Submission is refused on these Terms, I must entreat you to proceed in the business on the Original grounds. I am Dr Sr. yours. Tho Burke FC (NcU: Burke Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke. 1 While undated, this letter to Dr. Shiell, who had agreed to act as Burke’s second in an affaire d’honneur with John Sullivan, was undoubtedly written sometime after the initial “conference which General Sulivan proposed” between Shiell and Sullivan’s second, Alexander McDougall, for which see Sullivan to McDougall, January 27, note 1; and McDougall to Shiell, February 7 and 19, 1781. 2 That is, Sullivan’s letter to John Hancock of September 27, 1777, for which see these Letters, 8:110n.l. 3 Undoubtedly former congressman James Wilson. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell Dear Sir: Philadelphia, 15th February, 1781. I had the pleasure of receiving yours of the 5th inst., last night. I wrote a line by an express to the Governor, which I hope you will receive. I have very little hope that this will reach you. By a vessel, which arrived last Sunday from Cadiz, we have letters as late as the 19th December. The fleets at that time, as well of France and Spain as Great Britain, were in port; the Dutch had acceded to the armed Neutrality, notwithstanding which, the British continued to take their ships, and it was thought would make some attempts on their settlements in the East Indies. Mr. Cumberland is still permitted to continue at the Court of Madrid—a very suspicious circumstance. There is great reason to apprehend that the British mean to fortify and support their station at Portsmouth, or some other in that neigh borhood, in order to shut up the navigation of the bay, and by making frequent incursions into the country, prevent the State of Virginia from sending aid to the Carolinas. Congress is every day engaged in a variety of matters, but under our present situation, it is probably best to say little as to the particulars. I hope to have some opportunity before long by which I may be more communicative. I have wrote a great number of letters to you and my other friends, particularly C. Johnson and R. Smith, which I fear have miscarried—having lately received a letter from Mr. Smith from Halifax, in which he complains of my not having wrote. I am now quite recovered, except a little remnant of my cold, which is attended with no other inconvenience, but that it makes me cautious of exposing myself. I am very happy to hear that my sister Iredell has quite recovered


[Page 749]
February 15,1781 715 her health. I was long under very serious apprehensions for her safety; I shall be very happy if we should all once more meet in health. Present my compliments to Mr. Johnson, and all my other friends; pray don’t forget Mr. Barker. My love to my sisters, Nelly and the children, and believe me with the most sincere esteem, My dear sir, Your affectionate brother, and obedient servant, Sam. Johnston. MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:489-90. Alexander McDougall to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 15th Feby 1781. The times are So critical and the Subjects on which I shall have occation to write to your Excellency are So important, that I have determined to do it under the Signature of Marcus. 1 This will prevent many of the evil effects which have arisen to our Country from the miscarriage of Letters. My Compliments to your Lady. And Believe me to be, Sir, with great respect, your most Humble Servt. FC (CSmH). In the hand of Alexander McDougall, and endorsed: “by Genl Hand.” 1 In his March 31 acknowledgment of this letter Washington expressed pleasure at McDougall’s proposal to correspond “under the signature of Marcus,” but no such letters to him have been found. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:400. John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir, Philadelphia Feby. 15th. 1781. As I observed Genl. Greene had given you a full account of the victory obtained by Genl. Morgan. I did not trouble yr. Excy. with it. Nothing else of any importance has since occured. I should be extreamly obliged to you Sir, to inform me of the state of the business respecting the exchange of prisoners (particularly those at St. Augustine) by the first convenient opportunity. 1 I hope yr. Excy. will excuse my troubling you with this enquiry, especially when it is considered, that almost every near connexion I have, are now in the power of the enemy. I am my Dr sir, with the highest respect & most sincere Esteem & regard, yr. Obed. Servt. Jno. Mathews RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For Washington’s discouraging February 26 reply, in which he explained that he had not even sought to open negotiations with Sir Henry Clinton for an exchange because he was “so totally unacquainted with the State of the southern prisoners,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:303.


[Page 750]
716 February 15,1781 James M. Varnum to Horatio Gates Sir Philadelphia 15th Febry 1781 I have the honor of indosing your Letter, which came under Cover to me from Governor Bowen. It is a very just Observation of the Baron de Montesquieu, that in all democratical Governments the Manners controul the Laws. We find that Observation fully verified in the United States. The Manners are generally corrupt, & the Laws but feebly executed. In Times of War, the Deliberations of Senetorial, or republican Bodies, being influenced by a Variety of Objects, are seldom directed to energetic and decisive Operations. The Result is frequently Disap pointment or Disgrace. The public Checks upon the reserved licentiousness of the People are too weak to suppress their Clamors, and their Resentment is commonly satiated by transferring the Odium upon executive Officers. Misfortune is construed into Wickedness or Weakness and the shining Merrits of Years are inveloped in the illfated Events of an Hour. How ungenerous is the human Heart when under the Controul of tumultuous Passions! So reluctant are Mankind at the dignified Station of their own Existence, that they assume every kind of Allowance for their own Deviations, while they expect of others the Prescience and Omnipotence of Gods! You, my worthy Friend, have Occasion to realize these Reflections; And while many feel the greatest Inquietude at your present Situation, they expect, with increasing Satisfaction, your full Restitution to the Honor and Confidence of a Country, bound, by every Sentiment Of Gratitude and Affection, to hold you dear. Permit me Sir, to wish you every possible Felicity in your present domestic Retirement, and a speedy Accession of increasing military Fame! Be pleased to make my best Respects to your worthy Lady, & accept of the sincerest Acknowledgements of Sir, your most obedient Servant, & sincere Friend. J.M. Varnum RC (NHi: Gates Papers). Theodorick Bland to Charles Pettit Sr. Philada. Feby 16th 1781 I beg leave to inform you that a Motion was made by the Virginia Delegates to Authorize Col. Harrison—A Gent sent by that state for a Particular Purpose—to exchange about four thousand Dollars of Continental Money of that state, of the new Emissions at the treasury, which Congress readily assented to—But being informd


[Page 751]
February 16,1781 717 by a Member, that there was a large Sum of money in the Hands of the Qr. Mastr. Genl, now in this City—which was to be sent on to the Southern Army, where the Money above mentiond passes Currendy—the motion was withdrawn & the Sense of Congress was taken thereon and it was their opinion that Col. Harrison shd. Exchange, the Continental Money Issued on acct, of the State of Virginia to that Amount for like Bills Issued on acct, of this state. 1 Col. Harrison being in immediate want of money for the purpose of forwarding necessary articles of Military Stores &c. to that State I have no doubt of your Accommodating him with such as will answer his purpose in this City, in persuance to its being the Sense of Congress that you shd do so. I am with great regard, Sr., Yr Most obedt Sevt. Theok. Bland Delegate from the State of Virginia RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 This action is not recorded in the journals. John Sullivan to the American Philosophical Society Gendemen, Philadelphia Feby. 16th. 1781 I have the Honor to present your Learned Society with a Fossil lately Discovered in a Mountain about Seventy Miles from Portsmouth in New Hampshire. The Mountain is exceeding Large & seems to be filled with Quarries of this Natural Concrete. 1 It has some Properties of Common Glass, and possesses others which render it in Some Respects Superior. It is equally Transparent, does not waste or Consume in Fire, receives any Color or Dye, and will not perceptably diminish in weight or Size by Frequent Attrition. But is, preferable on account of its not being Frangible, Dissoluble, or Friable. Though this Fossil has not been before Discovered in America it was Long Since known in other parts of the world; it Appears to have the same Qualities as the Lapis Specularis of the Ancients, and does not materially Differ either from the Venetian or Muscovite Talc. It has not the Reddish Color of the former, and is perhaps Exceeded in Whiteness by the Latter: but is in Transparency equal to either. It may be cut out in Large Stones and (Like those) be Easily Seperated into Thin Lamina which appear Smooth, Glossy, & Transparent. It answers the same Purpose of covering Pictures making Lanthoms


[Page 752]
718 February 16,1781 & window Lights, & though not Similar in all respects is (in my opinion) Substantially the Same. I do not Therefore, present it as a Concrete hitherto unknown, but to afford an opportunity for the Learned and Curious of your Society to Investigate the Causes of its Connections; & Examine into its usefulness, in the Mechanic Arts. Mr. Secretary Thomson will be so obliging as To Lay it before you and I perswade myself that through your Influence it will receive a place among the natural and useful Productions of America. I have the Honor to be with the Most Exalted Sentiments of Esteem and Respect Gentlemen, your most Obedt. and very Humble Servt, Jno. Sullivan RC (PPAmP: American Philosophical Society Archives). 1 That is, mica. For American interest in science at this time, see Brooke Hindle, The Pursuit of Science in Revolutionary America, 1735-1789 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1956). Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sr., Philadelphia Feby. 17th. 1781 I have only to add to what I wrote your Excellency last, 1 that Mr. Carmichael mentions in his Letter, that the plan for fixing a Post in Chessapeak is said to have been suggested to the Ministry by Sr. Jeffry Amherst, & that 3 Regmts. of Horse are to be among the troops destind for America. A Committee of Congress, have under Con sideration the removal of the Convention Troops. 2 I hope soon to have it [tn] my power to inform you of the determination of Congress on that subject. It will give me pleasure to have an opportunity of Executing any commands of yours & your Lady, to whom I present my Comps. I am, with great esteem, your Excellencys Mo Obt Sert, Dani. Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 See Carroll to Lee, February 13, 1781. 2 One of the proposals submitted by Benjamin Harrison to the committee appointed February 13 to consult with him, for which see JCC, 19:142, 193; Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson, February 20; and Samuel Huntington to Jefferson, March 4, 1781. Samuel Huntington to John Hancock Sir, Philadelphia February 17. 1781 By the enclosed resolve of the 15th Instant your Excellency will be informed of the Sentiments of Congress respecting the eastern


[Page 761]
February 20,1781 727 Justice, but as Mr. Matlac is joined to Mr. Fell perhaps there may be neither denial nor Equivocation.” Your Suggestion is more pardonable “A curious motion the Product of some months Study in the Jerzies, ’ ’ The Mover had been some months there. The main arguments I used against it were the Indelicacy & Injustice of it as it regarded the Genl, who would either take a mortal Disgust at us for passing it or if he was as weak as the movers would be ruined by his Acceptance of such an uncouth and unproductive a Commission. Indeed, Sir, You are just in your Opinion of me. I have a great Regard for his Excellency But it does not show itself in all the Ways of some other Man for I can hear a pious Body say “We have had a wild Winter Thanks to God” without putting my addition of ‘‘and to Genl. Washington.” I did not find a Line for you from Carmichael, Adams or Dana. RC (NN: Gerry-Townsend Papers). 1 Probably the Miss Dally who with her sister, Mrs. Clark, had maintained a lodging house in Philadelphia at which Lovell, Gerry, and other New England delegates had lived in 1778. See these Letters, 10:344n.l and 11:334. Miss Dally may also be the mysterious “M D”, who was involved in currency speculation with Lovell and Gerry at this time, tor which see Lovell’s letters to Gerry of March 16, 20, and 27, 1781. 2 Gerry had already attempted to explain this misunderstanding in a February 7 letter to General Washington, which is printed in these Letters at Lovell to Gerry, November 20, 1780, note 3. James Lovell to John Jay Sir, Feb. 20. 1781 The Presidt. sends you Instructions passed in Congress the 15th. 1 Personally I am mortified that no Letters from you since that of Sepr. 16th, have reached us. We have not waited for the minute Information promised in yours of that date, nor have we reed, any notice of your Receipt of our Instructions of Oct 4th before we discuss anew the old Subject. There has been unfair Dealing with your Dispatches. 2 1 apprehend that we are allowed to see only Sentiments somewhat different from yours. Perhaps the inclosed memorandum may be some Clue to your Scrutiny. 3 Upon the 10th. of Jany. Congress resolved to establish an Office for foreign affairs which I hope will make yr. Station more easy & reputable. I wish most earnestly to have a Choice made of the Secretary to whom I may deliver all the Papers in my Possession connected with his Duty. I am, Sir, your Friend & humb Servt. James Lovell


[Page 762]
728 February 20, 1781 RC (NNC: Jay Papers). Enclosed in Lovell to Jay, March 31, 1781. 1 See JCC, 19:152-53. 2 Jay was well aware of the “unfair Dealing” with his dispatches, but was apparently able to do litde about it. See Jay, Papers (Morris), 2:41n.l; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:174-75, 384, 437. The saga of this letter from Lovell to Jay is itself illustrative of the problem, which Jay reported in a May 29 letter to Huntington. On May 18, he explained, “I received from the Hon. Mr. Lovell three letters, written on one sheet, viz., 20th of February, 9th and 31st of March last. No other copies of these letters ever reached me. They arrived at Cadiz in the Virginia, but the papers and journals said to accompany them never came to my hands, nor have I received any letters from your excellency since January last.” Ibid., 4:459. 3 For the “memorandum” enclosed with this letter, a list of letters Congress had received from Jay and William Carmichael from May 1780 to February 1781, see the “enclosure” sent with Lovell to Jay, March 31, 1781. Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency, Philadelphia Feby. 20th 1781 Last Saturday Capt Paul Jones arrived here from France having been Sixty two days on his Passage. He has brought Some military Stores but no Cloathing. By letters from Doctr Franklin 10,000 Suits of Cloaths, 15000 Stand of arms, a large quantity of powder & a great quantity of Cloths were procured & ready to be Shipped as long ago as last August. One vessel with 130 bales of Cloth is taken & Carried to England the rest of the Cloathing Capt Jones Says is to Come with The Second division of the French fleet which were to Sail this month for America—the delay of Sending over the Cloathing is yet a mistery, but it is put in a train of investigation & by the help of Capt Jones trust it will be effected. 1 Doctr. Franklin writes that Mr Laurence has more liberty & more air than at First 2 —that the british Court Sent a Copy of the proposed plan of a treaty with the united provinces taken with Mr Laurence to the Stadtholder to be Communicated Which was done & the pensioner, Magistrates &c. of Amsterdam approved the plan—upon which Mr. York was instructed to present a Spirited remonstrance to their high mitynesses requiring that the pensioner & magistrates of Amsterdam Should be taken up & punished. What answer was given to this remonstrance he had not heard—that in order to Support our Credit in Europe & enable him to pay the bills drawn on him he has been obliged to engage that these States will furnish provisions to the army & fleet of his most Christian Majesty in America the ensuing Campaign for Which we are to receive payment in francs to the amount of four hundred thousand dollars. By the English papers as late as the latter end of Novr.—it appears that on the question respecting the prosecution of the war in America in the House of Commons 212 in favour & 130 against—10,000


[Page 763]
February 20, 1781 729 Troops are to be Sent to america Early in the Spring, 2000 on the 6th of Novr. were to embark in two or three weeks for Charlestown. By Capt Jones the Seige of Gibralter is Continued & it was Supposed in France that Count de Estang was gone to the West Indies. By letters Just reed from Govr Jefferson & Govr Nash a fleet of Ships have arrived in Cape fear river Supposed to be a reinforcement from Europe—probably the one above mentioned. 3 The Enemy build their hopes of Success on the deranged & Supposed exhausted State of our finances, if we disappoint them in this we Shall tottally defeat Their prospects & induce them to reasonable terms of peace. It behoves us therefore to exert ourselves with Spirit at this time, & I think it promises the most happy Consequences, which I never so feelingly realized as I seem to at present. By an Estimate that has been made of our national debt it doth not exceed 30,000,000 of dollars. 4 The Supplies Called for are all indispensible for the next Campaign—we must Stop drawing bills on Europe, for the present, the loss is too great to be born by any nation, being as 60 to 92. December Journals are not printed. I write in hast as I did not know of Mr. Meers going untill a few hours before he sets out. The President & Genl. Woolcot are well & present their Compliments to your Excellency. The Souther States are much distressed & exhausted—& much depends on the vigorous exertions of the Eastern States. With the highest Esteem & respect, your Excellencys most obedt, most humble Servt, Jesse Root P.S. The Pensylvania Line will be Ordered to the Southward. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 The interrogation of Capt. John Paul Jones was actually being conducted by the Board of Admiralty, to whom the “mistery” of “the delay of Sending over the Cloathing” from France had been referred by Congress on February 19. Jones’ arrival with a cargo of clothing had been anticipated for months, and when he reached Philadelphia in the Ariel without the long-awaited shipment, an inquiry was immediately called for, although Thomas Bee’s motion for an open-door examination of Jones before the full house was rejected by a vote of six to five. SeeJCC, 19:174-76. The board’s investigation consisted primarily of 47 written questions, apparendy drafted by Alexander McDougall, which were submitted to Jones on February 20 and to which he returned a 20-page list of answers on March 13. Just why McDougall, who was not a member of the Board of Admiralty, had a hand in the inquiry is not clear, although he was an experienced New York merchant and on February 27 would be elected to fill the newly created post of Secretary of Marine, which he eventually declined. McDougall’s draft of the questions for Jones is in the McDougall Papers, NHi; the list submitted to Jones and the captain’s answers are in PCC, item 37, fols. 377-99. Jones’ detailed answers to the board’s questions were apparendy satisfactory and quickly dispelled the “mistery” of why the clothing from France had been delayed. They also provided the foundation for the board’s March 28 report on the subject, leading not only to Jones’ exoneration but to a resolution of commendation adopted by Congress on April 14. See JCC, 19:316-20, 342n.2, 386, 390-91; Thomas


[Page 764]
730 February 20, 1781 Rodney’s Diary, April 14; and Samuel Huntington to Jones, April 19, 1781. 2 Root was commenting on Benjamin Franklin’s December 3, 1780, letter to President Huntington, which was one of several letters of Franklin and John Adams read in Congress this day. JCC, 19:174-75. 3 See the second letter of Samuel Huntington to George Washington, this date. ♦ For the estimate of “our national debt,” see JCC, 19:160-72; and James Duane’s Memoranda, January 2-3, 1781. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia Feby. [20?], 1 1781 Since our last 2 in which we informd Yr. Excy of the Arrival of Col. Harrison in this City, his Applications to Congress have been referd to a Special Committee—and the necessary Steps are taking to Answer the wishes and wants of the Southern States, and of our State in particular as far [ar] is practicable in the present Situation of affairs. We doubt not but that Gentn. will give you full Information of the Progress he has made in the Special Business for which he has been Sent. We are happy to Inform you of the Arrival of Capt. Paul Jones in the Ariel, from France. This event would have been a much more pleasing one had he brought the cloathing so long and anxiously expected—his Cargo is however by no means useless as it Consists of about thirty Ton of Powder. It is Conjectured that by this time Count D’Estaing is Arrived in the West Indies with twenty two sail of the Line—and we are in great Hopes before this reaches you that a Ship of the Line from the fleet of our Allies in Rhode Island and three frigates will be in our Bay in order to cooperate with our Troops, in taking Ample Vengeance on Mr. Arnold, for his treasons, perjuries, Robberies and depradations—accounts being received in this Town that they saild from Rhode Island immediately after the Storm & that Monsr. Destouches had taken effectual measures to Block up the Remaining Vessels of the Enemy in Gardners Bay. We have Sanguine hopes that this Expedition will not be fruitless, and that our Allies will find us in a Condition effectually to cooperate with them, as their aid will enable us to draw our whole force to a point. One of the frigates above mentiond will bring the Arms And Stores which were retaken in the Comite; which will perhaps not be an unseasonable aid. We have enclosed Yr. Excellency two New York Papers for your perusal containing Arnolds account of his Victories and Captures. Mr. Hays informed us this morning he should be ready to set out for Virginia with the printing material in abt. a week. 3 We are with great respect, Yr. Exceleys obed. Serts. Jos. Jones. James Madison Junr.


[Page 767]
February 21, 1781 733 passed in Congress in consequence of Col. Harrisons communi cations. You will also be informed of the arrival of Provost with a reinforcement to the Enemy in the South and of his progress since his arrival. Arnolds position at Portsmouth, Provost in North Carolina, and Cornwallis in South Carolina will I fear effectually obstruct the supplies from our State or so delay them as to render Greenes situation critical. If the French Ships from Rhode Island shall suceed in their enterprise in the Chesapeake the event will be propitious and produce the happiest effects. Our state will be thereby further aided by a supply of 1000 stand Arms and some Stores retaken in the Comit6 and sent forward in one of the French Frigates. The arrival of Provost and the great want of Arms in the Southern States it must be confessed presents a rather gloomy prospect and under this temper of mind you will receive a Letter reiterating what has I think been several times intimated, a desire that you will pay particular attention to the Southern department. 1 I wish we could but content ourselves with a communication of Facts and any reflections upon them for illustration leaving the combination and execution of the various operations of a Campaign to those whose business it is to project and execute them. P. Jones’s arrival gives us no releif in cloathing or Arms, a disappointment the more to be regretted as our wants increase yet we know not whom to blame. Jones will I expect unfold this dark and as yet mysterious business. I presume you must have been informed that Virga, has receded from her former instructions to her Delegates in Congress respecting the claim on her part to the free Navigation of the Mississippi wch. if approved by Congress will probably bring abt. an alliance with Spain and an acknowledgmt. of our Independence. No doubt this event if it takes place will give us more Credit in Europe but we pay dear for it. We are abt. appointing the Officers who are to be at the head of our great departments. Yesterday Mr. Morris witht. a vote agt. him (tho’ S A and his Colleague Genl. W. declined to ballot,) 2 was chosen Financier. I cannot say he will accept, but have some hopes he will. Our Finances want a Necker to arrange and reform them. Morris is I believe the best qualified of any our Country affords for the arduous undertaking. We shall in a day or two appoint the officers for the foreign affairs and the Marine. I wish we had Men in these offices as well qualified to execute them as Morris in the Treasury. Some however that are nominated if they can be chosen will do very well. We are under difficulties abt. the War office, least any person we could now put into it may answer so well as the present Commissrs. This may and I expect will postpone that appointment. With great esteem I am Dr. Sr., yr. aff. servt, Jos. Jones RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Samuel Huntington’s second letter to Washington, February 20, 1781.


[Page 768]
734 February 21, 1781 2 That is, Samuel Adams and Artemas Ward. For Robert Morris’ appointment as Superintendant of Finance, see Huntington to Morris, this date. James M. Varnum to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia 21st. February 1781. Your Excellency’s Letter of the 6th Instant I have been honord with. When the Requisition was made to the States to advance six Months Pay to the Troops, I foresaw the Act which the Legislature of Rhode Island has passed, & mentioned here, its probable Event, with the Reasons that would justify it, but a Discrimination could not be made with Propriety, altho’ I am fully persuaded Congress are well pleased with the Measure. 1 It is astonishing to consider the Energy of the small States, compared to the larger ones. If all the States had fully called forth their Resources, as one State has done, the War must have been finished long since. However, where everything dear and sacred is in Question, too much cannot be done by any. We are certainly informed that a Body of Troops from Great Britain or Ireland, have landed at Cape Fear No. Carolina, said to amount to upward of two Thousand, under Command of General Prevost. This Event is convincing that the Seat of War is transferred to the Southward. Our total Want of Money renders every Attempt to render the Southern or any other Department respectable, inefficacious. But very little of the four Tenths is brot in. None from our State. We have Good private Intelligence that Lt. Colo. Lee with his Legion & a Body of Militia, has surprised Georgetown So. Carolina, & Killed and taken nearly the whole Garrison, being about three hundred. We are informed in the same Way, that Lord Cornwallis made a large Detachment after the Defeat of Tarlton with a View of retaking the Prisoners &c. That Morgan, apprised of the Design, sent off the Prisoners & Baggages crossed a River & formed an Ambuscade. The British attempting to ford the Stream were unexpectedly embarrassed with an heavy Fire, which killed many and caused the Remainder to rejoin his Lordship. I believe these facts, but as they are not official, cannot be too positive. Recruiting goes on very well here; Nothing is wanting but Money, to get as many Soldiers as they please. Arnold is yet in Virginia, & braves the Ancient Dominion with about fifteen hundred Men. I hope a Detachment from Monsieur De Touches Squadron will change the Scene. Capt. Jones has arrivd from France in the Ariel, & brings no Important Dispatches; has Twenty Tuns of Powder, but no Clothing. A strange Fatality seems to attend that Article; I hope the Censure will soon be rightly placed, & that Vengeance may follow upon its Heels. Inquiries of this kind are difficult & where old


[Page 774]
740 February 25,1781 Hands ’till the Time the Debt was transferred to the State, & considered as so much advanced on Acct, of the new Delegation, with the Note subjoined in the Acct, settled with the Auditors; which left it in a point of view proper to be explained; & by which compleat Justice might be rendered both to the public & myself; by paying the Interest which the State might be charged with whilst the Money remained in my Hands, & by returning the just Value of the Sum received, if an Allowance for Depreciation under these Circumstances should be judged requisite; a point which I did not choose to determine, or, by paying the Money into the Hands of the Delegates, subject myself to any Censure for having availed myself of what might be supposed an Advantage to me. For I beleive it would not be difficult to satisfy every one concerned, that I could at any Period during that Time have commanded double the Sum necessary to discharge that Demand. I did expect that this Matter would have been inquired into, in the May Session following by a direct & open Charge; but I then met with one of a different Nature; and became well acquainted with the Mode in which this Enquiry was to be made. I have been silent; but determined to let the Gentleman who has played behind the Curtain, & who perhaps claims Merit from a Discovery, pursue his own Means for his own Ends. I wish only that he had been more speedy in this Business & that he had made his Charge openly, since he has been so long furnished with the Materials. I shall now submit, Sir, what I have written to the Consideration of the House of Delegates & to their Determination. 5 1 only beg leave to add what will one day inevitably appear—That I stood among the first in my own Country who defended the Rights of America; that I have been faithfully & attentively engaged in the Service of my Country, ever since the Commencement of the present Dispute with Britain; That my Zeal & Integrity in serving America have led me into Measures destructive of my private Interest; and my Confidence in the public faith hath subjected me to the Loss of severi thousand Pounds in Specie. Under all these Circumstances I must finally add, that having never solicited any Appointment whatever, or received any Emoluments equal to my Expences, I shall esteem myself happy whenever my Country shall be pleased to inform me that they have no further Occasion for my Services. I have the Honor to be with perfect Respect, Sir, Yr. most obedt. & most humble Servant, M. Smith RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). Addressed: “The honorable the Speaker of the House of Delegates of Virginia.” 1 For the action that the House of Delegates had taken on “the Accounts of the Delegates to Congress,” see Cyrus Griffin to Thomas Jefferson, June 13, 1780, note 3.


[Page 775]
February 26, 1781 741 Smith, who had resigned his seat in Congress on December 13, 1779, because of anti-merchant legislation passed by the House of Delegates, had been re-elected in June 1780 and had made an effort in November to disengage himself from trade in order to attend Congress again. See these Letters, 14:226-27. Smith had been delayed en route to Congress by a disabled carriage but finally took his seat on February 20, 1781. See JCC, 19:176. For his February 4 letter to Thomas Jefferson from Fredericksburg, Va., which is in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:524-25. 2 These accounts are in the Executive Papers, Vi. 3 That is, Richard Henry Lee, for whom see the sixth paragraph of this letter. Lee’s interest in Smith’s accounts are apparent. A copy of the committee report enclosed in the December 23 letter from the Speaker of the House of Delegates to Smith finding him “guilty of a misapp[rop]riation of the pub. money” followed by a copy of this letter of justification from Smith are in the Lee Family Papers, Vi. 4 The animosity between Smith and the Lee family was longstanding and Smith apparently directed these accusations toward Richard Henry and Francis Lightfoot Lee who served in Congress with Smith in 1778-79, and their connections in Philadelphia. 5 A committee of the House determined in December 1781 that Smith’s “conduct throughout the whole transaction has been fair and open and no intention has been manifested to injure the public.” The committee required only that Smith repay the sum advanced to him by the Virginia delegates when he left Congress in September 1779 and the interest due on that amount, both to be deducted from his current account as delegate to Congress. A copy of the committee’s December 15 report, in the hand of John Beckley, is in the Executive Papers, Vi. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Sim Lee Sir, Philadelphia February 26. 1781 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, the Extract of a resolve of the 23d Instant, requesting the State of Maryland to advance to Lt. Colonel Forrest, on Account of the United States, a Sum equal to Seven Years half pay of a Lieut. Colonel, in Lieu of the half pay he might otherwise have been entitled to during his natural Life. Upon the resignation of this Officer, Congress have thought proper, in Consideration of his past Services, & particular Misfortune of the Loss of a Limb in the public Service, to grant him the Benefits & Emoluments contained in the enclosed resolution. 1 I have the Honor to be, with perfect respect, your Excellency’s most obedt & very humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 This resolution providing for the disabled Lt. Col. Uriah Forrest is 'mJCC, 19:189. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve to Forrest with a brief cover letter of this date. PCC, item 15, fol. 242.


[Page 778]
744 February 26,1781 RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1583). Addressed: “Samuel Lyman Esquire, Hartford, Connecticut.” 1 This latest “News from the Southward” came in Gen. Nathanael Greene’s February 10 letter, which was read this day in Congress and is in PCC, item 155 1:561-62. JCC, 19:194. 2 Only Wolcott’s January 2, 1781, letter to Oliver Ellsworth has been found. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Feby 27th. 1781 I wrote your Excellency a few lines by Capt. McClane—he left this place last Sunday; I then acknowledg’d the receipt of yours by Col Livingston; 1 particular attention shall be immediately payd to yr commands. I beg leave to refer you to the enclosd paper for intelligence respecting what Mr Hanson & myself wrote you yesterday by express. 2 Cornwallis continues a rapid progress thro’ North Carolina, his force from 2500 to 3000. Morgan, & the prisoners with him, escapd by a providential rain which swelled the waters just after he had pass’d the Catawba, this detaind the other some days. Morgan soon after joind General Green, & the prisoners had proceeded beyond danger, he had pickd up abt 100 More prisoners than what is mentiond in the Publishd acct of the Battle of the Cowpens. General Green was on the 10th at Guilford Court, his force not more than 1427 Regular infantry & 600 Militia, & Lees Legion which had joind him. The General was to retreat the next day, & is determind to avoid a general engagement, until he is in sufficient force to ensure Success, & I believe will not depend too much on Militia, notwithstanding the Battle of the Cowpens. Govr Jefferson says in a Letter of the 17th Inst that he was informd our Army had got on this Side of the Roanoke, & the Enemies was advancd to Staunton. This is on the Verge of Virginia. The Conventioners in Virginia, & the prisoners taken in Carolina are on their march to the Northward, [and] will probably be Stationd in Lancaster. I hope those in Frederick Town likewise—a Committee will report on that Subject to day, or to morrow. 3 I am with great esteem, yr. Excellencys Most Ob Servt. Dani. Carroll P.S. When I underscore with a line any words, I mean that I have some reason to desire my authority may not be quoted for them. You will find something worthy notice in the enclosd N Y. paper. RC (NN: Miscellaneous Folders). 1 Carroll is referring to his letters to Lee of February 20 and 24 respectively. 2 Letter not found. 3 Following the committee’s report on March 3, Congress ordered that the


[Page 780]
746 February 27, 1781 recommending to the State of Massachusetts to make up the Depreciation of Pay to Colonel R. Gridley as Engineer to the first Day of January 1781 and charge the same to the United States. 1 From that Time he is to be considered as a retiring Officer & entitled to an annual Sum in the Manner expressed in the en closed Act. I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 This resolve was adopted in consequence of a memorial from Col. Richard Gridley of October 13, 1778, which had originally been referred to committee in November 1778 and eventually returned without report in July 1780, but only recently referred to the Board of War. See PCC, item 41, 3:387-90, 457-60; and JCC, 12:1094, 21:155, 197. For Colonel Gridley, the commander of Washington’s artillery at Cambridge, Mass., in 1775, see these Letters, 1:503, 2:65, 235. Huntington also sent Gridley a copy of this resolve with a brief cover letter of this date. PCC, item 15, fols. 243-44. 2 This day Huntington also sent a second letter to Hancock, enclosing a second copy of Congress’ November 8, 1779, resolve requesting former presidents of Congress to submit “copies of all public letters by them respectively written during their presidentships,” for which see these Letters, 14:176. “I am desired to transmit your Excellency the foregoing Duplicate with the resolve enclosed,” Huntington explained, “from an Apprehension that the Original had miscarried having never been honored with any Advice on the Subject.” PCC, item 15, fols. 242-43. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell Dear Sir: Philadelphia, 27th February, 1781. Your letter giving an account of Morgan’s victory, I had the pleasure to receive yesterday, but have heard nothing of those sent by the gentlemen to Virginia. Our accounts from General Cornwallis are very alarming, but we hope it will not be long before both he and Arnold will repent of their rashness. Congress are not inattentive to the state of the Southern States, but the unfortunate mutinies in the Army, and other unavoidable accidents have prevented them sending on more Troops, and put it out of their power to make such ample provision for those that were sent as would have been wished. Should the report, which from different quarters has arrived at different towns to the eastward, with regard to Count D’Estaing’s having taken seven Ships of the Line, three Frigates and the greatest part of 90 sail of Transports of Sir Samuel Hood’s Squadron off the Western Islands, be true, it will be a favorable presage of the success of the ensuing campaign. The French fleet hold the British ships blocked up in Gardiner’s Bay, and only wait the arrival of the expected reinforcements to lay hands on. The safety or destruction of the British fleet, under Admiral Arbuthnot, depends entirely on this circumstance, whether a French or British reimforcement first


[Page 786]
752 February 27,1781 Ld. Cornwallis or subdue the Traitor Arnold, to whichever object circumstances may direct his attention. Hays the Printer informs us it will be some days yet before he shall be ready to set out for Virga., that it will require he expects three Waggons to transport the printing materials and some money advanced the Waggoners before they depart—we shall give him what assistance we can to hasten him away. Col. Harrison desires his Compliments and says he wod. have written but as he leaves this City Tomorrow expects to be in Richmond as soon as the post. We are respectfully, Yr. Excely’s. obed Servts, Jos. Jones Theok. Bland Jr. [P. 5. ] Thursday is fixed for the Maryland Delegates to subscribe the Articles of Confederation. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Bland and signed by Bland and Jones. 1 For Washington’s instructions of February 20 assigning Lafayette command of the Chesapeake expedition against Benedict Arnold, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:334-36. Samuel Adams to Caleb Davis Dear Sir, Philade Feb 28 1781 A Gendeman of the State of Pennsylvania is desirous of importing a small Quantity of Flax Seed from Massachusetts to put into his own Ground, (a Barril might be sufficient) and has engagd me to apply to a Friend in Boston to procure it. If you could send a Barril, by a Vessel that may sail soon for this place, you will much oblige him & me. He will satisfy you for the Expence. Direct your Letter to Henry Wynkoop Esqr of Bucks County, Pennsylvania, to the Care of any one of the Massachusetts Delegates who may then be here. I mention this, because I expect to be at Boston early in the Spring. You will excuse my giving you this Trouble and be assured that I am affectionately, your Friend, S Adams [P5. ] Be so good as to let Mrs A know that I am well. RC (MHi: Davis Papers). William Burnet to Samuel Huntington Sir, Philadelphia Feby. 28 1781 As I feel my self much aggrieved by the late Arrangement of the Medical Department, I take the Liberty of stating my Case to your


[Page 787]
February 28,1781 753 Excellency, as briefly as I can, & beg you will lay it before the Honble. Congress, who being disposed to do equal Justice to all their Servants, will I persuade my self; seriously consider the disagreeable Situation to which I am reduced, & afford the desired Relief. 1 It is I confess a disagreeable Subject, & peculiarly is to me, to be obliged to speak in my own Behalf, but it appears necessary at present, to vindicate my injured Character, & endeavour to obtain that Justice, which is due to me & my Family & That, is all which I ask, & that I hope & believe will not be denied. It is well known, that I early engaged in the Cause of Liberty & my Country, & took an active, decided Part. I was Chairman of the Committee of the County, from the Beginning of the Controversy, untill the Constitution of the State of New Jersey, was formed, when the Legislature were pleased to appoint me a Judge of the County, which Office I have executed with Impartiality & Firmness ever since, in the Vicinity of the Enemy, & at the Risque of my Life & Fortune, & I may venture to say that the Weight & Burthen of the Public Affairs of that important County always has & still does in a great Measure rest upon my Shoulders. In the Spring of 1776 I established a Hospital in Newark, at my own Expence, in which my Son & I carefully & successfully attended a great Number of Continental Patients, for which I have not received any Recompence. In the Beginning of September 1776, I was appointed by Dr Morgan the then Director General as senior Surgeon in the General Hospital, & when the Sick were brought from New York to Newark by Order of the Commander in Chief & other Hospitals were erected there, I not only furnished all the Medicines, which my Son & I used, but all the other Gentlemen employed went to my Shop with as much Freedom, as they would have done to a Continental Store & made Use of the Medicines for the Continental Sick without Weight or Measure. In the Retreat through Jersey I lost my all within Power of the Enemy & moved my Family to Baskenridge, where I established & maintained all Winter three Hospitals & chiefly at my own Expence. When the Arrangement of the Medical Department was made in April 1777,1 had the Honor of being appointed Physican & Surgeon General of the Army by Congress, in which Station I served faithfully untill the new Arrangement took Place, when I had the Mortification of being degraded in the Journals of Congress & held up to View in General Orders & in the Public Papers, as a common Surgeon of the Hospitalls, when it was known that I had for so long a Time been Physican & Surgeon Generl. of the Army while others were as publickly preferred to the Rank of chief Physicians & Surgeons. It would be needless to observe that it must greatly hurt the Feelings of any Person of the least Sensibility or Delicacy of Sentiment to be


[Page 792]
758 Index 88; on John Hancock, 132, 212, 245, 322, 523-25, 652; recommends Arthur Lee, 132; criticizes John Mathews, 134; on Arthur Lee, 288-89, 302, 598-99; letters intercepted, 321, 374; on recruitment, 361-62; on republican virtue, 361-62, 377-78, 386-87, 514-15, 598-99, 613-14, 652-54; replaced as secretary of the Massachusetts General Court, 362; lodgings, 378; on marriage, 378; on Mas sachusetts’ government, 456; health, 468, 601; on friendship of southern Indians, 470-71; criticized for opposing Washington, 652; recommends Matthew Clark son, 653; reconciliation with Samuel Cooper, 654; Indian affairs committee, 719; opposes Robert Morris, 734; mentioned, 8, 139, 145, 538, 552, 659 Addison, John, 92 Adjutant general’s department: Edward Hand appointed adjutant, 591; men tioned, 400 Admiralty. See Board of admiralty Admiralty proceedings: Two Brothers appeal, 26-28; in the Canary Islands, 145; status of slaves on captured vessel, 623 Agents, Continental, John Bradford’s removal sought, 134. See also Bradford, John; Curson, Samuel; Livingston, Abraham; Williams, Jonathan Aitken, Robert, 566, 655 Ajax (H.M.S.), destroyed by hurricane, 417-18 Akers, Charles W., The Divine Politician: Samuel Cooper and the American Revolution in Boston, 654 Albany, N.Y., 342, 352 Alexander, Robert, 599 Alexander, William, 647 Allan, John: seeks support of Nova Scotia Indians, 636-37; requests troops for east ern Indian department, 719-20 Allen, Capt., 602 Allen, Andrew, 599 Allen, Ethan: responds to British overtures, 619; mentioned, 677 Allen, Ira: Vermont agent, 66; responds to British overtures, 619; mentioned, 678 Alliance (Continental frigate), 15, 19, 112, 298, 299, 339, 527, 551, 590, 675 America (Continental ship), 412 American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 525, 663 American Legion, recruited by Benedict Arnold, 280 American Philosophical Society: letters to, 663,717; sent report on mica deposits, 717 Amherst, Jeffery, 710, 718 Amsterdam, 416, 471, 546 Anderson, George, 440, 650 Andre, John: and Arnold’s treason plot, 115-16, 118, 125-26, 129-30, 149, 196; execution, 150, 163, 165, 167, 170, 183, 186, 188-89; trial proceedings pub lished, 203, 213-14, 236-38, 247, 254; captors rewarded, 315; mentioned, 206, 220, 257 Andrew, Benjamin, elected to Congress, xviii Annapolis, Md., 182 Apollo, 278 Apothecary, Continental, 450 Appleton, Nathaniel: Continental loan office commissioner, 215; mentioned, 84, 513 Arbuthnot, Marriot, 187, 746 Arendt, Henry Leonard Philip, baron d’: seeks compensation for mission to Prussia, 528-29, 588-89, 710; mentioned, 476 Ariel (Continental ship): return to America delayed, 437-40; dismasted, 551; men tioned, 112, 140, 239, 299, 339, 406, 720, 729, 730, 734 “Aristides” (Samuel Adams), attacks John Hancock, 525 Armand-Tuffin, Charles, marquis de la Rouerie: letter to, 315; promotion denied, 315; authorized to recruit, 344, 550, 627; horses for authorized, 661; mentioned, 10, 533, 637


[Page 793]
Index 759 Armed Neutrality. See League of Armed Neutrality Armitage, Benjamin, candidate for keeper of the Pennsylvania prison, 695 Arms and ammunition: imported, 298, 436; mentioned, 32, 518, 528, 531, 541, 728. See also Cannon; Lead; Powder Armstrong, John, Jr., 48 Armstrong, John, Sr.: letters from, 13, 48; ☆ elected to Congress, xxii; consoles Horatio Gates, 13 Army. See British army; Continental Army; Militia Arndt, John, 268, 277 Arnold, Benedict: accounts, 115, 140, 240, 251; treason of, 115-19, 124-26, 128-33, 135, 137-41, 147, 149, 152, 154, 163-64, 186, 188-89, 196, 234, 363, 421, 446; addresses inhabitants of America, 213, 219-21; parodied, 214, 219-21; exposes American spies, 224; recruits loyalist regiment, 280; To the Officers and Soldiers of the Continental Army, 280; Virginia expedition, 441, 529, 574-75, 581, 583, 602-3, 606-9, 612-13, 617, 619, 622, 635, 643, 680, 692, 711, 743, 751-52; Connecti cut expedition, 511; mentioned, 144, 200, 248, 255, 374, 412, 455, 503, 573, 591, 597, 649, 653, 667, 694, 730, 733, 734, 745, 746, 748 Arnold, Jonathan: letter to, 433; appointed to endorse Continental bills, 427-28 Arnold, Margaret Shippen (Mrs. Benedict), and Arnold’s treason, 116, 147, 149, 196, 363 Articles of Confederation. See Confederation, Articles of Artificers: reassigned to Carlisle arsenal, 378; pay and allowances, 533 Artillery: southern department losses, 9; for southern department, 54, 57; reor ganized, 56, 86, 89, 106; pay and allowances, 533 Atkinson, George, elected to Congress, xx Atlee, Samuel J.: letters from, 557, 601, 620, 655, 699, 704; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; Pennsylvania mutiny committee, 549, 557; com missioner to adjust claims of Pennsylvania mutineers, 587, 600-602, 655; reports New Jersey mutiny, 620; Lancaster County lieutenant, 655, 704; seniority claim, 699-700; recommends John Finley, 704; mentioned, 674 Atlee, William A.: letter to, 266; ☆ judicial duties, 266; mentioned, 655 Auditors, 528 Augusta, Ga., 109, 295, 303, 453 Austin, Benjamin, 515 Austria, and Cologne succession, 148 Avery, James, and eastern department Indian agency, 719 Avery, John: appointed secretary of the Massachusetts General Court, 362; men tioned, 47, 139, 657 Bache, Richard: letter to, 443; ☆ appointed to endorse Continental bills, 422; directed to protect post riders, 443 Bailey, Francis, 238, 584 Balance of trade, 308, 312 Baldwin, Jeduthan: letter to, 299; appeals pay reduction, 299 Balfour, Nisbet: and prisoner treatment protest, 693; mentioned, 79, 298 Baltimore, Md., exchange rates at, 110 Bancker, Evert, letter to, 663 Banister, John, 429 Bank of Philadelphia: finances military procurement, 63; mentioned, 161 Barbados, devastated by hurricane, 417-18 Barbe-Marbois, Francois, marquis de: letters to, 99, 162, 428; ☆ appointed charge des affaires, 99, 162; on Spanish claims in America, 154-59; relations with John Sullivan, 384-85; requests description of New Hampshire, 428-29, 484-85; men tioned, 47, 438, 707 Barcelo, Don Antonio, 279 Barclay, David, 646, 663


[Page 799]
Index 765 Commissary general of prisoners: Abraham Skinner appointed, 71; mentioned, 224. See also Bradford, Thomas; Pintard, Lewis Commissary general’s department: certificate debt, 13, 29, 531; accused of mali cious prosecution, 226; new reporting procedures required, 264; Albany deputy appointed, 352; appointment of state agents for supplying the army requested, 410, 420-21; rivalries with state agents denounced, 419; ordered to provision Wyoming garrison, 450; pay and allowances, 533; mentioned, 252, 301. See also Blaine, Ephraim Commissioners at Paris, 211 Committee at headquarters: prepares report, 15, 39, 103, 105; discharged by Con gress, 21; urges reform of medical department, 69; mentioned, 3, 68, 80 Committee for foreign affairs: letters from, 33, 145, 282, 283, 435; ☆ and Dover case, 145; decline of, 283; commends John Adams, 435; and trade with Morocco, 519; mentioned, 427, 457, 458, 466, 476, 539, 551, 603, 608, 708 Committee of commerce: imports clothing, 111; mentioned, 297, 304, 366 Committee of Congress (on the public debt), letter from, 705 Committee of Congress (to correspond with the southern commander): letters from, 246, 327, 388, 435, 545, 575; ☆ recommends that Washington take command of the southern department, 388; mentioned, 441, 595, 723 Committee on the Pennsylvania mutiny: letters from, 549, 554, 555, 556, 557, 558, 559, 576, 577, 578, 585, 586, 587, 588, 592, 600; draft proclamation, 585; ☆ appointed, 549; confers with Pennsylvania leaders, 549, 554; warns of British efforts to exploit Pennsylvania mutiny, 554-58; drafts proposals to Pennsylvania mutineers, 559-60; offers terms to Pennsylvania mutineers, 585-87; appoints com missioners to hear mutineers’ claims, 587; explains terms of settlement with mutineers, 600; mentioned, 573, 597 Committee on ways and means: confers with French minister, 9; recommends mixed system of in-kind and cash quotas, 286; mentioned, 13 “Common Sense” (Thomas Paine), 166 A Concise Natural History of East and West Florida (Bernard Romans), 566 Confederation, Articles of: ratification urged, 8, 33, 35, 37, 45-46, 60, 93, 95, 306, 372, 469; presidential tenure under, 145; and congressional immunity, 450; ratified by Maryland, 634-35, 644, 646, 648-50, 658, 666, 686, 696, 721, 735, 747, 752; weakness lamented, 648; apportionment of taxes under, 666; authority to settle interstate disputes under, 679; quorum requirement under, 749, 756; mentioned, 113, 131, 375, 417, 505, 571, 618 Congress: chronology of, xii; defends issuance of safe conduct passes, 5-6; debates embargo, 9; sets guidelines for new paper emissions, 12, 126-28; sets military rank of state executives, 14; debates trade with Morocco, 17; investigates quar termaster fraud, 19; harmony extolled, 24; and Nathanael Greene resignation, 29-30, 80-83, 85-86, 143; orders accounting of certificate debt, 29; resolves to draw bills on ministers abroad, 33; urges ratification of confederation, 35, 45-46, 60, 95; investigates Lachlan McIntosh’s removal, 37-38, 40-41; sets fiscal quotas, 37, 286, 290, 296, 304-5, 316, 325, 334, 343; reinforces southern department, 42, 723-24; reimburses Continental suppliers, 53; adopts half-pay plan, 54, 235, 289, 384; reorganizes Continental Army, 56, 86-87, 89, 105-7, 146-47, 153, 178, 218-19, 234-36, 263-65, 320, 344; confers with bank of Pennsylvania, 63; resumes Vermont hearing, 64-65, 72-73, 87-88; sets emergency cattle quotas, 67, 71-72, 74; permits quartermaster to hold two commissions, 68; reorganizes medical department, 68-69, 169, 179, 224, 754; criticized, 80-83, 85, 134, 138, 143-44; augumentation of authority proposed, 91; debates western land claims, 95-96, 216, 222; requisitions captured meat, 100, 105; investigates prisoner treat ment, 104-5; postpones Vermont hearing, 114, 221; and Arnold’s treason, 115-18; opposes drawing from Continental treasury for delegate expenses, 122-23, 129, 137, 617; recommends cession of western lands, 122, 207-8; weakness lamented, 131, 605, 672; considers Spanish proposal to purchase American ships, 132,


[Page 801]
Index 767 ment of horses, 661; requests assistance for prison security, 665; creates execu tive departments, 685-86, 689-90, 696, 727; commends Samuel H. Parsons, 697; protects seniority of prisoners of war, 700; commends Cowpens victors, 705; debates fiscal quotas, 706-7; authorizes troops for eastern Indian department, 719-20; questions readiness of Pennsylvania regiments, 724; seeks southern deployment of French forces, 725-26; commends John Paul Jones, 729; appoints Robert Morris superintendent of finance, 731, 733, 743; orders relocation of Con vention Army, 736, 744-45; plans ratification ceremonies, 736; authorizes disa bility pay, 741. See also Accounts; Board of treasury; Board of war; Committee for foreign affairs; Committee of commerce; Committees of Congress; Commit tee on the Pennsylvania mutiny; Committee on ways and means; Journals of Congress; Medical committee; Treasury inquiry committee Congress, president of. See Huntington, Samuel Congress, secretary of. See Thomson, Charles Congressional immunity: claimed in Pennsylvania legal proceedings, 402-3, 448-49; under the Articles of Confederation, 450 Connecticut: ignores Continental safe conduct pass, 3-7, 11; new emissions autho rized, 25; catde quota, 65-67; in-kind quotas, 384; cession of western claims, 394, 397; Continental loan officer resigns, 408, 447; provisions Continental troops, 437; boundary dispute with Pennsylvania, 444, 450, 461, 480, 504; new emis sion money, 463; fiscal policy analyzed, 495-98; economic resources assessed, 509-11; recruitment, 510; western land claims, 510; fiscal quota, 574; text of constitution sought for publication, 583; exhorted to meet quotas, 604; privateer commissions, 659. See also Trumbull, Jonathan, Sr. Connecticut Courant, 479 Connecticut delegates: letters from, 3, 603, 695; ☆ pay and allowances, 129; atten dance, 214, 317; credentials, 215, 317-18; on Vermont independence, 221-22; oppose half-pay plan, 235, 264-65; on fiscal policy, 695-96 Connell, Daniel: letter from, 586; represents Pennsylvania mutineers, 586 Constable, William, and Arnold’s treason, 147, 163 The Constitutions of the Several Independent States of America, 584 Continental agents. See Agents, Continental Continental Army: equipment losses, 9; provisions needs, 18, 44, 48, 103, 109, 264; casualties, 28, 35-36, 43, 46, 50, 74, 84, 89, 97, 195, 483, 691; strength, 32, 119; plundering feared, 44, 78, 91; pay and allowances, 47, 531; discipline, 50; Maryland troops, 50, 97, 110, 135, 142, 185, 195; provisions crisis, 50, 63, 65-67, 74-76, 78, 161, 627; impresses provisions, 52-53; new arrangement adopted, 56, 86-87, 89, 105-7, 146-47, 153, 178, 180-81, 186, 216, 218-19, 234-36, 263-65, 320, 332, 359-61, 579; Springfield armory, 58; foreign officers, 64, 88, 315, 529, 546, 665, 673; redeployment, 109; clothing needs, 110-12, 135, 142, 297-98, 339; recruitment, 119-21, 281, 361, 364, 478, 512, 673; bounties, 120; desertion, 185; tents ordered, 237; chaplains, 267, 325; New York troops, 332; provisions Canadian refugees, 342-43; Pennsylvania artificers assigned to Carlisle, 378; clothing crisis, 385; Maryland troop quota, 394; provisioning regu lations, 399; Simeon De Witt appointed geographer, 420-21; winter quarters, 431; composition of troops under Washington’s command, 437; pay arrearages, 439-40; directed to garrison Wyoming post, 450; German battalion, 529; recruit ment costs estimated, 532-34; Pennsylvania regiments mutiny, 549, 552, 554-60, 566-68, 570, 572-73, 575-78, 580-82, 594-98, 606; Pennsylvania mutineers offered terms, 585-88; Pennsylvania mutineers’ restraint commended, 596-98, 603; Pennsylvania mutiny settled, 600-602; pay crisis, 601, 607, 734; Pennsyl vania regiments pacified, 612, 620, 681; food crisis, 615; New Jersey regiments mutiny, 620, 642, 649, 681, 691; Washington’s response to Pennsylvania mutiny endorsed, 624; Pennsylvania regiments reorganized, 641; raids loyalist outpost, 681-83; Massachusetts mutineers executed, 691; New Jersey mutineers executed, 707; Pennsylvania regiments’ readiness questioned, 724; Pennsylvania regiments


[Page 802]
768 Index reassigned, 742. See also Board of war; Cavalry; Continental officers; Clothier general’s department; Commissary general’s department; Hospital department; Inspector general’s department; Medical department; Prisoners of war; Quar termaster general’s department; Southern campaign; Southern military depart ment; Washington, George Continental Journal, and Weekly Advertiser, 525 Continental loan office: letter to, 329; ☆ in Massachusetts, 100, 215; cash short age, 108; in Pennsylvania, 108; in Rhode Island, 136; issues depreciation rate table, 193, 624-26; redemption of certificates in occupied states sought, 258-59; directed to retire old emission bills, 329; in Connecticut, 408; Connecticut com missioner resigns, 447; specie value of certificates, 530 Continental Navy: captures prizes, 96-97; shipbuilding, 412. See also Board of admiralty; Eastern navy board Continental officers: and rank of state executives, 14; widows’ benefits, 21; half pay plan, 36, 54, 235, 263-65, 289; Benedict Arnold removed from rolls of, 154; pay and allowances, 299, 533-34, 593-94, 662, 665, 746; new appointments freeze, 320; New Hampshire supernumeraries to be selected, 359-61; disability benefits, 399, 548, 741; half pay granted general officers, 399-400; compensated for wounded horses, 400; oppose promotions in proportion to state quotas, 401-2; seniority disputes, 401, 447; purchasing authority limited, 410, 420-21; Jotham Loring appeals court martial conviction, 448; general officer promotion standards, 464; New Jersey Line, 540; eligibility for depreciation pay, 548; seniority status of prisoners of war, 579, 699-700; negotiate with Pennsylvania mutineers, 588; supernumerary officers, 592-93, 700; Pennsylvania officers’ pay appeal, 602, 662; depreciation pay for staff officers recommended, 636, 685, 720-21; mentioned, 704 Continental Stables, and delegates’ livery, 743 Convention army: relocation ordered, 98-99, 736, 744-45; terms of exchange, 318, 325; removal from Virginia countermanded, 441; relocation proposed, 718; men tioned, 184, 343, 650 Conway, Henry Seymour, 48 Cook, Col., 483, 507 Cooper, Samuel: letter to, 656; ☆ reconciliation with Samuel Adams, 654; men tioned, 66, 404, 651 Cooper, William, 362, 654 Com, 500 Cornell, Ezekiel: letters from, 7, 44, 85, 88, 178, 212, 247, 290, 316, 319, 346, 368, 409, 427, 515; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; on fis cal policy, 7-8; laments food shortage, 44; procures Samuel Ward tombstone, 45; and Nathanael Greene resignation, 85-86; committee on army reorganiza tion, 88; on Vermont controversy, 160; letters intercepted, 179, 291, 316, 368; on half-pay plan, 235, 248, 291; misrepresents voting record, 248, 291; on Deane- Lee controversy, 248; delegate expenses, 319; recommends Timothy Matlack, 346; appointed to board of war, 369, 515, 575; committee on inspector general reform, 402; reappointment to Congress suggested, 644 Cornwallis, Charles, 2d earl of: Camden victory, 16, 455; dispatches intercepted, 79, 345, 351; withdraws from North Carolina, 291-93, 295, 303, 339; cipher letters, 297; on southern loyalists, 462; pursues Daniel Morgan, 734-35, 743-44, 749-50; mentioned, 40, 64, 76, 88, 89, 125, 196, 204, 223, 247, 249, 286, 373, 407, 408, 409, 426, 441, 453, 460, 535, 688, 692, 699, 702, 725, 732, 733, 745, 746, 747, 751, 754 Court of appeals: Two Brothers appeal, 26-28; mentioned, 612 Cowpens, battle of, 686, 690-91, 693, 703, 705, 706, 744 Cowper, Mathew, 662 Craig, Thomas, and Pennsylvania mutiny, 601-2 Craigie, Andrew: letter to, 450; ☆ Continental apothecary, 450; mentioned, 377


[Page 803]
Index 769 Craik, James: appointed chief hospital physician, 169, 186; appointed physician general, 754; mentioned, 68 Cranch, Richard, 569 Crawford, Alexander, 45 Creek Indians: friendship reported, 471; mentioned, 151 Crisis Extraordinary (Thomas Paine), 166, 181, 183 Cromwell, Oliver, 667 Cuba: seeks trade with U.S., 141; devastated by hurricane, 417-18; imports Ameri can flour, 431 Culloden (H.M.S.), 711 Cumberland, Richard: identified, 417; secret mission to Spain, 416; mentioned, 424, 431, 432, 537, 542, 714 Cunningham, Mr., 704 Currency. See Paper currency Curson, Samuel: reports imminence of Anglo-Dutch war, 300, 304; mentioned, 217 Custine-Sarreck, Adam-Philippe, comte de, 420, 456 Cuyler, Mr., 341 Cuyler, John, 98 Dalley, Miss, 140, 683, 726 Dalrymple, John, 49 Damas, Joseph-Franfois-Louis-Charles-Cesar, comte de, 430 Damon, Monsr., death, 94 Dana, Francis: letters to, 473, 552; ☆ appointed minister to Russia, 454, 456, 461, 463, 466, 473, 475, 482, 505, 513, 541; pay and allowances, 473; and cipher letters, 553; dispatches received, 553; mentioned, 20, 382, 406, 452, 460, 569, 590, 635, 727 Danbury, Conn., 279 Danielson, Timothy, elected to Congress, xx Dart, John Sandford: letter to, 528; appointed auditor, 528; mentioned, 620 Davidson, William Lee: letter to, 318; identified, 318; ☆ reports Kings Mountain victory, 233; death, 749-50; mentioned, 203 Davis, Caleb, letter to, 686, 752 Dawson, Penelope Johnston, 700 Dayton, Elias: letter to, 464; promotion recommended, 464-65, 540 Deane, Silas: dispute with Arthur Lee, 304; mentioned, 445 Deane-Lee controversy, 304 Dearborn, Henry, pay and allowances claim, 440 Debt, public. See Public debt DeHuff, Abraham: letter to, 655; identified, 655 De Jure Maritime et Navali (Charles Molloy), 484 DeLancey, James, loyalist outpost raided, 681, 698 DeLancey, Oliver, Jr., 340 Delany, Sharp, and treasury inquiry, 175, 211 Delaware: extends embargo, 9, 43; cattle quota, 67, 74; flour quota, 161, 615; Con tinental troops, 195, 481; emergency grain quota, 342; taxation, 481, 489-90; fiscal quota, 489-90; economic resources assessed, 491-92. See also Rodney, Caesar Delaware delegates: quorum requirement, 666, 748; attendance, 668, 742; livery arrangements, 743 Delaware Indians, propose visit to Congress, 589 Delegates, restricted from drawing from Continental treasury, 122-23, 129, 137, 617. See also individual delegates and state delegations Denmark: and League of Armed Neutrality, 390, 482, 656, 658; relations with Brit ain, 656; mentioned, 425, 503 Denning, William: and treasury inquiry, 176-77, 190, 198-99, 274; obtains leave, 177


[Page 804]
770 Index Destouches, Charles-Rene-Dominique Sochet, chevalier: letter quoted, 518; mentioned, 694, 711, 726, 730, 734 Deux-Ponts, Guillaume, comte de, 430 Deveaux, Peter, 657 De Witt, Simeon: letter to, 422; appointed Continental geographer, 420-21 Dickinson, John: letter to, 480, 485; ☆ elected to Congress, xviii; mentioned, 449 Dill, James, 276 Dillon, Robert, comte de, 707 Diriks, Jacob Gerhard, 546 Dixon, Henry, 36, 46 Donaldson, Mr., 563 Donaldson, John, 268 Dover (ship), seized by Spanish authorities, 145 Droit d’Aubaine, and Franco-American treaty terms, 483-84 Droit de detraction, and Franco-American treaty terms, 483-84 Duane, James: letters from, 18, 34, 89, 90, 97, 152, 160, 180, 201, 221, 322, 331, 341, 346, 391, 399, 402, 422, 448, 534, 633, 663, 664, 705, 722, 745; memoranda, 530; notes, 150; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; returns to Congress, 18; and Lachlan McIntosh controversy, 38; confers with bank of Penn sylvania, 63; delegate expenses, 98, 114; on Vermont independence, 113, 150-52, 160; committee on Mississippi River navigation instructions, 157; on army reor ganization proposals, 180-81; opposes Arthur Lee, 251; farm management, 323; recommends retaliation for frontier raids, 331-32; misrepresents New York del egate instructions, 334; recommends Timothy Matlack, 346; and treasury inquiry, 357; board of treasury, 358; committee on exchange rate revision, 369; on for eign affairs, 392, 424-25; on residency requirements in calculating requisitions, 399; lodgings, 402-3; seeks recognition of congressional immunity, 402-3, 448-49; condemns profiteering, 422-23; on fiscal policy, 423; committee on mission to Russia, 454; compiles data for John Laurens’ mission, 530-34; health, 540; pro poses creation of executive departments, 633; public debt committee, 705; Indian affairs committee, 719; mentioned, 74 Duane, James Chatham, 745 Duane, Maria, 722, 745 Duane, Mary Livingston (Mrs. James), letters to, 18, 35, 89, 201, 322, 341, 722, 745 Duarti, Juan Garcia, compensation for ordered, 202 Dubose, Monsr., 518 Dubuysson des Hayes, Charles-Francois, chevalier: baron de Kalb aide, 64; proposes exchange, 237-38, 632-33; mentioned, 185 Duche, Jacob, 742 Dueling: Alexander Hamilton-William Gordon challenge, 382; Thomas Burke-John Sullivan challenge, 626, 628-32, 685, 712-14, 720 Duer, William, 576 Duffield, Mr., 230 Duffield, Samuel, 688 Dugan, Cumberland, refused passport to Great Britain, 134 Duke of Leinster (brig), 552, 568 Dull, Jonathan, The French Navy and American Independence, 439 Dumas, Charles William Frederic: reports dissolution of British parliament, 389; dispatches received, 393; mentioned, 445, 546, 638, 657, 706 Dunlap, John: letter to, 346; ☆ and treasury inquiry, 175, 210, 268; mentioned, 56, 189, 221, 277, 411, 417, 683 Duplessis, Joseph, xxvii Du Ponceau, Pierre-Etienne, 620 Duportail, Louis Le Begue de Presle: exchange proposed, 304; exchanged, 335, 675; mentioned, 689, 692, 693


[Page 807]
Index 773 of U.S. mission to proposed, 406-7; trade with U.S., 414; special U.S. envoy to appointed, 434, 437, 443, 452, 456, 461, 482, 505, 517, 536; appoints new minister of marine, 437-39; U.S. debt to, 531; mentioned, 206. See also Barbe- Marbois, Francois, marquis de; French navy; La Luzerne, Anne-Cesar, chevalier de; Louis XVI; Rochambeau, Jean Baptiste, comte de; Vergennes, Charles Gravier, comte d’ Franco-American alliance: tax exemptions under, 435, 483-84, 679-80; reciprocity under, 484; mentioned, 473 Frankfort, Germany, 529 Franking privilege: use extended, 368-69; mentioned, 28 Franklin, Benjamin: letters to, 33, 283, 473, 476, 526, 545, 755; ☆ proposals to draw Continental bills on, 33; clothing purchases delayed, 297-98; explains cloth ing shipments, 299; criticized by Ralph Izard, 304; purchases clothing for Con- tinental Army, 315; appointment of secretary for opposed, 406-7; and congressional vote of confidence, 452; and appointment of special envoy to France, 461, 526; and Moroccan trade overture, 519; appointment of secretary for pro posed, 542; directed to negotiate Henry Laurens’ exchange, 545; mentioned, 9, 36, 230, 350, 445, 459, 475, 503, 546, 681, 720, 728 Franks, David, and Arnold’s treason, 147, 165, 183 Franks, David S.: and Arnold’s treason, 147, 165, 183; mentioned, 240, 474 Frederick the Great, 493 Frederick, Md., Convention Army relocation site, 745 Fredericksburg, Va., 583 French, Samuel, 262, 267 French navy: reinforcement delayed, 14, 19, 32, 60, 77, 93, 94, 96, 109, 257, 454; Rhode Island station, 93, 110, 112, 166, 181, 183, 508, 518, 683, 694, 701, 707, 730; reinforced, 114; southern redeployment requested, 536, 725-26; plans Chesapeake deployment, 694, 698, 702, 731, 733; West Indies deployment, 730; Chesapeake deployment, 743, 754; mentioned, 43, 50, 55, 61, 63, 97, 124, 135, 141, 195, 258, 327, 335, 336, 431, 539, 573, 622, 746. See also Castries, Charles, marquis de; Guichen, Luc Urbain, comte de; Temay, Charles-Henri, chevalier de Furman, Moore, letter to, 84 Gaddis, Mr., 43 Gadsden, Christopher, prisoner treatment protested, 105 Galloway, Joseph, 599 Galvez, Jose de, 158 Gamble, James, appointed deputy commissary, 352 Gansevoort, Leonard: letter to, 544; appointed commissioner of accounts, 544 Gardner, William, and Two Brothers appeal, 26-28 Gardoqui, Don Diego, rumored as Spanish agent to the U.S., 415 Gardoqui, Joseph & Sons, 36 Gates, Horatio: letters to, 13, 42, 48, 54, 102, 202, 207, 246, 256, 293, 657, 716; ☆ Camden defeat, 4, 7, 9-10, 13-14, 16, 20, 22, 28, 34-36, 39, 47, 49-51, 56, 74, 86, 194-95, 458-59; reinforced, 42; replacement proposed, 92, 122, 130, 135; letter quoted, 109; seeks payment of bills of exchange, 112; relations with Washing ton, 124, 169-70; relieved of southern command, 152, 154, 159, 200, 223; inquiry into conduct of, 163-64, 166-68, 170, 178-79, 182-83, 185, 189, 207, 214, 257; criticized, 168; recommends Daniel Morgan, 216; inquiry opposed, 507; men tioned, 18, 19, 40, 44, 46, 59, 79, 81, 84, 87, 88, 89, 91, 97, 110, 142, 203, 204, 213, 225, 235, 247, 286, 291, 292, 295, 339, 412, 413, 472, 516, 750 Gates, Robert, death, 247 Geary, Francis, 224 Geddes, William: and treasury inquiry, 175, 177, 198-200, 209, 239-44, 260-62, 267-77, 348, 353-58, 366-67; appointment as paymaster reversed, 377


[Page 810]
776 Index Hart, Thomas, 168 Hartford, Conn.: Washington-Rochambeau conference, 91, 181, 247; and New England convention, 451, 454, 463, 505; court of appeals site, 612’ Hastings, George E., The Life and Works of Francis Hopkinson, 21’1, 685 Hatch, Jabez, 572 Havana, Cuba: trade with, 141; mentioned, 195 Hayes, James, 683, 730, 752 Hazen, Moses: regimental command authorized, 87; mentioned, 533 Heap, George, xxv Heard, Stephen, letters to, 12, 14, 45, 137, 153, 208, 225 263 292 297 330 345, 410, 580, 593, 687 ’ Heath, William, 698, 719 Helm, John, seniority claim, 700 Henry, Mr., 277 Henry, James: elected to Congress, xxiv; board of treasury, 190, 240-42; resigns from Congress, 335, 381 Henry, John: letters from, 9, 18, 102, 111, 142, 166, 170, 188, 328; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; committee on western lands, 96; pro poses limitation of presidential tenure, 145; on Vermont independence, 152; del egate expenses, 331; nominated secretary to mission to France, 406-7; returns home, 413; mentioned, 249 ’ Henry, William, 261 Henry VII, king of England, 312 Heraldry, 351 Heyward, Thomas, treatment as prisoner protested, 105 Higley, Mr., 98 Hill,. Whitmell: letters from, 51, 125, 168; letter to, 123; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; health, 20; committee on western lands, 96; on Arnold’s treason, 125-26; on southern campaign, 125; proposes Horatio Gates’ removal, 159; mentioned, 31, 122, 200 Hillegas, Michael: and treasury inquiry, 175, 208-11, 227-30; mentioned, 72 190 276, 675 ’ Hillsborough, N.C., 49 Hiltzheimer, Jacob, 743 Hindle, Brooke, The Pursuit of Science tn Revolutionary America, 718 The History of the Puritans (Daniel Neal), 673 Hodgdon, Samuel, 270, 572 Hodge, William, death, 94 Hogan, James, 750 Hogs, 301 Holker, Jean: letter to, 72; accounts, 72; mentioned, 675 Holland, Stephen, 385 Holland. See Netherlands, United Provinces of the Hollingsworth, Henry: charged with fraud, 19; mentioned, 243, 356 Holten, Samuel: letters to, 21, 47, 58, 94, 139, 215, 286, 413, 467, 538, 608, 635, 688; ☆ elected to Congress, xx; mentioned, 20, 36, 140, 250, 466, 658 Hood, Samuel, 745, 746, 751 Hopkinson, Francis: dispute with treasury commissioners, 171-178, 190-91, 198-200, 208-11, 226-33, 348; accounts, 268-69; prosecutes Matthew Clark son, 684-85; mentioned, 275, 354 Hornblower, Josiah: letter to, 289; identified, 290 Horses: impressed, 53; cavalry, 325, 661; and forage shortage, 326, 330; compen sation for loss of authorized, 400; price, 432; mentioned, 44, 137, 223, 562 Horton, Mr., 530 ’ Hosmer, Titus: death, 26; elected to Congress, 215 Hospital department: new staff appointments, 169; issues medicine for invalid corps, 450; pay and allowances, 533; John Cochran appointed director, 614-15


[Page 811]
Index 777 House, George, 499 House, Mary, 108, 187, 254, 664 Houston, William C.: letters from, 63, 70, 71, 100, 114, 117, 119, 126, 128, 136, 351, 363, 369, 395; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi, 101, 396; praises baron de Kalb, 64; requests leave, 100, 117; on Arnold’s treason, 114-16; on recruitment, 119-21; on fiscal policy, 126-28; and treasury inquiry, 190-91, 259-60, 277, 353-58; drafts prisoner-of-war report, 319; committee on exchange rate revision, 369; committee for foreign affairs, 444, 519; on trade with Morocco, 519; mentioned, 451, 453, 465, 545 Howe, Robert, executes mutineers, 691 Howe, William, 196 Howell, George: letter to, 11; ☆ congressional safe conduct pass ignored by states, 3-7, 11; flees to Long Island, 11; conduct defended, 23; mentioned, 16, 134 Howell, Isaac, 644 Howell, Samuel, 449 Howly, Richard: letter from, 102; letter to, 222; statement, 40; ☆ attends Con gress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii; and Lachlan McIntosh controversy, 38, 40-41, 222; on Vermont independence, 151; proposes relaxation of American Mississippi River claims, 349-50; opposes peace talks with Britain based on uti possidetis, 561-66 Hubbard, Nehemiah, leaves quartermaster department, 478-79 Hubley, Adam, appointed Lancaster County lieutenant, 704 Hubley, John, 655 Hughes, Hugh, 676 Hull, William, 698 Hume, David, “Of the Balance of Trade,” 312 Hunt, Maj., 114 Hunt, Gaillard, 444 Hunter, Samuel, and Wyoming dispute, 444, 504 Huntington, Benjamin: letters from, 3, 26, 53, 129, 236, 296, 298; letters to, 499, 690; ☆ sketch of, xxv; and Two Brothers appeal, 26; portrait, 27; and franking privilege, 28; delegate expenses, 129; requests relief, 129; delegate credentials, 130; on Vermont independence, 151; opposes half-pay plan, 236; returns home, 317; mentioned, 214 Huntington, Samuel: letters from, 5, 11, 12, 14, 16, 29, 39, 42, 45, 54, 55, 57, 67, 71, 79, 98, 99, 100, 104, 105, 117, 118, 136, 137, 146, 153, 154, 161, 162, 169, 184, 185, 202, 203, 206, 207, 208, 214, 222, 224, 225, 236, 237, 263, 264, 265, 292, 293, 295, 296, 297, 314, 315, 317, 320, 325, 329, 330, 341, 342, 343, 344, 345, 352, 369, 378, 388, 389, 398, 400, 407, 410, 411, 420, 421, 426, 433, 436, 443, 444, 447, 448, 450, 457, 458, 473, 474, 477, 480, 512, 519, 520, 525, 526, 527, 535, 536, 544, 545, 546, 547, 548, 550, 566, 568, 578, 579, 580, 589, 590, 591, 592, 593, 594, 607, 614, 615, 621, 623, 624, 627, 661, 662, 665, 687, 695, 697, 698, 705, 711, 718, 723, 724, 725, 731, 732, 736, 737, 741, 742, 745, 746, 755; letters to, 554, 557, 576, 585, 586, 588, 620, 752; ☆ attends Con gress, xvii; elected to Congress, xvii, 215; explains issuance of safe conduct passes, 5-6; continues in office as president, 143-45, 154; on Vermont independence, 151; opposes half-pay plan, 264-65; delegate credentials, 317; letters intercepted, 317, 547; delays distributing congressional acts, 320; delegate expenses, 407; con duct as president, 590; recommends John White, 695; mentioned, 110, 394, 499, 689, 729 Hurricane, devastates West Indies, 392, 396-98, 416-18, 425, 482 Hussey, Thomas: negotiates with Spain, 417; mentioned, 431, 432 Hutchins, Thomas: 477, 750 Hutchinson, Thomas, 362, 391, 404, 514 Hutson, James H., John Adams and the Diplomacy of the American Revolution, 426 Hygeia, 278


[Page 812]
778 Index Illinois Company, 375 Imports. See Trade Impost, Continental: recommended, 306, 314, 506, 543, 637, 639, 649, 667-68 681, 687-90, 695-96; mentioned, 486, 584, 605 Independent Chronicle (Boston), 391 Indian affairs, eastern department: John Allan’s agency, 636-37; Machias garri son augmented, 719-20 Indiana Company: western land claims, 247; seeks arbitration of dispute with Vir ginia, 367-68, 372, 374-75 Indians: land claims disputed, 96, 367-68; purchases of land from questioned, 186, 216; raid New York frontier settlements, 234, 247, 255; mentioned, 460, 643, 646. See also Cherokee Indians; Creek Indians; Delaware Indians Indigo, 562 Inflation. See Paper currency Ingersoll, Jared: letter from, 147; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; on Arnold’s treason, 147; on Vermont independence, 151; proposes sus pension of William Geddes, 377 Innes, James, 680 Inspector general’s department: reform recommended, 402; pay and allowances, 420-21; mentioned, 400 Intercepted letters: congressional orders for prevention of, 443; mentioned, 153, 179, 279, 291, 296, 316-17, 321, 340, 345, 351, 353, 365, 368, 370, 374 383 466-68, 513, 517, 547, 553, 601, 617, 654 Interest: on proposed Pennsylvania bank deposits, 306-11, drawn on France, 530 Interstate relations. See Confederation, Articles of; Lands, western; Vermont; Wyo ming Valley Invalid corps: medicine for, 450; pay and allowances, 533 Iredell, James, letters to, 475, 700, 714, 746 Ireland, protests British trade control, 391, 425 Irvine, William: and Pennsylvania mutiny, 587; mentioned, 600 Issachar, 81 Izard, Ralph: accounts, 21, 251; criticizes Benjamin Franklin, 304 Jackson, David: letter to, 422; resignation, 422 Jackson, William: letters to, 675, 692; identified, 675 Jacob, 37, 82 Jamaica: devastated by hurricane, 417-18; mentioned, 55, 188, 224 January, Peter, seeks passport to Great Britain, 134 Jay, Sir James, 35 Jay, John: letters to, 154, 191, 458, 546, 727; ☆ relations with William Carmichael, 20; instructions on Mississippi River navigation, 110, 155-59, 660; intervenes in Spanish admiralty case, 145; confers with Floridablanca, 147-48; instructed by Congress, 283, 727; revision of instructions on Mississippi River claims sought, 349-50, 379-80; dispatches received, 415-16, 418, 458; protests bills of exchange drawn in Spain, 415; and Moroccan trade overture, 519; directed to negotiate Henry Laurens’ exchange, 546; suspects dispatches tampered with, 728; men tioned, 149, 150, 445, 531, 542, 608, 637, 673, 707 Jefferson, Thomas: letters to, 12, 14, 45, 55, 98, 111, 137, 148, 153 184 222 225, 263, 292, 297, 300, 330, 344, 345, 369, 374, 389, 410, 440, 442, 456, 477’ 528, 544, 580, 593, 622, 632, 650, 683, 687, 693, 701, 709, 711, 723, 730, 736,’ 751; ☆ requests report on new currency emissions, 25; and Dover case, 146; recom mends Daniel Morgan, 216; proposes Cherokee Indian visit to Congress, 225; reports enemy invasion, 286, 726, 732; forwards intercepted letters, 345, 351; reports enemy evacuation of Virginia, 408, 411; reactivates George Weedon, 512; orders assistance for South Carolina, 650; sent privateer commissions, 710; men-


[Page 813]
Index 779 tioned, 36, 39, 79, 84, 88, 203, 208, 235, 238, 287, 368, 397, 398, 541, 603, 609, 619, 623, 729, 737, 744 Jefferson, Thomas, Notes on the State of Virginia, 429 Jeffreys, Thomas, xxv Jenifer, Daniel of St. Thomas: letters from, 93, 102, 110, 111, 130; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix, 395; and Mississippi River navigation instructions, 110, 157-59; health, 110, 130, 158; returns home, 110, 130, 166-67; mentioned, 19, 189 Jewell, Joseph, candidate for keeper of the Pennsylvania prison, 695 Jewell, Robert, death, 695 Johnson, Baker, clothing accounts, 614 Johnson, Charles, 714, 747 Johnson, Thomas: elected to Congress, xix, 395; grants Andrew Ragg travel pass, 136 Johnson, Thomas, Jr.: letter to, 616, sent privateer commissions, 616 Johnston, Francis, and Pennsylvania mutiny, 580-82 Johnston, John, 701 Johnston, Samuel: letters from, 475, 610, 700, 714, 746; letter to, 19; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; health, 475; explains North Carolina’s economic condition, 610-11; mentioned, 664 Jones, Allen: elected to Congress, xxii; mentioned, 32 Jones, John Paul: letter to, 755; ☆ delays clothing shipment, 298; departure from France delayed, 437-40; ship dismasted, 551; returns from France, 721, 728-30, 733; interrogated on clothing shipment delays, 729; commended by French court, 755-56; mentioned, 138, 140, 390, 404, 436, 546, 569, 649, 658, 719, 734 Jones, Joseph: letters from, 24, 29, 650, 674, 683, 701, 709, 711, 730, 732, 747, 751; letters to, 94, 186, 216, 252, 334, 371, 379, 397, 415, 437, 469; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv, 438, 634; elected to Congress, xxiv; on staff department reform, 30; on Virginia’s land claims, 30-31; returns home, 30; committee on army reor ganization, 88; proposes cession of Virginia land claims, 95, 186, 453, accounts, 108, recommends delegates compensation, 300; lodgings, 372, 397; seeks recog nition of congressional immunity, 449; and Mississippi River navigation instruc tions, 661; delegate expenses, 674; mentioned, 60, 69, 609, 635, 664 Jones, Willie: letters from, 19, 31, 122, 123, 163, 185, 223, 321; ☆ attends Con gress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; opposes New York attack, 321; returns home, 442; mentioned, 469, 700 Josiah, James: letter to, 283; identified, 283; mentioned, 445 Journals of Congress: printed, 139, 164, 287, 369, 507, 695; tampering with sus pected, 177; distributed to army departments, 400; mentioned, 63, 383, 397, 399, 443, 444, 476, 574, 676, 729 Kalb, Johann, baron de: death, 35, 46, 50, 64; bravery praised, 64; honored by Congress, 182-83, 224; mentioned, 43, 166, 237, 632 Keeler, Hugh, 98, 324 Kennon, William, 268, 277 Kentucky, 156 Keplinger, Christopher, 754 Kings Mountain, battle of, 233-34, 237-38, 256, 293, 343, 369, 453, 458-59 Kings Mountain, S.C., 699 Kinloch, Francis: letter from, 298; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv; elected to Congress, xxiv; returns home, 397, mentioned, 675 Klein, William, loses Continental commission, 673 Knowlton, Luke: and Vermont controversy, 66; mentioned, 160 Knox, Henry: seniority claim, 401; mentioned, 365, 726 Knyphausen, Wilhelm, baron von, 458, 470, 475 Koke, Richard J., Accomplice in Treason: Joshua Helt Smith and the Arnold Conspiracy, 116


[Page 823]
Index 789 Osborne, Edward, 626 Osgood, Samuel, elected to Congress, xx Otis, Samuel A., 57, 502, 635, 654, 684 Paca, William, elected to Congress, xix Paine, Thomas: publishes Crisis Extraordinary, 166; mentioned, 181, 183, 283 Palfrey, William: letter to, 314; ☆ and treasury inquiry, 171, 200, 227-31; appointed consul to France, 314, 330, 378, 384, 427, 436, 454, 459, 475-76, 482; death, 445; departure for France, 470; mentioned, 250, 390, 406, 537, 552, 569, 570 Paper’currency: depreciation, 3, 47, 192, 300, 330, 548; Rhode Island new emis sion money, 7, 179, 212, 368, 409; Massachusetts bills rejected, 8, 239; new emis sions guidelines set, 12, 126-28; new emissions delayed, 18, 206, 212-13, 506, 543, 584; Pennsylvania new emission money, 23, 93; new emissions authorized, 25; exchange rate, 28, 46, 48, 57, 59, 110, 114, 183, 192, 249—50, 285, 291, 297, 319, 332, 337-40, 350, 363, 371, 406, 432, 453, 462-63, 543, 570, 584, 636* 640,’ 688-89, 755; acceptance of new emissions, 93; Virginia new emission money, 184, 716-17; Continental dollar devalued, 193, 487; new emission money, 193, 488-90, 531, 639-41; retirement of old emissions recommended, 305-8; ter mination of state emissions recommended, 306; bank note plan recommended, 311, 313; old emissions destruction ordered, 329; exchange rate set by merchants association, 369, 371, 395, 398, 408; Maryland new emission money act, 393-94; depreciation allowance granted, 398; devaluation defended, 404, 413-14, 423, 461-62; endorsers of new emissions appointed, 422, 427-28; mentioned, 326, 669, 674. See also Finance Parker, James, 84 Parker, Peter, 93 Parsons, Samuel H.: letter to, 265; ☆ promoted, 265; raids loyalist outpost, 681-83, 690; commended by Congress, 697 Partridge, George: elected to Congress, xx; mentioned, 140, 215 Paschke, Frederick: letter to, 665; seeks depreciation pay, 665 Paterson, William, elected to Congress, xxi, 101 Patton, John, 262 Paulding, John, rewarded for capture of John Andre, 315 Pay. See Continental Army, pay and allowances; Continental officers, pay and allowances Paymaster general’s department: John Pierce appointed paymaster, 535; mentioned, 299, 377, 615 Payne, Mr., 57 Peabody, Nathaniel: letters from, 15, 39, 80, 101, 103, 104, 238, 279, 280; let ters to, 22, 59, 140, 143, 164, 297, 382; ☆ elected to Congress, xxi; committee at headquarters, 15, 39, 103, 143-44; health, 23, 39, 81, 101, 103, 363, criti cizes Congress, 80-83, 164; on quartermaster reform, 80-83; purchases specta cles, 104; imports clothing, 140; accounts, 238; praises Nathanael Greene, 281; mentioned, 62, 726 Peace, renewal of British proposals rumored, 452 Peale, Charles Willson, xxviii Peale, Rembrandt, xxvi Pemberton, Mr., 252, 335, 397 Pendleton, Edmund: letters to, 60, 96, 111, 140, 187, 217, 255, 294, 303, 336, 373, 418, 439, 470, 503, 539, 582, 608, 621, 709; mentioned, 335 Pendleton, Henry: identified, 188; breaks parole, 188; mentioned, 709 Penet, Acosta Freres & Co., 136 Penn, John: letter quoted, 503; criticizes John Sullivan, 630; mentioned, 637 Pennington, N.J., 588 Pennsylvania: militia, 7, 655, 666; extends embargo, 9, 188-89, 481; new emis sion money, 23, 25, 543, 640; cattle quota, 67, 109; new emission money refused,


[Page 824]
790 Index 93; Continental loan office, 108; loyalists, 147; flour quota, 161; emergency grain quota, 342; sends James Searle to France, 390; contests legal immunity of con gressional delegates, 402-3, 448-49; endorsers of new emission bills appointed, 422; Continental troops, 437; boundary dispute with Connecticut, 444, 450, 461, 480, 504; new emission money act, 463; Continental regiments mutiny, 549, 552, 554-60, 566-68, 570, 572-73, 575-78, 580-82, 585-88, 594-98, 606, 649; new emissions delayed, 584; Continental regiments pacified, 596-98, 600-602, 612, 655, 681; Continental regiments reorganized, 641; requested to provide assistance for Philadelphia jail, 666; taxes imports, 696; supernumerary Continental officers’ seniority claims, 699-700; Continental regiments readiness questioned, 724; Con tinental regiments reassigned, 742. See also Philadelphia Pennsylvania admiralty court: and status of slaves on captured vessel, 623; and Matthew Clarkson impeachment, 684-85 Pennsylvania Assembly: commended for response to emergency appeals, 409; sus pends tender law, 480 Pennsylvania Council: and Arnold’s treason, 147; halts provisions to Wyoming garrison, 444, 504; offers terms to Pennsylvania mutineers, 560-61; confers with Congress on Pennsylvania mutiny, 566-68; appeals for fiscal relief, 662; impeaches Matthew Clarkson, 684-85; appoints Lancaster County lieutenant, 704. See also Reed, Joseph Pennsylvania delegates: on Vermont controversy, 160; attendance, 284 Pennsylvania Gazette, 296 Pennsylvania Journal, 296 Pennsylvania Packet, 56, 189, 215, 221, 347, 369, 411, 414, 466, 503, 591 Pennsylvania supreme court, 266 Penny, Timothy: seeks permission to import Jamaican produce, 371; mentioned, 361, 363, 370, 374, 382, 466, 502 Penobscot, 471 Pensacola, Fla., 130, 141 Peters, Richard: letter to, 588; mentioned, 547, 722 Petersburg, Va., 621 Pettit, Charles: letters to, 705, 716, ☆ and treasury inquiry, 174, 197-200, 210; estimates quartermaster debt, 705; mentioned, 190 Petty, William. See Shelburne, 2d earl of Philadelphia: view of, endpapers; health conditions, 76, 94, 96, 133; cost of living, 114, 250, 319, 340, 617; response to Arnold’s treason, 128-29, 133, 149; rents, 276; merchants association sets currency exchange rate, 369, 408; Continental artificers reassigned to Carlisle, 378; tory leanings criticized, 409; trade disrupted, 610; jail security augmented, 666; Pennsylvania prison jailer appointed, 695; Con tinental stables, 743; mentioned, 48 Philips, William, exchanged, 646 Phillips, John S., citizenship petition denied, 184 Phillips, William: exchange proposed, 304; mentioned, 372, 470 A Philosophical Discourse, Addressed to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (James Bowdoin), 663 Pickens, Andrew, 692 Pickering, Rebecca White (Mrs. Timothy), 238, 572 Pickering, Timothy: letters to, 104, 223, 236, 294, 330, 400, 411, 420, 571, 661, 676; ☆ permitted to hold two commissions, 68; criticized for transportation fail ure, 280; protests arrearage of quartermaster pay, 330; recommends compensa tion for horse losses, 400; directed to procure horses, 661; mentioned, 48, 57, 58, 59, 81, 239, 366, 479, 516, 726 Pierce, John: letter to, 615; appointed paymaster, 534-35, 615 Pinckney, Thomas, nominated secretary to mission to France, 406-7 Pintard, Lewis, letter to, 185 Pisistratus, 245


[Page 831]
Index 797 Stanton, Joseph, 28 Stark, John: letter to, 383; ☆ ponders retirement, 383-84; requests leave, 474 Staten Island: American attack cancelled, 279-80; Sullivan raid inquiry, 630-32 State of the Accounts of the Lieutenant and Sub-Lieutenants of Lancaster County, 655 States’ rights: states ignore Continental safe conduct pass, 3—7, 11; tax exemption claimed under terms of Franco-American alliance, 433-35; grant of coercive power to Washington recommended, 451 Steuben, Friedrich Wilhelm Ludolf Gerhard Augustin, baron von: letters to, 294, 400, 619, 621; ☆ reports British embarkation, 217-18; ordered to southern depart ment, 284, 287, 292-95; Virginia defense, 619; mentioned, 297, 316, 321, 603, 609, 617, 622 Stevens, Edward, 35 Stevens, John: letters to, 71, 100; mentioned, 117, 454 Stevens, John, Jr., 673 Stevenson, Ann (Mrs. Henry), seeks pass to visit New York City, 328 Stevenson, Henry, 328 Stewart, Charles: letter to, 352; recommends James Gamble, 352 Stewart, Walter: and Pennsylvania mutiny, 573, 581-82, 587, 595, 597; men tioned, 600 Stirling, Lord (William Alexander), 647 Stockings, price, 636 Stockton, Samuel, pay and allowances, 410 Stokes, Anthony, 566 Stone, John Hoskins: letters to, 188, 722; identified, 189; mentioned, 707 Stone, Thomas, 189 Stormont, 7th viscount (David Murray), 427 Stratford Landing, Conn., 153, 179, 340, 363, 443, 517 Strong, Caleb, elected to Congress, xx Sugar: price, 636; mentioned, 201, 217, 391 Sullivan, Daniel, 385 Sullivan, John: letters from, 72, 131, 164, 189, 267, 326, 338, 352, 359, 360, 361, 382 383, 384, 399, 401, 408, 411, 412, 428, 433, 460, 483, 484, 517, 540, 549, 556^ 557, 558, 559, 576, 577, 578, 586, 587, 588, 592, 596, 600, 616, 618, 626, 628’ 641, 643, 676, 717, 756; memorials, 226, 439; notes, 305; ☆ attends Con gress, xxi, 59; elected to Congress, xxi; opposes Vermont independence, 73, 131; delays Vermont hearing, 113; health, 113, 338; laments congressional weakness, 131; committee on Mississippi River navigation instructions, 157; on resigna tion of his commission, 164—65; supports claim of Amasa Sessions, 226, supports half-pay plan, 235; on fiscal policy, 305-14, 338-39; recommends sale of Con tinental property, 308; fiscal committee, 314, 642; on administrative reform, 326, 338; recommends New York attack to relieve southern states, 327; delegate expenses, 340, 617; letters intercepted, 340, 353, 360-61, 383, 517; flatters John Hancock, 352, 523-25; addresses New Hampshire Continental officers, 359-61; on in-kind quotas, 384; accepts retainer from France, 385-86, 518, 617; on half pay, 399; opposes promotions in proportion to state quotas, 401-2; committee on inspector general reform, 402; sends Marbois description of New Hampshire, 428-29, 484-85; position on New Hampshire Grants claim questioned, 433-35; opposes tax exemption claim under terms of Fran co-American alliance, 435, endorses rations claim of Continental officers, 439-40; on Connecticut- Pennsylvania Wyoming dispute, 460; explains Franco-American Treaty of Amity and Commerce, 483-84; requests secretarial allowance, 485; committee on pro motions, 540; Pennsylvania mutiny committee, 549, 554-60, 576-78, 585-88, 592, 600, 641-42; drafts proclamation to Pennsylvania mutineers, 585; explains Pennsylvania mutiny to French minister, 596-98, 616-17; rumored chosen Ver mont governor, 618; Continental compensation claim, 619; New Jersey mutmy committee, 621; dispute with Thomas Burke, 626, 628-32, 685, 712-14, 720;


[Page 838]
Advisory Committee Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Program John R. Alden James B. Duke Professor of History Emeritus, Duke University Julian P. Boyd* Editor of The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Princeton University Lyman H. Butterfield* Editor in Chief Emeritus of The Adams Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society Jack P. Greene Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities, The Johns Hopkins University Merrill Jensen* Editor of The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution, University of Wisconsin Cecelia M. Kenyon Charles N. Clark Professor of Government Emeritus, Smith College Aubrey C. Land University Research Professor Emeritus, University of Georgia Edmund S. Morgan Sterling Professor of History Emeritus, Yale University Richard B. Morris Gouverneur Morris Professor of History Emeritus, Columbia University George G. Rogers, Jr. Caroline McKissick Dial Professor of American History, University of South Carolina *Deceased 804
