Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 9, February 1, 1778 to May 31, 1778
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_09/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 6]
This volume is printed on permanent/durable paper. Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data (Revised) Main entry under title: Letters of delegates to Congress, 1774-1789. Includes bibliographical references and indexes. 1. United States. Continental Congress—History— Sources—Collected works. I. Smith, Paul Hubert, 1931- JK1033.L47 973.3'12 76-2592 ISBN 0-8444-0177-3 (set) AACR1 ISBN 0-8444-0388-1 (v. 9) For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, D.C. 20402


[Page 9]
Editorial Method and Apparatus v DNA DNDAR DeHi ICarbS ICU M-Ar MB MdAA MdHi MH-H MHi MeHi MiU-C MnHi N NA1I NHi NN NNC NNPM NOsHi NRom Nc-Ar NcU Nh-Ar NhHi NjGbS NjHi NjMoHP NjP NjR OCIWHi PBL PBMCA PHarH PHG PHi PPAmP National Archives and Records Service Daughters of the American Revolution, Washington, D.G. Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Ill. University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill. Massachusetts Archives, Boston Boston Public Library Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore Harvard University, Houghton Library Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston Maine Historical Society, Portland William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor Minnesota Historical Society, St. Paul, Minn. New York State Library, Albany Albany Institute of History and Art, Albany New-York Historical Society, New York New York Public Library, New York Columbia University, New York Pierpont Morgan Library, New York Oswego County Historical Society, Oswego, N.Y. Jervis Library Association, Rome, N.Y. North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, Concord New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord Glassboro State College, Glassboro, N.J. New Jersey Historical Society, Newark Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown, NJ. Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J. Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland, Ohio Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa. Moravian Church Northern Province Archives, Bethle hem, Pa. Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Harrisburg Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia


[Page 10]
vi Editorial Method and Apparatus PPL Library Company of Philadelphia PPRF Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia PU University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PYHi Historical Society of York County, York, Pa. R-Ar Rhode Island State Archives, Providence RHi Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence RNHi Newport Historical Society, Newport, R.I. RPJCB John Carter Brown Library, Providence ScC Charleston Library Society, Charleston, S.C. ScHi South Carolina Historical Society, Charleston Vi Virginia State Library, Richmond ViHi Virginia Historical Society, Richmond ViU University of Virginia, Charlottesville ViW College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va. ABBREVIATIONS AND SHORT TITLES Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) Butterfield, Lyman H., et al., eds. Adams Family Correspondence. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1963—. Adams, Writings (Cushing) Adams, Samuel. The Writings of Samuel Adams. Edited by Harry A. Cushing. 4 vols. Boston: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-8. AHR American Historical Review. Austin, Life of Gerry Austin, James T. The Life of Elbridge Gerry, with Contemporary Letters to the Close of the American Revolution. 2 vols. Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1828-29. Bartlett, Papers (Mevers) Bartlett, Josiah. The Papers of Josiah Bartlett. Edited by Frank C. Mevers. Hanover, N.H.: Published for the New Hampshire His torical Society by the University Press of New England, 1979. Bio. Dir. Cong. U.S. Congress. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1971. Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C„ ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Congress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36. Clinton, Papers (Hastings) Clinton, George. Public Papers of George Clinton, First Governor of New York, 1777-1795, 1801-1804. Edited by Hugh Hastings and J. A. Holden. 10 vols. New York and Albany: Wynkoop Hallenbeck Crawford Co. et al., 1899-1914.


[Page 11]
Editorial Method and Apparatus vii Delaware Archives Delaware Public Archives Commission. Delaware Archives, 5 vols. Wilmington, 1911-16. DAB Dictionary of American Biography. Edited by Allen Johnson and Dumas Malone. Evans, Am. Bibliography Evans, Charles. American Bibliography. 12 vols. Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34. Franklin, Writings (Smyth) Franklin, Benjamin. The Writings of Benjamin Franklin. Edited by Albert Smyth. 10 vols. New York: Macmillan Co., 1905-7. Freeman, Washington Freeman, Douglas S. George Washington, a Biography. 7 vols. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1948-57. Heitman, Historical Register Heitman, F. B. Historical Register of Officers of the Continental Army during the War of the Revolution, April, 1775, to December, 1783. Washington [Baltimore]: Press of Nichols, Killam & Maffit, 1893. Henry, Patrick Henry Henry, William Wirt. Patrick Henry, Life, Correspondence and Speeches. 3 vols. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1891. Jay, Papers (Morris) Jay, John. John Jay; the Making of a Revolutionary: Unpublished Papers, 1745-1780. Edited by Richard B. Morris et al. New York: Harper &: Row, 1975. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) Jefferson, Thomas. The Papers of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by Julian P. Boyd et al. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1950—. JCC U.S. Continental Congress. Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. 34 vols. Edited by Worthington C. Ford et al. Wash ington: Library of Congress, 1904-37. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong. New York. Journals of the Provincial Congress, Provincial Conven tion, Committee of Safety and Council of Safety of the State of New York, 1775-1777. 2 vols. Albany: T. Weed, 1842. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda) Idzerda, Stanley J. et al., eds. Lafayette in the Age of the American Revolution: Selected Letters and Papers, 1776-1790. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1977-. Lasseray, Les Francais sous les treize etoiles Lasseray, Andre. Les Francais sous les treize etoiles, 1775-1783. 2 vols. Macon and Paris: Imprimerie Protat Freres, 1935.


[Page 15]
Acknowledgments xi and Records Management, New Hampshire Historical Society, New Jersey Historical Society, Newport Historical Society, New-York Historical Society, New York Public Library, New York State Library, North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, University of North Carolina, Oswego County Historical Society, Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Historical Society of Pennsyl vania, University of Pennsylvania, Library Company of Philadelphia, Princeton University, Rhode Island Historical Society, Rhode Island State Archives, Rosenbach Foundation, Rutgers University, South Carolina Historical Society, Southern Illinois University, Virginia Historical Society, Virginia State Library, University of Virginia, Western Reserve Historical Society, College of William and Mary, The Royal Archives (Windsor Castle), Yale University, and Histori cal Society of York County. And in addition we express our thanks and appreciation to the following persons: Mr. Sol Feinstone, Mr. Creighton C. Hart, Mr. Henry Laurens, Mr. John F. Reed, Mrs. Elsie O. Sang and Mr. Philip D. Sang, Capt. J. G. M. Stone, and Mr. Robert J. Sudderth, Jr. This work has benefitted not only from Edmund C. Burnett’s path finding 8-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continental Congress but also from the generous cooperation of the editors of several other documentary publications with a common focus on the revolutionary era. From them the Library has borrowed heavily and to them it owes a debt it can never adequately acknowledge. It is a pleasure to give special thanks to the editors of the papers of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Henry Laurens, James Madison, and George Washington. Finally, we owe thanks to the historians who have served on the Advisory Committee on the Li brary’s American Revolution Bicentennial Program, and especially to Mr. Julian P. Boyd, Mr. Lyman H. Butterfield, and Mr. Merrill Jensen, who generously acted as an advisory committee for the Letters project. Paul H. Smith Historical Publications Office Manuscript Division


[Page 20]
List of Delegates to Congress This section lists both the dates on which delegates were elected to terms falling within the period covered by this volume and the in clusive dates of their attendance. The former are generally ascertain able from contemporary state records, but the latter are often elusive bits of information derived from the journals of Congress or extra polated from references contained in the delegates’ correspondence, and in such cases the “facts” are inevitably conjectural. It is not pos sible to determine interruptions in the attendance of many delegates, and no attempt has been made to record interruptions in service caused by illness or brief trips home, especially of delegates from New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania living within easy access of Congress. For occasional references to such periods of inter mittent service as survive in the correspondence and notes of various delegates, see the index under individual delegates. Until fuller in formation is provided in a consolidated summary of delegate attend ance in the final volume of this series, the reader is advised to consult Burnett, Letters, 3: li—Ixii, for additional information on conjectural dates of attendance. Brief biographical sketches of all the delegates are available in the Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971, and fuller sketches of more than half of the delegates can be found in the Dictionary of American Biography. CONNECTICUT Andrew Adams Elected: October 11, 1777 Did not attend February to May 1778 Eliphalet Dyer Elected: October 11, 1777 Attended: February 1 to April 3, 1778 Oliver Ellsworth Elected: October 11, 1777 Did not attend February to May 1778 Titus Hosmer Elected: October 11, 1777 Did not attend February to May 1778 Samuel Huntington Elected: October 11, 1777 Attended: February 16 to May 31, 1778 xvi


[Page 31]
Illustrations xxvii that British peace efforts might find a sympathetic audience even among Americans who had hitherto supported the revolutionary cause. Congress therefore authorized the publication of this address to remind Americans of past British tyranny and present British barbarity and to suggest that the conclusion of an alliance between the United States and France made a final patriot victory inevitable. In order to add force to this address Congress urged that it be read “after divine service” in all “churches and chapels, and other places of religious worship” throughout the country. Although no manu script copy of the address is now known to exist, Jared Sparks saw a draft of it in Gouverneur Morris’ hand over a century and a half ago, and the address as amended and approved by Congress bears the unmistakable imprint of Morris’ rhetorical style. From the Miscellaneous Papers of the Continental Congress, National Archives and Records Service. Horatio Gates 673 Gates’ controversial career as a Continental officer often made him the focus of congressional attention. Born of a humble family in England, Gates entered the British army and served in America during the French and Indian War, but he subsequently left the army, moved to Virginia in 1772, and acquired a plantation. After the outbreak of hostilities between America and Britain his military experience stood him in good stead, as Congress appointed him ad jutant general of the Continental Army in 1775. The following year he was promoted to major general and assigned to the northern military department. There Gates became involved in a bitter com mand dispute with Gen. Philip Schuyler that absorbed much of Congress’ attention and was not resolved until Gates finally replaced Schuyler during Burgoyne’s invasion from Canada in August 1777. Gates’ ensuing victory at Saratoga raised his prestige to its greatest height, which, coinciding as it did with disillusionment over the loss of Philadelphia, led to fears by Washington and his supporters that a conspiracy was afoot to make Gates commander in chief. Although most scholars now believe that the opposition to Washington and the general frustration that was voiced in 1777-78 did not constitute a conspiracy against him, Gates’ close relations with several of Wash ington’s opponents tarnished his prestige. After serving as president of the newly reorganized Board of War in 1777-78, Gates returned to the field to take command of the northern and eastern military departments and served at Boston in 1778-79. When the British launched successful attacks on Georgia and South Carolina in 1780 he was named commander of the southern military department, but


[Page 32]
xxviii Illustrations he suffered a humiliating defeat at Camden in August 1780 which shattered his military reputation and his career. Painting by Charles Willson Peale. Independence National Histori cal Park Collection. Establishment of the American Army, May 27, 1778 762 The sorry state into which the Continental Army had fallen by the end of 1777 led Congress to dispatch a committee to Valley Forge to confer with Washington on ways “for reducing the number of regiments in the continental service, and for reforming the abuses which have too long prevailed in the different departments belonging to the army.” The Committee at Camp arrived at Valley Forge near the end of January 1778 and spent a month and a half conferring with Washington and his subordinates on various army problems. Among the most important products of the committee’s work was a plan for restructuring the army that the committee first proposed in a February 3 letter to President Henry Laurens and that Congress finally approved on May 27, 1778. Yet consistent with the indecisive manner in which Congress frequently transacted business at this time, the appointment of another committee and many months of addi tional work were required to implement this plan for reducing the number of regiments and officers in the Continental Army. The broadside reproduced in this volume is the one President Laurens enclosed with his June 4, 1778, letter to Washington. Manuscript Division, Library of Congress.


[Page 39]
February 2, 1778 7 Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings [February 2-7, 1778] Feby. 2d. Present as before [Mr. Dana Chairman, Gen’l Fulsom, Gen’l Reid, Colo. Harvie, Mr. Morris]. Reed, a Letter from Qur. Master Lutterlow. (No. 9). 1 Reed, the returns of the W[agon] M[aster] Genl. Department. (No. 10). 2 Resolved to recommend to Congress the Draught of a Number of Men to complete the Battalions on the Establishmt. Also fixed the Quotas of the several States. 3 Agreed that the German Battalion be long to Maryland as part of their Quota. James Livingstons & Hazens to be united on the new Establishmt. Under Hazen the Surplus to be added to Warners. Armands to be reduced & thrown into the 9 of the 16 to be kept up. Took into Consideration Colo. Campbell’s application to Congress & denied his request to go in upon parole to solicit his Exchange. 4 3d. Consider’d Capt. Durkee’s &: others petition & denied the prayer of it. 5 Wrote a Letter to Congress on the Expedition agt. Phila. forwarded by Col. Fitzgerald. (No. 11.)® Reed, the Return of Persons employed in the Qr. Mr. Genl. De- partmt. (No. 12) 7 & Lutterloh’s 2d Letter (No. 13). Conferr’d with Col. Blaine Dy. Commy. of Issues on the State of Provisions of the Army & reed, his Return of Meat purchased. No. 13. Reed, from Gen. Green Returns of the Army & an Acct, of Rations drawn during the Month of December. 4t. Conferr’d with Col. Palfrey on the State of the military Chest. Proceeded on the Arrangemt of the Army & the Draughts to fill up the Continental Batalions. 5. Reed. Proposals from Col. Blain in the Provision Department. 8 No. 14. Reed, a second Lettr. from the Clothier Genl. 9 (No. 15.) 6th. Finished the Resolves on the Drafts. Also Letter to Congress on that Subject—with the Establishment & Arrangement of the new Army. 10 7. Conferr’d with the Marquis de Fayette on his Return from Congress. 11 With Col Blain on the State of Provisions 12 forwarded the above Letters of yesterday to Congress. 13 MS (DLC). A continuation of Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, January 28-31, 1778. The minutes printed in this entry are in the hands of commit tee members Francis Dana, Gouverneur Morris, and Joseph Reed. 1 Henry Emanuel Lutterloh was deputy quartermaster general.


[Page 40]
8 February 2, 1778 Com- ’For further information on the committee’s interest in these returns, see mittee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, January 28-31, 1778, note 7 3 To judge from the correspondence of one of the committee members, some state troop quotas had been discussed and decided previously, although no earlier references to this issue are found in the committee minutes. See Joseph Reed to Thomas Wharton, February 1, 1778. J r Lt. Col. Archibald Campbell, who was being held hostage for Gen. Charles Lees safety, was a prisoner of war at Concord, Mass. His December 18, 1777 petition to Congress was referred to the committee at camp on January 16 and arrangements were made to exchange him for Ethan Allen as part of a general °. f War cartel - B y A P ril 18 Campbell had been returned to Philadelphia and Allens exchange was effected on May 6. See JCC, 10:43, 58, 213, 295 332' John Hancock to George Washington, January 6, 1777; Henry Laurens to’Archibald Campbell, January 14, 1778; James Lovell to Samuel Adams, April 18, 1778; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:70-72, 129, 214, 219, 300, 381. ’ See Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, January 28-31, 1778, note 3. “See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 3, 1778. 7 This list is in PCC, item 192, fols. 159-60. This is doubtless the list of proposals Blaine copied into his letterbook under the heading “A few Queries for Consideration of His Excellency General Wash ington and the Honourable the Committee of Congress now sitting at Moore Hall, February 4th 1778.” Blaine apparently prepared these proposals after conferring with the committee on February 3. Blaine first proposed to reduce the ration of bread and meat for soldiers until "there is an appearance of a more plentiful sup ply, and then suggested several measures that might increase the supply of beef and pork: a proclamation urging farmers to fatten more cattle for April and May slaughter; seizure of cattle at Cape May and Egg Harbour, to prevent their falling into British hands; setting the price of pork at £15.10 per barrel; and securing cattle in western North Carolina and Virginia to prevent "forestallers” from buying and holding them off the market. Ephraim Blaine Letterbook, DLC. ’That is, James Mease. 10 See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 5, 1778. 11 Since January 30, Lafayette had been in York soliciting additional support for his expedition to Canada and seeking the promotion of several French officers who would accompany him on the venture. Although Congress approved the Canadian expedition, it never gave the "incursion” its wholehearted support. However, most of Lafayettes recommendations for the promotion of French officers were approved on February 2. See JCC, 10:84-85, 87, 107; and Henry Laurens to Lafayette, Janu ary 22, 1778. ; J For the committee’s negative response to the proposed Canadian expedition, see Joseph Reed to Jonathan Bayard Smith, February 8; and Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 11, 1778. 12 For the committee’s letter on provisions, see Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 6, 1778. 13 For the continuation of these minutes, see Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 8-14, 1778. James Lovell to John Adams My dear Sir [February 2? 1778] 1 Instead of scribbling any Thing about Inactivity I will endeavour to give you an Idea of our intended progress into Canada.


[Page 47]
February 3, 1778 15 RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Joseph Reed and signed by Reed, Dana, Folsom, Harvie, and Morris. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Letter from Commee. at Camp, Feby 3. 1778, read 16.” 1 For the background of this proposal, which originated in a January 2 letter from the Pennsylvania legislature to Congress, see Jonathan Bayard Smith to Timothy Matlack, January 5, 1778, note. The committee’s recommendation against the proposal ended Congress’ consideration of an attack on Philadelphia. See also Joseph Reed to Thomas Wharton, February 1, 1778. William Duer to Gouverneur Morris Dear sir, York Town Feby. 3d. 1777 [i.e. 1778] Mr. George Irwin is so obliging as to forward to you at my Request the Cloth purchas’d by the Delegates of the State of New York for the Use of the New York Troops. You will be kind enough to take the Receipts of the Colonels or Comng. Officers of Regiments to whom the Cloth is deliverd specifying the Quantity by them received. As I am in a hurry to proceed to the Northward 1 having been detaind here much longer than I expected, I beleive I shall not be able to call upon you at Camp on my way homewards. I am very Affectionately Yours, Wm. Duer [P.S.] There has been thirty five Yards taken out of the Quantity Specified in a former Letter from the Delegates to the Cols. Cortlandt and Livingston, 2 which being deducted will leave the Number of Yards now sent. W. D. RC (NNC). 1 Duer was planning to join Lafayette’s Canadian expedition as a volunteer, but he soon changed his mind after learning of some uncomplimentary remarks the marquis had made about him. See Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee, February 14, 1778. 2 This letter has not been found, but see Francis Lewis’s first letter to the New York Convention of January 5, 1778. Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Feb. 3. [1778] Being disappointed in sending this forward at the time expected, I cannot help mentioning to Your Excellency very Shortly a Matter which hangs heavy at my heart. Whilst all the States are fortifying every Creek & Inlet where Vessels can possibly enter, I fear Our State have Neglected Cape Lookout Bay &: Cape Fear River. The Latter is such a harbour, as may at all times be safe for the Enemy to Enter, & ravage the Country at will more especially at this time, when all our Continental Troops are at the distance of 600 Miles from that place.


[Page 48]
16 February 3, 1778 Cape Look Out is one of the finest Harbours on the American Coast, & would be a noble Asylum for the Continental and Private Ships of war to wood & water, as also a Place of Security for Trading Vessels Chaced by the Enemy. I am distressed beyond Measure to find Our Sea Coast so much neglected, to please (I fear) a few Individuals who may be interested in the Matter. I am as befor Your Excellys. Most Ob &c &c 8cc Cornl Harnett [P.S.] I am confined to my room by the Gout, & therefore can not with that Accuracy I could wish, answer your Queres in regard to Major Genl. Pay 8cc. I shall do myself the Honor of writing you in a Short time on that head. I could wish Your Excellency would fall upon ways 8c means to procure all the Salted Pork in your State for the use of the Continental Army. Congress have every reason to believe the Army will be greatly distressed for that Article, I hope none will be Suffered to be Exported. Your Bills will be answered. RC (PHi). A continuation of Harnett to Caswell, January 31, 1778. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dr. Sir York Town Pensylvania Feby. 3d 1778 I wrote to you a few days ago by Coll Davis. I have not lately been favoured with any from you. For News I refer you to the Papers In closed, indeed we have very little stirring. Our Army remain as men tioned in my last, at Valey Forge. I am every day expecting Jackey here, as Mr. Mitchell has promised to send him as soon as the weather will permit. Be assured I shall be as Careful of him as I would be of my Own. I can not yet meet with a Distiller but have a prospect Of Purchas ing a Negro who I am told understands the business very well. I mentioned to you in several of my Letters that it was absolutely necessary to send on the Bills reed by you 8c drawn by Coll Kennon. I wish you may not delay it too long, you need not be afraid of my spending the Money, especially when Our Assembly have made such a Generous Allowance to their Delegates. 1 I have not the least doubt but this handsome Salary will tempt some Other Gentleman to Covet my place, 8c by that means I hope to be relieved from the most dis agreeable business I ever undertook in my whole life. I wish I was fairly out of it. I am, Dr Sir, Your real friend 8c Obed Servt, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] You have never yet told me whether you have paid Mr Black- more the 100 Dollrs. Continental money I borrowed of him, if it is not done I beg you will immediately do it with Interest.


[Page 50]
18 February 3, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 3d Febry 1778 I wrote to you the 28th of the expired Month by Barry. I could if time would permit write a Page full of intelligence, but Monsr le Marquis 1 will relate to you in less time & better. You will receive under the protection of the Marquis’s retinue two Camp Shirts, I am promised two more for you very soon. You never acknowledge the receipt of any article, which exposes us to loss, by the worst means, fraud. In conversation with General Gates without seeking on my side, I discovered an inclination in him to be upon friendly terms with our great & good General, it cannot be doubted but that there is the same disposition on the other side. What would I not give to see a perfect 8c happy reconciliation. 2 Talking of General Conway’s Letter which has been circulating as formerly intimated, & of which General Gates declared both his ig norance & disapprobation, I took occasion to say, if General Conway pretends sincerity in his late parallel between the Great F—— & the great W 3 he has, taking this Letter into view, been guilty of the blackest hypocrisy—if not, he is chargeable with the guilt of an un provoked sarcasm & is unpardonable. The General perfectly ac quiesced in that sentiment & added such hints as convinced me he thought highly of Conway. Shall such a Man seperate freinds or keep them asunder? It must not be. My Dear son, I pray God protect you. Henry Laurens. RC (PHi). 1 Lafayette. * For a discussion of Horatio Gates’ role in the so-called Conway Cabal against General Washington, see James Lovell to Gates, November 27, 1777, note 1. 3 Gen. Thomas Conway had sarcastically compared Washington to Frederick the Great in a December 31, 1777, letter to the commander in chief. See Laurens to John Laurens, January 8, 1778, note 12. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge 3d Febry. [1778] We cannot tell on what Credit we are at the Court of Versailles, not having received any intelligence from the Commissioners since May last. A person lately arrived Express from there delivered me a large packet which being opened presented a Charte blancke, it con tained about 40 folds of clean coarse white Paper—the Packet in tended for Congress, supposed to have been stolen 8c this Counterfeit put in its place, the person who brought it, informed me that two


[Page 53]
February 3, 1778 21 I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Washington’s January 31 letter to Laurens, in which he commended to Con gress’ attention an enclosed letter and memorial from Gen. David Forman of New Jersey, is in PCC, item 152, 5:275-76, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:411-12. In his January 1 letter and memorial to Washington, Forman had pro posed that he and his business associates would set up a saltworks in Barnegat, N.J., and sell the salt they produced to the army if Washington agreed to provide a guard of Continental soldiers for the works. PCC, item 152, 5:279-81. Although Congress read Forman’s proposal on February 2 and decided to consider it the following day, no further action on it was taken. JCC, 10:111-12. Nevertheless, Washington did station Continental soldiers at Forman’s saltworks during their construction until he was obliged to withdraw them because of New Jersey’s op position to their use for this purpose. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:148-50. ’Congress had resolved on February 2 that either Maj. Gen. Alexander Mc Dougall or Maj. Gen. de Kalb could serve with Lafayette on this expedition. JCC, 10:107. As McDougall was too ill to serve, Washington subsequently reported that de Kalb would join Lafayette. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:428. Jonathan Bayard Smith to George Bryan Dr. Sir York Town Feb. 3d. 1778 I wrote you a few days ago by J Nothing since has occurred worth your notice. The assembly of Virginia has acceeded to the Confederation. I do not think however they have treated the matter with form equal to its importance. Does it appear proper to raise so great a fabrick on the slender basis of a simple resolution of the two houses? Will not legal consequences follow from this confedera tion? I apprehend it would be not only proper, but that it would answer many valuable purposes if more form were used, at least if the articles were approved &: acceeded to by a law of each State solemnly enacted, & in which law perhaps it may be expedient to insert certain matters connected therewith. It is a question in this house, whether suits can be supported for the recovery of p[ublic?] monys in the several states. What think you of this? This may be one object in the act I speak of. Please to send the Inclosed 2 to my good woman. I am Dr. Sir, with respect yr. afft. & mhst. JBS. [P.S.] Have you any acct, yet from Sammy? RC (PHarH). 1 Not found. 1 Not found.


[Page 54]
22 February 4, 1778 Robert Morris to Henry Laurens Sir, Manheim Feby 4th. 1778 The Baron de Steuben so Warmly recommended by Doctr Franklin Sc Mr Deane, as well as by Monsr Roderique Hortalez & Co. having done me the honor to call in his way to Congress, 1 delivered me the enclosed letters, Copies of which I took the liberty to forward to Your Excellency some time since, but still think it necessary to send the originals least those Copies might be mislaid. Doctor Franklin writes in very strong terms of this Gentns. military experience & Talents to Mr Bache 2 now here &: at whose desire I mention it; having served so long as twenty years under so great a Master as the King of Prussia one cannot but entertain expectations that the Baron must be capable of rendering important Services to this country, otherways the Art Military is not acquirable by opportunity & experience alone. I have the honor to be Your Excellys Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 164). 1 For an account of Steuben’s trip from Boston to York, where he arrived Febru ary 5, see John McAuley Palmer, General von Steuben (New Haven: Yale Uni versity Press, 1937), pp. 117-23. ’ Benjamin Franklin’s son-in-law, Richard Bache. John Penn to Robert Morris My dear Sir York Feby 4th. 1778 I intended before this to have seen you at Manheim, Mr. Harnet being unable to attend Congress having the Gout will make it some days before I can have that pleasure. The design of this letter is to inform you that I wish you would lay the accounts of the Secret Committee before Congress as soon as you can possibly, some members at times drop expressions on that subject that I do not like. 1 There are few men whose ability and Integrity I have so high an opinion of, as I have of yours. I do not mean to alarm you by what I have said, but only to induce you to attend to this matter more than perhaps otherwise you would, when I see you I shall be more explicit. Master Robert is very well, and quite brisk, he visits me at times, the little Fellow found a 30 dollar bill yesterday in the street, but gave it to a Girl that was looking for one of that dignity some hours after. My Compliments to Mrs. Morris Sc am with great regard & Esteem, Dear Sir, Your obt. Servt. J Penn RC (PHi).


[Page 69]
February G, 1778 37 but the capital Articles of Beef 8c Flour, the Quantity of which has been increased beyond the stated Ration in Lieu of Vegetables which cannot be procured. We are happy to acquaint you Sir that there seems little Doubt of obtaining an ample Supply of Flour. But the great & almost inconceivable Consumption of Flesh in a Country which never raised sufficient for the Subsistence of its own Inhab itants, has so exhausted that Space laying between the Potomack & the North River, that we cannot depend upon a farther Supply than the inclosed Paper intimates. From the Character of Col Blaine the present Deputy Commy. of Purchases 8c his Success in the Article of Flour we have Reason to believe equal Industry & Attention has been shewn to the procuring Meat & therefore must ascribe the Deficiency to a real Scarcity. From the very large Issues we had presumed that there must have been some Mistake or Fraud, a Detection of which would have en abled us to make a considerable saving, but upon a Scrutiny 8c Comparison of the Provision, Sc Brigade Returns, we do not find any considerable Difference, the large Issues being satisfactorily accounted for, in the Number of continental Troops to be fed (tho’ many of them are unfit for Duty thro Sickness & Want of Cloathing) in the Militia, & long Train of Waggon Masters, Drivers, Artificers, Clerks, Sc other Retainers of the Army. The Prisoners of War at Boston & in the several Eastn. States, Burgoynes Army, the Guards 8c Garrison there, & the Forces stationed for the Protection of Rhode Island will we apprehend amount to 12, or 14000 Men. The Troops destined for Canada, & stationed at Albany along the Mohawk & Hudsons Rivers, with those at Fish Kill, Arti ficers, Retainers 8cc may be Computed at least at 6000, making in the whole 20,000 Men to be fed with Meat from the East Side of Hudsons River. New Jersey, Pennsylvania 8c the Delaware State are exhausted. From this collective View of the Subject, & taking it for granted that the Army under General Howe is the first great Object of Attention, we are induced in the first Place to recommend a Perseverance in the Exertion of every Person to procure supplies in every State, not excepting those at a Distance firmly persuaded that after all we have done, or can do, there will be little or no Surplus. And in the second Place, to adopt every Expedient of CEconomy in the Application of them. Among which we beg Leave to suggest the immediate Disper sion of General Burgoyne, 8c all the other Prisoners, in such a Manner as to require few or no Guards, & to be easily fed from the neighbour ing Country. Other Considerations will concur to demonstrate the Propriety of this Measure. We find the Generals Mind impressed strongly with Apprehensions of Danger from keeping such a Body of Officers & Men collected after they suppose the Obligations of per sonal 8c national Honour are dissolved. 2


[Page 70]
38 February 6, 1778 We think every Nerve should be strained to collect such a Supply of Meat as will feed an Army of 30,000 Men early the next Spring, & are compelled by the inevitable Force of Evidence to say, that the very Existence of this Army depends for its Resources in a great Degree upon the Eastern Country, which failing it must disband, live upon free Quarter in the Country—or perish The Operations of the next Campaign so immediately depend upon some Measures of this Kind, & upon the Wisdom of Congress in forming & executing them that we beg Leave to urge it in the strongest Manner. Should we neglect any prudent Precaution in providing, or divide the Supplies & Resources of our Country into a Number of separate Channels, we very much fear our Efforts will be lanquid & ineffectual in every Quarter, while General Howe with his collected Force will ravage the middle States with Impunity. We are Sir with the greatest Respect & Regard, Your most Obedt & very Hbble Servs, Fra Dana per Order RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Joseph Reed and signed by Francis Dana. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Mr. Dana—Letter from 6 Feby. 1778. Read 16 Feby. respecting corny of provisions & prisoners of Convention at Boston. Referred to a Comee of three. Mr. Gerry, Mr. Wolcott, Mr. Ellery who are to confer with the board of war." An undated draft of this letter, written by Gouverneur Morris, is in PCC, item 33, fols. 141-42. 1 See Committee at Camp to Laurens, February 3, 1778. ’On February 19, Congress requested the government of Massachusetts “to re move, separate and place" the Convention Army “in such manner and in such parts of the said State as may be most convenient for their subsistence and secu rity.” JCC, 10:184-85. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 6th. February 1778. Your favor of the 2d Inst, came to hand late last Night. 1 As you have filled six Pages on the Negro scheme without approaching toward a Plan & Estimate—& as you have totally overlooked every other subject on which I have addressed you in several late Letters the conclusion that your whole mind is enveloped in the Cloud of that project, is unavoidable. If any good shall arise from a prosecu tion of it, the merit will be solely yours. For now, I will undertake to say there is not a Man in America of your opinion. Nay you will not be of your own opinion after a little reflection. ’Tis evident you want to raise a Regiment, as evident you have not digested a Plan. Admit ting, which I admit only for argument, you have a right to remove a Man from one state of Slavery into another—or if you please into a state of servitude which will be esteemed by him infinitely worse than


[Page 75]
February 7, 1778 43 Committee of Congress to George Washington Sir York Town 7th February 1778 The Committee appointed on the 27th of August 1777 to collect evidence of the State of the Army in the Northern department & also the State of the Troops, Military Stores 8c provisions at the Posts of Tyconderoga 8c Mount Independence before 8c at the times when the evacuation was determined upon, In obedience to an order of Con gress of the 5th Inst., Copy of which will be transmitted by the President, now forward to Your Excellency in one Packet, an Orderly Book & two parcels of Papers which together with the Orderly Book, contain all the evidence the Committee have been hitherto able to collect. 1 Your Excellency will be pleased to give timely Notice to the Gentle men who are appointed to assist the Judge Advocate in conducting the Trial. 2 We are, Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedt. Servants. By desire of the Committee, Henry Laurens, one of the Members. RC (DLC). Written and signed by Henry Laurens. 1 For a discussion of this committee’s investigation of the circumstances surround ing the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence in July 1777, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. Although Congress expected Washington to proceed with a court-marital of “the general officers who were in the northern department when Ticonderoga and Mount Independence were evacuated” on the basis of the evidence collected by the commit tee, Washington pointed out in a February 27 letter to Laurens that he could not take this step because of the committee’s failure to make “any particular charges against the Officers who are to be the objects of trial.” As a result, Congress ap pointed a new committee on April 29 to correct this oversight and approved its report specifying charges against Gens. Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler on June 20. Armed with this new report, Washington convened separate court- martials that in September and October 1778 acquitted both officers of all the charges preferred against them. See, in addition to the Hancock letter cited above, JCC, 10:125, 238-39, 403, 11:593-603, 628; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:518-19. See also Laurens to Washington, April 4, 1778. 2 See Henry Laurens to William Paterson, this date. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams My dear Sir York in Pennsylvania Feby 7. 1778 I cannot longer deprive myself of the Pleasure of writing a Letter to You, altho on other Occasions my Mind sometimes recoils at the Ideas of Pen 8c Paper. The Business of Congress in the winter Season is greatly increased on account of the necessary Reformation Plan 8c Preparation for a succeeding Campaign, 8c at this Time there is half the number of Members to transact it. Few can stand it as well as our


[Page 78]
46 February 7, 1778 trained to the Business, that our former Connections with her expose us to Dangers from Intrigues, which otherwise could not be carried into Effect, surely too much Caution cannot be used to guard against internal Dissentions. I know not the Source of the Uneasiness which We are speaking of (ir being a Friend to both parties shall for the Interest of my Country side with neither) but it would not be any Ways surprizing to me to find the Enemy at the Bottom of the Dis pute, & If they did not originate it, they will certainly promote it, unless the officers of the Army should wisely prevent it. The Disputes relative to Rank have probably had some share in exciting this Spirit, but here I must condemn fa great Part) some of the officers in oppos ing a constitutional Exercise of the Authority of Congress. A Resolu tion was after the most mature Deliberation entered into in Feby 1777 to appoint General Officers upon three principles, which Re spected their former Rank, their Merit, & the proportion of Troops raised by the States to which they severally belonged. 2 This was necessary to give satisfaction to the States, was considered as a wise & politick Measure, & I have reason to believe will be invariably pur sued at all Events. But What has been the Consequence of every appointment of General officers made by Congress? If it did not suit the whole Army, Opposition has taken place, & reduced Congress to the necessity of asserting the Rights of themselves & their Constitu ents, or consenting to give them up in a Manner that would sap the foundation of Liberty. I have ever tho’t that such an opposition has been the Effect of Inadvertance, & of not recurring to first principles, but the Injury which the civil Liberties of America derive therefrom is the same as if a premeditated Attack had been made against them. It appears to me that the Army have generally mistaken Notions of Honor, when they suppose that a foreign officer of great Experience cannot be introduced to high rank without disgracing all below him. I have as great prejudices in favour of my Countrymen as any person, perhaps on Earth; And will readily grant, that with the same Degree of Experience Sc under similar Advantages, no Officers whatever will exceed them in skill &: prowess; but can any person suppose that a Year or two in the service of the united States will qualify an officer as well as ten or twenty years service in the armies of Europe? &: has not our Cause been almost ruined, does it not at this instant suffer greatly from the want of experienced officers {to introduce Discipline into the Army)f Under these Circumstances then is it not evident that the Honor of an Officer who readily consents to promote the service of his Country by giving place to Experience, is established; whilst those who oppose this do it at the Expence of their reputation. I know of no Promotions of any Consequence that have not been made on the purest Principles, & a full conviction of Merit in the Officer appointed; but such are the prejudices of each Person in


[Page 79]
February 7, 1778 47 Favour of himself that it rarely happens, when he exercises a Judg ment on his own Cause, that he can divest himself of Partiality in every Respect, whence the Necessity of Decisions in all Cases of a legal or publick Nature by disinterested persons. FC (DLC photostat). 1 Henry Knox’s January 4 letter to Gerry, inquiring about the intrigues against General Washington and defending the general officers’ concern with rank, is in Austin, Life of Gerry, 1:238-41. 2 See ]CC, 7:133. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Sir, 7th Febry 1778 I duly received & presented to Congress both your Letters signed as Chair Man of the Committee at Camp. These being at the Secre- tarys Office I cannot write the particular dates. 1 All the Commands I have received for the Committee in conse quence of those Letters are contained in two Acts which you will find in company with this. 2 Vizt—of the 5th Inst adopting a plan for carrying into immediate execution the important business of the Quarter Master General. of this date—directing the Committee “to consult with General Washington & Report to Congress the proper officers for filling the several departments of the Quarter Master General” which probably means to recommend or nominate proper persons &ca. The Secretary having sent me only one Copy of the last mentioned Act, I request you will lay this or a Copy of it before His Excellency General Washington. I am with great Regard &ca LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Francis Dana Esquire, Chairman of Com mittee from Congress, Valley Forge.” 1 See the Committee at Camp’s January 28 and 29 letters to Laurens, which dealt with the appointment of a new quartermaster general and a new commissary general of purchases for the Continental Army. 2 See JCC, 10:126-27, 138. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 7th Febry 1778 I had the honour this morning of receiving your Commands by the hands of Lt. Colo. Fleury. 1 This Gentleman notwithstanding the aid of some able advocates in Congress has failed in his pursuit of a Colonel’s Commission, you


[Page 80]
48 February 7, 1778 will wonder less, when you learn that the preceeding day I had strove very arduously as second to a warm recommendation from a favorite General, Gates, on behalf of Monsr. Failly, for the same Rank, with out effect. The arguments adduced by Gentlemen who have opposed these measures, are Strong & obvious. We are reforming & reducing the Number of Officers in our Army, let us wait the event, & see how our own Native Officers are to be disposed of—&: besides, there is a plan in embrio for abolishing the Class of Colonel in our Army, while the Enemy have none of that Rank in the Field. Some difficulty attended obtaining leave for Monsr. Fleury to fol low your Excellency. Congress were at first of opinion he might be more usefully employed against the Shipping in Delaware & formed a Resolve very flattering & tempting to induce him, but his persever- ence in petitioning to be sent to Canada, prevailed. 2 Monsr. Fleury strongly hopes Your Excellency will encourage him to raise & give him the Command of a distinct Corps of Canadians. 3 I am persuaded you will adopt all such measures as shall promise advantage to the Service &: there is no ground to doubt of your doing every reasonable & proper thing for the gratification & honour of Gentlemen of whom your Excellency Speaks &: writes so favorably. The King’s Speech of the 21st November which I presume you have seen at Camp, according to my reading & interpretation, is intended as harbinger to propositions. The tone will be reverbrated by Lord North’s puppets & the Scene will open. It is remarkable that on the 21st November the Capture of Phila delphia had not been announced in England—& not less remarkable, that except the Speech there is not a Single insertion of European intelligence in the Philadelphia Gazette 31st Jany. I congratulate with your Excellency on the pleasing accounts re ceived from the spot from whence you are now wandering. If fretting, or wishing, would rand 4 the Roads I would enter heartily upon so cheap a mode of scavaging. Such as they are, may God conduct you, Noble Marquis, happily successfully, through them, that when you shall think it proper, you may return & fill those tender breasts with joy which till that time will be the subjects of anxiety. I have the honour to be with great regard &ca. LB (ScHi). 'See Lafayette to Laurens, ca. February 4, 1778, in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:279-80. 2 See ]CC, 10:127-28, 137-38. 3 Among the Laurens Papers at DLC is a memorial from Lt. Col. Fleury to Laurens, undated but obviously written about this time, in which Fleury asked the president to have “the Board of the War . . . write to general Lafayete & commend me to him for the first body of Canadians to be Raised. * “Melt”—or, in this context, to clear the roads of snow. OED.


[Page 81]
February 7, 1778 49 Henry Laurens to William Paterson Sir, 7th Febry 1778 By the inclosed Act of Congress of the 5th Inst, you will be in formed that the House have appointed you to assist the Judge Advo cate in conducting the intended Trial of General Officers who were in the Northern department when Tyconderoga 8c Mount Inde pendence were evacuated. I am ordered to add the request of Congress that you will attend the Court Martial, the appointment & intended sitting of which you will learn from General Washington & give your best assistance to the Judge Advocate & to assure you that Congress will make Suitable provision for your trouble 8c expences on this occasion. 1 I am with great Respect LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “William Patterson Esquire, Attorney Gen eral of the State of New Jersey.” 1 Laurens wrote substantially the same letter this day to Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, the attorney general of Pennsylvania. PCC, item 13, fol. 164. Paterson and Sergeant, citing the press of other official business to which they had to attend, both declined to assist at this court-marital. See JCC, 10:238-39, 367; and PCC, item 59, 3:7, item 78, 20:207. For a discussion of the congressional investiga tion of the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence during the sum mer of 1777 and the courts-martial of some of the army officers involved, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note; and Com mittee of Congress to Washington, this date. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, 7th Febry 1778. I had the honour of presenting in due course Your Excellency’s favours of 31st Ulto 8c 3d Inst, to Congress, 1 the former, which intro duced General Foreman’s Memorial on Salt Works remains uncon sidered 8c no day appointed. The latter was sent immediately to the Board of Treasury. I have at present no other Commands from Congress but to trans mit— An Act of the 5th Inst, adopting a plan for filling the Offices of Quarter Master general in the Army. Another Act of the same date for the trial of the General Officers who were in the Northern department when Tyconderoga 8c Mount Independence were evacuated. These Your Excellency will find under the present Cover. The 14th Inst. I transmitted an Act of Congress & divers other papers relative to Baron Stuben. 2 It may not be improper to intimate


[Page 82]
50 February 7, 1778 that the Baron arrived at York two days ago &: intends waiting on Your Excellency Some Six or eight days hence. P.M. Since writing as above Congress have passed a Resolve direct ing the Committee at Camp to “consult with your Excellency,’’ & “Report to Congress the proper Officers for filling the Several depart ments of the quarter Master general,” 3 by which I presume is to be understood to recommend or to nominate proper persons to be ap pointed for the Several departments. The Secretary has sent me only one Copy of the Act which I have transmitted to the Committee who will lay it before your Excellency. Congress have consented that Leiutt. Colo. Fleuri shall follow the Marquis delafayette on his intended expedition into Canada, having been assured that he had first obtained Your Excellency’s permission. I have the honour to be with Sincere Regard & Esteem &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 These letters are in PCC, item 152, 5:275-83, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 10:411-12, 418. ’ Laurens is actually referring to his January 14, 1778, letter to Washington. ’See ]CC, 10:138. Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings [February 8-14, 1778] 8. Sunday. 9. No Committee. 10. Examined Clothr. Genls. Depy. 1 Considered the Establishmt. of Engineers &: agreed to recommend it to Congress agreable to the Genls. plan. Monsr. De Portail to give a more particular arrangment of the Companies, &: of his Assistants. Wrote to the Comissary of Hides to attend the Committee. 2 11th. Wrote Genl. Washington on the proposed exchange of Prison ers by Gen. Howe. (No. 16.) 3 Wrote to Congress upon the Canada Expedition. (No. 17.) 4 Pass’d proposals for procuring Horse & Saddles for the Cavalry (No. 18.) 12. Conferred with Genl. Green abt the Qr. Mastr s. Genl. De- partmt. 13. Conferred upon the starving condition of the Army. Wrote to Colo. Cox (No. 19). 5 Reed. Lettrs. & Resolutions from Congress respeetg. Qr. Mr. Gen. Departmt.® Sent Lettrs. to Congress respeetg. Canada Expedition & the Qr. Mr. Departmt. 7 14. Wrote to Gov. Livingston respeetg. Waggons to transport Provi-


[Page 83]
February 8, 1778 51 sions 8: the mode of obtaining Horses to remount the Cavalry (No. 20). 8 Sent them forward 9 o’Clock. Conferred with Genl. Woodford 8c others 8c stated their Case (No. 21). 9 Wrote to Congress 10 abt. Genl. Varnum. 11 MS (DLC). A continuation of Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, Febru ary 2-7, 1778. The minutes printed in this entry are in the hands of committee members Francis Dana and Joseph Reed. 1 This is probably a reference to deputy clothier general Daniel Kemper. 3 The committee’s letter to George Ewing has not been found. 3 See Committee at Camp to George Washington, February 11, 1778. 4 See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 11, 1778. 5 The committee’s letter to John Cox, who became deputy quartermaster general, has not been found. ’See Henry Laurens to the Committee at Camp, February 7, 1778. ’See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 12, 1778. 'This is the committee’s letter to Gov. William Livingston dated February 13, 1778. ’See the February 17 entry in the committee’s minutes of proceedings (February 16-20, 1778) and its March 2 statement. 10 After a discussion of the army’s distresses in their letter to President Laurens, the committee turned to the need of a commanding general in Rhode Island and recommended James Varnum for the post. Varnum did not receive the assignment. See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 14, 1778; JCC, 12:1215, 13:274; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:284. 11 For the continuation of these minutes, see Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 16-20, 1778. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir York-Town Feby. Sth 1778 I received yours of the 13th Ulmo in which you mention the decline of your health, a bad cold and Jaundicy habit. A deccoction of strong soot with the Yolk of an egg repeated a few mornings will relieve you of your Jaundice, as I have found by repeated experience and a long ride not to expose your self to Storms or Night Air is the best relief for a fix’d cold tending to a hectick disorder however you must Con sult self on the latter. It gives me much concern that a meer unthought of mistake & accident should give the Governor or you on his Account so much Sollicitude as am Absolutely Certain there was no design in the direction. The letter was Circular, some Assemblys have no upper house. I have often before rectified mistakes of that kind but believe was then Absent or Inattentive but can give the Strongest assurance that it was a meer Accident. But when an Unhappy jealousy prevails there is no wonder of a misconstruction but unhappily at this time many concurrent circumstances tended to Strengthen the suspicion. But the President has since been directed to assure the Governor how it happened 1 and that the supposed Neglect or affront was purely


[Page 84]
52 February 8, 1778 Accidental and I am Warranted to say there is neither Governor nor President in any of the United States who is held in so much Esteem by Congress as Govr Trumbull, tho there has been a party in Congress and on some occasions I have no doubt some of his family have suf fered by it. Yet it is now gone, the same as to you. Tho there has no doubt been some who were Vexed to see the new plan they were so fond of turn out with all the mischievous Consequences of which they were foretold were Vexd, & Chagrind, and ready to Impute the mis fortune to any thing & every thing & upon you among the rest rather than their mighty Widome & Judgment should be Impeached, is not this Natural? & Why then such mighty Stress to be laid on such feeble dispairing efforts, of an expiring faction; why again so much alarmed on your not recieving an Answer from a Body to your letter of excul pation, when Congress as such were entirely satisfied & it is rather unusual to direct answers on such Occasions &: when the suspicion if any, arose from Individuals; if the body had passed any Censure most certainly they ought to have taken it of when the Occasion was re moved, or they better informed but there had been no Censure from the body. Beside the Amazing croud of business has prevented atten tion to many things, as Answers to letters & the like, which were rather matters of Complaisonice, Congress the Country &: Army have suffered sufficiently for this Imprudence of their New regulation, and they are enough sick of it, and if they can possible relieve themselves by New men or measures they are ready to Adopt them: they therefore as well as Genii Gates & board of Warr most ardently wish your attendance, I with them, & nothing but your want of health has excused you in my View, for the security of our Country in no measure ought to be Neglected on Account of any real or supposed affronts or Injuries Whatever, this I must hold, to Vindicate my own conduct, as I never should have seen this place, & sacrificed my Intrest, &: the Comforts of my family had not I valued my Country & held my self superior to reproach, Ingratitude or Calumny. I trust it will be no pleasure to you when I tell you that by the New Commissariate plan 8e the Ignorance, inattention & sloth of many of those employd, our Army has been at times starving, and many advantages over the Enemy lost for want of provisions &: at length many of our Army dispersed in the Country & suffered to return home on furlow, & what is worse the most advan tageous oppertunities for Attacking the Enemy this Winter & driving them out of Philadelphia could not be taken nor a force called in for that purpose for want of Stores & Magazines of Provisions necessary for that purpose, & fear we may be as destitute in the Spring. The flower most certainly is to be had in this Country yet much doubt where a sufficiency of the meat kind can be provided; they hear much of Capt Wadsworth, the eyes of the publick, the Army, & Congress, are mostly on him, Next to you, as they are told no Inducement will


[Page 90]
58 February 8, 1778 tho much Time is lost & irreparable Injury often done the publick Interests in the vain Attempt. A decided Line of Conduct on such Occasions is certainly the best, & when Facts are once established, Wisdom & Policy I think should determine us to give our Confidence & Support to that Character which is the most meritorious, without ballancing between the contending Parties or vainly trying to recon cile them. To you & me 8c a great Majority of this Country it must be perfectly immaterial by whom its Salvation is wrought out; our only Ambition being to secure its Liberties 8c rest its peaceful Citizens. Let us therefore early guard against any Designs incompatible with these Veiws from whatever Quarter they may come 8c whatever their Pretensions, for we cannot suppose our Country should not furnish Characters in this Respect like Caesars Nil actuon reputans, dum aliquid superisset agendum: Who will think no Degree of Honour attained while any remains unattained. Our former Difficulties have been surmounted by Vigour 8c Firmness. The Power 8c Strength of the Enemy 8c common Danger with a Sense of the Justice of our Cause has enabled us to struggle thro’ them. The last great Evil, clashing Interests 8c sinister Ambition only remains; that conquered, Victory is most certainly ours. But I am very clear, it requires more Wisdom 8c Prudence to combat this than all the others. And that State must be in imminent Danger, when Persons possessing its Confidence in a great Degree have lost Confidence 8c Harmony with each other. I need not say to whom I refer, when I make these Reflections, nor should I have ventured them on Paper, if I did not see that I should be detained from Congress on this Committee a considerable Time, 8c that some Measures have been lately adopted calculated in my Opinion to serve other Views than those of Patriotism 8c which Congress have sanctified without sufficiently attending to their Con sequences. I must acknowledge the Unacquaintance of the Committee with some important Facts surprized me, 8c as I suppose other Gentle men in Congress are equally uninform’d, I cannot but feel the greatest Anxiety least an unsuspicious Confidence in Men should lead us to the Brink of a Precipice before we perceive our Danger. I am not insensible that some unfavourable Events, 8c perhaps unim proved Opportunities have made their Impression on some Minds with respect to a very high Character; they have been stronger as those who entertained them have been distant from the Scene of Action; but let these be what they may, that Policy 8c Wisdom must be very defective which shews its Designs without a reasonable Prospect of accomplishing them. To permit Power to remain in any Hand upon which much depends 8c at the same Time to adopt Mea sures to thwart 8c enfeeble its Exertions I can never agree to—-either change the Hands, or support them with your greatest Weight. I observed early last Summer a growing Disgust among Characters


[Page 94]
62 February 9, 1778 powered and directed Us to write to you, desiring you would appoint one or more suitable Persons to be Commercial Agents for Conduct ing the Commercial business of the united states in France and other parts of Europe. Inclosed is the Resolve of Congress to that purpose. 1 You will be pleased to make appointments immediately and give us notice by the first opportunity. We are with great Respect, Your most obed humble servts, William Ellery James Forbes Fra. Lewis RC (PPAmP). In the hand of John Brown, and signed by Ellery, Forbes, and Lewis. ‘In their July 20, 1778, letter to President Laurens, the Commissioners at Paris acknowledged the belated receipt of this resolve and the committee’s letter and indicated that John Bondfield at Bordeaux and John D. Schweighauser at Nantes, who had been previously appointed by William Lee, were currently the only authorized American commercial agents in France. See JCC, 10:139; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:651-52. For William Lee’s comments on several merchants seeking commercial appointments at French ports, as well as his indi cation that he had also appointed Andrew Limozin as agent at Havre de Grace, see his March 23, 1778, letter to Richard Henry Lee in William Lee, Letters oj William Lee, ed. Worthington C. Ford, 3 vols. (Brooklyn: Historical Printing Club, 1891), 1:406-11. Henry Laurens to Nicholas Cooke g| r York Town 9th Febry 1778. My last was on the 22d January by Messenger Dodd. 1 Your Ex cellency will receive in Company with this the following Acts of Congress 8c five Copies of each. of the 19th December & 21st January past for retaliating upon the Enemy. of the 3d Inst, for obliging persons holding Commissions & appoint ments under Congress to qualify themselves for acting in their offices respectively by taking 8c subscribing certain Oaths therein prescribed. You are requested Sir to cause this to be published in your State in the most effectual manner. 2 I have the honour to be, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (R-Ar). 1 See Laurens to George Clinton, January 22, 1778, note 2. ’For the "Acts” Laurens enclosed, see JCC, 9:1036-37, 10:74-81, 114-18. Laurens also transmitted copies of these December 19, January 21, and February 3 resolves with brief letters that he wrote this day to the Massachusetts Council, Gen. Israel Putnam, and President Meshech Weare of New Hampshire. Revolutionary Papers,


[Page 95]
February 9, 1778 63 M-Ar; PCC, item 13, fol. 181; and Revolutionary Papers, Nh-Ar. He transmitted copies of the February 3 resolve along with brief letters that he wrote on February 8 to Gov. William Livingston of New Jersey and to President Thomas Wharton of Pennsylvania; and on February 9 to Gov. George Clinton of New York, Pres. George Read of Delaware, and the marquis de Lafayette. PCC, item 13, fols. 163, 165, 179; George Read Papers, DeHi; and Charles Roberts Autograph Collection, PHC. See also Laurens to Patrick Henry, February 10, 1778. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir- York Town 9th Feby 1778. I had the honour of receiving by Mcloski the 5 Inst, your favor of the 10th Ulto. including a late correspondence with Lieutt Gen eral Burgoyne, 1 these were immediately reported to Congress & trans mitted to the Board of War, from whence a report has not yet as cended, therefore I have no particular Commands relative to your said dispatch. I may however with propriety & pleasure intimate that your conduct towards the British General & his dependants receive the continued approbation of Congress if I may be permitted to make this conclusion from the general sentiments of Members. Inclosed with this you will receive an Act of Congress of the 3d Inst, for obliging persons who hold Commissions or appointments under Congress to qualify themselves by taking & subscribing to cer tain Oaths therein prescribed, which Sir, you will be pleased to pub lish throughout the department of the Army under Your Command. 2 I have the honour to be, With very great Regard, Sir, Your most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). /The January 13, 1778, letter to Laurens from Gen. William Heath, the Con tinental commander in Boston, dealt with "some Riotous behaviour” by a few of Gen. John Burgoyne’s troops in that city as well as problems related to the main tenance of Burgoyne’s captured army. Enclosed with it were letters of January 4 from Burgoyne to Heath and of January 10 from Heath to Burgoyne concerning the unruliness of the British prisoners mentioned above. PCC, item 57, fols. 135^16. Laurens obviously confused Heath’s January 13 letter to him with the general’s January 10 letter to Burgoyne. a In his presidential letterbook Laurens made the following summary of a letter he wrote this day to Gen. Benedict Arnold: “Acknowledged the Receipt of two Letters from him Committed to Board of War—that I had received no Command from Congress.” PCC, item 13, fol. 181. See also ]CC, 10:74, 139. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, 9th Febry 1778. I had the honour of writing to your Excellency on the 14th Ulto. by Major Spencer & on the 3d Inst. 1 by an opportunity Mr. Webber


[Page 97]
February 9, 1778 65 loan office commissioner in Connecticut, informing him of “an Act of Congress of 20th December last cancelling a Warrant on the Loan Office Connecticut for 200,000 Dollars of the 16th September in favour of William Buchanan Esquire which had been returned unpaid.” PCC, item 13, fol. 178; and ]CC, 8:748, 9:1042. Furthermore, he wrote brief notes apprising Joseph Henderson and Eleazar Wales of their February 3 appointment as commissioners of accounts for the northern district and informing Moses Emerson of his February 3 appointment as com missioner of accounts at Hartford. PCC, item 13, fols. 178, 180; and JCC, 10:113-14. 3 Laurens had unintentionally offended Governor Trumbull by addressing a copy of his December 23, 1777, circular letter to the states, to the speaker of the Connecticut Assembly rather than to the governor himself. Although Trumbull did not mention his chagrin in his January 16, 1778, reply to Laurens, his son Joseph complained about the putative slight in letters to Eliphalet Dyer and James Lovell, both of whom hastened to reassure the younger Trumbull that Laurens had not meant to give offense to the governor. See PCC, item 66, 1:372-73; James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull, January 27; and Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, February 8, 1778. Daniel Roberdeau to John Clark Dr- Si r York Town Feby. 9th. 1778 The System of the Auditors department is in the press and has undergone no material alterations, your appointment remains as it did, neither has Congress tho desirous of your services accepted the unconditional Terms of your Letter, as it was unpresidented. 1 I could wish for your own sake as well as on account of the publick wheel [weal] that you would repair to Camp and in your way call here for the System, if you do otherwise I think you will 2 repent, further argument is unnecessary as you are acquainted with my opinion at large. Mr. Clarkson has accepted his appointment in very polite terms and with thanks; “do thou likewise.” I shall expect to see you in a few days, but dont neglect giving an answer to Treasury, it is ex pected, and your acceptance will be universally agreeable. I am, Dr. Sir, Yr. most obt. friend & Servt, Daniel Roberdeau P.S. Is not your appointment of 4 dollars per day, and 3 rations for yourself and one for your horse, better than the pay of the Board of War as its members are allowed but 2000 Dollars per Annum? RC (DNA: PCC, item 41). Addressed: “Major John Clark, at Abbots Town, York County.” ’On January 10, Congress named John Clark and Matthew Clarkson “auditors to audit and settle the public accounts in the main army.” Clarkson accepted his appointment on January 28, but Clark, in the “unpresidented” letter of January 24 to which Roberdeau refers, protested the inadequacy of the salary offered and suggested instead that he be employed at a salary to be determined at a future date, after Congress had time to restudy the question of fair compensation. Roberdeau’s letter was obviously written in the belief that Clark’s stance would redound to his disadvantage if he did not reconsider it, but the latter remained


[Page 100]
68 February 10, 1778 I take the Liberty to Inclose the last Paper, which Contains very little except the King’s Speech to Parliament. I have nothing particu lar to mention having written to you a few days ago. I am with the Greatest respect, Your Excellencys Most Obedt & very humi Servt, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] I beg leave to present my most respectful Compts. to the Council. Pay of a Major Genl.—166 Dol. per mo &: 15 Rations. His Aid de Camp 50 Dol. per mo. with rank of Major—no Rations. His Secry.—50 Dol. per mo. RC (CSmH). Addressed: "His Excellency Richard Caswell Esquire Governor & Commander in Chief of the State of North Carolina.” Endorsed: “Recvd. the 17 March 1778.” ‘Governor Caswell had written a letter to Harnett and John Penn on January 11, 1778, in which he mentioned having also written one to them on December 27, 1777. It is not clear if Harnett is referring to the January letter, which is in N.C. State Records, 13:7-8, or the December letter, which has not been found. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Town Pensylvania Feb. 10. 1778 I wrote you about a fortnight or perhaps a week ago and have nothing new at present to Communicate. The Army still remain in Winter Quarters at Valey Forge well Hutted, I hear their houses or Hutts are very warm & Comfortable. I send you the last Paper Containing the Kings Speech &c. Jackey is not yet sent to me. The Weather has been very bad, the Snow now very thick upon the Ground, as soon as this weather Clears up, I ex pect to have him with me agreeable to Mr. Mitchels promise. What has been done about Fortifying Cape Fear River? I fear noth ing at all. Mr. Hooper & Mr. Maclain are unpardonable in not writing to me. I have been laid up with the Gout for a week Past. I shall write you more at large in my next. I wish you would send on your Bills, not that I shall have Occasion to use them, since Our Assembly have made so generous an allowance to their Delegates. But remember I warn you that Delays are dangerous. I am, Dr Sir, Your real friend &: Ob Servt. Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] I write Mr Quince by this Post. 1 RC (NcU). 1 Not found.


[Page 101]
February 10, 1778 69 Henry Laurens to Patrick Henry Sir, 10th Febry 1777 [he. 1778] My last to your Excellency was dated the 3d Inst. & conveyed by the opportunity of Monsr. Lanuville. 1 My present duty is to forward two Acts of Congress which will accompany this. of the 3d Inst, for obliging all persons holding Commissions or appointments under Congress to qualify themselves by taking & sub scribing to certain Oaths therein prescribed, which Your Excellency will be pleased to lay before the Legislature & also to cause the said Act to be made public throughout the State of Virginia. of the 9th Inst, for restraining Malconduct in Continental Officers Civil & Military & for correcting the abuse of Supernumeraries in the Civil Line &: also recommending to the Legislatures of the several States to enact Laws for the most speedy & effectual recovery of debts due to the United States of America. 2 I likewise send in a seperate Packet by the present Messenger fifty blank Commissions for private Ships of War with the same number of Instructions & Bonds at the request of Colo. Fr. Lee the Bonds when executed to be transmitted to Congress. I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). ’See Laurens to James Duane, February 3, 1778, note 2. 2 Laurens also transmitted copies of these February 3 and 9 resolves on oaths and Continental officers with brief letters that he wrote this day to the governors of Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. PCC, item 13, fols. 182-85. Furthermore, he transmitted copies of the February 9 resolve on Continen tal officers alone with brief letters that he wrote this day to the Massachusetts Council, the governors of Rhode Island and New Jersey, and the presidents of New Hampshire and Delaware, and also with a letter he wrote to Washington on February 13. Ibid., fols. 186-88. Henry Laurens to Thomas Mifflin Sir, York Town 10th February 1778 I beg pardon for having so long detained the Inclosed Act of Con gress of 30th January past, requiring immediately an Account of all public expenditures by the Quarter Master general. 1 This delay arose from my expectation of your speedy return to York. I am With very great Respect, Sir, Your most obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (NNPM). ’See JCC, 10:102-3. For a detailed account of the extraordinarily complicated business of settling General Mifflin’s accounts as quartermaster general, which was


[Page 108]
February 11, 1778 76 FEBRUARY n, 1778. Si 5 3 A 75 5° an horie >oiy to take place a* Officer* of that corp* ; the pay aUb, which faded in the pay herein fettled for the Officers m the Comraiflw f ~ /j • AH the ArcHlere Artificer* that $ sum* (thole employed with &e • fc • deceit eaeral I <1 7 /». A !*■ Deputy-Commiffiuy-Genml, of which there fliall be one in each military divifion of the Sates Commifiarie* each * - Dcpcty-CommiiTary each * ConduAon each - - - Clerks each ditto ditto ditto ditto ^TtaT'Rhira be made to ths Board of War afid Ordnance-T’once every month, of all Officers employed in the ditto ditto ditto ditto ditto a ditto < horfes; his Deputies, AffiflaMi, CommiSsriet and ' ' of the Artillery Artificer* refpefiively, wher Aft*. ary Artificers, anc uieirrankot a* Officers tn that regt—ut, to be iaclu< *' ■ The Coromiffary-Geaera! Ihall be allowed forage for two . UonduSorr, to be allowed forage for one horfe each* and the Cs,A d«r requires that tras *,tg & col* id material' ~e faMc r ■ > * pj, ihe 3 R- w«»s lOmea manner that will beft promote the public fcrvke: AH Officers, Artificers arid others, la the ordnance and military department (hall be governed by the roles and articles of war in the fame nunner, as other Officer* in the Artillery pt the United States; • The Commifliry-General flail give Toch form* orreturns, and inftniCiioos Ip his Deputies, Affiftant-Commiffaries, Conductor*, &c. » the fervid and fituation of their department Ihall require. And all Officers 5 n this department^ are ID attend to foch orders and inftrsCHons u they Gull receive from tune to time from the Board of War and , Ordnance, or the Commiffary-General t ’ All regelation* incidental to the department, and not enlarging the powers and authorities here given, fh^H be fettled and made by the Board of War and Ordnance; • The Board Of War and Ordnance ffiall tranfinit from time to time, a* the fervioe Ihall render neceffary, iranfetipt* of all returns received from the Commiflary-General of military flora, and fillo account* of all ordnance and flora under their care, or beloogiag to the United States, and of the place* where the fame are deposited, to the Com mander in Chief of the armies of the United States, in order that he my make foch requidtion* of fuj^lie* for the army under his immediate command, or for the feparate departments, ns he fliall think proper, and give foch advice and directions a* to thedifpofition of them, a* drcumftancei bray from time to time require:.The Commanding Officer or Artillery for the time being in the grand finny, with the chief Engineer, Com- * miffiup of Artillery, and cl&fl Colonel"of Artillery ih casap; or fiich Of them as are at pmfent with the army, fliall be a fubordiaate Board if Ordnance, under the dire&ipa of the Commander in Chief er the Board of War and Ordnance, for tranfaCiiQ* all bufineO of the ordnance! department neceffary to be done ?n the field, and to ha*- die care of all ordnuifo and flora at camp, and in cafe of fudden exigency, the CoiumtiTary-GeneraJ of miliary floras fliall be obliged fc obey their directions, a* to any foppHe* wanted by the army out of the ftores not in camp; and the faid Board fliall correfpcnd with, and report their proceedings to the Board of War and Ordnance, from whom they are to receive any neceflary affiflance. ♦ /“y, RtJUvtd, That the pay of Cd. Benjamin Flower's corp* bf Artillery Artificer* Ihall be for all thofe, who enrage to ferve the United State* a* foch for \hree year* or daring the war, .Twenty Dollars a month, beiide* the lame bounty, cloathing, and every other benefit allowed by Coagrefs to the Continental Artillery { the Officer* the fame pay as others of equal rank in the Continental Artillery ; and that Colonel Flower aogment the four, com panies ordered to be railed in January laft, add other companies to the fold regiment, and if neceflary, encreafe the pay of Officer* and men in feme, agreeable to foch orders a* have been given for that purpole, by General Wathington, and that he be required forthwith to transmit a copy of foch orders to Congrefs: That if the exigency of the fervice makes itaecefiary to employ, at any time or place more Artificers, than the Commiflary may have ialifled or can enlift, then he, his Deputies, or Affiflaott, may engtge them for the tunepf foch neccffity, on the awft rcafoaablc term* pcffiHe, with the approbation of the Board of War and Ordnance. । * E*1r»8 fren tht Miaatrs, CHARLES THOMSON, S«w»r„ ’ UM——« >T* HAT there foall be one Commiflary-GraeraJ of militfiry florts» wbofe bufineft it flail be t^feceire and d» 1 liver all arm*, ammanition and accoutrement* of every fpecies and denomination—j-» provideaf>d Conti-aft for all foch article* as may be wanted in this department, accarasng to the diredions he fliall receive frotn'th? Board of War and Ori«.oce*-lo reedre and coSea raurn, from all Siftmt Sum, where dwre are an, <•««■» aim. and Sore. I draw them lore one pnoral reurn, and on the M da, of every mouth, deliver one to iWRoe.-d of War and Ordnance:T , , , _ • In cafe of vacancy occafioned by death, refigtrttKm orotberwtfe, of any of the Commiffane*. Commiffary s- Deoatie* Or Condudors^which may happen in any department near to where the Commiffary-General may be, he .* Ihall have permiffion to fill foch vacancy pro tempore, until it fliall be confirmed or ^approved by Congref.: .# AU mouses to be drawn on account of military ftores, to be by application of the Commiflary-General, or hu Deputies, to the Board of War and Ordnance; and all monies fo drawn, to be accounted for by fom, once in every Ax months, to the Board of Treaf^ry, or to foch Auditors » Commiffioners, as the fa.d Boardflull direft. _ All Commiflariea, Deputy-Commiflaries nr Conductor*, who may have money advanced them by the Coromiffartf- General, for the nfe of their feveral department*, to keep regular accounts, and produce voucher, and rereims for the fums paid, and account for the fame to the Commifiaty-General once every month, or as often a* csJied for J # AU Continental Armourerr, fliall .be under the direSion of the Board of War and Ordnance, and of the Com-** miflary-General of military floret; the Armourer* to receive from the faid Commiflary »U arm* to be repaired, snake return* of the Qate of repair* when demanded, and deliver die arms when repaired, into hi* ftore: The principal Armourer or Armoarert, at each and every Armoury to be accountable for all foch arms, a* he or they fliall receive, until they are repaired and delivered to the Commiflary-Genera), h» Deputies or Affiftana 5 and the faid Comrtiffary-General (h all fee that every method is taken by the Armoarer»» to haftea the repair* of ue arms r. the principal Armourer* to receive money from the Commiffary-Genend for the contingent expence* of their depan ments, and the Commiflary-Genera! Stall, produce their accounts and voucher* at the adjuttmeat of his account*: • f. That there be a* many Deputies; Affiftanu, CommilTarie*, Deputy-Commiflarie*, Conductors and Clerk*, as the txigme, of Ike Areire S> jf re^ire^re U .ppoiottd by *e BwS of Wu .nd Ontaore) »«d >b« Aid loud rt /£ Trom time to time to report all foch appointment* to Congref* i . ; Z That the payof officers in the department of the Commiflary-Oeneral of military ftores be as follows; Commifiary-General. r - joo Dollar* per month and 6 radon* a day. < Z eivil branch of ordnance and military flora; A . All Commiflarie*. Deputy-Comnufiariea, Coaduftnn and Clerk*, who Ihall have the feparate charge of any ftores, are on the firft day of every mooch to make out an exaCt return of all cannon and military ftores, of ever, fpede* and denotninatioa, OM copy whertof they fluU tranlmit to the Commie-General, who i« to put their j into one general return a* heretofore directed, find one other copy thereof, the bid Cocuniflarie*, Deputy-Camm’ briet, Coodo&on or Clerk* are to fend to the Board of War and Ordnance ' • ' Artificentluareoraaybeemptoyedat any Arenorie*, Laboratories, Focaderies or Military Maj...Z -e army fo the field bseepted) Ihall under the immediate direction, and fobjea the orders and command of the Conamifiary-Genera^ or the Officer tHre&d by him to take the charge of the fame The Qaarter-Mafier-Generab, hit Deputies *nd Affiftanu, ffialt give the Cotnmifiary-General, every affitance c team* for the rttnOvaf of public ftore*, and in cafe there be no Quarter-Maltef in the department or place, ,froa whence the ftores are to be removed, the CammilTary-GcBer*| Ihall have power to procure teams in-the way and Commissary Reforms Broadside, February 11, 1778


[Page 112]
80 February 12, 1778 retiring to more distant 8c convenient Quarters, the Troops justly expected every Comfort which the surrounding Country could af ford; among these a provident Care in the Article of Straw would probably have saved the Lives of many of your brave Soldiers, who have now paid the great Debt of Nature. Unprovided with this, or Materials to raise them from the cold & wet Earth, Sickness and Mortality have spread thro’ their Quarters, in an astonishing Degree. Notwithstanding the Diligence of the Physicians 8c Surgeons of whom we hear no Complaint, the sick & dead List has increased one third on the last weekly Return, which was one third greater than the Week preceding, & from the present inclement Weather will probably increase in a much greater Proportion. Nothing Sir can equal their Sufferings except the Patience 8c Fortitude with which the faithful Part of your Army endure them. Those of a different Character desert in considerable Numbers. We must also observe that a Number of the Troops have now been some Time prepared for Inoculation, but the Operation must be delayed for Want of this 8c other Neces saries, within the Providence of this Department. We need not point out the fatal Consequences of this delay in forming a new Army, or the Preservation of this. Almost every Day furnishes Instances of the Small Pox in the natural Way. Hitherto such Vigilance 8c Care has been used, that the Contagion has not spread, but surely it is highly incumbent upon us, if possible, to annihilate the Danger. We need not point out the Effect this Circumstance will have upon the new & draughted Troops if not carefully guarded, they are too obvious to need Enumeration. In Conference with the Forage Master on this Subject (which tho in Appearance trivial is really important) he acquaints us that tho out of his Line, he would have procured it if Waggons could have been furnished him for that Purpose. The Want of Horses 8c Waggons for the ordinary, as well as extra ordinary Occasions of the Army presses upon us if possible with equal Force. Almost every Species of Camp Transportation is now per formed by the Men, who without a Murmur patiently yoke themselves to little Carriages of their own making, or load their Wood 8c Provi sions on their Backs. Should the Enemy encouraged by the growing Weakness of your Troops, be led to make a successful Impression on your Camp, your Artillery would now undoubtedly fall into their Hands for Want of Horses to remove it. But these are smaller and tolerable Evils, when compared with the imminent Danger of your Troops perishing with Famine, or dispersing in Search of food. The Commissaries in Addition to their Supplies of live Cattle, which are precarious, have procured a Quantity of Pork in New Jersey, of which by a Failure of Waggons not one Barrel has reach’d the Camp, tho Orders were given for that Purpose as early as the 4th Jany. In yesterdays Conference with the General he informed us, that some


[Page 113]
February 12,1778 81 Brigades had been four Days without Meat & that even the common Soldiers had been at his Quarters to make known their Wants. At present Sir there is not one Gentleman of any Rank in this Depart ment tho the Duties of the office require a constant & unremitted Attention. In whatever View therefore this Object presents itself, we trust you will discover that the most essential Interests are connected with it. The Season of Preparation for next Campaign is passing swiftly away—be assured, Sir, that its Operation will be ineffectual either for Offence or Protection, if an Arrangement is not immediately made, & the most vigorous Exertions used to procure the necessary Supplies. Permit us to say, that a Moments Time should not be lost in placing a Man of approved Abilities & extensive Capacity at the Head of the Department who will restore it to some degree of Regularity & Order, whose provident Care will immediately relieve the present Wants of the Army 8c extend itself to those who must be satisfied before we can expect Vigorus Enterprize or Success. When your Committee reflect upon the increased Difficulties of procuring Waggons, Horses, Tents, 8c the numerous Train of Articles dependent on this Office, without which your Army cannot even move, They feel the greatest Anxiety least the utmost Skill, Diligence, 8c Address will prove insufficient to satisfy the growing Demands. All other Considerations vanish before this Object and we most earnestly wish Congress may be impress’d in a proper Degree with its Necessity 8c Importance. A Report has reach’d us that Col Lutterlogh is a Candidate for the Office of Quarter Master General. We have therefore been led to make some Inquiry into his Character 8c Conduct. We would be far from doing Injustice to his Abilities 8c Experience in a subordinate Line but exclusive of the Danger of intrusting so confidential an Office to a Stranger whose Attachment to this Country must be light 8c transient, & whose Interest may be so easily distinguished from ours we cannot find that he possesses Talents or Activity equal to the Discharge of this important Office. We find that in the Course of the Campaign necessary Tools 8c Stores have often been wanting—im portant 8c seasonable Movements of the Army delayed, in some In stances wholly frustrated 8c favourable Opportunities lost thro the Deficiencies of this Department. The rapid Marches of our Army 8c unforeseen Disasters which attended it during the Summer justly claim some Allowance, but that Disorder 8c Confusion prevail thro the Department which require some able Hand to reform & reduce, is a certain but melancholy Truth. Unacquainted with the Resolution of Congress with Respect to Genl. Schuyler we have hesitated what farther to propose. Time is so extremely precious, that we are unwilling to lose a single unneces-


[Page 114]
82 February 12, 1778 sary Moment, & have therefore been induced to extend our Views to the Disapprobation of this Gentleman & make some Provision for that Event. A Character has presented itself, 2 which in a great Degree meets our Judgment & Wishes; we have opened the Subject to him, & it is now under his Consideration. When we are at Liberty we shall introduce him to your Notice, but Delicacy forbids our doing it, until he has made up his Mind on the Subject, & given his Consent to the Nomination. Another Gentleman of extensive Connections, great Activity, 8c comprehensive Genius, but intirely in civil Life, has also been proposed. 3 As he is at a Distance we have not been able to consult him, & are restrained by similar Motives of Delicacy from making his Character Sc Name a Subject of Discussion without his Consent. By the Time we are favoured with the Determination respecting Genl Schuyler Sc he should not be approved we hope to be able to announce both these Gentlemen for your Consideration. We are with the greatest Respect and Regard Sir, Your most obedt. Sc very Hbble Servts. RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). In the hand of Joseph Reed. 1 Apparently the committee had not yet received the plan Congress had adopted on February 5 to reorganize the quartermaster general's department, which was communicated in a February 7 letter directing the committee to consult with General Washington on nominees for the posts to be filled in that department. See JCC, 10:126-27, 138; and Henry Laurens to the Committee at Camp, February 7, 1778. ’This is undoubtedly a reference to Gen. Nathanael Greene, with whom the committee consulted this day. See Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 8-14, 1778. See also Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, January 28, 1778. ’ It has not been determined to whom the committee was referring. Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir, [February 12-25? 1778] 1 Maturely reflecting upon our Situation & Circumstances relative to the great Article of Provisions the lamentable Defect of which presses so sorely upon us and comparing our probable wants with the natural Resources of this great Country we are convinced that if the proper Measures had been used the present Evil would not have been felt. Permit us then Sir a little to investigate the Causes by which we feel ourselves reduced to the present Situation. We place the Depre ciation of our Money in the foremost Point of View and add that it hath in a great Measure arisen from the Giving of Commissions upon the Price of Commodities to those employed in Purchases. The second


[Page 115]
February 12, 1778 83 Cause certainly arises from a Want of Genius & Activity in the Head of the Commissary’s Department, added to a total Ignorance of our Resources or the Means of drawing them forth with Ease and Expedi tion. A third Cause flows from a Want of the Means of Transporting the several necessary Articles to Camp. A fourth is the total Neglect of every Thing but the immediate and pressing Emergencies which arise without looking forward to provide for or rather [prevent?] such Emergencies for altho it may be impracticable to point out the pre cise Theatre of the War Yet if Magazines were laid up in the several probable Places the worst which could happen would be a little additional Expence in Transportation. The last Cause is a plentiful source of this and numerous other Evils, the Want of Money which presses so hard that we are told on good Authority that private Per sons buy Wheat in the Vicinage of this Camp two shillings per Bushel cheaper than the public Agents. To consider these Things in their Order we observe first that the Allowing Commissions which Congress have altered long ago we cannot suppose will be revived for Reasons the most obvious and as to the general Depreciation complained of the wise Measure of Taxa tion will probably prevent it from increasing Notwithstanding the proposed Regulation of Prices on which we shall say Nothing sub mitting the Propriety of it to those great Tests of political Wisdom, Time & Experience. Our Sentiments upon the Head of the Depart ment we have already communicated and suppose that the Attention of Congress will be called to it in a Manner becoming its Importance. 2 And as to the want of Waggons & the like We cannot but believe that the Assistance of the Legislature of this and the Neighbouring States, if properly applied to afford to a prudent and provident Quarter Master Genl, (and such a Man we expect soon to recommend), will remove this Evil. The fourth Cause demands a little more Consideration. And first let us consider the now immediate want for the next Season and then what is of more Importance perhaps the Means of obtaining Supplies for the Campaign of the Year 1779 and the Winter preceeding it. On the first Head Nothing seems to be left but to urge the Husbandmen of Virginia, Pennsylvania & New Jersey immediately to prepare as many Cattle as they can for the next Summer forthwith, to procure all the Pork which can be had in the Eastern and Southern States, to have large Supplies of Fish laid up from the Rivers of Virginia par ticularly the Potowmack in the ensuing Spring and to get all the Cattle which can be bought in the Eastern States. Flour is out of the Question as there can be no want of that Article if the smallest Atten tion be paid to it. As to the Magazines for the Winter and Campaign succeeding the next the first Measure will be to contract immediately for as many


[Page 121]
February 13, 1778 89 you will be pleased to forward the Result to the General to be further communicated. We remain with the greatest Respect & Regard, Sir, Your most Obed & very Hbble servts FC (DNA: PCC, item 192). Written by Joseph Reed and endorsed by him: "Letter to Gov. Livingston respectg. procuring Waggons & remountng Cavalry.” 1 Reed wrote in the margin beside this paragraph: “Horses at least 1/ blooded 15 Hands high & not less than 4 years old will be required.” William Ellery to William Churchill Houston Dr. Sir, York town Febry. 13th 1778. I received your letter seasonably, and have sent its enclosure to Mr. Marchant. I have been under much concern for my good old land lord and his family; but my solicitude is relieved by his appointment to the office of a hospital chaplain in the middle department; an ap pointment for which he is greatly indebted to our worthy friend President Witherspoon. When I left Philadelphia I fully expected to have returned to it— to have spent many useful and pleasant evenings with Mr. Sprout and you, in untying some metaphysical Knot, in attending to your solution of some mathematical problem or physical question, and catching by snatches some knowledge of the French Language—but alass!— instead of this pleasure I am condemned to drag through the winter amidst a people who have but one idea, and whose manners are as different from the English as their language. You, it seems, have leaped out of the frying-pan into the fire of business. What think you of leaping back again? Mr. Rush hath resigned, and the office of Dep. Sec. is now vacant. 1 But you are be come a parliament man and are immersed in politicks; and perhaps, mounted in the chariot of glory, look down upon so low an office with disregard. Come then a delegate. 2 I should be exceedingly glad to see you here in any shape. I received a letter from Mr. Channing a few days ago. He and his family and mine were well when he wrote. Your kind Inquiry after their health, and your wishes to see my Spectacles are very obliging. I should rejoice to speak to you and your good lady face to face as a man speaketh to his friend. We have not taken Rhode-Island yet. Inglorious Expedition. We have lost Philadelphia! But this would be nothing if avarice and peculation did not rage irresistibly. The Love of country & public virtue are annihilated. If Diogenes were alive, and were to search America with candles, would he find an honest man? I knew an honest man once in office. Believe me to be his Friend. William Ellery


[Page 122]
90 February 13, 1778 P.S. Dr. Witherspoon will acquaint you with a Resolve of Congress lately passed, which may give some check to the Shoals of Officers who are rioting on the Spoils of the Publick. 3 RC (PHi). Addressed: “William C. Houston Esqr., Princeton, New Jersey.” 1 On January 28 Congress had accepted the resignation of its deputy secretary Jacob Rush, who had been Houston’s successor in that post. See JCC, 8:874-75, 10:95-96. 3 Houston, who had recently become a member of the New Jersey Assembly, later served in Congress in 1779-81 and 1784-85. Bio. Dir. Cong. 3 On February 3 Congress had approved the administration of an oath designed to prevent the misuse of public money or stores by Continental officials. JCC 10:115-16. James Forbes to Thomas Johnson Sir York Town Feby. 13th 1778 I shoud have don my self the honour to have wrote you before now, had I any thing worth communicating. This is to informe you that the appointment of Commershall agents in France has been moved for in Congress, in consequince of Mr Wm Lee’s being ap pointed a Commissiner to the Courts of Vienna & Barlen, and of a Letter from Mr Robt Morris, recommending Mr Jno Ross to suchseed his Broter. 1 I put Mr Jushua Johnson in the nomination, and I be lieve, had Congress made the appointment, he woud have been chosen, but they resolved that the Commissiners in France shoud ap point them, and they are wrote to on the 9th Instt. for that purpose, 2 had I known how to have directed to your Brother, I woud have wrote him on the Subject. The Committee that went to Camp for reforming the army is not yet returned, nor have we heard from their, for som time, the com munication being stopt by the River being impassible. The Demands on Congress for money is immence, it cant be emitted fast enuff, and I apprehend the demand will encrease in proportion to the Emission. Commissiners appointed in this State, 8c the Board of War are empowerd to purchase 50,000 Bbls Flour, 3 8: all the Pork 8: Beef they can get, and lay it up in Magazeens, for a supply, in case the Com missary falls short in his purchas, which there is grate reason to fear, their is very grate complaints of his department from every quarter. Congress have had noe accounts from Europe since I have been here. Ten States only are represented in Congress, 8c one half of them, by one member only. Masechusits, New York 8c Virginia have noe repre sentation. I shall doe my self the honour of writing you when any thing offers worth communicating and am very respectfully, Sir, Your most Obedt Hble serv. James Forbes


[Page 124]
92 February 13, 1778 2 Congress wished to have exports of beef and pork from North Carolina em bargoed in order to ensure adequate supplies of both for the Continental Army. JCC, 10:156. Francis Lightfoot Lee to John Hancock Dear Sir York Town Febry. 13. 1778 The State of Virginia having occasion to advance some French Gentlemen in Boston a sum of Money, & not being able to procure a bill of exchange in this place, I as a delegate for that State am obliged again to have recourse to your friendship. I hope therefore you will be kind enough to advance to Lt. Colo. Marrie, on application, two hundred pounds lawfull for which your draft upon the Delegates here will be honourd at sight. 1 Your order on us for 600 Dollars advanced to Captains Pierre & Cayotte has come to hand, and is paid, but we have heard nothing of the Gentlemen. 2 All my bror. delegates are at present away, therefore I alone have the honor of subscribing myself, with much esteem, Yr. mo. hble. St. F. L. Lee FC (Vi). In a clerical hand, except the last sentence and signature which are in Lee’s hand. 1 At the foot of this copy of Lee’s letter to Hancock, Lee also copied his note of this date to “Leiut Colo. Marree at Boston”: “Monsr. Loyeaute, who has enter’d into the service of the State of Virga, has desired me to lodge in your hands two hundred pounds money of Boston for purposes expressed in his Letr. to you. Finding it difficult to procure at this place a bill of Excha. upon Boston I have desired the honble. Mr. Hancock to advance that sum to you. If therefore you will please to present the inclosed Letter, I make no doubt you will receive the money.” For a plan being considered in Virginia for importing military stores from France, see Richard Henry Lee’s February 23 letter to Arthur Lee in Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:388-89. 2 On the Virginia delegates’ earlier efforts to secure the services of several French artillerists, see Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, October 8, 1777, note 3. Joseph Reed to Jonathan Bayard Smith Dear Sir Camp Valley Forge, Feb. 13. 1778 I wrote you by Mr. Young (Mr. Mease’s Clerk) a long & confidential Letter which I hope will reach you safely. I have since that Time received your Favour & find we are not to expect Schuyler for our Qr. Master. I feared it & am really sorry for it as it is a Matter of great Importance Sc we are now much at a Loss whom to propose. After much Hesitation we have at last turn’d our Eyes upon General Green as a Character in the Line, a Man of good Judgment apprized of the Wants & Difficulties of the Army & much intrested to releive them.


[Page 126]
94 February 13, 1778 much for the Assistance of those Gentlemen in so important an affair. Mr. Paine being hindered on the Convention of Committees at New Haven Occasioned his not arriving at Providence, till the 6th current, at which time we immediately sent Summonses to the Examinants; exceeding bad travelling delayed our Expresses, and we suppose has hindered several General Officers who live at a Distance from arriving at this Time, it also happens that public Concerns of great Importance require each of us to be absent next Week, and for some Time, and therefore finding that we cannot at this Time finish the Examinations to Satisfaction, tho’ we have made considerable Progress in them, we have concluded to adjourn to the fourth Monday in March at this Place, and have notified all Examinants to be present, 3 and hoping that Mr. Benson will be able to assist us with his Presence, we have wrote him on the Subject. 4 We take Liberty through you to inform the Honble Congress of our Proceedings, and hope this unavoidable adjournment of our business will not be disagreeable to them. 5 We are with Esteem, your humble Servants, RT Paine Oliver Ellsworth Hy Marchant RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). In a clerical hand and signed by Ellsworth, Marchant, and Paine. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Letter from R. T. Paine, O. Ellsworth, H. Marchant. Providence Feby 13. 1778. Read March 12.” 1 For a discussion of the background and work of this committee, which was investigating the failure in October 1777 of a joint expedition by Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut against the British occupying force in Rhode Island, see Laurens to the Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners, December 15, 1777, note 1. Congress had actually appointed the commissioners on December 11, 1777. JCC, 9:1022. 2 Gen. William Whipple of New Hampshire and Egbert Benson, the attorney general of New York, had also been appointed to this commission. JCC, 9:1022. 3 See also Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners to Laurens, March 27, 1778. 4 The commissioners’ letter to Egbert Benson has not been found. 8 Robert Treat Paine also made some pertinent remarks about his work on the commission in a private letter he wrote this day to Elbridge Gerry. Having been detained at a convention of states in New Haven, he noted, "I did not arrive here till the Friday after the Monday appointed for our meeting. We went immediately upon business, tho’ with great reluctance with a bare quorum but we thought if we excused our selves one after another, it would throw the requisitions of Con gress into a faint point of light, & so I undertook this fatiguing business meerly from Patriotic principles, & to put a good face on our Affairs; otherwise, a large Sum would not have tempted me to have been Absent from Genl. Court, forming Constitution, regulating money &c to say nothing of private affairs. We are obliged to Adjourn to 4th Monday in March, when we hope to finish to Satisfaction; you will oblige me if you will inform me how the Expences of this business are to be born, & whether any allowance is to be made to us by Congress for the Service.” Emmet Collection, NN.


[Page 127]
February 14, 1778 95 Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir - Moor Hall 14th Feby. 1778. The Distresses of our Army we cannot paint if we would. We would not if we could, since it would answer no Purpose to give you the Pain of reflecting upon this which you cannot perhaps alleviate, tho indeed a careful Appointment of certain officers may prevent them in future. Without entering into that Detail at present, we have to observe that Distress in an Army always furnishes Materials for factious and de signing Men to work upon. Those who know Mankind know that such Men exist, and according to the common Chances of Humanity, it may well be supposed that our army is not without them. But be this as it may, there are a Kind of Men in the World, who from the Pride of Opinion do great and lasting Mischeif. If for Instance, a Person of this Cast should (possibly from an Unwillingness to be situated in the Enemy’s Neighbourhood) have assigned, among other Reasons against the Post we now occupy, that the Army would be distressed for Want of Provisions & Forage; he would now, to vaunt his own Judgment, dwell upon the present Sufferings in the per nicious Stile of Exageration. Whether soothing Language would not lend more to inspire the Soldiery with patient Fortitude, no one can be at a Loss to determine. Without troubling Congress with any Application of these Ideas, We take Leave to observe, that as there is a Want of General Officers in the continental Line at Rhode Island it might not be improper immediately to send one thither. We do ourselves the Honor to recommend to this Post a Gentleman from that State, Brigadier Gen eral Varnum whose Character and Abilities are so well known to Congress that we shall not presume to dilate upon that Subject. 1 We are Sir with the deepest Respect, your most obedient & humble Servants, Fra Dana, by Order RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Dana. 1 On Congress decision to disregard the committee’s recommendation, see Com mittee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 8-14, 1778, note 10. William Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee My dear sir, Reading Feby. 14th. 1777 [i.e. 1778] You will be much surprised to hear of me from Reading, where I have been detain’d three or four Days in Expectation of receiving a Letter from York Town, the Substance of which is (I am told) a very Extraordinary Conversation betwixt the Marquis de la Fayette, and Genl. Conway, of which I had the Honor of being the Topic. 1 In the


[Page 138]
106 February 16, 1778 20. Reed. Letters from Col. Mifflin 8c Young Waggon Master Genl to Col. Lutterlogh on Waggons. Also from Capt. Selin Commandg. Officer of Armands Corps requesting Directions respectg it. Referr’d to the General. Wrote Blane Dy. Corny. Genl, of Purchs. respecting the purchase of Fish in Maryland 11 8c Lettr. to Govr. Johnson introducg him. 12 (N. 22.) 13 MS (DLC). A continuation of Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, Febru ary 8-14, 1778. The minutes printed in this entry are in the hands of committee members Francis Dana, Gouverneur Morris, and Joseph Reed. ’See Committee at Camp to William Livingston, February 13, and to Thomas Johnson, February 16, 1778. 2 See Joseph Reed to John Bayard, March 8? 1778, note 1. 3 The dispute among the brigadier generals of the Virginia Continental regi ments over their seniority had been before Congress for more than a year, and after several attempts to resolve the problem, Congress referred it to the Commit tee at Camp. For further information on the disposition of this dispute, see John Penn to William Woodford, November 19, 1777, note 3; and Committee at Camp Statement, March 2, 1778. ‘See Committee at Camp to George Clinton, February 17; and Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton, February 17, 1778. ’ Three agents of the Board of War had been directed to purchase flour and to establish supply magazines in Pennsylvania under a January 15 resolve of Congress. Robert L. Hooper, Nathaniel Falconer, and Jonathan Mifflin, Jr., apparently exceeded the limits of their authority and certainly angered Pennsylvania officials by purchasing flour and "several other articles wanted in the army’’ at prices that exceeded those set by the state government. On the same day that the committee began its deliberations on the activities of these purchasers, Congress, acting on information provided by the Board of War, denounced their conduct and directed the board to "recal and suspend’’ them. See JCC, 10:54-56, 166-70, 172-74, 176-77; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:303-14; PCC, item 78, 11:259-83; Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton, February 17, note 2; William Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee, February 19, note 1; and Gouverneur Morris to John Harvie, February 19, 1778. “John Harvie returned to York in an apparent effort to explain the committee’s findings and recommendations to Congress. See Gouverneur Morris to John Harvie, February 19, 1778. ’ This was part of the general arrangement of the army that the committee had been sent to camp to undertake. 8 After preparing its plan to rearrange the engineer corps, the committee agreed to recommend Jean Bernard de Murnan to Congress for the rank of major in the corps. Congress took no action until January 13, 1779, when it appointed Murnan a major in the corps of engineers "to take rank as such from the 1st day of March last, and to receive pay and subsistence from the 1st day of February last, the latter being the time he was employed by Brigadier du Portail, and the former the time he was directed by the Commander in Chief to act as major." See JCC, 13:57-58; Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, March 1-7; and Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, March 3, 1778. ’John Laurance’s February 5 letter to General Washington is in the Washington Papers, DLC. Laurance reported that the articles of war needed no alteration ex cept to allow commanding officers authority to call courts-martial and to increase the permissible number of lashes so that whipping could be used as an inter mediate punishment for desertion instead of the death penalty. For further infor-


[Page 139]
February 16, 1778 107 mation on Laurance’s career as judge advocate and for a discussion of these two points raised by Laurance, see Robert H. Berlin, “Administration of Military Justice in the Continental Army during the American Revolution, 1775-1783’’ (Ph.D. diss., University of California at Santa Barbara, 1976), pp. 96-111, 141-45, 161-65. 10 That is the marquis de la Tour du Pin de Montauban. See Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:227-28, 232, 233n. u See Committee at Camp to Ephraim Blaine, February 20, 1778. A letter Blaine wrote to the committee this day from “Camp, Pawlings Ford,” containing com plaints against the Board of War’s purchasing agent Robert L. Hooper for buying up wheat for forage that should have been used for flour, is in the Ephraim Blaine Letterbook, DLC. 12 Not found. 13 For the continuation of these minutes, see Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 22-28, 1778. Committee at Camp to Thomas Johnson Sir. Camp at the Valley Forge 16th Feby. 1778 We have the Honor to compose a Committee of Congress appointed to confer with the General upon the Affairs of the Army &: with him to concert Measures for opening the Campaign with Vigor and Activ ity. During the Progress of this important Business the critical Situa tion of the Army on the Score of Provisions hath filled our Minds with Apprehension and Alarm. Fed by daily Supplies and even those uncertain we have to fear a total Want. Some Brigades have not tasted Flesh in four Days and the Evil great as it is seems rather to increase than diminish. The Commissaries inform us that they have not only met with Great Difficulties in Purchasing Provisions in your State but that they cannot even transport what they have purchased for the Want of Waggons & the like. Whether these Apologies are justly founded we will not presume to say but this is certain that upon an early transportation of large Quantities of Provisions to this camp from the State you preside over the very Existence of our Army de pends. Let us then intreat you Sir to exert the full Influence of your Abilities to forward such Supplies as may have been already bought up and also to obtain by such Measures as you may think most ade quate to that Purpose as much as can be spared by the Inhabitants from their own particular Consumption. We have the Honor to be, respectfully, Sir, your most obedt. & humble Servants, Francis Dana Jno. Harvie Nathel. Folsom Gouv. Morris RC (MdAA). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Morris, Dana, Folsom, and Harvie.


[Page 148]
116 February 17, 1778 [P.S.] Our friend Esqr Wales has forgot me. I have wrote him once or twice 6 since I had any from him one of which I know he has received, therefor wait for an Answer or line from him which should be glad to receive as I make a point not to fail of an Answer especially to one whom I Esteem & am glad to Correspond with. Remember me kindly to him. E D P.S. Since the above we have just receivd a letter from Genii Wash ington that a Cartel is settled between him & Genii How for a full exchange of Prisoners which will redeem all our privates and a great part of our officers. This I believe was effected by some late spirited resolves of Congress, a Copy of which will Indeavour to send you. 7 ED RC (CtY: Pequot Library deposit). 1 Samuel Huntington and Oliver Wolcott, who presented their credentials to Congress on February 16. JCC, 10:170. 2 See Henry Laurens to the States, December 23, 1777, note 2. 3 Governor Trumbull’s January 24 letter to President Laurens, indicating that his son Joseph would attend the Board of War when his health improved, was read in Congress on February 16. See PCC, item 66, 1:378; and JCC, 10:171. ‘The Board of War’s report was read on January 30 and approved on February 5, but it was replaced by another plan on March 2. See JCC, 10:102-3, 126-27, 209-10; and Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 25, 1778, note 2. 5 For Congress’ request to meet with Jeremiah Wadsworth to discuss his avail ability as a replacement for Commissary General of Purchases William Buchanan, see Dyer to Wadsworth, February 10, 1778, note. No specific recommendation of Wadsworth by Washington has been found, but Dyer may have had in mind the Committee at Camp’s January 29 recommendation to President Laurens, which was made after conferring with Washington. 6 Not found. ’For the January 21 resolves on treatment of prisoners, see JCC, 10:74-82. Washington’s February 8-14 letter to President Laurens, which reported agreement between Washington and Howe to negotiate a general prisoner exchange, is in PCC, item 152, 5:287-89, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:428-30. On congressional opposition to the prisoner cartel that contributed to the ultimate collapse of negotiations, see Committee at Camp to Washington, February 11, note; and Henry Laurens to Washington, March 15, note 1, and April 8, 1778, note 4. John Henry to Thomas Johnson Sir York Town Febry. 17th 1778. I wrote to you yesterday. 1 Since that Time, we have had an Express from Camp, by which we are acquainted that Genl. Washington and Genl. Howe have agreed upon an exchange of prisoners. This is an agreeable piece of news. The former Dispute is waved for the present. The Law of retaliation has had this good effect. Enclosed you have a piece of the Earl of Abingdon. 2 It is just put into my hands. I have not read it. It is said to have reputation. I am Sir with great respect. Yrs. J Henry Junr.


[Page 149]
February 17, 1778 117 RC (PHi). 1 Not found. 2 Thoughts on the Letter of Edmund Burke, Esq. to the Sheriffs of Bristol, on the Affairs of America, a vigorous attack on Edmund Burke’s defense of unlimited parliamentary supremacy. For the Americans’ use of Abingdon’s tract to revive sagging American morale during this bleak period, see Paul H. Smith, comp., English Defenders of American Freedoms, 1774-1778 (Washington: Library of Congress, 1972), pp. 193-230. It is clear from the correspondence of Thomas Wharton, president of the Pennsylvania Council, that he and Robert Morris had a hand in subsidizing the publication of an American edition of the pamphlet by John Dunlap at Lancaster at this time. Ibid., pp. 194, 196n.3. Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton Sir. Camp Valley Forge 17th Feby. 1778. This half private half public Letter arrives to tell you that an American Army in the Bosom of America is about to disband for the Want of somewhat to eat. We write to you as Governor from the Committee a general Letter. 1 To your private Ear and for your particular Information let me say that our Troops have been upon the Point of disbanding three times. One dangerous Mutiny quelled with Difficulty. The neighbouring Country twice laid under military Contribution to little or no Purpose. The sly broad Brims 2 who do not take Arms against us in great Numbers are assiduous in the Task of undermining our Resources and when we are starved from a Piece of Ground Howe need but appear and it smiles with Abund ance. I know our State can furnish little or no Provisions but Some thing or other may perhaps be done and if so let it be done. 3 Not a Word of Politicks. I know none and from the State of New York I can hear none. Yes one Piece of News. Howe is so fearful that the World should know his situation or his Army know what passes in the World that he examines every Letter of every Body going to or coming from any Place and all this under very severe Penalties on those who shall presume to smuggle. Desertion prevails in his Army, Resignation among the Officers of it. Ours is not without both of these Diseases. But when you consider that the Poor Dogs are in an Enemy’s Country without Cloaths to wear, Victuals to eat, Wood to burn or straw to lie on the wonder is that they stay not that they go. Let me intreat that I may immediately have a Return of the Officers in Gansevoorts, Van Schaicks & Dubois’s Regiments containing their merit that is to say let the best Captain be put on the Top of the List, the next best next and so on for each Regt. Those Officers who are worse than indifferent marked with an asterisk * those very good with a Star Let me at the same time have a Copy of a Rank Roll made out for the late Convention by their Committee of Appointment and on it the Vacancies which have since happened. Secrecy in this


[Page 152]
120 February 17, 1778 best be deposited with yours. The Brigt. Morris belongs to the Con tinent, she was bought by Jno Langdon Esquire in New Hampshire & her Cost & charges must be transferred to your Debit. The Snow Speedwell, Capt. Kent, was valued at £2000 Virginia Curry by per sons appointed for the purpose, she is my property & no Charter party has ever been made but the Committee must in this as in all other Cases Insure the value of said Vessell, in proportion as their part of the Cargo is to the whole, and the same with the Brigt. Boston in which I am interested with Mr. Braxton & Mr. Ross, this Brigt. might have been sold both before & since she loaded for £3000, which I deem her salvation and should be glad you would either order Charter parties to be made out for these Vessells or Enter on your Minutes that you are Insurers thereon against all Risques untill the Cargoes are landed, at the Valuations I have mentioned in the proportions that your part of the Cargoes bears to the whole on board. The letting these Vessells take in Goods for the public has been of great prejudice to the Owners as they could long Since have sold them if disengaged to good profits but instead of that they have been long detained on heavy expenses, part whereof they think you should pay & respecting which I shall speak to you when I come to York. I am now at the 19th Febry & find myself disapointed by Messrs. Hunters of Fredericksburgh who promised our Accot. Currt. with them by the last post but it is not come, therefore I will leave the Sum a blank for the present. That they are accountable to you for, it is however above £9000 this Currency & soon as I receive their account the proper Entries shall be made in the Secret Committee Books for transferring that balance also to you. I must observe how ever, that a part of this balance has come into their hands from the Sales of Goods saved from Ship Esther &: Brigt. General Mercer since that price of Tobacco was above the purchasing limits, consequently these Gentlemen will have some Money & some Tobacco to accot. for, they are Men of honor & good Merchants and will deliver every hogshead of the Tobacco they bought. I have ten Hogshead of To bacco on Board the ship Chase & ten Hogshead on board the Snow George for which I was to pay Eighteen Guineas per Ton freight, but as it is probable the destination of these Vessells must be altered and that the Cargoes will be assigned to Monsr. Francy, you may have these twenty hogsheads also at the first Cost & charges if you choose it. If not they may go forward on my account as first intended and you’l please to give me an answer to this offer. I have just received a letter from Mr. J Brown dated the 15th Inst, desiring me to return Messrs. Hewes & Smiths letter to the Committee, this I did by Monsr. Francy. He also says you wish for an extract of their letter to me on


[Page 160]
128 February 18, 1778 hutted at Valey Forge, the Enemy have not as yet thought proper to molest them. A Committee of Congress is now at Head quarters with Intention to make such Reformation in the Army as may be judged necessary. Congress are exceedingly anxious that the Several States should exert themselves in Completing their Battalions. We have heard nothing lately of Colo Shephard. The prices of Leather skins &c are excessive high, but they are articles which must at any rate be procured; we shall in our next Inform you whether Congress will choose to give still a greater price for those articles. We wish your Excellency would be pleased to in form us whether there is not a Quantity of Salt Pork in the hands of Private persons, this is an Article which will be very much wanted for the Army the next Campaign as the Supplies from the Eastward have fallen very short of the Expectations of Congress. We shall write you more fully in our next, and have the Honor to be with respect, Your Excellency’s, Most obt. & very huml. srvts. J Penn Coml. Harnett [P.S.] Inclosed are the two last papers. Since writing the above we have received letters from General Washington in which we are informed that Genl. Howe has agreed to an exchange of Prisoners; Officers for officers, Soldiers for Soldiers & Citizen for Citizen, so that our poor Country-men will soon be re leased from their cruel confinement. Congress a few days ago Resolved that as Genl Howe had refused to suffer anything to be purchased for the releif of our prisoners in his hands that he should be obliged to send all the necessaries his prisoner’s with us might want Sc that the same Severity should be practised towards British Prisoner’s as was inflicted on ours, 3 this Resolution has produced a change in Mr Howes conduct. He paid some high compliments to Genl Washington and at the same time censured Congress, but was answered by our General that he would always resent any afront offered the Repre sentatives of a free People under whose authority he acted, and that he had ever avoided saying anything of the Conduct of those Genl. Howe served. J Penn C Harnett Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 Governor Caswells January 12, 1778, letter to the North Carolina delegates is in N.C. State Records, 13:7-8. ’See North Carolina Delegates to Thomas Johnson, February 20, 1778. ’See Congress’ January 21, 1778, resolves on prisoners of war in JCC, 10:74-82.


[Page 164]
132 February 19, 1778 and Lee were both members of the old Board of War, which had only recently relinquished its authority to a new board made up of nonmembers of Congress. ’Duer may be referring to Washington’s comprehensive January 29, 1778, report to the Committee at Camp. See Duer to Lee, February 14, 1778, note 10. Henry Laurens to George Clinton Sir, 19th Febry 1778. I had the honour of writing to your Excellency the 13th Inst. 1 by Jones & since, of reporting to Congress your Excellency’s favor of the 16th Ulto. which had been just thirty one days on its tour by way of Baltimore. 2 This may lead your Excellency to account for the delay of former Letters, probably none have miscarried, I acknowledged the Receipt of those of 20th & 31st December in mine of the 22d January by Dodd, but I have observed that the conveyance by Post is precarious, the Channels from the principal Office require much attention to keep them in tolerable order for public benefit. Inclosed herein Your Excellency will be pleased to receive an Act of Congress of Yesterday authorizing 8c requesting you to superintend the business of obstructing, fortifying &c the passes of North River agreeable to the Resolution of Congress of the 5th November last, a Copy of which will accompany the other, together with a Warrant on the Loan Office of New York for 50,000 Dollars for defraying expences of the intended works as far as that Amount will extend. 3 In a seperate packet Your Excellency will receive by the bearer hereof Brown, six Copies of Acts of Congress of the 5th 8c 6th Inst, establishing divers regulations in the Civil 8c military Lines of the Army & appointing Auditors of accounts in the Army under General Washington. 4 I have the Honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to Thomas Wharton, February 10, 1778, note. 2 Governor Clinton’s January 16, 1778, letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 67, 2:102-3. 3 See JCC, 9:865-68, 10:180-81. Ironically, Clinton urged passage of such a resolution in a February 3 letter to Laurens that was read in Congress on February 23 and referred to the Board of War. In this letter, however, Clinton pointed out that to fortify the Highlands properly, engineers and heavy artillery were needed as much as money. See PCC, item 167, 2:106-7; and JCC, 10:192. ‘See JCC, 10:124, 132-37. According to a notation in his presidential letterbook, Laurens this day sent copies of these resolves to the governors of Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New Jersey, the presidents of New Hampshire and Pennsylvania, the council of Massachusetts, and the commanding officer in Boston; and on February 21 to the governors of Virginia and North Carolina. PCC, item 13, fol. 193. Laurens also indicated that the resolves destined for the executives of Pennsyl vania and New Jersey would be delivered by New Jersey delegate John Wither spoon.


[Page 166]
134 February 19, 1778 received or know on this head will be seen on an Inclosed paper marked Committees conference with Baron Stiiben to which I beg leave to refer your Excellency. I have the honour to be with great Respt. [P.S.] The Baron declines the Commission abovementioned or any other for the present. ENCLOSURE Committee Report on Baron von Steuben The Baron Stuben who was a Leiutenant General and Aide de Camp to the King of Prussia—desires no rank—is willing to attend General Washington, and be subject to his orders—does not require or desire any command of a particular Corps or Division, but will serve occasionally as directed by the General—expects to be of use in planning Encampments &c. and promoting the discipline of the Army—he heard before he left France, of the dissatisfaction of the Americans with the promotion of foreign officers, therefore makes no terms, nor will accept of any thing but with the general approbation and particularly that of General Washington. Signed by Mr. Witherspoon Mr. F.L. Lee Mr. McKean Mr. Henry LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Tr (DNA: PCC, item 19). In a clerical hand and en dorsed by George Washington: “Copy—Examined. Go. Washington. Mount Vernon Novr. 10th. 1787.” The text of the enclosure printed above is taken from a transcript of the original committee report made for Washington in 1787 and forwarded by him to Congress to help the delegates determine the justice of Baron von Steuben’s claims for compensation for his revolutionary war services. See Washington to Charles Thomson, November 10, 1787, PCC, item 19, 5:581-82. The original MS report has not been found. ’See Laurens to Patrick Henry, February 10, 1778, note. 2 Washington’s letters are in PCC, item 152, 5:283-89, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:418, 428-30. Along with the second letter Washington sent copies of eight letters pertaining to an exchange of prisoners that he and Gen. William Howe had written to each other between January 8 and February 10. Washington Papers, DLC. 3 Although Congress believed that this “illustrious Stranger” had been a lieuten ant general in the Prussian army, Steuben was in fact a former aide-de-camp to Frederick the Great who had attained only the rank of captain and had not been in the king’s employ since 1763. See John M. Palmer, General von Steuben (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1937), pp. 1-5, 29-52, 97-98, who argues that Ben jamin Franklin was responsible for exaggerating the baron’s military attainments in order to facilitate congressional acceptance of his services as a volunteer officer. Although the fact is not recorded in the journals, it is clear from Laurens’ letter and from other sources that on February 6, the day after Steuben’s arrival in York, Congress appointed a committee consisting of John Henry, Francis Lightfoot Lee, Thomas McKean, and John Witherspoon to meet with the baron and ascertain his terms for serving in the Continental Army. Palmer, General von Steuben,


[Page 167]
February 19, 1778 135 pp- 122-23. Steuben himself described his meeting with the committee, which apparently wrote its report on February 6 or 7, in a memorial he submitted to the U.S. Congress in August 1789 to justify his claims for further compensation for his military service: “At the arrival of the Baron de Steuben, in the year 1777 [i.e., 1778], he was received by Congress with marks of distinction, and, the day after his arrival, was waited on by a committee of Congress, composed of Dr. Witherspoon, Mr. Henry, of Maryland, and a third, whom at this time he cannot recollect. This committee demanded of the baron the conditions on which he was inclined to serve the United States, and if he had made any stipulations with the commissioners in France. He replied that he had made no agreement with them, nor was it his in tention to accept of any rank or pay; that he wished to join the army as a volun teer, and to render such services as the commander-in-chief should think him capable of, adding that he had no other fortune than a revenue of about six hundred guineas per annum, arising from places and posts of honor in Germany, which he had relinquished to come to this country; that, in consideration of this, he expected the United States would defray his necessary expenses while in their service; that if, unhappily, this country should not succeed in establishing their independence, or if he should not succeed in his endeavors for their service, in either of those cases he should consider the United States as free from any obliga tions towards him; but if, on the other hand, the United States should be happy enough to establish their freedom, and that he should be successful in his en deavors, in that case he should expect a full indemnification for the sacrifice he had made in coming over, and such marks of their generosity as the justice of the United States should dictate; that, if these terms were agreeable to Congress, he waited only their orders to join the army without delay. The committee were pleased to applaud the generosity of his propositions, in thus risking his fortune on that of the United States. The committee then left him in order to make their report. The next day, Congress gave him an entertainment; after which the President, Mr. Laurens, told him it was the desire of Congress that he should join the army immediately, which he did.” Walter Lowrie and Walter S. Franklin, eds., American State Papers Class IX Claims (Washington: Gales and Seaton, 1834), pp. 11-12. The same memorial includes affidavits drawn up and signed by Lee, McKean, and Witherspoon in 1785 and 1788, attesting to the accuracy of Steuben’s account of his meeting with them, as well as 1785 letters from Horatio Gates and Richard Peters, the president and secretary of the Board of War in February 1778, on the baron’s dealings with the committee. Ibid., pp. 12-13. For a detailed treatment of Steuben’s long and not entirely successful quest for remuneration from the Con tinental and Federal Congresses, see Palmer, General von Steuben, pp. 297-306, 323-27, 330-31, 352-54, 362, 374-77. James Lovell to Samuel Adams My dear Sir, Yk 19th Feb. [1778] I have only time to give you the Anatomy of French Politics as, they stood Sepr. 10th 77. 1 America undertook war of her own motion upon great provocations given by England and without consulting France, though doubtless depending in a degree upon the political Interests of that Nation. Complaints therefore against her while she pursues what she judges to be that Interest are unjust. She did not


[Page 176]
144 February 20, 1778 our Sentiments before Congress on the material Alteration proposed in this Office. We now, Sir, beg Leave to submit to your Consideration, a Proposi tion of employing a Number of Indians in the American Army. 1 We have fully discussed it with the General, 8c upon the maturest Delib eration are induced to recommend it to Congress. We are of Opinion no Measure can be adopted so effectual to break off the pernicious Intercourse which the disaffected Inhabitants of this Country still hold with the Enemy, from which they derive the greatest Advantages. Exclusive of the wholesome Supplies of Provisions by which they refresh their numerous Sick, & check the Advances of the Scurvy, it is the most sure & certain Source of Intelligence. Thro’ this Channel they are constantly apprized not only of every material Transaction of our Army, but of the Quarters of our Troops Be Situation of such active Whigs as are either occasionally passing, or yet reside within the Reach of their Excursions. Hence almost every Day furnishes an Instance of some Surprize & Capture. From repeated Successes they grow confident & venture in small Parties a considerable Distance, carrying off with them such straggling Officers, Soldiers, 8c incautious Whigs as they find in their Route. Their Progress in this Business is the more alarming as they are now joined by a Number of Tories perfectly acquainted with the Country, well mounted 8c equipp’d, who not only serve as Guides to the British Horse, but venture upon sep arate Expeditions. The Terror of these Excursions is so great, that it will, unless seasonably check’d, endanger the Communication of the Army with its Supplies 8c absolutely deprive us of all Assistance from our Friends in the lower Parts of the three Counties of Bucks, Chester, 8c Philada. 2 We can foresee but two Objections to employing the Indians on the Flanks 8c Advance of the Army. The Danger of indis criminate Injury to the well 8c ill affected, 8c Prevention of Desertion from the Enemy. But his Excelly. is of Opinion both may be obviated by proper Precautions, or at least so far guarded as to justify the Expediency of the Measure, 8c render the Experiment less hazardous than it may appear at first View. But we do not, Sir, confine our Ideas to the present Moment, we think the restless Spirits of the Savages will not allow them to remain inactive. If we do not find Subjects to employ them on, we fear our Enemies will, 8c we have only to chuse whether these shall be British Troops or the Inhabitants of our defenceless Frontiers. As it is in Contemplation to form a Flying Army composed of light Infantry 8c rifle Men under the Direction of Officers distinguished for their Activity 8c Spirit of Enterprize, it is proposed to mix about 400 Indians with them; being thus incorporated with our own Troops, who are designed to skirmish, act in Detachments 8c light Parties, as well as lead the Attack, we hope their Irregularities will be restrained 8c any


[Page 177]
February 20, 1778 145 Excesses prevented. We fear a greater Number would rather injure than promote the Service, as they claim Access at all Times & on all Occasions to the Commander in Chief & expect Cloathing & Douceurs which we fear our scanty Supplies will not afford but in very moderate Quantities. The Number therefore we propose we flatter ourselves may be easily procured, their good Humour preserved 8c sufficiently answer the Purposes we have in View. Nor do we think ourselves less warranted to say that there is great Reason to believe the Novelty of their Appearance in the Field, the Circumstances of Horror & Affright which attend their Attack, will have a great Effect upon the Minds of Men wholly unacquainted with such an Enemy. Upon the foreign Troops we doubt not it would operate in a high Degree, 8c when we consider upon what trivial Circumstances the Fate of Battles often turns, 8c the constant Atten tion shewn by the nice Observers of the human Heart in the military Line to every Thing which can discompose 8c terrify it, we trust we shall not be thought visionary or chimerical. Upon the whole, Sir, by the Request 8c Desire of the General we beg Leave to recommend it as a Measure of Policy 8c Utility worthy the Attention of Congress. If it should meet your Approbation, Col. Gist a Gentleman of much Acquaintance 8c Experience with the Southern Indians will most chearfully receive your Commands 8c is recommended to us by General Washington as a Man of approved Spirit 8c Conduct, in whom the greatest Confidence may be safely reposed. The Situation of the Oneidas to the Northward is such, that per haps it will be found our truest Interest to take them into Service, even if little is expected from them. They are threatned by the surrounding Tribes 8c declare that unless we can protect them, they must however reluctantly take up the Hatchet against us or be intirely cut off. We cannot protect them unless we take the Nation into our Country, which may be done by selling their Wives 8c Children for the present in the State of New York, as the Commissioners may think proper, and bringing their Warriours to the Army, for whose Fidelity 8c Perseverance we shall then have the best Pledges, without the Odium of demanding them. We are, with the greatest Respect 8c Regard, Sir, Your most Obedt. 8c very Hbble servts. F. Dana by order P.S. Having communicated this Letter to his Excelly. he wishes to add that no Time is to be lost in coming to a Resolution 8c dispatching Col. Gist, as the Distance is very great 8c the previous Ceremonies 8c Preparations will take up some Time—And that Col. Gist being now detached with a Party of ficticious Indians upon the Lines cannot


[Page 179]
February 20, 1778 147 In order to supply the place of the original, admitting what is barely possible, that it has not reached you, I will subjoin a Copy of my said Letter of the 7th by which you will perceive the intention of Congress was that you should consult with General Washington; I presume the same is now meant although not expressed in the present Resolve which was concluded rather in haste this Evening. I am with very great Regard, Sir, Your obedient & humble Servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (DNA: PCC, item 192). Addressed: “The Honorable Francis Dana Esquire for the Committee from Congress—at Valley forge Camp.” 1 For the Committee at Camp’s response to this resolve, see its February 24 and 25, 1778, letters to Laurens. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Sir 20th Febry 1778. I was last Night honoured with your favor of the 14th. 1 My memory is too modest to attempt to prove a negative, but it pleads ignorance of your having applied to me for Cruizing Commissions &: their com panions, although you may, as you intimate have Spoken to me cursorily on the Subject, be that as it may, you shall be no longer charged with remissness on that score, I will send a set of 25 tomorrow morning by a Messenger whom I shall dispatch with orders from Congress, for “seperating & placing General Burgoyne’s Troops in such manner & such parts of Massachusets as may be most convenient for their subsistence” &ca. 2 I thank you Sir, for your concern for my health, I have not only not been tormented by the Gout for near a Month past, but by obstinately persisting in the severe discipline of Cold Water have gained more strength in my ankles than I should otherwise have had till the warm weather had come in to my relief. Your description of the miseries of the Army affected me beyond common feeling, altho’ I thought myself prepared by having perused it at home, I could not go through the reading your Letter in Con gress. Deep sympathy for the poor Suffering Soldiers blended with as deep indignation against the infamous delinquents who have been the authors of their distress, forbid utterance. You say you will learn Characters, I think Sir, from the slight acquaintance I have had the honour of making with you, You have too much fortitude & integrity, either to be flattered or frighted by any Character & that when you have fully investigated, you will tell your Country in the presence of their Representatives where orig inated the Evils complained of. I wish you had been here yesterday


[Page 183]
February 21, 1778 151 Tobacco for France. She is to go as a Packet to be armed and Com manded by Captain Read. 3 We have ordered the Two Vessels which last arrived at North Carolina from Hispaniola to be loaded with Tobacco and Consigned to Mr. Carrabasse. The Brigantine Success, Captain Harris, now at Edenton, was ordered before her Sailing from Boston to proceed from Carolina to Bilbao to the address of Messr. Gardoqui & Sons. Congress have ordered General Hand to send Provisions to the Arkansaws. 4 In Answer to the 8th would observe that we think Mr Duer would have been very illy employed in telling you any thing that might have passed in Congress in which you were concerned; especially we think him highly culpable in representing to you that the Commercial Com mittee had complained to Congress that their not having the Books in their possession was a grievance to them; because it was a gross misrepresentation. Messrs. Forbes & Ellery who were the only mem bers of the Commercial Committee then present, laid before Congress General Hands Letter &c respecting the Rattle Trap. Some of the Members were dissatisfied with that undertaking and asked a Multi tude of questions about it. The Instructions given to Captain Willing were read; but still they wanted more light, when accidentally it was mentioned that the Books and Papers of the Secret Committee were in your hands. This occasioned a Conversation about them, which, if we could, we should think it not worth our while to relate. Let it suffice that so far from complaining against you on account of the Books, the Members of the Committee were for your retaining them ’till they should be settled.® We laid this Letter before Congress who desired us to inform you that they would have you still keep the Books in your possession and settle them as soon as you could. We have asked your advice frequently and freely, and have as often and as freely received it and shall continue to trouble you while we remain of the Commercial Committee (which we hope for reasons we have already mentioned to you will not be long) 6 whenever we find ourselves embarrassed. In answer to yours of the 12th we leave the disposition of the Indies intirely to you. Yours of the 17th is now before Congress and will be answered in due Time. We have the Honor to be Sir, Your Obed Hble servants, Fra Lewis William Ellery RC (NjGbS). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Ellery and Lewis. 1 Except for the fragment of his February 7 letter quoted in the next note, only Morris’ February 17 letter has been found.


[Page 184]
152 February 21, 1778 “Elbridge Gerry and Henry Laurens were added to the committee on February 20 for the purpose of considering the papers presented by Jean Theveneau de Francy, an agent of Caron de Beaumarchais’ firm Roderique Hortalez & Co.. JCC, 10:185. In-his February 7 letter to the committee, a fragment of which is in Lee Papers, MH—H, Morris explained that “Mr. Francy says Mr. Beaumarchais’ en gagements are with Individuals who expect & wish for some returns to inspire them with fresh confidence & that the business of his mission to America is to receive whatever he can & settle the Accounts . . . that done to establish a permanent system for future supplies of money & goods.” There are two long 19th-century reports by the United States Congress on Beaumarchais’ claims in U.S. Congress, House Select Committee, Reports of the Select Committee . . . on the claim of the Representative of the late Caron de Beaumarchais, 15th Cong., 1st sess., 1818, H. Rept. Ill; and Committee of Foreign Affairs, Committee of Foreign Affairs Report on the Claims of Beaumarchais’ Heirs, 20th Cong., 1st sess., 1828, H. Rept. 220. Both reports contain detailed descriptions of Beaumarchais dealings with the Continental Congress as well as many con temporary letters and papers relating to them. Among these is a September 10, 1777, grant of powers by Beaumarchais to Francy to go to America “to solicit and recover all debts, relative to all the cargoes past, present, and future, sent by [Roderique Hortalez & Co.] to America,” which is also printed in JCC, 10:320-21. For the committee’s negotiations with Francy, see Committee on the Claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co. Report, March 5; Robert Morris’ Proposed Report on the Claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co., March 12; and Committee of Commerce to the Commissioners at Paris, May 16, 1778. “See Marine Committee to Thomas Read, January 13, 1778. 4 On January 30 Congress read and postponed consideration of Edward Hand’s January 17 letter to the committee requesting instructions on James Willing’s request that provisions for his expedition be sent to "the Arkansaws, a Spanish port on the Mississippi.” But on February 19 Congress authorized Hand to send provisions to Willing, after considering Hand’s February 12 explanation to the Board of War that provision boats could be sent part of the way under the pro tection of George Rogers Clark, who was embarking on an expedition against the British at Kaskaskia. See JCC, 10:101, 184; PCC, item 159, fols. 402-4, 431, 435-36; and Committee of Commerce to Oliver Pollock, November 21, 1777, note 1. For further details about Willing’s raiding expedition through the Natchez district of West Florida, see Robert V. Haynes, The Natchez District and the American Revolution (Jackson: University Press of Mississippi, 1976), chap. 3. 'On the accounts of the Secret Committee, see Committee of Commerce to Robert Morris, January 30; John Penn to Robert Morris, February 4; and Robert Morris to the Committee of Commerce, February 17, 1778. 0 For the committee s earlier comments about the need for reorganizing responsi bility for commercial affairs, see its January 30, 1778, letter to Morris. The ever increasing work load of the committee coupled with its constantly fluctuating membership certainly affected the efficiency of the committee’s operation and made continuity of policy most difficult. Although reform was mentioned during the spring of 1778, nothing concrete developed and the committee as reconstituted in December 1778 continued to be composed of members of Congress. See Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Bingham, April 16, and to Arthur Lee, May 14 1778; and JCC, 12:1216-17.


[Page 188]
156 February 21, 1778 the Civil & Military Lines of the Army 8c for appointing Auditors of Army Accounts 8cca. These may be added to several preceeding dis patches which I have had the honour of transmitting to Your Excel lency 8c which remain unacknowledged. Your Excellency will be pleased to receive in company with this, an Act of Congress of the present date earnestly recommending to the Executive Council of this State to exert the whole power of the State to releive the Army under General Washington now reduced almost to the very last extremity from a want of provision of Flesh 8c Forage, 8c referring to a Letter from the General of the 15th Inst, to Robt. l’ Hooper & others, 8c to an extract of a Letter from Mr. Duer to Colo. Lee of the 19th. Copy of the said Letter together with the extract Your Excellency will find with the other Paper. 2 I dare not Insult Your Excellency 8c the Honorable Council by urging that not a moment should be lost, or that on Your exertions rest the safety of our Union 8c Independency. All attempts to such incitement, I am persuaded are equally unseasonable 8c unnecessary. I have therefore only to conclude wishing success to Your Excellency’s Orders 8c endeavors 8c repeating that I am, With very great Respect, Sir, Your obedient 8c Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (NN). 1 See Laurens to George Clinton, February 19, 1778, note 4. 2 Washington’s February 15 letter to Robert L. Hooper, Nathaniel Falconer, and Jonathan Mifflin, who had been appointed by the Board of War to purchase sup plies in Pennsylvania for the Continental Army, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:463-64. The enclosed extract of William Duer’s February 19 letter to Francis Lightfoot Lee is printed in this volume under that date. See also note 1 to that letter. Daniel Roberdeau to the Pennsylvania Assembly $i r > York Town Feby. 21st. 1778 I have the honor to address my Constituents the Representatives of this State now assembled, on subjects the most distressing and alarm ing, the deficiencies in the Commissaries and Quarter masters depart ments which threaten the dispersion of our army and all the horrid train of Evils consiquent to this State more immediately, and to the common cause more general in its baneful influence. The Letters and resolves of Congress ordered to be forwarded 1 makes a particular discant on the distresses of our army unnecessary from me. I have only to assure the Honble. House that under God the Salvation of our Cause now depends on you as from your Situation timely supplies of provisions especially meat, of forage and Waggons and immediate


[Page 189]
February 21, 1778 157 conveyance can only be expected, and without the most vigorous exertions you may depend the army will disperse, nothing but indis pensable duty would extort a secret which might by being divulged prove ruinous, therefore what is my duty, is equally the duty of your Honble. House now the fact is disclosed to impose the most inviolable restraint on yourselves that our Enemies may not triumph in our Disgrace. Congress will begrudge no expence attending the exicution of your order in dependance on which is now the whole trust of Congress, for an immediate supply, or in other words for preventing the most direful distress. It would be impertinent in me to attempt to inforce a Subject so important on your Honble. House. Congress have displaced Officers who infringed the Law of the State respecting the prices of Articles. 2 To this Enemies will attribute the Evils we should deprecate, but our cause does not depend on the weak efforts of a few individuals, much less on any restless spirits among us who probably in the struggle mean to overset the freedom of this State. Your en deavours I trust will be succeeded. I am most respectfully, Sir, Yr. most obt. & very huml servt, Dani. Roberdeau P.S. A moments delay may be our ruin, which must apologize for my hasty scrawl which I have not time to copy or correct. RC (PHarH). Addressed: “The Honble. James McLene Speaker of the House of Representatives of the Province of Pennsilvania, Lancaster.’’ Endorsed: “Reed. & read in Assy. Feb. 24, 1778, p.m.” 1 See JCC, 10:189. a For the issue of these “displaced Officers,” see William Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee, February 19, 1778, which was one of the documents Roberdeau enclosed with this letter. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed Dr Sir, Lancaster Feb. 21st. 1778. Yours of 8th met me at this place where I have been very much indisposed with a severe cold. In conformity to your request, I wrote to York town concerning any letters for you, 8c directed them to be sent down. Tomorrow, I expect, I shall go over myself. It gave me real pleasure to find your sentiments on some important subjects so perfectly coincide with my own. In many instances I have dreaded the effects of measures, tho’ at the same time a principle of charity, 8c a confidence in the zealous attachment of those who favored them, almost forbid any suspicions of undue motives. The Generals conduct on occasions truely affecting to a man honor, evinces how much more infintely he prefers the good of his country to any personal considerations. If in any instance Congress has seemed to favor an


[Page 191]
February 22, 1778 159 28. Agreed to apply to the States of New-Jersey, Pennsylvania 8c Maryland 3 to procure Horses for the Cavalry & Sadies. 4 MS (DLC). A continuation of Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, Febru ary 16-20, 1778. In the hand of Francis Dana. 1 For additional comments on the committee’s meeting with Col. John Cox on the subject of his availability for appointment as deputy quartermaster general, see Joseph Reed to Jonathan Bayard Smith, February 24, 1778. “See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 25, 1778. For other com mittee recommendations on the quartermaster general’s department, see also the committee’s letters to Laurens of January 28, February 12 and 24, 1778. 3 See Committee at Camp to Thomas Wharton, February 28, 1778. ‘ For the continuation of these minutes, see Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, March 1-7, 1778. Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston My dear Friend. Moor Hall Camp Valley Forge 22d Feby 1778 Whether you receive all the Letters I write I know not but this I know that I get none from you which is not pleasing to me. Indeed I ought to write two or three for one because in the first Place one of your Letters is intrisically worth more than mine and would be so valued even by a Bookseller. In the next Place I can only satisfy the idle Curiosity which may arise in the Breast of a Man of Leizure about what is going forward in a foolish World which he says he wishes to retire from. You can inform me of what I love and value most in the World for you can satisfy those Yearnings about the natale Solum which forbid us to be immemorous of it, you can give me a Map of that political Spot which hapless Wanderer as I am I must travel through, above all (excuse a Republican for laying so great a Stress here) you can send me Tidings of the Friends I love and value more than the world. Pray remember me to them all of every Sex, Age and Complection. While I write a Dispute is going on at my Elbow about Taxation which like every other political Subject Every one is as you know a perfect Master of. The Contest is whether Bonds should be taxed. A Gentleman from Massachusetts contends that they should, One from Jersey that they should not. Both may be right. I, as you know, hate disputes but I love the State I was born in and as I am confident this Measure will be followed among our neighbours from a mistaken Policy of the landed Men and possibly from some Propriety in it under our present Circumstances which indeed I cannot see It is my wish to Advantage aliena insania. Let me intreat that nothing of this kind may take Place among us. Thank God our Government is such that the true Interests of the State can be pursued. I have no Money, all the little Property I have is in Land, I therefore speak freely, per-


[Page 193]
February 23, 1778 161 must put on board a proper Person who is acquainted with that Coast. You will give the Flamand all the dispatch in your power. 2 We are Sir, Yr. Obedt servts, Fra. Lewis William Ellery James Forbes P.S. You will make out Triplicates of the Ship Flamands Disburs- ments which you have paid, get the Captain to Sign them, and send them forward to us as soon as you can. We acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 8th Ultimo and return thanks for your attention in giving us a discription of the Flamand. F L WE J F Since writing the above Mr Francey informs that he had left orders with a Freind at Portsmouth to pay the Ships Debts, therefore there is no Occasion for what we have said above. RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Ellery, Forbes, and Lewis. 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, this date. 2 In a March 3 revision of his February 21 letter to John Langdon, Jean Theveneau de Francy requested Langdon to assist Capt. Fassy in preparing the Flamand’s papers and dispatching the vessel promptly. He also requested Lang don’s cooperation in settling the accounts of Hortalez & Co.: “I am Very much pleased with all the members of the Congress, & I do not expect to meet with the least difficulty; however I cannot Settle nothing, as the different invoices Concern ing what is arrived of our goods upon the Continent, have not been Sent yet to the Commercial Committee; it seems to me you had told me that you Sent last year the amount of what you did received by the Mercury Sc Amphytritte, it was never received; I beg of you to have a copy of it made & to Send it directly along, with the amount of what is come in the packet Niere Bobie & upon le Flammand." Capt. J. G. M. Stone Collection. Although the Committee of Commerce was advanced $20,000 on February 26 to purchase a cargo of rice for the Flamand, her captain subsequently refused to go to South Carolina. See JCC, 10:199; and Committee of Commerce to Langdon, May 7, 1778. A January 11, 1778, letter from Francy to Caron de Beaumarchais, discussing his activities in Portsmouth and Boston since his arrival in America in December, is in Pierre Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais, Beaumarchais Correspondence, ed. Brian N. Morton and Donald C. Spinelli (Paris: A. G. Nizet, 1962-), 4:28-30. Henry Laurens to Matthew Smith Sir, 23d Febry 1778 This Morning I received & presented to Congress your favour of the 16th & agreeable to your request Congress have consented to your


[Page 194]
162 February 23, 1778 resignation. 1 I am sorry that a want of health has obliged you to this measure, I wish you a perfect recovery & am with much Respect, Sir, your obedt. humble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Lieutt. Colo. Math. Smith of the 9th Pfennsylvania] Regiment, Paxtang, Lancaster County. By James Wilson.” 'See JCC, 10:190. Lt. Colonel Matthew Smith’s February 16 letter to Laurens, in which he announced that he wished to resign his Continental commission be cause he was afflicted with "Several Bodyly Complaints,” is in PCC, item 78, 20:191. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen Feby 23d. 1778 The French Ship Flamand now in Portsmouth New Hampshire is directed by the Committee of Commerce to proceed forthwith to Charles Town in South Carolina there to be laden’d with Rice &c for France. This Ship mounts 18 Six pounders and is navigated with 70 Seamen and fast sailes. The Committees intention is to give this Ship a Commission in expectation of picking some Prizes on the passage to Charles Town, and for that purpose you are requested to send out of your department a Captain and two Lieutenants in the Continental Service who have not at present an Actual command together with Eight or ten Seamen in order to conduct any prizes that may be taken into Port. In navigating the Ship as a Merchant Ship the French Captain is to have the command, but in giving chase or in an engage ment the Continental Captain and his officers are to have the sole direction. The Captain & Officers apptd. to this service should be persons who have some knowledge of the Carolina Coast. They are upon their Arrival at Charles Town to return as soon as may be to their former station in your department. Should they be so fortunate as to take Prizes on the Passage, One half will be set apart for the Continent. The Continental Captain and his Officers will draw one eight and the French Captain and his Officers and Crew will be intitled to the other %ths. If you should or should not be able to procure a suitable Captain, officers and seamen, you will give season able notice thereof to the Continental Agent at Portsmouth that the ship may not be unnecessarily delayed. 1 We have given Orders to our Agent in Maryland to purchase 2000 Barrels flour and 30 Tons bar Iron and to have the same transported to the Inlet of Senepuxent on the Sea Coast in Maryland about 50 Miles to the southward of the Capes of Delaware. 2 You will immediately on receipt hereof dispatch the Continental Schooner at Bedford, and charter as many small fast sailing Vessels and dispatch them for that Port as you shall think will be sufficient to carry the above quantity of Flour to such Ports or places in the


[Page 195]
February 24, 1778 163 Eastern States as you shall think proper to direct. Our Agent William Smith Esqr. will give the necessary orders for having the Vessels loaded immediately on their arrival. You will endeavour to get Mas ters for those Vessels who are acquainted with the Coast and Inlet above mentioned and if you cannot Charter Vessels without Insureing them we empower you so to do having them properly valued. We are, Gentn, Yr hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 “The Continental Agent at Portsmouth,” John Langdon, had also been the subject of a brief February 12 letter from the Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, which requested it to direct Langdon to make future applications for money directly to the board. PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 126; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:201. 2 See the committee’s February 24 letter to William Smith. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town Feby. 23d. 1778 The papers by you transmitted to the board of War were refered to Congress, read and committed to be returned, 1 accordingly I do myself the honor of handing them to you, and hope the violators of the Laws of the State will be brought to condign punishment. I am with respectful Salutations to the Honble. Council, Sir, Yr. most obt. & very huml. Serv. Daniel Roberdeau RC (PHarH). 1 These were probably documents read in Congress on February 18 relating to the Board of War’s investigation of the conduct of a British prisoner of war relief party that lodged in Lancaster January 21, 1778. See ]CC, 10:180; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:216, 268-69; and John Harvie and Gouverneur Morris to the Pennsylvania Council, January 24, 1778, note. Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir Moor Hall 24th Feby. 1778 We have been honored with your several Favors of the twentieth and twenty first Instant with the Enclosures. We now beg Leave to acknowledge the Receipt of them and to assure Congress thro you that their Committee will pay the utmost Attention to their Com mands by placing the Quarter Master’s Department (as far as lies in their Power) upon such a Footing and in such Hands as will provide for the various Wants which now distress the Army and shakle the General and at the same Time to obviate that iniquitous System of Peculation which History informs us hath prevailed in former Ages


[Page 196]
164 February 24, 1778 and in other Countries which our Scale of Observation leads us to believe are not entirely unknown in this. These Sir are Objects of the utmost Importance. Add to these that the Department is at present involved in inextricable Confusion. Genius, Industry, Integrity and the Manner of doing Business are absolutely nay indespensibly necessary. Notwithstanding the Powers which Congress have thought proper to entrust us with we shall not presume absolutely to fix the Appoint ments but are at this Instant engaged in making all the necessary Arrangements after which we will submit the whole to them Not doubting but that we shall be able to put Matters in such a Train as will produce desirable Consequences. The principal Gentlemen are now with us and hope so far to complete the Business this Day. 1 We are Sir, your most obedient & humble Servants, Fra Dana by Order RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Dana. 'The committee completed its work on the quartermaster general’s department on the next day. See Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 22-28; and Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 25, 1778. Samuel Huntington to Jabez Huntington Sir York Town 24th February 1778 You will See King Gorge’s Speach at the opening of his parliament before this comes to hand which is as late as any Intelligence we have from there. The Assembly of Virginia have fully approved & acceeded to the Articles of Confederation; have not heard the determination of any other State on the Subject. A general Cartel for exchange of prisoners hath taken place be tween Generals Washington & Howe, 1 which is all the Intelligence I am able to communicate more than you will find in the public papers. I am Sir with much Esteem, your humble Servant, Sami Huntington RC (CtHi). 1 See Eliphalet Dyer to William Williams, February 17, 1778, note 7. Henry Laurens to George Clinton Sir, 24th Febry 1778. My last to your Excellency was dated the 19th Inst. & went by Messenger Brown.


[Page 198]
166 February 24, 1778 Congress, this would probably have happened, had your Letter ex hibited either or both in an unfavourable light. Be all this as it may, when I say you merit thanks for your attention to the public welfare in your department, I believe I speak the senti ments of every Member of Congress. Notwithstanding the great discouragement given by the present sluggishness of public Spirit, let us proceed Sir, set our faces against the phalanx of Avarice & peculation, however countenanced by splendid Characters, however powerful & triumphant, & through good Report & Evil Report strive, &: we shall at length stem the power of those Engines calculated for our destruction & played by the hands of Enemies in disguise. These will otherwise soon shew to the World, our pretended work of Independency a second Babel in perspective. I am with great Respect &ca. P.S. 25th A.M. the Messenger having been unavoidably detained affords me an opportunity of adding, that I have presented your Letter to Congress & that it was well received & your conduct ap plauded. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 In this letter Samuel A. Otis, the deputy clothier general in Massachusetts, described his efforts to carry out the resolves Congress had passed on December 31, 1777, to enable him to purchase clothing for the Continental Army at fair prices. See PCC, item 78, 17:285-87; and JCC, 9:1071-73. 3 Jonathan Jackson was a Massachusetts merchant who had tried to charge Otis “2000 per Cent’’ for clothing and who therefore may very well have thought that Congress’ December 31, 1777, resolves against extortionate sellers were personally directed at him. See PCC, item 78, 17:285-87. Henry Laurens to Thomas Wharton Sir. York Town 24th Feby 1778 I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 21st. Yesterday Mr. Joseph Simons of Lancaster addressed Congress with a Letter which Your Excellency will find inclosed—meaning as he has explained, to obtain permission for going within the Enemy’s Lines in order to account with Mr Franks. Congress judged it best to refer this application, for determination, to the Supreme Council of the State; thence Your Excellency receives the present trouble. 1 I am with great Regard & Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (CtY). 1 Although Congress noted receipt o£ a February 18 letter from Joseph Simons, he is not mentioned in the Pa. Council Minutes or the correspondence in Pa. Archives, 1st ser., and it is not known how the Pennsylvania Council disposed of his request to enter the British lines. JCC, 10:190.


[Page 199]
February 24, 1778 167 Marine Committee to William Smith Sir February 24th 1778 We request you will immediately on receipt hereof purchase 2000 Barrels of Common Flour with 30 Tons of bar Iron and forward the same as soon as may to Senepuxent with directions to a proper person there to receive and deliver the same to such Masters of Vessels as shall arrive there for that purpose. We have by Express this day directed the Navy Board for the Eastern Department to send from thence round to Senepuxent small fast sailing Vessels that may be sufficient to take off the above quantity. We shall apply to Congress for money to enable you in the execu tion which we shall send you by the first safe conveyance. 1 We shall rely upon your care and expedition in this affair & are Sir, Your humble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). ’On April 11 Congress authorized the committee to send their Baltimore agent Smith $10,000 to purchase the flour and iron. JCC, 10:338. The committee’s April 14 letter informing Smith that this money would be delivered by Capt. David Porter is in PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 141, and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:228. See also Marine Committee to William Smith, January 10 and June 19; and Committee of Commerce to Francis Lewis, Jr., March 6, 1778, note 2. Joseph Reed to Jonathan Bayard Smith Dear Sir Moore Hall Feb. 24. 1778 It gives me much Concern that our Business proceeds slower than Congress seem to expect. I trusted that our private Communications would at least have softned the Violence of Expectation. We attribute most of the Peculation, Waste, & Derangement of our Affairs to an injudicious Choice of Officers. With these Sentiments you must not be surprized to find us cautious &: slow, especially in a Department of so much Confidence &: Power as that of a Qr. Master General. When we see Confusion & Disorder reigning thro the whole Army by the Defects of this Office & unaccounted Millions, we think we cannot be too cautious &: esteem it Time well spent to look out the most worthy Characters, & draw them into the publick Service. I hinted to you that we had a Design on Col. Cox. We sent for him & he is now with us. But you know he is a Man of too much Sagacity to engage without due Consideration of all Circumstances. He is employed in very extensive Concerns both of Iron & Salt for which he has made great Preparations the Benefit of which he must lose & alter his whole Arrangements. You will not wonder therefore if he takes Time & I


[Page 200]
168 February 24, 1778 believe you will agree that if he can be brought in we shall have a Prospect of bringing Order out of this Confusion. I presume you understand from what I mentioned before than Gen. Green is to be at the Head of the Department, Col. Cox to stand second, 8c they are to have the Appointment of their Subs. Be not misled, my good Friend, with Utopian Ideas of dividing Departments & Offices which the Practice 8c Experience of all Nations shew us ought to be united. Wander as far as we will from established Rules 8c Systems we shall find sooner or later we must return. A Dislike 8c even Rage against every Thing English has precipitated us into a Labyrinth of Error & Expence from which the wisest Heads will find it difficult to extricate us. We are resolved not to be Parties in plunging you deeper; if we cannot raise the publick above Water we shall at least let you feel your own Way. Characters fit for the Department are not to be found in the Army; if they were your Affairs would not be in the wretched Condition they now are. If we have the World to chuse out of; Congress can select better than we can; their Knowledge is more extensive 8c should they err they will not have the same kind of Responsibility. I know you cry out precious Time is wasting, it is so but great Haste is not often the best Speed. Experience must tell you how easy it is to put a Man in Office 8c how difficult to get him out. There has been to use an odd Expression a Gullibility 1 in Congress that has surprized me. How many rash Appointments have been made which we all lament 8c the Consequences of which we feel thro the whole System. You will therefore my good Sir, oblige us if you will in a Way of which you are very capable vindicate us from the Imputation of causeless Delay. I am anxious to hear whether you have received a long Letter I wrote you about 10 Days ago. The Messenger waits so that I have only Time to desire my best Regards to our Associates 8c add that I am with sincere Regard, Dr Sir, Your most obed. 8c very Hbble Serv. Jos. Reed [P.S.] One James Woolard a Post or Express from Congress has been taken by a Party of the Enemy’s Tory light Horse. RC (DLC). 1 Although the usage of Gullibility was in decline by the late 18th century, gullibility was apparently seldom used before the 19th century. OED. Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir Camp near Valley Forge, Feby. 25. 1778 Agreeable to the Promise made in our Letter of yesterday, we


[Page 201]
February 25, 1778 169 have in Concert with the General, compleated the Arrangement of the Quarter Master Generals Department; which now only waits for the Fiat of Congress. By your Resolutions of the 5th Inst. 1 we find, that it is the Intention of Congress, to divide the Quarter Master’s Department into four capital Branches. The Quarter Master properly so called: The Commissary of Forage; the Commissary of Horses Sec, and the Agent of Purchases. Permit us, Sir, to represent that so many independent Officers without a controuling Chief, must necessarily involve Interference with each other, infinite Confusion, 8c a Variety of Controversies, which must be terminated by the Commander in Chief, or in other Words, that the General must be, what he has been during the last Campaign, the Quarter Master General of the Army. Besides this, we have to observe farther, that each of these Officers must necessarily be empowered to draw publick Money, 8c of Con sequence, that the Chance of Frauds, & Amount of Expenditures will be greatly increased by so many separate Departments. Add to this, that when any Abuses, & more particularly when any Deficiencies shall be felt, it will be easy for these Gentlemen to shift the Blame from one to the other, rendering it impracticable to detect either Ignorance, Indolence, or Inequity. Many additional Reasons might be adduced to shew 2 how dangerous such an Experiment may prove; but the Wisdom of Congress will doubtless supply them, & upon reconsider ing this Business in all its Connections, 8c Dependencies see a Propriety in placing this very executive Department, under one controuling superintending Power, whose Activity, 8c Influence may regulate, pervade & animate the whole System. Let us now, Sir, cast our Glance upon the Administration of Affairs heretofore. We mean not to censure or commend, but it is our Duty to inform. We hesitate not to say, that the Abuses which have crept in are such, that no Finances can support a System like the present. Men without Morals, without Character, 8c without Property have been, 8c are intrusted with the Disposal of publick Money, 8c private Property. The Number of little, piddling, pilfering Plunderers in the Character of Deputies, 8c Deputies Assistants is sufficient almost to form an Army, 8c does form a kind of Army, not indeed to act against the Enemies, but against the Friends of America; to sour the Minds of the People, 8c exhaust the Resources of the Country. And not only is the Expence almost infinite; the Neglect is as great perhaps as fatal. This may appear to be the Language of Exaggera tion, but whatever Ideas arise from a View of the general Complexion, they fall much short when we examine some particular Features. We are told, Sir, that in some capital Purchases, the enormous Commis sion of 5 per Cent hath been allowed: We know that the publick pay 2i/> per Cent upon every Ounce of Forage consumed by this Army. We fear that publick Teams have been employed at the publick


[Page 206]
174 February 25, 1778 We understand Dr. Parke & a Son in Law of James Pemberton (named Morton) have without any Permission from Head Quarters passed thro’ on their Way to Winchester, we beg Leave to submit to Congress how far such Freedoms ought to pass unnoticed & whether it will not be adviseable to prevent their returning. 6 We have been much surprized lately to find that the Resolution of Congress passed last October empowering a Court Martial to try Persons other than of the Army who shall be found carrying on an Intercourse with the Enemy, will not reach those Villains who come out to kidnap & deliver to the Enemy the active Friends of their Country. 7 There are a Number of these Offenders now in Custody who must either escape with Impunity (the Court martial having declined passing upon them) or they must be executed by the special Authority of the General. An Authority which he will not exercise but in Cases of the last Necessity. We submit to Congress whether it is not necessary to revise the above Resolution & also to give some Direction about these Criminals whose Discharge will greatly dis hearten our Friends & give just Cause of Alarm & Discontent to the faithful Adherents of these States. Besides the great Encouragement given to these Practices if no Punishment can be devised for those now in our Hands, we fear it will bring any farther Resolution of Congress on this Subject into Contempt & in a great Degree coun tenance the dangerous Intercourse carried on between the City & the dissafected of the Country. 8 RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Joseph Reed and signed by Francis Dana. FC (DNA: PCC, item 22). In the hand of Joseph Reed. ’See JCC, 10:126. 2 In the FC the following passage was deleted at this point: “that Congress have been deceived into the Resolutions above mentioned from Misinformation or some other Cause but we cannot go so far as we could wish into this Business at present.” 3 In the FC the following passage was deleted: “supposing (what from the Silence of Congress on that Head we suppose it to be the Fact) that he would not be appointed.” 4 Responding quickly to the committee’s new proposed "Arrangement”—“instead of that agreed on the 5 day of February”—Congress appointed Nathanael Greene quartermaster general and named John Cox and Charles Pettit his assistants the same day this letter was read in Congress, March 2, 1778. Congress also resolved to allow them commissions of I percent and granted the quartermaster general the appointment of “forage masters, waggon masters, and other officers in the depart ment.” See JCC, 10:210. See also Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, January 28 and February 12; and Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 22-28, 1778. 3 In the FC the following passage was deleted: “is worth to him at least ten thousand Pounds annually.” ’On March 2, Congress directed the Board of War to order the apprehension and confinement of “said Parke and Morton.” JCC, 10:211. See also Laurens to Dana, March 3, 1778, note 3. 7 JCC, 9:783-84.


[Page 208]
176 February 25, 1778 if he can by claims of right obtain the necessary relief, the great purpose will be answered & himself not unnecessarily subjected to obligation. The latter I mention, only in reference to the feelings of every Gentleman, not from my own estimation of such Acts which are indispensably our duty when such occasions call. I beg you will Dear General, do me the honour to present me in the most respectful terms to the Marquis, 2 I have nothing worthy his notice at this moment otherwise it should be employed in paying my devoirs to His Excellency. ’Tis not impossible but that something may accompany or speedily follow this, which may veil the gay prospects of the Duplessis, the Fluery’s 8cca &ca. 3 If any such thing shall happen I shall sympathize with those ardent Sons of Mars, just so long as Wisdom & sound policy will countenance their Mourn ing. I bear a grateful remembrance of their merits & they are always included in my good wishes. I had almost forgot to inclose under this Cover the Letter you sent for Monsr. delaBalme, he left York a few days ago & probably will be with you before this Address. Dear General, excuse the un avoidable effects of being hurried by Rivers, & be assured I am with the most perfect Esteem & Respect. LB (ScHi). l A transcript of Kalb’s February 14 letter to Laurens is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 Lafayette. 3 Congress was already having serious doubts about the wisdom and practicability of Lafayette’s projected assault on Canada, and on March 2 it decided to suspend the enterprise. JCC, 10:217. Kalb was Lafayette’s second in command. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed Dr. Sir York Town Feb. 25th. 1778 On arriving at this place I find myself indebted to you for two letters. I wish the idea of employing Genl. Schuyler in the department referred to could have met the approbation of Congress. 1 Besides the objections arising from his present situation which founded the de clared impediment, I found on conversing with gentlemen privately that they feared the ill effects of an intrigueing mind; a temper un friendly to the dispositions of officers in the army 8c its peace; 8c that out of the sphere of his particular influence 8c knowlege of the country he would not be able to conduct the great business. This last objec tion I own was counter to every idea I had formed of the man. Colo. Cox will be an happy acquisition to the public in any line. But in the line intended I beleive he may be peculiarly useful. His veiws 8c schemes of his own are many 8c extensive; however I hope he will


[Page 213]
February 28, 1778 181 and the Gentlemen in Authority with you will fully concur with us in the propriety and necessity of recruiting this Corps with all pos sible dispatch, and favor us with your best assistance in so doing. The Regiments are nearly completed with Men Natives of the Country whose time of Service in the Infantry having expired, readily enlisted in the Horse. These Men inured to fatigue, danger and discipline have only to learn the special duties of that Service, and will form excellent Dragoons. The great difficulty under which the Service labours is the want of Horses and Saddles to mount them. On the one hand to wait the Tedious process of collecting Horses in the common mode by purchase either by Officers or Agents uncontroled by any immediate Authority will occasion great fraud and delay. On the other hand to use force in any degree appears oppressive and leaves such lasting discontent in the minds of the sufferers as not only sours and disaffects to the general Interests of the Country but to the particular State where the exertion is made. We have been therefore extreemly solicitous to find some expedient to reconcile these clashing Duties, an expedient which may provide for the present exigence of the service without wounding too deeply those feelings and attach ments which all Men have for their property in a greater or lesser degree. At length Sir, as the safer and more effectual mode we have concluded to rely on the wisdom and public spirit of the Gentlemen in Authority in this and the neighbouring States, and to request their exertions in the following mode. We have made calculations of the number of Horses and common country Saddles and Bridles proper for the Cavalry which may be had from Virginia, Maryland, Dela ware, Pensilvania &: New-Jersey respectively. The State we suppose will then calculate what number the several Counties can furnish by a reasonable assessment, and then appoint proper persons in the Country to purchase them on the best terms they can, allways attend ing to the following description. That the Horse be sound and clean limbed not less than Five years old this Spring, nor exceeding Twelve years—Geldings at least 14i/2 hands high and not less than one quarter blooded. We do not limit any price either as a purchase money, or a compensation to those employed in the business, because we presume they will be men of integrity and property who besides the Interest they have in common with us that the public expences be not causelessly enhanced will have a due regard to their own charac ters. In order to provide for payment it is proposed that a number of Loan Office Certificates be lodged with the Executive Authority of the State to be paid on the First Day of May under such Limitations and Checks as will most effectually guard against Fraud or Mistake, The whole amount to be finally settled between Congress and the State when the business is completed. We must request that the persons who may be appointed to make the purchases, be directed


[Page 214]
182 February 28, 1778 from time to time to make returns of their doings in this business to yourself, and that you wou’d please to order a general return to be made to the Quarter-Master-General, and also to the Board of War. The number of Horses, Sadies and Bridles estimated for this State is Two hundred and fifty which we beleive will not appear by any means too large for its resources. We doubt not but on this occasion your Excellency and the Gentlemen of the Legislature will favor us with a continuance of those exertions, the beneficial effects of which we have already experienced. We greatly regret that this business has been so long delayed, and fear the service will suffer in con sequence of it as some time is necessary to train the Horses before they can be brought into the field. We hope therefore it will receive all possible forwardness from the Gentlemen who are to take it up as the utillity of the measure will depend greatly on dispatch. We are Sir, Your most obedient, humble Servants, Fra Dana, by Order RC (PHi). Written and signed by Francis Dana. ’The committee wrote nearly identical letters this day to Thomas Johnson, governor of Maryland, and William Livingston, governor of New Jersey, assigning them quotas of 350 and 300 horses respectively. See Md. Archives, 16:522-24; and PCC item 192, fols. 143-46. Committee of Commerce to Edward Hand Dear Sir Commercial Committee, York Town 28 Febry. 1778 Application having been made to this Committee, by Col. Anthony Steel, D P Q Mr. General, in your Department, for the payment of a Bill drawn by Capt James Willing on said Col. Steel in favor of John Gibson or order, for Three hundred pounds, as also for payment of an account for sundry Articles he furnished Capt James Willing for the use of the armed Boat Rattle Trap’s Crew, amounting to Two hundred and fifteen pounds, 12/6. It appearing on the Minuts of this Committee, that by a letter dated 21st Novemr. last, directed to you Sir, you were requested to supply Capt James Willing with a Boat, and all other necessaries, for his intended Expedition. 1 —In order that the same may be con ducted through ’its proper channel, we must now request you Sir, to Issue your order to the said Depy. Qr. Masr. General for the payment of both the above sums, pursuant to our endorssments thereon. We are Sir, Your very Humble Servants, Fras Lewis William Ellery James Forbes


[Page 215]
February 28, 1778 183 RC (NN). Addressed: “The Honble Brigadr General Hand att Fort Pitt. Favored by Col. Steel.” Written by Lewis and signed by Lewis, Ellery, and Forbes. 1 See Committee of Commerce to Oliver Pollock, November 21, 1777, note 1, and to Robert Morris, February 21, 1778, note 4. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir February 28th 1778 We have received your Letter of the 2d instant & in consequence of your demand for money you have advanced for the Marine Service we have paid Mr. John Hertell whom you sent for that purpose Five thousand Dollars and have delivered to him a Warrant on the Loan Office of your State for thirty five thousand Dollars making 40,000 Dollars to your debit. Since the appointment of the Navy Board at Boston it has been our determination that all applications for Money and other Matters relative to Marine affairs should be made to them, for which reason we have charged that Board with the above sum and you must Credit them for the same. As it is high Time your Accounts with the Marine Department were settled, we request that you will with All expedition produce them to the Navy Board who will settle and pay the balance that may be due to you and in future you are to be governed intirely by their directions in Marine Affairs. 1 We are sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The committee’s letter this day to the Eastern Navy Board, advising them of payment to Shaw, the Continental prize agent at New London, Conn., and request ing that “when he furnishes his Account Current you will please to transmit to us a Copy thereof for our Inspection before we order payment of the balance,” is in PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 129, and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:205-6. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town Feb. 28. 1778 On other side you have copy of a letter yesterday Evenning read in Congress. 1 It was referred to a Committee whose report you shall be made acquainted with. As I was that day confined to my bed cannot say what strictures were made on the subject by Congress. The packet of copies 2 was returned to me from the ferry as the river was impassable. I this morning had the honor of forwarding it by Genl. Wilkinson. I am, Sir, with very great respect, your Excellencys & Councils very humble Servant, Jona. B Smith


[Page 220]
188 March 1, 1778 States to send forward their accounts of supplies to prisoners &c I see are in the Paper which I now inclose. 11 I find that I have made a mistake in the number of Sargeants & Corporals wanted to complete our Battalion. The number I have mentioned is the number wanting to complete two battalions. RC (R-Ar). 1 See JCC, 10:200. ’There was no truth to the report that Col. Christopher Greene was planning to raise a black regiment in Rhode Island, as Ellery later admitted in an April 5 letter to Governor Cooke. 3 For this February 19 resolve, see JCC, 10:184-85. ‘See Henry Laurens to Washington, February 21, 1778, note. 3 Congress finally decided on August 7, 1778, to assume the cost of the unsuc cessful October 1777 expedition against the British in Rhode Island. JCC, 11:761. See also Henry Laurens to the Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners, December 15, 1777, note. • Francis Dana. 7 Congress passed this resolution on February 27, with Ellery voting in the affirmative. See JCC, 10:204-5. ’According to the journals Congress suspended Lafayette’s Canadian expedition on Monday, March 2. See JCC, 10:216-17. ’The Rhode Island Assembly enlarged the state’s congressional delegation to four members in May 1778. William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765-1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 177-78. 10 Ellery received the Rhode Island Assembly’s instructions regarding the Articles of Confederation on April 18. See ibid., pp. 133-35; and Ellery to Cooke, April 25, 1778. 11 See JCC, 10:197-98. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, 1st March 1778. On the 21st Ulto. I conveyed under the care of General Weedon a packet directed to Your Excellency which contained Six Copies of Acts of Congress of the 5th &: 6th Febry for establishing divers regula tions in the Army—since which I have had the honour of receiving & reporting to Congress Your Excellency’s favor of the 7th Ulto. which was referred to a special Committee in whose hands I believe it remains, as I have received no Commands. 1 Under the present Cover Your Excellency will find two Acts of the 26th Febry to which I beg leave particularly to refer. 1. for filling up the Continental Battalions, accompanied by a return from the Board of War shewing the Numbers wanted to com plete. 2. for ascertaining the Amount of necessaries supplied British Prisoners from the commencement of the present War. 2 I have the honour to be with the highest Esteem.


[Page 221]
March 1, 1778 189 P.S. General Burgoyne has remonstrated with Congress on the suspen sion of the embarkation of his Troops, which has made no impression except, if I may speak my own feelings, to confirm my sentiments on the propriety of the Act of Congress of the 8th Jany. 3 By a subsequent application, which shews he had not entertained very sanguine expec tations of success in the first, he applies for leave to embark himself 8c family for Great Britain upon certain conditions—this will be granted. 4 His several addresses are decent 8c unexceptionable. I trust great good will arise from the politeness 8c Civility of Congress, con trasted with the treatment of American Officers, prisoners of the Britons, 8c we have remaining time 8c Subjects enough for retaliation admitting we shall be driven to necessity. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). ’Governor Caswell’s February 7 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 59, 1:81, and N.C. State Records, 13:22-23. Enclosed with it were various papers relating to the case of Capt. John Folger, who was under confinement in Lancaster because of his suspected complicity in the theft of some dispatches from the American commis sioners in France to Congress. See PCC, item 59, 1:83-108. Congress finally decided on May 8 that there was no evidence to prove Folger had been involved in the purloining of these documents and ordered his release. See JCC, 11:482. For further information about this case, see Committee Examination of John Folger, January 12, 1778. ’This day Laurens also sent copies of these two February 26 resolves to Govs. Thomas Johnson of Maryland and Patrick Henry of Virginia and President Thomas Wharton of Pennsylvania. PCC, item 13, fols. 203-5. In addition, he transmitted copies of the February 26 resolve on supplies for British prisoners of war to Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot, Clothier General James Mease, and Director General of Hospitals William Shippen, Jr. Ibid., fols. 202-3. Finally, this day he sent copies of the February 26 resolve on British prisoners and a February 21 resolve “on the propriety of keeping a dep. Pay Master at Baltimore’’ to Pay master General William Palfrey. MH-H. 3 That is, the resolve suspending the Saratoga Convention, which would have allowed Gen. John Burgoyne’s captured army to return to England. See JCC, 10:34-35. ‘ Congress decided on March 3 to allow General Burgoyne, “the officers of his family and his servants" to return to England. JCC, 10:218. See also Laurens to Richard Wilford, March 1, and to John Burgoyne, March 6, 1778. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Dear Sir, 1st March 1778. ’Tis now late Sunday Evening 8c your favor of the 25th Ulto. 1 has but this Instant made its appearance, had it been less deliberate in its progress 8c not made so long a halt at the Waggon Tavern I might yesterday have received authority for confirming your Acts in the ar rangement of the Quarter Mr. General’s department. As the case now Stands, to morrow is mortgaged 8c it will be difficult to bring the


[Page 224]
192 March 1, 1778 Manned & lay ready to Sail on the 28 January intended to attack the little Squadron of the Enemy which consisted of a Frigate of 28, one of 20 Guns 8c two Armed Brigantines. We shall soon hear the Issue of this enterprize; if good, it will be more than I expect. We out reckon the Enemy in Guns & Men, but their experience & discipline made an overmatch of two to one against us. If we are beat the loss will be felt severely in the 1st & 2d Regiments which have contributed large Officers & Men for the expedition. I hope their bravery will be re warded with success. What shall I do for my Dear son reduced to Breeches, there is not an Inch of such Cloth as you want in York. James made one search & a Taylor upon whom I can depend, a second, 8c both returned empty, our hopes of a supply from Charles Town are cut off. I must write to Baltimore 8c to Boston, why had not my Dear Son laid in a larger stock. He will find the Doctrine of equalizing altogether inconsistent with Military uniformity. Here’s a fragment of Blue Cloth just enough the Taylor says to make you a Coat. I would give the value of ten pair of Breeches rather than learn or think 8c I shall now be continually thinking so—that you are confined to one pair dirty or tattered. You will learn in time to make better provision for your self. I suspect that some in your Army supply themselves with necessary articles from the City 2 8c hold it no more criminal to do so in the present state of affairs than it was of old for a Religious hungry David to eat the hallowed Bread of Ahimelec when there happened to be none other. Indeed in all the States the Resolve against purchasing British Manufactures in cases of extremity hath been dispensed with—8c it is a moot point in my mind whether we ought any longer to adhere to the Rule. 3 There is much to be said in favor of a Repeal. The article of Powder was promised by my Hair Dresser but he has not brought it in. James will go 8c enquire for it, if he succeeds you will receive it by the bearer of this. We hear repeated Accounts of advantages gained by the Enemy in small parties making Prisoners daily of Officers 8c Men from your Army—that the Major of a Colonel Stuart, together with a Company of Taylors 8c all the Clothing intended for the Colonel’s Regiment were taken at New Town by a party of twenty Light Horse 8c the Major at the head of the Taylors beyond doubt, paraded into the City—that desertions are numerous 8c continued every day—8c in a word that Your Camp is in the power of General Howe 8c that he may compel you to fly from it when he pleases 8c leave your Baggage 8c Artillery, or give you the Choice of being Prisoners of War or cut to peices. I was just going to ask, are these things so? when a LJetter] from the Committee came to hand, 4 which informs me of an irreparable


[Page 228]
196 March 1, 1778 Special demand for the restitution of that Officer. I have the honour to be with the highest Regard &ca LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 'See JCC, 10:179, 194, 197-98. In his January 30 and February 10 letters to General Howe, Washington had defended Congress against the British general’s criticism of its handling of prisoners of war and its suspension of the Saratoga Convention. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:408-9, 444T6. Howe had offered these criticisms in letters to Washington of January 19 and February 5, not February 25. Washington Papers, DLC. Henry Laurens to Richard Wilford Sir, 1st March 1778. I duly received your Notes of yesterday’s & the present date, the latter accompanied by the No. 2—intimated when you did me the honour of a visit the other day. These shall be, meaning the Packet & the paper contained in it presented to Congress to morrow Morning, thence according to the ordinary course of business the papers will be referred to a Committee, & the necessary or usual forms will cost two or three days which might have been saved had the packet been earlier delivered, for I learn the Committee on No. 1. are prepared to Report at the next Meeting of Congress. Be that as it may, rest assured Sir, of my endeavors to bring the whole under consideration without the formality of a second reference, from the tenor of Lieutt. General Burgoyne’s application in No. 2 which I think may be com prized in one question, there is some prospect of succeeding. 1 I am with great Respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Lt. Richard Wilford, an aide-de-camp to Gen. John Burgoyne, had brought to York two letters from Burgoyne to President Laurens dated February 11. In the first, which was read in Congress on February 26 and referred to a committee of five, Burgoyne rejected congressional charges that he had violated the Saratoga Convention and asked the delegates to repeal their January 8 suspension of this agreement so that he and his captured army could proceed to England. While this letter was still under consideration Wilford presented Burgoyne’s second letter, in which the general asked permission for “myself, the officers of my family . . . and my servants” to return to England in the event Congress persisted in its refusal to implement the convention. Congress referred this letter to the same committee and on the basis of its reports decided on March 2 to confirm the suspension of the convention, although on the following day it did grant permission to Burgoyne and his dependents to return to England. At the same time, however, the delegates turned down requests by Burgoyne to allow three other officers not of his family to accompany him to England, and by Wilford to transmit to Gen. William Howe via Washington copies of other papers from Burgoyne he had brought with Burgoyne’s letter. Instead Congress ordered Wilford to give copies of the papers for Howe to the Board of War for eventual transmittal. On the other hand


[Page 229]
March 2, 1778 197 Congress did agree to a request by Burgoyne to permit a Canadian officer captured at Saratoga to return to Canada, as such officers were eligible for this favor under the terms of the convention. See JCC, 10:196, 207, 210, 216, 218-19; PCC, item 57, fols. 177-79, 183-84, 191, 199, 207-14; and K. G. Davies, ed., Documents of the American Revolution, 1770-1783 (Dublin: Irish University Press, 1972-), 15:38—44. For a discussion of Congress’ reasons for originally suspending the Saratoga Con vention, see Laurens to William Heath, December 27, 1777, note 1. Committee at Camp Statement Moor Hall 2d March 1778. State of the Case of Brigr. Genls. Mulenbergh, Weedon, Woodford and Scott with their Claim of Rank. 1 July 1775. 19 Sepr. 13 Feby. 1776. 5th April. 3d June. 9th June. Sept 1776. 21st Febry. 1777. 22d Feby 1st April 1777. 19 th Aug. Woodford was appd. Colo, of the 2d Virginia State Regt. Woodford received his Commission & Scott was appointed his Lt. Colonel. Woodford was appd. Colo, of the 2d Virginia Cont. Regt., Mercer of the 3d, Stephens of the 4th & Mulenbergh of the 8th. Scott Lt. Colo, of the 2d and Weedon of the 3d. The 5th Virginia Regt, become Vacant. The 3d. Regt, became vacant and Mercer was made a Brigr. Genl, over Woodford in which he chearfully acquiesced. Scott was appointed Colo, of the 5th &: Weedon of the 3d Regt. Scott by this appointment claimed Rank of Weedon which was allowed by Weedon. Stephens was appointed a Brigr. Genl, over Woodford wheron he resigned. Mulenbergh, Weedon and Woodford were ap pointed Brigr. Genls. Congress declaring at the same time their Rank should be afterwards set tled (vid Resolve). 2 Congress placed Woodford last by a Resolution (vid Resolve). 3 Scott was appointed a Brigr. Upon a Dispute of Rank in the Pensilvania Line a Board of General Officers determined on the Principle that Rank & Precedence should be settled among Officers according to the Standing they held in the Army immediately before their present Coms, excepting Promo-


[Page 230]
198 March 2, 1778 tions for Merit (vid Proceedings of the Board). 12th Novr Congress by their Resolution confirm this Prin ¬ ciple (vid Resolve). 4 29th Congress direct the Genl, to regulate the Rank of Genls. Arnold, Woodford and Scott agreable to their Resolution of the 12th Novr. (vid Re solve of 29th). 5 Genl. Arnolds Rank hath been regulated ac cordingly and he placed in the Position he would have held if originally promoted accord ing to the Rank he then held. Claim Woodford claims to Rank as the eldest Brigr. because before his Resignation he was the eldest Colo, to which Resignation he was compelled by the Injustise done him. To this Claim Scott assents but Mulenbergh & Weedon oppose it upon the Principle that Woodford having resigned held no Rank at the time of his Promotion. Scott claims to Rank before Weedon because he did so when they were Colonels. To this Claim Weedon objects. The within Case and the Claims thereon having been referred to the Committee of Congress they request the Opinion of a Board of General Officers on the foregoing State of Facts which is submitted to them as more properly cognizable by Gentlemen of the Army than those in a civil Line. Fra Dana, by Order MS (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Francis Dana. ■The committee prepared this “State of the Case” of the seniority among four Virginia brigadier generals as an aid to a board of officers which had been convened by General Washington at the committee’s request. The committee had originally conferred with Gens. William Woodford, George Weedon, and Charles Scott on February 14 and prepared a “State of Facts relative to the claims of Brigadier General Mulenburgh, Weedon, Woodford & Scott,” to which they obtained the signatures of each officer except Peter Muhlenberg, who was absent in Virginia. They then sent the signed statement to Washington and recommended that he convene a board of general officers to obtain their opinion on the claims summarized. That document remains in the Washington Papers, DLC. Before the board of officers convened on March 4, however, the committee pre pared the statement which is printed here and which contains more detailed information on the case, especially the substance of several resolutions of Congress relating to seniority. Subsequently the board unanimously reported that, “in the original promotion of Those Gentlemen . . . They ought to have been Arranged in The following Manner, viz. Woodford, Mulenburgh, Scott, Weeden.” On March 19 Congress accepted this “opinion” and directed Washington to issue the four generals new commissions.


[Page 232]
200 March 2, 1778 is not taking them by the strongest Side) he suggests the Propriety of making out the Terms upon which they are to be taken in Service and this in Writing from Congress but how far this may be proper we will not pretend to say, submitting it entirely to your superior Discretion. Colo. Gist also expects the Liberty to take with him a faithful Assistant, who is to provide for the Indians upon their Route, a Busi ness which it is impracticable for the Principal to attend to, his time being taken up in the Management of those whom he conducts, pre venting or adjusting little Differences which arise between them and the Inhabitants and the like. When the Savages shall have arrived it will be necessary to have with them Interpreters, as there would be Danger in permitting them to go out in detached Parties without the Power of making themselves understood. Indeed there would be great use in having a few Men from their Neighbourhood to serve as Irregulars with them which would prevent perhaps Mistakes which might be fatal. For these Reasons the Colo, thinks it would be proper to employ some few Interpreters and also to enlist for the special Service about fifty Men, of which as many as possible are to understand the Indian Language. Upon the whole sir we cannot but think that much Good would arise from employing these turbulent Borderers as they would cer tainly keep the Enemy Compact, prevent Desertion in our Troops, make us Masters of Intelligence and give us Pledges of their Fidelity. We are, sir, respectfully, your most obedient &: humble servants. Fra. Dana, by Order RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Francis Dana. Endorsed: “Letter from the Comee. of Congress at Camp March 2, 1778. read 6. referred to the board of war. (Acted Upon).” 'For the committee’s previous letter recommending the employment of Indians with the army, see Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 20, 1778. 2 For a discussion of irregular warfare in 18th-century Europe, see Peter E. Rus sell, “Redcoats in the Wilderness: British Officers and Irregular Warfare in Europe and America, 1740 to 1760,” William and Mary Quarterly, 3d ser. 35 (October 1978): 629-52. Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Bingham Sir York Town 2d March 1778 The Committee of Secret correspondence, which almost a year ago was denominated the “Committee for foreign Affairs’’ stands indebted to you for many letters both of interesting advice and ingenious political speculation. Happening to be the only member of that Committee at present in York Town, I now take up my pen, not to form apoligies for their long past silence so much as to make a begin-


[Page 239]
March 3, 1778 207 Feild & Staff Officers in each Battalion 1 Colo, or Chief Engineer 1 Lieut. Colo, or Chief director 1 Major or Sub director 1 Surveyor 1 Adjutant \ 1 Chaplain I 1 Surgeon \ 1 Mate ? 1 Quarter Master I 1 Pay Master / Pay per Month Their extra Allowances in Dollars per Month in Dollars 60 15 for a Clerk 50 15 for a do. 40 15 for a do. 3314 30 for 2 do. Pay the same as in Battalion Service Each Company to consist of the following Officers, Artificers &ca. their monthly pay the same as in the Battalion Service. Extra Allowance per day when employ’d in the Works 1 Captain or Engineer in Ordinary 1 Capt. Lieut, or Engineer extraordinary 1 Lieutenant or Sub Engineer 1 Ensign or practitioner Enginer 4 Serjeants or Foremen of Band 4 Corporals or Seconds do 2 drums & Fifes 30 Carpenters or Wheel Wrights 5 Smiths 6 Masons 25 Miners & Sappers 20 Laborours 14 Dollar % each % do y 7 do do do i/ 8 do l/ 8 do i/ g do 14, in time of Seige 1/ dollar do y 12 Arrangement of the Engineering Department No. Rank Pay 1 Captain 50 3 Lieutenants 3314 4 Serjeants 10 4 Corporals 9 60 Privates 814 72 Monthly pay Amt. Rat. Amt 50 3 3 100 2 6 40 1 4 36 1 4 500 1 60 726 Daily Rat. 77 Monthly Rat. 2,310 Three Companies upon the above Establishment to be instructed in the Fabrication of Field Works as far as relates to the manual & mechanical Part. Their Business is to instruct the fatigue Parties to do their Duty with Celerity and Exactness. The commissioned Officers to be skilled in the necessary Branches of the Mathematics. The


[Page 240]
208 March 3, 1778 noncomd. Officers to write a good Hand. Duty of the Corps to repair Injuries done to Works by the Enemy’s Fire & to prosecute Works in the Face of it. {The Corps to be under the Direction of the Chief Engineer and to have the Care of the intrenching Tools.) RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Francis Dana. Enclosure: MS (DLC). In the hand of Morris and Dana. 1 See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 5, 1778. ’Another copy of the enclosure’s second page, entitled “Arrangement of the Engineering Department” and in Dana’s hand, is in PCC, item 33, fol. 109, where it was later placed among the enclosures with the committee’s February 5 letter to Laurens on the arrangement of the army. • For congressional response to this request, see Henry Laurens to William Heath, March 7, 1778, note. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Town March 3. 1778 Your several favours of the 7, 14 &: 26 January & 4 Ultimo are now before me. I have lately had one of the Severest fitts of the Gout, I ever had in my life, I have been confined to my room these 5 Weeks unable to help myself, having it in both feet, one knee & my right hand & arm, it is with great pain that I am able to hold a pen in my hand this day. I am sorry to hear Meridith is taken, I wish the fact could be Assertained in regard to his being put in Irons &c. Jackey is not yet with me; Mr. Mitchel promises to send him as soon as the weather will permit. I think I shall bring him home with me, as we are likely to have Warm work the Next Campaign, you may for the present send him to Mecklingburg School. In yours of the 26 Jany. I received Coll Kennons Bills on the Continental Treasury, Viz No. 25, Bill for 1000, No 26 for 1000, No 33 for 500, No 34 for 500, No 35 for 500 ammounting in the whole to 3,500 Dollars. I shall present them for payment as soon as I am Able to Attend the Treasury bord, which I hope will be in a very few days. 1 I am sorry indeed for the great Loss sustained by the Inhabitants of Charles Town, it was a dreadful fire. I write Mr. Maclain a few lines by this Post &: shall write my friend Hooper very fully by the Next. 2 Our Army remains as before at Valey Forge. Unless the several States exert themselves to compleat their Batalions Our Continental Army will Cut a poor figure in the Spring, we have not even heard of a Schyrmish lately. I hope to see you in April & am, Dr Sir, Your affect & Obed Servt, CornL Harnett [P.S.] In the midst of my Distress, my Man Sawney ran away from me. I have with much ado hired a little Dutch Boy to make a fire for me. A Servant is not to be had here. I beg you will hire Herons Josh to


[Page 241]
March 3, 1778 209 come to me or some other free man. I don’t know whether I shall ever get Sawney again, it is said he intended to go to Philadelphia. He turned Out to be one of the greatest Villains Living, if I was to tell you some parts of his behaviour it would amaze you. You may pur chase a horse for Josh if he’ll Come, & I can perhaps sell the horse here for as much as he Costs. Yours &c C. H. RC (Nc-U). 1 On March 7 President Laurens laid before Congress the bills of the late Col. William Kennon, acting paymaster and commissary to Virginia and North Carolina troops serving in Georgia. A week later the board of treasury reported in favor of paying Kennon’s bills, but Congress rejected this report and ordered it to be recom mitted. Not until October 30, 1778, when Congress next considered the issue, did it order payment of Kennon’s bills. See JCC, 10:232, 255-57, 12:1071, 1079. 2 Neither of these letters has been found. John Henry to Thomas Johnson Sir. York Town March Sth. 1778. I was informed some Time ago by Col. Smith, that the recruiting Service was much injured for the want of the continental Bounty. If that is the case I should be glad to be informed of it. The Treasury here will now supply it. 1 Genl. Green is made quarter Master Gen eral, this I hope will be attended with the most happy effects. The Expedition into Canada is suspended for the present and the Troops ordered to the North River for the fortification and defence of it. I am Sir with great respect, your obedt. and hble Servt. J Henry Junr. RC (MdAA). 1 See Henry to Johnson, March 6, 1778. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Sir, 3d March 1778 Yesterday I had the honour of sending forward a Letter written the preceeding Evening as a private to yourself to which I beg leave to refer. Congress upon my presenting the Committees Letter from Camp dated the 25th Febry, entered upon the subject without hesitation & confirmed divers Resolves which you will find in the Inclosed Act of yesterday’s date by which you will be pleased to govern your future proceedings relative to the department of Quarter Master General.


[Page 243]
March 3, 1778 211 Dollars. You wrote only for Cloths but where are materials for mak ing up. Mr Hair Dresser recommends to you to substitute flour until he can by his art procure a better article for your hair. In my last dispatches I forwarded a miniature of the General to Mrs Washington from Majr. Rodgers which he packeted in my presence & requested my care of. I think I have seen a performance of yours which discovered superior skill; maybe I am mistaken, but be that as it may, if you have materials, time & inclination you will do me a singular pleasure by sending me a half length of your draught. 2 The Major says the General has a remarkable dead Eye. This did not strike me in either of the three or four times when I saw him. Once I had as good a veiw as Candle light could afford & I am seldom deficient in such strictures. General Burgoyne has transmitted to Congress a long remonstrative Epistle on the Suspension, to which we shall return a very laconic 8c decisive answer. This event must have been preconceived by the un fortunate General, who had therefore put into the hands of his Aid de Camp a Messenger Capt Wilford a No. 2 to be delivered after the receipt of our answer, but without waiting, he enabled me to report it yesterday. This contains a request, that himself 8c certain Officers chiefly of his family may under proper restrictions embark for England. I have communicated to several Members my sentiments and I believe a vote will pass in his favor Nemine Contradicente. I think good may be produced from this Political condescension. How ever let me say the representation he has made of the state of his health & private affairs including his Character is an appeal to hu manity—or in the General’s own term to our Generosity. I shall be exceedingly mortified if we neglect the opportunity of contrasting American liberality to British Cruelty. Should the favor be abused we have subjects enough remaining for full retaliation. The General may adopt any Motto, he has now learn’d that derivative is not higher than original honour & power, his Addresses to Congress in the name of their President are decent & unexceptionable. This is paving the way to a right understanding. I mean to trust a plain Letter or two by Capt Wilford who will probably pass through your Camp 8c apply to you. I write now as I am generally driven to do in my Addresses to you, in haste. God Bless 8c protect you. Henry Laurens RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 Laurens’ last extant letter to his son John, which is dated March 1 in his private letter book in the Laurens’ Papers, ScHi, was apparently dispatched on the second. It is also pertinent to note that John Laurens mentioned receiving two March 3 letters from his father, though only one has been found. Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, p. 134. ’John replied on March 9 that his talents were not equal to the task of painting or sketching a portrait of Washington or anyone else. Ibid., pp. 138-39.


[Page 244]
212 March 4, 1778 Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, the 4th March 1778. I am much honoured by the receipt of your Excellency’s Letter of the 19th Febry. 1 which was delivered to me by Colo Kosciuszko in person, but not early enough by 24 hours to prevent my troubling Baron de Kalb to say “I had nothing to offer the Marquis delafayette on the 25th except respectful Compliments &: good wishes.” 2 This would not have been true, had Your Excellency’s favor been de livered to me soon after the delivery of a Letter dated the 20th Febry & signed by your Excellency which was sent to me by the Board of War uncovered for the information of Congress. 3 I had read this last mentioned Letter to Mr. Lovel before the meeting of Congress & remarked to him that from the Stile & tenor, it must have been intended for the president of Congress. This sentiment which scarcely required further aid, was confirmed beyond all doubt, by the preface of your Excellency’s private Letter. “I intend to write to you as president of Congress,” but unluckily this was not presented to me till the afternoon of the 20th. ft was then the Colo, introduced by General Gates, did me the honour to call at my little apartment. I can account in no way for the miscarriage of the Letter intended for Congress, but by concluding an error in the superscrip- tory, & the omission within, of the customary direction, for it cannot be beleived the Board of War would otherwise have made so unbe coming an appropriation; & their hurry of business apologizes for the want of that nice attention which was necessary to discover from the contents of the Letter that it was manifestly designed for Con gress. From this mistake, if it be really one, it follows that I have no Commands on me from Congress directed to your Excellency, who will hear from the Board with whom Your Excellency apparently corresponded. Nevertheless, as it is neither out of the Line of the presidents Duty nor inconsistent with his Right as a Delegate, I shall do myself the honour of conveying a Copy of the Act of Congress of the 2d Inst, passed upon Resolving to suspend the intended Irruption, 4 meaning from thence to prove that Congress maintain an high opinion of your Excellency as a Soldier & a Gentleman & you may depend upon it Sir, the approbation contained in that Act, is genuine, not merely complimentary. Admitting the phraseology to be not quite unex ceptionable, I should be criminally silent were I not to declare, the intentions of Congress respecting Your Excellency’s honour & merits, are altogether so. I will in this case presume to answer for each Individual Member. I love to walk in the Light &: to dwell on these bright scenes. Your Excellency, I flatter myself, will indulge my silence on some particulars alluded to in your Excellency’s Letter of the 19th.


[Page 246]
214 March 4, 1778 the Marquis is serene &: his own Breast tranquil; a Blunder, not his own, has afforded an opportunity for a display of Wisdom which has gained him the confidence of the people, hence my Dear Sir, you will perceive that you may with very great propriety & decency, return to your late Miltary Post. I shall add to the Act of Congress above mentioned one of the 24th Ulto. which by three last words added at my particular request in joins you to report the reasons of your Conduct “to Congress.” 6 Your Excellency may possibly think this anticipated by the Letter of the 20th Febry—& if the Board of War shall have transmitted Copies of these Resolves the present Inclosed will appear to be superfluous, I have however confined my self within the sphere of my Duty, relying upon Your Excellency’s indulgence to excuse me for making an Address which is altogether private, the Vehicle for two public Acts. I know not what to say relative to General Putnam’s Command, it appears to me that Gentlemen wish him away, &: at the same time are loth to offend the good Man—if it be from his unfitness their wishes arise, the sacrifice is very politic & unwarrantable. I remarked in a late Act by General Gates he retained the stile of Commander of the Troops in the Northern department, I know of no Resolve by which he has been divested of that Command & I have heard it said lately that there would be a necessity for his taking the Field again in the Spring. Your Excellency having now a proper opening to correspond with Congress may if you shall judge it proper suggest a plan for employ ment of such troops as are at present under your Command & such as may be collected. I feel the utmost confidence that Congress will pay becoming attention to every thing your Excellency shall be pleased to offer. I have the honour to be with the Highest Esteem & Respect. P.S. I should not like our correspondence to be talked of by everyone who calls himself or who may seem to be friend. I am afraid of noth ing but lies & misrepresentation. A Note in the Margin of your Letter "I beg you will engage Con gress to read over all the papers I send to them,” is a clear proof the Letter of 20th Febry was intended for Congress altho’ it might have been by mistake directed to the Board of War. I had not perceived this Note till the present Moment. LB (ScHi). 1 This was a private letter to Laurens in which Lafayette deplored the fact that it was impossible for him to carry out the expedition against Canada that Congress had appointed him to command. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:295-97. 2 See Laurens to Baron de Kalb, February 25, 1778. 3 This letter, in which Lafayette described at length the obstacles in the way of a Canadian expedition, is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda,), 1:305-8.


[Page 254]
222 March 5, 1778 Committee on the Claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co. Report [ante March 5 1778] 1 The Committee to whom were referred Sundry Letters received by the Commercial Committee relative to the Claims of Messrs. Rodrique Hortalez & C. of Paris Report—That Considerable quantities of Cannon, Arms, Amunition, Cloathing & other Stores, shipped by the House of Roderique Hortalez 8c Co. in different ships & Vessells from France & the West Indies, for the use & account of these United States, That the greatest part of these articles have been delivered to the agents of these States, and it is the opinion of this Committee that the Said States are justly charged for the whole Amount thereof. 2 Resolved, That the Commercial Committee be authorized 8c em powered to receive from the Agent or Attorney of Said Roderique Hortalez 8c Co. the Invoices & other Documents Relative to these transactions, in order to ascertain the Amount of their debt, & make report to Congress from time to time of their proceedings for Con firmation. Resolved, That the Commercial Committee be authorised & em powered to pay to the said Agent or Attorney, Such Sums of Contin ental Money as he may from time to time require, fixing the rate of Exchange on every such payment, at the Current or Equitable course of Exchange at the date thereof. Resolved, That the Said Committee be authorized 8c empowered to ship such Cargoes of American produce as they may find convenient & proper, from time to time, for France, for the purpose of discharg ing this debt, consigning such Cargoes to the House of the said Roderique Hortalez & Co. and Whereas it appears to your Committee from the several Letters laid before them, that the Said Roderique Hortalez & Co. are inclined to enter into a Contract with the United States of America for a future Supply of all such Cannon, Arms, Ammunition, Cloathing, 8c other Stores, together with Specie which they may from time to time order, the Conditions on which such Contract is proposed to be entered into, is herewith presented for the consideration of this Honorable House, and if approved, Resolved, That the Commercial Committee be authorized 8c em powered to Contract with Mr. Francy, Agent or Attorney to the said Roderique Hortalez 8c Co. for the payment of all such supplies as have been already shipped or shall be hereafter shipped agreeable to the orders of said Committee 8c to the terms of the Contract. MS (ScHi). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 This date has been assigned because it seems likely that this was the report on the claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co., the appellation adopted to cloak the


[Page 255]
March 5, 1778 223 commercial operations of Caron de Beaumarchais, that was read in Congress on March 5. See JCC, 10: 185, 192, 225. 2 The attending delegates’ unfamiliarity with the history of “this mysterious com merce” with Beaumarchais explains their reluctance to approve such an unqualified acknowledgment that the United States “are justly charged for the whole Amount" claimed before they had had an opportunity to hear from their more knowledge able colleague Robert Morris, who was at this time at his home at Manheim. Consequently Congress postponed consideration of this report and Morris was urged to come to York to assist in evaluating the claims. See Committee of Com merce to Robert Morris, March 5; John Penn to Robert Morris, March 6; and Robert Morris’ Proposed Report on the Claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co., March 12, 1778. For background on Beaumarchais’ commercial transactions and his claims against the United States, see Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 1:369-86. See also Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane, October 1, 1776, note 3. William Duer to Robert Morris My dear Friend Reading March 5th 1778...JI should imagine my dear Friend, you can be no Stranger to the present critical Situation of our Army, and the late Embarassment which the Ignorance and Faction of a thin C ss have thrown in the Way of forming Magazines for the Army. The Consequences will in my Opinion, occasion its Dissolution very Shortly unless both they, and the State of Penna, cease to interfere with the Military Depart ments. This Circumstance, the Necessity of attending to our Finances, in order to supply the Exegencies of the next Campaign, and the means for bringing a force into the Field, and introducing in it, Discipline, and a Spirit of Enterprise call for the immediate Attention of every Lover of his Country, and particular[l]y of you who (without Flattery which I abhor) possess Talents to serve it at this Juncture, and whose Connection, with a State which is likely to be made a sacrifice of, demand in a peculiar degree all your Exertions. Let me my dear Sir conjure you to attend Congress on the Return of the Committee from Camp. I am sensible private Convenience cannot operate upon your mind at this Crisis, provided you have a Prospect of being useful. Mr. Lee writes me from Congress that several mem bers are daily Expected. 2 Mr. Hancock will be there in a few days, 3 and if my Presence can induce you, I will after I have secured my Baggage at Coryell’s Ferry (for w’h I set out this day) return and stay one month. Perhaps my dear Friend, the Joint Exertions of some [of] us may save our Country, and revive the Expiring Reputation of Congress, at least it is our Duty to try it. I write in a great hurry, and in much anxiety of mind: which must plead my excuse for Incorrectness. Let me know by a letter to Reading whether you will attend Congress; if you do I will immediately pro-


[Page 256]
224 March 5, 1778 ceed to Manheim on my Return from Coryell’s 4 and go with you. Write to Colo. Jos Reid to attend I am sure that his and your Pres ence will give a Right Turn to the Votes of Pensilvania and Delawar without which the endeavors of the other States will be useless. God bless you and your Family to whom I beg to be particularly remem bered. Wm. Duer [P.S.] This Letter will be delivered to you by Dr. Stringer of Albany an Acquaintance of mine whom I take the Liberty of recommending to your attention. W.D. Tr (DLC). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett from the original manuscript then in the hands of Stan V. Henkels. 1 Ellipsis in Tr. According to a notation by the copyist on the Tr, the omitted section of the letter dealt with Duer’s “excuse for delaying at Reading.” 2 Francis Lightfoot Lee’s letter to Duer has not been found. ’John Hancock did not return to Congress until June 19. See JCC, 11:621. * "Congress” in Tr. This is obviously a scribal error because, as Burnett cogently argued, “it seems quite clear that Duer is proposing to return from Coryell’s Ferry by way of Manheim and go to Congress with Morris.” Burnett, Letters, 3:108n.3. A 19th-century extract of this letter, taken from the original manuscript, also reads “Coryell’s” instead of "Congress.” See William B. Reed, Life and Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2 vols. Philadelphia: Lindsay & Blackiston, 1847), l:365n. It should be noted that in this work Reed gives March 6, 1778, as the date of Duer’s letter. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana Sir, 5th March 1778 I beg leave to refer to a Letter of the 3d Inst, by the present & Messenger who was that day repulsed by Susquehana & is now going to make a second attempt. Shall I request the favor of you to present the Inclosed Act of Congress to the Quarter Master General 8c the two Assistant Quarter Masters general respectively 8c to excuse me to those Gentlemen for this mode of Address—which the present moment has obliged me to adopt. The Act was done on the 2d but these duplicates have been detained from me until this Instant. 1 Yesterday Congress received a piteous narrative of the article of Tents in a Letter from Colo. Butler to the Board of War dated 26th Febry. I wished to have sent you a full Copy but time will not permit, therefore shall extract 8c inclose one or two Paragraphs 8c Copy of a Calculation of the Number of Tents expected to be ready the 20th April. 2 This being laid before General Green will give him a proper momentum 8: that Gentleman may expect in a day or two extended Resolves on this Subject. Congress have Resolved to authorize General Washington to raise


[Page 257]
March 6, 1778 225 a Body of 400 Indians &: by this hand I transmit their Act for that purpose. 3 I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See ]CC, 10:210. 2 These enclosures have not been found. 3 See JCC, 10:220-21; and Committee at Camp to Laurens, February 20 and March 2, 1778. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, 5th March 1778. The present Messenger will deliver to your Excellency with this, a Letter which I had the honour of writing the 1st Inst. & which has been detained by Susquehana. Inclosed herewith Your Excellency will be pleased to receive the following Acts of Congress. 1. 2d March for appointing a Quarter Master General & two As sistant Quarter Masters general & for other purposes in that depart ment. 2d. 2d & 3d March Containing divers Resolves relative to Lieutt. General Burgoyne & the embarkation for Europe of himself, family & Servants. 3d. 4th March Empowering your Excellency to employ in the Serv ice of the United States a Body of not exceeding 400 Indians. I have the honour to be with the highest Esteem. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Committee at Camp to George Washington Sir Moor Hall 6th March 1778. Upon considering the Matter referred to the Committee by your Letter of this Morning, We are of Opinion that a very able Officer should have the Command on Hudson’s River. And if Either Putnam or Heath must be sent to Rhode Island we should prefer the former. 1 A new arrangement may be made by Congress before the opening of the Campaign especially if Genl. Gates should (as we suppose he will) incline to take the Field. The Committee Sir sensible that you are best acquainted both with the Characters of Men and the Exigencies of the Service beg you will make such Disposition as on the whole shall appear most eligible. We are Sir, your most obedient & humble Servants, Fra Dana by Order


[Page 259]
March 6, 1778 227 early this spring as possible. Maryland I hope will not be backward. The draught of the Militia recommended by Congress I fear will meet with many obsticles in the Legislature. Should that measure fail, I am at a loss to discover what expedient can be fallen upon. The Expedi tion into Canada is suspended. Genl. Burgoyne and two of his officers upon his earnest request to Congress is permitted to embark for Eng land. Enclosed you have a copy of the resolve upon which the ten Thousand dollars mentioned above was granted, by which you will see part of the money is to be applied towards paying the premium for taking up deserters. I am Sir your very hble. Servt. J Henry Junr. RC (MdAA). ’See ]CC, 10:225. Henry Laurens to John Burgoyne Sir. York Town in Pennsylvania 6th March 1778 By the hand of Lieutenant Wilford on the 26th February I re ceived the honor of Your Excellency’s Letter of the 11th of that Month, No. 1 & upon the 2d Inst, of another Letter from Your Excel lency of the former date No. 2. These in due course I presented to Congress & I have received in charge to transmit to Your Excellency the three Acts undermentioned, which will be found within the present Cover. 1 1. An Act of the 2d March confirming the Act of January 8th for suspending the embarkation of the Troops in the Convention of Saratoga. 2. An Act of the 3d March enabling Lieutt. Wilford to transmit certain papers to General Howe. 3. An Act of the same date for granting Passports for Your Excel lency with the Officers of Your Excellency’s family & Servants to em bark to Great Britain &: for other purposes therein Resolved. To these several Acts Sir, I beg leave particularly to refer, as con taining all that Congress have judged necessary for me to return to Your Excellency’s Letters above recited. I have the honour to be, with all proper Consideration, Sir, Your Excellency’s Obedient &: Most humble servant, H. Laurens Tr (MHi). Written and signed by Laurens. This is the duplicate letter that Laur ens enclosed in his letter of this date to Gen. William Heath, the commanding officer in Boston who was responsible for the supervision of Burgoyne and his army. 1 For further information about these “three Acts,” see Laurens to Richard Wil ford, March 1, 1778, note.


[Page 265]
March 7, 1778 233 Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Town March 7 1778 I wrote you the 3d by Post, since which I have not been able to attend Congress, Owing to the very bad weather, I hope the next week I shall be able to do Duty as usual. My Man Sawney has been run away ever since the 5 Feby. & I have not heard a word of him, I suppose he will if Possible get to Philadel phia. I wish Heron’s Josh could come to me in Time but I fear he cannot, I can’t meet with a Servant at any rate, I dont know but I shall be Obliged to endeavour to return home on horse back &: leave Carriage and all behind me. It is impossible to describe to you the Vilany of my fellow—he has robbd Our Qr. Master of more than £100 worth of Goods &c. Capt. Doherty is just setting off. I shall write you more fully by next Post &: am with true esteem, Dr Sir, Your affec & Obedient Servt, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] Compts to all friends. RC (PHC). Henry Laurens to Samuel Adams Dear Sir York Town 7th March 1778. You may remember the anxiety which I expressed upon hearing of the Portuguese Vessel being carried into Boston as prize, neither you nor I knew then who were Owners of the Captor, I am sure I did not. Congress two days ago received a Memorial on that affair from the Honorable Robt. Morris Esqr. which exhibits after much candid narration, a Prayer, “that Congress will cause a fair &: public Sale to be made of the Vessel & her Cargo, that the charge & expense arising on the Sale be paid & the remainder or Net Proceed be invested in Loan Office Certificates bearing Interest for the Benefit of the true &: Lawful proprietors of said Vessel & Cargo.” 1 The Ideas of the Memorialist are, that from this very partial resti tution of original property—“The original Owners will obtain justice & reparation,” in which from the prejudice of my Education I have the misfortune to differ extremely. That “the Owners of the Phoenix will be relieved of all their diffi culties.” This sentiment precisely accords with my own, but unfor tunately I cannot from any consideration unite with any set of Men in an attempt to dupe Congress into a participation of the Crimes or follies of those good Owners. Then closes the pious peroration— “thus, the National Fate &: Credit of these Infant States will remain


[Page 268]
236 March 7, 1778 to have practiced medicine in South Carolina. See Walter B. Edgar and Louise Bailey, Biographical Directory of the South Carolina House of Representatives (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1977), 2:240-41, 265-67. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir- York Town 7th March 1778. I beg leave to refer you to the inclosed duplicate of what I had the honour of writing to you yesterday by Mr. Peck to which I add a Copy of General Burgoyne’s. You will receive inclosed an Act of Congress of this date for restrict ing the granting furloughs in the Army. 1 I have pressed the Treasury to embrace the present opportunity by Frederick Weare an honest careful Man & of good responsibility to transmit for your department 50 or 100 Thousand Dollars in part of the whole Sum intended & I hope the recommendation will meet suc cess. A like Sum to be forwarded by Mr. Dodd who is to follow some day in next Week will assist you for the present moment, &: more ample supplies will be sent by other conveyances. I have the honour to be, With great Regard & Esteem, Sir, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. [P.S.] I just now learn that twenty Thousand Dollars will be delivered indeed are delivered to the bearer Fred Weare. RC (MHi). 1 Congress gave greater authority over the issuance of furloughs to “the Com mander in Chief, or commander of a department” in response to a recent Com mittee at Camp report on abuses by regimental colonels, whose authority to issue furloughs was thereby restricted. See Committee at Camp to Laurens, March 3, 1778, which was read in Congress on the sixth; and JCC, 10:227, 230. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir > 7th March 1778. Major Brice left me yesterday & carried with him Six Thousand Dollars on Account of your Excellency & two Letters which in obedi ence to your Excellency’s command I had the honor of writing under the 4th & 6th Inst. I spoke again this morning to General Gates on the subject of recalling Your Excellency to General Washington’s Army & although we differed in opinion I really beleive he means well. However when the recommendation came before Congress, I could not consistently


[Page 270]
238 March 7, 1778 3 See JCC, 10:221—22. This day Laurens also transmitted copies of the March 4 resolves on the defense of the Hudson and a March 7 resolve on restricting fur loughs with a brief covering letter addressed to the “Commanding Officer of the Army in the Northern department,” which was received by Lafayette in that capacity before he left Albany to rejoin Washington’s army. See PCC, item 13, fol. 213; and Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:362. 4 William Duer. Henry Laurens to Israel Putnam Sir, 7th March 1778. I had the honour of receiving &: Reporting to Congress on the 26th, your favour of the 10th of that Month, 1 this was immediately com mitted to the Board of War & I have received no other Commands from Congress save the Inclosed Act of the present date for restricting the granting furloghs in the Army. The Treasury have already Sent pretty large Sums for supplying the Military Chests in the Northern Armies. These I am assured will soon be followed by farther Sums & that such measures are now in motion as will discharge arrears in every quarter. I trust there will be no failure on the part of that Board. Next Week Congress mean to take under their Consideration the State of our public funds when probably the establishing a Loan Office near your Army agreeable to your proposition will be taken into view. I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Major General Putnam, Hudsons River.” 'General Putnam’s February 10 letter to Laurens, in which he described his efforts to fortify the Hudson and suggested the establishment of a Continental loan office at Poughkeepsie for him to draw upon whenever he needed money, is in PCC, item 159, fols. 121-28. Putnam’s letter, according to the journals, was read in Congress on February 27. JCC, 10:204. Putnam also noted the need for such a loan office in a February 13 letter to Washington, an extract of which the general forw’arded to Congress where it was read on March 5. See JCC, 10:225. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Sir, York Town 7th March 1778 I had the honor to write you the 25th Ultimo to wch. beg leave to refer you. 1 As my worthy Collegue Mr Duer, is long ere this arrived with you, he will minutely inform you with every material circumstance relative to the publick transactions here, to the time of his departure, since which nothing of considerable notority has happened. Your letter of the 11th Janry. with accounts & Vouchers for the expenditure of monies &c in supporting the Prisoners of War, I im-


[Page 271]
March 7, 1778 239 mediately laid before Congress, who ordered them to the Auditors Office, but such is the present low State of the Treasury, and the large demands thereon, from the Quar. Masr. General’s & the Commissary of provisions departments that the payment of those Accounts must be for sometime postponed; 2 It may be necessary to inform you that Congress has lately passed a Resolve, that all the States from New Hampshire to Virginia exhibit their accounts relative to prisoners of War on or before the 15th day of April next, on failure, to be excluded, from payment, 3 this Resolution has been sent out to the several Governors by Express; The two last articles charged in your Account, has the appearance of Abitary enties and may require an explanation, this I hint at for your government, when you furnish an account of such articles as were omitted in the former. The Northern Expedition under the Marquis de Fiette, is by Con gress deemed impracticable, therefore set aside. By a private letter received yesterday from Mr. Clement Biddle a Commissary, we are informed, that Genl. [Wayne] who went over to the Jerseys with a party in order to distroy the forage engaged a party of the British light Infantry whom he totaly routed, and the major part of them were killed or taken prisoners. I herewith send you a pamphlet, 4 reprinted at Lancaster, together with this days Pensylvania Gazette for your perusal having nothing more material to add but that I am still the only member here repre senting our State. I have the honor to be with great respect, Your most Obedient & Humble Servant, Fra Lewis RC (NN). Addressed: ‘‘Honble. Pierre Van Cortlandt Esquire.” 1 Not found. 2 In his January 11 letter to the New York delegates, Pierre Van Cortlandt, the president of the New York Convention, reported that pursuant to an August 15, 1777, resolve of Congress which did not reach the convention until November, he was enclosing accounts of the money New York had expended on prisoners of war. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1114. The accounts themselves have not been found. Lewis presented them to Congress on February 18 and they were then referred to the Board of Treasury, but this is the last mention of them in the journals for 1778. JCC, 10:179. 3 This resolve was passed on February 26. JCC, 10:198. 1 See John Henry to Thomas Johnson, February 17, 1778, note 2. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town March 7 1778 The delegates had the favor of your Secretary’s letter with copy from James Young Esq. 1 It is extremely painfull to hear & to make complaints on one side or other. We did not communicate the con-


[Page 272]
240 March 7, 1778 tents to Congress, ’till yesterday, when we felt ourselves called upon, by the conversation of Gentlemen on the floor among themselves. I find this morning that they have the Counterpart, & that proper & full information was said to have been given to the waggon masters. I hope your Excellency received the papers I had in charge to transmit to you, & which went by Genl. Wilkinson. Our army is now arriving at an important period. The Campaign will probably open soon. Much depends on its being well reinforced. I hope this state will not fail to exert its utmost influence. I am. Sir, with very great respect, your Excellencys most humble servant, Jona. B. Smith RC (PHi). 1 Pennsylvania officials were embarrassed in their efforts to relieve the distress of Continental troops at Valley Forge when two brigades of Northampton County wagoners refused to obey orders and attempted to return home. The episode was dramatized by the fact that four men were drowned and several wagons and horses were lost in their attempt to recross the Schuylkill River, and Deputy Quartermaster Henry Lutterloh dispatched the brigades’ leader, Michael Snyder, to Wagon Master General James Young for trial “to make an example of him to Deter others from the like attempt.” For Young’s correspondence with Pennsylvania Council Secretary Timothy Matlack on this subject, and several other documents related to the state’s efforts to provide transportation for the Continental quarter master and commissary services during this difficult period, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:276, 282-83, 289-90, 298-99, 319-21, 330, 337-39, 343, 348-49, 352-54. See also Jonathan Bayard Smith to James Young, March 11, 1778. Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings [March 8-12, 1778] 8. Sunday Conferred with the General &: Major Generals &: the Commissioners on the subject of the Cartel. 1 Conferred with Colos. Levingston &: Cortland of New-York & the Mass Colonels upon arrangemts. 9. General not present. 10. General not present. 11. At Head Quarters. Conferred upon the Cartel. 12. Wrote to Major Chase 2 about the Tents. 3 MS (DLC). Conclusion of Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, January 28- March 12, 1778. In the hand of Francis Dana. ’For further information on the problems surrounding the proposed prisoner cartel with the British, see Committee at Camp to Washington, February 11, note 1, and March 9? 1778; and Henry Laurens to Washington, March 15, 1778, note 1. 3 See the committee’s March 14 letter to Thomas Chase, deputy quartermaster general at Boston. 3 For information on the return of the committee members to Congress following the conclusiqn of their work at camp, see Committee at Camp Minutes of Pro ceedings, January 28-31, 1778, note 1.


[Page 273]
March 8, 1778 241 Joseph Reed to John Bayard Dear Sir 1 [March 8? 1778] 2 A close Attention to our Business &: some Engagements abroad have hitherto prevented my answering your Favour of the 25 February. Nothing could give me more Pleasure (because I am sure it would redound to the Honour of the State & the common Interest) to have its Powers vigorously & effectually exerted in every Thing that re spects the Supply & Accomodation of the Army. My Opinion was against its taking this Position, because I feared the Difficulties which have ensued. But the great Apprehensions & Anxieties of the People to which so great a Regard was shewn as to detain the Army on this Spot seem to me to have been improperly expressed, if the utmost Attention is not shewn to render their Situation supportable; com fortable it can never be. The Troops certainly have a Claim upon the Authority of this State & I know no Circumstances more likely to prove fatal to this Government than to press so earnestly for the Cantonment of the Army here & then to fail in its Attempts to furnish the necessary Supplies. The General &: many others are very sensible that the Operations of the State have been enfeebled & frustrated by the Interference of Officers in various Departments who have made their military Power an Instrument of Offence against the State. They are therefore not only convinced of the Propriety but wish the Powers of the State to [be] fairly tried & if they shall be found in all ordinary Cases equal to the Demands I believe the most effectual Measures will ever be taken to repress either the malevolent or ambitious Proce dures of any of its Enemies so far as they are attempted under the Colour of military Authority. The Presidt. very properly transmitted to the General a Copy of Mr. Young’s letter on the Transaction men tioned in your Letter. We do not at present hear of any Scarcity of Provisions in Camp, but we only live as the vulgar say from Hand to Mouth. The Affair of the Waggons mentioned in my last was much exaggerated. The Desire some Persons have to avail themselves of every Circumstance unfavourable to the State led them to speak much larger than the Truth would admit. There were but a few Horses & only one or two Men drowned by their Rashness & Folly. We now have a Body of Continental Troops posted from Barron Hill as far as your Place which keeps that Country in some State of Security & has very much broke the Intercourse which notwithstanding the Risque of Horses & corporal Punishment the vile & disafected still persisted in. The Fellow apprehended on Justice Knox’s Account was executed at Bartholemew’s Tavern & left hanging as an Example to other Offenders of the same kind—he acknowledged the Justice of his Sentence & hoped his Fate would be a Warning to others. I was very apprehensive he would have escaped from the Lenity of our Officers


[Page 277]
March 9, 1778 245 clear them from the Imputation of Inequity. And first it must be observed that in every Compact between beligerent Powers to ascer tain Money Matters Recourse must be had to a tertium interveniens or middle Rate, neither Party being willing to trust the Honesty of the other seeing that if he did, that other by exercising the allowed Sovereignty of a State might raise or lower the current Coin so as to suit his own Convenience according to the Circumstances and Exigen cies which might arise. A fortiori on the present Occasion is such Precaution necessary to us the Value of whose Money is from the Nature of the Case more fluctuating than that of other Nations. Besides which the Enemy deny that it is Money and have not only the Will but in a great Measure the Power too of governing its Value and further have exerted themselves to depreciate it by Methods totally unprecedented among honest Men. If then it were agreed that both Sides should pay for the Subsistence of Prisoners in the Money of the respective Countries, what would be the Consequence but that our Resources must be entirely exhausted in maintaining our Enemies and this by Reason of their Knavery and our Folly. Besides this it would be declaring upon the very Face of the Transaction that our Money is not worth a Quarter of what it is uttered for by Congress, which is the next Step to making it worth nothing at all. With a View to these Inconveniences Congress fix the Medium to be in Spanish Milled Dollars worth each one paper Dollar of the Currency of these States & 4/6 Sterling. Nor does the Objection of Inequity lie so strongly as Gentlemen suppose even in their own favorite Point of View, for it is permitted to them to pay in Specie; & if they can do it cheaper and more conveniently than in Gold they certainly will, but the Fact is their Provision costs them more than ours even on this inequitable Exchange as it is called and we shall have to pay for so much as is furnished to our Prisoners according to what it costs them and not as we might have bought it in the Country. Nor shall we be permitted to replace our Deficiency in Provisions unless they happen to want Subsistence. For this we find was the Case at first, and tho the Liberty of sending in Flour and Wheat as they grew short in these Articles was (on that Principle and for their Advantage) extended to an Amount for purchasing other Necessaries Yet even then they by Proclamation obliged us to sell our Wheat at their Price or in other Words to pay for their Commodities just what they pleased. And tho it may be said that this Proclamation applied chiefly or only to their own Territory, yet when it is known (and the Fact is) that the Inhab itants of that Territory never did raise Wheat beyond their own Consumption the slight thin Pretence only exposes their Conduct. But to return, it is evident that the Interest of the Enemy now calls upon them loudly for an Exchange of Men And therefore it is by no Means a Matter of Surprize that Genl. Howe after having delayed it


[Page 283]
March 9, 1778 251 this kind at your Camp. I should be glad to hear from you on this head soon. I have lately seen Doctor Shippen, who has desired me to procure for the use of the American Hospitals two Tons of Bowen’s Sago Powder. 6 He greatly approves of it & says it should be used in every Part of the Continent. The greatest difficulty will be to get it here, as there is no sending it by Sea. Mr Harnet for upwards a Month past has been very ill in the Gout, he was glad to hear of you. The Compli ments &: good Wishes of the Ladies await you—& that you may have an happy Interview with your family is the sincere wish of, yours affectionately, Edwd Langworthy RC (MH-H). 1 Palfrey had been thinking of resigning as paymaster general for several months. In a January 5 letter to Washington written at Lancaster, he had reported his intention to go to York the following day to settle the affairs of his department and indicated that once this was accomplished he intended to resign, citing his expenses at camp and the press of personal affairs in Massachusetts. Washington Papers, DLC. The origin of Langworthy and Palfrey’s friendship is not known, but they probably had become acquainted while Palfrey was in York at that time. In January 1778 Langworthy had been appointed to both the old Board of War and the Board of Treasury—committees Palfrey had consulted directly in his at tempts to improve the operation of his department and obtain funds. JCC, 10:45-47, 51-53, 60. Although Palfrey did return to New England in April 1778 for a lengthy stay with his family, and thereafter periodically reaffirmed his desire to resign, he was repeatedly dissuaded and continued as paymaster general until Congress appointed him consul to France in November 1780. Unfortunately, he was lost at sea en route to that post. See JCC, 18:1018; and John Gorham Palfrey, Life of William Palfrey (Boston: Charles C. Little and James Brown, 1845), pp. 427-41. 2 The auditors for the army had been appointed on January 10, and it was the resolves outlining their duties that had passed on February 6. See JCC, 10:38, 131-37; and Daniel Roberdeau to John Clark, February 9, 1778. 3 See Henry Laurens to Richard Wilford, March I, 1778, note. 1 In addition to the $2 million emission Congress had authorized on March 5 upon the recommendation of the Board of Treasury, emissions of JI million, $5 million, and $500,000 were authorized on April 4, 11, and 18. See JCC, 10:223, 309, 337-38, 365. “See Henry Laurens to Israel Putnam, March 7, 1778, note. “On Langworthy’s earlier efforts to introduce Bowen’s sago powder to the medical department, see Langworthy to Benjamin Rush, December 26, 1777. Henry Laurens to William Cooke Sir, 9th March 1778 Your Letter of the 10th Jany. reached me no earlier than the 6th Inst. I presented it the next Morning to Congress, when the Contents were taken under consideration and it was Resolved to accept your


[Page 284]
252 March 9, 1778 resignation, as you will see by an Act of the 7th Inst, here inclosed. 1 I am with great respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colo. Willm. Cooke, 12th Pennsylvania Regimt.” 1 See JCC, 10:228. Cooke’s letter of resignation is not in PCC. Five days after Laurens wrote this letter Cooke was court-martialed “for disobedience of orders in sundry instances,” convicted, and publicly reprimanded. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:52, 81-82. It is pertinent to note that when Cooke wrote his letter of resignation he was absent without leave from his regiment. William Duer to Robert R. Livingston My dear Freind Baskenridge March 10th. 1778 I received your Letter of the 30th Jany. 1 at Reading where I had stopt for some days in my Way homewards in Expectation of meeting with my Colleague Mr. Philip Livingston who I had reason to expect would have been at that Place about the 8 or 10 Feby. On the Receipt of your Letter, in which you mention that you had wrote to Morris on a Matter of the utmost Importance to our State, 2 desiring me to open it in Case he should be loitering on the Road, I determined notwithstanding a very Weak State both of Body and Mind to return to Congress at York Town (where the Letter for Morris was stopt) in order to attend to its Contents, in Case I should not find Mr. P. Livingston at this Place, for which I immediately set out. Being dis appointed in my Expectation I am just going to set out for Congress (and in Case Mr. Morris should not have returned thither from Camp (where he has been for five weeks on a Come, for reforming the Army) I shall open the Letter and attend to the Matters you recommend. At the Same Time, my dear Freind, It is a Duty which I owe myself to inform you, and by your Means, my Freinds in the Governt. of our State, that I cannot possibly stay there more than three Weeks. It is now near two Years since I quitted home, during which Time I have not paid the least Attention to my private Affairs, which are in the Utmost Confusion—and if not speedily attended to may involve me in Difficulties injurious in the highest degree both to my Fortune and Reputation, especially in matters which I transacted for the Public. Independant of this Consideration my Health is much shattered by an Intermitting Fever which has been hanging upon me during the Course of last Summer and Fall, and my Mind much Impair’d by a Close Attention to Business, and by an inexpressible anxiety which I cannot help feeling for the State of our Public Affairs which I am sorry to tell you in my Opinion (and I think I am not of a desponding [cast?]) wear a most unpromising Aspect. It would take


[Page 291]
March 10, 1778 259 x See Committee at Camp to Thomas Wharton, February 28, 1778, note. 3 See Marine Committee to Thomas Johnson and to James Nicholson, March 4 1778. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Sir, 10th March 1778 The last I had the honor of writing to your Excellency was dated the 1st Inst. Yesterday your Excellency’s favour of the 5th Inst, with an Inclosed Report of the suspension of supernumerary & profligate Officers reached me & was immediately presented to Congress. The House expressed great satisfaction with your Excellency’s proceedings re specting those Officers & committed the papers to a Select Committee of three who have not yet Reported. 1 Inclosed herein Your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress of the 7th Inst, for holding on Wednesday 22d April a General Fast throughout the United States. 2 I remain with great Regard LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 In his March 5 letter to Laurens and accompanying report to Congress, Gov ernor Livingston described how, in the course of carrying out a February 9 resolve authorizing the states to remove supernumerary Continental civil or military officers "not immediately appointed by Congress,” he had dismissed five members of the “Quarter masters & Commissaries department" in Princeton. See PCC, item 68, fols. 333-37; and JCC, 10:139-40. On March 11 Congress instructed Laurens to thank Livingston for his action and resolved to reimburse state officials for expenses they might incur in carrying out the February 9 resolve. JCC, 10:242. 3 Laurens also wrote a brief letter this day to Washington transmitting copies of March 7 resolves on holding a general fast and regulating the grant of military furloughs. See PCC, item 13, fol. 218; and JCC, 10:229-30. Henry Laurens to Thomas Wharton Sir, York Town 10th March 1778. I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 7th Inst, by Messenger Millet & yesterday of receiving & presenting to Congress your favour of the 3d Inst, which was thence Committed to the Board of War & I have received no commands respecting the Contents, 1 but in the course of duty, aggreeable to Your Excellency’s request I now transmit Six Commissions for Cruizers with Instructions & Bonds. I remain with very great Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Obedient & Most huml servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress


[Page 292]
260 March 10, 1778 RC (MH-H). 1 President Wharton’s March 3 letter to Laurens, which was primarily con cerned with urging other states to share more of the burden of supplying wagons, is in PCC, item 69, 1:477-79, and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:327-29. It does not appear that Congress took any action on this letter other than referring it to the Board of War. Henry Laurens to Christopher Zahn Dear Sir, 1 10th March 1778. I am sorry you have not enabled me to acknowledge the Receipt of a single Line from my Neighbor Zahn since we parted in June last. Although I am not under the dominion of a very anxious mind & that I repose the utmost confidence in your judgement as a Planter & attention as an Attorney & Friend, yet from various considerations it would have given me pleasure to have received an account from yourself, reflective & prospective, of affairs at Mount Tacitus. Per suaded as I am that every thing is going forward under your usual good management, you will nevertheless admit, that a desire of know ing whether we can afford to expend &: to give fifty or Five hundred, is not a criminal passion—especially in a Man who while his usual income is greatly straightned is exposed to such exorbitant charges for common, I should say, very mean subsistence as are Sufficient to impoverish a very large Estate. Only think of paying £11.7.6. Carolina Money for a pair of shoes, Negro shoes, for George, & articles in proportion. Our Neighbor the Revd. Mr. Turquand is now in York Town transacting business for the Society at Red Stone with whom he is connected, 2 he informs me the families are all pretty well except the old Gentleman who has lost the little patience he carried from Sante. Poor old man he discards his business with me in this part of the World to be quite of a different nature from that he used to talk of in the piaza, he has found it necessary to accept of Services from me, when I might not only have witheld them, but have put him to great inconvenience. To do him acts of kindness when the opportunity was fair, gave me the most pleasure & satisfaction. Mr. Turquand desires his Compliments. This will probably be delivered to you by Mr. John Christian Senf an ingenious, sensible, Young Gentleman, who in the last summers Campaign was taken prisoner by General Gates’s Troops. He had been a Lieutenant Engineer under General . Sometime after he had been Captured, he determined to abandon the infamous Cause into which his Prince had plunged him without his own consent, & to become an Inhabitant & Citizen among a free people. General Gates was so well pleased with his whole behavior as to give him the


[Page 293]
March 10, 1778 261 Rank of Captain of Engineers & to recommend him strongly to me. I have for several reasons which this Gentleman will explain to you if you converse together, advised him to seek his fortune in the Southern Climates. 3 If he has health &: a few friends I am of opinion he will find it there. He is an excellent draughtsman 8c equal to every kind of surveying business. These with other qualifications which he is possessed of, will enable him to go through the first efforts in a new Country with tolerable ease; & after a little experience he will be competent to helping himself, in the meantime I request all my freinds to shew him countenance. Perhaps we may soon employ Capt. Senf if he does not obtain better business to resurvey Mount Tacitus. Your Civilities to him will not be thrown away. I say nothing of my private affairs under your direction being con fident of your friendly attention in every respect & flattering my self with an assurance of hearing from you very soon. General Burgoyne having learned to address Congress in a becom ing Stile 8c having earnestly requested leave to go to England for his health & for the vindication of his conduct Congress have consented. Our public affairs in general are not in so good a train as I could wish, but every defect is owing to a Langour in the States. Consider Sir, what is the Cause 8c what may be the consequence, of Congress’s being reduced to the number of 13 to 17 Members. The States are off their Guard & fallen a Sleep—was not our Enemies as weak as our selves we should be ruined, but they may make a grand effort & destroy us. It is our duty to make a great Stroke Sc drive them out. This might easily be done were we half so animated as we pretended to be in 1775. You will smile when I inform you I have granted Many Commis sions for Cruizing on the Delaware, Cheesapeck Bay 8c even on the Ohio 8c Mississipy. On the Delaware many valuable prizes have been made, I have just now an Account that four of our Armed Boats had taken two ships 8c an Armed Schooner 8c were in pursuit of several more who were coming up the River. The Men of War had retired for the Winter to Rhode Island. The Enemy lately lost near New York in a Snow Storm two Frigates 8c several Armed Vessels. From the King of Englands speech to His Parliament 8c their Answer 8c debates I think it would not be very hazardous to prophesy that terms of accomodation will soon be offered. I am for preparing every means in readiness for an early blow as the best posture we can be found in for receiving propositions for peace. I am with very great regard. LB (ScHi). 1 Previously identified in volume seven o£ these Letters. ’During his stay in York, Rev. Paul Turquand also sought in vain to secure payment by Congress of some bills of exchange he had brought with him from South Carolina. JCC, 10:233, 257.


[Page 297]
March 10, 1778 265 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Morris in cipher. 2 For a discussion of the opposition to Washington in and out of Congress during the winter of 1777-78, see James Lovell to Horatio Gates, November 27, 1777, note 1. Former Virginia delegate Benjamin Harrison made some pertinent comments about rumored anti-Washington machinations in a letter he wrote from “Berkely James River” on March 3 to former North Carolina delegate Joseph Hewes: “I have been greatly alarmed by some letters I have received from my worthy friend, and accounts through other channels, that there was a party formed against our general, both in and out of Congress in favor of the Saratoga Hero. I give the greater credit to this, when I consider who they are that compose our Board of War, men who are most of them avowedly his enemies, and some of them too who are using every endeavor to rise by his fall. In the name of wonders how came it thus constituted? Are the good and virtuous of you, and I know there is a great majority of such, taken in? Indeed I fear it and venture to foretell, that if you have not your eyes and ears about you, America or at least, this part of it will soon be in very great confusion.” N.C. State Records, 13:61-62. 3 Philip Livingston. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town March 10. 1778 On other leaf is copy of parts of a letter from Colo. Hartley to the board of War on the subject of recruiting his battalion; & the boards letter to Congress on the subject; both which were referred to the delegates of this State. 1 As not to comply with the proposition made might appear an unnecessary obstruction to reinforcing the army on one hand; or on the other a compliance might involve con sequences not expected, the delegates advised with the Committee from the state now here, & finally take the liberty of referring to your directions, as they did not conceive themselves authorized to interfere. The states are severally called upon to raise their old quota of troops. The number of this state regiments is diminished to 10. 2 The supernumerary men are to be transferred to the horse, artillery, & other unconnected corps. Of the 16 Regiments (so called) 9 only are to be kept up; &, I suppose, will be alloted to particular states, & filled up as above. Colo. Hartleys will probably belong to us as its natural connexion. To concur with his proposition, will give him the men more immediately; Sc allowing him to employ his officers may expedite the recruiting service; perhaps be the means of pro curing recruits, either from connection or attachment, which others would not pick up. He has expectations from the borders of Mary land; filled his regiment formerly with quick success, & appears to be sanguine now. With respect to the money he appears to be prudent & cautious. But as we may perhaps not foresee all the effects, or its full connection with the state of Pennsylvania, we beg leave to sollicit your earliest advice & direction, as no time ought to be lost. We beg


[Page 298]
266 March 10, 1778 leave only to add that the complement of each battalion is also to be reduced; & that though some states have discountenanced these un connected regiments, yet some others have given them the benefit of their state bounties. I am, Sir, with very great respect in behalf of the Delegates, Your Excellency’s & Councils most ob. h. servt. Jona. B Smith RC (MeHi). 1 See JCC, 10:235. For the extracts of the two letters pertaining to Col. Thomas Hartley’s regiment that Smith enclosed to the Pennsylvania Council, see Pa. Ar chives, 1st ser. 6:351-52. See also Henry Laurens to Thomas Wharton, March 31, 1778; and John B. B. Trussell, Jr., The Pennsylvania Line: Regimental Organization and Operations, 1776-1783 (Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Com mission, 1977), pp. 139^6. “For the new state quotas that Congress adopted on February 25, and which the states were "required forthwith to fill up by drafts from their militia,” see JCC, 10:200. For an indication of how the Committee at Camp arrived at the quota established for Pennsylvania, which the committee originally recommended to Congress in its February 5 letter to President Laurens, see Joseph Reed to Thomas Wharton, February 1, 1778. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais My Dear Sir, 11 th March 1778. Sympathize with me when I complain that near four Months have elapsed since the date of the last public or social Letter to me from Charles Town—consider how I must appear & what I must feel when publications have been made in all the American papers of a wasting Fire in the Capital City of the State from whence I ascended &: I am left as unable to answer enquiries into that Calamity as I am ignorant, when our State will be represented? when our State intends to Ratify Confederation? when I expect Instructions to defend against Arthurs Appeal? questions which distress me every time they are asked. Concerning the Fire I have learned enough to make me feel deeply for my fellow Citizens. Let me entreat my worthy friend Mr. Manigault & Yourself to charge my Brother’s Estate &: my own with ample Sums in contribution to the relief of the necessitous. On such an occasion be not so cowardly as to fear even the reproach of ostentation. You will see what other people give & go rather beyond proportion in subscribing for me—when I learn particulars I may say more on the subject. Baron Holzendorff is now returning to France by way of Chs. Town, he will have a lamentable & pitious tale to relate. I think he has too much ground for complaint, but it is not proper for me to expatiate on the subject at this time. 1 I have lent him 400 Dollars to help him onward after I had learned


[Page 300]
268 March 11, 1778 Man I shall rejoice to learn that I have pointed a Road which may lead him to honour & Independence. I have taken up so much time on behalf of these Strangers scarcely a moment remains for my own affairs but what can I say respecting them. I confide in your Self 8c my other friends that you will do all you can in my absence to save me from ruin 8c exert your endeavors to obtain leave for me to return 8c take the burthen from your hands. I beg you will introduce Capt Senf to General Howe 8c excuse me to the General for not writing by this opportunity, tis impossible. Colo. Holzendorff 8c Capt Senf will relate to you how I am excercised except half an hour which I sometimes hammer out to Sixty minutes drinking Tea 8c chatting with the very pretty Ladies in this House. I am perpetually 19 or 20 Hours in the day going round like a Mill Horse. Congress have had so much business before them 8c I believe were never more in want of proper powers for transaction. The Chief Justice 3 will expect a Line from me, I will do myself the honour of writing next opportunity 8c several other friends I hope will give me a little further Credit. I thank Mr. Loveday for his Letter 8c intend very soon to write to him. I know he will proceed without being offended by my silence. I had almost forgot to say I am willing to give Mr. McCullough every reasonable Indulgence for his debt—let him have an opportunity of attempting to improve for his own benefit the Talents put into his hands. I believe him very honest 8c am desirous of befriending him. Adieu My Dear Sir. Present me with respect 8c affection within your own Walls 8c in proper terms to all of our friends. 4 LB (ScHi). 1 For further information about Congress’ alleged failure to appreciate the merits of Baron de Holtzendorf, see Laurens to Baron de Kalb, January 1, 1778, note 2. Among the Laurens Papers at DLC is a series of four letters that Holtzen dorf wrote to Laurens at various times in 1778. 2 President John Rutledge of South Carolina. 3 William Henry Drayton. ‘At the end of this letter Laurens noted in his letter book: "Inclosed the first interview with Capt. Wilford.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. This enclosure has not been found. Richard Wilford was the aide sent to Congress by General Burgoyne to secure permission for his return to England. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe Sir 11th March 1778 Under Cover with this I have the honour of transmitting the fol lowing Papers. 1. An Act of Congress of the 7th. Inst, restricting the granting Furloughs in the Army.


[Page 301]
March 11, 1778 269 2. A Commission appointing Nicholas Eveleigh Esquire Dep. Ad jutant General for the States of So. Carolina & Georgia with the Rank of Colonel in the Army from 8th June 1777. 3. A Commission appointing Henry Purcell Esquire Dep. Judge Advocate for So. Carolina & Georgia with Rank from 8th June 1777 of Lieut. Colonel. 4. A Commission appointing Ferdind. deBrahm Esqr. Engineer with the Rank of Major in the Army 11th Febry 1778. 1 I have the honour to be with Respect LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Laurens also notified De Brahm, Eveleigh, and Purcell of their appointment to these offices in brief letters that he wrote to them this day. PCC, item 13, fols. 220-21. For further information on the appointments of Eveleigh and Purcell, see Laurens to Howe, August 9, 1777, note 1. Gen. Robert Howe was commander of the southern military department. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir, 11th March 1778 I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency 30th Jany. contin ued to 3d Febry. by the hands of a Mr. Gray who received from me a large consideration for promised care & dispatch. I am sorry to say our public affairs are not a whit mended since the gloomy account in my last. Repeated daily clamors from every quarter for want of money & provision—the Quarter Master General’s, the Commissary General & Clothier General’s several departments in the most wretched situation particularly the former two. The necessary works on North River extremely backward & strong fears expressed that we shall be in no State, when the River is navigable, to defend the Passes, in that Case Albany & all our Stores will be demolished. The Army under General Washington mouldering away & still in danger of disbanding for want of provision. The New Board of War has hitherto wrought nothing beneficial, have been bickering with the Executive Council of the State 1 & not run very smoothly with Congress. The intended Irruption into Canada ended before it commenced. In this business the Marquis de Lafayette has acted with wisdom which has gained him much reputation—but he is seriously char- grined with the planners of that amusement & if I have the honour of any Influence it shall be, I may say it has been exercised to dis suade him from resentment at this critical juncture. 2 Your Excellency may recollect I regretted being almost alone in opposition to that


[Page 303]
March 11, 1778 271 Captn. Barry’s taking two Ships chiefly laden with forage, an affecting stroke to the Enemy—a schooner Armed with 8 4-poundr. & 12 4-pound howitzers, having 1 Lt. Engineer, 15 Artificers & several Officers Wives & some Cargo on board; the Schooner a remarkable fine Vessel, all this effected by Armed Barges. In Company with the bearer of this will go a young Gentleman 4 who had been a Lieut, in the Hessian Troops under General Bur goyne, was taken prisoner & after mature deliberation detested & abandoned the Cause in which he had been involuntarily plunged by his Prince. General Gates was so well pleased with him as to give him a Commission of Captn. Engineer, &: recommended him very warmly to me. The public have no employment for him here, I have therefore encouraged him to seek his fortune in South Carolina where a Man of his abilities cannot be long out of business. He is said to be a good Engineer & is certainly an excellent draughtsman. If Your Excellency should have room for him in public Service he will prefer it, otherwise he means to offer himself as a Surveyor of Lands, a profession in which after a little experience he will become eminent, admitting his integrity equal to his ability, which both General Gates & myself think there is room to believe. We have this very Evening received an intimation of a most horrid & dangerous conspiracy. If the secret information shall prove grounded, it will appear that Sr. William reduced to play a desparate Game would aim to be better acquainted with Congress. However, with all the air of probability, the tale is yet mysterious, we are pur suing measures to unfold it. 5 Great Britain would chearfully return to the Year 1763, but with difficulty will be brought to address Amer ica in the stile lately observed by her Northern Generals. I condole with my friends & fellow Citizens Sufferers by the late Fire in Charles Town. The particulars I cannot learn, but enough is come to my knowledge to convince me of the great distress of the Inhabitants & that all these States will feel the Stroke in some degree. I lately paid from the fund of So. Carolina in the public Treasury 20,246 Dollars for your Excellency’s draughts in favor of Benja. Farrar Esquire for 14092 & 6154 Dollars. That Gentleman with Mr. Gaillard &ca. are still on the Monongahela & not a little apprehensive of being seized by some American Cruizer when they have reached the British Line on the Mississippi. I have done everything in my power to guard them against such danger, but I am not clear whether the Board of Wars pass will destroy the effect & validity of the presi dents Commission by order of Congress. 6 I request Your Excellency will allow Colonel Gervais to peruse Mr. Burgoyne’s Letters & other papers on his affair & that Your Excellency will not permit any Copy or extract to be taken. I have the honour to be with very great Regard & Esteem.


[Page 304]
212 March 11, 1778 P.S. I intreat your Excellency to order the packets for Georgia to be sent immediately forward at Continental Expense. LB (ScHi). 1 See, for example, Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton, January 30; and William Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee, February 19, 1778, note. 2 See Laurens to Lafayette, March 4 and 6, 1778. 3 See Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson, March 3, 1778, note 1. ‘ John Christopher Senf. 5 This is the only mention of this "mysterious” tale in the surviving cor respondence of the delegates. “See Laurens to Benjamin Farrar, March 7, 1778. Marine Committee to John Barry Sir March 11th 1778 We have received your letter of the 8th instant and congratulate you on the successful commencement of your expedition and hope it will be attended with Similar advantages to the Public and Glory to the gallant Commander, brave officers & men concerned in it, through out the whole course. The good opinion you have of your Prize Schooner 1 has determined us to purchase her for a Cruizer, you will therefore obtain the consent of the Partys who took her, have her fairly valued, and take her at that valuation for the public. She is to be called the Wasp, and as you have represented her to be properly equiped in every particular for an Armed Vessel, you will see that she is officered & manned as soon as possible, take the command of her yourself or bestow it on some brave, Active, prudent officer. You will employ her there so long as you shall think prudent, but should you apprehend there will be danger of her falling into the hands of the enemy you will send her out of the Bay into Senepuxent, Chinco teague or any of the Inlets on the Coast, where you will be able to collect a full Complement of Men if not well manned before. That done let her take such Station off Cape Henlopen as to be able to descry the enemies Vessels coming in & going out of the Capes and to secure a retreat should she fall in with any Vessels of Superior force. We observe that you have advised General Washington of your Suc cess, and expect you have furnished him with Inventories of what was on board your Prizes. Any Articles which he may direct to be kept for the use of the Army you will retain having them properly valued and deliver them as he may direct. With regard to the general dis tribution of the Prize Money it is our opinion it should be distributed according to the number of Men & Guns in each Boat concerned in the Capture. As to the distribution among the officers and Men in the Continental Boats (If no previous agreement had been entered into)


[Page 316]
284 March 12, 1778 again Seem to me to be right enough, tho I do not like at all, that it is entirely left in the power of the Commercial Committee to send Some remittance, when ever it will be agreable to them; it is effectually agreed between us, that all the vessels fitted on public account for the express purpose of discharging a part of the debt Shall be directed to the house, but the Commercial Committee may not withstanding Send fifty, without directing a Single one to us, they can always Say ‘this is not to discharge a part of your debt,’ & I have nothing to answer. I objected to it, 8c it was answered to me that if I did not truste the public faith, it Should be better not to enter into any Contract; what I Should have Complied with willingly, if I was not Convinced that it is of the greatest importance for the relief of the brave 8c honest men at the head of the machine to See one of the chief points established upon a proper train. However I shall be glad to have your opinion upon that article as well as upon the great authority which is given to an agent 8c which can be the Source of many 8c many difficulties, if he is not a very honest man 8: a better patriot than many others; at least I request your utmost attention upon the choice of Such an agent, you must be very Sensible how much it is important not to leve it in the power of the Commercial Com mittee to appoint one. “I will do myself the honour of calling upon you in ten minutes to ask your advice about my objections which I cannot make publickly to oppose the report as I have agreed to it.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. 'This and all subsequent articles in the proposed contract correspond to the article bearing the next higher number in the final version. 7 Congress on April 13 authorized the commissioners at Paris "to determine and settle with the house of Roderique Hortales 8c Co., the compensation, if any, which should be allowed them on all merchandise and warlike stores, shipped by them for the use of the United States, previous to the 14 day of April, 1778, over and above the commission allowed them in the 6th article of the proposed contract. JCC, 10:342. Pennsylvania Delegates to Thomas Wharton Sir, York Town March 12th. 1778 Peter Ozeas this day from Lancaster informed one of us that it was the desire of the Speaker and Coll. Morgan that he Ozeas should apply to a Magistrate here to apprehend Mr. Wm. Todd Coachmaker of Philad, who Mr. Ozeas says on his own knowledge issued Counter feit Continental money in Reading. Mr. Todd having left this Town this morning we applied to the board of war for two light horse men and a proper Officer to follow Todd to Baltimore and bring him back, who are to set off this Evening. 1 In tracing this affair we are informed that Todd has ordered his Servant with a portmantua back to Potts grove, while he goes another way, this adds to the suspicion raised by Ozeas’s information, therefore we have thought it of sufficient im portance to furnish this information that you may have an Oppor tunity to send a prudent person to pursue the Servant, and to watch a happy nick of time when the Servant may be charged with counterfeit money, Letters, or other information for the fuller conviction of Mr. Todd, and to discover any accomplicies in the black design that may


[Page 317]
March 12, 1778 285 be against the general cause. We must exercise an Oliverian 2 deli- gence, secrecy and jealousy and search to the bottom of any Con spiracy, for an early conviction and example may have the happiest tendency to suppress so diabolical a Spirit, which otherwise may pre vail to our ruin, therefore Council we doubt not will take every prudent and vigorous step to detect such vile Machinations. We should not on a verbal information have proceeded to any measure, but that Ozeas s testimony concerning the issuing the money may be sufficient, failing of further information which we earnestly desire as a matter of very high importance. We have further information on the same authority that Todd has been lately near the Enemys lines and has dry good to sell. We are respectfully, Sir, Yr. most obt. huml Servts. Dani. Roberdeau Jona. B. Smith P.S. The Servant is a white man. 3 RC (PHarH). Written by Roberdeau and signed by Roberdeau and Smith. 1 For a letter of this date from the Board of War to President Wharton con cerning William Todd’s apprehension, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:360-61. 2 A synonym for Cromwellian. OED. 3 Roberdeau and Smith also wrote the following brief letter to the Pennsylvania Council this day. “The Committee of Council and Assembly, who left us this day intimated the desire of the State to offer to Congress our Gallies and Zebechs, on reflection the Delegates think it of such importance that they request particular instructions on the head, lest they should act contrary to your, and the intention of the State. We shall expect Instructions and are. Sir, yr most obt huml Servt, Daniel Roberdeau. Jon’a. B. Smith.’’ Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:359. The "Committee of Council and Assembly” referred to had laid a “representation” before Congress on the issue of the Continental Army’s dependence upon the state for "establish ing the necessary magazines” of wheat and flour. Ibid., pp. 333-36; PCC item 69, fols. 485-98; Pa. Council Minutes, 11:434-35; and ]CC, 10:239. See also Henry Laurens to George Clinton, March 24, 1778, note 2. Joseph Reed to George Washington Dear Sir [March 12, 1778] I fear the Arrangement of the Pennsylv. Battalions will be very in conveniently delayed if Gen. Wayne should stay out of Camp much longer, as he is the only General Officer of this State whose Assistance we can expect. If his Stay in Jersey is not very important I submit to your Excelly. whether it would not be best to call him into Camp as the whole Business of the Arrangement &c. now waits for him. 1 RC (PHi). In Reed’s hand, signature clipped. Endorsed: “12th March 1778 from Genl. Reed.”


[Page 318]
286 March 12, 1778 'As this letter is located in the Anthony Wayne Papers, PHi, Washington doubtless forwarded it to Wayne and probably enclosed it with his March 15 letter to Wayne ordering him to Valley Forge immediately. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:86-87. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, York Town 12th March 1778 I have reed, a Letter from Oliver of the 4t inst. by which I had the Pleasure to learn that you and the Family were well. I think you will gratify my Wishes in letting me hear from you every Oppertunity. I have Wrote to you Three Letters, the last of which you may have reed, by this Time which was inclosed in a Letter to Dr. Smith. 1 Nothing Material has occurred since my last. Whatever Information I am able to give of publick Affairs is mentioned in my Letter to Mr Adams, 2 which he will let you See. And from thence be induced to beleive that the Regulating Act will be of no long Duration. 3 I intended to have Wrote to Mr. Reeve. You will present my best Compliments to him. How our Project goes on I have not heard. Oliver will continue to Write to me and let me know his Veiws. I am comfortably Lodged in a private House with a good Family with Mr. Huntington, but We are Obliged to Dine Abroad, but our Dutch Landlady gives us Incouragment that she will before long provide Dinners for us. I still injoy my Health. May I not forget from whom the Blessing is derived. I shall Write to you by every Oppertunity. Take Care of your Health and may the Almighty Bless you. Let our Children know my tender Regard for them. As None of us have a Waiter from Con necticut Who might be more usefull to us than one here as he Might help any of us on our Return if Necessary, I had thot, therefore of sending for Whiting Stanly. You may if you please let me know wheither he would probably come if Sent for—or any other who may be as much depended upon. I told you that Mr. Huntingtons Servant had returned. I hope you have got the Flower of Mr Read. Goods it is said are much fallen at Boston. You will not depend upon Things being Cheaper than they are at present. Every Thing here bears an enormous Price except flower. Wheat may be had for 10 or 12/ per Bushell this Currency. My best Regards to my Friends and be assured of my inviolable Affection for you. Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 'Wolcott’s letter to Litchfield physician Reuben Smith has not been found, but his brief March 6 letter to Laura is in Wolcott Papers, CtHi. “At present,” he had explained to Laura, "I am with Mr. Huntington at private Lodgings, which are good and the Dutch Family with whom We live are Very Neat, simple and kind.


[Page 319]
March 13, 1778 287 We hope that We shall before long make such an Interest with the Family as to perswade them to get Dinners for us. But at present We go abroad for them. Congress adjourn to Dine at one o.Clock and so Meet in the afternoon. This Prac tice is much more agreable than to sit till 5 or 6 o.Clock and I think it expedites Business. "I Wish to hear from you every Opportunity. I have not heard any Thing from Home since I left it. I Wish that you would suffer no unnecessary Anxiety. I trust that God will take Care of us and our Children. For myself I injoy more Health and Freedom of spirits than I expected. Indeed they are good. As to What News I could give I have Wrote in a Letter to Dr. Smith. I shall Write to you every Oppertunity. Your Happiness is the Object of my most fervent Wishes. May the Almighty Protect and Bless you and our Children. I am yours, with the tenderest Affection, Oliver Wolcott.” 2 Not found. 3 See Eliphalet Dyer to William Williams, March 10, 1778, note 5. For Wolcott’s further comments on this subject, see his April 25 letter to Andrew Adams. James Duane to George Clinton Sir Manour Livingston 13th March 1778 Your Excellency’s Dispatches of the 25th of February did not reach me ’till I was proceding to attend the Treaty with the Six Nations. 1 The Scene in which we have been employed as well as the Want of a direct Conveyance, have deprived me of an earlier Opportunity of returning an Answer. I think I informd your Excellency that I set out with the Marquis de la fayette from this place the 15th of February for Albany: his Instructions referring him to me for Information. 2 I had sufficient Reason to believe that the Enterprize which he was to conduct cou’d not go forward: Unwilling however that the most remote discourage ment shoud be ascribed to our State, I resolved to leave him to Judge from his own observations and totally unprejudic’d & uninfluenc’d. He soon discovered the Want of almost every Necessary of which he had been led to expect an abundant Supply. The Number of men was greatly deficient. They were destitute of warm Cloathing; their pay in Arrear, and both the Officers and Privates visibly averse to the Expedition. If the Army had been in the best Condition, and highest Spirits, a sufficient number of Teams (1300 being thought necessary) coud not have been collected in Sea son; and to encrease the difficulties, Forage it was impracticable to procure. The Irruption of the Enemy last Summer having prevented the Harvest in the Northern and North Eastern Parts of this State. Excepting Provisions, Ammunition and the Corps of Militia to be raisd in this State, nothing was ready; and the Opinion of the Gen eral Officers, as well as the publick at large, was strongly opposed to the Probability of Success had every one of these Impediments been


[Page 320]
288 March 13, 1778 removed. The Marquis who attentively examined every Circumstance saw with inexpressible Chagreen the Obstacles which clouded his prospects of Glory, and, after having flattered himself with sanguine Hopes of performing a distinguished Service to this Country, was oblig’d to relinquish the Enterprize without an Attempt to accom plish it. He has, it must be confessed, some Reason to be vexed and disgusted, advised, as he was, to announce to his Court, the Con fidence reposd in him by being elevated to the Command of such an Expedition; and not in the least suspecting that General Gates cou’d be deceiv’d in the Circumstances of a Department which he had Just left, and which coud have undergone no material Alteration. The Plan of Congress, when I was last upon the Floor, was by a sudden Irruption with 3 or 400 Volunteers, to attempt to burn the Enemy’s shipping at St John’s, and to offer a very considerable Bounty in Case of Success; The Command to be given to General Starke who was supposd to be very popular in New Hampshire the western fron tiers of the Massachusetts, & the Grants; and in every other Respect qualified for the undertaking. 3 The adventurous Spirit of the In habitants in these parts, the Dangers to which they must now be exposd while the British Vessels command the Lakes, and the prospect of a great Reward, if they shoud succeed in the Attempt, were thought sufficient Considerations to Justify the Proposition. To me it was given in Charge by Congress, to confer with General Starke 8c deliver him his Instructions and explain their Views This occasiond my repairing to Albany as soon as I coud give him notice to meet me. At first he seemd sanguine that the scheme woud be acceptable and vigorously supported by those over whom he had an immediate In fluence: but on examination it was found that a Reward which de pended only on a prosperous Issue, was too slender a Motive for the Undertaking. A proposal was therefore made to Congress to allow the Volunteers pay at all Events, 8c the Bounty in Case of Success: But on General Gates’s Arrival at Congress the Plan was enlargd into its’ present Form, and the Command conferred on the Marquis. 4 Imagin ing it woud be agreeable to you to have a full View of this Trans action I have been thus circumstantial. I shoud have mentiond to your Excellency when I had the pleasure of seeing you, the original Plan; but as it Depended on Secrecy I was enjoind to communicate it only to General Starke. Altho’ we proposd to hold the Treaty with the Six Nations between the 15th 8c 20th of February it was not till the 27th that we had notice of their Assembling. We repair’d to John’s Town the 28th, but they were so tedious in their movements that the Business was not opend untill Monday the 9th Instant. The Number of Indians was some thing above 700, consisting of Oneidas, Tuscarores, Onondagoes, a few Mohawks, and three or four Cayugoes: but not a single Senaca


[Page 321]
March 13, 1778 289 attended. The latter had the Insolence even to affect their Surprize that while our Tomahawks Stuck in their Heads, their Wounds were bleeding, and their Eyes streaming with Tears for the Loss of their Friends at the German flatts, we shoud think of inviting them to a Treaty! The Speech from Congress 5 was in a Tone becoming the Dignity of Congress and the Spirit and Power of the United States. The gen erous and upright Conduct of these States towards the Six Nations, and their Ingratitude, Cruelty and Treachery were pointed out, and Satisfaction peremptorily Demanded. The faithful Oneidas & Tus- carores were excepted and distinguished. They were applauded for their Integrity and Firmness, and assurd of our Friendship and Pro tection. An Onondagoe Chief spoke for the guilty Tribes. He exculpated himself & the Sachems, threw the Blame on the Headstrong warriors who no longer woud listen to advice, laid a proper Stress on the example of our own internal Divisions and Oppositions, and painted in strong Terms the Influence of the Bribery and Artifices employd by Butler and the other Creatures of the Crown. An Oneida Chief answered for that Nation and the Tuscarores with a Spirit and Dignity which woud not have disgracd a Roman Senator. He pathetically lamented the Degeneracy of the unfriendly Tribes; predicted their final Destruction; and declard the unalterable Resolution of the Oneidas & Tuscarores, at every Hazard, to hold fast the Covenant Chain with the united States, and with them to be buried in the same Grave; or to enjoy the Fruites of Victory and Peace. He fully evinced the Sincerity of these Professions by desiring that we woud erect a Fortress in their Country and furnish a small Garrison to assist in their Defence. This being promisd on our part; He concluded with a solemn assurance that these two nations woud at all Times be ready to cooperate with Us against all our Enemies. In a private manner they warnd us against the Onondagoes who they lookd upon as our Enemies notwithstanding their seeming Con trition for their passed Conduct: and affirmed that there was not the least doubt but that they, the Senecas, &: Cayugoes, woud renew their Hostilities early in the Spring; & that Butler woud take possession of Oswego and get it fortified: For which Events they entreated us to be prepard. In our Reply we applauded again the Courage & Fidelity of the Oneidas & Tuscarores. The other Nations we observed were not suf ficiently represented to Justify our Treating with them. We directed therefore that a Council of their Confederacy shoud be assembled at Onondagoe as soon as possible; that our demand of satisfaction shoud be there publickly made, and from the hostile nations, an explicite Answer returnd: that they shoud be reminded of our upright and


[Page 322]
290 March 13, 1778 their own treacherous Behaviour: that our Cause was Just; that the Hand of the united States coud reach the remotest Corner of the Country of the Senacas; and that we trusted the good Spirit whom we servd woud enable us to punish all our Enemies & put it out of their power to do us further Injury. The Inhabitants of the County who attended in great numbers were highly satisfied with the manner in which the Treaty was con ducted. I think it will probably have a considerable Influence on the Onondagoes, upwards of an hundred of whom were present. They are much intermaried with the Oniedas & will be apt to follow their example. At Least that Tribe will be divided: But from the Senecas and Cayugoes, Sc the greatest part of the Mohawks, nothing but Re venge for their lost Friends, and tarnished Glory, is to be expected: especially while our Enemies are so plentifully supplied with the means of Corruption: and we cannot furnish our best Friends with the necessaries of Life even in the Course of Trade. I hope the Facts I have suggested, which passed under my own Observation, will be sufficient to give your Excellency a competent Knowledge of the Temper and Disposition of the six Nations; and to enable you to take seasonable Measures for the Defence of our Fron tier Inhabitants: at least so far as may depend on the Exertion of our internal Strength. I have conversed with the Marquis who was at the Treaty on this Subject. He has already orderd Troops to Schoharie and Cherry Valley, and directed an Engineer to lay out a fort in the Oneida Country. Sure I am that nothing in his power will be wanting for the Security of every part of this State. As I was on my Journey to John’s Town when I was honourd with the Receipt of your Dispatches: it was too late for your Excellency to execute your Trust respecting the Appointment of an Additional Commisr. for Indian Affairs. Before I left Congress it was pressed upon me to accept the office. I declind it, And on my promise to assist the Commisr. at the propos’d Treaty if necessary, the matter rested for that Time. When I met the Commisrs at Albany the beginning of January to fix the Treaty, it Appeard that there was no prospect of General Wolcot’s, and no certainty of General Schuyler’s Attendance. We concluded therefore to recommend it to Congress to appoint additional Commissioners, which occasioned the power committed to you. 6 The Reason which indued me to decline the Office of Commisr when my Acceptance was requested by Congress, is this. The Jurisdic tion of this State over the Country of the Six Nations is unquestion able as well as ancient, on it depends the legality of all our Seder’s in the Mohawk Country. Apprehensive that the Interference of Congress might one time or other cross the Rights or the Interests of the State, & that as a Trustee for Congress I might be embarrassed and re-


[Page 327]
March 15, 1778 295 requested the transfer of Harrison’s artillery regiment to his army in a February 27 letter to Laurens. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:520. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, 14th March 1778. My last to Your Excellency was dated the 10th Inst, per Messenger Barry. 1 Inclosed with this your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress of the 13th, Ordering Colonel Harrison’s Regiment of Artillery from Virginia to join the grand Army without delay—And authorizing Your Excel lency to order Major General Marquis delafayette & Major General Baron deKalb to rejoin the Army, & also to recall Colo. Hazen’s or order any other Regiment from the Northward. I have the honour to be with perfect Regard & Esteem &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to William Livingston, March 10, 1778, note 2. Henry Laurens to William Aylett Sir, 15th March 1778 Inclosed within the present cover you will receive An Act of Con gress dated yesterday for purchasing for the Army Neat Cattle & live Hogs in your department by means of the aid of John More Esquire together with a Copy of the said Act which you will be pleased to transmit to Mr. More & proceed on the intended business with all possible dispatch. Congress repose the highest confidence in your Zeal & abilities & you may rely upon being properly supported by supplies of Money. I am with great regard & Respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colonel William Aylett Esquire, D[eputy] C[ommissary] of Purchases, Virginia.” Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town, 15 March 1778 While James Custer is Copying a very short Address to Your Gen eral, I will employ my self in acknowledging the receipt of your favours of the 28th February & 9th Inst. 1 At another opportunity I may reply specially to parts which at present must lie dormant.


[Page 328]
296 March 15, 1778 I will certainly this day, make some provision for those distressed fellow Citizens of whom you speak & address Mr Franklin through your means. 2 There are obvious objections against a proposal by me for more general contribution. I have once or twice hinted such a thing, 8c made very little impression; tis my Duty Charitably to con clude that every Man does in private as he pleases 8c that every one does somewhat toward the relief of sufferers in our great Cause. Nevertheless my only sentiments in this peculiar case are, that our Light should shine before Men. Were we possessed of the Spirit of Patriotism which flashed in 1775, there would be Contributions at this critical moment not only for the comforting of sick 8c Naked Prisoners but for the relief of all suffering Soldiers—for the support, conservation & augmentation of the Army & we should enable Your General that great & good Man to drive out our Invaders—but alas! that virtue now appears to have been a mere flash. Every Man has bought his Yoke of Oxen, has married a Wife & stays to prove them. Often have you heard me ludicrously express my fears that my Coun trymen in general would prove only good for the Quarter— not for the Course. The present time too well confirms the remark. From the best accounts, from all Accounts, & I have opportunities of receiving the best, you lie at the Mercy of our Enemies, who may disposses & drive you, & in that Act animate our bosom-Enemies, throw the States into consternation & shake our Independency. Yet alas! although all see & acknowledge the danger is not in fancy only, yet time is toyed away—a Senate of 13 Members, seldom above 17-—against whose honesty 8c good meaning I make no exception—Wisdom is justified of her Children. I have in my own name called 8c called again upon the States to fill up their several Representations—the Governors 8c President see 8c acknowledge the necessity—8c there it ends. Men are engaged in private veiws—some are afraid of Expence 8c coarse fare 8c others of being exposed in high Characters 8c dangerous situations— 8c too too many are labouring at all hazards to add field to field. The Villains of exalted Rank who have been plundering our Treasury 8c starving our Cause contribute all their force to keep us down 8c my jealousies that some of these are in contact with Sir William grow strong. If there are Patriots, Men who love Country more than pelf, let them step forth 8c cast their gifts or loans into the Treasury, some by Money 8c some by services without Reward. Others may, because they have ability, give both. I would wish to be in the first Class 8c sub scribe to morrow five or ten thousand Pounds Sterling 8c if these were found insufficient, all my Estate shall be given for saving the Public— & perhaps there will be found in this proposition much of prudent calculation—give part to save the remainder. Be that as it may, or put me into either Class I am chearfully disposed to proceed provided


[Page 329]
March 15, 1778 297 I have any prospect of success, but at present I have none. Proper subscriptions by, sure we may find on this continent from New Hamshire to Georgia, 500 wealthy Men, would raise near three Millions Sterling, return your Paper into the Treasury & animate the Middle 8c lower Ranks of people to adventure Life & fortune in pro portion. I have sounded some breasts on this important subject—but all were cold, applaud the scheme—“if Men would do so it would certainly relieve us’’—8c there was all. Can I then believe that Men are in earnest? Yes I see they are in Earnest to plunder the Common Stock. The very manner of our proceeding in the Issuing our Money leads rapidly on to ruin. What complaints has your General been making for many Months past—without the least good effect—how have delinquents not only been skreened—but held up in triumph 8c can you prevail on me to remain longer among such People? No. I will rather insist upon your abandoning them. But indeed, there, are sometimes my hopes, where you are—A species of Patriotism may at length spring forth from the Army 8c so far save this Country as to drive out the Enemy 8c punish sluggish torpid friends. These Ideas have been long in my mind. I may have expressed them in some late uncopied Letter. If they are worth your reflexion, retain my meaning 8c destroy the Paper record. I dont understand your meaning where you mention DuPlessis books, neither can James assist me, that Gentleman left no Books here. Baron Holzendorff is gone to So Carolina exceedingly chagrined by the treatment he met with here. Poor Man, I almost wept when I learned by a mere accident, that he had been obliged to sell his Silver hilted Sword & Epaulets 8cc. to pay for his Lodging. I instantly put him a step above such necessity—8c have given him Letters to Charles Town which will secure him tolerable quarters there 8c a Passage to his own Country. My Dear son, I pray God protect you, Henry Laurens RC (ScHi). 'These letters are in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 131-41. 2 John Laurens had suggested that his father send a sum of money to Thomas Franklin, Washington’s agent in charge of relief for American prisoners of war held captive by the British in Philadelphia. Ibid., p. 137. Franklin’s efforts in be half of these captives are described in his February 16 “Declaration” and William Howe’s February 17 letter to Washington in PCC, item 152, 5:327-41. No letters from President Laurens to Franklin have been found. 3 In order to combat the problem of poor attendance among the delegates, Congress had resolved on March 12 that henceforth every state should constantly maintain at least three delegates in Congress. JCC, 10:245^6.


[Page 330]
298 March 15, 1778 Henry Laurens to William Livingston Sir 15th March 1778. I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 10th Inst, by Barry. Inclosed within the present Cover Your Excellency will be pleased to receive two Acts of Congress under the 11th Inst. & one of the 12th to which I beg leave to refer. 1. for presenting the thanks of Congress to Your Excellency for your Excellency’s attention to the public Interest by carrying into effect in New Jersey the Act of the 9th Febry. for suspending or re moving supernumerary & delinquent Officers. 1 2. for defraying expenses which may be incurred by carrying by the said Act of the 9th Febry into execution. 3. Requesting the States respecting to keep constantly attending Congress at least three Members during the War. I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). “See also Laurens to Livingston, March 10, 1778, note 1. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, 15th March 1778. Last Night Sharp arrived with your Excellency’s several Letters under the 7th, 8th & 12th Inst, containing the sundry papers referred to, which shall all be presented to Congress to Morrow. 1 I return Sharp immediately with the inclosed Letter 2 which had been lying a day for want of a proper Messenger, & as there appears to be a degree of solicitude that the Marquis delafayette & Baron de Kalb should rejoin your Excellency without loss of time, I will not detain the Resolve of Congress which is within that Letter a moment unnecessarily. I remain with the highest Esteem 8c Regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). “Washington’s March 7-8 and 12 letters to Laurens are in PCC, item 152, 5:317- 24, 349-52, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:37-45, 72-74. In them Washington complained of congressional interference with a prisoner exchange he was attempting to negotiate with General Howe, citing in particular resolves of December 19, 1777, and February 26, 1778, that made the conclusion of such an agreement contingent upon British repayment of the expenses incurred by the states in caring for enemy prisoners of war. Congress decided on March 18 that Washington could ignore these resolutions in treating with Howe, but on the 30th it approved a set of instructions for the commissioners appointed by Washington to negotiate the prisoner cartel, requiring them among other things to make Gen. Charles Lee’s exchange a precondition to a general prisoner exchange and to


[Page 337]
March 17, 1778 305 gates of some of these States have not yet received their Instructions, but are in daily expectation of them. New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Deleware, and Georgia could give Congress no satisfactory informa tion of what had been done in their several States, as they had received no authentic Intelligence upon this subject. There can be no doubt but these States will confederate. The Instructions which the Dele gates of Maryland received from the Genl. Assembly were stated upon this occasion to Congress. Several of the States being unrepresented [and] few members prepared to combat our objections, produced [but a] short Debate. The matter now stands posponed till the twenty fifth of this month. 1 As to the two first objections, from the present Temper of the House I believe they will meet with very little opposition. But as to the last, which requires Congress to be invested with full power to ascertain and fix the western Limits of those States which claim to the Mississippi or South Sea all attempts will be vain and fruitless; Equally unsuccessful will prove the Efforts made to obtain a right in common to that extensive Country which lies to the Westward of the frontiers of the United States, the property of which was not vested in Individuals at the commencement of the present war. Much has been already said in Congress upon this subject, and the opinions of those who will have the determination of it, has been long made up. The Argument may be renewed but the Decision will be the same. The bare mentioning of the Subject rouses Virginia, and conscious of her own importance, she views her vast Dominion with the surest expectations of holding it unimpaired. North Carolina has agreed only to the first, second, third, eighth and 12th, the second and third Sections of the fourth, and the last section of 9th Articles which she has instructed her Delegates im mediately to ratify. But the remaining Clauses and Articles, which, she believes, contains matters of the highest importance and involving what may materially affect the internal Interest and sovereign Inde pendency of the state and which is not immediately necessary and essential to the success of the present War, ought not to be ratified till there is full time for mature and deliberate consideration. Connecticut has instructed her Delegates to obtain an alteration in the mode of supplying the common treasury with money by chang ing it from the value of Landed property to the Number of In habitants; if this cannot be done the Delegates are still impowered to ratify. Congress have with great earnestness, and with a Desire of impres sing on the Minds of the several States the necessity of filling up their Battalions, recommended a Draft of the Militias, or other measures that may be effectual. This I know will be a serious piece of Business in our State and dangerous to persue. How it can be effected and at the same time preserve the Temper of the people, I know not. It is


[Page 342]
310 March 19, 1778 prejudiced by so unexampelled a Delay? Will the impartial world be satisfied with the plea that such a Length of time was necessary to find out a Charge of maleconduct, or Evidence to maintain it? Will not Gent, who value their Honour be terrified from hazarding, what is so dear to every good Man, with such austere or such lukewarm masters, who seem prone to suspect a Crime, and indifferent whether the accusd shall ever have an opportunity to vindicate his Innocence? I do not know what passes in other States but here this unreasonable Treatment of officers of high Rank & Confidence is a Topic of general Conversation. Genl Schuyler wants no Office from Congress; He wishes to resign. He can in that Case be highly servicable to his own State; & yet he dare not resign least it shoud be ascribd to his unwil lingness to undergo, what he most wants, a publick & impartial Enquiry and Trial. In the mean time the winter has passed away & the Campaign opening when it will be perhaps impracticable for the witnesses 8c a Court martial to be convend. Is not this sporting with Peoples Reputations and Peace of Mind? You my dear Sir who have an abundant portion of Sensibility, who know how precious a Jewel is a good name, who woud advocate Innocence, as much as you abhor Guilt, will I trust with manly freedom press forward the Trial of General Schuyler without further Delay both upon principles of private Justice 8c publick good. If Evidence cannot be discoverd in eight months the presumption is violent that none exists—especially after the publick Call which has been given, as well as the personal Applications which have made for this purpose. If it is to be taken up as a principle that there can be no Trial ’till Evidence shall be found; there may never be a Trial or Enquiry, 8c this after an Accusation and Suspension woud be a palpable Denial of Justice. But I will not enlarge. I had the unhappiness, my dear Sir, on my Return home to find Mrs. Duane’s Health greatly Impaird. The Dangers and Alarms to which she was exposd during the whole Summer joind to the fateagues 8c distress of a precipitate Flight, and my unexpected long absence, were too violent for her Fortitude and in a manner destroyd her whole nervous System. She recovers very Slowly and it requires all my Care and Attention to keep her in that Flow of spirits which is absolutely necessary to give her any Chance for Health. Consider my dear Friend what a drawback this is from the Happi ness I proposed to myself in rejoining my Family after so long an Absence. May Heaven preserve you 8c yours that first of all earthly Blessings Health. Your Fortitude will give you Contentment and Patience under all the Calamities we suffer in our persons or feel for our Friends. Present my affectionate Compliments to my dear Mrs. Morris, tell her that we often speak of you 8c her with unfeignd Regard, 8c that I am incapable of forgetting the Kindness and Hospi-


[Page 343]
March 19, 1778 311 tality with which I have been always entertaind at every place which called Mr. Morris its owner. Do, my dear sir, write me the news. If you have none, write only that you & your family are well; & that you still remember, your truly affect Friend & most Obedt Servant, Jas. Duane [P.S.] I have expected Mr Duer every day for three months which is the Reason I do not write. I fear the Return of his Indisposition. If he is still with you present him my respectful Complimts as well as to my other colieages & all in whose Remembrance I have a place. RC (NA1I). 1 No doubt Duane is referring to his March 16 letter, which was read in Congress on the 28th but is not now in PCC. JCC, 10:291. 2 For discussion of the congressional investigation of the role of Gen. Philip Schuyler and other officers in the July 1777 evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777; and Committee of Congress to Washington, February 7, 1778, note 1. Edward Langworthy to William Palfrey Dear Colonel, York Town, March 19th. 1778 I am extremely sorry to observe that you give the least hint of leaving the Army, tho’ I’m conscious you could do more for your family in a Private Station & that your Abilities & knowledge of mercantile Affairs could not fail of procuring you great Success; but my Dear Sir, it may be dangerous to the great & glorious Cause to suffer private motives to influence us at this Time. True it is, you have made a great Sacrifice already & therefore should think you justifiable to conduct your future Life in whatever mode might be agreeable; but 1 cannot but express my Wishes that you would continue to move in that Sphere, in which it is my real Opinion, no Man in America will do better than yourself. Life is a probationary State & a disinterested Conduct for the Liberties &: good of Mankind will not fail of the Smiles & blessing of that great Being, who governs all & turns our hearts according to his pleasure. I believe it is happy for the Continent that the Committee were sent to Camp, General Fulsom arrived here yesterday, when will the other Gentlemen return? We decrease in Members every Day; Mr Penn & Mr Harvey return to their respective States this week, so that the Congress will want assistance; Do give Mr Morris a hint of this. New York has agreed to the Confederation & directed her Delegates to ratify the same. Mr Wood my Colleague sate out for Georgia yesterday. 1 I shall not


[Page 344]
312 March 19, 1778 leave Congress till the beginning of June & shall do my endeavor to get the Powder of Sago &c here as soon as possible & will send some likewise to Boston. [Of] this shall particularly inform you herea[fter.] As I apprehend you will get into Tra[de] as soon as you leave the Army, I hope [you] will not fail to correspond with me. If the present Cloud should blow over, 1 am certain it would be for our mutual advantage. We have had several Debates this week relative to the Exchange of Prisoners & the Liquidation of Accounts &c; as for my part, I am for relieving at all Events our distressed Friends from Captivity & have given my vote accordingly. 2 Col. Harnet desires his respectful Compliments to you. The Nymphs of the Stove Room smiled at your Ingenuity & remember you with pleasure. I am, Dear Colonel, Your well wisher & very humble servt, Edw Langworthy RC (MH-H). 1 Although Joseph Wood had been in Congress since mid-November 1777, no letter written by him during his period of service has been discovered, nor has evidence been found to indicate precisely when he last attended Congress. Wood was last recorded as voting on February 27; he did not participate in the roll call votes of March 13, 14, and 18. See JCC, 9:931, 10:205, 250-51, 256, 267-68. 2 For the March 18 resolution authorizing Washington to exchange prisoners of war without awaiting final settlement of British prisoner accounts, while retain ing the settlement of accounts as a prerequisite to negotiating a general cartel for future prisoner exchange, see JCC, 10:266-68. Henry Laurens to William Aylett Sir 19th March 1778. I beg leave to refer you to my late Letter of 15th Currt. 1 which General Scott was so polite as to take under his protection & to promise he would deliver on his way to Williamsburg. 2 Within the present Inclosure you will receive two Copies of an Act of Congress of the 13 th Inst, for appointing a Commissary general of purchases, & for ascertaining the allowance for purchasing provisions &c.—to which I beg leave to refer, requesting you to transmit one Copy to John Moore Esquire who I hope is now acting vigorously &: Success fully in the line of the late appointment. I am with much regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colo. William Aylett Esquire, Williamsburg, by John Penn Esqr.” ’See Laurens to Aylett, March 15, 1778. 2 Laurens also wrote a brief letter this day to John Carter of Williamsburg, informing him of his March 16 appointment as Continental prize agent in Virginia.


[Page 345]
March 19, 1778 313 Carter took the place of John Tazewell, who had recently resigned as prize agent and to whom Laurens addressed a brief letter this day containing word of con gressional acceptance of his resignation. See PCC, item 13, fol. 232; and JCC, 10:259. Henry Laurens to the Massachusetts Council Honorable Gentlemen 19th March 1778 My last by Messenger Brown on the 12th Inst. 1 Within the present Inclosure you will receive an Act of Congress of the 16th for obtain ing information from the several States of their determinations re specting the Recommendations of Congress &ca. 2 to which I beg leave to refer the Honorable Council & remain with very great Re spect, Honorable Gentlemen, Your obedt. humble Servant. 24th. The Honorable Mr. President’s favor of 23d Febry. reached me no earlier than yesterday. I have presented it to Congress—the Answer is anticipated by an Act of Congress of 15th Febry transmitted in mine of the 20th by Ross. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to George Clinton, March 12, 1778, note 2. 2 The enclosed “Act” of March 16 requested “the governors and presidents of the states ... to transmit to Congress . . . attested copies of the acts passed by their respective legislatures, in pursuance of recommendations of Congress, which they may have received since the 1st of November last; and of all acts which they may hereafter pass, in consequence of future recommendations.” JCC, 10:260-61. November 1, 1777, was the date of Laurens’ election as president of Congress. Laurens also enclosed copies of this “Act” with brief covering letters that he wrote this day to the governors or presidents of New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Mary land, Virginia, North Carolina, and Georgia. See PCC, item 13, fols. 231-33; Meshech Weare Papers, Nh-Ar; Emmet Collection, NN; and Red Books, MdAA. 3 The Massachusetts Council’s February 23 letter is not in PCC. With his Febru ary 20 letter Laurens had enclosed a February 19 resolve requesting the council to disperse Gen. John Burgoyne’s captured troops throughout Massachusetts. JCC, 10:184-85. Congress did not meet on February 15, a Sunday. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton Sir, York Town March 19th. 1778 The enclosed resolution was this Evening proposed to Congress, and after some debate committed to the Delegates of this State; we therefore request Instructions from The Honble. the Council on the head, with their result on the other matters refered to them by us as soon as possible. 1 A resolution has passed Congress recommending to this State to call out five hundred Militia which will be forwarded


[Page 348]
316 March 20, 1778 [P.S.] I wrote so hastily with Mr. Penn hurrying me that I fear you’ll not be able to read the letter. Respects to Mr. Buchanan 8c his Lady 8c Mr. Leigh. RC (ViW). 1 Banister had taken his seat in Congress on March 16. ]CC, 10:258. “This letter was doubtless written to Frances Bland Randolph (1752-88), a sister of Banister’s late wife Elizabeth. Frances, the young widow of John Randolph of Matoax, became the wife of St. George Tucker in September 1778, among whose papers Banister’s letter is now located. Jonathan Daniels, The Randolphs of Virginia (Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday & Co., 1972), pp. xx, 97, 111. Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Dear Sir York Town 20 March 1778 I have been laid up with the Gout which has prevented my writing to Your Excellency for some time past having had it in my right hand. Nothing has as yet been determined on in Congress relative to Calling out the Militia of No Carolina. The Army remains still at Valey Forge, & we have been for some time alarmed with the great Scarcity of flesh to feed them. My friend Burke thinks this an Artificial Scarcity; in this we differ much in Opinion, as I am Convinced the want is real, as we have not been Able as yet to lay up any Magazines of Provisions, 8c have had only sufficient to Supply the immediate wants of the Army; I am firmly of Opinion if we fail at all in the Vigour of our Opperations, it will be owing to this Circumstance; & by that means, I fear the war may be prolonged, and our Army re duced to the Necessity of carrying on a defensive war only. I hope I may be mistaken, many Gentlemen think I am; The Provision not coming on as fast as we wish, may perhaps be owing to the badness of the weather, which has rendered the roads almost impassable; how my Collegue (Penn) will get on, I know not, he is the bearer of this 8c I beg leave to refer you to him for further information in regard to Congress Matters. General Washington has it much at heart to Open the Campaign with Vigour before the Enemy can possibly receive reinforcements. Our Committee are not yet arrived from Camp, but are daily expected. It is expected they will, on their arrival, Open a new field for Congress. I intend to set off on my return home some time towards the middle of April, I shall then have been ten Months from my family, and as Our Assembly pay their Delegates so very Liberally, I have neither expectation or wish to return again, as I am convinced there will be many Candidates for the Honorable imployment, I am not one; ’tho


[Page 349]
March 20, 1778 317 I shall think it my Duty to serve my Country to the best of my poor abilities, in any Capacity, either with or without pay. I suppose the Genl. Assembly will be adjourned before my return, I am sorry they had not Continued thier Present Delegates until they were relieved by Others, this might have prevented Our State from being unrepresented in Congress for two or three Months at least, which must be the case as matters now Stand. Virginia has impowered her Delegates to ratify the Confederation. The Members from Massachusets have also private Letters informing them that their State has also done it. 1 I do not hear of any Other States doing it as yet; Connecticut wish the Quota to be fixed by the Number of people in each State; every Other Objection of theirs has little weight. Every member of Congress seems to wish for a Confederacy except my good friend Burke who laughs at it as a Chymerical Project, it does not strike me in that point of view. I think that unless the States Confederate a door will be left open for Continual Contention & Bloodshed, and that, very soon after we are at peace with Europe. I heartily wish I may be Mistaken. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Your Excellencys Most Obed & very hul Servt, Cornl. Harnett P.S. Upon enquiry I find the Delegates from the several States have power to ratify the Confederation, but are to endeavor to get some Alterations made if possible. Mr. Penn will give Your Excellency further information on this subject. The Gen. Assembly of N. York have agreed unanimously and have by Commission empowered their Delegates. 2 As I have been informed some aspersions have been thrown out to the Prejudice of Mr. Penn, I must in justice to that Gentleman’s Character assure your Excellency that his Conduct as a Delegate and a Gentleman has been worthy and disinterested. RC (NcU). 1 See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, March 10, 1778, note 1. 2 The New York legislature’s instrument of ratification, signed by Governor Clinton on February 16, is in JCC, 11:665-68. Henry Laurens to Egbert Benson Sir, 20th March 1778. Your Letter of the 31st December which I had the honour of re ceiving the 27 th Jany. was immediately presented to Congress. 1 The Members then present expressed generally their regret that you had declined acting in the Commission for the intended “Enquiry” at Providence & ordered the Letter to be filed by the Secretary.


[Page 362]
330 March 24, 1778 the Board of War recommended that Congress accept Bois' resignation from the Continental Army and pay him “a sum of money” to cover his journey home. Congress then referred this recommendation to the Board of Treasury, which is the last mention of the matter in the journals. See JCC, 10:299, 404, 11:491, 508; and PCC, item 78, 2:403-10. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 24th March 1778. I am honoured with Your Excellency’s favor of the 12th Inst, by the hands of Colo. Armand. Whatever had been the design, or if it might have been, as Your Excellency charges, intended “deception” of the Board of War I dare again aver, that Congress were not in the project for leaving General Conway in a seperate Command in consequence of recalling Your Excellency &: Baron de Kalb from Albany. I have been more than a little astonished by the freedom of Speech in treating upon that Gentleman’s Character—severe & harsh sentiments have not only been whispered but loudly sounded in my hearing, & even one Gentle man in whom I know he had reposed the greatest confidence gave him up by a mild declaration that he was afraid General Conway was too indiscreet a Man to be trusted with a Command. Thus are Men deceived in this Rascally World. Poor Conway beleives quite a different Creed. I have not the least doubt but that he has wrapped himself secure in the friendship of some, who by fair &: soft personal addresses have tempted him to a confidence, while he is shy of others from whom he has experienced only Candor &: plain dealing. God knows what he is, I have not yet fully heard all sides, nor have I very deeply considered what I have heard. But this I will venture to say to you Dear Marquis, according to the Maxim of an ancient Lawyer “whatsoever a Man sowith that shall he reap,” if he is deceitful, he is paid in his own Coin. I protest humanity shrinks at hearing Men traduce the Character whom they have taught to place a confidence in them—to hear ferocity, sheer Courage, eminent qualities in the Brute Creation, acknowledged to be the only virtues in the mind of a favorite. Is it possible for Men to speak of a friend as they do of a Mastiff? Then steps in another Set, who attempt to strip him even of that specious Virtue. In a word the General once honoured me by asking for my advice, I gave it honestly, he literally pursued, but indirectly, most effectually contravened it. I have therefore no great encouragement to become a volunteer Councellor, but should my sentiments be again demanded, I would find room for inserting, “be advised by me General & return to France ’"here there is a greater Croud.”


[Page 364]
332 March 24, 1778 substantial to follow, but blows. In the mean time the Monied people of England are really alarmed & begin to subscribe for the support of the War. This is a maneuvre which I always dreaded, if the infection spreads our American troubles will not soon be removed. On this side the Water there is too much ground to fear some grand exertion, or some injurious sly stroke, will appear against Valley Forge, Wilming ton or perhaps York Town before General Washington is sufficiently reinforced to admit of detachments or even of facing the Enemy with his whole present Army. I most sincerely wished your Excellency a seperate Command, but since that has not happened, with equal earnestness I wish to hear of your Excellency’s safe arrival at Valley forge, where possibly this may kiss your hand & upon that presumption Colo Armand means to take the Camp in his Route. I dare not detain that Gentleman a moment longer, he is as im patient to be gone as he would be if he was going to be Married, he will admit of no delay. He has experienced none from me as an Indi vidual. I have the honour to be with the most sincere Esteem & Regard &ca. [P.S.] Inclosed are two Letters left here for your Excellency. LB (ScHi). 1 This private letter to Laurens is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:350-52. 2 See the next entry. 3 That is, the Board of War’s opening of Lafayette’s February 20 letter to Laurens. See Laurens to Lafayette, March 4, 1778. 1 Lafayette had lost the chevalier de Mauduit Du Plessis’ commission as brevet lieutenant colonel and the January 19, 1778, resolve of Congress that granted it. See JCC, 10:64; Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:351; and Laurens to Du Plessis, April 28, 1778. 6 On April 15 Congress directed Gen. Horatio Gates to repair to Fishkill, N.Y., and resume active command of the northern department. JCC, 10:354-55. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 24th March 1778 Your Letters of the 11th & 12th of this Month 1 have been laid be fore Congress. They have considered the apprehensions you express, that you & General Kalb are to leave the command of the Troops in that part of the continent where you now are, to General Conway, and your request, of permission to go to France, founded thereon. They wish you to be assured, that they have a very high sense of your merit and attachment to America. They judge it of advantage to the public Service that you and General Kalb be present with the grand army, but when they came to this determination, had not yet resolved


[Page 365]
March 24, 1778 333 on a disposition for General Conway, and had no intention to make any injurious to your honour. They expect this declaration, and the disposition since made for General Conway, 2 will make it unecessary to grant the permission you request. By order of Congress. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 These official letters to Laurens are in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:344-50. Lafayette’s letters had been referred to a committee of three on March 19, which reported on the 21st that another committee should be appointed “to prepare the draught of a letter, to be signed and sent by the President, to the marquis, in answer to the said letters." Thomas Burke, Francis Lightfoot Lee, and Thomas McKean, the delegates named to this committee, then produced the present letter. See JCC, 10:269, 278. 2 On March 23 Congress decided to order Gen. Thomas Conway to serve at Peekskill, N.Y., under the command of Gen. Alexander McDougall, thus relieving Lafayette’s fear that Conway would remain in command at Albany upon the departure of himself and Kalb. See JCC, 10:280; and Laurens to Lafayette, March 6, 1778, note 5. Laurens notified Conway and McDougall of this resolve in brief letters that he wrote to them this day. PCC, item 13, fol. 240. On the same day he wrote to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., paymaster general in the northern department, and informed him of a March 23 resolve ordering him to supply McDougall with money for as long as the general remained in command in Peekskill. See ibid.; and JCC, 10:280. James Lovell to George Washington Sir March 24th 1778. You will form a Judgement upon the following Extract of a Letter from the Honble Thos. Cushing by weighing it with the various Intelligence which you receive from other Quarters. It has been long on the Road from the Difficulty of passing Hudson’s River where the Express lost his Horse on the 11th of this Month. “Sir Extract Boston Feb. 28th. 1778 “Mr. Hancock having just informed me that he shall send off an Express tomorrow morning for Congress, I embrace the opportunity to convey to you a peice of Intelligence I have just received from Mr. Wm. Davis, a Member of our House, who left Dartmouth last Thursday. He says he was credibly informed there that some persons (having by some means or other got the Countersign) went from Tiverton to Newport to gain Intelligence of the Enemy’s Designs, they returned from there on Monday Evening the 23d Instant. They inform that all the Women 8c Children belonging to the British Troops were gone to New York and the Invalids gone to England. That the Troops were making preparation for Embarking, and the Officers had been heard to say that General Howe had given orders for them to be in Readiness to sail for Philadelphia by the 20th of


[Page 375]
March 27, 1778 343 to, is the Postscript of my Letter the 6th Inst. 2 I read that to General Gates & the fact was public, therefore the intimation can give no offence. In a word permit me to assure Your Excellency that neither the manner nor the matter of the late disclosure affects me with the Slightest degree of Chagrin, except my feelings for the vexation which that circumstance had given you. Your Excellency’s Letter to Congress is Reported & Committed to a Select Committee. Our business of this nature proceeds slowly, there fore I will not detain the Messenger but return him to morrow Morning with this. Such determinations as Congress may make in consequence of the expected Report from Committee will in all prob ability meet you at Valley forge. 3 I presume you will commence your retrograde journey soon after the return of the present bearer. An authentic account from Holland of 25th October assures us the States have demanded restitution for a Dutch Ship taken in the Channel by an English Man of War under pretences of her being American built—that all the capital Houses in Trade (Hope & Comp, excepted) have united in application for Convoys to their West India Trade & that the number of friends to American Independence increased daily in that Country. 4 Yesterday a Gentleman from Virginia imported a peice of intelli gence of extraordinary magnitude—which had just arrived from the French West Indies. France, Spain, Portugal, Prussia & Poland have concurred in sentiments to recognize the Independence of these United States. I will not say this is impossible but have advised the printer to preface the Account by such an apology as will save him hereafter from the charge of forgery. Your determination Dear Marquis to do nothing which may in any degree injure the American Cause is the fruit of a Noble Heart— indeed were you to retire at this Instant unhappy consequences. 5 LB (ScHi). 1 Lafayette’s private March 20 letter to Laurens is in Lafayette Papers (Idzerda), 1:366-69. “In the letter cited above, Lafayette insinuated that he had shown Gen. Thomas Conway the postscript of a March 6 letter from Laurens stating that the marquis and Baron de Kalb were to rejoin Washington’s army while Conway was to remain behind in Albany, which would have made Conway acting commander of the army there. 3 Lafayette’s official March 20 letter to President Laurens was referred to a com mittee this day, but no report on it has been found. See JCC, 10:287; and Lafay ette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:362-65. * Congress had received this “authentic account’’ in the form of an October 14, 1777, letter to the committee of foreign affairs from Charles W. F. Dumas, Con gress’ agent at The Hague. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:407-8. Laurens erred in giving the date of this letter as October 25. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Laurens to Lafayette, April 8, 1778.


[Page 376]
344 March 27, 1778 Henry Laurens to George Read Sir. York Town 27th March 1778. Within the present Inclosure you will receive two Packets under date of the 9th & 10th Ulto. which I had pressed upon the Honorable Mr. McKean to take into his care & forward but he declined. I intreat you to be assured that notwithstanding any seeming delinquency on the part of the President of Congress in his correspondence with Deleware he is by no means chargeable with the smallest neglect, although I will not detain you at present with proofs or apologies. The bearer of this to Wilmington is on the wing 8c I must embrace the opportunity to transmit by him the Letters above mentioned together with the several Acts of Congress enumerated below. 1. 26th February for filling the Continental Battalions to which is annexed a Return from the Board of War shewing the Numbers wanted to compleat. 2. Same date for ascertaining the Amount of Accounts for neces saries supplied British Prisoners from the commencement of the present War. 3. 7th March for setting apart Wednesday 22d April for a General Fast. 4. 11th March for defraying the expences incurred by carrying into execution a Resolve of Congress of the 9th February last. 5. 12th March Recommending that each State send at least three Members to Congress during the War. 6. 16th March for obtaining from the several States information of their proceedings on the Recommendations of Congress 8cc. If you will be pleased to inform me the best or to point out a par ticular mode for conveying dispatches hereafter I shall pay that regard, which I hold to be due to your advice, 8c depend upon me Sir, for as strict an attention to Delaware as I regularly observe to every State in the Union within the circle of my Duty. I have the honour to be, With very great regard, Sir, Your obedient 8c Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress P.S. This Instant the Secretary has sent in 8c you will receive with other papers an Act of the 19 March Recommending to the several States to take the most effectual measures for raising their quota of Men 8cc. RC (Henry Laurens, Flat Rock, N.C., 1973).


[Page 380]
348 March 28, 1778 my Letter about sending me a Servant. I must endeavour to get on by hiring One, from Stage to Stage. I dare not tell you how ill I have been, how ill I am now; or how soon I expect to be better. But Mrs Harnett must not know it. I ride out on horse-back every day & think I mend. Make my respectful Compliments to all my friends & believe me, Dr Sir, Your sincere friend &c, Cornl Harnett [P.S.] I beg you will Shew Civility to Major Lucas, for my sake &: his own. RC (PHi). Henry Laurens to John Laurance Sir, York Town 28th March 1778 Your Letter to Mr. Duane of the 18th November was presented to Congress the 9th Inst, and was yesterday taken under consideration, when it was Resolved to augment your Salary as will appear by an Act of Congress for that purpose which I have the honour of trans mitting within the present Inclosure. 1 I am with great Respect, sir, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (NHi). Addressed: “John Laurance Esquire, Judge Advocate general in the Army of the United States of America, Valley forge Camp.” 1 In his November 18, 1777, letter to James Duane, who was then a member of the Board of Treasury, Judge Advocate General Laurance had complained that he was being underpaid and had asked Congress to give him “Pay and Rations equal to those of a Colonel” as well as “Provender for two Horses.” PCC, item 78, 14:251-52. On March 27 Congress decided to allow Laurance “seventy-five dollars per month [the regular monthly pay for a colonel], his former rations, and forage for two horses.” See JCC, 5:853, 10:290. Henry Laurens to Ebenezer Learned Sir, 28th March 1778. Your favour of the 12th which reached me the 23d Inst, having been taken under consideration in Congress, the House Resolved to accept the Resignation of your Commission & within this Inclosure you will receive the Act for that purpose. 1 Permit me to add as an Individual that from the high opinion I have entertained for your excellent Character as a Soldier & a Citizen I regret the loss which the public will Suffer in one part on this


[Page 381]
March 29, 1778 349 occasion. I wish you perfect recovery of health & have the honour to be, With great Esteem & Respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Brigadier General Ebenezer Learned Es quire, Boston.” 1 In his March 12 letter to Laurens, Ebenezer Learned, who had been appointed a Continental brigadier general on April 2, 1777, had asked for permission to resign from the army for reasons of health and Congress had granted it on the 24th. See JCC, 10:281; and PCC, item 78, 14:203-4. Henry Laurens to Casimir Pulaski Sir 1 28th March 1778. I have the honour of presenting within this Inclosure an Act of Congress of this date for confirming your Rank of Brigadier General in the Army of the United States & for enabling you to raise & Command an Independent Corps &ca to which I beg leave to refer. Permit me to assure you of my warmest wishes for your Success, and that I am with very great Respect &ca. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Count Paulaski, York Town.” 1 The young Polish patriot Casimir Pulaski (1748-79) had arrived in America in July 1777 with a letter of introduction from Benjamin Franklin, and he had quickly won the favor of Washington, who advised Congress to appoint him com mander of the Continental cavalry. Congress obliged the commander in chief on September 15 by creating the post of “commander of the horse . . . with the rank of brigadier” and appointing Pulaski to it. But Pulaski’s appointment offended a number of American cavalry officers, and after repeated clashes with them he resigned his command early in March. With Washington’s support, however, Pulaski next sought authority from Congress to raise and command “an inde pendent Corps composed of 68 Horse and 200 foot,” which Congress granted this day. See JCC, 8:745, 10:291; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:80-82; and DAB. See also Laurens to Washington, March 30, 1778. “This day Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., the pay master general in the northern department, transmitting “A Warrant on Derick Ten Brock Esquire Commissioner of the Loan Office New York dated yesterday for Twenty Seven Thousand three hundred & thirteen Dollars.” See PCC, item 13, fol. 246; and JCC, 10:290. Abraham Clark to Jeremiah Wadsworth March 29. 1778. Mr. Wadsworth is desired to peruse the enclosed regulations, 1 and Signifie his Pleasure whether he is willing to Accept the appointment of Comsy. genl.—and whether he find any defect in the System of Consequence Sufficient to require a reconsideration—the information may be given to Mr Dyer or his Humble Servt, Abra Clark


[Page 382]
350 March 29, 1778 RC (John F. Reed, King of Prussia, Pa., 1972). Addressed: “Jeremiah Wadsworth in York Town.” Endorsed by Wadsworth: "Letter from Mr A Clark 29 March reed same day.” 1 The “enclosed regulations” were undoubtedly those approved by Congress on March 13 and drawn up by “the committee to revise the commissary’s depart ment.” Clark was a member of this committee, which had been appointed on January 14, 1778, while Eliphalet Dyer had long been urging Wadsworth to accept the office of commissary general of purchases. Congress approved three alterations Wadsworth requested in the commissary system and “unanimously elected” him commissary general on April 9. See JCC, 10:51, 192-93, 207, 235, 241, 247-52, 327-28; and Dyer to Wadsworth, February 10 and March 10, 1778. Although Clark's letter is clearly dated March 29 and is so endorsed by Wads worth, it may have been written one day later. March 29 was a Sunday, and according to the journals Clark, Dyer, Elbridge Gerry, and Francis Lightfoot Lee were appointed on the 30th to meet with Wadsworth “and enquire whether he will undertake the office of commissary general of purchases.” JCC, 10:293. But since Clark may have been writing in his capacity as a member of the previously ap pointed committee on the commissariat and referred Wadsworth to Dyer simply because Dyer was a fellow Connecticut resident who had been promoting Wads worth’s appointment, the letter has been placed as Clark dated it. Francis Dana to the Massachusetts Council Sir York Town March 29th. 1778 As the time I proposed, when I left home, to tarry at Congress, is nearly expired, and I am unwilling our State shou’d be unrepre sented in that Assembly; 1 I take the liberty to trouble you with my intention of leaving Congress in the latter end of April, or the be ginning of May next. Mr. Gerry will I believe, return at the same time. And as our General Assembly have thought fit to require Three to make up their representation in Congress (which by the way is attended frequently with much inconvenience, and I think ought to be reduced to Two) it will be necessary Two of the other Delegates shou’d come forward by the time Mr. Gerry and myself intend to set off for home. I am Sir, with much esteem 8c respect, your most obedt. 8c obliged humble Servant, Fra Dana P.S. Please to present my respectful Compts. to the Members of the Board. RC (M-Ar). Addressed: “Honble. Jeremiah Powell Esqr., President.” Endorsed: “In the House of Representatives April 23d. 1778, Read & committed to the Committee on the Letter from Elbridge Gerry Esq. Sent up for Concurrence. J. Pitts Spkr pro Tem. In Council April 23d. 1778, Read & Concurred. John Avery DyScy.” 1 For Elbridge Gerry’s testimony that Massachusetts had in reality been unrepre sented in Congress for some time, because of Dana’s attendance at the Committee at Camp, see Gerry to the Massachusetts Council, March 28, 1778.


[Page 385]
March 30, 1778 353 24th Inst. 1 The former Committed to the Board of War & not re ported—the latter came under Cover from Colo. Lewis of Virginia accompanied by his Commission which Congress have received & accepted that Gentleman’s resignation. 2 Congress by an Act of the 24th Inst, accepted also the Resignation of Brigadier General Learned. Inclosed herein Your Excellency will receive two Acts of Congress, Vizt. 1. 19th March Recommending to the several States to take the most speedy & effectual measures for raising their respective quota of Men for procuring complete sets of Accoutrements &ca. 2. 28th March for authorizing Count Poulaski to raise an Inde pendent Corps &ca retaining his Rank of Brigadier General in the Army. Colonel Armand is now or will probably be in Camp in a few days, I therefore judge it proper to return the Inclosed Letter directed by your Excellency to that Gentleman. 3 I have the honour to be with the utmost Esteem & Respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Washington’s two March 24 letters to Laurens are in PCC, item 152, 5:415-19, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:137-40. 2 See JCC, 10:292. 3 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:147—48. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir > 30th March 1778 I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency Yesterday by Gen eral duportail. At reading the Journal this Morning Congress reconsidered the Act of the 28th for authorizing Count Pulaski to raise a Seperate Corps & expunged the words “Prisoners which Stood in the last Sentence & your Excellency will receive within the present Inclosure a Copy of the Act as now amended. 1 I likewise inclose an Act of Congress of this date for securing the Exchange & inlargement of Major General Lee & for other purposes relative to the intended Cartel for the Exchange of Prisoners to which I beg leave to refer. 2 I have the honour to be with great Regard & Esteem &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 The printed journals do not record the deletion of the phrase “Prisoners &” from the March 28 resolve authorizing Casimir Pulaski to raise an independent corps, and the rough journals for this part of March 1778 are missing from PCC. However, the phrase is crossed out in the manuscript report of the Board of War


[Page 386]
354 March 30, 1778 proposing the creation of this corps. PCC, item 147, 1:557. Congress had forbidden the enlistment of prisoners of war or deserters into the Continental Army in a February 26 resolve, but Washington raised the issue of exempting Pulaski's corps from this ban in his March 14 letter to Laurens. Perhaps Congress rescinded per mission to Pulaski to recruit prisoners because of Washington’s March 12 warning to Laurens that this practice would undercut efforts to end General Howe’s policy of “obliging or permitting the prisoners in his hands to inlist.” See JCC, 10:203, 291; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:73, 81. Despite Congress’ resolves and Washington’s orders forbidding this practice, however, Pulaski, with the encouragement of the Board of War, proceeded to enlist prisoners of war anyway, thereby offending both the delegates and the commander in chief. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:337; and letters to William Atlee from Laurens, May 29, and from Thomas McKean, June 5, 1778. 2 See JCC, 10:295; and Laurens to Washington, March 15, note 1, and April 8, 1778, note 4. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Dear Sir, York Town, 30 March 1778. 1 I had the honor to write you the 25th Ultimo & 7th Inst, acknowl edging your favor of the 11th January, 2 and pursuance to your re quest, & my duty, I shall proceed to give you every information in my power relative to the Public Weal. About two Months ago Congress sent a Committee of their Body to Camp in order to consult with the General upon a mode for regulating the Army. Mr Danna, one of that Committee is returned with a Report for the new arrangement of the Army in which it is proposed to reduce the present establishment to 88 Battalions, each to consist of one Colonel, one Lieut Colonel, one Major, six Captains, one Capt. Lieut., Eight Lieuts, nine Ensigns, The Staff to be ap pointed out of the Line. The Qr. Mrs. General for the Grand Army are already appointed, vizt Major Genl. Green, with a Col. Cox & Mr. Pettit (both of this state) as assistant Qr. Masrs. General. There has been great complaints of neglect & peculation in this department, into which a strict inquiry will be made. The Report proposes half pay to all Commissioned Officers on the new Establishment, who shall remain in the service at the end of the War. Congress has already employed a Week, de diem in diem, de bating warmly upon this point, & nothing yet determined. The half pay scheme meets with great opposition, the House divided in a Com mittee of the Whole, the Question not yet put, but will I believe tomorrow, if carried in the affirmative (wch is still with me a doubt) it will be for a limmited term of years, & not for life. 3 By a letter from General Washington receivd last night, we are informed the Enemy are preparing for an Expedition. 4 They have


[Page 390]
358 March 31, 1778 Henry Laurens to Matthew Locke Dear Sir, 31 March 1778. Monsieur Capitaine lately brought me your favor of the 25th Febry. & yesterday Thomas Bell arrived & delivered the Marquis delafayette ® a gg a g e - I thank you for all your kindness upon this account & will chearfully pay your advance for Monsr. Capitaine when Mr. Brandon or any other person brings a draught. 1 That Gentleman lost on the Road the Horse which you supplied him with but he cannot clearly discribe the place from whence the Beast Strayed. If you can recover him I am persuaded you will & hold him in readiness for the Mar quis’s order or account for so much as he may sell for. If Marquis delafayette had been upon the Spot he might have added to the Sum which I have paid Mr. Bell for his Waggon here, but I think I have gone as far as appear to be equitable & have exceeded the Sum you agreed for. I have paid him 470 Dollars equal to £188—upwards of three pounds per day for a light load out, & empty return is certainly a very enormous price with which Mr. Bell seems satisfied. LB (ScHi). 1 For further information about Laurens’ efforts to enlist the assistance of Locke and others for Michel Capitaine du Chesnoy, a French officer who had come to America with Lafayette in the summer of 1777 and afterward been incapacitated by illness, see Laurens to Locke, January 25, 1778. Congress granted Capitaine a commission as captain of engineers on April 16. JCC, 10:356. Henry Laurens to Thomas Wharton Sir 31st March 1778 My last to Your Excellency was the 24th Inst, by Messenger Wier. Within the present Inclosure your Excellency will receive two Acts of Congress, 1 of the 19th & 1 of the 27th Inst. 1. Recommending to the several States to raise their respective quota of Men & March them forward with all possible expedition, to provide complete sets of accoutrements &ca. 2. For recruiting Colo. Thomas Hartley’s Regiment, 1 to which I beg leave to refer and remain, with great respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). x This resolve stated that if Pennsylvania granted the state bounty to those who enlisted in Colonel Hartley’s Eleventh Pennsylvania Regiment they would be credited to Pennsylvania’s quota of Continental troops. JCC, 10:288. See also Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:351-52; and Jonathan Bayard Smith to Wharton, March 10, 1778.


[Page 397]
April 3, 1778 365 already empowered their delegates to ratify it; however, I will exert every nerve to accomplish any measure which shall be recommended by my constituents, who may think it advisable to direct their depu ties to endeavour to procure any explanation of certain doubtful expressions in different articles, if they should not think it proper to do more. Nothing has been effected with regard to president M’Kinley; 2 but as the cartel for a general exchange is now debating, and settling be tween three commissioners on the part of general Washington, and the like number on the part of general Howe, in Germantown, where they met on the last day of March, I hope in a few weeks, something favorable for him may be done. If you can procure any clothing for the Delaware battalion, it may be useful, but I am confident there is sufficient for the whole army, already purchased by congress, for above a year; and yet I am told the most of the troops are naked—peculation, neglect of duty, avarice, and insolence, in most departments abound; but, with the favor of God, I shall contribute my part to drag forth and punish the culprits, though some of them are high in rank, and characters I did not suspect. You will also receive a little pamphlet of the earl of Abington’s, which is worth your perusal. 3 General Rodney is not yet arrived, nor could I procure a lodging for him in town when he comes; indeed, when I return, I shall be at an equal loss for myself; this is discourag ing, but we must not expect much comfort during this great and glorious struggle. It is reported Howe is recalled, and is to be suc ceeded by lord Townshend: this will be an active, and I fear a bloody, campaign. April 12th, at Lancaster. I find you give up the command in chief to general Rodney, so that perhaps it may suit you to come to congress. 4 I am, Sir, Your most obedt. friend, Thos. M’Kean MS not found; reprinted from John Sanderson, Biography of the Signers to the Declaration of Independence, 9 vols. (Philadelphia: R. W. Pomeroy, 1820-27), 4:65-69. 1 George Read’s March 4 letter to McKean is in William T. Read, Life and Correspondence of George Read, a Signer of the Declaration of Independence . . . (Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1870), pp. 303-7. It was read in Congress on March 12. ]CC, 10:246. 2 See McKean to Read, February 12, 1778, note 2. 3 McKean doubtless enclosed a copy of the Earl of Abingdon’s Thoughts on the Letter of Edmund Burke, Esq. to the Sheriffs of Bristol, on the Affairs of America (Oxford, 1777), which had just been reprinted in Lancaster by John Dunlap. For further information on Abingdon’s pamphlet, see John Henry to Thomas John son, February 17, 1778, note 2. 4 On March 31 the Delaware Assembly elected Caesar Rodney, a brigadier general


[Page 398]
366 April 3, 1778 in the state militia, to replace Read as president of Delaware, Read having served as acting president since John McKinly’s capture by the British in September 1777. Rodney, Papers (Ryden), pp. 256-57. McKean wrote a letter of congratulations to Rodney on April 8 that has not been found, but see Rodney’s April 18 reply in Delaware Archives, 3:1449-50. Marine Committee to John Langdon Sir April 3d. 1778 We have received your Letter of the 3d of March, and must confess that it gives us great concern that you should have been thrown into so disagreeable a Situation for want of a proper supply of Money. So great and so frequent have been the demands on the Treasury for that necessary article that it hath been out of our power to furnish the Navy Board agreeable to our wishes. It is on this account princi pally that we have wrote to them directing them to stop the building of the seventy four gun ship at Portsmouth. 1 You will drop the build ing of her for the present & take proper measures for securing and seasoning the Timber provided for her. We shall procure an order on the Treasury or a warrant on the Loan Offices eastward if possible to enable them to supply you with some money; hereafter when the great departments of the Army shall have been supplied therewith, we will endeavour at the payment of all our debts, and don’t doubt but that we shall be able to accomplish it, in the mean time you must make your self and your Creditors as easy as possible. We are satisfied with your conduct and believe that the Building of the Ships at Portsmouth hath been conducted with as much oeconomy and ad vantage to the Continent as in any of the United States. The Navy Board at Boston are empowered to settle all Marine Accounts in their Department—the Commercial Accounts must be transmitted for settlement to the Committee of Commerce. We are with respect, Sir, Your very humble servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, April 6, 1778. Henry Laurens to Pierre Etienne Du Ponceau Sir, 1 York Town 4th April 1778 I am much indebted for your favor of the 2d Inst. The common Civilities which I had the honor of shewing you in York Town were as far short of my wishes as they were of that attention which is


[Page 399]
April 4, 1778 367 due to every polite stranger, let the times & circumstances by which my inclinations were cramped be my apology. Your sentiments Sir, respecting the Contest in which we poor Americans are engaged are truly liberal, they are Noble. If I were not perfectly assured of their consistency with the eternal Laws of truth & justice I would abandon the Cause & persuade you to follow the example before I subscribed to this Letter, but conscious as I am of the righteousness of our Claims, it is with pleasure I hear your determination to persevere in the line of Duty which was the object of your free Choice. I wish you frequent trials & upon every occasion success & honor & I beg you will rank among your friends, Sir, Your most obedient & humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (NNC). Endorsed: “I arrived in America at Portsmouth N.H. 1 Deer 1777. This letter dated 4 months afterwards proves that at that period my mind was fixed to remain in and devote myself to this Country. This is a precious paper for me. P.S.D. 25 May 1831.” 1 Pierre Etienne Du Ponceau (1760-1844), French-born author and lawyer, arrived in America in December 1777 as Baron von Steuben’s secretary and was appointed captain in the Continental Army on February 18, 1778. He acted as Steubens aide-de-camp until illness forced him to retire from military life in 1779, and then served as Robert R. Livingston’s under secretary of foreign affairs from 1781 to 1783. After the war Du Ponceau settled in Philadelphia where he enjoyed a long and distinguished career as a lawyer, legal scholar, and philologist. DAB. There is no basis for the suggestion in Burnett, Leiters, 3:227n.6, that Laurens probably wrote this letter “in response to a communication from Du Ponceau of a date subsequent to May 11.” Both the RC of the letter and the LB, which is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi, are clearly dated April 4, and there is nothing in the letter itself to indicate a later date. It is interesting to note that in an autobiographical reminiscence written in 1836 Du Ponceau observed of his relationship with Laurens: "Henry Laurens . . . was to me as a father, by the excellent advice he gave to me, as well verbally, as by letters, after we separated.” "Autobiographical Letters of Stephen S. Du- ponceau,” PMHB 40 (1916): 176. Henry Laurens to William Heath Si r> York Town 4th April 1778 Yesterday I had the honor of presenting to Congress your favors of the 21st & 24th March & although I have received no particular commands relative to their several Contents I am warranted by the general Voice of Members to intimate that you have received the applause of the House for your determinations respecting the adjust ment of Accounts with General Burgoyne. 1 I hope you have received the late large remittance of Money from the Treasury as well as the smaller Sum sent by Messenger


[Page 400]
368 April 4, 1778 Millet & that you are releived from the trouble which, I am sensible, the want of it must have occasioned you. I remain with very great Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your most obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (MHi). 1 General Heath’s March 21 and 24 letters to Laurens are in PCC, item 157, fols. 97-102. In the first he described how he had required Gen. John Burgoyne to abide by a December 19, 1777, resolve forbidding the release of British prisoners of war until they had paid for the supplies they had received from their captors in “pro visions or other necessaries, equal in quality and kind to what have been supplied, or the amount thereof in gold and silver, at the rate of four shillings and six pence for every dollar of the currency of these states.” See JCC, 9:1037. In the second he reported a rumor that Great Britain was sending 30,000 reinforcements to America under the command of Sir Jeffery Amherst. Henry Laurens to Baron Steuben Dear sir, York Town 4 April 1778. I can no longer submit to remain a subject of my own reproaches nor refrain from asking your forgiveness for my delinquency respect ing the very polite Letters which you have honoured me with under the 12th Ult. & 2d Inst. 1 Beleive me Sir, I am made very happy by repeated Accounts of the great utility of your presence & aid in our principal Camp joined with Your Excellency’s intimations of Contentment in the very humble station which for the benefit & improvement of the American Army you are pleased to submit to. I entertain the most confident expectations that good discipline will be established in Front & Ranks by Your Excellency’s Inspection & superintendence &: I am as fully persuaded that suitable acknowledgements will be made on the part of the People in their Representative body & by thousands individ ually as occasions shall offer. Accept I intreat you Sir of my particular thanks, of my sincere wishes for Your Excellency’s health & continued success. When shall I become an official correspondent? the opening may possibly depend upon the return of the Committee from Camp, when our worthy Commander in Chief may announce to Congress your condi tionary appointment &: meritorious services. I wish it may be soon, that your mind may be more composed. Permit me to assure you Dear Baron, in every case where I can consistently with that of these Infant States, I shall be devoted to your Interest & honor. 2 A Gentleman late from Charles Town brings no advice of Mr. Leterjettes arrival nor have I from any quarter received Letters for Your Excellency. York Town affords no interesting intelligence. I


[Page 403]
April 5, 1778 371 Soldiers from New-York, and we have a report from the eastward that the Troops at Rhode-Island were embarking to reinforce Genl. Howe, with a view to enable him to make an efficacious attack upon our encampment before the recruits from the several States shall have joined the main army. It is of the utmost importance that the states should fill up their battalions and send them forward immediately. I find that my information, respecting the negroe Regiment, was not good. 3 Since I had the honour of writing to you, one of the committee from camp hath informed me that it was not the intention that we should have two battalions in the field, that the surplusage of our recruits, above the number necessary to complete our one battalion, was to remain in the state so long as it should continue to be invaded. Inoculation is carried on in camp with such great success that recruits may come forward without any reluctance. Out of three thousand six hundred, which were lately inoculated at Valley forge, eleven only died of the small pox. An Important questions are on the carpet, whether an establish ment of half pay for life or term of years shall be allowed to military commissioned officers who shall continue in service to the end of the war? Whether any provision shall be made for the widows of those Officers who have fallen or shall fall in battle, and whether some allowance shall be made to such soldiers as inlist during the war and shall continue in the service to the end of the war? The first is the great question. A Question of such magnitude, in my opinion, that I am one of those who think that it ought to be referred to the consideration of the States. At present it is postponed at large. 4 When it shall be resumed it will be moved that it should be so referred; but whether the motion will meet with success or not is uncertain. I could wish to be instructed by my constituents how to give my voice especially on the capital question; will beg leave to expect it. If I should be called upon, before I receive the Instruc tions I wish, and shall expect, to give my vote, I shall do it as shall appear to me to be right, and if I should not jump in Judgment with my constituents I hope I shall not be censured. Congress have recommended it to the States to transmit as early as possible such Acts as they have passed in pursuance of Resolutions of Congress, since the first, I think it is, of November last. I wish that our state may attend to the recommendation. I have not received any authentic Information of what hath passed our Assembly for a long time, and what I have heretofore received were such abridg ments of Acts as were of but little use. The circumstances of my family are such as to necessitate my return home immediately after the election, I hope therefore that the Assembly will order on to Congress, the Delegate which may be chosen directly. By a private Letter I am informed that your Ex-


[Page 405]
April 6, 1778 373 as shall appear proper & necessary for discovering facts if there has been a criminal or unjustifiable correspondence between the said Mr. Swanwic 8c any person under protection of the Enemy. The Board may judge it necessary to dispatch proper persons to inspect without alarm the papers of the Mother of the Culprit. The Name of the Informant is known but reserved for the present at her particular desire. I have the honour to be with very great Regard & ca. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Horatio Gates Esquire, President of the Board of War, Lancaster.” 1 See also Laurens to Robert Morris, April 6; and Robert Morris to Laurens, April 7 and 13, 1778. 2 Laurens also wrote a letter this day to Col. David Mason, informing him that Congress had referred his March 21 letter to the Board of Treasury. PCC, item 13, fol. 253. Mason’s letter is not in PCC, and there is no record of any further action on it in the journals. Henry Laurens to Robert Morris Sir, York Town 6th April 1778 In obediance to an order of Congress passed this Morning I trans mit a Paper within the present Inclosure containing an information against Mr. Swanswick a young Gentleman in your service, to which for particulars I beg leave to refer you. Congress request 8c confide in you, to make immediately the most diligent 8c effectual enquiry into the conduct of Mr. Swanswick re specting his correspondence with Philadelphia 8c other charges inti mated in the Paper referred to. The Name of the person who gave the Information is known but at present reserved by her particular desire. I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient 8c Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (Creighton C. Hart, Kansas City, Mo., 1974). Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen March [i.e. April] 6th 1778 1 We acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 20th Feby., of the 2d 8c 17th of March last, and are exceedingly pleased to hear that the Warren, after having been so long cooped up in the Bay had got out to sea. We have since heard that she is arrived at Boston and car ried in two or three Prizes. 2 We should be glad to get the Providence


[Page 406]
April 6, 1778 374 and other armed Vessels out of the River, and at a less expence than we find will attend it, but they must be got out let the expence be what it may, if it should be practicable and from the success that hath attended such attempts we infer its practicability. We highly approve of the Conduct of the Board in getting out the Warren and don’t doubt but that they will exert themselves in getting out the Providence & Columbus, especially as the season for brisk, steady north winds will in a Short time be over, and we are sure that you will exercise frugallity wherever it may be beneficial. The Demands upon the Treasury from the great departments of the Army are so large and frequent that they cannot be supplied. We have however procured Three Warrants—One on the Loan Office of New Hampshire for 30,000 Dollars—One on Massachusets Bay for 40,000, and One on Connecticut for 30,000 making 100,000 Dollars transmitted herewith for the use of your Board. 3 We chose to have them on those different States, because Money will be wanted in each. If the Money cannot be had at the offices, the Certificates may be disposed of—you will take care that Mr. Langdon hath his share. We have already advised you that we have paid Mr. Shaw 40,000 Dollars and charged the same to your Account, part of which money we presume will be applied towards fitting out the Trumbull &c. The Warrants we returned to you corrected we are glad to find have reached you. We have determined to stop the building of the Seventy four at Portsmouth for the present, and desire you will give orders accord ingly, and for seasoning of the Timbers prepared for her. You will man and equip the Warren with all possible dispatch and order her out on a Cruize to the West Indias with directions to Captain Hopkins to apply to Mr. Bingham at St. Pierre Martinico or Mr. Ceronio at Cape Francois, Hispaniola, for such supplies as he may Chance to want, and send the Prizes he may take to their address or to the Continent as he may judge proper. You will further direct him towards the Close of his Cruize to go to Cape Francois, call upon Messrs. Ceronio & Carrabasse for such goods as they may have to ship and take in what he can conveniently bring to the Continent without hurting the Ships sailing. You will furnish us with a Copy of the Instructions you shall give him. By the Notes in the Margin and endorssment on the Account which you sent to us for inspection, and which we now remit you will see what part thereof is allowed and what rejected. Before discharging the wages of those and any other Continental officers, you will procure from the Continental Agents in your district accounts of the Monies they have paid them on that score. We have ordered the Paymaster of the Navy in this district James Read Esqr to transmit to you a State of Captain Olneys Account, and the Ac-


[Page 408]
376 April 6, 1778 objections, otherwise we shall not consider him any longer as being in the service of the Continent. We approve of your altering the name of the Industrious Bee to that of the General Gates altho we think it would have been a higher compliment to have given his name to a frigate. We cannot determine upon a proper person to command the frigate at Salisbury, We would have the berth left open for Captain Manley as he may be exchanged, and for the present the Charge of her be given to the person who you may judge suitable for a first Lieutenant of her. We leave to you to determine respecting the Lieutenants who are desirous to make a Cruize of a few Months. Inclosed are the Rules &: Regulations of the Navy. Congress has ordered us to Revise them. 10 If you can sug gest any New Rules or alterations that will be necessary, we would be glad you would propose them, and if you can by any means procure a British Privateers Commission, send it forward to us. Coppies of Captain Judds and the Captain of the Jamaica Packets may answer—they were taken by Captain Harding of the Connecticut State ship and their Commissions are in the Maritime Court of the Middle District Massachusets. We have ordered Mr. Barnabas Deane of Connecticut to lay his Accounts against the frigate Trumbull before you, 11 which you will please to examine and transmit to us a Copy of his account Current when we shall give Orders for the paymt. of the balance that may be due to him. We are Gentlemen, Yr humble Servants 12 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Internal evidence clearly indicates that this letter was actually written in April. ’ After running through the British blockade off Newport, R.I., the Warren took two prizes before arriving in Boston on March 23. “Papers of William Vernon and the Navy Board,” Publications of the Rhode Island Historical Society 8 (January 1901): 214, 229-30. ’These warrants were ordered by Congress on April 4. JCC, 10:308-9. * No letter from the Marine Committee to James Read has been found. “See the resolve of March 20 in JCC, 10:272. ’According to these October 30, 1776, resolves on prize distribution. Continental naval officers and crew were entitled to one half of the value of captured merchant men, transports, and store ships and the entire value of British war ships and privateers. John Peck Rathbun unconvincingly contended that the armed mer chant brig Mary, which he had taken during his recent occupation of Fort Nassau, Bahamas, belonged in the latter category. See JCC, 6:913; and “Papers of William Vernon and the Navy Board,” Publications of the Rhode Island Historical Society 8 (January 1901): 217. ’ On April 7 the Marine Committee wrote the following note to Capt. Pierre Landais, a French naval officer who had been commissioned by Silas Deane to com mand the Flamand on her recent voyage to America: “It would give us much pleasure could we at this time comply with your wishes by giving you a command in the Continental Navy, but it is entirely out of our power, without neglecting Several good Commanders who are already in Commission but unemployed, and whose merit and former services we cannot over look.” PCC Miscellaneous Papers,


[Page 411]
April 7, 1778 379 Committee o£ Congress to Benjamin Rush Sir. York Town, April 7. 1778. Your letters of the 25th of February, to General Washington, & of the 9th of March, to Mr. Roberdeau, of which we presume you have draughts, having been laid before Congress, produced an Order, of which the inclosed is an authenticated copy. 1 We wish to proceed in this business, so as to obtain the most perfect information of the mal-practices, if there are any, of the Director General; & to this end, we desire that you will be pleased to ascertain with precision, & transmit to us, the charges, & upon oath the evidence you have, or can procure, against him; also, the names of the Wit nesses, & places of their residence. If there are any difficulties in the way of your collecting the evi dence upon this important subject, you will be pleased to point them out; with, if in your power to do so, the means of removing them. 2 We are, Sir, Your most humble servts. Wm. Hy. Drayton Sami Huntington W. H. D. for Mr. Banister RC (PPL). Written by Drayton and signed by Drayton and Huntington. 1 On April 3 Congress had directed this committee to investigate renewed charges by Benjamin Rush that Director General William Shippen was mismanaging the medical department and embezzling hospital supplies. JCC, 10:303. For Rush’s February 25 and March 9 letters containing these allegations, see PCC, item 78, 19:211-26, or Lyman H. Butterfield, ed., Letters of Benjamin Rush, 2 vols. (Prince ton: Princeton University Press, 1951), 1:200-208. For information on the feud between Shippen and Rush which had recently led to Rush’s resignation as physician general of the middle department, see James Lovell to Samuel Adams, January 1, 1778, note 1. 2 In his April 20 response to the committee’s request, which was read and tabled on June 4, Rush warned of the difficulties inherent in requiring witnesses to travel to York and recommended a court-martial as a more appropriate method of dealing with Shippen. See PCC, item 78, 19:233; Letters of Benjamin Rush, 1:210-11; and JCC, 11:568. Henry Laurens to James Duane Dear Sir, York Town, 7th April 1778. I have been in possession of your favour of the 16th March about 8 days. After you are informed that Congress have in the mean time been sitting every day from 9 A M to the same hour at night & some times an hour longer you will not wonder that I have not so fully


[Page 416]
384 April 7, 1778 able light & am with great Regard, Dear sir, Your obedient 8c Most humble servant. Henry Laurens Dear sir, 8 April 1778 After your Packet had been sealed up, I discovered a mistake which this is slipped in to inform you of 8c to save you some trouble. I am in possession of Mr. Holt’s Letter & will by the very first opportunity pay into the hand of Mr. Morris or of his Agent here if he does not come within the course of this Week to York, the intended Money 300 Dollars. You may tell that Gentleman now, that 200 comes from a Brother Printer John Wells Junior who lately had his own House in Charles Town burnt over his head in the dreadful conflagration in that Town, but had the good fortune by accumulated assistance to save his vast collection of Books, his household furniture. Paper, Types 8c almost everything 8c within a Week of the accident proceeded in his Publications. H. Laurens RC (NHi). 1 For further information about Laurens’ efforts to assist John Holt, a New York printer whose equipment had been destroyed by the British, see Laurens to Duane, December 24, 1777. 2 For a discussion of the controversy caused by Washington’s objections to Congress’ March 30 instructions for the commissioners appointed by him to negotiate a prisoner cartel with the British, see Laurens to Washington, March 15, note 1, and April 8, 1778, note 2. “This day Congress read a “letter of 31 March . . . with sundry papers enclosed" from the commissioners it had sent to investigate conditions at Fort Pitt. See JCC, 10:313; and Laurens’ letters to George Clymer, March 27, and to the Commissioners at Fort Pitt, April 9, 1778. 4 See John Laurens’ March 28 letter to his father in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 146-49. B Laurens was apparently skeptical about the contract that Congress this day authorized the Committee of Commerce to conclude with Beaumarchais’ agent Th^veneau de Francy. JCC, 10:315-21. • Duane’s “public Letter” was dated March 16 but has not been found. JCC, 10:291. Regarding the “Report on General Schuyler’s Letter,” see Laurens to Philip Schuyler, April 8, 1778. 7 Congress resolved on April 15 to order General Gates to return to active com mand of the northern department. JCC, 10:354. 8 No doubt Laurens is referring to the March 2 suspension of the Canadian expedition commanded by Lafayette. JCC, 10:216-17. “ On this point, see Laurens to Lafayette, March 6, 1778, note 5. Robert Morris to Henry Laurens Sir Manheim April 7th. 1778 I am honoured with your letter of yesterday 8c not a little surprized at the Contents of the paper enclosed therein; but I believe 8c hope the information it contains is founded on Suspicion more than fact.


[Page 418]
386 April 7, 1778 for the Purpose of Stregnthening his Army in Case of an Attack, which I am sorry to say that I see no probability of soon, or to be employed to Act offensively against our Army, is uncertain. A Scandalous Languor still exists amongst the People of this State. I suspect that they have not yet suffered that Chastisment which is Necessary for them. There Wants nothing (according to human Prob ability) but a proper Spirit in this People to put an end to the War— But which thro’ their infamous Baseness, may be drawn out to a considerable Length, unless the Power of G. Britain should be diverted, by a War with her Neighbours, of which there is no cer tainty. Material Indigence may be dayly expected, but as you have foraign News earlier at the eastward than We have here, you will probably receive it sooner than any Information I shall be able to give you. The Regulating Acts have no Effect in this State. Nothing of the kind has any Existence at the Southward, and you may depend upon it that the Operation of Acts of this Nature, will soon be suspended or Abrogated every where, And perhaps Congress will Advise to Repeal this Act. You will present my kindest Love to my Children, Family and Freinds, and be assured of My tenderest Affection for you. Oliver Wolcott P.S. My half years Service will expire next June when I shall expect to be releived by Mr. Adams or some other of the Gentlemen Ap pointed to Attend Congress. RC (CtHi). 1 Wolcott’s fourth letter to his wife from York is dated March 12, 1778. “Although the exact date of Eliphalet Dyer’s departure from York is not known, he was granted a leave of absence by Congress on April 3 and was not recorded as voting after that date. JCC, 10:305. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette 8th April [1778] Notwithstanding what is said above I have detained this Messenger 13 days from day to day hoping the next wou’d produce Commands from Congress but the Committee to whom your Letter was referred have not yet Reported. Excuse us good Sir. We are indeed deeply engaged in very important &: complicated businesses, but in order to remove an anxiety which this long delay must have occasioned I will not keep this back an hour longer. I think you will soon be at Valley forge, where Baron Stiiben is making great improvements & giving much satisfaction to every Body. Will you Sir be so obliging as to inform Major DuBois that I have duly presented his addresses to Congress, that these are referred to the B. of W. 1 & that the moment


[Page 420]
388 April 8, 1778 had been collected to Congress & by order, transmitted the whole to General Washington, & then the Committee were discharged. The General in a Letter of the 27th Febry. intimated a necessity for Stating Charges. A new Committee was thereupon appointed, who soon after offered a Report which was about to be determined upon the 28th Ulto. when the Honorable Mr. Duer interposed arguments which induced the House to postpone the intended consideration for two days. I take the liberty to name that Gentleman because his declared motives for delay were coupled with assurances of particular considerations respecting General Schuyler & because there can be no ground for doubting the goodness of his intentions. On the 4th Inst. I called on Mr. Duer, reminded him of his engagement & urged the painful situation in which his friend was suspended—yesterday I directed the Secretary to repeat the call. General Washington has again written upon the Subject, I was in hopes this would have proved an incitement, but all remains still dormant. I hope to give no of fence, but I will this very Morning remind Congress of the business again. 2 Be assured Sir, I have long Sympathized with Gentlemen who are Subjects of that Enquiry, abstracted from all Ideas of Censure or applause, & although it was with extreme reluctance I obeyed the order of Congress to be of the Original Committee after having offered such reasons for exemption as appeared to me to be forcible, yet I cannot charge my Self with delinquency at any stage in the course of our proceedings. To account for the uncouth entangled State of this enquiry would not be half so difficult as it might be improper in the line of official correspondence, therefore I shall only add that my endeavors shall be continued for putting it in motion. I have the honour to be with very great respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 General Schuyler’s March 15 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 153, 3:286-91. In it Schuyler reported on a recent conference with the Six Nations at Johnstown, N.Y., and urged adoption of certain measures to secure New York’s northern frontier, including a preventive strike against the Mohawk’s, Cayugas, Onondagas, and Senecas; seizure of British posts at Niagara and Oswego; and increased trade with the Oneidas and Tuscaroras. Not until June 11, however, did Congress approve a report by the Board of War on “the cruelties lately exercised by the savages on the frontiers of New York, Pensylvania and Virginia," which was based upon Schuyler’s letter as well as others from the commissioners for Indian affairs in the northern department and the commissioners at Fort Pitt. See ]CC, 11:587-91; and Barbara Graymont, The Iroquois in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1972), ch. 7. 2 See also Laurens to Washington, April 4, 1778, note 2.


[Page 428]
396 April 9, 1778 the Articles of Confederation to Congress. President John Rutledge enclosed South Carolina’s February 5 instructions with a February 16 letter to Henry Laurens that apparently arrived in York around March 22. See Laurens to John Laurens, March 22, 1778, note 2. The Pennsylvania Assembly, which adopted instructions on March 3, appointed a committee to bring them to York and consult with the Pennsylvania delegates about them. It is not known when the committee was actually in York, but on March 14 it reported to the assembly that it had com pleted its work. Minutes of the Second General Assembly of . . . Pennsylvania, February 1778 session, pp. 51, 61, DLC (ESR). A copy of the Pennsylvania instruc tions is in the Jonathan Bayard Smith Papers, DLC. Furthermore as early as March 20 the Massachusetts delegates learned unofficially of the Massachusetts General Court’s March 10 instructions on the confederation, though not until March 27 did Samuel Adams transmit a certified copy of them to James Lovell. See Lovell to Samuel Adams, March 10, note 1, and April 18, 1778, note 7. Although the Massachusetts instructions evidently did not reach York until April 18, it is difficult to believe that the Pennsylvania and South Carolina instructions were not presented to Congress before the ninth. And finally. President Josiah Bartlett transmitted the New Hampshire Assembly’s March 5 instructions on the articles with a March 14 letter to the New Hampshire delegates, but it is not known when these documents reached York. No New Hampshire delegates attended Congress between April 7 and May 21, and the last known New Hampshire delegate letter written before April was George Frost’s January 31, 1778, letter to Bartlett. See Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 176-77. For texts of the instructions from the states that had sent them to their dele gates by the time Congress resumed debate on the Articles of Confederation in late June, see JCC, 11:662-71. It should be noted, however, that their placement in the journals at this point is the result of an editorial decision by Worthington C. Ford, the editor of this volume of the modern printed edition of this source, for they were never entered in the journals by Secretary Thomson, and the order requiring the delegates to “lodge with the secretary, their powers for ratifying’’ was added to the manuscript journals under the date June 27 sometime after July 9, 1778. See PCC, item 1, 16:144, 17:6. The texts of these instruments of ratification, the originals of which do not survive, are taken from PCC, item 9. 2 See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 5, 1778. 3 See Henry Laurens to Washington, March 15, note 2, and April 8, 1778, note 4. Henry Laurens to the Commissioners at Fort Pitt Gentlemen. 9th April 1778 Two days ago I was honoured with yours of the 31st Ulto. which was immediately presented to Congress &: now remains the Subject of a Select Committee. 1 Until that Committee shall Report I shall re ceive no Commands. In the mean time I may inform you that Con gress approve of your opinion the result of an enquiry into the conduct of Colonel George Morgan, have ordered it to be entered upon the Journal & published. 2 The bearer James McLeland is charged with four thousand Dollars to be delivered to Colonel Morgan for defraying the expence of building & Arming Boats on the Ohio. 3


[Page 429]
April 9, 1778 397 I immediately upon being authorized by an Act of Congress I shall dispatch a Special messenger to wait on you. I am with very great Esteem. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "Sampson Mathews, Geo Clymer & Sam. McDowell Esquires, Commissioners on the Western frontier, Fort Pitt.” rThe commissioners’ March 31 letter to Laurens, which recommended a num ber of measures for defending the frontiers of Pennsylvania and Virginia and was signed by George Clymer and Sampson Matthews, is in PCC, item 78, 2: 445-46. The committee to which it was referred submitted a report on “the protection of, and operations on the western frontiers” that Congress approved on May 2. JCC, 10:313-14, 11:416-17. Committee member Jonathan Bayard Smith—not William Ellery, as Worthington C. Ford asserts in JCC, ll:416n.3—summarized the commissioners’ letter and made preliminary suggestions for the committee’s report in the following undated notes written sometime before May 2: “Two Regiments to be raised for 2 years. “12 Comps, in Virginia & 4 in Pennsylvania. "Order of Congress for sending down McKee, Gitty [Girty] & Elliot. “Request from Hand to be recalled & a successor to be recalled [i.e. appointed]. "A Commissary of provisions to be appointed & to act as P[ay] M[aster] & Q[uarter] Mfaster] in Rockingham Co. &c. N.B. Capt Pat. Lockhart of Botetourt recomd. “Colo. Morgans letter to Colo. Buchannan with copy of Contract to be referred to the board of war. “A Commy. to be appointed for the Counties of Rockingham, Augusta, Rock bridge, Botetourt, Montgomery & Washington & Green Briar. ^'That 2 Regiments be ordered immediately to Pittsburg Viz. Colo. Russels of Virginia and Colo. McCoys of Pennsylvania for the immediate defense of the frontiers.} "That Genl. Washington be directed to order to Pittsburg one of the most reduced Virginia & one of the most reduced Pennsylvania Regiments & That their officers take effectual means for recruiting them in the Western Country to their full Compliment, & be authorized to take recruits to serve for 1 year unless sooner dismissed by Congress which said recruits shall receive 20 ds. bounty & the same cloathing as other Continental soldiers. And every noncommd. officer & private who shall furnish himself with a blanket, musket or Rifle & accoutre ments shall receive the same allowance therefor as is given by Congress to the drafts from the militia for filling up the Continental Regiments.” PCC, item 78, 2:445-46. Most of the points raised by Smith were dealt with in the committee report. For further information about the background and work of the commissioners, see Committee of Congress to Edward Hand, October 24, 1777, note 1; and Laurens to George Clymer, March 27, 1778, note. 2 See Laurens to George Morgan, this date. 3 See JCC, 10:325. Henry Laurens to Denis Nicolas Cottineau Sir, 1 9th April 1778 Inclosed with this you will receive two Letters from His Excellency General Washington which came yesterday to my hands. 2


[Page 430]
398 April 9, 1778 The Honble. Mr. Lewis will address you on behalf of Congress in order to treat with you for the purchase of divers articles of your Cargo. I have requested that Gentleman to attempt the purchase of a few trifles on my private account if to be done without prejudice to the public—the particulars set forth in a paper under this Cover. 3 I shall make payment in a Bill of Exchange on London or Nantz or in Gold which will have due consideration with you in ascertaining the prices. If I can be useful to you in this Country or South Carolina proper intimations will find me very much Sir Your most humble Servt. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “Captn. Cottineau, New Bern, by Mr. Lewis.” 'Denis Nicolas Cottineau de Kerloguin (d. 1808), commander of the French privateer Pallas, subsequently received an American naval commission from Ben jamin Franklin in 1779 and served under the command of John Paul Jones. Lasseray, Les Francois sous les treize etoiles, 1:167-68. Cottineau had arrived at Cape Lookout in February with a varied cargo of goods—including clothing, coffee, linen, medicine, silk, spices, and wine—which he promptly offered for sale to Washington. He also sent word of his cargo to Congress, which agreed to pur chase such parts of it "as are necessary for the Army” and dispatched Francis Lewis, a member of the Marine Committee, to North Carolina to complete this transaction. See JCC, 10:298, 333; N.C. State Records, 13:85, 93, 111, 119-20, 126; and Laurens to Washington, April 14, 1778. See also Cottineau’s letter to Wash ington and the invoice of his cargo, both dated February 26, 1778, in the Wash ington Papers, DLC. “The only extant letter Washington wrote to Cottineau around this time is dated April 4. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:215-16. 3 A list of the "few trifles” that were the subject of this enclosure was also copied into Laurens’ private letterbook with this letter. Henry Laurens to the Chevalier de La Neuville Sir 9th April 1778 Having so good an opportunity as this by the Honble. Mr. Lewis I cannot forbear to pay my respects to you although I have not the pleasure of saying all that I wish & what I know would be agreeable to you. The Camp Committee are not yet returned nor have they Reported the intended arrangement of Officers, consequently everything in that branch remains just in the State they were in when you left York Town. 1 Mr. Lewis can further inform you to whom I beg leave to refer & I have only to add assurances of being, With great respect & regard &ca. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “Monsr. Lanuville, New Bern.” 1 See Laurens to Chevalier de La Neuville, January 27, 1778.


[Page 431]
April 9, 1778 399 Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son 9th April 1778. My last I beleive was by Jones since which I know I have received a Letter from you but ’tis not at hand, yes here ’tis of the 6th. 1 We are very nearly of one opinion on our late Presidents resigna tion. 2 I want the papers. You will receive by Ross the bearer of this all your Blue Cloth & Buttons per Accot. inclosed, if superfluous you have a right to return them. I am greatly distressed by circumstances now in agitation respecting your friend, I think I once said “I hope he will never afford him or them his own consent to hurt him.” 3 My Dear Son Adieu. LB (ScHi). 1 The letter in question seems to be the one dated April 5 in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 153-54. 2 See ibid, for John’s comments on the recent resignation of South Carolina president John Rutledge. 3 Laurens had made a remark to this effect about Washington in his January 8, 1778, letter to John. Henry Laurens to George Morgan Dear Sir, 9th April 1778 The day before yesterday I had the honor of presenting to Congress your favour of the 7th Inst, which was referred to a Select Committee & remains unreported, 1 consequently I have received no Commands on that subject, nevertheless I cannot suffer Mr. McLeland to return without intimating that the Enquiry into your conduct by the Com missioners at Fort Pitt is approved of by Congress, that the House have ordered it to be entered upon the Journal 8c to be published to the World, a circumstance which with the utmost pleasure I communicate by the earliest opportunity. 2 Mr. McLeland is charged with the four Thousand Dollars applied for by General Hand for building Armed Boats, for which Sum you are to be accountable. 3 I am with great regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colonel George Morgan Esquire, Fort Pitt.” 1 In reality Morgan’s letter was dated March 31 and read in Congress on April 7. JCC, 10:313. This letter dealt with Indian affairs in western Pennsylvania— particularly the recent escape from Fort Pitt of former British deputy Indian superintendent Alexander McKee—and was referred to the same committee that


[Page 432]
400 April 9, 1778 was considering a March 31 letter from the commissioners at Fort Pitt. See Laurens to the Commissioners at Fort Pitt, this date, note 1. Morgan’s letter is not in PCC, but a text of it is available in Reuben Gold Thwaites and Louise Phelps Kellogg, eds.. Frontier Defense on the Upper Ohio, 1777-1778 (Madison: Wisconsin His torical Society, 1912), pp. 254-56. In the previous year Morgan had been cleared of allegations that he had conspired with McKee and others against the American cause. See ibid., pp. 184-87; and Committee of Congress letters to Edward Hand and to Unknown, October 24, 1777. ’The March 27 certificate of the commissioners at Fort Pitt, exonerating Indian agent Morgan "of the charges against him, of infidelity to his public trust, and disaffection to the American cause,” is in JCC, 10:314-15. See also Committee of Congress to Edward Hand, October 24, 1777, note 1; and Laurens to George Clymer, March 27, 1778, note. 3 See JCC, 10:325. Morgan had requested this money in the March 31 letter to Laurens cited above. Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Lancaster April 9th 1778. McKean had gone to Lancaster for a meet ing of the Pennsylvania supreme court. “I arrived here on Tuesday morning and was escorted into Town by a number of Gentlemen of the Law, Justices of the peace &c. besides the Officers, who met me near to Mrs. Scott’s. Matters have been conducted equal to my most sanguine hopes, indeed every thing is as I would wish it.” Concerning Charles Lee’s parole and public affairs in Delaware: "General Rodney is appointed President of the Delaware State. General Lee will be here today; tho’ I believe, he is not yet finally exchanged. . . . The In habitants of Delaware are said to be on the verge of a total Revolution to Whiggism, and that the most spirited measures are adopted there.” RC (PHi). Marine Committee to William Phillips, Isaac Smith, and Ebenezer Storer Gentlemen 1 April 9th 1778 Enclosed is a Copy of A Letter from Colo. Benjamin Tuper to the President of Congress with A Resolve of Congress thereon. 2 You will please to enquire of Mr. Watson whether the Vessels &: Cargoes have been sold—if not you will dispose of them and pay to the Captors the several proportions justly due to them. We are Gentlemen, Your humble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). ’The recipients were "commissioners appointed by the Marine Committee, to


[Page 435]
April 12, 1778 403 proposed for your future service is agreeable. In the mean time we are Sir, Your humble Servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 'This day the Marine Committee also sent a brief note to Governor Henry, acknowledging their agreement “that Mr. Stodder should be employed by your State in building small Vessels upon condition that he shall resume the building of the Frigates or build any other vessels for the Continent when we judge proper." PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 141; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:228. Delegates’ Pledge of Order April 12. 1778. 1 We the subscribers members of Congress pledge our honor to each other that we will meet punctually at the hour of adjournment, that on any subject in debate (except in Committee of the whole house) we will not speak more than (fifteen) Ten 2 minutes, seldom more than once, never more than twice, and that we will unite in supporting Francis Lightfoot Lee, Va. (Samuel Chase, Md.) 4 Wm. Duer, N Yk. Fra. Dana Edward Langworthy order & preserving decency and politeness in debate. 3 James Lovell J. Banister Wm. Hy. Drayton, Nay 1 Jas. Smith William Ellery James Forbes, Md. Sami Huntington John Henry, Md. Nath. Scudder Cornls. Harnett E Gerry MS (DLC). In the hand of Charles Thomson and signed by all the delegates whose names are appended. Endorsed by Thomson: “Engagement of the members to meet punctually at the hour of adjournment, to support Order & preserve decency & politeness”; and by an unidentified hand: “Signed in the handwriting of the Members April 12th 1778.” 'According to the journals Congress did not convene on Sunday, April 12, 1778. 2 Francis Dana deleted “fifteen” and wrote “Ten” above the line. 3 The delegates’ decision to enter into this agreement was undoubtedly prompted by a wish to avoid a recurrence of the sort of obstructionist behavior in which Thomas Burke was currently engaged. See Burke’s Proposed Statement to Congress, April 13, 1778. Years later William Ellery discussed Congress’ decision to limit the duration of speeches by delegates in a letter he wrote to Benjamin Huntington. "I recollect that while I was a member of Congress it was more the practice to speechify in that assembly, than I believe in any other on the Continent; but the most frequent and the most lengthy were not the most graceful or the most pertinent speakers. Long speeches were found to be so disadvantageous, that, when Congress sat at York Town, the principal speakers agreed not to speak longer than 15 minutes. A man must have a great deal to say, or be very verbose indeed who cannot deliver his sentiments on almost any subject in that time. If an oration


[Page 438]
406 April 13, 1778 if I can, the decision of important matters, when members cannot duly attend to them, that Conviction of Error always did, and always shall precede Concession with me. That (abstracted from the breach of order under Consideration which I meant not to Justify, but excuse) my general political opin ions were that undue, or unreasonable exercise of any power, tho’ lawful power, is Tyrannical, and that no freeman is bound to submit to it. That every freeman must use his own Judgment on it before he determines to disobey, for until he does disobey there can be no sub ject for any other Judgment and it remains for his Country to decide whether he is mistaken or not, and if he is, he incurs the penalties provided by Law. That it is Criminal in members of Congress to withold their attendance when the public safety required it, but that they are to be Judged and punished by the Laws of the States they represent, and no other power. These Sentiments however expressed, I avow, and as to the Lan guage, I know no obligation I am under to use a Courtly Stile. My expressions are usually what first occur and in this Instance were not intended to offend. I shall only add that I mean not by any thing I have here said to submit myself to any Jurisdiction, but that of the state I represent, such submission being in my Idea injurious to the majesty thereof, nor do I mean to forego any of my own rights as a Citizen entitled to the benefit of the Laws, and Constitution of the free State of North Carolina. Thos. Burke The Above writing I compared with Mr. Burkes Defence & it contains the express words spoken or read by him in Congress. Witness my hand. Cornl Harnett MS (NcU). Written and signed by Thomas Burke, with attestation and signature by Cornelius Harnett. Endorsed by Harnett: “Mr. Burkes Defense April 13th, 1778.” 1 This manuscript consists of the justifications Burke was prepared to offer Cong ress this day for his action in withdrawing from Congress without permission, on the evening of April 10, during debate on a reply to Washington’s April 4 letter to President Laurens that he regarded as excessively critical of the commander in chief. Burke’s unauthorized withdrawal, which temporarily deprived Congress of a quorum, and his peremptory refusal to obey a request that he return immediately to Congress affronted many delegates and led them to consider various disciplinary measures. In the end, however, Burke’s unflagging insistence that he was amenable only to the jurisdiction of North Carolina led Congress to confine itself to passing a resolve on April 25 that sharply criticized Burke’s behavior but referred further action on it to the North Carolina Assembly, which in August 1778 pronounced itself satisfied with Burke’s conduct and his defense of the state’s authority over its delegates. For further information about this controversy, see JCC, 10:334, 336-37, 339, 386-91; N. C. State Records, 12: 769, 792, 825, 843-45; Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell, April 27; and Burke to Richard Caswell and to the North Carolina Assembly, April 29, 1778. Finally, it is necessary to point out that Burke


[Page 439]
April 13, 1778 407 had already submitted a written defense of his conduct to Congress on April II, which has not been found, and that Congress refused to read the present document. See ]CC, 10:339, 386; and Burke to the North Carolina Assembly, April 29, 1778. See also Henry Laurens to Washington, April 8, 1778, for a discussion of Congress’ response to Washington’s April 4 letter. “William Duer was a member of the committee that drafted the reply to Wash ington’s April 4 letter Burke found so objectionable. ]CC, 10:314. ’Edward Langworthy, who had withdrawn from Congress with Burke, but who returned to Congress on the evening of April 10 as soon as he was requested, a fact Burke neglected to mention in this document. ]CC, 10:334. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir 13th Apr. 1778 Your favor of the 2d gave me vast satisfaction as it goes near to insure to me the restoration of your Health & Limbs. I think you had best determine to lay aside all thought of coming to this Place. 1 The Employment you were invited to would be inevitable Destruction after the Shock you have had. You will ever hereafter require Exercise and good Accommodations where your own or your Physician’s Will could decide in points of Regimen. Here you can command no course of Diet. I am not Galen enough to say whether the Lime water which tears your Countryman’s Bowels out would not serve you. It has driven several Delegates home to their native springs. I have not been affected with it disagreably in that respect which I hinted as to Mr. Wolcot & Mr. Huntington: and I do not think I ought to charge the Cramp in my Breast to any thing but Quilldriving perpetually. Mr Wadsworth will conduct the Commissary’s Department, 2 and I think your Constitution requires that you should assist him. I will not enlarge on that point as you discover a Disposition in your letter both well suited to your present State of Health and your Character as a true Patriot. If the Army is not immediately filled up to the full compliment called for, what we have yet felt is a trifle to what we may expect. I say the same in Regard to Congress. The Sickness or Will of one man out of 7 now here destroys its Existence. I will tell you hereafter why this ought not to be if you stand in need of being told. My respectful & affectionate Compliments to your Father’s & yr. own family. JL RC (CtHi). 1 Lovell had been urging Trumbull to assume his seat on the new Board of War. See Lovell to Trumbull, January 27, 1778. ’For further information on Jeremiah Wadsworth’s acceptance of the office of commissary general, see Abraham Clark to Wadsworth, March 29, 1778.


[Page 440]
408 April 13, 1778 Robert Morris to Henry Laurens Sir Manheim April 13th. 1778 I embrace the opportunity of the Honble Governeur Morris Esqr. to inform Congress that Colo. Conner & myself entered into an exam ination of young Mr Swanwick on the Morning after the date of the former letter I had the Honour to write you Concerning him. 1 He produced to us the sundry letters he had received from his Father 8c Copies of those written to him since the loss of Philadelphia, but so far from treating of Political subjects, they appear to have laid it down as a fixed point between them, not to meddle with any thing of the kind, least it might produce an interruption to their Cor- respondance, which the Father in one of his first letters says, he is desirous of continuing for the Sole purpose of knowing what passes with respect to his own Family & affairs and that he desires no other kind of information from the Son, in short the letters he produced & the propriety of his behaviour on hearing the charge against him Convinced both Colo Conner & myself of his perfect innocence, it has made me very happy to find him so, because if he had been guilty, the greatest ingratitude 8c perfidy wou’d have been involved in the Crime. Colo. Conner will communicate his Sentiments to the Board of War 8c I have the Honor to Remain Your Excys Obed hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). ’See Morris to Laurens, April 7, 1778. Lt. Col. Morgan Connor’s April 11 letter to Laurens reporting the results of his investigation of John Swanwick, "In Obedience to orders from the . . . Board of War,” is in PCC, item 78, 5:151. Swan wick himself had offered an impassioned rebuttal of the charge that he had engaged in a treasonous correspondence with his father in an April 8 letter to Laurens that was read in Congress on the 15th. See PCC, item 78, 20:203-4. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town, 14th April 1778 In obedience to the directions of Congress, I am to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4th instant. 1 Congress with great concern perceive that your sensibility is wounded by their resolutions. Placing the firmest confidence in your prudence, abilities and integrity, they wish to preserve that harmony with you, which is essential to the general Weal. You may rest as sured that far from any intention to give you pain, their resolutions have no other motives or end but the public good. They therefore hope that you will not in future be distrest by apprehensions as in jurious to their honor as they are to your own feelings.


[Page 441]
April 14, 1778 409 However different the views of Congress may seem to you now from what you supposed them to be when you entered into your late en gagements with general Howe, Congress certainly had nothing in view, but a proper respect to the dignity, safety & independence of these States. The duplicity of general Howe and authentic information that the gentlemen appointed by you to negotiate the cartel held opinions repugnant to the sense of Congress, constrained them in a matter of such high moment, as forming a general cartel, to express their senti ments in an explicit manner; lest they might have only to lament, when it was out of their power to remedy a misapprehension on points deeply affecting in their judgment, the safety & honor of these States. Congress expected that you would consider their resolutions of the 30th Ult. in the light of private instructions calculated to shew their sense with respect to the general outlines of the proposed cartel: a practice usual with the supreme power of every state in similar cases. 2 You observe that a strict adherence to all the resolutions of Con gress must of necessity destroy all idea of a cartel, but as a distinction can easily be made betwixt such of the resolutions of Congress as flow from general principles of policy, and those which arise from circum stances which have rendered a variation from time to time necessary, it is conceived that an attention to this discrimination will rid you of those embarassments, which you may, at first view, think yourself entangled with. The resolution of Congress of the 19th December respecting the mode of settlement for supplies to the Enemy’s prisoners seems not to have been sufficiently attended to. 3 It is left at the option of the enemy to pay either in coin dollar for dollar or in provisions Sec equal in quantity and kind to what is furnished. Whatever objections may be made against the first mode, there surely cannot be a more just and equal ratio than the latter. Genl. Burgoyne lately made the same objections on this point, which occured to you, but on being re minded of the alternative offered by the resolution, he acquiesced, and the victuallying ships are now actually delivering provisions in payment for what they received. The commissaries of prisoners on each side may pass receipts for the rations received expressing the quantum of each article received for the subsistence of the prisoners in the power of the contracting parties and the balance may be paid in provisions or in coin, at the option of either party. The mode sug gested by you is liable to this strong objection, that it would lay us under the necessity of furnishing the enemy’s prisoners with us as well as ours with them with provisions; which certainly would be a capital advantage to them, if we consider the distance whence they must derive their supplies. 4


[Page 447]
April 15, 1778 415 quietudes. I am sure that mine has done so in Numberless Instances. Let us then commit all our Concerns to the Disposal of our Maker who I beleive will order that concerning us, which shall be for our greatest advantage. This is my Sixth Letter, my last was by Col Dyer which you will receive in a Day or Two. I have Wrote Dr. Smith and Mr. Adams each a Letter, which I do not know whether either of them have reed. 6 I need not tell you how acceptable your Letters will be to me. Those by Brown will come safe. My tenderest Love for my Children and Family. My Ardent Wishes for your Happiness. 7 Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 1 John Pierce of Litchfield, Conn., who was appointed assistant paymaster general of the Continental Army in February 1776 and was promoted to deputy paymaster general in June 1779. Heitman, Historical Register, p. 328. 3 For Jonathan Trumbull, Jr’s "pretty offensive Letters” complaining about how he was addressed by Congress, see Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., March 12, 1778, note 1. 3 "The troubler of Israel." 1 Chron. 2:7 and Joshua, chapter 7. 1 See Wolcott to Andrew Adams, April 25, 1778, note 3. 3 Wolcott’s letter to Tapping Reeve has not been found. 6 Wolcott’s letters to Dr. Reuben Smith and Andrew Adams have not been found. ’For the continuation of this letter, see Wolcott to Laura Wolcott, April 19, 1778. John Banister to St. George Tucker My dear Sir, 1 York Pensylvania 15th April 1778 ’Tis true the Phaeton to whom you allude in yours of the 29th part, has like the first of that Name fallen never to rise again, but was not so effectually cooled by falling into an Element of an opposite kind. 2 The Mild Planet, whose Course the modern adventurer of that Name had wished to have guided, receded from him with so gentle a Radi ance that the Impression remains, perhaps too strongly to be oblit erated. Cruel Necessity if it should be so! since no other Remedy is prob able. But you who are much versed in the military and can maneuvre equal to Stueben himself, can you not as heretofore, by marching and counter marching find out the Causes of Movements in Friend as well as Foe? There are more things in Heaven and earth than even Phylosophy will teach. But where a Planet looks with amicable benignity on a Saint, may he not invoke her to explain the Causes of certain Influences, why attraction ceases in some and goes on in other Instances? and then as a Phylosopher why the finest feelings and some of the tenderest Emo tions of the Soul do not always awaken the same in others, by Sym-


[Page 448]
416 April 15, 1778 pathetic Power. Perhaps inimical Interpositions have been thrown in the way to spoil the Concord. Perhaps poisoned falsehood propagated Good Name in Man or Woman, dear my Friend, is the immediate Jewel of their Souls &c &c. This planetary object was great indeed! weighing down in substan tial good even an Empire. Could not an obscure letter be erected upon a Consultation of the Stars, and the Result of certain Maneu- vres? Such as, How the Responses of the Oracle might be; take Care 'tho of too much ambiguity. If you can go deeper into the obscure than this, being understood, magnus eris mihi Apollo; Apollo, you know, did deal in obscurity when he patronized Physic. To there? I come off decently with my Deity, I thought otherwise when I had got him obscured, do allow him to be fairly brought off now 8c I promise never to risque him again in so dangerous a Post. But no matter so I am hid from vulgar Eyes in these confidential Communi cations. How delightful a change in Systems and prospects of alliances, in four or five daies! On it I congratulate my Friend; but in the System of politics how comes it that another Power is introduced on the Stage? Such Jarring interests cannot consist together. It is therefore time for the Power first engaged in the Campaign to come to an ex planation upon so delicate a Subject, lest the Balance of Power should not be rightly adjusted, in settling definitive Treaties. France & Spain seem to be at a Stand as to an interfereance with America’s Quarrel for her just Rights, indeed I never expected any assistance from them but What was immediately conducive to their Interest. Nor is it to be expected from any Nation, but if these Powers are equal with the advantages America may throw into the Scale, to G. Britain’s navy, they would consult that darling Passion of Men 8c Nations immed iately to begin hostilities. An argument was very well concluded upon the advantage attending such an accession of Force to America, by General Lee. A Gentleman in Company a few Minutes ago insisted that Hostilities carried on by France against G. Britain would not aid America. The Gen. replied that the Argument required no other Refutation than to suppose we stood a better chance against that Nation with 20 thousand than four thousand Men. However at all Events the Americans are doomed to stand another Campaign unaided by any Force but that which should be derived from their own heroism 8c virtue. Wonder not at the use of the Words Heroism & Virtue, without them no Nation ever persevered in the defence of its Liberties. Did we certainly possess these republican virtues the Strength of the Continent might be called out, to the instant destruction of the Invaders of our Country. Ill judging ambition & the Lust of Gain has induced our Fellow


[Page 453]
April 16, 1778 421 by the enemies ships of war that it is impossible for us to conduct agreable to our earnest wishes of maintaining the best credit in our commercial concerns abroad. It is probable that a commercial board, not members of Congress, will very soon be established so that the whole time of the conductors may be spent in exertions for the public benefit in that branch of continental business. 2 The want of intelligence from our Commissioners at Paris makes it improper for us to draw largely on them at present; therefore you must content yourself with the ceconomical bounds of the power which is given to you by the within resolve of Congress of this day. 3 Be assured that all possible attempts will be made for your relief by remittances of our produce. I find it impossible to convey to you any thing of a plan of oppera- tions for this campaign. The enemy having the sea open to them must have the Lead in military matters; we must oppose or follow them just as they think fit to attempt an advance or to retire. It is hardly probable they will again attack New England without large rein forcements. Our Correspondent at the Hague is very regular, but his intel ligence is never in season to form the ground of any of our proceed ings. We have packets from him regularly to the letter Y Deer. 16th 4 though our Commissioners have not been able to convey one safely since May last. Tis strange that they cannot succeed thro you. But, indeed you appear also to know but little of them. Mr. Deane being wanted here, Mr. John Adams sailed the 17th of February to take his place at the Court of Versailles. It is probable you will hear of his arrival before this reaches you. It seems needless to desire you to give us early notice of that and other foreign intel ligence. Your usual punctuality needed not the spur of the informa tion which I have given you of our present great ignorance of the situation & transactions of the Gentlemen at Paris. I am with much regard, sir, your Friend and humble Servant, James Lovell, for the Comme for for. affrs. RC (PHi). Written and signed by James Lovell. 1 Extracts from Bingham’s letters of December 28, 1777, January 26, February 8 and February 21, 1778, were printed in the Pennsylvania Packet or the General Advertiser (Lancaster), April 1 and 8, 1778. Bingham’s January 14, letter has not been found, but his February 8 letter is in PCC, item 90, fols. 29-32, and his January 26 and February 21 letters are in the Continental Congress Miscellany, DLC. 2 This reorganization plan was not executed. See Committee of Commerce to Robert Morris, February 21, 1778, note 6. 3 Congress authorized Bingham to draw on the commissioners at Paris for “100,000 livres tournois." See JCC, 10:356. 4 For Charles W. F. Dumas’ correspondence with the committee, see Committee for Foreign Affairs to Dumas, May 14, 1778, note.


[Page 459]
April 17, 1778 427 Then 8c not before, “It was moved to Resolve” See & Mr Duer with drew the proposed amendment. 2 Tuesday the 21st the above Entry on the Journal being called for by a Member 8c Read— The President again intimated to the House the imperfection of the Entry— “Gentlemen, I must again observe to you this Entry on the Journal will not convey to the Reader Ideas competent to the fact—the first Paragraph had been read for debate, an amendment had been offered, read 8c a question upon it half put.” The Secretary persists in keeping the Journal thus unfairly misrepresenting the proceedings of the House. After the Yeas 8c Nays—Tuesday 21st April. Copy Journal Motion was made to strike out “an establishment” 8c insert, “It is expedient a Provision.” Resolved in the affirmative. 3 Then the Resolve on Friday 17th well Read as follows. First It is expedient a Provision, [instead of—“that an establish ment”] 4 of half Pay be made for the Military officers commissioned by Congress who now are or hereafter may be in the service of these States 8c shall continue therein during the War 8c who shall not be annexed to any Corps of established Troops or hold any office of Profit under the United States or any of them 8c that such [establish ment] Provision take place after the conclusion of the present War.” This Motion, which in itself had undergone a Question upon Order being thus taken under Consideration 8c in part amended, a Motion was made for dividing the Question which caused some de bate but the manner in which the division was desired declared in writing as follows. “The House was Moved that the Question be divided 8c that the sense of the House be taken, whether any provision shall be made for Officers 8cc.” The President rose 8c said his Duty Constrained him to speak to the House—“that this Motion contained no division of the Question in debate but was a complete new motion which he could not put without express Command.” Mr. Huntington 8c other members objected in like manner—debates 8c some disorder ensued—the President admonished the House against disorder 8c intemperate reflections. A majority of probably two to one insisted upon having the Ques tion put as it had been reduced to writing. The President replied he could not apply the words so reduced to writing to any part of the motion 8c give it the appearance of a division, except by taking up


[Page 460]
428 April 17, 1778 some & suppressing or skipping over other words in the Motion. The Member who had reduced the said division or new motion to writing, expressed great surprize & added it is the easiest thing in the World. The President requested his assistance, 8c delivered the Motion to that Member Mr. Chase who read it as it is reduced to writing 8c averred it to be a division of the Question. The President resumed the Papers 8c again requested the Order of the House. Some of those Members who had complained of the division 8c were against admitting the motion to be a division, exclaimed they were borne down 8c all said, any how, any how, we see the Gentlemen will have it in their own way—put the Question. The President then read the Motion again 8c put the Question. “You Gentlemen who agree that a Provision shall be made for the [Military] Officers Commissioned by Congress 8cc. [gpgjr* The words of half pay suppressed 8c the word Military introduced, by order] when you are called upon will signify it by saying Aye—Contra, when called upon will say No. The Yeas 8c Nays were called 8c appear on the Journal. 5 Instantly after calling the Members, Mr. Chase presented the fol lowing motion read by himself 8c by the President. “The Question moved 8c put that such Provision for the Officers be one half of their present Pay.” But the House adjourned without debate or putting the Question.® It is asserted by Gentlemen that Officers 8c some of high Rank in the Army have declared (“I have heard one 8c of high Rank too”) that they were not for Peace. They desired War for a support, as they had no fortunes to live upon. Query. Is it necessary to make further Provision for Men who declare that what they already enjoy is a desirable subsistence, or for Men who at the expence of the Blood 8c Treasure of their Country wish to enjoy their present subsistence? Query. Is there no danger that Men of this disposition will, when once an half Pay establishment is fixed do everything, 8c submit to any terms for compassing Peace even submitting to accept another half Pay for this purpose from the Enemy? Thus Gentlemen in their reasonings upon different subjects in which the Officers of this Army are introduced, destroy their own arguments used in support of a Peace establishment. It is unjust— the Motives 8c considerations not applicable the demand unseasonable 8c a compliance dangerous. the Remedy proposed grievous to the People 8c inadequate to T


[Page 461]
April 17, 1778 429 Unjust, because it is inconsistent with the original compact— Officers were not compelled but eagerly solicited Commissions know ing the terms of service—because every argument, of loss of Estate, neglect of family—forfieture of domestic happiness—the exorbitancy of prices for every specie of goods for the necessary support or Com fort of Life is applicable to thousands of our fellow Citizens with greater force & in some degree to every Inhabitant of the United States engaged in the Compact with this great difference in favor of Officers that they are Provided with Rations or daily food, with Servants, with Horses at the Public expence & with Clothing from 8 MS (ScHi). In the hand of Henry Laurens. This text has been produced by con flating two physically discrete but organically related manuscripts among Laurens’ papers. The first is seven pages in length and consists of three distinct sections: a brief account of congressional action on half pay between April 17 and 21 (pp. 1-2); a more extended description of Congress’ treatment of this issue on April 21 (pp. 3-6); and Laurens’ own reflections on the subject of half pay (p. 7). The second manuscript is two pages long and contains further observations by Laurens on half pay that are somewhat similar to those in his letter to William Livingston of April 19, 1778. These four sections of the composite MS have been set off from each other in the printed text by the use of extra space. 1 For the subject of this “Report,” which proposed half pay for commissioned officers who remained in service at the end of the war, see Francis Lewis to the New York Convention, March 30, 1778, note 3. 2 William Duer’s amendment was undoubtedly the motion for “an establishment of half pay” that is entered in the journals under the date April 17. JCC, 10:362-63. Since the original manuscript journals for the period March 19-May 1, 1778, have disappeared, the printed journals do not reflect the alterations Laurens describes in this section of his notes. 3 By this action Congress amended the motion on half pay first offered by William Duer on April 17. JCC, 10:362-63, 372-73. 1 All square brackets in this printed text appear in the MS; they are not editorial insertions. 3 See JCC, 10:373-74. 6 Chase offered his motion again on April 25 and its substance was incorporated into the half-pay plan Congress finally approved on May 15. JCC, 10:392, 11:502. See also JCC, 10:393n.l. ’ Sentence incomplete. During a discussion of half pay in his April 19 letter to William Livingston, Laurens noted that “the Remedy proposed is not adequate to Relief.” 8 Remainder of MS missing. Henry Laurens to James Duane Dear sir, York Town 17th April 1778 I troubled you with a Letter the 7th Inst, by Messenger Green to which I beg leave to refer. Mr. Morris continuing to be absent from York Town I yesterday


[Page 466]
434 April 18, 1778 1. of the 16th March for obtaining from the several States infor mation of their proceedings on the Recommendations of Congress. 2. of the 19th March recommending to the several States to raise their respective quota of Men 8c March them forward with all pos sible expedition 8c to provide complete Sets of accoutrements 8cca. If the delay of these had been the effect of neglect in my Sphere I should trouble your Excellency with a request to pardon me. 3d. of the 17th Inst, founded on a Report from a Committee to whose consideration a Representation from the State of New Jersey had been referred. A Copy of this last mentioned Act together with Copies of the Representation 8c of a Petition from several Officers to your Excel lency I shall transmit by this bearer to His Excellency General Wash ington. 1 Your Excellency’s several favors of the 17th March 8c 9th Inst, came duly to hand 8c have been presented to Congress, I have received no particular commands respecting them. 2 I have the honour to be 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 For further information on the April 17 committee report and the accompany ing paper referred to here by Laurens, see Gouverneur Morris to Robert Morris, April 16, 1778, note 2. a In his March 17 letter to Laurens, which was read in Congress on the 26th and referred to the Board of Treasury, Livingston stated that he had appointed Thomas Stockton “issuing commissary” at Princeton and no longer needed a warrant for $5,000 from Congress to help him raise recruits for and apprehend deserters from the Continental Army because money was now available from Joseph Borden, New Jersey’s loan office commissioner. See PCC, item 68, fols. 343-46. For further information on the warrant in question, see Laurens to Living ston, March 1, 1778, note 2. Laurens neglected to inform Livingston that Congress had approved Stockton’s appointment on March 26. ]CC, 10:284-85. In his April 9 letter, on the other hand, Livingston simply thanked Congress for a March 11 resolve commending him for having removed certain supernumerary Continental officers in New Jersey. See PCC, item 68, fol. 351; and Laurens to Livingston, March 10, 1778, note 1. Henry Laurens to John Stark Sir 18th April [1778] Within this Inclosure you will receive an Act of Congress of yes terday’s date Resolving that you be imployed to act under the Com mand of General Gates who is ordered to take upon him the Com mand of the whole Northern department. This casual opportunity affords me the particular pleasure of assuring you Sir, of my great respect for your Character, a Character deservedly famed for equal Zeal 8e intrepid bravery in defence of the


[Page 467]
April 18, 1778 435 Rights 8c Liberties of our Country, this I might upon the best founda tion assure you is the sense of all your fellow Citizens but at present I mean only to signify, 8c to request you will be pleased to accept, the sentiments of Sir yours 8cca LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "Brigadier General Stark, Bennington.” Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 18th April 1778. I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to my Letter of yesterday by McKlosky. This will cover Copy of a Petition by several Officers Civil 8c Mili tary of New Jersey to His Excellency the Governor of that State. Also Copy of a Representation by the Legislative Council 8c General As sembly of the same State to Congress; together with an Act of Con gress of the 17th Inst. Resolved upon the Report of a Committee to whose consideration the papers abovementioned had been referred. 1 I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem 8c Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient 8c most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. P.S. Your Excellency will also find inclosed an Act of Congress of this day for forming a Plan for the general operations of the Cam paign. RC (DLC). 1 For further information on this issue, see Gouverneur Morris to Robert Morris, April 16, 1778, note 2. James Lovell to Samuel Adams My dear sir Apr. 18th. 1778. Your favors of Feb. 29 8c Mar 31st came to hand this afternoon. 1 Col. Campbel is actually gone into Philadelphia, and I suppose my old fellow sufferer is before this time among his friends. 2 There has been a variety of managemts. in the affair that may tend to your amusement at some future leisure moment. Howe most evidently had rather have to do with any body rather than Congress; there being this difference that he cannot induce us to believe him any thing better than a deceitful rogue, while some others confide altogether in his honor and often put themselves into situations to have their “feelings hurt” by our decisive Resolves which are therefore wished


[Page 468]
436 April 18, 1778 to "sleep.” 3 I may venture to tell you, at so great a distance as Boston is from this place, that Genl. Heath has acquitted himself greatly to his own honor as an executive officer upon the Resolves of Congress. Surely there is no odious comparison in what I assert. Since the date of your last, you must have seen my letter to Mr. Appleton respecting Mr. Amory 4 and I think you must have judged the Spirit of it not to be against the proceedings of the Genl. Assem bly. We are now come to the Season when certain birds of passage return who seldom appear in our flock during winter. I will not enlarge upon the advantages of the regulation of this year for our vote in Congress. Esqr. C 5 the patron of yeas & nays will give you after opportunity of examining that matter. 4 & 4 and 1 divided lost a question against the voice of D & myself, Brother G being very ill 6 —a question of the highest importance, so that you may expect soon an half pay System upon which the existence of the army this campaign is said, “religiously” at one time, &: “devoutly” at another to depend. 7 It is said to be (Economy, Justice & Necessity. The last really is not altogether fictitious, the second does not exist, and the first is quite problematical. Distinctions ought however to be made between an half pay establishment and a military establishment, the latter being a curse, the former a nuisance. Can less than 9 states appropriate money in the manner hinted above? Can it be called a contingent expence of this war? I am Clearly of opinion, not. I wish all the old Geese were here, as Mr Childs called our worthy select men on a certain time. Genl. Gates is to go immediately to the north river having the command of the posts there & the superintendance of the whole northern department. I tell you he is to assist at a council of War in his way, to determine upon the plan of operations for the campaign. 8 Genl. W tells us Massachusetts is most allarmingly deficient in her quota; pray exert yourselves. Our cause is greatly at hazard. I have mentioned to Doer. Cooper all the scraps of foreign news which have lately reached. 9 I hope Lot Gray (Hall) has paid you cash. My poor wife needs no addition to her present trouble. The public letter and instructions came to hand with your favors, 10 and will be duely respected. Apr. 19th. Sunday M[ornin]g. Mr. Geary is something recovered this morning; he will take a ride this delightful day, and he must certainly be relieved from Congress shortly; but I warn you of great difficulties as to Lodging, and I advise you to be composed upon the thought of not being accommodated here. Mrs. C will move to Philada. or to some other part. I am sorry to find the regulating law


[Page 476]
444 April 19, 1778 mand is unjust, unconstitutional, unseasonable, a compliance under menaces, dangerous—the reasoning from loss of virtue 8c insufficiency of the present pay not convincing. Unjust because inconsistent with the original Compact, Officers were not compelled but eagerly solicited Commissions knowing the terms of service, loss of Estate, neglect of family, sacrifice of domestic happiness, exorbitancy of prices of every specie of goods for the necessities or comforts of Life, applicable to every Citizen in the Union 8c to thousands who are not officers with greater force 8c propriety. Unjust because without superior merit, Officers demand a seperate maintenance from the honest earnings of their fellow Citizens many of whom will have been impoverished by the effects of the War 8c rendered scarcely able to pay their quota of the unavoidable burthen of equal Taxes—unjust in the extreme, to compel thousands of poor industrious Inhabitants by contributions to pamper the Luxury of their fellow Citizens many of whom will step out of the Army in to the repossession of large acquired or inherited Estates, of some who have accumulated immense fortunes by purloin 8c peculation under the Mask of patriotism. Tis held possible by these naughty Cons to produce more than one case in point. Compliance with a demand unjust as it is extraordinary with a penalty affixed 8c delayed till the people are reduced to the awful alternative of losing the Army 8c their Liberties would be dangerous, because it would be establishing a precedent to the Soldiery—because it would be to Tax the people without their own Consent—because the people would have no security against future arbitrary demands— because the attempt is to deprive the Representative of free Agency 8c to reduce that Body to a State of subserviency—because it would lay the foundation of a standing Army, of an Aristocracy, the demand militates against Articles of Confederation—because it would have a tendency to waste the Army by discouraging the Militia 8c yeomanry in general to take the field, abate the fervor of the warmest friends 8c invigorate the hopes 8c endeavors of every Class of our Enemies” 8cc 8cc 8cc. The assertion of loss of virtue is not admitted as a fact because the plan originated in a sphere above Regimental Command from whence it was easy to Roll down the glaring temptation. Insufficiency of the present pay cannot be admitted because the Remedy proposed is not adequate to relief—half Pay to commence at a distant period will not supply present wants—“succeed in the first attempt 8c by the same means we will compel Congress to augment pay.” If Officers withdraw 8c the loss of the Army 8c Liberty are to be


[Page 477]
April 19, 1778 445 conselective events, by what “various ways & means” may officers improve their fortunes, where will be those lucrative employments which it is pretended they now envy—but officers may retire when they please—so may senators & what then? A whole quire of Paper would be too narrow to range in, upon this topic. It is fortunate for you Sir that General Gates, an English News paper 8c two or three members of Congress steped in & knocked out of my head more than would have filled another sheet. If I can beg that News paper which contains some good things it shall accom pany the other papers. Let me conclude this head by observing the Cons move to postpone the consideration of the plan until the several States shall be fully informed 8c consulted. 4 Here a strenuous advocate let out the Cat—no I am afraid the people will not consent. What! dare we bind the people in any Case without or against their Consent, tis very near akin to burding them in all Cases. I must confess the affair for an affair of such magnitude has been poorly conducted by the managers. A Report of the whole, called for in a certain Assembly being the order of the day—read once for information the first paragraph read for debate an amendment offered 8c received a question on the amendment half put—a new proposition was started irrelative to the paragraph 8c amendment, contrary to general consent 8c having a tendency to set aside both—Question is it in order to receive 8c put to Vote the proposition? A question was moved upon the order; Question is the latter motion or the first subject for a previous Question? 5 From what has been said Your Excellency will collect enough to determine on the article of confusion. That Mass of paper lying there which I lug every day to 8c fro would give a more explicit answer to this point than, as I think, becomes me. My own Spirits such as they are keep in pretty equal tone. Men may bear pain with great equa nimity in general, yet be impelled by sudden twitches to bawl out 8c sigh for a moment. Things in public life were in extreme disorder when I had last the honour of writing to your Excellency 8c besides I beleive other things in private were as crooked. I fancy I was a Bed with Gout. Some departments, which as I dont mean to be invidious I will not part- ticularize, are shifted into more promising hands 8c I intertain hopes, if we have an Army, it will be better supplied than it has been with entertainment for Men 8c Horse but take a general view 8c the prospect is still extremely mortifying. However, we have lately received acquisition of some abilities though not half enough 8c tis pretended the Spirit of reformation is at our threshold. My Colleague Drayton has given earnest of his determination to set his face against fraud in every shape 8c to call upon those men who detain unaccounted Mil-


[Page 478]
446 April 19, 1778 lions. 6 Thank God we have other virtuous sensible Men to aid him. I believe things were at the time allude [d] to at the worst—nothing but complete ruin could have proved the contrary. General Burgoyne had reached Rhode Island & probably embarked about the 5th Inst. His arrival in England will produce an excellent fund for polemics. Congress have directed General Washington to convene a Council of Major Generals including the two Gentlemen of the Board of War & the General Officer of the Corps of Engineers in order “to form such a plan for the general operations of the Campaign as the Com mander in Chief shall deem consistent with the general welfare of these States.” General Gates from the Council will proceed to Fish Kill & take upon him the Command of all the Northern department. I learned yesterday that the works upon North River were going forward under great exertions of Industry. Officers assist in manual labour. Apprehensions of losing the important passes & their apend- ages on that River through a strange delay &: perplexity of orders wearing the appearance of infatuation have often exercised my patience. The knowing ones here will bet that terms of accomodation will be a prelude to the Campaign, I dont pretend to be related to that family, but I expressed the sentiment upon Reading the Speech of the 20th November. 7 No public good can be derived from Spreading such opinions, a plausible pretence to treat in earnest will bring the Union into a critical situation &: will demand all the Wisdom of the thirteen States to counteract a finesse. But for the visit above mentioned I should have dispatched the bearer at 9 oClock this Morning, my Chain was broke, I went to Church &: have finished in the Evening—&: ought to be charged one day’s expence of the Messenger. I sincerely wish your Excellency health & Safety being with the highest Esteem & Respect &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 See William Henry Drayton, The Speech of the Hon. William Henry Drayton Esquire, Chief fustice of South Carolina. Delivered on the Twentieth January, 177S (Charleston: David Bruce, 1778). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15785. 2 An allusion to Gen. John Burgoyne and his grandiloquent proclamation of June 20, 1777, which was issued from his “Camp at the River Bouquett” and long annoyed Laurens. See Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, August 17, 1777, note 5. No doubt Laurens sent Livingston copies of the correspondence relating to Con gress decision to permit Burgoyne and a number of other British officers to return to England. See Laurens to Richard Wilford, March 1, and to Burgoyne, March 6, 1778. 3 Congress did not resume consideration of the issue of half pay until Tuesday April 21. J.CC, 10:372-74. ‘See JCC, 10:358-60. "See JCC, 10:362-63; and Laurens’ Notes on Half Pay, April 17-21, 1778.


[Page 479]
April 20, 1778 447 • After taking his seat in Congress on March 30, William Henry Drayton had wasted little time in getting down to business. On Saturday April 4 he offered a motion—on which Congress voted to postpone consideration—"that on Monday next Congress be resolved into a committee of the whole to consider the situation of affairs of the United States.” JCC, 10:306. Although the journals fail to identify the author of this motion, there is a text of it in Drayton’s hand in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. It is not known what specific purpose Drayton had in view when he proposed his motion. The Laurens Papers also contain a March 29 letter from Drayton to Laurens, written at “Suttons Tavern Sunday Noon,” in which Drayton asked Laurens to arrange accommodations for him “as I am informed lodging is very difficult to be procured at York.” 7 An apparent reference to George Ill’s November 18, 1777, speech to parliament, in which the king expressed hope that the conflict with America would soon be settled. See Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams, February 7, 1778, note 3. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott [April] 19t [1778] Brown has been detained longer than I expected. I have now the Pleasure to acquaint you that I am entirely well. I beleive my Dis order was owing to the use of the Waters here which are bad—and which I find has produced the same ill effects in all upon the first using of them. I shall drink this Water but Seldom. Genl. Gates is appointed to Command on Hudsons River and the Northern Department which are now united. So that I suppose Mr. Peirce’s Expectations will not be gratified. So that the matter which you mentioned in Regard to Oliver is about at an end. Mr. Wads worth of Hartford is appointed Commissry Genl. 1 I have ordered 460 dollars to be left with you to be sent to Mr. Edwards of Stockbridge for his Services as Commissioner of Indian Affairs. 2 As I have got this Allowance for him, I have delivered an account of a like Nature for myself to the Officers of the Treasury and hope it will be admitted, if so Shall inform you of it. RC (CtHi). A continuation of Wolcott to Wolcott, April 14, 1778. 1 See JCC, 10:327-28. “This payment to Timothy Edwards, who like Wolcott served as a commissioner for Indian affairs in the northern department, had been authorized by Congress on March 23. JCC, 10:264, 279. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, York 20th April 1778 I begin to be settled. I now lodge at one Dowdell’s in the same house with Mr. Henry. Our lodgings, all things considered, are well


[Page 485]
April 20, 1778 453 she by accident blew up, and every Soul on board perished. The proposed Cartel is broke off. Our Commissioners had full Powers, & their Act would have bound the public faith, Howes Commissioners had not full Powers, & could only engage his private Faith, and that too only during his Command. The Exchange on Parole will con tinue. No other Part of my last 2 was to have been private, but Genl. Lee’s Name. I am inclined to think Baltimore fort remains in the same defenceless State as I mentioned to the assembly a year ago. There is a great Mistake in my Letter about the Quantity of Con tinental Arms. I meant to say Congress had fifteen thousand Arms, &: above two hundred field pieces. I suppose I folded the Letter before it was dry, & that Circumstance added to the Naughts. I will seize the first favourable Opportunity to apply to Congress for some Mony, but our Demands to pay & buy provisions are very pressing. My Compliments to the Council, Your Affectionate and Obedient Servant, Sami Chase RC (Md A A). 1 See Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Thomas Johnson, April 21, 1778, note 1. 2 Chase’s last letter to Johnson has not been found, but since a portion of this paragraph is addressed to the subject of “the Quantity of Continental Arms available to Maryland, it is obvious that Chase is responding to the Maryland Council’s April 7 letter requesting the delegates “to apply to Congress for Arms and Field Pieces and Accoutrements,” pursuant to an April 4 resolution of the Maryland Assembly. See Md. Archives, 21:15. Samuel Chase to George Washington Dear Sir, York Town April 20 1778 I wish some Mode would be adopted to pursue the Release of our Subjects, who are taken by the Enemy, not in Arms. The Situation is truely distressing. Humanity and Policy combine to urge Us to take some speedy and effectual Measures to obtain their Discharge but one of two Modes occurs to Me, either to declare them not ob jects of Capture, or to seise the Friends of Great-Britain, and detain them to redeem ours with the Enemy. The Case of Mr. Gunning Bedford is attended with some particu lar Circumstances. He was taken by a Party of our Enemy abt 13th of February, and has been confined in the New Jail ever since, and even threatened with Punishment as a Robber for stopping some People carrying provisions into the City. I am informed General Howe will exchange him for one Cooke, in Northumberland County. 1 I beg Leave to Solicit your favor for Mr. Bedford, he formerly


[Page 486]
454 April 20, 1778 held the Commission of Muster Master General, and by his Conduct can expect no favor from the Enemy. I beg your acceptance of my best Wishes for your Health & Happi ness and You may be assured that I am, Your Affectionate and Obedient Servant, Sami. Chase. RC (DLC). 1 For Washington’s April 27 response to Chase, reporting that he could not act on Chase’s request because Mr. Cook was apparently held by the state of Penn sylvania and was not a military prisoner subject to his jurisdiction, see Washing ton, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:316-17. John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir. York Town Api. 20th. 1778. I have procured the inclosed paper with some difficulty. When you have read it, if the Assembly should be setting, I wish you would send it to the Speaker. Different opinions prevail here with regard to the Authenticity of it. For my own part I have no doubt, from what I have lately seen in the English papers, but these two Bills before this time, are enacted into Laws. I dread the impressions it will make upon the minds of many of our people. If it should, and I have no doubt of it, make its appearance in the form of a Law, it will prove more dangerous to our cause than ten thousand of their best troops. It will in a Day or two be under the consideration of Congress. The Cartell for the General Exchange of prisoners is at an End. Upon our commissioners examining the powers of the Commission ers on the part of Genl Howe, they discovered he meant the treaty to be of a personal Nature, founded on the mutual Confidence and Honor of the contracting Generals, and had no Intention of binding the Nation, or of extending the Cartel beyond the limits and Dura tion of his own Command. They declared themselves ready to treat with us on this footing, with their present powers which they deemed adequate to the purposes of their Meeting. Upon this point the treaty broke off. I lament the Situation of our prisoners, and must approve of the Conduct of our Commissioners. A Cartel upon so narrow a foundation as the personal Honor of Genl Howe would be of little use to us and of short duration, liable at any time to be set aside by a subsequent Commander or by the British King without a breech of Honor. This Conduct will teach us a lesson respecting Genl Bur goyne and his Army. I make no doubt you have heard of the insurrection in the Dela ware State. By a Letter from a Mr Patterson we are informed that a considerable Number of the disaffected have assembled at a place


[Page 487]
April 20, 1778 455 near the head of Chester River. They are exerting themselves to add to their Numbers and those who will not join them, they deprive of their Arms and Amunition. It is said here they have British officers among them and expect to be reinforced from Philadelphia. This Matter is viewed here as very serious by some. Mr. Carrol gives his Compliments to you and desires me to acquaint you that there is a considerable quantity of provision at Charles Town at the Head of our Bay which appears to be in a dangerous Situation. There is also as I am informed by Mr. S. Stewart quantities of provisions at Princes Ann in Somerset, and other places in that neighbourhood, which it would be fortunate for us if we could remove them without Delay. When I wrote to you, some Weeks ago, I informed you, that I had procured ten thousand Dollars for the recruiting service which I sent down by Col S. Smith, I have never heard whether you have reed, it. 1 If you should write to any of the Delegates, by the next post, I should be obliged to you to acquaint us with the receipt of the Money if it has reached your hands. I am Sir with great respect, yrs. J. Henry Junr. RC (MdAA). 1 See John Henry to Thomas Johnson, March 6, 1778. Henry Laurens to George Clinton Sir, York Town 20 April 1778. My last was dated 31st March by Green. 1 This morning I had the honour of presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s favor of the 7th Inst, together with the Proclamation which came inclosed—these are referred to a special Committee. 2 Under this Cover Your Excellency will be pleased to receive an Act of Congress of the 15th Inst, for appointing General Gates to the Command of the whole Northern department & authorizing him to call for Militia from New York & the Eastern States &c. 3 In the General’s Instructions he is directed when convenient to confer with 8c take Your Excellency’s advice 8c assistance. General Howe is now circulating as far as his own & the power of his Emissaries extend a Paper said to have been received by the February Packet, but printed in Philadelphia, ’titled “Draught of a Bill (Private) for declaring the intentions of the Parliament of Great Britain con cerning the exercise of the Right of imposing Taxes within His Majesties Colonies Provinces & Plantations in North America.” “Draught of a Bill to enable his Majesty to appoint Commissioners


[Page 489]
April 20, 1778 457 “This day Congress appointed a committee consisting of Samuel Huntington, Francis Lightfoot Lee, and Jonathan Bayard Smith to consider Governor Clinton’s April 7 letter and his enclosed proclamation inviting settlers in Vermont to rec ognize New York’s authority over them. Huntington drafted a report that rebuked efforts to create an independent state of Vermont and declared that “no number or body of people” had the right to set up a new state “without the Consent of the State or States in which they are or were Included at the time the Congress were at first Elected & Convened for the Safety & defence of these United States; & the approbation of Congress.” This report was submitted to Congress (it is not known when), but Congress never read it—in part because the delegates felt they had more pressing business to attend to but also, one supposes, because they were disinclined to tackle such a sensitive issue involving so many conflicting interests and no clearcut way to reconcile them. See JCC, 10:367; Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 3:144-46; and New York Delegates to Clinton, July 21, 1778. 3 Laurens also transmitted copies of these resolves with brief covering letters that he wrote this day to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull of Connecticut and to the Massa chusetts Council. PCC, item 13, fol. 266; and Revolutionary Letters, M-Ar. In addition he sent "under Blank Cover” to President Thomas Wharton of Penn sylvania “an Act of Congress of the 17th April for preventing further purchases by Pennsylvania Commissioners.” PCC, item 13, fol. 265; and JCC, 10:361. 1 On April 21 Laurens also dispatched copies of this “Draught of a Bill to . . . appoint Commissioners” to absent delegates Samuel Adams and Henry Marchant. Laurens Papers, ScHi. Henry Laurens to James Duane 20th April [1778], I wish time permitted, I would attempt some amendment of the hurried sketch above, I know you will excuse its imperfection. I write all my private Letters by scraps as I can catch half an hour & half an hours disposition, the intervals between Public business na ture claims as her own for lounging or amusement & we have often little family quarrels upon this score. General Howe has as far as his own & the Power of his Emissaries have extended sent abroad a spurious draught of a Bill insinuated to be Parliamentary, importing an intended proposition for recon ciling differences &: quieting disturbances in the Colonies. Governor Clinton shall be furnished with a Copy—which you will of course see—probably you will have seen one sooner—your Morris & our Drayton have it in hand. I make no doubt but that we shall return it decently tarred &: feathered. 1 The Commissioners at New Town for establishing a Cartel for Exchange of Prisoners have done as did Balaam & Balak, 24 Numbers 25 V. 2 Those on our part have gained great Credit, their conduct & proceedings were spirited, perspicuous, honorable to themselves & their Constituents & must do our Cause service in the Eye of the Enemy. General Howe’s dictates to his Agents & their servility are all shabby, &: will expose them all to ridicule & contempt. 3 By the


[Page 490]
458 April 20, 1778 bye, remember to whom I speak, a certain Club of which you are a Member have very fortunately got out of a scrape. You shall see the whole, except the latter stroke, in Print very speedily. 4 I whispered to a friend, this may be passed to the Credit of Providence. Adieu Good Sir. I wish you all happiness & remain, with great Respect, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens. RC (NHi). A continuation of Laurens to Duane, April 17, 1778. 1 On April 22 Congress approved and ordered publication of the address drawn up by the committee appointed on the 20th to formulate a response to the news of Lord North’s conciliatory bills. JCC, 10:374-80. This address first appeared in the April 24 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. In addition to Gouverneur Morris and William Henry Drayton, Francis Dana was also a member of the committee that drew up this document. JCC, 10:367. According to his own testimony, Morris was the author of this address. See Gouverneur Morris to John Jay, May 3, 1778. 2 “And Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place: and Balak also went his way.” “Washington informed Congress of the failure of his negotiations with the British for a prisoner cartel in an April 18 letter to Laurens that was read in Congress on the 20th. See JCC, 10:367; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:276-78. The progress of these negotiations can best be followed in the reports of the commissioners representing the American side in Alexander Hamilton, The Papers of Alexander Hamilton, Harold C. Syrett et al., eds. (New York: Columbia University Press, 1961-), 1:445-78. ‘ It is unclear whether Laurens is predicting or describing the decision Congress made on April 21 to publish its resolves of that date commending the conduct of Washington’s commissioners during their recent negotiations for a prisoner cartel with the British. JCC, 10:370-71. The delegates had made a serious allegation about the commissioners in the April 14 letter to Washington they had prepared for Laurens’ signature. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir 20th April [1778] I shall inclose within the present Cover, Copy of “Draught of a Bill &ca”—a most insidious paper said to have arrived from Eng land in the February Packet & now circulating as far as the power of General Howe & that of his Emissaries extend. The paper is evidently calculated to ensnare weak minds, &: to disunite the Citizens of these States. Its wicked designs ought to be compelled 1 everywhere, with the utmost energy. A Report has already reached people of all Ranks that terms of accomodation are offered by Great Britain. Every Man of common discernment will at first reading discover the poison contained in these terms but there are Weak Men who must be supported & Wicked Men who must be confronted in order to prevent the intended Evil from taking effect. Whether this paper really came from England or was manufactured in Philadelphia is


[Page 494]
462 April 21, 1778 cretion. I wish you health & happiness and am with great regard, Dr. Sir, Yr. most hum. Servt. Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdAA). 1 Gen. William Smallwood’s April 17 letter to President Laurens was read in Congress on April 20 and referred to a committee consisting of Carroll, Samuel Chase, and William Duer. Although the general surmised that the insurrection consisted of “more smoke than Fire,” the insurgents did pose a threat to military stores collected at Charles Town and he thought it prudent to call for outside assistance because “my influence with the Legislature here is very Slender.” The latter reference is to difficulties he had recently had with Delaware officials over the arrest of Charles Gordon and Thomas White, for which see Henry Laurens to Smallwood, March 26, 1778. On April 23 Congress adopted resolves pursuant to the committee’s report calling on Maryland to march 300 militiamen and artil lerists with two field pieces into Delaware, and authorizing the committee to apply to the states of Delaware and Virginia as well if they should deem this necessary to defeat “all disaffections, conspiracies and insurrections” threatening the Del- marva peninsula. The committee apparently did not find it necessary to call for further action at this time, however, for no such committee letters have been found. Congress’ resolves on the committee’s report were transmitted to Maryland by President Laurens. See JCC, 10:368, 383-84; PCC, item 161, fols. 179-82; and Henry Laurens’ April 24 letters to Thomas Johnson and to William Smallwood. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir, York Town April 21. [17]78, Tuesday Night 11 o’Clock Congress this Evening reed a Letter from Gen. W. enclosing a Philada. Paper of the 17 Ulto. The Draft of the two Bills (mentd. in mine of this Day) are published in it. Dispatches arrived there last Tuesday, in 28 days. Under the London Head of 19 February , on the Tuesday preceding Leave was given to bring in the two Bills. Lord Norths Speech is in it, on making the proposition. Short late acts for your Satisfaction. “Our Army is great, our Navy is great, our Men in Health, in Spirits, &: well supplied, but the Resistance of America is greater; & the War has lasted longer, than was at first apprehended, much longer than any friend to this Country could wish, & I do not think it will end in this Campaigne. In the present Situation of affairs only three propositions can be made—1st. to strengthen our forces &: continue the War upon the present plan. 2. to recal it from America, and 3. to offer Terms of Conciliation to her. The first is attended with too great an Expence of Men &: Mony, an Expence which Conquest itself wod. not balance. The second is to subscribe to the Independy of America. The third is that which appears to Me to be the best and the wisest. I wish for an open Conference with America—he then explained his plan as expressed in the Bills. “I will say hold out to the Colonies a Cessation of the Exercise


[Page 496]
464 April 21, 1778 of Taxation, & I will not subject it to any Conds. or to the Demand of any specific Contribution. I do not see that any other Concession can be made without admitting the Complete Indy, of America—but wod. be the Effect of that Independy? I cannot see into futurity, but it is big with every possible Evils. Independy with a cordial Love between Us is one thing; with an Union with our Enemies, fatal. From their Indy a Danger arises from a great Naval Power; a Danger also to our other Possessions. I do not think that we should yield to it, till our Resources are much lowered. Indy, is not beneficial to America, she cannot be so happy, so easy, cannot have such personal Liberty, as if she remains dependant on Us.” Moved for the Bills. This Minute received the enclosed from our President. I forgot—Ld North—‘‘it is necessary to hold out some Inducemt to the Colonies, collectively & seperately. Some may not & some may renounce their Independency.” Two things are in my opinion essentially necessary—a respectable Army, a full Congress. Every Nerve shod, be exerted to fill our Ranks. I am of opinion that it would be prudent for every assembly or execu tive immediately to publish a Pardon to all their Subjects who have taken arms etc, who shall return to their Country & take the Oath of allegiance before a limitted Time. 1 Think well of this. I beleive it would thin their Ranks, and detach their friends. We know our people, many of them, are desirous of quitting them. If possible keep our assembly together—if broke up convene them early in June. I wish Mr Stone wod. come up. I wish Paca wod. quit his Judges Seat, & that our assembly wod. appoint him. I did intend Home, but I beleive I shall stay &: see it out. The Hour to try the Firmness & prudence of Men is near at Hand. I am really diffident of Myself, I shall endeavor to act my Part well. My Soul has been chagrined at certain Conduct, but I love my Country, & shall with pleasure retire after Peace is established. I am tired—tis 12 oClock. Adieu, Your Friend, Sami Chase RC (Md A A). 1 This proposal was probably already under consideration, for Congress on April 23 adopted a resolve recommending that the states offer pardons ‘‘to such of their inhabitants or subjects, who have levied war against any of these states . . . and who shall surrender themselves . . . before the 10th day of June/’ and urging the faithful citizens of these states to receive such returning penitents with compas sion and mercy, and to forgive and bury in oblivion their past failings and transgressions.” See JCC, 10:381-82. Henry Laurens to Samuel A. Otis Dear Sir, 21st April 1778. I beg you will accept my best thanks for your favour of 27th March & for the trouble you gave yourself in purchasing the articles by


[Page 499]
April 22, 1778 467 Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Pa P a . 22d April 1778 Yesterday evening we heard from the General, who transmitted us a Pha. newspaper containing Lord Norths introductory speech to the two bills which I mentioned in my last. His Speech I will send you by the first opportunity; it shews that the British Ministry are seri ously alarmed at the expence & consequence of this war. I am firmly of opinion; that if we can keep the Enemy at bay this campaign, & prevent their making any considerable impression, That G B will acknowledge the Independency of these 13 united States next winter or spring. The war between the Turks & Russians, the death of the Elector of Bavaria, & the foreseen consequences of that event or at least the dreaded consequences, perhaps, the suspicions of a treaty between our Agents & the Courts of France & Spain and the heavy expence of this war may have determined the Administration to this measure. I believe also they mean to lull us into security, & that they will send this Summer & fall very powerful reinforcements to Gen. Howe. North’s speech discovers great despondency; perhaps there may be some policy in this, the better to deceive us & make us remiss in our preparation. The Raleigh continental Frigate is arrived at Porsmouth in New Hampshire in 32 days from France; the Alfred, which sailed with her, is taken by the Enemy. We have not as yet received any dispatches from our Agents in France by the Raleigh; perhaps the express may be on the road. It will be astonishing if we receive no letters from them by this opportunity. My love to Molly, Mrs. Darnall & the little ones. God grant you all health. I am, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. As the speech will be printed this evening I shall send it to you, that you may judge for yourself. The President has informed some gentlemen (as he says from good authority) that Sir Wm. Howe is recalled & Sir Henry Clinton succeeds him in the command. This piece of information, I believe, comes from his son, who is one of General Washington’s aids. 2d P.S. 24th. I thought to have sent you the Speech before this but the Express has been delayed by other business. I hear nothing more of Howes being superseded. Imagine it is not true; tho’ by Ld. North’s Speech it is pretty plain the Ministry do not approve of his conduct. I am afraid this severe weather will destroy all the forward fruit. Let me know in yr. next whether yours has suffered from it. RC (MdHi).


[Page 500]
468 April 22, 1778 Samuel Huntington’s Proposed Resolution [April 22-23? 1778] 1 Resolved, That notwithstanding the Unmeritted, Injurious & Cruel Treatment the United States of America have receivd from the hands of Great Brittain, they are ever willing & desirous to put an end to the Calamities of War; & (disposed to) not averse from 2 entering into a (Friendly & Commercial perpetual alliance with Great Brittain) Treaty for Peace and Commerce between the two Countries 3 for the mutual Interest & Benefit of both (Nations), Upon Terms not Incon sistant with the Freedom, Sovereignty & Independance of these States; or with any Treaties that are, or shall be made with any other Sov ereign power before Such (Alliance) Treaty be formed. MS (ScHi). In the hand of Samuel Huntington with amendments by Henry Laurens. Endorsed by Laurens: “Proposal for Treaty with Great Britain." 1 It seems likely that this resolution was introduced either on April 22 while Congress was considering how to respond publicly to Lord North’s conciliatory proposals or on the 23rd in the wake of the defeat of a motion for deleting a paragraph from the April 22 resolutions that required Britain’s withdrawal of military forces or explicit recognition of American independence as a prerequisite to peace negotiations. See JCC, 10:379, 382-83. Henry Laurens’ subsequent com ments about this proposed resolve in his April 28 letter to John Laurens and in his May 1 letter to Rawlins Lowndes suggest that it was drafted prior to April 30, the date assigned by Edmund C. Burnett in his edition of delegate Letters. It also seems unlikely that such a resolve would have been introduced after April 27, the date Congress read a letter from George Johnstone to Robert Morris, which indicated that the British peace offer was intended to counter successful American negotiations in Paris. It is probable, nevertheless, that Congress did not take it up formally until April 30, when the journals indicate that “Congress proceeded to take into consideration the state of America with respect to foreign nations,” and May 1, when a motion on the subject was postponed. On this point see Wm. Henry Drayton’s Proposed Resolution, May 1, 1778, note. See also Burnett, Letters, 3:207; and Henry Laurens to Robert Morris, April 27, note 1, to John Laurens, April 28, and to Rawlins Lowndes, May 1, 1778. 2 Preceding three words added by Laurens. 3 Preceding nine words added by Laurens. Henry Laurens to William Aylett Sir, 22d April 1778 I have been honoured by the receipt of your favors of the 28th March & 3d Inst. These together with Govr. Henry Letter which at tended them were presented to Congress the 13th Inst. &: Committed. 1 I have received no other direction but to transmit the Inclosed Act of the 14th for authorizing Mr. Hawkins to proceed in the purchase of Beef &ca & desiring you to continue in your Office until Colo. Wadsworth Commissary general of purchases shall give farther


[Page 501]
April 22, 1778 469 orders. 2 I had detained this Act a few days expecting to have sent it by the Bearer of Money for the Commissary’s department in your district. The Committee have not yet reported on the information given by you respecting the disposal of Salt by Messrs. Hughes & Smith, but as your attention to the public Interest in general & particularly in that Instance is highly applauded & as the reputations of those Gentlemen are also in question, I persuade myself the Committee will not suffer the subject to sleep under their hands, & that a full investigation of facts will soon be made for the satisfaction of all parties. 3 At a time when extortion, purloining, peculation & unjust appro priation of public Money together with a Thousand other Acts equally unbecoming Men professing to be supporters of the Virtuous Cause of these Infant States appear within the observation of every discerning Citizen every day I cannot resist an inclination to thank a fellow Labourer who discovers some attention, some disinterested attachment to public Interest. Your conduct is generally approved as I judge from the Voice of Delegates in Congress; if my particular thanks are worth your acceptance, I beg you will receive them. It is not my intention to insinuate censure nor to pass an hasty judgement against the Gentlemen at Edinton who have not been heard in their defence although from your State of the Case, they have had time & opportunity for that purpose, but admitting you have in some par ticulars mistaken facts, Your Zeal & Candor merit thanks & you have mine most heartily. Let us attack the Vices above mentioned & the whole Catalogue concomitant, & consecutive Attack vigorously when we discover them to be the practice of Men who for safety & support confide in estab lished Character. Bring to punishment one Capital transgressor & an hundred petit Knaves will fall by the same blow. If we attend honestly to the expenditure of public Money, Issues from the Treasury will be restrained & the Comparative value of our Currency preserved. The greatest Enemies to these distressed States are those faithless false friends who under a pretence of serving the public have with sinister views plundered the Treasury, forced Emis sion upon Emission, depreciating the Exchange exactly in proportion to the increase in quantity. Thank God there are some who have acted with a single Eye to public welfare, in this confidence it is with pleasure I assure you I am with great Regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 The two letters from William Aylett, deputy commissary of purchases in Vir ginia, and the one from Governor Henry are not in PCC. 2 This day Laurens also wrote a brief covering note to John Hawkins of Williams-


[Page 502]
470 April 22, 1778 burg, Va., transmitting "an Act of Congress of the 14th Inst. Resolving that you proceed to purchase Beef, Cattle & Bacon agreeable to your contract with Gov ernor Henry.” See PCC, item 13, fol. 269; and JCC, 10:348. Unfortunately Hawkins died soon after the passage of this act. See Patrick Henry to the Virginia Delegates, May 26, 1778, PCC, item 78, 1:189-90. 3 The precise nature of Aylett’s charges against former North Carolina delegate Joseph Hewes and his business partner Robert Smith is unclear, but in a May 11 letter to Laurens Aylett alleged that he had bought 1,400 barrels of pork from Hewes that had been insufficiently salted owing to the high price of salt. PCC, item 78, 1:165-71. There is no evidence in the journals that Congress ever took any action against Hewes or Smith on this charge. See also Robert Morris to Committee of Commerce, February 17, 1778. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear General 22d April [1778] Although I have been four days in possession of your favor of the 16th 1 yet from a perpetual close engagement with variety of other businesses I am reduced to the necessity of writing in the last minute of Major Roger’s stay at York Town. You will kindly make the proper inference. I am extremely mortified by the account you give of the State of the Packages from Camden. Suspicions that such rascally tricks might be played as you have now experienced, had induced me to give Mr. Henry of Lancaster to whom I had directed the charge of the Trunks to be particularly attentive to the condition in which they should be delivered. I shall write to Colo. Kershaw on this subject & he will make the narrowest scrutiny in order to fix if possible the Roguery to some point. Your Letter for France shall be taken proper care of. With respect to the melancholy circumstance of Doctr. Phile, depend upon me Sir, every thing in my power shall be done to releive him, but I cannot flatter him with hopes of success from the appli cation of any person himself excepted & the subject deserves the utmost exertions of a Parent. 2 If his health will permit he ought to fly in pursuit of his Child. If this cannot be done let him at least transmit me proper directions signed by himself. 3 These I will trans fer to my friends & there will then be some ground for proceeding which will enable my friends in case of need to call in the aid of Government. Let me repeat everything in my power shall be done to serve Baron Kalb & any of his friends; in this particular instance, a stronger tie than common friendship bends me to listen—humanity commands my interposition. I would wish to make it with propriety. I have not a moment for politics but I intreat you do not think of returning to France hastily. Adieu, Dear Sir, I am perfectly & very Sincerely


[Page 511]
April 24, 1778 479 Henry Laurens to Nathanael Greene Sir 24th April 1778 Your favour of the 20th reached me the 22dd I presented it to Con gress whence it was committed to the Treasury & has produced the Inclosed Warrant on the loan Office in New Jersey for 50000 Dollars. Congress had very lately made such draughts on that Office as neither Mr. Borden nor your self had been apprized of, the amount of which, the Delegate from Jersey supposes will have nearly emptied the Office of Money, for this reason & no other your application is not fully answered. I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Quartermaster General Greene s April 20 letter to Laurens, in which he re quested “an Order on the Loan Officer of New-Jersey for One hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ... to give Vigour to the Purchasing of Horses and other necessary Supplies,” is in PCC, item 155, 1:63. Congress read Greene’s letter on the 24th and approved a warrant on the New Jersey loan officer for only a third of the amount requested. JCC, 10:384. Henry Laurens to Thomas Johnson Sir - York Town 24 April 1778 1 My last went by Lieutt. Thomson under the 31st March. 2 Much time has elapsed since I have been honoured with any of Your Excel lency’s favors. If Your Excellency will be pleased to intimate the Receipt of my Letters, Congress will have the satisfaction of knowing when their several Acts transmitted to Maryland are in a state of safety, I shall be enabled to detect miscarriages if any should happen, & in the course of my duty to supply deficiencies. Within the present Inclosure Your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress of the 23d Inst, for detecting disaffection & defeating con spiracies & Insurrections in the district therein mentioned, together with Copy of a Letter from General Smallwood of the 17th & Copies of two Letters which the General refers to. Your Excellency will likewise receive in the same Packet 12 Copies of a Speech said to be Lord North’s in Parliament, draughts of Bills which he refers to & an Act of Congress of the 22d April pointing to the supposed Speech &c. 3 I have the honour to be, With great regard, sir, Your Excellency’s Obedient &: humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress.


[Page 512]
480 April 24, 1778 RC (MdAA). 1 Laurens also wrote substantially the same letter this day to Governor Henry of Virginia. PCC, item 13, fol. 270. ’See Laurens to Richard Caswell, March 31, 1778, note 2. 3 Laurens noted in his presidential letter book that this day he also transmitted to Gov. William Livingston of New Jersey and President Caesar Rodney of Delaware twelve copies of Congress’ April 22 reply to Lord North’s conciliatory bills. PCC, item 13, fol. 274; and JCC, 10:374-80. At the same time he sent copies of this reply and an April 24 resolve "for transporting Provisions & Stores from the Southern States across Cheasepeake” to President Thomas Wharton of Penn sylvania. PCC, item 13, fol. 273; and JCC, 10:385. Henry Laurens to John Penn Dear Sir, 24th April [1778] By the Seals affixed to the inclosed Letter you will see that I had opened it, that is to say, had in my usual way cut the paper round the first Seal, which was no sooner done than I discovered the error without seeing the Contents the whole of which I am as ignorant as you at the present moment are. It had come in a number of public Letters when Mr. Drayton was sitting with us 8c anxious to com municate intelligence to that Gentleman, I had begun to open this, supposing it to have been directed to me, he was Witness to the acci dent Sc to my instantly mending the breach. Inclosed with this you will receive three Copies of an Act of Con gress of the 22d Inst, founded on the appearance of preceeding Acts said to be Lord Norths Speech Sc draughts of Bills referred to. Sup posing these to be Sibyl’s Letters, our Act I trust, will do no harm. The States will learn the temper of their Delegates 8c I hope be animated to the utmost exertions for reinforcing the Army. The gen eral opinion is in favor of the genuineness of the Speech Scca. Sc last Night intelligence from the City imported marks of confirmation. Tis said the Army Sc their Landlords were in commotion the former ex ceedingly dissatisfied with the politics at St. James’s, the latter with “Conscience trembling for their Sins.” I may laugh at all this 8c admit it to be so, but as nothing looks so much like an honest Man as a Rogue, I would act 8c earnestly wish all these States to Act as if the whole was manoevre. Admitting this suspicion to be grounded in experience, we ought to be ready 8c early with a formidable Army in the Field. A formidable appearance will oblige our Enemies to dulcify their propositions if they mean to hold out any, for peace. Never trust appearances on the part of an Enemy. General Gates will begin his Journey to Morrow for Fish Kill where he is to take Command of the Northern Army. In the way he is to call at Valley forge 8c assist in a Council of Major Generals for


[Page 513]
April 24, 1778 481 establishing a plan of operations for the Campaign. General Mifflin will attend him. I could write you a sheet full of affairs but yonder Bill will fright me presently, & I have been sitting in this spot from 14 past four, tis now near Nine. Adieu Dear Sir, I wish you health & every degree of happiness which is worth twenty humble servants. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “John Penn Esquire, New Bern, by Wm. Stuart." Henry Laurens to William Smallwood sir 24th April [1778] Your favor of the 17th with the papers referred to I had the honor of receiving & presenting in due course to Congress. A special Com mittee of Mr. Duer, Mr. Chase & Mr. Carrol are appointed by Con gress in order to confer with the Goverments of Maryland, Virginia & if needful Delaware on proper measures for supressing the threatned Evils intimated in your late dispatches. From these Gentle men you will receive the necessary information. 1 I have only at pres ent to Inclose an Act of Congress of the 23d Inst, reviving late powers vested in General Washington & extending the term to the 10th August next. I am with very great Esteem &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 No committee letter to Smallwood has been found, but for a discussion of this issue, see Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Thomas Johnson, April 21, 1778, note. Henry Laurens to George Washington $ lr > York Town 24th Ap. 1778 Since my last of the 18th Inst, by a Messenger returning to Govr. Livingston, I have had the honor of presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s Letter of the 20th. 1 Your Excellency will be pleased to receive under the present Cover. 1. An Act of Congress of the 21st Ap. approving the conduct of the Commissioners appointed by Your Excellency to treat with British Commissioners for Exchange of Prisoners &ca. 2 2. for granting Pardons & recommending to the several States to enact Laws for that purpose (dated 23d). 3. of the 23d renewing the Powers formerly vested in Your Excel lency & extending the term to 10th August next. 3


[Page 524]
492 April 25, 1778 would releive me by the latter End of May or the beginning of June at farthest. I hope my Request will be complyed with so that by that Time I may Return Home. For altho I do now injoy Health and have done so since I came here more than what I had Reason to expect, and my Situation here is quite comfortable in a kind & Virtuous Family, yet my own Inclination as well as an Attention to my Family, induce me most strongly to Return and live with them. This will go by an unknown Express but I hope it will come safe to Hand. Mr. Sherman came to Congress yesterday. Mr. Huntington will Return with me. My kindest Love to my Children and Friends. Take Care of your Health and may the Almighty Bless you. I am yours, with the Tenderest Affection, Oliver Wolcott P.S. It is in Contemplation to sink 20,000,000 Dollars in a Loan and pay the annual Interest in Bills on France. This measure may be adopted—and if so I think that it will by calling in and burning so large a Quantity give Credit to the Whole—and perhaps particularly raise the first Emissions which are proposed to be sunk in this man ner. As the Payment of the Interest in Bills will while the Interest shall continue have the same Effect to the Lender as tho the Prin cipal was in specie, This may therefore induce such People as have the first Emissions not to part with them or rather induce such as Wish to be Lenders to procure such Bills. As every one well knows that a Certificate whenever it may be necessary to turn it into money may easily be done. The Randolph Frigate is lost, Blown up in an Engagement. RC (CtHi). 1 See Wolcott to Laura Wolcott, April 14, 1778. Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Bingham Sir, York Town April 26th. 1778 Herewith you have a triplicate and copy of my former letters. I now send you the proceedings of Congress upon an appearance of two draughts of Bills said to have been read in the British Parlia ment. Since Congress took notice of them Govr. Tryon has sent out copies with greater marks of authenticity than those bore which first came to hand. He certifies that he has “his majesty’s command to cause them to be printed and dispersed, that the people at large may be acquainted with their contents, and of the favourable disposition of the people of Great Britain towards the American Colonies.” I will not attempt to lead your judgement upon these proceedings


[Page 529]
April 26, 1778 497 Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Si r 26th April [1778] When I writ to your Excellency by Messenger Brown the 20th Inst. 1 I had been at some trouble to procure the Copy of "Draughts of Bills” &ca which went inclosed with my Letter, from an opinion that I should have offered somewhat quite new, but If I may be allowed to judge, from the measures which have been adopted by the late Governor of New York for affronting Govr. Livingston, Gen eral Washington &c &c, Your Excellency had before that date been insulted by Mr. Tryon with several printed Copies of the Draughts Certified by his own important signature & Ushered by an immodest injunction to disperse them. 2 That active Agent might have saved his directors & himself some expence & trouble. Congress had from the first appearance of the paper Resolved to transmit it into every Corner of these United states. Far from apprehensive of any evil consequences it is the desire of the House that it should be presented to the consideration of every Man of common understanding throughout the Land. In pursuance of this sentiment, I have the honor of transmitting within the present Inclosure 12 Copies of an Act of Congress of the 22d Inst, confirming the Report of a Committee on General Washing tons Letter of the 18th containing the said Draughts to which is prefixed a speech said to be Lord North’s when he introduced the Draughts into Parliament. Your Excellency will also receive an Act of Congress of the 23d for granting pardons to certain Characters therein described, & Rec ommending to the several States to enact Laws or Issue proclama tions for that purpose. Congress ever induced to this measure from well founded suggestions that great advantages would follow. I have the honor to be with very great Regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to George Clinton, April 20, 1778, note 3. 2 Laurens’ surmise was correct. See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull Sr., May 18, 1778, note 2. John Mathews to Thomas Bee Dear Sir, 1 York Town April 26th. 1778 I Arrived here the 21st Inst, after a most disagreeable Journey indeed. I inclose you a paper 2 (which if you have not seen) will amuse you, & I imagine some parts will not a little surprise you. Compare


[Page 531]
April 26, 1778 499 them from Tryon, which are certified by him, to have actually pass’d. The report fully shews you the Ideas of Congress on this important subject. As this is a matter of as great & momentous concern as any that can come before Congress (except that of real treaty) I would therefore wish my conduct on every such occasion to be known to my Country, 8c leave to their Judgment whether I am right, or wrong. I do therefore declare the whole report met with my most hearty concurrance. I could then wish, If Commissioners should come out this summer, (as I really believe they will) & they have such powers as Congress can consistently treat with them upon, That a special meeting of the Legislature should be call’d, on this most Important subject, that their delegates may know their sentiments, & receive instructions accordingly. I just drop the hint to you, that you might be prepared for such an Event. I have not consulted any of my Col- legues on this Subject, but I think the necessity of such a measure is so self evident that they must concur with me in this opinion, I am sure I should not think myself Justifyed in stirring one step in this business without. I have not time to add more than that I am Dr. Bee, with sincere Esteem Yr. most Obdt. Servt. Jno. Mathews P.S. 27th. We received an express late last night (for tho’ Sunday, we are obliged to do business, three nights out of five that I have been in Congress, we have sat ’till nine 8c ten oClock, so that you may imagine our business not trifling) from the General, Informing us that he had just received an account that he could depend on, That the Commissioners from England were daily expected in Philadel phia. They are Lord Amherst, Admiral Keppel, & Genl. Murray. 4 From such Men I am sure we can expect Nothing decisive, neither of whom have one single Qualification Requisite for such a business. They come out with their full Military Commissions also. On such Conduct, 8c such Men, I could say much, but time will not permit. Genl. Howe is certainly recalled 8c Clinton to take the Command. RC (ScC). Tr (ScC). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. ’For Bee’s identification, see these Letters, 1:255. a Undoubtedly the April 24 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette, which contained texts of Lord North’s proposals for Anglo-American reconciliation and Congress’ April 22 response to them. 3 See ]CC, 10:374-80. ‘ Washington’s April 25 report to Congress on the identity of the British peace commissioners was in error. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:307-8. The Earl of Carlisle, William Eden, George Johnstone, Admiral Richard Howe, and Gen. William Howe were the peace commissioners actually appointed by the king, though only the first three served. See Weldon A. Brown, Empire or Independence: A Study in the Failure of Reconciliation, 1774—1778 (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1941), pp. 244-48.


[Page 532]
500 April 27, 1778 Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, 27th April 1778 I have yours of the 23d instant. I return you Skerrett’s letter, act upon it as you see best. Brown is an orderly industrious fellow, & I would wish to keep him, but I think his demands are exorbitant. I wish Molly could recover faster, but her perfect recovery must be the work of time & proper regimen. I am sorry for the death of bold Robin; his death is a real loss. General Amherst, General Murray & Admiral Keppel are the Commissioners coming to treat with America. General Howe is certainly recalled; Sir Henry Clinton is to succeed him in the command, but I apprehend, only until the arrival of General Amherst, who I imagine will have the supreme Command. From the inclosed letter, & the articles of News in the printed hand bill, which you sent me, I have no doubt but that preliminaries of a treaty have been entered into by our Agents at Paris. I suspect Car michael is taken by the Enemy, as he sailed from France, or left Paris, the 27th of last Deer. Govr. Johnston’s letter gives us the first authentic information of such a treaty being on foot, & accounts for Ld North’s Speech & the two acts which it ushered in to the House of Commons. We have reed no advice from our Agents since last May; surely several dispatches have been intercepted by the Enemy. I am, Yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. General Lee is Exchanged for Gen. Prescot and several other officers have been lately exchanged for officers of like rank. RC (MdHi). Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir, Monday 27 April 1778 We have yr. letter, 1 &: have written this day to Mr Morris for the articles therein mentioned; our letter is gone by an Express, which the President had occasion to send in order to return the original of the inclosed copy of a letter from Govr. Johnstone to Mr. Morris. 2 Your application to Congress for 100,000 Dollars shall be laid before Congress tomorrow. We will write you the result by the first oppor tunity. 3 Gen. Amherst, General Murray, & Admiral Keppel are the Commissioners coming out under the Act of Parliat. for offering terms of peace & reconciliation. General Howe is recalled, & Sir Henry Clinton is to succeed him, but I apprehend only till General Amherst’s arrival; I think, as he is one of the Commissioners, he will have the supreme command of the army.


[Page 533]
April 27, 1778 501 I think we may fairly conclude from Govr. Johnstone’s letter, & from the articles in the newspapers, which you have seen, that some treaty or the Preliminaries of a treaty have been entered into between France &: our Commissioners. We have had no letters from them since last May; several no doubt have been intercepted. The Ad ministration getting wind of this treaty have been induced thereby to offer terms to this Country: but no terms short of Independence are in my opinion admissible without the utmost danger & disad vantage to these States. I am with great esteem, Dr. Sir yours &c, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton N.B. Do not print Governor Johnstone’s letter, as [it is] a private letter. General Lee is exchanged for General Prescot. RC (MdAA). Addressed: “To His Excellency Governor Johnson Esquire of Mary land, Annapolis, to be opened in his absence by the Council.” 1 The Maryland Council’s April 23 letter to their delegates is in PCC, item 70, fol. 249, and Md. Archives, 21:54. 2 For information on the subject of the enclosed copy of George Johnstone’s February 5 letter to Robert Morris—which is in the Red Books, 10:78, MdAA— see Henry Laurens to Robert Morris, April 27, 1778, note 1. 3 The next day John Henry wrote the following brief letter to Governor Johnson: “I have just time to drop you a line and to inform you Congress have granted to the State of Maryland, one hundred thousand Dollars. It will be sent forward tomorrow or next Day. “Mr. Carrol will give you the News of the Day which is very important.” Red Books, MdAA. For Congress’ order directing that $100,000 be paid to the Maryland delegates, see JCC, 10:402. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, 27th April 1778 I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the 24th by Mes senger Stuart. Yesterday by the hands of the Honorable Mr. Harnet under a blank Cover I conveyed Copies of an Act of Congress of the 23d for granting pardons & recommending to the several States to enact Laws or issue Proclamations adopted to obtain the great end in view. As this may possibly reach your Excellency before Colonel Harnet’s arrival at New Bern I judge it necessary to forward another Copy of that Act under its Cover. No part Sir, of the various transactions of business in my Office nor all the hard labour of the last Six Months has occasioned me so much pain as I feel at this Instant from the Duty of transmitting a paper which Your Excellency will find inclosed containing minutes of Congress respecting the Honble. Mr. Burke one of the Delegates from North Carolina, from the 10th to the 25th April, which Your Ex-


[Page 534]
502 April 27, 1778 cellency is requested to lay in due time, before the Assembly of that State. 1 The Honorable Gentleman who is most nearly concerned in this Novel untoward circumstance intends to return to Carolina in a very few days. The course of my Duty constrains me to the present transmission, but I am persuaded it is not the desire of Congress to take advantage of Mr. Burke nor to hurt his Character by impressions made in his absence on the minds of his fellow Citizens, or without affording a reasonable time for his appearance at the tribunal of his Country, where only the Honorable Gentleman holds himself amen able. I have the honour to be with the most perfect Esteem P.S. As Govr. Tryon has been sending Lord North’s draughts of Bills to the several Governors & General Officers in this Quarter ’tis not to be doubted your Excellency has been or will be insulted [in] the same way by some other Tool of the British Ministry. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See JCC, 10:334, 336-37, 339, 385-91. See also Thomas Burke’s Proposed State ment to Congress, April 13, 1778, and his April 29 letters to Caswell and to the North Carolina Assembly. Henry Laurens to Thomas Johnson Sir, York Town 27th Ap. 1778. 1 I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to my last under the 24th Inst, by Messenger Stuart. The present will be accompanied by two Acts of Congress Vizt. 1. of 24th April for transporting the Public Provisions & Stores across the Chesapeak Bay or otherwise. 2. of 23d for granting Pardons & Recommending to the several States to pass Laws or Issue Proclamations for that purpose. I remain With great Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Obedient & humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MdAA). 1 Laurens wrote virtually the same letter this day to Governor Henry of Virginia. Hamilton-McLane Family Papers, DLC. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Dear Sir, 27th April [1778] Should I remain totally silent Your Excellency may possibly pause & make some enquiry into the reason.


[Page 536]
504 April 27, 1778 22 reply to Lord North’s conciliatory bills a proposal by Gouverneur Morris to call upon the states “to send a full and adequate Representation to Congress’’ to con sider the question of entering into negotiations with British peace commissioners. See Morris to John Jay, May 3, 1778. Laurens’ own suggestion to invite leaders from outside Congress to consult with the delegates on this issue became irrelevant as soon as official news of the signing of treaties of alliance and commerce with France arrived on May 2. Henry Laurens to the Middle Department Navy Board Gentlemen, 27th April 1778 Under this Cover you will receive an Act of Congress of the 18th Resolving that an Enquiry be made into the Causes of the loss of the Frigate Virginia which Congress expect you will enter upon as early as possible. 1 I have conversed with Mr. Smith 2 & received his promise of giving you every assistance in his power & have written to Mr. Stewart whose aid I believe you may likewise depend upon. I have the honor to be with great regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “John Nixon, Fra. Hopkinson, & John Wharton Esquires, Commissioners of the Navy Board at Borden Town, New Jersey.” 1 See JCC, 10:363-64. The Continental frigate Virginia, Capt. James Nicholson, had run aground and was captured by the British off Cape Charles, Md., on April 1. There is no evidence that the Navy Board ever submitted a report on this matter to Congress or the Marine Committee, but see William Ellery to William Whipple, May 31, 1778. See also William M. Fowler, Jr., “James Nicholson and the Continental Frigate Virginia," American Neptune 34 (April 1974): 135-41. ’William Smith, the Marine Committee’s agent in Baltimore. Henry Laurens to Robert Morris sir > 27th April 1778 Late last Night I was honoured with your favor of yesterday which with the papers inclosed were immeditely communicated to several Members & this Morning presented to Congress. 1 The House ordered a Copy of Govr. Johnsons Letter to be taken by the Secretary, and I now return within the present inclosure that Letter & the draught of the Bills. You will also find in company with these a Letter put into my hands by the Delegates from Maryland 2 & Six Copies of an Act of Congress of the 22d Inst, to which is prefixed the above mentioned Bills & a speech said to be Lord North’s when he introduced the Bills into Parliament.


[Page 546]
514 April 28, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 28th April 1778 1 This Evening Your kind favor of yesterday 2 inclosing a Letter directed to my Daughter came to hand, this shall be forwarded by an Express Messenger to morrow who will be a Month ahead of Monsr Francy. I am glad our Act of the 22d pleases you—it appears to me to be sufficiently energetic for the present purpose—the last paragraph one excepted will point out to the illustrious Commissioners from White Hall, from whence to take their departure & save much time which might otherwise have been spent in Ceremonious preliminary. 3 My sentiment is that this little Clause of 7 Lines nullifies many Pages of their Instructions, it certainly contains a complete answer to the Laborious performances of Lord North & the Labours of the blood thirsty Tryon. The Tit for Tat, which your General lately gave to the Quondam Governor must exceedingly mortify a Man of his arrogance. Some of our people here have been exceedingly desirous of throw ing abroad in addition to the Resolutions an intimation of the will ingness of Americans to treat with G Britain upon terms not incon sistent with the Independence of these States or with Treaties with foreign powers. 4 I am averse. We have made an excellent move on the Table—rest until we see or learn the motions on the other side— the whole World must know we are disposed to treat of Peace & to conclude one upon honorable terms. To Publish therefore is un necessary—it would be a dangerous Act, encourage our Enemies & alarm our friends. Your Ideas respecting New York square precisely with my own. 5 I wish the States & the People of the States could be roused to fill a reputable Army. You have thousands of Men scatter’d over the Coun try in the Character of Servants to Officers &c &c. Why are not they collected. There is amazing laxness of discipline somewhere or per haps too generally in your Army. What does Hartley’s Regiment in this Town? Congress ordered it to Camp a fortnight ago. 6 Their Idle Drums & Fifes twice a day by my window jarr upon my soul. Thus are we & thus we suffer our selves to be treated. I have in hand the article you desire for Summer wear, sent for it from Boston, you shall have it by the present or the very next Mes senger. Try to say somewhat to the several heads of my Letters in order to rep[air] my Memory, for I have not time to Copy generally in the very wane of time I take up a piece of Paper to tell you in the best manner so short a moment how very truly & affectionately & respectly I am your faithful friend, Henry Laurens


[Page 547]
April 28, 1778 515 RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 Laurens apparently wrote a letter to John on April 27 that has not been found. In his private letter book for that date Laurens tersely noted “sent without Copy” in reference to an April 27 letter to his son. It is doubtful that the letter referred to is the same as the one printed here because Laurens used different messengers on the 27th and the 28th to transmit letters to Valley Forge. According to his letter book Samuel Wilkinson, the messenger he employed on the former date, carried the letter of the 27th to John, while Joseph Sharp bore Laurens’ letters of the 28th. Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 See Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 162-65. 2 The next to last paragraph of Congress’ April 22 response to Lord North’s conciliatory bills stated that the United States would not negotiate with British peace commissioners unless Great Britain "as a preliminary thereto, either with draw their fleets and armies, or else, in positive and express terms, acknowledge the independence of the said states.” JCC, 10:379. ‘See Samuel Huntington’s Proposed Resolution, April 22-23? 1778. 5 John had deprecated some unnamed proponents of a plan for taking New York City “by storm.” Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, p. 164. “There is no mention of this order in the journals. Henry Laurens to Henry Lee Sir 28th April [1778] I had yesterday the honor of presenting your Letter of the 24th to Congress & this Evening by order of the House I issued a Warrant on the Treasury for 50,000 Dollars for the use of your Corps of Horse payable to Lieutt. Rudulph to whom the warrant is delivered. 1 Some difficulties arose in Congress respecting the propriety of seizing Horses within the State of Maryland which occasioned a Report from the Board of War on that head to be laid aside for future consideration, in the mean time I have referred Mr. Rudulph to a Gentleman one of the Delegates from that State who had promised to point out places to him where he may purchase good Horses at about £125 per Horse, & avoid the violence &: danger of seizing private property. Mr. Rudulph will undoubtedly communicate such information as he may receive. I remain with great regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). ‘Major Lee’s April 24 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 78, 14:225-26. In it he announced that the bearer, Lt. John Rudolph of Lee’s recently formed battalion of light dragoons, would wait upon Laurens “to receive instructions concerning procuring horses, and obtaining a sufficient sum of money for the purposes of recruiting and purchasing accoutrements,” and argued that in view of the high price of horses it was “absolutely necessary, that some powers be given to certain persons to impress for the service and pay according to valuation on oath.” Al though the Board of War prepared a report proposing to grant Lee authority to impress horses on “the Peninsula formed by the Delaware and Chesapeake Bays,” Congress, as Laurens delicately informed the major, decided that this report should be “laid aside for future consideration.” See JCC, 10:401-2.


[Page 551]
April 28, 1778 519 those officers who often express their wishes for our success & beleive that even the Commander in Chief thinks our Cause just. This seems wondrous strange! The papers which will accompany this will shew you Great Britain desire of Peace & the mean Stratagem which she is substituting for honest intentions in order to deceive us. Possibly the Act of Congress of the 22d April may teach her Ministry to know we are not quite blind, nor quite Idiots. We have been long battleing in Congress on a half pay establish ment to take place after the present War for our Officers which I hold to be inconsistent with our original Compact, unjust in a comparative view with the Militia & with the Soldiery in general unconstitutional & dangerous. Upon these Several branches I have endeavored to reason against the measure & may by & by shew you my sentiments. If the Question is carried it will be by a bare Majority of one State. Mr. Tryon the late Governor of New York, has had the imodesty to insult General Washington & all our Generals commanding at Posts in the Northern & Eastern departments as well Governors of States with Copies of the Draughts of Bills offered by Lord North to parliament with an injunction to make them public among the Offi cers & Soldiers of the Army & the people in general. In return to such effrontry, General Washington has sent him the Act of Congress of the 22d April, shewing the Quondam Governor that ’tis the wish of Congress his Curious draughts should enjoy an unrestrained circula tion. At the same time he also transmitted him an Act of Congress of the 23d April for granting pardons, a Copy of which you will find here inclosed, desiring the said Governor to exert his powers to com municate the contents to the persons who are the objects of its opera tion, & concludes with a sneer upon Mr. Tryon—“The benevolent purpose it is intended to answer will I persuade myself recommend it to your Candor.” Thus I think the Governor’s account is Balanced by a retort which he would not have expected & which will therefore be the more mortifying to a Man of his arrogance. It is said that Lord Amherst, Admiral Keppel & General Murray are named as Commissioners for treating with Congress & that they are daily expected. When they arrive at Philadelphia they will meet half their business done by the Act of the 22d. The paragraph, next to the last, will point out to them where to begin their negotiation & save much trouble of preliminary which otherwise they might have judged necessary. My circumstances are such as afford me only scraps of time for writing private Letters & none to Copy & amend. You will therefore account for the imperfections of this & be so good as to accept it


[Page 555]
April 28, 1778 523 the 50 Gun ship. Our little fleet is much diminished. 4 Hopeing that we may be more fortunate in future, We are Sir, Yr. most obed servants P.S. Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress of this date 5 Appointing Wil liam Burke a Captain in the Navy, and directing that he should receive from the time he was Appointed to the Command of the schooner Warren to this day according to the Rate of Pay settled when he was so Appointed. We now desire that you will settle his account and pay him Agreeable to the said Resolve. You will please to inform us who was the Captain next in Commission to Captain Manly of the five Vessels fitted out by order of General Washington. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Samuel Chew was killed on March 4 while engaging a British privateer mount ing twice as many guns as his brigantine Resistance. Morgan, Captains to the Northward, pp. 118-19. "At his June court-martial Capt. Thomas Thompson was found guilty of failing to bring the Raleigh to the assistance of the Alfred during its capture on March 9, whereas the conduct of the Alfred’s captain Elisha Hinman was vindicated by a court-martial in February 1779. For further discussion of the Alfred's capture and the subsequent courts-martial, see ibid., pp. 122-25, 148, 154-55. See‘also Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, May 8, 1778. 3 Capt. Nicholas Biddle and all but 4 of his 315 crewman perished on March 7 when the Randolph exploded while engaging the 64-gun ship Yarmouth off Barbados. For Biddle’s naval career and last cruise, see William Bell Clark, Captain Dauntless, the Story of Nicholas Biddle of the Continental Navy (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1949). ‘The Continental Navy had suffered significant losses during recent months. The Randolph tragedy, followed by the surrender of the Virginia, left only seven of the original thirteen Continental frigates, and five of the seven were not in service. The Warren, after taking two prizes on her maiden cruise in March, was idle at Boston awaiting crew and the Trumbull, unable to clear the bar, remained trapped in the Connecticut River. The unfinished frigates Effingham and Wash ington would be burned in the enemy’s May raid up the Delaware and the Raleigh, after acquiring a new captain, would be captured in September. The sixteen vessels purchased in 1775 and converted to form the nucleus of the Con tinental fleet had fared even worse than the frigates. With the loss of the Alfred and the Columbus in March, and several smaller craft during the May raid, only the sloop Providence remained active and she was being rebuilt at New Bedford between February and July. Although the purchased frigate Queen of France and sloop General Gates would soon be active in American waters, at this moment American hopes for naval success turned to European waters, as the frigate Providence, reaching open sea on April 30, sailed for France to join the sloop Ranger and the frigate Boston, which had recently carried John Adams to Bordeaux. See Howard I. Chapelle, The History of the American Sailing Navy (New York: W. W. Norton Sc Company, Inc., 1949), pp. 53-55; and Morgan, Captains to the Northward, chap. 5. “For this May 1 resolve, see JCC, 10:412. For a discussion of Burke’s brief career with the Continental Navy as captain of the Resistance, see Morgan, Captains to the Northward, pp. 119-21.


[Page 556]
524 April 28, 1778 Gouverneur Morris to John Jay Dear Jay. York Town 28th April 1778. This Letter is to be handed to you by Genl. Gates. Let me recom mend him to your particular Attention. Vermont you will say pre vents this. 1 Policy may have induced him to flatter those People when he wanted their Assistance. Let us take it up on that Ground. In his present Command he will want the Assistance of our State, the cordial Assistance of its Rulers. I have promised this. I write to you, to Liv ingston 2 & jointly with Duer to the Governor. 3 This is sufficient and you will all three I am confident exert yourselves whenever Necessity shall [require it?]. I am, yours &ca. Gouvr Morris RC (NNC). Addressed: “Horde John Jay Esqr. Chief Justice of the State of New York, Fish Kill or elsewhere.” 1 Some New Yorkers were wary of Gates because of his cooperation during the campaign of 1776 with some local Vermont committees whose authority was not recognized by New York. Walter H. Crockett, Vermont, the Green Mountain State, 5 vols. (New York: Century History Co., 1921), 1:532-33. 2 Morris did not write to Robert R. Livingston until May 3. 3 See New York Delegates to George Clinton, April 30, 1778. Robert Morris to John Brown Sir Manheim April 28th 1778 Amongst the letters Christian brought me last night were the sev eral you will find enclosed herewith, which being intended for the Marine Committee & Commercial Committee You will deliver them with my Compliments and I think the Commercial Committee wou’d do a very just & proper thing if they were to give Mr Livingston orders to Continue sending Cargoes of Rice both to Mr Ceronio & Mr Bingham as fast as he can, they have suffered exceedingly by mak ing advances for the Public but particularly the former and they ought to be relieved. If Mr. Ceronio does not receive remittances it is probable he may be Imprisoned; he has been threatned with that Fate by his Creditors & he has served us with a Zeal and Fidelity that merits much better things. I wou’d order Mr Livingston however not to ship Indigo for the loss on that will be great, but then he shou’d ship the more Rice which will produce a proffit. The Schooner Lewis, Capt Rowan, was employed it seems to carry Cap Pickles to New Orleans, but I am informed by a Gentn now here, that the Crew Rose & after landing Pickles & Rowan near the Havannah they carried the Schooner into Providence which breaks up that plan.


[Page 560]
528 April 29, 1778 regard to Liberality, a few words which I would have said would have Satisfied the House, and put an end to it, but as the matter was man aged it became Inconsistent with my Duty and my honor to make any Concession without expressly insisting on my opinions. That with this reservation I would make any apology the House should require, but without it I could make none which would not involve a breach of Trust to my Country, and no punishment could be de vised which I would not meet sooner than be guilty of such an of fence. The members of the Committee still persisted; nothing would do but an Explicit acknowledgement of what they pleased to call my Error. I rejoined only that I knew no power who could make a man change his opinion before he was Convinced of his Error, that I was not and therefore would not acknowledge it. They proceeded now to enter on the Journals such a state of facts as they pleased. I desired only that they would enter a fair and full statement, that such as they offered were far from being so. After some time it was said by the Gentlemen that I should have an opportunity of answering and could set forth any that were omitted. In my answer I acquiesced, and so did the House. They then proceeded to take down some of my Expressions in debate. I required them to take down all that would speak my full Sense, and not detached Expressions; that I would give it to them as fully as they could wish, being firmly resolved not to retract one Iota of it. But I was answered, as before, that I could supply the deficiencies in my answer, and I acquiesced. The Entries were made and the president announced them in form. I thanked him for his politeness of manner, told him I hoped I could satisfy the House that no disrespect was Intended to them, but that I avowed my opinions as I delivered them in debate; that I persisted in them, and insisted on entire freedom of Debate. I was required to return an answer to the next adjournment, which was to be in the after noon, and I desired no longer time; but afterwards the House changed it to Monday, which was the next day of Business. 10 Reprinted from N.C. State Records, 13:403-7. FC (Nc-Ar). The FC is a twelve-page manuscript in Burke’s hand; eight pages are a draft of Burke’s letter to Caswell, and four contain additional passages apparently not used. 1 See Henry Laurens to Caswell, April 27, 1778. For further accounts of Burke’s dispute with Congress, which is the main subject of Laurens’ letter, see Burke’s Proposed Statement to Congress, April 13, and his letter to the North Carolina Assembly, April 29, 1778. ’After this sentence in the FC Burke wrote a brief summary of Washington’s April 4 letter to President Laurens on the subject of negotiating a prisoner ex change that he omitted in the letter he sent to Governor Caswell. For a discussion of the significance of Washington’s letter, see Henry Laurens to Washington, April 8, 1778, note 4. 3 Following this sentence in the FC Burke wrote: “We deemed it unjust and impolitic to give an unnecessary affront to an Officer who had so well deserved of his Country, and was still so important to our affairs.”


[Page 564]
532 April 29, 1778 Thomas Burke to the North Carolina Assembly [April 29, 1778] 1 I beg leave to submit to the assembly the following State of Facts and the proofs relating to them, also of my motives and Sentiments which gave occasion to the transmissions from Congress. 2 General Washington had written complaining of some Embarass- ments in forming a Cartel occasioned by several resolutions of Con gress which he deemed inconsistent and requesting something to be done to remove them. 3 A Committee was appointed to draught an answer. A draught was reported and it was the subject of Debate on the 10th of April. It was in many parts in my opinion exceptionable and I together with some other members opposed those parts. The members of the Com mittee were very strenuous in their Endeavours to carry it through. The Exceptionable Parts seemed calculated to wound the General’s Sensibility, and I could perceive no Necessity for it. After the Day until ten O’clock at Night had been Spent in debate on One para graph which was at length amended, an adjournment was moved for, and the Committee Strenuously pressed to go through the remainder of the Letter that night tho at so late an Hour. I who had Sustained a principle part in the Debate was totally unable to continue any longer by reason of the violence of a fit of an Intermitting fever under which I labored. 4 I admit that I withdrew &ca. My reasons were the following The subject under Debate was a Draught of a Letter to General Washington reported by a Committee in answer to one relative to the Exchange of Prisoners in which he complained of being wounded in his feelings and embarrassed by Some resolutions of Congress which appeared to him inconsistent. The Draught seemed exceptionable in many parts which tended to give pain to the General without answering any good purpose, and they were opposed by some other members and myself. The whole day until 10 at night was taken up with debate on One paragraph which was at length amended. At that late hour the members of the Committee pressed very Strongly to proceed and finish the letter before adjournment. 5 They Seemed very strenuous for carrying through the draught as reported. I was of Opinion that it ought to undergo many amendments which from that day’s debate I perceived could not be Effected without® very Strenuous Opposition. I deemed it therefore very improper to proceed when our faculties were ex hausted. Besides this General reason I had one peculiar to myself. I had been obliged to take a principle part in the Debate altho during the whole afternoon I labored under a severe fit of an Intermitting


[Page 566]
534 April 29, 1778 that the message appeared not to have Come from the President, but from a private member, 10 and that the answer was intended for that private member alone. To avoid taking up the time of the assembly I shall only refer to the answer which I delivered to Congress for an Explanation of the Minutes of the eleventh and tho’ I might very well insist upon the dangerous Infraction of the freedom of Debate which must result from Censuring A member of that assembly upon Expressions picked from what falls from him in Argument and so Arranged as not to Convey the whole of his meaning, yet knowing that this will not escape the present Assembly who are watchfully attentive to all the Rights of freedom, I shall for my own part waive it and plainly declare that the Sentiments expressed and avowed in the answer were by me delivered in Debate and in Language Such as I usually Speak which tho’ perhaps not refined enough for the Courts of Princes, might escape Censure in a republican assembly. Those Sentiments are mine, and I did refuse to retract them, they are Convictions fixed in my Mind and the result of much thinking, and long Investigation of the Rights of free men. I have not changed my Opinions nor can I without Conviction of their being erroneous, to say I had would be false, and a Meanness which no power could force me to. The Opinion respecting the exclusive power of the States to Judge and punish their Delegates appears to me Necessary for their future Independance and Essential to their Sovereignty, and I think that when this state invested me with the power of representing them in the united Council of the free. Independent, Sovereign States of America the Supporting and defending that freedom, Independance and Sovereignty which was always my Duty as a Citizen, becomes so in a much greater Degree as a Delegate and to have yielded any thing Injurious to them was in my Idea a henious Treason. The Congress refused to receive this answer in writing and altered the Journal which Contained the first order at the making of which every One expected my answer was to be returned in writing and I yielded to the partial insertion of my words and the mistate of the facts under an express declaration they should be able to correct them by my answer, but the members afterwards thought it unparlia mentary, tho’ in truth there is no Similitude in this respect between the Congress and Parliament, Members of Parliament being Subject to no Jurisdiction out of Parliament. The Thing Insisted upon by Several Members in Congress was Concession, they Endeavoured to Extort it by Illiberal Declamation, and by threats of the most Sum mary Violence, Such as even Imprisonment of my person, and expul sion. Others endeavoured to obtain it by argument, and friendly Liberal persuasion. To the first I confess I could not yield even the Semblance of an appology, and doubt not my words conveyed some


[Page 567]
April 29, 1778 535 part of the resentment which I could not help feeling for such Treat ment. To the Second, I declared my sincere Concern if any thing in my Language or manner appeared not sufficiently respectful to Con gress, that my Terms were the only names I knew for the things I wanted to express, that tho’ my manner was perhaps expressive of resentment and Indignation it was plainly directed against Individ uals who had given great provocation, but that no man was more deeply impressed with a Sense of respect for Congress and I was far from intending to give Offence. But the Sentiments I delivered being still unchanged and being in my opinion Essential to the rights of the States, and of the Citizens Individually, any Concession relative to them would be a Sacrafice of those rights, and a Meanness which I hoped the Congress would not expect, and which it was impossible to bring me to. It is sufficient to hear them in their places because the charge and defence is before the ultimate Judge, but Members of Congress are or at least in my Opinion, ought to be amenable to their Constituents and the Charge and defence ought to come before them with equal authority. The Copy before the assembly is one that was laid on the table while I [awaited?] the answer, and was taken up and perused by Mr Harnet while I was reading. He kept it afterwards in posses sion. At any time upon Such an Occasion I should have deemed it my Duty to have behaved as I did in the present Instance, but I was particularly Sollicitous to pursue this matter to its utmost length for the following reason. Since the first of my attendance in Congress I perceived some Indi viduals to have an Extraordinary propensity to acts of power, and to have often urged Congress to exercise them where there was no ap parent Necessity, in such a manner as must be Contrary to the Estab lished Laws and Constitutions of the States. In very many Cases the prudence and Circumspection of Congress rendered such attempts abortive, in some a Majority have been induced to Concur, and Indi viduals have been Seized, banished or Imprisoned by Resolutions of Congress against whom Rumors were the only Testimony, and who if insnared by this powerful and uncontrollable Body must be [....] Frequent attempts have been made to prevail on Congress to take into their own Hands the Political Administration of one State, 11 and on pretence that their Institutions were defective, Power was given to a Military Officer in an other to Seize, Imprison and remove whomsoever he might Suspect, 12 under a Suspicion that their magis trates were not well affected, and over the Same State and part of two others a Power was given to a Committee of Congress to exercise the most unlimitted dictatorial Powers, 13 on a groundless Supposition of an Insurrection. 14 In short some Individauls from too much Zeal not tempered Sufficiently with wisdom and foresight, from apprehensions


[Page 568]
536 April 29, 1778 too lively and Judgements a little defective, from a busy Enterprising Disposition not quite enough Controll’d by caution and Circumspec tion or from some other defect of Capacity very frequently gave too much importance to trifling objects 15 and generally Suggested and urged the Exercise of acts of mere arbitrary power as remedies on every Occasion. Of late this Disposition was become more extensive, and appeared more frequently, and whoever spoke of the Internal Police or rights of the States as restraining the power of Congress was generally exposed to Sarcasm or ridicule. State Necessity was urged on all Such Occasions as Sufficient to Justify every act of power. I who am firmly persuaded that arbitrary Power has a Natural tendency to abuse, and am therefore Jealous of it in any Hands, who have marked the force and progress of precedents and have ob served that those which have happened under the direction of Vir tuous men have given Authority to Corrupt men to Violate the rights of mankind have always Considered this propensity as dangerous so far as it tended to Establish Precedents of such acts of Power exer cised by Congress as are repugnant to or Inconsistent with the pur poses of its Institution and the rights of the States. When on the present Occasion I perceived Several of the Same Individuals assuming a power to Judge and punish at discretion the representatives of the Sovereign Independent States it appeared to me very dangerous even to permit the mention of such power un disputed. If not disputed it might pass into a general Opinion that Such power existed in Congress, if carried into Effect and submitted to it would be established by precedent. I therefore determined In stantly to dispute the power and to persist so as to bring the matter to a clear decision. I insisted on the right of the States to Judge and punish their own delegates, and that Congress could do nothing but represent their Conduct. I was certain whichever way Congress de cided it would be important. If they Exercised the power, the States would perceive that it deprived them of all security in their members by their being Subjected to the arbitrary power of an assembly which is without Controll, and can be punished for no wrong, and in which they must often assert the rights of the State at every hazard, and of Course would remonstrate against it. If on the other hand, Congress should only make a representation to the State a precedent would be Established in favor of the Exclusive Jurisdiction of the State over its representatives. The Confederation being then under Consideration I hoped this matter might be Considered by the assembly before they finally Concluded their deliberations thereon, and I hoped it would clearly point out to them the propriety of Instructing particularly on that clause which declares that “freedom of speech and debate shall not be impeached or Questioned in any Court or place out of Congress.”


[Page 570]
538 April 29, 1778 willing to be in myself, I should deny that any freeman ought to be in, and had I had no other motive than merely this I should not have submitted to the power claimed by some Gentlemen in Congress. I hope I never shall betray the smallest right of any of my fellow Citizens to avoid any thing which power can impose on me. Lest any thing which I have here said should seem to derogate from the Virtue of the present Congress I beg leave to declare that nothing can be further from my Intention, nor do I believe any Set of men Existed who had Views more disinterestedly directed to public good, even the Individuals I mention as too much disposed to acts of power, are men of the greatest public Spirit and Integrity, and eminent for abilities. If in the particulars I mentioned they erred as in my opinion they did, I am certain they were moved by nothing but a zeal for the public Service which perhaps hurried them too fast to attend to distant Consequences, or prevented their perceiving objects in the proper point of Light. I do not pretend that I myself have never been in this predicament. I confess I am warm in my Temper, (and apt to decide in favor of bold and vigorous Measures) and feel a Zeal too which I doubt not often transports me too far. Conscious of this, (and being very atten tive to motives, and from that attention Convinced of their rectitude,) I heard every gentlemans Sentiments I believe, with Candor, and tho differing from my own doubted not their being Suggested by the same Desire of doing public Service—but I conceived it my Duty to use my own Judgement on all Occasions and I always used it because such as it was my Country Confided in it, and when it differed from other men, Integrity required that I should follow it. Thence Debate necessarily ensued but Enmity I hope never. Nothing therefore should be Imputed to Such Motives. I do not pretend that I never Con sented to, nor recommended the exercise of acts of power, every man knows that such will be always unavoidable in times of public Strug gles. But my professed Maxims are that Such should never be exer cised but so far as plain and Evident Necessity requires and on very important Occasions that whoever exercises an act of power Should not be the ultimate Judge of the Necessity but should rely on it as an excuse but not a Justification. That it should always be Exercised in such a manner as not for a precedent for future Occasions—because such should depend entirely on its own circumstances. Whenever I have recommended or agreed to acts of power I hope I have kept in view these maxims. I always opposed them on every other ground. I have thought some not quite so attentive to them, I suppose because they were not equally persuaded of their Truth. In the matter before the assembly some things appear to me not altogether reconcileable to the Idea I have given of Congress. They have Insisted on a man’s retracting his Opinions, and Censured him


[Page 578]
546 April 29, 1778 ’See also Henry Laurens to George Clinton, April 20, 1778, note 2. 7 Morris’ prophecy did not come to pass as soon as he expected. Not until July did a military court of enquiry acquit Gen. Israel Putnam of culpability in the October 1777 loss of Forts Clinton and Montgomery in the New York Highlands, and not until August 17, 1778, did Congress accept the court’s verdict. See JCC, 11:743, 803-4; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 12:244-45, 352-53. ’Congress appointed this committee on April 29 “to examine the evidence col lected, and state charges against the general officers who were in the northern department when Ticonderoga and Mount Independence were evacuated.” See JCC, 10:403; John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note; and Committee of Congress to Washington, February 7, 1778. Virginia Delegates to George Washington Sir York 29th April 1778 In compliance with your letter in answer to ours respecting the Paymt of the Bounty to the reinlisted Virginia Soldiers, 1 we now send you thirty Thousand Dollars, by particular direction of the executive of our State ordered into your Hands; it should however have been negotiated in a less troublesome way to you, but the warrant was thro mistake made out in our Names. Eighty Dollars are sent by Mr. Banister, for the use of a Soldier one Abner Howell from his County, where he has written to Col. Meade to find out. 2 I am for myself & Colleagues with the highest Respect & Esteem yr Excellency’s mo. obed. & mo hble Servant, J Banister RC (DLC). Written and signed by John Banister. 1 See Banister to Washington, April 16, 1778. a Banister’s letter to Richard Kidder Meade has not been found. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen No. 6 (Copy) York Town Apr. 30th. 1778 By the Gazettes which accompany this letter you will see that the Enemy are entering upon a plan which must shortly perplex us much, unless we receive dispatches from you to enlighten us as to your Sit uation & Transactions of which we have had no information since the latter end of May. As we have heard of the loss of Capt. Johnston and Capt. Wickes and know that John Folgier was robbed, we cannot charge our present want of letters to negligence in you; but we think you should not rest satisfied without sending triplicates of your dis patches.


[Page 583]
May 1, 1778 55I with letters from Paris dated as late as February 1778—a circumstance that would have made it impossible for Lovell to complain subsequently that Congress had not heard from the commissioners since May 1777. “For a discussion of this issue, see Committee Examination of John Folvcr January 12, 1778, note. 6 ’ 3 For Gov. Richard Caswell’s January 31, 1778, letter to President Laurens on the subject of Capt. John Folger’s role in the theft of dispatches from the com missioners, seeN.C. State Records, 10:178-79. “See Committee Examination of John Folger, January 12, 1778. Congress’ May 8 resolve exonerating Folger in connection with the theft of the dispatches from the commissioners, which seems to have been passed after this letter was written is in JCC, 11:482. “This date was added by Lovell to identify the letter from the commissioners referring to Letters of March 14 and Apr 9th which have never reached us,” not, as Adams assumed when he endorsed this document, the date of the post script. r New York Delegates to George Clinton Sir, York Town 30th April 1778 By Major Genl. Gates we take the Opportunity of informg. your Excellency that we hope in a few Days to transmit you some Resolu tions of Importance to the State we represent at which Time we shall write fully upon the subject. 1 At present we have to request that you will afford Genl. Gates such Assistance in his important & extensive Command as may be in your Power. We have the Honor to be with great Respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & humble Servants, Gouvr Morris Wm. Duer. RC (NN). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Duer. The anticipated Resolutions of Importance” no doubt concerned Vermont. See Henry Laurens to George Clinton, April 20, 1778, note 2. William Henry Drayton’s Proposed Resolution That the commissioners of Congress at the Courts of France & Spain be instructed to inform those Courts respectively, that Congress are assured the King & Parliament of Great Britain intend very shortly to open a Treaty with these United States to procure a recon ciliation with that Kingdom—that Congress believe Great Britain will consent to the Independence of America, only in consequence of the most absolute compulsion—that Great Britain is inclined to


[Page 584]
552 May 1, 1778 sacrifice much of her claim to bind these States in all cases whatso ever—that as it is the true Interest of America to be an Independent power, she will be inclined to relinquish her Independency, only from the most absolute necessity to do so—that the strength & re sources of the two Countries are considerably diminished by the War—that these States wish to be assisted with loans of money {in gold if silver} sufficient to enable them to support the credit of their paper money—and that an annual supply of {gold if silver} money to the amount of Millions Livres & an immediate declara ¬ tion of War by France & Spain against Great Britain would enable these United States to continue the War & with the blessing of God to establish their Independence. In addition to these representations, the said Commissioners shall demand a categorical answer of France and Spain to this point. Whether or not they will grant to these United States an annual loan upon Interest of millions of Livres during the con ¬ tinuance of the war, & make an immediate declaration of War against Great Britain. MS (ScHi). In the hand of William Henry Drayton and endorsed by Henry Laurens: "Mr. Draytons Mo. 1st May—for Mr. Huntington’s.” 1 As Henry Laurens’ endorsement on the document indicates, Drayton prepared this motion this day as a substitute for Samuel Huntington’s proposed resolution on entering into peace negotiations with the British on the basis of American independence. Although Huntington probably brought his resolution to Congress’ attention as early as April 22 or 23, apparently the delegates did not formally consider it until April 30 and May 1 when they turned their attention to the issue of “the state of America with respect to foreign nations.” On May 1, ac cording to the journals, “Congress resumed consideration of the motion made yesterday,” but the entries for both dates fail to identify the motion offered or to mention that a substitute was proposed. Despite this omission, Laurens’ endorse ment on this document and his comments on the subject in his correspondence with John Laurens and Rawlins Lowndes strongly suggest that the Huntington and Drayton motions were the focus of debate on those days. Although debate on the entire matter appears to have stalled on the first when Congress ordered “that the farther consideration thereof be postponed,” it was briefly resumed the same afternoon until Congress simply resolved to appoint a committee of three “to report proper instructions to be transmitted to the com missioners of the United States at foreign courts.” In any event, the proposals of Drayton and Huntington as well as the committee's assignment were quickly over taken by events, for the following day Simeon Deane arrived in York with official texts of the treaties of alliance and commerce that had been signed at Paris in February, news of which completely altered the assumptions the delegates had been operating upon since word first reached York on April 20 that the North ministry was prepared to offer fresh terms for opening peace talks with her colonies. See JCC, 10:374-80, 411, 413-14; Samuel Huntington's Proposed Resolu tion, April 22-23; and Henry Laurens to John Laurens, April 28, and to Rawlins Lowndes, May 1, 1778. For the committee appointed “to report proper instruc- toins” to the commissioners at Paris, see Gouverneur Morris’ Draft Report on Instructions for the American Commissioners, this date.


[Page 585]
May 1, 1778 553 Henry Laurens to Matthew Clarkson Sir, York Town 1st May 1778 Immediately upon receipt of your favor of the 28th Ulto. which reached me yesterday afternoon I presented it to Congress, but the business then before the House excluded every other consideration, I will endeavor to call their attention this Morning to your representa tion but as I am doubtful of success I will not detain your Messenger. In the mean time you may receive as my single opinion Sir that an augmentation to your Salary will be made, I am of this sentiment be cause I think it just. You shall hear from me when I am furnished with subject for writing. 1 I beg Sir you will present my Compliments to your Coadjutor Majr Clarke & believe me to be, With great regard, Sir, Your obedient hum st. Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). ’See Laurens to Clarkson, May 6, 1778. ' Henry Laurens to George Galphin My Dear Sir, 1st May 1778. I have barely time to tell you I am indebted for several of your favors, not enough to admit of answering them properly—this I will endeavor to do in a few days 1 —in the meantime let me present you with papers which accompany this & which have afforded much satis faction in this part of the Union. I trust the whole will be as well pleased. We hourly expect confirmatory accounts of a Treaty between France &: the United States of America by which our Sovereignty & Independence are acknowledged & guaranteed. This I hope will operate to good effect upon the Savages of all Colours who are at this time attempting to ravage & distress us a little more in front & rear. If War is closed between France & England which is inevitable, the British Troops may be wanted for defending their Islands—in this Case their worthy friends the Indians will be left in an unpleasing Situation. I am glad to find those near our Country are so well dis posed; On the frontiers of Virginia, this state & New York they are very troublesome. God bless you, Sir, I am with great regard LB (ScHi). 1 No further letters from Laurens to Galphin, a Continental Indian commis sioner in South Carolina, have been found.


[Page 586]
554 May 1, 1778 Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Sir 1 1st May 1778. No less than seventeen days have elapsed since I had the honor of receiving Your Excellency’s Letter of the 16th March importing an extract from the Journals of Assembly of the 5th, yet within this time I have not found a proper space of one moment for addressing Congress on the subject of Indian Trade. 2 Congress have been closely engaged on one branch of a proposed arrangement of the Army, which has been long pending. The first article on the tapis, an half pay establishment for Officers who shall continue in the Army to the end of the War having met such opposi tion, has engrossed, with very little exception, our time for a Month past. This subject is at present suspended, for reasons which if I judge truly, are not assigned. The supporters of the measure perceive danger of losing the question should it be put at this time when there are only ten States on the floor & therefore wait to avail themselves of the voices of two in three which are daily expected 3 —but this grand business is succeeded by another said to be equally momentous & to which every other consideration must give place, the state of our affairs at foreign Courts. The reading Letters as a prelim[in]ary step employed completely the six hour session of yesterday. I have however introduced my Colleague Mr. Chf. Justice Drayton into the Com mittee of Indian affairs 4 & will enjoin him to collect the Committee & press for a consideration of the Resolve of Assembly alluded to above, thence a Report will follow & be properly inducted to Con gress—& I have no doubt in my own mind of obtaining all that our State expects relative to the expence of supporting an Indian Trade, unless our late acquisition of Land from the Cherokee people should be faintly urged in bar. I know some Gentlemen veiw that circum stance with a jealous eye, be this as it may, I think a demand so well grounded & which may be well supported by applicable precedents with which our Journals abound can suffer but slightly from opposi tion. 5 Two days ago Congress completed a Declaratory Invitation to foreign Officers & Soldiers in the service of the King of Great Britain to quit such service & settle in these States a Copy of which I will endeavor to lay before Your Excellency, 6 I like the scheme in general, my objection was to the last Clause. 7 Maryland, Rhode Island & New Jersey peremptorily refuse to bear any part of expence which may arise from the purchase or laying out the intended Grants of Land. New York & Virginia meaning the Delegates from these States, promised on behalf of their constituents to supply large quantities, & it was intimated that the Carolinas & Georgia might well make up the deficiency. Whatever were my sentiments respecting the policy of


[Page 587]
May 1, 1778 555 the measure, I felt a repugnance to binding my Country by any engagements exceeding the powers vested in me & which she might for this & other obvious reasons refuse to confirm, hence I shall be found upon Record, No. All the States had for many Months been exceedingly remiss in Representation in Congress. Fear I believe had operated upon many minds, partly of the excessive expence attending very bad fare in this Town 8c partly of a sudden surprize by the Enemy. Certainly had Sir William Howe been a Man of enterprize he might have possessed himself of Congress. This delinquency has cost the Union Millions of Dollars. The days lengthen, the weather mends, the Army is receiving reinforcements 8c Delegates drop in. We have lately been joined by some very able Men 8c shew upon the floor about 25—New Hamp shire, Delaware 8c No. Carolina empty—New Jersey 8c Rhode Island one Delegate—the important Crisis to which we are now verging may possibly rouse the deficient States. 8 North River which had been left in a defenseless State from the time Sir H. Clinton had rendred it so will in the course of half this Month with permission of the Enemy be secured—but I tremble every arrival of a Messenger from that quarter with apprehensions of hearing of the destruction of our embryo works, of our Stores 8c Mag azines at Albany 8c that our communication with the Eastern States [is] cut off—all this danger 8c an hundred other Evils are chargeable to deficiency of Representation. General Gates will proceed to Mor row to Valley forge Camp, there join a grand Council for planning the operations of the rising Campaign, thence proceed to Fish Kill 8c Albany 8c take upon him the Command of the whole Northern or middle department—with power to call for the Militia from New York 8c the Eastern States—if our affairs remain uninterupted when he arrives, all will be well. The printed papers which I shall send within the present Inclosure will shew your Excellency a late fruitless attempt for settling a Cartel 8c the sentiments of Congress on Lord North’s speech of the 19th Febry 8c his Draughts of Conciliatory Bills—an Insolent Letter from the Quondam Governor Tryon to General Washington 8c the Gen eral’s modest reply will accompany them. Notwithstanding the sep- eration of the Commissioners who had assembled at New Town an Exchange of prisoners is in motion conducted by the Commissaries on each side. General Lee has been exchanged for General Prescot, 8c there are many other instances but the work is slow 8c not satisfactory. Besides from a fatal negligence in our public Officers we have lost an amazing number of prisoners. I have the best authority for saying near two Thousand have escaped or been winked at, a circumstance tending to prove our Riches in that branch, when it is considered that we have still a very large balance of Rank 8c file.


[Page 590]
558 May I, 1778 8 The delegates who had “lately” arrived in Congress were: Joseph Reed of Pennsylvania (April 6), Richard Hutson of South Carolina (April 13), Charles Carroll of Carrollton of Maryland (April 15), Thomas Adams of Virginia (April 16), George Plater of Maryland (April 18), John Mathews of South Carolina (April 22), Roger Sherman of Connecticut (April 25), and Richard Henry Lee of Virginia (May 1). They were soon joined by the following delegates who arrived in York before Congress adjourned to Philadelphia on June 27: Philip Livingston of New York (May 5), Thomas McKean of Delaware (May 11), John Witherspoon of New Jersey (May 16), Josiah Bartlett of New Hampshire and Samuel Adams of Massa chusetts (May 21), Jonathan Elmer of New Jersey (May 26), John Wentworth of New Hampshire (May 30), Thomas Heyward of South Carolina (June 6), John Hancock of Massachusetts and Nathaniel Scudder of New Jersey (June 19), John Collins of Rhode Island (June 22), Samuel Holten of Massachusetts (June 22), and Titus Hosmer of Connecticut (June 23). On the other hand, North Carolina was unrepresented in Congress from May 4 to July 16, 1778, when John Penn attended. ’Although Lowndes did not mention the document in his June 17 reply to Laurens, the enclosed Resolve was almost certainly a copy of Samuel Hunting ton’s Proposed Resolution, which is printed above under the date April 22-23 1778. “See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:307-8. For a discussion of Congress’ acceptance of Gen. Thomas Conway’s most recent resignation offer, see Laurens to Washington, April 28, 1778, note 3. In comment ing on this paragraph, Edmund C. Burnett erred in stating that Conway first offered his resignation in an April 6 letter to Laurens, as that letter simply an nounced Conway s intention of complying with a congressional order that he serve under Gen. Alexander McDougall at Peekskill. Burnett, Letters, 3:21 In.10; and PCC, item 159, fol. 496. In fact Conway had first offered to resign from the army in November 1777 as a result of Congress’ failure to approve his repeated requests for promotion to major general. Conway’s earlier letter of resignation has not been found, but he refers to it in a November 14, 1777, letter he wrote to “Charles Carrol esqr. or in his absence to secy of Congress.” PCC, item 159 fols 461-67; and JCC, 9:958. “ This letter is in the William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, MHi; a tran- script of it is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 13 Lowndes had discussed this issue in his March 30 letter to Laurens, ibid. Henry Laurens to William Thomson Dear Sir, 1st jyj a y 1778, The papers 1 which I send inclosed with this have afforded much satisfaction in this Quarter, I trust the whole Union will be as well pleased as we are. I may add that you may almost depend upon it as a fact, France has confirmed a Treaty with our Commissioners & acknowledge the Sovereignty & Independence of America, & that a few days will bring a confirmation of this grand event. My present circumstances will not allow me to write so fully to my friends as I wish, I work 16 & sometimes 21 Hours in a day which affords short intervals for repose. My best wishes attend you & Mrs Thomson & all yours. I am with great regard &ca.


[Page 591]
May 1, 1778 559 LB (ScHi). 1 These probably included the same “printed papers” on Congress’ response to Lord Norths Conciliatory Bill and General Washington’s recent dealings with General Howe and Governor Tryon that Laurens described in his letter of this date to Rawlins Lowndes. Henry Laurens to Andrew Williamson Dear Colonel, 1st May 1778. The papers which I send inclosed with this have afforded much satisfaction in this part of America, I trust the whole Union will be as well pleased with them as we are. You may expect very soon after this reaches you to receive authen tic accounts that France has confirmed a Treaty with these States honourable & beneficial to us, & that particularly Spain & Prussia will follow France in the acknowledgement of our Sovereignty & Inde pendence. This will give us a moment of respite. The thousand things I have to do & the Thousand interruptions I am exposed to, allow me only time to add my Compliments to Mrs. Williamson & assur ances of continuing with very great Regard. LB (ScHi). Gouverneur Morris’ Draft Report on Instructions for the American Commissioners [May 1, 1778] 1 It is proposed to adopt the Motion from Connecticut 2 and then to pass the following Resolution, viz. Resolved. That a Letter be written to the Commrs. by the Committee of Correspondence inclosing the foregoing Resolutions & also the Report of the Committee upon the Genls. Letter containing the Draft of two Bills &ca. containing the Reasons for the said Report & Resolution 3 viz. That the Inhabitants of the united States having suffered greatly by the War become daily more desirous of terminating it. That the Resources of the States being greatly exhausted by their Exertions as well as by the many Disorders attendant upon Great Revolutions which are scarce conceivable by those who administer established Governments the Difficulty of prosecuting the War in creases in Proportion to its Continuance. That the Derangement of our Finances & the consequent Deprecia tion of our Currency render a Peace with G Britain not only eligible but necessary.


[Page 592]
560 May 1, 1778 And That the manifest Advantages which will arise from an Alli ance with the Greatest naval Power on Earth over and above those which Peace would in itself produce have prompted us to smoothe the Way to so desirable a Purpose. That the said Committee do further inform the said Commrs. That Congress conceive it to be the true Interest of America. To guarantee to the several European Powers their Possessions in the Islands the same being a Pledge in the Hand of this Continent for the Security of their Subjects in every Part of the World & also for the free Trade to those Islands. To give equal Privileges to all Persons fishing on their Shores Reserving to them the Determination of Disputes arising on that Subject between foreign Powers. open the Ports of America to the Ships of all Nations freighted with the Produce & Manufactures of the respective Countries they belong to except such as may shut their Ports to the Subjects of America, & To be at Peace with all the World & derive Accessions of Wealth & Subjects from the various Commotions of other States. That the said Committee do further inform the said Commrs. That Notwithstanding the Situation of this Country and its evident Interests Congress are determined faithfully to adhere to such Tieaties as may on their Part have been entered into consistent with the Instructions heretofore given or any of them. That if no Treaty is yet made by them they are to govern them selves according to Circumstances being assured that the British Force now in America is not adequate to the Purpose of subduing if and that if such Loans or Subsidies can be procured in Europe as to establish the Value of our Paper Emissions of Money there is no Doubt but that we can still continue the Conflict notwithstanding the Disadvantages before enumerated. Wherefore they shall propose & accede to such Terms within the Line of their former Instructions as shall upon the whole appear to them most conducive to the Interests of these united States & That if War should be declard against Britain by any of the greater Powers of Europe they are immediately to take Advantage of such favorable Circumstance and borrow all the Money in their Power in Holland & keep the same to answer the Drafts or other Orders of Congress. MS (NNC). In the hand of Gouverneur Morris. ' Morris apparently drafted this document as a result of his appointment this this day, with Richard Henry Lee and Roger Sherman, to a committee that was charged “to report proper instructions to be transmitted to the commissioners of the United States at foreign courts.” JCC, 10:414. For the circumstances leading to the appointment of this committee, which reflected the concerns of some delegates


[Page 594]
562 May 1, 1778 Nathaniel Scudder to Joseph Scudder My Dear Son, York Town May 1. 1778 As I suppose you are now at home with your Honored Daddy & Mama, I wish you to use every Endeavour to make them and your Brothers & Sisters comfortable and happy; and at the same Time to improve your Vacation in such a Way as will prove advantageous to your own Education, and honorable to you in Point of Behavior among your Friends & Acquaintances. Carefully avoid the Allurements of every Vice, and shun indus triously the Temptations of youth. Tread diligently in the Paths of Virtue, & strive above all to obtain, through the Merits of your Redeemer, the inestimable Blessings of true Godliness & undefiled Religion. A Scene is opening, my Dear Child, in this Country for the greatest imaginable Display of Talents and Education, and a Young Man with your Capacity, Abilities and Learning can’t fail under God, if he sets out right, of making a Figure in public Life on the great Stage of this new World. Indeed I cannot help contemplating my Sons as shining in future in some of the most splendid Departments of this mighty rising American Empire, the Glory of the western World— and greatly eclipsing their Father in every civil Accomplishment. This is surely in their Power, since they now may improve themselves designedly for this Purpose; whereas he from this amazing Change in human Affairs was unexpectedly & reluctantly, as well as unprepar edly and rapidly pushed from Stage to Stage to the most important Seat he now has the Honor to fill, and to which he finds himself Alas, but too unequal. But how will it ring my Heart, if by any false Step, if by any fatal vicious Indulgence these my fond Hopes shall be dis appointed? Then indeed will my grey Hairs descend with Sorrow, 8c perhaps a speedy Pace, to the Grave. O my Son, let it be your daily 8c nightly prayer to be delivered from every Evil & every Temptation, and to be prepared for the whole will & Pleasure of God your Creator, Preserver and constant Benefactor. Love 8c Respects to all, 8c am my Dear Son, your affectionate & Indulgent Father, Nathl Scudder RC (NjHi). Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, York Town May 1st. 1778 I arrived here the 24th of last month. I dont know of any thing very material that has passed in Congress Since Col. Dyer left it. Sev-


[Page 600]
568 May 2, 1778 Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, York Town 2 May 1778 I have wrote to you one Letter since that which you reed, by Brown. 1 I then told you that I was well, and by the Blessing of God I continue to injoy good Health. I have not heard from you, nor reed, any Letters from my Freinds since yours of the 6t of April. I expect that Mr. Adams will be here by the latter end of this Month. As soon as he comes I shall Return. Nothing Material has occurred since my last. It is said and it is probably true that Genl. Amherst, Admiral Keppell and Genl. Murray are Appointed to Negotiate upon the Plan proposed by Ld. North—and it is Reported that Ms Amherst and Keppel are Arrived at Philadelphia. There is no doubt but that Genl. Howe has or is going to England. My Opinion is that the Veiws of the British Administration are to delude and endeavour to divide Altho’ I do not perceive that any Attempts of this Kind have any Effect. A false forged Resolution of Congress has lately been pub lished both in Philadelphia and N York, setting forth an order to Genl. Washington to retain in his Army till the end of the War all Soldiers however inlisted or brot. into Service and this forged Resolu tion they take much Pain to spread in the Country. 2 We are too much uninformed as to European Affairs. But I trust that will not long be the Case. My own Situation here is comfortable—so that you will suffer no Concern on my Account. Take Care of your Health and Banish Care. Every Thing I trust will operate for the best. God who takes Care of and Protects Nations, will take Care of this People and give us still farther and greater Occasions to rejoice in his Goodness. My Love to my Children and Freinds. I am your’s, with the greatest Affection Oliver Wolcott P.S. Genl. Gates went yesterday to Head Quarters and from thence proceeds to Hudsons River. The Lottery began to draw yesterday in this Town, it will finish in four Weeks. I am not able to congratulate you upon any of the Familys having made their Fortune as yet, but I have or rather perhaps ought to Wish that it might be so, Altho I cannot say that I have much sensation in Regard to this Matter. How ever I wish that when Brown Returns you will inclose the Tickets. The small Prizes will be paid off in the several States, and perhaps those which are to be paid by Certificates. I beleive it will be so but this Matter is not yet settled. 3 RC (CtHi). . , ifhe last letter from Wolcott to his wife that messenger Jesse Brown carried from York to Connecticut is dated April 14, 1778. Since Brown’s departure from York on April 21 Wolcott had also written to Laura on April 25. 2 See Henry Laurens to George Washington, April 24, 1778, note 7. 3 For Congress’ May 2 resolves regarding the payment of lottery prizes, see JCC, 11:415-16.


[Page 601]
May 2, 1778 569 John Banister to Theodorick Bland, Jr. Dear Sir. 1 York 3d May 1778. By an Express, of yesterday, sent by the.board of War, I wrote Mr. Davis all the News preceding that date. 2 Before he got away a Mes senger arrived from France charged with the most important Papers from our Commissioners at Paris containing a Treaty of alliance, and a Treaty of alliance and Commerce, between the Court of France and America. By these Treaties our Independence is made a grand Object on the Part of the King of France who has with great liberality that he takes no advantage of the present Situation of the States, but has made the same Treaty with them as if they had been in the most flourishing Prosperity. The Treaty which was concluded & signed the 6th of Feby. guar antees to America all her Possessions in America, together with Bermudas. If England declares War against France or occasions a War by at tempts to obstruct her Commerce, we are to make common Cause with her & join her forces &: Councils. The States guarantee to France all her Possessions in America. Ext. of D. Franklin’s letter. 3 28 Feby. We have found the greatest cordiality in this Court and that no advantage has been taken of our difficulties to obtain hard Terms of us, but such has been the King’s magnanimity and good ness, that he has proposed none we might not have agreed to in a State of full Prosperity and established Power. The Principle laid down in the Plan of the Treaty, being as declared in the Preamble, “The most perfect equality &: Reciprocity,” the Priviledges in Trade are mutual, and none are given to France but what we are at Liberty to grant to any other Nation. When we mention the good Will of this Nation to our Cause we may add that of all Europe, which hav ing been offended by the Pride and Insolence of Britain wishes to see its Power diminished. The Preparations for war are carried on with immense Activity and it is very soon expected. When this last Event shall take Place, America will be in a Situation to prosecute the War with Ease to herself, but at present the utmost Exertions should be made in opposition to those of G. Britain, which will be thro Rage & disappointment as great as her utmost ability in Men & Resource will admit; and it would be happy if the People at large could be persuaded that one vigorous Effort would restore them to what they so ardently wish, a State of perfect Tranquility, which with established Independence. The present Treaties, Advantageous as they are, have no immediate operation on our military Conflict with G. Britain, but promises eventually assistance, by G. Britain’s being


[Page 602]
570 May 2, 1778 provoked to a declaration of War, or drawing on one by an Interrup tion of the Commerce of France. I am your affect. Friend &[...] J Banister. [P.S.] Let your Father & Mr. Davis have this News as soon as possible. I am in a low State of Health being [. . .] reduced since I saw you, by frequent Retu[rns of a] disorder in my Bowells, greatly aggravated] by the Limestone Water of this Place. RC (ViHi). 1 Theodorick Bland, the brother of Banister’s late wife Elizabeth, was undoubt edly the recipient of this letter, which was found among Bland’s papers in the early 19th century and printed in Theodorick Bland, The Bland Papers, ed. Charles Campbell, 2 vols. (Petersburg, Va.: Edmund 8c Julian C. Ruffin, 1840), 1:84-85. At this time Colonel Bland was in Virginia procuring horses and arms and recruiting men for the Continental cavalry. For General Washington’s instruc tions to Bland, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:28-29, 274-75, 339-40. 2 Not found. 3 The next four sentences were extracted from the American commissioners’ February 8, not 28, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, which is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:490-91. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, Sunday 3d May 1778 Yesterday evening arrived here Mr. Dean brother to Mr. Silas Dean, with the Treaty of Alliance 8c commerce Signed the 6th of February by our Deputies at Paris, 8c Monsr. Gerard commissionated for that purpose. This treaty is bottomed on principles of the most liberal, wise, 8c generous Policy; the only thing required of us, is the main- tainance of our Independance. If France should be involved in the war, 8c acquired at the treaty of peace any Islands in the West Indies, we are to guarantee the possession of those 8c their present Islands. It is not even required of us to continue the war (provided we make peace on the footing of independant States) even if France should be obliged to continue the war if She should be engaged in one in conse quence of this alliance formed with us. Our latest letters from our Deputies at Paris are of the 8th March. 1 They promise us immediate 8c considerable supplies of clothing, arms 8cc. It is not expected that the military stores already supplied us are to be paid for. The King of Prussia has prevented the German mer cenaries from coming over, so that G B will receive few or no soldiers from that quarter; her funds are fallen 10 per Cent. In short, by our Agent’s letters it appears that all the great Powers of Europe are favourably disposed towards us. I sincerely rejoice with you on this happy prospect of our affairs.


[Page 603]
May 2, 1778 571 Mr. Dean was brought over by a French frigate 8c landed in Canso Bay. I wrote to you 8c Molly by Mr. Digges. I shall write to you again by Tuesday post. My love to Molly, Mrs. Darnell 8c the little ones. God grant you a continuance of health. I am, Yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). 1 Actually February 28, a correction Carroll made in his letter to his father the next day. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson My Dear sir Yorktown Sunday morning, May 3d. 1778 On Yesterday afternoon arrived here from France, Mr. Simeon Dean (Brother to the Commissioner) with Despatches to Congress from our Commissioners, to the 28 February. On the 6th of February two Treaties were concluded and sign’d by Monsr. Jerard Plenepotentiary appointed by his most Christian Majesty on the 30th January preceding for that purpose, and by our Commissioners, B Franklin, S Deane, 8c A Lee Esqrs. The first is a Treaty of Amity ir Commerce on the plan proposed by Congress and almost in the words of it. The second is a Treaty of Alliance of Amity and Commerce. I cannot better inform you of the substance of these Treaties than in the words of the Commissioners. “If England de clares War against France, or occasions a War by attempts to hinder her Commerce, we shall then make a common Cause of it 8c join our Forces 8c our Councils. The grand aim of the Treaty is declared to be “establish the Liberty, Sovereignty and Independency, absolute and unlimited of the United States, as well in matters of Government as Commerce and this is guarranted to us by France together with all the Countries we possess, or shall possess at the conclusion of the war; in return for which the states Guarrantee to France all its pos sessions in America. We have found the greatest cordiality in this Court, and that no advantage has been taken of our present diffi culties to obtain hard terms from us, but such has been the Kings Magnanimity 8c Goodness, that he has proposed none which we might not readily have agreed to in a state of full prosperity and established power. The Principal laid down as the basis of the Treaty being as declared in the preamble “The most perfect Equality [and] Recepro- city; the priviledges in Trade 8cc. are mutual 8c none are given to France but what we are at liberty to grant to any other Nation.” By the Second Treaty France has renounced for ever possession to any part of the Continent lately or now in the possession of Great Britain, or acceded to her by the Treaty of Paris 8c to the Island of Bermuda.


[Page 604]
May 2, 1778 572 The account of General Burgoine’s defeat was received in Paris the beginning of Decemr. Our Commissioners immediately pressed for the Conclusion of the Treaty, and a Council was called the 12th in which it was decided to acknowledge and support our Independancy. Our Commissioners are of opinion “That the Treaty with France will certainly be followed by the whole house of Bourbon, and prob ably by Holland. The Preparations for war Continue daily, & France is determined to protect her Commerce with you.” The King of Prussia is well disposed towards you 8c on application prevented the Hesse & Hanau Troops from passing thro’ his Dominions 8c now waits the Measures of France. Very considerable supplies sailed from France in February under Convoy, and may be hourly expected. Mr. Carmichael is on board. I do most cordially and sincerely congratulate you on this most important Intelligence. America has now taken her rank among the Nations 8c has it in her power to secure her Liberty 8c Independance. Let us be grateful to our God for this singular unmerited iMark of his favour 8c protection and continue to exert every Means in our power to support the war; this can only be effectually done by speedy and liberal Loans of Money to the Continent and a respectable Army. Congress some time past recommended that subscriptions should be opened in each County. I am 8cc. Sami Chase Tr (MdAA). William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, York Town May 3d. 1778. I take this earliest opportunity to inform your excellency that a Messenger arrived here yesterday P.M. from France, with dispatches, containing among other Things a copy of the Treaties of Alliance and of Amity and Commerce entered into between the Court of France and our Commissioners; which will without doubt be ratified by Congress. The former hath the protection and support of the Independency of these States for its basis, and the latter is founded in perfect equal ity and reciprocity. If War should be commenced by Great Britain agst France it is to be made a common cause. The Independency of these States is to be supported. If any particular enterprize should be undertaken we are to join and act in concert. No truce to be made without the consent of each, unless our Inde pendency is absolutely acknowledged.


[Page 605]
May 3, 1778 573 France guarantees our Independency, and all we possess or shall possess at the conclusion of the war and we guarantee to France her Possessions in America. Admission of other Nations to equal advantages in Commerce. These are imperfect minutes of some of the principle heads of the treaties as I took them at the Table last evening while they were reading. Hereafter when the treaties shall be ratified copies of them will be transmitted to the several states. The Letters from the commissioners show a good disposition in the powers of Europe towards us. Prussia shows a disposition to share in our commerce; but will not open her ports to our privateers until the arrangement of Inde pendency shall be made. The Ambassador of the Duke of Tuscany hath given our commis sioner favorable expectations from his Court. Portugal will accede to the family compact. The House of Bourbon & all’ the powers of Europe will soon acknowledge our Independency. We are desired to forget any animosities we may formerly have enter tained against France, & to cultivate a friendship for her. These minutes were made as the other and must of course be very imperfect also. The Treaties of Alliance &c were signed the 6th of February; and display a spirit of magnanimity and a soundness of policy scarcely to be parallelled. Instead of pursuing that narrow policy which regards only the present moment and present Interest, and nobly disdaining to take an advantage of our situation, France hath, with but a small variation, acceded to our own proposals, thereby doubtless intending to bind us to them by the indissoluble Ties of affection & Gratitude. It is reported that Genl. Amherst and Admiral Keppel are arrived at Philadelphia; but by an officer whom I saw this morning, and who came directly from Camp it seems to be only a report. Commissioners are daily expected from Britain with proposals for a reconciliation. Congress will abide by their Independency at all events, and I have no doubt but that it will be acknowledged this Campaign even by Britain herself, provided we bring into the field, a respectable Army. She is reduced to the greatest straits. From Germany She cannot col lect recruits for their stipulated Troops, From her own Island but few can be drawn. Her credit is sunk in Holland, and her Stocks are fallen. France hath a large body of troops in Normandy and Bretagne, her Navy in good preparation and is determined to protect her com merce to America. She waits only for Britain to strike the first blow. Rather than do this it is my humble opinion that if our people will but step forth this campaign as I have said before She will acknowl edge our Independency, and be contented with that part of our com merce which it may suit us to give her.


[Page 609]
May 3, 1778 577 POSTSCRIPT to the Pennsylvania Gazette of May 2, 1778 i Printed by Hall and Sellers. Y O R K - t O W N, May 4. On Saturday laji SIMEON DEANE, Efq; arrived at Con- grefs, exprefa from the American Plenipotentiaries at the Court Of France, an A delivered bit Difpatcbes to hrrft*- ariiat&tbe I'rejidenl. The important Contents are, tc a Correfpondent, thus communicated. HE news of the defeat and captivity of General Burgoyne were received in France the beginning of December, with as much joy as if a victory by thetr own troops had been announced. Our Plenipoten tiaries took this opportunity again to attrad the attention of the Court of France to the objed of their negotiation. On the j6tb, Monfieur Girard, R-<yal Syndic of Straf- burgh, and Secretary of his Majefty’s Council of State, waited upon our Plenipotentiaries, and informed them, by order of the King, ' ‘ That after long and full confidcr- ation of our affairs and proportions in Council, it was de cided, and his Majefty was determined to acknowledge our Independence, and make a Treaty with us of Amity and Commerce. That in tins treaty, no advantage would be taken of our prefent fittialion to obtain terms from us, which otherwife would not be convenient for us to agree to, his Majefty defiring that the treaty, once made, fhould be durable, and our amity fubfilt for ever, which could not be exptded, if each nation did not find its In- tereft in the continuance as well as in the commencement of it. It was therefore his intention, that the terms of the treaty fhould be fuch, as we might be willing to agree to if our ftatc had been long cftabTilhed, and in the ful- nefs of ftrength and power, and fuch as we fhould ap prove of when that time Ihould come. That his Majefty was fixed in his determination, not only to acknowledge, but to fupport our Independence by every means in his power. That in doing this, he might prooably be foon Sed in war, with all the expences, rifque and damage y attending it; yet he Ihould not exped any com- penfation from us on that account, nor pretend that he aded wholly for our fakes, lince, befides his real good will to us and our caufe, it was manifcftly the intcreft of France, that the power of England ihould be diminlfhed by our reparation from it. He fhould, moreover, not fo much as infift, that, if he engaged in the war with En gland on our account, we Ihould not make a feparate peace for ourfelves, whenever good and advantageous terms were offered to us. The only condition he fhould require and rely on would be this, that nue, in no peace to be made vsith England, fboidd give up our Independence, and return to the obedience of that government.” That upon thefe principles, by virtue of full powers by the King of France to Monfieur Girard, Royal Syndic of the City of Strafburgh, and Secretary of nis Majefty’s Council of State, dated the 30th of January, 1778, this Mtnifter, with our Plenipotentiaries, figned at Paris, on bhe 6th of February, a Treaty of Alliance and Commerce l>etween the Crown of France and the United States of America, almoft in the very terms in which the American Plenipotentiaries had been inftruded by Congrcfs. In the Treaty of Alliance, the following articles are con- fpicuous. “ Article I. If war Ihould break out between France and Great-Britain, during the continuance of the prefent war between the United States and England, his Majefty and the United States Ihall make it a common caufe, and aid each other mutually with their good offices, their councils, .and their forces, according to the exigence of conjunctures, as becomes good and faithful allies.” “ Article II. The effcntial and direft end of the pre fent defenfive alliance is, to maintain effedually the Liber ty, Sovereignty and Independence, abfolute and unlimited, of the faid United States, as well in matters of government as of commerce.” “ Article VI. The Moft Chriftian King renounces for ever the poffeffion of the Ifland of Bermuda, at well at of any part of the continent of North-America, which before the treaty of Paris in 1763, or in virtue ot that treaty, were acknowledged to belong to the Crown of Grcat-Britain, or to the United States, heretofore called Britilh Colonies, or which are at thidime, or have lately be-n, under the power of the King and Crown of Great- Britain.” The Treaty of Commerce ftands upon the broad balls of equality; and, confidering the eftablifbed great power of France, and the infancy of the United States, is an ad without parallel. In a word, the fentiments deli vered on the r6th of December by Mouf. Girard, by or- ? der of the King of France, are Icntiinents rarely enter-* tained by Princes, and which, together with thefe equal treaties, muft rank him, not only among the greateft Mo narchs of France, hut in hiftory. The Independence of America is a favourite objed with all thofe powers of Europe, who entertain commercial views.—With refptd to the acknowledgment of our In dependence, they have waited the example of France, and will now be determined in our favour by her coodud. ' The Emperor, Spain and Pruffia-are determined to fup port us. On the 6th of November laft the Pruffian Milli ner wrote in the following fjerms to one of our Plenipo tentiaries, “ As to the rr«cforcements of troops which Great-Britain may receive worn other powers of Europe ' for the next campaign, I can allure you, Sir, that your Nation has aothing to fear from Ruffia or Denmark; and i that even Germany will not furnilh but fome hundred men which the Duke of Brunfwick, the Landgrave of Heffe, and the Margrave of Anfpach, in conformity to their treaties, cannot but fend annually, to recruit the troops which thofe Princes hold in America in the pay of England. It is with fincere fatisfadion that 1 give you this agreeable information.”—The King of Pruffia would not allow the troops of Heffe and Hanau, in Britilh pay, to pafs through his dominions,—he has promifed to bc^ the fecond Power in Europe to acknowledge the Inde pendence of America. The American prifoners In England were treated with fuch inhumanity, as induced our Plenipotentiaries to write to Lord North on the ftihjed; and to employ a » gentleman of rank in London to relieve their diftrefles. The Britilh government thereupon relaxed their feveri- ties. The friends of America in London called a meet ing on the 24th of December, 1777, to colled fubferip- tions for the relief of American prifoners, and on the 5th of January they colleded £ 4677: 6 ; 6 fterling for that purpofe. Among the fubferibers Band the names of Marquis of Rockingham, Marquis of Granby, Earl Shelburne, Earl Abingdon, Lord Chohnonddy, Vifeount Middleton, Vifcountefs Middleton, Sir George Saville, Hon. Thomas Townfliend, Hon. Thomas Townfhend, junior, Hon. Thomas Walpole, befides many Aldermen and Gentlemen of the firft diftindicn. Onr Plenipoten tiaries affure us that Britain, failing in this campaign, cannot poffibly make another in America, fo low are her finances reduced, fo ruined is her credit abroad, and fo difficult is it for her to procure men at home. That the greateft preparations of war were making in all parts of France. That near 50,000 French troops were adnally marched into Normandy and Brittany; and that the navy of France and Spain now confifted of 170 fail ready for « fea. ' Thefe important advices were brought over in Le Sen- fible, Monl. Marignie, Commander, a Royal Frigate of France, of 28 twelve-pounders and 300 men. She left Breft on the 8th of March, and after a paffage of 15 days arrived at Cafco-Bay, from whence Ihe failed on he r return, after two days ftay to take in water. Franco-American Treaties of Alliance and Commerce


[Page 611]
May 3, 1778 579 lishing this broadside. See Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr., May 4; and Laurens’ letters to William Smith and to Washington, May 5, 1778. 'The secret article dealt with the contingency of Spain’s accession to the Franco- American alliance. JCC, 11:454-55. ’ Laurens noted in his private letter book that on May 4 he wrote Gervais “A short Letter recommending Mr. Curson.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. The letter itself has not been found. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear General 3d May 1778. The arrival of Mr. Simeon Deane at York Town & the Intelligence which he imported were circumstances more agreeable than an ac count of landing even the Manchester Volunteers would have been. The Act of Congress of the 22d April Subjoined to Lord North's Letter &c shews the firmness of the people on this Side 8c will mark out a new departure for the British Commissioners arrive when they may. If France shall succeed in her vision of seperating America from Great Britain without involving herself in a Long War & ’tis possible by the aid of Allies she may do so, the stroke of politics will blaze in history. Inclosed Sir you will find a compilation of the Intelligence we have received, tis possible I mean probable the treaty will be ratified in a few days. The Inclosed paper will answer your enquiry con cerning the frigate. I have the honour to be 1 LB (ScHi). 1 This day Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Joseph Kershaw of Camden, S.C., acknowledging receipt of a letter from Kershaw “concerning the Robberies which the Waggoner is said to have committed on Baron de Kalbs Trunks.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 3d May 1778 I had the honour of addressing a few apologetic lines to Your Excellency the 27th April & was exceedingly mortified when I learned that Monsieur Your Excellency’s Valet had left York without my knowledge. I should certainly have repeated my respects by his hand. Let me at the same time confess I had not intended to have troubled Your Excellency this Morning, if I had not been called upon by the pleasure of forwarding with all possible dispatch four Letters received


[Page 612]
580 May 3, 1778 at 10 oClock last Night from France. The largest of these appears to have been made free with on the Road but whether the fact be so or not is uncertain, all the Letters having been carelessly sent 400 Miles on Horse back in a Canvas Bag were much rubb’d & some of them without Covers, the Letter I allude to was nearly in that condi tion when I joined the fractured parts by a bit of Wax. I have before me Your Excellencys favor of the 26th April, 1 to which I must particularly reply & in such manner as I trust will be satisfactory to Your Excellency. ’Tis true I had not quite forgot the Money which I had the honour of advancing & for a reason of some weight, my shattered fortunes will keep me in remembrance of events which in these hard days are important. But no anxiety dwelt in my breast concerning the time or the manner in which a reimbursement was to be made. Let these be as shall be most convenient to your self in Bills of Exchange or simple paper Dollars. I neither take nor attempt advantages of this nature when I advanced the Money we are speaking of, it was done as a convenience to the Marquis delafayette to whom as an American I hold myself indebted for all the conveniences & all the services, & all the respects & devoirs & more than all, in my power. Hence Dear Marquis order the Money to be repaid as you please, but yet I wish to be near Your Excellency for half an hour on this same Money score, which is not so well understood by every Man at one Age as at another & there are in the World who deem it legal prize to convert a little of the Cash of a Rich Young Nobleman to their own use. Hints of this kind are better to be known than talked of & I know my Dear Sir you will receive this as it is intended. Your Excellency’s Accounts for Money advanced for public service are so exceedingly clever as to convince me they are not the operation of a person who had seen above seven years transaction in a Mer chants Counting House, in a word I do not know what to make of them but I will catch half an hour one day this Week & attempt some arrangement. 1 Our Courier from France left that Kingdom the Sth March, he says every face & every thing from Paris to Brest indicated an’im mediate War with England. If your Excellency learns from the dispatches which I have now the honor of transmitting any thing more Interesting than the signing of Treaties of Alliance & Commerce at Versailles between that Court & the United States of America a communication of such intimations as are proper will be extremely acceptable. There is somewhere afloat between France & this Country a squad ron of 4 64, 4 28 Gun ships & several Armed American Vessels con voying divers ships laden with Clothing, Warlike Stores &ca &ca for


[Page 613]
May 3, 1778 581 American service. I hope we shall soon hear of their arrival at Boston or Portsmouth. Permit me Noble Marquis to repeat that I continue to be with the highest Esteem & Regard LB (ScHi). 1 Lafayette’s letter is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:39. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 3d May 1778. An hour after I had dispatched my trouble of this Mornings date by McClosky I was honoured with both your favors of the 1st Inst. 1 Your Excellency will perceive from the former Epistle as well as by the inclosed compilation which I have taken some pains to pro cure, that I am not quite unfeeling to the good News from the other side the Atlantic. Let other people fire feu de joy, 2 I rejoice as heartily as any of them 8c drudge on, here have I been sitting from sun rise this Morn ing till now past 11 oClock at Night, except when Miss Kitty came in about half an hour ago, I rose to tell her she was very pretty 8c to give the best assurance in my power of my sincerity. Dear Marquis your Trunks 8c every of your Commands are welcome to me, but I have not seen your Trunks. Monsieur Francy asked me some questions to day about Bills of Exchange which he is to receive from Marquis delafayette. I could only say “whatever you promised 8c engaged to do, comply with, there is no danger in this mode of proceeding.” He was not very explicit 8c I could not form opinions without knowing both sides of the question. Dear Sir I must beg leave to wish your Excellency good Night, Major Brice has promised to call on me very early 8c to be in Camp tomorrow Night, if he does not appear at 6 oClock I’ll send for him. If these papers are good for any thing the sooner they get to the Army 8c into the Enemy’s Army too, the better. I have the honour to be [P.S.] What would your Excellency have me to do respecting Monsr. Capitaine, he intimates that he is going on some surveying 8c Engi neering work on the Susquehana. LB (ScHi). 1 Lafayette’s May 1 letters to Laurens are in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:40-43. a In one of the May 1 letters cited above, Lafayette had expressed the wish that “a grand, noisy feu de joy will be ordered” to celebrate the French alliance. Ibid.,


[Page 615]
May 3, 1778 583 Henry Laurens to John Laurens York Town, 3 May 1778 very near the 4th. From 5 A.M. to 12 Mid N. makes 19 hours—deduct i/ 2 at Breakfast. 1 at dinner—H/ 2 or 2 visits—16 hours writing would My Dear sir. make some younger people weary. I writ to you this Morning by McKlosky, being of opinion that a general Account tolerably well digested of our recent intelligence from France would be acceptable & might be made useful. 1 intreated Mr Drayton to compile for me the inclosed. If it be in earnest the French will consent to our making an advantageous Peace with Britain, that Court has no wish to go to War & will not, but in the last necessity, should she succeed in this coup de politique—seperated America from Great Britain, humbled the latter, extended her own commerce at the expence of their folly & keep the King’s Peace too, History will say Lewis 16th played his Cards with Judgement—a mid night part of my [dull?] imagination. Adieu My Dear Son, Henry Laurens [P.S.] Now to Bed. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). Henry Laurens to William Lux Si r> i 3d May 1778. I thank you for your favor of the It Inst, which came to me in Congress late last Night by Mr. Hanson to whom I have ordered Ten pounds to be paid for his services. You will be soon fully informed of the Treaties of Alliance & Com merce between the Court of Versailles & the United States of America. Copy a Letter which I here inclose will in the mean time give the great outlines. 2 I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Wm. Lux Esquire, Baltimore.” 1 William Lux, the Continental prize agent in Maryland, died only a week after this letter was written. See ]CC, 4:301; and Pennsylvania Packet and General Advertiser, May 23, 1778. 2 The enclosure was a copy of the February 8 letter from the commissioners at Paris to Laurens announcing the conclusion of the Franco-American treaties of alliance and commerce. Lux had that letter as well as the last paragraph of Laur ens’ letter printed as a broadside in Baltimore on May 4. Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 16111.


[Page 616]
584 May 3, 1778 Henry Laurens to Baron Steuben Dear sir, York Town, 3 May 1778 I take the liberty of Inclosing an Abstract of the recent Intelligence from France. If Louis 16th should succeed in humbling the Power of an haughty Enemy, extend his own Commerce, establish a New World & spill none or but little Blood, his Name will pass through posterity to the end of history—the freind of Mankind. I have the honor to be, With very great Regard, Sir, Your Excel lency’s Obedient humble servt. Henry Laurens RC (NHi). Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir. York Town 3d May 1778. My last trouble to Your Excellency was dated the 30th Ulto. by Ross. The present will cover an Act of that date for ascertaining the Rank & Pay annexed to Brevet Commissions. Whether this is, or is not intended to have a retrospective effect, I think is not clearly ex pressed by the Letter, 8c as I apprehend such operation may in many Instances give Umbrage I shall embrace the first proper opportunity for obtaining an explanation of the Act or information to my own understanding. 1 I dispatch this Messenger principally to inform Your Excellency of an event the knowledge of which may nevertheless very probably have reached Camp before this can arrive there, as our Messenger from France Mr. Simeon Dean had spoken every where on his Journey to York of the Treaties between the Court of Versailles Sc the United States of America which were executed on the 6th of February 1778. These were read in Congress late last Evening 8c will probably be ratified 8c published in the course of the present Week, except a Secret Article which it is also probable is very well known abroad. Be this as it may I view the Treaties of Alliance 8c Commerce, although not free from exception, as circumstances of advantage to these United States 8c which afford a bottom for vast improvements. I beg leave therefore to congratulate with Your Excellency Sc with every friend to the great American Cause. I shall move Congress tomorrow to order duplicates of the Treaties to be immediately transmitted to Your Excellency. In the mean time this of a Letter from Doctor Franklin 8c Mr. Deane which will go enclosed will communicate the great outlines.


[Page 617]
May 3, 1778 585 I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your obliged & obedt. servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (DLC). 1 See JCC, 10:410. Washington expressed no concern about possible ambiguities in this “Act” in his May 12 response to Laurens’ letter. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:379-81. See also ibid., pp. 477-78. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 3d May 1778 Soon after I had dispatched my Letter of this Morning by Mc- Klosky, the Secretary sent in the Inclosed Act of Congress dated 2d Inst, for raising two Regiments for the protection of the Western frontier & for authorizing your Excellency to appoint a proper Offi cer to the Command of Fort Pitt. A Copy of the Letter mentioned in this Act will also be inclosed. 1 I likewise transmit about 100 Copies of an abstract account of intelligence lately received from France which I have by the aid of Mr. Cheif’Justice Drayton had printed to day from an opinion that such an account will be acceptable in the Army, &: not unuseful in the City. I have requested Major Brice who is so obliging as to take the charge of these to receive from Mr. Bailey printer at Lancaster 500 Copies of the Address to foreign Officers & Soldiers printed in the German Tongue which he has promised to deliver to Your Excel lency. I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem and Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & Most humble servant. Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (DLC). 1 See JCC, 11:416-17; and Laurens to the Commissioners at Fort Pitt, April 9, 1778, note 1. Laurens also sent copies of the May 2 resolves on western frontier defense and a May 1 resolve on exemptions from militia service to President Thomas Wharton of Pennsylvania on May 4 and to Gov. Patrick Henry of Vir ginia on May 5. See PCC, item 13, fols. 293—94; and JCC, 10:412. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir York 3d. May 1778 Having detained the Express that he might carry you the news that we heard was on its way from France, I am furnished with an oppor tunity of congratulating you on the important event of a Treaty of


[Page 624]
592 May 3, 1778 of amity and commerce. That in this treaty no advantage would be taken of our present situation to obtain terms from us which other wise would not be convenient for us to agree to, his Majesty desiring that the treaty once made should be durable, and our amity subsist for ever, which could not be expected if each nation did not find its interest in the continuance, as well as in the commencement of it. It was therefore his intention that the terms of the treaty should be such as we might be willing to agree to, if our state had been long since established, and in the fulness of strength and power, and such as we shall approve of when this time shall come. That his majesty was fixed in his determination not only to acknowledge but to sup port our independence by every means in his power. That in doing this he might probably be soon engaged in war, yet he should not expect any compensation from us on that account, nor pretend that he acted wholly for our sakes, since beside his real good will for us and our cause, it was manifestly the interest of France that the power of England should be diminished by our separation from it. The only condition he should require and rely on would be this. That we in no peace to be made with England should give up our Independance, and return to the obedience of that Government.” Thus our Commissioners. The treaty is such as might be expected from such established principles. And we may be assured of as deter mined a spirit in other courts. It now only remains with ourselves to act with spirit. Tr (PHarH). Author and recipient established from transcriber’s note and internal evidence. Transcribed under the heading “Copy of a letter from York Town May 3d. 1778” and followed by the note “Indorsed as from Jona B Smith.” 1 This letter from the commissioners at Paris has not been found. Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry S* r > . York, 3d May 1778. Having heared that a Messenger from France was on his way to Congress with important dispatches, we detained the Express who otherwise would have set out yesterday that we might furnish your Excellency with the intelligence he brought. It is with singular pleas ure we inform you Sir that this Messenger has brought to Congress authenticated copies of a Treaty of Commerce, and a Treaty of Amity and Alliance signed at Paris on the 6th of February last between France and these United States, and we understand there is abundant reason to suppose that the whole Bourbon family will immediately acceed thereto. The Treaty of Commerce is exactly con formable to our own proposals, and it is upon the most generous and


[Page 634]
602 May 5, 1778 John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir. York Town Api. [i.e. May] 5th. 1778. I acquainted you in my former Letter that the Delegates had ob tained from Congress the loan of one hundred thousand Dollars. I expected when I wrote you, that I would have been able to have sent you the Money in a day or two, 1 but the great Demands on the Treasury has prevented me. In the course of this Week you may ex pect the whole or at least some part of it. Congress yesterday ratified the Treaties of Alliance and Commerce between France and these states. You will soon have a Copy sent to the state. Mr. Chase writes you fully upon this subject. I am Sir with great respect yrs, J Henry Junr. RC (MdAA). Addressed: “His Excellency Thomas Johnson Esquire, Governor of Maryland.” Endorsed by Henry: "To be opened by the Council in the absence of the Governor.” 1 See Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Thomas Johnson, April 27, 1778, note. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, 5th May [1778] Permit me to refer your Excellency to my last Letter of the 27th Ulto. by Barry. This will cover an Act of Congress of the 1st Inst. Recommending an exemption from Militia Duty such persons as are employed in manufacturing Military Stores &ca for the use of the United States. 1 No account yet of the arrival of the expected British Commission ers. Lord Carlisle, Mr. Pultney 8c Lord Westcote had among others been nominated. The Treaty of the 6th Febry. must have given a new momentum to British Councils 8c measures. I have the honour to be P.S. Congress this day Ratified the Treaties of Paris—of the 6 Febry, & an accot. by authority will speedily be published. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See JCC, 10:412. Laurens also enclosed copies of this act with b.icf covering letters that he wrote to Govs. William Livingston of New Jersey on May 4 and Thomas Johnson of Maryland on May 5. See PCC, item 13, fol. 293; and Red Books, MdAA. 2 Congress resolved to ratify the treaties of alliance and commerce with France on May 4 but did not approve the formal instrument of ratification until the fifth JCC, 11:457-58, 462-63.


[Page 635]
May 5, 1778 603 Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Dear Marquis 5 May 1778 Permit me to refer your Excellency to what I writ the 3d by Major Brice. Mr. Chief Justice Drayton will do me the honor to deliver this. Will you do me the Honor Sir, to be acquainted with this Gentleman. He is Learned, sensible 8c strongly attached to the Interests of Amer ica, consequently loves all her friends. This is the Gentleman who from the Bench had the Wisdom 8c fortitude to Indict the King 8c Parliament of Great Britain for invad ing the Rights 8c Liberties of these States. 1 Congress this day Ratified the Treaties of Paris of the 6th Febry. 8c very speedily an account will be published by authority. I have the honor to be with the highest Esteem 8c Regard 2 LB (ScHi). 1 See William Henry Drayton, A Charge, on the Rise of the American Empire, delivered by the Hon. William-Henry Drayton, Esq.; Chief-Justice of South-Caro lina: to the Grand Jury for the District of Charlestown (Charleston: David Bruce, 1776). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 14741. 2 Laurens also wrote a letter this day to Matthew Troy of Salisbury, N.C., thank ing Troy for the help he had given to Michel Capitaine du Chesnoy, a French officer who had fallen ill in North Carolina shortly after arriving in America with Lafayette in the summer of 1777. Laurens Papers, ScHi. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son, 5 May 1778. Let me again intreat you to Interest your self in getting my Chariot from Bringhurst, but I do not mean as much as I want it, to urge you to accomplish the end by irregular unlawful means, I know you will not practice such for Elijate’s Chariot—all I mean is to keep the sub ject in your mind. Mr. Chief Justice Drayton will tell you everything that is going forward here, I request you to wait upon him to the General, intro duce him in the Character of Chief Justice of So Carolina, a Delegate in Congress from that State, 8c my friend Sc do me the honor to devote all the time you can spare to his service Sc conversation. Remember he is the Man who upon the Bench had the Wisdom 8c fortitude to Indict the King Sc Parliament of Great Britain for attempting to bind America in all Cases whatsoever 8c Rob her of her Rights Sc privileges. God bless you. I am with an affection which by every Act I en deavor to prove your faithful friend.


[Page 639]
May 5, 1778 607 cile 8c even sweeten the most untoward circumstances which happen in ones journey through it. I apprehend it would break in upon Your Excellency’s time, otherwise I would have troubled you with Mr. Izard’s Letter not merely for information but from a hope that some thing might be devised for promoting Concord between our friends yonder, or the Public good, by a Wise seperation, but I will not dwell upon this subject. Last Night I had the honor of receiving Your Excellency’s favor of the last of April & am happy in finding a confirmation of my senti ments respecting persons proper for treating with the expected depu tation from our Adversary. 3 I fear the determination, where only this point can be determined, will be contrary. Be it so, thank God we have here some Men of abilities 8c Integrity, I hope we shall make a judicious choice. The Act of Congress of the 22d April will blot out Pages of the British Instructions, the Commissioners from that side will perceive a necessity for taking a new departure from the Tower of Indepen dence 8c what happened in France on the 6th February will oblige them to shape a new course. From the absence of the Commissioners I presume they had not sailed from England at the 10th March. It may have been found expedient at St. James’s to vest them with more ample Powers, if they meant to come, than were originally intended, 8c under new sanctions of Parliament—a work of slow progress. The People would have much to say—that the Nation were more than a little agitated appears from a Letter which I take the liberty of in closing for Your Excellency’s perusal. I have likewise a Letter from the Mercantile line in London which proves to me the people in gen eral had very sensibly felt the weight of the War, were ardently desirous of Peace 8c anxious lest Congress should reject the intended propositions. The long 8c as I humbly think, unnecessary, delay of the Army arrangement is very affecting, I know it must give extreme pain to Your Excellency—it is improper for me to touch upon the causes, especially when it is so well known that Congress have been engaged in very much important business. The Plan introduced for that part of it which is intended to establish an half Pay for Officers during Life, I have been uniformly averse from, & in a Committee of Con gress delivered my objections, these appear to me at this moment of more weight because they have not been removed by the reasonings which have been offered against them 8c I may without vanity think my self not obstinate. I am open to convertion 8c always without murmuring submit to a Majority. I view the scheme as altogether unjust 8c unconstitutional in its nature 8c full of dangerous consequences. Tis an unhappy dilemma to which we seem to be reduced—provide for your Officers in terms die-


[Page 640]
608 May 5, 1778 tated to you or lose all the valuable Soldiers among them—establish a Pension for Officers, make them a seperate Body to be provided for by the honest Yeomanry & others of their fellow Citizens many thousands of whom have equal claims upon every ground of Loss of Estate, health &c &c & lose your Army & your Cause. That such pro vision will be against the grain of the People has been unwarily testi fied by its Advocates whom I have heard converse upon the subject; indeed they have furnished strong ground for opposition against an immediate compliance with the demand. If we cannot make Justice one of the Pillars, Necessity may be sub mitted to at present, but Republicans will at a proper time withdraw a Grant which shall appear to have been extorted. Were I in private conversation with an Officer on this point I should not despair of fairly balancing every greivance he might sup pose to be peculiar to the Army, by instances of losses & inconveni ences in my own property & person—and I count myself very very happy compared with thousands who have as faithfully adhered to our original Compact. ’Tis said Gentlemen did not think the War would have continued so long, forgive me Sir, a ludicrous remark which I made early in our Contest, indeed in England before the commencement of Contest. “I know my Countrymen are good for the Quarter but I have doubts of their going the Course.” There is a certain versatility habitual if not almost constitutional in Men born south of 38 Degrees of Latitude in these States—circumstances which have occured in the process of this War have given strength to my observation, there are within that division of America not only objects inviting, but tempta tions almost irresistable, to Change—to say nothing of the general train of Education; hence tis easy to account for resignation of a Commission which had been anxiously solicited by scores. The want of something is made an excuse & even sometimes by worthy Charac ters who do not Suspect themselves. Would to God Gentlemen had followed the Noble Patriotic exam ple of their Commander in Chief, a Plan which reflection will shew them in a shade of disgrace would never have found a place in their minds. How superior are many of the Gentlemen now in my con templation, for I know many with whom I don’t converse, to the acceptance of an half pay, contributed to by Widows & Orphans of Soldiers who had bled & died by their sides, shackled with a condi tion of being excluded from the Privilege of serving in Offices in com mon with their fellow Citizens, bated in every House of Assembly as the Drones & incumbrances of Society, pointed at by Boys & Girls— there goes a Man who robs me every Year of part of my pittance. I think Sir I do not overstrain—this will be the Language of Repub licans—how pungent when applied to Gentlemen who shall have


[Page 645]
May 6, 1778 613 circumstance had not been intimated in the public Letter from our Commissioners, but I rely on my authority. Mr. Izard writes to me the 16th Febry.—"the King of Prussia has given the most explicit 8c unequivocal assurance that he will be the second power in Europe to declare the Independence of America.” Congress have Ratified the Treaty or Treaties 8c a Committee have prepared Somewhat for public information by authority in which many, probably all, of the articles relative to Commerce 8c for regu lating Marine conduct will be included. I think myself happy in being entirely of opinion with your Excel lency respecting Independence 8c the half pay scheme. 2 This last business lags exceedingly, I beleive we wait for auxiliaries. I have no objection against Liberal acknowledgments of the services of Officers 8c Soldiers, any thing that will not strike at our Constitution, but if we can’t make Justice one of the Pillars necessity will prove a temporary support. We may submit to it at present, Republicans will at a proper time withdraw a Grant which shall appear to have been extorted. This 8c the natural consequences, I dread. When the Account of the Treaties of the 6th Febry had reached White Hall Administration were perplexed, they were stunned. I have a Letter which may be trusted, informing me that Lord Mans field in tears applied to Lord Camden as a good Man, to interpose for the salvation of the Kingdom, his Lordship alluded to his re peated predictions which had been treated with Contempt 8c in timated his fears that the Door was shut. Another Letter which I have received from the Mercantile Line convinces me the weight of the War lay heavy, that the whole Nation were violently agitated. My influence is even asked to prevail upon America to accept the terms intended to be proposed, meaning the Conciliatory Bills. I do not know that I have a spark of Influence, if I had much, the whole should be thrown into the opposite Scale. From the continued absence of the expected Commissioners ’tis probable new measures were to be projected & parliamentary sanc tion obtained. I remember something of Doctor Franklin’s having proposed to a certain King a plan for reducing a great Empire to a Small King dom, 3 the Inclosed Evening post contrasts to Alfred the Great a cer tain Emperor of a floating Island. Having a spare Constitution of the State of South Carolina I send it for your Excellency’s amusement. I wont forget to enquire tomorrow concerning the Money for the light Horse, 4 I am sensible that in numberless Instances we improve our Talents in the same degree of loss. The mismanagement of our finances I often lament, our Children will feel the effects. &c 8cc omitted Copying.


[Page 646]
614 May 6, 1778 LB (ScHi). 1 There is a transcript o£ Governor Livingston’s April 27 letter to Laurens in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 Livingston had praised Congress’ April 22 reply to Lord North’s conciliatory proposals and criticized the projected half-pay plan for military officers, observing of the latter: “It is a very pernicious Precedent in republican States, will load us with an immense debt and would render the Pensioners themselves in great measure useless to their Country.” Ibid. 3 See “Rules by Which a Great Empire May Be Reduced to a Small One,” Benjamin Franklin’s 1773 satire on British colonial policy, in Benjamin Franklin, The Papers of Benjamin Franklin, ed. Leonard W. Labaree et al. (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1959—), 20:389-99. ‘See also Laurens to Washington, April 28, 1778, note 1. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 6th May 1778 My last was under the 3d Inst, by Major Brice, 1 since which I have had the honor of presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s several favors of the 30th Ulto., 1st, 3d & 4th Inst. 2 The present will cover the undermention’d Papers. 1. An Act of Congress of the 2d Inst, for the Protection of the Western frontier—amended. 3 2. of the 5th for establishing a Plan of a well organized Inspector ship. 4 3. A Letter from Lt. Colo. Sutherland of the 47th British of the 11th April accompanied by a State of this Gentleman’s health by Doctr. Weir. 4. A Letter of the 15th April from Major Agnew of the 24th & Lieutt. Poe of the 47th—also a State of the health of these Gentlemen respectively by Doctor Weir. 5. Copy of a Letter from the Honorable James Duane Esqr. dated Albany the 24th April. 6. A Commission appointing the Honorable Baron Stiiben Inspec tor General with the Rank of Major General.® The Cases of the British Officers are submitted by Congress to Your Excellency referring to a Resolve of the 3d March. 6 I received only verbal directions on this head & that not very explicitly, if I under stand right Congress mean that an Exchange should be attempted with Sir William Howe being willing to gratify Colo. Sutherland &: the other Gentlemen upon equitable terms. I have the honor to be, With the greatest Respect, Sir, Your Ex cellency’s Most Obedient humble servt. Henry Laurens, Presidt. of Congress [P.S.] The bearer of this is charged with a Packet containing 500 blank Oaths.


[Page 647]
May 6, 1778 615 RC (DLC). LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Laurens is referring to his last official letter to Washington. He had also writ ten privately to him on May 5. “These letters are in PCC, item 152, 5:535-42, 6:1-9, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:328-33, 343-44, 348. “See JCC, 11:416-17; and Laurens to the Commissioners at Fort Pitt, April 9, 1778, note 1. * This act merely confirmed the plan for the inspectorship of the army that Washington had proposed in his April 30 letter to Laurens. JCC, 11:465-66. 6 Immediately preceding this paragraph in the LB Laurens first wrote and then deleted: “The Commission for Baron Stiiben shall be transmitted to your Excel lency when returned from the Board of War where it is to be entered.” See JCC, 11:465, for the May 5 resolve appointing Steuben inspector general of the army. “See JCC, 10:219. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir York the 6th of May 1778 The unfortunate cause which hath prevented me from attending to your last favor sooner, 1 will, I hope, be my excuse. The long sickness and death of my much loved brother of Belleview, has for some time past confined me in Virginia, and removed every other consideration from my mind. I now embrace the first good oppor tunity of sending you the pamphlet of forgeries that I formerly mentioned. 2 Tis among the pitiful arts of our enemies to endeavor at sowing dissention among the friends of liberty and their country. With me, such tricks can never prevail. Give me leave dear Sir to congratulate you on the happy event of our Treaty with France being so effectually concluded—Congress has ratified on their part and ordered the ratification to be delivered in due form. This will be announced to the public immediately. The counsels of France have been governed in this affair by true magnanimity and sound policy. It was magnanimous in his most Christian Majesty not to avail himself of our situation to demand unequal and oppressive terms, and it was wise to leave the Commerce of America open to all the Maritime States; which will prevent their jealousy & enmity, and make them foes instead of friends to England. Great Britain has its choice now of madness, or meanness. She will not war with the house of Bourbon and N. America at the same time, so that I incline to think meanness will be her choice as best befitting her present State and the minds of her rulers. It will probably happen that the Trade of France will not now be interrupted; and thus, by affording no pretext for war, the whole force of our enemies may be devoted to one last and vigorous Campaign against us. As wise men we ought to be prepared for such an event by collecting a strong army, and by every other means that can discourage and defeat such intentions of our inveterate enemies. Being disappointed this Campaign, must infal-


[Page 649]
May 6, 1778 617 away, another Messenger was sent to stop Howe if that should be the case. I hope they are both gone. RC (DLC). 1 Washington’s last extant letter to Lee was dated February 15, 1778. Washing ton, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:464-66. 2 For a discussion of this pamphlet containing seven spurious Washington letters, see Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr., May 4, 1778, note 3. Lee had mentioned the original English edition of this pamphlet in a January 2, 1778, letter to Washington that was written at Chantilly, Va., and is in Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:371. For Washington’s comments on these forged letters, see his May 25 reply to Lee in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:450-52. 3 The intelligence from William Lee reported here and in the postscript was contained in his February 28 letter to President Laurens, which is in PCC, item 90, 2:410-13, and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:510-12. 4 Lee’s concern over Virginia’s slowness in meeting her quota was also the sub ject of a letter John Page wrote to him this day assuring him that the Virginia Board of War was attending to Lee’s request to expedite the departure of the “Drafts” from King George County. Lee Family Papers, ViU. Later in May both Mann Page and Governor Henry informed Lee that the Vir ginia Assembly had voted to raise 350 cavalry and 2,000 infantry for the Con tinental Army, but neither offered much hope of expeditious implementation. Mann Page to Richard Henry Lee, May 21, 1778, Lee Family Papers, ViU; and Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:175. Marine Committee to John Young Sir May 6th 1778 We have received your Letter of the 26th ultimo from Edenton and are sorry to hear of the loss of the Continental Brig Independence under your Command. 1 We have no doubt but you have done all in your power for Saving as much as possible from the wreck & we desire that you will deliver the same to our Agents Messrs. Hewes & Smith making out an Inventory thereof and taking their receipts for what you deliver, which you must transmit to the Navy Board at Baltimore. 2 As we have immediate service for yourself, officers & men, we desire that on receipt hereof, you will march them to Portsmouth in Vir ginia, and advise Governor Henry of your getting there to whom we have wrote respecting your employment 3 and you must follow such Instructions as you shall receive from the Governor. Messrs. Hewes & Smith will advance you Money to pay the Expence of your Journey in which you will make despatch. We are sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 On April 15 during a return voyage from France with dispatches from the American commissioners, the Independence was wrecked off the North Carolina coast. For further details of this voyage, see William Bell Clark, The First Saratoga


[Page 658]
626 May 8, 1778 On Tuesday I shall have the honour of transmitting an Address to the people now in press. I am with very great regard LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 President Wharton’s letter is not mentioned in the journals and is not in PCC. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen May 8th 1778 The many interesting subjects contained in your last Letter shall shortly receive a full answer, for the present we shall confine ourselves to the disagreeable business of the Alfreds loss, and the conduct of Captain Thompson upon that occasion. 1 From various concurring informations as well as from Captain Thompsons letter to this Com mittee of the 7th of April last, The Committee are of opinion that both the public Interest and the honour of Captain Thompson render it necessary that a Court of Enquiry should be held on his conduct. But this Enquiry the Committee think cannot properly be made until Captain Hinman or some of his Officers can be heard upon the Affair and in the mean time it is not fit that the public should be deprived of the use of the Raleigh. It is therefore the desire of the Committee that you forthwith suspend Captain Thompson from the Command of that Frigate until a full and fair enquiry can be made into his Conduct, on the Occasion of the Alfreds loss, and that the Raleigh be got ready for Sea with all possible expedition. By the time this will happen the Committee will appoint a Captain to take the Command of her. 2 The Committee are intirely of Opinion with you that it will be proper to send out a Collected force to Cruize against our enemies that we recover the injured reputation of our Navy and the losses we have sustained. With this veiw the Committee wish that the Warren and any other of the Continental Vessels that you approve, may be quickly made ready for Sea and you shall shortly hear further and fully from us concerning the destination of these Ships. We have the pleasure to enclose you the late Resolves of Congress concerning Marine misconduct, and the mode of trying it, which we hope may in future remove the dificulty that hitherto subsisted in Affairs of this nature. 3 It seems from your information of the Enemy at Rhode Island bawling three additional Ships into the Channel thro’ which you proposed sending the frigate Providence to intercept her, that the chance of her escaping is too great to be unnecessarily run. We would therefore propose you should endeavour to man the Warren with the hands of the Providence and lay aside the attempt to get her out unless through a change of circumstances you should discover a fair


[Page 659]
May 8, 1778 627 Opportunity of effecting it—in case this should happen we would have her ordered round to Boston there to join the Continental frigates. 4 We are Gentlemen, Your Hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to John Bradford, April 28, 1778, note 2. 2 John Barry was subsequently appointed to command the Raleigh. See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, May 30, 1778. 3 For the May 6 resolves outlining procedures for investigating naval officers involved in the loss of Continental vessels, see JCC, 11:469-71. 4 On April 30 the Continental frigate Providence escaped from Narragansett Bay and sailed for France. Morgan, Captains to the Northward, p. 129. Robert Morris to John Brown Dear sir Manheim May 8th. 1778 This will be delivered you by an Express Mr. Jona. Hudson of Baltimore sent up to me for Money which it will be most Convenient for me to send from York Town. You will find herein a letter for Mr. De Francy open for Your perusal & enclosed the set of bills drawn by the Marquis de Fayette mentioned therein also my acct against the Marquis. Mr. de Francy assured me he wou’d repay me this whole acct by the end of this Week & I am sure he will do it. You’l please to wait on him, deliver the letter & receive the Money giving up those bills Sc a receipt for the rest of the Money in full of my demands against the Marquis. You will then be pleased to send three thousand Pounds of that Money by this Express to Mr. Jona. Hudson Mercht in Baltimore on my Acct. & Credit me for the remainder yourself. You will also find herein an order of James Walsh on behalf of Goodwin & Russell on Mr. Wm Sellers junr to deliver Me a Sum of money or an order for it, if you get the Money send it down to Mr Hudson by the Express, but if he delivers you the order on Mr Potts, send it to me. Mr. Hudson has remitted Mr Helligass a draft on Colo. Blane for near £3000, let him know of the Express going to Balto. that he may send the Money if he has it 8c oblige, Dr sir, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris P.S. Tell Jemmy Reese his Father is here at Work 8c will be glad to see him before he returns which may be in 2 or 3 weeks. 1 RC (PHi). 1 Morris also wrote to Washington the following day acknowledging the gen eral’s April 27 letter concerning delays in the preparation of "our Elaboratories” in Pennsylvania and their correspondence on the subject of Col. Charles Arrnand- Tuffin. See Washington Papers, DLC; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:315-16, 453.


[Page 660]
628 May 9, 1778 Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir. York Town 9th May 1778. My last to Your Excellency was elated the 6th by Sharp. This will be accompanied by a Petition of Lt. Colo. Dircks which I am directed to transmit 8c to request Your Excellency will do or advise therein as Your Excellency shall judge conducive to public service. 1 Also by, several printed Acts of Congress of the 6th Inst, contained in a Pennsylvania Gazette announcing such parts of the Treaty of Paris of the 6th February as are necessary for Public information & the Government of conduct in particular Cases. I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (DLC). 'Jacob Gerhard Diriks’ petition to Congress—undated but endorsed by Secretary Thomson: “Petition of J. Gerhard Dereks, read in Congress 8 May 1778. referred to Genl Washington”—is in the Washington Papers, DLC. In it Diriks, who had resigned a captain’s commission in the Fourth Continental Artillery Regiment in July 1777, asked Congress for permission “to raise a Body Composed of two or more Companies which might be Joined to the Corps under the command of Brigadier General Count Pulaski." But Washington deemed Diriks’ request unwise and refused to approve it. See JCC, 11:509; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:380. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen May 9th 1778 We have received yours of the 6th, 9th, 15th, 20th 8c 22d April last under the signature of Mr. Warren and now sit down to give them an Answer. The loss of the Columbus altho’ considerable yet by the prudence of your Board in taking out her Cannon & Stores before she left Providence, is much less than it would have otherwise been. As it is highly proper that a Strict enquiry should be made into the causes of the loss of any of the Continental Vessels, you will institute a Court of Inquiry for the purpose of Inquiring into the loss of that Ship. 1 We have given directions respecting the frigate Providence in ours of yesterday which went by Express to which we refer you. With regard to the Trumbull, the Governor 8c Council of Con necticut were desired to assist in getting her out of the River because you were not then assembled at Boston, and not from any the most distant Idea of your incompetancy to the business. 2 How it hath hap pened that you have not received notice of their being requested to


[Page 672]
640 May 11, 1778 Henry Laurens to the Chevalier de Mauduit Du Plessis Dear Colonel Uth May 1778 I was yesterday honoured with your Lettere Comique by Colonel Gimat. I will not be “angry” nor will I “chide” you, when you are a good Child, but when you fret for a new Coat or because the Lace upon the old one does not please your fancy, Sc that when you lose your play things Heaven 8c Earth 8c Congress must all stand still as the Sun at Joshua’s Command till Papa goes to the Shop 8c gets a new Toy for you; a little grave reasoning will be necessary, you are now of an Age to bear it, you are grown too big to be wheedled asleep with a pretty Story, 8c I know you wont take “beating” from any body; but that mat ter is adjusted; jocularity apart, I receive 8c return with the highest satisfaction your gratulations on the late happy event of an Alliance between France 8c these United States. Your King, throughout Christendom, will be stiled “protector of the Rights of Mankind,”—better founded than “Defender of the Faith,” more lustrous than King of Navarre, 8c an excellent adjunct to “Most Christian.” This happy Tribute of America’s sensibility will be more mortifying to a certain deluded Prince than any thing that has befallen him in the course of the War. If His Majesty will now play his other Cards so skilfully as to com mand peace he shall be further Stiled “Le politique.” Then His illustrious Titles in plain English will read. “His Most Christian Majesty Louis 16th. King of France 8c Navarre, Protector of the Rights of Mankind, who by the Magic of Policy, humbled, without bloodshed, a powerful, haughty 8c much dreaded Rival 8c gave peace to both Shores of the Atlantic. 6th Febry 1778.” But do you think Great Britain will be Jockeyed, out of her Rice, Indigo, Tobacco, Pitch, Tar, Turpentine, Iron, Hemp, Masts, Peltry 8cc 8cc 8cc 8cc 8cc 8cc 8cca 8c an hundred more without a Struggle, at least for revenge. This cannot be, we must expect War 8c a bloody one too—let us prepare for it as the best means for securing peace. But tell me if peace comes soon, what will you do, go to France 8c be Vigneron, or to Carolina 8c learn to make Rice & Indigo? I know which would be most pleasing to me. By this you will learn that I am disposed Dear Colonel to be very much your friend 8c humble Servant, [P.S.] Your letters for France shall go in the Same Vessel which is pre paring to conduct Our Ratification of the Treaties of 6th Febry.— Commerce, Alliance 8c Secret. Common circumstances in my way, people continually coming in have obliged me to write in haste, you will pardon imperfection. LB (ScHi).


[Page 673]
May 11, 1778 641 Henry Laurens to Pierre Etienne Du Ponceau Sir, 11th May 1778 I am sorry to learn by your favor of the 7 th Inst, that circumstances have occured which have disturbed your accustomed tranquility. The Brevet which you have, is to the best of my knowledge exactly such an one as Baron Stiiben applied for, I am sure it is such as I was ordered to grant, &: you widely mistake, if you believe the disposal of Commissions rests with me. 1 The Resolves of Congress are my Orders—from these I never swerve, be my own inclinations as they may. Your Brevet intitles you to Rank & pay of Captain, neither one nor the other are depreciated by such assistance as you may give to Gen eral Stiiben. Command was not asked for, if it had been, your experience of our Army has shewn you, it could not have been granted. Major Des Epinier’s Commission has been more than once re torted. The importunity of some Gentlemen &: their friends at par ticular times, when Congress were not at leisure for minute enquiries, may have led the House unwarily into error. This perhaps may be produced as an Instance, ’tis impossible to escape without adhering strictly to Rules from which Congress indulgently to their friends from France have sometimes deviated—but when Monsr. Des Espinier shews his Commission & talks of his advantages every circumstance relative to his obtaining that Commission should be disclosed. 2 ’Tis impracticable for me Sir, to be more minute, my Duty to the public will not afford time. I shall only observe further, on two parts of your Letter. You say, “I certainly mistook the Baron when he applied for a Commission for you” & you tell me what his “meaning” was—the interpretation of the Barons meaning was his expression & I am per suaded you will be tender in an attempt to prove he did not mean what he said. But Sir, as an Individual what is all this to me? As the President of Congress I repeat, I act faithfully to the orders of Congress. I have no will of my own. I have heard no complaint from Baron Stiiben that his “meaning” had been mistaken or perverted & I beleive there is no ground for complaint. “You will freely subscribe to my Decision.” I decide then with your permission, that you cultivate the acquain tance you have made among Strangers into friendships, & remain tranquil in your present Sphere until you can fairly & advantage ously enlarge it. This is advice I would give to my Son, whether you


[Page 681]
May 11, 1778 649 mand of Your Excellency, I inclose the Resolve of Congress of this date for that appointment & I shall by an additional line transmit the proper notifications to the Gentlemen abovementioned. 2 I have the honor to be. With the highest Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your Obedient &: Most humble Servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (DLC). 1 In reality Laurens had last written to Washington on May 9. 2 See also Laurens to Francis Johnston, this date. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir York the 11th of May 1778 We have once more ventured into the field of composition as the inclosed Address will shew you. 1 And I have the pleasure to acquaint you that Congress have unanimously ratified the Treaties with France, and directed the ratifications to be presented for exchange in due season. The inclosed pamphlet 1 t[ake to] be a production of Dr. Franklin. It is well written, and was published first in Holland. When it began to make a noise, the B. Minister procured its suppression, but this, as usual, raised the public curiosity and procured it addi tional Readers. We have translated it here, and omitting one or two paragraphs that are not now true, it will be published next week in the Gazette of this place. 2 The reasons are good and may be well used in these States to support public credit. Suppose you were to have a translation published by way of supplement to our Virginia Gazettes? My heart is so bent upon the success of our Country that it grieves me extremely to hear a probability of measures being adopted that I am sure will injure us. I am told that application will be made to this Assembly to revoke Monsr. Loyeautes commission from the last. Is it possible that such an application can be attended to? Thus to treat a Gentleman of unquestioned ability, of reputation in France, and after we have applied to that Court to obtain leave for his longer residence among us than his furlough permitted! His character will not be hurt by it, but how mutable shall we appear. And how totally wrong it will be thus to dismiss an able, zealous, and most industrious Artist, whilst we remain utterly ignorant of the necessary knowledge that he is both able and willing to instruct us in. I think the wise Men of our Assembly will suppress the spirit of vain ambition that prompts to this selfish application. 3 We are told that the enemies movements at Philadelphia denote their departure, but these perhaps may be designed to amuse us, and prevent the collection of a strong army. I am dear Sir sincerely yours, Richard Henry Lee


[Page 682]
650 May 11, 1778 RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:177-78. 1 Lee was a member of the committee appointed May 6 to prepare an address to the people “upon the present situation of public affairs" that was approved by Congress two days later. ]CC, 11:471, 474-81. 2 This version of Franklin’s pamphlet comparing the basis of credit in the United States and Great Britain was published in the May 16 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. A 1777 draft is in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 7:1-8. 3 Loyaute resigned on May 20 after the Virginia Assembly ruled that his appoint ment as inspector general of Virginia artillery did not entitle him to military com mand. For Lee’s previous efforts to secure Loyaute's services for Virginia, see Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, October 8, 1777, note 2. Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally, York-Town. May 11th. 1778. About sun-down I arrived safe here, tho’ I cannot say quite sound. The Treaty between the United States of America &: the most Christ ian King proves that his Majesty of France is not only so, but also the most wise, most just & most magnanimous Prince not only in the World at present but to be found in history. The treaty was unani mously approved of by Congress, and the King of France has the signal honor of the thanks of Congress. Mr. Davison purposes to begin a grammar school at Portor’s mill on Octorara about 26 miles from Lancaster on Friday next. I have agreed to send Josey & Robert to him, and have secured lodgings either at Doctor Ewings or some place approved by him. Shall I beg you to get them put in some order as to clothing. You must employ some Taylor & Semstress without delay. As soon as you let me know by Sam that they are ready I shall return home and take them to the school—the sooner the better. Have no news to be relied upon, but expect to celebrate the anniversary of Independance in Philadelphia for it appears to [me?] that the British army will soon quit it. I am, with love to the children, dear Sally, Your affectionate, Thos M:Kean RC (PHi). Addressed: “To Mrs. Mary M:Kean. By Negro Sam.” McKean confused the name of his first wife, Mary Borden McKean, who died in 1773, with that of Sarah Armitage McKean, whom he married in 1774. Gouverneur Morris to Robert Morris Dear Duer Monday Evening [May 11, 1778] 1 Livingston is so ill he can’t attend Congress. Monsr. La Neuville is kept in dilatory attendance. 2 The half Pay cannot be postponed (for now we are the Postponers) beyond To Morrow Morning. Tell Mor ris his Portugueze Affair is settled much against the wishes of his


[Page 683]
May 12, 1778 651 Eastern Friends. 3 I could not get the Papers till last Night and this Morning I did the needful whereupon the delay was not chargeable on his and your, Friend, Gouvr. Morris. The above is a Copy of a Letter written two Hours ago delivered to Duer who unfortunately arrived in Town without you very con trary to my Expectations. James Smith assures him that his worthy Colleague Jonathan B Smith hath absolutely declared off upon the Half Pay Business. Clingan is of the true Eastern Stamp and Clay. I need say no more when you know that Massachusetts is against us except that Hall is daily expected from Georgia and some of the Un true Blues from New Hampshire. Think one Moment and come here the next. My respectful remembrances wait on Mrs Morris. I send somewhat for your Evenings Amusement. Adieu, Yours sincerely, Gouvr. Morris [RS.] The Question for referring the half pay Establish to the States cannot be deferr’d longer than to Morrow. Pensilvania being at pres ent against us it will be carried to refer it to the States, which will defeat the Measure. 4 When I have mentioned this I am sure I need not add any thing more to induce you to be here by Eleven o’Clock to MorroW. W. Duer MS not found; reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 3:230 31. Endorsed by Gouverneur Morris: “Let the Bearer of this Letter pass to and from Manheim—York Town." The postscript was written and signed by William Duer. 'Although Robert Morris endorsed this letter “Monday Evening Feby 11th 1778 Gouver. Morris,’’ it is clear from internal evidence that it was actually written on May 11. 2 See Henry Laurens to Lafayette, this date, note 2. 3 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Massachusetts Board of War, May 14, 1778. 4 Morris was back in Congress on May 13 to help defeat a motion to submit the half-pay plan to the states, but his return to Congress at this time was a brief one. In addition to his vote on the half-pay issue on May 13, the journals also record his votes on two other issues on May 14 and 15, but two private letters he wrote on May 16 and 17 bear a Manheim place line. See JCC, 11:495, 500, 503; Morris to John Wendell, May 16, Photostat Collection, MHi; and Morris to William Bing ham, May 17, 1778, Gratz Collection, PHi. For the six-month leave of absence from Congress granted to him in November 1777, see Robert Morris to Thomas Whar ton, November 11; and Robert Morris to the Committee of Commerce, December 17, 1777. Henry Laurens to Matthew Locke Sir, 12th May [1778] I had the pleasure of writing to you the Sth Inst, by Mr. Brandon 8c transmitted Copies of Interesting public papers. This is intended for a like purpose.


[Page 684]
652 May 12, 1778 You will receive within this Enclosure 10 Copies of an Address by Congress to the Inhabitants of the United States. 3 Copies of such parts of the Treaties of the 6th Febry at Paris between the Court of France & these States as Congress judge neces sary to make public at present. These you will extend as far as you can for the information of all our fellow Citizens. I am not among those who are flattered by a prospect of immed iate peace. I think too highly of Great Britain to admit a belief that she will tamely Submit to the political mancevres of her Neighbor. It is our Duty however to be guarded against her utmost efforts which I have no doubt will be made the ensuing Summer on some part of the Continent. The disappointment, if she should pursue measures more pacific, will be very acceptable to us. We are told that War is declared & hostilities commenced between England & France. That Sir William Howe is preparing to embark his foreign Troops for Europe—British Troops to the West Indies. We also hear he has established a Camp on the Jersey Shore perhaps to facilitate his em barkation or to divide our forces, but these I say are Reports. I am with great respect &ca. LB (ScHi). Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Brother York in Pennsylva. 12 May 1778 Your favors of Octr. 24, Deer. 6, 8, & 19 by Capt. Young and Mr. Deane came safe to hand and deserve my thanks on many accounts, but on none more than for the care you have taken, and propose to take of my dear Son Ludwell. Under your kind protecting hand I hope he will be reared to much use both public and private. I approve altogether of your designs respecting him. It grieves me extremely to hear of the indolence and extravagence of my son Thom. They are qualities the direct reverse of those that must carry him thro life, if he passes with honor and ease to himself. I hope his Uncle Alder man’s attention to him, and your advice, with what I have written him will work a change. It is with infinite pain that I inform you our dear brother of Belleview 1 departed this Life on the 13 of April last after sustaining a severe Rheumatic fever for 6 weeks. Dr. Steptoe attended him the whole time, and I was also with him. Both public and private considerations render the loss most lamentable. He had


[Page 691]
May 14, 1778 659 we did not then foresee, but the arrival of your dispatches since with the Treaties have unriddled the Affair. General Howe was equally industrious in Circulating them by his emissaries thro’ the Country; Mr Tryon at N York did the same, and both those Gentlemen sent them under sanction of a flag to Genl Washington, who immediately sent the first he received to Congress. Mr. Tryon’s Letter which covered them, and General Washington’s answer thereto, you will find in Hall’s and Seller’s Gazette printed at York town May 2d. Those Bills are truly unworthy the attention of any National Body; but lest the Silence of Congress should be misunderstood, or furnish the Enemy with New Ground for false insinuation, they were in stantly referred to a Committee of Congress, whose judicious and spirited report thereon was unanimously approved by the House April 22d & published and circulated thro’ the several States with all possible expedition. 1 The dispatches in charge of Mr. Dean did not arrive till the second of May, eight days after the said reports were published; and his expedition in bringing the dispatches to Congress, prevented any Intelligence arriving before him. Inclosed are the reports referred to, to which we recommend your attention in making them as public as possible in Europe, prefacing them with such an explanatory detail of Circumstances as shall have a tendency to place the Politics of America on the firm basis of National honor. Integrity and fortitude. We admire the true Wisdom and dignity of the Court of France, in her part of the Construction and Ratification of those Treaties; they have a powerful and effectual tendancy to dissolve that narrow ness of mind which mankind have been too unhappily bred up in. In those treaties we see the Politician founded on the Philosopher, and harmony of affections made the ground Work of mutual Interest. France by her open Candor has won us more powerfully than any reserved treaties could possibly bind us, and at a happy Juncture of Times and Circumstances laid the seeds of an eternal freindship. It is from an anxiety of preserving inviolate this cordial union so happily begun that we desire your particular attention to the 11th and 12th Articles in the Treaty of Amity and Commerce. The unreserved Confidence of Congress in the good disposition of the Court of France will sufficiently appear by their having unanimously ratified those treaties, and then trusted any alterations or amendments to mutual negociation afterwards. We are apprehensive that the general and extensive tenor of the 12th Article may in future be misunderstood, or rendered inconvenient or impracticable, and, in the end, become detrimental to that friendship we wish ever to exist; To prevent which, you will herewith receive instructions and authority for giving up on our Part the whole of the 11th Article proposing it as a Condi tion to the Court of France, that they, on their part, give up the


[Page 696]
664 May 14, 1778 and executive Business of the Continent now in its great Increase. It has been next to impossible to make Remittances for many months from the Staple Colonies the Coasts of which have been constantly infested by numerous and strong Cruisers of the Enemy. We hope the Alliance of maritime Powers with us will remove our Embarrassments and give us Opportunity to carry into Effect our hearty Wishes to maintain the fairest commercial Reputation. There will be great Impropriety in our making a different Settle ment for the Supplies received from Spain from that which we make in Regard to those received from France. We are greatly obliged to the Friends who have exerted themselves for our Relief, and wish you to signify our Gratitude upon every proper Opportunity. But, having promised to make Remittances to Hortales for the prime Cost, Charges, Interest & usual mercantile Commission upon whatever is justly due to that House, we must keep the same Line with Gardoqui. On the one Hand, we would not willingly give Disgust by slighting princely Generosity, nor on the other submit to unnecessary Obliga tions. The Unanimity with which Congress has ratified the Treaties with France and the general glad acceptance of the Alliance by the People of these States must shock Great Britain who seems to have thought no Cruelty from her would destroy our great Partiality in her Favor. What plan she will adopt in Consequence of her Disap pointment Time only can discover. But, we shall aim to be in a posture either to negociate honorable Peace or continue this just War. We stand in Need of the Advice and Assistance of all our Friends in the matter of Finance; as the Quantity of our Paper Currency necessarily emitted has produced a Depreciation which will be ruinous if not very quickly checked. We have encouraging Accounts of the Temper of the Hollanders of late and expect we may find Relief from that Quarter among others. A few Weeks if not a few Days must produce fruitful Subject for another Letter when we shall in our Line of Duty renew our Assur ances of being, with great Regard, Sir, Your affectionate humble Servants, Richard Henry Lee James Lovell Robt Morris RC (NN). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Lee, and Morris. 1 These letters are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:401-3, 429-31, 445—17. 3 For Lee’s July 29, 1777, letter, see ibid., pp. 369-72. Congress did not receive a copy of it until at least July 23, 1778, when a copy arrived with Lee’s April 8, 1778, letter to the committee. PCC, item 83, fols. 193-98. 3 In his October 6, 1777, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, Arthur Lee recalled his meetings with Caron de Beaumarchais in London in the spring of


[Page 698]
666 May 14, 1778 tion of being free and independent is ensured by this eclairrissment of the Court of Versailles. Our army is growing daily so that if we are to negotiate with Britain we shall do it in a proper posture. There are some reports of her drawing away her troops, that she may with a proper grace enter into parley. But this must be done without disguise, or no treaty can be held. For surely no one can suppose that we shall now give up a point which we had made a preliminary before we knew what powerful friendship was secured to us in Europe. The powers which had been given to our Commissioners in France and our great Anxiety to keep perfect faith in Treaties induced a caution with regard to the powers given in after appointments which is now become unnecessary. Perfect equality being the basis of our present treaties without any exclusive privileges to France there can be no chance of discontent from the conclusion of similar treaties with other powers of Europe; therefore we shall doubtless soon forward to you more full powers than what were sent with your commission. As you seem to think it may be advantageous to have a cypher for correspondence we would propose the same which has been mentioned to Doctor Franklin formerly by Mr Lovell, 5 and this is the rather chosen because it may serve between the Doctor and you or any number of your friends taking a different key word for each. The Scheme is inclosed marked L. f R.H. Lee Signed / James Lovell [ Rob Morris P.S. You are to have a plenipotentiary commission with instructions not limiting the term of proposed treaties of amity and Commerce. FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). FC (DNA: PCC, item 79 appendix). 1 Lee’s November 24 and December 18, 1777, letters to Secretary Charles Thom son and to the committee are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:426-27, 454-55. 2 In his November 24, 1777, letter to Charles Thomson, Lee had suggested the possibility of raising troops in the German city-states as a means of embarrassing the British. Silas Deane had also proposed the raising of mercenary troops in a November 28, 1776, letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Ibid., pp. 198-99, 426-27. 3 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Ralph Izard, this date, note 2. ‘See Henry Laurens to the Massachusetts Council, May 23, 1778, note 3. 6 See James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin, [ante July 4, 1777]. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Massachusetts Board of War Gentlemen York Town 14 May 1778 A resolve of Congress respecting a Portuguese Snow and her Cargo is sent to you by the President in which you are requested to transmit


[Page 700]
668 May 14, 1778 from the House, you will be pleased therefore to accept this as it is intended to afford you the satisfaction of knowing that your Letters had reached their destination. When the last came to hand I applied to the Treasury Board where the former had been committed, for information &: received in answer “the Board had not yet taken Mr. Bedlow’s Memorial under consideration.” 2 I have since urged the Gentlemen & shall continue to remind them 8c when any determina tion is had, you shall be immediately informed. I am Sir &ca. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 William Bedlow was deputy paymaster general at Fishkill, N.Y. JCC, 9:901. 2 On March 26 Congress had referred to the Board of Treasury a “memorial from Bedlow for which no date is given in the journals but which was doubtless the March 6 document mentioned by Laurens. This memorial is not in PCC, but on August 26, 1778, Congress approved the board’s report on it, recommending that Bedlow “be allowed thirty-five dollars per month ... in addition to his former allowance of fifty dollars per month.” See JCC, 10:284, 11:839. Bedlow s April 23 letter to Laurens is also not in PCC. 3 Laurens also wrote the following brief letter this day to William Denning of New Windsor, Conn. “In answer to your favor of the 9th Inst, this moment come to hand, please to be informed that your attendance as a Commissioner of accounts at the Board of Treasury is expected here, where the Treasurers Office is fixed for the present.” PCC, item 13, fol. 319. Laurens had just received a letter from Denning, who had been appointed a commissioner of accounts on March 30, stating that he was unsure of the duties of his office and had recently been informed by letter from Francis Lewis that he need not serve in York. At the foot of Denning’s letter, which was read in Congress on the 15th, Secretary Thomson wrote the following note: “The business of a comr. of accounts at the board of treasury is to liquidate and settle all accots that shall be transferred to them by that board under the direction of the Auditor genl. Such comrs must therefoie necessar[il]y attend where the board sits." See PCC, item 78, 7:195; and JCC, 11:501. Lewis, who had advised Denning to the contrary, was a member of the committee of claims that had been superseded by the Board of Treasury in July 1776. JCC, 5:620. Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Si r 14th May 1778 I had the honor of writing to your Excellency the 2d Inst, by Messenger Cross—& yesterday of receiving your Excellency’s favors of the 13th & 18th Ulto. together with the Copy of General Howe’s Letter referred to, and also the public accts. All these were imme diately Committed—the Letters to a Select Committee & the Ac counts to the Board of Treasury. 1 Your Excellency shall be duly informed of such Commands as I shall receive on the several Subjects. Within the present Inclosure will be found 1. An Act of Congress recommending to exempt from Military


[Page 701]
May 14, 1778 669 Duty such persons as may be employed in manufacturing Military Stores &ca. for the use of the United States, dated 1st May. 2. An Act of 6th May in the Pennsylvania Gazette containing such parts of the Treaty of Paris of the 6th. Febry 1778, as are judged necessary for public information & government of conduct in particu lar Cases. 3. An Address by Congress of the 9th Inst, to the Inhabitants of the United States of America. 4. A proclamation of the same date for restraining Malpractices of Captains, Commanders & other officers & Seamen of American Armed Vessels. 2 of No. 2, these will be contained in the packet 6 Copies of No. 3—20 Copies. No. 4, 3 Copies. These papers Your Excellency will be pleased to dispose of in such manner as you shall judge will most effectually promote public good. I have the honor to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “President Lowndes, So. Carolina, by Sharp 19th May.” 1 President Lowndes’ April 13 and 18 letters to Laurens dealt with a variety of issues, including an uprising of South Carolina loyalists and their irruption into Georgia, requests by the Board of War for certain military supplies, South Caro lina’s accounts with Congress, a dispute over pay between Lowndes and deputy quartermaster general Francis Huger, and Lowndes’ need for blank letters of marque and bonds to commission privateers. PCC, item 72, fols. 445-48, 454-59. Along with his second letter Lowndes enclosed an April 14 letter from Gen. Robert Howe, the commander of the southern department, asking Lowndes to dispatch troops and supplies to Georgia as soon as possible to repel an anticipated invasion of the state. Ibid., fols. 449-50. Congress addressed a number of these issues in a series of resolutions passed on May 29. JCC, 11:551-53. See also Laurens to Lowndes, May 17, 1778. a Laurens also transmitted all but the first of the items listed here with a brief letter he wrote this day to Gov. John Houstoun of Georgia. PCC, item 13, fol. 318. To that letter he also added a postscript on May 15, enclosing a copy of Con gress’ resolution of that date on half pay. See JCC, 11:502-3. Henry Laurens to the Massachusetts Board of War Gentlemen. 14th May [1778] You will find within the present Inclosure an Act of Congress of the 11th Inst, relative to the Portugueze Snow Our Lady of Mount Carmel & St. Antonis, requesting you to make Sale of that Vessel & her Cargo now in the State of Massachusets’ Bay & to deposit the Net proceed in the public funds of these United States &ca, to which I beg leave to refer for particulars. 1 I have the honor to be


[Page 702]
670 May 15, 1778 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). x See Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Massachusetts Board of War, this date. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris In Committee for foreign Affairs Gentlemen No. 8 York Town May 15 1778 Your pressing request for 5000 Hhds of Tobacco is a matter as embarrassing to Congress as to yourselves. 1 Their anxiety to get it to you is as great as yours to receive it. We have already lost considerable Quantities in the attempt and thereby furnished our Enemy, Gratis, with what was designed to discharge your Contracts with, and pro mote the Interest and Commerce of our Friends. We request your particular attention to this information. It is a matter of the highest moment to our allies as well as to ourselves. In the present State of things it is very probable that England will not interrupt the Trade of France in her own Bottoms, and our desire is, as well for her Benefit as ours, that France would open the Trade from her own Ports, so that the Intentional advantages of the Treaties may fully operate to both Countries. We need not enlarge on this head, as your own discernment and judgment will furnish you with all the reasons necessary therefor. In addition to what is mentioned in our Letter No. 2 re specting the 11th & 12 Articles we observe that the 12th is capable of an interpretation and misuse which was probably not thought of at the Time of Constructing it, which is that it opens a door for all or a great part of the Trade of America to be carried thro the French Islands to Europe, and puts all future regulations out of our Power, either of Imposts or Prohibition, which tho’ we might never find our Interest to use, yet it is the keeping those in our Power, that will hereafter enable us to preserve equality with, and regulate the Im posts of the Countries we trade with. The General Trade of France is not under the like restriction; every article on our part being staked against the single Article of Molasses on theirs. Therefore the Congress thinks it more liberal and consistent that both Articles should be expunged. We have no material military Transactions to acquaint you with. The Enemy yet remain in Philadelphia, but some late movements make it probable they will not stay long. Our Army is yet at the Valley forge. The Enemy thro’ the Course of the winter have carried on a low, pitiful, and disgraceful kind of War agst Individuals whom they picked up by sending out little parties for that purpose and revengefully burning several of their houses. Yet all this Militates


[Page 703]
May 15, 1778 671 against themselves, by keeping up an inflamable Indignation in the Country towards them; and on the whole we know not which most to wonder at, their folly in making us hate them after their inability for Conquest and desires of Peace are confest, or their Scandalous barbarity in expressing their resentments. 3 You will see, Gentlemen, by the Contract which the commercial Committee has signed with the Agent of Mr. Beaumarchais that Congress was desirous of keeping a middle Course, so as not to appear to slight any determined Generosity of the French Court, and at the same Time to show a Promptness to discharge honourably the Debts which may be justly charged against these States by any Persons. 4 We depend upon you to explain the affair fully, as you seem to make a Distinction between the military Stores &: the other Invoices, while no such Distinction appears in the Letters of Mr. Deane &: Mr. Beau marchais. In short, we are rather more undetermined by your late Dispatches than we were by your long Silence. Congress being at this Time deeply engaged in a Variety of pressing Business and the foreign Committee thin of Members you will be pleased to excuse us from being more particular in our Answer to your several Dispatches as well as in our Information of the State of our Affairs. We are, Gentlemen, your very humble Servants, Richard Henry Lee James Lovell P.S. You will see what we have written to Mr. Dumas, and will point out to us what will be our Line of Honour to him & Justice to these States. RC (PPAmP). Begun in a clerical hand and completed by Lovell; signed by Lovell and Lee. Endorsed by John Adams: ‘‘Comtee. foreign affairs May 15, ans. July 29, 1778." ■In their February 16 letter to the committee, the commissioners at Paris had requested this tobacco in order to pay the expenses of American diplomatic mis sions to Germany, Italy, and Holland. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:496-97. 2 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris, May 14, 1778. * Remainder of RC written by Lovell. ‘See Committee of Commerce to the Commissioners at Paris, May 16, 1778. Henry Laurens to Ethan Allen Sir, 15th May [1778] Yesterday I had the honor of presenting to Congress your favor of the 9th which came to hand the preceeding Evening. 1 The Contents were heard by the House with much satisfaction &


[Page 704]
672 May 15, 1778 a Vote immediately passed to grant you a Brevet to Rank as Colonel in the Army. 2 The necessary Certificate to which is annexed the Act of Congress for that purpose, will be delivered to you by His Excel lency General Washington. Permit me Sir to congratulate with your numerous friends on your deliverance from a cruel Captivity, to assure you, I admire your al most unexampled fortitude 8c respect you highly for your Zeal in the glorious Cause in which we are engaged. And that I shall be happy in any opportunity to testify that I am, With very great Regard LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colonel Ethan Allen, Valley Forge.” 1 Ethan Allen’s May 9 letter to Laurens, in which he announced the news of his release from British captivity and thanked Congress for “the Honour done me in passing Several Resolves in order to have long ago expedited my Exchange,” is in PCC, item 152, 6:35-36. For the steps Congress had taken to secure Allen’s exchange, see JCC, 7:12, 10:213, 295. 2 See JCC, 11:496. Henry Laurens to Benjamin Chew and John Penn Gentlemen, 15th May [1778] Your joint Address of the 10th Inst, having been presented by the Board of War to Congress, was this day taken under consideration 8c an Act which you will receive within the present Inclosure for dis charging you severally from your Parole thereupon Resolved. 1 I shall immediately transmit a Copy of the Act to His Excellency the President of this State 8: another Copy to Governor Livingston of New Jersey. 2 I have the honor to be LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 In their May 10 letter to Congress, Benjamin Chew and John Penn, writing from “Union Iron Works, New Jersey,” had asked to be discharged from their parole so they could return to Pennsylvania and comply with a recent state law “requiring all persons who had enjoy’d Office under the Crown of Great Britain to take the Test prescribed by a former act by the 1st of June next, under pain of Confiscation of their Estates.” PCC, item 147, 2:29-30. Chew and Penn, who had been respectively chief justice and governor of Pennsylvania under the proprietary regime, had been arrested and dispatched to New Jersey by order of Congress in August 1777 because of their British sympathies. See Laurens to John Rutledge, August 12 and 15, 1777. 2 Laurens enclosed copies of the resolve discharging Chew and Penn from their parole with brief covering letters he wrote this day to Gov. William Livingston of New Jersey and President Thomas Wharton of Pennsylvania. See PCC, item 13, fol. 322; Emmet Collection, NN; and JCC, 11:497, 503. It should be noted, however, that there was an important difference between the text of the resolve Laurens transmitted this day and the one printed in JCC, 11:503. According to


[Page 705]
May 15, 1778 673 Horatio Gates


[Page 710]
678 May 15, 1778 Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry Sir: York May 15th, 1778. The situation of the affairs of the United States urges (in our opin ion) the necessity of a speedy confederation of the states, and as we are doutful whether we can be justifiable in departing a little, even in matters of form, from the strict letter of the instruction we are possessed of on that subject, we are apprehensive it may greatly im pede the carrying into execution this salutary work. We have therefore to entreat that you will lay the same before the General assembly for their consideration, and that they will give such further, or other instructions for our government in this particular, as they may judge expedient. 1 We are with great respect, Your mo. Ob’t. Servts. Richard Henry Lee. Francis Lightfoot Lee. Thos Adams. MS not found; reprinted from Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:166. 1 The Virginia Assembly was the first to approve the proposed Articles of Con federation and had instructed their delegates on December 15, 1777, to ratify them without qualification. The journals of the Virginia House of Delegates do not indicate that the Virginia delegates received “other instructions” on ratification until a December 3, 1778, resolution directed them to propose to Congress that the confederation become binding on all states that ratified and that provision be made for the remainder to ratify later. Journal of the House of Delegates of the Commomeealth of Virgina, 1777-81 (Richmond, 1827), October-December 1777, pp. 80-81; October-December 1778, p. 98. In his June 5, 1778, letter to Richard Henry Lee, Thomas Jefferson explained why the Virginia Assembly did not respond to the delegates’ request. “Your letter, about enlarging your powers over the confederation, was not proceeded on, because the nature of the enlargment was not chalked out by you so intelligibly as enabled the house to do any thing, unless they had given a carte blanche. Indeed, I be lieve, that, had the alterations proposed been specified, unless they had been mere form indeed, it might have been difficult to obtain their consent.” Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2: 194. Committee of Commerce to the Commissioners at Paris Committee of Commerce, Gentlemen York in Pennsylvania May 16. 1778. This will be accompanied with a Contract entered into between John Baptist Lazarus Theveneau De Francy agent of Mr. Peter Augustine Caron de Beaumarchais representative of the House of Roderique Hortalez & Co. and the Committee of Commerce. 1 You


[Page 711]
May 16, 1778 679 will observe that their Accounts are to be fairly stated and what is justly due paid. For as on the one hand Congress would be unwilling to evidence a disregard for, and contemptuous refusal of the Spon taneous freindship of his most Christian Majesty; so on the other they are unwilling to put into private Pockets what was gratuitously de signed for Public benefit. You will be pleased to have their Accounts liquidated and direct in the liquidation thereof that particular care be taken to distinguish the property of the Crown of France from the Private property of Hortalez and company, and transmit to us the accounts so stated and distinguished. This will also be accompanied by an Invoice of articles to be imported from France and resolves of Congress relative thereto. 2 You will appoint if you judge proper an Agent or Agents to Inspect the quality of such Goods as you may appy for to the House of Roderique Hortalez & Co before they are shipped to prevent an imposition. The obstructions of the Bays & Harbours to the Southward by British men of war, hath prevented our shipping Tobacco as we intended. We have ordered several Vessels lately to South Carolina for Rice and have directed the Continental Agent in that state to consign them to your address. So Soon as we can venture to send out Tobacco with any probability of Success we shall certainly do it. This goes by a dispatch Vessel under the direction of the Commit tee of foreign Affairs. Five Others are employed in the same business which you will load with such articles as you may have ready to transmit to us. We congratulate with you on the treaties entered into with his most Christian Majesty and are with the greatest respect, Gentn, Your very humble servts, William Ellery Richd. Hutson Thos. Adams RC (PPAmP). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Adams, Ellery, and Hut son. Endorsed by John Adams: “Comtce of Commerce May 16. 1778 ansd. July 29.” 1 See Robert Morris’ Proposed Report on the Claims of Roderique Hortalez & Co., March 12, 1778, note 1. 2 A 15-page “Invoice of articles to be shipped from France by Roderique Hortalez & Co. for account and risque of the United States of America in whole or in part as the Commissioners of the United States at the Court of France shall direct” that was signed on May 18 by Adams, Ellery, and Hutson, is in the Franklin Papers, PPAmP. This “Invoice” is in a clerical hand, but a part of the heading was written by Ellery and portions of the list are in the hand of Theveneau de Francy. The May 16 resolves authorized the commissioners “to apply to the house of Roderique Hortalez & Co. for such of the said articles as they shall not have previously purchased or contracted for” and requested that the articles shipped by Hortalez & Co. not be insured, but that the commissioners “endeavour to obtain convoy for the protection thereof.” JCC, 11:505.


[Page 714]
682 May 16, 1778 of infractions said to have been committed on the part of the Con quered in the Convention of Saratoga & for requesting Your Excel lency to take the necessary measures for ascertaining Facts, so highly Interesting to the honor & welfare of these States. 1 Congress have this day ordered the Treasury Board to remit to Your Excellency the Sums specifically, which are provided, by the last Resolve of the Act, for this service. I have Honor to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Congress wanted Governor Clinton to ascertain the truth of reports that the British were violating the Saratoga Convention by forcing Canadian soldiers, who had been captured at Saratoga and released on condition they take no further part in the war, to fight against the United States again. JCC, 11:501-2. Clinton trans mitted “several Affidavits respecting the Infraction of the Convention of Saraghtoga on the Part of the Enemy’’ with a September 1, 1778, letter to President Laurens and promised to send further evidence of British violations as soon as possible. Clinton did gather additional information about British infractions of the con vention, but there is no evidence he ever forwarded it to Congress. See Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 3:717, 4:420-23. Henry Laurens to John Ettwein Reverend sir, York Town Saturday 16th May 1778 Congress have been so closely engaged in afFtiirs of gieat impor tance—requiring immediate attention—as to exclude hitherto the consideration of your Memorial, nor do I beleive there will be an opening for bringing it forward even on Monday next, although, as I judge from private conversation, there are many Gentlemen heartily disposed to grant your requests, the whole House may be so for aught I know. 1 As you have waited so many days without effect, you will probably save time by proceeding in your intended application to the State at Lancaster. 2 Be assured Sir I will lay your Papers before Congress at the first opportunity for taking them under consideration & as speedily as the case will admit of, you shall be informed at Lancaster or Bethlehem of such determination as shall be had thereon. From an opinion that the granting your requests will be equally consistent with sound Policy & Christian Charity, I cannot do less than wish very earnestly you may be dismissed from Lancaster with an answer which will give joy &: satisfaction to the Bietlnen &: eventu ally produce much benefit to these United States. I am Reverend Sir, with great affection &: Respect, Your friend & humble servt. Henry Laurens RC (PBMCA).


[Page 715]
May 16, 1778 683 ’John Ettwein’s memorial to Congress, dated May 12 but actually written a few days earlier and signed by Ettwein “In the Name of the Bishops & Elders & on Behalf of all the United Brethren,” is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi, and Kenneth G. Hamilton, John Ettwein and the Moravian Church during the Revolutionary Period (Bethlehem, Pa.: Times Publishing Co., 1940), pp. 197-99. This memorial, which Moravian church officials asked Ettwein to present to Congress because of his long friendship with Laurens, asked Congress to urge state governments—and particularly that of Pennsylvania—to relieve Moravians of the penalties to which they were liable under various state laws for their refusal to bear arms or abjure the king. Congress appointed a committee on May 14 to consider Ettwein’s mem orial but decided to take no formal action on the committee’s report, which advised the delegates that it would be impolitic to grant the Moravian request. Instead, as the letter printed above suggests, Laurens merely gave Ettwein permission to intimate to the Pennsylvania Assembly that Congress would have no objection if it granted the Moravians the relief they sought. That this was in fact one object of Laurens’ letter emerges even more clearly from an account of Ettwein’s dealings with Congress that the Moravian leader wrote in 1781. Therein he noted that he arrived in York on May 11 and went on to observe: “On that very day, there was published an Address to the People by Congress, which seemed to me like a roaring storm. The treaty with France had just become known and all was at a fever heat. I visited President Laurens without delay, acquainted him with my mission, showed him the memorial, requested him to correct the copy intended for Congress. He replied: it would not be necessary, I should present both of them just as they were; he considered it our duty to make representation, whether fruit should come of it or not. After reading the mem orials, he said: ‘I like your Spirit!’ He promised to speak with some members of Congress, naming some whom I should visit and interview privately about this. I did so early on the 12th of May, visiting 6 members of Congress; only Mr. Mac- Kean, Chief Justice of Pennsylv. proved unfriendly and told me: he would vote against it; if I were pledged to obey someone else, I would be no fit subject of the State. Governor [Gouverneur] Morris of New York introduced the memorial in Congress the same day, taking our part warmly, as did several others. Mr. Duane [Dana], a lawyer, said: ‘I believe the Moravians are good Subjects, but they will have nothing to do with pulling down old Governments & setting up new ones!’ He inquired of me, whether that were not our position, and I answered: ‘Yes!’ He volunteered to secure a piece of land of 5 to 6 square m. for the Brethren, 40 m. from Boston, together with an act from the State, similar to the act of Parlia ment, if we should care to establish a settlement there. I replied: now was not the time to contemplate anything like that. The eastern States require an oath of abjuration only from those who hold public office. The President said: should this people be driven into exile, he would be tempted to drop everything and go with them. A committee was appointed to examine the memorial more closely. Mr. Ellers [Ellery] of Rhode Island was purposely named for this; but afterward, by means of private juggling, MacKean replaced him on it. On the 14th, the Presi dent showed me their report in strict confidence. Its purport was as follows: that we still were in possession of our privileges, that even a mere representation to the Assembly would be too strong an action, etc. He was dissatisfied with it, laid the blame on M., and said: it should be recommitted! But after I had waited several days, I received the following document from the President himself, when I visited him on the 16th. [Here follows Laurens’ May 16 letter to Ettwein.] “Since he gave me verbal permission to make use of this, I gathered his intent, thanked him for his kind treatment, and journeyed to Lancaster.” See “A Short Account of the Disturbances in America and of the Brethren’s Conduct and Suffer ing in the Connection,” in Hamilton, John Ettwein, pp. 203-5. Despite Laurens’


[Page 721]
May 16, 1778 689 The treaty with France is so favorable to the United States, & so much beyond what has been ever done on such like occasions in the world before, that in return I shall by virtue of my sovereign power, not only recognize the King of France as the most Christian, but also the most wise, most just, most generous and most magnanimous of Princes. Now for some disagreeable intelligence. The Enemy, about a thousand in number, in row-gallies, flat-bottomed boats &c have been up at Bordentown, destroyed our frigates, row-gallies & all the vessels there, and burned Mr. Borden’s house, the tavern he devised to Josey M:Kean, Mr. Hopkinson’s and on the opposite shore all Mr Kirk bride’s buildings. I should be glad to hear from you by the way of Lancaster, and to know when you imagine the Boys will be ready to go to school. Goods are falling very fast—Coffee is retailed here, the very best, at 17/6, tho’ it was 22/6 two weeks ago. I am, my dear Sally, with love & kisses to the children, Your affec tionate, Thos M:Kean P.S. Yesterday the Officers in the army are allowed half-pay for seven years after the end of the present war. Colo. Francis Johnston upon my recommendation, and without his sollicitation or knowledge, is appointed Commissary-General of Prisoners in the stead of Mr. Boudinot, who has resigned in order to take his seat in Congress. 2 RC (PHi). 1 The following information was contained in Caesar Rodney’s May 8 letter to McKean, which is in Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 267-68. 2 See Henry Laurens to Francis Johnston, May 11, 1778, note 1. Marine Committee to the Middle Department Navy Board Gentlemen May 16th 1778 You are to appoint a Clerk & Treasurer for your Board and a Clerk for the Pay Office. You are to call upon Mr Lux for and Liquidate any Accounts he may have against the Continent as Continental Agent. You are to call upon 8c settle Mr Jonathan Hudsons Account for Superintending the building of the Brig Baltimore. You are to call upon Mr Stephen Steward whom we have appointed to settle the outstanding accounts and pay off the wages of the seamen of the Virginia and receive of him such Accounts as he hath collected as well paid as unpaid, and also his receipts for Seamens wages, and


[Page 724]
692 May 17, 1778 brought duplicates of the treaty, which was brought over by Mr. Dean. I have the pleasure to inform you that the Dean frigate, Capt. Nicholson, &: a 20 gun ship part of the fleet expected from France are arrived the one at Portsmouth the other at Boston. Doer. Cooper of Boston writes to Mr. Lovel a member of Congress of the 6th instant that most of the fleet expected from France were safely arrived, & Capt. Courier told me the day he left Boston several vessels were coming into port, so that in all probability all the expected supplies of cloathing &c &c will get safe to hand. This is great & glorious news. We were very uneasy respecting the fate of our little fleet which con sisted of about 10 or 11 sail, and which sailed from France very late in February. I am at loss to account for you not writing to me by the last post. I form a thousand conjectures; perhaps your letter may have been mislaid. I hope you are all well; if that was not the case, I am sure you would send off an express for me, that is Sam with horses to bring me home. Give my affectionate love to Molly. I hope she is much better than when She wrote to me last. My love to Mrs. Darnall & the little ones. By late accounts from the Camp our army is encreasing fast. God grant you a long continuance of health. I am, Yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. I forgot to mention that Doer. Franklin was presented to the King of France in form the 20th of March and most graciously reed. The King of France has appointed an Ambassador to these States, and a Committee was this day named for fixing the ceremonial of his reception. I am one of the Committee. Mr. Carmichael is arrived at Boston in the fleet above mentioned from France. In Congress 19th May. Gen. Mifflin has reed, a letter from Col. Biddle containing the following articles of intelligence—vizt that the Enemy have embarked their heavy cannon, that the stalles for their cavalry are compleated; that the Tories of Pha. have hired houses in N. York, in short from every appearance we may soon expect to see Pha. aban doned by the Enemy. It is said Gen. Howe is returned; he probably met when he got to the capes of Delaware with counter orders. We expect every hour dispatches from our General; but if it be true that that this day he will move towards Pha. he will too busy to write. A hot press has lately taken place in Pha. Whigs & Tories have been pressed on board without distinction. RC (MdHi).


[Page 728]
696 May 17, 1778 Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir, 17th May [1778] My last private is dated the 1st Inst. & forwarded by Messenger Cross since which I have been honoured with your Excellencys favors of the 13th & 18th April as acknowledged in a public Address of the 14th Inst. I presented & read these to Congress as public 8c received great satisfaction from the attention which was paid to the whole 8c not less from the applause generally expressed upon particular articles. Men are pleased with instances of watchfulness over the public Stock even when they are not themselves half so attentive to expenditures as they ought to be. As Your Excellency’s Letters are Committed, 8c the Merits of course are to undergo the consideration of Congress, it would be improper in me to decide on any part. I shall therefore speak to a few points in general terms without pretending higher authority than my own. The insurrections in our State 8c the affected Invasion upon Georgia were alarming, but I apprehend the whole appearance of danger has vanished before this day. The policy of St. Augustine, ’tis probable, led them to threaten, in order to avert a stroke which in their own weak state they dreaded at home. 1 ’Tis to be lamented that another Season is lost in which we ought to have removed the Enemy from that Quarter. I do not see at present any ground for apprehensions of a preconcerted Plan for attacking So. Carolina in front; we ought nevertheless to be continually prepared, guarded & watchful, this has been my sentiment from the earliest date of the War, 8c I have not lost the Idea of our receiving a brush from the tail of that Comet which has spread flames in these northern States. The Scotch are indeed exceedingly zealous in raising Troops but these must supply de ficiencies in the Numbers expected from Germany 8c will be wanted there or in the West Indies. The Enemy cannot be ignorant of the value of So Carolina 8c Georgia, 8c will assuredly call upon them at a leisure day; a persuasion of this fact on our part will lead us into such measures for defence 8c safe retreat as will render the work more arduous on theirs. One branch we ought to be most especially attentive to, it is abso lutely necessary to be jealous of every stranger 8c of every doubtful Character in the State, particularly so, in the Capital 8c other Sea Ports. If it were possible to procure a person, or more than one person whose business should be unknown to each other, to discover the errand of every Master of Vessel 8c of every Stranger coming in to our Country no expence would be too great for the purpose; Where bosoms are found impenetrable much discovery may be made by


[Page 730]
698 May 17, 1778 So. Carolina for public services, you would have been more cautious of draining our private Treasury. I had intimated when the draughts were given to Mr. Rose on the Loan Office that there was no Money there & that consequently the Bills would not be paid. I was really affected by the item of advance made on that account although made with the best intentions & my duty obliges me to add that more than one Member on the floor expressed dissatisfaction with the practice of advancing Money from a particular Treasury On general Account without special order. This was indeed rather applied to the advance made to the Commercial Agent. I was well pleased with the hint, persuaded in my own mind Your Excellency will not insist upon a second. 4 The taking up loan Office Certificates for raising Money seems to be very displeasing; If Money lenders will not deposit in that fund because of the low Interest, can a Negotiation in Trade be effected without a vast discount? Whatever this discount may be, it is kept out of Sight by laying the loss on the purchase. I refer only to the practice in this part of the Union. It has been asserted in Congress that a gainful infamous traffic has been carried on by some of our numerous hosts of honest Servants, by means of loan office Certificates, which have been, as they impudently pretended, passed for ready money; but the prices of articles produced by them were enhanced 25 to 50 Per Cent to the emolument of the contracting parties, I say sir, this has been asserted, & in a land abounding with practices of peculation & sacrilegious Robberies of public Money I find no difficulty in beleiving it, hence appears in another veiw the necessity for watchfulness. If the Evil had stopped in the instances alluded to, the loss would have been confined, but a door once opened to advanced prices corruption becomes contagious, pervades every branch of Commerce, calls for extra Millions, depre ciates the value of our Money, & threatens bankruptcy. There can be no doubt of the payment of Interest Money in Bills of Exchange in terms of the past resolves of Congress, but this is another Evil to be deprecated for the future. An attempt to renew this mode of Payment will be made, I shall as I did the former, oppose it with all my might. Some gentlemen now see the pernicious effects & acknowledge the justness of my predictions but when Men are Interested, their Sight fails on one side & continues extremely clear in the sinister view. Some shrewd remarks I learn have been made on the charge of our State account for the expence of the expedition against the Cherokees, it has been said, that Gentlemen were pleased with it, the Land Ceded by the Savages must of course be held as common property. The intimation came to me indirectly, through one of my Colleagues; at a proper time I shall be under no difficulty to find as proper an answer —precedent & Confederation will assist me. My Stated avocation will


[Page 731]
May 17, 1778 699 not spare me time for inspecting minutely, but I am pleased to learn that every charge which had been apparently incurred for the gen eral weal is introduced, I am under no doubt but our utmost intent will be fully countenanced. With respect to the little explanation between your Excellency & Genl. Moultrie it is sufficient to intimate that under the Resolve of Congress of the 9th Febry Governor Livingston Weeded out a num ber of useless & pernicious Officers in the State of New Jersey, among others a Dep. Qur. Master general, exactly a Case in point, for which I have once returned His Excellency the thanks of Congress—8c shall repeat the same tomorrow. Your Excellency’s refusing to grant Money before an account of the expenditure of former grants had been rendered has been marked with particular approbation, more of this will probably appear in the Report of the Committee, had Congress themselves given the ex ample two years ago millions would have been saved—we are but beginning—& seem rather disposed to put the labouring Oar into other hands but ’tis a momentous concern, in which each state is Interested 8c in which each executive in my humble opinion is in Duty bound seriously to interpose all their powers. It would take up the remainder of the Night were I to enlarge on this head by adducing Cases to prove the necessity for watchfulness over the public Stewards in every branch of expenditure meaning no imputation upon the Gentleman checked by your Excellency. The Sale of the General Moultries prize in a Dutch port is an Excellent prognostick of determinations at the Hague respecting these United States.® Poor old England, first cheat herself 8c now she will find she is bamboozled by all her Neighbors. Within this packet your Excellency will find an hand Bill contain ing the sarcastical declaration of the Ducke de Noailles to the Court of London of His Master’s alliance with the United States of America, which may possibly be new at Charles Town. Two days ago I transmitted an Act of Congress to the Governor of New Jersey 8c President of this State for conducting the Honorable John Penn 8c B. Chew, from the place of their confinement in the former to any place within the latter 8c there to release them from their parole when they will become amenable to the Law requiring all the Inhabitants to take an Oath of Allegiance 8c Abjuration 8c may make their election. ’Tis suggested by some Gentlemen they will take the Oaths 8c save their Estates. Your Excellency will read in the Connecticut paper the spirited reply of Govr. Trumbull to Mr. Tryon. This haughty Quondam must have suffered extreme mortification from the retorts upon his Certifi cates 8c empty Bills. 7 The Tories 8c Indians instigated at Detroit are become very trouble-


[Page 733]
May 17, 1778 701 that worthy Man in which he assures me the grand Council lately held at Valley forge had been conducted with perfect harmony 8c that he entertained the most favorable hopes from the plan concerted; hence I infer with the highest pleasure, he had a Cordial meeting & parting with the General & trust he will hereafter be aware of design ing flatterers. 11 General Burgoyne must now be far advanced toward the place where he may end his progress by a sudden stroke before his de parture. With great reluctance 8c not without great murmuring, he paid the Agents appointed by Major General Heath 94000 Dollars in solid Coin for the fuel supplied the British Troops last Winter, Transports are gone round to Boston to return the provision which those Troops consumed, in quantity & quality. We are now taking Measures for obtaining strong proofs of pre vailing Reports, that the Convention of Saratoga was broken on the part of Great Britain, & I am particularly desired by Congress to request your Excellency will without delay, cause an enquiry to be made of Captain Senf lately arrived in Charles Town respecting the Colours 8c Military Chest, 8c to transmit such intelligence by a faithful 8c expeditious Courier as may be received from that Gentleman. 12 Since his departure from this place it has been repeatedly intimated to me that he had said the Colours had been concealed in part of the Baggage declared sacred by an Article of the Convention 8c the Cash in the Military Chest deposited, in parts, in the hands of the Officers. I need not explain to your Excellency the vast importance of a detection of these frauds nor the absolute necessity for dispatch, nor that Captn. Senff ought to be examined touching other articles be sides those abovementioned 8c the whole upon Oath. Here we have also been somewhat dilatory, I urged the present determination up wards of two Months ago, within a few days of Captn Senf’s leaving this place. The fleet expected from France with Cloathing, ammunition &ca 8cca arrived about 14 days ago at Boston 8c Portsmouth 8c with them several very valuable prizes, no other particulars are received, except the naming 1 French 40 Gun Ship. Captn. Nicholson in one of the States Frigates 8c one other States Vessel, authentic 8c special advices I expect every hour. Spain reserves herself for the arrival of her plate fleet looked for in April, when if England shall have declared War against France she will enter the lists 8c Portugal has certainly acceded to the family Compact. Spain affects much munificence towards this Infant World, when I am at Liberty I will explain to Your Excellency that my singular opinion respecting her views prove to be well founded. I communicated my suspicions to my Colleague the Cheif Justice 8c beleive he has improved upon them in some of his advices to Charles


[Page 734]
702 May 17, 1778 Town, he said he would. At present that Gentleman is a truant, has been a fortnight on a Visit to Camp for which I shall salute his return with a little scold. A Man of his abilities & diligence I wish to have ever present. After two Months labor on a scheme for half pay to officers, in which, as a Silent auditor & Spectator, I was Witness to many excel lent & some violent Strokes in parliamentary Mancevre, a long Report of a Committee, ridden by amendments 8c New Resolves, the original project by the Grace of God, was the day before yesterday rid to Death, & from the Ashes, the inclosed Act of Congress of the 15th May, produced. I transmitted it Instantly to the Commander in Cheif; I shall learn in a day or two its reception in Camp. Congress have now Entered heartily upon the general Arrangement of the Army 8c will get through without difficulty. Your Excellency will receive in a seperate Packet 13.Sets of Marine Commissions 8cca all I have at present 8c all in my opinion that ought to be used until amendments suitable to our change of Circumstances are made. I have addressed Congress on this subject 8c hope we shall find time for the purpose immediately after finishing the arrange ment—also 20 Military Commissions which may serve in cases of exigency until I transmit more, with the Report on your Excellency’s Letters. The impropriety of my predecessors conduct in Signing 8c spreading in every quarter Commissions in the moment of his retiring was obvious, it has been necessary for me to replace thousands in the several departments. 13 It did not become me to restrain the act, but a remark escaped my Lips "My friend imitates General Vaughan who when he found it expedient to withdraw from Hudson’s Banks rav aged the Country.” Some officers inadvertently hold Commissions under such premature signature, not worth a rash. Your Excellency will be pleased to receive this as a performance accomplished in scraps of time after 4 or 5 different efforts. Tis now the 19th. I have the honor to be with very great Respect. 19th 3 oClock P.M. Just as I was about to close this Packet an acct, from Camp arrived. The Enemy in Philada are in motion but their manoevres 8c Stra tagems keep their real intentions inexplicable. All is conjecture. ’Tis said Sir Wm. Howe is returned, that their heavy Cannon are actually embarked. They have commited cruel Ravage on all the fruit Trees in & about the City. These they have stuck in a Semi-Circle on the Common 8c hung Lantherns upon each. Their design may be to attack General Washington—to get quietly off 8c go safely down the River with every moveable worth transporting—to penetrate the Jersey 8c cross over to New York. 8cc 8cc. 14


[Page 736]
704 May 17, 1778 from the Massachusetts Board of War and Gardoqui & Sons cited in the preceding note. JCC, 11:507. Although the journals fail to specify more precisely the purpose of this committee, it is clear that its main function was to make recommendations for the proper reception of the French ambassador to America whose appoint ment had been announced by the Spanish mercantile firm. Accordingly, Morris drafted a report advising Congress that “it will be necessary to the Reception of Ambassadors and other Foreigners of Importance, that the President of the Congress for the Time being should be allowed a House and Table at the Public Expence, and that a Master of the Ceremonies should be appointed to super intend the same, adjust the Ceremonies and the like.” PCC, item 23, fol. 351. Although Worthington C. Ford printed this undated report under the date July 31, 1778, in his edition of the journals, there is no evidence it was ever submitted to Congress, Morris’ committee being superseded on that day by the appointment of a new committee “to direct and superintend an entertainment to be given by Congress to the Hon. Sieur Gerard, minister plenipotentiary from his most Chris tian majesty." JCC, 11:733-34. Consequently, Congress did not agree to provide the president with “a convenient furnished dwelling house . . . and a table, carriage, and servants" until December 16, 1778. JCC, 12:1213-14, 1222-23. Since President Laurens is not listed in the journals as one of the members of the May 18 committee, it seems likely that he was merely asked to consult with it. “See John Laurens to Laurens, May 7, 1778, in Simms, Laurens Army Cor respondence, p. 169. 11 See James Lovell to John Adams, May 15, 1778, note 2- 12 Capt. John Christian Sent described his knowledge of British infractions of the Saratoga Convention in an August 5, 1778, letter to Laurens that is in PCC, item 78, 20:299. See also JCC, 10:29-35; and Laurens to Jacob Christopher Zahn, March 10, 1778, note 3. 13 "There was at least an Impropriety,” Lowndes wrote to Laurens on April 18, “in Commissions being given out in the name of Mr. Hancock, long after that Gentleman had vacated his Seat as President of the Congress, and the same Impropriety occurs daily in Commissions Issued out to the Military in the several Regiments.” PCC, item 72, fol. 458. 14 Laurens’ May 19 postscript was printed in the June 4, 1778, issue of the South Carolina and American General Gazette under the heading “Extract of a Letter from York-Town, dated May 19.” The printed text contains a concluding sentence that Laurens did not copy into his private letter book: “Gen. Washington is moving off his heavy baggage, &c. and preparing to face them, or stick in their skirts.” Henry Laurens to the Middle Department Navy Board Gentlemen. York Town 17th May 1778 Congress on the 13th Inst. Resolved that 600 Dollars be allowed to each of you for extra services at Bordenton & to defray expences going to Baltimore. 1 Shall I receive the Amount & transmit it to you or deliver the Resolve to some other freind here? I beg you will com mand in either way the services of, Gentlemen, Your obedient humble servant, Henry La[urens]


[Page 737]
May 17, 1778 705 [P.S.] A Gentleman from the City assures us Sir William Howe em barked for England on Tuesday last & left Sir H Clinton in Com mand. RC (PHi). Addressed: “Francis Hopkinson & John Wharton Esquires, Baltimore.’’ ’See JCC, 11:493. In an April 29 memorial to Congress, Hopkinson and Wharton had requested reimbursement for expenses they had incurred while performing services outside the scope of their duties as commissioners. See PCC, item 41, 4:31-32. This day Laurens also wrote a brief note to William Smith of Baltimore, in forming him that on May 9 Congress had appointed him “a Commissioner of the Navy Board in the Middle district.” See PCC, item 13, fol. 325; and JCC, 11:484. Smith took the place of John Nixon, who had resigned from the board. Oliver Wolcott to Andrew Adams Sir, York Town 17t May 1778 Your Favour of the 2d instant is reed. Your other Letters except that of the 2d March have failed. The Post now rides regularly, Let ters put into that offiece will therefore come safe. I was sorry to hear of your Want of Health. I Wish it may soon be restored to you. I hope it will be convenient for some one to relieve me in the Course of a Month. Altho I shall think it my Duty to continue in Congress during the present interesting Period ’till a full Representa tion is had, yet I have not the least Wish to prolong the Period of my Service. The Count Noalles Memorial, The Speech of Georgientus and his Wise Parliament you have seen. They Observe that they are much Inclined to bc Angry at the Conduct of France, but Wheather they will really be so We shall soon know. As to the Regulating Act which you Mention No one here thinks any Thing of it. A Recommendation would before now have gone from Congress to suspend it had it not been Apprehended it might have been disagreable to our State. I Am Very well perswaded that there is but a single Member in Congress in favour of it. 1 The States may certainly do what they please either to continue or suspend the Act without giving any offence. There is a Regulating Act in the Jersys and N [York. In] this State they made one and immediately suspended it and for ever will suspend it. I shall say nothing as to the Act—you know my Opinion. And I hope that this political Experiment will be so thoroly made as that there can be no Occasion to repeat it. I am sir, your Obedient Servant, Oliver Wolcott


[Page 738]
706 May 17, 1778 P.S. Duplicates of the Treatys with France have just Now been Brot. to Congress. No other Material Intelligence is reed than what We before had—Exceapt that Dr. Franklin was formally reed, on the 20 March as Ambassador to the French Court from these States. That Court has likewise Nominated an Ambassador to Reside here. RC (CtY). 1 For Wolcott’s earlier comments on the act for regulating prices, indicating that Roger Sherman favored such legislation, see Wolcott to Andrew Adams, April 25, 1778. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, York Town 17t May 1778 I have Wrote you three Letters since the beginning of this Month, one a few Days ago enclosed in a Letter to Mr. Lord. 1 I still injoy Health. May I be thankfull to him who bestows it upon me. I was in hopes to have reed, a Letter from you, but Brown says he passed the Town so soon that you had not Time to Write. However I was informed by him and by a Letter from Dr. Smith that you was well. By this Letter I am also informed you had the misfortune to lose a couple of your [Cows?]. Evils We must expect. This I hope will give you no great Pain. Yale College Corporation Dr. Smith tells me are much offended by a Letter I wrote to Oliver, and suggests it may possibly have some influence pritty Material upon the Election. 2 If so I shall give myself no concern. If my Election can depend upon (so precarious a Tenure} such a frivolous Circumstance I should most willingly {quit} lose it, Altho my Desire of continuing in the Assembly was much greater than I certainly know it now is. What Business the Corporation have with a Copy of my Letter I cannot conceive. Does any one think to prevent me from writing to a Freind any Thing which I apprehend to be true. Certainly I never will be under that Restraint. Oliver perhaps was oblidged to shew the Letter to his Tutor, or might have suffered a Freind to take a Copy of it. At most it must have been but an Inadvertance and I have no Inclination either to blame him or myself at present—and beleive I shall have no Occasion to do it. I feel Very Innocent and consequently totally unconcerned about this affair. This Day Duplicates of the Treatys with France were bro’t to Congress. But no Material Intelligence was bro’t—but what you must have heard of. Dr. Franklin was formerly Admitted at the Court of Versailles as Embasedor for these States on the 20t. March. That Court Will soon send over an Ambassador to Reside here. Brown bro’t Me a Letter from Mr. Adams wherein he says that he


[Page 739]
May 18, 1778 707 is not well and thinks that he shall not come to Congress. I hope I shall be releived before long. If Mr. Adams does not come I shall expect the Other Gentlemen will and take the Places of Mr. Hunt ington, and Mine at farthest by the Time that Brown comes back. In the Mean Time may the Almighty Bless you. My Love to my Children and Freinds. I am yours Affectionately, Oliver Wolcott 3 RC (CtHi). 1 Only Wolcott’s May 2 and May 9 letters to Laura have been found. Neither Wolcott’s letter to “Mr. Lord” nor his letter to his son Oliver mentioned below has been found. 2 On May 14, 1778, Wolcott and his colleagues Samuel Huntington and Roger Sherman were elected Assistants on the Connecticut Council. Public Records o/ Connecticut, 2:3. 3 On May 20 Wolcott wrote another brief letter to Laura in which he reported: “Our latest Accounts from Philadelphia are that the Enemy are about leaving that City, this May be probably true. We shall Very soon know What Part G. Britain Will take. This is an important Moment and We are happy by the favourable Appearance of Things, and flatter ourselves that the Power of the Enemy is upon a fast decline. The Indians are ravaging and Murdering the People on the Western Frontiers. The Conduct of G. Britain in setting on the Savages to Murder indis criminately as they do every human Being who falls into their Power ought never be forgot.” Oliver Wolcott, Sr., Papers, CtHi. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir York Town May 18th. 1778. The Inclosd Resolution of Congress is the result of the most pain full & disagreable question that hath ever been Agitated in Congress. 1 The question was Steerd before Col. Dyer left Congress & he will be able to give Some account of the matter & Sentiments of many of the States thereon. A most disagreable 8c serious debate hath Continued about seven weeks, a bill being brot. in for an half pay Establishment for life for the officers 8c to their widows during their widowhood; Several Collateral questions were determind on the progress of the debate which Shewed that Eight of the States were in favour of the Estab lishment for life 8cc as above, Rhode Island, Connecticutt, New Jersey, 8c South Carolina strenuously in the negative, New Hampshire being absent. General Washington wrote repeatedly upon the Subject expressing his great concern; 8c the necessity of the measure, in one of his Letters he Says that altho he never would take any benefit of such an Estab lishment himself, yet he did most religiously believe the Salvation of the Army depended upon it, 2 many of the States deemed the


[Page 741]
May 18, 1778 709 RC (Ct). Written by Huntington and signed by Huntington, Sherman, and Wolcott. 1 For the May 15 resolves granting half pay to commissioned officers for seven years and eighty dollars to soldiers and noncommissioned officers at the end of the war, see JCC, 11:502-3. 2 See Washington’s April 10 letter to President Laurens in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:235-41. 2 In his April 23 reply to William Tryon's April 17 request that he publicize Lord North’s conciliatory bills, Trumbull had observed that “propositions of peace are usually made from the supreme authority of one contending power, to the similar authority of the other; and the present, is the first instance within my recollection when a vague, half blank, and very indefinite draught of a bill once only read before one of the three bodies of the Legislature of the nation has ever been addressed to the people at large of the opposite power, as an overture of reconciliation.” After emphatically stating that British recognition of American independence was a prerequisite to establishing peace, Trumbull pointed out that it was to Congress that all peace proposals should be addressed. The conciliatory bill and letters of Tryon and Trumbull had been published in the May 5, 1778, issue of the Connecticut Courant and it was probably a copy of this paper that Trumbull enclosed with his May 5 letter to President Laurens, which was read in Congress on May 15. See JCC, 11:501. For Trumbull’s subsequent correspondence with William Tryon, see Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., June 5, 1778. 4 Governor Caswell’s April 26 letter reporting that North Carolina had ratified the articles of confederation was read in Congress this day. JCC, 11:506-7. 5 Huntington and Wolcott had also written a brief letter to Trumbull on May 15 acknowledging “Your Excellency’s Favour of the 5th inst by Brown who arrived last evening & will be detain’d a day or two—by him we shall write more fully.” Peter Force Collection, DLC. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, 1 York-Town May 18th. 1778. I have received the powers and instructions respecting the confed eration, and agreeably to a resolution of the house laid the proposed alterations and amendments on the table last Wednesday. The confederation was to have been taken up last Saturday; but was kept back by some pressing business. I do not expect that any of the amendments proposed by our State will take place, excepting that for taking estimates every five years. 2 If the confederation should be ratified before two delegates should arrive from our State it will be unrepresented; for, as I have long since informed the assembly, I shall be obliged to return home very soon. It is now about two years since I first attended Congress, and during that time, four months only excepted, the State hath been represented by one delegate. The saving thus occasioned will I hope enable the Assembly in future to keep up three members constantly in Congress; so long at least as it shall sit at such a distance from Rhode-Island. The necessity of this measure of having always three


[Page 743]
May 18, 1778 711 prepared to drive them off, or Burgoyne them where they be. I Shall be much Obliged if you will please to Send me by the post or first Opportunity a news paper containing the List of Representa tives for the present Session of Assembly, all or any Intelligence that Occurs. As Mr Brown is Setting off must refer you for farther particulars, & the proceedings of Congress to the Governors letter of this date and am with Esteem your humble Servt, Sami Huntington RC (CtHi). Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais My Dear Sir, 18th May [1778] I beg leave to refer you to mine of the 3d & 4th Inst, by Cross since which I have been honoured with yours of the 19th Ulto. I can say nothing in reply to it but my gratulations on the apparent recovery of Mrs. Gervais’s health. My best Compliments to the good Lady & assure her tis now my firm opinion & serious advice that you ought not &: should not get another Wife. I have poured forth crowds of News to His Excellency the president which you will learn there & I add some of our printed pieces which you may read at home, having gone through the labor of Copying the Treaties, signing, sealing & transmitting for Exchange a Copy of the Treaty of Commerce will be immediately published. I hope that of Alliance too, but some of my friends appear to be more nice than I hold to be discreet, or respectful toward the people at large & there will be some opposition to printing the whole. Major General Lee has joined the Army which I hear from J.L. is in fine order. My Dear friend God bless you. [P.S.] I beg you will write to Mr. Galphin. Tell him a Colonel Brown has paid me on his account fourteen hundred & Sixty Dollars—this Sum I request you to pay to Mr. Galphins Order immediately. I will write to my good old friend in a few days, make an apology for present omission. LB (ScHi). Henry Laurens to William Moultrie Dear General, 18th May [1778] On the 13th Inst I was honoured with your favor of the 20th April; the next Morning I presented it to Congress & it was ordered with


[Page 746]
714 May 19, 1778 Committee for Foreign Affairs to Jesse Brown Mr Brown [May 19? 1778] 1 Directions have been sent for one Vessel to be prepared in Con necticut; two in Massachusetts Bay and one in New Hampshire: and you have packets marked A. B. C. of great importance put under your care, which you are to carry with proper Secresy & dispatch, and to deliver according to the following directions. If his Excellency Governor Trumbull has a Vessel quite ready at your arrival there, you will deliver A to him. If he is but in expecta tion of having one ready Shortly, leave B with him. If he has no prospect or only a distant one, carry all the packets to Boston where you are to leave A B with the honorable President of the Council, and to proceed with C to Portsmouth, where you are to deliver it to the Continental agent John Langdon Esq., taking receipts for each delivery. Should you convey from Connecticut only two Sets, deliver but one at Boston, unless both Vessells are ready or will be ready in the time that would be required for your proceeding to Portsmouth. Should you proceed to the last mentioned place, and find Col. Langdon not prepared, you will let him know the state of the busi ness at Boston and Connecticut, so that he may use his judgement about the keeping the packet for an opportunity of conveyance, or sending it back, to one of the other places. Signed James Lovell FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). Addressed: “Instructions for the Express.” 1 These instructions were apparently written as the committee completed preparations to send three packets of foreign dispatches to France via various New England ports. See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., this date. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. York Town, May 19th 1778 Your Excellency having been requested by the marine Committee to have a Packet Boat in Readiness to carry important Dispatches to France, we have now sent such to your Care, conditionally; which we desire you to give in Charge to a trusty Captain, to deliver with his own Hands to our Commissioners at Paris. 1 Your Wisdom will dictate pointed Orders for conveying the Packets without Injury, with Secresy & with Dispatch; but, for sinking them in Case the Vessel should be unfortunately taken. 2 We are respectfully, Your Excellency’s Humble Servants, Richard Henry Lee James Lovell


[Page 749]
May 19, 1778 717 Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town 19th May 1778. On the 11th Inst. I directed a Packet to you containing Addresses by Congress to the Inhabitants of these States. At present I have no Commands on me from Congress, the bearer Mr Browne is to conduct a Sum of Money which I am told by the Treasury will amply releive you. Under this Cover I send an Act of Congress of the 15th Inst, for granting an half Pay to Officers after the War for a limitted time & for making a gratuitous acknowledgement to Soldiers. This is an exception to the first part of the preceeding paragraph. We have just received intelligence from Valley forge convincing of the Enemy’s design to leave the City, but their manoevres leave their real intentions inexplicable. ’Tis generally beleived they mean to penetrate New Jersey & enter New York. I have the honor to be, With much Regard & Respect, Sir, Your most obedient humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (MHi). Henry Laurens to Ralph Izard My Dear Sir, 19th May [1778] I have no time by this Courier but to make a bare acknowledge ment of your obliging favors by Mr. Deane & Capt. Courter accom panied by the duplicates referred to but I hope to overtake the Vessel by which this is intended with a more respectful reply & shall follow it by every opportunity in order to keep you acquainted with the state of affairs in this quarter, and I beg you will be assured that upon all occasions I will have at heart your honor & Interest, to the best of my ability & as effectually as if I had made a volume of promises. This Moment we learn the Enemy are moving out of Philadelphia but manoevre & stratagem cover for the present their true intentions, it is suggested they mean to penetrate through New Jersey & pass over to New York. I beg my best Compliments to Mrs. Izard & that you will be assured I am with perfect attachment & Esteem &ca. LB (ScHi).


[Page 751]
May 19, 1778 719 We have this Morning in Congress conformed to the Stile adopted in the Treaty of Paris—the United States of North America. I am with very great Respect LB (ScHi). Henry Laurens to John Wells Dear Sir. 19th May [1778] I can say nothing more in return to your obliging Letter of the 20th April but that the Bill for 200 Dollars lies on my Table—after your own misfortune I had ventured to disclosure to Mr. Hall the name of his friend & I added for his sake & yours & my own a Moiety of your donation. 1 His Excellency the President will give you Govr. Trumbull’s an swer to Mr. Tryon’s Complimentary Certificate upon empty Bills, & within this Inclosure you will receive bundles of printed Papers. If you write to me often & copiously I will acknowledge a debt & like other very honest planters if I can’t be punctual in payment I will allow Interest & make you my factor. Govr. Livingston in a private Letter which I have just now opened says Huzza for Congress. I am with great regard [P.S.] When you read Dalrymple’s encomium on his Countrymen for their immense Zeal in raising Troops for subduing America, you will either be ashamed of being or wish you were not a Scotsman—or neither. 2 They are certainly in that Quarter ardently Striving to play the Devil with us—but they may catch a Tartar & the Devil will catch them. The face of affairs is a little altered since the date of Mr. Dalrymple’s piece & poor Sanders may be sent to catch Negroes from Barbadoes to Jamaica or to have his patticoats turned up at Ports- down. LB (ScHi). 1 John Wells’ April 20 letter to Laurens is in the William Gilmore Simms Collec tion deposit, MHi. This day Laurens also wrote a brief letter to William Brown of Boston, enclosing “Daniel Beaurdeau’s [Beaudreau’s?] Bill 8th April 1778 on Wm. Erskine Esqr. Boston payable at sight to John Wells & by him & myself endorsed two hundred Dollars” and asking him to use it to “purchase the best Mens large white Silk Hose [and] if you can find room take in 4 or 6 pounds of the very best Coffee you can get.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 In January 1778 John Dalrymple, the lord provost of Edinburgh, had sent an address to the king in behalf of the government of the city offering to raise a regiment of 1,000 men to serve in America. London Chronicle, January 27-29, 1778.


[Page 755]
May 20, 1778 723 reject her terms vengeance will follow & this Infant World will be exposed to the pressure of her full power; for it does not appear that France & Spain are yet disposed to make the first declaration of hostility. In this view, I perceive a long train of direful consequences to America, but this is likewise speculative &: I am not furnished with sufficient premises for a larger discussion. Your remarks on the temper of the people on this side the Atlantic I conceive Sir, will not apply to the great Majority. Britain by her unexampled Cruelties has rooted out the former affections of America towards her, it will indeed be her aim, because it is her Interest to recover that loss, but before this can be accomplished, the benefits of an universal acquaintance & of an unrestrained Commerce with the World at large will be so generally experienced as to throw an insu perable Bar against any Bias in her favor. In America Great Britain will be regarded as one of the European States & just so far as Interest & Policy shall direct will she be entitled to the friendships of a people whom she had attempted to enslave, whom she had wantonly pro scribed &: most unmercifully persecuted; the detail will be transfused in American Almanacs from year to year & every Peasant will be taught to rejoice on the anniversary of deliverance; nor will the stile of “Protector of the Rights of Mankind” be read without its proper impressions & effects. I wait with some anxiety to learn the further movements in Phila delphia, we are just now told that there is an appearance of retiring from New York, if this be true it works another mystery which time must unfold. Our present policy is to assemble a large Army as the best foundation for treaty & the best guard against tricks. I am re joiced to learn that at Valley forge the Army is greatly improved by the unwearied attention & great skill of Major General Baron Steu ben. I have the honor to be &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 Louis Le Beguc de Presle Duportail (1743-1802), a French engineering officer, became colonel of engineers in the Continental Army in July 1777 and rose to the rank of brigadier general in November of that year. Elizabeth S. Kite, Brigadier- General Louis Lebegue Duportail, Commandant of Engineers in the Continental Army (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1933), pp. 11-34. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear General. 20th May [1778] With your favor of the 16th 1 came two Packets directed to Monsr. Gerard, which shall be carefully disposed of, the former of this direc tion, together with one for Compte Broglie & one for Monsr. de St. Paul are on their way to Boston to be embarked there in the same


[Page 756]
724 May 20, 1778 vessel in which the dispatches from Congress to the Ambassador Franklin are to be sent forward. I do not find that War was declared in England the 23d March. Commissioners for the American business were named & were soon to proceed on their Embassy, a very valuable French Ship called the Henriette just now arrived at Boston had been 43 hours in possession of the Enemy & suffered to proceed. From these circumstances it appears Great Britain was disposed to more deliberation than when she was wont to commence hostilities antecedent to a declaration. I have sent your Letter to Mr. Thomson. The Chevalier Failly may safely acquit General Gates who has done every thing in his power to obtain that Gentleman’s promotion according to promise; Monsr. Failly I believe received General Gates’s paper from me, in which he had signified the Merits of that Officer & earnestly requested Con gress to order him a Colonel’s Commission, the consideration was postponed till the arrangement of the Army should be completed, this will probably be in three or four days. 2 If Monsr. Failly will reposses me of that paper I will endeavor to introduce it again & to gain the assistance of Gentlemen to obtain what appears to me to be no more than due regard to General Gates &: justice to the Chevalier. I am with very great Esteem LB (ScHi). 1 Kalb’s May 16 letter to Laurens is in the William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, MHi; a transcript of it is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 The chevalier de Failly finally received a commission as brevet colonel on October 27, 1778. JCC, 12:1068. For some account of his previous efforts to attain this rank, see Laurens to Lafayette, March 6, 1778, note 3. Henry Laurens to George Washington Si r> York Town 20th May 1778 I had this Morning the honor of receiving & presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s favor of the 18th which is Committed to the Committee on the Army. 1 Inclosed Your Excellency will receive extract of a Letter from General Sullivan of the 3d Inst. & an Order of Congress thereon. 2 Also one branch of the Army arrangement which Congress Resolved this Morning, for establishing a Provost—the transmission of this detached article arises from an opinion in Congress that the measure ought to be immediately carried into Execution. 3 A proposition having been intimated for allowing subsistence Money to Officers in lieu of part of the customary Rations 4 this article & that of Pay are reserved as the last points for consideration. The


[Page 761]
May 21, 1778 729 or later break out into a Retribution of those Act 8c Neglects which at present pass away unnoticed by the Herd of Observers or rather of Lookers on. As to your Friend who hath thought proper to demand of you a Command, I did beleive from the first that his Resignation was like some former ones from the same Quarter meerly calculated to gain either Promotion or Favor or Revenge. 2 I was therefore led to expect that his Merits and our Misfortune in loosing him would become the Topick of Declamation 8c took the earliest Opportunity to express in the very strongest Terms my Satisfaction my Joy at the Receipt of the Letter from him and of Consequence to assign the Reasons why this Event gave me so much Pleasure. This gave a very different Turn to Affairs. Panegyrick dwindled to Apology and no Opposition was made to the main Point of accepting his Resignation. The next Day I was informed that he did not intend to resign, that his Letter was quite misunderstood 8cca. The Gentleman however had been so un lucky as to use the most pointed terms and therefore his Aid from whom the Information came was told that the observations he made came too late. I am perswaded that he will attempt to get reinstated if the least Probability of Success appears but I am equally perswaded that his Attempts will fail. I beleive his Friends are hitherto of that same Opinion and therefore we have as yet had no attempts made in Congress and possibly we never shall. I wish you would contrive to get the necessary Returns from Mary land Troops and others who have not made them so as that the arrangement may take Place as soon as possible. Believe me, Dr General, very sincerely yours, Gouv Morris RC (DLC). 1 Washington had expressed surprise at the behavior of Thomas Mifflin, "who some time ago . . . was desirous of resigning, now stepping forward in the line of the Army.” “That Gentleman’s stepping in, and out,” Washington went on to observe, “as the Sun happens to beam forth or obscure is not quite the thing, nor quite just with respect to those Officers who take the bitter with the Sweet.” See his May 18 letter to Morris in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:414. ’Washington was concerned by reports that his old nemesis Thomas Conway was seeking reinstatement in the army. Ibid. Gouverneur Morris to Anthony Wayne Dr Wayne. York Town 21st May 1778. Colo. Johnson delivered me yours of the 16th. I am sorry the busi ness of the Army hath been so long delayed. For your Comfort I have to assure you that it goes on tho not with the Rapidity You and I and every Body else wish. Your good Morals in the Army give me


[Page 762]
730 May 21, 1778 sincere Pleasure as it hath long been my fixed Opinion that Virtue and Religion are the great sources of human Happiness. More espe cially is it necessary in your Profession firmly to rely upon the God of Battles, for his Guardianship and Protection in the dreadful Hour of Trial. But of all these Things you will and I hope in the merciful Lord you have been made fully acquainted by that pious young Man Friend Hutchinson. What will be the Success of Colo. Johnson’s Application I know not; hope favorable. 1 Adieu. Pray beleive me with great Sincerity, yours, Gouvr Morris RC (PHi). 1 On May 23 Congress rejected Col. Francis Johnston’s request to retain his rank in the line while serving as commissary general of prisoners. See JCC, 11:525; and Henry Laurens to Johnston, May 11, 1778, note 1. Henry Laurens to Francis Bailey Sir, 22d May [1778] Inclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of this date, for ex empting & disqualifying Deserters from the Enemy, from acting as Miiitia Men or subsitutes, which you will be pleased to print in hand Bills in pure German. 500 Copies. I shall direct a person to call on you to Morrow or on Monday for 250 Copies, send 250 Copies to me, as the work is short I hope to receive these by the present bearer. I am with great respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Henry Laurens to John Bayard Sir, 22d May [1778] Inclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 19th Inst, con taining a Report from the Board of War on a Memorial from the General Assembly of this State; and a Resolution founded on that Report for an enquiry into the building Forts at Ligonier & Hana’s Town & for examining Accounts of the Expence attending the same. 1 I am with great respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “John Bayard Esqr. Speaker of the Assembly, Lancaster.” 1 On April 14 Congress read and referred to the Board of War an April 2 memor ial from the Pennsylvania Assembly asking Congress to pay for the construction of two forts in Westmoreland County that local officials had recently erected to stave off British and Indian attacks. After considering this memorial, the board reported to Congress on May 19 that it had been unable to determine if the two posts


[Page 763]
May 22, 1778 731 served * only a local, instead of a general purpose,” and therefore Congress decided to refer the memorial to the commandant of Fort Pitt, with instructions to ascer tain whether or not the building of the two forts should be considered a Con tinental expense. Eventually the board decided in December 1778 that Congress was not liable for the costs of building the fort at Ligonier, and although it then passed no judgment on this issue in regard to the fort at Hanna’s Town there is no evidence Congress ever paid for its construction either. See JCC, 10:344, 11:509-11, 12:1182; and PCC, item 41, 8:50. Henry Laurens to James Mease Sir, 22d May [1778] Yesterday I presented to Congress your favor of the day before, 1 this with the several Papers which accompanied it were referred to The Board of Treasury from whom you will now receive a Letter by Mr. Brailsford. 2 I requested the Gentlemen to return the papers which you desired might be sent back. 3 I find that is not complied with by the present Messenger, but it shall be, when the business to which those papers relate is ended. Inclosed you will receive a packet which came to my hands three days ago. I am with great respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Clothier General James Mease’s May 20 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 78, 15:343-46. In it Mease announced that the army was well supplied with clothing, asked Congress to pay for the clothes he and his Boston agents Otis & Andrews had purchased, and suggested an end to clothing purchases by Pennsylvania state offi cials. Congress referred Mease's request for payment to the Board of Treasury, and after reading the board’s report on May 25, it agreed to provide Mease with $650,000. On the other hand, Congress failed to follow Mease’s advice about state purchasing agents and decided instead on May 29 to suspend all clothing pur chases by Mease and Otis & Andrews and to require them to submit their accounts for inspection to the Board of Treasury. See JCC, 11:517, 531, 545. 2 Mease wrote a letter on May 23 to Board of Treasury member Elbridge Gerry in reply to a May 22 letter from Gerry that has not been found. PCC, item 78, 15:339-41. It is clear from Mease’s response, however, that Gerry had asked him to send the board detailed accounts of the clothing purchased by Otis & Andrews. 3 The papers in question were accounts of clothing purchases by Mease and Otis & Andrews. See the May 20 letter from Mease to Laurens cited in note 1. Henry Laurens to Peter Muhlenberg Sir, 1 22d May [1778] In consequence of a Memorial which I had lately the honor of presenting to Congress to which your name was subscribed the In closed Act of the 18th was Resolved for appointing the Reverend Mr.


[Page 765]
May 23, 1778 733 quickly conveyed to them of his, a Body said to consist of at least 6000, by a forced March had penetrated the Country & nearly sur rounded him. We have received no authentic account of his Retreat, but an Officer who had been of the detachment, represents it in a light very honorable to the Marquis, effected without loss. The Enemy came up to the River immediately after he had passed it with Troops & Cannon breast deep. They looked at the Marquis & re turned to the City. Colo. Harrison from Virginia with about 500 of his Regiment of Artillery a Corps of fine appearance is here on his way to Valley forge. The Enemy’s Vessels marked in the Pennsylvania Gazette as taken in Georgia with the Galatia which I hope is also taken or destroyed amount to a Capture of high Value to the United States, they had long infested the Coast & interupted hundreds of Vessels bringing supplies to us & transporting produce from So Carolina & Georgia. Congress have adapted the Stile introduced in the Treaties of Paris of the 6th Febry. “the United States of North America.” I have the honor to be [P.S.] Two French vessels at Wilmington, one at Beaufort, one at Edenton, all in North Carolina are just arrived &: said to contain useful & valuable Cargoes. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 'Governor Clinton’s May 13 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 67, 2:114-16. In it Clinton asked Congress to extend the June 10, 1778, deadline for implementing an April 23 resolve that urged state legislatures to pass laws or state executives to issue proclamations offering pardons to loyalists who agreed to submit to American authority. See JCC, 10:381-82. This extension was necessary in New York, the gov ernor explained, because he did not have the constitutional authority to issue such a proclamation and the legislature was not due to reconvene until June. Despite this plea, Congress did not extend the June 10 deadline. Along with his letter Clinton also sent Laurens a list of laws passed by the state legislature in response to various recommendations of Congress and a May 4 letter from a New York militia officer dealing with reports of the military situation in northern New York and Canada. PCC, item 67, 2:118-20. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town, 23d May 1778. My last was the 19th by Brown since which I have not been hon oured with any of your favors, as appears by the list sent in by the Secretary, although I think he has omitted one received by Mr. Brails ford, which time will not permit me at this Instant to enquire into. The Gentleman who is so good as to conduct this, waits while I write. I shall address you again by Brailsford in four or five days. At present please to receive an Act of Congress of the 22d Inst, approving your


[Page 766]
734 May 23, 1778 method of transacting the provision business with Major General Pigot & enjoining you to demand Payment for incidental Charges in unloading, removing & Storing such Provision in solid Coin. 1 I likewise inclose a Pennsylvania Gazette of this date containing a Resolve of Congress of the 19th & one of the 22d Inst 2 together with scraps of Interesting Intelligence. I have the honor to be, With great Regard & Esteem, Sir, Your Obedient & Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (MHi). 'See JCC, 11:523. 2 See the following entry. Henry Laurens to the Massachusetts Council Honorable sir. York Town 23d May 1778 My last went by McClosky under the 11th Inst. 1 —since which I have had the honor of receiving & presenting to Congress your sev eral favors of 25th, 27th, & 28th April. 2 These are Committed & remain for consideration. Please to receive within the present Inclosure an Act of Congress of the 21st Confirming a Report of a Committee on a Memorial from divers Inhabitants of Nova Scotia. 3 Also a Pennsylvania Gazette containing an Act of Congress of the 19th & one other Act of the 22d—the former for ascertaining Pay & Rations to Captive Land Officers, the latter for exempting Deserters from the Enemy from Militia Duty to which I beg leave to refer for particulars. I am with great Respect & Esteem, Honorable Sir, Your most obed ient & humble Servt. Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (M-Ar). Addressed: "The Honorable Jeremiah Powell Esquire, President, Massachuset Bay.” 'See Laurens to George Clinton, May 11, 1778, note 1. 2 The Massachusetts Council’s April 27 and 28 letters to Laurens, dealing respec tively with price regulations and the difficulties of complying with a congressional request to disperse General Burgoyne’s captured army throughout Massachusetts, are in PCC, item 65, 1:304-9. For Congress’ May 30 resolve on the dispersal of these troops, see JCC, 11:556. See also Laurens to the Massachusetts Council, Febru ary 20, 1778. The council’s April 25 letter has not been found, but according to the journals it dealt with the issue of the expenses Massachusetts had incurred in maintaining Burgoyne’s army. JCC, 11:518. 3 On March 3 twenty-three “late Inhabitants of the Province of Nova Scotia,” who were then in Boston, signed a petition to Congress asking for permission to raise men for an expedition against Nova Scotia and requesting that the province be allowed to join the confederation. PCC, item 41, 7:21-23. On May 21 Congress approved the report of the committee to which this memorial was referred stating


[Page 768]
736 May 23, 1778 jects of your Letter are committed to the Board of War & continue unreported. I have the honor to be &ca. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 General Sullivan’s May 3 letter to Laurens, outlining the needs of his Rhode Island command, is in PCC, item 160, fols. 111-12, and Sullivan, Papers (Ham mond), 2:46-48. Accordingly, on June 13 Congress asked the delegates of Connecti cut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire to write to their state governments and urge them to send troops to Rhode Island. JCC, 11:605. 2 See Laurens to Washington, May 20, 1778, note 2. 3 Laurens also wrote a brief letter this day to former Commissary General Joseph Trumbull, transmitting a May 19 resolve on the settlement of Trumbull’s accounts. See PCC, item 13, fol. 334; and JCC, 11:509. Gouverneur Morris to John Jay Dr Jay, York Town 23d May 1778 I send you the Translation of a Letter to which is subjoined the following Note. “The Members of Congress from New York may pos sibly some of them know the Mr Hartwig above mentioned. A com munication of such Intelligence as may be had concerning him will oblige their very humble Servant, B Franklin. Passy near Paris 28 Jany 78.” Mr Johannis Christopher Hartwig or Hartwick a Native of Gotha, having made Theology his study went to London in 1744, was or dained a Minister of the Gospel and sent by Order of the King to America. There he became a Preacher at the Camp and at Rhinebeck for many years. His Reputation & Zeal obtained for him at the Close of the last War the Post of superintendant to the Churches in Vir ginia and his Circumstances were in other Respects so flourishing that he became possessed of a considerable real Estate in Albany. The last Letter to his Family he dates the 19th Novr 1773 and told them that he is not maried, that his age'will no longer permit him to per form the Duties of his office in the manner he formerly had fulfilled them and therefore he had resolved to return and spend the Re mainder of his Days in his native Country. Since that time his Family have heard nothing from him and if now living he is sixty five years of Age. It is requested that Doctor Franklin will have the Goodness to make some Enquiry into the Fate of the said Johann Christoph Hartwick and in Case he should have died to procure the necessary Intelligence as to the Estate he may have been possessed of and the


[Page 772]
740 May 23, 1778 from Manheim on May 19 to commissary of prisoners Elias Boudinot (on the sub ject of Lt. Andrew Robinson of the York County, Pa., militia, a prisoner in New York), Lloyd W. Smith Collection, NjMoHP; and on May 22 to William Lee at Paris (on the subject of his late brother Thomas Morris), Robert Morris Letters, ViHi. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, 24 May 1778 Your letters by the last post, which I ought to have reed, last Mon day, I reed, last Wednesday; they went by mistake to Lancaster & were returned by the return post. A Law has passed in this State, of which you are probably ignorant, calling in all the money, issued under the Proprietary governt., by the 1st of next month; after that day it is not to pass: 1 persons having such monies 8c residing out of this State have a further time for bring ing them in—I believe till sometime in August. Do look over your cash, and select from it all bills passed by the Legislature of Pennsyl vania while under the dominion of G.B. You will find the Law in the Lancaster newspaper; probably it will be reprinted in Baltimore. I have written, 8c sent my letter to Col. Moylan recommending to his notice the person whom Mr. J. Howard wrote to me about. Please to inform Mr. Howard of this. It will always give me pleasure to render him such services. The Marquis de la Fayette crossed the Schuyilkill last Monday with 2300 men; he was ordered to draw near the city of Pha. and observe the enemy’s motions; it has then imagined they were about to leave Pha. The Enemy had very early information of the Marquiss march, 8c they laid a scheme to intercept him: on Mon day night they marched with 7000 men from Pha. in 3 columns taking different roads: one of these Columns had got in the rear of the Marquiss unperceived; the other was near his front, the 3d on his flank: from this perilous situation the Marquiss extricated himself by a rapid March to the Schuyilkill, which he passed with his whole detachment 8c altho the water was middle deep he brought off his men 8c cannon safe. As soon as he had gained this side of Schuyilkill he drew up, the Enemy on the other side looking on; the alarm guns at Gener. Washington’s camp firing gave the alarm to the Enemy’s column which had got in the rear of the Marquiss and they marched as quick back as they came out. Had this column attacked the Marquiss detachment, it is probable the whole would have been killed or taken. General Washington in his last letter (I think dated the 18) informed us he was of opinion, from all the accounts he had reed, from Pha.,


[Page 773]
May 24, 1778 741 that the Enemy were about to leave that city; his conjecture was that they were going to N. York, & from thence might possibly proceed to the W. Indies. Notwithstanding these appearances & the General's opinion founded on them, I am inclined to think the Enemy will not leave Pha. before the arrival of the Commissioners, who may be daily expected. If they do not acknowlege our Independence, but should have declared war agt. France, I am of opinon they will continue the war in this country and not carry their army to the W. Indies, to perish in that unwholsome climate. If Joe has finished all the Jobbs at Annapolis, I wish you would set him about preparing stones to line a cold bath; the stones already raised at the soap stone quarry would be sufficient for this purpose, as the bath need not be in the clear more than 10 feet long &: 8 broad & 4 feet, 6 inches deep. When I return I will direct where it shall be dug. Joe will be free some time next month, he may be engaged to stay till the bath is finished. I wrote to Skerret by last post to engage the Gardiner at £60 per annum wages. He is a sober & an industrious fellow, &: considering the little value of the money, & the dearness of cloaths, I do not think that sum much out of the way. Inclosed you have yesterday’s paper of this place, it contains all the news circulating here except what is above related & what follows. The only vessels arrived at the Eastward making part of the fleet which sailed from France the latter end of February are the Dean Frigate, and the Queen of France; the Duke de Choiseul one of this fleet is not yet arrived; she parted with the Dean off the western Islands in a gale of wind. Besides the above vessels, the Henrietta, a French Ship with a very valuable cargo, is arrived at Boston. She was in the Enemy’s possession 43 hours, all her papers were thrown over board. The Brigt Resistance is arrived at Boston from Martinico. Mr. Bingham, the Continental agent there, writes that the Govr. has reed, orders to put every thing in a posture of defence, &: to be pre pared as if war was certain. Do let me know in your next how the Vineyard thrives. Has the fruit suffered by frost this spring? If it has escaped hitherto, I hope there will be a good deal of it. Remember to answer this part of my letter. 25th P.M. I have yours & Molly’s of the 21st instant by this day’s post. It will not be in my power to attend the approaching session of our Assembly. There are but 3 Delegates from Maryd. now attending Congress, Plater, Henry, & Self. Mr. Henry will leave this the latter end of this week, or the beginning of next. The death of Mr. Stone’s brother will prevent his attendance for some time. Chase won’t be here till towards the middle of next month; altho’ he is not in our assembly, he will do well to attend it some time. I shall return home


[Page 775]
May 25, 1778 743 tieman of the Marine Committee the Necessity and Importance of keeping your Board duly supplyd with Cash to enable you effectually to do the duty of your department and was told that 50 thousand of Dollars had been lately remitted to you. 1 I will not fail to do what in me lies to forward that Service, as our Navy has always lain near my Heart. I am exceedingly pleasd to find that our Army makes a much bet ter Appearance than it has done since the Commencement of this War. It is very respectable in Point of Numbers and Discipline has been happily improvd by the Baron de Stuben who is appointed Inspector General with the Rank of Major General. 2 The invariable Accounts from Philadelphia are that the Enemy are making Prepara tions for an Embarkation, and it is expected they will soon leave that Place. Where they will proceed next you can as easily conjecture as we. I am not apprehensive of their visiting Boston; I wish however that more effectual Measures might be taken to strengthen & secure that Harbour & Town from Insult to which I think it is too much exposd. I recollect that your Election of Counsillors will come on the Day after tomorrow. Has Mr 3 waited for the Event of that im ¬ portant Day? or is he on his Journey to this Place? It is a matter of so much Uncertainty here, that Nothing, I suppose prevents many wagers being laid upon it, but its being not of so much Moment as some others. Was he present here, he might, if he pleasd, vindicate me against a Report which has given occasion to my Friends to rally me, that I have been called to Account and severely reprehended at a Boston Town Meeting for being in a Conspiracy against a very great Man. 4 You know how little I care for such Rumours. It is easy for me to conjecture by what Means it extended it self from Manheim where I first heard it to York Town; and it may not be difficult to guess how it came from Boston to that Place. Manheim is about 12 miles East of the Susquihanna; there lives Mr R.M. a very intimate Acquaintance of my excellent Friend. Mr H is said to be on the Road, but no one makes it certain. When he arrives Messrs Gerry & Dana propose to set off for N England. I shall be mortified at their leaving us, for I verily think that the Accession even of that Gentleman will not make up for the Absence of the other two. I am happy to find Cfongress] in perfect good humor and attentive to Business though so hard put to it in this place, as hardly to have a Room a piece in which to write a letter to a Friend. It brings to my Mind the Circumstances & Temper of the old Deputies who sat down under a Tree to eat their Bread and Cheese. This is the Kind of Men who are the Terror of Tyrants. I hope I shall shortly be able to write you something of Importance, from the Army at least. In the mean time Vale et me ama.


[Page 777]
May 25, 1778 745 Henry Laurens to Francis Johnston Sir, 25 May [1778] Your favor of the 12th Inst, reached me last Evening. This Morning I presented it to Congress & agreeable to your Recommendation the Reverend Doctor David Jones was appointed Chaplain to the Brigade under your Command, &: I beg leave to refer you to the inclosed Act of this date for that purpose. 1 Your refusal of the appointment to succeed Collo. Boudinot as Commissary of prisoners is Entered on the Journal of Congress, the duties of that Office must remain on that Gentleman a few days longer. 2 Accept my best wishes & beleive me to be with great Regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 'See JCC, 11:530. Col. Johnston’s letter of recommendation is in PCC, item 78, 13:75. ’See Laurens to Johnston, May 11, 1778. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Sir, 25th May [1778] Since my last of the 15th Inst. 1 by Sharp through the Camp at Val ley forge, I received your Excellency’s Report of proceedings respect ing Dep. Qur. Master Giffor[d] Dally &c which I had the honor of presenting to Congress. It was Committed & remains in the hands of the Committee—in the mean time it is my duty in obedience to the order of Congress to repeat their approbation. 2 Your Excellency’s application for Money to pay for purchase of Horses was on the 16th Inst, transferred to the Quarter Master Gen eral who was "ordered immediately to pay for such Horses & to settle the accounts with the persons employed to make the purchases agree able to the terms upon which your Excellency engaged’’—and I entertain hopes that business is completed. 3 Within, your Excellency will be pleased to receive an Act of Con gress of the 22d Inst, recommending to the Legislatures of the several States to disqualify all deserters & prisoners from the Enemy’s Army & Navy from acting as Militia Men or Substitutes during the present War, & for your Excellency’s information I add Copy of an Act of the 15th for establishing for a time limitted an half pay for Officers of the Army after the conclusion of the present War. I have the honor to be LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to Benjamin Chew and John Penn, May 15, 1778, note 2. 2 On May 16 Congress read and referred to a special committee a May 9 letter


[Page 784]
752 May 26, 1778 1 Warrens’ May 7 letter to Gerry is in C. Harvey Gardiner, ed., A Study in Dissent. The Warren-Gerry Correspondence, 1776-1792 (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press, 1968), pp. 116-17. 2 See JCC, 11:529, 531. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, 26th May 1778 Since my last of the 11th Inst, by Post I have had the honor of pre senting to Congress your Excellency’s several favors of 26th April, 2d & 6th Inst, which remain subjects for Consideration. 1 Capt. Blount is here & will probably be the bearer of the Resolutions of Congress respecting them. In the mean time this will serve to Cover an Act of the 22d Recom mending to the several States to exempt from Militia service &: to disqualify for acting as Substitutes all prisoners & Deserters from the British Army & Navy. Daily Accounts repeat the Enemy’s preparations for evacuating Philadelphia—there can be no doubt of the appearance but time will shew the reality. I have not had a Letter from General Washington later than the 18th, the General never trusts appearances. The Marquis delafayette lately detached upon a Command of observation with about 2200 Chosen Men & Officers, had nearly been surrounded by 7000 from the City, betrayed undoubtedly by a Tory or a Deserter. The Marquis displayed great Generalship in his retreat which he effected without Loss of Men, Cannon or baggage. Intelligence of his alarming situation reached the Camp at Valley forge, this was announced by the usual means of firing three Cannon. To the honour of Major General Baron Stiiben, the whole Army in fifteen minutes were under Arms, formed & ready to march but the Enemy who had reached one Bank of Schuylkill just as Marquis delafayette had gained the opposite—contented themselves with giv ing him a look, perhaps a smile, he returned immediately to Phila delphia. The Marquis continues abroad with his detachment of observation. I have the honor to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 On May 18 Congress read an April 26 letter from Governor Caswell to Laurens, announcing that the North Carolina Assembly had “acceded to the articles of Confederation, proposed to the United States by Congress.” See JCC, 11:506-7; and N.C. State Records, 13:102. Four days later Congress read a May 2 letter from Caswell, transmitting three acts passed by the assembly in response to various recommendations of Congress as well as an assembly resolve thanking Capt. Denis Nicolas Cottineau for the services he had performed for the state and forwarding


[Page 785]
May 26, 1778 753 to Congress the Frenchman’s request for a commission in the Continental Navy. See JCC, 11:524; PCC, item 72, fols. 47-50; and N.C. State Records, 12:734-35, 738, 13:112-13. For further information on Cottineau, see Laurens’ letter to him of April 9, 1778. Finally, on May 25 Congress read and referred to the Committee at Camp Caswell's May 6 letter and an enclosed resolve of the assembly authorizing him “to draw on the Continental Treasury for five hundred thousand dollars to be applied in raising and marching men to complete the Continental Battalions belonging to this State.’* See JCC, 11:530; PCC, item 72, fols. 51—52: and N.C. State Records, 12:732, 13:122-23. For the steps Congress took on May 29 to reduce Caswell’s draft on the treasury to $100,000, see JCC, 11:550-51. Henry Laurens to Samuel Chase Dear Sir, 26 May [1778] Under Cover of your favor of the 20th I received yesterday two Packets directed to Mr. M. Ridley, Paris. 1 These come too late to go with the first class of dispatches to our Ambassadors, but tis possible to overtake them. I have sent both packets to Mr. Otis at Boston & presuming one is duplicate of the other have requested his particular care to forward them by the two first good Vessels, those in which the public papers go, if on time. I am with great esteem &ca. [P.S.] Every day bring similar accounts of the Enemy’s preparations for evacuating Philadelphia, but not a word from the General since the 18th. I had a Message yesterday from General Stiiben, he hoped to see me in Philadelphia in six days. The Marquis delafayette had an opportunity of displaying his Generalship last Week in a retreat without loss. To the honor of Baron Stiiben when the account of the Marquis’s being surrounded had reached the Camp & the Alarm fired, the whole were completely under Arms, formed &: ready to March in fifteen Minutes. LB (ScHi). 1 Matthew Ridley, a Baltimore merchant residing in France who was appointed by the Maryland legislature in 1781 as an agent to negotiate European loans for the state. Kathryn Sullivan, Maryland and France, 1774-1789 (Philadelphia: Uni versity of Pennsylvania Press, 1936), pp. 52, 121-34. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town 26 May 1778 My last was by the hand of Capt. Nevers under the 23d Inst—since which I have been honoured with your favor of the 4th by Mr Adams &: presented it yesterday to Congress with the papers accompanying


[Page 786]
754 May 26, 1778 it, the whole of which were Committed to the Treasury, from whence I am assured you will receive ample supplies of Money. 1 Within the present inclosure I transmit an Act of Congress of yesterday for paying to Brigadier General Glover such Amount as shall appear to be due for supplies by him to the Prisoners of the Convention of Saratoga. 2 And in a seperate Packet 50 Copies of the Act of 22d mentioned in mine of the 23d. Half these are printed in the German Tongue, Congress apprehend that from a proper dis persion among the foreign Troops good effects may be produced. I have the honor to be, With very great Regard & Respect, Sir, Your obedient & humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (MHi). ’General Heath’s May 4 letter and enclosures are not in PCC, but see ]CC, 11:530. 2 See JCC, 11:532. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen May 26th 1778 We now transmit you by the hands of Mr. Norton Brailsford an Express the sum of fifty thousand Dollars agreeably to the enclosed receipt which you will receive and appropriate to the use of the Navy in your Department, crediting this Committee for the same. 1 We hope this sum with the Monies which you will have received for the Warrants on the Loan Offices formerly transmitted will enable you to go on with vigor in your business, and it is our desire that your utmost endeavours be exerted to have all the Continental Vessels of war in your District speedily prepared for the sea & that you send them out to Cruize Against the enemy according to the plan pro posed in your Letter of the 9th of March last. We are Gentlemen, your hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Samuel Adams to James Warren, May 25, 1778, note 1. Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare Hond Sir York Town May the 27th 1778 I arrived here the 21st Inst, in the Morning. Mr. Wentworth & his waiter were Innoculated at Fish Kills the 13th, and rode with me to Reading about 46 miles from this place,


[Page 787]
May 27, 1778 755 where by the advice of Genl Gates, they tarried till they should get thro the disorder. Mr. Wentworth began to have the Symptoms about 20 miles before he arrived there. I have not heard from him since I left there the 19th. I think it my Duty to inform you that the President of Congress thinks himself neglected in not receiving answers to his letters. He Desired to know of me whether our Governor had Receivd any letter from him for Eight months past: that he had Reed no answer to any of his for that time; tho he had taken particular Care to Send Duplicates as often as he trusted them to the Common posts. I Endeavoured to Excuse the matter as well as I could, by telling him that some of his letters were little more than covers to acts & resolves of Congress which were supposed to Require no other answer than a Compliance with their Directions: that I Believed Some answers had been sent since that time, which by reason of the irregularity of the post were not come to hand. He said that Every letter that he wrote by order of Congress, deserved an Answer, at least so far as to let it be Known that it was received; that the way to know whither any letter miscarried, was to keep up a constant Correspondance and note the last letter sent; that it would be but a small matter on the Receipt of Every letter to inform of its being Receivd, if nothing more; and when any thing was done in consequence of any order of Congress to let it be known &c &c &C. 1 The Confederacy is not yet Ratified, North Carolina being un represented & two or three of the other States not having impowered their Delegates to Confirm it; It is the opinion here that it will be Universally agreed to. I have nothing new to inform you of, more than you will see in the Public papers. I am with the greatest Respect Sir, your most obedient, Humble Servant, Josiah Bartlett RC (MHi). 1 Bartlett’s criticism, which reinforced President Laurens’ April 20 request to Weare that he acknowledge official correspondence, struck a responsive chord. In his July 3, 1778, reply to Bartlett, which is in the Josiah Bartlett Papers (NhHi microfilm), Weare promised to correspond regularly with Laurens. Weare’s fre quent letters to President Laurens after July 4, 1778, are in PCC, item 64. Henry Laurens to Francis Hopkinson Dear Sir, 27 May [1778] The 21st Inst. I received your favor of the 18 th & two days ago the twelve hundred Dollars voted to yourself & Mr. Wharton which Sum I now forward by Count de Pulaski, which I believe to be a very


[Page 789]
May 27, 1778 757 Citizens are every day Stealing out of the City & deserters from the Enemy come into Camp in great Numbers. Appearances of an inten tion on the part of the Enemy to evacuate Philadelphia continue & indeed grow stronger, but We know General Washington never trusts appearances—his Army is in fine order & gaining strength every day. If Mr Hopkinson thinks the above, which is a collection of facts, will afford information & satisfaction to the good people in Maryland he is at liberty to give a Copy to the Printer, but not this writing nor the writer’s name. It may be stiled extract of a Letter from York 27 May—but no more. The Writer loves to please his friends & hates authorship. LB (ScHi). Enclosure: MS (PHi). 1 Francis Hopkinson and John Wharton were members of the Middle Depart ment Navy Board, which was originally situated in Philadelphia. In response to their April 29 memorial, which was read on May 1 and referred to the Marine Committee, Congress agreed on the 13th to pay each man $600 to defray the extra costs of transacting navy board business in Bordenton and Baltimore. See JCC, 10:412, 11:493; and PCC, item 41, 4:31-32. Hopkinson’s May 18 letter and en closure are not in PCC. “In addition to Samuel Adams and William Henry Drayton, Josiah Bartlett and Gouverneur Morris were also appointed to the Marine Committee this day. Adams replaced Francis Dana; Morris, Philip Livingston; and Drayton, Laurens himself. See JCC, 11:537. Henry Laurens to Samuel A. Otis Dear Sir, 27th May [1778] I took the liberty of troubling you on the 19th by Brown with many Letters to be sent forward to France; Necessity obliges me to be again troublesome on the same kind of business for my friends at Camp & elsewhere. In the present Packet will be four bulky Letters to Monsr. Gerard &ca, Duplicate 8c triplicate, 1 these to be dis patched by different conveyances but neither of them in the Vessel in which the Original shall have been sent—this went by Brown as abovementioned. To Mr. Math. Ridley 1 8c 2 2 —these to be sent by the first two good vessels 8c if they reach you in time, one of them to accompany our public dispatches. An half sheet within contains extracts from Letters which I received last Night from Camp 8c all the News I know of. I remain with great regard.


[Page 791]
May 27, 1778 759 extremely the public business. The latter is in every respect the re verse of Mr. Adams, and so you may form your judgment of the former. I have found ample cause to love and esteem Mr. Adams in our joint labors for the public good. My eyes are so extremely in jured by their constant application, that without the aid and support of Spectacles I fear I shall soon loose the use of them. I pray you then to procure me a pair of the best Temple Spectacles that can be had. In fitting these perhaps it may be proper to remember that my age is 46, that my eyes are light colored and have been quick & strong but now weakned by constant use—My head thin between the Temples. The British Army yet remains at Philadelphia and ours at Valley Forge about 18 miles from the City. The latter growing daily stronger in numbers & discipline; the former lessening in numbers by various casualties, but chiefly by desertion. We have the best authority for believing they are about embarking soon from Philadelphia, so that my next letter may be from that City. If the Spectacles are sent to my Son at Nantes he can contrive them to your ever affectionate brother and faithful friend, Richard Henry Lee RC (John F. Reed, King of Prussia, Pa., 1972). Thomas McKean to George Bryan Dear Sir, York-Town May 27th 1778 Your favor of the 21st came safe to hand, together with the ex tracts of Colo. Piper’s & Councillor Urie’s Letters. It may be well to make examples of some of the most wicked of the prisoners in Bedford as soon as practicable, but when I reflect on the Savages having scalped eleven women & children within five miles of the town of Bedford; that the people must be all in arms; that these criminals might escape for want of testimony or the Attor ney General’s presence, who cannot well bear the expence of so long a journey without some salary; that before a Precept could be sent to the Sheriff of that county, and the legal time for summoning Jurors &c being allowed, we should be in the beginning of harvest, with the court; and more especially that in great probability the Enemy may soon evacuate Philadelphia, which happening will re quire me immediately to resign my seat in Congress and to repair thither, as there will be an absolute necessity for a Judge on the Spot; I say, Sir, when I consider these things I am rather of opinion it would be adviseable to defer holding a court there yet. 1 As there will no doubt many more of these wretches be made prisoners, it


[Page 792]
760 May 27, 1778 would be as well in my judgment, to prevent the expence of two courts within perhaps two months, & try them all at once. If you think differently from me about holding the court in Bedford at this time, be so good to mention it to Mr. Atlee, who can write a Precept & sign it, and afterwards send it to me; he may fix any day for holding the court that he thinks proper, it will be agreeable to me. I condole with poor Mrs. Wharton on the death of the President. 2 There is nothing new here. Jo. Bone will be executed to day in pursuance of your Warrant. 3 Why did not the General Assembly choose a new President? I am, dear Sir, with great regard, Your most obedient servant, Thos M:Kean RC (NN). 1 For a second letter Pennsylvania Chief Justice McKean directed to Vice Presi dent Bryan this day on the subject of various legal questions that had recently been laid before him, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:555. 2 For the funeral of Pennsylvania Council President Thomas Wharton, who died on May 23 after a brief illness, see Pa. Council Minutes, 11:498-500. 3 For the Pennsylvania Council’s warrant ordering the execution of Joseph Bone, who had been convicted of “Felony & Burglary,’’ see ibid., p. 490. Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally, York-Town. May 27th 1778 Your favor by Mr. Elder I received last night, and am sorry for your situation, but cannot procure a maid here, nor could I on the road, as I came down, hear of one. I think you should not have let that little hussey gone away without a month’s notice; however she was weak & lazy besides her being impudent. Miss Nelly Reed will, I hope, stay with you whilst we remain in Paxton, which in all proba bility will not be longer than the beginning of October, as there are strong circumstances to induce a belief, that the Enemy will shortly depart from this State. I shall expect Sam and the horses on Saturday week next, which will be the 6th day of June, and am satisfied the boys will be ready to go to school as soon as practicable. A Taylor must be got to mend their clothes, & they ought to have a pair of new shoes each. Until they are sent away, we shall not have it in our power to go to New castle county, tho’ we must contrive to do as well as possible in this matter when I return. It is so exceeding inconvenient for me to be here that I must resign my Seat in Congress; and yet if you had a good servant or two I should be content to stay a few months longer. Inclosed you have a printed paper, sent me by Mr. Hopkinson from Baltimore, which contains all I know of the damage done to


[Page 793]
May 27, 1778 761 Messieurs Borden and Kirkbride by the Enemy, a strange way of tempting the Americans to be reconciled to Great Britain, and con ciliating their affections. I have sent you the two last newspapers of Lancaster & York-Town by Mr. Elder, who will forward this. You have no doubt heard of the death of President Wharton on Saturday last. To day Joseph Bone, condemned at the court I held here in April for a Burglary, will be executed. I have nothing more to add, but that I am well, and beg you to kiss Sally for me, and to give my love to the other children. Adieu. Your most affectionate, Thos M:Kean RC (PHi). Gouverneur Morris to George Washington Dear General In Congress 27th May 1778. I have a Word to say to you upon the Subject of Promotion which we have just now finished or rather unfinished at least if that Matter was before in an unfinished Situation. That famous incomprehensible Baltimore Resolution (unluckily perhaps) introduced a very tedious Debate which terminated at Length by rejecting the whole of what the Committee reported with Relation to the Promoting of Officers. 1 You may be a little surprized when I tell you that upon the whole Matter I beleive this is best. But how? It is true I confess that much Ground of Heartburning is left under the Baltimore Resolution governing these Matters by the misterious Trinity of Seniority, Merit ir Quota. Let me however on the other Hand observe that to tie up the Hands of the Republic as to the Officers whom they are to appoint is utterly inconsistent with the republican Principles of Government which ought to prevail among us. No Danger it is true can arise at present but my Dear Sir we are laying Foundations and how Posterity in future Wars may build on the Foundations laid by Ancestors whom they will certainly reverence No Man can be hardy enough to assert. What then you will say is the Effect of the now Rule? In my poor Opinion it is no Rule. What then is the Use of the Resolution? Nothing more than an Apology for Officers whom it may be found necessary to supercede. Congress in Effect seem to have pledged themselves to their Constituents that they will pay a due Attention to the Quota of Troops furnished by the States respectively, to the Seniority of the Several Officers, and to that Degree of military Abilities which Nature or Industry may have conferred upon de serving Individuals. You ask me what is to be the Rule of Promotion below the Degree of a General Officer. I answer that Congress would not with Propriety make any Rule. They have given to the States the


[Page 796]
764 May 27, 1778 and Committee at Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 16-20, 1778. The “famous incomprehensible Baltimore Resolution” was the one passed on February 19, 1777, which provided that promotions of general officers were to be governed by “the line of succession, the merit of the persons proposed, and the quota of troops raised, and to be raised, by each State.” JCC, 7:133. For a discussion of problems of promotion and rank in the Continental Army, see Louis C. Hatch, The Administration of the American Revolutionary Army (New York: Longmans, Green and Co., 1904), pp. 35-46. “See Congress’ September 16, 1776, resolution on this issue in JCC, 5:763. ’The letter to Clinton in question, dated May 28, 1778, is printed below. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:496. ‘See also Henry Laurens to Lafayette, May 17, 1778, note 2. ' In his May 29 response to this letter, Washington criticized Morris’ proposed treatment of the citizens of Philadelphia as “inconsistent with sound policy” and “an arbitrary stretch of military power.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:482-86. Committee of Commerce to the Commissioners at Paris Committee of Commerce, Gentn. York in Pennsylvania May 28th 1778. You will receive this by Thomas Read Esqr who was Captain of the Frigate Washington but is now Commander of the Armed Brigantine Baltimore. This Brigantine was intended for A dispatch Vessel, but now hath A Cargo on board of Forty nine hogsheads of Tobacco which was all she coud take in and accomodate her men. We have addressed her to John Dani. Schweighauser Mercht in Nantes, and have directed him to dispose of the net proceeds of her Cargo, and also a balance which he hath in his hands belonging to these States according to your order. We have order’d Captain Read to wait for and pursue your directions, and have desired Mr. Schweig hauser to Ship such Goods on board the Baltimore, belonging to these States, as Captain Read can receive consistantly with your directions. We have the pleasure to inform you that the Frigate Dean, Captain Nicholson, the Queen of France, Captain Green, and the Henrietta, Captain Brown, are safely arrived at Boston and our Agent there in A Letter of the 13th May advises us that “they had another valuable arrival from France yesterday’’ which we hope is the Duke de Choiseuil. We are with the greatest Respect, Your most Obed humble servants, William Ellery Richd. Hutson Thos. Adams


[Page 797]
May 28, 1778 765 RC (PPAmP). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Adams, Ellery, and Hutson. Addressed: “The Honorable The Ambassadors of the United States of America, at Paris.” Endorsed by John Adams: “Comtee. of Commerce, May 28. 1778. Ansd. July 29. Came by the Saratoga, Capt. Read.” Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler Sir, 28th May [1778] The day before yesterday I had the honor of receiving & presenting to Congress your favors of the 9th & 11th Inst, together with Copy of the Message from the Oneida, which were immediately committed to the Board of War. 1 A Report from thence has not yet come up & I remain without commands from the House. You will therefore Sir do me the honor to receive this as private, which I dispatch partly to gratify your Messenger who discovers much anxiety to return, but principally from a feeling of my own, a repugnance to delay, holding coadjutors, in the Service of my Country, in suspense when ’tis in my power by any decent means to releive them. The Acts of Congress of the 22d April & lately an Address to the people of the 9 th May 2 were directed as from my self for your in formation of these important articles in our public proceedings. In the same manner I communicated those papers to other Gentlemen in your Quarter. Indeed I had entertained an assurance that you Sir, in particular ever active in promoting the public Interest would have made the Canadians as well as the Indians fully acquainted with their contents, but having received no direction from Congress, I could not from any consideration think myself entitled to request or even to hint. 3 I now take the liberty of inclosing an hand Bill & News paper containing other intelligence of the proceedings of Congress, possibly if the knowledge of the former were transfused throughout Canada good effects might be produced. The public Letter which I had the honor of writing the 8th Inst, by Dodd will have informed you of the Resolves of Congress respect ing supplies to the Indians. Colo. Morgan is at present with his family at or near Lancaster. I expect his return to Morrow, Congress will then learn all that he knows relative to Atskeray 4 —solid peace with our Neighboring In dians is so desirable & so very Interesting, I am persuaded no time will be unnecesarily delayed nor any proper means left untried for obtaining it. Permit me Sir, to congratulate with you on your Reelection to Congress. Self Interest as well as love of Country prompt my wishes for your appearance. 5 Every day repeats accounts of the Enemy’s preparations for evacuat-


[Page 799]
May 28, 1778 767 some mode Should, by the State, be adopted to keep the Regiments full as to Officers, and some Line of Promotion chalked out for their Satisfaction. What I have to propose is, that the General, or the General who may command in a seperate Department, be invested with the Power of filling up vacancies in the following manner, to wit: that from an Ensign to a Major exclusively the Promotions shall be in the Regimental Line and from a Captain upwards in the Line of the State. 1 That generally Seniority shall be regarded but that a Power be given in extraordinary Cases of merit or Demerit to vary from that Principle. These things, Sir, I take it are within the Province of the Council of Appointment, and they will doubtless see the Propriety of giving to the General under whose Eye our troops may be placed the Power of rewarding their Bravery and Conduct or of punishing by neglect the want of these necessary Qualifications. This will give Zeal and Energy to the Service but I will not dilate upon a Proposition of which you will at the first Glance discern the Propriety. I am with great Respect Your Excel lency’s most obed’t & humble Servant, Gouv’r Morris. MS not found; reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 3:371-72. x Cf. Morris to Washington, May 27, 1778, note 1. No response from Clinton to Morris’ proposal has been found. Henry Laurens to William Atlee Sir, 29 May [1778] I received by the hand of Count de Montfort 1 your favor of the 26th. After some conversation with that Gentleman he took leave fully convinced that his attempts to enlist prisoners of War had been contrary to the Resolution of Congress under which he was author ized to Act, your opposition was consequently well founded & your conduct commendable. 2 I am with great Respect LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "William Atlee Esquire, D. Comissary of Prisoners, Lancaster.” 1 Count Julius de Montfort was a major in Casimir Pulaski’s independent corps, JCC, 10:364. “This incident underscores the way in which Congress and the new Board of War made up of nondelegates sometimes worked at cross purposes. On March 28 Congress authorized Casimir Pulaski to raise an independent corps of cavalry and infantry and empowered him to ignore a recent congressional ban on the enlist ment of prisoners of war. Two days later, however, Congress, for reasons explained elsewhere, reconsidered the matter and decided not to allow the use of prisoners of war in Pulaski’s independent corps. See Laurens to Washington, March 30, 1778, note 1. Nevertheless, the Board of War, which had advised allowing Pulaski to recruit prisoners, subsequently issued instructions authorizing him to enlist them


[Page 801]
May 29, 1778 769 founded in his opinion we are soon to meet in Philadelphia. I do not flatter my Self on appearances so warmly as I perceive some of my friends do. I have just received a Packet of French News Papers & without opening any the whole shall accompany this. I shall be happy to know these prove acceptable. I have the honor to be with the most respectful attachment & the highest Esteem &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 See Lafayette’s somewhat awkwardly written private letter to Laurens of May 25 in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:58-59. “See Laurens to Francis Hopkinson, May 27, 1778. • Lafayette’s “other letter’’ was his official letter to Laurens of May 25. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:55-57. In it the marquis asked Congress to support his plan for a Franco-American “expedition against the english West Indias islands under con tinental colours,” to be commanded by himself and with each nation sharing equally in the conquered territory. He also revealed that he had communicated this plan to his cousin the marquis de Bouilffi, the governor of Martinique, and enclosed an extract from a March 8 letter from Bouille in which the governor revealed that he approved the scheme and had urged the French government to support it but advised Lafayette to delay the attack until war broke out between France and Great Britain. Ibid., pp. 57-58. Laurens conferred on this matter with Richard Henry Lee, a member of the Committee for Foreign Affairs, who initially advised him not to bring it to Congress’ attention, but Laurens soon disregarded this advice and on June 9 submitted Lafayette’s and Bouilffi’s letters to Congress, which read and referred them to a committee consisting of Thomas McKean, Roger Sherman, and John Witherspoon. Since France had expressly renounced any claim to the British West Indies in her recent treaty of alliance with the United States, however. Congress took no further action on Lafayette’s proposal, contenting itself instead with commending Lafayette through Laurens for his “Zeal and good will for our Cause.” See JCC, 11:580; Laurens to Lafayette, May 31 and June 19, 1778; and Louis Gottschalk, Lafayette Joins the American Army (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1937), pp. 194-95. Congress was doubtless also deterred by the size of the contribution to the expedition Lafayette expected from it—3,000 men plus shipping and supplies—and by the fact that there was no guarantee the French government would support the venture. Henry Laurens to John Laurens York Town 29th May 1778 I congratulate with you My Dear Son on your safe return to Camp 8c particularly on the honor which is due to Marquis delafayette for his excellent Generalship in the late Retreat, of which you 8c every Gentleman under that brave Noble Man’s Command participate. I regret much the want of a perfect account of that affair, & expect your next will supply the deficiency of the last, occasioned you say by necessity. If you study my inclination which I beleive coincides with your


[Page 802]
770 May 29, 1778 own, you will receive no Pay at present, & delay a determination till we meet, or to some future day, if I understand you. You have hitherto received none. 1 By the first Gentleman going to Camp I intend to remit you a Sum sufficient to discharge arrears & leave a small fund. If a strong Linen Coat Wastcoat & Breeches will be acceptable to my old friend Shrews Berry, let him consult his Taylor & I will send the quantity of Linen required. We shall have an excellent opportunity for France from Virginia next Week. I transmitted Baron Stuben’s Commission through the hands of the Commander in Chief because I judged that the proper medium but I have some fears of having erred. Pray inform me. 2 I have a very pressing Letter from Capt Nichols at Reading, I intreat you Interest yourself as far as you can with the General & with the Commissary on behalf of this honest Man. 3 Gen Weedon this Moment came in & is so good as to take 600 Dollars for you. God Bless you My Dear son, Henry Laurens RC (NN). ‘John Laurens was serving as a volunteer aide-de-camp to Washington. 2 The method of sending Baron de Steuben’s Commission was according to rule,” John assured his father in a letter written on June 1. "Correspondence between the Hon. Henry Laurens and his Son, John, 1777-1780,” South Carolina Historical and Genealogical Magazine 6 (July 1905): 106. “John informed his father on June 1 that Washington had permitted Capt. William Nichols to go to Philadelphia in order to negotiate his exchange. Ibid., p. 109. See also Laurens to William Nichols, May 23, 1778. Henry Laurens to James Mease Sir > 29th May [1778] I here inclose for your information & government three Acts of Congress—two dated the 28th Inst. & one this day, vizt. 1. of 28 th for the preservation &: proper disposal of all Clothing &ca imported on account of the United States into the States of Massachuset’s Bay & New Hamshire. 1 2. 28th for prohibiting further purchases by the Clothier General or his deputies on accot of the united States & for obtaining an im mediate settlement of their Accounts. 2 3. 29th for enabling & requiring the Clothier general & his Agents to make up & issue the Clothing which they have already purchased. I am with great Respect LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). ‘See JCC, 11:548; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 11:416-17. 2 See also Laurens to Mease, May 22, 1778, note 1.


[Page 812]
780 May 30, 1778 that our Treasury was exhausted, therefore the Requisition was made to Congress, without Mr. Craig’s having it in his power to produce an Inventory or inform where the Goods were deposited, but in general that they were in the hands of a number of reputable people in the County of Lancaster, from these Considerations and plainly seeing that Congress would not comply with any such request, but through the State immediately or the Delligates thereof, I withdrew the appli cation to have an opportunity to inform you, as also that I have not the least doubt but Congress would most readily advance the State for the Clothiers Department on a proper application as above. I am, Sir, Yr. most ob. huml ser, Dani. Roberdeau RC (PHi). 1 Roberdeau had just resumed his seat in Congress on May 26 after an extended leave of absence granted on April 11 to supervise the construction of facilities at a western Pennsylvania lead mine being developed, on property he had recently purchased, to relieve the state’s ammunition shortage. See JCC, 10:337, 11:534. His activities while on leave can be partially reconstructed from the three letters he wrote on April 17, 23, and 27 from Carlisle, Standing Stone, and Sinking Spring Valley respectively, which are in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:422-24, 436-37, 446-47. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa, 31 May 1778 Mr. Henry’s departure affords me an opportunity of sending you the Lan. & York newspapers. The letter in the former Signed Humph rey Thompson is a genuine letter, and is I think a most original piece in its way. 1 I think you should preserve it as a curiosity. From con current accounts strengthened by circumstances there remains little doubt of the enemy’s intended departure from Pha. When they will leave that city is uncertain, but if we may judge from appearances, their stay in it will not exceed a week or ten days from this time. Perhaps they have already left it, or may leave it sooner. There was a report a day or two ago that Spain had acknowleged our Independance and acceded to the treaty of Alliance, and of Amity & Commerce; how ever we have no confirmation of that report. It was also reported that war was not declared between France & England the 7th of April. A ship is said to be arrived at the Eastward which left Nantes on that day, and brings advice that war was then declared at least by France. We have no intelligence of the sailing of the British Commissioners. I hope to hear from you by Mondays post that you are all well and that Molly continues to grow better. My love to her, the little ones, & Mrs. Darnall. I hope the fruit has not suffered by the late, or indeed


[Page 813]
May 31, 1778 781 present cold weather; if this rainy weather should terminate in a northwester, I fear we shall lose it all. I shall write to you again by Tuesday’s post, and I flatter myself I may then be able to give you a certain account of the Enemy’s having left Pha. Such an event would effectually stop the Spirit of Toryism and discredit the reputation of their arms with the European Nations. By the latest advices from Europe a war in Germany seems very probable between the house of Austria & Brandenburgh. Wishing you health I remain, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). 1 The May 27 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet or the General Advertiser printed a letter written by Sgt. Humphrey Thomson “From my sequestered Museum, near the Lancaster Road, April 23, 1778,” in which Thomson offered an absurdly florid apologia for deserting his unit and running off with “one of the daughters of Venus.” William Ellery to William Whipple My Dear Sir, York Town May 31st 1778 I rec’d your’s of the 10th of May a few days ago and wish I could give you any thing new and entertaining. The most interesting intel ligence soon grows old, and we are constantly looking out for some thing new. I don’t wonder that Solomon said all was vanity so soon as he had discovered that there was nothing new under the sun, for if it were not for the expectation of something new life would be but a dull scene, like an old reiterated tale. There would be an end to curiosity which stimulates to the acquisition of knowledge; and the world would be involved in one long night of ignorance and dark ness. The most important intelligence that we could expect was, that Providence had disposed some European Power to stand forth in support of injured innocence and the violated rights of mankind. France hath been disposed to enter into an alliance with us and upon terms of equality and reciprocity, herein discovering a magnanimity worthy of the most Christian King. We have illuminations and fired our feu-de-jois on this occasion, and it is already become an old story. We are now looking out for further alliances and commissioners from Britain to treat with us. We have not as yet heard that war was declared between France and Britain. It will be inevitable unless Britain can bring down her proud stomach to relish sound policy, to acknowledge our Independency and make peace with us. Whether the haughty insolent Thane can stoop to this or not you are a good judge. I should with you, perhaps, have been willing that France should have continued in her usual way to have supported us, had not I in


[Page 814]
782 May 31, 1778 contemplation the divesting of Britain of every foot of land upon this Continent. I think it absolutely necessary to a future, lasting peace that we should be possessed of Canada, Nova Scotia and the Floridas, which we cannot so well effect without the open assistance of France. We have gained great reputation by our arms and human ity throughout Europe, and I believe even Britain herself begins to think us invincible. It is most certain that if she had not been secretly and openly aided by our own countrymen, she must have long since been compelled to give over her vain attempts. Hereafter when peace and independency shall be established, temptations to disaffection, the preservation of property and office, or the expectation of them will cease, and united truly like a band of brothers, we may bid defi ance to the world. Commerce and Agriculture must be our great objects, the latter as the basis of the former and the former must be supported by a proper Marine. I wish we had a respectable Navy, but as matters are circumstanced we must go through the war with a small one. Your plan for a Navy is approved excepting that part of it which proposes the turning of the 74 gun ships into frigates which Mr. Landais, whom the Committee imagine is a very good judge thinks would not do. He hath proposed that they should be constructed to carry only two batteries; the lower battery to consist of twenty eight 24 pounders and the upper one of as many 18 pounders. In this way he says that the 56 gun ship will make as good a battle as a 74, be stronger, sail faster, take less men, be built quicker and be much cheaper. The Committee have laid his scheme before Congress, it was approved and I suppose the Committee will direct Mr Langdon to pursue the building of the intended 74 on Landais plan. 1 Our future frigates will be such as you describe; with two 56 gun ships and half a dozen such frigates under good Commanders, we should oblige our Enemy’s ships to go in squadrons, or capture them wherever we saw them. But without brave skilful Captains it is in vain to equip fleets. I don’t know which is the most criminal not to assist a ship overpowered by numbers, or to deliver up a ship without firing a gun. If the Devil were a coward I should think that he pos sessed some of our sea captains; but the Devil it seems, according to Milton, fought boldly against Michael and he is able and valiant enough, we are told, to maintain a dominion in our world even against the Messiah himself; from whence I infer the Devil wants neither courage nor stratagem. But to be serious, it is indeed melan choly to contemplate our little fleet; two frigates burnt in the North River, two burnt and one taken in the Delaware, one taken without firing a gun, and one lost for want of a pilot, I mean the Virginia. The story is briefly this. After being cooped up in the Chesapeake for more than a twelve month, she made several essays to get out, but to no purpose. Once she had almost reached the Capes, but the Lieuten-


[Page 818]
786 May 31, 1778 rid of many hundreds perhaps thousands of Mouths which were destroying his provisions become very scarce within his confines—& of a set of people whom he could not govern altogether by the Articles of War & his general Orders—of some who were daily spies upon his movements & critics upon his conduct, he may have in veiw to obtain elbow Room for his Garrison & he may in a very short space of time complete a debarkation of Horses, Cannon, baggage &c. He may entertain hopes also, to relax our proceedings for filling up this Army. I will not trust him, I will not (although I beleive it) act as if I beleived he was going, until he shall be fairly gone. I would excite in Camp & guards double vigilance Night & day while he remained on this side or within the Banks of Delaware. Whatever may be his designs, go or stay, he will if we are watchful give us Credit, at least, for good Generalship. He knows every step we take. I rejoice at the measures which you say are adopted for quieting the minds of those who are now under convictions of their errors & Crimes. Good Citizens may be made of many of them 8c I don’t care how full of useful articles they leave for Sale in the City, there are some which I want 8c may lawfully purchase. Let me hear all that occurs 8c as minutely as your time will permit. I pray God protect you. Henry Laurens, President of Congress [P.S.] In one of the Papers inclosed you will see an account which I wrote 8c caused to be Inserted of a Capture made at Frederica. 2 Those Vessels were certainly going to disburthen poor Breton Island of all my Rice in Barns 8cc, 8c the soil of all the buildings. As General McIntosh says he had not heard of the circumstance in Camp I pre sume you had not. Tell me how you have disposed of the little Pivot or how he disposes of himself, I have learned that he is now much disposed to adulate where he had betrayed 8c affected to dispise. 3 I cannot love or flatter that Man. For once I have got hold of a string of English News Papers for the Month of February. Will these be acceptable to the General or to yourself, I will send them if you desire it. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 John Laurens’ May 27 letter to his father is in Simms, Laurens Army Corre spondence, pp. 174-78. a This is evidently a reference to a compendium of recent news from South Caro lina that was printed in the May 23 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette under the heading “Intelligence just received from Charlestown, South-Carolina, April 21, 1778,” and reads as follows: “An express arrived this morning from Georgia, with advice, that Col. Elbert, and Col. White, in the Washington and Lee Gallies of that State, joined by the Bullock Galley, had taken, at the island of Frederica, the following vessels, belong ing to the King of England, viz. the Hinchenbrook brigantine, commanded by Captain Ellis; a sloop, commanded by the famous Captain Moubray, and an armed schooner; the British crews belonging to these vessels fled as soon as they were


[Page 820]
788 May 31, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Wells Dear Sir, 31 May 1778 I did myself the honor to write to you the 19th Inst, by Messenger Sharp. The News papers & Manuscripts which you will find within the present Inclosure will give you much Intelligence. I must not say this is all the time & place affords, but if you knew how closely my own time is applied to discharging the necessary duties of my present Station, you would rather wonder, at my finding time for collecting any news, than blame me for omitting minutia. From the Copies of Letters from my son, you may if you please manufacture an Account for public veiw of the Marquis’s late honor able Retreat, adding that this brave young Nobleman equally wise & discreet, has gained more glory by this late act than could have been derived from a drawn battle or a slight Victory; he must have been well supported by his officers who all participate of the honor. We are assured Majr. General Grant who had the Command of the 4000 that Marched out of the City near Midnight 8c who by a circuitous hard March of 35 Miles had compassed the Rear of the Marquis, is put under arrest for neglect of duty or breach of orders; had he trod the Ground assigned to him, he would have occupied Matson’s ford, where the Marquis successfully passed 8c must have embarrassed our brave young Hero, who in that case would have been driven to a necessity of plunging into the River without time for ascertaining depth, must have lost his Cannon, Baggage 8c many lives. A Gentle man who was with the Marquis 8c who conducted the Retreat as Inspector, has just now sketched out the Marches of both, or rather of the various parties. General Grant instead of crossing directly to Matsons ford turned down a Road at some distance from the River. The Marquis Marched in view at some 300 1 Toises distance between him 8c the River, gained 8c passed the Ford without loss or annoyance. This Gentleman, Monsr. Ternon has likewise given me the following account of the loss on each side which he says may be depended on. British 3 Dragoons killed 3 Wounded 8c carried in a Cart to the City 1 Grenadier ) „ . > Prisoners 2 Privates ) 16 Deserters Union, 3 French Jagers of the Indian Corp killed 2 Missing. 8c possitively no more. He confirms the account in very lively description of the flight of the British Dragoons upon hearing the Indian War Whoop, 8c adds that one of the French Jagers among the Killed had been most cruelly


[Page 821]
May 31, 1778 789 butchered by the British. They had put him under ground but our people hearing of the circumstance took out the Body & exposed it to the view of the Soldiery. After the Marquis had crossed the River, Mr. Jno. Laurens, Mr. Ternon & a small party were ordered to return & reconnoitre. They followed the enemy & overtook them marching by a hasty step into the City. The Marquis had given early intelli gence of his unpleasant situation, the alarm was fired in Camp & in fifteen minutes, to the honor of Baron Stiiben be it said, the whole Camp was under Arm formed & ready to March. This alarm which the Enemy caught by sound, penetrated a little deeper & their precipi tate retreat marks an indisposition to a general engagement. I have this Instant (now candle light) a Letter from General Wash ington. 2 “The Enemy are still (28th) in Philadelphia but the intelligence from thence is so clear & so strong, it is as certain as any event can be that is contingent, that they mean to abandon it. Against the various measures they are pursuing which point to an evacuation, I can learn but of a single circumstance approved. They are working at their Redoubts with great industry, but this last, tho’ certainly true cannot be of sufficient weight to raise a doubt upon the subject & must be considered as merely calculated to deceive us & mask their design. We cannot by the most diligent searches discover whether their movement will be by Land or Sea.” The General has detached General Maxwell with a party to join General Dickinson in New Jersey & to annoy them if they go that way. General Smallwood is called in from Wilmington, no surprize is to be feared in that quarter, our Camp is strong 8c tis said im pregnable. My own is at War with all opinions, except General Wash ington’s, and a very few others. I am not inclined to beleive General Clinton is going, until he is fairly gone. When he has got rid of incumbrances 8c shall have received reinforcement what is to hinder him from Marching up the York Road 8c compelling our Army to take the Field. Observe I do not disbeleive, but knowing Mr. Clinton to be a Man of enterprize 8c deep stratagem, I dread the effects of security on our part or as I should say imaginary security. A Gentleman just now called on me to read a Letter from New Jersey. “The Enemy are shewing preparations for embarkation in New York. ’Tis conjectured a strong Garrison is to be left there 8c all the rest to go to the West Indies.” All conjecture. Congress have ordered an intended 74 Gun ship building at Ports mouth New Hamshire to be constructed upon a plan given by Capt Landais a skilful French Sea Officer—to be of two decks only—on the tower to carry 28 24—8c on the upper 28 18-pounder. She will cost less money, sail faster, be of equal force 8c require fewer Men by 150. General McIntosh is here on his Journey to Fort Pitt where he is to


[Page 822]
790 May 31, 1778 Command. This Gentleman has brought from Valley forge an high Character penned by the Commander in Chief 3 Sc an Address from the Officers of the Brigade which he commanded containing the strongest marks of respect, affection & applause. The tryal of General St. Clair will soon come on, this is a subject too delicate to be treated with brevity, & on which candor forbids wanton prediction. Be the event what it may my original sentiment is confirmed. The prospect of peace with the Six Nations which will be exhibited in one of the inclosed Manuscript affords me much Satisfaction. The diligent Cheif Justice who has ten times more time for writing News than I have, will transmit to our Town ten times more than I am able to do. You will catch it all by some means or other. I say you may manufacture from the materials which I furnish you with, being all to the best of my knowledge perfectly true, but I pro hibit the disclosure of authorities. None of us are anxious to appear in print, 8c I am persuaded you will not willingly make an ill requital to your friends. fl am Seriously projecting an Enterprize beyond Altamaha; General McIntosh to whom I disclosed my sentiments this afternoon is strongly united in them, but I enjoin you to keep this intimation to your self.}* I rejoice in your good fortune, I know you are sober 8c vigilant, be steady 8c beleive me to be with great Regard 8cca. P.S. I have heard that Mr. R.H. Powell went some time ago to St Augustine. Pray tell me the rise, progress 8c event of that extraordi nary circumstance. I have been told the people about Red Stone have prohibited Tacitus Gaillard’s proceeding down the Missisipy. 5 LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens inserted an asterisk at this point to key a marginal note explaining the French term “Toise”—a “fathom of 61/ feet.” ’See Washington’s May 28 letter to Laurens in Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 11:471-72. 3 See Washington’s May 21 letter to Laurens, ibid., pp. 429-30. With this letter Washington enclosed an account of McIntosh’s traveling expenses from Georgia to Pennsylvania, which Congress paid on June 2. JCC, 11:561-62. 1 Laurens wrote in the margin next to this paragraph: “Omitted in my Letter.” •See Laurens to Benjamin Farrar, March 7, note, and June 12, 1778. Richard Henry Lee to John Page Dear Sir, York May 31st 1778 Your favor of the 19th has just come to hand and I thank you for it. In proportion to my ardent zeal for the prosperity and security of


[Page 831]
Index 799 Board of war (continued) Gates’ conduct as president of, 215; relations with Lafayette, 215; authority dis cussed, 237; criticized, 269, 383, 703; requests ammunition, 314; on exempting Pulaski from prisoner recruitment ban, 353-54, 767-68; James Wilkinson resigns as secretary, 359; investigates John Swanwick, 372-73, 408; Indian affairs report, 388; Robert H. Harrison appointed to, 440; Joseph Trumbull resigns, 459; on impressment of horses, 515; plans expedition against Detroit, 694; rejects Penn sylvania forts as Continental expense, 731; secretary appointed, 772; mentioned, 60, 212, 302, 330, 353, 378, 387, 477, 496, 615, 672, 697, 736, 746, 766 Bois, Pierre-Francois de: resigns commission, 329; mentioned, 386 Bondfield, John, appointed agent at Bordeaux, 62 Bone, Jacob (Joseph): sentenced, 520; executed, 760-61 Bonstetten, baron de: identified, 575; letter to, 574; mentioned, 578 Bordeaux, France: U.S. agent at appointed, 62; mentioned, 322 Borden, Joseph, 195, 434, 479, 689, 761 Bordenton, N.J.: navy board moves from, 390, 704; mentioned, 504 Boston (Continental frigate), 486, 523 Boudinot, Elias: letters to, 189, 643, 740; elected to Congress, xix; on prisoner exchange negotiations, 77; resigns as commissary of prisoners, 643; mentioned, 561, 648, 689, 735, 745 Bouille, Francois-Claude-Armour, marquis de, and Lafayette’s West Indies plan, 769 Bounties: military, 226, 355, 358, 397; for burning enemy ships, 339; for Virginia troops, 419, 546 Bowen, Jabez, 667 Bowen, Samuel, 251 Bowman, Larry G., Captive Americans, 299 Boyer, Peter: letter to, 357; appointed auditor, 357 Bradford, John: letters to, 522, 778; marine committee instructions, 522; ac counts, 777 Brahm, Ferdinand Joseph Sebastien de: letter to, 269; Continental commission, 269 Brailsford, Norton, 731, 733, 754, 777 Brandenburg, 781 Brandon, Mr., 651 Braxton, Carter, 118, 120 Braxton (brig), 119, 153 Brewer, Samuel, regiment threatens mutiny, 108 Brewton, Miles, 610 Brice, Edmund, 229, 230, 236, 237, 581, 585, 603, 606 British army: recruitment, 42, 719; mercenaries, 136, 267, 271, 570, 593; captures congressional messenger, 168; captures cattle, 173, 190, 193, 256, 355; partisan warfare, 174, 203; cavalry, 180; New Jersey skirmish, 239, 355; reinforcements, 250, 258, 270, 315, 368, 370; loyalists in, 299, 411, 438, 448; desertion, 302, 710, 757-59; deployment conjectured, 339, 355, 371, 380, 423, 589, 635 , 702, 728, 741, 748, 772; strength, 448, 450, 586, 616; reinforced, 461; morale decline reported, 478; Henry Clinton appointed commander, 499-500; desertion encouraged, 543, 547^48, 554, 585; casualties, 774, 788; see also Burgoyne, John; Clinton, Henry; Convention Army; Howe, William; Prisoners of war British navy: blockades Chesapeake, 203, 488, 679; vessels captured, 271, 301, 786; foraging expedition, 325 , 327, 335; blockades Rhode Island, 376; Delaware River operations, 635; attacks Bordenton, N.J., 689; impressment, 692; mentioned, 654, 656 Broglie, Charles-Francois, comte de, 718, 723 Brooke, Mr., 742


[Page 834]
802 Index Childs, Mr., 436 Choiseul, Etienne-Francois, due de, 103, 764 Christiana (privateer), 439 Church, Benjamin, 40 Ciphers: Gouverneur Morris’, 264-65; Richard Henry Lee’s, 653-54, 720 Claims; see Accounts Clark, Abraham: letters from, 215, 231, 306, 349; attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; committee on oaths, xxiii; votes, 10; marine committee, 215; committee on proprietary officers, 304, 306; committee on commissary reform, 349-50 Clark, George Rogers, 152 Clark, John: letter to, 65; -ft appointed Continental auditor, 65, 133, 250; granted pay increase, 611; mentioned, 553 Clark, Thomas, promotion recommended, 361 Clark, William Bell, Captain Dauntless .... Nicholas Biddle, 523 Clark, William Bell, First Saratoga .... the Saga of John Young, 617 Clark, William Bell, Gallant John Barry, 273 Clarkson, Mr., 339 Clarkson, Matthew: letters to, 553, 611; appointed Continental auditor, 65, 133, 250; requests pay increase, 553; granted pay increase, 611 Classical allusions and quotations, 58, 89, 96, 417, 480, 688 Clay, Joseph, elected to Congress, xvii Clebins, Mr., 513 Clifford, Mr., 787 Clingan, William: attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; votes, 10; men tioned, 651 Clinton, George: letters to, 17, 63, 70, 112, 117, 132, 164, 217, 228, 277, 287, 299, 303, 328, 357, 455, 493, 551, 620, 639, 681, 727, 732, 766; £ ordered to fortify N.Y. Highlands, 132, 165, 237; authority circumscribed in northern military de partment, 320; investigates Saratoga Convention violations, 682; requests post poning loyalist pardons, 733; mentioned, 129, 140, 148, 237, 457, 524, 544, 763 Clinton, Henry: appointed British commander, 499-500; mentioned, 467, 478, 518, 616, 693, 700, 705, 710, 756, 774, 785, 789 Cloth, 522 Clothier general’s department: combats overcharges, 166; accounts, 623, 655, 731; purchasing suspended, 731, 770; mentioned, 50, 712 Clothing: imported, 222, 701; mentioned, 86, 99, 192, 210, 279, 280, 281, 355, 365, 398, 570, 580, 624, 655, 703, 770, 779 Clymer, George: letter to, 341; and Fort Pitt Indian conference, 342; George Morgan inquiry, 397 Coates, William, 72 Coddington, Nathaniel, 710 Coffee: price, 689; mentioned, 398, 630, 719 Coffin, Timothy, 485 Cokely, Lt., 273 Coleman, Kenneth, American Revolution in Georgia, 703 Collins, John: elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, 558; obtains money for Rhode Island, 574; mentioned, 485, 494, 610 Coltor, Capt., 742 Columbus (Continental ship), 300, 374, 486, 489, 523, 556, 628 Commerce; see Trade Commissary general’s department: reorganization plan, xxiv, 76; ration proposals, 8; deficiencies, 37, 52, 80, 104, 156, 255; reform proposed, 44, 82-85; Jeremiah Wadsworth appointed commissary general of purchases, 67; Jeremiah Wadsworth recommended as commissary general of purchases, 115; regulations, 137-38, 349-


[Page 836]
804 Index Committee of commerce (continued) 596-97; instructs John Langdon, 618; Hortalez & Co. invoice, 679; commercial transactions, 750; mentioned, 384, 488, 524; see also Secret committee Committee of Congress (on conciliation), responds to Lord North’s conciliatory bills, 458 Committee of Congress (on Delaware insurrection): report, 462; mentioned, 481, 791 Committee of Congress (on Franco-American West Indies expedition), 769 Committee of Congress (on George Morgan inquiry), preliminary report, 396-97 Committee of Congress (on instructing U.S. commissioners), 560 Committee of Congress (on Maryland insurrection), letter from, 680 Committee of Congress (on medical department inquiry): letter from, 379; men tioned, 13 Committee of Congress (on New Haven Convention): on price regulation, 541; report, 633; mentioned, 341 Committee of Congress (on oaths of allegiance), xxiii Committee of Congress (on proprietary officers), letter from, 306 Committee of Congress (on receiving French ambassador), report, 704 Committee of Congress (on special purchasing program), 328 Committee of Congress (on Ticonderoga inquiry): letter from, 43; mentioned, 34- 35, 545, 564 Committee of Congress (on Vermont), opposes Vermont claim, 457 Committee of finance, established, 491 Committee on appeals: and Weyman v. Arthur, 338; see also Admiralty proceedings Comptroller, Continental office of created, 713 Comstock, William, on theft of American dispatches, 433 Conciliation; see Reconciliation Confederacy (Continental frigate), Seth Harding appointed to command, 460 Confederation, Articles of: ratified by Virginia, 21, 164, 205, 258, 263, 275, 304, 317, 327, 393, 541; North Carolina reservations to, 104, 205, 257, 305; representation under, 187; ratified by Rhode Island, 188; Maryland opposition to, 205, 258, 305; Massachusetts delays action on, 262-63; states instruct delegates on, 263, 275, 304-5, 324; ratified by New York, 311, 317, 319, 327, 393, 541; state reserva tions to, 317, 364; ratified by Massachusetts, 438; instructions on sought by Vir ginia delegates, 678; ratified by North Carolina, 708, 752; amendments proposed, 709; Rhode Island amendments rejected, 710; mentioned, 431, 443, 485, 563, 755, 793 Congress: chronology, xii; adopts oaths of allegiance, xxiii, 32-34, 41, 53, 62, 64, 69, 90, 506-7, 516, 675; reforms commissary department, xxiv, 312, 432; adopts par don resolve, xxvi, 463-64, 481, 494—97, 501-3, 564-65, 588, 733; adopts Address to the Inhabitants of America, xxvi, 620, 622; instructs Indian commissioners, 17; appoints committee of arrangement, 30; seeks loan from Tuscany, 31; adjourn ment to Hartford discussed, 40, 264; Ticonderoga inquiry, 43, 49; instructs committee at camp, 50, 146; adopts hospital reforms, 55; appoints auditors, 55, 65, 133, 250, 357; reorganizes quartermaster department, 56, 82, 191; appropria tions, 64, 111-12, 123, 129, 132, 167, 190, 210, 226, 236, 251, 258, 401, 426, 477, 479, 495, 501, 515, 567, 602, 623, 655, 704, 713, 731, 744; appoints Jeremiah Wadsworth commissary general of purchases, 67; authorizes governors to suspend Continental officers, 69, 70, 257, 259, 277, 294, 298, 566, 703, 746; orders Thomas Mifflin audited, 69; appoints U.S. attorneys for South Carolina, 70; suspends Canada expedition, 75, 212-14; attendance thin, 85, 90, 104, 193, 223, 261, 296, 306, 311, 382, 419, 555, 749; deputy secretary Rush resigns, 90; adopts emergency provi sioning measures, 91; embargoes beef and pork, 91; prints loan office certificates, 91; suspends special purchasers, 106, 131, 157; adopts death penalty for partisan warfare, 125, 174, 191, 195, 203, 242; authorizes employment of Indians, 125,


[Page 837]
Index 805 Congress (continued) 144-46, 224-25; adopts prisoner provisioning regulations, 128; orders dispersal of Convention Army, 130, 147-49, 155, 186, 203; adopts army regulations, 132, 149, 154-55, 188; orders Hudson River fortified, 132, 165, 328; urges Joseph Trumbull to attend board of war, 133; retaliates against British prisoner treatment, 140; orders Robert Morris to settle committee of commerce accounts, 151; and ap pointment of quartermaster general, 154, 174, 176, 224-25; orders garrisoning of Fort Frederick, 154; and provisioning of Convention Army, 155; appoints Rhode Island commander, 155, 187; messenger captured, 168; orders arrest of Pennsylvania Quakers, 174, 210; communications disrupted by Susquehanna flooding, 175; recommends militia draft, 177, 227, 305, 364; adopts Continental establishment, 186, 695; accepts Rhode Island expedition costs, 188; and John Folger inquiry, 189; permits Burgoyne’s return to England, 189, 196, 211, 225, 227-28; suspends Saratoga Convention, 191, 227; prisoner exchange proposals, 195, 247^49, 312, 320, 336, 614, 637; denies Richard Wilford permission to visit William Howe, 227; appoints day of fasting, 228, 259, 344; rejects foreign officers’ applications, 230-31; reassigns Lafayette, 231, 293, 295; acquits William Rickman, 232; petitioned on prize illegally seized, 233-34; adopts furlough regulations, 236, 238, 268; on price regulation, 257, 276-77, 292, 438, 491, 541; commends William Livingston, 259; and Articles of Confederation, 262-63, 396; hears rumor of secret British plot, 271; requests states to maintain representation, 277, 294, 297-98, 344; approves Beaumarchais’ contract, 282; speech to Six Nations, 289; orders meat purchase, 295, 470; instructs Washington on prisoner exchange, 299, 390, 393, 408-10, 430, 438, 525, 532, 739; bars deserters and prisoners from Con tinental Army, 302; releases Pennsylvania proprietary officers, 306-7, 321, 672; requests copies of state laws, 313, 321, 344, 357, 371, 434; requests guard for Continental magazines, 313-14, 321; orders troops for Westmoreland, Pa., 315; asserts Continental authority in New York, 320; studies special purchasing pro gram, 328; ignores prisoner of war leave request, 335; orders arrest of Delaware loyalists, 336-37; adopts prize share distribution rules, 339; lacks Spanish transla tor, 342; reimburses states for removing supernumary officers, 344; increases judge advocate pay, 348; appoints Pulaski commander of Continental cavalry, 349; relations with Washington, 351, 410-11, 431, 481; adopts recruiting resolves, 353, 357-58, 434; on exempting Pulaski from prisoner recruitment ban, 353, 767— 68; debates half-pay plan, 354, 371, 426-31, 438, 440, 443-45, 506, 554, 561, 576, 650-51; adopts half-pay plan, 356, 675-76, 702, 707-8, 710, 712, 716-17, 749, 751, 783; approves Henry Lee’s independent corps, 357, 387; authorizes Washington to call militia, 369; orders John Swanwick investigated, 372-73; orders medical department inquiry, 379; orders naval rules revised, 391; orders release of Penn sylvania Quakers, 392; delegates sign rules pledge, 403; Thomas Burke contempt controversy, 403-6, 501-2, 508-10, 525-39; orders Charles Lee exchanged, 410; affirms duty to intervene in disaffected states, 418; orders Delaware loyalists arrested, 418; commends William Smallwood, 419; reduces New Jersey army quota, 424; requests prisoner provision accounts, 426; appoints Horatio Gates to northern command, 432; orders Washington to convene council of war, 435, 439, 446; records roll call votes, 438; dismisses Continental armorer, 441; opposes exchanging captured loyalists, 448-49; ignores Vermont issue, 457; requests Penn sylvania to suspend wheat purchases, 457; responds to conciliatory bills, 458, 473, 478, 482, 489, 496-97, 499, 515, 555, 559, 565, 587-88, 607, 653, 722, 766; on suppressing loyalist insurrection, 462, 479; debates proposal to negotiate with Britain, 468, 551-52, 559-60; votes, 490; debates interest payment plan, 491-92; debates paper currency withdrawal, 491-92, 632-34; seeks naval support in Chesapeake, 502; orders inquiry into loss of Virginia, 504-5; Sunday session, 507; orders resolves translated into German, 510, 547-48; accepts Thomas Conway’s resignation, 516, 549; encourages enemy deserters, 543, 547-48, 554, 564-65, 585;


[Page 847]
Index 815 Great Britain (continued) ploy denounced, 482, 493, 508, 543, 568; seeks to forestall Franco-American alliance, 505; response to Franco-American alliance, 591, 607, 613, 620, 640; peace mission rumor unfounded, 600; relations with Dutch, 661; condemned for Indian depredations, 707; mentioned, 751, 781; see also British army; British navy; George III; North, Frederick (Lord); Reconciliation Greaton, John, 475 Green, Mr. 387, 429, 455, 494, 495 Green, John: letter to, 778; mentioned, 739, 764, 776 Green Mountain Boys, 304 Greene, Christopher, rumored to be raising black regiment, 186 Greene, Nathanael: letters to, 479, 513, 684, 771; submits returns, 7; confers with committee at camp, 82, 158; recommended as quartermaster general, 92-93; appointed quatermaster general, 174, 224-25, 243; sent money, 479; requests authority to appoint subordinates, 642; mentioned, 50, 85, 141, 168, 177, 203, 209, 210, 256, 354, 768 Greene, William: letter to, 772; elected Rhode Island governor, 372, 710, 773 Gregory, Mark, 153 Grieg, A., 153 Griffin, Col., 739 Guest, Col., 184 Gunnison, Benjamin, 119, 153 Gunther, Hans Karl, “Frederick the Great, the Bavarian Succession and . . . American Independence,” 582 Habeas corpus, writ ignored by Continental officers, 484 Hacker, Hoysted: cleared of negligence, 630; mentioned, 783 Hahn, Mr., 219 Half-pay plan: discussed, 354, 381, 394-95, 426-30, 438, 443—15, 506, 519, 554, 576, 607-8, 613, 650-51, 675-76, 702, 707-8, 716-17, 749, 751, 783; postponed, 371; motion to refer to states defeated, 561, 710; mentioned, 404, 412, 420, 440, 689, 691, 712, 732, 745 Halifax, N.S., 586 Hall, Mr., 273, 719 Hall, David, arrests Delaware loyalists, 337 Hall, George A., 20 Hall, Lyman: elected to Congress, xvii; mentioned, 651 Hall & Sellers: prints French treaties, 578; mentioned, 600 Hamburg, Germany, 739 Hamilton, Mr., 477 Hamilton, Alexander, xxv Hamilton, Kenneth G., John Ettwein and the Moravian Church, 683 Hammond, LeRoy, 578 Hampden (Continental brig), 777 Hampstead, Joshua: arrest sought, 150; mentioned, 127 Hanau, mercenaries, 572, 593 Hancock, Ebenezer, sent money, 495 Hancock, Harold, Loyalists of Revolutionary Delaware, 522 Hancock, John: letter to, 92; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, 558; relations with Samuel Adams, 743; mentioned, 223, 278, 333, 704, 720 Hancock (Continental frigate), 630, 776, 778 Hand, Edward: letter to, 182; supplies James Willing, 151-52, 182; relieved of Fort Pitt command, 686; mentioned, 362, 380, 399 Hanna’s Town, Pa., 730 Hanson, Mr., 583


[Page 849]
Index 817 Hewes & Smith: letter to, 618; accused of fraud, 121-23, 469; mentioned, 45, 120, 617 Heyward, Thomas: elected to Congress, xxii; attends Congress, 558; mentioned, 20, 720 Hillegas, Michael: on paper currency retirement, 634; mentioned, 138, 392 Hinchinbrook (H.M. schooner), 786 Hinman, Elisha, 460, 523, 541, 626 Hispaniola, W.I.: U.S. trade with, 151; mentioned, 374, 739 Hoggard, Thurmer, 402 Hogs, 295 Hogun, James, promoted, 362 Holt, John: printing press destroyed, 380; mentioned, 430 Holt, William, accounts, 402 Holten, Samuel: elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, 558 Holtzendorf, Louis-Casimir, baron de: returns to France, 266; mentioned, 175, 235, 297, 329 Hooper, Robert L.: purchasing practices criticized, 107, 141; recall sought by Pennsylvania, 123-25; mentioned, 97, 106, 156 Hooper, William, 68, 208 Hopkins, John Burroughs, 374, 522 Hopkins, Stephen: elected to Congress, xxi; mentioned, 667 Hopkinson, Francis: letters to, 504, 755; reimbursed for Bordenton-Baltimore move, 705, 757; mentioned, 689, 760 Horses: cavalry, 50-51, 87-88, 159, 219-20, 258, 516, 570; cavalry standards, 89, 181; British shortage, 355; impressment, 515; price, 515; mentioned, 131, 184, 256, 391, 479, 485, 684, 725, 745, 747, 771 Hortalez & Co.: committee of commerce contract, 221-23, 279-84, 679; men tioned, 22, 114, 150, 152, 161, 203, 232, 326, 547, 665 Hosmer, Titus: elected to Congress, xvi; attendance desired, 490; attends Con gress, 491, 558; letter quoted, 491 Hospitals; see Medical department Houston, William C.: letter to, 89; elected to New Jersey Assembly, 90 Houstoun, John: identified, 565; letters to, 69, 228, 277, 313, 546, 669 Howard, Mr. 327 Howard, Frederick; see Carlisle, 5th earl of Howard, J., 740 Howard, James, 449 Howard, James, Seth Harding, 460 Howe, Richard, 4th Viscount Howe: appointed peace commissioner, 499; men tioned, 334, 556, 774 Howe, Robert: letter to, 268; requests troops from South Carolina, 668-69; mentioned, 712 Howe, William: prisoner exchange proposals, 61, 77, 116, 128, 140, 164, 195, 245-49, 270, 298-99, 354, 365, 409, 430, 448-49, 453-54, 457, 518, 637-39, 700; visit from Richard Wilford denied, 227; secret plot of rumored, 271; strategy conjectured, 325; plan to evacuate Rhode Island rumored, 333; recall re ported, 365, 380, 467, 478; and truce flag violation, 391; distributes conciliatory proposals, 451-52, 455-58, 465-68; appointed peace commissioner, 499; recalled, 499-500, 616, 692; mentioned, 4, 34, 50, 56, 75, 122, 129, 136, 155, 203, 242, 250, 268, 296, 309, 319, 320, 347, 371, 385 , 435 , 437, 450, 555 , 568, 586, 604, 614, 652, 656, 659, 687, 693, 697, 702, 705, 710, 739, 774 Howell, Abner, 546 Hudson, Jonathan, 221, 627 Hudson River: defense, 132, 165, 237, 255, 328-29, 355, 430, 446, 555 Huger, Francis: opposes South Carolina audit, 703, 712; mentioned, 669


[Page 857]
Index 825 Manufacturing, iron, 291 Marchant, Henry: letters from, 93, 345; letters to, 457, 639; elected to Congress, xxi; Rhode Island inquiry commissioner, 93-94, 345; mentioned, 89, 465, 485, 720 Marine committee: letters from, 162, 167, 183, 215, 216, 231, 272, 273, 339, 366, 373, 376, 377, 378, 390, 400, 401, 402, 460, 471, 522, 610, 617, 626, 628, 689, 749, 754, 775, 779; instructs James Nicholson, 3, 216; instructs eastern navy board, 162, 183, 373, 610, 626, 628, 754, 775; orders flour and iron, 162, 167; instructs John Langdon, 163, 366, 610, 779; instructs William Smith, 167, 226; disbursements, 183, 366, 374, 390, 630, 743, 754, 777; instructs Nathaniel Shaw, 183; instructs Thomas Johnson, 215; orders Virginia to sea, 215; orders naval stores, 231; instructs John Barry, 272, 339; delays frigate construction, 366, 374, 401-2; instructs Thomas Read, 377, 471; revises naval rules, 377, 391; in structs middle navy board, 390, 689; settles prize accounts, 400-401; instructs David Stodder, 402; on oversupply of naval captains, 460; instructs John Brad ford 522; instructs John Young, 617; orders Thomas Thompson inquiry, 626; orders Hoysted Hacker inquiry, 628; orders Hector McNeill court-martial, 630; instructs Richard Ellis, 749; enlarged, 756; naval construction plan, 782; Virginia inquiry, 783; mentioned, 122, 300, 398, 489, 504, 506, 524, 541, 714; see also Continental Navy; Eastern navy board; Middle department navy board Marine Corps, and Virginia, 378 Marree (Marrie), Lt.Col., 92 Martinique, W.I.: defense prepared, 741; mentioned, 334, 370, 374, 769 Mary (brig), 376 Maryland: Continental Army quota, 23-24; requires oaths, 34, 41, 104; provisions sought, 107, 143, 156; asked to garrison Fort Frederick, 154; manpower as sessed, 178; cavalry quota, 182, 219-20, 258, 306; opposes Articles of Confedera tion, 205, 258, 305; sent money, 226, 258, 327, 455, 477, 501, 602, 636; instructs delegates on confederation, 263, 275, 393; criticizes special Continental pur chasers, 328; militia, 369, 452, 461-62; taxation, 448, 540; artillery, 452; loyalists, 452, 478-79; asked to suppress loyalist uprising, 461-62, 481, 520, 680; urged to respond to Congress, 479; naval support sought in Chesapeake, 502; horses impressed, 515; on land bounties, 554; loyalist requests permission to return to England, 635-36; Continental troops, 729; legal tender law, 742; see also Johnson, Thomas Maryland Assembly, reconvenes, 205 Maryland Council: assists James Nicholson, 3; urges embargo on provisions, 327; reports loyalist conspiracy, 337 Maryland delegates: letter to, 505; attendance, 741 Maryland Journal, 738 Mason, David: letter to, 104, 373; mentioned, 401 Mason, George, elected to Congress, xxii Massachusetts: Continental loan office, 91, 374, 488; unrepresented, 104, 318, 347, 350; privateer commissions, 146, 190; Continental troops, 240, 436; delays action on Articles of Confederation, 262; exiles John Amory, 262-63; loyalists, 263; instructs delegates on confederation, 317, 396, 438, 541; militia, 430; admiralty proceedings, 667, 669 Massachusetts Board of War: letters to, 666, 669; mentioned, 703, 704 Massachusetts Council: letters to, 62, 69, 132, 149, 228, 277, 313, 347, 350, 357, 457, 496, 587, 620, 639, 734; ordered to prepare packet for France, 715; on dis persing Convention Army, 734 Massachusetts delegates: quorum requirement, 347; request Rhode Island rein forcement, 736 Masts, 640


[Page 858]
826 Index Mathews, John: letter from, 497; -fa attends Congress, xxii, 323-24, 497, 558; elected to Congress, xxii; on North’s conciliatory bills, 499; mentioned, 351 Matlack, Timothy, 240, 633 Matthews, Sampson: Indian affairs commissioner, 342; George Morgan inquiry, 397 Mauduit du Plessis; see Du Plessis, Thomas-Antoine, chevalier de Mauduit Maxwell, James: letter to, 401; marine committee instructions, 401; mentioned, 391 Maxwell, William, 688, 789 Meade, Richard Kidder, 546 Mease, James: letters to, 189, 623, 731, 770; recommends suspension of state clothing purchases, 731; mentioned, 8, 655 Mease & Caldwell, 139 Medical department: Benjamin Rush’s resignation, 13; hospital reforms, 55-56; deputy director appointed, 103; investigates inoculation procedures, 232; medi cine needs, 251; Rush-Shippen feud, 379 Medicines, 138, 251, 312, 398 Mercenaries: German, 136, 267, 271, 417; proposed for U.S., 666 Mercer, Hugh, seniority, 197-98 Mercury (ship), 161, 461 Middlebrook, Louis, History of Maritime Connecticut, 715 Middle department navy board: letters to, 390, 504, 689, 704; marine committee instructions, 390, 689; relocates at Baltimore, 390; Virginia inquiry, 504; men tioned, 617 Middleton, Arthur: elected to Congress, xxii; mentioned, 20 Mifflin, Jonathan: recall sought, 124; mentioned, 106, 141, 156 Mifflin, Thomas: letters to, 69, 321, 440; seniority, 11; audit ordered, 69, 96; ordered to pay wagoners, 321; ordered to attend council of war, 440; criticized, 729; mentioned, 13, 130, 203, 210, 264, 293, 481, 595, 692, 712 Militia: assessed, 23; drafting recommended, 177, 227, 364; Pennsylvania, 313, 369; North Carolina, 316; Maryland, 369, 461-62; New Jersey, 369; Connecticut, 414, 430; Massachusetts, 430; New Hampshire, 430; New York, 430, 455, 459, 475, 555; Rhode Island, 430; exemptions for manufacturers recommended, 564, 602, 620, 668-69; Virginia, 616; enemy deserters exempted from, 730, 732, 734, 745, 747, 752, 758 Miller, Charles, 567 Miller, Henry, appointed chaplain, 732 Millers, wages, 137 Millet, Joseph, 195, 259, 277, 294, 368, 495 Milton, John, 782 Mintz, Max, Gouverneur Morris, 218, 425 Mississippi River: James Willing expedition, 151-52; privateering, 261, 270; men tioned, 271, 790 Mitchell, John, 16, 68, 208, 308 Mohawk Indians, Johnstown conference, 288-91, 388 Molasses, 598, 660 Money; see Paper currency Montfort, Julius, comte de, 767 Montgomery, Mr., 57, 520 Montgomery, Richard, 73 Montieu, Jean-Joseph Carrier de, 281 Moore, John, 295, 312 Moore Hall, Pa.: site of committee at camp, 61, 72, 75, 95, 108, 137, 163, 180, 184, 199, 205, 225, 243, 356; mentioned, 108, 159, 167, 179, 197, 217 Moravians, seek relief from Pennsylvania legislation against pacifists, 683 More, Capt., 362


[Page 860]
828 Index Murray, William; see Mansfield, 1st earl of Mutiny: of wagoners, 240; mentioned, 108 Nancy (snow), 121 Nancy (vessel), 750 Nantes, Fr.: U.S. agent at appointed, 62; mentioned, 764 Nash, Abner, elected to Congress, xx Natchez, West Florida, 152 Naval stores, 232, 690 Navy; see British navy; Continental Navy Navy board; see Eastern navy board; Middle department navy board Negroes; see Blacks Neptune (French frigate), 691 Nesbitt, John Maxwell, 139, 505 Netherlands, United Provinces of: protests British seizure of Dutch ship, 343, 661; American prize sold in, 699; mentioned, 560, 573, 671, 677, 687 Nevers, Capt., 753 New Bern, N.C., 471, 750 New England Convention (New Haven, January 1778): price regulation proposals, 438; mentioned, 276, 340, 541, 633 New Hampshire: Continental troops, 184; instructs delegates on confederation, 263, 396; shipbuilding, 300; Continental loan office, 374, 488; militia, 430; un represented, 437, 555, 561, 563, 783-84; fails to respond to Congress, 459, 755; see also Weare, Meshech New Hampshire delegates: request Rhode Island reinforcement, 736; attendance, 783 New Haven, Conn., 276, 340, 438, 541, 633 New Jersey: asked to supply cavalry horses, 88; manpower assessed, 178; cavalry quota, 182, 219-20, 516; Continental officers, 184; Continental loan office, 194, 390, 434, 479; sent money, 194; militia, 369; Continental Army quota, 423-24, 434-35; defense needs, 424; on land bounties, 554; accounts, 684; supplies horses, 684; price regulation, 705; see also Livingston, William New Orleans, 139, 342, 524, 653 New York: Continental troops, 15, 117, 240, 299, 303, 475, 727; unrepresented, 104, 328, 404; Continental loan office, 132, 349, 713; Hudson River defense, 132, 165, 237, 255, 355, 430, 446, 555, 690; sent money, 132, 140; Vermont dispute, 217-18, 457, 524, 551; accounts, 239; instructs delegates on confederation, 263; ratifies articles of confederation, 311, 317, 319, 327, 393, 541; governor’s authority circumscribed in northern military department, 320; condemns illicit trade with New York City, 329; loyalists, 425; militia, 430, 455, 459, 475, 555; constitution, 545, 738; on land bounties, 554; price regulation, 705; requests postponing loyalist pardons, 733; see also Clinton, George New York, N.Y.: illicit trade with condemned, 329; plan for capturing by storm, 515; evacuation rumored, 723 New York Convention, letters to, 238, 354 New York delegates, letters from, 551, 690 Nichols, William: letter to, 735; exchange proposed, 735, 770 Nicholson, James: letter to, 216; marine committee instructions, 3, 216; ordered to sea, 215; loses Virginia, 391; Virginia inquiry, 504, 783; mentioned, 203, 377, 452, 471, 690 Nicholson, Joseph, elected to Congress, xviii Nicholson, Samuel, 692, 701, 764 Niles, Robert, 715 Nixon, John: letter to, 504; resigns from navy board, 705 Noailles, Emmanuel-Marie-Louis, marquis de: insults George HI, 639, 684, 695,


[Page 862]
830 Index Otis & Andrews: clothing purchases, 624; accounts, 655, 731; mentioned, 750 Our Lady of Mount Carmel and St. Anthony (Portuguese snow), 233-34, 650, 667, 669 Ozeas, Peter, 284 Oznabrigs, 522 Paca, William: elected to Congress, xviii; mentioned, 452, 464 Page, John: letters to, 599, 748, 790; mentioned, 617 Page, Mann: elected to Congress, xxii; mentioned, 617, 791 Paine, Robert Treat: letters from, 93, 345; letters to, 340, 744; elected to Con gress, xix; Rhode Island inquiry commissioner, 93-94, 345, 744; letter quoted, 94; attendance desired, 744; mentioned, 720 Paine, Thomas, Crisis, 418 Palfrey, William: letters to, 189, 249, 311; -ft dissuaded from resigning, 251; resigna tion discussed, 311; mentioned, 7, 413 Pallas (French privateer), 398 Palmer, John M„ General von Steuben, 22, 134 Paper currency: depreciation, 4, 326; exchange rate, 245, 691; counterfeiting, 284; limitation recommended, 341, 491, 541, 563; retirement debated, 632-34; Penn sylvania issues retired, 634, 740 Pardons, urged by Congress, xxvi, 463-64, 481, 494-97, 501-3, 564-65, 588, 733 Parke, Thomas, arrest ordered, 174, 210 Parker, James, 680 Parker, William, letter to, 693 Parliament; see Great Britain; North, Frederick (Lord) Parry, Capt., 688 Parsons, Samuel Holden, 140 Partisan warfare; see Loyalists Paterson, John, 108, 792 Paterson, William: letter to, 49; declines Ticonderoga inquiry appointment, 49; mentioned, 34, 41 Patterson, Samuel, 454 Patty (vessel), 121 Paullin, Charles O., “Admiral Pierre Landais,” 377 Pay; see Income Paymaster general’s department: pay and allowances, 668; mentioned, 251, 279, 413, 476, 495; see also Palfrey, William; Trumbull, Jonathan, Jr. Payne, Mr., 262 Peale, Charles Willson, xxiv, xxviii Peas, 138 Peck, Mr., 236, 777 Peery, William, 793 Peggy (vessel), 629 Pemberton, Israel: letter to, 392; exiled to Virginia, 392 Pemberton, James, 174, 210, 392 Penn, John: letters from, 22, 42, 127, 139, 150, 232; letter to, 480; attends Con gress, xx, 558; elected to Congress, xx; votes, 10; on secret committee accounts, 22; leaves Congress, 316; defended, 317; recommends general officers, 361; men tioned, 67, 203, 275, 311, 312, 357, 774 Penn, John (Pennsylvania governor): letter to, 672; petitions for parole, 304, 306-7; paroled, 321, 672; mentioned, 699 Penn, Richard, xxiii Penn, Thomas, xxiii Pennsylvania: map of, endpapers, xxiii; Continental Army quota, 6, 23-24, 265, 358; loyalists, 34, 125, 144-46, 168, 174, 264, 307, 450, 692; appoints commissary


[Page 863]
Index 831 Pennsylvania (continued) commissioners, 103; special provisions purchase, 111, 123, 129; sent money, 112, 123, 129, 392, 426; criticizes special Continental purchasers, 131, 179, 314, 328; asked to provision Continental Army, 156-57; manpower assessed, 178; cavalry quota, 182, 219-20; provides transportation for Continental quartermasters, 240; privateer commissions, 259, 320; protests transportation requisitions, 260; instructs delegates on confederation, 263, 396, 541; Irish, 264; relations with Board of War, 269; Continental troops, 285, 358, 397; offers to lend vessels to Congress, 285; proprietary officers seek parole, 306-7; militia, 313, 369; ammunition re quested from, 314; asked to guard Continental magazines, 314, 321; Quaker exiles, 321, 392; arrests proprietary officers, 378; test act, 378, 672, 699; inaction criticized, 386; Continental loan office, 392, 426, 624; asked to suspend wheat purchases, 457; and price regulation, 541, 563, 634; on retirement of paper currency, 632-34; penalizes pacifists, 683; frontier defense, 694; clothing purchases opposed, 731; retires paper currency, 740; clothing accounts, 779; see also Philadelphia Pennsylvania Assembly: letter to, 156; -ft retires paper currency, 634; requests reimbursement for fort construction, 730 Pennsylvania Council: letter to, 285; urges attack on Philadelphia, 6, 13; pro tests Continental infringement of state authority, 123-25, 163; permission to enter British lines sought, 166; executes Joseph Bone, 760; see also Bryan, George; Wharton, Thomas Pennsylvania delegates: letters from, 111, 129, 284; attendance, 224; on half-pay plan, 561 Pennsylvania Evening Post, 125, 451, 482 Pennsylvania Farmer (brigantine), 150 Pennsylvania Gazette, 458, 484, 499, 619, 639, 650, 669, 695, 732, 786 Pennsylvania Ledger, 451, 596 Pennsylvania Packet, 294, 781 Pensions; see Half-pay plan Peters, Richard, 101, 122 Pettit, Charles: recommended as deputy quartermaster, 171-72; appointed deputy quartermaster, 174, 243; mentioned, 203, 242, 256, 354 Peyton, Henry, 357 Phaethon, 417 Philadelphia: attack urged, 6, 13-14, 36; attack opposed, 7; evacuation rumored, 620-22, 635, 647, 649-50, 652, 670, 687, 692, 700, 702, 707, 710, 716-17, 723, 726, 732, 740, 743, 748, 752-53, 758-59, 766, 772, 774-75, 780, 786, 789, 791-92 Phile, Elizabeth, 471 Phile, Frederick: seeks recovery of daughter, 470-71; mentioned, 513 Phillips, William: letter to, 400; marine committee instructions, 400 Phoenix (schooner), prize case, 233-34 Pickering, Capt., 557 Pickering, Timothy, 694 Pickles, William, 524 Pierce, John: identified, 415; mentioned, 413, 447, 713 Pierre, Capt., 92 Pigot, Robert, 734 Pike, Thomas, letter to, 610 Pinckney, Charles, letter to, 610 Pinckney, Charles Cotesworth, 787 Piper, James, 759 Pitch, 232, 640 Pitt, Thomas, 118 Pitt, William, 1st earl of Chatham, 109


[Page 864]
832 Index Pitts, John, 350 Pittsburgh, Pa.; see Fort Pitt, Pa. Plater, George: attends Congress, xviii, 558; elected to Congress, xviii; mentioned, 720, 741 Plunkett, Thomas: letter to, 378; mentioned, 216 Poe, David, 636 Poe, James, proposes exchange, 614 Poland, 343, 461 Pollock, Oliver, 152 Pontgibaud, Charles-Albert de More, chevalier de, promoted, 10 Pope, Charles, 520 Pork: embargoed, 91; price, 122; mentioned, 16, 80, 88, 90, 108, 121, 128, 137, 173, 470 Porter, David, 167 Portugal, 343, 422, 573, 701 Potts, Jonathan: appointed deputy director of medical department, 103; men tioned, 101, 627 Poughkeepsie, N.Y., Continental loan office at requested, 238 Powell, Jeremiah, 350, 496 Powell, R. H., 790 Powell, William, 586 Pratt, Charles; see Camden, 1st earl of Prescott, Richard: exchange proposed, 410, 430, 489; exchanged, 500, 501, 518, 555; mentioned, 599 President of Congress: proposal to provide presidential household deferred, 704; see also Laurens, Henry Prices: hay, 4; meals, 4; oats, 4, 137, 143; rum, 4; wine, 4; regulation proposed, 36, 340, 438, 563, 634; pork, 122; salt, 122, 218; leather, 128; corn, 137, 143; flour, 137, 286, 328; rye, 137; wheat, 137, 143, 286, 328; fish, 143, 301; regulation opposed, 203, 257, 275-76, 286, 292, 414, 491, 541, 705, 744; shoes, 260; Penn sylvania criticizes special Continental purchasers, 314; prize sloop, 472; regula tion approved, 490; horses, 515; response to Franco-American alliance, 591; iron, 629; coffee, 689; New Jersey regulation, 705; New York regulation, 705 Printers; see Aitken, Robert; Bailey, Francis; Dunlap, John; Goddard, Mary Katherine; Hall & Sellers; Holt, John; Rivington, James Prisoners, political: John McKinly, 86, 365; William Franklin, 86; Benjamin Chew, 304, 306-7, 321, 378, 672; John Penn, 304, 306-7, 321, 672 Prisoners of war: exchange proposals, 7, 50, 61, 77, 116, 128, 140, 164, 178, 195, 240, 242-49, 270, 298-99, 312, 320, 336, 353, 365, 380, 393, 408-10, 430, 487, 525, 532; treatment, 17, 586; provisioning, 37, 140, 155, 188-89, 194-95, 228, 238, 245, 408-10, 426, 701, 754; guard provided, 154; British relief party investigated, 163, 314; accounts, 239, 247-48, 312, 344; naval, 273; relief fund, 296; status of loyalists, 298, 390, 393, 438; leave request, 335; recruitment by Pulaski, 353, 768; truce flag violation, 391; negotiations suspended, 448-49, 453-54, 456-57, 481, 489, 518, 555; civilian prisoners’ status, 453, 738; exchange proposals revived, 614, 637-39; health, 614; pay and allowances, 681; mentioned, 630, 700, 735; see also Beatty, John; Boudinot, Elias; Johnston, Francis Privateering: Virginia commissions, 69; Massachusetts commissions, 146, 190; illegal seizures, 233-34; Pennsylvania commissions, 259, 320; on inland waterways, 261, 270; status of British privateers, 339; South Carolina commissions, 669 Prizes: share distribution, 162, 272, 339, 401, 472; Portuguese snow seized, 233-34; Continental agent appointed in Virginia, 312; share distribution dispute, 375-76; accounts, 401; Alert hearing, 439; Continental shares, 522; taken by Delaware troops, 688; sold in Holland, 699; slaves captured by General Moultrie, 703; mentioned, 660, 750; see also Continental Navy


[Page 865]
Index 833 Propaganda, British ploy denounced, 482, 493, 498 Providence (Continental frigate), 300, 373, 377 Providence (Continental sloop), 472, 486, 523, 610, 626, 629, 776 Provisions: embargo sought, 327; see also Commissary general’s department; Con tinental Army; Continental Navy Provost Corps: Continental establishment proposal, 24, 29; established, 724-25; mentioned, 695 Prussia: U.S. commissioner to appointed, 61; promises recognition of U.S. inde pendence, 582, 594, 605-6, 613, 623, 625, 792; and Bavarian succession, 616; report of support for U.S. unfounded, 632; mentioned, 343, 417, 590, 631, 663, 665, 687 Public debt; see Board of Treasury; Continental loan office; Loans, foreign Pulaski, Casimir: identified, 349; letter to, 349; appointed commander of Con tinental cavalry, 349; raises independent corps, 353; recruits prisoners, 353-54, 767-68; mentioned, 351, 355, 432, 628, 755 Pulteney, William, 602, 605 Purcell, Henry: letter to, 269; appointed deputy judge advocate, 269 Purviance, John, 437 Purviance, Robert: letter to, 113; mentioned, 138, 139, 219, 783 Purviance, Samuel, Jr.: letter to, 113; mentioned, 44, 119, 138, 219, 783 Putnam, Israel: letters to, 62, 238; relieved of command, 129-30, 140; and Rhode Island command, 225-26; requests money, 238; recruiting, 411; court-martial, 546; mentioned, 250 Quakers: pacifism criticized, 117; arrest ordered, 174, 210; Virginia exiles, 321, 392; mentioned, 34, 264 Quartermaster general’s department: returns, 7; quartermaster appointment post poned, 10; reform proposed, 47, 79-82, 114, 163-64, 167-73; audit ordered, 69; Philip Schuyler discussed as quartermaster, 81-82, 92, 97, 176; reorganized, 82, 109; deficiencies, 98, 156, 190—91; purchasing practices condemned, 124; commis sion rates, 137, 169, 172, 174; Nathanael Greene appointed quartermaster, 224-25, 243; power of appointment controversy, 642; pay dispute, 669; accounts, 703; mentioned, 50, 146, 154, 158, 182, 203, 209, 256, 354, 712, 745; see also Cox, John; Greene, Nathanael; Mifflin, Thomas; Pettit, Charles Queen of France (Continental frigate), 523, 741, 764, 777 Raleigh (Continental frigate), 467, 474, 486, 523, 626, 629, 750, 778, 783 Randolph, Frances Bland (Mrs. John): identified, 316; letter to, 315; mentioned, 417,473 Randolph, John, 595 Randolph (Continental frigate), 191, 452, 486, 489, 491, 492, 523, 556 Ranger (Continental sloop), 375, 523, 629 Rankin, Hugh, North Carolina Continentals, 772 Rathbun, John Peck: prize share dispute, 375; mentioned, 610 Rattlesnake (Philadelphia privateer), 787 Rattle Trap (armed boat), 151, 182 Rawlings, Moses, 23-24 Rawlyk, George, Nova Scotia’s Massachusetts, 496 Read, Maj., 87 Read, Mr., 286 Read, George: letters to, 63, 85, 344, 363; mentioned, 521, 793 Read, James, 374, 391


[Page 866]
834 Index Read, Thomas: letters to, 377, 471; marine committee instructions, 377, 471; mentioned, 151, 690, 764 Reading, Pa.: Continental magazine, 314, 321; mentioned, 95, 111, 223, 252, 264 726 Reconciliation: Lord North’s conciliatory bills, 449-52, 454-58, 461-62, 465-68, 473, 477-80, 491-95, 497, 500, 502, 515, 519, 561, 658-59, 709; Congress debates pro posal to negotiate with Britain, 468, 551-52; peace commissioners appointed, 499, 521, 543, 556, 566, 573; mentioned, 545 Recruiting; see British army, recruitment; Continental Army, recruitment; Con tinental Navy, recruitment; Mercenaries Reed, Joseph: letters from, 4, 13, 23, 36, 57, 79, 87, 92, 112, 125, 141, 143, 167, 168, 219, 241, 285, 356; letters to, 157, 176; attends Congress, xxi, 558; elected to Congress, xxi; portrait, xxiv, 142; committee at camp, 4, 7, 13, 23, 36, 51, 57, 79, 87, 106, 112, 125, 143, 168, 184, 219, 356; on army reform, 5-6, 57-61; committee of arrangements, 30; relations with Washington, 61, 243; recommends appoint ment of Nathanael Greene and John Cox to quartermaster department, 92-93; on provisioning abuses, 141; recommends John Cox, 141; on quartermaster re form, 167; arranges Pennsylvania battalions, 285; on Continental sovereignty, 418; defends Washington, 525; mentioned, 224, 720 Reeve, Tapping, 286, 414 Religion; see Chaplains; Moravians; Quakers Reprisal (Continental brig), 55, 201 Resistance (Continental brig), 630, 741, 775 Rhode Island: Continental Army quota, 24; Continental commander for needed, 95, 140; commander appointed, 155, 187, 226; Continental establishment, 186; Continental loan office, 187, 574; quorum requirement, 187; expedition as Con tinental expense, 188; ratifies Articles on Confederation, 188; instructs delegates on confederation, 263, 541, 709; British evacuation rumored, 325, 333; expedition inquiry, 341, 744; Continental troops, 371; William Greene elected governor, 372, 710, 773; blockaded, 376; militia, 430; seeks Chesapeake provisions, 485; sent money, 485, 574; loyalists, 487; unrepresented, 489; on land bounties, 554; rein forcements for requested, 736; see also Cooke, Nicholas; Greene, William Rhode Island Assembly, enlarges congressional delegation, 188 Rhode Island inquiry commissioners: letters from, 93, 345; inquiry delayed, 94, 345-46; Egbert Benson declines appointment, 318; reimbursed, 465 Rice: trade, 160-62; mentioned, 202, 391, 524, 640, 679, 786 Rickman, William, acquitted of negligence in smallpox inoculations, 232 Ridley, Matthew: identified, 753; mentioned, 757 Riedesel, Friedrich Adolphus, baron von, 267 Rittenhouse, David, 124, 392 Rivington, James, publishes forged Washington letters, 596 Roberdeau, Daniel: letters from, 65, 123, 156, 163, 284, 285, 313, 779; ft attends Congress, xxi, 780; elected to Congress, xxi; committee on oaths, xxiii; votes, 10; on provisions crisis, 156-57; lead mining activities, 780; mentioned 34 131 243 379, 688, 720 Robinson, Andrew, 740 Robinson, Isaiah, charged with truce flag violation, 391 Robinson, Thomas, 86 Roche, John, 375, 776 Roche, John F„ Joseph Reed, 61, 243 Rochefermoy, Mathieu Alexis de, 219 Rodney, Caesar: letters to, 418, 480, 494, 520, 620, 639, 791; ft elected to Congress, xvii; attendance desired, 85, 365; on Continental infringement of Delaware sovereignty, 337; elected president of Delaware, 365-66, 400; mentioned, 87, 688 Rodney, Thomas, letter to, 439
