Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 2, September 1775 to December 1775
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_02/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 7]
Foreword Well before the signing on July 4, 1966, of Public Law 89-491, establishing a national American Revolution Bicentennial Commis sion, the Library of Congress began considering how it could contrib ute to the celebration of the Bicentennial of the American Revolu tion. In 1968 Congress approved the Library’s general plan and subsequently authorized the addition to the Library’s staff of several historians, all specialists in early American history. The Library took as the theme for its Bicentennial program “Liberty and Learning” from James Madison, who asked: “What spectacle can be more edify ing or more seasonable, than that of Liberty &: Learning, each lean ing on the other for their mutual and surest support.” Reflecting the Library’s unparalleled resources for the study of the revolutionary era, its Bicentennial program ranges widely: from the presentation of symposia to the publication of facsimiles and the texts of rare or unique material to the recording of American folk music and the compilation of bibliographies and guides. In preparing one of those guides, Manuscript Sources in the Li brary of Congress for Research on the American Revolution (Wash ington: Library of Congress, 1975), the staff of the Bicentennial Of fice discovered large numbers of letters, written by members of the Continental Congresses, which had not been published in Edmund C. Burnett’s magisterial 8-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continental Congress, 1774-89 (Washington: Carnegie Institution, 1921-36). Initially, it appeared that these letters might be published as a supplement to Burnett’s work, but as additional unpublished let ters of Congressmen turned up and as a cursory survey of other reposi tories suggested that even more unpublished letters were available, the Library decided that a new, expanded edition would be a valu able and appropriate Bicentennial project. As the editors of the present work grew to appreciate the magni tude of the task they had undertaken, their admiration for Burnett increased. It is not enough to say that his edition provided the inspi ration for their efforts. His research and annotations have stood the test of time and provide the foundation for much of the research which will appear in these volumes. Specialists will sense the editors’ dependence on Burnett’s pathfinding work, but perhaps few. other than the editors, can fully appreciate the dimensions of his achieve ment. The present edition has benefited immensely from the generous co operation of the editors of several other documentary publications iii


[Page 12]
viii Editorial Method and Apparatus RPJCB ViHi ViU John Carter Brown Library, Providence Virginia Historical Society, Richmond University of Virginia, Charlottesville ABBREVIATIONS AND SHORT TITLES Abbreviations and short titles frequently cited in the present vol ume are identified below. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) Adams, John. Diary and Autobiography of John Adams. Edited by Lyman H. Butterfield et al. 4 vols. Cambridge: Harvard Univer sity Press, Belknap Press, 1961. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) Butterfield, Lyman H., et al., eds. Adams Family Correspondence. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1963—. Adams, Works (Adams) Adams, John. The Works of John Adams, Second President of the United States. . . . Edited by Charles Francis Adams. 10 vols. Bos ton: Charles C. Little and James Brown, 1850-56. Am. Archives Force, Peter, ed. American Archives: Consisting of a Collection of Authentick Records, State Papers, Debates, and Letters and Other Notices of Publick Affairs. 4th series. 6 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1837-53. Austin, Life of Gerry Austin, James T. The Life of Elbridge Gerry, with Contemporary Letters to the Close of the American Revolution. 2 vols. Boston: Wellsand Lilly, 1828-29. Bio. Dir. Cong. U.S. Congress. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1971. Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C., ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Congress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36. CHS Bulletin Connecticut Historical Society Bulletin. Clark, Naval Documents Clark, William Bell, et al., eds. Naval Documents of the American Revolution. Washington: Department of the Navy, 1964-. DAB Dictionary of American Biography. Edited by Allen Johnson and Dumas Malone. DNB Dictionary of National Biography. . . . Edited by Sir Leslie Stephen and Sir Sidney Lee.


[Page 13]
Editorial Method and Apparatus ix Franklin, Writings (Smyth) Franklin, Benjamin. The Writings of Benjamin Franklin. Edited by Albert H. Smyth. 10 vols. New York: Macmillan Co., 1905-7. JCC U.S. Continental Congress. Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. Edited by Worthington C. Ford et al. 34 vols. Washing ton: Library of Congress, 1904-37. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) Jefferson, Thomas. The Papers of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by Julian P. Boyd et al. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1950-. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong. New York. Journals of the Provincial Congress, Provincial Conven tion, Committee of Safety and Council of Safety of the State of New York, 1775-1777. 2 vols. Albany: T. Weed, 1842. Md. Hist. Magazine Maryland Historical Magazine. N.C. Colonial Records North Carolina. The Colonial Records of North Carolina. Edited by William L. Saunders. 10 vols. Raleigh and Goldsboro, N.C.: P.M. Hale et al., 1886-90. N.H. Provincial Papers New Hampshire. Provincial and State Papers. 40 vols. Concord, 1867-1943. N.J. Archives New Jersey Historical Society. Documents Relating to the Colonial, Revolutionary and Post-Revolutionary History of the State of New Jersey. Archives of the State of New Jersey. 1st series. 42 vols. New ark and Paterson, N.J., 1880-1949. NYHS Collections Collections of the New-York Historical Society. OED The Oxford English Dictionary. Pa. Archives Pennsylvania Archives. 9 series, 119 vols. in 120. Philadelphia: J. Severns & Co., 1852-56; Harrisburg: state printer, 1874-1935. PCC Papers of the Continental Congress. National Archives. Washing ton, D.C. PMHB Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. Rodney, Letters (Ryden) Rodney, Caesar. Letters to and from Caesar Rodney, 1756—1784. Edited by George H. Ryden. Philadelphia: University of Pennsyl vania Press, 1933.


[Page 14]
X Editorial Method and Apparatus Shipton, Harvard Graduates Shipton, Clifford K. Biographical Sketches of Those Who Attended Harvard College. Sibley’s Harvard Graduates. Boston: Massachu setts Historical Society, 1873-. Susquehannah Co. Papers Boyd, Julian P., and Taylor, Robert J., eds. The Susquehannah Company Papers. 11 vols. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1962-71. Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg) Ward, Samuel. Correspondence of Governor Samuel Ward, May 1775-March 1776, with a Biographical Introduction Based Chiefly on the Ward Papers Covering the Period 1725-1776, and Genealogy of the Ward Family, Thomas Ward, Son of John, of Newport and Some of His Descendants. Edited by Bernhard Knollenberg and compiled by Clifford P. Monahon. Providence: Rhode Island His torical Society, 1952. Warren-Adams Letters Warren-Adams Letters, Being Chiefly a Correspondence among John Adams, Samuel Adams, and James Warren. 2 vols. Massachu setts Historical Society Collections, vols. 72-73. Boston: Massachu setts Historical Society, 1917-25. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) Washington, George. The Writings of George Washington. Edited by John C. Fitzpatrick. 39 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1931-44. Webb, Correspondence (Ford) Webb, Samuel B. Correspondence and Journals of Samuel Blachley Webb. Edited by Worthington C. Ford. 3 vols. New York: Wicker sham Press, 1893-94.


[Page 21]
List of Delegates to Congress DELAWARE Thomas McKean Elected: March 16 and October 21, 1775 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 George Read Elected: March 16 and October 21, 1775 Attended: September 13? to December 25? 1775 Caesar Rodney Elected: March 16 and October 21, 1775 Attended: September 13? to December 8? 1775 GEORGIA Archibald Bulloch Elected: July 7, 1775 Attended: September 13 to November 26? 1775 Lyman Hall Elected: July 7, 1775 Did not return to Congress in 1775 John Houstoun Elected: July 7, 1775 Attended: September 13 to November 26? 1775 Noble Wimberly Jones Elected: July 7, 1775 Did not attend in 1775 John Joachim Zubly Elected: July 7, 1775 Attended: September 13 to November 9, 1775 MARYLAND Robert Alexander Elected: December 9, 1775 Did not attend in 1775 Samuel Chase Elected: August 14, 1775 Attended: September 13 to November 9? 1775 Robert Goldsborough Elected: August 14, 1775 Did not return to Congress in 1775 John Hall Elected: August 14, 1775 Attended: September ? to October 6? 1775 Thomas Johnson Elected: August 14, 1775 Attended: September 13 to November 30? 1775 William Paca Elected: August 14, 1775 Attended: September 13 to December 11? 1775 xvii 243-053 0 -77-2


[Page 25]
List of Delegates to Congress xxi Thomas Willing Elected: May 6 and November 4, 1775 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 James Wilson Elected: May 6 and November 4, 1775 Attended: November 9? to December 31, 1775 (commissioner negotiating with Indians at Fort Pitt during September and October) RHODE ISLAND Stephen Hopkins Elected: December 9, 1774 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 Samuel Ward Elected: December 9, 1774 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 SOUTH CAROLINA Christopher Gadsden Elected: February 3 and November 29, 1775 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 Thomas Lynch Elected: February 3 and November 29, 1775 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 (traveled with the Committee of Conference, October 6 to November 2) Henry Middleton Elected: February 3 and November 29, 1775 Attended: September 13 to November 4, 1775 Edward Rutledge Elected: February 3 and November 29, 1775 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 John Rutledge Elected: February 3 and November 29, 1775 Attended: September 13 to November 4, 1775 VIRGINIA Benjamin Harrison Elected: August 11, 1775 Attended: September 19 to December 31, 1775 (traveled with the Committee of Conference, October 6 to November 2; and for the Naval Committee on a mission to Maryland, December 2-18?) Thomas Jefferson Elected: August 11, 1775 Attended: October 2 to December 28, 1775 Francis Lightfoot Lee Elected: August 15, 1775 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 Richard Henry Lee Elected: August 11, 1775 Attended: September 24 to December 23, 1775


[Page 26]
xxii List of Delegates to Congress Thomas Nelson Elected: August 11, 1775 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 Peyton Randolph Elected: August 11, 1775 Attended: September 13 to October 21, 1775 George Wythe Elected: August 11, 1775 Attended: September 13 to December 31, 1775 (traveled with the committee that addressed the New Jersey Assembly on Decem ber 5)


[Page 30]
xxvi Illustrations Christopher Gadsden 317 Gadsden, a Charleston merchant regarded as one of South Caro lina’s leading radicals, was among the foremost advocates in Congress of a Continental Navy. Gadsden’s support for this policy was a natural outgrowth of both his experience as purser on a ship of the Royal Navy in his youth and his more general concern for the defense of American rights against British encroachments. In fact, so enthusiasti cally did he champion the cause of American rights that Connecticut delegate Silas Deane observed during the First Continental Congress that “Mr. Gadsden leaves all New England Sons of Liberty, farr be hind.” Painting by Charles Willson Peale, Independence National His torical Park Collection. George Ross 359 A lawyer from Lancaster and brother-in-law of Delaware delegate George Read, Ross was the only Pennsylvania delegate not returned to Congress by the Pennsylvania Assembly in November 1775. A few days after replacing Ross by the conservative Andrew Allen, the as sembly adopted new instructions for the Pennsylvania delegates, directing them to oppose measures “that may cause, or lead to, a Separation from our Mother Country.” The assembly’s action, Ross feared, would have “fatal consequences.” He was, however, reelected to Congress the following July by the Pennsylvania Convention, which had assumed the authority of the defunct Pennsylvania Assembly, and he returned to Congress to become a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Painting by Benjamin West, 1755 or 1756. From the North Mus eum, Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa. Congressional Declaration of December 6, 1775. 449 A declaration of Congress adopted on December 6, 1775, and direct ed against the king’s proclamation of August 23, 1775, declaring the American colonies in a state of “open and avowed rebellion.” Con gress ordered the publication of this broadside to deny the king’s “aspersions” and to reaffirm both their allegiance to the king and their continued opposition to Britain’s exercise “of unconstitutional pow ers, to which neither the Crown nor Parliament were ever entitled.” Broadside printed by John Dunlap. Robert Treat Paine 460 Paine, a Taunton, Mass., lawyer, gradually became an authority on the production of saltpetre, powder, and arms, and during his two- and-a-half-year term as a delegate to Congress he played the leading


[Page 45]
September 15, 1775 13 dodges his Head too, rather disagreably, and both of them Spout out their Language in a rough and rapid Torrent, but without much Force or Effect. Dyer is long winded and roundabout—obscure and cloudy. Very talkative and very tedious, yet an honest, worthy Man, means and judges well. Sherman’s Air is the Reverse of Grace. There cannot be a more striking Contrast to beautifull Action, than the Motions of his Hands. Generally, he stands upright with his Hands before him. The fingers of his left Hand clenched into a Fist, and the Wrist of it, grasped with his right. But he has a clear Head and sound Judgment. But when he moves a Hand, in any thing like Action, Hogarths Genuis could not have invented a Motion more opposite to grace. It is Stiff ness, and Aukwardness itself. Rigid as Starched Linen or Buckram. Aukward as a junior Batchelor, or a Sophomore. Mr. Dickinsons Air, Gate, and Action are not much more elegant. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:172-73. 1 This entry is apparently retrospective, since the credentials of the Georgia delegates were entered into the journals on September 13. JCC, 2:240-42. 2 That is, William Lee. “For the arrival of the New’ Hampshire delegates, see Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett, September 16, 1775. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Philadelphia Septr 15th 1775 I wrote you from Trenton, last Sunday, 1 but miss’d a Conveyance untill on Tuesday, by the Stage, to Care of Mr. Hazard. Hope You received it. I think I promised you a long Letter in it as soon as I ar rived here, which shall disappoint you of, tho’ this by Brown is sure of coming safe to hand for which want of Spirits occasioned by a se ver cold must be my excuse. I have been casting in my Mind how to procure you a passage to this place. Suppose Mr. Webb who wants to come, at least as farr as N. York could contrive to put his light Horse, with Two others, into Browns Stage and so come on, to New York, where I would meet you, with my Carriage. Think of this and write me by the first post after the Receipt of this. Tell my Brother Simeon, that Monsieur Te- tard is gone Chaplain to the New York Forces, so that his views of studying with him are over, for the present. The Congress have hardly begun Business, New Hampshire, &: N. Carolina being absent. 2 This City is still busy in military parade, & preparation. It is well they are for something is Necessary to keep them employed, and to divert their Attention from the Melancholy


[Page 47]
September 15, 1775 15 by the K s answer to the London Petition. 2 But it rather seems there will be no reinforcement to Genii Gage this fall. I hope a good account may be given of those here in due time. Let me hear wether my son is with you & how he does. Due regards to all Friends & am yours Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Since my last we have recievd from Doctr Church an Invoice for a large quantity of Druggs. 3 As I had sent my son a large quanti ty of Rhubarb and it is now Scarce here I have engaged to Supply him with that Article I believe Cheaper than can be got here. I have shewd a Sample to the best appothecary here who say it is Cheap at 3 doll [ar] s per lb by 50 wt togeather. I have ordered my son Benjn to send forword to you about 56 lb the quantity Doctr Church sent for, at that price tho it is low, which you will be so kind as to deliver to him as soon as it comes to hand. The other articles we shall pro cure as soon as may be & forword. Your E D RC (CtHi) . 1 Probably Washington’s September 7 letter to Congress, endorsed "No. 6,” and enclosing Commissary Trumbull’s proposals for purchasing flour and pork econom ically. PCC, item 152, 1:109-14; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:662-63. Congress continued consideration of this letter on September 16 and on the 21st appointed a committee to consider means of provisioning the army. JCC, 2:253, 3:257-58. a On July 14, 1775, the lord mayor, aidermen, and Commons of the City of London petitioned the king, urging him to desist from the use of force against America. The king replied that he must continue to use force as long as there was any resistance. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:1602-3. 3 On the previous day Congress had appointed Dyer to a committee “to devise ways and means for supplying the continental army with Medicines.” JCC, 2:250. John Hancock to Lewis Morris and James Wilson Gentlemen, Congress Chamber Septr. 15th. 1775. Your Letter of the 6th Inst. 1 was duely reed, and communicated to the Congress, who immediately took into Consideration the pro posed Expedition against Detroit: and as the Season is so far ad vanced, and the Congress have not sufficient Light to direct their Judgment, they can not undertake to give their Countenance to the proposed Enterprize; more especially as an Enterprize is now on Foot, which, if successful, will necessarily draw that Place after it. Inclosed you have two Resolves passed in Congress, relative to the Appointment of Col. Morris and Doctr. Walker, 2 as Commissioners for Indian Affairs. If Doctr. Walker should not be present when this reaches you, it may be proper to dispatch an Express to him, and no tify him of his Appointment.


[Page 48]
16 September 15, 1775 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . 1 On this letter, now lost, see also Richard Smith’s Diary, September 13, 1775. 3 Thomas Walker (1715-94), a Virginia physician and explorer deeply involved in western land speculation, and Lewis Morris, a delegate from New York, were appointed commissioners for Indian affairs in the middle department on Septem ber 14-15, for the express purpose of concluding a treaty of friendship with the Ohio Indians at Pittsburgh. JCC, 2:251; and DAB. John Jay to Stephen Rapalje Sir Philad. 15 Septr. 1775 We are informd that a considerable Quantity of Drugs 8c Medi cines are in yr. Possession belonging to a Gent, in England or Ire land. The Congress are desirous of purchasing such of them as may be of use to the army, 8c I am desired to apply to you for that Pur pose. Be so kind therefore as to inform me by the first opportunity whether you will dispose of them. Be assured that yr. Compliance will be very agreable to the Congress. 1 I am Sir yr. very hble ServL J- J a Y FC (NNC) . 1 On September 23 Congress ordered the committee on supplying the army to "buy a parcel of Drugs in the hands of Mr. Rapalje, which he offers at the prime cost.” JCC, 3:261. George Ross to James Wilson Dear Sir Phida. 15th Septr. 1775 The Affair of Detroit has been considered in Congress and the re sult you will have in a Letter from the President. 1 It was thought too late in the Season. The Intelligence was not clear enough. That Can non might me [he] Necessary. That as the Treaty at Albany has been very happily Concluded The Indians might take Offence. That per haps the Indians in your department might take it amiss and Lastly that Should Genl. Shuyler Suceed as has Embarged 15 days Detroit would Fall of Course. I say those Reasons determined the Congress unanimously to delay the Expedition at this time. We have little to do. All waiting with Anxiety to hear from Schuyler. All is Quiet at Boston. The Best Intelligence from England shews we must depend on our own Steady measures. I have heard From Jammy, he is well. I have not lately heard from Mr. Biddle, by the last accounts he was better. My Complymts. to Col. Morris Mr. Lawrence & all Friends. Coll. Thompson is well 8c greatly Esteemed. There is another Brigadier Wanting For the Army. I hope to have


[Page 49]
September 15, 1775 17 Col. Armstrong appointed. I am with great affection Your Sincere Friend & Hble Servt. Geo. Ross RC (MeHi). 1 For Congress’ negative response to a proposed expedition against Detroit, recommended in Morris and Wilson’s letter of September 6, sec John Hancock to Lewis Morris and James Wilson, September 15. 1775, and JCC, 2:251. Richard Smith’s Diary Friday 15 Septr. [1775] Debates upon Indian Commissioners for the Middle Department. Henry and Franklin being unable to attend at Pittsburg, Col. Lewis Morris & Dr. Thomas Walker appointed to attend there Hac Vice. 1 Then the Affair of the Two Cargoes at Georgia referred from Yes terday, was largely agitated & in the End a Resolution drawn by Jay took place importing that the cargoes should be sold and the Proffits if any put into the Hands of the Georgia Convention or Comee. of Safety to be applied in Defence of the Province. An incidental Mat ter took up some Time viz, Whether Mr. Nelson should vote for Vir ginia he being the only Delegate present 2 & whether any lesser Num ber than the Quorum shall represent any Colony. Mr. Nelson waved his Question & the other went off without a Determination. (Since that Time no Colony votes without the Quorum present as limited by their Colony. Some authorize 3, some 2, some one Delegate to give a Vote.) Two of the Georgia Delegates are possessed of Homespun Suits of Cloaths, an Adornment few other Members can boast of, be sides my Bror. Crane and myself. MS (DLC). ’Although Dr. Walker was appointed commissioner of Indian affairs this day, Morris’ appointment had been made on September 14. JCC, 2:251. a Francis Lightfoot Lee and George Wythe were in Philadelphia but had been inoculated for small pox and were in seclusion, and Peyton Randolph was ill. See Samuel Ward to George Washington, September 17, 1775. According to his later account with Virginia, Thomas Nelson had been in attendance for a few days. His claim for expenses as a delegate included the following entries: “To Travelling to Phila. 300 Miles Cd 1/—Mile £15. To Attendance in Congress from Sepr 10th till Febv 22d is 165 days Cq 45/-£371-5.” NN. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 15, 1775] 15th. Met, Dr. Walker of Virginia appointed a Commissioner in the Room of Mr. Henry. Goods arrived in Georgia before 6th Augst.


[Page 50]
18 September 15, 1775 last to be sold or reshiped at the option of the Proprietors; if sold, first Cost & Charges to be reimbursed the Owners, the Profits to be ap plied by the provincial Congress for the Defence of the Colony. (Mr. Hopkins until 1 /2 past one.) MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1775 Sept. 16. Saturday. Walking to the Statehouse this Morning, I met Mr. Dickinson, on Foot in Chesnut Street. We met, and passed near enough to touch Elbows. He passed without moving his Hat, or Head or Hand. I bowed and pulled off my Hat. He passed hautily by. The Cause of his Offence, is the Letter no doubt which Gage has printed in Drap ers Paper. 1 I shall for the future pass him, in the same manner. But I was de termined to make my Bow, that I might know his Temper. We are not to be upon speaking Terms, nor bowing Terms, for the time to come. This Evening had Conversation with Mr. Bullock of Georgia. I asked him, whether Georgia had a Charter? What was the Extent of the Province? What was their Constitution? How Justice was admin istered? Who was Chancellor, who Ordinary? and who Judges? He says they have County Courts for the Tryal of civil Causes un der £8—and a C[hief] Justice, appointed from Home and 3 other Judges appointed by the Governor, for the decision of all other Caus es civil and criminal, at Savanna. That the Governor alone is both Chancellor and Ordinary. Parson Gordon of Roxbury, spent the Evening here. 2 I fear his in discreet Prate will do harm in this City. He is an eternal Talker, and somewhat vain, and not accurate nor judicious. Very zealous in the Cause, and a well meaning Man, but incautious, and not sufficiently tender of the Character of our Province, upon which at this Time much depends. Fond of being thought a Man of Influence, at Head Quarters, and with our Council and House, and with the general Of ficers of the Army, and also with Gentlemen in this City, and other Colonies. He is a good Man, but wants a Guide. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:173-75. 1 That is, Adams’ letter to James Warren, July 24, 1775. For another personal evaluation of the letter’s impact, see Adams to Abigail Adams, October 2, 1775. ’William Gordon (1728/29-1807), a dissenting clergyman from England, became pastor of a Roxbury, Mass., parish in 1772. Gordon, a correspondent of Lord Dartmouth and an outspoken Whig by 1775, was made chaplain of the Massachu-


[Page 51]
September 16, 1775 19 setts Provincial Congress in May of that year. He also wrote widely for the newspapers and spent much of his time during the war collecting material for a history of the conflict, The History of the Rise, Progress, and Establishment, of the Independence of the United States, 4 vols. (London: Printed for the author, 1788) . Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 13:60-85. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear Philadelphia Saturday Septembr 16th [1775] I arrived yesterday at this place about noon, after a pretty agreable Jorney having had no rain Since the Day I Set out till a Small Show er last thursday. After we Got in yesterday it rained most of the af ternoon. I hope & trust that you & my family are well as nothing will Give me So much Uneasiness as to hear any of you are Dangerously Sick in my absence But I hope & trust kind Providence will bring us all togather again in Safety. I am well Except Something of a Cough as is usual after a Great Cold that I took on my Jorney. The Small Pox is in the City. Some of the members of the Congress are now un der Innoculation & Some have taken [. . .] as hitherto to Escape it. Which I Shall Do I am not fully Determined, altho all agree there is no Danger in Innoculation, yet it will hinder me at least a fortnight from my Duty at Congress. I have nothing new to inform you of Ex cept that the Storm [that] we had the Sabbath before I Set out from home [was] very Severe in New York, New Jersey & Pensylvania [doin]g Great Damage tearing Down trees &c &c [the] accont of which you will probably See in the Publick Prints. [I] wrote you from Woborn [and] from Windsor in Connecticut both of which I hope you have Received. Remember my Love to my Children and to all Enquiring Friends, Particularly to Lieut. Pearson & Capt. Calef and their families. I Shall frequently write to you and want to hear from you & my family, hope you will not neglect to write now I am here and you know where they will find me. I am yours &c Josiah Bartlett RC (NhHi) . John Hancock to the New York Provincial Congress Sir Philadelphia, Septem. 16th, 1775. Herewith I transmit you a Commission for Mr. Flemming, Deputy Adjutant General with the rank of Colonell agreeable to the recom-


[Page 60]
28 September 18, 1775 John Adams’ Diary 1775 Septr. 18. Monday. This Morning John McPherson Esq. came to my Lodging, and re quested to speak with me in Private. He is the Owner of a very hand some Country Seat, about five Miles out of this City: is the Father of Mr. McPherson, an Aid de Camp to General Schuyler. He has been a Captain of a Privateer, and made a Fortune in that Way the last War. Is reputed to be well skilled in naval Affairs. He proposes great Things. Is sanguine, confident, positive, that he can take or burn ev ery Man of War, in America. It is a Secret he says. But he will com municate it to any one Member of Congress upon Condition, that it be not divulged during his Life at all, nor after his Death but for the Service of this Country. He says it is as certain as that he shall die, that he can burn any Ship. 1 In the afternoon Mr. S.A. and I made visit at Mrs. Bedfords to the Maryland Gentlemen. We found Paca and Chase and a polite Recep tion from them. Chase is ever social and talkative. He seems in better Humour, than he was before the Adjournment. His Colony have act ed with Spirit in Support of the Cause. They have formed themselves into a System and enjoyned an Association, if that is not an Absurdi ty- MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:176. 'John Macpherson (1726-92), Philadelphia privateer-merchant, was one of sev eral persons to propose plans for using an explosive torpedo to destroy ships at anchor. Congress endorsed Macpherson’s scheme on October 19, 1775, and he subsequently went to Boston to implement it. JCC, 3:296, 300, 301; James Warren to John Adams, November 5, 1775, Warren-Adams Letters, 1:177; “Mount Pleasant and the Macphersons,” in Thomas A. Glenn, Some Colonial Mansions and Those Who Live in Them, 2d ser. (Philadelphia: Henry T. Coates & Co., 1900) , pp. 445-72. George Ross to the Lancaster County Committee of Correspondence Gent Philada. 18th Septr. 1775 I embrace with pleasure the Earliest opportunity to express the Deep sense of Gratitude I entertain of the Honourable Testimony the County of Lancaster have given of my Publick Conduct in the Ar duous task I have been entrusted with. Being Heartily & Conscientiously engaged in this best of Causes —The support of the just rights & Libertys of my Country, I shall ever Esteem it the most Honourable & happy period of my Life that


[Page 68]
36 September 20, 1775 There will arise a Difficulty (and God knows you need no addi tional ones) about the old Genl, of Connecticut, 1 perhaps it may be of Use to have a General to Command at Fort George & receive the Supplies, or is Ticonderoga a better Station for that purpose. We who know the officers commanding our Northern Army, have no doubt that every thing [A] done that Man can do. Cant you get Winter Quarters in Canada even shoud you not get Montreal, we hear the 2500 Highlanders are raising (tis thought) for Canada, and the Papers mention Cloathing being intended for 3000 Men to be raised in Canada is ordered from London. You being there can pre vent all this even if St. Johns stands as it does, & is it not possible to interpose your Forces between that Post & Supplies so as to starve them. (A pretty Fellow to be taking Canada in the Comee Room at Philad. say you.) I knock under. Colo. Arnold is on his Way to Canada by way the Genl mentioned to y[ou] and will I hope make a powerful diversion in Your Favour. I beg my best Comp [lime] nts to Genl Montgomery, Colo. Campbell &c. I am Sir your most Obedt. Th Lynch RC (NN). 1 David Wooster, who apparently resented the fact that he was outranked by Schuyler. The two men subsequently quarreled once they joined forces in northern New York. Benson J. Lossing, The Life and Times of Philip Schuyler, 2 vols. (New York: Sheldon & Co. 1860-73), 1:433-42; and DAB. 2 To facilitate Schuyler’s advance on Montreal, Washington had ordered a detachment under the command of Benedict Arnold to strike at Quebec by way of the Kennebec River. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 3:436-39, 491-96. Maryland Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety Philadelphia, September 20, 1225. In response to a letter from the New York committee, Thomas Johnson, Samuel Chase, and Wil liam Paca return a noncommittal reply pertaining to the character of Dr. George Nicholson, who “came a stranger into Annapolis, in Maryland, about two years ago . . . and has uniformly as far as we have ever understood, expressed himself friendly to the cause of American liberty.” 1 MS not found; abstracted from Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 1:155. 'Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:907. The New York Committee of Safety’s letter of September 15, inquiring about Nicholson’s character in order to evaluate intelli gence he had recently provided them, is in ibid., p. 897.


[Page 74]
42 September 21, 1775 ’For the New York Provincial Congress’ response to these queries, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1268-69. Richard Smith’s Diary Thursday 21 Septi. [1775] On a Question Whether Col. Armstrong or Col. Fry shall be Brig. Gen. in the Room of Pomeroy retired, the Colonies were divided 6 against 6, Nortli Cara, being absent, consequently there was no Ap pointment. A Comee. of 5 was raised to consider of the best Method to convey 10 or 15000 Barrels of Flour and other Provisions to Gen. Washn. Much said about the Accounts of Col. Thompsons Riflemen, this Gent, had 5000 Dollars advanced to Him but his Accots. are yet unpaid & one demands Interest. The Judge Advocate (Tudor’s) wages were raised at his Request from 20 Dollars to 50 Dollars per Month. 1 MS (DLC). ’In response to William Tudor’s letter to General Washington of August 23, which is in PCC, item 152, 1:99-101; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:245. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 21, 1775] 21st. Sund[r]y Accts preferred & postpd. Appointment of a brigd. Genl, deferred until the Army is new modelled. Gen. Washington to commission as Brigade Majors Box, Sam. Brewer & Scammal [Scamell], Gen. Schuyler to appoint a Brigade Major. Judge Advo cates Pay for him [sei] f &: clerk 50 Doll [ar] s per Month. A Comee. appointed to consider of the best Means of supplying our Army, their Names Mr. Dean Mr. Ward Mr. Cushing Mr. P. Livingston Mr. Willing. An Acct, for Duck &c of James Millikin [Milligan] Jr. allowd. Comee. of Berks county’s Accts £2038.7.1 for rifle Men under Colo. Thompson referred to the Comee. Colo. Thompfson] to send an Acct, how he disposed of the M[one]y 5000 Dollars. Mr. Hopkins as usual. MS (RHi) . Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Brother Philadelphia 21st. Sepr. 1775 The merchant who has a good Customer who he knows will pay


[Page 82]
50 September 24, 1775 says: The Text was Luke 14:18. And they all with one Consent be gan to make excuse. This was at Duffills Meeting. In the afternoon, heard our Mr. Gordon, in Arch Street. The Lord is nigh unto all that call upon him. Call’d upon Stephen Collins who has just returned. 1 Stephen has a Thousand Things to say to Us, he says. A Thousand observations to make. One Thing he told me, for my Wife, who will be peeping here, sometime or other, and come across it. He says when he call’d at my House, an English Gentleman was with him, a Man of Penetration, tho of few Words. And this silent, penetrating Gentleman was pleased with Mrs. Adams, and thought her, the most accomplished Lady he had seen since he came out of England. Down Vanity, for you dont know who this Englishman is. Dr. Rush came in. He is an elegant, ingenious Body. Sprightly, pretty fellow. He is a Republican. He has been much in London. Ac quainted with Sawbridge, McCaulay, Burgh, and others of that Stamp. Dilly sends him Books and Pamphletts, and Sawbridge and McCaulay correspond with him. He complains of D[ickinson]. Says the Committee of Safety are not the Representatives of the People, and therefore not their Legislators; yet they have been making Laws, a whole Code for a Navy. This Committee was chosen by the House, but half of them are not Members and therefore not the Choice of the People. All this is just. He mentions many Particular Instances, in which Dickenson has blundered. He thinks him warped by the Quaker Interest and the Church Interest too. Thinks his Reputation past the Meridian, and that Avarice is growing upon him. Says that Henry and Mifflin both complained to him very much about him. But Rush I think, is too much of a Talker to be a deep Thinker. Ele gant not great. In the Evening Mr. Bullock and Mr. Houstoun, two Gentlemen from Georgia, came into our Room and smoked and chatted, the whole Evening. Houstoun and Adams disputed the whole Time in good Humour. They are both Dabbs at Disputation I think. H. a Lawyer by Trade is one of Course, and Adams is not a Whit less ad dicted to it than the Lawyers. The Q. was whether all America was not in a State of War, and whether We ought to confine ourselves to act upon the defensive only. He was - for acting offensively next Spring or this fall if the Petition was rejected or neglected. If it was not answered, and favourably answered, he would be for acting vs. Britain and Britains as in open War vs. French and frenchmen. Fit Privateers and take their Ships, any where. These Gentlemen give a melancholly Account of the State of Georgia and S. Carolina. They say that if 1000 regular Troops should land in Georgia and their commander be provided with Arms


[Page 83]
September 24, 1775 51 and Cloaths enough, and proclaim Freedom to all the Negroes who would join his Camp, 20,000 Negroes would join it from the two Provinces in a fortnight. The Negroes have a wonderfull Art of com municating Intelligence among themselves. It will run severall hundreds of Miles in a Week or Fortnight. They say, their only Security is this, that all the Kings Friends and Tools of Government have large Plantations and Property in Ne groes. So that the Slaves of the Tories would be lost as well as those of the Whiggs. I had nearly forgot a Conversation with Dr. Coombe concerning assassination, Henry 4., Sully, Buckingham &c. &c. Coombe has read Sullys Memoirs with great Attention. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:181-83. ’Collins had been to Massachusetts. See John Adams to Abigail Adams, July 4, 1775, note. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane Sunday Sepr. [24, 1775] This was to have gone by Mr Bird of Virginia but he set out with out my knowledge of the Time. The Weather is very cool here for this Season, therefore if you determine on coming down the Time fixed above will be a good one though by the Way I see no End to Our Business, & it is as extensive as endless. How ran Elections? Though personally I do not feel myself Inter ested however agreeable to one of my Sensibility the suffrages of ones Countrymen are, yet one great Object swallows up like Aarons Rod all the Lesser. Liberty, or Death is before Us, & I can conceive of No Alternative, if the former it will take a long Time to obtain, & afterwards settle it, on a permanent Basis. If the Latter (as I trust no American patriot will so desert himself as to prefer a short existence in Slavery to it) why then, it will but Shorten a Life of Care and Anxiety. We expect intelligence from G Brittain every hour. I am impatient for it, not that I think it will alter our Measures, for I am very confident as to the Complexion of it before it arrives but that the least & every Shadow of an excuse, for not pursuing the most vigorous Measures may be removed from the really Timid, & those pretendedly so. You must not expect Long Letters from Me, as I am more taken up, than when here last Summer and among other Things, the Settlement of Our Con tinental Expences & Charges of the Warr has fell to the Lot of a Comme. of which I am one. I have therefore No Time of my own. If I had it Should be yours & my Freinds, so excuse Me to Mr. Hosmer &c. Adieu. [P.S.] Have You heard anything of Your missing Lettr?


[Page 93]
September 26, 1775 61 reimbursed by the United Colonies. 3 It has ever appeared to me a Thing of much Importance, that We should be furnished with these Accounts as soon as possible. From present appearances, our session will not be long, and if We should not be furnished with the Necessary Papers, very soon, We shall not be able to obtain any Reimburse ment this Fall; and the next Spring We may be involved in so many Dangers, as well as new Expences as to render our Chance for ob taining Justice, more precarious. You know that your Delegates have been here, almost the whole Time since the Commencement of Hos tilities, and therefore can say nothing of their own knowledge con cerning your Exertions or Expences, but must depend altogether upon Information from the General Court. This is really a Strong Reason for a Change in the Delegation. We have been absent so long from our native Country as to be a Kind of Aliens and Strangers there. If it is good Policy to reelect one of the old Delegates, because he is personally knowing to what has passed here, it is equally good Policy to elect some new ones, because they are Witnesses of what has passed with you. For my own Part, as my political Existence terminates with the Year, I Sincerely wish to be exempt in the next Election. I long to be a little with you in the Gen eral Court, that I may see and hear, and feel with my Countrymen, and I ardently wish to be a little with my Family, and to attend a lit tle to my private Affairs. To be frank and candid to a Friend, I be gin to feel for my Family. To leave all the Burthen of my private Cares, at a Time when my affairs are in so much Perplexity, to an excellent Partner, gives me Pain for her. To leave the Education of a young Family, entirely to her, altho I know not where it could be better lodged, gives me much Concern for her and them. I have very little Property, you very well know, which I have not earned myself, by an obstinate Industry, in opposition to the Malice of a very infirm Constitution, in Conjunction with the more perni cious Malice of Ministerial and gubernatorial Enemies. Of the little Acquisitions I have made, five hundred Pounds Sterling is sunk in Boston in a Real Estate, four hundred sterling more is compleatly annihilated in a Library that is now wholly useless to me and mine, and at least four hundred sterling more, is wholly lost to me, in Notes & Bonds not one farthing of the Principal or Interest of which, can I obtain, and the Signers are dying, breaking, flying every day. It is not compleatly two years since my Business has been totally ruined by the public Confusions. I might modestly estimate the Prof its of my Business before this Period at three hundred sterling a Year, perhaps more. I think therefore I may fairly estimate myself a sufferer immediately, to the amount of two Thousand Pounds ster ling. I have purchased Lands, which these Causes have prevented me from paying for, and the Interest is running on without a Possibility


[Page 94]
62 September 26, 1775 of my paying it, and I am obliged to hire Labour yearly upon my Farm to no Small amount. In the mean Time, all that has been granted me by the general Court for the sessions of this Congress last Fall and this Spring has not defrayed my necessary Expences, however Strange it may appear. The Conclusion from all this is, that I am rushing rapidly into Per plexities and Distresses in my private affairs from which I can never extricate myself. By retreating from public Life, in some Measure I might preserve myself and Family from a Ruin, which without it will be inevitable. I am willing to sink with my Country, but it ought not to be insisted on that I Should Sink myself without any Prospect of contributing by that Means to make it Swim. I have taken my Trick at Helm, when it was not easy to get Navigators who would run the Risque of the Storm. At present the Course is plain whatever the Weather may be, and the prospect of that is much better than it was when I was called to assist in steering the ship. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 In a letter of September 4, 1775, Mercy Otis Warren had chided Adams for insinuating in his letter of August 26 that war and politics were “beyond the line of my sex.” Warren-Adams Letters, 1:104-5, 106-7. 2 Portia was a pseudonym for Abigail Adams, as Marcia was for Mercy Otis Warren. 3 On December 4, 1775, Congress resolved that “the sum of 443,333 1/3 Dollars be paid to the Colony of Massachusetts” in partial payment of that province’s account. JCC, 3:403. John Adams to Mercy Warren Madam Philadelphia Septr. 26. 1775 Your Favour, by my Friend Collins, never reached me till this Evening. At Newport, concluding to go by Water, he put it into the Post Office, least it Should meet with a Fate as unfortunate as Some others. I call them unfortunate after the manner of Men for, altho they went into Hands which were never thought of by the Writer, and notwithstanding all the unmeaning Noise that has been made about them, they have done a great deal of good. Providence intend ed them for Instruments to promote valuable Purposes, altho the Writer of them, thought so little of them that he never could have rec ollected one Word in them, if they had been lost. The most that I care about them, is the indecent Exposure of the Name of a Lady, who cannot be put to Pain, without giving me Uneasiness by Sympathy. I boasted, Madam, of my Happiness, in my last to you, because I know you could excuse the appearance of Vanity, and because I knew very well that the Person who So deservedly holds the first


[Page 97]
September 26, 1775 65 fleers of different Colonies, and the Reduction of those Regiments which cannot be Compleated to their full Establishments may Create great Jealousies and Uneasiness, the Congress are of Opinion that at present no Step should be taken therein, as the New Modelling the whole is so soon Expected, when those inconveniencies may be Rem edied without Danger. The Congress desire you will give them your Opinion, whether the Pay of the Private Men, which is consider’d as very high, may not be Reduc’d, and how much. Agreeable to the order of Congress I inclose you Copy of a Letter from General Schuyler, with sundry papers Inclos’d. 2 Application having been made to Congress for the Discharge of Coll John Fenton, at present Confin’d at Hartford they pass’d a Res olution that he be allow’d to proceed to New York, and from thence to London upon his giving his Parole not to Take up Arms against the Continent during the present Contest. 3 It is Determin’d by Congress that you Issue a Commission to Mr Gridley as Colonell only, and to Suspend the appointment of a Briga dier General for the present. They Recommend to you to Grant Commissions to Messrs. Box, Scammell & Samuel Brewer as Brigade Majors. 4 The Memorial from Mr. Tudor the Judge Advocate was laid be fore Congress, and upon Consideration it was Resolved that he be al low’d & paid Fifty Dollars per Month for himself & Clerk from the Time of his Appointment, 8c I Transmitt him by this Express his Commission and the Resolution of Congress. Some Difficulty having arisen in the Settlement of the Accotts. of the severall Rifle Companies as to Supplies of Money 8cc particularly with Respect to Coll. Thompson, and the Congress having on the 29th July last Advanc’d to Colonell Thompson Five Thousand Dol lars for the Service of his Battalion, I am directed to Desire you will order Coll Thompson to Exhibit to you an Accott. of the Expendi ture of the said Five Thousand Dollars, which you will please to Transmitt to me to be laid before Congress, by which the severall Accotts. may easily be Accomodated. I have nothing further in Charge to Communicate. You will please to Return Fessenden as soon as you conveniently can. I have the honour to be with great Respect 8c Esteem, Sir Your most Obedt huml Servt. John Hancock President [P.S.] I have Sent you Eleven Bundles contg 550 Commissions. RC (DLC) . On the authorship of this letter, see John Adams’ Notes of Debates, September 25, 1775, note 2. 1 Washington’s responses to these inquiries are in his letters and enclosures to Hancock of October 5 and 12. PCC, item 152, 1:181-240; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:956-64, 1037-49.


[Page 98]
66 September 26, 1775 3 Hancock is referring here to Schuyler’s letter to him of September 8 and accompanying enclosures. Ibid., pp. 669-72. 3 See ]CC, 2:255. 4 See JCC, 2:256; and 3:257. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia 26th Septr. 1775 Two days ago I arrived here from Virginia, which the late short adjournment just allowed me time to visit and return from. I brought two letters from thence for you which come with this. Having some business with Colo. Mason, I travelled that road and having sent to your Lady to know if she had any commands this way, had the plea sure to learn that all were well at Mount Vernon. As I suppose it will be agreable to you to know what is passing in Virginia, I have in closed you the proceedings of our last Convention, with two of Pur dies Gazettes. I am greatly obliged to you for your favor of August the 29th, 1 and you may be assured I shall pay great attention to it. When I mentioned securing the entrance of the harbour of Boston, it was more in the way of wishing it could be done, than as conceiving it very practicable. However the reasons you assign are most conclu sive against the attempt. I assure you, that so far as I can judge from the conversation of Men, instead of their being any who think you have not done enough, the wonder seems to be that you have done so much. I believe there is not a Man of common sense and who is void of prejudice, in the world, but greatly approves the discipline you have introduced into the Camp; since reason and experience join in proving, that without discipline Armies are fit only for the contempt and slaughter of their Enemies. Your labors are no doubt great both of mind and body, but if the praise of the present and future times can be any compensation you will have a plentiful portion of that. Of one thing you may certainly rest assured that the Congress will do every thing in their power to make your most weighty business easy to you. I think you could not possibly have appointed a better Man to his present Office than Mr. Mifflin. He is a singular Man, and you certainly will meet with the applause and support of all good men by promoting and countenancing real Merit and public virtue, in oppo sition to all private interests, and partial affection. You will see in the proceedings of our Convention, that they have agreed to raise the pay of our Rifle Officers & Meh to the Virginia standard. It may per haps encourage them to be told this. We have no late accounts from England, but from what we have had that can be relied on, it seems almost certain, that our Enemies there must shortly meet with a total over throw. The entire failure of


[Page 99]
September 26, 1775 67 all their schemes, and the rising spirit of the people strongly ex pressed by the remonstrance of the Livery of London to the King, clearly denote this. The Ministry had their sole reliance on the im possibility of the Americans finding money to support an army, on the great aid their cause would receive from Canada, and consequent triumph of their forces over the liberties and rights of America. The reverse of all this has happened, and very soon now, our Commercial resistance will begin sorely to distress the people at large. The Minis terial recruiting business in England has entirely failed them, the Ship builders in the royal yards have mutinied, and now they are driven as to their last resort to seek for Soldiers in the Highlands of Scotland. But it seems the greatest willingness of the people there cannot supply more than one or two Thousand men, A number rath er calculated to increase their disgrace, than to give success to their cause. I beg your pardon for engaging your attention so long, and assure you that I am with unfeigned esteem dear Sir Your affectionate friend and Countryman Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 3:450-54. Richard Smith’s Diary [September 26, 1775] Tuesday 26 Septr. Comee brought in a Letter to Gen Washington, 1 in the Course of it E Rutledge moved that the Gen. shall discharge all the Negroes as well Slaves as Freemen in his Army. He (Rutledge) was strongly supported by many of the South ern Delegates but so powerfully opposed that he lost the Point. 2 The Question of the Lines between Penna. & Virginia agitated but Noth ing determined. 3 The Letters between Washington & Gage ordered to be published, 4 then the Journal was read in Order for Publication and some Parts of it ordered not to be printed as improper for Public Inspection particularly all that was there about fortifying the Passes on Hudsons River 8c the Directions to the New Yorkers to arm them selves 8cc. MS (DLC) . 1 See John Hancock’s letter to Washington, this date. 2 Although small numbers of blacks had served in the provincial forces of all the New England colonies before the establishment of the Continental Army in June 1775, and although Congress had placed no racial restrictions on military service, as early as July 10, 1775, Adjutant-General Horatio Gates ordered continental officers not to enlist blacks. In spite of Congress’ rejection of Rutledge’s motion on


[Page 100]
68 September 26, 1775 Diary of Richard Smith


[Page 101]
September 26, 1775 69 248-053 0-77-7


[Page 107]
September 27, 1775 75 MS (DLC) . 'This day Congress did, however, approve the payment of more than $3,000 to the Northampton County committee for expenses incurred in raising rifle compa nies for the Continental Army. JCC, 3:264. ’John Zubly briefly noted in his diary this day: “Attended Committee & Congress. Preached for Mr. Stillman. Math. 8:25.” GHi. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 27, 1775] 27th. Copy of Journal presented & partly read. Kettles, Kan- teans &c allowed the soldiers. 160,000 Doll[ar]s ordered to Com- [mitte] on Acct. Several Accts., Rob Erwin &s allowd. 1 Journal read & ordered to be printed. 2 MS (RHi) . 'For the accounts approved by Congress this day, see JCC, 3:263-64. * Despite congressional authorization this day to print selections of its proceed ings “of the last session,” not until December 1775 was such a volume published. JCC, 3:514. Willing, Morris & Co. to Messrs. Wm. Baynes & Co. Philada. Sepr. 27. 1775. “We 1 wrote you last on the 11th Instant, & since that Period all Exportation of this Country Produce has ceased, indeed there has not been any brought to Market for Sale, consequently no Prices can be quoted. The Act of Parliament leaves New York, the three lower Counties on Delaware, North Carolina & Georgia at Liberty to export to Foreign Countries & we expect they will avail of this exemption by &: by, as they are not restrained by the Congress, but at present no Body dare move in the Export from those Places, as the People at large seem disposed to prevent Expor tation totally, but their Folly will be their Punishment, & we shall not be surprised to see a different Disposition prevail in this Point in a short time. . . . We have not heard yet the Arrival of the Union, Capt. Steel, in the Mediterranean, but expect she will arrive to a good Market, indeed its very probable that all the Foreign Markets will be good, soon as they know of a certainty that the Exports from this Country will be stopped. Should the Exports from New York & the lower Counties take place by & by, we shall come in for a Share of them & by that means send some farther Supplies to Mr. Gorge, Messrs. Gregory & Guille, Messrs. Martins &c., as we judge that


[Page 108]
76 September 27, 1775 Business must be very valuable, so long as the other Colonies are shut up.” Tr (PRO: C.O. 5, 134) . ’Thomas Willing and Robert Morris, partners since 1754, utilized their posi tions as Philadelphia merchants and prominent political leaders to engage in many of the most lucrative commercial enterprises available to American merchants during the War for Independence. Successively members of Congress from May 1775 to October 1778, and throughout the war privy to nearly all the significant economic intelligence available to Congress, Willing and Morris maintained a commercial correspondence suggestive of the wide range of commercial opportuni ties open to advantageously placed merchants. John Adams’ Diary 1775. Sept. 28. Thursday. The Congress, and the Assembly of this Province were invited to make an Excursion upon Delaware River in the new Row Gallies built by the Committee of Safety of this Colony. About Ten in the Morning We all embarked. 1 The Names of the Gallies are the Wash ington, the Effingham, the Franklin, the Dickenson, the Otter, the Bull Dog, and one more, whose Name I have forgot. We passed down the River by Glocester where the Vesseau de Frize are. These a [re] Frames of Timber to be fill’d with Stones and sunk, in three Rowes, in the Channell. I went in the Bull Dog Captn. Alexander Commander. Mr. Hille- gas, Mr. Owen Biddle, and Mr. Rittenhouse, and Capt. Faulkner [Falconer] were with me. Hillegas is one of our Continental Treasur ers, is a great Musician—talks perpetually of the Forte and Piano, of Handell &c. and Songs and Tunes. He plays upon the Fiddle. Rittenhouse is a Mechannic, a Mathematician, a Philsosopher and an Astronomer. Biddle is said to be a great Mathematician. Both are Members of the American Philosophical Society. I mentioned Mr. Cranch to them for a Member. Our Intention was to have gone down to the Fort but the Winds and Tide being unfavourable We returned by the City and went up the River to Point no Point, a pretty Place. On our Return Dr. Rush, Dr. Zubly and Counciller Ross, Brother of George Ross, joined us. Ross is a Lawyer, of great Eloquence, and heretofore of extensive Practice. A great Tory, they say, but now begins to be converted. He said the Americans were making the noblest and firmest Resistance to Tyranny that ever was made by any People. The Acts were found ed in Wrong, Injustice and Oppression. The great Town of Boston had been remarkably punished without being heard.


[Page 109]
September 28, 1775 77 Rittenhouse is a tall, slender Man, plain, soft, modest, no remark able Depth, or thoughtfullness in his Face—yet cool, attentive, and clear. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:187-88. ‘On the subject of this trip, see the diary entries of Robert Treat Paine, Richard Smith, and John Zubly, this date, and John Jay to Sarah Jay, September 29, 1775. Silas Deane, who was also present on the cruise, erroneously dated his brief diary entry this day: "Friday 29th. In Committee in the Morning, thence went to take a Sail in the Gondola’s—Col. Wms. with Us.” CtHi. John Adams to James Warren Dr sir Philadelphia Septr. 28. 1775 I write at this Time, only to remind you that I have reed no Let ters. Let me intreat the earliest Attention of our Houses, to the Ac counts and Vouchers of our Province. Accounts must be exact and Vouchers genuine, or We shall suffer. The whole attention of every Member of both Houses, would be not improfitably employed upon this subject untill it is finished. 1 The Accounts, I mean, are of Ammunition, such as Powder, Ball, Cartridges—Artillery, Cannon, Field Pieces, Carriages—Camp Equi page, Cantins, Kettles, Spoons &c Tents, Canvas &c &c &c. Provi sions, Bread, Meat, Meal, Peas, every Thing in short. In fine it is idle for me to enter [in] to detail—The Pay and Cloathing of the Troops &c &c. But I must entreat, to have these Accounts and Vouchers. I do be seech that it may be remembered that I was importunate, on this Head with Several Gentlemen, when I was with you. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 'Adams was probably stimulated to raise this subject by Congress’ appointment of a committee of claims on September 25. JCC, 3:262-64. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [September 28, 1775] Fair. Fine day. The Congress Comttee of the City & Some of As sembly went down the River in the Row Gallies designing to dine at the Fort, but Wind & Tide being a head we went up to Point no Point, returned. MS (MHi).


[Page 110]
78 September 28, 1775 Richard Smith’s Diary Thursday 28 Septr. [1775] No Congress. The Members dined by Invitation on Board of the Row Gallies which sailed down to the Chevaux de Frize near Mud Island & up to Point no Point. 1 I amused myself all the Morning in M. du Simitiere’s curious Museum. MS (DLC). 1 Samuel Ward noted in his diary this day: “Attended the Invitation of the City on board the Gallies.” RHi. Henry Wisner to John Haring and John McKesson Gentlemen. Philadelphia Sept. 28. 1775 By the first safe opportunity I send you 1 the 32 articles of agree ment for the due regulation and government of the associations in the colony of Pennsylvania. 2 I beg the favor of you to let me know as quick as possable whether the Saltpeter has arrived from Connecticut that your committee of safety informed me a few days ago when last in town. Also if any ac counts from that which was expected another way. I want to send to the workman as quick as possible but dare not send him until I can get some Saltpeter at least a few hundred weight. I am gentlemen your ashured friend and Very Humble Servant, Henry Wisner RC (N) . Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:85. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 John Haring and John McKesson were, respectively, chairman of the New York Committee of Safety and secretary to the New York Provincial Congress. 2 For Pennsylvania’s articles of association, adopted by that province’s Committee of Safety on August 19, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:502-4. John Zubly’s Diary [September 28, 1775] Thursday, 28. At the Invitation of the Committee of this City the Congress sailed in the Row Gallies to see the Preparations to Stop up the River, but Wind & tide being Contrary could not effect it. Sailed to Point no Point. The Galley on board which I was carried away her fore mast. It was observed that the Thermometer this summer had risen at Philada to 96. MS (GHi) .


[Page 111]
September 29, 1775 79 John Jay to Sarah Jay My dear Sally Ph. 29 Septr. 1775 My last to you was by Mr. Graham which I hope you have reed. It would give me Pleasure to have an opportunity of acknowledging the Receipt of one from you. I sometimes fear you are indisposed and that your Silence proceeds from a Desire of concealing it. Your Papa is hearty & well. 1 The Congress spent Yesterday in Festivity. The Com[mitte]e of Safety were so polite as to invite them to make a little voyage in their Gondolas as far as the Fort which is about 12 Miles from the City. Each Galley had its Company 8c each Company entertained with Variety of musick 8cc! 8cc! We proceeded six or Eight Miles down the River when the Tide being spent 8c the wind unfavorable We tacked about 8c with a fine Breese returned, passed the City 8c landed six miles above the Town at a pretty little Place called Paris Villa. It appears to have been the Property of a Gentleman of some Taste—a Garden, a close walk, a Summer House 8cc. much out of order 8c partly in Ruins. I wished you 8c a few select friends had been with me. This Idea tho amidst much noise and mirth, made me much alone. Adieu my beloved. I am most sincerely yours John Jay RC (NNC) . 1 William Livingston. Richard Smith’s Diary [September 29, 1775] Friday 29. Letters from Gen. Washington with a Return of his Army, about 19,000 effective Men who are to be disbanded in Deer, by the Terms of Inlistment, he prays Directions how to keep or raise an Army. Expenses run very high, great Want of Powder 8c Money. 1 Chief Part of the Morn’g. was spent on a Motion to send a Comee. of the Congress to the Army to take proper Measures for the Winter Campaign, it passed in the Affirmative. Some Powder said to be just arrived in Delaware, our Comee. were desired to purchase it. Above 80 of our Men have deserted to Gen. Gage in the Course of this Campaign accordg to Gen Washns. Dispatches. MS (DLC). 1 Washington’s letter to Hancock of September 21, together with enclosures, is in PCC, item 152, 1:119-44; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:760-71.


[Page 119]
September 1775 87 that Relates to Saltpeter as quick as posable. Direct My Letters to the Care of William Will in the Corner of Second and Arch Streets. If You Deliver it to Henry Will, puteror [pewterer] in N York, he will Send it As he Very frequently Coresponds with his Brother. I am gentlemen your Humble Servant Henry Wisner RC (N). Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:85. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 'See Henry Wisner to John Haring and John McKesson, September 28, 1775. 2 On September 27 the Pennsylvania Assembly received an address signed by privates from 30 provincial militia companies, which explained their refusal to accept the articles of association adopted by the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:821-22. John Zubly’s Diary [September 30, 1775] Saturday, 30. Frost & very cold. Dispatched Packet to Mr. Ten nent with Letters 1 to Committee at Savannah. MS (GHi) . 1 Not found. Virginia Delegate to Unknown [September ? 1775] 1 We have hopes here of an accommodation with Great Britain, not withstanding the unfavourable answer his majesty has given the city of London, and the order to governour Tryon for the men of war to beat down the towns if we are not quiet. The ministry themselves agree that it must be made up, and will, in all probability take hold of the offer made them by the congress in their petition. Orders are sent, it seems, to Boston, to treat the people with lenity, and to suffer them to remove with their effects. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Pinkney) , October 12, 1775. Printed under the heading: “Extract of a letter, to a gentleman in this city, from one of the delegates from this colony to the congress.” 'This letter was probably written after the delegates had learned in mid-Sep tember of the king’s response to the petition of the city of London but before the beginning of October when they became more pessimistic over prospects for a peaceful accommodation with Britain as a result of accounts recently received from correspondents in London. See, for example, Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, September 15, and Samuel Adams to James Warren, October 3, 1775.


[Page 120]
88 October 1, 1775 John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Philadelphia Octr. 1. 1775 This Morning, I received your two Letters of September 8th. and September 16th. What shall I say? The Intelligence they contain, came upon me by Surprize, as I never had the least Intimation be fore, that any of my Family was ill, excepting in a Card from Mrs. Warren received a few days ago, in which she informed me that Mrs. Adams had been unwell but was better. 1 You may easily conceive the State of Mind, in which I am at pre sent. Uncertain and apprehensive, at first I suddenly thought of set ting off, immediately, for Braintree, and I have not yet determined otherwise. Yet the State of public Affairs is so critical, that I am half afraid to leave my Station, Altho my Presence here is of no great Consequence. I feel—I tremble for You. Poor Tommy! I hope by this Time, however, he has recovered his plump Cheeks and his fine Bloom. By your Account of Patty I fear—but still I will hope she has been sup ported, and is upon the Recovery. I rejoice to learn that Nabby and her Brothers have hitherto es caped and pray God that his Goodness may be still continued to them. Your Description of the distressed State of the Neighbourhood is affecting indeed. It is not uncommon for a Train of Calamities to come together. Fire, Sword, Pestilence, Famine, often keep Company, and visit a Country in a Flock. At this Distance I can do no good to you nor yours. I pray God to support you—I hope our Friends and Neighbours are kind as usual. I feel for them, in the general Calamity. I am so far from thinking you melancholly, that I am charmed with that Admirable Fortitude, and that divine Spirit of Resignation which appears in your Letters. I cannot express the Satisfaction it gives me, nor how much it contributes to support me. You have alarmed me however, by mentioning Anxieties which you do not think it prudent to mention to any one. I am wholly at a Loss to conjecture what they can be. If they arise from the Letters, 2 be assured that you may banish them forever. These Letters have reached Philadelphia, but have produced Effects very different from those which were expected from the Publication of them. These Ef fects I will explain to you sometime or other. As to the Versification of them, if there is Wit or Humour in it laugh—if ill Nature, sneer —if mere Dullness, why you may even yawn or nod. I have no An ger, at it, nay even scarcly contempt. It is impotent. As to Politicks, We have nothing to expect but the whole Wrath and Force of G. Britain. But your Words are as true as an oracle


[Page 121]
October 1, 1775 89 “God helps them, who help them selves, and if We obtain the divine Aid by our own Virtue, Fortitude and Perseverance, We may be sure of Relief.” It may amuse you to hear a Story. A few days ago, in Company with Dr. Zubly, somebody said, there was nobody on our side but the Almighty. The Dr. who is a Native of Switzerland, and speaks but broken English, quickly replied “Dat is enough. Dat is enough,” and turning to me, says he, it puts me in mind of a fellow who once said, The Catholicks have on their side the Pope, and the K. of France and the K. of Spain, and the K. of Sardinia, and the K. of Poland and the Emperor of Germany &c. &c. &c. But as to them poor Devils the Protestants, they have nothing on their side but God Almighty. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:289-91. 1 In her two letters Abigail had described the ravages of a "Distemper” that was sweeping through the Adams family and the neighborhood of Braintree. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:276-80. 2 A reference to the capture and publication of Adams’ letters of July 24, 1775, to Abigail and James Warren. For other optimistic assessments of the effect of their publication, see Adams’ letters to Abigail and to James Warren, October 2, 1775. John Adams to William Tudor Dr Sir Philadelphia Octr. 1. 1775 I have at last the Pleasure to mention to you what I Suppose Mr H[ancock] has informed you of before, vizt that the Pay of the Judge Advocate is raised to fifty dollars per Month for himself and his Clerk, and this is to be allowed from the day he entered upon the service. 1 There was an Expresion in your Representation to the General which alarmed me much, and put me to some Pain lest it should ex cite a Disgust. 2 It was this “The Congress as I have been informed were wholly unacquainted with the Duties of a Judge Advocate, es pecially in the continental Army.” If this had been true, yet it was in decent to tell them of it, because they ought to be presumed to know all the Duties of this officer, but most especially in their own Army. The Construction that I put upon it, was that the Congress had never been made Acquainted with the orders of the General to the Judge to attend every general Court Martial, which made the Duty in the American Army, essentially greater than in any other. By this Interpretation, satisfaction seemed to be given and by the favour able Representation of the General, together with the friendly Notice of General Gates to Some Members who had been at the Camp, this Matter was at last well understood, and Justice was done. I am very Sorry to learn, that you have been Sick, but rejoice to


[Page 122]
90 October 1, 1775 hear you are better. I have this Morning received from my dear Mrs Adams, two Letters which have put all my Philosophy to the Proof. Never Since I had a Family was it in such Distress, altho it has often seen melancholly Scenes. I tremble for fear my Wifes Health should receive an irreparable Injury from the Anxieties, and Fatigues, which I know she will expose herself to, for the relief of her Family in their present Sick Condition. I fear too the Contagion of such an Hospital of an House. Whether to return I know not. We expect every Hour, momentous Intelligence from England, and from Schuyler and from Washington. And altho, my Presence here is not of any great Conse quence, yet some of my Constituents may possibly think it of more than it is, and be uneasy, if I should be absent. At least, if I am here, and any thing goes differently from my Wishes, I shall have the Sat isfaction to reflect that I have done all I could however little it might be. Yet if I Stay here, I shall not be happy, till I know more from Braintree. Perhaps I may receive another Letter in a day or two. My Respects to your Father and Mother, and all Friends. Pray write me if you are well enough. I am, sir, your Friend. John Adams RC (MHi). 1 Congress had taken this action on September 21. JCC, 3:257. “Tudor’s letter to Washington, dated August 23, 1775, which Washington en closed in his August 31 letter to John Hancock, is in PCC, item 152, 1:99-101; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:245. John Adams to James Warren Dear sir Philadelphia Octr. 1. 1775 This Morning I received your kind Favours of the 11th and 19th Ult.—with the Inclosures. Drapers Paper is a great Curiosity and you will oblige me by sending it as often as possible. The foreign News you mention, is all a Delusion my Friend. 1 You may depend upon it, every Measure is preparing by the Ministry to destroy us if they can, and that a Sottish Nation is Supporting them. Heaven helps those who help themselves, and I am happy to find a Disposition so rapidly growing in America to exert itself. The Letters, by your Packett from my Family, have given me Seri ous Concern indeed. I am much at a Loss what Course to take. I have thoughts on returning home—I fear my dear Mrs Adams s Health will sink under the Burthen of Care that is upon her. I might well enough be Spared from this Place, where my Presence is of no Consequence, and my Family might derive some Advantage from my being there, and I might have an opportunity of attending a Confer ence between a Comtee. of this Congress and the Council of Mass, where perhaps I might be of more Service than I can here. However


[Page 123]
October 1, 1775 91 I am not determined—My Friend, your secretary 2 is very much averse to my going. I dont know what to do. The Comtee, who are going to the Camp, are Dr Franklin Mr Lynch and Coll Harrison, who I hope will be received with Friend ship and Politeness—by all our Friends. I assure you, Sir, there is a serious Spirit here—Such a Spirit as I have not known before. The Committee by whom this Letter will go are determined Amer icans. I fear that two of them, I mean Mr L. 8c H. may have received some unfavourable Impressions from Misrepresentations, concerning our Province, but these will be easily removed, by what they will see and hear, I hope. I wish that every Civility may be shewn them, which their Fortunes, Characters and Stations demand. Our News from England, is, Troops from England, Scotland, Ire land, and Hanover—Poor old Britania! I am, your Friend John Adams RC (MHi). 1 See Warren-Adams Letters, 1:108. 2 That is Samuel Adams. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear [October 1, 1775] 1 Yours of the 24th Ulto. received yesterday. I thank you for wel coming Me to the Lovely City of Philadelphia, but I hardly know a place, but I should be happier in, save among my distressed sick Neighbors at Wethersfeild. The sight of the Eye affects even the hardest heart, mine is too easily affected, & public miseries are surely enough for one thinking feeling mind at a Time. Of these the pros pect, the Apprehension is ever before Me, not only on my heart, but as I may say in my hand continually. My sincerest condolance awaits however, all the unfortunate, those in Wethersfeild in particular, whose remembrance of Me, so repeatedly in my absence, will ever render them dear to Me, while I have sense, or recollection left. Mr. May’s loss must be a cutting one, as he is fond of his Children, 8c I think had great reason to be fond of this. But I often say to myself, Blessed are the Dead, if as Hamlet says, in that same Sleep of theirs, there were no Dream. You will think Me Melancholy, and you are not much out of the way. The Soul distressing Uncertainty in which We are, respecting Our Northern Friends, with the weight, and fa tigue of Business, is almost Too much. I will shake it off for a more agreeable Subject your proposed Journey. The Col. proposed, for Brown, to bring you as farr as New York, where one of Us would


[Page 130]
98 October 2, 1775 on Connecticutt & New York. But of this you will be more particu larly advised by the Gentn. Viz Doctr Franklin Mr Lynch & Coll Harrison who are appointed a Comtee to attend the Genii at Cam bridge and other G [eneral] Officers he shall think proper on many Important Matters. Govr Trumbull & Depty Govr Cook & the presi dent of New Hampshire Convention are desired to be with them in Consultation. The Matter of providing the Army no doubt will be part of their deliberations. By the last accounts from England there appears no prospect of Concilliatory measures—but every thing looks rather hostile. We ought therefore to do the best & prepare for the worst. I want to hear how matters are like to goe with respect to my son, you wrote me there was some grumbling. 1 Indeed in this day I am Sensible I can take no one Step but I must meet with some plague & Trouble. Sometimes I think I have rather more than my share but I’ll Indeavor to put on patience and Solace my self with a Consciousness that I am steadily Indeavouring to serve my Country to the best of my power. I had a hint in a letter that he was about re turning home. You will Advise him I dare say to what you think best, consulting other Friends. Respects to Genii Putnam &c &c & am yours Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Majr Bayard from this City a Gentn of an Amiable Carracter is on a Visit to the Army. Your Notice &: Civilitys to him will be most agreable. He may know I mentiond him in my letter as I In- formd him I had. RC (Ct). 1 By general order of October 7, General Washington recognized Thomas Dyer’s Connecticut commission as captain in the Thirty-fourth Regiment of Foot. Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 4:20. New Hampshire Delegates to Matthew Thornton Sr. Philad 2d Octobr. 1775 Agreable to your desire, that we should write, as often as may be, have taken this early opportunity, tho’ little or nothing to Communi cate. Before this Comes to hand, doubtless, you’ll Receive [a] letter from our President desire’g your Attendance at head Quarters, to Consult with a Committee from this Congress, Relative to the Army. 1 Doctr. Franklin, Mr. Lynch and Colonal Harrison are the Committee. We humbly beg leave here to Suggest whether it would not be [a] good oppertunity to mention the Convu[lse]d state of our Colony and the absolute Necessaty of Govermt. and also to forward by them


[Page 131]
October 2, 1775 99 a Petition from our Convention, to take government. We have Con sulted many of the members on the Matter and as Soon as Colonal Bartlet is able to Attend the house (which will be in a few days, as he’s almost well of the Small pox) shall Motion for leave to take the same government as Massachusetts Bay. 2 You’ll also give us leave to urge the forwarding of our Acct. Against the Continent, immediately, otherwise, there may not be money in the Continential Treasury as great Sums are dayly Drawing from thence; the Consequence of which will be, shall be obliged to wait for another emition. There has nothing been Transacted in Congress as yet that we are at Liberty to Communicate. The Journals are not yet Printed, tho’ ready for the press, but will be soon. 3 You’ll give us leave to Repeat our Desire that our Convention, or Committee of Safety will forward a Petition for government, seting forth the absolute Necessaty of it, the impossability of Taxg. without which is a thing that must be done, as it would Ruine us to be emit ting paper on every Occasion. You’ll pardon us throwg out these hints. We are sr. your most [....] Josiah Bartlett John Langdon RC (Nh-Ar) . Written by Langdon and signed by Bartlett and Langdon. 1 John Hancock to the New Hampshire Convention, September 30, 1775. 3 Bartlett and Langdon put this question before Congress on October 18, and Congress appointed a committee to consider the issue on October 26, leading to the adoption on November 3 of a resolve “that it be recommended to the provincial Convention of New Hampshire, to call a full and free representation of the people, and that the representatives, if they think it necessary, establish such a form of government, as, in their judgment, will best produce the happiness of the people, and most effectually secure peace and good order in the province, during the continuance of the present dispute between G[reat] Britain and the colonies.” JCC, 3:298, 307, 317, 319. New Hampshire's subsequent action in establishing a government is discussed in Jere R. Daniell, Experiment in Republicanism, New Hampshire Politics and the American Revolution, 1741-1794 (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1970) , pp. 108-12. ’Congress had directed that the journals be printed by order of September 27, although they did not actually appear until December. JCC, 3:264, 514. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [October 2, 1775] Fair. Warm. Congress Sett at Lodge Hall, the State House being taken up by the Elections. 1 MS (MHi) .


[Page 140]
108 October 4, 1775 Willing. The Gents, favorite Plan is to induce foreigners to come here. Shall We act like the Dog in the Manger, not suffer N.Y. and the lower Counties and N. Carolina to export because We cant. We may get Salt and Ammunition by those Ports. Cant be for inviting foreigners to become our Carriers. Carriage is an amazing Revenue. Holland and England have derived their maritime Power from their Carriage. The Circulation of our Paper will stop, and [lose?] its Credit without Trade. 7 Millions of Dollars have been struck by the Continent and by the separate Colonies. Lee. The End of Administration will be answered by the Gentns. Plan. Jealousies and Dissensions will arise and Disunion and Divi sion. We shall become a Rope of Sand. Zubly. The Q. should be whether the Export should be kept or not. Chace. I am for adhering to the Association and think that We ought not to determine these Questions this day. Differ from R. Liv ingston, [who holds that] our Exports are to be relaxed except as to Tobacco and Lumber. This will produce a Disunion of the Colonies. The Advantage of cultivating Tobacco is very great. The Planters would complain. Their Negro females would be useless without rais ing tobacco. That Country must grow rich that Exports more than they import. There ought not to be a partial Export to Great Britain. We affect the Revenue and the Remittance, by stopping our Exports. We have given a deadly Blow to B. and Ireland, by our Non Export. Their People must murmur, must starve. The Nation must have become Bankrupt before this day if We had ceased Exports at first. I look upon B., I. and W.I. as our Enemies, and would not trade with them, while at War. We cant support the War and our Taxes, without Trade. Emis sions of Paper cannot continue. I dread an Emission for another Campaign. We cant stand it without Trade. I cant agree that N.Y., the lower Counties and N. Carolina, should carry on Trade. Upon giving a Bond, and making Oath, they may export. I am vs. these Colonies trading according to the restraining Act. It will produce Division. A few Weeks will put us all on a foot ing. N. York &c. are now all in Rebellion as the Ministry call it, as much as Mass. Bay. We must trade with foreign Nations, at the Risque indeed. But We may export our Tobacco to France, Spain or any other foreign Na tion. If We treat with foreign Nations, We should send to them as well as they to Us. What Nation or Countries shall We trade with. Shall We go to there Ports and pay duties, and let them come here and pay none. To say you will trade with all the World, deserves Consideration.


[Page 141]
October 4, 1775 109 I have not absolutely discarded every Glimpse of a Hope of Rec onciliation. Our Prospect is gloomy. I cant agree, that We shall not export our own Produce. We must treat with foreign Nations upon Trade. They must protect and support Us with their Fleets. When you once offer your Trade to foreign Nations, away with all Hopes of Reconciliation. E. Rutledge. Differs with all who think the Non Exportation should be broke, or that any Trade at all should be carried on. When a Commodity is out of Port, the Master may carry it where he pleases. My Colony will receive your Determination upon a general Non Export. The People will not be restless. Proposes a general Non Ex port, untill next Congress. Our People will go into Manufactures, which is a Source of Rich es to a Country. We can take our Men from Agriculture, and employ them in Manufactures. Agriculture and Manufactures cannot be lost. Trade is precarious. R. R. Livingston. Not convinced by any Argument. Thinks the ex ception of Tobacco and Lumber, would not produce Disunion. The Colonies affected can see the Principles, and their Virtue is such that they would not be disunited. The Americans are their own Carriers now, chiefly. A few British Ships will be out of Employ. I am vs. exporting Lumber. I grant that if We trade with other Na tions, some of our Vessells will be seized and some taken. Carolina is cultivated by rich Planters—not so in the northern Colonies. The Planters can bear a Loss and see the Reason of it. The northern Col onies cant bear it. Not in our Power to draw People from the Plough to Manufactur ers. We cant make Contracts for Powder, without opening our Ports. I am for exporting where B. will allow Us, to Britain itself. If We shut up our Ports, We drive our Sailors to Britain. The Army will be sup plied, in all Events. Lee makes a Motion for 2 Resolutions. The Trade of Virginia and Maryland may be stopped by a very small naval Force. N. Carolina is badly off. The Northern Colonies are more fortunate. The Force of G.B. on the Water being exceedingly great, that of America, almost nothing—they may prevent allmost all our Trade, in our own Bottoms. G.B. may exert every Nerve next Year, to send 15, 20, or even 30,000 Men to come here. The Provisions of America are become necessary to several Na tions. France is in Distress for them. Tumults and Attempts to de stroy the Grain in the Year [Ear]. England has turned Arable into


[Page 142]
110 October 4, 1775 Grass—France into Vines. Grain cant be got from Poland, nor across the Mediterranean. The Dissentions in Poland continue. Spain is at War with the Algerians, and must have Provisions. It would be much safer for them to carry our Provisions than for Us. We shall get necessary Manufacturers and Money and Powder. This is only a temporary Expedient, at the present Time, and for a short Duration—to End when the War ends. I agree We must sell our Produce. Foreigners must come in 3 or 4 Months. The Risque We must pay, in the Price of our Produce. The Insurance must be deducted. Insurance would not be high to foreigners on account of the Novelty. It is no new Thing. The B. Cruizers will be the Danger. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:188-92. 1 Adams apparently misdated this entry, which pertains to debates when Congress was convened as a committee of the whole “to take into consideration the state of trade of these Colonies.” Congress first sat as a committee of the whole for that purpose on October 4 and continued to do so intermittently until at least Novem ber 21. JCC, 3:268, 275-76, 291-93, 301, 307-8, 312, 361. But see also JCC, 3:314-15, 362-64, 455. a Much of this debate concerned action to be taken with regard to allowing exports from the ports of New York, North Carolina, Georgia, and the Lower Counties (Delaware) , which Parliament had not yet “closed” by the Restraining Acts of March-April, 1775. Merrill Jensen, The Founding of a Nation, a History of the American Revolution, 1763-1776 (New York: Oxford University Press, 1968), pp. 649-50. 3 The committee appointed September 18 “to contract and agree for the impor tation and delivery of . . . gunpowder.” JCC, 2:253. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 4, 1775] 4th. Allowed a Vessel going to So. Carolina to carry certain Stores enumerated. Resolved into a Comee. upon the Trade of the Colonies. (Additional Instru [ctio] n to the Comee first Given.) 1 Only 189467 Doll [ar] s ready of the 300000 yest[erda]y ordered. 2 Some Accts allowed, then went into a Comee. of the whole &c. Mr. Ward reported that the Comee. had taken into their Consid eration &c and desired Leave to sett again to Morrow to take into their further Consid [eratio] n &c which was accordingly resolved. MS (RHi). 1 The additional instructions in question became the seventh article of the instructions given to the committee to confer with Washington and is so designat ed in the text of these instructions copied into the Hancock letterbook in PCC, item 12A, 1:9. See also JCC, 3:271, 276. ’See JCC, 3:275.


[Page 143]
October 5, 1775 111 John Adams’ Notes of Debates Octr. 5. [1775] Gadsden. I wish we may confine ourselves to one Point. 1 Let the Point be whether We shall shut up all our Ports, and be all on a foot ing. The Ministry will answer their End, if We let the Custom houses be open, in N.Y., N.C., the lower Counties and Georgia. They will divide us. One Colony will envy another, and be jealous. Mankind act by their feelings. Rice sold for £3—it wont sell now for 30s. We have rich and poor there as in other Colonies. We know that the ex cepted Colonies dont want to take Advantage of the others. Zubly. Q. whether the Custom houses be stopped, and the Trade opened to all the World. The object is so great that I would not dis cuss it, on Horse back, riding Post haste. It requires the debate of a Week. We are lifting up a Rod—if you dont repeal the Acts, We will open our Ports. Nations as well as Individuals are sometimes intoxicated. It is fair to give them Notice. If We give them Warning, they will take Warn ing. They will send Ships out. Whether they can stop our Trade, is the Question. N. England I leave out of the Question. N.Y. is stopped by one Ship. Philadelphia says her Trade is in the Power of the fleet. V[irginia] and Maryland, is within the Capes of Virginia. N. Carolina is accessible. Only one good Harbour, Cape Fear. In G[eorgia] We have several Harbours, but a small naval Force may oppose or destroy all the naval Force of Georgia. The Navy can stop our Harbours and distress our Trade. There fore it is impracticable, to open our Ports. The Q. is whether we must have Trade or not. We cant do without Trade. We must have Trade. It is prudent not to put Virtue to too se rious a Test. I would use American Virtue, as sparingly as possible lest We wear it out. Are We sure one Cano will come to trade? Has any Merchant re ceived a Letter from Abroad, that they will come. Very doubtfull and precarious whether any French or Spanish Vessell would be cleared out to America. It is a Breach of the Treaty of Peace. The Spaniards may be too lazy to come to America. They may be sup plied from Sicily. It is precarious, and dilatory—extreamly dangerous —and pernicious. I am clearly vs. any Proposition to open our Ports to all the World. It is not prudent to threaten. The People of England will take it we design to break off, to sepa rate. We have Friends in Eng. who have taken this up, upon virtuous Principles. Lee. I will follow Mr. Gadsden and simplify the Proposition, and confine it to the Q. whether the Custom houses shall be shut? If they


[Page 145]
October 5, 1775 113 portion to Numbers to be equal at least if not Superiour to any other Colony. I must confess I had another View in giving you this Trouble which was to introduce to your Attention, Dr Franklin Mr Lynch and Coll Harrison, a Committee from this Congress to consult with the General and with the New England Colonies, concerning a Plan for future Armies. Mr Lynch is from S. Carolina, Coll Harrison from Virginia, both Gentn. of great Fortune, and respectable Characters, Men of Abilities and very Staunch Americans. Dr Franklyn needs no words of mine. 2 I am, sir, with great Respect, Your very humb serv ant John Adams RC (MHi). 1 William Heath (1737-1814), Roxbury, Mass., farmer, representative to the Massachusetts General Court and provincial congress, and a major general in the state militia, had been appointed a brigadier general of the Continental Army in June 1775. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography. ’John Adams wrote a similar letter this day to Gen. John Thomas. “I presume to give you the trouble of this letter, for the sake of asking your attention to three gentlemen, a Committee of this Congress, who will have a desire to visit you as well as an inclination to see your lines at Roxbury. These gentlemen are Dr. Franklyn, Mr. Lynch of S. Carolina and Coll. Harrison of Virginia. . . . From England we hear of nothing but ministerial ill-will, desperation, and preparations for revenge. With the blessing of heaven, however, upon our endeavours I humbly hope and trust we shall, resist them with success. . . . Certain prejudices are propagated here by a few ill-affected persons in the City, that the Massachusetts forces contain a great number of old men, boys and negroes, more in proportion than the troops of the other Colonies.” Extract in Parke-Bernet Galleries Catalog, no. 863 (April 21, 1947), pp. 1-2. James Duane’s Notes of Debates [October 5? 1775] 1 Zubel’s [Zubly’s] argument. Custom Houses ought to be shut. Because it will put all the Colonies on a footing. Inconveniences. 1st. If shut up Man of War will be our Custom house officer. 2d. No ship can be entered. 3d. All must be subject to seizure and confiscation. 4th. What will be the state of trade between the present time and the period fixed by the Resolutions? 5th. Between the period fixed and time of foreigner’s arrival will take further time. 6th. When they arrive they are subject to seizure. 7th. They will then sell dear and buy cheap.


[Page 146]
114 October 5, 1775 8. If we must trade with foreigners, it will be certain—nor quit costs—precarious pernicious. 9. It is in nature of a threat by which we have gained nothing hitherto. Lee for preparation. 1. If exempted Colonies Trade as usual—others will be discontent ¬ ed, jealous— Ruin—must all be in the same situation. 1st. Decisive offense by opening ports. 2d. If treaty fails no consequence. 3th. Agent could not have answered—not knows sense of Cong. 4th. Might obtain assistance by sea. 5th. Necessity of winter supply in Virginia. Tr (NN) . 1 John Adams’ Notes of Debates for October 5 indicate that the remarks re corded here by Duane were probably made by Zubly and Lee on this date. John Hancock to Nicholas Cooke Philada. Octr. 5. 1775. Sir The Congress having received certain intelligence of the sailing of two north Country built Brigs of no force from England on the 11 of August last loaded with 6000 stand of Arms and a large quantity of powder & other stores for Quebec without a convoy: and it being of importance if possible to intercept them, I am directed by Congress to desire you 1 with all possible expedition to dispatch the armed ves sels of the Colony of Rhode Island on this service that the vessels you dispatch be supplied with a sufficient number of men, stores &c and particularly with oars: That you give the commander or com manders such instructions as are necessary as also proper encourage ment to the marines & seamen that shall be sent on this enterprize, which instructions &c are to be delivered to the commander or com manders sealed up with orders not to open the same until out of sight of land on account of secresy. 2 As there is also advice that a large quantity of Brass ordinance military stores & provisions are sending out to Boston, you are to give orders to seize all transports laden with ammunition cloathing or other stores for the use of the Ministerial Army or Navy in America; and that the said vessels with their cargoes when taken be secured in the most convenient places for the use of the Continent. For the encouragement of the men employed in this service I am ordered to inform you that the Congress have resolved that the Mas ter, Officers and Seamen shall be entitled to one half of the value of


[Page 147]
October 5, 1775 115 the prizes by them taken, the wages they receive from the Colony notwithstanding. 3 The ships or vessels of war are to be on the Continental risque & pay during their being thus employed. On this subject I have wrote to General Washington & desired him to dispatch one or more vessels from the Massachusetts Bay on this Service. I have the honour to be, Sir Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt. RC (MH) . Written by Charles Thomson and signed by Hancock. ’Nicholas Cooke (d. 1782), Providence merchant, was at this time deputy governor of Rhode Island. Upon the ouster from office of loyalist Governor Joseph Wanton by the Rhode Island Assembly in October 1775, Cooke was elected to succeed him and continued to serve in this capacity through 1777. Matt B. Jones, ed., “Revolutionary Correspondence of Governor Nicholas Cooke, 1775-1781,” Pro ceedings of the American Antiquarian Society, new ser. 36 (1926) : 231-32. “Cooke was unable to comply with Congress’ request for assistance because one of the two armed vessels Rhode Island then had was on a return voyage to the province from Bermuda, while the other was unfit for sea duty. See Cooke’s letters of October 10 to Washington and to the Rhode Island delegates. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1007; and Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg), pp. 98-99. Both British ships subsequently eluded American efforts to intercept them, and made their way safely to Quebec. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 4:23, 33-34, 152. ’See JCC, 3:279. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council Gentlemen Philadelphia Octor. 5. 1775 It having been Represented to the Congress that you have in the Employ of the Colony of Massachusetts Bay Two Arm’d Vessells, and a particular Service being Recommended to General Washing ton, the Prosecution of which will require those Vessells, I am direct ed by the Congress to inform you that General Washington is In structed to make application to you for those Vessells; and I am particularly Authorized to desire you will put said Vessells for this Service under the General’s Command &: Direction, and that you fur nish him instantly with every Necessary in your power at the Expence of the Continent. 1 And in case those arm’d Vessells cannot be Employ’d in this Service, you are earnestly requested to afford your utmost assistance in every matter that the General may have Occasion to apply to you upon in the prosecution of the publick service. I have the Honour to be with Esteem Gentlemen Your most Obt. Hble Servt. John Hancock Prest.


[Page 161]
October 6, 1775 129 Channell of Delaware River. Three Rows of them, are phased in the River, with large Timbers barbed with Iron. They are frames of Tim ber Sunk with stone Machines very proper, for our Channell in the Narrows [. . . .] 3 RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Recipient identified through Quincy’s September 22 letter to Adams discussing the defense of Boston harbor, the chief topic of Adams’ response. Josiah Quincy to John Adams, September 22, 1775, MHi. 'Josiah Quincy (1710-84), merchant, gentleman farmer, and local political leader in Braintree, Mass. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 8:465-75. 2 See John Adams’ Diary, September 28, 1775. 3 Although the remainder of the MS is missing, an extract from the two missing pages was printed in an 1894 dealer’s catalog. "We have favourable accounts from Schuyler. He will have the Province of Canada. "Our accounts from England breath nothing but war and revenge. What pains and expense, and misery that stupid people will endure for the sake of driving the Colonies to the necessity of a separation, and of alienating their best friends.” William E. Benjamin Catalog, no. 60 (April 1894) , p. 18. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [October 6, 1775] Fair. Comittee set off for the Camp. 1 MS (MHi) . 1 That is, the committee of Congress appointed on September 29 "to repair immediately to the camp at Cambridge" to consult with General Washington and New England leaders. JCC, 3:265. Although Franklin reported to Joseph Priestley on October 3 that he was “to set out to-morrow,” and Christopher Marshall noted in his diary entry of October 4 that "this afternoon . . . three of the delegates, set out for Boston," Hancock wrote to Washington on October 5 that the committee was "to set out tomorrow Morning.” Benjamin Franklin to Joseph Priestley, October 3, 1775; Christopher Marshall, Extracts from the Diary of Christopher Marshall, Kept in Philadelphia and Lancaster during the American Revolution, 1774-17781, ed. William Duane (Albany: Joel Munsell, 1877), p. 44: and John Hancock to George Washington, October 5, 1775, 2d letter. Apparently Paines testimony can be relied upon, although Silas Deane, adding to the confusion, wrote in his misdated diary entry for Saturday, October 7: "Saturday Octo. 6th. at Congress. Messrs Franklin &c sat out on Journey.” CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 96A. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 6, 1775] 6th. Letters from Gens. Schuyler & Montgomery. £20000 Pena. Currency in silver or Gold to be got for contin[enta]l Money for the Canada Expedn. Recomd. to provincial Assemblies & Conventions [and] Comees. of Safety to arrest & secure such Persons whose


[Page 162]
130 October 6, 1775 going at large may endanger such Colonies or the Liber [t]y of America. (This to be transmitted.) Comee. for Importation of Pow[de]r to export agreable to the continental Association as much Provisions or other Produce of these Colonies as they shall judge ex pedient for the Purchase of Arms & Ammunition. A Comee. appoint ed to consider of the Fortifications ordered to be erected on Hudsons River. Farther Report of the Comee. for concerting a Plan for inter cepting certain [vesseZ.t] read. Ordered that the Congress 1 resolved into a Comee. of the whole to take into their Consideration the State of the Trade. Consideration of the Instructions to the Delegates of Rhod Isd. put off to tomorrow. MS (RHi) . 1 Ward inserted the preceding four words above the line after he had originally completed the sentence but subsequently neglected to change "resolved” from the past tense. John Adams’ Notes of Debates Octr. 7. [1775] Chase. It is the maddest Idea in the World, to think of building an American Fleet. 1 Its Latitude is wonderfull. We should mortgage the whole Continent. Recollect the Intelligence on your Table—defend N. York—fortify upon Hudsons River. We should provide for gaining Intelligence—two swift sailing Ves sells. Dyer. The Affair of Powder from N. York should be referr’d to the Committee. Hopkins. No Objection to putting off the Instruction from Rhode Island, provided it is to a future day. 2 Paine. Seconds Chace’s Motion, that it be put off to a future day Sine die. Chace. The Gentleman from Maryland never made such a Mo tion. I never used the Copulative. The Gentleman is very sarcastic, and thinks himself very sensible. Zubly. If the Plans of some Gentlemen are to take Place, an American Fleet must be a Part of it—extravagant as it is. Randolph moves that all the orders of the day should be read ev ery Morning. Deane. I wish it may be seriously debated. I dont think it roman tic, at all. J. Rutledge. Move that some Gentn. be appointed to prepare a Plan and Estimate of an American Fleet. Zubly seconds the Motion.


[Page 164]
132 October 7, 1775 Dyer thinks they ought to have the usual allowance for Work. S. Adams. Understands that the Works at Cambridge was done without any Allowance, but that G [eneral] W[ashington] has or dered that for future works they be allowed half a Pistareen a day. Langdon would not have the order to Wooster, but to Schuyler for he would not run any risque of the northern Expedition. Rutledge thinks Schuyler cant want them. He waited only for Boats to send 500 Men more. Sherman. Would it not be well to inform Schuyler of our endeav ours to take the Transports and desire him to acquaint Coll. Arnold of it. Rutledge. He may cooperate with Arnold in taking the Transports. I hope he is in Possession of Montreal before now. Deane. I wish that whatever Money is collected, may be sent along to Schuyler. E. Rutledge. We have been represented as beggarly fellows, and the first Impressions are the strongest. If We eat their Provisions and dont pay, it will make a bad Impression. Ross. Produces a Resolve of the Assembly of Pensylvania that their Delegates lay the Connecticutt Intrusion before Congress, that something may be done to quiet the Minds. 6 J. Rutledge moves that the Papers be referr’d to the Delegates of the two Colonies. Willing. Thinks them Parties and that they must have an Umpire. Sherman. Thinks they may agree on a temporary Line. Lee. Moves that Parliamentary or ministerial Post may be stopp’d, as a constitutional Post is now established from N.H. to G. 7 Langdon 2d[s] the Motion. Willing. Thinks it is interfering with that Line of Conduct which we have hitherto prescribed to ourselves—it is going back beyond the Year 1763. Lee. When the Ministry are mutilating our Correspondence in England, and our Enemies here are corresponding for our ruin, shall We not stop the ministerial Post. Willing. Looks upon this to be one of the offensive Measures which are improper at this Time—it will be time enough to throw this aside when the Time comes that we shall throw every Thing aside—at present We dont know but there may be a Negociation. Dyer. We have already superceeded the Act of Parliament effec tually. Deane is for a Recommendation to the People to write by the con stitutional Post, not forbid a Man to ride. S. Adams thinks it a defensive Measure, and advising People not


[Page 165]
October 7, 1775 133 to write by it, looks too cunning for me. I am for stopping the Corre spondence of our Enemies. Langdon. Administration are taking every Method to come at our Intentions, why should not we prevent it. Duane. I shall vote vs. it. It may be true that We are come to the Time when We are to lay aside all. I think there should be a full Representation of the Colonies. N.C. should be here. Deane 2d [s] the Motion for postponing it. Zubly. The Necessity of this Measure does not appear to me. If We have gone beyond the Line of 1763 and of defence without ap parent Necessity it was wrong, if with Necessity right. I look upon the Invasion of Canada a very different Thing. I have a Right to de fend myself vs. Persons who come vs. me, let em come from whence they will. We in G. have gain[ed] Intelligence by the K’s Post that We could not have got any other Way. Some Gentlemen think all Merit lies in violent and unnecessary Measures. S. Adams. The Gentlemans Argument would prove that We should let the Post go into Boston. Moreton. Would not this stop the Packett. Would it not be or dered to Boston. Does the Packett bring any Intelligence to Us that is of Use? Lee. No Intelligence comes to Us, but constant Intelligence to our Enemies. Stone. Thinks it an innocent Motion, but is for postponing it, be cause he is not at present clear. He thinks that the setting up a new Post has already put down the old one. Paine. My opinion was that the Ministerial Post will die a natural death. It has been under a Languishment a great while. It would be Cowardice to issue a Decree to kill that which is dying. It brought but one Letter last time, and was obliged to retail Newspapers, to bear its Expences. I am very loath to say that this Post shall not pass. Lee. Is there not a Doctor Ld. North who can keep this Creature alive. R. R. Livingstone. I don’t think that Tory Letters are sent by the Royal Post. I consider it rather as a Convenience than otherwise. We hear 5 times a Week from N.Y. The Letters upon our Table advise us to adopt every conciliatory Measure, that we may secure the Affections of the People of Eng land. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:198-202. 1 Although these debates of October 7 represent the earliest formal discussion of the proposal to create an American navy, an issue in which he was greatly interested, Adams did not record his own views in these notes of debates. But in a letter to James Warren this day he outlined his plans to open the ports of America and establish a naval defense, and years later, when writing his auto- 243-053 0 - 77 - 11


[Page 166]
134 October 7, 1775 biography, he reviewed in detail the growth of Congress’ interest in naval affairs during October and November 1775. See John Adams to James Warren, October 7, 1775; and Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:342-50. 2 For the text of the Rhode Island proposal for an American fleet, see JCC, 3:274. 3 Congress this day “deferred” consideration of the subject until October 16 and subsequently postponed further debate until December 11. JCC, 3:281, 420. ‘The committee’s report, as adopted, is in JCC, 3:281-82. 5 See JCC, 3:282-83. “See JCC, 3:283. For further explication of the Wyoming Valley controversy, see Silas Deane to Thomas Mumford, October 15, 1775. 7 The journals do not record a separate discussion on this subject this day. JCC, 3:281-83. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dear Philadelphia Octr. 7th. 1775 Yesterday, by the Post, I received yours of Septr. 25th., and it re newed a Grief and Anxiety, that was before almost removed from my Mind. Two days before I had the Pleasure of a very valuable Letter from Coll. Quincy, in which he kindly informed me that you and Our Family were so much better that you and my dear Nabby, had made a Visit at his House: and Mr. Williams, who brought the Letter acquainted me that he had been to Braintree after the Date of it, that you was in good Spirits, that Tommy was so much better as to be playing abroad, and that he hoped Patty was not dangerous: you will easily believe that this Information gave me great Pleasure and fine Spirits: It really relieved me from a heavy Load: But your last Letter has revived my Concern. I will still hope however that your excellent Mother will yet be spared for a Blessing to her Family and an Example to the World. 1 1 build my Hopes of her Recovery, upon the Advantage of a Constitution which has hitherto sustained so many Attacks and upon a long Course of exact Temperance which I hope has deprived the Distemper of its most dangerous food and Fuel. However, our Lives are not in our own Power. It is our Duty to submit. “The Ways of Heaven are dark and intricate.” Its designs are often inscrutable, But are always wise and just and good. It was long before I had the least Intimation of the Distress of the Family, and I fear, that your not receiving so many Letters from me as usual may have been one Cause of Infelicity to you. Really, my dear, I have been more cautious than I used to be. It is not easy to know whom to trust, in these times, and if a Letter from any Person in the situation I am in, can be laid hold of, there are so many Lies made and told about it, so many false Copies taken and dispersed, and so many false Constructions put, that one ought to be cautious. The Situation of Things, is so alarming, that it is our Duty to pre-


[Page 167]
October 7, 1775 135 pare our Minds and Hearts for every Event, even the Worst. From my earliest Entrance into Life, I have been engaged in the public Cause of America: and from first to last I have had upon my Mind, a strong Impression, that Things would be wrought up to their pre sent Crisis. I saw from the Beginning that the Controversy was of such a Nature that it never would be settled, and every day convinces me more and more. This has been the source of all the Disquietude of my Life. It has lain down and rose up with me these twelve Years. The Thought that we might be driven to the sad Necessity of break ing our Connection with G.B. exclusive of the Carnage and Destruc tion which it was easy to see must attend the separation, always gave me a great deal of Grief. And even now, I would chearfully retire from public life forever, renounce all Chance for Profits or Honours from the public, nay I would chearfully contribute my little Property to obtain Peace and Liberty. But all these must go and my Life too before I can surrender the Right of my Country to a free Constitu tion. I dare not consent to it. I should be the most miserable of Mor tals ever after, whatever Honours or Emoluments might surround me. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:294-96. 1 Elizabeth Quincy Smith died on October 1. Ibid, pp. 293-94. John Adams to James Warren Dr sir Philadelphia Octr. 7th. 1775 The Debates, and Deliberations in Congress are impenetrable Se crets: but the Conversations in the City, and the Chatt of the Coffee house, are free, and open. Indeed I wish We were at Liberty to write freely and Speak openly upon every Subject, for their is frequently as much Knowledge derived from Conversations and Correspondence, as from Solemn public Debates. A more intricate and complicated Subject never came into any Mans thoughts, than the Trade of America. 1 The Questions that arise, when one thinks of it, are very numerous. If The Thirteen united Colonies Should immediately Surcease all Trade with every Part of the World, what would be the Conse quence? In what manner, and to what degree, and how Soon, would it affect, the other Parts of the World? How would it affect G. B., Ireland, the English West India Islands, the French, the Dutch, the Danish, the Spanish West India Islands? How would it affect the Spanish Empire on the Continent? How would it affect the Brazills and Portuguese Settlements in America? If it is certain that it would distress Multitudes in these Countries, does it therefore follow that it


[Page 171]
October 7, 1775 139 to be here just at this Time. You have Wrote Me but Two Letters since I left home. Love to all. I am yours S D RC (CtHi) . John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philadelphia Octr. 7th 1775 By Intelligence received from England and laid before the Con gress on the 5th Instant, 1 we are well assured that two North Coun try Briggs were dispatched from England to Quebec on the 11th of August with a very large Quantity of Arms, Ammunition and Cloath- ing. If you should be happy enough to possess yourself of Mon treal, it is the earnest Desire of the Congress, that you take Measures if those Vessels should arrive, to seize them and secure their Cargoes for the Use of the Continent. It is also the Desire of the Congress that you secure for the same purpose all Military Stores belonging to the King. I am also to inform you that we have Intelligence that Administra tion are obstinately determined to pursue every Measure in their power to subjugate the Colonies, and in Order to execute their pur pose, they have determined to send over five more Regiments viz: 17th, 27th, 28th, 46th & 55th to New York. Their plan is that these Troops “with the assistance of Governor Tryon, who is much relied [on] for the purpose to get immediate possession of New York and Albany—to fill both these Cities with very strong Garrisons—to declare all Rebels, who do not join the King’s Forces—to command the Hudson and East Rivers, with a Number of small Men of War and Cutters stationed in different parts of it so as wholly to cut off all Communication by Water be tween New York & the provinces to the Northward of it, and be tween New York and Albany except for the King’s Service 8c to pre vent also all Communication between the City of New York and the provinces of Jersey Pennsylvania and those to the Southward of them. By these Means Adm n and their Friends fancy that they shall soon either starve out or retake the Garrisons of Ticonderoga 8c Crown Point and open and maintain a safe Intercourse and Corre spondence between Quebec Albany and New York 8c thereby afford the fairest Opportunity to their Soldiery and Canadians in Conjunc tion with the Indians to be procured by G[uy] J[ohnson] to make continual Irruptions into New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Con necticut and so distract and divide the provincial Forces as to render it easy for the British Army at Boston to defeat them, break the Spir it of the Massachusetts people, depopulate their Country and compel


[Page 172]
140 October 7, 1775 an absolute Subjection to Great Britain. Another good Effect to be deduced from this extensive plan as Government apprehend is that as New York, will by this Method be prevented from supplying the Mas sachusetts army near Boston with Flour fee as they have heretofore done through the Medium of Connecticut: and the New Jersey and Pennsylvania people will not be able to transport provisions across the Country: and as the Colony of Connecticut does not raise Corn sufficient for the Supply of herself fe the Massachusetts Bay, the In habitants and Troops of this province must inevitably of Course by [he] in a short Time destroyed by Diseases fe Famine, and to this Train of Facts let me add, That in Consequence of Genl. Gage’s de sire brought by Capt. Chadd one hundred flat Bottomed Boats are at present building at Deptford &c in Order to be sent immediately to America. But for what particidar purpose I have not yet been able to learn. Many American Gentlemen have however been lately asked by a Lord high in the American Department, what sized vessels can go loaded from hence to Albany? What is the Depth of Water at the Overslaw. I think that is the Name of the shallowest place in the North River? Whether the ship belonging to Albany in the London Trade is always obliged to unload part of her Cargo before she can get to Albany and what proportion of it? Whether if Batteries were erected at tbe Highlands, tlrey would not prevent Vessels from going up and down the North River? and where it would be the best place on that River to hinder the New Jersey people fee. from sending Flour fee. in the Winter through Connecticut to the Massachusetts Army. These are the proposed Operations to the Northward.” I hope the Success of the Enterprize you are engaged [zn] and the happy Change in the Disposition of the Canadians fe Indians will dis appoint and defeat the infernal purposes of administration. Your Letters of the 25th & 28th Ult. have been laid before the Congress. 2 Measures are taking to collect a Quantity of Gold and Silver, which when collected will be sent to you by the safest & speediest Conveyance, when I shall again address you. I am with great Esteem Sir Your very humble Servant John Hancock President Tr (NN) . 1 On the nature of this "Intelligence," and for the provenance of that section of this letter enclosed in quotation marks, see Hancock to George Washington, October 5, 1775, 2d letter, note 1. ’Schuyler’s letters to Hancock of September 25 and 28, together with accompa nying enclosures, are in PCC, item 153, 1:166-79; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:796-98, 826-27.


[Page 176]
144 October 8, 1775 God grant our successes at Boston and in Canada may disappoint, and thereby ruin these fatal foes to the liberty and happiness of the British empire. My love, if you please, to Gen. Lee, Mifflin, Griffen and my other friends with you. May heaven preserve you, and give your Army success in the most glorious cause that was ever contended for by human nature. I am dear Sir your affectionate friend and obedient Servant Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 See John Hancock to Washington, October 5, 1775, 2d letter. Silas Deane’s Diary Monday Octo. 8th [i.e. 9th, 1775]. At Congress. At Committee buying goods. 1 Exp fence] s 2/. MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 96A. 1 Probably the committee appointed on September 23 to purchase woolens for clothing the army. On October 7 Congress ordered the continental treasurers to pay this committee £5,000 sterling for that purpose. JCC, 3:260, 281. John Hancock to the New York Provincial Convention Gentlemen Philadelphia, Octor. 9th, 1775. Your Letters of the 6th inst. have been laid before Congress. They have issued an order for One Ton of Powder to be Sent to New- York, but I am directed to inform you, if you can with safety spare it or any part, it is the wish of Congress you would immediately for ward it to General Schuyler. 1 In Answer to your Letter Respecting the Brig [antin] e Mary, Capt Wallace, which put into your port to Repair, I am order’d to Ac quaint you, that the Congress Recommend that she proceed on her Voyage with the Cargo after being Refitted. 2 In Consequence of your Letter to Congress Inclosing a plan 8c Esti mate of the Fort Erecting on the Highlands of North River, I now In close you the Resolution of Congress thereon to which Refer you. I also Inclose you a Resolve of Congress respecting those who are in your Opinion dangerous by being at large, to which also Refer you. 8 Your proposall inclos’d respecting the Importation of Gunpowder


[Page 177]
October 9, 1775 145 is submitted to a committee—the resolution of Congress thereon shall be transmitted you. 4 I have wrote Genl Wooster, at Albany, by order of Congress, to pro ceed to the Fort now building at North River, & there leave as many of his Troops as the Conductor of the Works shall think necessary to Expedite the Works, & with the Remainder to proceed to New York & there Remain. By Desire of your Delegates I inclose you some Extracts of Letters from London, laid before Congress. I am Gentlemen Your most Obedt sevt. John Hancock Presidt. RC (N) . Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:5. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 See JCC, 3:284. The New York Provincial Congress’ letters of October 6 are in PCC, item 67, 1:91-95; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:971-72, 1272-74. a On the case of Capt. Robert Wallace, see the New York Provincial Congress’ second letter to Congress of October 6 in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:972, 1273-74. There is no mention in the journals of any action on this matter. s For these resolves see JCC, 3:280, 281-82. ‘The New York Provincial Congress’ proposal for procuring gunpowder is in a letter to Congress of October 4, with accompanying enclosure, on which see PCC, item 67, 1:79-83; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:944. Congress referred the matter to the Secret Committee this day. JCC, 3:286. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada. Octr 9th. 1775. The enclosed Intelligence 1 was designed to be forwarded on the Day of its Date, but the Arrival of fresh Advices from you prevented it. I now by order of Congress enclose you sundry Resolutions, en tered into by them the 14th. of Sepr. last respecting the Appointment of Mr. Stringer as Director of the Hospital and Chief Physician, and several other Orders respecting the Hospital, and a Direction to the Commissary to pay Doctr. Stringer the Amount of Costs of Medi cines purchased by him for the Use of the Army and Orders that the Commissary furnish such other Medicines as you shall direct. 2 I am directed by the Congress to inform you that if you judge it necessary, they approve of your appointing a suitable Person for a Brigade Major in your Department. Your several Letters have been duely laid before Congress, and are now under the Consideration of a Committee; 3 as soon as they re port, and the Congress have come to Resolutions thereupon, the Re sult shall be immediately transmitted to you. But they have directed me to forward to you by this Express under the Escort of two of the


[Page 178]
146 October 9, 1775 light Horse of this City what Silver and Gold can be collected in the Time, least you should be in Want; and I have accordingly sent you six Thousand three Hundred and sixty four Pounds Philada. Cur rency. A further Sum will be forwarded you by the Express that carries you the Resolutions of Congress on the various Parts of your Letters, which will be dispatched in a few Days. I have Nothing further in Charge from Congress to communicate. I hope your next will give us the pleasing Account of the Restoration of your Health. 4 That you may have the full Enjoyment of that Bless ing, and that Success may crown your Expedition is the Wish of, Sir, your most obedt. hble Servt. J.H. Prest. [P.S.] You will please to acknowledge the Receipt of the Money. Enclosed is the Invo. of the Money. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . 1 Not found but perhaps the same intelligence from England discussed in Hancock to George Washington, October 5, 1775, 2d letter, note 2. ’See JCC, 2:249-50. ’See JCC, 3:284-85. ‘ Richard Henry Lee also wrote to Schuyler this day, expressing his concern for the general’s health, stressing the importance of securing Canada, and informing him of large stores of ammunition and clothing coming to Quebec from London. Typescript summary of Richard Henry Lee to Schuyler, October 9, 1775, Schuyler Papers, NN. John Hancock to David Wooster Sir, Philada. Octr. 19th [i.e. 9th] 1775 1 General Schuyler having by Letter informed the Congress that he believed he should have no Occasion to employ the Troops under your Command, I am desired by the Congress to direct that you im mediately proceed with the Troops under your Command to the Bat teries erecting on the Highlands in North River, and there leave as many of your Troops, as in the opinion of the Conductor will be nec essary for expediting the Completion of the Works there, and that you repair with the Remainder of the Troops to New York, and there continue until further Orders from the Congress. 2 But in Case you should have any Orders from Genl. Schuyler, previous to the Receipt of this, to join the Army under his Command, or in any Way to be aiding to his Expedition, you are wholly to conform yourself to his Directions, the above Orders of Congress notwithstanding. I am &c J H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) .


[Page 184]
152 October 9, 1775 Sailed out of this port for London, in Which Mr. Carter was going passenger. A few days before she Sailed, Young Dewees, son of the Sheriff went to pay Doctr. Kearsly Some Money and Comeing Sud denly in to his Room found him and Carter together, with a bundle of Papers before them, which they Hussel’d up in Seeming Confu sion. This, with Kearsly’s Tory Carrictor gave Dewees Suspition, and he Accordingly informed a few of the Committee Who kept the matter Secret, Let the Ship Sail, and the passengers go down to Ches ter by Land to go on Board. On Thursday Evening Which was the day the passengers Went, A Small party was Sent down to Chester. They Stayed there that night in Cogg [incognito] and see the passen gers go on board next Morning. They then imediately pushed on board, Seized and Examined Mr. Carter who in a Little time told them that there were Several Letters from Doctr. Kearsly & Mr. Brooks, And one from Mr. Snowden, That he had the Charge of them, and was Concerned with them in the plan they had Concerted, But that the Letters were then in the Custody of a woman down in the Cabin, And that She had them Concealed in a pocket Sewed to the inside of her Shift-Tail, Where in fact they Soon after found them and Came back to Town (leaving Carter as they had promised Upon his Making a discovery of the Whole Matter on a Oath before Mr. Grayham at Chester) and then Seized the Authors. The Letters were to Lord Dartmouth and other Ministers of State, But under Cover to Misses McCawley. The Substance and design was pressing their Sending to Philadelphia five thousand Regulars, on Which Condition they would Engage five thousand more here to Join them, provided the Royal Standard Should be also Sent in, and Kearsly appointed to bear it, for that Great numbers of those who now wear Cockades & Uniform were hearty in the Ministerial Cause. That the Rest were a pack of Cowards for that he (Kearsly) had made above five thou sand of them Run By Snapping a Single Pistol at them &c fee. They had with them for the use of the Ministry one of Joshua Fishers plans of Delaware Bay & River, whereon they had described the place Where the Chevaux Defreise’s were fixed. Besides these and Many more Villinous Contrivances, they were takeing home the out-lines for a print to be Struck off in London, Shewing Kearsly’s late Exhibition in the Cart, going through the Streets of Philadelphia with the Mob, many of Whom he undertakes particularly to discribe, to wit, Bradford fee. fee. many of whom were actually not there, and how he every now and then by Snapping his Pistol made them Run fee. His abuse of the Congress, Committees fee. (in his letters) is in tolerable, Such as Rebels, Villians &c. Alter the Committee of Safety had Examined them and the Contents of the Letters, they Sent a Pi lot Boat down the River to overtake the Ship, to bring up Carter, and to Search the Box of Letters and to bring all of them that they Sup-


[Page 185]
October 9, 1775 153 posed to be from, or to Suspicious persons. This Boat Returned Sun day afternoon, brought Carter and put him in Goal, and also brought a Number of Letters belonging to and wrote by other persons. The Committee of Safety has been Setting on these affairs all this day. But I have been so Closely Confined to Congress to day, that I don’t yet know what they have done—or What others are accused. It is now near Eight at night and Mr. John David the bearer of this Sets out tomorrow Morning, therefore Shall only Tell you that I am Tolerable well and disire my love to our families, and Conclude Yrs. 8cc. Caesar Rodney P.S. I am grieved much for my Plow-horses which you say are Dead —But must bear it as well as I Can. RC (DeHi). 1 Thomas Rodney was elected a representative to the House of Assembly for the Three Lower Counties. Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 66n. a Dr. John Kearsley, James Brooks, Leonard Snowden, and Christopher Carter were arrested by the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety for conducting correspond ence with British officials inimical to American liberties. On October 10, some of their captured papers were turned over to John Dickinson “for the perusal of the Continental Congress.” Dickinson reported October 14 that the issue had been placed before Congress, which “declined making any particular order respecting them” and referred the committee of safety to a congressional resolve of October 6, a decision the committee of safety interpreted as a call to continue the confine ment of Kearsley and Brooks. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1814—29, passim; and JCC, 3:280. Secret Committee Contract Philadelphia. Committee Chamber October 9th. 1775. Be it rembered that it is agreed by & between the following per sons to wit Philip Livingston, John Alsop and Francis Lewis of the city of New York, merchants, 1 and Samuel Ward, John Langdon, Si las Deane, Thomas Willing & Thomas M’Kean Esquires a Quorum of the Committee of Secrecy appointed by the Honble Continental Congress for the Thirteen United Colonies of North America that a voyage or voyages shall be forthwith undertaken for the speedy pro curing fifty tonns of powder twelve brass six pounds cannon a thou sand stand of good soldiers muskets & bayonets and two thousand good double-bridled gun-locks and in case all the powder men tioned cannot be obtained then as much salt-petre 8c sulphur as will make the quantity that may be deficient—that the vessel or vessels shall be chartered for the use of the continental Colonies afsd. and a skilful 8c prudent supercargo or supercargoes employed by the said Philip Livingston, John Alsop 8c Francis Lewis at the expence of the


[Page 187]
October 10, 1775 155 Schuyler. Mr. Duane authorized to propose to the Comee. of Safety of this Province to borrow one Ton of Powder for New York. Letters from Genls. Schuyler & Montgomery read referred to a Comee., John Adams, John Rutledge, Mr. Chace, R Livingston & Mr. Deane. 2 The affair between Pennsylvania & Connect, farther de ferred. The Delegates of Pennsylvania to send what hard Money the Treasrs have got to Genl. Schuyler by two of the light horse. Recomd. to the provincial Convention of New Jersey to immedi ately raise two Battali [on] s of 8 Compa[nie]s each at continental Charge, each Co[mpan]y for a Year 68 Privates & Officers as rec ommended by Congress in the militia Bill, privates at 5 Doll [ar] s per m[ont]h & discharged at any time allowg. 1 Months Pay gratis, instead of bounty, 1 pr. Shoes, 1 pr. yarn stocking & a felt hat given each private. Pay of the Officers the same as that now in the conti- n[enta]l Army; if that be raised the officers of these Battalions to have the same. MS (RHi) . 1 See Commissary General Joseph Trumbull’s letter to Eliphalet Dyer of Septem ber 23 in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:778-79. ’For Schuyler’s letters to Hancock of September 19 and 29, together with accompanying enclosures, see ibid., pp. 738-44, 839-41; and PCC, item 153, 1:140-65, 180-89. The committee appointed to respond to these communications brought in a draft reply on October 10, which Congress approved after some debate on the 11th and sent off over the signature of Hancock. See JCC, 3:284-85, 287-88; and Hancock to Philip Schuyler, October 11, 1775. John Adams’ Notes of Debates Octr. 10. [1775] Who shall have the Appointment of the Officers in the 2 Battai lions to be raised in New Jersey? 1 Sherman. Best to leave it to the Provincial Conventions. Ward seconds the Motion. Chace. This is persisting in Error in Spight of Experience. We have found by Experience that giving the Choice of Officers to the People, is attended with bad Consequences. The French Officers are allowed to exceed any in Europe, because a Gentleman is hardly en- tituled to the Smiles of the Ladies without serving a Campaign. In my Province, We want Officers. Gentlemen have recommended Per sons from personal Friendships, who were not suitable. Such Friend ships will have more Weight, in the Colonies. Dyer. We must derive all our Knowledge, from the Delegates of that Colony. The Representatives at large are as good Judges and


[Page 190]
158 October 10, 1775 I long to hear concerning our Friends in Boston. My Friends can not be too particular. I want to know the Condition of every Individ ual. I want to know also every Event however minute which Turns up in our Camp or Lines. We have most formidable Descriptions of Gages Fortifications in Boston. Ninety Pieces of Brass Field Pieces from four to Eight Pounders have certainly been cast in the Tower for America, and Carriages, Wheelbarrows, Flat bottomed Boats &c I am &c RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear sir Philada Octob 10 1775 Since my last, I have receivd Intelligence from London, that the British Ministry after having receivd the Advice of the Engagement on Bunkers Hill held various Councils on American Affairs and had resolvd to persevere in their Attempts to enslave us. 50 or 60 brass field pieces 6 & 9 pounders four thousand Stands of small arms with ammunition had been shipd from the Tower of London for Quebeck to arm the Canadians—five Regiments from Ireland viz 17th, 27th, 28th, 46th & 55th were orderd to Boston—4 Companies of the Train of Artillery are to go with the Ordnance &: Stores to Quebeck. Sever al Ships of War were also orderd to America. What was intended for Quebeck were to sail in a fortnight from the Date of the Letter which was the 8th of August. The Regiments from Ireland were intended to be at Boston in October. The Parliamt was to meet in Octr and so soon, that a Sanction might be given as early as possible to the Meas ures that have been taken as well as others to be adopted. General Gage had been appointed Governor General of all North America but afterwards it was concluded that Leave should be given him to return home. This was to make Room for Genl Amherst who is to take the Command in the Spring with a promise of 20,000 Men— 2000 Highlanders 3000 Irish Roman Catholicks and the rest, if they cannot be raisd in England, to consist of Hannoverians Hessians & other Germans. The Plan said to have been laid before Ministry last Spring which was to divide the Troops then sent out, a part of them to go to New York is now to be followed. General Gages Necessity then oblige! him to alter that plan and to collect all his Troops togeth er at Boston. Govr Carleton had orders to enter upon the New Eng land Frontiers with the Canadians, and Tryon with the Forces at New York was to meet and cooperate with him. This it is said was the Design of his return to his Governmt. The Idea is not yet given up, and to facilitate the plan a Number of flat bottomd boats were to


[Page 198]
166 October 12, 1775 A Republican Government is little better than Government of Devils. I have been acquainted with it from 6 Years old. We must regulate our Trade so as that a Reconciliation be ob tained or We enable [d] to carry on the War. Cant say, but I do hope for a Reconciliation, and that this Winter may bring it. I may enjoy my Hopes for Reconciliation, others may enjoy theirs that none will take Place. A Vessell will not go, without Sails or Oars. Wisdom is better than Weapons of War. We dont mean to oppose G.B. merely for Diver sion. If it is necessary that We make War, and that we have the Means of it, This Continent ought to know what it is about. The Na tion dont. We ought to know what they mean to be about. We ought to have Intelligence of the Designs. K. of Prussia and Count Daune march’d and counter march’d untill they could not impose upon Each other any more. Every Thing We want for the War are Powder and Shot. 2d Thing necessary that We have Arms and Ammunition. 3. We must have Money. The Cont[inent’]s Credit must be sup ported. We must keep up a Notion that this Paper is good for Some thing. It has not yet a general Circulation. The Mississippi Scheme in France and the South Sea Scheme in England were written for our Learning. An hundred Million fell in one day. 20 Men of War may block up the Harbour of N. York, Del [aw] are River, Cheasapeak Bay, the Carolinas and Georgia. Whether We can raise a Navy is an important Question. We may have a Navy—and to carry on the War We must have a Navy. Can We do this without Trade? Can we gain Intelligence without Trade. Can We get Powder without Trade? Every Vessell you send out is thrown away. N. England where the War is may live without Trade. Money circulates there—they may live. Without Trade our People must starve. We cannot live. We cannot feed or cloath our People. My Resolution was that I would do and suffer any Thing rather than not be free. But I resolved not to do impossible Things. If We must trade, We must trade with Somebody, and with Some body that will trade with us, either with foreigners or G.B. If with foreigners, We must either go to them or they must come to us. We cant go to them if our Harbours are shut up. I look upon the Trade with foreigners as impracticable. St. Lawrence being open is a Sup position. N. England People last War went to C[ape] Francois. Spaniards are too lazy to come to Us. If We cant trade with foreigners we must trade with G. Britain. Is it practicable. Will it quit cost. Will it do more hurt than good. This is breaking our Association. Our People will think We are giving Way and giving all up. They will say one mischivous Man has over-


[Page 199]
October 12, 1775 167 set the whole Navigation. I speak from Principle. It has been said here that the Association was made in terrorem. Gadsden. 2ds. Lees Motion, and affirms that We can carry on Trade from one End of the Continent to the other. Deane. Custom house Officers discharged! Were they ever in our Pay, in our service. Let em stand where they are. Let this Congress establish what Offices they please. Let the others die. I think that all the Colonies ought to be upon a footing. We must have Trade. I think We ought to apply abroad. We must have Powder and Goods. We cant keep our People easy without. Lee. The Gentleman agrees that all ought to be upon a Footing. Let him shew how this can be done without shutting the Custom houses. Jay. This should be the last Business We undertake. It is like cut ting the Foot to the shoe, not making a shoe for the Foot. Let Us es tablish a System first. I think We ought to consider the whole, before We come to any Resolutions. Now Gentlemen have their Doubts whether the N. Ex portation was a good Measure. I was last Year, clear vs. it. Because the Enemy have burn’d Charlestown, would Gentlemen have Us burn N. York? Let us lay every Burden as equal on all the Shoulders that We can. If Prov[idence] or Ministry inflict Misfortunes on one, shall We inflict the same on all? I have one Arm sore—why should not the other Arm be made sore too? But Jealousies will arise. Are these reasonable? Is it politick? We are to consult the general Good of all America. Are We to do hurt to remove unreasonable Jealous ies. Because Ministry have imposed hardships on one, shall We im pose the same on all. It is not from affection to N. York, that I speak. If a Man has lost his Teeth on one side of his Jaws, shall he pull out the Teeth from the other that both sides may be upon a Footing? Is it not realizing the Quarrell of the Belly and the Mem bers? The other Colonies may avail themselves of the Custom houses in the exempted Colonies. Lee. All must bear a proportional share of the Continental Exp ence. Will the exempted Colonies take upon themselves the whole Expence. V. pays a sixth Part, the lower Counties an 80th—yet low er Counties may trade, V. not. The Gentleman exercised an Abund ance of Wit to shew the Unreasonableness of Jealousies. If this min isterial Bait is swallowed by America another will be thrown out. Jay. Why should not N.Y. make Money, and N. Jersey not. One Colony can cloath them. McKean. I have 4 Reasons for putting the favoured Colonies upon a footing with the rest. 1st. is to disappoint the Ministry. Their design was insidious. 2. I would not have it believed by Ministry or other Colonies that those Colonies had less Virtue than others. 3. I have a


[Page 208]
176 October 13, 1775 ought not to let our Caution degenerate into groundless Jealousy. There is a Medium between Credulity on one hand and a base suspi cious Temper on the other from which We need not be induced to deviate, even in such Times as these, and by such Examples as the Drs. The Nature of the Conspiracy and the Duration and Extent of it Seem as yet in much obscurity. I hope Time, and Care will bring the whole Truth to light that exact and impartial Justice may be done, if that is possible. Before this Reaches you, a Comtee. from Congress will tell you News from hence. I wish, sir that I could write freely to you concern ing our Proceedings. But you know the obligations I am under to be upon the Reserve: and the danger there would be as I know not the Carrier of this Letter, if I was at perfect Liberty. But this I must Say, that I See no danger of our “displaying Timidity.” This Congress is more united, and more determined, than ever. And, if the petrified Tyrants would but send us their Ultimatum, which is expected Soon, 3 you would see Us, in Earnest. As to confiscating Estates, 4 that is but a small Part of what will be done when We are engaging seriously. You began upon a Subject, towards the Close of your Letter of in finite Importance; I read with avidity your Thoughts and was much chagrin’d that you gave me so few of them. The Intricacy and Multi plicity of the Questions involved in it, require more extensive Knowl edge and a larger Mind than mine to determine them with Precision. There is so much Uncertainty too, that I believe no Man is capable of deciding with Precision; but it must be left to Time, Accident and Experience, to begin and improve the Plan of our Trade. If We shoidd invite “all the Maritime Powers of the World into our Ports,” would any one of them come? At least, untill they should be convinced that We were able, and determined to fight it out with G. B. to the last? Are they yet convinced of this, or will they be very soon? Besides, if they should, Would it be Sound Policy in Us to ad mit them? Would it not be sounder to confine the Benefit and the Bargain to one or a few? Is it not wiser to send our own Ships to all maritime Powers, and admit private adventurers from foreign Nations, if by any Means We can defend them against Cutters and Cruizers, or teach them to elude them. I have upon this Subject a System of my own but am not bigot ed to it, nor to any other. You will oblige me vastly by your Senti ments at large. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Recipient identified from Lee’s October 5 letter to Adams, which contains two phrases quoted by Adams. Charles Lee to John Adams, October 5, 1775, Adams, Works (Adams) , 2:414-15n. 1 In his famous July 24 letter to James Warren, which was captured and


[Page 211]
October 13, 1775 179 more than one Effingham to be found in Britain. I have thought there was more of the true principle of Honor in the British Army, than among any other publick Class. If this be a Truth it is a melancholly one, for it is greatly to be apprehended that there is not Virtue enough in the Nation to save it. We know by long Experience that there is not Virtue enough there to save America. Why then should America expect it from Britain. This fond Hope of a Change from violent to lenient Measures in Britain is the Rock which endangers the Shipwreck of America. This Instant is arrivd an authentick Account of Dr Churchs Affair and a Copy of the Letter he had intended to send into Boston. To me it appears to be a very unintelligible Letter—I have not indeed thor oughly examind it—I have only heard it read. I do not recollect that it in any measure was calculated to expose the Weakness of our Army, which a Traitor would gladly have seizd the opportunity of doing, especially as he might have done it at that time with great Truth. The Union of Individual Colonies & of the Continental Con gress, and their firmness and Resolution are picturd in high Colours; he informs of the Arrival of large Quantities of Gun powder at a time when he knew there was the greatest Scarcity, and was sollicking his Friends here to take every Method for providing as he expressed it that “unum necessarium.” Other parts of his Letter wear a different Complection, such as his mentioning the Defeat of our Army at Bunkers Hill as “lucky,” his attempting three times in vain to send in his Letter, the messenger in the third Attempt being taken up (which I do not recollect to have heard before) and the Manner in which this Letter was conceald. But I will quit this disagreable Subject and conclude with assuring you that I am very affectionately, yours SA RC (MHi) . Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 13, 1775] 13th. Resolved into a Com[mitte]e of the whole & resumed the Consideration of Trade &c. Mr. Ward reported that &c. A Letter from Genl. Washington with Papers relative to Dr. Church &C. 1 Re solved that a swift sailg. [veytef] to carry 10 car [riage] Guns 8c a proportionable Number of Swivels with 80 men to be filled with all possible dispatch to cruize three months eastward for intercepting such Transports laden with warlike Stores 8c other Supplies for our Ene[mie]s 8c. such other Purposes as the Cong[res]s may direct. A Com[mitte]e appointed to estimate the Expence 8c report a proper


[Page 214]
182 October 16, 1775 Silas Deane’s Proposals for Establishing a Navy [October 16? 1775] 1 Estimate of the Expence of fitting for the Sea The following Shipps of Warr on a Three Mo. Cruize. (Viz) One of 24 Gunns—9, 6, 8c 4 pounders with 200 Men, 8cc, &c. Dollrs. 1 Captn. Two Lieuts. 1 Master Two Mates 1 Boatswain One Mate One Cook Two Mates—5 Dollrs each One Doctr. One Mate One Gunner Two Mates—10 Drs. each One Capt. Marines One Armorer 20 per mo. 151 15 J each do. 15 do. 121/2 I 121/2 J each do. 121/2 do. 10 do. 10 do. 10 do. 15 do. 10 do. 121/ do. 20 do. 15 do. 10 do. £7.10.0 11. 5.0 5.12.6 9. 7.6 4.13.9 3.15.0 3.15.0 3.15.0 5.12.6 3.15.0 4.13.9 7.10.0 5.12.6 Officers 18 Men 182 @ 5 Drs 200 215 910 1125 3 80.12.6 341. 5.0 421.17.6 3 Three Months Wages will be 3375 Three Months provisions—say 2000 24 Gunns 8c Carriages @ 50 Dr 1200 20 Swivels @ 8 Drs 160 60 best Muskets with long Bayonets—11 Drs 660 100 pr. pistols @ 10 Drs 1000 200 Cutlasses @ 1 Dr 200 10 Blunderbusses 10 Dr 100 2 Tonn of powder @ 800 Dollrs. 1600 Stinkpotts, hand Granades 8c powder flask—say 500 1265.12.6 750. 0.0 450. 0.0 60. 0.0 247.10.0 375. 0.0 75. 0.0 37.10.0 600. 0.0 187.10.0


[Page 215]
October 16, 1775 183 Vessel fitted suppose 3500 Amount of one Vessel of 24 Gunns 14295 One ditto—ditto 14295 Amount of Two Vessels of 24 Gunns for Three Mo. Cruize 28590 Carried Up Dollrs Amount Brt. Up. 28590 One of 18 Gunns in the same proportion will Amount To— Nearest 10721 Add one of the same Number of Gunns 10721 One of 14 Gunns in the same proportion will Amount To 8339 Add one of the same Number of Gunns 8339 Suppose there be in Addition to' these Four Shipps of Thirty Six Gunns each—built to draw but Twelve feet of Water. The Metal will be heavier but the No. of Men & value of Shipp will not rise in the same pro portion. On the Scale of the Above they will Amount To Twenty One thousand 442 Dollrs. each. 1 will suppose them to Cost 25000 each then.. 4 Shipps of 36 Gunns each will Amount to 100,000 166,710 Suppose I am short for sundry ■ small articles and extra or . incidental Charges to the Amt. of 13290 180,000 1312.10.0 5360.12.6 5360,12.6 £10721. 5.0 £10721. 5.0 4020.10.6 4020.10.6 3127. 2.6 3127. 2.6 37.500. 0.0 £62.516.11.0 4983.15.0 £67.500. 6.0


[Page 216]
184 October 16, 1775 Total Amt, for fitting out on a Cruise of Three Months a Fleet of Ten Sail (Viz) 4 of 36 Gunns each 2 of 24 Gunns each 2 of 18 Gunns each & 2 of 14 Gunns each 10 The Sailors wages are set at Five Dollars each, in Addition to which I propose that one third the Value of all prizes taken be shared between the Officers and Seamen. The Enemy have not a Naval force Now on this Coast equall to the foregoing, if the Asia, Somerset, & Boyne be put out of the Question. These Three Shipps are ordered home and Forty Gunn Shipps and downward are to be employed on the American Station for the future. It is evident if they cruize in a Fleet they will not be formidable to Trade, and if single they will be liable to be attacked by an equall if not Superior force of the Continental fleet. Connecticut has fitted out Two & Rhode Island Two, these joining with the Two from the Massachusetts and those which other Colo nies & Individuals will fix for the Sea will go near, to form a Naval force equall if not Superior to what the Ministry will think of sending to America the Next season for they dream as little of Our meeting them, on the Sea as of Our invading Canada, and though their Naval power, & resources be ever so great in Brittain, they must inevitably be defeated the Next Campaign in America if We get early to Sea, these Shipps, and with them surprize, & intercept their Transports, or any considerable part of them, this effected, the distance between Us & Europe will put it out of their power to recover the blow, untill the season is over. What will be the Loss to the Continent if these vessels should be so unfortunate as to make no prizes? I answer the Three Mo. Wages and provisions will Amount To nearest one Third of the Gross Sum or sixty Thousand Dollars, and the ware ir Tare will make up Ninety or one half which is a large Computation—but if by means of this Force the Coastwise Trade only is protected to say Nothing of secur ing the introduction of Ammunition &c under their protection. The Freight of Flour only to the Army will amount To a great part of the Sum, as every Barrel which they consume at present pays at least 12 Dollar Transportation more than if carried by Water. 40,000 Barrels transported will save Sixty Thousand out of the Nine ty Thousand Dollars And other Articles will doubtless Amount to as much more. It is a fact that more than 40,000 Bls. of Flour have been consumed the present Season. But the probability of Captures is much, in favor of the adventure.


[Page 223]
October 16, 1775 191 Estimate of the Expence of a Naval Armament sufficient to Cope with the Cruisers, on this Coast. 9 This I shall lay before them this Day, and am of your Opinion, That N. London harbor is well situat ed for the rendevous of an American Navy, & my Freind, is it not worth while for N. London to labor to obtain the advantages of such a Collection of Navigation spending their Money there? I think it prudent, &: adviseable, therefore for you or some other to come in stantly down here, by which, You may undoubtedly procure, an ad vantageous employment for your Navigation. As to the Assembly choosing New Delegates, the Congress will not interfere, either in the Mode, or Time, agreeable to any Colony. I think however, it would be best, for the Assembly, to make a New Election, or at least To re elect their Delegates annually. As to myself, I know not how I stand in their estimation, but make this my rule, to serve them chearfully, to the best of my Abilities, when called upon, and with equall Chear- fullness to give place to better Men. 10 By what I have said above you will See I have no idle Time. My Compts. to all Freinds in As sembly—particularly to Mr. Hosmer, I wish he was here, 8c if You make a new choice he must be one. I have wrote to him a long Let ter, and Several Short ones without any Answer. How does his Lead Works go on? I am Sir Your most Obedt. 8c very Huml. Servt. Silas Deane P.S. Where is the Maccaroni, 8c how have you Succeeded, in procur ing a most Necessary Article? Will it not be prudent, to Arm one half the Militia, with pikes of handles of about Ten feet in length, the heads Three square, with sharp stripps of Iron running down about One feet on the handle from the head to prevent The Enemy laying hold with their hands in the Action. Will a Battery, on Winthropps Neck, another on Mamecock, 8c a few Gunns on the heights on the [eastern] Shore secure that Harbor? How farr up the Nor[wich Ri] ver is their Sufficient Depth of Water for a [twenty] Gunnshipp? RC (NN) . Addressed: "To Thomas Mumford Esqr. of New London Now at the Genl. Assembly, New Haven.” 1 Deane dated this letter "Octo. 15th," but he also recorded in his diary: "Monday 15th at Congress." CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 96A. Since he often misdated documents by one day and since he indicated in this letter that he intended to present a report to Congress "this day,” Deane probably wrote this letter on Monday, October 16, rather than Sunday the 15th. “See Connecticut Delegates to Zebulon Butler et al., August 2, 1775. “See Deane to Zebulon Butler, July 24, 1775. * See Eliphalet Dyer to Zebulon Butler, October 1, 1775. 5 Unable to reach an agreement, the Connecticut and Pennsylvania delegates re- <]uested on October 14 that a new committee be chosen from among the delegates of the other colonies. The resulting committee, appointed October 17, deliberated periodically until December 20, when in accordance with their report Congress


[Page 224]
192 October 16, 1775 resolved that both sides should cease hostilities and suspend further settlement of the disputed territory until a legal decision was forthcoming. JCC, 3:295, 297, 321, 439-40. See also Connecticut Delegates’ Proposed Resolution, October 17? 1775. 6 The report of the committee on trade, appointed September 22, was read October 2 and considered by the committee of the whole during most of October. On November 1 Congress resolved to continue prohibiting all exportation except that undertaken for the importation of arms and ammunition. JCC, 3:259, 268-69, 314. ’The Secret Committee soon contracted with Mumford to procure 50 tons of j gunpowder. See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, November 28, 1775. 8 See the resolutions of October 5 reported by the committee “to prepare a plan for intercepting two vessels, which are on their way to Canada.” JCC, 3:279. ’See Silas Deane’s Proposals for Establishing a Navy, October 16? 1775, note 1. 10 At the October session of the Connecticut Assembly Oliver Wolcott and Samuel Huntington were chosen to replace Deane and Eliphalet Dyer as delegates to Congress for the following year. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1018-19. For a discus sion of the motives behind Deane’s defeat, which included disenchantment with Deane’s restraint in pressing Connecticut claims in the Wyoming valley, see Chris topher Collier, Roger Sherman’s Connecticut (Middletown, Conn.: Wesleyan Uni versity Press, 1971) , pp. 131-33. See also Deane to Elizabeth Deane, November 26; and Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., December 5, 1775. John Hancock to the New York Provincial Convention Gentlemen Philadelphia, Oct. 16, 1775. By some late advices from General Schuyler, we understand that he is in great distress for want of powder. 1 And as so much depends on the success of that expedition—indeed as the safety of all Ameri ca depends upon it—the Congress have unamiously agreed that the ton of powder forwarded to you last week from Philadelphia be, with all possible expedition, dispatch’d to General Schuyler. In the mean time the Congress will fall upon all the measures in their power to furnish you with what they possibly can. You will please immediately to put this Recommendation in Execution. 2 I am Gentlemen, Your most Obed. hum. servt. John Hancock Presidt. RC (N) . Written by Charles Thomson, with last two paragraphs and signature by Hancock. Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:5. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 This day, upon receiving an October 5 letter from General Schuyler declaring his inability to supply General Montgomery with gunpowder, Congress ordered the New York Provincial Congress to forward a ton of powder to Schuyler and appointed a committee to ascertain how much had already been sent to the northern army. This committee drafted a report, but there is no record that it was formally submitted to Congress. See PCC, item 153, 1:190-93; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:951- 52; JCC, 3:295-96; and Committee on Powder Report, October 16? 1775.


[Page 231]
October 18, 1775 199 be defeated by sickness. Our accts, hitherto have been pritty favoura ble except that the folly of Allen urged him to expose himself with a handful of men before Montreal where he was taken &: his party de feated with small loss. Tell John that his friend James Livingston is very active & gaining great honour by the assistance he lends us in Can ada where he displays great bravery, & conduct. I sent by Mr. Allen a Letter to Genl Gates which I hope John reed, before he set out for Boston, if he is gone. If not I shall expect to be favour’d with his company to the manor. Present my Love to Mrs. Stevens 8c comps, to other friends at the valley 8c believe me to be Your Dutiful Son Robt R Livingston RC (NjHi) . Addressed “To The Hon. John Stevens Esqr., Valley Lebanon.” Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 17, 1775] 17th. A Comee. appointed to consider 8c Report what is fit to be done in the disputes between Pennsylvania & Connecticut. 1 Some Accts, allowed. Letter from Govr. Cooke read. 2 Dr. Morgan chosen Director Genl, of the hospital in the Room of Dr. Church. President desired to write to the Convention of New York to desire that all the Sulphur in the City be removed to a place of Safety. MS (RHi) . 1 See Connecticut Delegates’ Proposed Resolution, October 17? 1775, note. ’This letter, dated October 9, has not been found. JCC, 3:297. John Adams to James Warren Octr. 18. 1775 Dr Sir The Letter of Dr [Church] is the oddest Thing imaginable. There are so many Lies in it, calculated to give the Enemy an high Idea of our Power and Importance, as well as so many Truths tending to do us good that one knows not how to think him treacherous. Yet there are several Strokes, which cannot be accounted for at least by me, without the Supposition of Iniquity. In Short I endeavour to Suspend my Judgment. Dont let us abandon him for a Traitor without certain Evidence. But there is not So much Deliberation in many others, or so much Compassion. The Congress declined entering into any Discussion of the Evi dence, or any Determination concerning his Guilt, or the Nature of


[Page 235]
October 19, 1775 203 RC (MHi). ’William Cooper (1721-1809), Boston town clerk, secretary of the Massachusetts Committee of Safety, and a member of the provincial assembly, was elected speaker pro tempore of the House of Representatives on September 29, 1775. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1433, 1446. In his December 5 response to Adams, Cooper informed him that “a Committee of both Houses of which I am one has been appointed in consequence of the Committee of Congresses letter being laid before them, and a circular letter is to be forwarded to the Selectmen & Committees of Correspondence in the several towns where hostilities have been committed, that we may be able to furnish your Committee with a collected account of the damages sustained in those towns.” Adams Papers, MHi. ’Mordecai Gist (1742/43-92), Baltimore merchant and captain of the Baltimore Independent Company. By 1779 he had become a brigadier general in the Conti nental Army. DAB. John Adams to Joseph Palmer Dr Sir Octr. 19. 1775 Before I left Watertown a Committee of both Houses was appoint ed to enquire after Virgin lead and leaden ore, and the Methods of making Salt, who were to transmit their Discoveries to me. Another Committee was appointed, to correspond with your Delegates, here and communicate to them the earliest Intelligence of all Things nec essary for us to know. We have never received a letter from Either of those Committees, but are in constant Hope and hourly Expectation of Letters from both. There is another Thing of great Importance, which I earnestly wish may be furnished us, if practicable immediately, I mean Some accounts and Vouchers or at least Some Representation of the Ex penses which our Province has subjected itself to in the common Cause, that We may endeavour to obtain a Reimbursement, before the Continental Treasury shall be exhausted, which I fear will be Sooner than any one can imagine. Congress has appointed a Comtee to collect a Narration of the Violences and Depredations, the Rapine and Plunder of the Army and Navy, with affidavits to support it, for the Information of this Generation and all Posterity. This Comtee. will write to your general Court and to you particularly very soon requesting your assistance. Pray send me by the first Post Copy of the account of the Charles town Battle, which was sent to England by the Comtee. of Safety. 1 I forgot to bring it with me and have wanted it very much. We are in hourly Expectation of being overwhelmed all at once, with Floods of Intelligence from England, Quebec, St. Johns, Cam bridge, and twenty other Places. But at present it is as dead as Mid night.


[Page 236]
204 October 19, 1775 A Transport is ashore at Egg Harbour, with Soldiers. They have drowned their Powder and Arms as the Mohacks did The Tea. My Compliments to the Family & all Friends. Yours RC (M-Ar) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Tr (DLC) . RC incomplete; first three paragraphs supplied from Tr. 1 Joseph Palmer soon sent Adams a copy of the "Account of the Battle of Charlestown” and reported in detail the activities of the provincial committee on lead. Joseph Palmer to John Adams, October 31, and November 11, 1775, Adams Papers, MHi. John Adams to James Warren My dear sir Octr. 19. 1775 It was the latter End of August that I left you. All September has run away, and 19 days in Octr.—and We have had no regular Intelli gence from Watertown or Cambridge. Your Goodness I acknowl edge. But there was a Committee of both Houses appointed, to corre spond with your Delegates; and We were to be informed of every Thing that occurr’d in Boston, Cambridge, Roxbury, Watertown &c especially of every Thing which passed in Either House. But have never received a single Letter not even a Scratch of a Pen from this Comtee. or any Member of it, unless you are one, which I dont know that you are. Should be glad to hear if this Committee is all defunct or not. I have, in almost every Letter I have written, to any of my Friends, entreated that We might have accounts and Vouchers Sent us, that We might obtain a Reimbursement of Some Part at least of the inordinate Expence that has fallen upon Us—But have received No Answer from any one, concerning it. I wish to be informed, how ever, what the Difficulty is, that lies in the way, if We cannot have the Accounts &c. The Continental Money goes away so fast, that I greatly fear We shall have none left in the Treasury, before We get the Proper Evidence and Information to obtain a Reimbursement for our Province. 1 Dollars go but little Way in Maintaining Armies— Very costly Commodities indeed. The Expence already accrued will astonish Us all, I fear. Congress has appointed a Comtee., Deane, Wythe & your servant, to collect a Narration of Hostilities, and Evidence to prove it—to as certain the Number and Value of the Buildings destroyed, Vessells captivated, and Cattle plundered &c every where. I hope We shall tell a true Story, and then I am sure it will be an affecting one. We shall not omit their Butcheries nor their Robberies nor their Piracies. But We shall want Assistance from every Quarter. I want the Distresses of Boston painted by Dr Coopers Pencil—every Thing must be Sup-


[Page 237]
October 19, 1775 205 ported by Affidavits. This will be an usefull Work for the Informa tion of all the Colonies of what has passed in Some—for the Infor mation of our Friends in England—and in all Europe, and all Posterity. Besides it may pave the Way to obtain Retribution and Compensation, but this had better not be talked of at present. The Committee will write to the Assemblies, and to private Gentn. No Pains or Expence will be Spared. I hope to render the Execution of this Commission compleat. It concerns our Province very much. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Although the committee to prepare the Massachusetts accounts was instructed on September 30 to draw up a letter for the Continental Congress, four weeks elapsed before the letter was sent. See Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1446; and Perez Morton to the Continental Congress, October 25, 1775, PCC, item 65, fols. 59-67. John Adams to James Warren Dr Sir Octr. 19th. 1775 What Think you of an American Fleet? 1 I dont Mean 100 ships of the Line, by a Fleet, but I Suppose this Term may be applied to any naval Force consisting of several Vessells, tho the Number, the Weight of Metal, or the Quantity of Tonnage may be small. The Expence would be very great—true. But the Expence might be born and perhaps the Profits and Benefits to be obtained by it, would be a Compensation. A naval Force might be created, which would do something. It would destroy Single Cutters and Cruisers— it might destroy small Corvets or Fleets of these like Wallaces at R. Island and Ld Dunmores at Virginia—it might oblige our Enemies to sail in Fleets—for two or three Vessells of 36 and twenty Guns, well armed and manned might attack and carry a 64 or a 70 or a 50 Gun Ship. But, there is a great objection to this. All the Trade of Pensylvania, the Lower Counties, a great Part of Maryland and N. Jersey Sails in between the Capes of Delaware Bay—and if a strong Fleet should be posted in that Bay, Superior to our Fleet it might obstruct all the Trade of this River. Further the Trade of Virginia and the rest of Maryland floats into Cheasapeak Bay between the Capes of Henry and Charles where a Fleet might Stop all. Besides Virginia and Mary land have no Navigation of their own nor any Carpenters to build ships. Their whole Trade is carried on in British Bottoms by British, most of it by North British Merchants. These Circumstances distinguish them quite from New England, where the Inlets are innumerable and the Navigation all their own. They agree that a Fleet would protect &: secure the Trade of New England but deny that it would that of the Southern Colonies.


[Page 238]
206 October 19, 1775 Will it not be difficult to perswade them then to be at the Expence of building a Fleet, merely for N. England. We are Speculating now about Things at a Distance. Should We be driven to a War at all Points, a Fleet a public Fleet as well as privateers might make prey enough of the Trade of our Enemies to make it worth while. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 On October 3, 1775, the Rhode Island delegates had laid before Congress their instructions from the Rhode Island Assembly containing a proposed resolution calling for the creation of an American fleet. Although debate on the issue began October 7, Congress subsequently repeatedly deferred action on the Rhode Island request, and eventually it became merged with proposals to arm vessels for intercepting Canadian supply ships. JCC, 3:274-75, 277, 293-94, 297, 311-12. See also John Adams’ Notes of Debates, October 7 and 30; Naval Committee to Silas Deane, November 7; and Samuel Ward to Henry Ward, November 16 and December 14, 1775. John Adams to James Warren Dr sir Octr. 19. 1775 I want to be with you, Tete a Tete, to canvass, and discuss the complicated subject of Trade. I Say nothing of private Consultations or public Debates, upon this important Head. When I write you Letters you must expect nothing from me but unconnected Scraps and broken Hints. Continual Successions of Company allow me Time only to Scrawl a Page of Paper, without Thought. Shall We hush the Trade of the whole Continent and not permit a Vessell to go out of our Harbours except from one Colony to anoth er? How long will or can our People bear this? I Say they can bear it forever. If Parliament should build a Wall of Brass, at low Water Mark, We might live and be happy. We must change our Habits, our Prejudices, our Palates, our Taste in Dress, Furniture, Equipage, Ar chitecture &c. But We can live and be happy. But the Question is whether our People have Virtue enough to be mere Husbandmen, Mechanicks & Soldiers? That they have not Virtue enough to bear it always, I take for granted. How long then will their Virtue last? till next Spring? If We Stop all Trade, G. B., I. and W. I. will not be furnished with any Thing. Shall We then give Permission for our Vessells to go to foreign Nations, if they can escape the Men of War? Can they escape the Men of War? How many will escape in Proportion? If any Escape, will they not venture to Britain, Ireland, and W. I. in defyance of our Association? If they do not, will not the British Dominions furnish


[Page 239]
October 19, 1775 207 themselves with our Produce from foreign Ports, and thereby avoid that Distress, which We expect will overtake them? Will not the W. I. Islands especially, who cannot exist without our Provisions for 6 Months, unless Glov [er and?] Walker were ignorant. If We should invite other maritime Powers, or private Adventurers from foreign Nations to come here, Will they venture? They run the risque of escaping Men of War, and the Dangers of an unknown Coast. Maps and Charts may give Strangers a confused Idea of the Geography of our Country and of the Principal Inlets of Harbours, Rivers, Creeks, Coves, Islands &c but without skillfull Pilots, the danger of Shipwreck will be 10 to one. This vast object is never out of my Mind. Help me to grapple it. 1 The W. I., Barbadoes particularly, begin We are told here, by a late Vessell to be terrified out of their wits. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Warren subsequently expressed sympathy for Adams’ wish for an almost total stoppage of American trade but reluctantly conceded that “the temper and genius of the people, [and] the long habits they have been used to,” would require Congress to allow such trade “as will not endanger the success of your [Congress'] commercial measures.” James Warren to John Adams, November 5, 1775. Warren- Adams Leiters, 1:176-77. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear sir Philade Octob 19 1775 This Letter will be deliverd to you by Capt Gist, 1 a gentleman who I am well informd is meritorious in his endeavors with others in the Colony of Maryland to inspire the Inhabitants there with Mili tary Virtue. You will excuse the Freedom I take in recommending him to your Notice. It is for the Sake of my Country. Our Affairs are at this Moment in a critical Situation. I am impa tient to hear from Schuyler and Arnold. By Accounts receivd last Evening from Quebeck, the Lt Governor of that Colony (Carleton being absent) had raisd a Number of Companies of Canadians to de fend the Country. There was however no Expectation of an Expedi tion to Quebeck at that time viz the 28th September. “Tis not in Mortals to command Success.” If we fail we may yet console our selves, in reflecting that we have done all that was in our power to save our Country—voluisse sat est. I am in haste Yours af fectionately S A RC (MHi). 1 See John Adams to William Cooper, this date, note 1.


[Page 240]
208 October 19, 1775 Committee on Hostilities to Nathaniel Woodhull Sir, Philadelphia, 19 Oct. 1775. The continental congress having been pleased to appoint us a com mittee for collecting an account of the hostilities committed by the ministerial troops and navy in America since last March, with proper evidence of the truth of the facts related, the number and value of the buildings destroyed, and of the vessels inward and outward bound seised by them as nearly as can be ascertained, and also the stock taken by them from different parts of the continent, as you may see by the resolve inclosed; we entreat the assistance of the con vention of your colony in this business, that we may be enabled to perform what is required of us in the manner and with the expedition the congress expects; and, to that end, that you will be pleased to fur nish us with the necessary materials, sending to us clear distinct full and circumstantial details of the hostile and destructive acts, and the cap tures or seisures and depredations, in your colony, and accurate esti mates of the loss and damage, with the solemn examinations of wit nesses, and other papers and documents officially authenticated. 1 We are, Sir, Your obedient humble servants, Silas Deane John Adams George Wythe RC (OCIWHi) . Written by Wythe and signed by Adams, Deane, and Wythe. Addressed: "The Honoble. Nathaniel Woodhull Esqr., President, & the Conven tion, New York.” 1 Congress appointed this committee on October 18 and on the 26th ordered "that the resolution of 18 Inst, respecting the obtaining a well authenticated account of the Hostilities committed by the ministerial troops and navy, be published in the news papers.” JCC, 3:298-99, 307. The committee sent a similar letter this day to the New Hampshire Committee of Safety and apparently wrote other provincial governing bodies and prominent individuals, but after this early flurry the committee’s activities lapsed. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1105; and Commit tee on Hostilities to James Warren, October 24, 1775. Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., responded for Connecticut on March 25, 1776. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:149-65. John Adams received several replies from Massachusetts. Joseph Palmer to John Adams, October 31, and November 11; Samuel Cooper to John Adams, November 6; and Elbridge Gerry to John Adams, November 11, 1775, all in the Adams Papers, MHi. See also John Adams to James Warren, October 18, 1775, and his letters to Abigail Adams, William Cooper, and Joseph Palmer, this date.


[Page 244]
212 October 20, 1775 from importing unnecessary Articles, and from exporting live Stock, except Horses. Gadsden. If we give one leave when there is 100 who have an ecpial Right, it will occasion Jealousy. Let each Colony export to the Amount of so many thousand Pounds, and no more. Chase. We have Letters, from Guadaloupe, Martinique and the Havanna that they will supply us with Powder for Tobacco. Gadsden. France and Spain would be glad to see G.B. despotic in America. Our being in a better State than their Colonies, occasions complaints among them, Insurrections and Rebellions, but these Powers would be glad We were an independent State. Chase. The Proposition is for exporting for a special Purpose, im porting Powder. I would not permit our Cash to go for Rum. Live Stock is an inconsiderable Part of our Cargoes. I dont wish to intermix any Thing in this debate. I would restrain the Merchant from importing any Thing but Powder &c. Molasses was an Article of importance in the Trade of the North ern Colonies. But now they cant carry on the African Trade, and the Rum is pernicious. If you give a Latitude for any Thing but Arms and Ammunition, We shant agree what Articles are necessary and what unnecessary. Each Colony should carry on this Trade, not indi viduals. I would not limit the Quantity of Ammunition to be import ed by each Colony. An 100 Ton a Colony would supply the W. Indies mediately and the Army and Navy. 20 Ton would be a consider able Adventure for a Colony. Debts are due from the BJritish] W. India Islands to the Inhabitants of these Colonies. I am not for per mitting Vessells to go in Ballast and fetch Cash. I wish to import Cash from every Place as much as possible. Deane. It cannot be done with secrecy or dispatch. I rather think it would be as well to leave it to Traders. Zubly. It is of great Weight that there be no favourites. Dyer. There will be such continual Applications to the Assemblies, by their Friends among the Traders, it will open a compleat Exporta tion. It would compleatly supply the W. Indies. Jay. We have more to expect from the Enterprise, Activity and In dustry of private Adventurers, than from the Lukewarmness of As semblies. We want French Woolens, Dutch Worsteds, Duck for Tents, German Steel, &c. Public Virtue is not so active as private Love of Gain. Shall We shutt the Door vs. private Enterprise. Lee. The Gentleman may move for those Things as Exceptions to the general Rule. Randolph. We are making Laws contradictory in Terms. We say nobody shall export and yet Somebody shall. Against all Rule. Lee. It is a common Rule in making Laws, to make a Rule and then make a Proviso for special Cases.


[Page 245]
October 20, 1775 213 Dyer. The Rule and the Proviso are passed at once in the same Act, ’tho. If I give my Voice for an Unconditional Proposition, what security have I that the Condition or Proviso will be added after wards. The greatest Impropriety, in the World. Chase. Both Sides are right, and it arises from this, that one Prop osition is to be made public the other kept secret. We have very little Confidence in each other. Zubly. If half the Law is to be public and the other half secret, will not half the People be governed by one half and the other half by the other. Will they not clash? Jay. Least your Produce falls into the Hands of your Enemies, you publish a Law that none go from the Continent. Yet to get Powder, We keep a secret Law that Produce may be exported. Then comes the Wrangles among the People. A Vessell is seen loading. A fellow runs to the Committee. Lee. The Inconvenience may arise in some Measure, but will not the People be quieted, by the Authority of the Conventions. If We give public Notice, our Enemies will be more active to intercept Us. On the Contrary the People may be quieted by the Committees of Safety. Wythe. The only Persons who can be affected by this Resolution are those, whom on the other side the Water will be called Smug glers. Consider the danger these Smugglers will run—lyable to sei zure by C. House officers, by Men of War at Sea, and by Custom house officers in the Port they go to. What can they bring. Cash, Powder, or foreign Manufactures. Cant see the least Reason for re straining our Trade, as little can be carried on. My Opinion is We had better open our Trade altogether. It has long been my Opinion, and I have heard no Arguments vs. it. Zubly. We cant do without Trade. To be, or not to be is too tri fling a Question for many Gentlemen. All that Wise Men can do among many Difficulties, is to choose the least. Stone. Cannot agree to the Proposition made by the gentleman from Maryland. Not for binding the People closer, than they are bound already. The Proposition is the same with that which was made that our Vessells should be stopp’d and foreigners invited to come here for our Produce and protect their own Trade. This appears to be a destructive System. It was a laborious Task to get America into a general Non Expor tation to G.B., L, and W. Indies. Shall We now combine with Britain, to distress our People in their Trade, more than by the Association. People have look’d up to this, and are unwilling to go further. The restraining Bill a most cruel, un just, unconstitutional Act: Yet We are going to greater Cruelties than they. We are all to be in the same Circumstances of Poverty and Dis- 248-053 0 - 77 - 16


[Page 248]
216 October 20, 1775 John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Octr. 20. 1775 Can The Inhabitants of North America live without foreign Trade? There is Beef and Pork, and Poultry, and Mutton and Venison and Veal, Milk, Butter, Cheese, Corn, Barley, Rye, Wheat, in short every Species of Eatables animal and Vegetable in a vast abundance, an immense Profusion. We raise about Eleven hundred Thousand Bushells of Corn yearly more than We can possibly consume. The Country produces Provisions of all Kinds, enough for the sustenance of the Inhabitants, and an immense Surplusage. We have Wood and Iron in plenty. We have a good Climate as well as a fertile Soil. But Cloathing. If instead of raising [a] Million Bushells of Wheat for Exportation, and Rice, Tobacco, naval Stores, Indigo, Flaxseed, Horses, Cattle, &c, Fish, oyl, Bone, Potash &c, fee, fee, the Hands now employed in raising Surplusages of these Articles for Exporta tion, were employed in raising Flax and Wool, and manufacturing them into Cloathing, We should be cloathed comfortably. We must at first indeed Sacrifice Some of our Appetites. Coffee, Wine, Punch, Sugar, Molasses, &c and our Dress would not be so el egant. Silks and Velvets & Lace must be dispensed with. But these are Trifles in a Contest for Liberty. But is there Temperance, Fortitude and Perseverance enough among the People to indure Such a Mortification of their Appetites, Passions and Fancies? Is not the Merchantile Interest comprehending Merchants, Mechanicks, Labourers So numerous, and So complicat ed with the landed Interest, as to produce a general Impatience and Uneasiness, under Restrictions So Severe? By a total Cessation of Commerce, sh [all?] [. . .] away our Mariners? Will they not go, [. . .] martime Nations, the French, the Spaniards, the Dutch? or which is worse will they not go to England, and on Board of British Men of War? Shall We not lose a large Property in Navigation which will rot by the Wharves? On the other Hand if We give Liberty [to] Trade, will not most of our Vessells be Seized? perhaps all but those of the Tories who may be priviledged. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed.


[Page 252]
220 October 20, 1775 Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 20, 1775] 20th. Letter to Genl. Washington relative to Capt. McPharson read & approved, 1 three hundred Dollars orderd to be advanced to him. Resolved into a Comee. of the whole. Mr. Ward reported that the Comee had taken into Consideration the matter referrd to them but having come to no Resolutions desired Leave to sett to morrow which was granted. 2 MS (RHi) . 1 Hancock’s letter to Washington of this date is in JCC, 3:301. 2 The "matter referred to them" was the state of American trade. JCC, 3:301-2. John Adams’ Notes of Debates Octr. 21. [1775] Zubly. 1 We cant do without Powder, Intelligence, Druggs. Georgia must have an Indian War, if they cant supply the Indians. The Creeks and Cherrokees are in our Province. We must have Indian Trade. Four Millions have been spent in 6 Months. We have been successfull. But We have gain’d little. All the Power of G.B. it is true, has gained very little. N. England has been at great Expence, so has N. York. Pensylvania has spent hundred thousand Pounds of their Money to fortify their River. Virginia as much. N. Carolina a great deal. S. Carolina have issued a Million. 18 Millions of Dollars is an enormous Sum of Money. Whenever your Money fails, you fail too. We are to pay Six Millions, now, 12 Millions more presently, and have no Trade. I woidd bear the Char acter of a Madman, or that of an Emissary of Lord North, rather than believe it possible to pay 18 Millions of Dollars without Trade. Can We make bricks without Straw? We can live upon Acorns, but will We? Wythe. The Rule that the Question should be put upon the last Motion that is made and seconded—this is productive of great Con fusion in our Debates—6 or 7 Motions at once. Commerce, whether we consider it, in an Economical, a moral, or political Light appears to be a great Good. Civility and Charity, as well as Knowledge are promoted by it. The Auri Sacra Fames is a fine Subject for Philosophers and Orators to display themselves upon. But the abuse of a Thing is not an Argument vs. it. If the Gentleman was possessed of Philosophers Stone or Fortunatus’s Cap, would he not oblige the Continent with the Use of it.


[Page 253]
October 21, 1775 221 Why should not America have a Navy? No maritime Power, near the Sea Coast, can be safe without it. It is no Chimaera. The Romans suddenly built one in their Carthaginian War. Why may We not lay a Foundation for it. We abound with Furs [Firs], Iron ore, Tar, Pitch, Turpentine. We have all the materials for construction of a Navy. No Country exceeds us in Felicity of Climate or Fertility of Soil. Ameri ca is one of the Wings upon which the British Eagle has soared to the Skies. I am sanguine, and enthusiastical enough to wish and to hope, that it will be sung that America inter Nubila condit. British Navy will never be able to effect our Destruction. Before the days of Mi nus, Natives round the Archipelago carried on piratical Wars. The Moors carry on such Wars now, but the Pillars of Hercules are their Ne Plus ultra. We are too far off, for Britain to carry on a Piratical War. We shall sometime or other rise superiour to all the difficulties they may thro in our Way. I wont say there is none that doeth good in Britain, no not one, but I will say she has not righteous Persons enough to save their State. They hold those Things honorable which please em and those for just which profit em. I know of no Instance where a Colony has revolted and a foreign Nation has interposed to subdue them. But many of the Contrary. If France and Spain should furnish Ships and Soldiers, England must pay them! Where are her Finances. Why should We divert our Peo ple from Commerce and banish our Seamen. Our Petition may be declared to be received graciously, and prom ised to be laid before Parliament. But We can expect no success from it. Have they ever condescended to take Notice of you. Rapine, De population, Burning, Murder. Turn your Eyes to Concord, Lexing ton, Charlestown, Bristol, N. York—there you see the Character of Ministry and Parliament. We shall distress our Enemies by stopping Trade. Granted. But how will the small Quantities we shall be able to export, supply our Enemies. Tricks may be practised. If desire of Gain prevails with Merchants so does Caution against Risques. Gadsden. I wish We could keep to a Point. I have heard the two Gentlemen, with a great deal of Pleasure. I have argued for opening our Ports, but am for shutting them untill We hear the Event of our Petition to the King, and longer untill the Congress shall determine otherwise. I am for a Navy too, and I think that shutting our Ports for a Time, will help us to a Navy. If We leave our Ports open, warm Men will have their Ships seized, and moderate ones will be fa voured. Lee. When you hoist out a Glimmering of Hope that the People are to be furnished from abroad, you give a Check to our own Man-


[Page 254]
222 October 21, 1775 ufacturers. People are now everywhere attending to Corn and Sheep and Cotton and Linen. Chase. A Glove has been offered by the Gentleman from Georgia and I beg leave to discharge my Promise to that Gentleman to an swer his Arguments. My Position was this—that that Gentlemans System would end in the total destruction of American Liberty. I never shall dispute self evident Propositions. The present State of Things requires Reconciliation, or Means to carry on War. Intelligence We must have. We must have Powder and shot. We must support the Credit of our Money. You must have a Navy to carry on the War. You cant have a Navy says the Gentleman. What is the Consequence? I say, that We must submit. G.B. with 20 ships can distroy all our Trade, and ravage our sea Coast—can block up all your Harbours—prevent your getting Pow der. What is the Consequence? That We should submit. You cant trade with nobody, you must trade with Somebody. You cant trade with any Body but G.B.—therefore I say We must submit. We cant trade with foreigners, the Gentleman said. The whole Train of his Reasoning proved that We must break our whole Association as to Exports and Imports. If We trade with G.B. will she furnish us with Powder and Arms. Our Exports are about 3 Millions. Would B. permit us to export to her, and receive Cash in return? It would impoverish and ruin G.B. They will never permit a Trade on our Side without a Trade on theirs! Gentn. from N. York, would not permit Tobacco and Naval Stores to be sent to G.B.—nothing that will support their naval Power or Revenue. But will not this break the Union? Would 3 Colonies stop their Staple when the other Colonies exported theirs. 1500 Seamen are employed by the Tobacco Colonies—125 Sail of British Ships. But you may drop your Staple, your Tobacco. But it is difficult to alter old Habits. We have a great Number of female Slaves, that are best employed about Tobacco. N.C. cannot, will not give up their Staple. The Gentleman from G. was for trading with G.B. and all the World. He says We cant trade with any Nation but Britain, therefore We must trade with B. alone. What Trade shall we have, if We exclude B., I., W.I., British and foreign. Eastern Provinces may carry it on with a small Fleet, if their Harbours were fortified. S[outhern] Colonies cannot. Eastern Colo nies cant carry on their Trade to that Extent without a naval Power to protect em not only on the Coast but on the Ocean, and to the


[Page 255]
October 21, 1775 223 Port of their Destination. The same force, that would assist the East ern Colonies, would be of little service to us in summer Time. It must be a small, narrow and limited Trade. The best Instrument We have is our Opposition by Commerce. If We taken into Consideration G.B. in all her Glory—Commons voted 18.18.20 milions 2 last War, 80,000 seamen, from her Trade alone. Her strength is all Artificial—from her Trade alone. Imports from G.B. to the united Colonies are 3 Millions per an num—15 Millions to all the World—l/5th. 3/4 is british Manufac tures. A Thousand british Vessells are employed in American Trade. 12 Thousand Sailors—all out of employ. What a Stroke! I dont take into view I [reland] or W. Indies. Colonies generally indebted about one years Importation. The Revenue of Tobacco alone half a Million, if paid. N forth] Britain enter less than the Quantity and dont pay what they ought. It em ploys a great Number of Manufacturers. Reexported abroad is a Mil lion. It is more. 80,000 Hdds are reexported and pays British Debts. The Reexport employs Ships, Sailors, Freight, Commissions, Insur ance. Ireland. The flaxseed 40,000£ st. Linen brought 2,150000£ from I. to England. Yard 200,000. Ireland can raise some flaxseed, but not much. W. Indies. Glover, Burk, and other Authors. They depend for In dian Corn and Provisions, and Lumber, and they depend upon Us for a great Part of the Consumption of their Produce. Indian Corn and Fish are not to be had but from the Colonies, except Pilchards and Herrings. Jamaica can best provide for her Wants, but not en tirely. Ireland can send em Beef and Butter but no Grain. B. can send em Wheat, Oats not Corn, without which they cannot do. Stop Rum and Sugar, how do you affect the Revenue and the Trade? They must relax the Navigation Act to enable foreign Nations to supply the W. Indies. This is dangerous as it would force open a Trade between foreigners and them. Britain can never support a War with Us, at the Loss of such a valuable Trade. Affrican Trade dependent upon the W. India Trade.—700,000jT. 25,000 Hdds. of Sugar are imported directly into these Colonies and as much more, from Britain, manufactured. Jamaica alone takes 150,000£ st. of our Produce. National Debt 140,0000, 3 ten Millions the Peace Establishment. 20 Million the whole Current Cash of the Nation. Blackstone. I nev er read any Body that better understood the subject. For the State of the Revenue, He calculates the Taxes of Ireland and England.


[Page 260]
228 October 21, 1775 and this morning we are inform’d that he died last night. 4 You knew his Virtues & will lament the loss of the friend and Patriot. I am so concern’d that I cant think of politicks. My best respects to my good friend Mr. Carter. 5 I have got a man at work to make his wool cards, & we are in possession of Miss Bet sy’s musick, which shall be sent by the first opportunity. Mrs. Lee joins me in every good wish to Mrs. Carter & Miss Lucy. We have no doubt of Miss Lucy’s happiness in the married state, as so much de pends upon herself, & knowing the worth of Mr. Colston. Remember me to all friends. When I shall see them, God knows. Believe me my dear Col. your sincerely affect, friend & respectfull Servant Francis Light. Lee RC (ViHi). 1 Although this is the first of Lee’s extant letters written from Philadelphia, his congressional service commenced on September 11 when he arrived there to begin a term to which he had been elected on August 15 in place of Richard Bland. His claim against Virginia, dated Philadelphia, August 11, 1776, included £762-15s-O for "attendance on Congress from Sepr. 8, 1775, to Aug. 10th. 1776 inclusive being 339 days at 45s each day" and £, 11- 10s-0 for "travelling to Philadelphia 230 miles at Id a mile." NNPM. ’Landon Carter (1710-78), Virginia planter, member of the House of Burgesses, 1752-68, and chairman of the Richmond County Committee, 1774-75, was so incensed by some recently adopted militia regulations in Virginia that he threat ened to resign his office as county lieutenant in charge of the Richmond militia, although he did not actually carry out his threat until early in 1776. Jack P. Greene, ed., The Diary of Colonel Landon Carter of Sabine Hall, 1752-1778, 2 vols. (Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1965) , 1:3-8, 2:937-39. •For an account of Dr. John Connolly (17437-1813) and his abortive plan to raise a force of loyalists and Indians in the backcountry to oppose the American cause, see DAB, Supplement one; and Paul H. Smith, Loyalists and Redcoats: A Study in British Revolutionary Policy (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1964) , pp. 15-18. ‘For comments on Peyton Randolph’s death and funeral, see Robert Treat Paine’s Diary, October 22; John Adams’ second letter to James Warren, October 23, 1775; and JCC, 3:302-4. ' Presumably Robert Wormeley Carter (1734-97) , Landon’s eldest son, who had been Lee’s colleague from Richmond County in the House of Burgesses and at recent Virginia conventions. Louis Morton, "Robert Wormeley Carter of Sabine Hall,” Journal of Southern History 12 (August 1946) : 350-51. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 21, 1775] 21. According to the Order of the Day the Congress again re solved itself into a Comee. of the whole in Order &c. Mr. Ward re ported as above. 1 MS (RHi). 1 See Ward’s Diary, October 20,1775.


[Page 262]
230 October 22, 1775 American liberty lost a powerful Advocate, and human nature a sin cere friend. R. H. L. RC (DLC) . 1 Not found. “See Virginia Delegate to Unknown, October 16, 1775. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [October 22, 1775] Fair. Heard Mr. Duch£ PM. This Evning the honble Peyton Ran- dolf Esqr. late President of the Congress died Suddenly of a paryli- tick fit at the house of Mr. Henry Hill near Schuylkill [....] MS (MHi) John Adams to Abigail Adams Octr. 23. 1775 Yesterday yours of Octr. 9th. came to Hand. Your Letters never failed to give me Pleasure—the greatest Pleasure that I take, is in re ceiving them. And altho every one, which has yet come to Hand is replete with melancholly Tidings, yet 1 can truly say I never was so earnest to receive them. 1 rejoice in the happy Principles and the happy Temper, which apparently dictated them all. I feel myself much affected with the Breach upon the Family. But We can count a Mother, a Brother, an Aunt, and a Brothers Child among the slain by this cruel Pestilence. May God almighty put a stop to its Rage, and humble us under the Ravages already made by it. The sorrows of all our Friends on the Loss of your Mother are never out of my Mind. I pray God to spare my Parent whose Life has been prolonged by his Goodness hitherto, as well as yours that survives. The tremendous Calamities already felt of Fire, Sword and Pesti lence, may be only Harbingers of greater still. We have no security against Calamities here—this Planet is its Region. The only Principle is to be prepared for the worst Events. If I could write as well as you, my sorrows would be as eloquent as yours, but upon my Word I cannot. The unaccountable Event which you allude to has reached this Place and occasioned a Fall. 1 I would be glad however that the worst Construction might not be put. Let him have fair Play—tho I doubt.


[Page 263]
October 23, 1775 231 The Man who violates private Faith, cancells solemn Obligations, whom neither Honour nor Conscience holds, shall never be knowing ly trusted by me. Had I known, when I first voted for a Director of an Hospital, what I heard afterwards when I was down, I would not have voted as I did. Open barefaced Immorality ought not to be so countenanced. Tho I think, a Fatality attends us in some Instances, yet a divine Protection and favour is visible in others, and let us be chearfull whatever happens. Chearfullness is not a sin in any Times. I am afraid to hear again almost least some other should be sick in the House. Yet I hope better, and that you will reassume your wont ed Chearfullness and write again upon News and Politics. Send your Letters to Warren for Conveyance. I wont trust any other. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:311-12. 1 Adams is alluding to Benjamin Church. See Adams to Abigail Adams, October 10, 1775, note. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Octr. 23. 1775 Yours of the 12th instant came to Hand Yesterday. Thank you and your good Lady, for your kind Condolance, on the Loss of an excellent Mother, 1 a Loss which is and ought to be more particularly affecting because there is Reason to fear that her kind Exertions for the Relief my Family when in great Distress contributed to her Cata strophe. I dread to hear further from my Family least a pestilential Infection should have seized Some other Branch of it—But will hope for better Things. I dont Think you negligent, my Friend, having had too much Ex perience of your Care & attention. I only thought it my Duty to omit no opportunity to press for accounts &c. I wish my other Friends were as little chargeable with Negligence as you. I want to know a Thousand Things. What are the Prices of Euro pean and West India Goods. How the Non Exportation is observed. How the Prices of Provisions. Whether there is any Prospect of keep ing any Trade alive and what. You will receive a Letter from a Comtee, 2 whose Business it is to prepare a compleat Narration of the War—at least of the Murders, Robberies, Piracies, Treasons, Felonies, Villanies &c of the Army and Navy. Mr Wythe who is one, is a Virginian, a Lawyer of high Rank at the Bar, a great Schollar, a most indefatigable Man and a staunch Virginian, to all appearance. You will observe the Vote limits Us to last March. This was done without design & I dont intend to be so limited and therefore I hope


[Page 268]
236 October 23, 1775 half Pay which he renounced by entering into the American Army ought to be compensated to him. 14 15. Artillery of different kinds will be wanted, how is it to be got &: where? Agreed That what can be spared from New York &: Crown Point be procured. 16 16. Engineers are also much wanted where can they be got. Agreed to recommend to the Congress Henry Knox Esqr. & Lieut Col. Puttnam who have Skill in this Branch, as Assistant Engineers with suitable Pay, & Rank as Lieut. Colonels, The present Pay of As sistant Engineers being deemed too small. 17. Several Indian Chiefs of the St. Francis, Penobscot, Stock- bridge & St. John’s Tribes have been to offer their Services & told they would be called for when wanted & dismiss’d with Presents. Ought they to be called if a Necessity for them should appear, & is the giving them Presents proper? Agreed That these Indians or others may be called on in Case of real Necessity, & that the giving them Presents is both suitable & proper? 18 18. Would it not be adviseable to have Expresses posted along the Roads at different Distances (Persons of Character) for the Purpose of conveying early & frequent Intelligence? Agreed that such a Regulation is highly necessary, but that the Mode of carrying it into Execution be left to the Congress. 17 19. Lead & Flints are much wanted where Sc in what Quantities can they be had? Agreed. That as much Lead as can be spared from the Northern Department & is wanted here should be sent down from Ticonderoga & all other Supplies of these Articles attended to. 18 20. Several issuing Commissaries &: Clerks are necessarily em ployed under the Commissary General, For which no Provision is made. Several Assistant Quarter Masters are also employed in order to discharge that Duty. A Clerk is & allways has been necessary to assist in the Office of the Adjutant Genl. What Pay should be al lowed them? The Commissary being sick & unable to explain the Duty of these Commissaries, Clerks &c Agreed that he draw up a Memorial to the Congress stating the Ranks, Duties &c. of the several Officers under him, that the Quarter Master General do the same to enable the Congress to fix the Proportion of Pay to be allowed them. That these Memorials be first shewn to the General &: by him Transmitted to the Congress. 21. Six Vessels (armed) are now fitted out & fitting upon the best Terms to intercept the Enemys Supplies will this be agreeable to the Congress?


[Page 269]
October 23, 1775 237 Agreed that the Committee approve of the Scheme & will recom mend it to the Congress. 19 October 24th. 1775 The Committee proceeded in their Conference on the Generals Queries, viz 1. When the Army receives such Supplies of Powder as to be ena bled to spare some to the Country how & upon what Terms is it to be done? Agreed. That it be sold to them at a reasonable Price. 20 2d. Tents, if the Army should have Occasion to take the Field, will be indispensably necessary for the Officers & Men, how are they to be provided & are the Officers to be allowed any? Agreed. That it be recommended to the Honl. Congress to pay an early Attention to this Article & if the Pay of the Officers is not con siderably increased that Tents be allowed them. The General informed the Committee that he had given particular Orders that all the Tents now in Use should be carefully pack’d up in proper Places during the Winter. The Council of War lately held having in Consequence of an Inti mation from the Congress deliberated on the Expediency of an At tack upon Boston & determined that at present it was not practicable. The General wishes to know how far it may be deemed proper & ad viseable to avail himself of the Season to destroy the Troops who propose to winter at Boston by a Bombardment when the Harbour is block’d up, or in other Words whether the Loss of the Town & the Property therein are to be so considered as that an Attack upon the Troops there should be avoided when it evidently appears the Town must of Consequence be destroyed. The Committee were of Opinion this is a Matter of too Much Im portance to be determined by them, therefore ref [er] it to the Con gress. The General now requested that the Committee would represent to the Congress the Necessity of having Money constantly & regularly sent, & that some Regulation upon this Head should be made as soon as possible. Also That the Congress would be pleased to establish or recom mend it to the Legislature of this Province to establish some Court for the Tryal & Condemnation of Vessels taken from the Enemy, so that they may be distinguished from those of a different Character & all Abuses prevented as much as possible. MS (DNA:PCC, item 33) . In the hand of Joseph Reed and endorsed by Reed: "A true Copy of the Minutes of the Conference held by the Delegates from the Continental Congress with General Washington. Jos. Reed, Secy. Head Quarters, Cambridge Octr. 24, 1775.”


[Page 270]
238 October 23, 1775 1 On September 30, Benjamin Franklin, Benjamin Harrison, and Thomas Lynch were appointed a committee to confer with General Washington and representa tives of the New England colonies as a consequence of Washington’s September 21 letter which was read in Congress the 29th. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpa trick) , 3:505-13. Instructions to the committee, subsequently known as the Commit tee of Conference, were drafted by a separate committee of five and approved by Congress on October 2. A conference attended by the three delegates, General Washington, and eight representatives of the New England colonies was held at Cambridge October 18-22, after which Franklin, Harrison, and Lynch met separate ly with Washington October 23-24 to discuss the subjects covered in these "Min utes.” These were enclosed with a letter of October 24 from the Committee of Conference to President Hancock, read in Congress November 1, and subsequently considered and acted upon in several sessions from November 4 to December 22, 1775. The minutes of the meetings that took place October 18-22 are in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1156-61. Proceedings of Congress pertaining to the Committee of Conference from September 29 to December 22, 1775, can be traced through the journals. JCC, 3:264-66, 276-71, 313-14, 318, 326-25, 328, 336-34, 398-402, 423, 425, 442, 444-45. ’In the margin at this point of the MS the word “agreed” appears in the hand of Josiah Bartlett. Apparently this copy of the minutes was used to indicate the response of the full Congress as the delegates in November debated and acted upon the preliminary decisions made by the Committee of Conference when various pro positions were originally discussed wtih Washington at Cambridge. All similar notations, additions, and changes of phraseology, also in the hand of Bartlett, are duly noted below. 3 "Transports Refer’d to Com[mitte]e.” "Report made." ‘ “Agreed." 6 “Agreed.” 8 “Refer’d.” 7 “Agreed.” 8 “Agreed & Sent.” 'As Reed wrote it, this sentence originally read: “Agreed that an Exchange will be proper, Citizens for Citizens, but not Officers fc Soldiers of the regular Army for Citizens.” The last clause was lined out, however, and Bartlett completed the sentence as it is printed here, adding also the word "Agreed" at the end of the statement. 10 "Agreed.” 11 “Agreed.” 12 This clause was inserted by Bartlett. u “Agreed.” 14 Richard Gridley was replaced by Henry Knox on November 17. JCC, 3:358-59. See also John Adams to Abigail Adams, June 18, 1775, note. 18 "Agreed.” 18 “Agreed.” 17 “Refer’d to Com[mitte]e of three.” 18 "Determin’d.” “ "Agreed.” 88 “Agreed.” Thomas Cushing to William Cooper Dear Sir Philadelphia Octr. 23. 1775 I received yours of the 24th September on the 21st Instant 8t not


[Page 271]
October 23, 1775 239 before, What has delayed its passage here I cannot say. I wrote you the beginning of this month but have not as yet been favoured with an Answer. Wish our Freinds would write us more frequently. I am obliged to you for the Enquiry you made at Dedham for a House for me, should be glad to Govern my self by the Opinion of the County as to the place of Holding the Probate, provided at this difficult time I can be accomodated with such a place as will be agre- able to them. 1 If I had been so happy as to have seen you before I left Watertown, I doubt whether it would have been proper for me to have signed any blank Letters of Administration or Letters of Guard ianship, before I had my Commission & more than a month before by law I could have entered upon the discharge of the office I was appointed to, for, if you will recollect, you will find that, by the Law that was made by the General Court upon this Occasion, none of the new appointments were to take place till after the 20 of September last. This matter I considered before I left Watertown or else should certainly have seen you previous to my departure and have Signed the Papers you mention, which I am sensible, could it have been done with any Propriety, would have been for the ease of the Coun ty. I am most Surprized that any Persons among us should just now think of dividing the County, especially at this very critical time when we have so many other matters of the greatest magnitude to Engage our Attention; such a thing was never attempted in any other County without first notifying every Town in the County of such an Intention. Can the Inhabitants of Boston (the Shire Town whose In terest it so nearly affects) in their present distressed dispersed State attend to a Question of such Moment, Certainly not, & will the In habitants of the other Towns in the County take the advantage of this their distress? or if they would, will the General Court attend to them at such a time? Certainly not. Whenever a Bill for determining What offices are incompatable with each other shall be brought into the House, I hope it will be considered with great attention and due de liberation. There are many difficulties attending such a Measure which at first View may not be thought of. I hope we shall not run from one Extream to another. I sincerely wish the Court may be di rected to such a Conduct as may tend Effectually to Strengthen our happy Constitution & be for the lasting benefit of the Government. I am Glad to find General Washington is fitting out some Vessells of War, this is a Necessary Measure as our Enemies are dayly pirat ing our Vessells. I have frequently Urged it here. As to the Establish ment of Courts of Admiralty, that will come on of Course, but it will not do to urge it here at present. I cannot as yet form any judgment When I shall be able to return, many Interesting and important Matters demand my attention &


[Page 273]
October 23, 1775 241 the Field as long as is necessary for the Capture of St John’s, which I agree with you cannot be supplied in the manner the Canadian Pris oners represent. I hoped before this to have had some Subject for a Letter; but we have no News from England but what the Prints furnish, and the whole amounts to no more than Surmise and Conjecture. If Adminis trations was disposed to Peace, I think they woud come to no Con clusion without the advice of Parliament, in Support of whose usurped Authority this cruel and unnatural war has been prosecuted. I therefore expect nothing decisive till their next Sessions. In the meantime I hope the winter will put a Stop to the Ravages of the King’s Ships which are employed in carrying on a pitiful predatory war against defenceless Towns and Coasts, disgraceful to the British Fleet. As to the Army they are confined in narrow Limits and kept in a State of Inaction by a Superior Power; so that no danger is to be apprehended from them without a very great Reinforcement. Upon the whole the Aspect of American Affairs is as favourable as we had any Reason to expect, tho we must all deplore the precious Blood which has been shed by Englishmen and Countrymen during this horrid Conflict. I am still undetermined how to dispose of my Family this winter. Over myself I fear I shall have little Command. My dearest Polly seems desirous that we should fix in New York for the Improvement of our Children. But that unhappy City is in too much danger and Confusion to Justify such a Measure, at least it so appears to me. At all Events I shall endeavour to be with my Family in a few weeks for I grow very impatient under such tedious Seperations. Some certain Account from England (which we have Reason daily to expect) of the probable Fate of our Petition will determine my Conduct. Adieu my dear and honourd Sir. Present my dutiful Regards to Mamma and every branch of the Family and believe ever Your Af fectionate & dutiful Son & very obedient Servant Jas Duane RC (NHpR: Livingston-Redmond Collection deposit) . Virginia Delegates to the Williamsburg Committee of Safety Gentlemen Philadelphia 23d Octr. 1775 Among General Washington’s last inclosures to Congress, was the deposition, a copy of which is now sent for your information. 1 Com paring this with the last intelligence we had the honor of sending you, Lord Dunmores inimical system against Virginia seems to be pretty


[Page 274]
242 October 23, 1775 fully explained. To frustrate this part of his Lordships plan, will it not be highly expedient to intercept Majr. Connelly Sc his papers in his passage thro the Indian Country, or to have him arrested whilst in his Winter quarters? It is not improbable but that this may be effect ed, by offering reward to Men of proper spirit, enterprize, and knowledge of the Country & Indian nations thro which this wicked Agent proposes to pass. We submit to you Gentlemen the prudence of sending a copy of this deposition to the Committee of Safety in N. C., with a request that they will detach a few Runners on this useful errand. We expect the same application will be made to S.C. & G. by their Delegates in Congress. FC (MH) . Unsigned draft in the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 Undoubtedly William Cowley’s affidavit, describing John Connolly’s plan to organize the western Indians and the French in the Illinois country for a spring invasion of Virginia, which was enclosed in Washington’s letter to Congress of October 12. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1037-39, 1047-48. See also Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter, October 21, 1775. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 23, 1775] 23rd. Resolved to attend the funeral with a mourning crape round the left Arm, to be continued a month. 1 Mr. Middleton, Mr. Hopkins & Mr. Chase appointed to superintend the funeral & to request Mr. Duchee to preach a funeral discourse. New appointment of the Del egs. of the lower Counties, their credentials presented & approved. MS (RHi). 1 Robert Treat Paine’s diary for this date reads: “Fair. I went to Congress. They Adjd. on Acct, of the death of Mr. Randolph.” MHi. John Zubly wrote in his: "Peyton Randolph Esq. having suddenly died yesterday Congress adjourned. Went to see Mr. Schlatter.” GHi. John Adams to James Warren Octr. 24. 1775 Dear Sir When it is said that it is the Prerogative of omniscience to Search Hearts, I Suppose it is meant that no human Sagacity can penetrate at all Times into Mens Bosoms and discover with precise Certainty the secrets there: and in this Sense it is certainly true. But there is a Sense in which Men may be said to be possessed of a Faculty of Searching Hearts too. There is a Discernment competent to Mortals by which they can penetrate into the Minds of Men and


[Page 278]
246 October 24, 1775 This Letter should have gone by last Post, but was left by Acci dent. You may publish the Part of it that is mark’d mentioning no Name. 1 We have just receiv’d Alarm of the burning of Falmouth Casco Bay; and are assur’d that Orders are come over to burn, ravish and destroy all the Sea Coast; such is the Government of the best of Princes! If the People of Philadelphia, to be more at their Ease in defending the City should think fit to remove their Families, and some of their Goods, do you after taking Care of Sally and the Chil dren, remember to secure my Account Books and Writings which are in the Glass Desk and two Trunks in my Library. I hope too that the Library may be Sav’d; but we must run all Risques, that being to[o] bulky to be remov’d. RC (RBrHi). A continuation of Franklin to Richard Bache, October 19, 1775. 1 It cannot now be determined what portion of the letter Franklin marked for publication. Thomas Jefferson to Francis Eppes Dear Sir Philadelphia, Oct. 24, 1775. Since my last, we have nothing new from England or from the camps at either Cambridge or St. John’s. Our eyes are turned to the latter place with no little anxiety, the weather having been uncom monly bad for troops in that quarter, exposed to the inclemencies of the sky without any protection. Carleton is retired to Quebec, and though it does not appear he has any intimation of Arnold’s expedi tion, yet we hear he has embodied 1,100 men to be on his guard. A small vessel was the other day cast away on the Jersey shore (she was one of the transports which had some time ago brought over troops to Boston), on board of which were a captain, with his subor dinate officers and marines, amounting to 23 in all, and also a Dun can Campbell, who was going to recruit men at New York for Gen eral Gage, he having some time before undertaken the same business in the same place, and actually carried off 60 men. The marines and their officers were all taken immediately, except their captain and the recruiting gentleman; these pushed off in a little boat, and coasted it to Long Island, where they got on board a sloop which was to have sailed in an hour, when the party sent after them came upon them. They were brought to this city this morning, the marines having been here some time. 1 Our good old Speaker died the night before last. For the particulars of that melancholy event I must refer you to Pat ty. My affections attend Mrs. Eppes. Adieu. Th. Jefferson MS not found; reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:248-49.


[Page 280]
248 October 24, 1775 selves under Protection of the Men of War; every thing of Impor tance done at the Assembly you will naturally communicate, & the Proceedings at the Conference at Cambridge with your Sentiments upon such measures as you think best for us to pursue in Congress I shall be glad of. With Regard to the Voyage proposed by the Depy. Govr. I have wrote to his Honor twice by Order of the Secret Comee. of which I am Chairman and every thing necessary upon our Part is ready & I hope the Voyage is undertaken before this time. 3 I have seen the Examinations of Capt. Campbell, his Lieut. & some Marines, the Privates swear or at least say but I think swear that the Capt & officers promised them 200 Acres of good cultivated Land each out of the forfeited Estates, Campbell denies this. His Instru [ction] s from Genl. Gage which I have also seen amongst oth er Things direct him to encourage the Scotch & other Nations to en ter into the Kings Service; the Regiment to which he belongs is 72d now raising called the royal fensible Americans; proper Regard to all Friends Yours most affectionately Sam Ward RC (RHi) . ’On October 17 Congress read an October 9 letter from Rhode Island Deputy Governor Nicholas Cooke which apparently is no longer extant. JCC, 3:297. ’This day Robert Treat Paine recorded in his diary: "Fair Cool. Rode to German Town. P.M. the funeral Peyton Randolf Esqr. attended in the most respectable Manner & a Sermon preached at Christs Church by Mr. Duche.” MHi. ’See Ward to Nicholas Cooke, October 5, 1775, note. John Zubly’s Diary [October 24, 1775] Tuesday, 24. Bought a horse. Attended the funeral of Mr. Ran dolph. Mr. Duche preachd. Col. 4:5. Wrote to Mr. Caldwell. A Sep aration from the Parent state I wd. dread as one of the greatest evils & should it ever be proposed [wt/Z] write pray & fight against it. Some good Men may desire it but good Men do not always Know what they are about. I have more than a little thought on this Matter, & being borned & bred in a Commonwealth should not be unac quainted with republican Govt, but wish never to see the day when the Issue whether we ought to Separate Shd be agitated. Hints of this Kind arm our friends & Enemies in G. B. against us & are pernicious in the highest degree. I would rather enlarge than retract my Vote. There is a lack of Confidence in America which allarms me. We are too haughty to look unto God & all our publick papers rather talk of presenting Law to a Conquered people than defending ourselves un-


[Page 285]
October 25, 1775 253 John Hancock to the New Jersey Convention Gentlemen, Philada. Octr. 25. 1775 The Congress having taken into Consideration your Letters of the 13 &: 14 Inst. 1 have directed me to inform you, that they are of Opinion, the Public Service makes it necessary that the Jersey Battal ions be levied with all possible Expedition: but as the Congress are waiting the Return of their Committee from Camp in Order to estab lish permanent Regulations for all the continental Forces, they for the present incline to suspend a Determination on the Question about the Appointment of Regimental Field Officers. 2 The public Exigencies will not admit of Loans from the Continen tal Treasury to any Colonies. The Congress however hope that this will not disable you from supplying yourselves with Arms & Ammu nition, in doing which it is not doubted, you will fall upon such Means, as will be most for the Ease and Safety of the Colony without hazarding the Emission of Paper Currency. From some Expressions in your Letter of the 14th Inst the Con gress apprehend it is the Intention of your Convention to take into Constant Pay 4000 Minute Men. But as this will be a very heavy Expence, and more, it is apprehended, than any one Colony can af ford, we hope you will well weigh &: consider such a Measure before you adopt it. With Respect to Provisions for Minute Men, the Con gress have made none; conceiving that the several Colonies will make proper Provisions for them where necessary, or when they are called into actual Service, except when they are taken into the Continental Service, in which Case they will be entitled to the same Pay, as other Continen [t] al Troops. I am &c J H Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . Written by a committee of Congress and sent over Hancock's signature. JCC, 3:295, 304—5. 1 For these letters, see PCC, item 68, fols. 15-19; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1050-51. 3 Congress added this paragraph to the letter after the committee’s draft was read and debated. JCC, 3:305. For Congress’ final action on the appointment of field officers for the New Jersey battalions, see William Livingston to William Alexander, November 8, 1775. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Committee Chamber Octr. 25th. 1775 Philadelphia At a meeting of the Committee, present. Sami. Ward, John Lang- don, Silas Deane, John Alsop, &: Thos. McKean Esqrs. a Quorum of^_,. sd. Committee. A Contract enterd into between Alexander Gillon 1 of Charles-


[Page 286]
254 October 25, 1775 town, S. Carolina Mercht. of the one part, & the sd. Committee of Secrecy on the other part as follows to wit The sd. A. Gillon doth agree 8c promise for himself, his Executors & Administrators to chart er & purchase, as soon as possible, a sufficient number of Ships or other vessels for the exporting & carrying as much of the produce or manufactures of the province of S. Carolina aforesd. or of some oth er of the aforesd. U[nited] Colos. as can be procurd for twenty thousand pounds sterlg. money of G. Britain, 2 to Holland or other European market, agreeble to the association & there to sell the same And he doth hereby engage to purchase the produce or manufactures aforesd. at the lowest price that he can & to the amount of twenty thousand pounds lawful money aforesd. & the same to ship as soon as possible, but at all events before the first day of Jany. next, to some part of Holland, & that he will proceed with the same personal ly & sell or cause to be sold, the said produce & manufactures for the highest 8c best prices that can be obtaind for the same, & that he will lay out & expend the nett proceeds of all the sd. Adventure in pur chasing at the lowest rates of the best quality two hundred tons of Gunpowder, cheifly pistol powder, twenty four brass field peices (6 pounds), four thousand double bridle gunlocks & a thousand stand of good Soldiers muskets 8c bayonets, 8c in case the whole of the powder cannot be procurd then as much saltpetre 8c sulphur as will make as much powder as may be deficient. 3 As by the sd. Con[tra]ct 8cc fol. 8 8cc 8cc 8cc. MS (MH). 1 Alexander Gillon (1741-94), prominent Charleston, S. C., merchant of Dutch birth, was a member of the South Carolina Provincial Congress, 1775-76, and was appointed commodore of the South Carolina navy in 1778. D. E. Huger Smith, “Commodore Alexander Gillon and the Frigate South Carolina,” South Carolina Historical and Genealogical Magazine 9 (October 1908) : 189-92; and DAB. 3 The Secret Committee advanced Gillon $45,000 on October 27, 1775. See Secret Committee Account, September 27, 1775-August 26, 1776. 3 For additional information pertaining to Gillon’s contract, see Secret Commit tee Minutes of Proceedings, July 18 and August 8, 1776. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 25, 1775] 25th. A Letter from Gn Washington 30th Sepr., two from Govr. Trumbull, 8c one from convention of N. York read. 1 An Answer to the Convn. of N. Jersey reported, the matter of field officers referred to the return of the Comee., 8c the Convn. desired to raise the Battal ions with all speed. Some Accts, allowed. Ins[truction]s from Gen. Gage to Capt. Campbell read 8c ordered to be published. Examina-


[Page 287]
October 26, 1775 255 tion of Campbell & others read 8c copies to be sent to Convention of N. York with recommendation to them to seize [Mr. Grant] ? Mr. Hewes added to the Comee of Claims. 3 MS (RHi) . 'See JCC, 3:304; PCC, item 152, 1:175-78, item 66, fols. 37-38, item 67, fol. 121; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:852-54, 988, 1082, 1118. 3 See JCC, 3:306. 3 Silas Deane’s diary entry for this date reads simply: "Wednesday 25th at Congress, at Com[mitte]e on Susquehannah affrs.” CHS Bullentin 29 (July 1964) : 96A. Benjamin Franklin to Joseph Greenleaf Sir, Head Quarters, Cambridge, Oct. 26. [17] 75 I intended to have called upon you yesterday at Watertown, 1 but was prevented by other Business. Mr. Goddard, appointed Riding Surveyor to the General Post-Of fice, is on his Way, settling the Post Offices from Philadelphia East ward. He will probably be here in a few days, and has Instructions for Regulating everything relating to them. I think it will be right for the Committee to receive and pay all to the End of the last Quarter; and let the present Quarter, commencing with this Month, be on Ac count of the General Post Office. I should be glad however to know from you, the Amount of the Receipts, and of the Disbursements, while the Offices were under the Direction of the Committee; which if you please you may send me at your convenient Leisure. I am very respectfully, Sir, Yours 8c the Committees, Most obedi ent huml Servant B Franklin [P.S.] I do not recollect that I received the Letter you mention to have sent me in August last. I return homewards this day. RC (PPAmP) . 1 Joseph Greenleaf (1720-1810), of Abington, Mass., had moved to Boston in 1771 where he subsequently established himself briefly as a printer and was elected a selectman of the town. On May 15, 1775, Greenleaf was appointed to the commit tee "for establishing post offices and post riders,” to which Franklin refers below, and in 1776 he became chairman of the Massachusetts Committee of Safety. James E. Greenleaf, Genealogy of the Greenleaf Family (Boston: Frank Wood, 1896), pp. 77-78, 195; and Journals of each Provincial Congress of Massachusetts in 1774 and 1775, and of the Committee of Safety . . ., ed. William Lincoln (Boston: Dutton and Wentworth, 1838) , p. 224. Franklin evidently took advantage of his trip to Cambridge to examine into postal affairs wherever the opportunity offered. Accord ing to Silas Deane’s diary, Deane “gave Doer. Franklin a Memorandum of the post Office,” whose nature was not recorded, just before Franklin left Philadelphia on October 4. CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 96A.


[Page 289]
October 26, 1775 257 John Hancock to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen Philada. 26th Octo. 1775. A transport with two Officers & a number of marines having been cast away on the coast of New Jersey near Brigantine Beech, the cap tain, Officers & a number of the men were taken prisoners & brought to this place, where they have been examined by the Committee of Safety of this province. By order of the Congress I inclose you a copy of their examination, by which you will see the dangerous practices the officers have been engaged in, & it is not doubted but you will take effectual measures to put a stop to them. 1 It is intimated that there is one Grant in Dutchess County now employed in raising recruits. The Congress expect you will inquire into this matter & if possible secure the said Grant. 2 It being represented to the Congress that a large quantity of blan kets & shirts remain in the King’s stores in New York, the Congress came to the following Resolution: “That it be recommended to the Convention of New York immediately to take possession of the said blankets & shirts & forward so many of them as may be necessary, to General Schuyler for the use of the army under his Command.” 3 I am Gentlemen Your most Obedt. Servt. John Hancock, Presidt. RC (N) . Written by Charles Thomson and signed by Hancock. Journals of N. T. Prov. Cong., 2:5. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 The “dangerous practices” in question were the efforts of Capt. Duncan Campbell and one Lieutenant Symes to recruit volunteers in New York for Lt. Col. Allan Maclean’s battalion of provincials in the British army, on which see JCC, 3:305-6; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1311-14. 3 On this point, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1322-23. • A band of New Yorkers had seized some royal stores on October 9, but the next day the Provincial Congress, fearing that the seizure would lead to the naval bombardment of New York City, ordered the goods returned. Fear of British retaliation was still strong when news of this resolve of Congress reached New York, and consequently the Provincial Congress refused to carry it out. Ibid., pp. 1322-23; and William H. W. Sabine, ed., Historical Memoirs from 16 March 1763 to 9 July 1776 of William Smith . . . (New York: Colburn & Tegg, 1956), pp. 241-42. John Jay to Sarah Jay My dear Sally Ph. 26 Octr 1775 I am much obliged to you for your kind Letter by this Stage. The Bundle came safe to Hand, and Claas says he thanks you for it. I was in Hopes you had received some of my Letters at the Time


[Page 297]
October 27, 1775 265 Robert R. Livingston Notes


[Page 298]
266 October 27, 1775 May be said some [of] these [colonies are] rich; support themselves & others. Deny. Riches [of] northern colonies consists [of] stock in trade, money at interest, Land rents. 1st. No use. 2nd. Interest money can not be paid when trade stoped, nor can principle be recovered—suits [at] law stoped, of course credit, & with it circulation [of] cash. 3d. Landlord cannot expect rent of people taxed 2/3 of whole estate. So that this resolution [to continue nonexportation] anihi- lates all property. 3 II. Inquire whether war with all these pressures [is] not more grei- vous than any they expect from {peace} submission. If it is they chuse lesser evil. [The people] felt no oppression—found [they] grew wealthy under dominion [of] parliment. Yet spirit [of] liberty excited wonderfully. Hopes boyed up, now see serious. We ourselves thought virtue shd. not be tried. [Zf we would] not tax 3,000,000 when in affluence, how expect 7 Colonies [to] bear weight [of] 9,000,000 [doZZars], besides burthen of war & a total loss besides of 2/3 of property? Add to this [that the] value [of] commodities on hand [which] amount to , 4 operate as a bridle on possessors. Horses, wheat &c. which could sell £30, now but 15; as much under in fluence as if £15 given him to desert cause. People know too that on submission storm [would] burst only on leaders; That oppressions [would] not [he] heavy at least for time. [People] already alledge dispute [is] about property; they have none. No instance [in] history [that a] people reduced [Zo] this situation maintained war. Revolt [in the] Low Countries not paralel, grivously opressd religion—governmt felt many years—body [of the] people felt as much as rich. During war [the Dutch] carried on trade—grew rich. Case nearest ours—commotion [in the] year 1640. 5 Their people soon tired [of] governmt of republick, Tho’ trade most flourishing state, meerly on acct, [of] taxes. Petition [and] commotions shew inclinations, army necessary to subject them. Restoration matter [of] genl, satisfaction. Calculate from northern colonies these inconveniences, not so much felt southwd. Trade [in the South is] carried on English bottoms—no Seamen, no merchants, but few factors. No ship


[Page 299]
October 27, 1775 267 builders—various mechanicks employed in that business—few carriers but negroes. Planters live on estates, cultivation [of] which with great number [of] hands easily procure food & clothing sufficient for whites. Blacks go naked till 14—of course may till 50. Not wonder therefore some [of] them stickle measure which judg ing own climate is but temporary inconvenience. Hope [they] change sentiments when [they] take view [of the] northern ones. Whether [we can] obtain means [of] war [if] this takes place. 1st. Wants sufficiently obvious. Operations [of] armies check ed by it. Citys defenseless. Coast lyable to be ravaged. Second. Exception with respect [to] them but these [wz’ZZ] not answer purpose—2 reasons: (1st) Because publishes wants to our enimies—make [them] more vigilant. (2d) Few merchants engage when bound at all events to return [with] military stores. May so happen [these] cannot be got at port sent— then voyage frustrated. If trade left at large, they always indeavour to get them because yield most proffit—adventure because shd [they] fail [Zo obtain] that cargo [they would] still not return empty. Has been said that if [we had] open ports none but eastern colonies trade—own advantage—rejoice at it. Tho’ they joined senti ment that our enjoying advantage [was] not hurtful [Zo the] rest [of the] provinces, [z’Z] wd excite jealousy in theirs. Yet persuaded own Constituents think as to wish them advant ages ten times greater. Besides every Colony [Izas] chance dur ing winter of sliping out. 3d Objection, impossibility [of] obtaining navy. [Nonexpor tation] banishes seamen, who not only [are] lost but be come enimies—forced by necessity into British service. [Given] these considerations [we] Must Trade. III. Meathods proposed. 1st. Invite forreigners. 2d. Trade with all the world except G. B. 8c I. 3d. Export immediately to G. B. 8c Ireland except tobacco 8c lumber. I. Invite forreigners. 2 Inquiries. 1st. Whether foreigners at large or particular nations? 2d. Whether temporary expedient or lastg Basis of our trade? If at large no national object. Still less so if only temporary


[Page 300]
268 October 27, 1775 expedient. Not expect merchants [to] alter course [of] trade & turn [into a] chanel which expect soon [to be] stoped & in which expect many rivals. If then must trade [with a] particular power, inquire who shall be! Holland, Portugal unable to protect us. [Would] Spain regardless of her own trade consider new one as object? Suffered all staples to decay, mismanage ment—weak, unenterprizing—war already on hand. Only remaining power France. 1st. How [. . . .]« 1st. Is [it] not very doubtful whether she [France] will trade with us, considering low state [of her] finances, weakness [of the] present monarchy, And late con duct? Gent, asserts she must; for want [of] grain which [sfie can] get no where else. Our exports of grain to France do not make a 110th part of her consumption. Our exports to her never amounted 1,000,000 [bushels]— her consumption 150,000,000. So [France] not forced [to trade for] those. As many advantages [would] result [to] her from trade, may possibly think [it] worth her notice. But private adventurers never undertake this. Before govermt interposes, must settle Terms. Must at least be permanent at all events. Have Gent, turned thoughts to what terms shall be? Have fix’d time? Considered whether trade may not be come monopoly? Whether she can supply us with woollens without getting them from England? Whether this [might] not defeat our non importa tion? True, this [would be a] loss [io] G. B., but have [gentlemen] considered whether greater loss [might] not fall on us? Have made any provision for our shipbuilders, sailors &c. or must [these] be a burthen? But this evident & this measure not to be adopted till treaties settled—nor they entered into till [the French] agree to break with Great Britain. II. Trade with foreigners at large [in our] own bottoms. This more advantagious because still imploy our own hands. Retain Sailors. Still has its disadvantages. 1st. Vessels liable to capture. By which means [Britain


[Page 301]
October 27, 1775 269 would] receive our commodities on a cheap lay. 2d. West Indies would be supplied from foreign West In dies. 3d. British goods would be lodged at foreign ports. Thus non importation, in which our chief strength, [would] be defeated. 4th. When our trade [is] witheld, Briton [would] be un der necessity of fetching some commodities from Northern nations [which she] now gets of us. This [would] afford vent to goods [s/ze] usually send to us. May [be] said no purchasers. Mistake. Both Dutch & English send woollens up Bal- tick. Of course price must be nearly equal. If so then a small reduction in price [would] enable English to un dersell Dutch. That reduction would [be] made. For as [Britain] must fetch commodities from there, [s/ze] must either send vessels empty and loose freight out ward, or by sinking whole profit, make freight. May be said This was done when [s/ze] traded with us— of course [her prices] could sink no lower. Not fact. When same good imported [by Britain] from America that [s/ze would now] get from Northern na tions, & at rather a cheaper rate—profit to the mercht trading with them was on his outward entries—only took their commodities to make a freight. Now reverse. So [zt is] clear By non exportation agreement we defeat non importation. Leave [British] manufactures & mer chants [in the] same state they were, subjecting indeed [that] nation to a loss, but too small to be early felt. That made up by captures. If Then [a] mode can be fallen upon that can prevent these inconveniences, preserve our non importation in violate, sure prejudice or hard words shd. not prevent a cool examination of it. This did myself honour to mention. As was reed, cooly, [7] shd. have passed over had [Z] not been called upon. 7 Now endeavour to defend. III. Export immediately to G.B. & Ireland except tobacco (& Lumber), but not import. These evident advantages. 1st. If our exports equal [£] 2,500,000 we must drain [Britain] anualy of that some [sum]. Effect this [would] have on G.B. when considered [that her] current cash not more than [£] 2,000,000. Besides


[Page 302]
270 October 27, 1775 employing hands, enriching country, [it would] en able [as] to pay whole expense [of the] war. Enables [us to] purchase what [we] want [to] carry on war. Cheaper, less risk. For vessel would be safe from here to England then have money with which [to] trade [with] any foreign nation. Landings little dan ger [if] any, numerous inlets on coast. This would give us intelligence of Movements of our enimies. Would reserve our seamen. Objections. 1st. That prohibition [of] tobacco [exports] would create dis gust [in] 2 Colonies. [For] my own part [7 have a] higher opinion [of their] virtue than [to] think so. Princi ples on which prohibited might be explained. Lands [which] raise tobacco [are] fit [for] any grain. Female negroes not employed, but will they be employed if trade to tally stoped? If not, were disadvantage. 2d. That many things exported by us manufactured in England 8c reshiped. Have shewn [that if Britain] did not get [them] from Colonies, [they would] be procured from elsewhere—& in return for them manufactors. Iron. But even if not, [the] value of those as well as home consumption [would be] paid us in specie. 3d. Number hands employed in reshiping. But surely more em ployed [5y] us in shiping—not only same but what they consume too. 4th. Flax seed [io] Ireland not so important as [we] imagine. [They could] procure [it] from Holland [as they] for- merely did. Whole value [£] 40,000. Idle [to] think [they] could not manufacture [for] want of it. 5th. West Indies—provision Shiped not reshiped there. Gent did not think much weight in argument when [he] supposes trade [would] be so ruinous to G.B. that she would prohibit it. Worth trying. Perhaps interest [of] individual [would] over rule publick good. Find [that Britain] does carry on some trades where bal- lance [is] against her—East Indies. [During the] last non importation against [Britain, we] exported to her. Probable [we would] enjoy advantage at least [for] some


[Page 303]
October 27, 1775 271 time when [Britain] prohibited exportation [of] specie, which [is the] most probable meathod [Britain would] take [to] stop it. Purchase forreign bills answer same pur pose. Gent went far into non importation &: disadvantages Britain laboured from. [7] agree [with that] sentiment, & [am] so far [from] wishing to break it that I mention this [as the] only mode to preserve [non importation] in full force. Breach association. But if [non exportation is] founded in error, shd. be revoked. Not at present. Let people feel want [of] trade, which [they will] do in few weeks, then grant. MS (NHi) . In the hand of Robert R. Livingston, Jr. Although an effort has been made to preserve the cryptic character of Livingston’s notes, editorial insertions have been added to make them more intelligible and several abbreviations have been expanded without brackets. (For the first page of these notes, see illustra tion.) 1 John Adams’ Notes of Debates for October 27 clearly demonstrate that this day, in the midst of a debate on a motion to continue a ban on all exports not specifically approved by Congress, Livingston delivered a speech in the committee of the whole based on these notes. Livingston forcefully opposed the motion, but notwithstanding his effort, Congress decided on November 1 to prohibit until March 1, 1776, virtually all non-congressionally sanctioned exports from the colo nies. See John Adams’ Notes of Debates, this day; and JCC, 3:308, 314. 3 For an expanded version of the cryptic notes in this paragraph, see John Adams’ Notes of Debates, this date. 3 See above, note 1. ‘ Blank in MS. 6 An allusion to the English Revolution. ’ At this point in the MS two pages are missing. 7 Presumably a reference to Livingston’s remarks in Congress on October 3, on which see John Adams' Notes of Debates for that date. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 27, 1775] 27th. A Report from the Comee appointed to take into their Con sideration a Letter from N. York was read. The Congress then re solved itself into a Comee. of the whole. Mr. Ward reported that they had come into no Resolutions &C. 1 MS (RHi). 1 See JCC, 3:308.


[Page 309]
October 29, 1775 277 Youth, supporting Coiledges at the public Expence and obliging Towns to maintain Grammar schools, is not equalled and never was in any Part of the World. 4. The Division of our Territory, that is our Counties into Town ships, empowering Towns to assemble, choose officers, make Laws, mend roads, and twenty other Things, gives every Man an opportuni ty of shewing and improving that Education which he received at Coiledge or at school, and makes Knowledge and Dexterity at public Business common. 5. Our Laws for the Distribution of Intestate Estates occasions a frequent Division of landed Property and prevents Monopolies, of Land. But in opposition to these We have laboured under many Disad vantages. The exorbitant Prerogatives of our Governors &c. which would have overborn our Liberties, if it had not been opposed by the five preceding Particulars. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:318-19. Samuel Adams to Elbridge Gerry My dear Sir Philadelphia Octob 29 1775 I wrote to you a few days ago by young Mr Brown and then duly acknowledgd your Letter of the 9th Instant. You tell me that a Committee of both Houses of Assembly is ap pointed to bring in a Militia Bill. 1 I am of your Opinion that this Matter requires great Attention and I wish with you to see our Mili tia formd not only into Battallions but also Brigades. But should we not be cautious of putting them under the Direction of the Generals of the Continent, at least until such a Legislative shall be established in America as every Colony shall consent to. The Continental Army is at present very properly under the Direc tion of the Continental Congress. Possibly if ever such a Legislative should be formd, it may be proper that the whole Military Power of every Colony should be under its absolute Direction. Be that as it may, will it not, till then, be prudent, that the Militia of each Colony should be under the Direction of its own Legislative which is and ought to be the sovereign uncontroulable Power within its own Limits or Territory. I hope our Militia will be always prepard to aid the Forces of the Continent in this righteous Opposition to Tyranny. But it is your natural Strength which ought to be under your own Direc tion & employd for your own Safety. It is a Misfortune to a Colony to become the Seat of War. It is always dangerous to the Liberties of 248-053 0 - 77 - 20


[Page 311]
October 31, 1775 279 of North Carolina Press, 1945), pp. 107-35. ’ For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Gerry, November 4, 1775. John Adams’ Notes of Debates 1775. Octr. 30th. Monday. Ross. We cant get Seamen to man 4 Vessells. We could not get Seamen to mann our Boats, our Gallies. 1 Wythe, Nelson, and Lee for fitting out 4 Ships. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:220. 1 These remarks were made during debate over a resolution to arm two more vessels in addition to the two approved on October 13. Congress adopted the resolution, and Adams was one of four delegates added to the committee charged with implementing the plan. JCC, 3:311-12. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 30, 1775] 30th. Four armd. Vessells order’d to be fitted out; a Comee. for that Purpose [chosen}. Recom[mendatio]n of provinl. Cong [res] s of New Jersey for field Officers referred. MS (RHi) . John Zubly’s Diary [October 30, 1775] 30. Attended Committee &: Congress. Spent the Evening agreably with Mr. Kirkland the Indian Missionary. MS (GHi) . Thomas Jefferson to John Page Dear Page 1 Philadelphia Oct. 31. 1775. We have nothing new from England or the camp before Boston. By a private letter this day to a gentleman of Congress from General Montgomery we learn that our forces before St. John’s are 4000. in number besides 500. Canadians the latter of whom have repelled with great intrepidity three different attacks from the fort. We ap-


[Page 325]
November 3, 1775 293 they Recommend such a form, as shall be agreable to a free Repre sentation of the People, in short Such a government as shall be most Agreable to the Province. The Arguments on this Matter (being the first of the Kind as we had no Charter) were Truely Ciceronial, the eminent Speakers did honour to themselves and the Continent; Car ried by a very great Majority. 1 The Power is ample and full, even to the Choice of governor, if the Colony should think it Necessary but that, we humbly Conceive worthy of Consideration. You’ll See that the government is Limited to the Present Contest to ease the minds of Some few persons, who were fearful of Independance, we tho’t it Advisable not to oppose that part too much, for once we had taken, any Sort of government, nothing but Negotiation with Great Britain can Alter it. We would here beg leave to Suggest whether a government Some what Similar to the Massachusetts would not be best—a free Repre sentation of the Province tho’ not too many as they may be increased at any Time, but it would be hard to Diminish; those Representatives to Chose a Council, of proper number; Say 15; these two Branches to Act in all Cases whatever and not to Proceed so far as govenor at Present, tho’ the Door may be left open for that purpose. We throw out these hints with great Submission to the Honbl. Convention. We think [zee] can say (without boasting) [we] have done our duty in this matter, by paying constant Attention, for a long time, not only in the House but in Private Conversation with Members, to clear up any doubts they might have on this head. We can’t help Re- joiceg to see this as a ground work of our government, and hope by the Blessing of Divine Providence, never to Return to our former Despotick State. Inclosed is also Resolves Respectg. Trade which we had orders to Transmitt. 2 We have Also the Pleasure to inform you that an express has Just Arrived from St. John’s, with Advice that our men has taken the for tress at Chamble, 3 and have Sent the Standard Coulours of the Sev enth Regiment to this Congress, took Six Tons of Powder, and many Valuable Stores, abt. 100 Prisoners, hope to have Possession of St. John’s Soon. Mr. Langdon Expects to Set out in five days for Cana da, being one of a Committee for that Place. 4 We are your most obt. Servt John Langdon Josiah Bartlett [P.S.] The Sooner government is Set abt. the Better. RC (Nh-Ar) . Written by Langdon and signed by Bartlett and Langdon. 1 For the action of Congress, see JCC, 3:319. John Adams later recorded a lengthy account of the debates on this issue in his autobiography. Adams, Diary 248-053 O - 77 - 21


[Page 332]
300 November 4, 1775 though not always apparently, are in Reality so nearly connected, of how much Importance, how necessary is it, that the utmost pains be taken by the Publick to have the Principles of Virtue early inculcated on the Minds even of children, and the moral Sense universally kept alive, and that the wise Institutions of our Ancestors for those great Purposes be encouraged by the Government for no People will tame ly surrender their Liberties, nor can they easily be subdued, where Knowledge is diffusd and Virtue preservd. On the Contrary, when People are universally ignorant & debauchd in their Manners, they will sink under their own Weight, without the Aid of foreign Invad ers. There are other things which, I humbly conceive, require the most serious Consideration of the Legislative. We have heretofore com- plaind, and I think justly, that bad Men have too often found their Way into places of publick Trust. “Nothing is more essential to the Establishment of Manners in a State, than that all Persons employd in Places of Power and Trust by Men of exemplary Characters. The Publick cannot be too curious concerning the Character of publick Men.” We have also complaind, that a Plurality of Places incompati ble with each other have sometimes been vested in one Person. If under the former Administration there was no Danger to be appre hended from vesting the different Powers of Government in the same Persons, why did the Patriots so loudly protest against it? If Danger is always to be apprehended from it, Should we not by continuing the Practice, too much imitate the degenerate Romans, who upon the Fall of Julius set up Augustus. They changd indeed their Masters, and when they had destroyd the Tyrant sufferd the Tyranny to con tinue. Tell me how a Judge of Probate can consistently sit at the Council Board and joyn in a Decision there upon an Appeal from his own Judgment. Perhaps, being personally interested in another Ap pointment, I may view it with a partial Eye. 8 But you may well re member that the Secretary of the Colony declind taking a Seat at the Council Board, to which he had been elected prior to his Appoint ment, until, in the House of Representatives he had publickly re quested their Opinion of the Propriety of it, and there heard it ex plicitly declared by an eminent and truly patriotick Member as his opinion, that as the Place was not then as it formerly had been, the Gift of the Crown but of the People, there was no Impropriety in his holding it. The rest of the Members were silent. Major H y [Jo seph Hawley] has as much of the Stern Virtue and Spirit of a Roman Censor as any Gentleman I ever conversd with. The Appointment of the Secretary and his Election to a Seat at the Board were both made in the Time of his Absense from the Colony, and without the Solicitation of any of his Friends that he knew of— most assuredly without his own. As he is resolved never wittingly to


[Page 333]
November 4, 1775 301 disgrace himself or his Country, he still employs his Mind on the Subject, and wishes for your candid and impartial Sentiments. I fear I have trespassd on your Leisure, and conclude with assur ing you that I am with sincere Regards to Mrs Warren Your very af fectionate Friend 7 S A RC (MHi) . FC (NN) . ‘Congress passed several resolves on November 4 based on the report of the Committee of Conference. JCC, 3:321-25. J These measures were adopted on November 4. JCC, 3:325-26. • JCC, 3:319, 326-27. ‘After "except for” in the draft of this letter Adams wrote "the Importation of Arms and Ammunition.” ‘The next 11 lines of the RC have been inked out, apparently by Warren. The excised material, almost totally unreadable, is not in Adams’ draft. ’ Samuel Adams was both secretary and member of the Massachusetts Council. See Samuel Adams to Elbridge Gerry, October 29, 1775, note. See also Thomas Cushing to William Cooper, October 23, 1775. ’For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Warren, November 7, 1775. Rhode Island Delegates to Nicholas Cooke Sir: Phila 4 Nov 1775. We deferred an answer to your Honor’s last letter hoping to have obtained the Resolves of Congress upon the Interesting Subjects con tained in it. 1 We laid it before Congress. Business has since been very pressing, but we shall embrace the first favorable opportunity of obtaining the proper Resolves and shall transmit them as soon as possible. We have no news from England since the arrival of the Ship which brought the Proclamation] for suppressing Rebellion and Sedition. We have the pleasure to assure you Sir that this has a most happy Ef fect upon the affairs of America. Gentlemen no longer expect a Re dress of Grievances from Petition, etc. They now speak, out plainly and cheerfully enter into the most liberal spirited and decisive meas ures. We congratulate you Sir upon the happy Reduction of Fort Chamblee. The Paper containing the Articles of Capitulation, List of Stores, etc., we have enclosed. There is no doubt but we have posses sion of St. John’s before this time The Congress has taken into consideration the state of the trade of the United Colonies. We enclose you an Extract of their proceed ings. 2 We are sensible of the vast Importance of Trade to our Colony but when we consider the invaluable privileges for which we are contending, We are sure that the Virtue of our Constituents will with pleasure sacrifice a temporary Commerce to the salvation of their Country.


[Page 334]
302 November 4, 1775 The moment that our Ports can be opened with a Prospect of Suc cess to the Merchts. and with safety to the Liberating of America we shall use our utmost Influence to restore to the Colony all the Bene fits of a free and extensive commerce. We are with very great Re gards, Sir Your most obedient and very humble Servts. Step Hopkins Sam: Ward P.S. The Paper does not do justice to Majr. Livingston and 300 Ca nadians who were with Majr. Brown and assisted in taking the Fort. 8 I am concerned that I have reed, no answer to my Letters to your Honor relative to the proposed Voyage; I hope the Vessel is gone for Winter approaches fast and it is of the last Importance for us to ob tain Powder before Spring. The inclosed Advertisement I would wish sent to the Foreign West Inds. and other money Places. 4 Your most obedient S. Ward MS not found; reprinted from Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg) , pp. 117-18. 1 Apparently not extant. The latest preceding letter from Cooke now available, dated October 10, 1775, is surely not the document referred to here. Ward, Correspond ence (Knollenberg) , pp. 98-99. •See JCC, 3:314-15. ’Fort Chambly, captured October 18, 1775. 4 Evidently in connection with Congress’ resolution of October 26. JCC, 3:308. John Zubly’s Diary [November 4, 1775] Saturday, 4. Attended Committee & Congress. Declared my Doubts as to [. . .] a Battalion & wishd it referrd to C[onventio]n of Gfeorgia]. 1 Mr. C[hase?] opposed—[. . .] some friends of [. . .] proposed it wait but were overruld by some not friendly [. . .] Motion it[. . . ,]2 Dind with Isr[ael] Pemberton—going [way?] of moderate Men [• • • •] 3 Quite indisposed took a Vomit. MS (GHi). •Congress resolved this day to keep a battalion in Georgia at the Continental expense. JCC, 3:325. • Approximately eight words indecipherable. • Approximately seven words indecipherable.


[Page 341]
November 6, 1775 309 November 7, 1775, note 1. The committee’s letter to Hopkins of November 5 has not been found. “Esek Hopkins (1718-1802), Rhode Island sea captain and privateer in the French and Indian War, was offered command of the fledgling Continental Navy on November 5 by the Naval Committee, of which his brother, Stephen, was a member and sometime chairman. Congress granted his commission as commander in chief on December 22, 1775, an office he held until March 1777, when he was relieved of it for unsatisfactory performance of duties. DAB; and JCC, 3:443, 7:204. John Langdon to Ammi Ruhamah Cutter Dear Sr. Philad. 6th Nov. 1775 Your kind favor of 22d Octob is now before me, 1 am much Obliged for your Friendly hint Respectg my ship, as I’ve been at a loss for some time, whether to Trust the money in London, tho’ my Brother will be on the Spot who will take all proper Steps; 2 as it hap pens I owe them no money, but most heartily wish I had twenty thousand of theirs, in my hands, it all should go most freely for the good of Lux. The more than Savage Cruelty of that haughty Scotchman Mow- att, Shocks every Idea, none but his Abandon[ed] Masters could have tho’t of such wanton Cruelty. No, not even the grand enemy to mankind, with all his band of infernal Spirits, as described by Milton could have been more Cruel. Heaven Grant, if He should Arrive at Portsmouth, that one of our thirty two pounders Winged with fate, may hurl him head long to the place he Deserves. Am much obliged for your being so Particular in your letter. Shall send the Copy of Mowatt’s Letter with Extracts from yours, to the press; have shewn them to most of the Congress, who are greatly pleased with the Conduct of New Hampshire, as they have been for some time much Concern’d for our fate. We take every opportunity to lay our Spirited Advices before the Congress which gives wait [weight] to the Colony, which I may say Stands as fair, with the Con gress as any on the Continent. I have no Doubt of the True Spirit of my fellow Country men, and Citizens, and that their heads will be Cover’d in the day of Battle, and the more so when I see, with plea sure men of Sense and influence give their assistance. In short I’ve no other Idea, but to Come off Victorious "for thrice is he Armed who has his q[u]arrell Just and he’s but Naked tho locked up in Steel whose Concience with Injustice is Corrupted.” The Colonies Seem more and more united and Determined to make a vigorous Defence. Have the Pleasure to inform you that, have obtaind, after paying Close Attention, a Resolution of Congress to take Some Sort of Gov ernment, Duri[n]g these Disputes, which I’ve inclosed to our 248-053 0-77-22


[Page 342]
310 November 6, 1775 Convention. 3 Also that we have the Rigimental Coulours of the Sev enth Regiment hung up in Congress which was Taken at Chamble which place was taken by our Troops, with all Six Tons of Powder, Provisions, arms in Considerable quantity. I have the Honour of being Appointed one of a Committee to go to Canada, 4 to Regulate some matters there but as the Season is so far Advanced had some hope to get off but fear shall not. Expect to set off in few days. My kind Respects to your Family and all Friends and Beleive to be with great Respect Your Friend and Hbl. Servt. Jno. Langdon RC (PHi). 1 Ammi Ruhamah Cutter (1735-1819), Portsmouth, N. H., physician and justice of the peace, former minor merchant and large landowner, had been a political intimate of Gov. John Wentworth. He later served as physician general of the eastern department, 1777-78. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 13:220-25. ’Woodbury Langdon (1738?—1805), prominent Portsmouth merchant and mem ber of the provincial assembly, 1774-75, had sailed for London on September 9, 1775. After two years of largely mysterious activity in both London and France (where he apparently aided brother John’s commercial connection with Silas Deane) , he returned to New York, where he was confined at the urging of Gov. John Wentworth. He escaped in late December, 1777, reestablished himself in New Hampshire, and eventually represented that province in Congress in 1779. DAB; and Lawrence S. Mayo, John Langdon of New Hampshire (Concord, N. H.: Rumford Press, 1937), pp. 88-89, 155-68. •See New Hampshire Delegates to Matthew Thornton, November 3, 1775. * See ibid., note 4. Robert Treat Paine to William Whiting Sr Philada. Novr. 6th. 1775 I reed. yr. letter of Octr. 6th in which you give me an Account of your progress in making Salt-petre. 1 I hope before this time you have had a good Account of working up the Meeting House Earth at G. Barrington; it is to little purpose that we make Experiments if we do not carry it to large practice; we want great quantitys of Salt petre, & not barely to know that we are able to make it, shot we have known a long time, &: I think we are wholly inexcusable if do not turn out very large quantitys of Salt petre by the Spring of the Year. We have Specimens of exceeding fine Petre brought us here from many parts of this Colony, New Jersey & other places &: nothing is clearer than that numbers of People in different places are able to make it. The grand Matter is to propagate the making it in large Quantitys. I was in great expectation that the Resolves of the Con gress on this Subject would have produced good Effects in the To bacco Colonies, but on Enquiry I find that the Convention of Virgin ia did not take any steps to carry it into Execution (having many


[Page 343]
November 6, 1775 311 Matters before them). Maryland voted a Sum of money but appoint ed no operators. The Congress very justly alarmed at the astonishing inattention of the Colonies to this most essential Matter, have Ap pointed Another Comittee to devise Ways & Means to promote this Manufacture. 2 I have the honour to be one of this Cmttee, 8c great pains have we taken about it, we have not yet determined how, but we have under Consideration to send certain Germans who are here, 8c who have given Specimens of their skill, into the Tobacco Colonies to carry on the manufacture there. The great Works of this City have made no Salt petre valuable, the House of Assembly of this Colony have the matter under Consideration. I hope Something Great will be done in New England—8c this Sr. brings me to what I have principally in veiw in writing Vizt. there Laying a foundation for a great quantity of Salt petre next Spring. There are two matters to be attended to forthwith, the first is to Search out & work up all the impregnated Materials that are now on hand or to be found 8c At the Same time to provide mix 8c duly dis pose suitable materials for impregnation in as large quantitys as pos sible. I hope this matter is not neglected—immediate Care must be taken—sheds must be prepared over dry Land 8c the Materials must not be put very thick if made in Beds under Sheds, for if they are thick or deep the Air will not impregnate it through. It is generally thought best that the Stuff should be made into Walls or fences as they call them, some such are made in this city 8c they talk much of making many here. An easy method of making these fences is this. Let the Stuff be properly mixed 8: Cut Straw Be mixed with it to make it stick together, then let your Walls be made about 15 or 18 inches at bottom, abt. 5 feet high 8c tapering to the top to about 4 or 5 inches thick in Order to make it Stand while forming let peices ol Joyce or Poles be cut of a Suitable length 8c set in this Manner with the ends on the Ground 8c little Stakes Stuck against the ends into the Ground. A number of Such pairs of Joyce must be set at convenient distance ranging as you intend the Wall shall go, rough boards are to be put on the inside of these Joyce frames so that when the dirt is put between them it may be kept up 8c so as you raise your Dirt you put more boards till you get to the Top, ramming the Dirt as you go along Sufficient to keep it from falling 8c yet not so hard as to prevent the Air from entering. These Walls should be covered with boards or straw so as to prevent the Rains from washing the sides. The Germans I have consulted on this Matter are of Opinion that if proper Materials are now put up in a judicious manner they will be so impregnated in 6 months as to yeild largely. Therefore at all events Materials must be forwith provided in as large a manner as possible. Sr. it [is] my opinion that unless we exert our selves in this Mat-


[Page 344]
312 November 6, 1775 ter & have some tollerable Success it is very uncertain whether every thing else we can do will Avail as much, & if we are successful in this matter in my Opinion every thing else favourable will come of Course. I hope you Correspond with yr. Brethren of the Salt petre Cmttee & also with other well disposed Active Salt petre Makers in any place that you know of, spurring them on to lay up proper materials in a proper manner. Pray shew this to Major Hawley, Mr. Gerry & other persons who are desirous to promote this matter. Give my Regards to all Friends. The Express is waiting Sc I must Subscribe yr. friend & hble Serf. R T Paine RC (MHi) . ’William Whiting (1730-92), Great Barrington, Mass., physician and represent ative to the Provincial Congress, 1774-76, was a member of a legislative committee named in mid-1775 to seek practical methods of making saltpetre. Charles J. Taylor, History of Great Barrington, Massachusetts (Great Barrington: Clark W. Bryan & Co., 1882) , pp. 273-75; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:1460, 1462. Whiting’s letter to Paine, dated October 6, 1775, is at MHi. 3 Paine, Charles Humphreys, and George Wythe were appointed to the "salt petre committee” on October 29. JCC, 3:310-11. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Ingersoll Sir Philadelphia Novr. 6th. 1775 I received Your letter of the 30th of October. Would request you 1 to use your best discretion on my behalf in Securing and recovering the money due on the Several notes which I put into Your hands, and You may rest Assured that You Shall not Suffer by any loss which may happen, and I will See that Justice be done the Assignee So far as is in my power. I dont know when I can come home, or have opportunity to attend to my own private affairs. There has been Several Addresses to General Gage from Some persons in Boston, on his leaving that place, lately published here. John Simson is a subscriber of one of them, wherein is this remark able paragraph: viz, “We cannot forbear to express our Sentiments, that could a restoration to quiet and good Order have been effected in this Province by the influence of personal character, a gentleman of Your Excellency’s Established reputation for Candour 8c Justice, for moderation, and an obliging disposition, invested at the Same time with the Supreme Military Authority, could not have failed to have Secured it.” General Gage’s treatment of the Unhappy Suffer ers in Boston will Evidence how well he deserved this Character! If the aforesaid Subscriber is your client, you would do well to consider


[Page 347]
November 7, 1775 315 Thomas Jefferson to Francis Eppes Dear Sir Philadelphia Nov. 7. 1775 We have no late intelligence here except of the surrender of Chambly, with 90. prisoners of war, 6 1/2 tons of powder, 150 stands of arms and some other small matters. The acquisition of this powder we hope has before this made us masters of St. John’s, on which Montreal and the upper parts of St. Laurence will of course be ours. The fate of Arnold’s expedition we know not as yet. We have had some disagreeable accounts of internal commotions in South Carolina. I have never received the scrip of a pen from any mortal in Vir ginia since I left it, nor been able by any enquiries I could make to hear of my family. I had hoped that when Mrs. Byrd came I should have heard something of them, but she could tell me nothing about them. The suspense under which I am is too terrible to be endured. If any thing has happened, for god’s sake let me know it. My best affections to Mrs. Eppes. Adieu. RC (ViU: Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation deposit). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) , 1:252. Naval Committee to Silas Deane To Silas Deane Esqr. Philadelphia November the 7th 1775 You are desired to repair immediately to the City of New York, and there purchase a Ship suitable for carrying 20 nine pounders upon one deck, if such a Ship can there be found. Also a Sloop, suit able to carry ten guns, which we wotdd choose should be Bermudian built if such a one can be had. If you succeed in purchasing both, or either of these Vessels, you will use all possible expedition to procure them to be armed and equipped for the Sea. For this purpose you will apply to, and employ such persons as can carry this business into the most speedy execution. Should there be danger in fitting these Vessels at New York from the Kings ships, you may then send the Vessels eastward thro the Sound to New London or Norwich in order to be armed and fitted. Should this be the case you will repair imme diately to the place where the Ships are to be fitted, and there use ev ery means in your power to procure this to be done with the utmost expedition. For the Colony of Connecticut you are to procure pow der for both these Vessels, and such other Military Stores as can there be had. You will procure the Cannon and other Stores at New York or any other place where it can be done in the best and most expeditious manner. You will also procure Officers and Men suitable


[Page 348]
316 November 7, 1775 for these Vessels. As soon as these Vessels can possibly be fitted for the Sea, you will order them immediately into Delaware Bay. You will by every opportunity give us the most exact intelligence of all your proceedings by conveyances the most safe and secure that can be obtained. You are empower’d to draw on Governor Hopkins for such sums of money as may be necessary for the above business. Step Hopkins Joseph Hewes Christ Gadsden John Adams Richard Henry Lee Jno. Langdon P.S. In the course of your Journey at New York, or elsewhere you are to employ proper Persons to engage experienced and able-bodied seamen to man the ships now fitting out who must repair to Philadel phia with all possible dispatch.' RC (CtHi) . Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Adams, Gadsden, Hewes, Hopkins, and Langdon. 'This committee, created October 13 and enlarged October 30, came to be designated the Naval Committee, although often described in the journals as "the committee for fitting out armed vessels.” For its origin and development to early 1776, when its functions were absorbed by what came to be called the Marine Committee, see JCC, 3:277-78, 293-94, 311-12, 364, 376, 378-87, 395-97, 420, 425-28, 4:90, 186; and Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:342-50. Deane, himself a member of the Naval Committee, went to New York but failed to accomplish his mission. See Naval Committee to Deane, November 16; and Deane to Elizabeth Deane, Novem ber 26, 1775. For other aspects of the committee’s work, see also John Adams to Elbridge Gerry, November 5; Stephen Hopkins to Esek Hopkins, November 6; Richard Henry Lee to George Washington, November 13; and Samuel Chase to John Adams, November 16, 1775. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Philadelphia 7 th Novr. 1775. Mentions progress of the American invasion of Canada, and alludes to efforts then under way in Con gress to secure the establishment of a Continental Navy. “Our In struction relative to a Fleet has never been under Consideration yet. I expect in a Day or two to have it determined. I am heartily glad We did not press the matter at first as We have a much better Pros pect of carrying some decisive Measure now than at the opening of the Session.” 1 Abstracted from mutilated RC (RHi) . 1 For the instructions to Ward and Hopkins from the Rhode Island Assembly calling for the creation of an American fleet, which were laid before Congress October 3, 1775, see JCC, 3:274.


[Page 355]
November 9, 1775 323 which they were taught to believe would soon happen. We are in daily expectation of further intelligence from England, several vessels being expected here; the last ships that have arrived brought the king’s proclamation. You will see it in the newspapers; it is remark able those ships brought very few letters from private persons—it would seem as if the proclamation had deterred our friends from writing on the subject of politics. My best compliments to the ladies, and believe me to be, with much esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obedi ent humble servant, Joseph Hewes MS not found; reprinted from Griffith J. McRee, Life and Correspondence of James Iredell, One of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, 2 vols. (New York: D. Appleton and Co., 1857-58), 1:265-66. 1 Hewes’ letter to Washington has not been found, and there are no extant letters from Washington to Hewes before 1779. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philadelphia 9th Nov. 1775 It is now I imagine near three Weeks since your Provincial Coun cil broke up and I take it for granted you have sent an express with the account of your deliberations to your Delegates] here. We ex pect it dayly and are Anxious for its Arival. 1 I hope you have fallen on some method to furnish your Soldiers with Arms and Amunition, those Articles are very scarse throughout all the Colonies. 2 I find on enquiry that neither can be got here, all the Gunsmiths in this Prov ince are engaged and cannot make Arms near so fast as they are wanted. Powder is also very Scarse notwithstanding every effort seems to have been exerted both to make and import. The Congress exert every Nerve to put the Colonies into a proper state of defence, four Regiments are ordered to be raised on Continental Pay for the defence of South Carolina and Georgia. 3 It is expected the two Regi ments with you will be continued and kept up the same as other parts of the Army. One Regiment is now raising in this Province and Two in New Jersey on the same establishment. Twenty thousand Men are to be kept up near Boston and Five thousand on the Lakes, Canada &c, The whole Army to be enlisted to the 31st of December 1776 unless discharged sooner by Order of Congress. The Pay of the Cap tains, Lieutenants and Ensigns is increased, they are now allowed as follows, a Captain 26 2/3 Dollars, a Lieutenant 18 Dollars, an En sign 13 1/3 Dollars per Calendar month. The Rations allowed the Soldiers thro’ the whole Army you have as follows, One pound of Beef or 3/4 lb of Pork, or 1 lb of Salt Fish per day each Man.


[Page 356]
324 November 9, 1775 1 lb of bread or Flour. 3 pints of Peas or Beans per Week or Vegetables in proportion, rating Peas or Beans at 6/ per Bushel. 1 pint of milk per man per day or at the rate of 1/72 of a Dollar per pint. 1 /2 pint of Rice, or one pint of Indian meal per man per week. One quart of Spruce Beer or Cyder per man, or 9 gallons of Mo lasses per Company of 100 Men per week. 3 lb. of Candles to 100 men per week for guards. 24 lb of Soft Soap or 8 lb. hard Soap for 100 men per Week. 4 I doubt not you will find it Necessary to come into a new agreement with your Commissaries, for it will be but Just and right to give your Soldiers the same allowance that is given to those in other places. It is also recommended that all the Soldiers be put into some Uniform, that the Public purchase the Cloth and have it made up and that it be discounted out of each Mans Pay, at the rate of 10/ per month. The Soldiers near Boston we are told are well pleased with this regula tion. Several other matters which together with some Ships and Vessels that are fitting out at the Charge of the Continent will enhance our expences amazingly, by which you may Judge we have but little ex pectation of a reconciliation. I can assure you from all the accounts we have yet received from England we have Scarsely a dawn of hope that it will take place. Mr. Middleton and Mr. Rutledge two of the Delegates for South Carolina set out for that Province on Sunday last. They intended thro’ Halifax and carried a Letter for you from the President inclos ing a resolution respecting Trade. I have enclosed some News papers in A Letter to Mr. Smith, to them you must look for News. I hope all your Family are in good health, my Complements to them, you and they have always the best wishes of Dear Sir your mo. Obedt. hume. Servant Joseph Hewes [P.S.] Nov. 10th. Since writing the above, a Ship Arived from Lon don and brings papers to 12th Septemr. No answer is to be given to the Petition of the Congress as the King did not receive it on the Throne, Parliament prorogued to the 26th Octo. RC (Nc-Ar) . 1 Johnston had already written separate letters to Hewes and to the North Carolina delegates on November 5. Clark, Naval Documents, 2:898-99. a On this point, see Hewes to Johnston, November 26, 1775. “Congress resolved on November 4 to maintain "at the continental expense’ three battalions for the defense of South Carolina and one for that of Georgia. JCC, 3:325. This action was probably prompted by the request of the South Carolina Council of Safety, in their September 18 letter to the South Carolina


[Page 357]
November 9, 1775 325 delegates, for "an Army of Observation & General Officers to Command all our forces, at the general charge of the Colonies.” South Carolina Historical and Genealogical Magazine 1 (October 1900) : 285-90. Having been informed that Congress had "granted 1000 Men to North Carolina,” the council asserted that South Carolina’s weaker position required even greater defensive measures, "with out which Carolina & Georgia will be involved in such difficulties as may & probably will greatly injure the common Interests of America.” 4 Congress adopted the preceding regulations about the pay and rations of the Continental Army on November 4. JCC, 3:322. New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen— Philad. 9th Novemr. 1775. The Congress have taken the resolution to appoint a commander of the fortress in the Highlands, with the rank of colonel, and Wednesday is fixed for that purpose. As it must be of moment that this command should be vested in a person of abilities, and in whom the inhabitants place confidence, we wish you would name three or four gentlemen who are competent for the trust, and we shall endea vour to get one of them preferred. You will however be pleased to observe that as these works are erected at a Continental expense, the Congress claim an absolute right to appoint the officers. 1 We have the honour to be. With the greatest respect, gentlemen, Your most obedient humble servants, 2 Jas. Duane, Robt. R. Livingston, Junr. MS not found; reprinted from Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:107. 1 On the appointment of a commander for the fortifications in the Highlands, see New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Convention, January 5, 1776, note 1. ’Governor Tryon of New York somehow obtained an FC of this letter (contain ing some minor variations from the present text) , written by James Duane and directed to Abraham Yates, then president of the New York Provincial Congress. On the verso of this FC is the following note in an unidentified hand: “The [. . .] Batterys in the hi[gh] lanjdjs is to be Strongly fortifyed with all expedition [. . .] on each Side of the River, as I hord [heard] them Say this Day. The above Letter is Yates’s own writing.” James Brattle, a former servant of Tryon’s who was employed as Duane’s valet at the time of this letter, occasionally sent the governor intelligence reports about the proceedings of Congress, including some of Duane’s own correspondence. But since this document is clearly in Duane's hand it is unlikely that Brattle would have forwarded it to Tryon with a covering note ascribing it to Yates, unless perhaps a third person was a party to Brattle s activities, and added a hastily written endorsement with an attribution prompted by the appearance of Yates’ name on the document. In any event, Tryon forwarded 248-053 0 -77-23


[Page 362]
330 November 11, 1775 RC (MHi) . 1 Henry Knox (1750-1806), Boston bookseller, was appointed colonel of artillery on November 17, 1775, and after serving as a general officer during the war he became secretary at war in 1785. DAB; and JCC, 3:359. Thomas Lynch to Philip Schuyler My dear Sir Phila. Novr. 11. 1775 I owe you my best thanks for the Part you have taken in ascertain ing the true State of the Connecticut Regiments. I had seen Governor Trumbull, who shewed me your first Letter, in which you mentiond that 500 of Hinmans were to proceed to Canada. I told him that Colo Dyer had misinformed that I said that I did not imagine, there were more than two or three Hundred Men of Hinmans who were there, properly armed & ready for Service; and being asked where the Rest were, I answered I did not know any thing about them, only that they were not at the Camp, & told the Govr further that I was glad to hear so many had joined the Army since I left it, so that I went farther in my Guess than I find by your Letter was fact. 1 I am very sorry to find they fell so short of your fe general Mont gomery’s opinion on the Article of Courage. I pity, from my soul, that brave gentleman, his Feelings must have [been] truely acute when he saw them running away from themselves. We wait in a State of the most anxious suspence for Accounts of the total Reduction of Canada and their accession to our League. I beg our most respectful Compliments to you, your Family and Friends particularly Mr Mon[t]gomery, Mr Campbell fee. Your affece & sincere Tho Lynch RC (NN) . 1 For an account of General Schuyler’s difficulties with Col. Benjamin Hinman, commander of the Fourth Connecticut Regiment, see Schuyler’s letters to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull of October 12 and 13, 1775, in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1033-35, 1054; and Benson J. Lossing, The Life and Times of Philip Schuyler, 2 vols. (New York: Sheldon & Co., 1860-73), 1:340-43. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward My dear Bror. Philadelphia 11th Novr. 1775 A Ship arrived from London on Thursday. Our Petition you see the Fate of in the Letter published in the Paper I sent Govr. Cooke last Evening. Passengers assure us that the Hanoverians refuse to come to America, that Administration is determined to push their Measures at all Events, that 20000 Troops are to be sent over in the


[Page 367]
November 13, 1775 335 parent State so that all prospect of procuring an accomodation by constitutional Measures seemeth to be nearly at an end. The peculiar Circumstances of my family hath prevented me from attending the Congress for Sometime past and the same Still continu ing renders it uncertain when I shall be able to attend. This and other reasons needless to be mentioned induces me earnestly to desire and request that the Honourable House will now be pleased to appoint another to attend the Continental Congress in my Stead. 1 I am Gen tlemen your most Obliged 8c most Obedient hum servt John DeHart RC (NjMoHP). 1 About this time James Kinsey also sought permission from the New Jersey Assembly to resign his seat in Congress. DeHart and Kinsey both insisted to the assembly that they wanted to leave Congress only because their service there had become a source of great personal inconvenience to them, but Gov. William Franklin of New Jersey dismissed this explanation and asserted that their resigna tions were "generally attributed to Apprehension of Danger.” Whatever the truth of the matter, the assembly accepted their resignations on November 22 and on the same day authorized any two of New Jersey’s three remaining delegates to repre sent the province in Congress. However, after taking into consideration the diffi culties that might arise from requiring the presence of two delegates in Philadel phia, the assembly decided on November 30 to allow any one of them to constitute a quorum in Congress. DeHart was reelected to Congress in February 1776, but in June 1776, in the midst of debates on independence, he again resigned "on account of the situation of his family and affairs.” JCC, 3:396-97; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1852-53, 1860, 4:1592, 6:1618; and N. ]. Archives, 10:680-81. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novemr 13th 1775 I must beg leave at the beginning of this letter to apologise for any incorrectness as I write in great haste. Indeed the hurry of business is such here with many of us, that we have little time for the ordinary offices of life. You may be assured that I will do Colo. Read [Reed] all the service that I can in the way you desire. 1 We have a Ship here in 6 weeks from London, that brought the original letter of which the in closed is a copy. 2 Tis from a well informed, sensible friend, and may be relyed on. All the other letters from London join in confirming it to be the fixt determination of K and Court to leave undone nothing that they can do, to compel implicit obedience in America. One very sensible letter that I have seen, mentions that Gen. Amherst had rec ommended (8c ’twas said it would be executed) to remove the Army this winter from Boston to Long Island, in order to get amply sup plied by ravaging N. Jersey, N. York, and Rhode Island. Should this


[Page 369]
November 13, 1775 337 RC (DLC) . 1 Washington had requested Lee's aid in obtaining postponements of legal cases in Philadelphia involving Joseph Reed, the general’s secretary. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:52. See also Thomas Lynch to Washington, this date. “Dated "Septr. 4th 1775," this letter reports British plans to augment their military forces in America and comments on the king’s proclamation against the American rebellion and his refusal to receive the petition of the united colonies. Washington Papers, DLC. “This account of the action at Hampton, Va., October 26-27, is from the Virginia Gazette (Dixon and Hunter) , October 28, 1775. ‘See JCC, 3:352. “See Francis L. Lee to Landon Carter, October 21, and Virginia Delegates to the Williamsburg Committee of Safety, October 23, 1775. Thomas Lynch to George Washington My dear Sir Phila Nov 13. 1775 In consequence of your Favr. By Colo Read [Reed] I applied to the Chief Justice who tells me the Supreme Courts were lately held and that it will be some time before their Term will return, 1 that he knows of no Capital Suit now depending and that it [is] very easy for Colo Read to manage matters so as not to let that prevent his Re turn to you. I am sure Mr Chew is so heartily disposed to oblige you and to serve the Cause, that nothing in his Power will be wanting. I fear however that you will be sometime in want of your Secretary, as I did not find him in hast to return when I mentioned to him what is just now related. He doubtless has many private affairs to transact. The Loss must be greatly increased by Mr Randolphs absence who I hear came to Town last Night. I am happy to inform you that Congress has agreed to every Rec ommendation of the Committee and have gone beyond it in allowing the additional pay to the officers. 2 I rejoice at this but cant think with Patience that pityfull wretches who stood cavilling with you when entreated to serve the next Campaign shoud reap the Benefit of this addition. They will now be ready enough but hope you will be able to refuse them with the Contempt they deserve and to find better in their Rooms. Coud not some of the Gentlemen at Camp inlist the New England Men who have been perswaded to leave you, Frazier told me he coud. It woud be a Capital Point to convince the World that it is not necessary to have bad Officers of that Country in order to raise Men there. I can scarce bear their Tyranny. I have a Letter from undoubted authority that assures me, that the Destruction of the Parliamentary Army in America will certainly produce Peace and by another that the Seizing Quebec will produce the same Effect. I have no doubt America stands now indebted to


[Page 370]
338 November 13, 1775 her General for the One & will before the Return of Spring for the other. Mistake me not, I have not altered my mind a jot since I left you. I mean not to anticipate your Determinations, but only to ap prove your Design to hover like an Eagle over your Prey, always ready to Pounce [on] it when the proper Time comes; I have not forgot your Proposition relative to that City; I try to pave the way for it, and wait for the Season as you do. 3 No appearance of Peace unless produced by necessity on the part of the Enemy, every human feeling seems to have forsaken them. Fear and Interest only are listened to. We hear Seven Tonns of Powder are arrived at Rhode Island & as many at Portsmouth, I hope tis true as it will possess us of advanta- gious grounds 8c begin the Enemys Destruction. It is suspected in England Howes Army will give you the slip [and] land at Long Is land; which God of his infinite mercy grant. We wait with impatience to hear of the total reduction of Canada. Your Virginians we hear have drubbed L[ord] D[unmore], killed 8c took 50 Men and sank one of his Vessells. May all such Vil- ains so perish. A Mr. Richd. Hare, Brother to the Porter Brewer, sailed in the Transport for Quebec. As you have or must take him let me recom mend him to your Civilities while with you, and to send him to his Friends here. His Brother boards Miss Willing on them. The Articles of War has all the amendments as reported. 4 You will inforce them. You will not now suffer your Officers to sweep the Parade the Skirts of their Coats or bottoms of their Trowsers, to cheat or to mess with their Men, to skulk in battle or sneak in Quarters. In short being now paid they must do their Duty & look as well as act like Gentlemen. Do not bate them an Ace, my Dear Gen eral, but depend on every Support of your Friends here. I have strove to keep two Battallions now raising in the Jerseys and one here quite disengaged that they may be ready on a call to join you, shoud those you have desert you. I have not been quite unsuccesful. 5 The Winter is our own, Boston will not during that season be rein forced; at least we have reason to think so. I want the Return I desired from Gates exceedingly. Complts to him, Lee, Putnam, Mifflin 8cc. ’Tis so dark I cant read this Letter over or I woud save you the trouble of decyphering it. Dear Sir your most Obedt. Serv Tho Lynch [P.S.] Ought not that Spirit of Independance and of Seperation from all other authority, which appeared in the case of Capt. Dyer to [be?] abolished. Will it be right to keep your Negroes for wood cut ters?


[Page 372]
340 November 13, 1775 MS (MWA) . In the hand of Roger Sherman, and endorsed by Sherman: "James Dean’s Information.” 1 Deane undoubtedly brought these damaging allegations about Commissary Livingston to Sherman’s attention because of Sherman’s appointment on November 2 to a committee to obtain clothing for General Schuyler’s army, but no evidence has been found to indicate that Sherman took any action in response to them. ]CC, 3:317-18. For an account of Livingston’s activities as commissary, emphasizing inefficiency rather than corruption in the northern department, see Victor L. Johnson, The Administration of the American Commissariat during the Revolu tionary War (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania, 1941), pp. 111-24. See also Samuel Adams to Joseph Trumbull, August 3, 1776. Samuel Ward to Catharine Greene My clearest Daughter Philadelphia 13 Novr. 1775 I have the Pleasure of your Letter by Dr. Franklin and am thank full that you & your Family are well. 1 Your first Letter I reed, soon after it was wrote and answered it by the first Opportunity, whether I wrote by Post or a private Hand I cannot remember, But tho it may be unseasonable with Regard to the Advice you asked I promise My self it will not be unwelcome whenever it arrives. I should often write to You but I am often engaged in Committes Morning & Evening that my Time is so taken up that I cannot indulge myself the Plea sure of writing to you & my other Children so often as I wish. Mr. Greene gave me some Encouragement that he would write to me, a good long Letter would be very acceptable and I shall probably stay here long enough to give you both Opportunities of writing to me. Some Gentlemen think We may at Christmas adjourn until Spring, others think We must sett the whole Winter, affairs grow every Day more serious. May divine Wisdom direct all our Measures. By the last Ships We have Letters of 9th 8c 10th Sepr. They all agree in this that the Administration is determined to push their Measures at all Events. One Letter says the King in a Conference which he lately had with a Person of Rank told him that he was unal terably determined let the Consequence be what it would to reduce the Colonies to absolute Obedience. For this Purpose 50 sail of Men of War 8c 20000 land Forces are to be sent over in the Spring, our maritime Towns to be destroyed 8c all Commerce interdicted. In one Word those Wicked Madmen are calling not upon Heaven but upon every other Power to assist them in destroying Us. There is now and then a timid Wretch who is frightend with these terrible Denuncia tions of Vengeance but I have the vast Pleasure to see that instead of intimidating they highly animate, instead of dividing they most strongly unite the People in general and the Congress in particular. We are now all or very nearly all of one Mind, the only Question is


[Page 373]
November 13, 1775 341 how We shall best defend all Parts of the Continent & most effectual ly distress and annoy our Enemies. Many very important Plans are under Consideration, others will be taken into consideration very soon and from the Spirit with which Measures are now planned & pursued I have no Doubt but by the divine Blessing We shall be able to reduce our Enemies to Reason and establish the Rights and Liber ties of this Country upon an equitable advantageous & permanent Basis. What Fortifications you have at Greenwich I dont know but I wish if they are not sufficient to defend 2 the Town that the People would immediately erect such Works as will defend it against the most sav age Enemies for such under the sacred name of Christians the once glorious Name of Englishmen 8c the endearing Appellation of Breth ren We have now to fight. Many Measures are taken by Congress to get a sufficient Quantity of Powder but I fear some of them may fail. The Want of that Article alone may ruin Us; every Measure there fore ought to be taken to obtain it. I hope Mr. Greene 8c the Com- [pan] y may be able in the Course of this Winter to serve the Country in this important Matter without Injury to their private Fortunes. The General Assembly is authorized by Congress to send out Vessels loaded with any produce except horned Cattle, Sheep, hogs & poultry to the foreign West Indies for Powder. If the Comp [an] y has a swift small Vessel I doubt not but the Depy. Govr. would employ them, or if they have Cash or good Bills they may send on their own Acct, for Powder, they cant export produce unless on the Colonys Acct. I wish Mr. Greene may acquaint your Uncle Greene & the People of Greenwich that every Expectation of an Accommodation is entire ly over that our only Safety is under God in a brave Defence of our Lives & Property that they may take every possible Measure for their Defence. Happily We have this Winter to prepare in, the Prize for which We are contending is every thing dear to human Nature, no Time is to be lost, may Heaven direct 8c prosper us all. My affectionate Regards to Mr. Greene, to your Uncles Greene & Hubbart, to your Aunt 8c all their Families 8c all your Bros, and Fam- ilys. I am My dearest Child Your very affece. Parent. Sam Ward P.S. The few Lines added by Nany gave me the highest Pleasure. May Heaven grant her again the wise Prayer of Horace “a sound Mind 8c a sound Body that She may enjoy herself 8c continue a Bless ing to Us all.” We have late News from Arnold. He was at Point Levy opposite to Quebec with his detachment all well, the French had been very helpful, Genl. Carleton 8c Guy Johnston at Montreal that I hope Arnold has met little or no Resistance. I expected to hear St. Johns was taken before now. 3 248-053 0-77-24


[Page 378]
346 November 14, 1775 The Terms most suitable to The Committee are, for you to take up the Vessels, and load them, on Commissions, at risque of the Conti nent. Your Neighbor contracted in this way, 3 and though I have not the strongest Faith in him, yet I should have appeared singular, had I refused him the Chance, which others obtained, & Mr Alsop was in his favor in the Committee. No Time is to be lost in this Affair. I shall compleat The Business I came here upon, 4 in Two Days more, &: then return to Philadelphia. Is there a single Deck’d Vessel in your Neighborhood which will carry Sixteen Gunns? If there is write Me. Can you contract for a Shipp that shall Carry Thirty Nine-pounders to be off the Stocks in March next? This hint will enable you to judge of my Business here, and that you may possibly be of Service to yourself, & Country by coming down to Philadelphia. I am my Dear sir Yours Silas Deane RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1978). ’Mumford’s letter to Deane of October 19, 1775, is in Collections of the Connecticut Historical Society 23 (1930): 11-12. ’For the Secret Committee’s contract with Mumford, see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, November 28, 1775. •A reference doubtlessly to the Secret Committee’s contract with Nathaniel Shaw, Jr., November 8, 1775. ‘See Naval Committee to Deane, November 7, 1775. Thomas Lynch to Richard Montgomery Sir Phila Novr. 14 [1775] I shoud not break in upon the many weighty Considerations that must always employ your Mind but to request your good offices for a Mr. Richd Hare, who embarked for Quebec in the Transport, we so eagerly wish to meet with. Shoud he come into your hands, be good enough to help him forward to his Friends at this Place, with as many Conveniences as may be. Mr. Livingston will carry you all the News, except perhaps the opinion of our Friends in England, that the total reduction of Canada this Winter must certainly produce Peace in the Spring. Ld Dunmore is said to have got a Beating 8c to have lost one Ship 8c 50 men, by the Virginian[s]. I wish you success, only in proportion to your Merit. I desire no more 8c will be contented with no Less for then Canada all Canada is ours. Sir your most Obedt Servt Tho Lynch RC (PRO: C.O. 5, 1107). Addressed: “To The honble Brigadier General Richd. Montgomery at St. Johns in Canada.” Lynch’s letter was intercepted by the British and enclosed by Gov. William Tryon of New York in a letter to Lord Dartmouth of December 7, 1775.


[Page 380]
348 November 15, 1775 Let the Governor, Council, and House be each a distinct and inde pendant Branch of the Legislature, and have a Negative on all Laws. Let the Lt. Governor, Secretary, Treasurer, Commissary, Attorney General and Solicitor General, be chosen annually, by joint Ballott of both Houses. Let the Governor with Seven Councillors be a Quorum. Let all officers and Magistrates, civil and military, be nominated and appointed by the Governor, by and with the Advice and Consent of his Council. Let no officer be appointed but at a General Council, and let No tice be given to all the Councillors, Seven days at least before a Gen eral Council. Let the Judges, at least of the Supreme Court, be incapacitated by Law from holding any share of the Legislative or Executive Power, Let their Commissions be during good Behaviour, and their Salaries ascertained and established by Law. Let the Governor have the Command of the Army, the Militia, Forts &c. Let the Colony have a Seal and affix it to all Commissions. In this Way a Single Month is Sufficient without the least Convul sion or even Animosity to accomplish a total Revolution in the Gov ernment of a Colony. If it is thought more beneficial a Law may be made by this new Legislature leaving to the People at large the Priviledge of choosing their Governor, and Councillors annually, as soon as affairs get into a more quiet Course. In Adopting a Plan, in some Respects Similar to this, human Na ture would appear in its proper Glory asserting its own moral Digni ty, pulling down Tyrannies, at a single Exertion and erecting Such new Fabricks, as it thinks best calculated to promote its Happiness. As you was the last Evening polite enough to ask me for this Mod el, if such a Trifle will be of any service to you, or any gratification of Curiosity, here you have it, from, sir your Friend and humble servant John Adams RC (ViU). 1 This “Sketch” may have been the origin of Adams’ later pamphlet, apparently published at Lee’s request, Thoughts on Government: Applicable to the Present State of the American Colonies (Philadelphia: John Dunlap, 1776) , which was originally drafted in the form of letters to William Hooper, John Penn, Jonathan D. Sergeant, and George Wythe. See Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:331-32n; Ad ams, Works (Adams) , 4:185-93; John Adams to John Penn, March 19-27? 1776; and John Adams to James Warren, April 20, 1776.


[Page 383]
November 16, 1775 351 the Reason for not proceeding with the Regiment to the Satisfaction of the most Scrupulous. After informing you of the fact advice must be superfluous as you must immediately see the propriety of getting General Schuyler at a convenient time to report to the Congress the motives of your remaining in Convention instead of taking the Field. I woud not wish this to be done by way of Excuse but in the ordinary Course of Business when the Returns are forwarded. 1 I am Sir your very huml Sert Jas Duane RC (NHi). 1 McDougall, then a colonel in the First New York Regiment, had not joined his troops in the invasion of Canada because John Jay and Philip Schuyler had convinced him that his attendance at the New York Provincial Congress was more important to the revolutionary cause than his presence on the battlefield. Roger J. Champagne, "New York’s Radicals and the Coming of Independence," Journal of American History 51 (June 1964) : 33-34. Stephen Hopkins to Ruth Hopkins Beloved Ruth Philadelphia Novr. 15. 1775 This only serves to enclose you an Order on the General Treasurer for Eighty Pounds that was granted me by the Assembly in August last. You will receive this Money for the purchasing of Beef, Pork, Butter, Cheese, Hay, Wood and every other Necessary for the Fami ly. I am in very good Health as your Mother also is wishing we might return to you. When that will be Heaven only Knows. 1 Step Hopkins RC (PHi). 1 Earlier this day Hopkins had written a letter of condolence to Ruth on the occasion of the disappearance at sea of her husband, Hopkins’ youngest son, George. "Long Ago Should I have Wrote You,” Hopkins began, “had I known how to Write, or what to Say: A feeling Father Mourning for the loss of a hopeful Son, how Can I write Comfortably to a beloved Daughter deprived of a tender Hus band.” NjHi. Samuel Adams to James Bowdoin, Sr. Sir, Philadel. Nove 16 1775 I embrace this opportunity of writing to you by your Son, whose unexpected Arrival from London the last Week gave me much Plea sure. He seems in a great Degree to have recoverd his Health, and I dare say it will be still more satisfactory to you to find, that he is warmly attachd to the Rights of his Country and of Mankind. Give me Leave to congratulate you, and also to express to you the Joy I


[Page 384]
352 November 16, 1775 feel on another Occasion; which is, that your own Health is so far restord to you, as to enable you again, and at so important a Crisis, to aid our Country with your Council. For my own part, I had even buried you, though I had not forgot you. I thank God who has disap pointed our Fears; and it is my ardent Prayer that your Health may be perfectly restord and your eminent Usefulness long continued. We live my dear Sir, in an important Age—An Age in which we are called to struggle hard in Support of the publick Liberty. The Con flict, I am satisfied, will the next Spring be more severe than ever. The Petition of Congress has been treated with insolent Contempt. I cannot conceive that there is any room to hope from the virtuous Efforts of the People of Britain. They seem to be generally unprinci pled and fitted for the Yoke of arbitrary Power. The opposition of the few is feeble and languid—while the Tyrant is flushd with Expec tations from his Fleets and Armies, and has, I am told, explicitly de clared, that, “Let the Consequences be what they may, it is his unal terable Determination, to compel the Colonists to absolute Obedience.’’ The Plan of the British Court, as I was well informed the last Win ter, was to take Possession of New York, make themselves masters of Hudsons River and the Lakes, cut off all Communication between the Northern and Southern Colonies, and employ the Canadians upon whom they greatly relyd, in distressing the Frontiers of New England. Providence has smiled upon our Northern Expedition. Al ready St Johns is reducd, and if we gain the Possession of all Canada this Winter, of which there is a fair Prospect, Their Design, so far as it respects this Part of their Plan, will be totally frustrated. I will not further trespass upon your Time. If you can find Leisure, a Letter from you will exceedingly oblige me, for you may believe me when I assure you that I am with the greatest Esteem, your Friend, and very humble Servant, S A RC (MHi) . Samuel Chase to John Adams My Dear Sir. Baltimore Town. Nov. 16th. 1775 I am well assured that a Supply of Powder is arrived at Statia, so writes Captain Waters on 10th October. A Dutch Vessell bound to Surrinam has contracted with a Captain of this place for twenty five Tons, if he comes for it by Xmas. I have seen several of the principal Gentn. here. 1 They are wish ing for the Destruction of Lord Dunmore and his fleet. Inclosed You


[Page 386]
354 November 16, 1775 your Soldiers, Congress seems to be very well satisfied that they are raised. There are no Arms nor any Powder to be got here. You may be supplied with some Powder from South Carolina, Arms you must get in your own Province if possible. You must encourage the mak ing of them; pray do not discharge either of your Regiments till you hear further from your Delegates. I am in haste Dr Sir Your very humi Servant Joseph Hewes N.B. The packet for M Smith was to have gone by a return express from Charlestown but he went to[o] high up the Country. If Smith is not with you when it reaches you pray open it. RC (DLC) . Naval Committee to Silas Deane Philadelphia 16th Novr. 1775 Sir We received yours of yesterday and observe the Contents, 1 and think if you can procure two Vessells that are properly capable of carrying sixteen six pounders each, and can be procured on reason able terms and fitted, either in New York or Connecticut, in such manner as they may be able to enter Delaware Bay with proper Arms, Ammunition and stores for four months, and manned with good seamen and Landmen within one month from this time, we ad vise you to purchase them and equip them. 2 If you should purchase and undertake to equip these Vessels, give us notice by the first opportunity that we may govern ourselves ac cordingly. By order of the Committee I am Sir Your humble servant Step Hopkins RC (CtHi) . Written in a clerical hand and signed by Stephen Hopkins. 1 Not found. ’See Naval Committee to Deane, November 7, 1775. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Philadelphia 16th Novr. 1775 Dear Bror. I am obliged to You for your Favor of the 7th. The judicious and decisive Conduct of the General Assembly does great Honor to the Colony. I had that Part of your Letter containing those Proceedings read in Congress; they were highly approved. 1 Mr. Adams, Colo.


[Page 387]
November 16, 1775 355 Dyre & others observed afterwards to me that We had sett them all a noble Example. I hope Mr. Cooke is in the Chair before this Time, present my most affectionate & respectful Congratulations upon the Occasion. I hope some Gentleman who is a zealous Friend to the Liberties of his Country and who hath Sense & Spirit enough to see and pursue her true Interests at all Hazards supplies his Place. I could have wished that the Colony instead of another Emission had directed Us to apply to Congress for the Sum wanted though the Accts, were not ready. 2 Connecticut did so 8c obtained it and We should without Doubt have been allowed what We wanted. I fear too great a Flood of Bills may affect their Credit and of all things We should be most careful to keep up the Credit of our Money. While that is done We can raise any Supplies for the common Defence, without it We should be vastly embarrassed. The Gentn. who may attend with the Accts, of the Comee. of Safety I shall be most heartily glad to see and they may spend their Time here very agreably but I must confess I can have no Idea of the Accts being so intricate as to make it absolutely necessary that they should at this advanced Season take so much Trouble but it will an swer this good End if there should be any Money in the Treasury to pay us with they can take it home with them perhaps in a cheaper Manner than We could find it. The Treasury is almost empty but an other Emission will be made soon. I most cordially congratulate You upon the happy Reduction of St. Johns, the Papers give you most of the particulars. Genl. Mont gomeries Letter says that he was immediately setting out for Mon treal and mentioning the Repulse of Carleton he adds that He be- leives it to be his last Effort (No News of Arnold). A Committee with Powers nearly similar to those given the Comee. which was at Cambridge is sett out for Ticonderoga 8: Canada, the Gentn. are Mr. Langdon, Mr. Robt. R Livingston 8c Mr. Paine. They have some In structions relative to the particular Situation of the Canadians besides those concerning the Troops. Mr. Hopkins & Lady are very well. I have seen many Letters from England since my last; they all agree in the Acc[oun]ts I then gave you. In a Conference which the King had with a Person from Ameri ca He told him that he was unalterably determined let the Conse quence be what it would to compel the Colonies to absolute Obedi ence. Thank God his Power does not equal his Obstinacy 8c Pride. Our Instructions for an American Fleet has been long upon the Ta ble; when it was first presented it was looked upon as perfectly chi merical, but Gentn. now consider it in a very different Light. It is this Day to be taken into Consideration 8c I have great Hopes of carrying. Dr. Franklin, Colo. Lee, the two Adams 8c many others will


[Page 388]
356 November 16, 1775 support it; if it succeeds I shall remember your Idea of our building two of the Ships; Duty calls Me away. Proper Regards to all. Your most affece. Bror. Sam Ward RC (RHi). 1 Henry Ward’s letter of November 7 has not been found, but the proceedings of the Rhode Island Assembly for the session of October 31, which were apparently described in his letter, are in John R. Bartlett, ed., Records of the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in New England, 10 vols. (Providence: A. Crawford Greene, 1856-65) , 7:375-408. “The Rhode Island Assembly had resolved "that £20,000, lawful money bills, be immediately printed,” to help pay off the province’s public debt. Ibid., p. 389. John Hancock to Walter Livingston Sir, Philada. Novr. 17th. 1775 The Congress having resolved that the Prisoners taken at Chambly and St. Johns be sent to the Towns of Reading, Lancaster & York in the Colony of Pennsylvania; and having issued Orders to the Officer who has the Charge of conducting them to march them by the near est Road to the Town of Reading in said Colony, and to apply to you for Provisions for Subsistance on their March, I am directed to order you to supply them agreeably to the Rations given to the Continental Army. 1 I am further to direct you, if the Prisoners agree to it, to send the Women, Children and Baggage by Water to Amboy, from thence to be sent across to Borden-Town, and from thence by Water to Phila da.; from which last Place they will be sent to join the Garrison in the Towns allotted them—this being judged, the safest, cheapest, and most commodious Way of conveying them. Should the Express not meet the Party with the Prisoners, please to take the Letter, and deliver it to the Commanding Officer, on his Arrival with the Prisoners at Albany. 2 I am &c J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . Addressed: "To Walter Livingston Esqr. Deputy Com[missary] General.” 1 Hancock wrote this day to the officer in charge of the British prisoners who surrendered to American forces at Chambly and St. Johns, directing him "to march the Prisoners under your Command by the nearest Way to Reading in the Colony [of Pennsylvania]; and for their Subsistance on their March, you are to apply to the Commissary General." Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1588; and JCC, 3:358. ’ Hancock also sent a letter this day to the Committee of Safety at Trenton, the destination of the British commissioned officers taken at Chambly, enclosing a congressional resolve of this date directing that these officers "be put on their parole of honour" to remain in the vicinity of Trenton and to "carry on no


[Page 391]
November 18, 1775 359 George Ross


[Page 392]
360 November 18, 1775 most true. But I hope that Preferment will follow Merit, after our Affairs get into a more settled Course. Remember me to all. When you said that Kissing goes by Favour, you did not explain the Particulars I wish you had. But all Censure and Clamour at this Time must be avoided and discountenanced as much as possible. I should be glad to be informed, whether the Appointment of me, that you speak of, appears to be to the satisfaction of the People or not. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:327-28. 1 Congress did not meet on November 18, the only Saturday it failed to sit while in session before February 3, 1776. JCC, 3:359. No explanation accompanied this decision—and Adams' letter to Abigail, which is silent on the point, is the only document found that was written by a delegate on this date—but see Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney, November 27, 1775, note 1. a Dr. Benjamin Church's apostasy stimulated Adams to several discussions on this subject. “Adams accepted an appointment as chief justice of the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature a few days later, but never took his seat on the bench. He resigned the post early in 1777. See Adams to Perez Morton, November 24, 1775; and Adams, Works (Adams) , 3:23-25. Adams’ fears that his appointment might arouse jealousies among more senior members of the bar proved to be well founded. See Robert Treat Paine to Joseph Palmer, January 1, 1776. Francis Lewis to John Alsop Dr Sir Phila. 19 Novemr. 1775 I have been favored with both your Letters of 15th 8c 17th Inst. 1 From the little encouragemt given me in your former relative to your procuring the necessary supplys for the Northen Army, induesed me to exert my faculties for procuring all I could here and consequently encreased the orders but your last letter informs me that you have engaged a large quantity at New York both which will I fear greatly exceed the quantity order [ed] by Congress. Therefore I think it would be advisable not to forward more to Albany than wd (with what I have sent from hence, engaged 8c sent from New York) com- pleat the order of Congress for that department; at foot you have a list of what I sent from New York, what have sent from hence and what more is to be sent from hence. As a member of the Committe for the Army supplys at Cam bridge, we have directions for several articles to be there, so that such arti[c]les as appears more in quantity engaged than is ordered for the Northen Army, may be apply’d to the Cambridge supply. In deed the two Jersey Battalions will be glad to take any overpluss that


[Page 394]
362 November 19, 1775 Thomas Lynch to Ralph Izard Dear Sir: November 19, 1775. Having much to say to you, I begin, before I certainly know how this is to reach you. 1 I had your favor by a young gentleman whom I shall take every opportunity to endeavor at least to serve. I think it is abundantly his due. You have had accounts of the battle at Bunker’s Hill; the loss on the part of the Regulars, is near the truth; on the other, greatly exaggerated [. . . .] 2 You wonder, with many others, that an Army so superior as ours, have not recovered Boston—and demolished the little Army of Reb els therein. You know, Boston. Recollect my friend that it is sur rounded by the sea, except a very narrow causeway—that the enemy is master of the sea—that this only entrance by land is fortified to the utmost extent of art—work within work—defended by Cannon, and rendered impassable by deep diches—that the whole city is com manded by two steep, and high hills, each of which is fortified on the ascent, and a little Citadel at the top, with guns that reach every where. Recollect that thirty-two Battalions of choice British Troops, (or half her Army) occupy those works—that this Army has every advantage that Arms, Artillery, and plenty of ammunition can give. Add their being under the best Officers Britain can boast—and add, that our men are young Soldiers, and want that steadiness necessary to the attack of Trenches with bare Musketry—which long discipline alone can give. Consider that the business of the Enemy is to subdue America, and while they are imprisoned in Boston, their errand stands still—that they are every day perishing by disease, want, and desertion—all which must increase as winter cuts off their resources by sea—and I mistake if you will not own, that our Generals act wisely in not risking a repulse, or loosing a number of brave men in obtaining that—which a little time must give them, without loss, and make total and conclusive when it happens. Should Howe, be driven to his ships in summer, he will easily land in some other part, and begin new trouble. Ice prevents all this. Be assured, that our strength at Boston, by means of Fortifications, is such as leaves no doubt of our security. I wish the strength of Howe’s Army, joined to all that we are threatened with next year, were to try an attack there—and that the fate of the War depended on the event. I should think fifty thousand men would inevitably be defeated in such an attempt. I have been lately at Cambridge, and speak from what I have seen. I have also, very lately, been at our Camp on the Lakes.


[Page 399]
November 21, 1775 367 improve circumstances so as to bring the Canadians into our Union. We have accounts of Arnold as late as Octob. 13. All well and in fine spirits. We cannot help hoping him in possession of Quebec as we know Carleton to be absent in the neighborhood of Montreal. Our armed vessels to the northward have taken some of the ships coming with provisions from Ireland to Boston. By the intercepted letters we have a confirmation that they will have an army of four or five and twenty thousand there by the spring. But they will be raw leagues. 3000. are lately arrived there. I have written to Patty a proposition to keep yourselves at a distance from the alarms of Ld. Dunmore. To her therefore for want of time I must refer you and shall hope to meet you as proposed. I am Dr. Sir with my best affections to Mrs. Eppes Your friend & servt., Th: Jefferson Reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:264. Francis Lewis to John Alsop Dr Sir Phila. 21 Novemr. 1775 I wrote you Yesterday per Express to which reffer you. Last night (and not before) I obtained an Account of the Cost of such Articles as our Agent here bought up for the use of the Northen Army, of which is an Inclosed Copy which I must desire you would forward with the utmost expedition possible to the Commissary at Albany. The Inclosed Invoice is very incorrect but time will not permit me to new modle it. You’l please to write Mr Walter Livingston. The inclosed points out the quantity & first cost of the several Articles and that it behoves him to have them carefully examined by the Invoice and the more so as this very Agent of ours (Aeroyd) has been deficient 6 p[iece]s of Coating in a parcell of Woolens sent to Cambridge as appears by the Quater Masr. General’s return to the Committee. You’l also advise Mr Livingston after examining the several Articles that he make a return thereof to our Committee, and that in supplying the Troops he add to the first cost a sufficiency to reimburse Congress for the cost, Commissns. & all other incident charges. You’l also observe that the persons charge whom we imploy’d is not yet assertained. Pray let me know as soon as possible the quantity and amount of the Cloathing engaged by you, and those Articles that (from both places) appear to be more than the quantity limitted for the North ward, I think should be retained for the Troops at Cambridge. I am Dr. Sir. Your very Humbl Servt Frans Lewis [P-S.] We have no news here. RC (NHi) .


[Page 400]
368 November 21, 1775 Robert Morris and John Dickinson to Oswell Eve Sir Philada. Novr. 21st 1775 I am requested by some Honorable Members of the Congress to recommend the bearer hereof Mr. Paul Revere to you. 1 He is just arrived from New England where it is discovered they can manufac ture a good deal of Salt Petre in Consequence of which they desire to Erect a Powder Mill & Mr. Revere has been pitched upon to gain in struction 8c Knowledge in this branch. A Powder Mill in New Eng land cannot in the least degree affect your Manufacture nor be of any disadvantage to you. Therefore these Gentn & myself hope You will Chearfully 8c from Public Spirited Motives give Mr. Revere such information as will inable him to Conduct the bussiness on his return home. I shall be glad of any opportunity to approve myself. Sir Your very Obed Servt. Robt Morris P.S. Mr. Revere will desire to see the Construction of your Mill 8c I hope you will gratify him in that point. Sir, 2 I heartily join with Mr. Morris in his Request; and am with great Respect, Your very hble Servt. John Dickinson RC (MHi) . In the hand of Robert Morris. 1 Oswell Eve, former sea captain and Philadelphia merchant who had returned to Pennsylvania in 1773 after five years residence in the West Indies, operated a powder mill at Frankford. PMHB 5 (1881): 19-20. “This and the remainder of the document is in Dickinson’s hand. Robert Treat Paine to Philip Schuyler Dear Sr Albany Novr. 21st. 1775 This day I arrived here in Company with Mr. Langdon who to gether with Mr. Robert R. Livingstone are a Committee from the Congress to repair to you 8c Consult divers matters me[n]tioned in your Letters to the Congress. 1 Mr. Livingstone is not arrived here, but proposed to join to morrow night, after which we shall make all dispatch possible. Mean while We thought it proper to inform you thus far by this Express, who goes so soon to morrow that we have not time to enlarge. We have brought with us blank Commissions for the New Army to be raised. We congratulate you on the Success of our Army 8c hoping the res toration of your health I am your most Obedient hble Servt. Rob Treat Paine


[Page 401]
November 21, 1775 369 RC (MH) . 1 Paine noted in his diary for this day: “Rode 8m to Miller’s & Breakfasted. Thence to Albany 12m. The rode very rutty, much [. . .] & hard frozen & considerable snow & Ice. Arrived at 1 o Clock. Went to Widow Vernon Tavern but the officers & soldiers that were taken at St. John’s being in Town we could not be entertained there. We dind there & I went to Mr. John [Guys?] [...]& lodged. This Evening Capt. Livingston arrivd here from Montreal & brought news that it was taken by our Troops. Wrote general Schuyler by an Express going to him from General Washington that we were on our way to visit him." MHi. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Bror. Philadelphia 21st Novr. 1775 Yesterday We had a Number of Letters (taken on Board the Transport from Ireland) to the officers in Boston read in Congress. The Writers of some of them freely condemn our Enemies, assure their correspondents that the People at large heartily wish Us Success & some even say that it is Time for Ireland to follow our Example. There is great Reluctance to the Service; additional Bounties are giv en by the leading roman Catholics. Other Letters say that the People of both England & Ireland in general are against Us, that many who have supported our Interest until the Proclamation came out have now changed Sides, but tho’ these Letters vary in that Respect They all agree that the King is determined let the Consequence be what it will to reduce us to Submission. I am vastly pleased to find that our Friends in England give us such good Intelligence. The five Regi ments which I lately wrote You might be expected this Fall came out with this Transport & are chiefly or by this time wholly arrived 8c that the 20000 men are to come in the Spring 8c the Men of War is con firmed in these Letters. If We can but get Arms and Ammunition I have no Doubt but We shall give a good Acct, of them and I think We have a good Prospect. Many Vessels are out on the Merchts. Acct, some on the several Colonies and others on Acct, of the Conti nent and great Encouragement hath been given 8c a Person well ac quainted in Germany with the manufacture of Salt Petre is employed by Congress to go down immediately to Virginia 8c sett up very ex tensive Works but as every possable method will be made us[e] of for interupting these Supplies I hope the Merchts in Providence have or will immediately take the most speedy 8c effectual Methods for obtaining large Supplies. I think they ought to import Lead by all Means for allowing We succeed in getting it out of the Conn [ecticu] t Mines which is by no Means absolutely certain yet, the land Carriage would cost almost as much as the lead would abroad. Arms also will be wanted for We must undoubtedly encrease our Army very con siderably. Happily for America the Congress will chearfully adopt


[Page 405]
November 23, 1775 373 us in our present relation to each other, and to abate the rigors of war by every good office common to brethren and fellow subjects. Be pleased sir to present my compliments to the other government [New Jersey] and with them be persuaded that I will at all times readily adopt and promote any measures which may be agreeable to you and not inconsistent with the interests of the colony.” MS not found; abstracted from extract in Kenneth W. Rendell Catalog, no. 92 (1974), pp. 27-28. 1 Maj. Joseph Stopford, commander of the detachment of the Seventh Regiment of Foot, or Royal Fusiliers, which had surrendered at Chambly on October 17, was at this time on parole in Trenton. A List of the General and Field-Officers, As they Rank in the Army; of the several Regiments of Horse, Dragoons, and Foot, on the British and Irish Establishments (London: J. Millan, 1775) , p. 61; and Jay to Ibbetson Hamar, this date, note 1. John Adams to James Otis, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Novr. 23. 1775 I had the Honour of your Letter of Novr. the Eleventh, 1 by Ex press, and am very Sorry to learn that any Difference of Sentiment has arisen between the two Honourable Houses, respecting the Mili tia Bill, as it is so necessary at this critical Moment, for the public Service. 2 If I was of opinion that any Resolution of the Congress now in Force was against the Claim of the Honourable House, as the Hon ourable Board have proposed that We shall lay the Question before Congress I should think it my Duty to do it; But it appears to me that Supposing the two Resolutions to clash, the last ought to be con sidered as binding, and as, by this, it is left in the “Discretion of the Assembly either to adopt the foregoing Resolutions, in the whole or in Part, or to continue their former, as they on Consideration of all Circumstances shall think fit,” I think it plain, that the Honourable Board may comply with the Desire of the Honourable House if, in their Discretion they think fit. I am the more confirmed in the opinion, that it is unnecessary to lay this Matter before Congress, as they have lately advised the Colo nies of New Hampshire, and one more, if they think it necessary, to establish such Forms of Government, as they shall judge best calcu lated to promote the Happiness of the People. Besides the Congress are so pressed with Business, and engaged upon Questions of greater Moment that I should be unwilling, unless in a Case of absolute Necessity to interrupt them by a Question of this Kind, not to mention that I-would not wish to make known so 248-053 0 - 77 - 26


[Page 411]
November 23, 1775 379 Arms & remain with the greatest Respect your & their most Obedient humble Servants Robt R Livingston Junr Rob Treat Paine John Langdon P.S. We purpose to set out to morrow for Ticonderoga. RC (DNA: PCC, item 78, vol. 14) . Written by Paine and signed by Livingston, Lang don, and Paine. 1 Paine had made this notation on his visit to the incomplete fort at West Point. “Went to Breakfast with George Clinton Esqr. at his Seat 1/2 a mile off. Thence went in a Barge belonging to the post down to the Fort on the Highlands 7 a.m. Cold fair day, Wind NE. Viewed the Fort & Scituations & P.M. returned & was set on shore on the East side of the River & lodged at Carpenters. Very Cold coming up high wind & ice made on Oars.” Robert Treat Paine’s diary, November 17, 1775, MHi. John Hancock to John Hulbert Sir, Philada. Novr. 23d 1775 After you have stationed the Men under your Command in the Fort in the Highlands on Hudson’s River, and given the necessary Directions to your inferiour officers, you have the Leave of Congress, agreeably to your Application to be absent from your Post fourteen Days, 1 at the Expiration of which Time, you are to return to your Duty in the Forts on Hudson’s River. I am Sir Sec J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . *This may have been a slip of the pen by the clerk who maintained Hancock’s letterbook since Congress had granted Hulbert only 10 days leave. JCC, 3:364. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Bror. Philadela. 23d Novr. 1775 I promised myself a Letter from You by last Post & a particular Acct, of the Proceedings of the Assembly but am sadly disappointed. Dont fail another Post whilest I am here if it be possible to avoid it, Should you ever be from all your Connections Months together youl know the Pleasure of receiving Letters from them. If Gentlemen have not already sett out for this City with the Accts of the Comee. of Safety I should advise their deferring the Journey a little while as there is no Money in the Treasury. Orders are given for making Paper for another Emission which I think will be about


[Page 420]
388 November 25, 1775 have done myself the Honour to write these sentiments to the Board, who were pleased to write to us upon the occasion. Am obliged to you for your Account of the state of Things in Boston, I am ever anxious about our Friends who remain there and nothing is ever more acceptable to me than to learn what passes there. The Inactivity of the two Armies, is not very agreable to me. Fa bius’s Cunctando was wise and brave. But if I had submitted to it in his situation, it would have been a cruel Mortification to me. Zeal and Fire and Activity and Enterprize Strike my Imagination too much. I am obliged to be constantly on my Guard—yet the Heat within will burst forth at Times. The Characters drawn in your last entertained me very agreably. They were taken off, by a nice & penetrating Eye. I hope you will fa vour me with more of these Characters. I wish I could draw a Num ber of Characters for your Inspection. I should perhaps daub on the Paint too thick—but the Features would be very strong. The General is amiable and Accomplished and judicious and cool; You will soon know the Person and Character of his Lady. 2 I hope She has as much Ambition, for her Husbands Glory, as Portia & Marcia have, and then the Lord have Mercy on the Souls of Howe and Burgoyne & all the Troops in Boston. FC (MHi) . 1 Adams had written a brief note to Mrs. Warren on October 31 acknowledging the receipt of her letter of October 12-14, 1775, but adding little more than a conventional wish for her well-being. MHi. ’Martha Washington had arrived in Philadelphia on November 21, where her presence touched off a commotion over the propriety of a ball scheduled in her honor for November 24. Although political leaders in the city convinced Mrs. Washington not to attend because it “would be very disagreeable at this melan choly time,” at least one delegate registered his dissatisfaction with the decision. “Col. Harrison came to rebuke Samuel Adams for using his influence for the stopping of this entertainment, which he declared was legal, just and laudable.” Christopher Marshall, Extracts from the Diary of Christopher Marshall, Kept in Philadelphia and Lancaster during the American Revolution, 1114—1181, ed. Wil liam Duane (Albany: Joel Munsell, 1877), pp. 51-53. Francis Lewis to John Alsop Sir Phila. 25 Novmr. 1775 I wrote you by Express, Mr Levy &c. to which am without an an swer. I now inclose you two receipts for two Waggon Loads of Cloath- ing who went off from hence for Dobb’s Ferry the 23 & 24 Inst. These are for Genl. Schuylers Army. In the first of these Waggons I sent Four Bales directed for Colo. Mifflin and ordered the Waggoner to leave them with Mr. Jona. Hampton at Eliza. Town with a letter


[Page 421]
November 25, 1775 389 directed to him as Chairman of their Committee requesting them to forward those Bales to you & you’l please apply to have them for warded via Norwich for Cambridge. You have also inclosed two Invoices of the Goods bought & sent from this place for Genl. Schuylers Army Amountg to £5279.2.6 Pensila. Currency or Dollars 14077 2/3ds. on which we have broker [a] g[e] & Waggon hire yet to pay. Shall endeavor to send you 3 or 4000 Dollars by first convenient if have so much remaining. Pray get the Convention or whom else to send a trusty person to receive these two Waggons load of Clothg a[t] Dobb’s Ferry and that a sloop be immediate let [and] sent to convey them to Albany. I think it would not be adviseable to Send any more cloathing &c to the Northward, but that what you have now engaged be sent to the Army at Cambridge as that orders is not Compleated espectialy in the Article of Buckskin Breeches. We have nothing new here, busi ness goes on heavily for want of more members attending. Mr. P. Livingston confined to his Room for several days with a Cold. I am Dr Sir Your very Humble Servt. Frans. Lewis P.S. It will be necessary to forward these Invoices with the Goods to Mr. Walter Livingston. With the Invoices is annexed the different Packages. RC (NHi). Edward Rutledge to Thomas Bee My dear Bee. Novr. 25 1775 I should have done myself the Pleasure of writing you by Return of the-Express but was so ill at that time, that I found it impossible. I am now much better, tho’ still greatly distressed with a Cough which I see no Prospect of getting rid of until I lead my Course to a warmer and better Climate. So much for myself. Letters from Genl. Washing ton a few days since inform us of the arrival of Troops from Ireland, the Number is not known but it is guess’d at 2000, or 2500. It is the opinion of himself & officers that Howe will soon attack him. I wish he may; if our people behave like Men, success will, nay must attend us. Some time last Summer, the officers at Boston fitted out a large Schooner from that place & dispatched her to Ireland for a Supply of Tongues, Wine &c. On her Return a few Days ago, she was intercept ed by one of our armed Vessels in Continental pay, and brought into Harbour with all her Grog &: an abundance of Letters from Gentn. in Ireland to their Friends in Boston. These Letters were open’d & 248-053 0 - 77 - 27


[Page 422]
390 November 25, 1775 have afforded much Amusement & some Intelligence. We find by them that Administration are determined at all Events to attempt the Reduction of America, that Boston will be made strong by 22 or 25000 Men in the Course of this Winter & the Spring—that Lord Kinmare has added to the King’s Bounty that of 10/6 per Man for all who shall inlist under Major Roche—that the City of Corke has followed the Example but more extensively, that Lord Bellamount has the Direction of the Recruiting parties in that part of the King dom—that the Roman Catholic Priests have been applied to to stim ulate their Flocks against us, which they have promised to do, if the Regiments to be raised be officer’d by Gentn. of their religious p[ers]uasion—in short that all the Powers of Hell are to be let loose upon us. On the other Hand, Intelligence by the same Conveyance inform us that all the Whigs in the Kingdom a very few Excepted are warmly interested in our Cause, that the common people are not less well affected, that several Towns have resolved not to permit any of ficers to recruit amongst them, & have destroyed the Drums of those who have been hardy enough to attempt it, & that the Dislike to the Service is so great & so general that those employed therein meet with little or no Success. So much for Irish Politics. You Will no Doubt ’eer this reaches you hear of our having taken Chamblee & St. John’s. We should have wrote to the Commee upon the Subject, but waited for more particulars. We have received no farther Accounts from that Quart er; but are in daily Expectation of hearing of the Fall of Montreal & Quebec. In the last of those places I am told there is great Abund ance of what we want very much—powder & military Stores. I have that Expedition much at Heart I must confess, for I really think & have thought for a long Time, that America will be saved in Canada. It may put Reconciliation at a greater Distance ’tis true, as his Maj esty will find just difficulty to persuade himself to part with arbitrary power tho’ it were established but in an Acre of Ground; however it will make the Cure radical whenever it is effected, & really we have lived in so unsettled a Condition for such a length of Time that I would now wish to fight it fairly out & either establish a Connection consistent with the Principles of Liberty & placed upon a permanent Basis, or have nothing more to do with them. The latter I think most likely to be the case. The Distruction of our Towns in the wanton Manner in which it has been affected, a mode of Warfare (as I have already expressed it) totally exploded amongst civilized Nations, give us little Reason to think that they will attempt to make Peace. Indeed if it is not soon set about, it will be all in Vain even to wish for it here after. The Minds of People will be so warmed by the Acts of Cruel ty hitherto exercised & daily committing against them that they will not wish for a Connection with Men of such savage Disposition.


[Page 426]
394 November 26, 1775 committee’s report of November 27 led Congress to adopt a series of resolutions on the following day, incorporating the two North Carolina battalions into the Continental Army and making other provisions and suggestions for her defense. JCC, 2:107; 3:368, 387-88; and Clark, Naval Documents, 2:898-99. John Jay to Nathaniel Woodhull Sir Philad. 26. Novr. 1775 I have the honor of transmitting to you the enclosed Resolutions of Congress relative to the Island of Bermuda. We have not yet had the Pleasure of hearing that you had made a House, and are not without some anxiety on that hand. 1 In a few days we shall write to you, collectively, and should be glad frequently to be informed of the State of the Province. The New England Exploit is much talked of, and Conjectures are numerous as to the Part the Convention will take relative to it. 2 Some consider it as an ill Compliment to the Government of the Province, and prophesy that you have too much Christian Meekness to take any notice of it. For my own Part I dont approve of the feat, and think it neither argues much wisdom or much Bravery. At any Rate, if it was to have been done, I wish our own People and not Strangers had taken the Liberty of doing it. I confess I am not a little jealous of the Honor of the Province, and am persuaded that its Reputation cannot be maintained without some little Spirit being mingled with its Prudence. I am Sir with Respect & Esteem Your most obt. Servt John Jay RC (N) . Tr (MH). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 'The New York Provincial Congress, although scheduled to reconvene Novem ber 14, was unable to muster a quorum until December 6. Am Archives, 4th ser. 3:1751. 3 On November 23 a group of Connecticut men led by Isaac Sears, a New York radical leader, had gone to New York City and destroyed the press and seized the type of James Rivington, the staunchly loyalist printer of Rivington’s New York Gazeteer. The Provincial Congress, after some debate, issued a mild protest about this incident to Governor Trumbull of Connecticut on December 12. Ibid., 4:393, 400-402; and Bernard Mason, The Road to Independence. The Revolutionary Movement in New York, 1773-1777 (Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1967), pp. 53-60. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia 26th Novr. 1775 As Mr. Custis can furnish you with an exact account of our affairs in Virginia, it will be unnecessary for me to say any thing on that


[Page 431]
November 27, 1775 399 Naval Committee to Dudley Saltonstall Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 27th. 1775 The Congress are now preparing two Ships and two Brigantines to be fitted out as soon as possible to cruise against our common enemy. They have thought of you as a proper person to take the command of one of those ships as Captain. 1 If you enter into this service, which we take to be the service of your country, You will give us the earliest information and repair to Philadelphia as soon as your af fairs will possibly admit and bring with you as many officers and sea men as you can procure at New London and between that place and Philadelphia. Those who may not be able to come with you, leave proper persons to encourage and conduct along after you. If money should be necessary for the performance of this service you may draw on Mr Eleazer Miller, Merchant in New York who has money in his hands for that purpose. In a day or two after you receive this, you will receive by the Messr. Mumfords the Conditions and encouragement offered to the Seamen. We are Sir Your humble servants, Signed by Order of Comme. Step Hopkins Silas Deane John Adams Christ. Gadsden Joseph Hewes RC (MdAN). Written in a clerical hand and signed by Adams, Deane, Gadsden, Hewes, and Hopkins. 1 Dudley Saltonstall (1738-96), privateersman in the French and Indian War and subsequently commander of merchant vessels, was offered this commission by the Naval Committee at the instance of his brother-in-law, Silas Deane. Saltonstall accepted the committee’s offer on December 7 and became commander of the Alfred, the flagship of Esek Hopkins’ tiny fleet. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:350; Clark, Naval Documents, 2:1324; and DAB. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Nov. 27th. 1775. 1 Warns his brother to “give Strick orders to your people” to be careful of the chevaux-de-frise in the Delaware River. Reports that Mrs. Washington, Mrs. Gates, Mrs. Lewis, and “Collo. Custis &: his Lady ... all of Virginia set out from here this morning for the Camp at Cambridge” amid great pomp. “We have certain intelligence that there are 2500 or at least 2000 troops landed at Boston from Ireland, and it is thought by many that, with this reinforcement they will make a push to get out by attacking our lines


[Page 433]
November 28, 1775 401 a In response to complaints by the Provincial Congress that it had insufficient money on hand to meet projected military expenditures, Congress resolved on November 11 to send $50,000 “to be accounted for by said convention [congress].’’ JCC, 3:352; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1300. 3 This postscript was separated from Duane’s letter when it was removed from the New York State Library and remains there among the papers of the New York Provincial Congress. ‘Congress had resolved on November 8 to request the Philadelphia Committee of Safety to send 500 pounds of gunpowder to New York for use in the fortifica tions in the Highlands. JCC, 3:338-39. Francis Lewis to John Alsop Dr Sir Phila 28 Novemr. 1775 I have your favor of 24 Novmr. before me. I should think it advis able not to send any more Articles to the Northen department as I am convinced in my own mind we have exceeded the quantity or der’d by Congress; would therefore advise the remainder upon hands be forwarded to Colo. Mifflin as the order for that department is not compleat. I shall send off the last Waggon Ld. from hence for that department tomorrow. In my former I sent you an abstract of Col. Mifflins requisition from hence; have only sent him abt. £3500 Cur rency from hence; what has been allready sent from Nw York my son & Hayman Levy will give you the amount. The order you know for that departmt was for £5000 sterlg. What I shall send from hence tomorrow will be chiefly Hatts, Breeches & a few shoes. Att foot you have a list of the Articles allready sent to the Northen department. Ld Dunmore has had a skirmich with 150 Virginians whom he put to the rout & took some prisoners. I am Dr Sir Your very Humble Servt. Frans Lewis P.S. I give you joy of the surender of Montreal. As they will there get Cloathing sufficient I think it would be advisable to order all the Clothing that is att Albany for the Camp at Cambridge. Sent from Phila. to the Northen Troops. Mittled Stockings 3402 pair Felt Hatts 770 Woolen Caps 156 Leather Breeches 578 pair Shoes 670 pair Wastcoats 2695 Watch Coats 379 RC (NHi).


[Page 434]
402 November 28, 1775 Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Philadelphia Committee Cham [be] r Nov. 28 1775 At a Meeting of the Comee. of Secrecy Present Sami Ward, Benja min Franklin, Thos. Willing, Josiah Bartlett & Francis Lewis Esqrs. A Contract was enterd into between Thos. Mumford of N. London in the Colony of Connecticut Mercht. of the one part, & the sd. Com- mee. of the other part. 1 That a voyage or voyages shall be forthwith undertaken for the speedy procur[in]g of fifty tons of good gunpowder or in case any part of the gunpowder cannot be had, then as much Saltpetre &c. MS (MH) . 1 The Secret Committee’s order of November 28 authorizing Mumford to export wheat or other produce to the value of $15,000, which was signed by Ward, Franklin, Willing, Bartlett, and Lewis, and countersigned by President Hancock and Governor Trumbull, is listed in G. A. Baker Catalog, no. 15 (October 24, 1938), item 87, along with the contract between Mumford and the committee, item 88. According to the Secret Committee Account, September 27, 1775-August 26, 1776, Mumford received an advance of $28,500. For correspondence pertaining to this contract, see Silas Deane to Thomas Mumford, October 16? and November 14, 1775; and Mumford to Deane, October 19, 1775, Collections of the Connecticut Historical Society 23 (1930) : 11-12. Thomas Jefferson to John Randolph Dear Sir Philadelphia Nov. 29. 1775 I am to give you the melancholy intelligence of the death of our most worthy Speaker which happened here on the 22d of the last month. Jie was struck with an Apoplexy, and expired within five hours. I have it in my power to acquaint you that the successes of our arms have corresponded with the justice of our cause. Chambly and St. John’s have been taken some weeks ago, and in them the whole regular army in Canada except about 40. or 50. men. This day we receive certain intelligence that our General Montgomery is received into Montreal: and expect every hour to be informed that Quebec has opened it’s arms to Colo. Arnold who with 1100 men was sent from Boston up the Kennebec and down the Chaudiere river to that place. He expected to be there early this month. Montreal acceded to us on the 13th. and Carleton set out with the shattered remain [s] of his little army for Quebec where we hope he will be taken up by Ar nold. In a short time we have reason to hope the delegates of Canada will join us in Congress and complete the American Union as far as we wish to have it completed. We hear that one of the British trans-


[Page 436]
404 November 29, 1775 since we parted, & have not been able to hear any thing of your af fairs. While the present distractions continue you will not expect I dare say to receive much in the remittance way, however I have writ ten to Esqr. Lee to push your principal creditors, & remit what he can get from them. I have paid Doctor Fauntleroys acct here, for which I have drawn on Mr. Lee. As the difference between the Min istry & America is not likely soon to be settled, I suppose the price of tobo. will be high in London this winter, by which means you will make a saving voyage. If you can find an opportunity, shall be glad to receive acct, sales & acct, current. Is it high treason to correspond upon mercantile business? 1 Poor old England how is it degraded! You will see the news in the public papers. Mrs. Lee joins me in wishing you & our friends on Tower Hill, health &: happiness. 2 Francis Light. Lee RC (ViHi) . 1 An allusion to the king’s proclamation of August 23, 1775, forbidding corre spondence with those in rebellion in North America. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:240-41. a For the continuation of this letter, see Lee to a Friend in London, December 11, 1775. Richard Henry Lee to Catherine Macaulay Dear Madam, Philadelphia 29th Novr 1775 As a good Christian properly attached to your native Country, I am sure you must be pleased to hear that North America is not fall en, nor likely to fall down before the Images that the King hath set up. After more than ten years abuse and injury on one side, of mod est representation on the other; Administration at length determine to try if the sword cannot affect, what threatening Acts of Parliament had in vain attempted; that is, the ruin of the just rights and liberty of this great Continent. Lexington, Concord, and Bunkers Hill opened the tragic scene; and clearly proved to the whole world that N. America had no reliance but on its own virtue in Arms. The bat tle of Bunkers Hill, tho followed by strong reenforcements, has not enlarged the prison of the Ministerial Army many paces. After the clearest proofs that the Quebec Act was going to be carried into ef fect by marching an Army of Canadians &c. into these Colonies, and when every attempt had been made to bring the Savages on the de fenceless women and Children along our extensive frontiers; it be came high time, on principles of self preservation, to avert the meditated [Evi] 1. The war was therefore sent into their own Country having first, by proper Agents and Memorials, explained to the Inhabit-


[Page 443]
November 30, 1775 411 silent, but rewarded Mr. Deane, and advanced Mr. Carmichael to an office of high trust.” Committee to the Northward Minutes of Proceedings 30 Nov. 1775 Minutes of a Conference with Genl. Schuyler 1 The opinion 3000 Troops necessary in Canada for the spring that those who may remain this winter be sufficient till spring. About 200 of the New England Troops have reinlisted. About 1000 of New York in Canada what number will reinlist un known. Coll. Easton & Coll. Beadle are still in Canada but on their way home. Warner with the Green Mountain boys returned. Livingston, Arnold has carried in about 600 men. That 4 companies will be necessary at the two Posts of Ticondero ga & Fort George. Genl. Schuylers Opinion that at least 3000 men shd be in Canada before the Ice breaks up. That there are about 1900 there now in cluding Arnolds, many of whom he imagines will relieve. That 2 regiments be immediately raised including 4 Comps, that are now recruiting 8c the Officers sent to recruit in whatever province the Congress may direct. Directions with respect to provisions already given we having a sufficientcy till spring in Canada. That resolutions with respect to the bounty already executed. That the fortifications at Ticonderoga be repaired but that some not be done this winter. Tho if men could be procured the timber might be prepared at a much cheaper rate than in the spring. That a communication shd be opened between Johansburgh 8c Fort Ann by which means the fortress may be most easily reinforced 8: supplied. That no Fortress need be erected at Crown Point. That few arms can be procured in the way that is proposed. Those that were in the hands of the New York Troops belong to that prov ince. When they are stoped credit must be given. Canadian Regiment already set on foot. Tun of powder to be sent down tomorrow. Cannon cannot be moved till the lake is froze. That Genl. Montgomerry from the 1st Letter of the Congress 8c the necessity of the case was induced to reinlist the Troops. What ar rangement he has made of the forces is unknown to us. That Genl. Schuyler has wrote to him to transmitt it as soon as possible.


[Page 444]
412 November 30, 1775 That Genl, has already ordered the officers who do not chuse to reinlist to return their [names?]. To mention Capt. Lamb. Beding—Barrack Master—regimental paymaster—Conductor of At- tillery. MS (N) . In the hand of Robert R. Livingston, Jr. 1 The Committee to the Northward (Livingston, Langdon, and Paine), drawing upon information obtained from several on-site inspections and discussions such as this one with General Schuyler, submitted a report to Congress on December 23. JCC, 3:446-52. On January 8-9, 1776, Congress adopted several resolutions based on that report and the recommendations of another committee appointed to respond to Schuyler’s letters. JCC, 3:424, 436, 455, 456, 459, 4:38-40, 43-45. See also John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, November 10, 1775, note 2. Committee to the Northward to Richard Montgomery Sir Ticonderoga 30th Novr. 1775 The Congress having done us the honour to Appoint us as a Com mittee to Confer with the General and yourself on the measures Nec essary to be taken for the reinlistment of the Army, as also to Concil iate the affections of the Canadians and to remove as far as in us lay every Objection that the good people of that Province might have to a Union with the thirteen Colonies, who are Strugling in the Glorious Cause of freedom, We arrived here a few days Since in prosecution of that design; but are extreamly happy to find that General Schuyler and yourself have in a Great measure by your prudence and foresight anticipated our business, and renderd a Journey into Canada in some measure unnecessary at present which indeed we rather decline on Account of the Advanced season of the year and the improbability of your being able to lend us any assistance, while the enemies of the Natural Rights of man continue their hostilities against our fellow Subjects in that Province, and Confine your Attention to those Mili tary opperations which are Necessary to procure their Relief. We cannot help however expressing the ardent wishes of the Con gress that you would Cherish the first dawnings of liberty among a people, who have early testified their sense of its Value if we may be Admitted to Judge from the Assistance they afforded you in repel ling its enemies. That you would assure them that the Honble. the Congress have thro us declared that they hold their Rights as dear as their own, and that on their Uniting with them they will exert their utmost endeavours to procure, for them and their posterity the bless ing of a free government and that Security to their property and per sons which is derived from the British Constitution—that they hold Sacred the rights of Conscience, and will never disturb them in the free enjoyment of their Religion. 1


[Page 445]
November 30, 1775 413 The Honb. Congress Recommend it to you to use your utmost en deavours to procure a free meeting of the people in their several Par ishes, out of whom to Chuse a Provincial Convention who will form such Rules and regulations as the present exigencies may render Necessary for their Province. From this body they hope that dela- gates will be chosen to meet and Cooperate with them in such meas ures as they shall think Necessary for their mutual Security against the unjust Violences of an arbitrary ministry. If the unsettled state of the Province should Prevent a free and full Representation of the whole Colony, yet the Honb. the Congress will Acquiess in the Choice of Such Towns, Parishes and districts, as may think it proper to send deputies—or if previous to their meeting in Congress they should have any Difficulties which it is out of your power to remove, a Committee of Congress will at any time when the Communication is more open be ready to meet and Confer with them on the Subject at Albany, Montreal, or any other place, which they May think prop er to appoint. We need not mention to you the propriety of punishing in the Severest manner any of our Troops, who should so far forget the duty that they owe to us and our worthy Allies, as to offer the least injury either to their property or Persons. We know not your Arrangement of the Army, but Presume you have not in the distribu tion of Commissions over looked the Merrit of those who deserve well of their Country, nor Sufferd them to be Advanced who have merrited its Censure. General Schuyler has inclosed our last instructions which will shew you the Design of the Congress with Respect to Quebeck but which from your letter we find you have already in some measure Antici pated. He also gives you our Sense with Respect to the Clothing and bounty to the Troops, in the management of which we must rely upon your prudence and doubt not that the Congress will make good any engagements to which you may have found it Necessary to enter. The other Subjects of our Conference with the General, some of which are mentioned to you in his letter and others wanting the Sanc tion of Congress we think it unnecessary at present to trouble you with. The post being just abt to Depart we cannot enlarge. If any other opportunity should offer, we may write you again before we leave this. We Congratulate you upon the happy Success of our Arms and hope shortly to hear that your prosperous endeavours has left no footing to our enemies in that Country from which they hoped to draw the most effectual supplies. We Remain with the greatest Respect Your most Hbl Servts Rob. R. Livingston Rob. T. Paine Jno Langdon


[Page 453]
December 2, 1775 421 power to lay before you a compleat Journal of our proceedings of the last Congress, as also of the present, this I think necessary, as it will be much better to take up our proceedings in one View than by de tached pieces, and it will never do to harrass our people by calling them too often to meet in Convention. However these matters must rest on your own Judgement and dis cretion. I wish I could inform you when we shall adjourn, some say about Christmas, others, not till Spring. I am inclined to think with the former; for we grow tired, indolent, Captious, Jealous and want a recess. These only discover themselves now and then, in general we are pretty unanimous and friendly. No plan of Seperation has been offered, the Colonies will never agree to any till drove to it by dire necessity. I wish the time may not come too soon. I fear it will be the case if the British Ministry pursue their present diabolical Schemes. I am weary of politicks and wish I could retire to my former private Station (to speak in the language of J[osiah] Child) a pence and farthings Man. My Compliments to your [family?] and be assured that I am with great esteem Dear Sir your most obedt huml Servt Joseph Hewes P.S. The bearer, Wm Chew who is sent express to receive from you Sixty dollars which you [....] to N. Carolina, if he does not find you at Edenton he is to have 6 pence per Mile, and all [. . .] paid for any distance that he may go out of to find you after he gets to Edenton. RC (NN) . Tr (DLC) . Burnett, Letters, 1:266-67. RC fragmentary; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Not found. John Hancock to the Commander of the Pennsylvania Battalion Sir Congress Chamber Deer. 2d. 1775. I am directed by Congress to order you immediately to send, keep, and continue, until further Orders, such and so large a Guard of the Batallion under your Command, as you shall think proper, for guard ing and secure keeping the Vessels and Stores on the Wharves of Messrs. Willing & Morris, and Mr. Cuthbert in the City of Philada. 1 I am &c J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To the Officer commanding the Batallion raised in Pennsylvania.” 248-053 O - TT - 29


[Page 456]
424 December 2, 1775 Frederic in Maryland, that Conolly & three associates were taken prisoners and are now in Confinement in that County. By his Examina tion taken and the Papers found with him, the Deposition of his Servant, which you Transmitted to Congress, is fully Confirm’d. 2 This Day we Receiv’d Advice from Northampton in Virginia, that Lord Dunmore has Erected his Standard at Norfolk, proclaim’d Martial Law, invited the Negroes to Join him, and offer’d them Freedom, for which purpose he has issued a proclamation from on board the Ship where he Resides; and that Two Counties have been obliged to Submitt to him. However I hope such measures are taking as will speedily and effectually Repel his Violences and secure the peace & safety of that Colony. The Committee have just brought in their Report on the Vessell taken by the People of New Hampshire. As soon as the Congress have come to a Determination thereon I shall do myself the pleasure of Transmitting it to you. In the mean while with sincere & hearty wishes for your Safety, Happiness & prosperity, I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your most Obedt hum servt. John Hancock President [P.S.] I forward you severall Commissions for the officers of the Arm’d Vessells, also a Number of printed Articles for the Regulation of the Army as Amended; for the Recommendation of Mr Crafts 8c Trott to be Appointed officers in the Regiment of Artillery, and the Steps to be pursued with Respect to the Release of Mr. Ethan Allen, I beg leave to Refer you to the Resolves Inclos’d. I inclose you a Commission for Henry Knox as Colonell of the Regimt. of Artillery. The Inclos’d Accott. of Advances to the Rifle Companies you will please to order the Pay Master to deduct from their Pay agreeable to the severall Charges. Please to forward the Inclos’d Letters. RC (DLC). 1 Washington's letters to Hancock of October 24 and 30, and November 2, 8, 11, and 19, are in PCC, item 152, 1:241—42, 255-56, 259-62, 275-86; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:40-41, 55-56, 58-59, 71-75, 81-84, 99-102. Hancock, in turn, sent Washington congressional resolves of November 25 on prize cases, of Novem ber 30 on raising two battalions of marines, of December 1 on the recruitment and pay of the Continental Army, and of December 2 on a host of matters relating to the Army. JCC, 3:371-75, 393-94, 398-402. “See JCC, 3:394; and Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter, October 21-22, 1775, note 3. William Hooper to Samuel Johnston My dear Johnston Philada. Dec 2 1775 I have been so much engaged in scribbling to you in your honour-


[Page 457]
December 2, 1775 425 able political Capacity that I have left nothing to say to you as a pri vate Gentleman. I cannot however so far forget you as a friend, as not to assure you that I hold you in the most affectionate Remem brance. From newspapers & private Letters we are assured that next Sum mer will be a bloody one. The Sovereign has declared (we hear) that he will pawn the Jewels of his Crown or humble America. Indians, Negroes, Russians, Hanoverians & Hessians are talked of as the In struments to accomplish this blessed purpose. But under God, If we have virtue We may be free. Let every man say he will be free and act as if he wished it & We may defy the threats of the minister. I beg leave to recommend to your particular Care a packet for Geo & Thos Hooper. Pray forward it by a safe and expeditious Oppty. Remember me in the most respectful manner to your Lady & Sis ters. Tell my good friend Iredell that I have exhausted all I have to say in the Letter w[ritte]n to the Council & must refer him to that Newspapers for politicks. I kiss his Hand. Mr Jones, Charlton & Smith have my best Wishes. Adieu, Believe me to be Yours truly Wm Hooper RC (DLC). Francis Lightfoot Lee to Robert W. Carter Dear Sir, [December 2, 1775] We have had nothing new since the reduction of Montreal, which I suppose you must have heard of. It is supposed Arnold must be in possession of Quebec by this time. If he shou’d be too weak to effect it Montgomerie will join him from Montreal. At all events we have got the most valuable part of Canada, as it cuts off all communica tion with the Indians, & prevents inroads on our fronteers. It wou’d give me infinite pleasure, if our affairs to the Southward wore as fa vorable an Aspect; it will require very vigorous efforts, to put a stop to the proceedings of Lord Dunmore. We are extremely alarm’d by an express from the Comtee. of Northhampton County to Congress 1 informing that he has issued a Proclamation, declaring military Law in Virga. & offering freedom to all servants & slaves, who shall repair to the King’s standard which he has erected; that the inhabitants of Norfolk & Princess Ann Counties have taken an Oath to oppose, to the last drop of their blood, any of their countrymen who shall come in arms into their Counties. The Comtee. asks for assistance, being apprehensive that their people from their exposed situation, & the number of their slaves, will thro fear be induced to follow the example


[Page 462]
430 December 3, 1775 John Adams to Abigail Adams My best Friend Deer. 3. 1775 Yours of Novr. 12 is before me. I wish I could write you every day, more than once, for although I have a Number of Friends, and many Relations who are very dear to me, yet all the Friendship I have for others is far unequal to that which warms my Heart for you. The most agreable Time that I spend here is in writing to you, and conversing with you when I am alone. But the Calls of Friendship and of private Affection must give Place to those of Duty and Hon our, even private Friendship and Affections require it. I am obliged by the Nature of the service I am in to correspond with many Gentlemen both of the Army and the two Houses of As sembly which takes up much of my Time. How I find Time to write half the Letters I do, I know not, for my whole Time seems en grossed with Business. The whole Congress is taken up, almost in dif ferent Committees from seven to Ten in the Morning—from Ten to four or sometimes five, we are in Congress and from six to Ten in Committees again. I dont mention this to make you think me a Man of Importance because it is not I alone, but the whole Congress is thus employed, but to apologise for not writing to you oftener. Indeed I know not what to write that is worth your reading. I send you the Papers, which inform you of what is public. As to what passes in Congress I am tied fast by my Honour to communicate Nothing. I hope the Journal of the session will be published soon, and then you will see what We have been about in one View, except ing what ought to be excepted. If I could visit the Coffee Houses, in the Evening and the Coffee Tables of the Ladies in the Afternoon, I could entertain you with many smart Remarks upon Dress and Air, &c. and give you many sprightly Conversations, but my Fate you know is to be moping over Books and Papers, all the Leisure Time I have when I have any. I hope I shall be excused from coming to Philadelphia again, at least untill other Gentlemen have taken their Turns. But I never will come here again without you, if I can perswade you to come with me. Whom God has joined together ought not to be put asunder so long with their own Consent. We will bring Master Johnny with Us, you and he shall have the small Pox here, and We will be as happy, as Mr. Hancock and his Lady. Thank Nabby and John for their Let ters, and kiss Charles and Tom for me. John writes like an Hero glowing with Ardor for his Country and burning with Indignation against her Enemies. When I return I will get the sulky back to New Haven, and there leave it to be repaired, to be brought home by the first Post after it is done. [As to coming home, I have no Thoughts of it—shall stay here till


[Page 463]
December 3, 1775 431 the Year is out, for what I know. Affairs are in a critical state and important Steps are now taking every day, so that I could not recon cile it to my own Mind to be absent from this Place at present. Nothing is expected from the Commissioners, yet We are waiting for them, in some Respects. The Tories, and Timids pretend to ex pect great Things from them. But the Generality expect nothing but more Insults and Affronts. Privateering is licensed and the Ports are wide open. As soon as the Resolves are printed, which will be tomor row, I’le send them. I have had a long Conversation with He seems to be in a better Temper, and I live on Terms of Decency and Civility with him and he with me. And I am determined to live so. Have lived in more Decency with him and another, since my last Return than ever, at least than since last August when the sin of Precedence was com mitted. Theres the Rub. But what cant be cured must be endured. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:331-33. 1 Although this letter has been published twice essentially as it appears here (in Family Correspondence and in Charles Francis Adams, ed., Familiar Letters of John Adams and His Wife Abigail Adams, pp. 126-28) , the portion in brackets is not part of the original manuscript but was simply attached to the December 3 letter by Charles Francis while preparing the Familiar Letters. It appears that this section is the final page of a missing letter Adams wrote on April 6, 1776. Thus, Abigail’s letter to John of March 16, 1776, containing an inquiry about "the Expectation of com missioners,” is endorsed “answed April 6th. 1776.” See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:359-60. Furthermore, several passages from these concluding para graphs support an April rather than a December date. On December 8 Adams asked leave to return home, a fact difficult to square with his assertion that he had “no Thoughts” of returning; Congress did not license privateering and open the ports until March 23 and April 6, 1776, respectively; and the person with whom Adams had recently conversed but whose name he left blank was undoubtedly Robert Treat Paine, who was not in Philadelphia in December 1775. John Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 3. 1775 I have only Time to acquaint you that Congress have ordered the arrears of Pay to be discharged to the Soldiers and one Months Ad vance Pay to be made, No Bounty nor any Allowance for Lunar Months. 1 I have a Thousand Things to say—But no Time. Our Army must be reconciled to these Terms, or We shall be ruined for what I know. The Expences accumulating upon the Continent are so vast and boundless that We shall be bankrupt if not frugal. I lately had an opportunity, suddenly, of mentioning two very de serving officers, Thomas Crafts Junior who now lives at Leominster and George Trot who lives at Braintree to be, the first a Lt Coll the


[Page 464]
432 December 3, 1775 second a Major of the Regiment of Artillery under Coll Knox. These are young Men under forty, excellent officers, very modest, civil, Sensible, and of prodigious Merit as well as Suffering in the Ameri can Cause. If they are neglected I shall be very mad, and kick and bounce like fury. Congress have ordered their Names to be sent to the General, and if he thinks they can be promoted without giving Disgust and making Uneasiness in the Regiment, to give them Commissions. 2 Gen. Washington knows neither of them. They have too much Merit & Modesty to thrust themselves forward and solicit, as has been the Manner of too many. But they are excellent officers, and have done great Things both in the political and military Way. In short vast Injustice will be done if they are not provided for. Sev eral Captains in the Artillery Regiment were privates under these officers in Paddocks Company. Captain Crafts who is I believe the first Captain, is a younger Brother to Thomas. I believe that Bur- beck, Mason, Foster &c would have no objection. The Merit of these Men from the Year 1764 to this day, has been very great tho not known to every Body. My Conscience tells me they ought to be promoted. They have more Merit between you and me than half the Generals in the Army. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Congress reached these decisions on November 30, December 1, and 2. JCC, 3:393-94, 400. ’On December 2 Congress had resolved that Thomas Crafts, Jr., and George Trott be appointed to a new regiment of artillery, if Washington "shall judge them proper, and . . . the appointment of them will occasion no disturbance and disgust in the regiment.” JCC, 3:399. Ultimately Crafts served as colonel of a Massachusetts artillery regiment, 1776-78, while Trott declined a commission as major in the same regiment. Massachusetts, Secretary of the Commonwealth, Massachusetts Soldiers and Sailors of the Revolutionary War, 17 vols. (Boston: Wright & Potter Printing Co., 1896-1908) , 4:67, 16:64-65. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Bror. Philadela. 3rd Deer. 1775 When I wrote you yesterday I was not so well acquainted with the affairs of Virginia as I am now. Last Evening a Comee. (of which I am a member) appointed to take into Consideration the State of that Colony &c met. We had all the Virginia Delegates with Us and the Letters from the Comee. of Northhampton County with the Pro- clamn. & new Oath of Allegiance &: an Association of Lord Dun mores planning before us. From the whole it appears to me that Nor folk & Princess Anne Counties lying on the South Side of Chesapeak Bay & forming the Northeast part of that Colony on the Southside of the Bay have been so far debauched & intimidated by Lord Dunmore


[Page 465]
December 3, 1775 433 who has been vastly active & politic that they have not been able to check his Operations. Having full Scope He hath exerted every influ ence derived from Authority, Coercion, Flattery & Corruption, hath offered Freedom to all indented Servants & Negroes who would join him & in this Way hath got about 1200 Men with him, is about to open Trade to the interdicted Ports, and has greatly alarmed the oth er Counties on that Bay. The Committee of Northhampton County lying on the other side of Chesapeak Bay & being unconnected with the rest of the Colony has wrote to the Congress for Aid. They assure Us that the People are well disposed but have neither Arms nor Am munition and being two or three hundred miles remote from that Part of the Colony which can give them assistance they are afraid that Lord Dunmore will be able to force great numbers in that And the adjoining County of Awcomack into his Service & get large Quantities (half a million of Bushs.) of Wheat for Exportation to our Enemies. When the Situation of these Counties is considered the Character of the Colony ought no more to be affected by what is past there than that of our Colony should be by the imprudent Con duct of some People in Newport, indeed by all Accts, which I can get there is not half the Number of Tories in Proportion to their Num bers that We had last Spring, and that those People are Men of true Courage their whole History evinces. The Comee. has not yet report ed but concludes to recommend a sufficient Force to be sent into those two Counties to protect our Friends & cover our Association until measures can be taken for effectually reducing Ld. Dunmore Sc his associates. I enclose you a Curiosity a Jamaica Gentn. who was in London gave my worthy Friend lately from thence a Copy from which I took this, the whole is finely done 8c the last Line I think ought to be the motto of every American. I have this Moment reed the Favors of Messrs. Nichs. & Jno. Brown addressed to Us jointly. 1 The Sentiments do great Honor to the Authors, they recommend Matters of vast Importance, make my most respectful Compliments And let them know that as soon as Mr. Hopkins 8c I can confer upon them We shall with great Pleasure ac knowledge their Favors in a particular manner. It is very unhappy that We lodge apart. We are both much upon Comees. and our Time is so taken up that We have no Opportunities scarcely of consulting each other. This Day I shall enjoy myself highly. Next to the Pleasure of being at home is that of seeing our Friends when abroad; Govr. Hopkins, his Bror. 8c Son, the Comee. for Accts 2 8c Capt. Whipple all do me the Favor to dine with Me; never did I expect the Pleasure of seeing so many of my Countrymen on this Side Rhode Island. I shall be happy if the afternoon proves as agreable to them as I am sure it


[Page 482]
450 December 6, 1775 will convert them into enemies, in which case with the assistance of Carleton we may be easily cut off. But the people that compose our army think so much for themselves that no general dare oppose their sentiments if he was so inclined. You can not conceive the trouble our generals have had, petition, mutinies 8c request to know the rea son of every maneuvre without a power to suspend or punish the of fenders, the strongest proof of which is that Montgomerry was under a necessity to reinstate Mott in order to quiet his men. Lamb is a good officer but so extremely turbulent that he excites infinite mis chief in the army. A few days ago he promoted a petition & re monstrance upon the subject of some indulgence that was shewn to one or two officers who had families in Canada 8c were permitted to visit them on their parol [e]. It was couc[he]d in such terms that Montgomerry immediately resigned the command but on their mak ing a proper appology reassumed it. You can form no judgment of the impositions on the publick by the Officers & troops of the New England Colonies—I speak this in confidence & without prejudice. A great number of troops have been raised but when ordered upon duty tho they had reed, pay the whole season for doing nothing they dwindled down to a handful whole companies falling sick at once & yet full muster rolls being returned. You ask why this is not punished! The Offenders form the court martial & tho it may seem incredible yet mutiny, disarming the Gen tries, 8c endeavouring to resque Offenders from the guard is punished only by a fine of 6/. Many of our own Officers are little better. How ever I am pleased to find that our troops have continued in Canada 8c have on all occasions behaved with spirit if we except the regiment raised in New York, who together with Waterburies regt, ran away at the first landing of which you have had an account. The rest of our Troops were not there accept [except] one or two companies who behaved well. Contrive if possible to introduce Gent, into the army. Genl. Prescot is now here, he is the author of all the cruelties agt. Walker 8c Allen in Canada, a man demented so low as to break the windows of the Barracks with his own cane. Montgomerry resented his conduct so highly as to refuse to see him or any of the Officers of his party. The Officers taken at St Johns we hear are gone with their men, notwithstanding an express direction to Capt. Mott of Connect icut who had the charge of them to separate them. This shd. by all means be done as they have it in idea to keep up the regiment which it would be very absurd to permit. You judging from the climate of Philadelphia may wonder we did not proceed to Canada but if I had been so inclined We should have met with many obstructions, besides that Canada is not yet in a state to negotiate, especially as we could derive no assistance from Montgomerry who was going down to Quebeck.


[Page 483]
December 7, 1775 451 But my strongest objection was that your Committee is by no means adapted to the manners of the people with whom they are to deal & I am persuaded would not greatly raise the reputation of the congress, nor answer any good purpose among that polished people. You brought us into this scrape, pray get us out, chuse men who have the address to conciliate the affections of their fellow mortals, & send them up in February. I will accompany them in my private ca pacity, as I wish to make the jaunt. If it lays in your way to serve Harry I know you will do it. Let me hear from you soon. The Express waits. Present my Comps, to Duane & [. . .]; they both owe me a letter. Farewell, Yrs Most Affly Robt R Livingston junr RC (NNC). Silas Deane to John Trumbull Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 7th 1775 I wrote you a long Lettr. from N. York 14th inst. 1 to which have received No answer. This gives Me some little Uneasiness as I ex press’d my Tho’ts with the Freedom used between Freinds and though the World might without prejudice to Me, or mine, see every Word, yet having fell on suspicious Times I wish my Letters may go only to Those I wish to See 2 RC (MiD-B) . Addressed: “To John Trumbull Esqr., Attorney at Law, New Haven.” 1 Perhaps in response to Trumbull’s letter of October 20. NYHS Collections 19 (1886) : 86-90. Deane had been in New York on November 14 but returned to Philadelphia on November 21. See Deane to Thomas Mumford, November 14, and to Samuel Webb, November 22. 1775. 3 Remainder of MS missing. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir Philadelpa. Thursday Deer. 7th 1775 On Wednesday week last I Reed your letter by Mr Sparron, but not till after the Post left town, and Yesterday Reed your second by Mr. Shee. I am Extreemly Sorry that Betsey has been and Continued to bee so ill when you last wrote. God grant Shee may get better. I hope Shee Will, But Shall be impatient till I hear that Shee has. I went to See Missrs Vining the other day for the first time Since I Came up, and Shee let me know that in Consequence of her having heard that you intended to Come up for her, She had Sent all her things to Ap-


[Page 486]
454 December 8, 1775 3 For the proceedings of the Maryland Convention, which continued in session until January 18, 1776, but refused to follow Chase’s advice and instead explicitly instructed the Maryland delegates to oppose measures that might lead to inde pendence, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:711-72, especially 738-40. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Sir, Philada Deer 8 1775 On the second Inst. I forwarded to you by Order the Resolutions of the Congress, directing such Soldiers as will reinlist to be paid their Wages for the Months of October, Novr. and December, and moreover one Month’s pay in Advance; and desiring you to exert your utmost Endeavours to promote the recruiting Service in the Army, as well as in your particular Colony. By Letters since that from the General, the Congress are informed that from the 19th to the 28th of Novr. not more than 2540 reinlist ed, and that only 966 had reinlisted before that Time. The Situation of the Genl, and Army is the more alarming, as Genl. Howe is well apprized of this Matter, and will, no doubt, on the first favourable opportunity, avail himself of the information. I need not inform you what Pain the Congress feels at this Want of Public Spirit and Back wardness in the Soldiers to reinlist: nor need I paint to you the dreadful Consequences that must ensue, should the Lines be aban doned, and the General deserted at a critical Moment. I am therefore desired to forward to you the enclosed Resolution of Congress 1 and to request you to exert yourselves in Defence of our Common Liber ties by affording the Genl, all the Aid in your Power, and to comply with his Request for the Assistance of the Militia, whenever he may find it necessary to apply for it. I have the Honor &c. J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). In the hand of Charles Thomson, and addressed: “To the Council of Massachusetts Bay, President of the Convention of New Hampshire, and governor of Rhode Island 8c Connecticut.” 1 The resolution in question, which was adopted by Congress on December 7, clarified a resolution of November 4 empowering Washington to call out New England militiamen under certain circumstances. JCC, 3:324, 414. John Hancock to the Frederick County Committee of Inspection Gentlemen, Philada. Deer. 8th 1775 Your Letter of the 24th of Novr. last being reed, was laid before


[Page 487]
December 8, 1775 455 Congress; and I am directed to inform you, that the Congress highly approve your Conduct and Vigilance in seizing Cameron, Smith and Conally. 1 I do myself the Pleasure of enclosing you a Resolution of Congress respecting the Place of their Confinement, and I am directed to de sire you in Pursuance of said Resolution to send the Prisoners under Guard to Philada. 2 I am Gentlemen &c J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 On December 1 Congress had received the November 24 letter from the Frederick County Committee, together with enclosures outlining the plot of John Connolly and his associates to rally the backcountry to the British cause. JCC, 3:394; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1660-62. a See JCC, 3:415. John Hancock to George Washington Philada. Deer. 8. 1775 Sir, This will be delivered to you by Mr Jonathan [Bayard] Smith a gentlemen of this city who with two others is charged with 500,000 dollars for the use of the army under your command. 1 I have the honor to be Sir Your obedient humble Servt John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] I shall Dispatch an Express this Day to you by order of Con gress in Consequence of your Letter of 28th ulto. RC (DLC) . Written by Charles Thomson and signed by Hancock. 'See JCC, 3:394. This day Hancock also wrote a letter of recommendation "to the Committees of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, and Massa chusetts Bay,”, requesting them to provide “fresh Horses or any other Assistance” to Smith and his traveling companions. DLC, Jonathan B. Smith Papers. John Hancock to George Washington Philada December 8. 1775 Sir, Your letter of the 28 of November by Captn Blewer being re ceived was immediately laid before Congress. 1 By my letter of the 2d instant, which I hope you will in due time receive, you will perceive the Congress have in a great measure prevented 2 your wishes, having written to New York and given or ders to General Schuyler to supply you with and forward with all possible expedition what cannon can be spared. They have also di rected Genl. Schuyler to make diligent search for lead, and retaining


[Page 497]
December 9, 1775 465 Friends the Judge and Colonel and their Ladies and believe me to be, Dr Cornelius, Your Affectionate brother, Jas. Duane. MS not found; reprinted from Southern History Association Publications 7 (1903) : 176-77. 1 Cornelius Duane (1736-81), an unsuccessful New York merchant, was one of Duane’s younger brothers. Edward P. Alexander, A Revolutionary Conservative. James Duane of New York (New York: Columbia University Press, 1938), pp. 10, 13, 42. Benjamin Franklin to Charles William Frederic Dumas Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 9 December, 1775. I received your several favors, of May 18th, June 30th, and July 8th, by Messrs. Vaillant and Pochard; 1 whom if I could serve upon your recommendation, it would give me great pleasure. Their total want of English is at present an obstruction to their getting any em ployment among us; but I hope they will soon obtain some knowl edge of it. This is a good country for artificers or farmers; but gentle men of mere science in les belles lettres cannot so easily subsist here, there being little demand for their assistance among an industrious people, who, as yet, have not much leisure for studies of that kind. I am much obliged by the kind present you have made us of your edition of Vattel. It came to us in good season, when the circum stances of a rising state make it necessary frequently to consult the law of nations. Accordingly that copy, which I kept, (after depositing one in our own public library here, and sending the other to the Col lege of Massachusetts Bay, as you directed,) has been continually in the hands of the members of our Congress, now sitting, who are much pleased with your notes and preface, and have entertained a high and just esteem for their author. Your manuscript “Idee sur le Gouvernement et la Royaute” is also well relished, and may, in time, have its effect. I thank you, likewise, for the other smaller pieces, which accompanied Vattel. “Le court Expose de ce qui s’est passe entre la Cour Britannique et les Colonies,” ire. being a very concise and clear statement of facts, will be reprinted here for the use of our new friends in Canada. The translations of the proceedings of our Congress are very acceptable. I send you herewith what of them has been farther published here, together with a few newspapers, con taining accounts of some of the successes Providence has favored us with. We are threatened from England with a very powerful force, to come next year against us. 2 We are making all the provision in our power here to oppose that force, and we hope we shall be able to de fend ourselves. But, as the events of war are always uncertain, possi-


[Page 498]
466 December 9, 1775 bly, after another campaign, we may find it necessary to ask the aid of some foreign power. It gives us great pleasure to learn from you, that touts I’Europe nous souhaite le plus heureux succes pour le maintien de nos libertes. But we wish to know, whether any one of them, from princi ples of humanity, is disposed magnanimously to step in for the relief of an oppressed people; or whether, if, as it seems likely to happen, we should be obliged to break off all connexion with Britain, and de clare ourselves an independent people, there is any state or power in Europe, who would be willing to enter into an alliance with us for the benefit of our commerce, which amounted, before the war, to near seven millions sterling per annum, and must continually increase, as our people increase most rapidly. Confiding, my dear friend, in your good will to us and to our cause, and in your sagacity and abilities for business, the committee of Congress, appointed for the purpose of establishing and conducting a correspondence with our friends in Europe, of which committee I have the honor to be a member, have directed me to request of you, that, as you are situated at the Hague, where ambassadors from all the courts reside, you would make use of the opportunity that situation affords you, of discovering, if possi ble, the disposition of the several courts with respect to such assist ance or alliance, if we should apply for the one, or propose the other. As it may possibly be necessary, in particular instances, that you should, for this purpose, confer directly with some great ministers, and show them this letter as your credential, we only recommend it to your discretion, that you proceed therein with such caution, as to keep the same from the knowledge of the English ambassador, and prevent any public appearance, at present, of your being employed in any such business; as thereby we imagine many inconveniences may be avoided, and your means of rendering us service increased. That you may be better able to answer some questions, which will probably be put to you, concerning our present situation, we inform you, that the whole continent is very firmly united, the party for the measures of the British ministry being very small, and much dis persed; that we have had on foot, the last campaign, an army of near twenty-five thousand men, wherewith we have been able, not only to block up the King’s army in Boston, but to spare considerable de tachments for the invasion of Canada, where we have met with great success, as the printed papers sent herewith will inform you, and have now reason to expect the whole province may be soon in our possession; that we purpose greatly to increase our force for the ensuing year, and thereby we hope, with the assistance of a well disciplined militia, to be able to defend our coast, nothwithstanding its great extent; that we have already a small squadron of armed vessels to protect our coasting trade, who have had some success in taking several of the enemy’s crui-


[Page 505]
December 10, 1775 473 the hand of god is upon them. Our last intelligence from Arnold to be relied on is by letter from him: he was then at Point Levy oppo site Quebec and had a great number of Cannoes ready to cross the river. The Canadians received him with cordiality and the regular force in Quebec was too inconsiderable to give him any inquietude. A later report makes him in possession of Quebec, but this is not au thenticated. Montgomery had proceeded in quest of Carleton and his small fleet of 11. pickeroons then on Lake St. Francis. He had got below him and had batteries so planted as to prevent his passing. It is thought he cannot escape their vigilance. I hope Ld. Chatham may live till the fortune of war puts his son into our hands, and enables us by returning him safe to his father, to pay a debt of gratitude. I wish you would get into Convention and come here. Think of it. Accom plish it. Adieu. [P.S.] The Congress have promoted Brigadier Genl. Montgomery to be a Major General, and on being assured that Arnold is in posses sion of Quebec it is probable he will be made a Brigadier General, one of those offices being vacant by Montgomery’s promotion. 2 This march of Arnold’s is equal to Xenophon’s retreat. Be so good as to enquire for the box of books you lodged for me at Nelson’s and get them to a place of safety. Perhaps some opportunity may offer of sending it to Richmond. RC (MWA). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:270-71. An extract of this letter was printed in the Virginia Gazette (Pinkney) , December 23, 1775. 1 See Washington to John Hancock, November 30, 1775. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:132. ’Congress promoted Montgomery to the rank of major general on December 9, 1775, and Arnold to that of brigadier general on January 10, 1776. JCC, 3:418, 4:47. Francis Lewis to John Alsop Dr Sir Phila. 10 Decemr. 1775 I this moment received your favor by the Post and am sorry to find the ordering the Clothg from Albany to Cambridge delayed es- pecialy as it [wt7/] at this season of the Year be of no use to the troops in Canada, and those at Cambridge may be in great want of them. Pray do all you can to expedite the forwarding them to Col. Mifflin. The inclosed letter please to forward seal’d. This being Sun day cannot send copy of the Congress’s resolve; 1 be assured it is on the Minuts. I have the money to send you for the Clothing but have not yet an opportunity of sending it. Congress has resolved to raise four more Battalions in this


[Page 506]
474 December 10, 1775 Colonie, 2 and purpose sitting all Winter, so hope youl soon be here to relieve your Collegue on duty. Mr [Philip] Livingston joins me in requesting you would load an other Vessell on our Contract with Congress. 3 We shall be [by] next post write you jointly on that head, in the Intrim I am, Sir yr. very Humbl Servt. Frans. Lewis P.S. Am glad to find our Convention has at last made a House; can not you get them to fix our pay. 4 RC (NHi). ‘That is, Congress’ resolve of December 5 stating that since General Schuyler’s army probably would be able to obtain clothing at Montreal, all clothing hitherto purchased for this force and sent to Albany should be forwarded instead to Quarter Master General Mifflin for the use of Washington’s army outside Boston. JCC, 3:407-8. “See JCC, 3:418. ’See Secret Committee Contract, October 9, 1775. ‘For attending Congress during 1775, Lewis eventually submitted an account for the following periods of service. "May 7th Sett out for Phila. & returned the 5th August” (89 days @ 32s per diem) ; "Sepr. 10 Sett out for Phila & returned the 11 October” (32 days @ 32s per diem); and “Novr. 1st arrived at Phila. & return’d to New York 31 Deer.” (61 days @ 32s per diem). Francis Lewis account, receipted January 27, 1776, Philip D. Sang deposit, NjR. Francis Lightfoot Lee to a Friend in London Deer. 11. 1775 From the little inquiry that has been made concerning your friends Land, upon Susquehanna, in Maryland, It appears to me, that he has a right to that & much more, if he can prove himself the lawfull heir to the person of his Name who died in Maryland. The Gentleman in Maryland is still upon the enquiry, when it is finished you shall know the result. The Gentleman who brings this will have all our public papers; by which you will see our great success this year, against your infamous ministry. The Associations & Committees of correspondence give us some hopes, that your Hill will soon be graced with their heads. It is my opinion that if the war continues another year, G. Britain & the Colonies are disunited for ever. Our troops now in pay & order’d to be raised amount to 35,000 &: will be 8 or 10,000 more in the spring. We have now 10 Ships of war from 10 to 30 Guns in Continental pay, & are determined to exert the whole force of the Continent this winter to fit out as many large Ships as possible against next summer. There are many small Ships belonging to the different Colonies, & private persons to cruise upon the Ministerial transports; and many


[Page 507]
December 12, 1775 475 others getting ready. Ld. Bute will soon make America a great Naval power. The Lee, Capt. Manly, took the other day a store ship called the Nancy, loaded with Musketts, artillery & other stores to a great amount. We thank the Ministry [for] the supply. All Canada is ours. Yr. ever. Francis Light. Lee RC (ViHi) . A continuation of Lee to a Friend in London, November 29, 1775. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings C[ommittee] C[hamber] Deer. 11. 1775. At a meeting of the Com[mittee] of S [ecrecy] present Sami Ward, Francis Lewis, Tho. McKean, Silas Deane 8c Josiah Bartlett. A Contract was enterd into between Eseck Hopkins of the Colony of Rhode Island Esqr. 8c the sd. Committee. 1 That a voyage be immediately undertaken for the speedy procurg. v of thirteen tons good gun powder but if the Gunpowdr. cannot be had as much Saltpetre with a proportion of Sulphur equal to 15 lb to every hundd. weight of Salt petre as will make that quantity of Gun powder, but if neither gunpowder nor salt petre 8c sulphur can be had, then as many stand of good Arms as the Cargoe hereinafter mentiond will purchase. MS (MH) . 1 Esek Hopkins also received an advance of $6,000 on this contract. Secret Committee Account, September 27, 1775-August 26, 1776. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Arthur Lee Sir, Philade. Dec. 12, 1775 By this Conveyance we have the Pleasure of transmitting to you sundry printed Papers, that Such of them as you think proper may be immediately published in England. We have written on the Subject of American Affairs to Monsieur C.G.F. Dumas, who resides at the Hague. 1 We recommend it to you to correspond with him, and to send through his Hands any Letters to us which you cannot send more directly. He will transmit them via St. Eustatia. When you write to him direct your Letter thus, A Mons. Monsr. C. G. F. Dumas cher Made. Ie Ve. Loder, a la Hague: and put it under Cover directed to Mr. A. Stuckey Merchant at Rotterdam. Mr. Story may be trusted with any Dispatches you think proper to send us. You will be so kind as to aid and advise him.


[Page 508]
476 December 12, 1775 It would be agreable to Congress to know the Disposition of For eign Powers towards us, and we hope this Object will engage your Attention. We need not hint that great Circumspection and impene trable Secrecy are necessary. The Congress rely on your Zeal and Abilities to serve them and will readily compensate you for whatever Trouble and Expence a Compliance with their Desires may occasion. We remit you for the present Two Hundred Pounds Sterling. Whenever you think the Importance of your Dispatches may re quire it, we desire you to send an Express-Boat with them from England, for which Service your Agreement with the Owner there shall be fulfilled by us here. We can now only add that we continue firm in our Resolutions to defend ourselves, notwithstanding the big Threats of the Ministry. We have just taken one of their Ordnance Store Ships, in which are abundance of Carcasses & Bombs intended for burning our Towns. With great Esteem, we are Sir, Your most obedt humble Servants B Franklin Committee of John Dickinson - John Jay Correspondence RC (MeHi) . Written by Franklin and signed by Franklin, Dickinson, and Jay. 1 See Benjamin Franklin to Charles William Frederic Dumas, December 9, 1775. Connecticut Delegates’ Memorial to Congress [December 12? 1775] The Delegates for the Colony of Connecticut have received the following information which they pray may be inquired into, viz: That certain persons having formed an Association for the pur pose of seizing on, 8c removing by force of Arms the people settled on the river Susquehannah, under the Government, 8c protection of sd. Colony of Connecticut, have in pursuance of such designs, raised a Large Sum of Money and with the same employed Agents to inlist Men. 1 That they have also collected, a great Number of Blankets, Shoes, Firelocks, with a quantity of Powder 8c ball, 8c other military Stores in this City and conveyed the same to their Agents in this Country who have therewith cloathed, 8c Armed the Men, they have raised, for sd. hostile purpose. That to induce Men to engage, they have by sd. Agents been promised the plunder of the Inhabitants, they should in this manner seize on 8c remove, over 8c above exorbi tant Wages given them. That by artful, 8c wicked Means, the late res olution of Congress, 2 respectg said Inhabitants, which the honorable Presidt. sent forward, for the purpose of preventing hostilities, has


[Page 511]
December 12, 1775 479 at Spain and then proceed to Saltitudas for a load of Salt. 1 I fear this will not do as you run a great risk of being seized by English men of War among the Salt Islands. I cannot think the profits on the Wine will be equal to the risk, I would rather you should take a Load of Salt and instead of Wine get as much Powder and good Muskets as possible and proceed directly home. Endeavour to make the land to the Northward of Cape Hatteras, get a pilot of, and if any Kings Ship or Cutter should be at Occacock you must land your Powder & Muskets on the Banks and get them sent up to Edenton by small Craft, or you may probably be able to get the Brigg in at New Inlet between Hatteras & Roanoke Inlet. If so you may also send the salt up in small Craft advising Mr Smith of your Arival by a boat sent on purpose, or if you cannot do this, nor get into Ocacock for Kings Cutters I would have you proceed directly for this place. There is not one Kings Vessel in this River nor has there been one for some time past nor any expected ’till April or May next, if then, and you have nothing to fear from the Custom House officers; they dare not look out. If you can get any kind of freight for this place take it, if you cannot get Powder and Muskets you may take Wine and proceed to St. Eustatia or any Dutch or Foreign Port and endeavour to sell the Wine and buy Powder & Muskets. This you may do either with a Load of Salt or without, if you go without Salt reserve as much mon ey as will purchase a Load but be very carefull not to go to any place to purchase Salt where you will be likely to fall in with any of the kings Ships, if you do not return directly from Spain to Carolina you must be very carefull to write to Mr. Backie to get proper Insurance. Be particular in informing him where you intend to go that he may make Insurance Accordingly. I think this will be the Safest Port on the Continent to come too. After you Arive in Spain write by every opportunity you can possibly get to my Brother Josiah Hewes of this City Merchant, inform him of every step you intend to take, advise with Messrs. Duff & Welch on all these Matters and do the best you can for our Interest. If the Brigg can be sold for a good price let her go, if not do the best you can; if you take in both Salt & Wine and cannot do better, that is cannot get into Carolina with Safety, I think you may get in here without much risque, pray dont fail to write by every opportunity. Powder, Salt Petre, Muskets, good Cannon say nine 8c Six Pounders I believe will Answer if well bought. At any rate Powder 8c Muskets cannot fail. I am Sir Your very hum Servt Joseph Hewes RC (MdBJ-G). 1 Emperor Mosely was captain of the brig Joseph, a vessel owned by Hewes. Clark, Naval Documents, 2:396.


[Page 512]
480 December 12, 1775 Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter My dear Colonel, Philadelphia Deer. 12th 1775 Before you receive this, Mr. Colston will have given you all the news of this place when he left it, since which one of our little men of war, called the Lee, capt. Manly, has taken a Store ship, loaded with 2000 stand of arms, a great deal of artillery, 30 tons of shot, a quan tity of shells & shott for the bombs R: Cannon; and a very great quan tity of all kinds of Artillery stores, to the amount of 20,000 £ Str., as tis tho’t. We make no doubt but Quebec R: Carleton with his pow der are in our possession by this time. If we are supply’d with powder from that or any other quarter this winter we shall certainly make Boston too hot for Howe, as the Ministry has kindly supplied us plentifully with Artillery. These successes to the Northward, and the former reputation of Virga, make the present proceedings with you appear in a very odd light. The real friends of liberty are under great concern, & your delegates are mortified with the sneers & reflections of the lukewarm but that is trifling to the uneasiness we suffer, from the apprehension of the consequences that may follow from Ld. Dunmore’s being allow’d to get to such a head. 1 It does not appear to me that Woodford’s force is sufficient to ef fect any thing decisive. In my opinion, our safety depends upon an immediate, & effectual stop being put to that infernal Demon, &: his tory associates at Norfolk. The Congress are giving the greatest at tention to a Navy, Re I hope we shall have ships enough by the spring to oblige the Ministerial fleet to consult their safety by keeping close together, & of course will not be able to do us much injury. I am sur prised at not receiving Letters from my friends in Richmond by the Constl. post. The Postmaster assures me there is a post established from Fredericksburg to Portroyal, Hobb’s Hole, &: Urbanna; And the County Comtees were to direct where the offices shou’d be kept. I wish it was inquired into & the obstruction mentioned; that they may be removed, if in the Postmaster’s power. I hope the County chose a Comtee to your liking, &: that every thing is quiet. Is it not necessary that the Convention shoud establish some kind of Government as Ld. D. by his proclamation has utterly demolished the whole civil Gov ernment. I believe the Congress will adjourn before Christmas, but whether long enough to allow me to see Virga, is uncertain. In the mean time my best wishes attend my friends in Richmond. I am Dear Col. yr. afft. hble Sevt. Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (ViHi). 1 For Congress' response to the threat to Virginia posed by Dunmore’s opera tions, see JCC, 3:403-4; and Francis Lightfoot Lee to Robert W. Carter, December 2, 1775, note 1.


[Page 513]
December 12, 1775 481 Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Bror. Philadelphia 12th Deer. 1775 I am obliged to You for the many very important Hints in your last and hope You will never omit your Sentiments upon every interesting Occasion. The Contest between the two Countries involves a Ques tion of no less magnitude than the Happiness or Misery of Millions & when We extend our Views to future Ages We may say Millions of Millions. Our Views therefore ought to be extensive, our Plans great & our Exertions adequate to the immense Object before Us and such I doubt not will be the Conduct of Congress. Our Accts, have been presented. There were several large Articles in them which had never been before Us in any Accts, already liqui dated. The Comee. of Claims desired the Direction of Congress upon these, Who allowed the Expenses of moving the Stock and the Amount of the Cannon but as the Riflemen 8c other Soldiers raised in the middle & southern Colonies found their own Arms and were al lowed no Bounty The Congress would not pay those two Charges. We hope however when the Difficulty of raising men without a Bounty is better understood and the Accts, from the other Colonies are also be fore us to obtain a Reversion of this Opinion. Upon a Consultation We all thought best to defer any further Examination of the Accts, until the general Assembly is acquainted with this Resolve & all the N[ew] E[nglan]d Accts, can come under Examination together. We shall move for a Grant to the Colony for a Sum about adequate to the Ball[anc]e as it now stands and as the new Money ordered is now printing We hope to get it for the Comee. in a Week or ten Days. When you have read the enclosed, seal and deliver it. An objection was made in the Comee. of Secresy that as Mr. Hopkins was going to Sea the Continent would not be safe with his Security. Justice to the Continent, the honor of the Colony & my own Character require me to ask their Obligation and as I had no Motive in this Matter but a Desire of serving them I doubt but they will readily give it. You will take it & deposit it in your office until my Return or a safe Convey ance here presents. Mr. Nicho. Brown mentions 800 Boxes spermaceti Candles which he would send upon Permission for Powder. 1 If they could do in any foreign Port of Europe & he would export them on Acct, of the unit ed Colonies upon the same Com [missio] ns allowed Clarke & Night ingale & the same Freight that we give others I could serve him & wish to know as soon as possible for our Contracts for Powders are near compleated & People are every Day offering to take up the Re mainder 8c I keep it open on Purpose to serve the Com [pan] y 8c ac commodate that Part of the Country with Arms 8c Ammunition. 2 We should want a great Part of this Cargoe in good small Arms. I would


[Page 516]
484 December 13, 1775 mee. was now nominated to prepare the Business of the other Comee. Debates whether a Comee. of One out of each Colony shall be ap pointed to take Care of Naval Affairs in the Nature of a Board of Admiralty postponed. Col. Lee moved to raise the Wages of able Sea men in the Armament now fittng out, from 50/ Penna. Cury. which had been before fixed by Congress, to £3 per month and this was carried by Vote. Ablebodied Landmen remained as before at 50/per month. The Order for this day was to consider of giving Gen Wash ington Directions to storm Boston but various other Matters interven ing it was put off till Tomorrow. McKean informed the Congress that many Persons in Pennsa., Maryland and Jersey sell Tea and drink Tea upon a Report that Congress has granted Leave so to do &: he doubted Whether the Committees had Power to restrain them. A Day was fixed for considering the Matter. (In April 1776 the Congress gave Leave to sell & use what Tea was in the Country, forbidding any further Importation of it.) 1 Mr Crane went Home, Livingston and myself remain, Kinsey & De Hart have lately resigned. 2 MS (DLC). 'See JCC, 4:277-78. ’See John DeHart to the New Jersey Assembly, November 13, 1775. Samuel Ward to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir Philadelphia 13th Deer. 1775 I was astonished to find by a Letter from Mr. Mumford that You was shipping live Cattle on Acct, of the united Colonies. There is an express Resolve of Congress that no horned Cattle, Sheep, Hogs, or Poultry should be exported and it must be owing to the great Haste in which your Permit was made out that it was not expressly inserted. You was informed however of the Purport of it by Mr. Deane as he recollects & I think by me. You will therefore if the Vessels have not sailed instantly stop the Exportation of any live Stock mentioned above. The Necessity of the strictest Compliance with every Resolve of Congress you are well sensible of; I doubt not therefore your im mediate Compliance as you value the Interest of your Country. 1 I am Sir Your most hbe Servt. Sam Ward P.S. Be good enough to send me by next Post a Copy of the Permit. RC (CtNlHi) . Addressed: “On the Service of the united Colonies. To Mr. Nathan iel Shaw Jr., Mercht., New London.” 1 Shaw, who had been granted a contract to obtain gunpowder by the Secret Committee on November 8, ignored, this warning from Ward, who undoubtedly issued it in his capacity as chairman of the committee, and continued to export


[Page 518]
486 December 14, 1775 port of Europe & there purchase at the cheapest rate that they can, a quantity of Duck or Sail Cloth to the value of three thousand pounds sterg. or failing to obtain so much value in that article, they are to procure as much thereof as they can & invest the remaining Sum in any of the following Articles—Gunpowder, Saltpetre, vitry, Ticklin- burgs, gunlocks, soldiers muskets, or coals fit for Smith’s use. As by sd. Contract fee Reg[ister] fol. 26. 2 MS (MH). ’This contract was apparently made in response to the resolve of Congress of December 13 instructing the Secret Committee to procure canvas and powder for the vessels being fitted for naval duty. JCC, 3:426. a A footnote keyed to this concluding sentence reads: "They reed, the same day 14000 dolparp on Acct.” Richard Smith’s Diary Thursday 14 Deer. [1775] Agreed to read the Minutes for the first Half Hour every Morning & also the proceeding Day’s Transactions, accordingly the Journal was begun from the 5th. of Septr. last being the Time of Meeting af ter the last Adjornmt. Ordered that the Votes be sent to the Press as fast as they are revised. Several Matters were marked to be omitted as improper for Public Inspection. Much of the Day was spent upon an Answer to that Part of Gen. Washns. Letters requesting Directions what to do with the Ships & Cargoes lately taken by our armed Ves sels which was at length referred after learned Debates & Authorities from Vattel &C. 1 Much Altercation Whether a former Resolution of Congress had passed agt. confiscating the Ships taken in Carrying Military Stores or Goods to Boston, the Colonies on Vote were equal ly divided upon it, however it was agreed that the Cargoes should be forfeited & that such Matters ought to be tryed in the Admiralty Court and by the Course of the Law of Nations not of the Municipal Law. The President (Hancock) applied to the Congress to release Lieut. Hay taken in Canada & now in Philada. he offering his Parole of Honor to go Home to Scotland, resign his Commission and never serve against America. Lynch, Lee &: others for it who were opposed by Nelson and several more, the Question passed in the Affirmative. The Journal of the Indian Treaty lately held by our Commissioners at Pittsburg lies before Congress &: is not yet examined. A member from each Colony (Crane for New Jersey, tho now absent) chosen by Bal lot to procure or cause to be built and fitted out the 13 Ships of War yesterday ordered. Gadsden moved that the Congress should pur chase a handsome Time Piece &: set it up in the Assembly Room in


[Page 526]
494 December 17, 1775 Thomas McKean’s name in the list of members and then substituted Read’s in its stead. See JCC, 3:428; and PCC, item 1, 1:290. Richard Smith’s Diary Monday Deer. 18 [1775] The Minutes read & sundry Portions of them marked for Non Pub lication as usual. An Order passed to allow Capt. Mott who takes Care of the Prisoners at Lancaster £30 more for his Expences. Major Preston allowed to go to Lancaster for 10 Days. Comee. of Lancaster impowered to take the Parole of the Officers who are prisoners there. Chief Part of the Day spent on the Dispute between Pennsa. & Con necticut, various Resolutions were penned by the Delegates of each Colony but the matter was at last postponed. 1 The Chief Point was Whether Pennsylvania shall have the Jurisdiction over the disputed Territory, She agreeing & her Delegates to pledge themselves for it, that private Property shall not be affected. They declared explicitly that they would not abide by the Determination of Congress unless this was conceded. An Express arrived from Montreal with Letters from Gen. Mont gomery, Col. Arnold & others. 2 Eleven Vessels are taken near Mon treal by our people who have also seized Brig. Prescot who had caused all the Powder to be thrown overboard, but the Ships contain plenty of Provision. Ethan Allen is sent to England in Irons. Col. James Livingston is about to raise a Regiment of Canadians in our pay for One Year. Arnold is near Quebec but has not Men enough to surround it 8c his Powder so damaged, that he has only 5 Rounds apiece. Montgomerys Soldiers very disobedient 8c many of them come Home without Leave. Frauds discovered in some of his Officers. Gen. Washn. in great Want of Powder 8c most of the Connectt. Troops have left his Army. Accounts of a Skirmish in Virginia and great Preparations in England for an Invasion of Us in the Spring. We sat from 10 oCloc till the Dusk of the Evening. MS (DLC). 1 See Connecticut Delegates' Memorial to Congress, December 12? 1775. 2 According to the journals, this day Congress received “letters from General Schuyler, dated 19, 20, 24 November and 8 December with sundry enclosed papers.’’ JCC, 3:436. However, no Schuyler letters of November 19 and 24 have been found, and that of November 20 is endorsed as having been read in Congress on November 30. See PCC, item 153, 1:320-23, 358-61; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1617, 4:219-20. Therefore it may well be that the December 8 letter was the only Schuyler letter that reached Congress this day, and that the other letters men tioned in the journals were actually those from General Montgomery to Schuyler of November 19 and 24, and from Colonel Arnold to Montgomery of November 20, 1775. See PCC, item 161, 1:435-37, 445-47, item 162, 1:36-39; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1682-83, 1694-97.


[Page 527]
December 19, 1775 495 Thomas Cushing to Robert Treat Paine Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer 19 1775 I am glad to hear you are Well. I perceive by your Letter to Mr Hancock you are in doubt whether to return to Philadelphia or pro ceed directly home from Albany, for your Government. I would In form you that the General Court have Continued our Delegation un till the 31 of Jany next & as affairs are Circumstanced I suppose they will still prolong it. 1 Your presence here is needed especially as you can well Inform us as to the state of our affairs in Canada & Mr John Adams is gone home, the circumstances of his family requiring it. There has been no opportunity to convey your Trunk into our Prov ince as yet, as the waggon by which it was designed to go never went. Hope shall have the pleasure of seeing you soon, in the mean time re main with respect yr Friend & humbl Servt. Thomas Cushing [P.S.] Mr Hancock Send his Compliments. RC (MHi). 1 The November 10 resolve of the Massachusetts General Court extending the commissions of the delegates was read in Congress on December 4, and is printed in JCC, 3:405. John Jay to Robert R. Livingston, Jr. Dear Robert Philad. 19 [December] 1775 How it came to pass I know not, but so the fact is, that neither of your Letters to me came to Hand till the Day before Yesterday, when they were delivered to the President by Gen. Schuylers last Express. Mr. Duane just now accidentally told me that your Brother was about to leave this Town, and I am now retired to the Lobby, in a Hurry to say a line or two to you. I confess I was a little hurt at not being favored with a Line from you, especially as your writing to others convinced me that it was in your Power. The Matter is now explained I have only to regret the accident by which the Letter was detained. I most sincerely console with you on the Loss of your good father & my good friend. The many Instances of Friendship & Attention reed, from him & the family will always command my Gratitude 8c in terest me in every Thing that concerns them. Something hangs about Harry 1 that I dont understand 8c probably never shall unless you 8c I should hereafter confer upon the Subject. On hearing of his being in town I took Ph. Livingston with [me] 8c went to his Lodgings to pay him a Visit Intending unless pre-engaged to take him home to dine with me. I asked him whether he dined out


[Page 531]
December 20, 1775 499 Loss. To dwell upon this painful Subject will administer Consolation to neither of Us. Let us however fortify ourselves against immedeiate Grief by contemplating his Virtues and by a firm assurance that res cued from the Vexations and Calamities of a Jarring world he is translated to the Manshions of eternal Rest and Happiness. This is the sure Reward of a Life directed by a Reverence for the Supreme Being, by a Love of Justice, by Patriotism, and Philanthropy: Quali ties for which our amiable Friend was conspicuous! Let us follow his fair Example, and adorn our minds with the same Graces, and after a few more Struggles with the Follies, the Misfortunes and the Sorrows of this transient Scene, we shall meet again never to be disturbed or seperated. Accept my Thanks for your obliging favour from Albany. Your Brother had already communicated Genl. Montgomerie’s Successes which will raise his military Character to an exalted Degree of Eminence. 1 I hope tho’ I have had little of Capt. Livingston’s Com pany, owing to Constant Attendance on the Congress, yet I have con tributed to his spending the time agreeably here by introducing and mentioning him to my Friends. The Gentlemen you particularize in the Close of your Letter were all pleased with that mark of your Re gard and Attention, and I am confident they hold you in high Estima tion. Nothing worthy of particular animadv. has passed in Congress since your departure. The Virginians are distressed by Lord Dumore at the head of a few despicable white people and Slaves. They cry aloud for the Aid of Congress. Nothing less than Six battalions are talked of; nay reported by a Committee, for their Defence! Four Bat talions are ordered to be raised in Pensylv., One in the lower Coun ties. New York I suppose will not be forgotten. In short it is probable that by the spring there will be exclusive of our Province a Southern Army of 16 Battalions besides minute men and militia. I think I may venture to guess that we shall have a Recess about Christmas. I long for it impatiently and hope soon afterwards to pay you a Visit. Present my Affectionate Regard to both Mrs. Livingston and Mrs. Montgomerie and the young Ladies; and believe that I am with the highest Regard Dear Sir, Your most Affectionate & most Obed huml servant Jas. Duane RC (NHpR: Livingston-Redmond Collection deposit) . 'See John Jay to Robert R. Livingston, Jr., December 19, 1775, note.


[Page 534]
502 December 21, 1775 four Pensylvania, one Maryland. I hope you have Reed mine enclos ing the vote of Congress Concerning our Civil government tho I [have] Reed no account of it. In my last I informed you that the Con gress had voted our Colony forty thousand Dollars in part of our De mand till [the] account Can be Setled. The money is yet not ready to be Sent. I am Gentm your friend and Humble Servt Josiah Bartlett P.S. I have sent a printed Copy of the Journals of last session of Con gress. FC (NhD) . Endorsed by Bartlett: "This was Wrote to [be] sent to the Comtte before Mr. Langdons arrival from Tyconderoga. On his return before Sending off the letter at his request I appointed him to build the Ship and he returned home for that purpose.” From Bartlett’s endorsement and from the appearance of a large "X” across the face of the document, it seems that this letter was not sent. 1 Congress approved the construction of these ships on December 13, and the following day Bartlett was appointed a member of the committee “for fitting out armed vessels.” JCC, 3:425-28. John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress [December 21-22? 1775] 1 Questionable shape. Roman sentence in best Times. Themistocles 8c Aristides. Sextus, Pompey & Menas. Philip 2d & Lewis 14th. Eternal Rules of Justice & Equity. Thucidides, Every Thing just that was use ful, every thing honorable that was Profitable. Liberty 8c Life may be obtain’d at too dear a Price. Doubts even if certain the Liberty of America depended on the Act, but Event uncertain. May dislodge them to take Post somewhere else. The Destruction of many of our Friends, Women 8c Children certain. Garrison will seize safest Places. 2 (Question does not properly belong to Us. It is a Point of General ship. Their authority sufficient.') 365 Miles distant. In the Room. Ni neveh. Injure our Reputation in America. Fatal Consequences. Peo ple confined there by our Order (see p. 51.) (We should leave the Point as it is. Determines Nothing.) Jehovah. Girah. The Liberty of America depends not on such a Massacre. Instance of Henry 4th at Siege of Paris. Providence favors Humanity. When We overlook his Laws, The Conclusion not equal to our Expecta tions. Observe his Laws—8c trust to his Goodness. “The skilfulness of the Pilot avails but little, if the Gale of Divine Favor, which governs human Affairs with eternal Providence, does not help to bring our Actions to their desired Port.” Davila. 3 War dreadful enough in itself.


[Page 538]
506 December 21, 1775 I therefore most heartily recommend to the good people of this Continent to enter into these necessary businesses with spirit, being well assured that a greater quantity may, with ease, be made than will be needed for our consumption, even admitting the times to be worse than the threats of the British administration would lead us to expect. Any person inclining to build a powder mill will be shewn a plan, with directions for the constructions of all its parts and utensils, by applying to their very humble servant, 3 Henry Wisner MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Evening Post, December 21, 1775. 1 Benjamin Towne (d. 1793), printer of the Pennsylvania Evening Post, was noteworthy for the mutability of his political allegiances in the revolutionary era, supporting the American patriot cause until the British occupied Philadelphia, adopting a loyalist position during the British occupation, and returning to the American side after the British evacuated the city. DAB. 2 Thomas Young had published an essay on the manufacture of saltpetre in the December 7, 1775, issue of the Pennsylvania Evening Post and had arranged for Towne to print in the December 5 issue some notes on the production of nitre which he had "received from Mr. Jacob Rubsamen, a gentlemen of very liberal education, observation, and experience, some years since from Hesse in Germany.” Pennsylvania Evening Post, December 5, 7, 1775. • Samuel Adams sent a copy of Wisner’s plan of a powder mill with a short covering letter to Paul Revere. Samuel Adams to Paul Revere, December 23, 177[5], MHi; letter damaged but printed in Elbridge H. Goss, The Life of Colo nel Paul Revere, 2 vols. (Boston: Joseph G. Cuppies, 1891), 2:405. Samuel Adams to John Adams My dear Sir Philade Deer. 22 1775 My Concern for your Welfare indued me carefully to watch the Weather till I conjectured you had got to the End of your Journey, and I have the Pleasure of believing it has been more agreable than one might have expected at this Season. I hope you found Mrs Ad ams and Family in a confirmd State of Health. I will not envy you, but I earnestly wish to enjoy, at least for a few Weeks, domestick Re tirement and Happiness. I dare not however, urge an Adjournment of the Congress. It would indeed be beneficial to the Members & the publick on many Considerations, but our Affairs are now at so criti cal a Conjuncture that a Seperation might be dangerous. Since you left us, our Colony has sometimes been divided, on Questions that appeard to me to be important. Mr C[ushing] has no doubt a Right to speak his opinion whenever he can form one; and you must agree with him, that it was highly reasonable, the Consider ation of such Letters as you have often heard read, which had been assignd for the Day, should, merely for the Sake of order, have the Preference to so trifling Business as the raising an American Navy. I


[Page 539]
December 22, 1775 507 know it give you great Pleasure to be informd that the Congress have orderd the Building of thirteen Ships of War viz five of 32 Guns, five of 28 and three of 24. 1 I own I wishd for double or treble the Num ber, but I am taught the Rule of Prudence, to let the fruit hang till it is ripe, otherwise those Fermentations and morbid Acrimonies might be producd in the political, which the like Error is said to pro duce in the natural Body. Our Colony is to build two of these Ships. We may want Duck. I have been told that this Article is manufacturd in the Counties of Hampshire & Berkshire. You may think this worth your Enquiry. Our Fleet, which has been preparing here will be ready to put to Sea in two or three days, and it is left to the Board of Admiralty to order its Destination. May Heaven succeed the Undertaking. Hopkins is appointed Commander in Chiefe. I dare promise that he will on all occasions distinguish his Bravery, as he always has, and do honor to the American Flag. General Schuyler is at Albany. By a Letter from him of the 14th Instt. 2 we are informd that there had been a Meeting of Indians in that place, who deliverd to him a Speech, “in which they related the Substance of a Conference Coll Johnson had with them the last Sum mer, concluding with that at Montreal, where he deliverd to each of the Canadian Tribes a War belt and the Hatchet which they accepted; after which they were invited to feast on a Bostonian and drink his Blood, an ox being roasted for the purpose and a pipe of Wine given to drink. The War Song was also sung. One of the Chiefs of the Six Nations who attended that Conference, accepted of a very large black War belt with an Hatchet depicturd on it, but would neither eat nor drink nor sing the War Song. This famous Belt they have deliverd up, and there is now full Proof that the ministerial Servants have attempt ed to engage the Indians against us.” This is copied from the Gener als Letter. You will know what I mean when I mention to you the Report of the Committee of Conference. This has been considerd and deter mind agreable to your Mind & mine. Mr H[ancock] agreed with me in opinion, and I think, in expressing his Sentiments he honord him self. I dare not be more explicit on this Subject. It is sufficient that you understand me. I have more to say to you but for Want of Leisure I must postpone it to another opportunity. Inclosd you have a Number of Letters which came to my hand directed to you. Had you been here I should possibly have had the Benefit of perusing them. I suffer in many Re spects by your Absense. Pray present my due Regards to all Friends—particularly Coll Warren, and tell him I will write to him soon. Your affectionate Friend


[Page 542]
510 December 22, 1775 uents will keep me whole. The allowance they have agreed upon will, if I retrench a little, about do that. It must be obvious that keeping much Company, is necessary to obtain a personal Influence with the members, and that the Colony is interested in their Delegates possessing such Influence. Should we ever converse upon this Subject I will mention some important In stances of its Use. I am glad you think of reducing our Number. Five is certainly suffi cient—3 of them to be a Quorum. 2 Your Conduct relative to Sear’s Expedition so far as it respects Connecticut is certainly proper—but I suspect this will be the first In stance of censuring the Followers without reprehending the Leaders. It is time that your Government should acquire a firmer Tone. Tomorrow I shall go to Elizabeth Town for a Week—and shall de vote the first Leizure Hour I have to telling you twenty things about which want of time compels me now to be silent. Mr. Duane complains to me that you have taken no notice of a Letter he wrote you some time ago. He says it was friendly & expect ed you would treat it as such. It respected some Observations made on your Detention from the Army, & his Remarks on that Subject: which were just. Coll. Morris was very useful at the Indian Treaty & had he not, by being accidentally at Pittsburgh, given the Congress an opportunity of supplying Dr. Franklins absence, by appointing him Com [missione] r pro Tempore, there is Reason to believe our affairs in that Quarter might have suffered. As to Arms. I think you should take Care how you strip yourselves to cover your Neighbours Nakedness—neighbours too who have no Reason to expect. It is Time that you should look to your own Ne cessities. New York never stood better with Congress than now. Your Alacrity in raising & arming your Troops last Summer &c. is com pared with the Tediousness &: slow moving of others. Some Powder has arrived here, but the Fleet will consume it. More has arrived to the Eastward & the Camp will take that. For the future remember that Charity should begin at Home. God bless you. Yours &c. John Jay [P.S.] The Congress I am persuaded will not make the Loan you ask. 3 RC (NHi) . 1 On December 4 Governor Tryon had published a letter to the inhabitants of New York, asking them to express “in a constitutional manner” their sense of the February 20, 1775, parliamentary resolution on conciliation. In response, the New York Provincial Congress, after much debate and amendment, approved a series of resolves on December 14, declaring among other things “that nothing of a salutary nature can be expected from a separate declaration of the sense of this Colony on


[Page 543]
December 22, 1775 511 the Resolution of the House of Commons of the 20th February last.” Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:173-74, 394-95, 406-13; and JCC, 2:61-63. ’See New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress, October 16, 1775, note. ’The New York Provincial Congress had asked the New York delegates, in a letter of December 9, to procure a loan of £45,000 from Congress, but on December 23 Congress turned down this request, as Jay predicted. JCC, 3:452; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:397. William Livingston to William Maxwell? Dr Sir Philadelphia 22 Dec. 1775 In Answer to yours of the 18 Instant (since which I have sent the Commissions by Mr Spencer) It can’t be expected the Congress will advance the Sum you 1 mention, under the notion of deducting it out of the Men’s wages, because the men may die or desert before it is due. The Blankets the men are to find themselves, 8c if they cannot purchase them I think the Committee should do it. However if Mr. Lowrie who is appointed Commissary was to state to the Congress the Situation of the Battalions, & what articles they are in want of & apply for an advance of Cash, I doubt not he would be attended to. I sup pose the same with respect to the Committee, tho’ the Commissary must be presumed to be best acquainted with the matter. I am greatly surprized the Assembly did not on Mr Kinsey’s & Mr De Hart’s Resignation supply their Places by the Appointment of two other Delegates. ‘Tis true they have given the Right of Representation to either of their Members. This is proper enough because it may un fortunately happen that only one might be able to attend. But surely it wou’d not be proper that only one should attend. Admitting then that two attend, who does not see that they may frequently happen to differ in opinion, & then no vote can be given. If to prevent that In convenience, all three attend, I leave it to any man to judge of the runinous Consequences to a Man’s family to give such constant 8c perpetual Attendance. I can assure you that nothing but my Devotion to the Public, has kept [me] here this long, whereas if we consisted of five as before, we could always have three at the Congress 8c take turns to see our families, 8c if only three attended the Expence would be the same. I scorn to quit my Colours thro’ Impatience or Discour agement, but I think it reasonable that the Burden should be divided. I do not mean to blame Friend Crane for his last homeward-bound Voyage, because he fairly offered it to me as being my Turn; but as I knew that his Affairs from his Representation, suffered more by his Absence than mine did by my continuing abroad, I consented. I shall have no objection to giving Dr Harris my Interest for Sur geon in a future Battalion, if he can give me any proof of his skill in


[Page 545]
December 23, 1775 513 dition of the 2 Battalions in Jersey & complains of the Increase of Toryism. 1 The House again in Grand Comee. on the Boston Affair 8c after much canvassing 8c sundry Propositions offered, the Vote passed for directing Gen. Washn. to destroy the Army 8c Navy at Boston in any Way He 8c a Council of War shall think best, even if the Town must be burnt, 7 Colonies to 2, one not fully represented 8c our Colony di vided, Wm. Livingston being agt. the Resolution & myself for it. Mr. Hancock spoke heartily for this Measure. Esek Hopkins Esqr. of Rhode Island (the same that commanded their Forces in Quality of Brig. General) appointed Commander in Chief of the American Fleet, he is to sail with the Ships of War now fitting out in the Port of Philadelphia and his Pay was voted to be 125 Dollars per Month 6 Colonies to 4, the latter thought the Pay too high. The Captains, Lieuts. 8c Warrant Officers as appointed by our Comee. for Naval Affairs were ordered to be Commissioned, the Question was put Whether any Allowance shall be made to the Ad miral for Table Expences 8c negatived by a large Majority. Mr. Hop kins had very generously offered to serve without any Pay. Col. Lee 8c others gave Him a high Character. A Comee. chosen to confer with the Indians now at the State House. Gen Schuylers Letters finished. Col Harrison the Delegate’s Expences ordered to be paid for going lately to Maryland to promote the Equipment of some Frigates there. Motion by Gadsden to publish that Part of Gen Schuylers Letters where the Indians say that Guy Johnson invited them to take up the Hatchet against the Colonists 8c that he roasted an Ox and gave them a Pipe of Wine asking them to feast on the Flesh 8c Blood of a New England Man—was deferred. 2 Part of Conollys Letters was ordered to put in the News Papers. MS (DLC). ‘See JCC, 3:443. Alexander’s letter has not been found. a On December 23 Congress ordered the publication of a paragraph of Schuyler’s letter to Hancock of December 14 reporting Guy Johnson’s efforts to stir up the Iroquois against the Americans. JCC, 3:456; and Am. Archives, 4th ser., 4.260-61. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Gentlemen Congress Chamber 23d Deer. 1775 I have now only time to inform you that in consequence of your Accounts being laid before Congress, they ordered the Money out of the new Emission which will be ready in three days when it shall be forwarded to you in the cheapest and most expeditious manner. 1 I have the Honor to be with Esteem, Gentlemen Your most obedi ent Servant J°h n Hancock


[Page 546]
514 December 23, 1775 Tr (M-Ar) . 1 See Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly, December 2, 1775, note 2. John Jay to Sarah Jay My dear Wife Philad. 23 Deer. 1775 I have now the Pleasure of informing you that the New York Con vention has at Length made some Provision for their Delegates vizt. 4 Dollars per Day for their Attendance on the last, and this Congress, so that I shall not be so great a Sufferer as I once apprehended. The Allowance indeed does by no means equal the Loss I have sustained by the appointment, but the Convention I suppose consider the Hon or as an Equivalent for the Residue. The Congress this Day refused to give me Leave of absence for next Week. There are but five New York Delegates here, Coll. Mor ris & Mr Lewis being absent, so that should either of us leave the town, the Province would be unrepresented. 1 We expect however soon to adjourn, and your Papa 2 has engaged Mr. Hooper to accom pany him to Elizabeth town, where 1 hope we shall soon be all very happy. My Horses were new shod, Wheels greased, Cloaths put up and every thing ready to set off early in the Morning, when on going to Congress this Morning all my pleasing Expectations of seeing you on Christmas Day were disappointed. Dont you pity me my Dear Sal ly? It is however some Consolation that should the Congress not ad journ in less than ten Days, I am determined to stay with you till and depend upon it nothing but actual Imprisonment will be able to keep me from you. At present I find the objections of the Congress so reasonable, that I am sure you would blame me, were [7] to attempt leaving them without Permission. I must endeavour to resign my self to my fate, and am sure you have too much good Sence and too much Regard for to permit the Disappointment to occasion unavailing anxi ety. Tomorrow or on Tuesday next the Congress will I believe deter mine the Time of Adjournmt. so that it is probable I shall have the Happiness of wishing you a happy New Year. Adieu my beloved. I am most sincerely Your afft. John Jay P.S. I have reed, a Letter from Rye of an old Date. They were as well as usual. I dined with your Papa toDay. He was very well. Once more let me intreat you to be chearful & keep up your Spirits. I know by my own Feelings that these kind of Disappointmts. are disagreable but when I reflect how much more happy we are than thousands of our Fellow Mortals my Uneasiness is lost in Gratitude.


[Page 549]
December 23, 1775 517 your arrival in town, but as the weather is now set in to be very cold, I hardly expect to see you here before I set out for Kent which (if nothing more than I now expect prevents) will be on Sunday-week, The day before New-Years day. The weather is like to continue so cold that I shall travel slow 8c therefore do not expect to be at Dover before Tuesday or Wednesday following. I sent by Betts Veshell a small box of fine cut Tobacco which I recollect not to have men tioned in my letter & have since put on board of Palmer sewed up in a Bag, one gallon of garden pease 8c beg you will have these things taken care of. I did not Know whether we were in want of the last ar ticle or not but sent them down for fear we should, as has frequently been the case. The intelligence of our having got possession of Quebec, it seems is not true. Lord Stirling who sent us the Express is too credulous. Since then, we have letters both from Arnold 8c from Montgomery. Arnold says he is before Quebec 8c Montgom[er]y marched the 25th of Nov. to his assistance, so that I do not doubt we shall have a good account of that place in a little time. I am glad to hear that Betsey is like to get well & desire to be remembered to her 8c to all the rest of my friends. I am yours 8cc. Cesar Rodney Tr (DLC) . 1 On December 9 Congress had authorized the raising of one battalion in the lower counties. JCC, 3:418. Richard Smith’s Diary Saturday Deer. 23. [1775] The Journal read 8c some Parts marked not to be printed. Letter from Ld. Stirling praying to be furnished with Powder 8c Six Field Pieces to defend some vessels that have taken Shelter on the Coasts of Bergen 8c Essex, he has seized some Tories. 1 Langdon reported the Proceedgs of Himself 8c his Two Colleagues who have been sent by Congress to Ticonderoga, which were read 8c referred. 2 Their Ex- pences reported by the Comee. of Claims and Payment ordered. This Comee. reported other Accounts which were allowed. Dyer read an Act of the Connecticut] Legislature just passed, forbidding more Settlers to go on the Wyoming Lands on certain Conditions till fur ther Order of that Assembly, Jay moved that it be recommended to Connecticut] to extend the Time till further Order of this Congress, his Motion was carried 4 Colonies to 3 8c the rest either divided or absent. The Delegates of Connecticut wanted to set aside this Vote because it was not carried by a Majority of the Colonies present, sed non allocavit. Duane gave in a Sett of Resolves for Sinking the last 3 248-053 0 - 77 - 35


[Page 551]
December 25, 1775 519 and a fixed Resolution never to part with it but with their last Breath. You are kind in making the best Apology you can for your little Brothers, but they have behaved ill. I have been from home near four months &: have had only one Letter from Ray, charge them all to write immediately. I wish Betsy could write. Cant She be learnt this Winter, a Letter from her would give me much Pleasure. I hope she behaves well. I wish the News of Arnolds taking of Quebec which your Uncle wrote You was true but unhappily one quarter of his Men returned to Cambridge; the rest suffered terribly by fatigue and fam ine, their Arms & Powder were so damaged & exhausted & the Num ber of effective men so small 550 only that they were obliged to re tire from the City & send to Genl. Montgomery for a Reinforcement. He is gone himself with all his Forces that I hope we shall soon have it. In the mean Time prepare your Mind to part with dear Bror. Heaven only knows where or how he is, if he behaved well he is safe either in Canada or the Mansions of eternal Bliss & I cant doubt it. Arnold’s March is considered here as the greatest Action done this War. Some say it equals Xenophons Retreat from Persia, others that nothing greater has been done since the Days of Alexander. I had a Letter from your Uncle Ward last Post, General Washing tons Difficulties I hope will be removed. If I can get Time to buy some handkers. I will & Pins also. The Poem you desired Polly to write for [me] will send by first Opportunity. Mrs. Li[. . .] Acct, cannot be setled until my Return; pay her twenty Dollars if She wants them. The Papers inclosed to your Sisters will give you all the News save that Esek Hopkins is made Commander in chief 1 RC (RHi). 1 Except for some marginalia pertaining to his personal clothing, remainder of MS missing. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett Philadelphia Decembr 25th 1775 My Dear 10 of the Clock in the Evening I this moment Receive! yours of the 7th Instant and with pleasure hear you & the family are well. But am Sorry to inform you that I Cannot return to you at present. So much Business lays before the Congress; I fear it wont rise for Some time. When it Does rise, one Delegate from Each Colony must tarry to transact the Publick Busi ness in the recess, So that I think I Shall not be able to return till to wards Spring. 1 Capt Langdon is returned here from Ticonderoga, and I Expect he


[Page 552]
520 December 25, 1775 will return to Pourtsmouth in a few Days and George will return with him. I will Endeavor to Send by him the things you mention in your letter and by George Shall write you more fully. I am Extremely Sorry for the Disappointment we both have in my not returning So Soon as I Expected 8c gave you reason to Expect, But I hope all will turn out for the best. Who Knows but that if I had Set out [in] this very Severe weather it might have been the means of my Death and So hinder my being Ever able to See you; in Short I Desingn to make my Self as Easy as possible and hope you will Do the Same and make your life as Comfortable as you Can. I intend to Send you Some mony by George and hope you will lay it out for what you want. I am in good health but very tender, by being Confined here for above 3 months with but little Exercise. This Day being Christmas the Congress Did not Set, So I had an oppertun- ity to ride about 6 or 7 miles out of town in a Sley, but yesterday and the Day before we had a Severe Cold Storm of Snow which is now about Six inches Deep. Desire Capt Calef to look me out a good faithful Steady hand 8c hire him for me for 9 months or a year to assist in my farming Business. I am Determined to return as Soon as I Can with propriety. Give my Kind regards to Capt Calef, Col Grely, Leut Pearson and all friends. I remain yours 8cc Josiah Bartlett [P.S.] I had rather Capt Calef Should give Something Extraordinary than not have a good hand. Ebenr. Hills has the Small pox by innoc- ulation pretty favorable as his Doctr tells me. J B RC (NhHi). 1 For the “instructions for the Committee who are to sit during the recess of Congress," adopted on December 15, see JCC, 3:430-31. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada. Deer 26 1775 I have receivd your obliging Letter of the 5th Instant by Fessen den, for which I am very thankful to you. 1 The present form of our Government, you tell me, is not considerd as permanent. 2 This af fords the strongest Motive to improve the Advantages of it, while it continues. May not Laws be made and Regulations establishd, under this Government, the salutary Effects 6f which the People shall be so convincd of from their own Experience, as never hereafter to suffer them to be repeald or alterd. But what other Change is expected? Certainly the People do not already hanker after the Onions and the Garlick! They cannot have so soon forgot the Tyranny of their late Governors, who, being dependent upon, and the mere Creatures of a


[Page 558]
526 December 27, 1775 23, 1775; and Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, November 24 and 29, 1775. Warren’s “last Letter” was that of December 5, 1775. Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Philadelphia Deer. 27th. 1775 I received a Lettr. dated the 19th from one Simeon Deane who is troubled with the Rheumatism, or Gout, at the bottom of which are these Words, “Mrs. Deane says she would write You but not having reed, any Lettrs. lately, She thinks proper to wait.” As I can hardly Credit the Story, must leave it with you to inquire into the Truth of it. I have indeed been favored with Two Letters from You since You left Us, 8c have returned Five in paymt. Mr. Sherman is returned but brings No News from Our assembly. Our Term is up, Saturday Next, but I shall hardly set out for home untill sometime the Middle of Jan uary if so soon, as Our Fleet is got stopp’d by the Ice. Your Brother Dudley came here last Saturday & lodges with Me for the present, when he will be able to sail depends on the weather. 1 I wrote you per Capt Phelps 8c sent the Silk but have no Answer as yet. I had no Time to write by Mr Adams or should have sent one Line. My Com- plimts. to all Freinds & Love to Jesse & Family. I am my Dear Your’s Affectionately Silas Deane RC (CtHi) . 1 Dudley Saltonstall had recently been appointed captain of the Alfred, flagship of the Continental fleet. JCC, 3:443. Benjamin Franklin to Philip Mazzei Dear Sir, Philada. Dec. 27. 1775 1 It was with great Pleasure I learnt from Mr Jefferson, that you were settled in America, 2 and from the Letter you favour’d me with, that you like the Country, and have reason to expect Success in your laudable and meritorious Endeavours to introduce new Products. I heartily wish you all the Success you can desire, in that, and in every other Undertaking that may conduce to your comfortable Establish ment in your present Situation. I know not how it has happened that you did not receive an An swer to your Letter from the Secretaries of our Society. I suppose they must have written, 8c that it has miscarried. If you have not yet sent the Books which the Academy of Turin have done us the Hon our to present us with, we must, I fear, wait for more quiet Times be-


[Page 564]
532 December 27, 1775 doubt not but you will direct your whole Attention to his important Juncture. Remember Me to all Friends. I am most affectionately yours Sam Ward [P.S.] Lord Dunmore you will see by the Papers has been defeated & obliged to fly on board his Ships; six Battalions will be raised in that Colony soon & I hope we shall arm all Parts of the Continent soon. RC (RHi) . 1 See Ward to Henry Ward, October 15, 1775, note. 3 Ward’s letters to Nathanael Greene have not been found, but for further indications of their tenor see Greene's letters to Ward of December 31 in Ward. Correspondence (Knollenbcrg) , pp. 152-57. John Hancock to George Clymer and Michael Hillegas Congress Chamber, December 28, 1775. Requests Continental Treasurers Clymer and Hillegas to pay the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety $8,000 “for the use of the Battalion of Continental Troops in this city.” 1 MS not found; abstracted from dm. drchives, 4th sei . 4:504-5. 1 See JCC, 3:463. Thomas Lynch to Thomas Lynch, Jr. Dear Tom » Deer. 28 [1775] f wrote you a long Letter lately by a Vessel bound to Georgia and another to Mr. Neyle, 1 since which the River has been frozen so as to prevent any Vessells getting out. 1 have sat down to repeat a part of my Letter on the Subject of Salt Petre. A Gentleman here makes from 3 to 4 1/2 l[bs.] every day from less than 2 bushells of earth taken from the Surface, under any old Building. It seems, from his Experiments, that Stables or Cellars are too full of Marine Salts, and that pure Earth, loamy or Clayey which is placed so as to receive the Air, is most useful for this work, as he makes ten times as much as any body who tries the other materials. He fills his two Kegs with Earth every Morning and pours on soft warm Water, filling it up till the water Stands an Inch above the Earth, letting it remain 2 hours, then draw it off like lees of Ashes (returning the foul). The clear is directly put into a Common Brass Kettle and hung over the Kitchen Fire to boil, the Keggs of Earth again filled with Water, which is to be drawn off and boiled as be fore. When 2/3 is boiled away, both Boiling are poured on a Bit of


[Page 565]
December 28, 1775 533 wood ashes placed on some straw in order to filter and clarify; when drawn out clear it is to be boiled again till it is so thick, as when dropped on the blade of a Knife it will stick when the Knife stands edgeways; tis then to be taken off immediately and poured into an other Keg with a Cock 2 Inches from the bottom, where the Sea Salt and any other impurity Settles to the bottom and the Liquor contain ing the Salt Petre is to be poured of[f] thro’ the Cock into dishes & plates to Christallize and set into the coolest plates. This must be done before the Liquor is cold, as the Salt Petre shoots as soon as ’tis cold. Colo. Horrys, Dani Hor[r]ys at Wambaw, our old Place at Santee are exactly of the same soil & under their Piazzas, Negro Houses, & Barns thousands may be got. It is needless to say how ma terial it is to be had among ourselves. The Bond sent by Mr. Brewton is said to have been paid to the Person to whom it was first given, so there can be no expectation from it. We have no material News, but daily expect some of most impor tant Nature. Cold horrid Weather and a most dismal Christmas. We are all well and desire our love to you all. Your most affectionate Father Tho Lynch RC (PHi) . 1 Neither of these letters has been found. Richard Smith’s Diary [December 28, 1775] Thursday 28. 1 The Journals read & one Passage ordered for Omis sion. Report of Accounts from the Comee. of Claims allowed. One of them was for maintaining some Prisoners in Goal, Harrison moved to enlarge them. Vote Whether the Virginian 6 Battalions shall have 37/6 or 50/ per month our Curr[enc]y was carried for the latter if their Convention cannot raise Men cheaper, 3 Colonies only in the Negative, then a Motion was made by the Virginians that the 6 Bat- tals. shall be altered to 8. Sed non Allocatur. There was a considera ble Controversy on the main Question Whether the 6 Batts, shall be raised, it was carried in the Affirmative. Then a Motion was made by Wilson supported by McKean, Wm. Livingston &: others that the Middle Colony Troops shall have the same Pay, after some Time spent therein it was postponed. Some Talk about dispatching Bulls Regiment to Virginia. Montgomery some Weeks ago was created a Major General. 2 8000 Dollars advanced to the Comee. of Safety of Penna, towards Payment of Bulls Battalion. £5 advanced to the In-


[Page 567]
December 29, 1775 535 New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress, October 16; Francis Lewis to John Alsop, November 19; and John Jay to Sarah Jay, December 23, 1775; and JCC, 3:396-97. In response to the inconveniences resulting from their inability to maintain a legal representation in Congress, nine states voted during the ensuing months to reduce their requirements for a quorum. Thus by late 1776 only four states still specified more than a single delegate to cast their state’s vote in Congress; and as New York and Virginia reduced their requirement from five to three and from four to three respectively, only Pennsylvania (four delegates) and nearby Maryland (three delegates) , with easy access to the seat of Congress, appear to have believed they could continue to ignore such difficulties. See JCC, 4:14, 57, 122, 305, 354, 377,5:712,6:1000. Richard Smith’s Diary Friday 29 Deer. [1775] Journal read & one or Two passages ordered to be omitted in Pub lication. A Petitn. from Simeon Sellick committed to myself, Col. Floyd & Francis Lightfoot Lee Esqr. 1 The House went into Grand Committee, Gov. Ward in the Chair, when it was agreed after much Debate to allow Virginia, Maryland and North Carolina to import as much Salt as their several Conventions or Committees of Safety think necessary from any foreign Country, &: to export Produce therefor. Debates upon opening our Ports to foreign Countries after the 1st of March next, within the Terms of our Association, adjorned. A Rec ommendation to the several Assemblies 8c Conventions to encorage the Manufacture of Salt, was offered by Dr. Franklin, agreed to & or dered to be published. R. Morris informed that a person offers to es tablish Salt Works on the Jersey Coast if the Congress will lend him £200. Mr. Morris & Lynch were desired to inquire more particularly into it. McKean gave Information that a Quantity of Arms, Ammuni tion & Cannon is buryed near Sir John Johnsons House with his Priv ity & that some Scotch and other Tories are there enlisted by the Ene my, a Corhee. of 3 was appointed to examine the Two Men who brought the report to McKean & to ascertain the Fact as far as they can. Leave granted for a Lieut, a Prisoner, to come to Philada. for 2 Weeks. Andrew Allen presented a Petition from a Number of the In habitants of Northampton & other back Parts of Pennsylvania inti mating that they will not obey the Recommendations of Congress in the Wyoming Affair, this Petition gave much Offence and was or dered to lie on the Table. 2 An Application from the Virginia Con vention praying Means may be used for the Release of 3 Gentlemen, one of them a Delegate in that Convention named Robinson, lately seized by Lord Dunmore, left for Consideration. (The brave Capt. Manly retook & released these Gentn. on their Voyage to Gen. Howe at Boston.) 3


[Page 568]
536 December 29, 1775 MS (DLC) . 1 On this point, see JCC, 3:463, 467, 4:13; and Smith’s Diary, December 30, 1775. 12 Burnett suggested that this might have been the “Memorial of the Subscribers ... of the Counties of Northumberland and Northampton,” originally presented to the Pennsylvania Assembly on October 25, 1775, but this conjecture seems unlikely since the “Recommendations of Congress” referred to here by Smith were probably those of November 4, 1775. See Burnett, Letters, l:290n6; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 4:669-76; JCC, 3:321; and Susquehannah Co. Papers, 6:425. “On December 17 Captain John Manley (commander of the schooner Lee in Washington’s navy) captured the sloop Betsey—bearing William Robinson, a mem ber of the Virginia Convention from Princess Anne County, and several other prisoners taken by Lord Dunmore—while it was on its way to Boston with supplies for the British cavalry. William Bell Clark, George Washington’s Navy (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1960) , pp. 21, 94-95, 231. Virginia Delegate to Unknown [December 29, 1775] 1 Poor Allen, with his party, who were taken at Montreal, is certain ly sent to Great Britain in irons, by general Prescot, who was the commanding officer at that fortress; and shall this injury go unpun ished? No, I think I can venture to say that the congress will order Prescot into irons, 2 to remain in them until we have favourable ac counts of our colonel and his men. Montgomery, hearing of the treat ment of our people, refused to see general Prescot when he was tak en, which was shewing a soldier-like spirit. Howe is carrying on the war at Boston in a manner that would dis grace savages. The very great scarcity of provisions in the town has obliged him to turn several of the inhabitants out, and, to his eternal shame be it spoken, he had them inoculated for the small pox, a short time before they were to come out, in hopes of spreading it among our troops. Is not this as bad as poisoning waters? But notwithstand ing this vile scheme, by the vigilance of our people the disorder has been prevented from spreading. The congress yesterday voted six battailions for the defence of Vir ginia. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Pinkney) , January 10, 1776. Printed under the heading: “Extract of a letter from a gentleman of the continen tal congress to a respectable gentleman in this city.” “For the date of this letter, see the concluding paragraph below. Congress authorized the raising of six battalions in Virginia on December 28. JCC, 3:463. “On January 2, 1776, Congress ordered that Prescott be taken into custody and “safely and securely kept until the further orders of this Congress.” JCC, 4:16.


[Page 569]
December 30, 1775 537 Benjamin Harrison to Robert Carter Nicholas Dr Sir Phida. Dccr. 30th. 1775. I Reed, your Favor 1 by Express inclosing Bills of Exchg. for five hundred Pounds Sterg. which we have agreed to divid amongst us that are left after Deducting the amount of the Paper &c. sent by Capt Innis, and what you have now order’d, and £17.5.0 this Cury. ad vanced to Singleton. The poor Fellow lost his Horse which made this necessary. We shall also pay fifty Pounds Virga Currency for Mr Jef ferson and take up his order on you to Willing & Morris; the Bills are Sold at seventy two and a half per Cent. The Express was Ready to set off yesterday but geting a Letter from the Cen. Inclosing a Num ber of intercepted Letters from L. Dunmore and both the Carolinas we thought it better to detain him a Day that we might send to the Com[mitte]e of Safety Extracts of such as were interesting, which we have done and refer you to them for a Sight of them. 2 I had a private Letter from Camp by which I think it is certain that Robinson, Ma thews and Deane were taken in the Vessel. We have no News from Canada but expect an Express every Day with the good Tidings of our being in possession of Quebec. I am Dr Sir Your affet Servt Benj Harrison P.S. We have agreed for 25 Ream of Paper to be Deliver’d in 16 Days which shall be immediately sent to you. The other ten will not be ready in some time longer. We think it best to send what we can get soon that you may not shut up shop. 3 RC (PHC). 1 See Robert Carter Nicholas to the Virginia delegates in Congress, December 12, 1775. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:271. See also his letters of November 10 and 25, 1775, ibid., pp. 254-56, 266-68. Nicholas (1728-80) , prominent Williamsburg lawyer and member of the House of Burgesses, was the treasurer of Virginia. DAB. “See Richard Smith’s Diary, this date. ■’See also Harrison's letters to Nicholas of January 17 and February 13. 1776. Richard Smith’s Diary Saturday 30 Deer. [1775] A Letter from Gen. Washn. with a packet of Letters just taken by Capt. Manley in a Vessel sent with Provisions from Lord Dunmore to Gen Howe (the same Vessel mentioned in the last page) these Let ters were from Ld. Dunmore, one Midcaster, said to be the Kings Natural Brother, Hon. John Stuart & many more Persons in the Southern Colonies. 1 One Col. Kirkland of S. Carolina was taken in this Vessel. The Letters took up most of the Day in the Perusal, the S


[Page 570]
538 December 30, 1775 Cara. Delegates pressed strongly to have the Originals delivered to them & the Virginia Delegates & the Congress to keep attested Cop ies, but it was opposed 8c the Letters referred to a Comee. There was no Objection to those Delegates taking attested Copies. Gen. Washn. has sent to Gen. Howe a spirited Letter informing Him that whatever Severities are inflicted on Col. Allen shall be retaliated on Brig. Gen. Prescot 8c the like as to other prisoners, a Copy of the Letter was read in Congress. 2 Another letter was reed, from Washn. recom [mendin] g 2 French Gentn. who offered to supply this Continent with Pow- j der 8c these Gentn. being in Town our Secret Comee. were desired to treat with them. 3 Leave given to Major Preston to go for 2 Weeks to Amboy, after much Opposition. A Guard of 5 men ordered imme diately to convoy the hard Money to Gen. Schuyler 8c to take with them the Men who informed agt. Sir John Johnson. 40 Dollars al lowed for their Expences. A Comee. directed to give proper orders to Gen Schuyler on this occasion. 4 Myself from the Comee. made Re port on Capt. Simeon Sellecks Petition. He commands a small Priva teer in Connectt. & lately took at Turtle Bay in the Sound, Kings Stores to the Amot. of £1500 lawful Money of Connectt. We al lowed Him £100 like Money as a Reward for his Expences, Trouble and Risque, he gave up his Prize for the Continental Use. Debates Whether to stop Lieut. Moncrief who some Months ago had Leave to go to England 8c is now about going. He was at length allowed to go. MS (DLC). ’Washington’s letter to Hancock of December 18 is in PCC, item 152, 1:351-58; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 4:172-74. The letters intercepted by Capt. John Manley, most of them originating from St. Augustine, West Florida, and Norfolk, Va., and enclosed in the above Washington to Hancock letter, are in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:316-52. 3 See Washington’s letter to Sir William Howe of December 18 in PCC, item 152, 1:360-64; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:170-71. “Washington’s letter to Hancock of December 14, commending to Congress’ attention Pierre Penet and Emmanuel de Pliarne, merchants from Nantes, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:162-63. By February 8, 1776, to judge from their letter of that date to Nicholas Brown, Penet and Pliarne had obtained a contract from the Secret Committee, presumably for supplying America with gunpowder and possibly other supplies from France. Clark, Naval Documents, 3:563, 722, 1176-77. See also Nicholas Cooke to John Hancock, December 18, 1775, PCC, item 64, fols. 356-59; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:310. ‘ See JCC, 3:466-67. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Bror. Philadela. 31st Deer. 1775 You Favor of 19th I could not acknowledge by the Return of the Post.


[Page 571]
December 31, 1775 539 I think with You that our Declaration of Retaliation was very proper but that we may go further & believe We shall. Genl. Wash ington has sent a very spirited Message to Genl. Howe relative to Colo. Allen taken at Montreal; as I recollect his Words are “Whatev er may be his Treatment, whatever his Fate, such exactly shall be that of Brigadier General Preston whom We now have in our Power.” 1 The Virginians have at length done bravely. They have defeated Lord Dunmore, killed & taken 62 Grenadiers, their Capn. one of them, and several other privates & forced him to fly on board his Ships. The Congress has taken proper measures for the Defence of the Colony which will soon be carried into Execution. I am clear with you that our Salvation depends upon effectually supporting the Dignity, Importance 8c decisive Authority of Congress. How far increasing their Number would answer that Salutary Purpose I have not time to consider at present, our Number is now sixty five, seldom fifty are present, often less than forty. May not the additional Number you propose support by their Influence in their several Colo nies the Autho[rit]y of Congress more effectually in Person upon the Spot than when abroad by Letters, surely they may as Difficulties 8c Disorders arise apply proper Remedies and crush those things per haps in embrio which in time would become very troublesome and dangerous. The Plan of Union I agree ought to be setled this Winter but the Terms you propose I dont like. You say Representation ought to be as equal as possible. Agreed, but what is to be represented—not the Individuals of a particular Community but several States, Colonies or Bodies corporate. All Writers agree that a Nation is to be considered as one Person, one moral accountable Person having a Will of its own 8cc. Your Proposition allows to the larger Colonies several Wills & to the smaller not one, that is not one entire or compleat Will, 8c thereby makes the smaller wholly dependent on the larger; but You say Jus tice requires that the larger Colonies having a great number of Inhab itants 8c a greater Share of Property should have a proportionably greater Share of Representation. Let us see how the Doctrine will ap ply to individuals. One Man hath a numerous Family 8c is possessed of a large Estate, another has only a small Family 8c a little Estate. Is not the Life, the Family, Liberty 8c Property of the poor man being his all of as much Importance to and as dear to him as the larger all of the rich Man. Most clearly they are, surely then he may be equally intrusted with the Care of that all, and Justice cannot require that he should be deprived of any Part of the Means of self Preservation that they may be transferee! to another and yet if you allow to one of them a single Voice, to the other two or three Voices, You certainly (sel fish as people in general are) deprive one of the Means of Self Pres ervation or defence and put him wholly in the Power of the other. Do


[Page 581]
Index 549 Bowdoin, William, 12 Box, Daniel, appointed brigade major, 42, 65 Boyd, Julian P., ed., Papers of Thomas Jefferson, 468 Boyne (H.M.S.) , 184 Bradford, William, 487 Brattle, James, as British informant, 325-26 Braxton, Carter, 382 Brennan, Ellen E., Plural Office-Holding in Massachusetts, 240, 278 Brewer, Samuel, appointed brigade major, 42, 65 Brewton, Miles, 533 British arms and supplies: interception of, 36, 114-17, 406-7, 472, 475, 480; procure ment in united colonies, 70-71, 181; shipped to America, 114-15, 117-18, 158-59 British constitution, 21,470 British troops: Irish regiments ordered to America, 118, 158, 160; mercenaries, 119, 138, 158, 160; ordered to Boston and Quebec, 158; recruitment in united colonies, 228, 246-48, 257, 259, 322; conditions in Boston, 362, 529, 531; Irish regiments reinforce Boston, 365-66, 369, 389, 399; strength, 367, 452; see also Prisoners of war Brodhead, Daniel, identified, 357 Bromfield, Mr., 521, 524 Brooks, James, arrested, 151-53 Broughton, Nicholson, 116 Brown, Mr. (of Boston) , 46 Brown, Mr. (of Connecticut) , 13, 91,92 Brown, Gawen, 233, 277, 313 Brown, John (of Providence, R.I.) : letters to, 468, 471; contracts with secret com mittee, 72, 481-82, 522-23; mentioned, 433, 434, 487 Brown, John, captures Ft. Chambly, 294, 297, 302, 313 Brown, Nicholas: letters to, 468, 471; contracts with secret committee, 72, 481-82; mentioned, 433,434, 487, 538 Browne, Mrs., 35 Browne, Samuel, destroys James Rivington’s printing press, 427 Brutus, Lucius Junius, 194 Buckingham, 1st duke of (George Villiers) , 51 Bull, John, 533 Bullen, John, 151 Bulloch, Archibald: letter to, 328; # elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii; wears homespun clothes, 12; described, 23; mentioned, 18, 50, 70, 329 Bunker Hill, Battle of, 158,159, 202-4,362 Bunner, Capt., 292 Burbeck, Edward, 432 Burden, Mr., 427 Burgh, James, 50 Burke, Edmund, 4, 223 Burnett, Edmund C., ed.. Letters, 263, 281, 528 Bute, 3d earl of (John Stuart) , 475 Butler, Zebulon: letter to, 93; authorizes settlement on Susquehannah River, 93 Butter, for army, 500, 508 Butterfield, Lyman H., ed., Adams Family Correspondence, 381 Butterfield, Lyman H., ed., Diary and Autobiography of John Adams, 293-94, 304, 316,410, 468 Byrd, Mr. (of Virginia) , 34, 44, 51 Byrd, Mary Willing (Mrs. William, III) , 315


[Page 582]
550 Index Cadwalader, Mr., 40 Caldwell, Mr., 248 Caldwell, Jonathan, 400 Calef, John, 19,520 Callbeck, Phillips, released as prisoner, 492 Cameron, Allan, imprisoned in Philadelphia, 455 Campbell, Donald, 36,156, 330 Campbell, Duncan: captured, 246, 259; examined by Pennsylvania Committee of Safety, 247-48, 254-55, 257; imprisoned, 274 Campbell, William (Lord) , 149, 328 Canada: civil government discussed, 143, 161-62; union with united colonies ad vocated, 412-14, 518; see also Nova Scotia Canada, American invasion of: discussed, 16, 31, 35-36, 38, 229; report from Isle aux Noix, 29-30, 32-33; march to Quebec, 36, 38, 43, 246, 285, 315, 341, 402, 405, 456-57, 519; specie for, 129, 140, 145-46, 154-55, 160; siege of St. Johns, 141, 143, 150, 246, 279-80, 285; objectives, 161-63; proposed expedition to Nova Scotia, 286-88, 327; capture of Fort Chambly, 293, 297, 301-2, 307, 310, 313, 315, 353; capture of St. Johns, 342, 344, 352-53, 365-66, 405; capture of Montreal, 364, 365, 369, 401-2, 405, 409; progress reported, 397-98, 404-6, 448-50, 473; success praised by Congress, 414-16 Canadians: military involvement, 118, 139-41, 143, 149-50, 160, 162-63, 207, 229, 279-80, 302; attitude toward united colonies, 285 Cannon: casting, 468-69; price, 469 Cargill, James, 177,251-52 Carleton, Guy: prepares Quebec’s defense, 246; retreats to Quebec, 397, 402; men tioned, 29, 45, 49, 158, 160, 207, 341, 355, 367, 405, 406, 450, 452, 456, 473, 480 Carlisle, Ph., quarters prisoners, 436 Carmichael, William, criticized by Richard Henry Lee, 410-11 Carter, Christopher, arrested, 151-53 Carter, Landon: identified, 228; letters to, 227, 365, 480 Carter, Lucy, 228 Carter, Robert Wormeley: identified, 228; letter to, 425; attends Virginia Con vention, 426; mentioned, 366 Carter, Winifred Travers Beale (Mrs. Robert Wormeley) , 228, 366 Cary, Wilson Miles: identified, 472; letter to, 471 Caswell, Richard: elected to Congress, xx; resigns as delegate, 172 Caughnawaga Indians, 162 Chads, James, 119, 140 Champagne, Roger J., “New York’s Radicals,” 35, 351 Champlin, Capt., 44 Charles 1,169 Charlton, Mr. (of North Carolina), 425 Charpentier, Victor Thcrtse, comte d’Ennery, 38 Chase, Samuel: letters from, 36, 282, 352, 353, 453; elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii; debates enforcement of Association, 11; described, 12, 28; debates means of clothing army, 47; debates state of trade, 108-9, 126, 168, 212- 15, 222-24; on reconciliation, 109; debates arresting suspected enemies, 124; on establishing a navy, 130, 222; committee to write Gen. Schuyler, 155; debates appointment of field officers, 155; superintends Peyton Randolph’s funeral, 242; on independence, 291; mission to Baltimore, 353; on establishing civil govern ments, 453; on instructions to Pennsylvania delegates, 453; committee on South Carolina government, 453; absent from Congress, 534; mentioned, 302, 328, 472 Chatham, 1st earl of (William Pitt), 473 Cheese, 210-11


[Page 584]
552 Index Committee to the northward (continued) at Albany, 368-69; reports on Hudson River fortifications, 377-79; at Lake George, N.Y., 397; arrives at Fort Ticonderoga, 407; confers with Philip Schuyler, 411-14; unsuited to Canada mission, 451; attends Albany conference, 462; reports to Con gress, 517; mentioned, 355, 366, 395, 422, 448 Concord (ship), 508 Confederation, Articles of: reception of Benjamin Franklin’s proposals, 381-82, 419-20; Silas Deane’s proposals, 418-420; mentioned, 440 Congress: chronology of, xiii-xv; declaration, illustrated, xxvi, 449; convenes, 3; rules, 6, 17, 80, 492, 528; committee of accounts, 11, 29-30, 42, 51, 54, 58, 74—75; debates enforcement of Association, 11, 70-71; described, 12; committee on medicines, 15-16; voting method in, 17; maintaining quorum, 17, 361, 534-35, 539; committee on provisioning army, 41, 42, 56, 210; committee on trade, 45, 101, 138, 190, 192; debates means of clothing army, 46-48; committee on clothing, 46-49, 141^12, 144, 263, 360-61, 388-89, 401, 417, 427, 446, 473; debates secret committee contract, 52-54; debates means for maintaining army, 54; committee on maintaining army, 54, 57, 58; secrecy of proceedings, 59, 67, 74, 95, 292, 298, 303, 329, 332, 349, 486, 489-90, 492, 494, 498, 503, 512, 517, 533, 535; resolution on enlisting black soldiers, 70; advances funds, 74, 260, 321, 396, 400-401, 422, 435, 438, 440, 487, 502, 513, 532-33; committee to instruct committee of conference, 83, 85; unity, 85, 91-92, 95, 176, 291, 285-86, 307, 340-41, 421; committee on New Hampshire government, 99, 259, 261, 453; influence on provincial governments, 99, 292-93, 298, 320, 439-40, 445, 453; debates state of trade, 106-14, 126-27, 130, 165-69, 172-74, 179, 211-15, 220-24, 228, 261-62; recommends arrest of suspected enemies, 124-27, 129-30, 141; committee on fortifying Hudson River, 130-31; debates establishment of navy, 130-31, 133-34; debates fortification of Hudson River, 131-32; debates closing royal post offices, 132-33; debates appointment of field officers, 155-56; committee on billeting soldiers, 163; committee for outfitting naval vessels, 179, 187, 219; com mittee on Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 191-92, 196, 199, 440; committee on New Jersey field officers, 195; saltpetre committee, 195, 274, 311-12; mourns Peyton Randolph, 242, 247; recommends seizure of British stores at New York, 257; committee on clothing for northern department, 289-90, 326, 360-61, 388- 89, 417; committee on instructions for committee to the northward, 290, 294, 318, 326-27; meeting schedule, 360, 400; committee on the treasury, 380; committee on Indian affairs, 385; committee on North Carolina troops, 393-94; committee on proclamations, 410; committee to thank Generals Schuyler, Montgomery, and Wooster, 415; avoids discussing confederation, 420; committee on Virginia, 432-33, 528; committee to confer with New Jersey Assembly, 445; sends clergymen to North Carolina, 461; committee on officer recommendations, 469-70, 497; adjournment considered, 483, 488, 493, 499, 506, 514, 515, 519, 520; greets Chief White Eyes, 492; debates attacking Boston, 503-4; authorizes Washington to attack Boston, 509, 513; committee to confer with Indian chiefs, 513; requests local export records, 524; debates importation of salt, 528, 535; debates military pay, 528-29, 533; committee on New York, 534; see also Accounts; Committee of claims; Com mittee of conference; Committee of secret correspondence; Committee on hostilities; Committee on powder; Committee on prisoners; Committee to the northward; Delegates; Journals of Congress; Naval committee; Secret committee Congress, president of; see Hancock, John Connecticut: Continental troops, 33-34, 43, 243^44, 330, 397, 422-23, 489, 491, 494; accounts, 71-72, 441, 443; advance on Continental accounts, 74; boundary dispute with Pennsylvania, 83-85, 93, 132, 180, 188-92, 195-97, 440, 476-77, 494, 500-501, 504, 517, 535-36; politics, 92; ordered to intercept British supply ships, 116, 121; supplies powder for army, 181; radicals destroy James Rivington’s printing press, 394, 427; radicals seize loyalists, 427


[Page 586]
554 Index Cowley, William, 242 Crafts, Edward, 432 Crafts, Thomas, Jr., 424, 431-32 Cranch, Mary Smith (Mrs. Richard) , 332 Cranch, Richard, 76, 275 Crane, Stephen: elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii, 3; wears homespun clothes, 17; absent from Congress, 484,486,511; naval committee, 486 Creek Indians, 220, 227 Cromwell, Oliver, 503 Cuneo, John R., Robert Rogers of the Rangers, 39 Cushing, Thomas: letters from, 238, 383, 408, 437, 495; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii, 3; committee on provisioning army, 42; debates means for maintaining army, 53; committee of claims, 58; discusses probate matters, 238-40; as plural officeholder, 240; on Massachusetts militia controversy, 383-84, 386, 408-9, described, 506; leave of absence, 518; mentioned, xxvii, 14, 39 Cushing, William, 359 Custis, Eleanor Calvert (Mrs. John Parke), 399 Custis, John Parke, 394, 399 Customhouses, closing debated, 111,113,165-69 Cuthbert, James, 421 Cutter, Ammi Ruhamah: identified, 310; letter to, 309 Dabney, Mr., 285 Dalrymple, Campbell, Extracts from a Military Essay, 170 Dana, Francis, 292, 328 Dartmouth, 2d earl of (William Legge) : letter to, 21; mentioned, xxiii, 40, 152, 326, 346,427,445 Daun, Leopold Joseph Graf von, 166 David, John, 153 Davila, Enrico Caterino, quoted, 502 Dayton, Elias, 469, 470 Dean (or Deane), Capt. (of Boston) , suspected of supplying enemy, 71 Deane, Barnabas: nominated as paymaster, 3; contracts with secret committee, 72; mentioned, 44, 489 Deane, Elizabeth Saltonstall (Mrs. Silas): letters to, 13, 44, 51, 91, 102, 138, 391, 488, 526; mentioned, 371 Deane, James: relays information on Walter Livingston, 339-40; friendly relations with Indians, 384; mentioned, 442 Deane, Jesse, 526 Deane, Silas: diary, 30, 41, 61, 71, 77, 81, 101, 103, 129, 144, 219, 255; letters from, 3, 13, 26, 44, 51, 91, 102, 138, 188, 208, 245, 288, 345, 370, 391, 399, 440, 451, 483, 488, 526; letters to, 315, 354; memorial, 476; proposals, 182, 418; elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi; portrait, xxiv, 189; committee of accounts, 30, 51; committee to write to Gen. Schuyler, 30; secret committee, 30-31, 73, 138, 153-54, 190, 253, 417, 446-47, 475, 485-86, 512, 540; committee on provisioning army, 42; on adjournment to Connecticut, 44; committee on trade, 45, 138, 190; debates means of clothing army, 46-47; committee on clothing, 49, 144; on prospects for reconciliation, 51; debates secret committee contract, 52-53; committee of claims, 58, 138, 190; contracts with secret committee, 72-73; urged to visit northern army, 92; on Connecticut politics, 92; debates state of trade, 106-7, 126-27, 167, 211-12; secret committee bonds, 122; debates fortification of Hudson River, 127, 131-32; debates establishment of navy, 130-31; debates closing royal post offices, 132-33; daily activities, 138; committee to write Gen. Schuyler, 155; debates ap-


[Page 587]
Index 555 Deane, Silas (continued) pointment of field officers, 156; proposals for establishing navy, 182-87; committee on intercepting British vessels, 187, 190, 192; committee for outfitting naval vessels, 187, 219; on Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 188-90, 477; on naval affairs, 190-91; on election of delegates, 191; misdates documents, 191; superseded as delegate, 192, 391-92, 420, 442, 488-89; committee on hostilities, 200, 201, 204, 440; described, 202, 304; on government, 288-89; mission to New York City, 315-16, 345-46, 353-54; naval committee, 316, 399, 442-43; advice on military career, 371; returns to Philadelphia, 371, 391; criticized by Richard Henry Lee, 410-11; on confederation, 418-20; on Connecticut accounts, 441; criticizes Connecticut As sembly, 488-89; marine committee, 488; mentioned, xxvi, 12, 54, 169, 310, 484, 491 Deane, Simeon, 13,526 Deane, William, rescued, 537 Deas, Anne Izard, 365 De Berdt, Dennis, 445 Defense, coastal: protection of livestock, 26; river and harbor fortification, 120-21, 127-28, 130-32, 137-38, 140-42, 144-46, 148-49, 160, 165, 191, 321-22, 377-79; removal of inhabitants, 123, 165 De Hart, John: letter from, 334; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; debates secret committee contract, 52; on emission of paper currency, 57; resigns as delegate, 335, 484, 511 De Lancey, James, 249 Delaware: elections, 72; exempted from Restraining Acts, 165-69; Continental troops, 499, 515, 517 Delaware delegates, credentials approved, 242 Delaware Indians, Chief White Eyes visits Congress, 492 Delaware River, delegate excursion on,'76-79 Delegates: loyalists among, xxiii; described, 12-13, 28, 80; inoculated for smallpox, 17, 19, 97, 161; excursion on Delaware River, 76-79; quorum requirements, 193, 335, 515, 534-35; remuneration, 294-95; colony instructions, 319-20, 427, 445, 453; franking privilege, 376; on Massachusetts militia controversy, 408-9 Deserters, 79, 448, 456, 489 Dewees, Thomas, 152 De Witt, Mr. (of Norwich, Conn.) , 12, 49, 60, 226 De Witt, Mr. (of Windham, Conn.), 12,49, 60, 226 Dexter, Mr., 25 Dexter, Franklin B., Yale Graduates, 313 Dickenson (snow) , 523 Dickinson, John: draft instructions, 391; letters from, 368, 467, 475; speech, 502; elected to Congress, xx; attends Congress, xx; described, 13; breach with John Adams, 18; secret committee, 31-32, 73; criticized, 40, 50; secret committee bonds, 122; Kearsley affair, 153; on reconciliation, 319-20; instructions to Pennsylvania delegates, 319-20, 453; committee of secret correspondence, 410, 467-68; on New Jersey’s proposed petition to the king, 443—45; on attacking Boston, 502—3; men tioned, 292, 414 Digges, Dudley, 382 Dilly, Edward, 50 Doorkeepers, accounts, 44, 45 Douw, Volkert P.: letter to, 384; attends Albany conference, 462 Draper, Margaret, newspaper mentioned, 18, 90, 102 Duane, Cornelius: identified, 465; letter to, 464 Duane, James: letters from, 38, 41, 148, 193, 240, 260, 294, 325, 350, 400, 464, 498; letter to, 427; notes, 113; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix; arrives in Philadelphia, 8; debates state of trade, 126-27; debates fortification of Hudson


[Page 588]
556 Index Duane, James (continued) River, 131; debates dosing royal post offices, 133; debates appointment of field officers, 156; on reconciliation, 240-41; on self-improvement, 249; describes Thomas Jefferson, 249; on redemption of paper currency, 517-18; 524; mentioned, 149, 155, 451, 487, 495, 496, 510 Duane, Mary Livingston (Mrs. James), 241 Duche, Elizabeth Hopkinson (Mrs. Jacob), 250, 272 Duche, Jacob: preaches at Peyton Randolph’s funeral, 242, 247^8; mentioned, 200, 229, 250, 272 Duck, procurement, 485-86, 498, 523 Duer, William, 372 Duff & Welch, 479 Duffield, George, 23, 50, 461 Dumas, Charles William Frederic: identified, 468; letter to, 465; agent for Congress at The Hague, 466-68; remuneration, 467-68; mentioned, 475 Dunlap, John, xxvi Dunmore, 4th earl of (John Murray) : critidzed, 120; arrest considered, 124-26, 150; seizes Norfolk printing press, 193-95 , 229; plan of opposition, 227, 241-42; repulsed at Hampton, Va., 336-38, 345, 366, 403; proclaims martial law, 406-7, 424-25, 428-29, 432-33, 439, 447, 462; Congress plans naval attack against, 426, 472, 542-44; threatens Virginia’s eastern shore, 433, 472; retreats to fleet, 500, 529, 532, 539; seizes Virginians, 535-36; intercepted letters, 537; mentioned, 119, 149, 160, 205, 280, 346, 352, 367, 401, 434, 442, 480, 499 Du Simitifere, Pierre Eugene, xxiv, 78 Dyer, Benjamin, 15 Dyer, Eliphalet: letters from, 14, 55, 93, 97, 490, 521; # elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi; described, 13; committee on medicines, 15; debates means for clothing army, 46; debates secret committee contract, 52-53; debates arresting suspected enemies, 124-25; on Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 93, 188, 517; debates fortification of Hudson River, 127, 131-32; debates establishment of navy, 130; debates dosing royal post offices, 132; debates appointment of field officers, 155-56; committee on powder, 181; superseded as delegate, 192; debates state of trade, 212-13; declines committee appointment, 318; on recruiting methods, 491; on commissary’s allowance, 521; mentioned, 49, 60, 83, 84, 85, 169, 226, 330, 354, 391, 420, 488, 489 Dyer, Thomas, 55, 56, 98, 338, 491 Easton, James, 411 Easton, John, thanked by Congress, 504 Eden, Robert, 125 Edes, Benjamin, 298 Education: of children, 59, 172-73, 276, 299-300; of officers, 170 Edwards, Timothy, appointed Indian commissioner, northern department, 384 Effingham, 3d earl of (Thomas Howard) , 179 Eldridge, Mr., 211 Ellery, William, 247 Engineers: sought in Europe, 467, 541; mentioned, 236, 329, 333 Ennery, comte d’ (Victor Therese Charpentier) , 38 Enos, Roger, 456 Eppes, Elizabeth Wayles (Mrs. Francis) , 160, 246, 315, 367 Eppes, Francis, letters to, 159, 246, 315, 366 Erwin, Robert, 75 Eve, Oswell: identified, 368; letter to, 368


[Page 595]
Index 563 Jay, John (continued) delegation, 482, 510; on Henry Beekman Livingston, 495-96; on maintaining influence among other delegations, 509-10; denied leave of absence, 514; on local taxes, 515; on Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 517; mentioned, 320, 351,490,524 Jay, Sarah Livingston (Mrs. John) , letters to, 79, 257, 458, 514 Jefferson, Martha Wayles Skelton (Mrs. Thomas), 159, 160, 246, 367 Jefferson, Thomas: letters from, 159, 246, 279, 315, 366, 402, 472; elected to Con gress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; absent from Congress, 27; described, 249; on reconciliation, 403; mentioned, 261, 414, 492, 518, 524, 526, 537 Jefferson, Thomas, Papers (Boyd, ed.) , 468 Jefferys, Thomas, xxiii Jensen, Merrill, Founding of a Nation, 110 John (Tuscarora chief), in Philadelphia, 518 John (brigantine) ,512 Johnson, Guy: incites Indians at Montreal conference, 507, 513; mentioned, 118, 139, 341 Johnson, Jacob, 490 Johnson, Sir John, 535,538 Johnson, Thomas: letter from, 36; elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii; committee on trade, 45; debates means of clothing army, 47; debates secret committee contract, 53; committee of claims, 58; committee to instruct! committee of conference, 83; debates state of trade, 106-7; debates arresting suspected enemies, 125-26; committee of secret correspondence, 410; absent from Congress, 534 Johnson, Victor L., Administration of the American Commissariat, 340 Johnson, Sir William, 397 Johnston, Samuel: letters to, 323, 353, 392, 420,424; mentioned, 393 Johnston, Mrs. Samuel, 425 Jones, John, 427 Jones, Matt B., ed., ‘‘Revolutionary Correspondence of Governor Nicholas Cooke," 115 Jones, Noble Wimberly: elected to Congress, xvii; mentioned, 24 Jones, William, 425 Joseph (brig), 479 Journals of Congress: publication of, 59, 67, 74-75, 99; revised for publication, 67, 74, 486, 489-90, 492, 494, 498, 503, 512, 517, 533, 535; Charles Thomson’s manu script entries, 294 Judd, William: expedition to Warrior’s Run, 93; arrested, 93, 188; mentioned, 190, 440 Judge advocate general: pay, 42,59-60,65, 89,169; duties, 89 Kanawha fort, burned by Ohio Indians, 447-48 Kearsley, John: arrested, 151-53; imprisoned, 247; mentioned, 159 Kenmare (Lord), 390 Ketellas, Garret, 289 Kinsey, James: letter from, 147; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; resigns as delegate, 335,484, 511 Kirkland, Moses, captured, 537 Kirkland, Samuel, 442 Kitty (brig), 497 Knight, Mr., 392 Knollenberg, Bernhard, ed., Correspondence of Samuel Ward, 342, 532 Knox, Henry: identified, 330; letter to, 329; appointed engineer, 236, 238; ap pointed artillery colonel, 424, 456; mentioned, 63, 225, 431


[Page 596]
564 Index Labaree, Leonard, ed.. Papers of Benjamin Franklin, 468 Lamb, John, 412,450 Lamoine, Mrs., 173 Lancaster, Pa., quarters prisoners, 436 Lancaster, Pa., Committee of Inspection, paroles prisoners, 494 Lancaster County, Pa., Committee of Correspondence, letter to, 28 Lanctot, Gustave, Canada ir the American Revolution, 150, 163, 414 Land, western: Pennsylvania-Virginia boundary dispute, 45, 57-58, 67, 70, 85; Con necticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 83-85, 93, 132, 180, 188-92, 195-96, 440, 476-77, 500-501, 504, 517; Transylvania Company, 249-50; settlement, 504, 517 Landjobbers, 282 Landman & Coit, 64 Langdon, John: letters from, 37, 98, 141, 259, 292, 309, 315, 377; letter to, 496; -ft elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; portrait, xxvii, 516; arrives in Philadelphia, 12; secret committee, 32, 73, 153-54, 253, 259; debates means of cloth ing army, 47; committee on clothing, 49; committee of claims, 58; contracts with secret committee, 72-73, 319; requests instructions on government, 98—99; secret committee bonds, 122; debates fortification of Hudson River, 132; debates closing royal post offices, 132-33; debates appointment of field officers, 156; committee on powder, 181; committee to the northward, 293-94, 310, 318, 355, 368-69, 377-79, 411-12, 517; leaves for Ticonderoga, 327, 333; at Ticonderoga, 376; attends Albany conference, 462; appointed to supervise building of frigate in New Hampshire, 502; mentioned, 29,70,414,519 Langdon, Woodbury: identified, 310; mentioned, 309 Laurel Hill, Pennsylvania-Virginia boundary dispute, 57-58 Law of Liberty (John Zubly), illustrated, xxiii, 22 Lawrence, Mr., 16 Lawrence, Jonathan, 377 Lawrence, Mary Morris, 258 Leach, Mr. (Schenectady, N.Y., merchant), dealings with Walter Livingston, 339 Lead: mining, 12,291, 369; importation, 369,523; mentioned, 203,204,236 Leather, 21 Le Bond, Guillaume, 170 Lee, Mr., 486 Lee, Arthur: letters to, 410, 475; alleged malignment, 410-11; agent for Congress in London, 475-76; mentioned, 5, 12, 74, 102, 202, 334,463, 467 Lee, Charles: letter to, 174; mentioned, 34,144, 336,338, 365,398,541 Lee, Francis Lightfoot: letters from, 227, 365, 403, 425, 474, 480; elected to Con gress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi, 228; described, 12; inoculated for smallpox, 17, 24,27,85; accounts, 228; mentioned, 30,535 Lee, Jeremiah, 12 Lee, Rebecca Tayloe (Mrs. Francis Lightfoot), 228,404 Lee, Richard Henry: letters from, 66, 120, 143, 229, 315, 335, 383, 394, 404, 446, 447; letter to, 347; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; absent from Con gress, 27; committee on maintaining army, 54, 58; arrives in Philadelphia, 66; on North ministry, 66-67; debates enforcement of Association, 71; secret committee, 73; committee to instruct committee of conference, 83; debates state of trade, 106-14, 126-27, 165, 167, 173, 212-13, 215, 221-22; debates arresting suspected enemies, 124-25; debates Hudson River fortification, 127, 131; debates closing royal post offices, 132-33; committee on tea, 180; committee on New Hampshire government, 261; debates outfitting naval vessels, 279; recounts American invasion of Canada, 404-6; committee on proclamations, 410; criticizes Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane, and William Carmichael, 410-11; requests nonexportation exemption,


[Page 606]
574 Index Purviance, Samuel, Jr.: letter to, 437; requests Association exemption, 70-71, 74; mentioned, 438 Putnam, Israel, 37, 55, 98, 338, 452 Putnam, James, 4 Putnam, Rufus, recommended as assistant engineer, 236 Quakers, 50, 282 Quarles, Benjamin, The Negro in the American Revolution, 70 Quartermaster general: clothing for army, 46-49, 263, 361, 388, 401, 473-74; commis ¬ sion, 48—49; clerk’s pay, 236; accounts, 367; rank, 509 Quebec; see Canada Quebec Act, 404 Quincy, Josiah: identified, 129; letter to, 128; mentioned, 134, 143, 275, 332 Quorum requirements: New York delegation, 193, 515; New Jersey delegation, 335, 511; Maryland delegation, 534; colony reductions, 534-35 Rains, John, petition, 290 Randall, Thomas, tea petition, 210 Randolph, Ariana Jennings (Mrs. John), 403 Randolph, Edmund, 337, 403 Randolph, John, letter to, 402 Randolph, Peyton: elected to Congress, xxii; attends Congress, xxii, 6, 30; health, 17, 27; committee on trade, 45; debates establishment of navy, 130; confers with John Macpherson, 195; debates state of trade, 212; death, 227-30, 232-33, 240, 246, 402; described, 232; funeral, 232-33, 242, 247^8, 252; mentioned, 226 Rapalje, Stephen, letter to, 16 Ravizzone, 527 Read, George: letter from, 493; elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii; debates means of clothing army, 47; debates enforcement of Association, 71; marine committee, 493; mentioned, xxvi, 121 Read, Gertrude Ross (Mrs. George), letter to, 493 Read, James, 493 Read, Thomas, intelligence from England, 120-21, 123-24, 127, 138 Read, William, 359 Reading, Pa., quarters prisoners, 436 Reconciliation: prospects for, 6-7, 40, 51, 87, 90, 103-4, 109, 124-26, 165-68, 179, 240-41, 319-20, 324, 334-35, 341, 390, 403, 427-28, 463, 470-71; effects of foreign trade on, 109; mentioned, 363, 370, 510 Redman, John, 250, 272 Redwood, Abraham, 247 Redwood, William, 43 Reed, Joseph: committee of conference minutes, 237-38; mentioned, 164, 314, 335, 337, 339, 371, 521, 522 Regonville, Maj. de, 504 Regulators (North Carolina) , loyalist sentiments, 459, 461 Restraining Acts, 110, 169, 174, 283,383 Revere, Paul: studies art of powder manufacture, 368; mentioned, 380, 383, 386, 387, 506 Rhoads, Samuel, 40 Rhode Island: sends military stores to army, 26; ordered to intercept British supply ships, 114-15, 121; defense, 123, 180; emits paper currency, 355-56; accounts, 379-80, 434, 481; supplies vessels for Continental Navy, 428-29; advance on Continental accounts, 487


[Page 607]
Index 575 Rhode Island Assembly: removes livestock from coasts, 26; ousts Gov. Wanton, 115; naval proposal, 106, 206 Rhode Island committee of accounts, in Philadelphia, 434 Rhode Island Committee of Safety, accounts, 379-80 Rhode Island delegates: letters from, 149, 301, 428; naval proposal, 106, 130-31, 134, 206, 316, 355-56, 487; remuneration, 295 Rhubarb, price, 15 Rice: price. 111, 262, 283; nonexportation, 283 Riflemen: accounts, 29, 42, 65, 74-75, 424; dismissals, 235 Rights, American, discussed, 21 Rittenhouse, David: excursion on Delaware River, 76; described, 76-77; mentioned, 106 Rivington, James: printing press destroyed, 394, 427; mentioned, 437 Roberdeau, Daniel, 49 Robinson, Mr., 452 Robinson, William, rescued, 535-37 Roche, Maj., 390 Rodney, Caesar: letters from, 8, 72,151, 399,400,409, 451, 515; elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii, 8; health, 8; committee of claims, 58; on Delaware elections, 72 Rodney, Elizabeth Fisher (Mrs. Thomas) : letter to, 8; mentioned, 451, 517 Rodney, Thomas: letters to, 8, 72, 151, 399, 400, 409, 451, 515; elected to Delaware Assembly, 151, 153 Roelker, William G., and Collins, Clarkson A., “Patrol of Narragansett Bay,” 181 Rogers, John: letter from, 534; elected to Congress, xviii, 534; attends Congress, xviii, 503, 534 Rogers, Robert: identified, 39; meets with John Adams and Samuel Adams, 39—40; imprisoned, 39; paroled, 44, 45; mentioned, 45 Roman Catholics: British recruitment, 366, 369, 390; mentioned, 89 Romans, Bernard: Hudson River fortification plans, 127; directs construction of High lands fortification, 377-78 Rose (H.M.S.) , 181 Rosenthal, Albert, xxvii Ross, George: letters from, 16, 28, 357; -fa elected to Congress, xx; attends Congress, xx; portrait, xxvi, 358; debates secret committee contract, 53; debates Connecticut- Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 132; debates appointment of field officers, 156; debates outfitting naval vessels, 279; not reelected to Congress, 357; mentioned, 76, 320 Ross, James, 16 Ross, John: contracts with secret committee, 73; described, 76; excursion on Delaware River, 76 Row galleys: delegates’ excursion on, 76-79; considered for Boston Harbor defense, 143; mentioned, 52 Royal Fensible Americans, 248 Rubsaman, Jacob, 504, 506 Rush, Benjamin: described, 50; excursion on Delaware River, 76 Rutledge, Edward: letters from, 389, 462; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Con gress, xxi; described, 12; debates means of clothing army, 46; on black soldiers, 67; debates state of trade, 109; debates fortification of Hudson River, 132; debates appointment of field officers, 156; on prospects for reconciliation, 390, 463; on independence, 462-63; mentioned, xxiii, 29, 52, 487, 496 Rutledge, Henrietta Middleton (Mrs. Edward), 52 Rutledge, John: elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi, 6; described, 12-13; committee on trade, 45; debates secret committee contract, 52-53; committee to instruct committee of conference, 83; debates state of trade, 106-7, 127, 168, 173-74,


[Page 609]
Index 577 Sergeant, Jonathan Dickinson: criticizes John Dickinson, 40; on Irish Americans, 46; mentioned, 348 Sessions, Darius, 210 Sever, William: identified, 95; letter to, 94; mentioned, 59 Seymour, Thomas, 92 Shads, William, 45 Shaw, Nathaniel, Jr.: identified, 319; letter to, 484; contracts with secret committee, 72, 318-19, 346; violates Association, 484-85; mentioned, 443 Shea, Capt., 500 Shee, John, 451 Sherman Roger: letters from, 312, 384; letter to, 485; memorandum, 339; elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi; described, 13; debates means of clothing army, 46-48; debates establishing committee of claims, 54; debates enforcement of Association, 71; debates state of trade, 126, 169; debates fortification of Hudson River, 131-32; debates Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 132; debates appointment of field officers, 155; on Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 188; committee on New Hampshire government, 261; committee on clothing for northern department, 289-90, 340, 427; committee on Indian affairs, 385; leaves Phildelphia, 391-92, 440; accounts, 392; returns to Philadelphia, 526; mentioned, 420 Shipley, Jonathan, letter to, 6 Shippen, William, Jr., 120, 143, 227 Shipton, Clifford K., Harvard Graduates, 19, 95, 129 Shuldham, Molyneux, 119, 125, 160 Silk, price, 527 Simes, James Smith: captured, 259; mentioned, 247, 257 Simes, Thomas, Military Guide, 170 Simes, Thomas, Military Medley, 170 Simpson, John: loyalist activities, 312; mentioned, 371, 372 Simpson, Sarah Webb (Mrs. John), 372 Singleton, Mr., 537 Sipple, Caleb, 151 Six Nations: Albany conferences, 11, 16, 461-62, 507; Pittsburgh conference, 336; describe Montreal conference, 507; incited by Guy Johnson, 513; mentioned, 477 Skene, Philip, 151 Skinner, Cortlandt, 445 Sluman, Joseph: arrested, 188; mentioned, 190, 440 Smallpox: inoculation for, 17, 19, 24, 27, 85, 97, 161, 520; in Philadelphia, 19, 97; inoculation as an instrument of war, 530-31, 536; mentioned, 201, 252, 434 Smith, Mr. (of England) , 21 Smith, D. E. Huger, "Commodore Alexander Gillon,” 254 Smith, Elizabeth Quincy (Mrs. William), death, 135, 174, 230-31, 275 Smith, Elizabeth, 201, 332 Smith, Jonathan Bayard, 438, 455 Smith, Richard: diary, 5, 8, 11, 17, 20, 29, 31, 38, 42, 44, 48, 57, 67, 74, 78, 79, 82, 483, 486, 489, 492, 494, 498, 500, 503, 512, 517, 523, 528, 533, 535, 537; & elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix, 5; diary, illustrated, xxiii, 68-69; provenance of diary, 6; wears homespun clothes, 17; committee of claims, 57-58; excursion on Delaware River, 78; absence from Congress, 83; on Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 500-501; on attacking Boston, 513; mentioned, 445, 478, 479, 487 Smith, Robert (clergyman) , 49 Smith, Robert (North Carolina merchant) : contracts with secret committee, 73; men tioned, 324, 354, 425


[Page 610]
578 Index Smuggling, 273 Smyth, Albert H., ed., Writings of Benjamin Franklin, 527-28 Smyth, John Ferdinand Dalziel, imprisoned in Philadelphia, 455 Snowden, Leonard, arrested, 151-53 Somerset (H.M.S.), 184 South Carolina: blacks in, 50-51; supplies powder for army, 181; Continental troops, 285-86, 298, 323-24; advised to establish government, 298, 304, 306, 320, 453; internal disorders, 315 South Carolina Council of Safety, requests Continental force, 324-25 South Carolina delegates, remuneration, 294 Spain, sent journals of Congress, 478 Sparks, Jared, 103 Sparron, Mr., 451 Specie: for invasion of Canada, 129, 140, 145-46, 154-55, 160; Johannes, 295; value, 490; importation, 490, 518; for northern military department, 524, 538 Spencer, Mr. (blacksmith) , 384 Spencer, Elihu: identified, 461; letter to, 459; appointed congressional missionary to North Carolina, 461; mentioned, 500, 511 Sprague, William B., Annals of the American Pulpit, 461 Sproat, James, described, 23 Stanwix, John, 272 Stationery, price, 81 Steel, Capt., 75 Stephen, Adam, 229 Stevens, John: letters to, 35,198 Stevens, John, Jr., 199 Stevens, Robert, 173 Stevenson, Cornelius, 467, 468 Stevenson, Robert, 467, 468 Stiles, Ezra, Literary Diary (Dexter, ed.), 292, 328-29 Stillman, Hannah Morgan (Mrs. Samuel), 250, 272 Stillman, Samuel, 75, 200, 250, 272 Stirling, Lord; see Alexander, William Stockbridge Indians: offer services to united colonies, 236 Stockton, Mr., 5 Stone, Thomas: elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; debates arresting suspected enemies, 126; debates closing royal post offices, 133; dbates state of trade, 173, 213-14; absent from Congress, 534 Stone, William: letter to, 542; sailing orders, 542 Stopford, Joseph: letter to, 372; -ft parole, 373 Story, Thomas, 467, 468, 475 Strahan, Margaret Elphinston (Mrs. William) , 105 Strahan, William, letter to, 104 Stringer, Samuel: identified, 11; appointed director of hospital, northern depart ment, 11,145 Stuart, John (1718-79), intercepted letter, 537 Stuart, John, 3d earl of Bute, 475 Stuckey, A., 475 Sturges, Jonathan, elected to Congress, xvi Sullivan, John, meets with committee of conference, 243 Sulphur: procurement, 73, 122, 153-54, 253-54, 318-19; removed from New York City, 197, 199 Sully, due de (Maximilien de Bethune), Memoires, 51 Sunbury, Pa., 93


[Page 613]
Index 581 Waller, Edmund: identified, 177; mentioned, 175 Walpole, Thomas, 527 Wanton, Joseph, 115 War: discussed, 50-51; prospects for, 285 Ward, Anna: health, 173; mentioned, 165, 341 Ward, Artemas, 343, 345, 349 Ward, Charles, identified, 251 Ward, Deborah: letters to, 172, 283, 518; mentioned, 211 Ward, Elizabeth, 173, 519 Ward, Henry: letters to, 42, 84, 123, 164, 180, 247, 290, 316, 330, 354, 369, 380, 429, 432, 481, 487, 530, 538; mentioned, 519 Ward, Joseph: identified, 345; letter to, 344 Ward, Mary: letter to, 210; mentioned, 519 Ward, Samuel: diary, 3,6,10,11,17,20,29, 31, 39,42, 45,49,58, 70, 75, 78, 80, 83, 101, 105, 110, 121, 129, 141, 154, 160, 163, 172, 179, 180, 195, 199, 200, 210, 220, 228, 242, 254, 261, 271, 274, 279, 281, 283, 290; letters from, 26, 42, 84, 122, 123, 149, 163, 172, 180, 210, 247, 283, 290, 301, 316, 330, 340, 354, 369, 379, 429, 432, 481, 484, 487, 518, 529, 530, 538; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi, 3; on plural com ¬ missions, 27; supports Washington, 27; secret committee, 32, 73, 153-54, 165, 253, 318-19, 402, 417, 446-47, 475, 483-86, 497-98, 512, 522-23, 529; committee on pro visioning army, 42; debates means of clothing army, 47; committee of claims, 58, 165; excursion on Delaware River, 78; on appointing committee of conference, 84-85; on boundary disputes, 85; secret committee bonds, 122; on Rhode Island’s defense, 123, 180; debates appointment' of field officers, 155-56; on Benjamin Church’s treachery, 163-64; daily activities, 165; instructions to children, 172-73, 283-84; committee on tea, 180; on army pay, 180-81; on farming, 211, 284-85; com mittee on New Hampshire government, 261; on army reorganization, 370, 530-31, 540; committee on Virginia, 432; courts Mrs. House, 489; on liberty, 530; on pro portional representation, 539-40; mentioned, 14, 32, 120, 169, 251, 503, 535 Ward, Samuel, Correspondence (Knollenberg, ed.) ,251, 342, 532 Ward, Samuel, Jr.: described, 26; mentioned, 84, 86, 172, 251, 285, 519 Ward, Simon Ray, 519, 529 Warner, Seth, 156, 195, 411 Warren, James: letters to, 24, 30, 60, 77, 80, 90, 95, 101, 135, 138, 142, 157, 158, 170, 177, 178, 199, 204, 205, 206, 207, 216, 217, 225, 226, 231, 232, 242, 245, 250, 251, 273, 281, 297, 305, 314, 345, 431, 438, 520, 524; quoted, 207; on nonexportation, 274; mentioned, xxvii, 59,94,176,231,507 Warren, Mercy Otis (Mrs. James) : letters to, 62, 387; mentioned, 25, 59, 60, 62, 88, 95,232,359,529 Warren-Adams Letters, 28 Warrior’s Run, 93 Washington, George: letters to, 26, 31, 64, 66, 82, 105, 117, 118, 143, 229, 314, 327, 335, 337, 394, 423, 447, 455, 458, 508; requests supplies, 8; orders Benedict Arnold’s march to Quebec, 36; actions approved, 66; excludes blacks from army, 70; ordered to intercept British supply ships, 115, 117, 121; naval operations, 116, 234, 236-37, 472, 475-76, 480, 535-36; meets with committee of conference, 233-38, 243; ordered to send spies to Nova Scotia, 327; plans attack on Boston, 339; described, 388; authorized to call out New England militia, 454, 456; on maintaining army, 489; authorized to attack Boston, 513; treatment of prisoners, 538-39; mentioned, xxiv, 10, 14, 15, 20, 33, 37, 38, 39, 42, 48, 53, 54, 57, 67, 74, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84 85, 89, 90,’101, 104, 115, 129, 142, 156, 179, 180, 210, 220, 239, 241, 254, 259, 260, 283, 322, 334, 369, 389, 429, 432, 472, 484, 486, 492, 494, 498, 500, 519, 521, 523, 531, 537 Washington, George, Writings (Fitzpatrick, ed.), 98, 115,116 Washington, Lund, 447


[Page 615]
Index 583 Wisner, Henry: letters from, 78, 86, 193, 294, 504; -ft elected to Congress, xx; attends Congress, xx; gunpowder recipe, 504-6; mentioned, 226 Wolcott, Oliver: elected delegate, 192; mentioned, 442 Women, John Adams on, 60 Wood, price, 529 Woodford, William, 366, 447, 480 Woodhull, Nathaniel: identified, 261; letters to, 208, 260, 274, 394; convenes New York Convention, 427 Woodward, John, destroys James Rivington’s printing press, 427 Wooster, David: letters to, 33, 146, 416; ordered to Albany, 33-34, 38; ordered to Highlands and New York City, 131-32, 141, 145-46; thanked by Congress, 415-16; mentioned, 36, 281, 398 Wright, Lt., 336 Wright, James, 328 Wynkoop, Jacobus, 407 Wyoming Valley, 192, 504 Wythe, George: letters from, 208, 245; elected to Congress, xxii; attends Congress, xxii; described, 12, 202, 231; inoculated for smallpox, 17, 24, 27, 85; debates arrest ing suspected enemies, 125-26; debates state of trade, 169, 213, 220-21; committee on hostilities, 200-201, 204, 440; on establishing a navy, 220-21; saltpetre commit tee, 274, 312; debates outfitting naval vessels, 279; on New Jersey’s proposed petition to the king, 445; committee to confer with New Jersey Assembly, 445; proposes authorization of privateering, 498; mentioned, 30, 320, 348, 414, 490 Xenophon, 473, 519 Yard, Sarah, 534 Yates, Abraham, 325 Yeates, Jasper: identified, 395; letter to, 395 York, Pa., quarters prisoners, 436 Yorke, Thomas, contracts with secret committee, 72-73, 497-98 Young, Thomas, 504, 506 Young, Williams, Manoeuvres, 170 Zubly, John: diary, 3, 4, 10, 21, 39, 54, 64, 75, 78, 87, 101, 195, 242, 248, 279, 292, 295, 302, 328; letter from, 328; elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii, 4; debates enforcement of Association, 11; described, 12, 23; on American rights, 21; on independence, 21, 248, 295; debates means of clothing army, 47; debates secret committee contract, 53; committee of claims, 54, 58; excursion on Delaware River, 76, 78; quoted by John Adams, 89, debates state of trade, 108, 111, 113-14, 165-68, 212-13, 220, 262; debates arresting suspected enemies, 124-25; debates establishment of navy, 130-31; debates closing royal post offices, 133; on reconciliation, 165-66; on republican government, 166; leaves Congress, 296, 328; alleged treasonous cor respondence, 328; mentioned, 43, 329 Zubly, John, Law of Liberty, illustrated, xxiii, 22


[Page 617]
Advisory Committee Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Program John R. Alden James B. Duke Professor of History Emeritus, Duke University Julian P. Boyd Editor of The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Princeton University Lyman H. Butterfield Editor in Chief Emeritus of The Adams Papers, Massachusetts His torical Society Jack P. Greene Professor of History, The Johns Hopkins University Merrill Jensen Vilas Research Professor of History, University of Wisconsin Cecelia M. Kenyon Charles N. Clark Professor of Government, Smith College Aubrey C. Land Research Professor of History, University of Georgia Edmund S. Morgan Sterling Professor of History, Yale University Richard B. Morris Gouverneur Morris Professor of History Emeritus, Columbia Uni versity George C. Rogers, Jr. Yates Snowden Professor of American History, University of South Carolina Note: When the project to publish these congressional documents was initiated, Whitfield J. Bell, Jr., Librarian of the American Philosophical Society, and Adrienne Koch, Professor of American Intellectual History at the University of Maryland, were members of the advisory committee. Professor Koch died in 1971 and Mr. Bell resigned in 1973. 585 U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1977 0—243-053
