Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 17, March 1, 1781 to August 31, 1781
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_17/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 9]
Editorial Method and Apparatus v DLC Library of Congress DLC(ESR) Library of Congress, Early State Records Collection DNA National Archives and Records Administration De-Ar Delaware Public Archives Commission, Dover DeHi Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington G-Ar Georgia State Archives, Atlanta M-Ar Massachusetts Archives, Boston MH-H Harvard University, Houghton Library, Cambridge MHi Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston MNS Smith College, Northampton, Mass. MSaE Essex Institute, Salem, Mass. MWA American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass. MdAA Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis MdHi Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore MeHi Maine Historical Society, Portland MiDbEI Edison Institute, Henry Ford Museum and Green field Village Library, Dearborn, Mich. MiU-C William L. Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Mich. N New York State Library, Albany NHi New-York Historical Society, New York NHpR Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, N.Y. NN New York Public Library, New York NNC Columbia University, New York NRom Jervis Library Association, Rome, N.Y. Nc-Ar North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh NcD Duke University, Durham, N.C. NcU University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill Nh-Ar New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, Concord NhHi New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord NjMoHP Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown, N.J. NjP Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. NjR Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J. OCAJA American Jewish Archives, Cincinnati, Ohio OCIWHi Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland, Ohio PHC Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. PHarH Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Harrisburg PHi Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PPAmP American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia PPRF Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia PU University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia R-Ar Rhode Island State Archives, Providence RHi Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence


[Page 15]
Acknowledgments xi Library, North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, University of North Carolina, Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, University of Penn sylvania, Princeton University, Public Record Office (London), Rhode Island Historical Society, Rhode Island State Archives, Fran klin D. Roosevelt Library, Rosenbach Foundation, Rutgers Univer sity, Smith College, Virginia State Library, University of Virginia, Western Reserve Historical Society, College of William and Mary, Colonial Williamsburg, Inc., Dr. Williams’s Library (London), and Yale University. And in addition we express our thanks and appre ciation to the following persons: Mrs. Elsie O. and Mr. Philip D. Sang, Capt. J. G. M. Stone, and Mrs. Aileen Moore Topping. This work has benefited not only from Edmund C. Burnett’s pathfinding eight-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continen tal Congress but also from the generous cooperation of the editors of several other documentary publications with a common focus on the revolutionary era. From them the Library has borrowed heavily and to them it owes a debt it can never adequately acknowledge. It is a pleasure to give special thanks to the editors of the papers of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Henry Laurens, James Madison, and George Washington. Finally we owe thanks to the historians who served on the Advisory Committee on the Library’s American Revolution Bicentennial Program, and especially to Mr. Julian P. Boyd, Mr. Lyman H. Butterfield, and Mr. Merrill Jensen, who generously acted as an advisory committee for the Letters project. Paul H. Smith Historical Publications Office Manuscript Division


[Page 19]
Chronology of Congress XV May 16 Authorizes John Jay to sell America (74-gun ship on the Portsmouth stocks) to Spain. May 18 Authorizes General Wayne to impress provi sions. May 21 Receives Robert Morris proposal for establish ing a bank. May 26 Approves plan “for establishing a national bank in these United States.” May 28 Authorizes John Jay to recede from demand for free navigation of the Mississippi River; considers report on conference with La Lu zerne on Austro-Russian mediation offer. May 31 Issues emergency call for troops for the south ern department. June 1 Appeals to the states to meet quotas. June 4 Authorizes superintendent of finance to allo cate French financial aid. June 7-9 Adopts revised negotiating instructions for minister plenipotentiary; rejects motion to ap point additional peace commissioners. June 11 Resolves to appoint two additional peace commissioners. June 13 Elects John Jay additional commissioner to negotiate peace; adopts letter of thanks to King of France. June 14 Authorizes exchange of John Burgoyne for Henry Laurens; resolves to appoint two addi tional peace commissioners; elects Benjamin Franklin, Henry Laurens, and Thomas Jeffer son to negotiate peace. June 15 Adopts instructions for ministers plenipo tentiary. June 16 Rejects motion for more severe corporal punishment for Continental troops. June 18 Adopts regulations for clothier general’s de partment. June 19 Adopts instructions for Benjamin Franklin and rejects his request to resign. June 23 Directs Robert Morris to expedite launching of America. June 25 Rejects motion for appointing appeals judges “during good behaviour.” June 26 Appoints John Paul Jones to command Amer ica; appoints Francis Dana secretary to the peace commissioners.


[Page 20]
xvi Chronology of Congress June 27 July 2 July 4 July 6 July 9 July 10 July 11 July 12 July 16 July 20 July 23 July 25 July 26 July 27 July 31 August 1 August 3 August 7 August 10 August 14 August 16 Appoints Robert Smith agent at Havana. Approves General Washington’s request for 300 Pennsylvania riflemen. Observes Independence Day. Receives President Samuel Huntington’s letter of resignation. Elects Samuel Johnston president of Congress. Elects Thomas McKean president of Congress upon Samuel Johnston’s declining the office; instructs Thomas Barclay, vice-consul to France. Authorizes Robert Morris to negotiate loans in Spain and Portugal. Revokes John Adams’ commission to negotiate commercial treaty with Britain. Reinstates General Lachlan McIntosh. Receives report on claims to the New Hamp shire Grants. Endorses creation of a relief fund for South Carolina and Georgia refugees. Commends Gen. Nathanael Greene. Appoints committee to confer with General Washington on troop arrangements “for the ensuing year.” Receives plan for a consular convention from the minister of France. Orders superintendent of finance and a mem ber of the Board of War to headquarters to confer with General Washington; approves ap propriation for the support of three Delaware Indian youths at the Princeton college. Orders preparation of a plan to reform the Post Office. Reads New York memorial on the New Hamp shire Grants. Requests Connecticut to revoke commissions authorizing the seizure of property on Long Island; authorizes committee to confer with Vermont agents on their claim to independ ence. Elects Robert R. Livingston secretary for for eign affairs; rejects motion to cede the United States claim to navigation of the Mississippi. Authorizes the importation of salt. Adopts instructions to John Adams for ne gotiating a Dutch alliance.


[Page 21]
Chronology of Congress xvii August 17 August 20-21 August 21 August 23 August 24 August 29 August 31 Instructs committee to confer with Vermont agents despite credentials dispute. Declares Vermont acceptance of prescribed boundaries as a condition to acceptance of Vermont independence. Enlarges General Washington’s prisoner ex change authority. Exhorts states to maintain their representation in Congress. Directs superintendent of finance “to make provision for support of the civil list.” Debates motion to retaliate against the execu tion of Col. Isaac Hayne; resolves to appoint an agent of marine to exercise the duties of a secretary of marine. Authorizes recognition of Philippe de L’Etombe as French consul to the New Eng land states.


[Page 22]
List of Delegates to Congress This section lists both the dates on which delegates were elected to terms falling within the period covered by this volume and the inclusive dates of their attendance. The former are generally ascer tainable from contemporary state records, but the latter are often elusive bits of information derived from the journals of Congress or extrapolated from references contained in the delegates’ correspon dence, and in many cases the “facts” are inevitably conjectural. It is not possible to determine interruptions in the attendance of many delegates, and no attempt has been made to record interruptions in service caused by illness or brief trips home, especially of delegates from New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania living within easy access of Congress. For occasional references to such periods of intermittent service as survive in the correspondence and notes of various delegates, see the index under individual delegates. Until fuller information is provided in a consolidated summary of delegate attendance in the final volume of this series, the reader is advised to consult Burnett, Letters, 6:xliii-liii, for additional informa tion on conjectural dates of attendance. Brief biographical sketches of all the delegates are available in the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress, 1774-1989, and fuller sketches of more than half of the delegates can be found in the Dictionary of American Biography. CONNECTICUT Andrew Adams Elected: May 11, 1780; May 10, 1781 Did not attend in 1781 Oliver Ellsworth Elected: May 11, 1780; May 10, 1781 Attended: June 4 to August 20? 1781 Benjamin Huntington Elected: May 10, 1781 Did not attend in 1781 Samuel Huntington Elected: May 11, 1780; May 10, 1781 Attended: March 1 to July 10, 1781 xviii


[Page 23]
List of Delegates to Congress xix Richard Law Elected: May 11, 1780; May 10, 1781 Did not attend in 1781 Jesse Root Elected: May 11, 1780; May 10, 1781 Attended: March 1 to April 14, 1781 Roger Sherman Elected: May 10, 1781 Attended: June 4 to August 31, 1781 Oliver Wolcott Elected: May 11, 1780; May 10, 1781 Attended: March 1 to April 13, 1781 DELAWARE Thomas McKean Elected February 10, 1781 Attended: March 1 to April 12?, June 13 to August 31, 1781 Thomas Rodney Elected: February 10, 1781 Attended: March 1-10, April 11-18?, May 2?-8?, lune 14 to July 12? 1781 Nicholas Van Dyke Elected: February 10, 1781 Attended: March 1 to April 6?, May 2?-10?, July 26 to August 20? GEORGIA William Few Elected: January 11, 1780; August 21, 1781 Attended: March 1 to July 12? 1781 Lyman Hall Elected: January 11, 1780 Did not attend in 1781 Richard Howly Elected: January 11, 1780 Attended: March 1 to August 31, 1781


[Page 24]
XX List of Delegates to Congress Noble Wimberly Jones Elected: August 21, 1781 Did not attend August 1781 Samuel Stirk Elected: August 21, 1781 Did not attend Congress Edward Telfair Elected: January 11, 1780; August 21, 1781 Did not attend March to August 1781 George Walton Elected: January 11, 1780 Attended: March 1 to August 31, 1781 MARYLAND Daniel Carroll Elected: January 16, 1781 Attended: March 1 to August 31, 1781 John Hanson Elected: November 17, 1780 Attended: March 1 to August 31, 1781 Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Elected: November 17, 1780 Attended: May 14 to August 31, 1781 Richard Potts Elected: January 16, 1781 Attended: June 12 to July 31? 1781 MASSACHUSETTS Samuel Adams Elected: September 22, 1780; June 22, 1781 Attended: March 1 to April 26? 1781 Elbridge Gerry Elected: September 22, 1780; June 22, 1781 Did not attend in 1781 Levi Lincoln Elected: February 14, 1781 Did not attend Congress


[Page 25]
List of Delegates to Congress xxi James Lovell Elected: September 22, 1780; June 22, 1781 Attended: March 1 to August 31, 1781 Samuel Osgood Elected: February 14, 1781; June 22, 1781 Attended: June 12 to August 31, 1781 George Partridge Elected: September 22, 1780; June 22, 1781 Attended: June 12 to August 31, 1781 Artemas Ward Elected: September 22, 1780; June 22, 1781 Attended: March 1 to June 14, 1781 NEW HAMPSHIRE Benjamin Bellows Elected: January 19, 1781 Did not attend Congress Samuel Livermore Elected: January 19, 1781 Attended: May 14 to August 31, 1781 John Sullivan Elected: January 19, 1781 Attended: March 1 to August 10? 1781 NEWJERSEY Elias Boudinot Elected: July 12, 1781 Attended: July 23 to August 31, 1781 William Burnet Elected: November 24, 1780 Did not attend March to August 1781 Abraham Clark Elected: November 24, 1780; June 12, 1781 Attended: March 1 to May 24, 1781 Jonathan Elmer Elected: July 12, 1781 Attended: July 25 to August 22? 1781


[Page 26]
xx " List of Delegates to Congress William Churchill Houston Elected: November 24, 1780; June 12, 1781 Attended: March 21-30?, April 13 to May 2?, May 26? to June 29, John Witherspoon Elected: November 24, 1780; June 12, 1781 Attended: March 1-5?, March 30? to April 6?, May 4 to June 29?, July 20-24?, August 16?-31, 1781 NEW YORK James Duane Elected: September 12, 1780 Attended: March 1 to May 2, July 31 to August 31, 1781 William Floyd Elected: September 12, 1780 Attended: March 1-22, 1781 Ezra L’Hommedieu Elected: September 12, 1780 Attended: July 31 to August 31, 1781 Alexander McDougall Elected: September 12, 1780 Did not attend March to August 1781 John Morin Scott Elected: September 12, 1780 Did not attend in 1781 NORTH CAROLINA Ephraim Brevard Elected: July 12, 1781 Did not attend Congress Thomas Burke Elected: April 30, 1780 Attended: March 1 to April 12, 1781 Benjamin Hawkins Elected: July 14, 1781 Did not attend July-August, 1781


[Page 33]
Illustrations xxix to a duel, and won a damage award from the Philadelphia printer John Dunlap over charges related to Thompson’s case. His congres sional service was frequently interrupted by his duties as Pennsylva nia chief justice, and when elected president of Congress in July 1781 he accepted the post with the understanding he would serve only until the fall term of the court when he would be obliged to return to the bench. Engraving by Thomas B. Welch from a painting by Gilbert Stuart. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62- 8051). Robert R. Livingston, Jr. 491 Livingston, of “Clermont,” graduated from King’s College in 1765, studied law with William Livingston and with William Smith, and was admitted to the bar in 1770. Although best known as Chancellor of New York, 1777-1801, and for his negotiations with France for the purchase of Louisiana in 1803, Livingston also had a distinguished career as a New York delegate to Congress, 1775-76, 1779-80, 1784, and as Secretary for Foreign Affairs, 1781-83. In Congress he was a member of the committee appointed to draft the Declaration of Independence, but left Philadelphia before the document was signed and therefore is not known to history as a “Signer.” He was particularly active on committees assigned respon sibilities for fiscal, foreign, and military affairs, and was early identified as a supporter of the French alliance and a confidant of the French Minister in Philadelphia. This identification undoubt edly contributed ultimately to his selection as Secretary for Foreign Affairs, but also underlay some of the opposition to his selection, which resulted in a delay filling the newly created post from January 10 until August 10, 1781. Painting by Charles Willson Peale. Independence National His torical Park. Daniel Carroll 546 Carroll, older brother of bishop John Carroll, was educated like his brother and his cousin Charles Carroll of Carrollton at the Jesuit school at St. Omer’s in French Flanders, but little is known of his early life. He acquired extensive properties in Maryland and located on Rock Creek a few miles north of its junction with the Potomac. He was elected to Congress in 1781, carrying news of Maryland’s decision to ratify the Articles of Confederation when he arrived in Congress, and was reelected in 1782 and 1783, during which time he often revealed particular knowledge of and interest in European affairs. Carroll was also appointed a delegate to the Constitutional Convention in 1787, thereby becoming a signer of both the Articles


[Page 34]
xxx Illustrations of Confederation and the Constitution, and worked for a strongly centralized government. As senator from Maryland in the first federal Congress, Carroll supported Alexander Hamilton’s plan for the assumption of state debts and worked to locate the national Capitol on the Potomac, near his own residence. He was named by President Washington one of the commissioners to survey the District of Columbia and served as commissioner of the district until his death in 1795. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-Z62-54668).


[Page 35]
March 1- August 31, 1781


[Page 38]
4 March 1, 1781 I, ';J ! tv, *d, i v iO the CONSTITUTIONS OF THE Several Independent States O F M E R I C A-, THE Declaration of Independence 5 THE ARTICLES of CONFEDERATION BETWEEN THE SAID STATES, THE TREATIES between His Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America. puWifljtu bp «B»t »f p HILL A D B P H I 1 Printed by FRANCIS BAILEY, in Market-Street. M.DCC I XXXI. Articles of Confederation


[Page 39]
March 2, 1781 5 RC (NHpR: Naval History). Addressed: “Mrs. Elizabeth Rodney, Wilmington." 1 Although Rodney wrote “Sir,” the letter is addressed to his wife, Elizabeth Fisher Rodney, to whom he also had written the “few Lines this morning" printed below. 2 The following “few Lines” to Elizabeth are in the Rodney Papers, DeHi. “I have but a minute to write, have not had time to do Your business yet, Mrs. Vining says good black Satin is 40/ hard and unless I can buy lower Shall think it best for you to get it in Wilmington & send it up to be Made. Our Confederation will be completed to day after which Shall have more time to git private business done. My love to the Children &c.” 3 Accounts of the celebration similar to the description recorded in Rodney’s diary this day appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet, March 3, and the Pennsylvania Gazette, March 7, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall Sir, Philada March 2. 1781 I have the Pleasure to inform you that Congress have been pleased to elect you to the important Office of Secretary of Marine for the United States. 1 A Copy of your Appointment is herewith enclosed. I have the Honor to be, with very great respect, Sir, your most obedient Servant, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 JCC, 19:203. For McDougall’s reluctance to accept this appointment unless permitted to retain his rank and pay as a Continental major general, a condition Congress ultimately refused to accede to, see McDougall to Huntington, March 9, 1781, note 2. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular. Philada March 2. 1781 By the Act of Congress herewith enclosed your Excellency will be informed that the Articles of Confederation & perpetual Union between the thirteen United States are formally & finally ratified by all the States. 1 We are happy to congratulate our Constituents on this important Event, desired by our Friends but dreaded by our Enemies. I have the Honor to be &c, &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 For the completion of ratification, which was finally accomplished when Daniel Carroll and John Hanson signed the Articles of Confederation on behalf of Maryland on March 1, see JCC, 19:213-14; and Thomas Rodney’s Diary, March 1, 1781. See also Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, February 20 and 24, 1781.


[Page 42]
8 March 2, 1781 & 800 Riflemen—So that great things probably may be Accom plished there in a few days. I have Given My attendance all this week in Congress and have had an Opertunity of Seeing how essential it is for every State to keep up their representation There. Our State will find it Much More to their Interests To give Such a reasonable allowance as will enable their Delligates to Stay here, than to be unrepresented. Upon the Confederation being Confirmed New Hamshire & Rhode Island having each but one Member & therefore became unrepresented, they thought it so essential that they Moved Congress to adjourn appointing a Committee of the States to Sit Till they Could be represented. 2 I do not Mention this because I wish them to enable me to Stay, but because I think they ought to Make it an essential point to be represented and that they May enable others To attend that I May attend My own interests at home for nothing that I would wish them to give would Compensate for My Staying. Yet I think it so necessary for the Interests of the State that I intend to give all the attendance in my power Till they git better Supplied. Yesterday the Confederation was finally rattified and Confirmed. At Two OClock we had a Colation at the President of Congress’s. At five I dined at Mr. McKeans with the President & Vice President and Sundry members of assembly of this State and Sundry Members of Congress & others. Thus you hear this Situation is not without the flattering inducements of Good Company & Good Living. But as have not yet had it in my power to git lodgings to My Mind, have not yet been waited on by the Minister of France Whose Custom it is to wait on every member of Congress as soon as he Takes lodgings. As I may often Communicate to you many things which ought not to be publick I shall only request that you will always attend to such things as your own Judgment points out to be of that nature which may save me the Trouble of particularising them. I am Vizt. Thomas Rodney N.B. I am much pleased to find that all your old acquaintances in Congress still profess the warmest Esteem for you. My love to Sally and all friends below. RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). 1 Congress received this information in the chevalier de La Luzerne’s March 2 letter to Congress, in which he also requested the appointment of a committee to communicate additional information “relative to these operations.” See JCC, 19:224- 25; PCC, item 95, 1:184-85; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:271. This intelligence was also communicated this day in an intercepted letter from an unidentified delegate to William Carmichael, a fragment of which survives in the form of a poorly rendered French translation sent to Paris from the French ambassador in Spain. Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Espagne, 602:267. 2 See the preceding entry.


[Page 47]
March 5, 1781 13 25th of September & 4th of December last relative to the Inspectors Department, which, if you have not already received, should be transmitted for your Information. 1 I have the Pleasure to inform you that Captain Tilly after he left the Bay on his return to Newport captured the Romulus, mounting 44 Guns & pierced for 50 and carried her into Newport. I have the Honor to be, with very great respect, Sir, your most obedient Servant, Sam Huntington President 2 RC (NHi: Steuben Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See JCC, 18:854-61, 1118. Steuben had written to Secretary Charles Thomson on February 2 explaining that he had belatedly learned from General Washington that Congress had finally adopted a new “Plan for the Department of the Inspection,” and requested a copy of Congress’ resolutions on the subject. PCC, item 164, fol. 214. 2 This day Huntington also wrote the following brief letter to the marquis de Lafayette, who had just passed through Philadelphia enroute to Virginia on March 2. “While your Station shall continue between this & General Greene’s Head Quarters, you will take the Liberty to open any public Despatches from him addressed to the President of Congress, in Order that you may obtain the earliest Intelligence from him, which may be of Importance.” PCC, item 15, fol. 247. Theodorick Bland to Richard Henry Lee Dr. Sr. Philadelphia March 5th 1781 We have been for some days past in the most impatient expecta tion of hearing that the Virtue and ardor of our Countrymen had put a stop to the Progress of Cornwallis, and a period to his handfull of men with which that adventurous Knight Errand had dared to traverse the Southern States, and (as if bidding defiance to our Patriotism and Courage) has with three thousand troops thrown down the Gauntlet to forty thousand at least, who are nearer to him than he is to any support. Good God! Shall it be said that this man has dared to Venture near three Hundred miles from the Sea Coast and above two Hundred from any of his Posts and shall be permitted again to return! I cannot believe it. It is said we want Arms—Has not every Peasant in Virginia & North Carolina a Gun? with what weapons were the Battles of Bunkers Hill, Bennington and Kings mountain fought. But I will not dwell on a Subject which affords so much Chagrin. I will suppose that the Spirit of America has again roused and that Saratoga is revived at the Saura Town. 1 I have been unwearied in my applications for a Maritime force from Rhode Island and should in my last have informed you that I had at last obtained it through the French Ministery—but was afraid to trust it to paper as it was so profound a secret that no one in Philadelphia except him & myself knew it was saild untill we had reason to expect it had arrived. Altho it had not all the desired effect


[Page 49]
March 5, 1781 15 RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). 1 Sauratown, Upper Sauratown, and Lower Sauratown were Indian trading posts on the Dan River in North Carolina north of Guilford Courthouse. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Samuel Nightingale, Jr., December 30, 1780. 3 “Col. Masons Sentiments” have not been identified. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia March 5. 1781 I do myself the Honor herewith to enclose for your Excellency’s Amusement, a Plan proposed by an ingenious Gentleman to be adopted for sinking the Continental Bills of the old Emissions. 1 If the Inhabitants of any State are disposed to bring in & exchange their Quota of those Emissions at the rate of seventy five for one, the Plan appears plausible & ingenious at least in Theory. I have also enclosed the Copy of a Letter just come to hand from the Governor of Virginia, 2 which contains Intelligence more favor able from the Southward than we had of late received. Indeed the Situation of Affairs in that Quarter have been for some Time & yet are critical. Very important Events must soon take Place. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, Sir, your most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Not identified. 2 Undoubtedly Thomas Jefferson’s February 26 letter to Huntington, for which see the following entry, note 1. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia March 5. 1781 I do myself the Honor to forward the enclosed Despatches from General Greene, also the enclosed Copy of a Letter from Governor Jefferson which contains the latest Intelligence received from the Southward. 1 Perhaps the enclosed Letter addressed to your Excellency, (sup posed to be) from Governor Jefferson, may contain similar Intelli gence. 2 By the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the first Instant your Excellency will be informed that the Confederation is finally ratified by all the States. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington


[Page 50]
16 March 5, 1781 P.S. Your Excellency’s Favour of the 27th Ulto was this Day received. 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The enclosed letters from Nathanael Greene consisted of two of the same date (February 15) to Huntington and to Washington. See PCC, item 155, 1:577, item 172, 1:55-58. For the enclosed February 26 letter from Thomas Jefferson, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:12. 2 This February 26 letter from Jefferson to Washington is identical to. the letter of the same date from Jefferson to Huntington identified in note 1. ’This letter, which was referred to the Board of War this day, is in PCC, item 147, 6:255-58. See JCC, 19:230. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dr. sr. March 5. 1781. Doctor Winship went for Boston this morning in a Carriage and was so kind as to take two small Packages which I made up of Articles for Mrs. Adams, Mr. Wibert, Col. Peabody, Yourself and my Daughter. 1 In a Letter-Form he has yr. Loan Office Certificate with the Interest in Bills of Exchange, yr. Ruffles and the Edging, which he is to deliver into yr. Hands or to Mrs. S A Otis. Mrs. Lovell, in opening a small Bag will find a Bundle in brick colored Paper for you. I put up yr. damaged Cambrick and your undamaged silk Handkerchief with yr. injured muslin dos. I could not impose anything more on the Doctors Goodness than what I have done or I would have added something belonging to you with a few Articles for Mr. Cranch. I will omit no good Opportunity of sending the whole. We have nothing of Decision from the southward that can be depended on; for, tho’ Govr. Jefferson writes on the 26th that Cornwallis was retreating as rapidly as he had advanced, yet he mixes some Circumstances that we know are not true. Genl. Green wrote on the 15 that he himself had crossed the Dan without any Loss of Men or Baggage, but that he was not in condition to oppose the Enemy at all the Fords which would that Evening be passable and therefore he should not attempt to do it at any—that the militia were not coming to reinforce him and some were even leaving him—that his own Troops were in fine Spirits though they might be tracked by their bloody Feet. Govr. Jefferson says Cornwallis was retreating towards Hilsborough, and that Genl. Caswell was in his Rear with 4000. I think this probable from knowing Caswell’s Influence; but it is a vi[le] toryish Country from Hilsborough to Cape Fear so that the 4000 will not grow. The Enemy are 3,250, but, if actually on the Retreat, the Hessian Brigade will as usual lose much of its Strength by Desertions.


[Page 57]
March 6, 1781 23 will I suppose accompany us—if he does not entangle himself with the Ladies for he is a Favorite. Our Southern affairs wear a promising Aspect. Lord Cornwallis is retreating after a rapid march in pursuit of the Prisoners taken from his Army by General Morgan to no purpose. There is the greatest probability that he will share the Fate of Burgoine. Arnold who is Entrenched at Portsmouth in Virginia appears to be in greater danger: but we must wait the Events of War in anxious Sollitude. Cornwallis followed General Green’s small Army which has been assembling since Gates’s defeat upwards of 330 or 340 miles, from Cambden in South Carolina to the Borders of Virginia. The Retreat of Greene gave the Militia an Opportunity of Collecting, And they were becoming formidable. Cornwallis now saw his danger and retreated back as fast as possible and General Greene with his Army and the militia are in pursuite of him, and he has besides a large body of militia in his front who will interrupt his progress. So soon has the Scene changed and such is the Fortune of War! Our daughter is in good health. She Joins me in wishing sincerely to be with you and in affectionate Respects to all our Friends. Kiss and bless for us our dear Children; And believe that no Absence or distance will abate the unalterable Affection and Fidelity of my dearest Polly, your Affect. Husband, Jas. Duane 1 RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 Duane wrote another letter to Mary on March 11, primarily discussing domestic affairs but also reporting that “we are in daily expectation of agreeable news from the Southward which will have a decisive Influence on our Affairs. Great Exertions have been made and are making to reduce both Cornwallis & his Army in North Carolina & Arnold & his detachment in Virginia to the Condition of Burgoine and the prospect in both Cases is the most flattering....It is reported here that Mr Peter du Bois & Mr Helmes a Lawyer are come out of the City of New York & surrendered themselves. It is certain that once more the Inhabitants of that City are filled with Terror on the prospect of our Successes & some disagreable news from England.” Duane Papers, NHi. Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia March 6. 1781 I have received your Letters of the 10th & 15th Ulto and forwarded your Despatches to Genl Washington. 1 I am happy to receive the earliest Intelligence from the Southward, but, in your present Situation, ever readily excuse your not multiplying Dupli cates of the Intelligence. You will receive enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 1st Instant, by which you will be informed the Articles of Confederation are finally ratified by all the States.


[Page 58]
24 March 6, 1781 It will be proper to announce this important & happy Event to the Army when Circumstances will admit. I have also the Pleasure to inform you that Moylands Corps & the Pennsylvania Line, except such as are on the western Frontiers, are ordered to join the Army under your Command; 2 and heartily wish this Measure had been sooner adopted. I have the Honor to be, with very high respect, sir, your most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 These February 10 and 15 letters to Huntington are in PCC, item 155, 1:561-64, 577-79. Only a copy of the latter is presently located in the Washington Papers, DLC. 2 The February 20 congressional resolve ordering the troops of the Pennsylvania line to Virginia had actually exempted Col. Stephen Moylan’s dragoons from the order, but in a February 27 letter to Huntington that was read in Congress this day, Washington recommended that Moylan’s corps be recruited and remounted and included in the order. The suggestion was apparently endorsed by Congress when Washington’s letter was read and referred to the Board of War this day, although Secretary Thomson failed to record the decision in the journals. See JCC, 19:177, 230; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:306, 314, 415, 431. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadelphia March 6. 1781 I have been honored with your several Favors of the 8th, 17th, & 26th Ulto, 1 And have it now in my Power to inform you, that Monsr. Tilly with the small Squadron under his Command has left the Bay & arrived at New-Port the 24. Ulto, on his passage having captured the Romulus, a 44 Gun Ship but pierced for 50 & carried her into Newport. And you may daily expect a Reinforcement in the Bay both of Troops & Ships, Wind and Weather permitting; but this Should remain a Secret until they arrive. The Delegates from Virginia it is presumed, will give your Excellency more particular Intelligence of this Reinforcement. I have the Honor to be with great respect, Sir, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant, S. Huntington RC (PHi: Dreer Members of Congress Collection). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 These letters are in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:559, 638-40, 5:12. John Mathews to William Livingston Sir, Philadelphia March 6th. 1781. Miss Livingston 1 informed me a few days ago, that in a letter she received from you, you mention you had received no answer from


[Page 59]
March 6, 1781 25 me to yours, inclosing a letter for Mr. Dumas. This is extraordinary, as I wrote to you, the first post after the receipt of that letter. 2 But this conveyance is at present, so ill managed, that it is by no means to be depended on. One of my letters I lately wrote to the southward, has also been miscarried. The public is at a most enormous expense in supporting the post office, but it appears to me that they derive very little benefit from it. However, sir, this accident shall not discourage me from troubling with a few lines whenever any thing turns up worthy your notice. Our preperations for a final ratification of the Confederation, have suspended for a time our plan of finance. Our constitution being so materially changed, that we have felt a little awkward in our new gears; however we have got pretty well used to them now, 8c have again entered on business. I hope our new constitution will prove the means of introducing a more clear 8c perfect understanding between Congress 8c the States. And whilst the first continue to confine themselves within the strict limits of their authority, the latter will conceive themselves bound by the most sacred ties implicitly to support them. The want, hitherto, of a proper line to be drawn between Congress, & the states, has been the cause of numberless embarrassments: for whilst the States were left ad libitum, some would do a great deal, some a little, 8c others scarcely anything. The evii consequences resulting from this conduct are apparent. My expectations are highly flattered by this important event, 8c anticipate in my own mind the most happy consequences resulting from it. The return of the French fleet to Rhode Island I suppose you are acquainted with. This must of course frustrate the Marquis’s expedi tion. We have not heard from the southward since the 10th ulto. but we are in hourly expectation of an express from thence. We have just received dispatches from the So. ward which inform us, that Cornwallis is retreating, that Genl. Caswell had collected 4000 North Carolina Militia in his front, 8c 6000 Virginians were in his rear. This looks well, 8c probably some important stroke may be made at him before he gets back. Genls. Mughlenburgh 8c Nelson was laying close siege to Arnold at Portsmouth with 4500 men. They had advanced to within a mile of his works with two mortars. Their advanced posts were within a qr. of a mile of each other—but the dog can get away by means of his shipping, unless the French fleet can prevent him. I am Dr. sir, with the most perfect Esteem Regard, yr. most Obedt. Servt. Jno. Mathews RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 Probably Livingston’s daughter Catharine, for whom see Mathews to Catharine Livingston, September 12, 1780. 2 For his reply to Livingston’s letter of February 6 enclosing a letter for Charles W.F. Dumas, see Mathews to Livingston, February 12, 1781.


[Page 60]
26 March 6, 1781 John Mathews to George Washington My Dear sir, Philadelphia March 6th. 1781 I received your favor of the 26th Ulto. the 1st inst. 1 In answer thereto, I beg leave to observe, That all the gentlemen now prisoners at St. Augustine, were either acting as officers in the militia; or as private soldiers, at the time they were made prisoners. And I cannot conceive they can be looked upon, in any other light, than that in which they acted at the time of their captivity. Indeed by the capitulation of Charles Town, this is a point clearly decided. I conceive when the people of a country, lay aside the characters of citizens, and assume that of soldiers, through the whole course of the accidents of war, they are to be considered according to their military rank only, that of the citizen being absorbed in that of the soldier. For instance, all the British officers taken in America, who have been members of their parliament, or House of Lords, have not been considered as such, at the time of exchange, but simply in the ranks they have held in their army. Genl. Burgoyne was a Governor, he was never considered in all the Cartels that have been propos’d in any other light than as a Genl, officer. Several other officers, I believe, have held civil commissions, independent of their seats in parliament. From these considerations, I cannot think Sr. Henry Clinton, can have an Idea of holding those gentlemen at St. Augustine, by any other characters than those they respectively held in the military line at the time of their capture. Should your Excellency find this objection started by Sr. H. Clinton, in the course of your negotia tions, I think Congress should be immediately acquainted with it, that they might be enabled to take their measures accordingly. If they can bring any criminal charge against those gentlemen, let them exhibit them. And if the charge is proved, they must suffer, if not, it is high time, that justice should be done them. Congress cannot with honor, longer delay it. A speedy exchange, has hitherto been the only cause of it’s being suspended. I am, Dear sir, with the highest respect & every sentiment of the most sincere Esteem & regard, yr. Excys. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s February 26 letter concerning the difficulty inherent in negotiating the exchange of prisoners at St. Augustine because of their “eminence in the Civil line” is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:303. For Congress’ recent instruc tions to the commander-in-chief on the exchange of prisoners, see Samuel Hunting ton to Washington, January 2, 1781, note 1.


[Page 63]
March 6, 1781 29 I am most respectfully, Dear Sir your most obedt. Servt, Jno Sullivan 1 RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Below Sullivan’s signature, the following endorsement by Gen. Benjamin Lincoln, dated April 16, 1781, appears: “In my opinion as the lad mentioned above did not sign an inlisting paper he cannot be held.” John Sullivan to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia [March 6? 1781] 1 I am honored with your favor of the 19th Ultimo. As you and I seem to be agreed respecting a medium & as I have no reason to Dispute your opinion respecting my abilities as a Financier unless I should Depart from my usual method & Strive to obtain a Judgment against myself I shall not Trouble you with any Comments on that part of your letter. The War Department you Seem to avoid giving an opinion upon. I can Guess your Sentiments only from your placing the refusal in the Last Stage of your Letter. I have generally observed that Luzernne will State a matter in Every point of view always reserving for the Last that point in which they wish the Question to be taken. If I am right in this Your Sentiments & mine Coincide & I Shall not be Liable to abuse for Serving my Country, or part with the Sweets of Domestic Life for an office which Depends on the will, the Caprice or the Fancy of Individuals. The Choice of this officer is however postponed. 2 The news of the City is that Lord Cornwallis pursued General Green to Dan River which Green Crossed, that the militia Gathered round on all Sides which oblidged his Lordship to retreat & Green is in pursuit of him. This Comes by a Letter from the Governor of Virginia & is Confirmed by a number of others all Dated the 26th of Feby. 3 They all agree that his retreat began the Twenty first of Feby and I have no reason to Doubt but I have Some Apprehensions that this is a Maneuvre to bring General Green to an Action. Your Assembly has been pretty well worked up by Mr Olcutt to Act Just as New York would wish them & have given me Instructions Accordingly 4 but I must obey & they must Look to the Event. I beg you will make my Compliments agreable to Mrs Langdon & believe me to be with great Truth & Sincerity, Dear Sir Your most obedt. Servt. Jno. Sullivan RC (Capt. J.G.M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 The dateline is badly faded, but Sullivan probably wrote this letter on March 6, when he wrote letters of similar content to Meshech Weare and George Washington, and after the March 5th reading in Congress of Thomas Jefferson’s February 26 letter, herein discussed by Sullivan.


[Page 64]
30 March 6, 1781 2 For the postponement of “the election of a Secretary at War...to the first day of October next,” see JCC, 19:205; and the following entry, note 4. 3 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, March 6, 1781, note 1. 4 See Sullivan’s letters to Meshech Weare of February 5, notes 3-5, and of this date. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia March 6th 1781 I was Duly honored with your Excellencys favor of the 4th of Feby 1 & omitted writing since upon a Supposition that you had gone to Rhode Island. I am happy to find your Excellency Entertains the Same Sentiments of the virtues and abilities of Colo Hamilton, as I have Ever Done myself. 2 After I wrote your Excellency I found The Eyes of Congress Turned on Robert Morris of this City as Financier. I did not therefore nominate Colo Hamilton as I foresaw that it would be but a vain attempt. I Shall this Day nominate him as Secretary of Foreign Affairs on which I Think I Shall meet the Approbation of most of the States. 3 The Choice of a Minister of war is postponed to the first of October. This was a Maneuvre of Sami Adams & others from the North, fearing that as I was in nomination, the Choice would fall on me who having apostatized from the True New England Faith by Sometimes voting with the Southern States am not Eligible. They were not however acquainted with all the Circumstances. I was nominated against my will & if Chosen Should not have Accepted. 4 General Me Dougie is appointed minister of marine. 5 The plan of Finance & all other matters go on So Slowly that I Tremble at the Consequence. I am mortified at the useless harangues which Con sume our Time to no purpose. I am now Endeavoring to obtain an Adjournment of Congress & for Leaving a Committee to Transact the Business as the only way of having the Publick Business Done with propriety and Dispatch. 6 I fully agree with your Excellency That Congress ought to have more power but I also think that the old members Should be in Heaven or at Home before this Takes place. The Traffic carried on with the Enemy is alarming as it not only Serves to furnish them with necessaries but Tends to reconcile our Citizens to the Idea of renewing their Connection with Great Britain and of Course Disaffects them to our Government. Since General Greens Letter of the 15th February we have received advices from Governor Jefferson & Divers others that Cornwallis is retreating that General Green Crossed the River in pursuit of him the 21st & that the Militia had Collected all round him: I hope it is not a Maneuvre to bring General Green to an Action.


[Page 65]
March 6, 1781 31 I have been Settleing my Accounts with the Treasury Board & find I Stand Charged with Money received at Cambridge to pay the Bounty to the New Hampshire recruits in 1776. All my papers were Lost at New York & I can remember Little of the matter. This I am Sure of That I never received any publick money but what I immediately applied to the use Intended. Perhaps Colo Harrison has Some papers which will Settle the matter. I also am Charged with the money paid for the Troops Engaged at Trenton in December 1776. I remember the whole of this was Settled at Morristown about two months after & I received a receipt in full which is in New Hampshire. Perhaps your papers may Save me the Trouble of Sending for it. I have the Honor to be with the High[est] Esteem Dear General yr most obedt Ser[vt], Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s February 4 letter to Sullivan is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:181-83. 2 Washington had described his aide Alexander Hamilton in glowing terms: “there are few men to be found, of his age, who has a more general knowledge than he possesses, and none whose Soul is more firmly engaged in the cause, or who exceeds him in probity and Sterling virtue.” Ibid., p. 181. 3 No nomination for “Secretary of Foreign Affairs” was entered in the journals on March 6; nor had Hamilton been nominated on January 17 when the names of Robert R. Livingston and Arthur Lee were placed before Congress for that post. ICC, 19:65. 4 The reasons given for this postponement varied widely. Sullivan’s view that his candidacy was the principal cause was shared by James Mitchell Varnum. Although Ezekiel Cornell, a member of the Board of War and former congressional delegate, wrote on February 19 that he expected “that General Sullivan will be Elected to the head of the War Office in a few days,” Varnum later explained to Washington that the election has been postponed “to get rid of the Embarrassment” of Sullivan’s nomination. See Staples, Rhode Island, pp. 329-30; and Varnum to Washington, August 20, 1781. In contrast to Sullivan’s assessment of Samuel Adams’ motive in opposing his election, the French minister La Luzerne believed that Adams’ opposition was based on principle rather than personal animosity, explaining to the comte de Vergennes on March 25 that Adams feared that transferring such power from congressional committees to executive departments headed by independent officials would under mine the authority of Congress. Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 16:6, Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres. And Philip Schuyler explained the postpone ment to Washington on April 3 in the following, very different terms: “The motives which led Congress to postpone filling the War department have leaked out, and been communicated to me. General Gates was in nomination; but his friends, reflecting that the impropriety of appointing him before he had exculpated himself from the imputation of misconduct in his command, would be too glaring an abuse of power, deferred it, in hopes that, by an acquittal, the public confidence will be restored to him.” Washington Papers, DLC. For Washington’s consternation over Congress’ refusal to fill the post, which for a time he believed would go to Schuyler, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:261-62, 360, 374. 5 See Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall, March 2, 1781. 6 For this effort, see John Sullivan’s and James M. Varnum’s Memorial, February 28; and Thomas Rodney’s Diary, March 2, 1781.


[Page 67]
March 6, 1781 33 Design, or, mistake of Colo Olcutt—perhaps I may be mistaken but the reasons are Submitted to the wisdom of the assembly. I do not mention These things to [hold] up the Idea of Deviating in the Least [degree] from my Late Instructions but as a Justification of my Conduct prior to the receipt of my Late Instructions. 4 I have the honor to be, with respect your most obedient Servant, Jno. Sullivan RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Sullivan to Weare, February 5, 1781. 2 For further information on the February 7, 1780, “petition” of Peter Olcott and Bezaleel Woodward and the status of the Vermont controversy in Congress at that time, see James Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 1, 1780, note 1. 3 The “views of New York” on the Vermont question were stated in the letters of the New York Delegates to George Clinton, March 11, and Alexander McDougall to Clinton, March 12, 1781. 4 The New Hampshire delegates had been instructed on January 13 to seek a “speedy decision respecting the claim of this State to the New Hampshire Grants.” N.H. Stale Papers, 8:884-85. Although the journals are silent on the point, Sullivan did move at this time to seek a determination on Vermont’s claim to independence, according to the testimony of the New York delegates, for which see New York Delegates to George Clinton, Marchi 1; and Alexander McDougall to Clinton, March 12, 1781. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sir Phila. 6th Mar. 1781 The Minister of France having imparted to Mr. Jones as Chair man of a Committee appointed to confer with him 1 on Some Secret matters the intentions of Ct. Rochambeau and Mr. Destouches explained in the inclosed note, 2 we thought it of such consequence that your Excellency should be certainly apprized of them, that notwithstanding the probability of the communication being made through some other channel we determined to guard against all risk of failure by despatching one of the established Expresses. As the success of the Enterprize may depend much on secrecy of prepara tion, and celerity of execution, We beg leave to intimate to your Excellency, that it is the wish of the Minister that no persons should be admitted to a knowledge of it, from whom it can be justifiably concealed, and that such military Stores, particularly heavy cannon & mortars, as are in the hands of the state and will be wanted for a siege may be in readiness to go forward at a moment’s call. The Minister also wishes that some supplies of provision, of beef espe cially, for the French troops may be included in your general preparations. We are with great respect, Yr. Excelys. obed. hum Servts. Jos. Jones Jas. Madison Junr.


[Page 68]
34 March 7, 1781 RC (DLC: Continental Congress Miscellany). Written by Madison and signed by Madison and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:7-8. 1 At La Luzerne’s request Jones and four others had been appointed on March 2 to confer with the minister on the progress of French naval operations. See JCC, 19:224-25; PCC, item 95, 1:184-85; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:271. 2 The “inclosed note” has not been found, but it was undoubtedly a report that Admiral Destouches intended to sail from Newport with his entire squadron and 1,100 French troops to operate against Benedict Arnold’s forces in the Chesapeake. See Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:357, 363, 388. See also Samuel Huntington to Jefferson, this date. Samuel Huntington to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia March 7. 1781 By the Act of Congress herewith enclosed your Excellency will be informed that Samuel Patterson & John Thompson Esquires are appointed Commissioners on the Part of the United States, to endorse the Bills that shall be emitted by the State of Delaware pursuant to the Act of Congress of the 18th of March last. 1 I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect, Sir, your most obedient Servant, Sam. Huntington. Preside RC (De-Ar: Executive Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For this March 6 appointment, see JCC, 19:235. For a similar appointment (on May 28) for which no presidential letter of transmission survives (authorizing Tench Francis to sign such bills issued by Pennsylvania), see JCC, 10:571; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 9:185; and Pa. Council Minutes, 12:740. Thomas Rodney’s Diary Wednesday March 7th 1781. The motion Made Yesterday by the Delegates of N.Y. 1 Came on the Carpet again to day. Upon enquiry into the Journals of Congress it appear’d that the States Were at Liberty to exchange the new Money for the Old at any exchange not less than 40 Old Dollars for One new one So that the Motion Was reduced to this—“Will Congress give the State of N. York permission to pay of[f] the Certificates in that State with the new Money?” 2 Mr. Burk & Mr. McKean Urged that to permit this Would be Subverting the Intention of the Resolution of the 18th of March Unless the Old Money Was first drawn in. Mr. Weatherspoon & Mr. Bland Spoke to the Same purpose. Mr. Duane Said that it was out of the Power of N. York to call in the Old Money by exchange or Taxes because it Was Not in the State—That the inhabitants had let the Army have all their produce, for Which they only reed. Certificates—So that now they had neither Money nor produce to git it with, That these


[Page 70]
36 March 8, 1781 a very long debate ensued. Some few only were against recommend ing it to the States to repeal all their Tender Laws thinking it would give a fatal Stab to the new Money. All the rest were for having this done and for paying our debts Honestly, but Could not agree in the Manner of doing it, So that the Whole day was Taken up in debating about the form of a Resolution Suited to the Occasion and one form after another was voted out Till all the parties got bewildered in the debate and at length Adjourned desiring that Some Member Would have one ready against the Morning Whereupon I Took upon me to prepair the following Resolutions Vizt. 2 “Whereas the United States in Congress Assembled, being Con vinced that Honesty is the best police in publick, as well as private, affairs are determined to conform faithfully To the Golden rule of Equity & Justice—Therefore Resolved that all the debts and Contracts now due, or which May hereafter become due from the United States, to any person or persons whatsoever (being first liquidated according to the real value of the Money Lent or Contracted for, at the Time of Lending or Contracting) Shall be paid in Specie or an equivalent in paper Money, Computed at its current not legal Value When paid: Any thing heretofore done to the Contrary notwithstanding. All persons Acting under the Authority of the United States are required To Take notice of this resolution & Govern themselves accordingly. And that the officers of the United States, may not be prevented from discharging their Several duties under the above resolution, or Offend against Any Law or Laws of the respective States Making paper Money legal Tender—Resolved that it be recommended To the respective States to revise and repeal all those Laws—As in the opinion of Congress they are greatly prejudicial to the Interest of the United States and Tend rather to depreciate than Support the Credits of their Money—which Cannot be done effectu ally but by providing Sufficient funds of Specie by Taxs or Other wise, for the purpose of redeeming & Sinking it”. MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 See JCC, 19:245. Rodney was referring to Timothy Pickering’s March 3 letter to President Huntington, which is in PCC, item 192, fols. 49-56. 2 These resolutions are not recorded in the journals, but they may have formed the basis for similar resolutions molded in the committee of the whole and adopted by Congress on March 16. JCC, 19:266-67. Thomas Rodney’s Notes [post March 8, 1781]' Caractors of Some of the Members of Congress. His Excellency Samuel Huntington President is a Man of a Mild, Steady & firm Conduct and of Sound & Methodical Judgment tho


[Page 76]
42 March 9, 1781 receiving the board’s recommendation in his favor on March 20, Congress immedi ately ordered that he be paid “seven hundred and fifty dollars new emission” in satisfaction of the claim. See JCC, 19:264, 283; and PCC, item 136, 5:179-82. Committee of Congress to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia March 9th 1781 Your Excellencys Letter of the 20th of December, was refered to a Committee of which I have the Honor to be one. 1 We yesterday gave in a Report which being read appeared Satisfactory to Congress as no objection was made to it. I moved That previous to its being Considered it might be refered to your Excellency for your opinion upon which it was recommitted; and The Committee Instructed to Consult your Excellency upon it. I Therefore take the Liberty of Inclosing your Excellency a Copy of the Report and of requesting (in behalf of the Committee) your opinion upon it. The first Paragraph is agreeable to the Line of promotion which your Excellency was pleased to point out: But as it could not be Extended to Hazens Regiment & others in Similar Circumstances the 2d Resolution became Necessary. The Third & fourth respecting the Artillery and Cavalry are Liable to Some objections but much Less so than any other which Suggested themselves to the Committee. The Promotion of Brigadiers & Major Generals comes nearer to that of rising in the Line of the Army than any which has yet been Adopted or Suggested, and any other would be attended with Insuperable Difficulties—That of Suffering the States to have offi cers according to the number of Troops furnished would prove injurious to officers of the Smaller States & Even if they were to Stand Intituled to promotions when they became the Senior officers In the Line of the Army. Their promotion would be uncertain as they would Constantly have to Combat with the Interest of States & the Caprice of Individuals to obtain it. The Committee will Thank your Excellency for your Sentiments upon Every Paragraph of the Report 2 and beg you to give the Date of Colo Tilghman & Doctor McHenrys Entering the Service. 3 In behalf of the Committee, I have the honor to be with the Most Lively Sentiments of affection and Esteem Dr Genl, your Excellencys most obedt Servant. Jno Sullivan, Chairman P.S. The Clause respecting volunteers will prevent the Army from being Commanded by illiterate Serjeants which must inevitably be the Case in a few years if Some Such mode is not adopted. J.S. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by John Sullivan. 1 For the committee appointed on January 1 to consider Washington’s December 20 letter, respecting the promotion of Continental officers, see Sullivan to Washing-


[Page 77]
March 9, 1781 43 ton, January 2, 1781, note 2. For Washington’s letter, and the committee’s report recommending promotion plans for the artillery and cavalry corps and a general plan for line-officer promotions, which was read in Congress on March 8 and recommitted the following day pending the committee’s consultation with Washington, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:501-505; and JCC, 19:242-44, 246. 2 Washington’s lengthy remarks “upon Every Paragraph of the Report,” which he enclosed in an April 4 letter to Sullivan, are in PCC, item 152, 10:43-52; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:403-10. These became the basis for the revised report submitted by the committee to Congress on May 9 and adopted on May 25, for which see PCC, item 152, 10:57-62; JCC, 20:491, 539-42; Sullivan to Washington, May 17 and 28; and Samuel Huntington’s second letter to Washington of May 28, 1781. In his letter to Sullivan explaining his “remarks” on the report, Washington tactfully observed that “where I have been unfortunate enough to differ in sentiment from the Committee I have, in as concise a manner as I was able, assigned my reasons for it.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:410. 3 For his response to the query concerning the date of commissions for Lt. Col. Tench Tilghman and Maj. James McHenry, the 9th and 10th items submitted for Washington’s consideration, see ibid., p. 406; and JCC, 20:541. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Honorable Sir 2 plic. March 9. 1781 I forward Gazettes, Journals & some particular Resolves, by Way of Amsterdam. 1 The Arrival of the Ariel has given us Dispatches from you, long expected—of June 1st, Aug 9, Deer. 2d & 3d. 2 Congress had, before the Receipt of your Letters Feb. 19th, written to Mr. Adams Jany. 10, 3 and signified their Concurrence in Opinion with Ct. de Vergennes as to the Time & Circumstances of announceing his (Mr. A’s) Powers to Gr. Britain. They had also on Deer. 12 th 4 expressed their Sentiments upon his Letter of June 26th inclosing to them his Correspondence relative to the Act of the 18 of March for calling in the old Paper Money. I send you Extracts from the Journals for your fuller Information on those Points. And I shall forward, yet for a Time, all Acts of Congress intended for your Guidance whenever they are finished. But I most earnestly look for the Appointment of a Secretary for foreign Affairs, agreably to their Determinations of Janry. 10. Such an Officer may authoritatively communicate his Opinions, and in many Ways make your Station more easy & reputable to you than it can have been under great Want of Information of our Circumstances. Your most humb Servant, James Lovell RC (PHi: Society Collection). Endorsed: “Mr Lovel with Copies of Resolves, March 9, 1781.” 1 Lovell undoubtedly enclosed copies of the resolves of March 9 concerning the American victory at Cowpens, S.C., and a resolve of that date directing a committee to consult with the French minister about the destination of the frigate, Ariel. JCC, 19:246-48.


[Page 80]
46 March 9, 1781 Diminution of Fortune & the Threatnings of poverty and Distress as his reward. As your Excellency has the appointment of Officers in Hazens & Some other Corps, and as by the Report herewith Transmitted your Excellency has the power of Calling reduced officers to Act in the Inspectors Department perhaps you may find it in your power to do him that Justice which Congress have neglected to do. His zealous Endeavors to serve the Common Cause in the Expedition against Rhode Island in 1778 when he Acted as a volunteer & Served on his own Expence induces me to wish that Something might be Done for him. I have the Honor to be, with much respect yr Excellencys most obedt Servt, J no Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For Jacob Gerhard Diriks’ inability to secure a vacancy in the Continental Army, although he had been granted a brevet commission of lieutenant colonel as compensation for his efforts to promote a Dutch loan, see William Churchill Houston to William Livingston, May 20, 1780; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 2IMOT OS. For his return to Holland after learning of the final rejection of his appeals, see Samuel Huntington to John Adams, May 21, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Nathaniel Barber Sir, Philada March 10. 1781 By the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 5th Instant you will be informed that your resignation is accepted, and you will be entitled to a similar Allowance for past Services with other Officers in the like Station & Department. 1 And that at present it is recommended to the State of Massachu setts, to advance you two hundred & two Dollars in Bills of the new Emission, of which I have informed his Excellency Governor Han cock. 2 I am Sir &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Congress adopted this resolve pursuant to a February 28 recommendation of the Board of War, to whom Barber, “commissary of military stores at Boston,” had directed a request to resign on February 11, 1781. See JCC, 19-232; and PCC, item 147, 6:221-26. For Barber’s subsequent complaints that the enclosed resolve con tained a slight error in the pay due him, an explanation Congress apparently ignored, see PCC, item 78, 4:171-74, 241-44; and JCC, 20:504-5, 21:911. 2 Huntington enclosed this same congressional resolve in a brief cover letter to John Hancock of this date, which is in PCC, item 15, fol. 249.


[Page 84]
50 March 11, 1781 a door to so much speculation and fraud, that it is in contemplation to call in the old emission after the time they ought to have been cancelled by taxes agreeably to the Act of the 18th March. If our State should think proper to pass a law similar to that of Pennsylvania or New Jersey, and Congress should take decisive order to bring in the old emission, it may be taken for granted, that when Pennsylvania shall have issued their proportion of the new money, the people of that State will be glad to exchange at your Treasury, on the same terms as others had in their own, rather than suffer the old emission to sink in their hands. This event would furnish our State with the means of issuing the new bills under vast advantages, as 75 dollars of the old would enable us to put in circulation near four of the new, and the debt of 200,000,000 dollars would be cancelled almost insensibly. We have executed the trust reposed in us by the Legislature respecting the Western Territory within our State. 5 From the manner in which this business was conducted it was left to us make the cession without a formal treaty with Congress. We therefore availed ourselves of the discretionary clause of our instructions, and have limited the State by a western boundary which, if there is any correctness in the maps must include the whole of Lake Ontario, and more considerably than twenty miles west of Niagara, and our Northern boundary we have limited by the forty fifth degree of N. Latitude. But lest it might possibly happen that this Western Boundary should fall short of the ultimatum assigned by the Legislature, we have made their ultimatum itself an alternative in that case in the words in which it is expressed in the instruction. Virginia demanded in consideration of the cession she made, which consists of her claim to the Northwest of the Ohio, an explicit guarantee by the United States of her remaining jurisdiction. If we had in express terms made the same condition, it might have been liable to a construction that we were seeking a benefit, instead of conferring a favor; and yet it would have been imprudent to bind our State in a special guarantee of the jurisdiction of Virginia, when our own was not secured in the same manner. We therefore thought it necessary to connect our cession with an Act which subjects it to the ratification or disallowance of the Legislature, unless our State received the same guarantee from the confederated States as any other of its members which have or shall make cessions of territory for the common benefit. We flatter ourselves that this precaution, though not directed by the Legislature, will meet with your Excellency’s and their approba tion. The authentic copies of the declaration and instrument of cession are herewith transmitted. The government of New Hampshire has lately pressed Congress


[Page 85]
March 11, 1781 51 in the most earnest terms to decide on the Vermont claims of independence, which has given that State a full Share of the fatal effects of this revolt. General Sullivan has accordingly moved Congress to come to a determination, and as he appears to be serious, it is probable that they will give the judgement which has been delayed but too long. 6 General McDougall has undertaken to detail this vexatious business; to his letter on this point we beg leave to refer. 7 Mr. Robert Morris is elected Superintendt. of the Finances, and Genl. McDougall Sec’ry of Marine, but neither have yet de clared their acceptance. The late Board of War is continued in the administration of that department till the fall, it being conceived imprudent to hazard a change when the campaign is nearly open ing. The Secretary of Foreign Affairs is not yet appointed. Our Southern operations wear the most promising aspect. Gen eral Cornwallis is retreating, the country armed on all sides of him, and General Greene in pursuit; in several Skirmishes we have had the advantage. Arnold is not in a better Situation, as the Virginians, supported by Some Continental Troops will speedily be reinforced by the Marquis de la Fayette at the head of 1200 light infantry. We hope soon to send you agreeable intelligence from those armies, which will have a decisive influence on our affairs. The collection of papers which are enclosed will communicate the particulars of our Southern operations and all the news. We have omitted two important objects of your Excellency’s representation, the defence of our frontiers, and a provision for the Oneidas. Your Excellency knows that the Commander in Chief has unlimited authority to direct the operations of the war, and to dispose of the troops at his pleasure. 8 And we are confident his sensibility and his particular regard for our State will induce him to take every measure for our protection which your Excellency may recommend as necessary. The Oneidas, we hope, are by this time in Some measure relieved, as the Commander in Chief acquaints the Board of War, that the clothing he had to spare would, he hoped, be sufficient for the present to make them comfortable. 9 We are most unfortunate in the importation of our clothing: Colo. Lawrence and Colo. Palfry who are lately gone to France 10 on publick business have this necessary Article in Charge And we hope they will be able to send it forward. There is nothing gives Congress so much pain as the delays & too probably the sinister designs & frauds which have exposed our Army to nakedness & distress: At a time when a considerable Quantity of Clothing was actually pur chased We can’t entertain a doubt but if these Supplies arrive our Oneida freinds will have a Share. At present while it is impossible to Cover our own Army they cannot expect to be provided for as their sufferings & their merit require.


[Page 91]
March 13, 1781 57 men should ever be biassed in their Choice by unreasonable Predilections for any Men, or that an Attachment to the Constituion should be lost “in Devotion to Persons.” The Effect of this wd soon be to change the Love of Liberty into the Spirit of Faction. Let each Citizen remember, at the Moment he is offering his Vote, that he is not making a Present or a Compliment to please an Individual, or at least that he ought not so to do, but that he is executing one of the most solemn Trusts in human Society, for which he is accountable to God & his Country”—“When the great Body of the People are determind not to be imposd upon by a false Glare of Virtues held before their Eyes; but, making up their own Minds shall impartially give in their Suffrages, after their best Inquiry into the Characters of Candidates, for those whom they judge to be the fittest Persons, there will be no Danger that the generous Enthusiasm of Liberty so characteristick of the People of Massachusetts will ever sink into the Violence & Rage of Party, which has often provd fatal to free Republicks.” 2 FC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Samuel Adams, and endorsed by him: “The foregoing was sent to Mr. Edes by the Post. March 13, 1781.” 'This essay appeared in Benjamin Edes’ Boston Gazette, April 2, 1781, under the heading: “Extract of a Letter from the Southward.” Adams wrote it in hopes of inspiring the Massachusetts voters at the annual state election to select the “fittest persons” for higher office, i.e. the opponents of John Hancock, the incumbent governor and a political rival. In the April election, Adams was chosen for the Massachusetts Senate for Suffolk County and when the new members convened he was elected president of the senate. William V. Wells, The Life and Public Services of Samuel Adams, 3 vols. (Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 1865), 3:138. 2 The following disparaging comments about Hancock were also written by Artemas Ward to Samuel Osgood, newly elected Massachusetts delegate to Congress, in a March 13 letter extracted in Charles Martyn, The Life of Artemas Ward, the First Commander-in-Chief of the American Army (New York: Artemas Ward, 1921), p. 258. “Measures ought to be taken by the States to inform Congress of everything they have done in consequence of their requisitions for men & money. Since Novr last the Governor gives no more information than if he was at the East Indies, notwithstand ing it is his duty. If he don’t know his duty I wish his Council would advise him; if they don’t know it to be his duty, do let some body be appointed to teach them.” Samuel Adams to Jeremiah Powell Sir, 1 Philadelphia, 13th March, 1781. I beg the favor of you to communicate to the General Assembly my wish to return home as early as may be; and to request that I may be relieved by one of my colleagues, or in such manner as shall be thought most proper. 2 I flatter myself I shall be excused in making this request, from a consideration of the length of time since I last left Massachusetts,


[Page 95]
March 16, 1781 61 furnishing the waggoners what they want transmit the balance to me to settle with them here. I have advanced them thirty pounds of the new money equal to Specie at the regulated exchange and also twelve hundred dollars Virga. State paper or they would not move and Mr. Dunlap assured me he could not furnish the money. I am Gent. yr. most obed. Servt., Joseph Jones Reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:157-58. 1 For John Dunlap’s enclosed “account,” see ibid., p. 158. For the Virginia government’s venture in establishing a press in Richmond, see ibid., 3:579-80, 4:396, 431-32; Jones to Thomas Jefferson, February 6; and Virginia Delegates to Jefferson, February 20, 1781. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir March 16 1781 I am endeavoring to save myself from Ruin and to serve another as effectually as if I went on in the old Course of neglecting my Family. I mean to pay into your Hand for M— D’s 1 use 140 Spanish milled Dollrs. or the equivalent and not merely 700 Livres Tournois. Take therefore from me whatever is the Exchange. My Friends pd. from 75 to 78, but perhaps it may have been raised a little by a Run of Paper from this Quarter or it may have fallen by “The Arrival of a french Frigate at Boston with four Million Dollars.” 2 I would have you do full Justice to M— D and I know you will also act the friendly part to me. If Bills are there, as I hear they are, you make an advantageous Purchase of them to the amount of what you shall think proper to demand of me in Exch. of the 140 Ds. which I mean to pay. But, if you think it more essential to M.D.’s. Interests you may purchase the Coin, and remit it to buy a Bill here; where 4/6 Pensylvania will purchase 4/4 1/2 sterling. That is, provided the minister shd. continue drawing. M— D preferred having it done there, that the Proceeds might also remain under your Discretion. It was a Loss to me of 1300 Dollrs. that the 49 State were sent instead of 25 hard which they would have purchased. I am told also that I lose the Interest on every Sum reed, from the State. However, as I mentioned to you confidentially before, I am determined not to be the martyr of that and other such like Circumstances to which I have long been exposed. 3 I send you now only 6360 Dollars, not knowing M D’s Wishes till this Evening, and the Bearer being to set off in the Morning; and he being also in doubt whether he shall be able to take the Size of a Letter from me. But you must not omit to do the needful on that Score because I know of a good Opportunity to transmit you more in a few days that you can have occasion for; and the Surplus of


[Page 97]
March 16, 1781 63 Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia March 16 1781 Mr Brown arrived here day before yesterday 1 & we were hon oured with your Two letters with their enclosures, the act of assembly vesting Congress with the power of laying duties on Imports for so limited a period as three years after the end of the war, I fear will in a great measure defeat the Important end proposed. 2 Our debt is very Considerable now and will be annually increased while the war lasts—can it be Supposed that those duties with the other aid the States will be able to give will be Sufficient to discharge the national debt within that period. Besides Congress have no resources for Supplies or funds on which to obtain a Credit, but from the States—and Can the States furnish us with either in So easy & equitable a way as by duties & Imposts—it would be easy to borrow money at home or abroad were we possessed of funds Commensurate to the loans or even to the Interest of the Sums we need—at present we are obliged to draw bills of Exchange on our Minister at the Court of France at a great risque & Sell them at a great loss. Congress in a Committe of the whole have agreed to report that an Estimate of the Sums wanted for the Current year, beyond those all ready Called for, be transmitted to the States, & that they be Called upon for 6,000,000 of dollars to be paid in Specie or the new Continental bills in quarterly payments. I think that the old Conti nental bills Should be Called in or exchanged at their Current value & that the new bills Should Issue equal to Specie, in this Case neither the public or Individuals Can Suffer & there is nothing in the resolves of Congress that Contradict this, the Committee of the whole have likewise agreed to report to recommend to the States to Amend their laws making paper bills or tender other ways than ad valorem. 3 I inclose Some extracts from Govr Jeffersons letter 4 which Con tains the Substance of the intelligence from the Southward. I must leave Congress by the Middle of April. Genl Woolcot designs to leave it Sooner & Mr Huntington is determined to go home about the last of April. Some Gentlemen must Come on or the State will be without a representation in Congress. March 17th. The Resolutions mentioned to have been agreed in Committee are now passed in Congress & will be forwarded by Brown. Mr Robt Morriss is elected Superintendant of Finance, Genl McDougal Secretary of marine—both have given their answer but


[Page 98]
64 March 16, 1781 State terms, which Congress have not yet decided upon. Exchange between the old Continental & Specie is 130 for 1. It seems pretty well Confirmed that the british only Cut out the american vessels at St Eustacia. With Sentiments of the highest respect, your most obedt humble Servt, Jesse Root RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Upon messenger Jesse Brown’s arrival, Connecticut delegate Samuel Huntington executed the following receipt, dated “Philadelphia March 14th, 1781,” for money from the state treasurer. “Receivd of John Lawrence Esqr Treasurer of Connecticutt by the hand of Jesse Brown Two thousand Seven hundred & four dollars in Continental bills of old Emissions prior to the 18th of March 1780, it being the Same Sum for which I have drawn an order on the Said Treasurer in favour of Said Brown.” Seaport Autographs Catalogue, no. 35 (July 1987), item 44 (photofacsimile), p. 2 See Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Trumbull of March 24, 1781. 3 Samuel Huntington to the States, March 23, 1781. 4 That is, Gov. Thomas Jefferson’s March 8, 1781, letter which was read in Congress on March 15. See PCC, item 71, 2:53-55; and JCC, 19:262. John Sullivan to Alexander McDougall Dear Sir Philadelphia March 16th 1781 After considering the Subject you were pleased to mention To me this morning; with all the Coolness which a matter of such Impor tance requires; I am of opinion That Either Mr. Burk or myself must Stand in the Light of an aggressor by the Correspondence between us; without any relation to the Confidential State of Facts which I took the Liberty of Laying before you; and that this cannot alter the nature of the Dispute. 1 I am Therefore inclined to think, that there would be a manifest Impropriety in making it the Basis of a Decision; for though I am convinced of the Justice of the Relation; yet as it mentions two other Persons, either of whom I had much greater Reason to Suspect than Mr Burk, it will have an appearance of shifting a Supposed Charge from one to another to avoid Consequences; And as Mr Burk took up the Matter and applied it to himself without proper Evidence and made that the Foundation for a Letter so full of Asperity: I cannot Suppose that My Explanatory Letter (intended only to Satisfy you that I was not the aggressor) Should be Considered as having any weight in the Determination: for when Considered as Intended for your Information, it is proper and necessary. But if Considered as a Communication from me to Mr Burk through you; it will amount to an Explanation of my Letter to Congress which Mr Burk has already Demanded and I have refused; & which I think from the Correspondence Mr Burk is by no means Intitled to. I am far from wishing to Sport with my own Life,


[Page 99]
March 16, 1781 65 or to Deprive Society of so useful a member as I am Convinced Mr Burk is. Yet Disagreable & Hazardous as the Task may be; the Justice I owe to myself will not Suffer me to Avoid this Event at the Expence of my own reputation. These are my Sentiments upon the Subject; and if yours Correspond with them; (and no other mode for Compromizing the Dispute, can be adopted) I shall however reluc tant Submit to a Decision by Arms & Leave the Event to Fortune. 2 But should you be of Different Sentiments as I have called upon you to Act as Guardian to my Honor I shall acquiesce in your opinion. I have the Honor to be very respectfully Dear Sir your most obedt Servt, J no Sullivan P.S. If Mr Burk had in his first Letter requested an Explanation of That part of mine to Congress which he Erroneously Supposed was intended for him (personally) & had Informed me of the part he had taken in Congress & had Even in Decent Terms hinted his opinion respecting my Conduct & Capacity as an officer I Should have given him the Explanation Contained in my Confidential Letter to you & Endeavored to remove his ill grounded prejudice against me. But when he undertook by Letter to Inform against himself & in Justification to accuse me of the want of Every Talent requisite for an officer & this without the proper Evidence, & I am Sure I need not tell You That the whole Army from the Commander in Chief to the Lowest Soldier (with only one or two Exceptions) would Join in refuting the assertions: I say to a Letter of this Complextion for me to have given him the Explanation he De manded would have Argued a want of Spirit and Even a meaness which in any Event Mr. Burk shall find me Incapable of, & I must Submit to Your Judgment whether Admitting my Confidential Letter to Serve as a Basis for reconciliation will not be Tantamount to what he has heretofore very improperly Demanded & I have peremptorily refused. Yrs, &ca. JS RC (NHi: McDougall Papers). Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 3:296-98. Addressed: “Honble Major General McDougle, General Sullivan will wait on Genl McDougle at Ten of Clock this morning.” 1 For this "Dispute,” see Sullivan to McDougall, January 27, 1781, note 1. 2 Sullivan was ultimately spared having to resolve his dispute with Thomas Burke by resort to arms, for McDougall and Burke’s second (Hugh Shiell) were preparing the ground for a resolution that rested upon mutual declarations of the two seconds, rather than of the two principals. That is, McDougall later disingenuously avowed that it was not Burke who was the actual object of Sullivan’s protest to Congress of September 27, 1777, and in turn Shiell declared that Burke’s response had not been intended as a “personal insult.” See McDougall to Sullivan, May 22, 1781.


[Page 103]
March 20, 1781 69 Excellency on the Subject of Col Smith, & the 4 Artillery Compa nies—these papers are referd to a committee of which I am one. 2 I shall be glad to receive every information in your power on the Subject—particularly relative to the Artillery Companys. I believe there are among the Council papers, Some Letters from Genl. Washington, & returns showing that almost the whole of Harrisons Regt of artillery was compos’d of Maryland troops. Extracts of what may appear proper from these letters, & a copy of the returns (which I cannot get from the board of war) may serve to put that business in a way to obtain justice. The State appears to have been injurd by the arrangement, & some of her Officers in consequence of it. I am Dear Sir, with great esteem, your Excellencys Mo Obt Servt. Daniel Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 For this letter, which Carroll had misdated March 20, see Carroll to Lee, March 18, 1781, note 1. 2 For Lee’s “two letters” of February 1 and 12 requesting the rank of lieutenant colonel for Alexander Lawson Smith and commissions for the officers of the state’s four artillery companies, see PCC, item 147, 6:267-70; and Md. Archives, 45:297-98, 308, where Lee’s first letter is dated February 2. The Board of War’s March 6 report was read in Congress the following day and referred to a committee of three chaired by Carroll. The journals contain no further mention of the committee. See JCC, 19:240-41; and PCC, item 147, 6:259-63. James Duane to Mary Duane My Dearest Polly Philad. 20t March 1781 I have written by this Conveyance to our Governour 1 giving him Notice of my Intention to return home as soon as the Roads permit, and requesting that some of the other Gentlemen may be sent to keep up our Representation in Congress. Whether the Legislature complies with my request or not I shall, I flatter myself, be with you before the first of May as I most impatiently long to be with you. I am considering a mode of Conveyance as my daughter tho’ pressed to pass the Summer with Mrs. Peters will accompany me. A few days will decide the fate of Arnold, as it is more than probable that by this time the French and British fleets have had an Engagement. Their force is equal and the French went to the Southward with an Intention to fight and an opinion that they woud be victorious. We are greatly superior to Arnold’s detachment by Land and he can only hope to escape; not to retain possession of Portsmouth, and much less to make any progress in Virginia. We hear nothing by the last post from General Greene who is in pursuite of the British, under Lord Cornwallis. Our Expectations are high and our Anxiety


[Page 104]
70 March 20, 1781 proportionally great. Present my affectionate Regards to our hon’d Father and all our Friends; & believe me to be with the tenderest Affection, Your faithful Husband, Jas. Duane [P.S.] I omitted to mention that the British have declared War against the Dutch and taken St. Eustatia, Curocoa & 160 Vessels in the Texel. 2 This Event will give us another Ally. Kiss and bless for me our dear Children. Adieu! God bless you. RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 Not found. 2 This news appeared in the Pennsylvania Gazette this date, coming to Philadelphia by way of a ship arriving from Antigua. For the events leading to the Anglo-Dutch war, see Jan Willem Schulte Nordholt, The Dutch Republic and American Independence, trans. H.H. Rowen (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1982), chap. 10; and Daniel A. Miller, Sir Joseph Yorke and Anglo-Dutch Relations, 1774-1780 (The Hague: Mouton & Co., 1970), chap. 5. William Floyd to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia, March 20th 1781. On Account of Some disagreeable Information which I have rec’d from my family; as well as on some other Accounts, I am under a Necessity of Returning home, and Shall Sett off in a few days; 1 I considered it my duty to Inform your Excellency of this, that Some person may Come on, to Represent the State. By the Inclosed paper of this days Date, 2 you will See the Manifesto of the King of Britain; which amounts to a Declaration of War against the Dutch. This appears to be a Rash measure, and looks like the Effect of Desparation—what will be the Consequences among the Neutral powers of Europe is not Certain, But we have Reason to Expect that the Armed Neutrality will in General Disap prove of the Conduct of Britain. Arnold’s Situation is very Critical and Dangerous, and We have the Greatest Reason to Expect that he will be Secured in a very few Days if it is not already done. By our last accounts from Cornwallace, he has Retreated near fifty miles, General Green was Reinforced so as to pursue him, and had got within ten miles of his Rear, and was growing stronger Every hour—under those Circumstances we have Reason to hope for a Successful Battle against him which will Restore the two Southern States again to the Union. From Sir Your Most Obedt. and humble Servt. Wm. Floyd RC (N: Clinton Papers). Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 6:708-9. RC charred, missing words supplied from Tr.


[Page 106]
72 March 20, 1781 I see by the Boston News papers that Interest is not to be demanded on the New Bills. It has twice been taken of me on my Draughts. Those Friends you mention think much of you, one of them perhaps ever instead of “never.” I have written to you by a Gentleman of the Name of Randall who left this City 3 days ago. 2 As he went in a Sualky he will not perhaps reach you so soon as this Sheat. I wish you to accomplish the Business for your Friend D 3 which I have mentioned to you. I only wait for another private Hand by which to put you fully in the Way of executing the Business to the Extent I named. And if you chuse to go something beyond, it will be more agreable to the Wish of D who is now fully capable of enabling you to do it, was it decided that you would pursue the first of my measures and not the second. But I have heard since I wrote, that you will find more Difficulty in the first than the 2d. I wish I had been 3 weeks sooner. Upon the whole I confide altogether in yr. Judgement to do the best for D & me. I inclose you some Proceedings of a few Days old which will be forwarded to the Government together with a Proclamation for a Fast the 1st Thursday in May. I hope we shall have great occasion to rejoice also. Much may be done by the Allied Force in Cheseapeak, and I hope the Dutch will instantly combine with France & Spain. George 3d is downright Bobadil 4 at this Period. If you do not get the News before this reaches your Hand you will have it by the Gazette inclosed to all the Extent we have. Give my affectionate Comp[liments] to Doctr. Holten. I intended [to] write to him in answer to his fafvor] by Browne, but I am forced to scratch this at a Window and am too tired to scratch more than that. I am, sincerely, Yours, J.L. RC (MHi: Gerry papers). 1 See Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts General Court, February 27, 1781. 2 See Lovell to Gerry, March 16, 1781. 3 That is, Miss Dalley, for whom see ibid. 4 That is, a cowardly braggart, named for Captain Bobadil, a character in Ben Jonson’s Every Man in His Humor. OED. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia March 20th 1781 Since our last nothing new has happend except the Sailing of the French fleet Consisting of (as near as we can obtain intelligence) the Ships and Guns as per list inclosed 1 together with about twelve Hundred of their Chosen troops which we f[l]atter our selves are by this time actively and Successfully employd in our Bay; And the


[Page 107]
March 20, 1781 73 departure of the M de la Fayette with about the Same Number of men (and a fine train of Artillery) who we hope is by this time acting in Conjunction with them, against Arnold. We must add to the above intelligence that a report is Current here and generally believed that the British have taken St. Eustatia and Curassau, with all the Dutch and American Vessels in their Harbors, together with a Dutch Line of Battle Ship. The Admiral who Commanded her said to be Slain and tis further added that they have Saild up the Texel and Taken a great number of the Du[t]ch trading Vessels—this news comes by a Prize brought in here yesterday from Antigua—who has also brought a declaration of Reprisals against Holland by England and whi[ch] we expect will be publishd in the paper of this day. We are Sr. Yr. Excellys Most Obedt. Serts. James Madison Junr. Theok Bland PS. Mr. Hays Set off a few days ago with his printing implements. 2 We sent by him 50 Copies of the last French memorial 3 to be distributed as your Excellency thinks best. He has also a number of Skins, of parchment for the Assembly. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written by Bland and signed by Bland and Madison. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:29-30. 1 The “list inclosed” has not been found, but for a similar list of the “Ships and Guns” of the French fleet, see Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, March 18, 1781. 2 See Joseph Jones to the Virginia Auditors, March 16, 1781. 3 Not identified. The “last French memorial” entered in the journals was La Luzerne’s brief February 26 letter to Congress announcing the February 11 arrival of Captain Tilly’s small squadron in the Chesapeake—a fact the Virginians would have known for some time and for news of which “50 Copies” would hardly have been necessary. See JCC, 19:199; PCC, item 95, 1:180—81. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir, Philadelpa. 20th March 1781 I have Wrote you one or two Letters since I reed, any from you, 1 but however I will not insist upon a critical Ballance of Accounts at present. I have reed, a Letter from Oliver of the lOt instant of which you will please to inform him, and thot I shall Acknowlege it in a particular Manner. No News from the Southward. We hear nothing particular of the French and English Fleets since they sailed from the Eastward. Events interesting both in Virginia and N Carolina may be soon expected. The inclosed Papers will inform you of an Event of an important Nature 2 if you shall not have reed, an earlier Acco. of it. I shall make no Observations upon this Affair. Accept this hasty Line from Sir, your Most Obedt. servt. Oliver Wolcott


[Page 109]
March 22, 1781 75 taken up the Hatchet and gone to the attack of Arnold or Cornwallis. I shall however direct it in the old way in hopes that some friendly hand may convey it to you—purely for the sake of telling you we are all well—which I flatter myself is not an uninteresting piece of intelligence to you and Fanny—and also of letting you see that you are not long out of my remembrance. I have received (as I told you in a former letter) your Bantling 2 —tis a fine Girl. I have not fault to find with her but one—which I imagine you[r] friendship for the Meade family has made you run into—if so tis a Venial error lest you shd. not take my meaning. I observe that you have shewn so great a fondness for the word mede, which is at best of an obscure meaning and almost obsolete in the English Language that you have it three times in a short space. I could not acct, for this unless the first time was as a Compliment to David, the second to Dicke & the third to Everard. 3 You may easily perceive that had I not studied the Character of Boys—such an Idea wd. never have enterd my head— the Piece however Jokeing aside has great Merit. I am pleased with it—& it has pleased many more good Judges having been much read among the delitante in this City and as much admired. My time is so totally engrossed in Political disquisitions, and thoughts, that you will not be surprized at any inconsistency you find in my letters—as I have never a moment to thinke before I set down to write. I may truely say my thoughts drop from the Quil. I must request that you will contrive to remit me if Possible the Amount of that Small Ballance in Tobo.—in a Bill on this City for hard Money it being a Commodity I stand much in need of for some Certain Purposes—shd. you not be able to get a Bill for Hard money—I must intreat you to send it in Specie by some safe hand. Can I request another favor viz that you will apply to the Proper office for my depreciation of Pay due to me which I am told the state has Issued to its officers—mine is to be reckond to the 10th day of Jany.1780 at which time my resignation was accepted—shd. you be so fortunate as to obtain it—please to remit it in the most convenient manner you can. I am much distressed for Cash—insomuch that I am unable to pay even for Fanny’s Picture or your locks. I am Dr. Tucker Yr. Friend & Bro. Theok Bland [P.S.] Inclosed I have sent you an oratorio which was performed by Some Gentn. & Ladies the other night at the Minister of France’s Hotel before a numerous Audience at which Mrs. Bland and myself were present. 4 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 A Tucker plantation in Cumberland Co., Va., west of Richmond. 2 That is, an infant or young child. 3 That is, David, Richard Kidder, and Everard Meade. 4 Bland undoubtedly attended what may have been the first performance of Francis Hopkinson’s “America Independent,” an opera celebrating the Franco-American


[Page 110]
76 March 22, 1781 alliance. Hopkinson later revised the libretto and retitled it “The Temple of Minerva” for its presentation in December 1781. See Gillian B. Anderson’s “ ‘The Temple of Minerva’ and Francis Hopkinson: a Reappraisal of America’s First Poet-Composer,” Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, 120 (June 1976): 166-77. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 22d 81 Captn. Stoddart carrys with him several matters for you as underneath. He will deliver them to some trusty person in Balti more to be forwarded to you. It has not been in my power to get the Brown thread Stockings suitable or a hat; I have been with the hatter frequently, & have received repeated promises, but have been disapointed. I shall continue to press him. I do not expect to get one of the best much under two thousand dollars. The green waistcoat I mentiond was taken by the Spanish Agent 1 before I receivd yours & I thought it best Notwithstanding what you said to take the white one with flours—which was cheaper, & I think hansommer. The wine sold from 34/ to 38/ State money per Gallon. I believe it is not more than four years old—& I have managed it with Mr. Biddle so that you may have a quarter Cask, hogshead or pipe as you shall direct—but this must be done by the first opportunity. In paying a way some of yr. money I found several Convention Bills which I return as mentiond underneath—likewise an 80 Dollar Bill which woud not pass. Present my Comps, to Mrs. Lee & be assur’d, I am Dr. sr. with great regard, Yr. Most Obt Serv. Dani. Carroll Dollars Amt of Collfungers?] Bill. 3940 Do. of L Blank 4 p Stockgs 2600 Paid for a Silk waistcoat 1500 Do. for Buttons 750 Do for 10 yds of fine Jean or dimoty 2250 11,040 19-8 Ds Convention Bills 152 18-6 Ds 108 1. 80 Dollar Bill will not pass 80 11,380 sent by post Dolls 1st Parcel reed 16109 2 Do 1885 17994 RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 That is, Francisco Rendon.


[Page 114]
80 March 23, 1781 the French land and naval forces in the United States. See JCC, 19:174; PCC, item 82, 1:287-95; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:177-78. It is obvious from the present letter that the committee had previously written to Holker, the French agent of marine in America, about the needs of the French forces, and that he had either misunderstood or evaded the committee’s query in his reply of March 9. Hence the necessity for this follow-up letter, the only one from the committee to Holker that has been found, to which he replied on March 25 with a “memorandum of the articles that may be wanted By his Majesty’s naval force & army in America, & which may be procured in the United States.” See PCC, item 96, fols. 217-18, 255-62. Almost simultaneously the scheme proposed by Franklin was also brought before Congress in the form of a memorial from the French minister La Luzerne requesting a conference to discuss the plan, to which Congress responded by appointing a committee of six. For La Luzerne’s memorial and the work of this second committee, see JCC, 19:308-11; PCC, item 95, 1:196-203; and Committee of Congress to La Luzerne, March 29, 1781. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston By the New-York Paper of 17 March inst. printed by Rivington 1 we are informed that the following officers were advanced to the Rank of Rear-Admirals by the late Promotions in the Navy of Great Britain Paul-Henry Gurry John Elliot Thomas Cornwall Sir Alexander Schomburg Thomas Taylor Samuell Wallis + Edmund Affleck +Thomas Burnet Andrew Wilkinson Robert-Boyle Walsingham Thomas Baillie William Hotham Archibald Kennedy Sir John Lindsay Thomas Knacton Those marked with + are now in Admiral Arbuthnot’s Fleet. Sir, Philada 23 March 1781 By the above you will perceive that Capt. Archibald Kennedy is promoted to a Rear-Admiral; your Excellency will determine from Circumstances whether it is the same Capt Kennedy who is under Parole to the State of New Jersey. 2 It is probable you have seen the Paper, but not being certain of that, I have extracted the above. I am your Excellency’s obedt Servant. WC Houston RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 That is, James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette. 2 Capt. Archibald Kennedy (d.1794), a British navy captain of 28 years service who settled in New Jersey in 1765, had been arrested as a loyalist in 1776 and paroled by the New Jersey government. He settled in England after the war, and eventually succeeded to an earldom in 1792 as the 11th earl of Cassillis. Livingston, Papers (Prince), 1:394; and Peter W. Coldham, American Loyalist Claims (Washington, D.C.: National Genealogical Society, 1980), 1:271.


[Page 115]
March 23, 1781 81 Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular, Philada March 23, 1781 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, two Acts of Congress of the 16th & 23rd Instant, directing that all Debts liquidated in or contracted for Specie Value shall be paid in Specie or other Money equivalent, according to the current Exchange compared with Specie. 1 Also recommending to the several States to amend their Laws making the Bills of Credit emitted under the Authority of Congress a legal Tender, so that such Bills shall not be a legal Tender in any other Manner than at their current Value compared with Gold & Silver. But, what will more particularly claim the Attention of your Legislature as of great Importance, is, the requisition for six Millions of Dollars, that is one Million & an half of Dollars to be paid quarterly; the first quarterly Payment to be made on the first Day of June next, the Quota of each State being apportioned in the enclosed Act; and Payment to be made on this requisition as also the several others therein referred to, in Gold or Silver, or Bills emitted by any of the States whatever in Pursuance of the resolutions of the 18th of March 1780. This Assessment is not to be considered as the Proportion of any State, but, being paid, is to be adjusted & settled with Interest in Future upon equitable Principles in the Manner expressed in the Act. It is with reluctance that Congress are compelled to make this requisition, but the absolute Necessity of the Case will appear so obvious that we presume the respective States will yield a ready & cheerful Compliance therewith to the utmost of their Power. I have the Honor to be, &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 The resolves were adopted in the hope that the states could be induced to contribute their 1781 quotas in specie or the equivalent in new emission bills at the current exchange. To this end, Congress declared on March 16 that Continental debts would be revalued in such terms and recommended that the states adopt legal tender laws that would require acceptance of new bills (emitted pursuant to its resolves of March 18, 1780) “at their current value compared with gold or silver.” Simultaneously a committee of 13 was appointed to apportion the states’ quotas for a quarterly requisition of $1.5 million due on June 1. The committee's report was submitted and adopted on March 23./CC, 19:266-68, 298-99. These resolves were also an effort to turn a new leaf in congressional fiscal policy, stimulated by both the recent adoption of the Articles of Confederation and the continued deterioration of Continental finances. Thus Congress had declared on March 6 “That Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday in every week be assigned for the subject of finance,” and accordingly resolved itself into a committee of the whole on March 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, and 16 to consider several new fiscal proposals, including those adopted on the 16th. See JCC, 19:245, 250, 252-55, 258-59.


[Page 117]
March 24, 1781 83 into consideration on May 24, and after debate referred to the Board of War. See JCC, 16:345, 19:29, 237, 246, 20:531; and PCC, item 65, 1:468-71. It was Lovell's belated discovery that the resolve of the 7th had been recommitted on March 9 that inspired the postscript to this letter. 2 For the transmittal of a resolve authorizing Col. John Allan to raise a company of Continental Artillery at Machias, see Samuel Huntington to John Hancock, February 17, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Huntington Sir Philadelphia March 24th, 1781 We have just received an Account from the Captain of a Vessel who belongs to Newport & is arrivd in this river. That the French & Brittish fleets which lately left Newport & Gardners Bay fell in with each other a little to the Southward of Cape Henry on the 16th instant when an action commenced between the van of the two fleets & lasted forty five minits. 1 The Captain says He saw one of the Brittish drove out of the line after which the firing ceased, & both fleets were maneuvring, the French being to windward when the Informant left them, & Sailed for this place, this report leaves us Still in anxious Suspence. During the action he lay at about three miles distant from the fleets, having Sailed from Newport under convoy of the French. We have no Intelligence from the Southern Army later than you will find in the public papers. The Brittish Manifesto against the Dutch with the Sudden & violent proceedings against their Shipping & property must have reached you before this comes to hand. This Event must produce Some Important Change in the affairs of Europe, time will discover its Effect. I am Sir with Esteem & Respect your Humble Servt, Sami. Huntington RC (NRom: Bright Collection). 1 The French fleet from Rhode Island, commanded by the chevalier Destouches, and the British fleet, commanded by Adm. Marriot Arbuthnot, clashed indecisively off Cape Henry, Va., on March 16. The fleets broke off action after the French gained a clear advantage, damaging several British ships in the battle. William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity (London: Longmans, Green & Co. Ltd., 1926), pp. 270-75. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia March 24. 1781 I have been honored with your Excellency’s two Letters of the 8th Instant with the several Papers to which they refer. 1 The Limitation of the Act impowering Congress to levy a Duty &c to three Years


[Page 123]
March 24, 1781 89 Vesting the United States with Power to Collect certain Dutys, 2 so as that it Shall comport with the former Recommendation of Congress on that Head. The Reasons for this Recommendation are clearly Stated in the Act of Congress. The Non Complyance of the State in the Manner recommended gave some Surprize, as Congress had been full in the Opinion Not only with Regard to the Necessity but the Justice and Utility of the Measure, but supposed that our State would have a clear Interest in supporting it, or their Consumption of Foraign Articles much exceeded their Imports—And that the Dutys if they were not collected for a general Benefit, would (or they had in this State began to be) levied for a local advantage, which would operate most unjustly, or the Consumers must pay the Tax, and consequently if they lived in a different State would be charged with Taxes, for local, and partial Purposes for which they would not derive the least Benifit, and would not withstanding the Payment of those Taxes be charged with their full Quota of Debt to the united States. That this was a Circumstance which when well Understood by the States would produce severe altercations if not timely prevented. It is true the Act of Congress does not propose that the States Should have the exclusive Right to regulate this Affair which perhaps it might have been well if it had provided for. But probably no State will Enhance that Duty for themselves. It was Observed likewise that The Convention who Met at Hartford had recom mended the Measure. And that Connecticut had Commissioners in that Convention. And that the State had not Signified their Desap probation of what had been done by them. The Assembly of this State are not sitting, it is said that they will Adopt the Measure— which so farr as I have heard is well approved of in this Place. Your Excellency will likewise receive a Recommendation, that the States collect in Quaterly Payments Six Millions of Dollars in Specie or the New Emission beginning the first of June. I shall make no other observation upon this Measure than that it will be obvious that the Portion Assigned to Connecticut is too high compared with Massachusetts and some other States. In this Congress have gov erned themselves by former Precedents, except by lessening the Quotas of N York and N Carolina and placing the Deficiency proportionably on the other States. In this Place I will Observe to your Excellency that We have but the least Reason to expect Money from Abroad. This has been So clearly communicated that We must depend upon it. The Commissary Genl, of Purchases Complains that by Reason of the Scanty Supplys of fresh Provisions the Army are fed with that which is Salted, in great Measure. This Circumstance will be severely felt the next Summer unless rectified as We are officially Acquainted that a Cooperation against The Enemy is designed. The Commissary also says that there is a most unreasonable Deficiency between the


[Page 124]
90 March 24, 1781 Beeff charged the Publick and what is delivered to the Army. This Accusation is general. The Rate of Exchange here is 130 Dollars old Money for one in specie. This Occasions Vast Quantitys to be sent on to the Eastward. And indeed the People from thence are here buying the old Money, as the Exchange is So much lower there than here. I mention this Circumstance as I suppose that a Depredation at the Eastward may be expected soon to take Place. This old Money is continually undulating from one Part of the Continent to the Other, And productive of all the Mischief which can Attend a fluctuating Medium, But I will make no Observations but State Facts, upon which your Excellency is the best Able to judge with Regard to what Measures May be the most proper to be adopted. We have no News from N Carolina but what your Excellency will See in the Papers. There is an Acco. which is probably true that the Two Fleets from the Eastward had an Ingagment On the 16t off the Capes of Virginia. The Capt of the Brig who brings this Intelligence left the Fleets in the Action—he says that the French were at the Windward, that but one of the English Ships supposed to be the Admirals had engaged, that as he was Attacked by three or four French Ships She was drove out of the Line. We must Wait to hear the Result of this affair. I Wrote to Mr Ellsworth some time ago that it was Necessary for me to Return home early in April. 3 He has given me no Reason to believe that either he or Mr Law would be here by that Time. I hope that the Assembly have Appointed New Members in the Room of the late Mr. Hosmore and Col Adams resigned. Mr Huntington and Mr Root I suppose will tarry here till the latter End of next month Altho Mr Root talks as if he Should Return a little earlier yet I think he will tarry till that Time. I am with the highest Esteem and Regard, your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Wolcott’s “Account” of the Connecticut constitution was included in the compila tion printed by direction of Congress’ resolution of December 29, 1780—The Constitutions of the Several Independent States of America..., for which see James Madison to Thomas Jefferson, May 5, 1781, note 1. See also Wolcott to Trumbull, January 9, 1781. 2 See Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Trumbull, this date, note 2. 3 This was undoubtedly the following undated and damaged letter to Oliver Ellsworth that Edmund C. Burnett printed under the date March 24? 1781 (Burnett, Letters, 6:35-36), from the original manuscript in the Sprague Collection at the Congregational Library (London) now on deposit at Dr. Williams’s Library (London). “I wrote to [you sometime ago] informing you that I [planned to return] Home early in the Spring, [and I believe] that 1 mentioned to you the first of April. But wheither my Letters have been reed, by you I am not able to Say. Mr. Huntington and Mr. Root will probably continue here till the latter end of April, at which Time they will Return. Whiether the State has supplied the Vacancies made in the


[Page 128]
94 March 27, 1781 men will constantly exercise that Right which the meanest Citizen is intitled to, & which is particularly secured to them by our happy Constitution, of inquiring freely but decently into the Conduct of the publick Servants. The very Being of the Common wealth may depend upon it. I will venture to appeal to the Experience of ancient Republicks to evince the Necessity of it; and it is never more necessary than in the Infancy of a Common wealth, & when the People have chosen honest Men to conduct their Affairs. For, Whatever is done at a Time nearly cotemporary with the Consti tution, will be construed as the best Exposition of it, and a mistaken Principle of a virtuous Ruler, whose publick Conduct is generally good and always supposd to be honestly intended, carries with it an Authority scarcely to be resisted, and Precedents are thus formed, which may be dangerous—perhaps fatal. FC (NN: Adams Papers). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Endorsed by Adams: “The foregoing was sent to Mr. Edes by the Post Mar 27.” 1 The following essay appeared in Benjamin Edes’ Boston Gazette on April 16, 1781. 2 Adams was himself elected a senator for Suffolk County. See Adams to the Public, March 13, 1781, note 1. 3 Gustavus Vasa (1496-1560) was elected king of Sweden in 1523. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. 27th March 1781 It is a long time since I have been favourd with a Line from you. It is more than probable that our Communications on both sides miscarry, Indeed I have had so little, which coud afford pleasure, to transmit, and I think it the worst of All Employments to vex my Friends who are happy enough to retire from this anxious Theatre with Incidents which may depress their Spirits without being of publick Advantage. All our Evills may be resolved into the Want of money which seems to pervade every State, at least none of them have made Exertions to remove the Complaint. To keep the general Treasury exhausted while the Country abounds with plenty and there is a high market for every sort of produce, and many of the States enjoy uninterrupted Tranquillity: cannot be accounted for on any principle which does Honour to our Patriotism or publick Spirit. Where this backwardness is avoidable it ought to be reprobated; for there seems no doubt but with a very moderate Share of Vigour the Enemies of this Country will be expelled in a single Campaign. Every thing practicable here has been done for maintaining the Southern States in a spirited opposition against Cornwallis & Ar nold. I am convinced that if the Pensylvania Line instead of revolting for want a little money had marched to Join Greene the British Powers in the Carolinas & Georgia must have been totally


[Page 138]
104 March 28, 1781 however be of Opinion with this Officer but think that the Enemy will either push our Army back, or that General Greene will retreat to a greater Distance to restore his Army to a Condition for another Action. Cornwallis is still near 200 Miles from any Part of the Seaboard, and if General Greene can keep a near Countenance upon him he may still be hurt considerably, and pared away before he gets off, if indeed he shall chuse to retire farther. The Action between the Fleets is important only in its Conse quences, our Disappointment and the British Fleet getting into Hampton-road. Both Fleets arrived off the Capes of Virginia nearly at the same Time, the French rather before, but not long enough to get fairly into the Bay and prepare for debarking the Men. They were under the Necessity of fighting, though neither Side appears to have been very desirous of beginning or earnest in continuing the Action. Nothing decisive has taken Place on either Side; both had some Ships a little disabled. In the French Fleet the Conquerant was shot in the Rudder and the Ardent in her Masts and Yards so far to be in an unfavourable Situation for fighting. Some other Ships suffered a little in their Rigging. The French have returned to Rhode-Island to refit. One of their Frigates is unfortunately left in Cheeseapeak; the Hermion, Capt de la Touche, is arrived at Chester with Dispatches for the Minister. This sadly deranges our Plans, but however we will hope for our Day. No late News from Europe. As I expect to be at Trenton in a Day or two, shall beg your further attention to what I mentioned respecting the Dutch. Your Ideas are certainly right. I have the Honour to be, Your Excellency’s obedt Servant. W C Houston RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Committee of Congress to the Chevalier de La Luzerne March 29th. 1781 The Committee recollect your Excellency’s Communication that his most Christian Majesty’s Minister of Finance had obtained or Acquired from the Minister Plenipotentiary of these States a letter of Credit on Congress for Provisions to the amount of four hundred thousand Dollars. 1 They request your Excellency to inform them whether his Majesty’s Ministers rely on the letter of Credit alluded to, as a Contract absolutely concluded and which Congress are in all Events bound to ratify and perform? {If they Consider it in this light The Committee have no doubt that Congress will employ every means in their


[Page 139]
March 29, 1781 105 power for fulfilling it, and to prevent disappointment, however difficult or injurious it might prove to their peculiar Circumstances and Arrange ments). 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 96). In the hand ofThomas Burke, and endorsed by him: “Copy of Letter to the Minister of France, March 29th, 1781.” 1 For this reference to a letter of credit obtained by Jacques Necker, French director general of finances, from Benjamin Franklin for the delivery of $400,000 worth of Provisions to the French forces in America, see JCC, 19:308-11; and Committee of Congress to Jean Holker, March 23, 1781, note. This committee, consisting of Samuel Adams, Thomas Burke, John Hanson, Joseph Jones, Thomas McKean, and James Madison, had been appointed on March 24 to respond to a memorial from La Luzerne requesting a conference to discuss Franklin’s proposal for establishing a line of credit in France in return for the delivery of provisions to French agents in America. In addition to this draft letter to La Luzerne, a translation of his response to the committee and three pages of “Notes from the Minister of France on a Conference" on the “Subsistance de l’Armee,” are also located in PCC, item 96, fols. 265-72. 2 The surviving documents on this subject suggest that congressional support for this proposal was never in doubt, and that once Franklin offered the delivery of provisions to French forces in America in return for a line of credit of $400,000 he could draw upon in Paris, only the means for implementing the plan remained for serious discussion. The committee’s report on La Luzerne’s March 24 memorial recommended that the United States “take every measure in their power” to implement the scheme, and Congress adopted the committee’s recommendation on April 11, for which see JCC, 19:370-73; and Samuel Huntington to La Luzerne, April 15, 1781. Nicholas Van Dyke to Thomas Rodney Dr. Sir, 29 Mar 1781 I presume in this you have received the Paper Intelligence; but as that is not authentic nor so particular as the Account from the Southard by Governor Jefferson’s Letter to Congress Received on Wednesday last, I do my self the Honor to favor you therewith. 1 The Governor Writes that on the 15th Inst, about a Mile and a Half from Guilford Court House Green & Cornwallis had a Battle, which lasted one Hour & a Quarter, that Green retreated a Mile & a Halfin good Order, having lost two Peices of Cannon and about 300 killed and wounded, Cornwallis lost between 500 & 700 killed and wounded, that General Green determined to renew the Attaque the Next Morning, but the Weather prevented. The Enemy were 2500, & our Troops including Militia or Mostly so 4000, our Men &c behaved well, were in high Spirits & anxious for another Engage ment, this Account the Governor had from an Officer who was in the Action. This I call a very good Account, for if Green is so strong as to Attac the Enemy, he only has to keep up the Ball awhile and he must


[Page 140]
106 March 29, 1781 effectually Ruin his Lordship, two more such Victories would probably Burgoine him & his Veterans. All the Accounts we have of an Action between the Fleets have been published which I dare say you have seen, and I think it may be said, (all things Considered) that the French Arms have gained Reputation. I would just Mention to you that Monday come a Week Mr. McKean has to attend a Court in this City and Tuesday Week our Supreme Court begins, so that Delaware will be unrepresented in Congress. Newhampshire, Newyork & Rhode Island are now in the same situation. I shall be detained about 10 Days and I wish you if possible to order Matters so as to be here on Sunday come a Week, for you know that your Attendance (although you alone cannot give the Vote of the State) is Necessary & may be very useful. Mr. McKean [h]as attended every Day since I came up & seems in good Health. Please present my Complimts. to Mrs. Rodney, and believe me to be, yr. Most obdt. Nichs. Van Dyke RC (CtY: Franklin Papers). 1 See Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, March 27, 1781, note. James Duane to Mary Duane Philad. 30t March 1781 This will be handed to my dearest Polly by Col. H.B. Livingston. How they will get on I know not as the roads even here are unfit for a Carriage. I have orderd a Phaeton to be made for Brother Walter which is to be finished in a fortnight. In this our Daughter will have a Seat and probably Sister Robert C. as we all propose coming together. I include Brother Harry. I hope by the latter End of April or the beginning of May your Roads will be tolerable. I wish to hear when you favour me with a Line. For my own part as I prefer a Horse it is of no Consequence; but the Carriage must be attended to. We have nothing from the Southward since I wrote to you last; except that Cornwallis lost 800 killed besides the wounded in his late battle with our Army under General Greene & that the next morning he proceded to Court house leaving all his dead unburied altho’ General Ohara was among the number. We have yet no further particulars except that our Regulars as well as militia behaved with uncommon Spirit and that Cols. Washington & Lee of the Cavalry have acquired great Glory. The opinion is as strong as ever that Lord Cornwallis and his Army must fall into our hands.


[Page 145]
April 1, 1781 111 *omitted in my former List 3 plic Sep 9 1 Orig Sep 25 J 2 plic Sep 25 ] f Novr. 28^ [Dec 19 J Sepr. 25 1 Oct 15 J Deer 11 Feb. 12 March 26 RC (NNC: Jay Papers). 1 See Lovell to Samuel Holten, March 27, 1781, note 1. 2 With this letter, Lovell also sent the copies of his letters to Jay of February 20 and March 9 printed above. His enclosure consists of a list of letters received from Jay and Carmichael that he had originally enclosed in the February 20 letter, to which he added two Carmichael letters received on March 26 and two “omitted in my former List.” Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton Dear Sir, Philada. April 1st. 1781. I yesterday was favoured with your Letter but know not when or from whence wrote as it was without date. The Night before last we reed an Official Acct, of Genl Greens engagement with Cornwallis on the 15th March; it differs but little from the Accts before reed. The Victory was on the Side of Cornwallis as Genl. Green retired from the field with near 300 killed & wounded, & 4 field pieces lost, and near 900 Militia & some Continentals mising who mostly run away in the beginning of the Action—his order of battle was three lines—the North Carolina Militia composed the first in front with the field pieces, most of those run away without firing a gun throwing away their Arms, some few of them fired once some twice but none more; of those about 550 are missing. The Virginia Militia principally composed the Second line, they made some short stand, of these about 260 are missing but not Supposed to be taken. The third line was Continentals, the engage ment was very severe and Obstinate and the Victory dearly pur chased owing wholly to Superiour Dicipline. One or two more such Victories would ruin his Lordship as he must be greatly encumbered with his wounded, ours were brought of. Cornwallis was 160 Miles from Cambden & near that distance from Wilmington the nearer Seaport—my greatest fears are that the detachments from New York are gone to his relief, and may join him before Genl. Green may be in Condition to renew the fight, tho’ in Case Cornwallis attempts to move he will meet probably with a constant Anoyance from our Troops, who, it is said are in high Spirits and wish for another engagemt.


[Page 147]
April 2, 1781 113 Chesepeake bay and frustrated our plans against Arnold, Cornwallis &c. for a time. The French put Back to Rhode [Island] where they now are.” RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 Bland’s sister Frances Bland Randolph Tucker (d. 1788) was the widow of John Randolph of “Matoax,” and since 1778 the wife of St. George Tucker. “St. George Tucker,” DAB. 2 For the loyalist Goodrich family of Portsmouth, Va., see these Letters, 6:189. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Sir Philadelphia Api. 2d. 1781 Mr Carroll and I wrote to your Excellency and the Honorable Council by last post, 1 requesting a Supply of one thousand Dollars each of the new Emission, but at the present Exchange, I find that Sum Will be insufficient to answer my Immediate purposes. The Exchange between gold and silver, and the Emissions of the 18th March, Issued by the State of Maryland, is as 40 to 140, so that one silver Dollar is equal to three and a half. I must therefore request that my Sum may be increased to fifteen hundred Dollars for Which I Will be Accountable at the Exchange that may be Settled by the state. 2 The Marquis Delafyette Writes from Williamsburgh of the 26th Ult. 3 That the Whole British fleet put out to Sea on the Morning of the 24th and return’d again With a number of Transports (Sup posed to be from New York) on the 25th—it is said these Transports had 2000 Troops on Board. These Joined with the Army under Arnold it is feared Will do great Mischief. I have inclosed you a hand Bill Containing an Account of the Action of the 15th and of the Killed, Wounded And Missing of the Continentals—by the return from the D A General We also lost of the Militia 97 Killed and Wounded officers included and missing 846 privates Supposed to be gone home. The Riffle regiments Commanded by Campbell and Lynch had 224 Killed and Wounded, officers included. I have the honor to be with great Esteem & Regard, Your Excellencys & Honors most humble Sert, John Hanson RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 See Maryland Delegates to Lee, March 27, 1781. 2 For the approval of this request, see Maryland Delegates to Lee, March 13, 1781, note. 3 For Lafayette’s letter of March 25, not 26, see Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton, April 1, 1781, note 1.


[Page 148]
114 April 2, 1781 Samuel Johnston to James Iredell Dear Sir. Philadelphia, April 2nd, 1781. I have just had the pleasure of receiving your letters of the 11th and 17th, and one from Mr. Smith, and another from my brother. I wrote to them both last week. 1 You will, before this reaches you, have received an account of the action between the two fleets off the Capes of Virginia. I have seen the New York account, which is rather more in favor of the French than their own. Upon the whole the French gained more honor than profit in that conflict, as they miscarried in their principal object, that of destroying the party at Portsmouth, who have since been reinforced, and I fear will be very troublesome. We have reason to expect essential reinforcement from our ally; I am not at liberty to be more particular. 2 There are many things I would wish to say as well regarding the public as my private affairs, but the fear of my letters miscarrying withholds me. I therefore submit every thing to your discretion. We have very speedy intelligence here of every interesting motion of the armies to the westward. I. Buchanan sent me the New York papers as late as the 29th ult.; they contain nothing interesting, nor have we any late advices from Europe. My brother writes me of his indisposition, which gives me very great concern. I hope to be in as good health as ever in a few weeks of warm weather. Remember me affectionately to my sister, and the children, and in general to all our friends; and believe me ever, with the most sincere friendship and esteem, Dear sir, Your affectionate brother, Sam. Johnston. MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:498. 1 Not found. 2 Johnston is undoubtedly referring to information contained in the French minister’s March 24 memorial to Congress, for which see JCC, 19:308-10. Alexander McDougall to John Laurance Phia April 2d 1781. Reports that he will prod the Board of War into acting on Laurance’s request for additional “provission for the Deputies in your line.” 1 Explains that Congress has rejected his conditions for acceptance of the post of Secretary of Marine: “Major McDougall inclosed to you a Copy of my Letter to Congress on the new appointment. The Committee appointed to confer with me made a full and ample report to my Satisfaction. But Congress instead of taking up the report, have passed an independant act of which I send you a Copy. 2 It is flattering, but the motives of it I shall inform you of, when I have the pleasure of Seeing you, which I hope will be three weeks hence.”


[Page 160]
126 April 3, 1781 on the table to Strike out the Interest altogether. Whether this will pass I know not 1 —what the effect will be upon the money if it does your Excellency will Judge, the old money Continues to depreci ate—& reams of it are Carried from here to the Eastward to exchange. Taxes are Collected here but indifferently. The legisla ture of this State I am told will Comply with the requisition of Congress respecting Imposts & Duties. I expect to Set from here in a week or ten days. Genl Woolcot is lame by means of a Strain in his leg has not been able to attend Congress for Some days but is in a good way to recover. The Second Division of the French fleet is to be expected early this Spring. With every Sentiment of respect I have the honor to be your Excellencys most most obedt & most humble Servt, Jesse Root P.S. I inclose a bill for a law in this State which the assembly are very unanimous in & is to pass today. 2 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 The next day, April 4, Congress resolved that “no interest be computed on the money emitted pursuant to the act of the 18 March, 1780, at the time of issuing the same from the loan offices, or when any officers of the United States shall make payments therewith for supplies, or in discharge of public debts.” JCC, 19:352. 2 That is, a bill to impower Congress to collect an impost. See Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman, this date. See also Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Trumbull of March 24, 1781, note 2. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia April 3d 1771[z.e. 1781] We have been favord with Your Excellencys enclosing a State of the affair between Mr. Nathan and the Commonwealth of Virginia which we are endeavoring to put in train for a decision on the Principles you have been pleased to direct, the event of which yr. Excellency shall be informd of as soon as tis decided. 1 The Unfortu nate consequences which have attended the Naval engagement of Chesapeake on the 16th Ultimo, we feel with unspeakeable regret, as they have snatchd from us the pleasing prospects we had cherished for some time past, of frustrating the Sanguine project of the Enemy (of subjugating most of the Southern States this Cam paign) and thrown our Country into a Situation which must require her utmost exertions, with all the aid that can be sent her to extricate her from. This we shall leave no means unessayed to effect, on our parts. The Same unhappy event, has deprived us of the immediate Use of the Arms and Stores, which were to have gone from Rhode Island (the Cargoe of the Comite) on board a french frigate, but we have the Satisfaction to Inform yr. Excellency that they are safe arrived at


[Page 167]
April 5, 1781 133 5 Huntington also sent an emergency appeal this day to New Jersey and Pennsylva nia for flour for the troops garrisoning West Point “and its dependencies.” With his letters to Gov. William Livingston and Pres. Joseph Reed, Huntington enclosed a report from the Board of War and a letter from Charles Stewart, commissary general of issues, explaining that the provisions on hand at West Point would be exhausted in ten days and that at the moment New York was not able to furnish the flour needed. See JCC, 19:345-46; and PCC, item 15, fol. 261, item 148, 1:339-46. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia April 5th 1781 I was on the Evening of the 3d honored with your Excellencys favor of the 31 Ulto. 1 and have the pleasure of Inclosing to your Excellency Copy of an Act of congress of yesterday respecting the Conduct of our allies. 2 I am Convinced that the Bravery of Monsr Des Touch & the officers and men under his Command has convinced the British that with Equal numbers the French are at Least Equal to them. I Lament our having failed in the object yet the Action will have some agreable consequences; and the manner in which it was conducted by Monsr Des Touch deserves Every Eulogium. I am also honored with your Excellencys favor of the 24th ulto. & Shall be happy in receiving your Excellencys Sentiments upon the whole report which I had the honor to inclose you 3 & I perswade myself that Congress will agree with your wishes upon the Subject. I have the honor to be with the Most perfect Esteem Dear General Your Excellencys most obedient Servant, Jno Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:400n.2. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the chevalier Destouches, April 6, 1781. 3 Neither Washington’s March 24 letter nor one of Sullivan to him enclosing “the whole report” (for which see Committee of Congress to Washington, March 9, 1781) has been found. John Witherspoon to William Livingston Sir Philadelphia April 5, 1781 Last Night late one Dr Newil who lives in Shrewsbury came here with a Letter to me from Mr John Imlay recommending him as a Person firmly attached to the American Cause and one very fit to obtain Intelligence telling me at the same Time that he then had some Intelligence from New York worthy of the Attention of Congress. The Intelligence he brought was that another Expedition was preparing at N. York not yet quite ready but that it was Supposed Genl Clinton was to go upon the Head of it himself, that


[Page 168]
134 April 5, 1781 its Object was Delaware Bay and that they intended to take Post at Newcastle. As our Express is to go off this Morning to pass through Princeton I thought it best to give Your Excellency this Notice. I communicated it last Night to the President of Congress & shall this Morning to the President of this State but not to any other till we see whether other concurring Intelligence will give it full Credit. The same Person says the Mail was taken in the Clove by Moody & one other Man & carried to New York on Saturday where they received 40 Guineas each before it was opened. Nothing had transpired as to the Contents of the Mail. By the last Accounts from the Southward the English Fleet which left Lynhaven Bay on the 24 of last Month & went out at the Capes returned again next Day with several Transports supposed to be with Troops from N. York. I expect to be at Princeton Saturday Night or Sabbath Morning before Sermon. I am Your Excellencys most obedt, humble Servant, Jno Witherspoon RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Connecticut Delegates’ Memorial Philadelphia, April 6th 1781 The Delegates from Connecticut 1 beg leave to Represent to Congress That the Schooner Spy Capt Niles Master was dispatched to France by his Excellency the Governor of Connecticutt at the request of the Committee for foreign affairs pursuant to order of Congress to carry the Ratification of the Treaty between the United States & France. That Said Schooner arrived with Said Ratification & duly deliverd the Same & on her return laden with Articles for the united States by order of the Honbl. B. Franklin Esqr. was Capturd & Carried to Great Brittain. That the Said Delegates have long Since recvd the accounts of the said Schooner & the Expense of her voyage, with a letter from the Govr of Connecticutt Requesting the Same may be adjusted & paid; which hath not yet been done. Whereupon they request that Said Accounts may be Settled; & if the State of the Treasury will not Admit of Immediate payment, that the accounts may be liquidated in Specie value & placed to the Credit of the State of Connecticutt to bear an Interest at the rate of Six per Cent per Annum from the time the Same became due until paid. 2 MS (DNA: PCC, item 66). In the hand of Samuel Huntington.


[Page 169]
April 6, 1781 135 1 Jesse Root and Oliver Wolcott were the Connecticut delegates attending Congress with Huntington at this time. 2 This “representation” from the Connecticut delegates was referred this day to the Board of Treasury, which upon investigation concluded that Capt. Robert Niles’ claims were excessive and accordingly recommended that they “be referred to the commissioners of accounts at Hartford in Connecticut, for settlement,” a recommen dation Congress endorsed on June 21, 1781. See JCC, 19:357, 20:684-86. For the Spy’s delivery of the ratified Franco-American treaties to France, see these Leiters, 9:714-15. Samuel Huntington to the Chevalier Destouches Sir, Philada April 6. 1781 I have the Pleasure of transmitting you the enclosed Resolve, expressing the Sentiments of the United States in Congress assem bled respecting the Zeal & Vigilance which the Commanders of the Army & Fleet sent by his most Christian Majesty for the Succour of his Allies have manifested on all Occasions to fulfil the Generous Intentions of their Soverign and the Expectations of these States. I am particularly directed to present the Thanks of Congress to you Sir, and the Officers & Men under your Command for the Bravery, Firmness and good Conduct displayed in the late Enter prize against the Enemy at Portsmouth and the arduous Contest so gallantly & advantageously maintained in the Engagement on the 16th of March last off the Capes of Virginia against a superior British Fleet. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 For this April 4 congressional vote of thanks to Destouches, who had assumed command of the French fleet at Rhode Island upon the death of Admiral de Ternay in December, see JCC, 19:348-50. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day to the commander of the French army in America, the comte de Rochambeau, and to George Washington; and on April 10 to the chevalier de La Luzerne. See PCC, item 15, fols. 261-62, 265-66. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia April 6. 1781 On Saturday the last of March the eastern Mail was taken in the Clove & carried into New York. We know not of what Importance the Despatches might be, but have pretty direct Information that two Men which took the Mail received eighty Guineas for their reward on delivering it in New York. The enclosed Paper will give your Excellency the latest Intelli gence we have received from General Greene. 1


[Page 172]
138 April 8, 1781 during the summer, unless the arrival of the second division of the French, which we hourly expect, should give us the superiority at sea. In other respects our prospects are far from being flattering. You will easily judge that great delay in the deliberative councils of so numerous a body as Congress must necessarily take place; add to this, that the frequent change of the members does in almost every instance break upon the best digested systems, and renders ineffi cient the best concerted measures. Much time is too often spent in debate, and there is no man of sufficient credit or influence to take the lead, or give a tone to the business. Another circumstance which prevents Congress from taking its measures with a greater degree of confidence and decision is, the inattention which the States pay to the measures recommended by that body. I am fully satisfied that if the States would implicitly comply with every requisition of Congress, even when the propriety of the measure was not evidently apparent, it would be attended by the most salutary consequences, as there is not the least reason to doubt but Congress, both as a body and individually, are disposed to do what is right, and appear to me in almost every instance that has fallen within my observation to be actuated by the most virtuous and disinterested motives. In a few, very few instances, I have suspected individuals to be influenced by local or personal considerations, and this less often than might be naturally expected in so large a body. Never was a poor fly more completely entangled in a cobweb than Congress in their paper currency. It is the daily subject of conversa tion in that body; but our situation is so very intricate and delicate that I have as yet heard no proposal that is not subject to numberless objections. Dr. Burke, who is to be the bearer of this, has just called to tell me he is not to leave this for some days. 1 MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:500-501. 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Johnston to Iredell, April 12, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia April 9th. 1781. Your Excellency will receive enclosed an act of Congress of the 8th Instant recommending to the Executives of the States of Delaware, Maryland & Virginia respectively to take immediate measures for the removal of all public stores, and also all provisions & forage public & private which will not be necessary for the consumption of the Inhabitants on the Peninsula between the Chesapeak and Delaware Bays, to prevent such articles falling into the enemy’s hands. I should suppose it equally expedient to include valuable horses tho’ they are not mentioned in the Act. 1 This recommendation is in consequence of intelligence received


[Page 173]
April 10, 1781 139 from New York the substance of which is prefixed to the enclosed act, although it is presumed you will have received the intelligence before this comes to hand. As future events must determine with certainty the designs of the enemy, so future intelligence may influence the measures now recommended, yet it is to be hoped such precautions may be taken as will prevent any valuable supplies of any kind falling into the enemy’s hands should they attempt to execute their designs as reported. I have the honor to be, with great Respect, your Excellency’s most obedt. Servt. Sam. Huntington Presidt. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To Governor Jefferson. N.B. The like to President Rodney [Delaware], Sc Mathew Tilghman Esquire [Maryland].” 1 The enclosed resolution, adopted during a rare Sunday session, endorsed a recommendation of the Board of War based upon recent intelligence that an enemy expedition was about to embark from New York for New Castle, Del., for which see /CC, 19:365-67; and Huntington to Washington, April 7, 1781. For this threat to the Delmarva peninsula and the steps taken to alert Maryland through the president of the state’s special eastern shore council, Matthew Tilghman, see also Huntington’s letters to Washington and to Tilghman of April 26 and 27, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Rodney and Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Philada April 9. 1781 I am directed to request your Attendance in Congress as soon as possible. There are but eight States at this Time represented in Congress, a Circumstance by no Means proper in the present Situation of Affairs. 1 As Chief Justice McKean sets out this Day on the Circuit to be absent some Time, it is necessary that two Delegates from the Delaware State give their Attendance immediately. I have the Honor to be &c &c &c. S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To The Honorable Thomas Rodney Esqr. N.B. The like to Mr. Vandyke.” 1 Huntington also wrote a similar letter this day to New Jersey delegate William Churchill Houston. PCC, item 15, fol. 265. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr. Philadelphia Api 10th. 1781 I receivd yours of the 6th with the money enclosd—& Shall loose no time in forwarding the wine. Col. Harrison has been in Town


[Page 174]
140 April 10, 1781 some days past sick—& proposes sending a light waggon down with his Baggage, if there is some I shall send a quarter cask of wine by that opportunity. What you mention of Capt Murray Shall be attended to. Nothing more of the embarkation at New York officially since the letters the President sent you. 1 The reinforcement arrived in Chessapeake were in 18 Transports, supposed to be under the Command of Genl. Philips. I am Dear Sr. with great regard & esteem, Yr hu Obt Sert, Dani Carroll [P.S.] Please to let Mr. Richard Lloyd & Mr. Carroll have the perusal of the New York papers I send—they are for Parson Gates from Mr Meade. I sent to Mr Carroll by the Express a paper contg Genl Greens last Letter & cannot [find] one to send you by this opportunity. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, et al., April 7, and to Certain States, April 9, 1781. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doct. Philadelphia Api. 10th. 1781 I received yours yesterday by the post. Am glad to be informed of your safe Arrival At Annapolis where I hope you will stay as long as Janey finds Any advantage from being there. Change of Air And Exercise Sometimes have Surprising Effects And would fain flatter my Self that it will in the present instance. Janey and Tammys State of health and the distressed and perplexed Situation Mrs. Hanson is in left alone a prey to Melancholly and despair destroys my peace of mind and renders me truly Misserable. Should have left this place last week but since the ratification of the Confederation 9 States are required to make a Congress. 4 are unrepresented And my with drawing would leave a number insufficient to transact Business, which at this Critical Conjuncture would perhaps be thought unpardonalbe however I hope to get Away by Thursday next. Some absent Members are sent for 1 And one from Jersey is expected in today or tomorrow when that State will be represented. 1 hope you put yourself to no inconvenience in sending the money you inclosed. I could have done without it tho I have not received one farthing from the state since I have been here. What you have directed Shall be purchased. By the last of this month the second Division of the french may be Expd. I wish they were Arrived, it might be a means of withdrawing the British fleet And


[Page 180]
146 April 12, 1781 Which they expected—And that Congress had no other Means of paying them but by Taking and applying that Money. This was Warmly opposed because it was alledged that it Would Totally subvert the intention of the Resolution of the 18th of March beside that the Money in question being Issued by the Special authority of the respective State Congress Could not Take it Contrary To The Tennor of their Laws—after a Multitude of arguments on both Sides this plan Was Set aside—and another introduced. It was Alledged that the Assembly of Pensylvania had appointed a Committee to borrow as Much of this Money of Congress in The Loan office of that State as would pay their line & that they Would repay Congress again by the first of June, and by this Consent of that State Congress Might draw that 6 /ioth of the new Money and therefore it was Moved that Congress Should lend the State of Pensylvania four hundred thousand Dollars on the Condition of their paying it again by the first of June—to enable the State to Satisfy their Troops that they Might March immediately to the Southward and the necessaty of the Case Was Strongly urged to induce this. But it Was objected That this Would give Pensylvania an undue advantage of the Other States— and that there Could be no reliance on that States repaying the Money, or they Would have provided for This exigency before this Time as it was known To them so long ago—That Twenty eight Thousand pounds Would pay those Troops, therefore the Sum Mentioned Was More than necessary and indicated Some other applications—But that at any rate If Congress paid those Troops out of their Own Money, or Lent it To Pensylvania Which is the Same thing it Would Occasion a Mutiny in the other Troops Who had a right to expect as Much of Congress as those of Pensylvania &c. &c. &c. The Arguments on this Subject Took of the day and at last the plan Was rejected, & Two other plans offered by a Gent, from Virginia & one from Masichusats Was referred To a Committee of five. 3 It is to be lamented that Congress is So deficient in the abilities of Financing that No Member is capable of offering a System that is Worthy the Establishment of Congress None Whose Idea’s are at the Same Time both Simple & Systimatical enough for this purpose. Both the plans now offered are deficient in this respect. They are both Too Complex and incoherent To be admited—therefore will probably Occasion Much debate and no Effect. While our affairs related to Simple Constitutional questions only the Americans appeared great indeed because every Man Was naturaly raised up a midst the Most pure & Clear principles of Liberty that ever has been practiced or enjoyed by Society, But having paid very little or no Attention to the Study of useful knowlidge farther than was Neces sary To Conduct their Own Occupations, Now Their Matters has grown Complex and extensive they appear unable to Conduct


[Page 181]
April 12, 1781 147 Them in the best Manner, notwithstanding the advantages of Litrature, & the Sciences Which they have Made a rapid progress in And are not deficient on that Account. This has Confirmed me in what I always thought best, that is, that the Study of useful knowledge is of much greater advantage in the great Affairs of State as Well as in the Common business of life—and that a refined and even extensive knowledge in the Languages & Sciences is of very little use unless Connected With, and used as the Aid of useful knowledge. That is a right understanding of men & things, Their passions, dispositions, properties, qualities, and use—Considered both Simple & Compound—by practice and Experiment regulated by Theory as near as May be. MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 Rodney had just returned to Philadelphia after a month in Delaware, which he explained immediately preceding this entry in the following terms: “The 10th of March I returned home Where I Stayed Seven or Eight days then Went down to Kent Where I Stayed Two Weeks on My own private affairs—returned home to Wilmington The last of March and Came again To Congress The Tenth of April!—When I found Congress in the Same imbarressed Situation With Their finances as When I left them. “Aprill The 11th This day I took My Seat in Congress again.” 2 This was Washington’s April 8 letter to President Huntington which was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 19:374; PCC, item 152, 10:67-70; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:429-31. ’This ambiguous passage undoubtedly should be punctuated to read: “Two other plans, offered by a Gent, from Virginia & one from Massichusats, was referred To a Committee of five”—as only two, not three plans, were apparently offered. Rodney further compounded the confusion by misidentifying the plan moved by Connecticut delegate Oliver Wolcott as one offered by a gentleman “from Massichusats.” See JCC, 19:376-81. John Sullivan to the Marquis de Barbe-Marbois Monsieur Philadelphie. Ie 12 d’avril 1781 J’ai lu hier au Soir, la Lettre qui a ete publiee par Mr. Rivington, Sous le nom du General Washington, je ne crois pas qu’elle a ete ecrit par Son Excellence, mais Si elle L’ a ete il n’y a rien qui puisse donner la moindre inquietude aux les Commandans de 1’arme et d’Escadre du Roi: il y a dit qu’il etoit tres malheureux que toute 1’Escadre francoise ne soit pas Sorti d’abord; avec les troupes de terre, au Lieu d’un vaissau de Ligne et deux fregattes (comme il L’Avoit propose) parceque si cela etoit fait dans ce terns la qu’il falloit que Mr Arnold avec son Anne ait ete prise mais que cette petite flotte ne pouvoit rien faire sans les troupes de terre. Il arrive journellement Monsieur que les plus grands Militaire pensent bien differement Sur le Meme objet et La reussite n’est pas toujour la miellure preuve de la Sagesse de leur mesures neamenoins le


[Page 185]
April 14, 1781 151 Otherwise for the Certain payment of both interest And principle agreable to the Tener of Such Bills—And at the Same Time provide a fund for Carrying on the War by Laying a Land Tax of one penny per Acre or More if necessary for repayin any Sum (with a anual interest) that they May have Occasion to borrow for that purpose— The principle to be paid in 7, 10, or 15 years &c. MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 On the page after this entry, Rodney inserted the following brief fiscal essay, setting it off by indenting the entire opening paragraph. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 14. 1781 Your Excellency will recieve enclosed, a resolve of Congress of the 13th Instant, relative to the Mode adopted to pay the new Levies, recommending it to the several States to make Payment. 1 And also directing the future Application of Claimants for Settlement of Accounts, for Payment of liquidated Accounts, for Rank, Discharges, Losses &c, or for resignation. The former Part of this resolve respecting the new Levies, I presume is intended for those only who served the last Campaign, and if any of them have received partial Payments from their regimental Paymasters, which is probable as I am informed by the Paymaster General, Care should be taken to transmit the same to the respective States. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excel lency’s most obedient Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 According to Secretary Thomson’s endorsement, the Board of War report containing this recommendation was read in Congress on January 17, although for reasons unknown it was not adopted until April 13. See JCC, 19:384; and PCC, item 147, 6:93-96. For the transmittal of the enclosed resolve to the states, see Huntington to the States, April 15, 1781. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 14. 1781 Your Excellency’s Letters of the 24th & 31st Ulto the 3d & 4th Instant, with the Despatches to which they refer have been re ceived. 1 You will observe by the enclosed Resolve it is the Pleasure of Congress that you employ an additional confidential Secretary, and as many Writers as you shall judge proper to arrange & register the


[Page 187]
April 14, 1781 153 public Letters &c; and assign them such Salaries as you shall judge reasonable. 2 I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excellencys most obedient humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Huntington had previously acknowledged the first two of these in his April 5 letter to Washington. That of “the 3d...Instant” actually consisted of Washington’s “remarks” on a report concerning rank and promotions in the Continental Army submitted to him by a congressional committee. See PCC, item 152, 10:43-52, 63-66; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:403-12. 2 This resolve was adopted in response to a request contained in Washington’s April 4 letter, for which see ibid., 21:411-12; and JCC, 19:368. Thomas Rodney’s Diary Aprill 14th 1781. The Complement to Captn. J. P. Jones was reported, in More decent language and the thanks of Congress Agreed to—but the question on the Medal postponed. 1 Mr S. Adams urged on this Occasion that the American Sea men in Europe ought to receive their prize Money that Capn. Jones was Concerned in this 2 —that inquiry ought to be had &c. Mr. Sharp one of the Admiralty Members Said that the papers produced by Captn. Jones cleared him from fault in this and all the political disputes of our Agents &c. &c. in Europe—that it appeard by those papers a Man lately high in Office in Eu was concerned in advising Captn. Landa To run from there with the Alliance which Occasioned the delay of the Cloathing for the Army—that the Same Gentleman was concerned in the Mutiny that happen’d on board of the Allyance. Mr. Mathews delivered in a scheme for funding the Continental debts—and for Mortgaging 5,000,000 Acres of the backlands as a fund To borrow Money on the Interest of all to be paid by an impost on goods &c. Committed to the Commitee of finance. 3 MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 For the commendation of John Paul Jones, see Samuel Huntington to Jones, April 19, 1781. 2 Congress directed the Board of Admiralty to examine the “cause of the detention of the prize-money due” to United States seamen. JCC, 19:392. 3 For John Mathews “scheme” for funding the Continental debt, see JCC, 19:394-95.


[Page 188]
154 April 15, 1781 William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir Philada. 15 April 1781 There is Nothing new at this Time either from Europe or from the Southward, except what is contained in the Gazette extraordi nary of the 10 inst from New York, 1 which I doubt not, you have seen. What is said respecting the Portuguese war, and the Assistance which Russia has agreed to give to Great-Britain, may be true because it is not naturally impossible, but it is not supported either by Fact or Probability which has come to my Knowledge. I beg Leave to urge to Your Excellency the immediate and evident Necessity of altering the Exchange of the Continental Currency. I do not think we ought to wait for Pennsylvania, especially when they appear to be pursuing a line of Conduct so generally disapproved, and, as far as I can judge, I must beg Leave to add, not easily reconcileable to Fairness and Honesty, and the Intentions of those who vested the Power. The Stationary Condition of the legal Exchange, while the popular or mercantile is moving foward, must inevitably ruin the State—or lawful Money, because it will be utterly impossible to bring it back again to the value from which it depreciates. Whatever Reasons induced the fixing it at 75 in November last now certainly require it should be fixed above 100. If suffering it to stand will hurt the new Money, and altering it will probably, I think it will absolutely, help it, what Justification can be given for not altering it? That it will take Money out of the State is a Mistake. Everyone knows that though the legal Exchange here is 75 no Man deals at less than 140. I am with great Respect, your Excellency’s obedt Servant. W C Houston RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 That is, James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette. Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philada April 15. 1781 Your several Letters of the 28th February, 10th, 16th & 23d of March with the Papers to which they severally refer have been received; also your Letter of the 14th of January was received the 22d of March by Doctor Brownson. 1 I have the Honor of transmitting you the enclosed Act of Congress of the 22d of March, containing aditional regulations for conducting the medical Department & military Hospitals. 2 Claypoole’s Paper which is enclosed, contains the most authentic


[Page 192]
158 April 16, 1781 case of refusal by operations on their foreign trade. There is a collateral reason which interests the States who are feeble in maritime resources in such a plan. If a naval armament was considered as the proper instrument of general Government, it would be both preserved in a respectable State in time of peace, and it would be an object to mann it with Citizens taken in due proportion from every State. A Navy so formed and under the orders of the general Council of the States, would not only be a guard against aggressions & insults from abroad; but without it what is to protect the Southern States for many years to come against the insults & aggressions of their N. Brethren. I am Dear [Sir] Yr. Sincere friend & obt. servt. J. Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:71-72. 1 For the enclosed report on proposals for strengthening the Articles of Confedera tion, see JCC, 20:469-71; Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:17-19; and James M. Varnum to William Greene, March 16, 1781, note 3. Coincidentally, Virginia delegate Joseph Jones, who was about to set out for Philadelphia at this time, was similarly preoccupied with the inadequacy of the powers granted to Congress under the confederation, and accordingly set about consulting key Virginia leaders on a remedy for the perceived defects. The following undated draft letter, in Jones’ hand and endorsed by him “Copy letter to Pendleton, Wythe, Jefferson,” is in the Madison Papers, DLC, although there is nothing to indicate just when or how Madison came into possession of the document. “Maryland having subscribed the Articles of Confederation the alliance of the States is now compleat and in future Congress are to be governed by those Rules. If the Powers granted to the Representative Body of the States by these Articles are inadequate to the purposes of carrying on a vigorous War and of this all the States from experience are able to judge—would it not be wise while common danger presses us together and the States see and feel the necessity of enlarging the powers of Congress for the purposes of War, that the defects of the Articles in this respect be timely considered and remedied. Danger may spring from delay—good will result from a timely application of remedy. The present temper of the States is friendly to the establishment of a lasting Union. The moment shod be improved—if suffered to pass away it may never return; and after gloriously and successfully contending agt. the usurpations of Britain we may fall a prey to our own follies and disputes. I am aware of the danger of granting great powers and of the reluctance of the States to yield them and attribute the present disposition to give Congress more competent powers to a conviction from experience that it is for the common good to do so. In the course of business the defects of the Confederation will no doubt appear and Congress will point them out to the States and propose the necessary alterations for their concurrence. One, and of the first importance hath already become a question, that is, the Power of compeling the States to comply with the requisitions for men and money agreeably to their respective quotas. The States appear to have yielded to Congress the right of ascertaining the Sum necessary for the public expence & oblige themselves to furnish their proportions agreeably to the mode prescribed. They also yield the right of fixing the quotas of Men for the common defence wch. shall be binding but no mode is stated how a disobedient or delinquent State is to be compelled to furnish the one or the other and for want of this controuling power in Congress over the States when refractory war cannot be prosecuted with vigor and the safety of the whole endangered besides the hardship and injustice to those that comply and the prolongation of the War by such delinquencies. If in surrendering the right of fixing the proportions the Power of compelling obedience is implied, how


[Page 193]
April 16, 1781 159 or by what mode ought the refractory to be punished—by shutting the Ports—by marching an armed Force into the State—by deprivation of Privileges or what other mode? These are nice and delicate questions but are necessarily involved in the inquiry and I mention them with freedom in hopes you will as freely give me your Sentiments upon them. I feel myself more particularly impelled to do this not only from you but a few others of my acquaintance of whose abilities and Judgments I wish to avail myself upon this and similar occasions, because by a resolution of our Legislature of the 24th of Deer. 1779 the point of enforcing obedience to requisitions seems to have been agitated and censured. It would give me concern shod it be thought of me that I am desirous of enlarging the Powers of Congress unnecessarily as I declare to God my only aim is the general good and wch. in time of War does appear to me to be involved in the exercise of this or some controuling Power adequate to drawing out in due proportion the abilities and resources of the States without which power in Congress and a more punctual compliance on the part of the States than has been manifested for some time past the War cannot be prosecuted to advantage and while some States exposed to danger strain every nerve others removed from danger and at ease are remiss and negligent, whereas all should make the proper exertions and furnish their proportions whether immediately or remotely affected and wch. can alone give energy to military operations. Perhaps a Knowledge that this power was lodged in Congress might be the means to prevent its ever being exercised and the more readily induce obedience. Indeed if Congress was unques tionably poss[ess]ed of the Power nothing shod, induce the display of it but obstinate disobedience and the urgency of the general welfare.” For a similar expression of Jones’ views, contained in a letter to Jefferson bearing this day’s date, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:469-71. John Mathews to George Washington Dear sir, Philadelphia April 16. 1781. I mentioned in my last, 1 that by the first good opportunity, I would communicate to yr. Excy. some thoughts respecting the present political state of affairs—such as they appear to me— perhaps my opinions may differ, from the generallity of your correspondents, as I know many are but too apt to keep their eyes contantly fixed on the pleasing side of the picture, & feel an aversion to take a View of the reverse, or if they do, endeavour by the most specious colourings to extenuate it’s deformities, & if possible cast a veil over the whole. The lines I now address to your Excy. will convince you, I am not one of those botchers, I represent things as they really are. Your station sir, entitles you to the most unreserved communications. The friendship you have done me the honor sir, to entertain for me, demands it of me. Yet it is with reluctance I enter on the task, well knowing your Patriotic bosom is already, suffi ciently torn with the embarrassments you daily encounter, and pants for some friendly hand to pour balsam into the wound, but still is incapable of shrinking from increased pain. Accept this apology most worthy sir for the unpleasant theme, which justice to your conspicuous station bids me discuss in the most p[l]ain and un equivocal {manner) language.


[Page 195]
April 16, 1781 161 that make the best of it, we cannot calculate upon more than 2,000,000, out of this fund, & that comes in so very slow, that it is of little use. To the third, we are now pretty well satisfyed, nothing is to be expected from that quarter, in money I mean. As to the last, you know very well sir it is a plan, that never can regularly feed the army. When will all this end? In an unsuccessful campaign, I have no manner of doubt. But will this be the least evil to be apprehended? I fear not. Indeed my Dearest sir, I begin almost to despond. Were I to consider my private interest, or that of my state only, I should altogether despair. And clear I am, in my opinion, that unless some effectual, vigorous, & decisive measures are speedily taken, to extricate us, from the labryinth of difficulty, & distress, into which we are at present plunged, all the generous blood that has been spilt in this glorious contest, will have been spilt in vain, & the spirits of those who have so nobly fallen, will stalk terrific through our land, seeking vengeance on those who have so infamously suffered their children to become slaves. As a citizen of America, as one who has more at stake than any man in it, as one who from our mistaken policy, is debared an intimate knowledge of our affairs, but who, from his station, ought to be acquainted with every thing. By these considerations I say sir, I have been led to make you these free communications. I know they must give pain to your generous nature, yet I supposed, you would rather wish to be made acquainted with them, than not. Whatever changes take place either for the better, or worse, with yr. Excys. permission, I will inform you of. Please to make my respectful complements to Mrs Washington, and believe me to be, My Dr. sir, with every sentiment of the sincerest friendship, & highest respect, Yr. Excys. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Washington’s letter of April 8 revealing the states’ failures to meet their troop quotas had been read on the 12th. See JCC, 19:374; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:429-31. 3 At this point Mathews inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed “Pensylvania line” at the foot of the page. 4 That is, “The Marquiss’s detachment,” noted in similar manner at the foot of the page.


[Page 196]
162 April 16, 1781 Thomas Rodney’s Diary Munday Aprill 16th 1781. A Letter from Captn. Clark informing that Certain Stores Or dered to be laid up at fort Pitt for an expedition against the indians was not fully furnished and a request that Congress Would make up the deficiency by Sendg. forward Certain articles Mentioned Was read. 1 Genl. Varnum opposed the Motion & inquired Whether the expedition Was at the Instance or Under the direction of the United States or Virginia &c. Genl. Sulivan Said that this was an expedition of Virginia, that they were going on Some Wild goose Chase against the Indians or Detroit as he Supposed, when they ought to have Turned all their force against the Enemy now distroying the Most Cultivated part of their Country—and wanted Congress to Support them in it when All their fource & Supplies Was necessary against the Enemy Who were invading Sundry parts of the Country; that Virginia had been upon the Same Scheme for Several years past And allured the publick With An expedition against Detroit While all their views had a different effect. That they nor no other State had a right to form any Such expeditions Without the approbation of Congress &c. &c. &c. Governor Howly Said he was Now in favour of the Measure Since the Matter had gone So far that it wanted only a little assistance to Complete the Matter but that he lamented the Cause. That Virginia had wontonly Settled part of the back Country and now it was necessary to protect it—but that the occasion aught Not to have been Made &c. &c. Mr. Mathews informed Congress that this expedition had been Communicated to, & approved by the board of warr & Commander in Chief but that Virginia alone was to pay the Expence &c. for it. passed. In the report of Rules for the Conduct of Congress It was a question That no Motion Should be received unless Made or Seconded by a State. Genl. Sulivan, Governor Howley, Col. Bland & Mr. Clark Spoke against it. Mr. Mathews, Bee, Madison &c. &c. were for it—not past—rejected. MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 George Rogers Clark’s April 2 letter had been forwarded to Congress by the Board of War, to whom it was returned this day with instructions to comply with the request “so far as the stores requested can be conveniently spared.” See JCC, 19:396; and PCC, item 60, fols. 33-34. General Washington had already been directing the commander at Fort Pitt to provide supplies to Clark. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:33-35, 316, 462, 480, 500.


[Page 199]
April 17, 1781 165 MS not found; reprinted from Essex Institute Historical Collections, 13 (July 1876): 229. 1 Lovell also wrote letters this day to Abigail Adams and to Elbridge Gerry concerning efforts he had recently made for the shipment of goods for them by wagon to Boston. The letter to Abigail is in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:102-3. The letter to Gerry reads: “Yours of the 28th of March reached me yesterday. I have delivered the small one inclosed. “I could not send yr. Box by a Return of Mr. Dugan’s Waggon, because, as the Waggoners judged, the Tobacco Hogsheads would crush it, they being very badly shipped, one in each Waggon being short & one long. “I will write you more at my Leisure by a better Conveyance.” Gerry-Townsend Papers, NN. Thomas Rodney’s Diary [April 17, 1781] A Letter reed. To day from Genl. Green dated 30th March— relating in Substance that he had left his Baggage and Made a forced March To Overtake Cornwallace—but that before he arrived Cornwallace had decamped leaving his dead unburied & Taken his rout to Cross Creek And thence Toward Wilmington N.C.—That as the Virginia Malitia Would leave him in a few days, & his Army had Suffered greatly with fateague & Want of Provisions, and he left With an inferior force he Could not pursue any further—That the Whings & Tories in that Country were killing one a nother so fast that it Seem’d likely to Depopulate that Country—he also Sent a Copy of a Proclamation Issued by Cornwallace, Giving general Pardon and Protection To all (Murderers excepted) Who Would return to their homes & Take the Military oath before the 20th of Aprill. It was Moved by Govr. Bee that Genl. Greens Letter Should be Published, past in the negative. Govr. Bee applied and got leave to take the letter out of Congress. 1 A Long Letter Was read from a Mr. Baily, Phisition & Surgen in the Hospital department, by Genl. Varnum and the cause of the said Mr. Baily Was espoused by all the N.E. members. It was alledged by them that this man had been very Ill-Treated by the Medical Commte. particularly Mr. Clark. It was opposed by all the rest of the House and Mr. Houston alledged that he had done no duty Since 1779—but had been in Philada. postponed. 2 Mr. Bland Moved that as the Minister of France had offer’d us 400,000 Dollars in Specie and Bills if we Could Supply provisions To that amount, we ought to Accept the offer—and at the Same Time Offered a Scheme for doing this. Committed to a Special Committee. Mr. Moyland appointed Clothier Genii. 3 MS (DLC: Rodney Family Papers). 1 Not in the journals. 2 “Baily” has not been identified, and no information on this incident has been found in PCC or the jounals. 3 That is, John Moylan. See JCC, 19:402.


[Page 201]
April 17, 1781 167 The Extract of a letter from Genl. Washington, herewith en closed, 6 contains all the Authentic information received since our last, on the subject of another embarkation from N. York. For some days of late the report has died away into a general disbelief. Some persons just come out of N. York have revived it, with this variation, that it has a Southern object. We are extremely concerned to inform your Excellency, that the detachment of the Pennsylvania Line, on which our expectations have been so long fixed, are still detained by the want of money. Every expedient within our invention has been tried, without avail, to remove the obstacles to their march; and we have no encourage ment that the resources of the State will put them in motion, in less than 8 or 10 days, at the nearest. The detachment under the Marquis de la Fayette, is, we understand, again moving Southward, but we have great reason to apprehend, that the general cause of our embarrassment will at least retard their progress. The Extract above referred to, will give an idea, how far the Commander in Chief is likely to be in a condition to spare other detachments from the Troops immediately under him. By a return lately transmitted to Congress, it appears that he had not rec’d five hundred effective recruits from all the States whose levies were assigned to the Northern Department. It is pretty certain we believe that the British fleet under Arbuth not is arrived at N. York from Chesapeak. That of our Ally has certainly returned into N. Port. On receipt of yr: Excellency’s letter of the 8th ult. 7 respecting a plan to be concerted with the States of Maryland & Delaware, for the transportation of supplies to the Southward, we communicated the matter to the Delegates from those States, but they have never been furnished with any power or instructions relative to it. The Acts of this State, taking off the embargo, are under the same cover with this. 8 We have the honor to be, with sentiments of the highest respect, Yr: Excellency’s obt and hble Servants [James Madison Junr.] [Theok: Bland] [M. Smith] MS not found; reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:74-76. 'Jefferson had, in fact, written two letters on March 26 to Congress and to the delegates concerning the anticipated appointment of Col. William Davies as commis sioner of the Virginia State Board of War. See PCC, item 71, 2:75-76; Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 5:246-47, 251; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:31-32. The governor explained to Congress that Davies would decline the office “unless his rank in the army, half pay for life, land & allowance for depreciation of pay can be reserved to him.” To the delegates he pointed out two “instances of similar Indulgence.” George Clinton held a Continental commission as brigadier general while serving as


[Page 206]
172 April 20, 1781 2 New York’s act authorizing Congress to levy an impost was received April 5, the same day the Pennsylvania Assembly adopted a similar law. See Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, April 16, 1781, note 2. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 20. 1781 I am directed to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Copies of Letters, viz, one from his Excellency President Reed to me, the other from Mr Fowler to President Reed, with the consequent Resolve of Congress of the 19th Instant; directing that effectual Measures be taken to make Enquiry into & correct the Abuses therein mentioned and for bringing the Offenders to condign Punishment. 1 This Mr Fowler is an Auditor appointed by Congress to settle public Accounts in that Quarter. It may not be amiss to mention to your Excellency, that it hath been suggested by Gentlemen of Character, that Colonel Broadhead for some Reasons is disposed to obstruct, rather than to aid Colonel Clarke in his present Expedition to the westward, & prevent his Proceeding. How far the latter Suggestion, or those Facts mentioned in Mr Fowlers Letter are well founded I cannot pretend to say. A proper Enquiry is necessary to ascertain those Matters; and I am firmly perswaded your Excellency’s Prudence will direct to such Measures as that the Public may not suffer by flagrant Abuses, and at the same Time no faithful Officers may be injured by ill founded Misrepresentations if any such there be. I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President P.S. I have been Honourd with your Excellency Letters of the 12th & 14th instant. 2 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand with signature and postscript by Huntington. 1 Washington had recently sent an appeal to Congress for provisions for the garrison at Fort Pitt, which Congress had referred to Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed on April 18. Responding the same day, Reed pointed out that “proper measures were taken last fall’’ to ensure that sufficient meat and flour would be available at the fort, hinting that improprieties related to Col. Daniel Brodhead’s command there rather than poor planning or other deficiencies were at the root of the crisis. To substantiate the complaint, Reed cited the findings of Alexander Fowler, an auditor for the western district, who charged in a long March 29 letter to Reed that discipline had been “totally neglected” at the fort, and that under Brodhead’s command “private interest shamefully predominates over public oeconomy.” See JCC, 19:420— 21; PCC, item 69, 2:341-44, 365-76; and Huntington to Thomas Jefferson, April 18, 1781, note 1.


[Page 211]
April 23, 1781 177 upon it as a Matter of Indifference. Not being acquainted with that Gentlemen in the early Times of our Contest, I had by some means conceivd an Opinion of him not so favorable; but having had an Opportunity of critically observing him in the late Convention at Cambridge, I am satisfied he is a virtuous Citizen, & possessd of the genuine Principles of New England. That Mr Rivington, if this Letter should fall into his Hands, may not pretend to be at a Loss to know what is here meant, I will inform him that the genuine Principles of New England are Republican—Principles which have been admired by some of the greatest Characters, whom (if he is an Englishman) his Country can boast of. You & I, among others, have had the Honor of being abusd by Rivingtons Press; A labord Performance has lately crept out, called the Times. I have had a cursory reading of it. It appears to me so much like the Productions of certain Geniuses who figurd in Mr Popes Time, that had the Author been cotemporary with them, a Page might have been added to the Dunciad, 4 to immortalize his Works. I will endeavor to get some Parts of it transcribd & carry them to Boston. I am sure the reading it would serve to divert rather than give you the least Pain. My due Regards to Friends, your affectionate, SA FC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 For a discussion of the breach in correspondence between Adams and Cooper, see Adams to Elizabeth Adams, February 1, 1781, note 3. 2 That is, Armand-Charles-Augustin de la Croix de Castries, comte de Charlus. 3 Not identified; but perhaps John Lowell, a political ally of Cooper and a member with Adams of the committee that drafted the 1780 Massachusetts state constitution. Charles W. Akers, The Divine Politician. Samuel Cooper and the American Revolution in Boston (Boston: Northeastern University Press, 1982), p. 307. 4 That is, Alexander Pope’s Dunciad, a famous lampoon on sundry English writers. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia March [i.e., April] 23. 1781.' I have been honored with your Excellency’s Letters of the 16th & 18th Instant. 2 You will observe by the enclosed Resolve of this Day, that it is the Sense of Congress, on receiving the Information contained in your Letter of the 16th, of the Proposals you have made respecting the Exchange of General Burgoine, that you be authorized to proceed in perfecting the Exchange, if you shall think fit, the Resolution of the third Instant notwithstanding. 3 I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect & Esteem, Sir, Your most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington.


[Page 214]
180 April 23, 1781 without regular Estimates? Calculate if possible what paper Cur rency is necessary to pay an Equivalent, on a Variety of future Periods, for the 12 and 16 months Arrearages now due to the army & Civil Lists. The old money, which ought to have died the 1st of April must be destroyed and one Species and another of the remaining Paper must also be abolished as expeditiously as possible according to Circumstances, till there shall become a Demand of paper for absolute Necessities, instead of that Demand which is now so prevalent for mere Purposes of Huckstering in Exchange of Curren cies, and which even the well intentioned Citizen is goaded into that he may escape being sacrificed individually during the Term of the prevalent madness. Randall had arrived in Boston 9 days before yr. last Letter, but he was to deliver what he had in Charge from me to Mr. Otis. Please to present my Regards to Mr. Otis and tell him that Col. Hay, being here, acknowledges the Receipt of his Letter, imagined to be lost, after being committed to my Care. RC (MHi: Gerry II Collection). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. 1 That is, Nathaniel Peabody. See Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody, July 25, 1781. 2 Not found; but for the packages Lovell was attempting to have delivered to Gerry and Abigail Adams, see Lovell to Samuel Holten, April 17, 1781, note. 3 The following brief note to Samuel Holten from Lovell dated “Apr. 24, 1781,” is in the Essex Institute Historical Collections 13 (July 1876): 228-29. “I am to thank you for your Favor of the 12th and can only make Return at this Time by inclosing Gazettes which I hope you will show to Mr. Gerry before you send them to the Navy Board as usual to be forwarded. He will in return let you know how little we know from Europe. Some very particular Engagements public & private prevent my enlarging further than to add affectionate and respectful assurances of being, Yours J.L.” Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Apr. 24th 1781 The Board of War having spared to the Special Council for the Eastern Shore, & to the Virginia Delegates a number of the Rampart peices, I coud not obtain an order for more than 500—They have likewise given me an order for 2 four pound Brass Field peices complete. 1 If 41b Ball shoud be wanting, it will be proper to mention the number you woud have. It not being safe to Send the arms by water I presume you will order waggons up, or some to be procured here. The following is an extract of a Letter from Genl. Washington— “Head quarters, New Windsor Api. 16th. 81,1 have receivd advices through different Chann[e]ls corresponding with that transmitted Congress by Mr. Foreman. They strongly assert that a further detachment is going from New York, & that it is to be commanded


[Page 224]
190 April 27, 1781 from the Reach of Invaders, the superfluous Provision & Forage, will convince you that they can have no possible Tendency to discourage so laudable a Spirit, or to impede the Effects which may be expected from it. By order of Congress, Sam Huntington President 2 RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 In his April 21 letter to Congress, written in his capacity as chairman of the “Special Council” for the Maryland eastern shore, Tilghman had protested Congress’ call for the evacuation of provisions and forage from Maryland to forestall an enemy invasion rumored to be aimed at New Castle, Del., for which see Huntington to Certain States, April 9, 1781. That congressional recommendation, Tilghman com plained, was an insult to the state, an act which seemed to preclude the very “Idea of Resistance.” “Unhappy indeed is our Situation,” he went on, “if nothing more is necessary to compleat our Captivity than for the Enemy to take post at New Castle.” Tilghman’s contentious letter was read and referred on April 26 to a committee consisting of James Duane, James Madison, and John Sullivan. The present letter was submitted to Congress, adopted, and referred to the Board of War the following day. See JCC, 20:446, 455; and PCC, item 78, 22:463-66. See also Daniel Carroll to Tilghman, April 28, 1781. For the sensitivity of this “Special Council” to its prerogatives, which also became a matter of controversy between this body and the regular Council of Maryland at this same time, see Md. Archives, 45:406-8. 2 Huntington also sent Tilghman the following undated note, perhaps a day or two later, conveying a fresh warning of an anticipated invasion. “By a confidential person we are informed that it may be depended on as a certainty that a very considerable embarkation has taken place in New York and has been ready for sailing for some days with which gen Sr H Clinton is going. NB. the foregoing Intelligence was receivd the 27th of April, since which no farther accounts have been receivd, by Sam. Huntington.” Red Books, 8:30, MdAA. Virginia Delegates’ Memorandum Philadelphia April 27th. 1781 Memorandum of an Agreement entered into this 27th of April 1781 Between the Honble The Delegates of the State of Virginia on the one Part, and Ebenezer Cowell of the City of Philadelphia on the other. 1 The said Cowell doth hereby undertake to Cut and put in good Repair two Thousand Rampart Muskets, the Property of the Said State, 2 in the same Manner, and of the same length as those now Shewn in the War Office, at the rate of Seven Shillings and Six Pence Hard Money, or the value thereof in Paper Money at the Time of Payment. And the said Cowell doth hereby engage to finish Twelve Hun dred of the said Muskets in Fourteen Days from this Time, and deliver the same to the orders of the said Delegates to be trans ported to the said State of Virginia—and the Residue before the day of Payment. And the said Delegates do hereby engage to Pay the said Cowell or order the said Sum of Seven Shillings and Six Pence Hard Money or


[Page 227]
April 28, 1781 193 We are with the greatest respect Yr. Excy’s most obedt. Srts James Madison Junr. Theok. Bland M. Smith [P.S.] We have enclosed yr. Excy. a Copy of the agreement we have been necessitated to enter into in order to ensure and expedite a measure which we are Sensible is of the utmost importance to the State. 3 RC (PHi: Dreer Collection, Members of Congress). Written by Bland and signed by Bland, Madison and Smith. 1 For the failed negotiations with the “Virginia Merchants,” see Virginia Delegates to Virginia Merchants, April 24, 1781. 2 For the “Alternative” adopted, see the preceding entry, especially note 2. Although there is no mention in the journals of Maryland's share of “the remainder,” it is clear that the Maryland delegates had already obtained an order for 500 rampart pieces, for which see .Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, April 24, note 1. For the arms destined for North Carolina, see jCC, 21:923-25; and William Sharpe to George Washington, September 1, 1781. 3 See the preceding entry. Daniel Carroll to Matthew Tilghman Sir, Philadelphia Api. 28th. 1781. I did myself the honor of addressing a few lines to you by Messrs. Goldsborough and Emory, 1 Since which the President received your Letter, to which Colo. Maylan the Bearer Carrys an Answer. 2 From the Character of this Officer, and the Contents of the letter ad dressed to you by the Board of War. I flatter mySelf the execution of the Resolves of Congress will not be attended with any disagreeable Circumstances. I am, Sir, Sensible that the Step taken by Congress on this Occasion, is of a very Serious Nature, even tho’ Nothing Should be attempted to be Carried into Execution, I Saw it in that light from the Beginning and gave Congress every information in my power, I was almost alone on the propriety and Necessity of the Measure. There is Some reason to believe, that Considerable Quan- titys of Flour are Stored on the Waters of Delaware, part of which may have been purchasd for the use of the Enemy. This I think was a strong if not the principal inducement with Congress, for the resolves they entered into. The enclosed paper contains Some important intelligence. 3 The Extracts of the Letter of the 22nd of Feby. are from Mr. Carmichael those from Holland of the 23d of Jany. from a Correspondent of his at the Hague. The picture Mr. Carmichael gives, of the State of affairs in Europe, is upon the whole pleasing.


[Page 228]
194 April 29, 1781 The President will give you by this opportunity the latest intelli gence from New York, 4 a Considerable Body of Troops were imbarkt. last week, General Clintons Baggage on Board, about 40 vessels under the Convoy of three Frigates are Said to have arrived at Sandy Hook last Saturday. Some Officers lately arrived in a flag from Charles Town, inform us, that a fleet Consisting of the above Number of Vessels, with the Chatham of 50 Guns, and two Frigates, left that place three days before the Flag Sailed. It is therefore probable the fleet Mentioned to have arrived at New York, is the Same which left Charles Town. I have the honor to be Sir, with great Esteem, Yr. Mo. Obt. Servt. Daniel Carroll. Tr (MdAA: Ridgely Transcripts). 1 See Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, April 24, 1781, note 4. For the Special Council for the Eastern Shore’s April 13 instructions to Messrs. “Gold, and Emory” to transport arms and ammunition from Philadelphia to Talbot Co., Md., see Md. Archives, 43:396-97. 2 For Tilghman’s contentious letter of April 21 and Congress’ response, see Samuel Huntington to Tilghman, April 27, note 1. 3 The Pennsylvania Packet for this day included extracts from C. W. F. Dumas’ January 23 letter from the Hague and William Carmichael’s February 22 letter from Madrid, both of which had been read in Congress on April 27. See JCC, 20:452, and PCC, item 88, fols. 123-26, item 93, 1:491-93. Carmichael’s letter is also in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:265-66. 4 See the following entry. Daniel Carroll to Matthew Tilghman Sir, Philadelphia Api. 29th. 1781. Desirous that you might have the latest intelligence respecting the Embarkation at New York, I this morning requested the President of this State to give me what information he could on that subject. The Enclosed is his Answer. 1 I have nothing to add to what I wrote Yesterday, only that I am just informed a Packet is arrived at New York which sailed from England in Feby. I am, Sir, with great respect & Esteem, Yr. Mo. Obt. Sert. Dani. Carroll. Tr (MdAA: Ridgely Transcripts). 1 The enclosed “Answer” from Pres. Joseph Reed, which follows Carroll’s letter to Tilghman in the Ridgely Transcripts, reads: “The Presidents Complimts. to Mr. Carroll and acquaints him that his Intelligence from New York Seems rather to intimate that the proposed Embarkation is at least postponed and may most probably be laid aside. The preparations have Slackened for Several days, but as this may be a Feint to throw us off our Guard, we have not altered the orders given in this State in Consequence of the advise received last week.”


[Page 233]
April 30, 1781 199 militate against the general exchange negociating by the com mander in Chief; but as the powers of exchange in your department are by Congress fully lodged in your hands, we conceive it ought not to influence your conduct farther than military duty must enjoin. Policy in our opinion directs every thing to be done in this business that can be done without loss of time as the enemy have already engaged a very large number of our men, (from good authority we are informed between 5 and 600) and are daily engaging more in their service—inevitable necessity drives our unhappy men to quit the service of their country for one they detest, and the policy of the enemy places them in a situation that for ever precludes them from the least chance of returning, being all engaged for the west India service. 2 The inclosed paper* will show you the outrageous malice of the enemy against our Officers and the pressing necessity of something decisive being immediately done to prevent so diabolical a measure as is therein proposed to be adapted by them. We are sir, with much Esteem & regard, Yr. most Obedt. servts. By Order of the Committee John Mathews Chairman RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:92-93. 1 It is not clear from the journals when Congress may have “directed” this committee (to correspond with the commander of the southern department) to instruct Greene to investigate "complaints” concerning parole for American prison ers. For his express power “to negociate an exchange of prisoners,” however, see Samuel Huntington to Greene, October 31, 1780. In this same vein, Mathews had coincidentally been appointed on April 28 to chair a committee reviewing an appeal from South Carolina and Georgia prisoners for Congress to establish a line of credit in Charleston upon which they could draw to repay debts and to purchase “Necessaries.” On May 2 Congress assigned 600 hogsheads of Virginia tobacco for that purpose and on May 25 it extended the policy to prisoners in New York as well as Charleston. See JCC, 20:458, 468, 534; and PCC, item 158, fols. 481, 485-87. 2 In a letter to Congress of May 10 Greene enclosed a copy of a cartel for the exchange of prisoners in the southern department which had been the subject of negotiation for some time. In his letter Greene estimated that fully “one third of the force” employed by Britain in the south “are deserters from our Army, & prisoners enlisted from our Captives.” He recommended that Congress declare that all prisoners of war who “engage in the enemies service...shall be treated as Deserters if taken in Arms against us.” See PCC, item 155, 2:67-69, item 172, fols. 137-42. 3 For this extract of a March 30 letter to Gen. William Moultrie from Col. Nisbet Balfour, British commandant at Charleston, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson) 3:93-94nn.6, 9. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia April 30. 1781 By the latest Advices from Spain the Affairs of America have a favorable Aspect at the Court of Madrid, tho’ Mr. Cumberland was still permitted to be there under the ostensible Pretext of obtaining the salubrious Air for the Health of some of his Family, and, among


[Page 242]
208 May 2, 1781 2 For George Nicolson’s mission in Philadelphia and the steps the delegates had taken to provide “2000 good Muskets,” see Jefferson, Papers, (Boyd), 5:458-59; and Virginia Delegates Memorandum, April 27, 1781. 3 That is, the goods from Le Comite, for which see Virginia Delegates to Jefferson, April 24, note 2. 4 Not found, but undoubtedly Washington’s letter of April 25 read in Congress on the 30th, for which see JCC, 20:463; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, this date, note 3. John Mathews to George Washington Dear sir, Philadelphia May 2. 1781. You will no doubt think it something singular, that the inclosed should be of so old a date, 1 and handed to you with this, but the reason of it is, that it was meant to go by Govr. Rutledge, who intended paying a visit at Head Quarters, but being taken ill, tho’ expecting daily to be in condition to prosecute his journey, finding that not likely to be soon the case, I have requested Mr. Duane to be the Bearer of it. Our last accounts from Europe are very flattering, particularly from Spain. From some circumstances that have lately taken place at that Court, it seems more favourably disposed towards us, than it hath hither to been. And as soon as some late determinations of Congress, can arrive there, we have little room to doubt, but what our expectations in that quarter will be fully compleated. The decisive measures pursuing by Holland, supported as they are, by the strongest assurances from Russia, places the war in Europe on the most formidable footing against G. Britain Although the Emperor of Germany puts on the appearance of war, (and as, is generally supposed, in favor of G. Britain) Yet it is most likely he will be too much overawed, to enter seriously into it. How unfortunate is it, that with all these bright prospects in our favor, we have little or no ability to profit by them. However, as you will see Mr. Duane, and who proposes making a full communication to your Excy. of the present state of our affairs, I shall forbear to ingroce your time, with any further observations on that subject. The inclosed extract of a letter, sent us by Genl. Moultrie, will shew yr. Excy. what a deplorable state our unfortunate prisoners at Chs. town are likely to be reduced to, unless some thing can be immediately done for their relief. We are further informed Ld. Chs. Montagu, has enlisted between 5 and 600 of our Continentals, & was daily engaging more, all intended for the West India service, so that, they must be for ever lost to us. The Committee of correspondence, by order of Congress, have written to Genl. Greene on this subject, 2 to take the most effectual measures to effect an exchange, as far as his powers extend, but its likely he will want some instructions from you on the business.


[Page 256]
222 May 8, 1781 James Lovell to Samuel Holten Dear Sir May 8, 1781. 1 Your Favor of the 26. of April reached me yesterday. Your Troops are coming on “in large numbers.” The General informs you that Tents &c. will be much wanted; and the Court will make their “usual Exertions.” Indeed Doctor I am persuaded that in a comparative View Massachusetts will appear to have been among the most vigorous States; but we are at this moment in the most disgraceful and hazardous Situation from the Backwardness of every individual State. Foreign Troops are to garison West Point because foreign Troops can feed themselves, and are paid. Our Quarr. Mastr. genl, has been obliged to sell some of his provision to enable himself to transport the rest to a Skeliton of an Army in Want of the very Pounds of meat or Flour which he has been forced to part with. If you know of a Compliance with one Requisition of Congress, in Time & Quantity, do let me have it that I may show it to the Delegates of the 12 States who cannot produce a single Instance. We are in an Uproar here about the Money. Sailors with Clubs parade the Streets instead of working for Paper. The Beer houses demand hard for a Pot of Drink; and all this because the Council have published that the difference between Silver and old Continen tal was 175, the latter having been sold 180 & 200 for one several Days. Did Massachusetts sink its Quota by the 1st of April? Some States had not then begun to sink a Shilling. You say Mr. Partridge and Mr. Osgood are coming on: I ask with what money in their Pockets? That of our State is not counted money here. The old continental is dying by Yards not Inches. And if my Friends purchase Gold with their State money, They become Speculators, say all the Villains who have created the Necessity. Are you not aware of the Perdition that awaits my Family while the Paper System goes on. I take a Thousand Dollars here whether in old or 5 & 5 /7 State I draw for 1000 or 25 State. I lose the Interest on the 25 as I have twice or thrice done on 250 and I pay above 1500 for patching my Coat, &c. MS not found; reprinted from Essex Institute Historical Collections, 13 (July 1876): 230-31. 1 Lovell also wrote the following second letter to Holten this day: “I yesterday reed. yr. favor of April 26th. I am glad to hear from you that the Massa. Troops are coming on in large numbers. Indeed Doctor the States in most Credit in Compliance with the Requisitions of Congress are very very backward and the affairs of the Continent are consequently in a most alarming Situation. I scratched a Letter and would not trust it to the Post. Perhaps I shall send it by Mr. Payne who goes tomorrow. “I inclose a Paper which will show something of the Shock of the old Continental Currency. “If the Weather is fair Tomorrow I think I shall be able to get up to the State House. Your Friend & h. St., James Lovell.” Ibid., p. 230.


[Page 264]
230 May 11, 1781 upon my honor it is not in my Power to do more—let me hear often from you, how you do, what you do—and where you are—tis a great alleviation to my mind—and those who love me will not sure deny me so small a gratification. I am pleased beyond measure to find that Fanny has at last found the Use of her Pen, her letters are a Cordial to me—tell her not to lay it down but to write a few lines to me every day, and date them that I may be sure she thinks of me daily—she will find an opportunity to send them every now and then tell her not to mind coherency, or form, or manner, I know she does not want Matter, she has her Choice of Subjects—and as she has now got a Hero of her own—she may if she pleases write the history of his adventures or an Epic Poem, or a traji-comedy, or any thing she pleases—she may give me a detail of domestic occurrencies, family Chit Chat, tea Table Tittle Tattle, a treatise on agriculture, a dissertation, on milk & Butter, or on the art of spinning and weaving &c. &c. but above all let me know that she is well, and thereby add to my happiness. 1 I remark what you say with regard to the Boys and shall exert my utmost endeavors to obtain for them, a good Tutor. I wish you wd. put this wholly on me for shd you and my father and myself Engage each of us one, I fancy they will be over-tutord, I shall therefore take it for granted and act accordingly. You complain that I do not impart to you a full draught of Politics. Remember my Friend that it is not safe in these days of Speculation, and inspection of letters for a Man in my station to be diffuse on this head—the Arcana of the grand Manoeuvre ought to be but in a few hands—and not too liberally trusted to Paper; faelix quem faciunt aliena Pericula cautem. 2 The Enemy with their Tory coadjutors have robbd three of our Mails to the Northward since I came to this Place, and have publishd their Contents to the world, sophisticated to serve their purposes, I do not wish to give them a text to Comment upon. This is my apology for the omission you complain of—But I will in General tell you that you may expect the Pennsylvania line before this reaches you, a fine body of Veterans used to the Bayonette, with the Gallant Wayne at their head; and that every possible Exertion is using to Supply you plentifully with good arms; that Our Friend the King of Spain has actually supplyed us with a large Quantity of Cloathing about three thousand suits of which are actually arrived; that the 2d division of the French fleet together with the first will probably be in our bay by the time this reaches you—and that finally all things will go well—could the states be prevailed on to throw into the hands of Congress a few of those soverign powers, which are (in the hands of the individual States) totally inefficient to work the general weal—as the powers of no one state can be competent or coextensive to the wants of the whole. This is one of those obvious maxims in government that I fear the states will not be convinced of before they are on the Brink of Ruin, 3 to this cause alone is owing


[Page 265]
May 11, 1781 231 the Embarrassd State of our finances—to this is owing the low conditions of our Navy, to this the weakness of our Army, and the Scantiness of its supplies—while Individuals are getting imaginary riches by preying on each other in an unjustifiable manner. The weakness of the whole exposes them to the fangs of an invader who may overturn the State, and bury them & their fortunes in the General wreck. Shall I tell you that the States have been so negligent in collecting their Taxes or in making the Tax gatherers pay them in, that not less than 100 million of arrears to speak without exaggeration is due to the Treasury of the U.S. while this sum remains in Circulation to be speculated on, speculated from, to depreciate, & when paid into the Treasury will not be worth an 100th part of what it wd have been. We have at length got a Superintendent of finance, Armed with mighty powers from whom great reformation is Expected (Mr Rt. Morris of this City.) I hope his abilities will rescue us from the abyss of Ruin in which we were plunging, but I own I am not among the Sanguine in this Expecta tion, unless the state give into the hands of Congress the Sole power of Issuing money—and of obliging the delinquents as well states as Individuals, to pay the Taxes; of imposing such Taxes as will constitute an efficient fund for borrowing of regulating Commerce, of enrolling seamen for the Navy &c. &c. I must now bid you adieu without Joking you on the Bayonette wound which you have so modestly hinted at in Fannys letter—a more artfull Soldier would have turnd such an honorable mark to good account. Your Martial atchievements have reachd this place and are registrd already in the book of fame. I expect every moment to hear that all my property is Sacrificed by my Friend Phillips, 4 who I hear has destroyd, Man chester, Warwick, Ozbornes, Petersburgh, Battersea-Mills & house and Blandford. Shall Cato’s House Stand Safe while others suffer in these Civil Broils? here I am—Pennyless. Paper money ceases to pass. Not one shilling can I get from Virginia, and nothing but my Priviledge will keep me from a Goal unless I can get speedily supplied—for God sake assist my Father in making me some remittances in hard money, or I am undone, once more adieu Dear Tucker & believe me to be, Yr. affecte Friend, Theok. Bland [P.S.] Give me an accurate General detail of the transactions of the British army and of ours in your next, and particularly of the Enemy Quond my Property and that of my Father, I have heard of my man Joe, & shall I Excuse yet him again—The Minister of France has promised to have him [....] RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 This day Bland also wrote to his sister “Fanny,” Frances Bland Tucker, describing for effect his “melancholy” situation in Philadelphia and himself as a man “who has


[Page 266]
232 May 11, 1781 not one shilling in his Pocket, cannot Borrow one farthing—has a Wife, a Child, four Servants, five Horses, to Support, neither Hay or Corn in the Stable, neither bread nor meat in the House; no expectation of a remittance from Virginia—a momentary expectation of hearing that his House & Plantation, furniture &c. are destroyd by the Enemy who has marchd through it.” Tucker-Coleman Papers, ViW. 2 "Fortunate is he whom the dangers of others have rendered cautious.” Alfred Henderson, Latin Proverbs and Quotations (London: Sampson Low, Son, & Marston, 1869), p. 122. 3 Bland had been preoccupied with this subject since the introduction of a March 12 committee report drafted by James Madison which proposed that Congress be conferred with coercive powers sufficient to enforce the newly-adopted Articles of Confederation, for which see JCC, 20:469—71; Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:17- 20; and James Vacuum to William Greene, March 16, 1781, note 3. Consideration of the report had been delayed until May 2 when Bland was appointed to a “grand committee” assigned to revise it. At some time between the introduction of the report and the conclusion of his work on the grand committee, Bland apparently drafted the following queries, although the use to which he put them remains unclear. “Is Congress capable of Legislating for 13 States, whose laws, whose Constitutions, whose adminstrations, whose genius differs in so many respects? “Would not the first attempt to Legislate—if opposed—produce a Civil war—must not coercion be used—what powers of Coercion have Congress in their hands? “An Coercion might be used against the states—prohibitory laws against their commerce—distraint on their property. “But suppose the states shd. side with the Edicts of Congress & only a district oppose—the interference of one part of the state against the other wd. be unconstitu tional—the coercion of Congress ineffectual. Wd. not a State standg. out against the edicts of Congress, when coercion was about to be used, strengthen itself with alliances of other states? Wd. not this effectually break the Union—or wd. it not if it found that impracticable have recourse to foreign aid—this wd. most effectually destroy not only the Union.” Bland Papers, ViHi. For the views of his colleagues, Madison and Joseph Jones, on this subject, see Madison to Thomas Jefferson, April 16, 1781. 4 That is, Maj. Gen. William Phillips, who was in command of the British troops then ravaging Virginia. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia May 12th. 1781 An express just setting out gives me an opportunity of enclosing this days paper. By some accident no Letter came by the Vessel from L’Orient as I am informd, not even to the Merchants who have goods on board. The Capt & an intelligent passenger say, that three fleets saild from Brest abt. the 20th of March, supposd to be destind for North America, the West & East Indies. Captn. Josiah left L’Orient the 27th of March. I will endeavour to see the passenger & be more particular by next post. I am very unwilling to write any thing I hear at second or third hand. I have the Honor to be Yr Excellencys Most Obt Servt. Dani. Carroll P.S. The passenger, I am told, left Ireland not much more than 2 Mos. past, & says that a number of the Volunteer Associators having


[Page 267]
May 13, 1781 233 assembled [...] they were ordered to seperate, [upon th]eir refusing a Regiment was sent [to disper]se them; an engagement ensued, & another regiment having reinforced the first, they were both drove & defeated by the Associators—several regular officers Killd, among them a Col. Blackwell. RC (MdAA: Red Books). Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene $ lr > Philada May 12. 1781 You will receive enclosed, an Act of Congress of the 8th Instant, among other things, directing that the Chaplains of the several State Lines be arranged so as to retain in Service no more Chaplains of each Line than are equal to the Number of Brigades, that the Supernumeraries be certified to the Board of War and be no longer continued in Service &c.' Yesterday a Vessel arived in this Port from L’Orient. She brings Advice that a Fleet sailed from France seven Days before she sailed, consisting of about ten Ships of the Line and a large Number of Troops on Board, supposed to be destined for America. We hope soon to receive a Confirmation of this Account with the Particulars more certain. This Vessel brings no Despatches, but from the best Enquiry I can make it appears sufficiently certain that a very considerable French Fleet had sailed from France, their Destination, Number of Ships & Troops is Matter of Opinion. I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See JCC, 20:487-88. Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia May 13th. 1781. I arrived at this place last evening & tomorrow I intend to go to Congress. 1 I have the pleasure to find Genl Sullivan well & as Our State has had no vote in Congress for Some time past he is determined to tarry here for the present. There is nothing here so interesting as the present fluctuation of paper currency. The old continential is as low as 500 for one. Our State new emission is not known here as Pensylvania have not emitted their new emission of Continental but made an emission of their own State mony in stead of it. Connecticut did the like. So that I had the utmost difficulty to travel thro’ Connecticut, York, Jersy & Pensylvania on paper mony. And being here I cant live one day on our State mony. Their own


[Page 274]
240 May 14, 1781 I suspect some private hand has them on the Road. You have Letters from the General and will see an Officer sent by him so that I need not say any Thing, 1 only “for God Sake believe what is written & said by them.” I attend Congress, but I am a Cripple & in great Pain. I think, however, that I shall speedily get the free Use of my Hip as the Weather grows warm. Our Intelligence from the Southward is far, very far from pleas ing. Cornwallis is on his Way to Hilsborough and Philips with all the advantages of Water Transportation is contriving a Junction. Affectly. Yrs. JL RC (MHi: Gerry-Knight Collection). 1 Lovell is undoubtedly referring to the mission of Gen. William Heath, who under orders of General Washington was to deliver letters and his personal pleas for “supplies for the Army” to the New England governors. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:63-66. William Sharpe to James Duane Dear Sir Philadelphia May 14th. 1781 Congress have received letters from the Marquis De la Fayette and Govr. Jefferson dated the 8th and 9th instant 1 by which we are informed that Genl. Philips, after great destruction of Tobacco, Ware houses &c, advanced to Manchester on the South bank of James’s river opposite to Richmond and summoned the Marquis and required him to be answerable for some vessels lying in the north side of the river, about the same time Arnold with 600 troops passed the river a little below who being furiously attacked by about 30 of Nelsons horse, Arnold retreated and recrossed the river with the utmost precipitation and disorder. Genl. Phillips then retreated d[own river?] and embarked his troops. I believe on the 5[th the] enemy relanded on the south side of James [River and by?] the 8th were beyond Petersb[urgh...] 2 to join Lord Cornwal[lis...] 2 Wilmington and Hallifjax ...]. 2 On the 26th of last month Genl. Greene was before the enemies post at Camden which he discovered to be much stronger than was apprehended. It is probable we may gain the post; but I fear a plan is formed to intercept Genl. Greene on his return from that place—time only can discover the enemys disign or the event of the var[ied] and complicated opperations to the southward. We have alarming apprehensions for want of provisions for the northern army. The Executive of this State gives no reason to expect any farther supply until the Assembly meets—on the 24th of this month. They have resolved to emit no more of their £500,000 before they have the directions of the Assembly.


[Page 275]
May 15, 1781 241 By Capt. Josiah who sailed from L’Orient on the 26th of March we are informed that the Frigate Alliance with the Fayette loaded with Cloathing &c under convoy were to sail the next day. He also says that a large French fleet sailed from Brest on the 20th March—one squadron of which was destined for America—one for the west Indias & one for the East Indias. This division of the fleet must be only, conjecture at L’Orient. I am in pain for the Cloathing &c. The enemy have three Frigates cruising off the capes of Delaware. [I hope?] Mrs. Duane will excuse the liberty when I [attempt?] to make [my] best compliments to her & [to your family?]. [I am,] dear Sir, very respectfuly, Your most Obt Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 Copies of Lafayette’s May 8 and Jefferson’s May 9 letters to Congress were enclosed in the Board of War’s May 13 letter to Washington, all of which are in the Washington Papers, DLC. Although the former were read in Congress this day, neither is in PCC. See JCC, 20:49. 2 Three or four words missing. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to John Hall Dear Sir, 1 Phila. May 15th. 1781 The late Scale of Depreciation as laid down by the Presidt. & Council of this State has thrown every thing into Confusion; no Money except hard will pass in this City but at the most ruinous rate. Our Northern Army is Starving, & Congress have it not in their power to remove one hundred barrels of Flour. I received from the Treasurer of our State Three hundred & forty pounds of the New Emission in Consequence of an Order from the Gov. & Council, 2 part of this Money I exchanged for Continental being told it was Money that was prefered in Phila. to any other paper. On my way up I met Numbers of Speculators from Phila with quantities of Continental to pass it off in our State. How they succeeded I know not, but that, nor any other paper will now pass in this City but at the most Destructive rate. I have therefore returned the Continental To Mr Stone in hopes the Assembly will give directions to the Treasurer to receive this Money in exchange for Bills of the New Emission. I should also have returned the New Bills (for I cannot pass them here) but they are too bulky. What the Maryland Dilegates will do for want of Money I do not know, there is but one Mode by which they can be supplyed ie, to order a quantity of Superfine flour to be Manufactured at the Head of the Bay, Superfine flour will command hard Money. Should this plan be adopted by the assembly or the Governor & Council Mr. Joseph Gilpin will execute it with dispatch. Coll. Hollingsworth has too


[Page 282]
248 May 17, 1781 RC (PPArnP: Franklin Papers). 1 For the case of Dr. Benjamin Putnam, who had been seeking recompense from the French government for a British sloop he had captured and carried into Guadeloupe, only to have it seized by the French governor, the comte d’Arbaud, and turned over to the British governor of Antigua, see JCC, 15:1022-24; and PCC, item 90, fols. 115-22, 139-51, 160-67. John Sullivan to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia May 17th 1781 I was Last Evening honored with your Excellencys favor of the 11th Instant. 1 I am sorry that the report respecting promotions has been so long Delayed, but this delay has not been Occasioned by any Difference in Sentiment between your Excellency and the Commit tee. Your reasonings were attended to & there remains no Differ ence of Sentiment between us though perhaps Congress may make some alterations Disagreable to us all. The Report has Long Since been made to Congress & two Days have already been Spent in Considering it & I flatter myself that this Day will bring it to a Conclusion. 2 The Situation of Colo. Tilghman and other Gentlemen of that Line has opened a Field Extensive Enough & Occasioned Much delay. I hope however to obtain Such a determination as will do Justice to the feelings of Those Gentlemen who have Merited so Much from the public. 3 I Lament exceedingly the Distresses of our Army, the deplorable Situation of our Public affairs and tremble for the Event. Mr. Robert Morris has Accepted the office of Minister of Finance upon which I Sincerely congratulate your Excellencey & my Country. The appointment of the other officers is delayed for reasons which I cannot comprehend. The ostensible one respecting a Minister of War is that There is no man Existing upon whom Congress can agree. 4 Many of the Members Say that if your Excellency or the principal officers would recommend any person they would imme diately proceed to the Choice of that officer—& I presume that of Marine as also that of Foreign affairs would follow of Course. We have no News worthy your Excellencys attention. I have the honor to be, with the most perfect respect, Dear Genl your Excys mos obedt. Servant, Jno. Sullivan RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:70-72. 2 The plan was adopted on May 25. See Samuel Huntington’s second letter to Washington of May 28, 1781. 3 In the plan adopted on May 25, Washington’s aide Tench Tilghman was commissioned lieutenant colonel with date of rank from April 1, 1777, and aides-de- camp were made eligible “to command upon detachments” at the discretion of the commander in chief or department commanders. JCC, 20:541. See also Committee of Congress to Washington, March 9, 1781, note 3. 4 See Sullivan to Washington, March 6, 1781, note 4.


[Page 285]
May 19, 1781 251 your Brother said I suppose what I wrote about my having sent twice on purpose to Maryland & Virginia to collect the Arrears due to me been applied to him but his Sum was So Small compared with the others that I never Sent it before. I shall have great Reliance on what you have written respecting Col. Lees Account. One Mr Ker in Dumfries has Directions to settle it. I shall be now fully satisfied if I can receive the original Sum with Interest and paid in hard Money for though as I wrote before Money in the Time of these Expendi tures was much more valuable than Now & would have gone nearly twice as far in Stocking as I am or clothing a Family yet Such is the Call I hear for money at present that I will be happy in receiving it—if in real Money. What adds to my present Difficulties is that my eldest Son John 2 has lately been taken by the English at Statia where he was a Surgeon to a Letter of Marque. By a Letter from a Merchant there & the Captain who brought it I am informed that my Son is very hardly treated on Acct of his Relation to me and Some bold and spirited thing that he said to Admiral Rodney when reproached with that Relation. He was sent to England on the 10th of March & When some Gentleman of the Island sent him some Hams, Cheese, Pork & Wine as Sea Stores & Refreshments the Capt. ordered them to be thrown overboard. This unhappy Situation which has deeply affected his Mother & my self requires particularly Some Attention to him in point of Credit—which nothing but hard money will procure now in this Place. You must have heard before now of the dreadful Blow which Paper Money of all Kinds has lately received. It is lamentable to think how our Operations are hindered, our Army distressed and our Friends missed by our trusting to Paper Money. Just now My son in law 3 has met with a Stroke of that kind. When he left Virginia he sold his Furniture on Credit has been paid in Paper and his Brother bringing two Weeks ago several thousand Pounds continen tal Money it perished in his hand in one Week & would not now enable him to travel 50 Miles. A Committee of Congress of whom I am one have been making a last Effort for putting an End to the Use of Paper but though some of the parts of our System have been adopted I am affraid it will be finally defeated by those still hankering after the partial use of that Deceiver. It is probable you will have the News upon this and other Subjects Sent you fully by your Brother. Some Dispatches came to the Minister of France to Day of which we shall know the Contents on Monday—if there be any thing particularly interesting that can be communicated I shall either write it to You by the Post or tell him that he may write it. We have got one New Delegate from N.H. 4 but I cannot as yet tell much about his Principles or probable Conduct. Mr. Duane is gone & New York is not represented neither is Connecticut, Rhode Island nor Delaware a Piece of Neglect wholly inexcusable at this Time.


[Page 286]
252 May 19, 1781 The President of Congress asked Leave lately to go home and a Day was fixed for the Choice of another. The Ballots being taken upon that Day no one had more than two Votes so that we requested the President to continue & it was postponed sine die and I think it probable he will continue till the Fall. 5 I believe if your Colleague Mr Jones would have agreed to serve he would have been chosen. If a New Attempt is made I think either he or Mr Jenifer of Maryland will be the Man. We are all at present very anxious about the Situation of your State & impatiently looking for a greater sea force. I am D Sir your &c, JW RC (MdHi: Gilmor Collection). 1 That is, Arthur Lee, who had returned to Philadelphia to settle his accounts with Congress. JCC, 20:522, 574-76; PCC, item 78, 14:433. 2 For the imprisonment of Witherspoon’s son, who was released by the British in September after the intervention of Benjamin Franklin, see James Lovell to Franklin, May 9, note 2; and Witherspoon to Franklin, June 15, 1781. s That is, Samuel Stanhope Smith. 4 That is, Samuel Livermore. 5 Thomas McKean was elected to succeed Pres. Samuel Huntington on July 10, after Samuel Johnston was chosen but declined to serve. See JCC, 20:490, 492, 724, 732-33. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia May 20. 1781 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, Copies of four Acts of Congress, viz, one of the 10th Instant with the Memorial of Udney Hay to which it relates; 1 one of the 14th 2 and two of the 15th for your Information. 3 I have the Honor to be, with very high Regard, Your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See JCC, 20:464, 491-92; and PCC, item 41, 4:265-66, 281-82. Udny Hay’s April 28 memorial requesting a determination of his rank, and the enclosed May 10 resolve ordering Washington to convene a board of officers to report a recommendation on Hay’s claim, are in the Washington Papers, DLC. For Washington’s August 18 response to this directive and the August 16 report of the board of officers convened in response to Congress’ order, see PCC, item 152, 10:219-23; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 23:18. The board’s recommendation, “that Udney Hay Esquire ought to enjoy the rank and emoluments of a retiring Lieutenant Colonel,” was offered as a motion in Congress by Ezra L’Hommedieu on September 25, 1781, but there is no indication in the journals that any action was taken on the motion. See JCC, 21:1014n; and PCC, item 36, 1:365. 2 See Huntington to Certain States, May 14, 1781. 3 For these resolves, concerning cannon for Rhode Island and the status of officers of the southern medical department in captivity, see JCC, 20:505-6.


[Page 287]
May 20, 1781 253 John Mathews to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia May 20th. 1781 The various accounts we frequently have here, & the want of information from you, puzzles us exceedingly; a thousand conjec tures are formed, but your true situation we can learn nothing of. A Man arrived here yesterday one Jennette, who says he left you before Camden on the 27 Ulto. & that it was expected that place would surrender to you in the course of four or five days. This will serve you as a specimen of the reports I have above alluded to. You may readily suppose our anxiety is not small, when we receive such intelligence, to hear something from the fountain head. We so frequently receive similar intelligence which is soon again contra dicted, that we are grown callous, & believe nothing, but what we get officially. I hope we shall soon hear from you, & be relieved from this cruel state of doubt & uncertainty; and I flatter myself when it does arrive, it will be pleasing; tho’ I must confess, we have little reason to expect it. Congress have at last put the means in Genl. Waynes hands to march, 1 & I have no reason to doubt, but what he is this day on his march. Had this been done six weeks ago, (which might as well have been then done, as three days ago) he would ’ere this have been with you, & in all probability prevented the present movements of the enemy. But whilst we have men at the head of our affairs, who are uniformly opposed to the least deviation from the plain John trot mode of doing business, whose souls are confined within the compass of a nut shell, & who like Dean Swifts’ Peter, Jack, & Martin, tremble at the very Idea of doing any thing that is not strictly injoined them by their fathers Will tho’ the salvation of the country depended on it. 2 I say whilst we have such Quidnunc politicians to manage our affairs, we must expect nothing vigorous, or decisive, being done. However they have at length in one instance blundered across the Rubicon (but I believe most of them did it with their eyes shut, as Children do, when they walk in the dark, for fear of meeting the Devil in their way.) I mean the vote that was passed, giving powers to Genl. Wayne, to press provisions on his march, whenever he wanted them. Perhaps you may laugh at my making such a fuss about this affair, as your army is fed by scarcely any other means. But remember there is no such power literally given to Congress by Confederation and to act up to the spirit of it, is a doctrine supposed to be big with many evils, therefore reprobated. I conceive it to be a great point gained, to drive them from this ground; it looks like conceeding the point, & that necessity will oblige them, to interpret the powers given by the Confederation in their utmost extent, & in my opinion, ought upon some occasions, to be strained to answer the great purposes of war. But I apprehend, when these Doughty heroes, have opened their eyes, & looked back,


[Page 288]
254 May 20, 1781 on the tremendous gulph they have passed, they will be astonished at their own temerity; & the next they come to, they will make a halt, to examine their tender consciences, whether, after having escaped so great a danger with impunity, it would be prudent to tempt their fate again; & most probably, the result will be, that they are sure the Devil must fly away with them, should they sin a second time, & of course they will apostatize. In which case, it will be an Herculian labour to bring them back to the charge. The backwardness of the States, in executing the requisitions of Congress, is intolerable, & when they do, it is in such a loose, discordant manner, that their small exertions produce little good, from whence principally arises our embarrassments. It therefore appears to me absolutely necessary, & for the true interest of the union, that the several states, should give to Congress Dictatorial powers during the war, & instruct their Delegates, to take the most vigorous measures for prosecuting the war. This power is certainly more safely lodged in the hands of such a body as Congress, than any other. The only objection I have to it, is, that I am afraid, they will want spirit to do their duty, but this may be remedied by spirited instructions. Something like this must soon be done, or as I am clearly convinced our affairs will grow from bad to worse, which must end in our utter ruin. Those states that are in perfect tranquillity, & feel nothing of the effects of the war, will I know, be averse to such a measure, therefore I despair of it’s being done, but they will too late find, when the house falls, they will inevitably be crushed in its ruins. We must either stand or fall together. However they may amuse themselves with the Idea of sacrificing some for the good of the whole, the hypothesis will prove fallacious, divida et empera, is an axiom that will prove as certain, as it is old. I am My Dr. sir, with sentiments of the most sincere Esteem & regard, Your most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 See JCC, 20:516. 2 An allusion to Jonathan Swift’s satire on the Catholic, Anglican, and Dissenting churches, in section II of A Tale of a Tub. Samuel Huntington to John Adams Sir, Philadelphia May 21. 1781 Colonel Derricks will have the Honor of delivering you this. He is a deserving young Gentleman who hath served some Years in the American Army with Honor & Reputation, but by the late Arrangement of the Army he is out of Service and returning to Holland. 1


[Page 289]
May 21, 1781 255 Besides his Connections with several Families of Distinction and Influence in Holland who have shewn strong attachments to the Interests of America, his own personal Merit and the Zeal which he hath manifested in our Cause will, I am perswaded, sufficiently recommend him to your favorable Notice and Attention. I have the Honor to be, with very high Regard, sir, Your most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington RC (MHi: Adams Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For the American career of Jacob Gerhard Diriks and Congress’ settlement of his compensation for his efforts to promote a Dutch loan, see these Letters, 15:161n. James Lovell to Abigail Adams May 21. 1781 I hope you are not still without later Dates from Mr. A’s Hand, than what we have—Oct. 24. 1 I conclude he was well about the last of Febry. because Mr. Carmichael under Date of March 11th sends us Mr. A’s Plan of a Loan to be opened at the House of Nieufville & Son March 1st. 2 We have no Vessels from Holland. Accept of my Conjecture as a Proof of my uniform Wish to contribute to your Ease of Mind & genuine Happiness. I have sent an open 3plicate to Mr. A for Mr. Moylan respecting yr. Invoice. 3 Free from Pain, I shall however limp for many a day. RC (MHi: Adams Papers), In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:120. 1 A number of letters from John Adams dated from August 14 to October 24, 1780, had been read in Congress on January 29, 1781. See JCC, 19:96. 2 William Carmichael’s March 11, 1781, letter conveying news of John Adams’ plan for a Dutch loan of one million florins was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 20:519; PCC, item 88, fols. 135-36; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:279-80. 3 Not found. William Sharpe to Thomas Burke Dear Sir Philadelphia May 21. 1781 Arbuthnots Squadron went from Chesepeak to New York about 3 weeks ago—and on Monday evening last sailed out with some Transports said to have 2000 troops on board. On Friday evening last they were seen near the Capes of Delaware. Their destination is not known. The objects to induce them up this river are nearly as


[Page 303]
May 28, 1781 269 I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & very humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The Board of War had experienced difficulty since February implementing a congressional order for removing the Convention Army prisoners from Virginia to a place of safety, and on May 22 had requested a conference with a committee of Congress to discuss the subject. According to the report of the committee appointed to confer with the board submitted the same day, Massachusetts rather than Pennsylvania was to be the prisoners’ destination, but when the Massachusetts delegates objected to the recommendation a compromise was adopted simply authorizing the board to remove them “to such place as they think most conducive to the good of the union in general.” The board then decided to divide the Convention prisoners between Connecticut and Massachusetts out of deference to the latter’s objections. See/CC, 20:522, 526-27, 529-30; PCC, item 148, 1:377-78; and Hunting ton to Thomas Jefferson, March 4, 1781. However, when Washington learned of this decision, he too objected, recommending that the prisoners be halted in Pennsylva nia, and Congress endorsed Washington’s suggestion on June 12. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:167-70; and JCC, 20:629-30. 2 For the enclosed resolve concerning Gen. Horatio Gates, see Huntington to Gates May 22, 1781, note. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia May 28. 1781 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, an Act of Con gress of the 25th Instant containing the general Principals to be observed in Promotions in the Line of the Army. 1 This Plan hath been adopted upon mature Deliberation, to be observed as a general Rule in Promotions, as subject to the fewest Objections of any that could be devised (though not altogether free from them) under the peculiar Situation & Circumstances of the federal Army, raised & recruited from so many distinct soverign States. Your Excellency will also note the Promotion of Lieut. Colonel Tilghman and Major McHenry, as also the Provision made for Officers who are hostages & for Aids de Camp as specified in this Act. For your Excellency’s Information I have also enclosed a Resolve of the 26th Instant, ordering a Copy of Major General Greene’s Letter of the 22d of April to be transmitted to several of the States. 2 I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington.


[Page 304]
270 May 28, 1781 1 For the adoption of the enclosed resolves, which endorsed the recommendations of a committee appointed to consider concerns voiced by Washington in a letter of December 20, 1780, see JCC, 19:1, 104, 242-46, 20:491, 539^11; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:501-5; and John Sullivan to Washington, January 2, March 9, and May 17, 1781. Huntington also enclosed these resolves with a nearly identical letter of this date to Nathanael Greene. Sparks Manuscripts, MH-H. 2 See Huntington to Certain States, this date. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Unknown My dear Sir, 1 Phila. May 28th. 1781 I thank you for your favor of the 25th. The Enemys Cruizers being in our Bay & Rivers I conceived would prevent the General assemblys meeting so soon as the Exigency of our affairs required. It is now Neck or nothing. Every exertion must be used this Campaign to prevent the Southern States being overrun. Every dispersion of the Enemy has its effect, & altho the prize be small yet it encourages interprize. Yesterday & to day arrived from the Havanah Eight Sail of Vessels with Hard Money. The Merchants I am told pay very little regard to the embargo Law, indeed the State has not Money to purchase the third of any Vessels Cargo even were it to be offered to the President & Council. The Pennsylvania Line I believe is now on their March. General Wayne was obliged to Order a Platoon to fire on part of the right Wing who refused to March four of the Mutineers were killed one man it is said had 23 Balls through him. Your Delegates are without Money or Credit. What are they to do, none but hard will pass at this place unless it be on the most ruinous terms. There is but one way that I know of by which they may be supplied, & that is by ordering some wheat, at the Head of the Bay to be Ground up into Superfine Flour. Mr. Joseph Gilpin promissed me on my way up to execute a Commission of this sort, were he to be empowered by the assembly or The Governor & Council. 2 Col. Hollingsworth has too much on his hands to give proper attention to this business. There never has been a time when Men of abilities were more necessary in Congress than at present, therefore I wish that proper attention may be paid to the Delegates Letter by this Post to the General Assembly? We are not at liberty to disclose particulars, but the sooner an addition is made to the Delegation the better as delay cannot be admitted. Altho at every Post want prevails, yet I flatter myself that our affairs will soon look up & that supplies will soon be had.


[Page 314]
280 May 29, 1781 both by Land & Sea & Enable us to regain what we have Lost prior to the ratification of a peace & Enable us to Treat with advantage. The Scrupulous adherence of the French Monarch to his obliga tions, The favorable Disposition of the Court of Spain toward the united States & The Political Interest of the European powers in rendering us Independant will all operate to procure us That Freedom & Safety for which we have Spent So much blood and Treasure. We cannot under the present Situation of Affairs avoid Entreating you & through You the assembly of New Hampshire to use Every possible Exertion to Take advantage of the present State of facts, profit by the assurances which we have received & thereby avoid the Consequences which Languid Efforts must certainly produce. We have the Honor to be very respectfully Dear Sir Your most obedient Servants. Jno. Sullivan Samuel Livermore RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). Written by Sullivan, and signed by Sullivan and Livermore. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell My dear Sir. Philadelphia, May 30th, 1781. I thought about this time to be making preparations for leaving this place, but none of my colleagues appearing to relieve me, several States being unrepresented in Congress, and affairs of the first magnitude being now on the tapis, I thought it inconsistent with my honor to leave the State unrepresented at so interesting a period. Notwithstanding my anxious impatience to return to my family, I have determined to stay till I am relieved, or at least till the States are more fully represented in Congress. I don’t doubt but you and my sister will offer such reasons to Mrs. Johnston as will reconcile her to this measure. I hope she will keep up her spirits, and if I should not return before the sickly season, I wish you would prevail on her to take the children down to the sea-side, if it can be done with safety; but as I have hopes of returning before that time, it will be unnecessary to say any thing on the subject till the season approaches. The uncertainty of a letter’s getting safe to you, lays me under great restraints. I can only mention in general that the King of France has given us under his own hand very lately, the most unequivocal assurances of his friendship and support, and is at this time exerting his interest and influence at the different courts in Europe to bring our affairs to a happy and speedy conclusion; and I have in my own mind the most perfect confidence in these assur ances. We shall suffer much in this campaign; it will be very bloody, but I


[Page 317]
June 1, 1781 283 to be hoped enable us to do something beyond what it would otherwise be in our power to effect. Virga, receiving so little aid from the North occassions many of her Citizens in their Letters to the Delegates to insinuate that as they are at ease and in safety they care not for the southern States. This notion is but too prevalent and is of dangerous tendency to slacken the efforts of the people and more readily dispose them to submission. I hope Your deliberations with Ct. Rochambeau have determined upon relinquishing the Idea of a certain Conquest for the present and shew yourself in Virginia where I think your Name and presence wod. be of infinite service— but my dear Sr. I mention these things with the utmost deference to your own Judgment and feelings which I am sure are equally touched with my own for the distress of numbers in Virga, and as prompt to relieve them as any person on Earth and I am satisfied will do so as far as in your power consistent with the general welfare. 2 We have before us a proposition for sending on an aid of Militia from this State and Maryland but of all assistances these are the worst and wod. avoid them if there was a prospect of more effectual support. 3 Supplies of Arms are gone on and geting ready to go on but these have been greatly delayed for want of money, the weight that defeats every exertion. Adieu. Yr. affhum. Servt. Jos. Jones RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See the preceding entry, note 1. 2 In his June 7 reply to Jones, Washington stressed that “powerful objections” prevented his return “for defence of that Country, where all my property and Connexion’s are,” and that the impending juncture with French troops in America compelled him to ensure “temporary evils” while preparing to act “on the great scale.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:178-79. 3 For this May 31 “proposition,” see Samuel Huntington to Certain States, June 2, 1781. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, [June 1, 1781] I am directed to inform you That Congress have received un doubted intelligence, both from their Minister at the Court of Versailles, & the Minister of France in America by order of his Court That the Courts of Vienna & Petersburgh had offered their media tion to the belligerent powers for the re-establishment of peace. 1 That these overtures had been eagerly embraced on the part of G. Britain. That France had declined her full acceptation thereof untill the concurrence of her allies could be obtained for that purpose, at the same time observing, that should she again be pressed on this head, she would be obliged to enter into a previous plan of


[Page 318]
284 June 1, 1781 negotiation, conditionally for herself & Allies. That Spain had answered in such manner to the proposals of the mediating powers as to shew her eventual acceptance. (Thus are we likely to have obtruded upon us by the intervention of two such formidable powers, the hard necessity of acceeding to these overtures at a time when these states are in a less eligible situation to enter into negotiations for peace, than at any other period of the War.) The intervention of such formidable powers will undoubtedly prove an event the most favourable to these united states if by a great & timely exertion we sufficiently reduce the force of the enemy now operating in our country. But should languor & inaction subject us to the contempt of the negotiators all the consequences will be chargeable upon ourselves. 2 This is a conjuncture that calls for the most serious consideration of these states. {It is therefore become a question whether we are determined to support this union upon the true principles of the confederation, by rejecting every idea of a diminution or not. If the first is to obtain, Congress are decided in their opinion that there is not a) Congress have not a doubt in their minds but that each State in the Union is determined to support the Confederacy that has been so solemnly entered into, through every difficulty, & hand it down unimpaired to their posterity. Under these impressions Congress can with confidence call on their Con stituents for such exertions as are proportionate to the truely critical situation of our affairs. The plan of operations for the present campaign having been preconcerted on the principle of obliging the enemy to abandon their posessions in every part of these states; therefore 3 an unequivocal complyance with the demands heretofore made by Congress for provisions, men, and money, are what we have at present to ask for. Should these means be expeditiously and punctually put into our hands, we have the most pleasing prospect of putting a speedy & happy issue to the war; by driving the enemy from their present possessions in every part of these states; but at all events, to confine them to the Sea coasts; in order to give as little room as possible to the enemy’s claim of uti possidetis, which will undoubtedly be most strenuously insisted on by them in the course of the negotiation—a claim totally inadmissible on our part. Of course, then, nothing should be left unessayed by these states, to prevent the embarrassments that such a claim must inevitably produce. Of consequence it is become indispensibly necessary, by our immediate—& under Providence—successful efforts, to place ourselves in such a situation, as to enable our negotiators to speak a firm & decided language, becoming the Characters of the Ministers of Free, Sovereign, & Independent States. We conclude with observ ing, that from the foregoing communications we are so thoroughly convinced of the most strenuous exertions of every State in the Union to accomplish the great objects herein pointed out, that


[Page 319]
June 2, 1781 285 Congress, will immediately proceed to carry into full execution their plans adopted for defeating the ambitious views of our enemy: & be prepared, to accept of peace upon no other terms, than the Independence of the thirteen United States of America in all their parts. 4 By order of Congress Sam. Huntington President 5 MS (DNA: PCC, item 25). In the hand of John Mathews and Charles Thomson. 1 For the adoption of this letter, which was drafted in response to a May 26 "Memoire" to Congress from La Luzerne announcing receipt of a mediation offer from Austria and Russia, see JCC, 20:585-87; PCC, item 25, 1:209-11, item 95, 1:226-33; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:440-47. See also James Lovell to Samuel Adams, May 22, note 3; and William Sharpe to Nathanael Greene, May 28, 1781, note 3. 2 This paragraph to this point is in the hand of Charles Thomson. 3 This sentence to this point in Thomson’s hand. 4 For Huntington’s belated admonition that the contents of this letter were to be kept secret, see Huntington to the States, June 2, 1781. The president also sent copies of these letters to the commander in chief the following day, for which see Huntington to Washington, June 3, 1781, note 3. 5 Added by Huntington upon transmission to the states. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philada June 2. 1781 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, an Act of Congress of the 31st Ulto, earnestly recommending to the Commonwealth of Penn sylvania, immediately to raise & equip for the Field, four Battailions of Infantry, a Company of Artillery & a Corps of Horse. By the same Act, Delaware & Maryland are also requested immediately to raise & equip for the Field a Number of Troops. 1 Since passing this Act, Intelligence received of the Progress of the Enemy in Virginia, and the distressed Situation of a Sister State, the great Inferiority of our Continental Troops in Virginia under the Command of the Marquis de la Fayette, render the reinforcements requested more pressing and necessary, and require the greatest Exertions to hasten them forward. It is earnestly wished & hoped, under present Circumstances, Volunteers will offer themselves without the least Delay, and join our Troops in such Numbers as immediately to check the Progress of the Enemy, and effectually repel them in due Time. I have the Honor to be, &c &c S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “To President Reed. N.B. A Letter of the same Tenor of the above, to the States of Delaware & Maryland, requesting them to raise & equip a certain Number of Troops mentioned in the Act of the 31st of May.”


[Page 321]
June 3, 1781 287 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See Huntington to the States, June 1, 1781. 2 For the adoption of this prohibition, see JCC, 20:588. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 2. 1781 By the enclosed Order of Congress of the 29th Ulto, I am directed to lay before your Excellency the Letter of the 9th Ulto signed A. Fowler &c with the other Papers referred to, which are herewith enclosed. 1 Col. Broadhead is now in this City. The Complaints of the Inhabitants in the Vicinity of Pittsburgh respecting his Conduct are very great, and his with Respect to them are not small. It seems necessary that due Enquiry be speedily made respecting those Matters and in such Manner as that Justice may be done. 2 I have the Honor to be, with very great Regard, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See JCC, 20:571-72. The enclosed May 9 letter from Alexander Fowler, Robert Campbell, John Irwin, Thomas Smallman, Devereux Smith, and Edward Ward, and “April ” deposition of David Tait are in the Washington Papers, DLC. 2 For the background of the campaign to oust Col. Daniel Brodhead from the command at Fort Pitt, see Huntington to Washington, April 20, 1781, note 1. For additional documents related to the case, see Huntington’s second letter to Washing ton of June 6, 1781. Theodorick Bland to Thomas Jefferson Sr. Philadelphia June 3d 1781 The letter from the delegation to yr. Excellency 1 will apprize you of the Situation of Public affairs at this time, and of our endeavors to promote every thing that can give energy to the operations of the Army in defence of our distressed Country. I shd. not therefore have troubled yr. Excellency with the perusal of this which relates to myself, did not my own peculiar Situation render it necessary & had I not reason to conjecture from the several late ineffectual applica tions I have been driven through dire necessity to make, that my letters may have miscarried. 2 I can hardly suppose them to have passed unnoticed. The long expected and long wishd for remittance which was to have come through the hands of Mr. Braxton has afforded us no relief & has evaporated into smoke. 3 My Finances are as well as my Credit entirely exhausted, my Private resources in Virginia Cut


[Page 325]
June 3, 1781 291 can upon our own personal Security borrow 800 or 1000 £ Specie (of which we have some prospect) we can in 5 or 6 days get 800 or 1000 Stand of Arms repaired which the board of War has promissed to furnish for the use of our State. Three hundred Stand has lately been sent forward. 3 We shall transmit by an express going to the General this evening a Copy of your Letter 4 and doubt not but he will do every thing in his power to afford the desired assistance, consistent with his General plan of Operations for the present Campaign which we presume he has before this time concerted with the Count de Rochambeau. We are with the greatest respect & esteem, Gentlemen, Your most Obedient Servants, Daniel of St Thos Jenifer Dani. Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Jenifer and signed by Jenifer and Carroll. 1 For the June 1 letter from Maryland assembly speaker Bruff and senate president Plater, which was read in Congress on June 4, see JCC, 20:597; and PCC, item 70, fols. 473-76. “The General Assembly and the Governor and Council have wrote you several letters within these two Days,” they anxiously observed, “and requested you to inform Congress of the Movements of Lord Cornwallis, and to urge them in the most pressing Manner to order all the force, which can possibly be spared, to march immediately to the assistance of the Marquiss Fayette....We wish you would communicate the Intelligence you receive to his Excellency General Washington, whose presence, with a Body of Regulars, would effectually stop the Progress of the Enemy." They further requested the assistance of one thousand Pennsylvania militamen “as We are apprehensive the stand must be made on the North side of Potomack.” For the May 30 and 31 letters from Gov. Thomas Sim Lee and the Council to the delegates, see Md. Archives, 45:450, 452. The former was read in Congress on June 4. See JCC, 20:597; and PCC, item 70, fols. 469-72. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Certain States, June 2, 1781. 3 See Maryland Delegates to Thomas Sim Lee, June 4, 1781. 4 Carroll and Jenifer’s June 3 letter to Washington, which he acknowledged on June 7, has not been found, but a copy of Bruff and Plater’s June 1 letter to them is in the Washington Papers, DLC. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:173-74; and the postscript to Maryland Delegates to Thomas Sim Lee, June 4, 1781. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Jefferson [June 3? 1781]' We inclose you a Copy of a Bill sent [to us by] Mr. Braxton for the balance of the Warrant [obtained] from me last December. This payment [was $]1000 short of the true balance and was by [agree]ment with Mr. Jones to have been made the last week [in A]pril. We presented the bill to the Kieldles who [tell] us they would accept it and pay it in the monies [the] Bill requires either in old continental money or [in] the new emissions but your Excellency knows that [if] paid in the first the State will be a considerable [los]er


[Page 331]
June 4, 1781 297 The Empress of Russia and Emperor of Germany have offered their mediation between the beligerent powers which has been accepted with an aparent eagerness by the Court of London. France has answered that it is personally agreeable to him; but that he has allies which must be consulted before he can conveniently give a definitive answer. The answer of Spain has been somewhat equivo cal, but the measure will doubtless be infinitely agreeable to him. Mr. Cumberland has failed in his object, that of inducing Spain to a seperate peace. The most vigorous exertions on our part are indispensibly necessary in order to expel the enemy or at least to confine them to their strong holds. The enemy will strenuously insist on the proposition of Uti possidatis which is held up by our Ally as totally inadmissable. The Northern army are preparing to attack New York. I forbear making any observations on the propriety of this measure. There are some appearances of the enemys evacuating that post. There are about 7000 of the enemys troops now in Virginia. The Marquis with 900 and Genl. Wayne with 850 regulars to oppose them. We have called upon Pennsylvania for 2000 Militia to be equipped & Marched immediately, Delaware 500, Maryland 1200, to serve to the southward. The legislature is now met here and appears a little more engaged to support the southern states than formerly. We wish to be relieved; but as the circumstances of our State are so distressing, we have resolved, not to leave the State unrepre sented. Mr. Johnston has written to Mr. Willie Jones and Genl. Caswell. I have written to Colo. Martin. 1 Please to communicate these things to such of our other friends as you may think proper. I could not have written so freely, but expect this to go by some confidential person whom the President will send with some communications to the Executive of our State. [I] long to hear again from Genl. Greene. With great esteem & respect I am, Sir, Your Most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe N.B. In all our letters from Europe there is not a word of Englands sending a reinforcement to Genl. Clinton. RC (NcU: Burke Papers). 1 These letters have not been found.


[Page 333]
June 5, 1781 299 will be too late even for a finger to be put into the Pye, indeed my friend it will turn out as we ever expected, that if there is a peace we shall have very little to say to the Terms of it therefore I wish our State would Stop the Sales of British & Refugee property for at least a Month or two ’till the scene opens a little wider, We can do as some other States do, rub on without it; and however Congress may have spurned at the idea, when Mr. Adams desired instructions on this head, they will I believe now reverse their tone. 5 The King of Great Britain told you by his Commissioners That he would sooner part with his Crown than give up those who had sought his protection, and his obstinacy is unparralelled. Mr. Carroll and I thought of recommending this Subject to the consideration of the General Assembly immediately after the Ministers laid his Memorial before Congress; but upon reflection finding that we were not at liberty to give our reasons for the adopting the measure we agreed to Postpone our interference till we were, concluding that not much would in this respect be done in the mean time. My friend, the French are powerful in the West Indias, perhaps they will Conquer Clinton there, but whilst the Grass grows the Steed Starves. I shall enquire for the Map & Pamphlet you mention. I am with my compliments to Mrs. Hall. Dr Sir Your affectionate friend, Daniel of St Thos Jenifer RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 In his letter of June 1, Hall had evidently enclosed the May 24 and 31 issues of Frederick and Samuel Green’s Maryland Gazette, each of which contained a letter written by Samuel Chase under the pseudonym “Censor” attacking the Maryland senate for the devaluation of the state currency in the wake of the congressional fiscal resolves of March 18, 1780. Since efforts to redeem old bills at the rate of 40 to 1 had been sabotaged by a senate party which had “violated our public faith, and fomented quarrels and divisions,” Chase charged, “we must change our measures, and our rulers, or this country will be undone.” Trying to influence voters in anticipation of the September elections, he broadened his attacks on Senate policy in the June 7 and 21 issues of the Gazette. Chase was soon joined in debate through the summer and fall by various pseudonymous authors and was finally challenged directly by Charles Carroll of Carrollton, especially on the charge that Chase had speculated in flour in 1778 by taking advantage of secret congressional information. See these Letters, 10:626-28, 12:520-22; and James Haw, et al., Stormy Patriot: The Life of Samuel Chase (Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1980), pp. 114-15. See also Jenifer to Hall, June 11, note 1, and July 24, 1781. 2 For Thomas Sim Lee’s promise of financial relief “as soon as possible,” see Maryland Delegates to Lee, May 30, 1781, note 2. 3 Not found. 4 That is, Thomas Johnson, Thomas Stone, and either Charles Carroll of Carrollton or Charles Carroll, Barrister. 5 For the congressional resolutions respecting “British & Refugee property” that were adopted the preceding October in response to inquiries from John Adams, see /CC, 18:948-50.


[Page 334]
300 June 5, 1781 Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to William Smallwood Dear General Philadelphia June 5th. 1781. You will perceive by the papers, that the Belligerent powers under the Mediation of the Empress of Russia and Emperor of Germany are about holding a Congress, and I fear that our Interests will not be so immediately attended to as we might wish: however, I think France must procure us tolerable terms, or She cannot expect to keep us long in her interest, therefore I trust more to her policy than her Justice. She is powerful in the West Indias, & from present appearances could do everything with apparent success, but that of taking Castles, & this She is attempting—strange infatuation. I wish with all my heart that the Marquis may be able to check Cornwallis. If he should March through St[r]atford & Prince Wil liam to Alexandria, I think the Marquis will have charming defensive Ground to make Stands upon. The Board of War has promised to have ready in 7 days 1500 Stand of arms for our State, Greyson is indefatigable. I expect that the Pennsylva. Assembly now sitting will empower their executive, to send forward immediately four Battallions of Militia to the assistance of Maryland or Virginia as the situation of the Enemy may require. I wish our State had delayed the Selling of British property a little longer, it would perhaps have been to her advantage to have done so; I do not care to enter in to particular reasoning at this time on the Subject, because it may be thought that I am influenced by former prejudices, and that wiser heads have determined otherwise; but rest assured that I have greater reason to be of this opinion now than I ever had. I wish you health and happiness and am very truely, Your Affectionate friend, Daniel of St Thos. Jenifer RC (PPAmP: Weedon Papers). Tr (MH-H: Sparks Transcripts). Tr captioned: "From Dani of St. Thomas Jenifer to General Smallwood, Maryland.” Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philada. June 5. 1781. I do myself the honour to enclose you the papers which will give you the news of the day. Some part of it looks well. But the Brittish gain upon us in Virginia. Pensylvania, Maryland & Delaware militia are raising (too slow) to meet them. The eastern Post not arrived makes us apprehensive for its safety. 1 Genl Sullivan is well, with whom I am very intimate. Please to let me hear from you especially on the subject of supporting your Delegates. I am Dear Sir your most obedt servant. Samuel Livermore


[Page 346]
312 June 11, 1781 les efforts pour retablir cette association seront inutiles aussi longtemps qu’il restera dans le Congres. Je pense meme qu’il sera avantageux pour 1’alliance de nourrir son attachment pour nous, meme apres qu’il sera retourne dans 1’Etat du New Hamp shire ou il jouit de beaucoup d’influence.” Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 17:137-38, Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres. Sullivan’s support of French policy is also detailed by La Luzerne in June 1, 8, 13, 14, and August 11 letters to Vergennes, in ibid., 17:1-7, 65-78, 125-39, 161-87, 18:82-84. For Sullivan’s French connection, see also Sullivan to Washington, Novem ber 26, 1780, note 5. 2 The original of Washington’s May 29 letter to Sullivan had been captured by the British, and ultimately was printed in the London Gazette, July 14, 1781. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:131-32. s That is, an invasion of Canada, which Washington referred to only as “the plan” in dismissing it as “absolutely impracticable." Ibid., p. 131. See also Sullivan to Washington, May 2, 1781. 4 See James M. Varnum to William Greene, June 8, 1781, note 2. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia June 12th. 1781 Your Kind concern about my health lays me under particular obligations. I received some benefit from the short visit I made to the Country, & as Mr Potts is come to Town, 1 & most of the grand Points are adjusted, & I hope will, I expect to confirm my health by another Tour. We have wrote you & the Council about money. 2 You know my Situation, & the time I have been here. I am anxious to hear of my Daughter Sims health. 3 My Comps, to all enquiring Friends, Yrs with truth & Affection, Dani Carroll [P.S.] Present my Compts to Doer Murray. I received his letter & nothing in my power has or will be omitted on the Subject of it. I have wrote a few lines to Mr Carroll, 4 to which I beg to refer you on this occasion. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 That is, Maryland delegate Richard Potts, who took his seat in Congress this day. fCC, 20:629. 2 See Maryland Delegates to Lee, May 30, 1781, note 2. 3 That is, Carroll’s daughter Mary, the wife of Lee’s cousin Col. Patrick Sim. 4 Not found.


[Page 347]
June 12, 1781 313 William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 12 June 1781. I have nothing in particular to add to inclosed Intelligence, except that Circumstances reported by a Flag from Charlestown indicate that Lord Rawdon and the Garrison of Camden have probably arrived at the first-mentioned Place, or in the Neighbourhood of it. It is not probable that General Greene will bend his Course towards Charlestown, but in another Direction. An Attack upon the Town would promise little Success. The Operations described in the General’s Despatches have put him in Possession of the Carolinas, except Charlestown and Wilmington, with one other Post of no very great Consequence. In the mean Time, Lord Cornwallis is making rapid Progress in Virginia. [That] State seems now to be in the way of suffering exceedin[gly] and it is very unfortunate that it [is] not in the Power of Congress or the General to give them any other immediate Aid than some Reinforcements of Militia. I do myself the Honour to hand your Excellency a rough Draught 1 of that Part of the Country which is now the Seat of General Greene’s Operations. It is sufficiently exact to give an Idea of the general and comparative Situations of the several Places most comonly mentioned. You will please to communicate it to the Legislature or such as may be anxious to examine it. I have the Honour to be, Your Excellency’s obedt. hble Servt. W.C. Houston 2 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 Not identified. 2 Houston wrote a second brief letter to Livingston this day requesting a “Pass to the North River” for “Mrs. Arthur, wife of a Gentleman in the State of New York, and a Relation of the Family in which I lodge at Philadelphia.” William Livingston Papers, NN. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Sim Lee Sir, Philadelphia June 12th. 1781 We had the honor to receive your favor of 1 enclosing a resolve of the Genl. Assembly. The Board of War ordered Col. Wood the 26 Ulto. to remove the Convention Troops from Mary land & Virginia without delay, & we expected this information had been transmitted to you officially. 2 As it is intended we shall be supply’d with money from the proceeds of some of the flour directed to be sent to Delaware, &


[Page 348]
314 June 12, 1781 some part of it must lay convenient for Sale immediately, the dificulties we are under, urge us to request you will favor us with an order on the person charged with the disposal of it, & we flatter ourselves this will be done by next post, and to a sufficient amount to answer our purposes. 3 We have the honor to be with the greatest respect & esteem, Yr. Excellencys Most Obt & Humble Serts. Daniel of St Thos Jenifer Dani. Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Carroll and signed by Carroll and Jenifer. 1 Undoubtedly the Maryland Council’s first letter of June 2 to the delegates concerning the immediate removal of the Convention prisoners “from Fort Frederick to the Northward,” for which see Md. Archives, 45:457. For the Council’s second letter of June 2, see the following entry, note 1. 2 For directives concerning the removal of the Convention prisoners, see Samuel Huntington’s first letter to Washington of May 28, 1781, note 1. 3 For the delegates’ efforts to secure such funds, see Maryland Delegates to Lee, May 30, 1781, note 2; and Maryland Delegates to Lee, June 26, note 1. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Sim Lee Sir, Philada. June 12th. 1781 Your Excellencys Letters of the 2d & 4th Inst, came to hand last night. 1 If Arms are to be had in Philadelphia for Flour, or Tobacco, We shall endeaver to Contract for them on behalf of the State. We wish that you had mentioned the time and place of delivery of these Articles; essentials we apprehend necessary to be known before any person will engage to make a Contract with us. Had we experienced the most partial supply of Money, it would have been of Service. Perhaps the intended Scheme of raising Money from Tobacco may prove as abortive to us as that of Flour. We have been reduced to the humiliating circumstance of attempt ing to borrow without success. If the Tobo. That Mr. Key is to transport, lies on Potomack, We cannot hope for any relief from it, as we shall be under the necessity of decamping before he can get it to this place. Congress hitherto, has refused to allow the Shipping of Flour for the purpose of paying Debts contracted by our officers at New York. The Board of War have wrote to the General to inform them if Clinton will allow us to Ship Tobacco for that purpose. 2 As soon as they receive an Answer we shall transmit to you the result. We are with the highest esteem and respect, Sir, Your Excellencys most Obedient and most humble Servants, Daniel of St Thos Jenifer Dani. Carroll


[Page 349]
June 13, 1781 PS. Be pleased to forward the inclosed. 3 315 RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Jenifer and signed by Jenifer and Carroll. 1 For the Maryland Council’s second letter of June 2 concerning the purchase of arms from Philadelphia merchants for flour or tobacco, and its June 4 letter regarding the shipment of tobacco to be sold for the support of the state’s delegates in Philadelphia, see Md. Archives, 45:458, 461. 2 See Maryland Delegates to Lee, May 19, 1781, note. 3 Not identified. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 13 June 1781. The Bearer of this, a Mr Storer, has applied to me for Informa tion whether any Resolution of Congress exists which may counter act his request of a Comission for an armed Boat to cruize against the Enemy. I do not know of any, and so have told him. I know there have been Instances in which the Crews of such Boats have abused the Confidence of a Commission, and have been guilty of very impolitick and even unjustifiable Acts of Depredation; but these Things might happen in the Case of any armed Vessel; and every Instance ought to stand upon it’s own Circumstances. Bonds are always taken when Commissions are granted, and Delinquents are punishable by Forfeiture of their Commissions or by being prose cuted upon their Securities. If there is any Resolution of Congress which apparently discourages a Thing of this Kind, probably it may refute sortaille Parties which make Excursions into the Enemies’ Lines merely for the Sake of indiscriminate Pillage contrary to the fair and honourable usages of War; but this I understand to be different from the Object of the Applicant on the present Occasion. This may also be in some Measure guarded against in the Bonds and Instructions, if they are not already sufficiently explicit. I suppose your Excellency is supplied with Commissions, Bonds and Instructions from the Offices here; and I will observe to you that the Ratification of the Articles of Confederation, enlarges the Power of the respective States in these Matters, as you will find by consulting the 6th Article. If therefore the Person who solicits will come under proper Restrictions, and give adequate Security, I do not think your Excellency in Danger of counteracting any Resolu tion of Congress in granting his Request. 1 I am, with due Respect, Your Excellency’s most obedt and most humble Servt. W.C. Houston


[Page 350]
316 June 13, 1781 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 Houston had additional thoughts on this subject almost immediately, and accordingly returned to it the following day. See Houston to Livingston, June 14, 1781. Richard Howly to Horatio Gates Philadelphia June the 13th. 1781 I receiv’d, My Dear Genl., your favour of the 3d and agree with you that the complexion of affairs in Virginia is truly embarassing. There must be powerful aid afforded to the army in that Quarter, but from whence they are to come I know not, as the whole of the allied force with considerable draughts of militia from New Hamp shire to Pensylvania Inclusive, are to be employed in the Siege of New York. Genl. Washington intends to begin that operation on the first of July. We have had no knowledge of Sir Henry Clinton’s being in Virginia, and letters reed, yesterday from the commander in chief take no notice of that matter. This State, Delaware & Maryland have been called on by congress, for Eight battailions of militia—the first for four, the second for One and the last for three batts, for the Service of Virginia. I have my doubts whether the compliance will be as immediate or effectual, as we could wish. Your letter to Congress was debated two mornings—on various grounds. It produced a Resolve to Genl. W to take every immediate Step to accelerate the court of inquiry. A letter yesterday from the Genl, takes notice of your’s to him and of the Resolve—and the satisfaction he would find in doing everything in his power to have the matter effected. 1 As Mr. Morris did no[t] go to head Quarters, the matter of information you desired cannot be transmitted you. I have no doubt, but he will correspond entirely with your wishes, when he has the opportunity of communication. We have had a great run of Success in South Carolina & Georgia. I believe the two towns of Savannah & Chs. town excepted—they have lost the whole of both States. I think the expedition to Canada a measure necesary to be pursued—and must be adopted—none can look forward to the command in that department with so much Justice as you. 2 I will be constant in Writing to you by every proper opportunity. I will in my next, perhaps, have matters of great importance to communicate to you. Do not forget to Write to Congress and Genl. W . I wish you, My Dear Genl., much health and Spirits, and be assured that among your friends, none can be with greater passion for your fame, than yr. faithful & obedt. Servt. Richd. Howly


[Page 351]
June 13, 1781 317 RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 For Gates’ frustration over his inability to obtain exoneration from a court of inquiry for his conduct at Camden, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, April 26, note 3 and Huntington to Gates, May 22, 1781, note. In his June 6 letter to Congress, which was read “yesterday,” Washington had observed that while he wished that the “affair” could be quickly decided, Gates had informed him “that he cannot think of serving untill the matter shall have been properly investigated, and that he shall retire in the mean time to Virginia. I see no probability of any thing further being done untill there shall be some recess in southern operations.” JCC, 20:629; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:168. 2 For recent interest in an “expedition to Canada,” a project long favored by Gates and lately revived by John Sullivan, see Sullivan to Washington, May 2 and June 11, 1781. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry June 13th. [1781] Noon I have this moment yr. Letter of May 20 printed by Rivington as Mr. Gerrish’s. 1 I suppose that some Folks who were angried at the former Discovery will endeavor to make Harm out of these Transac tions between you & me. As Accident has brought the matter to their Knowledge they will chuse to conceive it to be what I wished to have concealed. I am quite indifferent. I have more Reasons than you hinted for believing old Delegates will be put aside. Plausible Arguments may be drawn from the Confederation. 2 But tho Connecticutt acted upon it in regard to Mr. Sherman, She has now again sent him. Genl. Ward might have been accomodated with hard Cash by yr. Treasurer, if he had been a Worshipper. He has been forced to put off his Paper at 4. I will be more particular as to the figured Business by Genl. Ward some Time this Week. 3 Yours Affly, JL RC (MHi: Gerry-Knight Collection). A continuation of Lovell to Gerry, June 5, 1781. 1 Gerry’s captured May 20 letter to Lovell was misattributed to “Mr. Gerrish” when it appeared in the June 9 issue of James Rivington’s New York Royal CMzette. For Lovell’s later apprehensions concerning the tone and wording of Gerry’s letter, see Lovell to Gerry, August 10, 1781, note 1. 2 Lovell was referring to article five of the Articles of Confederation which prohibited delegates of Congress from serving “more than three years in any term of six.” 3 Lovell apparently sent Gerry “the figured Business by Genl. Ward” the following day, for which see Lovell to Gerry, June 15, 1781.


[Page 353]
June 14, 1781 319 I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect, Your Excel lency’s Most obedient & very humble Servant. Sam. Huntington Presidt. RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The presidential letterbook copy of this letter is dated June 15. PCC, item 16, fol. 18. ^JCC, 20:635. For “the Act of 31st of May,” see Huntington to Certain States, June 2, 1781. 3 Huntington also sent a similar letter to Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed on June 15, asking the state “to compleat Colonel Moyland’s [Stephen Moylan’s] Legionary Corps to it’s full Compliment” as well as “to raise three Troops of Militia Cavalry...to serve in the southern Army three Months, or until relieved by the Arrival of Moyland’s Corps.” See JCC, 20:634-35; and PCC, item 16, fols. 15-16. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir June 14 [1781] I fear that yr. favorable Expressions respecting Col. Palfrey are founded on Stories circulated here some Time ago. We believe nothing favorable to him at this day. I am distressed for his amiable Family as well as sincerely afflicted at the Loss of him. He would have repaired our tattered Affairs in France and have raised a Character of Honesty & Ability in mercantile Transactions for the Public. I took up my Pen at first only to cover the inclosed. 1 JL RC (MHi: Gerry-Knight Collection). 1 Not found, but apparently the “figured Business” to be sent by Gen. Artemas Ward, who this day left Congress, which is mentioned at Lovell to Gerry, June 13, 1781, note 3. Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia, June 14, 1781 You will find by the contents of this, that it is a Confidential Letter, conveying you very important and pleasing intelligence. Congress has received a Letter from the King of France and are also otherwise officially informed by his minister here—That the Empress of Russia threw out an invitation for the Belligerent powers to apply for her Mediation at which the Court of London eagerly Caut and mentioned the emperor of Germany as another mediator and a Congress was proposed to be opened at Viena for the purpose of Settling a general Peace. The answer of the Court of France was that they Could Send no Plenipos. To said Congres Till they had Consulted their allies, but as the Mediators are such respectable


[Page 355]
June 14, 1781 321 Jefferson and leave Franklin out—which upon Georgias coming in, would have carried him; but I would not give up Franklin, and by the manner of proposing to appoint them both, got him ap pointed—though this was exceedingly against the grain of several members. He will now be put at the head of the commission. His abilities, character and influence are what will be of most use to us in Europe. J. Adams is not much liked at the F. Court. I shall say no more on this head Till I see you. I wish You May find an inclination to Come up to Wilmington as soon as the assembly rises. I have an expectation that the President of Congress & his Lady will spend a few days with us about that Time and he is very desirous to see you. Green has Taken Camden and Two other posts and we make no dobt but the Brittish have lost every post in Georgia & the Carolinas by this Time except Savannah, Charles Town and Wilmington. Green has had a rapid series of success. Pensylvania is Determined to be vigirous in giving effectual aid against Cornwallace and there is no doubt but Maryland will do the same. I hope our state will not be behind them, a bold push now obtains us every thing. We have no account of any reenforcements arrived yet to the Brittish from the other side the water. Mr. Morris is gitting our Finances into a better Train and all things now begin to favour us. I am, yr. Most Obedt. Thomas Rodney RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Hezekiah Niles, Principles and Acts of the Revolution in America (Baltimore: William Ogden Niles, 1822), pp. 344-45. 1 Rodney’s account of the maneuvering that led to these appointments is the most detailed record of these proceedings that survives. Although the account preserved in Secretary Thomson’s secret journals conforms in outline to Rodney’s summary, it neither records the votes reported by him on several specific motions nor suggests the central role that he assigned himself in the proceedings, for which see also Rodney to Rodney, July 10, 1781, note 3. On June 9 Congress had rejected a motion to join “some persons...with the honourable John Adams in negotiating a treaty of peace,” but two days later voted to reconsider the proposal, deciding to add two plenipotentiaries. John Jay, John Laurens, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, Joseph Reed, and William Carmi chael were thereupon nominated for the two positions. The following day the delegates were able to agree only upon Jay and postponed the selection of the second person. Congress then voted on June 14 to add “two more persons,” appointing Franklin, Jefferson, and Henry Laurens to join Adams and Jay. See JCC, 20:619, 627-28, 638, 648; and John Witherspoon’s Speech, June 9-11? 1781. Rodney had just recently resumed his seat in Congress, probably on June 12. Although he had written to Caesar from Wilmington on June 9 that “I expect to move toward Congress To Morrow,” he is not listed on the roll call votes of June 11. He is not mentioned in the journals between May 8 and June 14, but on the evidence of this letter seems to have had direct knowledge of the debates of June 12 and 13. See JCC, 20:487, 626-27, 648; and Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 411-12.


[Page 356]
322 June 15, 1781 Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadajune 15. 1781 Before this comes to Hand your Excellency will have received my Letter of the 2d Instant with it’s Enclosures, 1 by which you will be informed that a Negotiation for Peace between the Belligerent Powers may probably take Place through the Mediation of the Empress of Russia & Emperor of Germany, In Consequence of which, Congress have thought proper to add four other Plenipoten tiaries to the Honorable John Adams Esquire to assist in the expected Negotiation, of which you are elected one, as you will be informed by the enclosed Resolve, you will doubtless come this Way to embark, if Circumstances will admit of your undertaking the important Service. The Commissions will be prepared immediately, as no Time should be lost. 2 Your Appointment is ordered to be kept secret, that the Enemy may not get Intelligence of your Embarkation. I have the Honor to be &c &c S.H. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:94-95. 1 See Huntington to Certain States, June 2, 1781. 2 See JCC, 20:627-28, 638, 648. See also John Witherspoon’s Speech, June 9?; and Huntington to Benjamin Franklin, June 19, 1781. For Jefferson’s decision to decline this appointment, and the delay involved in his notification to Congress of his decision, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:113-14; and Thomas McKean to Jefferson, August 20, 1781. ’This letter was transmitted via Col. Richard Humpton and the marquis de Lafayette, as explained in the following letter of this date from Huntington to Lafayette. “I have been favored with your Dispatches of the 24th of May & 3d Instant. The Bearer Col. Humpton is charged with an important Letter addressed to Governor Jefferson, which I am to request you Sir to forward immediately by a confidential Express.” PCC, item 16, fol. 17. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular. Philadelphia June 15. 1781 Your Excellency will recieve enclosed a Resolve of Congress of the 13th Instant recommending to the several States to which the Officers of Hospital & Medical Department now in Service respec tively belong, or of which they are or were Inhabitants, to settle their Accounts for Depreciation on the Principles established by the Resolution of Congress of the 10th of April 1780, and to make Provision for paying the Balances that may be found due, in the same Manner with Officers of the Line. 1 Each State which shall advance on this Account more Money than it’s Proportion, is to be allowed for the same in Account with the United States. 2 I have the Honor to be, &c S.H.


[Page 358]
324 June 15, 1781 James Lovell to William Carmichael Sir June 15- 1781 Your Several Letters according to the following list have been read in Congress, 1 and your industrious care to give frequent, early, and general information, of those things in Europe which may have influence upon our National affairs, has been not only highly pleasing in itself, but has acquired value lately from the loss of all packets from Mr Adams Since his date of October 24. I am Sir, your Friend & humble Servant, Signed James Lovell Read 1780 May 11 Oct 16 Deer 4 9 1781 Feby 12 Dated Feb 19 May 28 July 17 Aug 22 P.S. Sept 6 Sept 9 Sept 25 Nov 28 Dec 19 Mar 26 Api 24 27 30 May 10 21 June 4 Oct 15 Jan. 4 Feb 22 Deer 4 2 Jan 29 Mar 11 11/14 FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). In a clerical hand. 1 Carmichael’s letters, except that of December 4 [i.e. 24], 1780, are in PCC, item 88, fols. 47-50, 59-74, 79-126, 135-38; and Miscellaneous Papers of the Continental Congress, reel 2, fols. 39-41. Except for the March 14 postscript to his letter of March 11, these are printed in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:507, 736-39, 865-66, 4:38-41, 51-54, 69-72, 99-100, 164-68, 198, 227-28, 242-44, 265-66, 279-80. 2 That is, December 24, 1780. See JCC, 20:464. Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney Sir Philada. June 15th 1781. Yesterday I wrote you respecting the Congress of Mediation but when I shall have an Opertunity by which I may safely Trust the


[Page 364]
330 June 19, 1781 3 James Rivington’s “marginal Notes” were actually appended to Lovell’s letter of November 20, 1780, to John Hancock, which had also been captured and printed in the Royal Gazette, December 27, 1780. 4 That is, Samuel Adams and Elbridge Gerry. 5 That is, involved in debt or monetary liability, mortgaged. OED. 6 Paraphrased from Abigail Adams’ May 13 letter to Lovell. Adams, Family Corre spondence (Butterfield), 4:112. 7 That is, Abigail Adams’ March 17 letter to Lovell. Ibid., pp. 91-92. 8 See Lovell to Abigail Adams, April 23, 1781. 9 That is, “17.” Theodorick Bland To George Washington Sr Philadelphia June 19th 1781 I was honord with your Excellency’s favor enclosing a letter for the Govr of Virginia 1 which was immediately put into the hands of the President to be forwarded by an express that was to be dispatched the next day. We have not had any very late official accounts from the Army or the Executive of our State; but from private intelligence we are informed that the British Cavalry has under the Command of Tarleton made a very rapid and bold push up to Charlotteville where the Legislature and executive were assembled the whole of whom were dispersed, 2 and not less than eight of the Members of the assembly taken by the Enemy, among whom our advices say is Col. Jno. Simm of Hanover—it is also said by an officer from Genl. Greenes army who passd thru Virginia and has been in Charlotteville since the above mentiond affair, that Some Arms, and a Small Quy. of Powder fell into the hands of the Enemy, as did also the Printing Press. I imagine the Assembly must before this time have assembled at Stanton, and tis to be hoped that experience will teach them to be better guarded against an event so disgracefull, as well as so prejudicial in its consequences. Private letters also mention that Ld. Cornwallis was moving towards James River inclining upwards, tis supposed with an intention of making a stroke at our Stores & Magazines at the fork of James River, the Marquis is Said to be Seven thousand strong and is disposed to Battle; these Sr. are reports, but what Credit may be given to them I cannot say except to the event at Charlotteville which I believe may be relied on. I am with The Greatest respect Sr., Yr. Excelly’s Most obedt. Sevt. Theok. Bland RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Not identified. 2 For Lt. Col. Banastre Tarleton’s June 4 cavalry raid on Charlottesville, the dispersal of the Virginia assembly, and the last-minute escape of Governor Jefferson, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:164-65, 170n, 193-94; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:256-78.


[Page 365]
June 19, 1781 331 Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Franklin Sir, (Duplicate) Philadelphia June 19. 1781 You will receive herewith enclosed, a Letter addressed to his most Christian Majesty, 1 with a Copy of the same for your Information, also a Commission constituting yourself with the four other Gentle men therein named, our Ministers for negotiating Peace; 2 also another Commission & Duplicate authorizing the same Ministers to accept of the Mediation of the Emperor of Germany and Empress of Russia, in one of which the Emperor is first named & in the other the Empress, (to be made Use of as Circumstances shall render it expedient). 3 I have also herewith enclosed, Instructions (in Cyphers) for your Government, in Addition to those formerly given Mr Adams for negotiating Peace. 4 A Letter in Answer to yours of the 12th of March last will also accompany this. 5 You will please to communicate immediately to Mr Adams & Mr Jay the Receipt of these important Dispatches. Mr Secretary Thomson desires you would be so good as to send him the Machine with proper Directions to be used for striking Copies of Letters as mentioned in yours of the 12th of March. 6 For Want of Time myself I must refer you to Mr Lovell’s Dispatches for American Intelligence in general. I have the Honor to be, with the highest Respect, Sir, Your most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington, President RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For this letter to Louis XVI, adopted by Congress on June 13, see JCC, 20:638-41. This and the four following enclosures were adopted after extended congressional debate touched off by the chevalier de La Luzerne’s May 26 announcement that a mediation offer from Austria and Russia had been received by the French court, for which see Huntington to the States, June 1, 1781. 2 For this commission, adopted on June 15, see JCC, 20:652—55. 3 This instruction was adopted on June 8. JCC, 20:615—17. 4 JCC, 20:651-52. 5 For the second letter of this date, notifying Franklin that his “request to retire from publick employment would be inconvenient at this particular conjuncture, see fCC, 20:675-76. 6 Franklin had apparently mentioned this “Machine” in a March 12 letter to Charles Thomson that has not been found (there is no mention of it in his March 12 letter to Huntington). He responded to Huntington’s comment, however, in the following postscript to his September 13, 1781, letter to the president: “The Copying Machine for Mr. Secretary Thomson is in hand, & will soon be finished & sent to him.” PCC, item 82, 1:301-12, 2:15-18; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:281-84, 710.


[Page 366]
332 June 19, 1781 Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear sir Philadelphia June 19th 1781. I have drawn a sett of bills of this date on you for two hundred & sixty six dollers & two thirds of a doller in behalf of the state towards my subsistence in Congress in favour of Clement Biddle Esq. This gentleman wants his mony in Boston and I have engaged it shall be sent there. So I request the favour of you to send it by Mr. Noble the post if he presents the bills & pay the postage, or by any other safe conveyance you please. I should not give you this trouble, but I could not negotiate a bill on any other terms at this time, as no one here that I could meet with wants mony in Portsmth. I am Sir, Your most obedt. Humble servt. Samuel Livermore RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). Richard Potts to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadelphia June 19. 1781 Long ’ere this I expected to have opened a Correspondence with you from this City, but Circumstances already communicated pre vented my earlier Attendance on Congress. 1 As our information, very imperfect, from the Southward passes through that State, nothing can be expected on that Subject, our prospects there are become more favorable and from the spirited and truly laudable Exertions of Maryland much may be hoped for if time is allowed for their Arrival. The french have a small Reinforcement arrived at Boston, a fifty Gun Ship, 2 frigates and some transports with Horses for their Army and between 12 & 1500 Men, 2 to counterbalance this, we have a report that a fleet supposed to be the Cork fleet was seen twelve days ago off Charles Town, if true a Reverse of fortune must take Place in that State. The great Business is over in a manner I beleive consistent with the voice of our State—the particulars are not to be communicated. For your Amusement I inclose you the last Papers. Be pleased to make a Tender of my Compliments to Mrs. Lee and believe me with Sentiments of perfect Esteem, Yours very affecly, R Potts [PS.] 1000 Arms will be sent off in a few days to Maryland, 3 they were like those sent to the Eastern Shore, but with Alterations & Repairs are rendered very good. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 For Potts “Attendance,” see Daniel Carroll to Lee, June 12, 1781, note 1. 2 For the arrival in Boston in early June of the small French reinforcement escorted by the 50-gun Sagittaire, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:202-4; and Lee B. Kennett,


[Page 367]
June 20, 1781 333 The French Forces in America, 1780-1783 (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1977), pp. 107-8, 112. 3 For the Board of War’s promise that 1,500 stand of arms would be sent to Maryland “in 7 days time,” see Maryland Delegates to Lee, June 4, 1781. Samuel Huntington to John Adams Philadelphia June 20. 1781 Sir You will receive herewith enclosd a letter addressd to his most Christian Majesty; with a Copy of the Same for your information. 1 Also a Commission constituting the four gentlemen therein named in addition to yourself our Ministers for negotiating peace. Also another commission & duplicate Authorizing them to accept the Mediation of the Emperor of Germany & Empress of Rusia, in one of which you will observe the Emperor is first named, & in the other the Empress, these are to be made use of as circumstances shall render expedient. I have also enclosd Instructions (in cypher) for your government in addition to those formerly given for negociating peace with Great Brittain. No additional Instructions to your former are yet given relative to a treaty of Commerce with Great Brittain. You will immediately communicate the receipt of these dispatches to Doer Franklin & Mr Jay to whom duplicates are also forwarded with Similar directions. I have the honour to be, with perfect Respect, your humble Servant, Sami. Huntington Presidt. P.S. Since writing the foregoing, for want of another conveyance, I have determined to Send this by the Same Conveyance that carries the Duplicates to Doer Franklin, have therefore taken out, the letter to the King of France, & Copy mentiond in the foregoing. S.H. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For the enclosures mentioned in this letter, see Huntington to Benjamin Franklin, June 19, 1781. Samuel Huntington to Diego Jose Navarro Philadelphia June 20 1781 Sir: I have been honoured with your letter of the 4th May. 1 The death of Don Juan de Miralles was much lamented here, 2 his


[Page 369]
June 20, 1781 335 hath refused to exchange Genl. Burgoyne, or whether the carrying this Resolve into Execution will embarrass any measures you may have in contemblation respecting a general exchange of prisoners/ This information is necessary before the orders for exchanging President Laurens are transmitted to Europe. I have the honour to be, with perfect Respect, Your Excys. humble Servt. Sam. Huntington Presidt. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See JCC, 20:656. This May 24 petition from Gen. Jacob Bayley and 12 associates on the Vermont frontier, seeking protection and recommending an invasion of Canada, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. A duplicate of the petition, addressed directly to General Washington, is also in the collection. In his June 28 reply to Huntington, Washington responded that an expedition into Canada was utterly impracticable.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:278. 2 For Congress’ interest in obtaining the exchange of Henry Laurens for Gen. John Burgoyne, see JCC, 20:647-48; and Huntington to Washington, April 23, 1781. Responding to Huntington on June 28, Washington explained that Clinton had heretofore placed conditions on any exchange of General Burgoyne “in the Military Line,” but that there was “nothing at present...to prevent a Proposition being made by Congress for the Exchange of Mr Laurens for Genl Burgoyne, in the Mode mentioned.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:278. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Benjamin Franklin Dear Sir, Philadelpa. June 20th 1781 I must beg the favor of your Excelly to forward the enclosed Letter to London. The Father of Mr. Lowndes who wrote it, is a worthy Citizen, and very desirous of seeing his Son in America before the 1st of March 1782, the time limited by a Law of the State of Maryland for the return of absentees in the British Dominions, under penalty of forfeiting to the State their property. 1 I suppose the Special appointment of Col Laurens to the Court of Verseilles, was a measure that you could not have suspected would have been adopted by Congress. Your having negotiated the busi ness for which he was sent before his arrival, proved, that his errand was unnecessary. Public bodies in all Countries, and more especially in this New World are too apt to take up, and determine hastily upon Subjects of the greatest consequence. I was absent when that Gentleman was ballotted for; and however the Magot may have bit on that occasion, I can assure you that Congress have the greatest reliance on your abilities, integrity and address, in so much, that it is with pleasure that I can inform you, in the late choice of Ministers to Negotiate a peace you were unanimously elected. 2


[Page 372]
338 June 20, 1781 them, whilst the Soldiers they have hired at a very great expence lay Idle—in short my dr. Sr. his Conduct does great mischief and will do more if he is not recalled, and I think it behoves you to bring it about. I assure you it is the wish and desire of every Man that this event shod, take place; I believe him a good officer on the Parade but the worst in every other respect in the American Army. I like the Marquis much and so does every Body in the Country but is he not too young for such a command as he has, and of such great consequence to the American Cause and this great Country—would not St. Clair think you from his experience be usefull here. “We have now no Executive in the State for want of a Senate the Govr. will act no more, and the remainder of the Council will not get together. I hope we shall set these matters right next week.” A Copy of a Letter from the Marqs. of the 3d inst. to Genl. Greene^ intimates that he was ignorant till lately that Genl. Greene had ordered these levies to act in Virga, but it does not appear he had orders from Genl. Greene upon the subject as he complains in the Letter that he had not heard from him for some time. Perhaps your interposition may be necessary upon this business to prevent misunderstanding. How far Col. H.’s opinion abt. the Baron re quires your interference You will judge. I had heard some com plaints of that Gentn. before I left the State but attributed them to his being long in the Milatary line, unacquainted with the civil institutions and disgusted that his requisitions were not immediately complied with, rather than any other quality—however if he has disgusted the people prudence requires he shod, not be detached, but subject to the controul of some superior officer or recalled. These matters you will direct as you shall see best for the Service. Could not Genl. Greene be well spared from the South to take the Command in Virga. The great scene of action is there, and as you cannot be present, his Abilities and experience may be very usefull. Excuse the haste of this Letter wch. I have been obliged to write in Congress and believe me with perfect esteem, D Sr., Yr. aff Friend & Sevt. Jos. Jones. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Jones to Washington, May 31, 1781, note 2. 2 While Richard Henry Lee’s letter to the Virginia delegates has not been found, his June 12 letters to Washington and to James Lovell appealing for Washington’s presence in the south are in Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:233-38. Lee also enclosed in his letter to Washington a copy of his letter to Lovell, both of which are in the Washington Papers, DLC. 3 For which see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:162-65.


[Page 373]
June 21, 1781 339 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 21. 1781 Your Excellency will receive enclosed, three Acts of Congress. No. 1 of the 16th Instant relative to granting Furloughs & Discharges &c.‘ No 2 of the 18th containing Regulations for the Department of the Clothier General, also an Order to the Board of War respecting the medical Department and Resolve relative to the Canadians in Col. Hazens Regiment. 2 No 3 abolishing the Depart ment of Assistant Quarter Master General. 3 I have the Honor to be, with the highest Regard, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For this June 16 resolve terminating the authority of regimental commanders to grant furloughs and requiring greater accountability in registering furloughs and discharges, see JCC, 20:656-57. 2 The June 18 resolves on these three subjects are found in JCC, 20:662-68. 3 This June 20 resolve was adopted in response to a March 24 recommendation from Quartermaster General Timothy Pickering, which had been referred to the Board of War. See PCC, item 147, 6:427-49; and JCC, 19:313, 20:677-78. Upon learning that Pickering had recommended abolition of this position as a cost-cutting measure, Assistant Quartermaster Charles Pettit offered his resignation to Congress on June 12. PCC, item 78, 18:395-98; and JCC 20:649, 677. Huntington reported the congressional decision on the two requests to Pettit on June 21 and to Pickering on June 22. His letter to Pickering is in PCC, item 16, fol. 25; copies of his letter to Pettit are in the Washington Papers, DLC, and the Nathanael Greene Papers, MiU-C. James Lovell to John Adams Sir June 21. 81. France appears to be most perfectly satisfied with the {present mediators yet presses us} 1 for an Arrangement final of the most {moderate terms. Franklin, Jay, H Laurence and Jefferson are added to you}. You would be made very happy by such an Event being grounded on a Desire to alleviate the Distress of a great {discretion but blush blush} America {consult and ultimately concur in every thing with} The Ministers of his most Christian Majesty, the Independence of the United States according to the Tenor of our Alliance {kept sole ultimatum}. I might have mentioned a Circum stance, not very material in the present Turn of Affairs {all or less or one can conclude as plenipo}. 2 It is a Satisfaction to me and others alike interested that your other {parchments are untouched}. I hope therefore that we may conclude our {haddock safe}. 3 I presume you will be at very little Loss to come at the Clue of this Labyrinth. {Gravier now} persuaded of the absolute Necessity of the most cordial Intercourse between {him and you strongly pressed for


[Page 375]
June 21, 1781 341 I would enter into detail on a variety of subjects, if I had any doubt that you will see Govr. Rutledge, who is minutely acquainted with every circumstance of our affairs civil as well as military and from whom you will have much more information than can be communicated by a letter. Your sufferings and perseverance as well as that of your officers and privates in the defence of the Southern States in particular, demand the gratitude of every individual and makes a deep impression on the heart of him who has the honor to be, With perfect respect and esteem, my dear general, Your most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia, June 21st. 1781. Congress having received some important Communications from the Minister plenipotentiary of France respecting the Intentions of the Courts of Petersburgh & Vienna, have come to some Determina tions thereupon which are not only interesting to the united States in general, but to the State of Virginia in particular; I took the Liberty therefore to insist that you should be added to the Ministers of these States already in Europe, that the State of Virginia particu larly & the united States in general might have the Benefit of your abilities in a Negociation that may probably take place. I am not at Liberty to communicate to you explicitly by a Letter, the Objects that will require your attention, or the Nature of the Restrictions by which you will be bound. You will therefore not be able to determine whether the Embassy will be agreeable 8c honourable', but, I am confident that you cannot fail of rendering very essential Services to the State by your intimate Knowledge of its Interests; and I am persuaded that it can only be requisite to suggest to you that the Business will be very important and your Usefulness in negociating it very great, to induce you to accept the Appointment. 1 Exertion 8c Unanimity are now more than ever requisite in the State of Virginia. Assistance will come but slowly; but I beseech you to avoid Despair. It can only produce Divisions which will encrease your Distresses without procuring for you one valuable End. This State and some others in the union, enjoy most of the Blessings of Peace; and, attentive to other objects more pleasing, they are not willing to behold the Distresses of Virginia. Congress is so destitute of Money 8c consequently of Power, that if there was the most cordial Disposition to give immediate 8c effectual assistance to the State, it is not practicable. I have no Doubts however, but that the Campaign


[Page 376]
342 June 21, 1781 will end favourably for us, and it is not improbable that it may be the last. This latter Circumstance will depend greatly upon the firmness & Exertions of Virginia; as the Influence of the mediating Powers in Europe will probably be exerted in our favour [in proportion to our Success. At all Events, it [will be] very important for us to deprive Britain of an Alliance which her Successes in America may encour age. My Situation here is really distressful, I have not had any authentic Intelligence concerning my family & Estate since the month of April, having designed to leave this City on the first of May, which prevented any Letters from being written to me, if the Communication had not otherwise been cut off. I am the more distressed because my funds will not enable me either to stay or to go from hence. 2 However the Virginia Delegates are not the only suffering Delegates here, & they must submit to the Hardship of the Times. I hope it will not be of long continuance; and [be] assured that while I do remain here, I shall not neglect to try every Expedient which may promise any Relief to the State. I am Dr. Sir, yr. most obedt. & hble Servt. M. Smith RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:99-100. 1 For Jefferson’s delayed refusal of “the Appointment,” see Samuel Huntington to Jefferson, June 15, 1781, note 2. 2 For Smith’s eventual departure in early September, see Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson, August 21, 1781, note 2. Richard Howly to John Laurens Dear Sir, Philadelphia June the 22d. 1781. It gave me much Satisfaction to hear of your safe arrival in France, and that you had proceeded on the business of your embassy—the letters of March the 20th in cyphers came Safe 1 —and your mode of executing was agreeable to congress. I wish you may Succeed in the great point, of the naval Superiority. This alone can enable us to wage an equal war with the foes of our independence. The interests of France and these States are so united, that any unnecessary delay in establishing the independence of the latter is a real detriment to both. We have appointed five commissioners to manage the business which had been entrusted heretofore to Mr. Adams—your father is one of the member—Doctor Franklin, Mr. Jay and Governor Jefferson—are also joined in the Commission. We have passed a resolve authorising our plenipotentiary to offer Genl. Burgoine in Exchange for your father and hope it will prove Successful 2 —as his Services will be much wanted. Should the mediating powers be in Earnest to terminate the disputes among the beligerent powers, I


[Page 377]
June 23, 1781 343 can give you no opinion for prudential reasons of matters here and have only to observe that perseverance in pushing the great object of a naval force is all that can be expected and I can assure you that the Scattered form of the british in America, would render them an Easy conquest at this time. Genl. Greene has had a great Tun [Run?] of Success in the Carolina’s and Georgia. I believe the british are now confined to the two towns of Charlestown and Savannah—Virginia is feeling the force of the british. The Marquis our excellent young Genl, com mands there—every hour we expect to hear of an action—the british are between six and Seven thousand strong in that Quarter. Mr. Price, by whom I send this letter is a Gentleman of much Worth and merit and will be able to communicate all the intelligence you desire—his private affairs lead him to France. 3 He rendered much services to the States in the time of the Canada Expeditions you will find him worthy of your Esteem. I have the Honor to be Dr. Sir, yr. most humble & obedt. Servant. Richd. Howly Tr (Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, vol. 17). 1 Laurens’ March 20 cipher letter to Congress, enclosing a copy of his memorial to the comte de Vergennes and a list of military items requested from France, had been read in Congress on May 30 and referred to the committee appointed to confer with the French minister. See JCC, 20:577; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:317-21; and PCC, item 109, fols. 417-52. 2 For the proposed Burgoyne-Henry Laurens exchange, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, June 20, 1781, note 2. 3 For James Price’s June 16 letter, read on the 18th, informing Congress of his “intention to embark for France in four or five days” and offering his services to Congress “on all occasions” while abroad, see JCC, 20:658; and PCC, item 78, 18:403. Samuel Huntington to Bernardo de Galvez Sir. Philadelphia 23rd June, 1781 Mr. Henderson, who has the honor of presenting this to your Excellency, finds himself obliged to depart within the hour or lose his Passage on a Ship for Havana, which prevents me from giving you the Answers that I would wish to your several Letters, 1 for they are in the Office of the Secretary, and it is not possible for me to obtain them at this moment. Mr. Henderson has been most diligent, loyal, and solicitous in carrying out the matter committed to his Charge and has secured the settlement of the Account, in the particulars of which he has been instructed to inform you. 2 I only lament the State of our Public Treasury, due to the circumstances of a Cruel and inhuman War that works against us, in such a manner, as to make it impossible for


[Page 378]
344 June 23, 1781 us to pay at present the Balance of the Account with Mr. Pollock. It is possible that Your Excellency has been informed that the valiant Captain Pickle, 3 who was in command of the Ship that was ordered to convey former President Laurens to Europe, was Captured and taken, along with him, to Great Britain. I must sincerely congratu late Your Excellency, upon the Success of the Army of His Catholic Majesty, under your command, in the Reduction of Pensacola. You may rest assured, Sir, that we deem this a Common cause, and wish you future success, for we wish to maintain the most sincere and perpetual Friendship with your Nation. Your sincere Wish (expressed in your Letter of 22 July 1780) 4 to assist the United States in every possible way and the Gracious Offer of Services out of your Kindness, call for the most heartfelt Recogni tion. I am convinced that your Wisdom and integrity will permit the most Reasonable consideration of our situation, in our strenuous exertions against the Powerful and vengeful Nation, although we have firm expectations that in the end we shall overcome all Difficulties. I have the honor to be, with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obedient and very humble Servant, Samuel Huntington Tr (Archivo General de Indias, Seville: Indiferente General, legajo 1585). A Spanish translation retranslated into English; apparently sent to Francisco Rendon at Phila delphia and to Spain by Rendon. 1 Except for the letter cited in note 4, these documents are not in PCC. 2 John Henderson had been in Philadelphia several months as agent for Oliver Pollock seeking settlement of Pollock’s accounts with the Committee of Commerce, for which see JCC, 18:1027-28, 1106-7, 19:32,41, 71, 118-19, 130, 142, 312, 341-42, 20:462, 491; and PCC, item 41, 4:161-72, 177-82, item 50, fols. 123-38. 3 For Capt. William Pickles’ contact with the Spanish authorities at New Orleans, see JCC, 18:1130-31; and these Letters, 15:251-52. 4 Copies of Galvez’s June 22, 1780, letter to Huntington are in PCC, item 50, fols. 171, 309. Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia June 23, 1781 I have herewith inclosed for your Information three Acts of Congress of the 13th, 16th & 18th Instant. No. 1 recommending to the several States to which the Officers of the Hospital & medical Department now in Service respectively belong, or of which, they are or were Inhabitants, to settle their Accounts of Depreciation on the Principles established by the Resolution of the 10th of April 1780, in the same Manner with Officers of the Line, and each State which shall advance on this Account more than it’s Proportion, is to be allowed for the same on Account of the United States. 1


[Page 380]
346 June 23, 1781 fleet, the remainder are supposed to have gone to the West Indies or come to Virginia. The Alliance is arrived at Boston having taken several prizes. The Ship Marquis De la Fayette is likewise said to have arrived in one of the Eastern ports with Arms and Cloathing but this last wants confirmation. We have Letters from Paris as late as the fourth of April but they contain nothing of an interesting Nature. Some intercepted letters make it evident that the British have suffered very considerably in the East Indies from an Army of the Asiaticks under the command of a very enterprizing prince, whose Name I do not recollect, in the French Interest. I have heard that our Assembly was to meet the 15th Instant and not doubting but the Delegates are by this time ready to set off for this place, I shall turn my face homeward as soon as compleated a little business of considerable importance to our State. 3 My Comple ments to all our friends. I wish I had some good news to write, I hope to be able to tell them some when I return. In the mean time believe me with the most Sincere Regard & Esteem, Dear sir, Yours, P.S. The Assembly adjourned yesterday after passing a Law for compleating their Quota of Troops which it is thought will be effectually executed. They have very Judiciously put their funds under the Direction of your friend R. Morris which will have a very happy effect on their Credit. I consider myself as particularly unfortunate in not having been able to cultivate an Acquaintance with that Gentleman, owing partly to my indisposition and in some measure to my ignorance of the Etiquette of this place. There is no confirmation of the Report respecting the Arrival of the Ship Fayette has not yet taken place and I fear she is lost. June 27th. 4 RC (Nc-Ar: Burke Papers). In Johnston’s hand, though not signed. Endorsed: “Private, From honble Sam Johnston, June 23d 1781, reed. July 30, 1781.” 'Johnston originally wrote “25th” over which he wrote “23” without altering the “th.” 2 That is, the Pennsylvania assembly. 3 For Johnston's departure from Philadelphia, see William Sharpe to Burke, July 28, 1781, note 1. 4 Presumably the date the postscript was written. Thomas Rodney to William Killen Dr. Sir 1 Philada. June 23d. 1781. Verry few Opertunities to Dover have Offered since I came up to Congress so that probably you have been but indifferently supplied with news. It has been some time since we have had any officially here, either from the Eastward or Southward. The last Eastern mail was Taken by the enemy, the week before last, with the general


[Page 381]
June 23, 1781 347 Rochambeaus dispaches, but no others of any importance, and his were in such Cypher as the enemy could not Decypher. By an Officer who the Genl, sent express since we had an Account of the arrival of a fifty Gun ship, Two Frigates and Two flutes with 12 Transports and 1500 men, to reunit the Fleet and Army at Rhode Island—by which the French Fleet will be Equal if not Superior to the Brittish, so that it may be expected that the operations against New York will Commence as soon as the Commander in Chief Can be prepaired—but he has not yet a sufficient Stock of provisions, however we hope this impediment will soon be removed. The last accounts from Virginia inform that Cornwallace was bending his Course toward the head of James River to Distroy our Stores there which were Guarded by the Barron Stuben & about 800 Malitia— That Lesly was gone to Potomack with about a 1000 Men—That Genl. Wain had joined the Marquis—That with there regulars and about 3000 Malitia they were moving after Cornwallace with Inten tion to give him Battle, That the western Malitia were joining Our Troops very fast—That Genl. Smallwood with 500 Regulars and a 1000 Malitia was on his march from Maryland to Join the Marquis. The last accounts from Genl. Green Left him Carrying on his regular approaches against Ninety Six, while Pickens and Lee were at Augusta and we have good reason to hope these posts are in Our possession before now for the Refugees are many of them flying from Charles Town to Virginia being alarmed at Greens success. The Pensylvania assembly is now on the Subject of Giving all the Aid in there power to Virginia but I fear the desention that prevails in this State will greatly impede even their best endeavours. Great part of the people are daily abusing Government for being too severe and great part of them Equally abusing it for being too Lenient, so that you may easily see wha,t difficulties lay in there way. I am very Anxious to hear that our Assembly have reformed their Malitia Law and done every thing else in their power to put the state in the best possible posture of defence for If our army in Virginia should be unfortunate a strong Detachment of the Enemy may be Expected to Cross the Bay. The Maryland assembly have increased their Malitia on duty to Two thousand—and I think it would have been well in Delaware to have adopted a similar plan. These Malitia are in pay every day they Exercised 2 and are liable to be imbodied whenever called for. But it was unfortunate that our assembly sett at Lewis quite out of the way of intelligence. I have not had a line from them nor had an opertunity of writing to them since they met. I very much fear they have not been sufficiently informed to do what was necessary at the present Crisis, and harvest drawing near has probably hurried them home sooner than I would wish as the present time requires particular and extraordinary exertions to Complete our Glorious struggle for Liberty. I am Sir, your Most Obedt. Thomas Rodney


[Page 382]
348 June 25, 1781 RC (DeHi: William Brown Collection). 'William Killen (1722-1805), Dover, Del., barrister, was chief justice and later chancellor of Delaware. 2 Rodney inserted an asterisk at this point, to which he keyed the following passage at the foot of the page. "You never will have a good Malitia till you lay an adequate fine on non attendance, and pay them that do attend for every day they exercise. If this principle was adopted you would soon find your Malitia what you wish—this is the principle adopted by the Swiss Cantons.” John Mathews to Nathanael Greene Dear sir, Philadelphia June 25th. 1781. The inclosed news papers will give you the current news of this quarter. For other particulars I refer you to Govr. Rutledge 1 who can say to you, all I can at this time, except such matters as I dare not communicate either to him or you. I hope his presence will be productive of all the good conse quences you expect. I am well persuaded many advantages will result from it, & if you can but be happy enough to maintain the ground you have with such infinite labour, & honor, gained from the enemy, that you will have the heart felt satisfaction of seeing your generous exertions crowned with as much success, as could possibly be expected, that is, order, & all the tranquillity that a state of war can admit of, restored to a grievously distressed country. I am My Dr. sir with the highest Esteem & Regard, Yr. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 Gov. John Rutledge of South Carolina was preparing to leave Philadelphia following his second recent visit and appealed to the South Carolina delegates in a letter of June 27 to seek an exception to Congress’ stringent ordinance of March 27, 1781, on the capture of prizes by granting him passports for vessels carrying much-needed salt to North and South Carolina. "As I only wait to know their Determination,” urged Rutledge, “be pleased to obtain it, this Morning.” Congress acceded to Rutledge’s request the same day, granting him "four sets of permits” under strict conditions for their return to Congress. The governor apparently set out for South Carolina on June 28. See JCC, 19:314—16, 20:705—6; PCC, item 36, 1:201—2, item 177, fols. 10-11; and the “Letters of John Rutledge,” South Carolina Historical and Genealogical Magazine 18 (July 1917): 136n.l3. Pennsylvania Delegates’ Motion [June 25, 1781] 1 That Vanheer’s Corps called the Marechausie Corps be consid ered as part of the Quota of Troops to be furnished to the Army of the United States by the State of Pennsylvania.


[Page 383]
June 25, 1781 349 Tr (DLC: Washington Papers). Endorsed: “Motion of the delegates of Pennsylvania. June 25, 1781. Referred to the board of War.” 1 Although the journals indicate only that a motion by the Pennsylvania delegates was “referred to the Board of War” this date, it is clear from the board’s correspon dence with General Washington concerning Capt. Bartholomew Von Heer’s corps that this brief motion was the subject of Secretary Thomson’s journal entry of this date. It was enclosed with a June 26 letter from commissioner Richard Peters to Washington questioning the propriety of establishing the corps in the Pennsylvania Line because it was composed heavily of German deserters enlisted contrary to Continental policy. “I think you will find,” Washington replied on July 9, “by referring to the Returns which have been heretofore made, that Von Heers Corps have been considered as part of the quota of Pennsylvania. But it will be improper to permit them to count upon them any longer, because the term of their service expires in a very short time. It is true that several of them have been found to be deserters, but as they were inlisted within the State, they passed as part of their quota of it. This has been the case in all the States. These men or so many of them as have been credited to the state are justly intitled by their faithful services to have their depreciation made up in common with the other corps.” See JCC, 20:695; Richard Peters to Washington, June 26, 1781, Washington Papers, DLC; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:343-44. For additional documents concerning the pay and status of Von Heer’s corps, see also ibid., pp. 149-50, 372; JCC, 20:660; and PCC, item 78, 23:185-88, item 147, 5:337-44. George Clymer, Joseph Montgomery, and Thomas Smith were the Pennsylvania delegates attending Congress at this time. South Carolina Delegates to Timothy Pickering Sir, Philadelphia June 25th. 1781 The Delegates of South Carolina have received a letter from Mr. Drayton, who was appointed by Congress as Dy. Qr. Mr. Gl. for the Southern Department in Novr. 1778.' Mr. Drayton mentions the disagreeable situation in which he stands, by not having received any intimation of what has been done in the department since the new arrangement took place, particu larly on what footing he is to be considered, or whether he is to be considered as still in the service, or not. We should therefore be obliged to you, Sir, to satisfy Mr. Drayton on this head, & if a new appointment is necessary, that you would be pleased to make it, if his character is such a one as you approve of. Mr. Drayton was at the beginning of this revolution a gentleman of independent fortune, & one of the first families in So. Carolina. He has served in this department with reputation, & is as well qualified as any man we know for a continuance in it. If the department he formerly held should be filled up before you receive this, we could Wish him to be appointed for the state of So. Carolina. But we rather hope for his continuance in the first. 2 We are sir, Yr. most Obed, servts. Jno. Mathews Ns. Eveleigh Isaac Motte Tho. Bee


[Page 385]
June 26, 1781 351 As to Vermont I am sorry to see the distressed situation we are in by the policy of a few. The affair might have been settled a year ago, upon the plan I proposed. 2 But the rejecting that has irritated the people on the grants, on both sides of the river, and given our enemies the advantages they now possess. We have no delegate from New York as yet & Congress has been very thin ’till very lately: as soon as any thing can be done I shall do the utmost to bring matters to a settlement: But which way it will be settled I am at a loss. Your letter will be of great use, I am perswaded, in exciting the attention of our friends in congress. I shall accordingly shew it to a number of them. They must see that Rome or Carthage must be demolished. I am very strongly impressed with an idea that this dispute will never be settled but by dividing the territory between N York & us: but I have no authority to act on this plan. Genl. Sullivan has expresst the same sentiment to me lately. Should the whole be decreed to us they might be too powerfull under the influence of Mr Allen to obey the decree: Should they be divided that part that would fall to us wd. perhaps be easily reconciled. The Ship Franklin which arrived here from France last week had a very long passage, consequently brought no news. You will observe the Brittish & Tory news everywhere holds forth that America is to be excluded from the negotiations for peace; But depend on it the fact is otherwise. I am Dear sir Your most obedt. humble Servt. Samuel Livermore RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Livermore to Weare, May 13, 19, and 22, June 5 and 19, 1781. 2 Livermore was referring to his role in early 1780 as New Hampshire’s special agent to Congress concerning the Vermont dispute. See Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett, February 8, note 2; and Livermore to Weare, March 14 and 21, 1780. James Lovell to Abigail Adams June 26. 1781 The Alliance may have brought you Letters: neither that nor the Franklin have given us any from Mr. Adams. Mr. Dana on the 4th of April resolved to go from Paris to Holland on the Sunday following. He mentions nothing of Mr. A but I send you a Scrap from the Hague which proves the Health of him & his, in a good Degree, March 4th. Any Thing to the contrary would have been mentioned by Mr. Dumas. 1 There is surely nothing of the Gallant, nothing which need hurt the fine toned Instrument in this Solicitude of mine to administer even the smallest Degree of Satisfaction to a Mind very susceptible of


[Page 389]
June 27, 1781 355 Samuel Huntington to Thomas Barclay Sir, Philada June 27. 1781 By the enclosed Act of Congress you will be informed they have been pleased to appoint you Vice Consul to reside in France, with Authority to exercise all the Powers & perform the Services required from Wm. Palfrey Esquire, during his Absence from that Kingdom, ordering the Pleasure of Congress, and you are to be allowed a Salary of one thousand Dollars per Annum. 1 I am Sir &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 William Palfrey’s disappearance at sea en route to taking up his duties as consul in France the previous winter made it difficult for Congress to reach a decision on filling his post, and Thomas Barclay was accordingly named “Vice Consul” rather than Palfrey’s successor out of consideration for the former’s friends who retained a faint hope for his survival. Barclay (1728-93), a Philadelphia merchant of Irish background, immediately accepted the appointment, but before he departed for France in October he requested that he be appointed consul as Palfrey’s successor, sufficient time now having elapsed to dispel uncertainty over the latter’s disappearance, and Congress immediately complied with the request. See JCC, 20:687, 698, 716, 735-37, 21:1036; and PCC, item 78, 4:229-32, 257-60. For the origins of congressional interest in the appointment of a consul in France, see Huntington to Palfrey, November 8, 1780. For Barclay’s subsequent career abroad, see Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:120n; Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 3:263n.7; and JCC, 23:728-30, 773-82. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philada June 27. 1781 The Regiment of Invalids being at the Desire of the Commander in Chief forthwith to be removed from this City to garrison West point on the North River, Congress have thought it expedient to pass the enclosed Resolve of the 26th Instant, recommending to the States of Delaware, Maryland & Virginia to settle with the Officers & Men of that Regiment who are Citizens of those States respectively on Certificates from the Commanding Officer without requiring personal Attendance to liquidate their Accounts for Depreciation. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “To President Rodney. N.B. The like verbatim to the Governors of Maryland & Virginia.” 'See JCC, 20:697.


[Page 390]
356 June 27, 1781 Samuel Huntington to John Paul Jones Si r> Philada June 27. 1781 I have the Pleasure to inform you that Congress have been pleased unanimously to appoint you to the Command of the Ship America, as you will see by the enclosed Copy of their Act of yesterday. 1 I am Sir &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For Jones’ appointment to and acceptance of this command, seeJCC, 20:692, 698, 722; and PCC, item 168, 1:480. For instructions issued to him on July 2, 6, and August 4, 1781, which emanated from the office of Robert Morris, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 1:209, 243, 2:15-18; and the microfilm edition ofjohn Paul Jones Papers, ed. James C. Bradford, reel 6. Samuel Johnston to James Iredell Dear Sir. Philadelphia, June 27th, 1781. I was only yesterday favored with the letters which you were so obliging as to write me the 14th of April and 10th of May last. I have wrote to you frequently by casual opportunities, but cannot have any confidence of your having received my letters. I write by this opportunity to my brother, and must refer you to his letter and the enclosed newspaper for news. I am sorry people were in such haste to remove themselves and property from Edenton. I rather could have wished they had thought of defending it, which would have been attended with less risk and expense in my opinion, for till the conquest of Virginia is effected, which I flatter myself will not speedily take place, I scarcely think you will be molested with any considerable invasion, and if the plundering parties meet with opposition they will grow sick of the business. However, every one will and has a right to judge for himself on these occasions. So far as it respects me, I am perfectly satisfied, and shall ever consider myself under the highest obligations to you on this occasion for your friendly attention. I have been detained here longer than I expected from unavoidable circumstances, which I shall have the pleasure of communicating when I can see you. I hope to leave this place some day next week, 1 but as it will be necessary for me to take a pretty extensive circuit to avoid the enemy’s horse, and the weather being too warm for me to make long days’journeys at this season, I cannot form to myself any judgment respecting the time I shall arrive with you. I am truly sensible what anxiety and distress you must all have sustained in your alarming situation. I have often wished to have been with you on the occasion; indeed my mind has been so much in that country, that it has rendered me almost incapable of attending to any thing elsewhere. This will probably be a very important,


[Page 391]
June 28, 1781 357 though perhaps not a decisive campaign. I am not perfectly in formed of the plan on which it will be conducted on our part, nor is it proper that I should communicate so much as I do know to paper. Should a few fortunate events cast up in our favor, I hope there will be no more of it after this summer—if otherwise, God knows where it will end, for America can never submit. Pray remember me most affectionately to my sister and the children. I grow every day more impatient of being absent from my friends; and had I not believed my services, or rather my vote, essentially necessary here for some time past, no importunity should have detained me. Present my compliments to such as you may think them acceptable, particularly my old friend Mr. Barker, and believe me with the greatest truth and sincerity, Yours. P.S. Tell our friend Hooper I have just received his letter of the 16th of March last, but postpone writing to him till my return, not thinking it safe to be more particular than the above, which you will be so good as to communicate. MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell, 1:521-22. 1 For Johnston’s delayed departure, see William Sharpe to Thomas Burke, July 28, 1781, note. Samuel Huntington to Timothy Pickering Sir, Philada June 28. 1781 The enclosed Report from the Board of War of the 26th Instant, with Col. Miles’s Letter & Estimate being laid before Congress, they have referred the same to your Consideration. 1 You will consider whether the public Service requires such large Magazines of Forage to be laid up in this City. You are doubtless sensible of the great Resort to this City and the Consumption of Forage on that Account if all Persons who desire and think they have some Claim can get their Horses kept at the public Stable. How far this Expence can be avoided consistent with the Good of the public Service you will judge, and I am satisfied you will adopt every Plan of Giconomy in your Power and transmit to Congress your Senti ments on this Subject as soon as may be. 2 I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For this report and the enclosed June 15 letter from Col. Samuel Miles, deputy quartermaster for Pennsylvania, see JCC, 20:700; and PCC, item 147, 5:421-28. Tor Quartermaster Pickering’s July 10 reply, suggesting that the most obvious retrenchment of forage expenses “would be to strike off the horses of members of Congress; to which might be added the few kept by officers on the civil list” (amounting to “upwards of sixty” of the approximately 200 kept at the Continental stables in Philadelphia), see PCC, item 192, fols. 71-76.


[Page 400]
366 July 2, 1781 the requisition was in every sense so necessary and proper. The Exertions of Rhode Island and some of the other States make a happy Contrast to this disposition. We have great reason to believe from a letter of Col. Cary Sp. of the Sen. of Virginia, 3 that Ninety Six fell before General Greene the latter end of May, as he mentions having seen a letter from a Capt. Pearce of the 24th of May who says the Enemy had made a Sally but were repulsed with Considerable loss & there was little doubt but that a few days wd. deliver it into our hands. 4 The Same fate it is expected wd. befall Augusta, but of this no certain intelligence has come to hand officially. It may be some Satisfaction to your Excelly. to be assured that Col. Cary has informd us that altho the Enemy have penetrated so far and in such force into our Country (Virginia) not twenty People have Joind them, and not one of those Natives, except Negroes—and a univer sal and unanimous Spirit of oposition prevails among all ranks of People, the same accounts inform us that the Marquis is above Six thousand strong—& that Lord Cornwallis is extremely weakend by sickness and desertion—the latter was lowdown on James River, & the Marquis below Richmond within 20 miles of him. I was Sorry to find on waiting on Mrs. Washington that she has been indisposed, and hoping that the Country air will be more beneficial to her than the Town, have requested that she will take up her Quarters with us at this place which I have some hopes she will do in a day or two as soon as she has rested from her fatigue. We have no news from Virginia but what I have already related except, that Mr. Nelson has been elected Governor. Mr. Hardy and Mr. McDowal Counsellors, Mr. Blair & Mr. Edmd. Randolph added to and Mr. M Smith Subtracted from the Delegation to Congress. With most fervent wishes for a Happy and Successfull campaign I am with the greatest Sincerity and most perfect respect, Yr. Excellys. Most obedt. Sert, Theok. Bland RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Bland to Washington, June 19, 1781. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, July 3, 1781. 3 That is, Senate Speaker Archibald Cary. 4 In fact, Nathanael Greene’s twenty-eight day siege of the Loyalist stronghold at Ninety-Six, S.C., failed and he retreated on June 19 to avoid capture by an approaching force under Lord Rawdon. The British, however, soon evacuated the post as untenable. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia July 2d. 1781 A disagreable report hath prevaild here that the prisoners lately taken at Pensacola were to be Sent to N. York.


[Page 404]
370 July 3, 1781 length determined to look at home for their deliverance. Believe me this is the wisest step that any nation or people can persue—it wipes of[f] every Suspicion of backwardness with which our Country has been sometimes ungenerously reproached. It shews ourselves our own strength and power when collected is not so contemptible, as some have inferred from our dispersed situation and it has this good effect that when our neighbours see we are able to help our selves they will be fonder of assisting us. However you may be assured that we have watch over you with a Parents Eye, and have left no stone unturnd to yield you every possible aid that our Circumstances wd. admit. The time of your deliverance we hope is near at hand, but god grant that my Country men slacken not in their endeavors, but persevere in the most vigorous measures as well for defending themselves as for preventing future attacks—this alone can be done (with out a Superior Navy) by organizing the Militia and fortifying the proper passes of the Rivers against small attacks and invasions which are not only ruinous but disgracefull. In answer to your request relating to Yr. Brother I have to inform you that Congress have at length agreed to make good the depreciation to the Medical Staff of the Army whereby your Brothers pay will be secured to him in Specie or its equivalent. 1 The mode by which the payment is obtaind is through the Channel of the Purveyor who returns abstacts or estimates to Congress on which warrants Issue on the treasury for the new Bills or Specie (as the case may be with the treasury). A Doctor Brownson is deputy purveyor for the Southern Hospitals, and if I mistake not that Gentn. has already received a Warrant for this purpose. My own finances have been of late in so deranged a state that I have been reduced to the last Shilling, and to borrow from every Quarter & at length driven by sheer necessity to draw a Bill on Mr. Banister for £100, Specie which I must rely on my friends to make up by some means in the actual Stuff—as nothing else will do here, nor for the purpose for which this bill is intended—not having drawn one shilling from my own funds since I left Virginia and having at least double that Sum due to me besides the Produce of my Crops, &.c.&.c. I hope my honor will not suffer in this first attempt, and I must rely on you to Jog the memory of Mr. Sturdevant. My father, Mr. Yates & Mr. Banister I have written to on the same Subject. 2 Our Grand Army has taken the field and formd a Junction with the french troops near New York. A very large Body of Militia are collecting and Collected from the Eastern States and every preparation made or making for a Vigorous attack on N York. I expect the trenches will be opend in a few days. Large reinforcements are calld for, and I hope will soon march from this State, Delaware, and Maryland, both of horse, foot & artillery, to reinforce the Southern armies. Our money matters are beginning to look up, under the management of Mr. Morris our new Superinten-


[Page 405]
July 3, 1781 371 dant of finance and in short by these [when] the Congress of the powers of Europe meet for establishing a peace I hope the Congress of the American powers, will cut no despicable figure, but this requires the utmost & most continued exertion of every Nerve, both in the Council & in the field. My time is short I have only one moment to tell Fanny that I love her, that I long to receive one more letter from her fair hand—that my anxiety for her welfare has been perpetual 8c that nothing can relieve me but an assurance from her self that she is well and happy, at least as much so as the times will admit of. God bless you all and believe me to be, Yr. Sincere 8c affectte. Friend, Theok. Bland RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 For the June 13 resolve of Congress to “make good the depreciation to the Medical Staff,” see Samuel Huntington to the States, June 15, 1781, note 1. Tucker’s brother, Dr. Thomas Tudor Tucker (1745-1828) of South Carolina, had been captured by the British and served as a physician and surgeon at the Charleston hospital. Following his exchange on June 9, 1781, he escorted prisoners to Wil liamsburg, Va., where he became director of the Continental hospital. He was not officially appointed to the Continental service, however, until September 1781. He later served in the South Carolina assembly and became a delegate to Congress in 1787-88. See JCC, 21:981; Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:254; Bio. Dir. of S.C. House, 3:725-26; and Mary C. Gillett, The Army Medical Department, 1775-1818 (Washington: United States Army Center of Military History, 1981), pp. 118, 121. 2 None of these letters has been found. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia July 3. 1781 I have been honored with your Excellency’s Dispatches of the 16th, 21st, 24th, 8c 28th Ulto. 1 Have herewith enclosed a Resolve of Congress of the 2d Instant passed in Consequence of your Letter of the 24th Ulto, and hope that your Request for a Corps of Rifle Men will be fully complied with by this State. 2 I have the Honor to be with the highest Respect, Sir, Your most obedient 8c most humble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See JCC, 20:693, 714-15. The letters are in PCC, item 152, 10:139-54; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:227-28, 249, 260-61, 278-79. 2 JCC, 20:714-15. Huntington's letter of this date to Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed enclosing a copy of this request for 300 Pennsylvania riflemen is in PCC, item 16, fol. 31; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 9:242.


[Page 406]
372 July 3, 1781 Joseph Jones to George Washington Dr. Sr. Phila. 3d July 1781 Such has been the situation of Virginia for some time past we have had but little and that very imperfect intelligence of the transactions there. This may have been the case with you and yesterdays Post being the only one for some weeks that brought us Letters I inclose one received from Col. Carey 1 for your perusal knowing that your acquaintance with that Gentleman will readily account for his prolixity and some inaccuracies. Col. Temple who arrived here a few days ago to forward M[oyla]ns Dragoons and which he expected to meet on the road shewed me a Letter dated the 21st ult. from the Marquis pressing him to use all possible dispatch to join him with that Corps of Horse—that the Enemy had left Richmond and were mo[ving] down towards Williamsburg. It is many weeks since [t]his State was requested to equip this Cavalry and send them to the Marquis’s Army 2 and we have been amused week after week that at least sixty of them were ready to march and sometimes told they were marched but such has been the supineness of this assembly they are not yet equiped and must be sent to Virga, to be mounted if money can be procured to pay them part of what is due them for back pay. The Militia called for, to go to the southward will not be raised, and difficulties have been started to the 300 particular militia you re quested but I am in hopes they will be furnished. I will pardon all this if they fill up their continental line wch. they say is their design—in the mean time they escape sending Militia either South or North unless the 300 you asked for are supplied. Our affairs have taken a most favourable turn to the South and I hope the Spirit of the people in that quarter is now so much roused that they will not be again reduced to the distressed State they were lately in. Their present resentmt. is high, and though partly ravaged the Country yet abounds with resources which when properly applied will make them formidable—could the Enemy but get a check by water in Virga, in that State every thing wod. soon be restored and their insolence as much humbled as lately it has been insulting. When you have perused Col. Careys history you may commit it to the flames—with great esteem I am, D.Sr. yr. aff Friend & Sevt. Jos. Jones. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Theodorick Bland to Washington, July 2, 1781, notes 3 and 4. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Thomas Sim Lee, June 14, 1781, note 3.


[Page 408]
July 3, 1781 374 delegates here, I readily suppose and attribute to the very low State of the Treasury the difficulties they have been under. If the Tobacco intended to be sent here is of a good Quality, the price will very much exceed anything that it commands in Maryland. I am told 25/ Specie may be had for it. No official Information of moment hath been received from either North or South. I wish I could confirm Reports that are said to prevail with you of large Supplies having arrived at Boston; the French Ships brought some for their own People and the Alliance frigate is there, this Vessel was fortunate in capturing prizes but brought no Stores. The LaFayette who sailed with her had Stores of immense and I may add inessasable Value for the continent, but as she hath not been heard of lately it is much to be feared she hath been unfortunate. Present my respectfull Com pliments to Mrs. Lee and tell her I shall be happy to execute any Commission she may intrust me with and believe me very sincerely, Yours affety, R- Potts RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia July 3. 1781 I Shall have Occasion for more money to enable me to continue here to the expiration of the term for which I was appointed. I was obliged to use a part of the £100 furnished me last May to provide Some Necessaries for my family and I have Occasion for Some clothing. Living here is very expensive, Board is as high as ever, tho’ the prices of provisions have fallen in the market. There was no money in the Treasury to pay for my Services in the last circuit, and what was due for my past Services in Congress, I received a Note for payable after the expiration of the war. I must Entreat your Excellency and the Honble Council of Safety to Order the Pay Table to draw on the Treasurer to furnish me with the Sum of fifty pounds Specie at least, (a greater Sum would be more acceptable) and Send it by Jesse Brown the next time he comes to Philadelphia. I am Sir with very Great Esteem & Regard, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient, humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers).


[Page 415]
July 7, 1781 381 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia July 6. 1781 Governor Rutledge some Days since set out from this City for South Carolina. The following is an Extract of a Letter received from him dated Monday July 2 on the Road (probably not far from Fredericktown). 1 “I give you Joy of the Taking Augusta & the Forts at Galphins & above Augusta, the Probability that Ninety Six has some Time ago fallen into our Hands.” The Post at Galphins is some fifteen or twenty Miles down the River below Augusta on the Carolina Side. My Letter from the Marquis dated twenty Miles from Wil- liamsburgh the 27th of June makes no Mention of the foregoing Intelligence. His Dispatches to your Excellency which accompany this will advise you of his Success in an Attack on a Party of the Enemy near Williamsburgh. 2 I have the Honor to be with the greatest Regard, Your Excel lency’s Most obedient & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For John Rutledge’s departure from Philadelphia, see John Mathews to Nathan ael Greene, June 25, 1781. No July 2 letter from him has been located in PCC or the Washington Papers. 2 The marquis de Lafayette’s June 28 (not 27) letter to Huntington from Wil liamsburg, Va., is in PCC, item 156, fols. 155—56. His letter of the same date to Washington is in the Washington Papers, DLC. For Lafayette’s other enclosures to Huntington, a June 27 letter to Nathanael Greene and an intercepted June 13 letter from Banastre Tarleton to Lord Cornwallis (neither of which is in the Washington Papers), see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:216-17, 497; and PCC, item 156, fols. 159, 165-69. James Madison to Philip Mazzei My dear Friend Philada. July 7th. 1781 I have received 2 copies of your favour of the 7th of Deer, last and 3 of that of the 30th of Novr. preceding. Having neglected to bring with me from Virginia the Cypher concerted between you & the Executive, I still remain ignorant of the paragraph in your last which I suppose the best worth knowing. 1 The State of our affairs has undergone so many vicisitudes since you embarked for Europe, 2 and I can so little judge how far you may have had intelligence of them, that I am at a loss where I ought to begin my narrative. As the present posture of them is the most interesting I shall aim at nothing further at present than to give you some idea of that, referring to past events so far only as may be necessary to explain it.


[Page 416]
382 July 7, 1781 The insuperable difficulties which opposed a general conquest of America seem as early as the year 1779 to have been felt by the enemy & to have led them into the scheme of directing their operations & views against the Southern States only. Clinton accord ingly removed with the principal part of his force from N. York to S. Carolina & laid siege to Charlston which after an honorable resis tance was compelled to surrender to a superiority of force. Our loss in men besides the inhabitants of the Town was not less than 2000. Clinton returned to N. York. Cornwallis was left with about 5000 troops to pursue his conquests. Genl Gates was appointed to the Command of the S. Department, in place of Lincoln who com manded in Charlston at the time of its capitulation. He met Cornwallis on the 16th of August 1780 near Campden in the upper part of S. Carolina & on the border of N. Carolina. A general action ensued in which the American troops were defeated with consider able loss, though not without making the enemy pay a good price for their victory. Cornwallis continued his progress into N. Carolina, but afterwards retreated to Campden. The defeat of Gates was followed by so general a clamor agst. him that it was judged expedient to recall him. Greene was sent to succeed in the com mand. About the time of his arrival at the army, Cornwallis having been reinforced from N. York resumed his enterprize into N Carolina. A detachment of his best troops was totally defeated by Morgan with an inferior number, 3 & consisting of a major part of Militia detached from Green’s Army. 500 were made prisoners, between 2 or 300 killed & wounded, & abt. the like number escaped. This disaster instead of checking the ardor of Cornwallis, afforded a new incentive to a rapid advance in the hope of recovering his prisoners. The vigilance & activity however of Morgan secured them. Cornwallis continued his pursuit as far as the Dan River which divides N. Carolina from Virginia. Greene, whose inferior force obliged him to recede this far before the Enemy, reed, such succors of Militia on his entering Virga, that the chace was reversed. Cornwallis in his turn retreated precipitately. Green overtook him on his way to Wilmington, and attacked him. 4 Altho’ the ground was lost on our side the British army was so much weakened by the loss [o/] 5 or 600 of their best troops that their Retreat towds. Wilming ton suffered little interruption. Green pursued as long as any chance of reaching his prey remained & then leaving Cornwallis on his left took an oblique direction towards Campden which with all the other posts in S. Carolina except Charleston & Ninety Six have in consequence fallen again into our possession. His army lay before the latter when we last heard from him. It contained 7 or 800 men & large quantities of Stores. It is nearly 200 miles from Charleston, & without some untoward accident can not fail of being taken. Green has detachments all over S. Carolina; Some of them within a little


[Page 419]
July 7, 1781 385 past. Mr. Destouches who commanded the french fleet nevertheless hazarded an expedition into Chesapeak bay. The object of it was to co-operate with the Marquis de la fayette in an attack agst. Arnold who lay at Portsmouth with about 1500 British Troops. Had he got into the Bay & taken a favorable station the event would certainly have been adequate to our hopes. Unfortunately the British fleet, which followed the french immediately from Rhode Island, reached the capes of Virginia first, on the arrival of the latter a regular & fair combat took place. It lasted for several hours, and ended rather in favor of our Allies. As the Enemy however were nearest the capes, and one of the french Ships had lost her rudder & was otherwise much damaged, the Commander thought it best to relinquish his object & return to his former Station. The damage sustained by the Enemy according to their own representation, exceeded that of the french & as their number of Ships & weight of metal were both superior, it does great honor to the gallantry & good conduct of Mr. Destouches. Congress & indeed the public at large were so sensible of this that their particular thanks were given him on the occasion. 9 No description can give you an adequate idea of the barbarity with which the Enemy have conducted the war in the Southern States. Every outrage which humanity could suffer has been committed by them. Desolation rather than conquest seems to have been their object. They have acted more like desperate bands of Robbers or Buccaneers than like a nation making war for dominion. Negroes, Horses, Tobacco &c not the Standards & arms of their antagonists are the trophies which display their success. Rapes, murders & the whole catalouge of individual cruelties, not protection & the distri bution of justice are the acts which characterize the share of their usurped Jurisdiction. The advantage we derive from such proceed ings would, if it were purchased on other terms than the distresses of our Citizens, fully compensate for the injury occurring to the public. They are a daily lesson to the people of the U. States of the necessity of perseverance in the contest, and where ever the pressure of their local tyranny is removed the subjects of it, rise up as one man to avenge their wrongs and prevent a repetition of them. Those who have possessed a latent partiality for them as their resentments are embittered by their disappointments generally feel most sensibly their injuries & insults and are the foremost in retaliating them. It is much to be regretted that these things are so little known in Europe. Were they published to the World in their true colours, the British nation would be hated by all nations as much as they have hereto fore been feared by any, and all nations would be sensible of the policy of abridging a power which nothing else can prevent the abuse of. 10


[Page 422]
388 July 8, 1781 Refugees and Tories taken on our part have been given up for all our Militia taken by the enemy; this was agreed to without any reference to numbers or rank on either side. A new President of Congress is to be chosen tomorrow, as Mr. Huntington will not continue any longer; this honor is going a begging; there is only one Gentleman, and he from the Southward, who seems willing to accept, but I question whether he will be elected. 1 There are some amongst us, who are so fond of having a great and powerful man to look up to, that, tho’ they may not like the name of King, seem anxious to confer kingly powers, under the titles of Dictator, Superintendant of Finance, or some such, but the majority do not yet appear to be so disposed. 2 The Harvests in Pennsylvania and the adjoining States promise to be double in quantity and better in quality than in any year during the last twenty, and the whole Country teems with fruit. In short that good Providence that has protected and blessed us hitherto, appears now to take us under his most particular care; for every thing augurs well. This will be handed to you by Mr. James Davidson, Rector of the Academy of Philadelphia, who goes to Boston for the purpose of getting possession of the personal estate of a deceased Brother-in- Law, Mr. James Lynds, a Lieutenant in our Navy, and late Lieuten ant of the Privateer Thorne, on board of which he was killed in Action. Mr. Davidson had an anxiety to be introduced to you, and I knew you would grant the indulgence. If he should stand in need of any assistance, respecting his affairs, I would be obliged to you to recommend proper persons to him. Please to make my Compliments acceptable to Mr. Gerry, General Ward and Mr. Lowell, and believe that I am dear Sir, Your most obedient, humble Servant, Tho M:Kean RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Apparently Samuel Johnston of North Carolina, who was elected president of Congress the following day. He declined the office, however, giving “such reasons as were satisfactory” to Congress, and McKean himself was elected president July 10. See JCC, 20:732-33; and Charles Thomson to the States, July 10, 1781. If McKean had in mind a southerner other than Johnston, his identity is not known. John Witherspoon believed in May that Joseph Jones of Virginia could be elected to the post if he would agree to serve, but Jones was apparently not interested. See Witherspoon to Richard Henry Lee, May 19, 1781. 2 In his August 29 response to this letter, Adams bemoaned the influence of New York in the selection of these administrative officers. “I understand G M [Gouverneur Morris], is appointed Deputy Financier, R R L [Robert R. Livingston], Secretary of foreign Affairs, and if G S [General Schuyler] is appointed to the War Department and G M [General McDougall] to the Marine, there will be a compleat N Y Administration. It may be well to enquire, what Influence has brought this about, & whether so much Power vested in the Citizens of any one State will excite the reasonable Jealousy of the rest.” Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:261-62.


[Page 426]
392 July 10, 1781 that the Delegates of Massachusetts are inattentive to the very important Concerns of the State When such a Length of Time has elapsed & Information has not been given, whether any Thing is done, or is to be done, with Respect to the old Currency. It is possible that every one of the above Suppositions may in part be true. It was a Misfortune that I did not receive your Official Letter, Respecting the Money &ca before I left Boston. The Letter has been before a Comme. about Eight or Ten Days. A Report has been drawn up several Days—But the Person that draughted it was suddenly taken ill, & his Life has been almost dispaired of, for two or three Days. I was very desirous to have him present, he is sensible, & has considerable Influence, & appears to take up the Matter upon equitable Principles, with Respect to the old Money. As the Report now stands, every State is to be credited for all tbe old, they can procure, previous to the first of November next, at 75 for 1. This will afford our State Relief with Respect to the Sum it may have, over & above the Requisition of Congress. Mr. Houston, of New Jersey, the Gentleman I have Reference to above, says, that he is surprised, that our State should hesitate, as to Congress’s crediting them for any over plus Sum, that they should collect. But you are very sensible that we did hesitate. If it should pass as it now stands (I cannot be assured that it will) It will not reach you, so that the Genl Court can act upon it before September; as I suppose they will adjourn to that Month. Then you will have but about seven or Eight Weeks to lay your Plan to procure it, & to have it collected. I have no doubt but that there are large Quantities of the old Currency in Massachusetts; but I do not apprehend that their greatest sufferings will arise from that—But upon the Difference of the Value of the new Money, as it has been emitted from the several Loan Offices. I dont understand that Pennsylvania have emitted a single Dollar of their 6 /io; & of the 4 /io they have issued but about 174,000 Dollrs.; & have peremptorily forbid any more of the 4 /io to be emitted. They have empowered Mr. Morris to procure other States new Money to answer the Demands of Congress for the 4 /io. This is a Stroke of Policy, that I believe Massachusetts would not have tho’t of. What is the Debt of Pensyla. in Consequence of the Resolve of Congress of the 18th of March? 174,000 Dollrs. @ 5 for 1 is 34,800 Dolls Specie—& if they furnish the Remainder of the 4 /io @ 5 for 1 It will amount to no more than 84,800 Dollrs. Specie & no accumulating Interest. The aggregate Sum is 119,600 Dollrs. Specie. Massachusetts I conclude has before this Time furnished the whole of the 4 /io @ about 2 for 1 which will make in Specie 299,000 Dollrs. Thus notwithstanding the Taxes on each are equal the united States will realize from Massachustts. 179,400 Specie Dollrs. more than from Penna. It is publicly avowed that Congress cannot, that they have not the Power to draw Bills of Exchange to discharge the Interest of any of the new Money & it will


[Page 428]
394 July 10, 1781 June 27. Osgood, a member of that committee along with George Clymer, Oliver Ellsworth, William Churchill Houston, and Joseph Jones, was explaining that the committee’s report had already been drafted by Houston but that it had not yet been submitted because of the latter’s sudden illness. Before further action was taken, a follow-up letter from Gov. John Hancock of June 18 was also received and referred to the committee. The committee finally presented its report to Congress on August 7, which simply referred it to the superintendent of finance, Robert Morris, on the 23d. Morris subsequently explained to Hancock that the settlement of Massachusetts’ account would have to await a determination based on figures due from each state and would be incorporated into his “general Arrangements” for all the states, which he had been working on since July. See JCC, 20:702, 750, 21:836, 897; Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 1:380-84, 2:124-39, 281-83; and Osgood to Lowell, August 28, 1781. See also James Lovell to Samuel Adams, September 15, 1781. Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney Sir Philada. July 10th 1781 We reed, a Letter this Morning from the Commdr. in Chief Giving an Account of an Action near Kings Bridge. 1 He had lay’d a plan for the Duke De lazon with his legion consisting of 600 Horse to surprize a post of Refugees at Morrisana and Genl. Lincoln to Make a Diversion in his favour Moved down the north River with 800 Men in boats while Our Army Moved down To Take advantage of Circumstances. Genl. Roshambeau Also Moved forward to be ready to support the Legion. Genl. Lincoln Landed near Where fort Independence stood about four Miles from Kings Bridge—And before the Duke arrived at the post of surprize an action Commenced with the Brittish and Genl. Lincoln near Hearlam which Gave the alarm and the Duke finding himself thus disappointed pushed Down to the assistance of Lincoln who en- deavourd to Draw the Enemy of so that the Duke might Turn their Flank But they warraly Crossed the Harleam in Boats a party of our Army having Cut them of from the Bridge. This Gave the Com mander in Chief & his Chief Engineer Duportail an opertunity of Approaching so near as to reconnoitre the Enemie’s works in that Quarter after which the army retired undisturbed. We had 7 killed & 20 wounded. The French army was to join ours on the 7th. I am yrs. Thomas Rodney P.S. Congress has been endeavouring some time past to elect a new President Mr. Huntington having often applied for leave to go Home on Account of his health and private affairs, and Yesterday Mr. Johnson of N. Carolina was appointed but he declined it on Account of his Bad State of health, and To day Mr. McKean was appointed and prevailed on to serve Till October next at Which Time he says he is determined To decline serving in Congress any longer. 2 TR. 3


[Page 429]
July 10, 1781 395 RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). 1 Washington’s account of the "Action near Kings Bridge” arrived in his July 6 letter to Samuel Huntington. JCC, 20:737; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:329-31. 2 See Thomas McKean to Samuel Adams, July 8, 1781, notes 1 and 2. 3 Rodney returned home soon after he wrote this letter, ending his congressional service for 1781, although he served briefly in 1782 and 1786. At a considerably later date—sometime between 1789 and 1796—- Rodney composed an account of some of his congressional activities during this term, which he entered in his diary and dated only “1781. Philadelphia.” Its content indicates that it was composed after the adoption of the Federal Consitution, and at a time when his memory of this period had become unreliable. Its purpose was to demonstrate the key role he had played in shaping a number of congressional decisions, which he understandably exaggerated in some instances, injecting himself in matters that took place when he was not in attendance or even imagining developments that did not occur, as in the appoint ment of Robert Morris as “Financier,” on the one hand, or in the restoration of William Geddes and James Tilton to office, on the other. The document nevertheless contains evidence on the manner in which a few decisions were probably reached, and provides a salutary commentary on the limitations of documents not strictly contemporaneous with the events described. For a description of Rodney’s diary and the relationship of the following passages to it, see Thomas Rodney’s Diary, February 26-28, 1781, note 1. “1781. Philadelphia. In Congress “Particular Instances wherein the leading Members & Congress followed my Counsels. “I produced a plan of finance which was approved—only necessaty would not or Seemed not to admit our waiting the Effect. Therefore the Specie plan was adopted. “The Inferior business of Congress was assigned to Several officers and rules established for their Conduct—and officers or Ministers appointed. This I urged Immediately on going to Congress for I saw the Members worn out by business that could be much better done by clerks, & a Hammer constant round them because they would not do it fast Enough. “Being absent an order was made to remove all provisions &c. out of the Peninsula for fear of an expedition of the Brittish there this was absurd & I had it immediately altered. “When it was moved to order Washington and the army to Virginia I opposed it as being calculated to frustrate all his own plans it was after moved but still rejected. “I was agt. selling the Ship America & prevented it several times. “I prevailed in getting five Commissioners to Make the peace, instead of three & thereby, got Doctor Franklin and Mr. Laurence, appointed. “I prevailed in getting Mr. Morris Financier. In gitting Mr. McKean, President on Mr. Huntington’s going home. “I got Mr. Geddes a Commissioner in Treasury restored. “I got Mr. Hodgsdan appointed in the room of Col. Flower &c. “I got Doctor Tilton restored after he had been excluded by the medical committee. "My consel prevailed in Committee of the States against adopting harsh measures agst. Vermont. “In many other things my counsel was given great attention to by leading members. “But perhaps one of the most important matters my counsel prevailed in while I was attending Congress in this year—was the following which tho not done in Congress, but in a kind of private Conversation—Yet was in some measure a Communication of Sentiment between Congress and the army—wherein I may be considered as acting on the part of C , and Genl. G on the part of the A—y. “The leading members of Congress and a number of officers of the Army dined at the House of Mr. Huntington President. A variety of Sentiment on the war &c. was talked over and after a while when dinner was over & the Several Toasts gone round,


[Page 430]
396 July 10, 1781 The rest one after another all went of and left Genl. G , and my self in conversation. We went over the whole Contest and war with Brittan and having concluded this part of the conversation turned our views to what was to be the Situation of America after Peace, knowing that this was now solicited by G. Brittain. “It was agreed that the people would not be Statisfied with their then form of government. “That some thing would be necessary to be done. I then proposed the plan and association of the Cincinnatti—as necessary to perserve the Union and to Effect a reform in the Government. He asked what form would be best? I answered that which would be most like the one we had been used to without being the Same. He asked how we could form such an one? I answered, let there be a Senate to represent the several States & a house of Commons, or Deligates to represent the people. He asked how we should make a Chief Magistrate? I answered he must be Elective. He asked how he must be Elected, I answered by the Legislature or the people, but probably it would be best for the people to Elect him otherwise they might get jealous of him. He then asked how we should form the Interior Government? I answered this needed no direction for it would not Easily be mistaken for the System of Law itself would direct this. But I no doubt at the time & since have noted more particularly what passed on this occasion for what was then pland has been Strickly fulfild and acted up to by America.” John Sullivan to Meshech Weare $ ir Philadelphia July 10th 1781 Mr Livermore and myself were honored with your Letter of the 20th June with the Enclosures reed by yesterdays Post, which were immediately Laid before Congress and refered to a Committee with Directions to report as Soon as possible. When the Report is brought in & considered we Shall give you official Information. 1 I Expect the Result will be a prohibition to the pretended State of Vermont Exercising any Jurisdiction East of the River and an appointment of a Day for proceeding upon the Examination of the Dispute. This will End in the appointment of a Committee to Determine thereon. The Reason why this has not been Sooner done is because there has not been a Competent Congress Since Last fall untill within a few weeks past. I am Every Day more and more convinced of the Danger and impolicy of Suffering the Question of the Independence of Vermont to come upon the Tapis for if it Should be denied New York alone will receive the advantage for the Reasons mentioned in my former Letter. But I apprehend that this would not be the Case. I rather Incline to think that the present members would make Desperate Strugles in favor of its Independence. I scarcely Dare trust my Thoughts on paper but be assured Sir that the Policy of Vermont has Induced them to make Enormous grants to men of Influence in Several States & Even to members of Congress. 2 Mr Livermore & myself no doubt will Concur in the proper plan to avoid the Danger arising from this & other Quarters. The only “Plausible argument” in favor of Determining the Question of Independence is That this is not Simply a Dispute between New York & New Hampshire but


[Page 431]
July 10, 1781 397 between them & a people claiming to be Independent of both. The answer to this is Simple & plain viz that New Hampshire 8c New York both by ancient 8c modern determinations join upon Each other. Of Course no Independent State can possibly Exist between them 8c their claim of Independence can no more operate to alter the mode of tryal pointed out in the confederation than if Massa- chusets & New Hampshire both Laid Claim to the County of Essex 8c the Inhabitants were to Declare themselves Independent of both. Here the first Steps should be to Settle the Dispute between the States 8c if it was Determined to Appertain to Massa, no other Question would be necessary. Besides if we admit for a moment the possibily of its being Independent we declare it out of the union 8c oust ourselves of any Jurisdiction, as we have nothing to do with more than thirteen States a fourteenth would have a right to Deny the Jurisdiction of Congress which it Seems Vermont has already done. The Safest ground therefore for New Hampshire is to Trust that as there is no intermediate Spot between New York 8c New Hampshire 8c That as Congress have Included Vermont within the Limits of the Thirteen united States it must belong to Some one of them and Therefore Congress ought to Determine to which agre- able to the rules Laid Down in the Confederation. I confess myself astonished at the proceedings of Vermont 8c more so at the Conduct of the Inhabitants in our Counties. I am unwilling to believe them Influenced by the British, but a variety of Circum stances have almost Confirmed me in this opinion. I Suppose whatever can be done here will be done in a week or fortnight at farthest. The Commissioners will no Doubt meet at Springfield or Hartford where the titles will be Discussed 8c the Right Determined. Of Course my attendance here will be no Longer necessary on that account. I wish therefore that Mr Gilman may be directed to Set out to relieve me immediately as my Domestic concerns will oblidge me to Set out perhaps before his arrival. Should the State call on me to argue the Cause before the Commissioners I shall attend with pleasure. I have the honor to be with the most perfect Esteem Dear Sir your most obedt. Servt. Jno Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Vermont Controversy Collection). 1 President Weare’s June 20 letter and its enclosed petitions from Swanzey, Walpole, and Westmoreland were read in Congress on July 9, and referred to a committee consisting of Daniel Carroll, Thomas McKean, James Madison, Roger Sherman, and James M. Varnum. See JCC, 20:732; PCC, item 40, 2:49-50; and N.H. State Papers, 10:401-2. For the committee’s report and the initial congressional response to it, see the August 7, 1781, letters below of Samuel Livermore, Roger Sherman, John Sullivan, and the New York delegates. 2 See, for example, the letters of John Witherspoon to William Livingston of February 3 and May 8 and 15, 1781, on the subject of their Vermont interests.


[Page 432]
398 July 10, 1781 Charles Thomson to the States Sir, (Circular) Secy’s Office July 10th, 1781. I have the honor to inform you that the honble. Samuel Hunting ton having informed the United States in Congress assembled that the State of his health would not permit him to continue longer in the exercise of the duties of President & requested leave of absence, Congress have this day proceeded to the choice of a President and have elected the Honble Thomas McKean. 1 I am, Sir, Your obedt humble servt. C.T. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). 1 For President Huntington’s announcement of his retirement on July 6, the election of Samuel Johnston to succeed him on July 9, and Thomas McKean’s election to the post the following day after Johnston “declined to accept the office,” see JCC, 20:724, 732-33; and McKean to Samuel Adams, July 8, 1781. Congress also adopted a vote of thanks honoring Huntington “in testimony of their approbation of his conduct in the chair,” which McKean transmitted in a letter to him of this date and which Huntington acknowledged the following day. See JCC, 20:737; and PCC, item 16, fols. 38-40, item 78, 12:159-61. 2 Thomson also sent notice of McKean’s election this day in brief letters to Gens. Nathanael Greene and George Washington, which are in the Greene Papers, MiU-C, and the Washington Papers, DLC. Thomas McKean to John Hancock Sir, Philadelphia. July 11th. 1781 1 I have the honor to inclose your Excellency an Act of Congress of the tenth instant for your information respecting Messrs. James & William Winthrops application to them; 2 and am, with great regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s, Your most obedient humble servt. Tho M:Kean Presidt. FC (PHi: McKean Papers). In the hand ofThomas McKean. Tr (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). 1 This letter is dated July 14 in McKean’s presidential letterbook. PCC, item 16, fol. 44. 2 For the enclosed resolve authorizing James and William Winthrop “to occupy the barracks, standing without the fortifications on Governor’s Island, in the harbor of Boston, for the purpose of a barn,” in accordance with their own request, see JCC, 20:696, 734-35. The Winthrops’ May 15 petition is in PCC, item 42, 8:229-32. Charles Thomson to John Jay Philada 11 July 1781. A 20-page survey of the southern campaign recounting Lord Cornwallis’ peregrinations from the Battle of Camden, August 16, 1780, to his encampment at Willimsburg in late


[Page 437]
July 12, 1781 403 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Sherman, and signed by Sherman and Ellsworth. 1 The new “regulation of the clothing department” had been adopted on June 18. The attempt to modify it, based on Washington’s June 28 recommendation that the states continue to supply some clothing in lieu of taxes, failed. See JCC, 20:662-67, 715, 21:777-78; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:278-79. 2 See Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, July 10, 1781. 3 See Samuel Huntington to Thomas Barclay, June 27, 1781. 4 Robert Smith had been elected agent “to reside at Havanna, to manage the occasional concerns of Congress, to assist the American traders with his advice, and to solicit their affairs with the Spanish government.” JCC, 20:705. 5 A reference to John Jay’s March 22, 1781, letter to President Huntington. PCC, item 89, fols. 160-61; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:322. Thomas McKean to the Marquis de Barbe-Marbois Sir, Philadajuly 12. 1781 I have the honor to inclose you an Act of Congress of this Day respecting French Mariners, who may be employed in any of the armed & other Vessels in the Service of these States or the Citizens thereof, passed in Consequence of your Memorial on that Subject. 1 This Proceeding is so explicit, the Thing desired so necessary, and the Fruits of it’s Success so interesting to the common Cause, that, I rest assured, nothing will be wanting on the Part of the several States, (to the Governors & Presidents of each of which I have written on the Occasion) to promote so salutary a Purpose. Permit me Sir, to declare, that nothing can contribute more to my Satisfaction, in the arduous Station assigned me by my Country, than to further every Wish of the Representative of his most Christian Majesty, to render his Situation easy & happy, and to cement the Alliance of the two Nations by every possible Effort. I have the Honor to be, with great personal regard &c &c, Th. McK. Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See JCC, 20:738, 745-46. Marbois’July 9 memorial requesting permission for the comte de Barras, commander of the French squadron in America, to impress French seamen serving on ships of the various states, is in PCC, item 112, fol. 167; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:553-54. Thomas McKean to the States Sir, Circular Philadajuly 12. 1781 Your Excellency will receive inclosed an Act of Congress of this Day respecting French Mariners, who may be employed in any of the armed & other Vessels in the Service of these States or the Citizens thereof. 1


[Page 444]
410 July 14, 1781 restoring fast, and the trade & commerce of this city really flourish. In short our affairs wear a promising aspect. I have the Honor to be, with the utmost Regard, Your Excel lency’s Most obedient & very humble Servant, Tho M:Kean President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by McKean. 1 JCC, 20:737. This letter to Samuel Huntington is in PCC, item 152, 10:159-62; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:329-31. 2 For this resolve, which pertained to both “the geographer to the main army, and also the geographer to the southern army,” seeJCC, 20:738, where it follows an entry recording Thomas Hutchins’ recent acceptance of the office of geographer to the southern army. McKean also sent the same resolve to Gen. Nathanael Greene, commander of the southern department, under cover of a brief letter of July 13. PCC, item 16, fol. 42. 3 JCC, 20:746. McKean also sent a copy of this resolve this day to Hodgdon notifying him of his appointment. PCC, item 16, fol. 45. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 17th. 1781 I am just favord with yours of the 13th. We have a letter from Mr. Parsons our Agent at Martinique June 13th. Tobago taken by one Ship of the line, 2 frigates & 800 troops. Several Vessels Loaded in the Harbour fell into the Hands of the French. 1 We have no acct of the force or the disposition of the fleets. Not much credit due to the article in the paper abt Barbadoes. Mr Franklin has sent us Several Original Letters chiefly from Lord George Germain to Sr. Hy Clinton &ca. They were taken in an English packet & carryd into France. 2 The Substance of these Letters will be publishd I expect to morrow, & I will look out for an opportunity to Send it to you before post. At present I will only say in General that they express the strongest confidence that America was at that time on the Brink of returning to G.B. Mr. Potts has this moment show’d me what he has wrote you on this Subject which makes it unnecessary for me to add any thing. The President has a Letter from Genl Green the 9th of June—not yet read in Congress—Augusta taken—great & valuable stores fallen into our hands. I fear Genl. Green has raisd the Seige of 96 & that Wayne has been severely handeld by Cornwallis. No official acct of these matters. Present me to yr Lady. I am Dr Sr., with great esteem & regard, Yrs &c, Dani Carroll


[Page 445]
July 17, 1781 411 RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Samuel Parsons’June 13 letter reporting the capture of Tobago in late May by an assault contingent of the comte de Grasse’s fleet was read in Congress July 16. See JCC, 20:750; and PCC, item 90, 1:365-66. See also William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity (1926; reprint ed„ New York: Russell and Russell, 1970), pp. 261-63. Although secretary Thomson indicated in the journals that a second June 13 letter from Parsons was read that day, it is not in PCC. 2 Extracts from these “Original Letters,” which had been taken from a captured British packet bound from Falmouth, Eng., to New York, had been read in Congress the preceding day, having arrived almost simultaneously in an April 9 letter from John Laurens at Versailles and an April 25 letter from John Jay at Madrid, for which see JCC, 20:750-51; PCC, item 110, 1:397-409, item 165, fols. 99-102; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:355-56, 384-89. For the “Letters” themselves and their subsequent publication, see Thomas McKean to Washington, this date. The inter cepted letters had originally been sent to Benjamin Franklin at Passy. He undoubt edly provided John Laurens with copies and on April 12 sent copies to John Jay (together with a duplicate of his March 12 letter which had been read in Congress on May 28) asking Jay to forward the extracts “by different conveyances, as the contents of some are important.” Franklin further enclosed other copies of the intercepted letters in his May 3 letter to Congress, which was read on September 24, the same day that a duplicate of John Laurens’ April 9 letter arrived. See JCC, 20:549, 21:996; PCC, item 82, 1:355; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:357-59. s Nathanael Greene had in fact written two letters on June 9 mentioning the fall of Augusta, both of which were read in Congress this day. See JCC, 20:755; and PCC, item 155, 2:113-30. James Lovell to Abigail Adams July 17. 1781. The Dates of my Letters connected with the Time of the Receipt of yours are become somewhat essential towards a right Judgement of my Character, so much called in Question lately by the Censori ous. Though John Paul Jones may not even yet have left the City you will sometime or other find what I wrote to go by a Mr. Anderson & afterward delivered to the said Chevalier Jones. You will also find by Mr. Jeremiah Allen or by a Post my Comments in Season upon your Frightability at the Expression “on this Subject.” 1 Since that Season I have received your Letter of June 30th brought yesterday by the Post. 2 I translated two Letters for Mr. S[amuel] A[dams] & he took a Copy of a 3d which was in english relative to the Subject of yr. Anxiety. It would be a very laborious Task indeed to copy more than those; which being considered with what I have already sent you will give a full Comprehension of the Scene. You must talk with S A who will communicate what he knows. I delivered yours to Mrs. Sh[ippe]n who is greatly pleased at her own Profit from your mistake. 4 Every Civility to Mrs. L[ovell] excites my Gratitude doubly to what the same Conduct immediately towards myself effects. There is a peculiarly obliging Tenderness in yr. Argument for her complying


[Page 446]
412 July 17, 1781 with yr. Invitation. But I cannot press her to comply; and I cannot be deceitful enough to conceal my selfish Reasons. The dear Woman now has the most just Persuasion of the Countinuance of an Affection towards her which constitutes great Part of her Happiness. I should be sorry to have that Persuasion poisoned accidentally by any Cornelia. The Suggestions of “trifling" People have not injured me. The same from “one of the best Characters" might embitter some of my future Days. The Ingenuous will always “take Correction patiently” when Justice lays it on. Censoriousness cannot prove itself to be even a distant Branch of the Family of Justice. With much Esteem, Yr. Frd. JL RC (MHi: Adams papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:181-82. 1 See Lovell to Abigail Adams, May 29 and June 16, 1781. 2 See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:164-65. 5 For Lovell’s translation of two letters of the comte de Vergennes, and the letter from Benjamin Franklin relative to the subject of her anxiety, see Lovell to Abigail, July 13, 1781, note 5. 4 See Abigail’s June 30 letter to Alice Lee Shippen in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:167-68. Thomas McKean to George Washington Sir Philadelphia. July 17th. 1781. A Mail from Falmouth having been captured, sundry original letters have been sent to Congress, from which the following are extracts. 1 Lord George Germain to the Commissioners for restoring Peace White Hall March 7th. 1781. “Your declaration of the 29 December inclosed in your joint dispatch will I trust be productive of all the good effects you hope from it and which so well timed a publication entitles you to expect and I shall be very happy to carry to the King an application to the King from any of the revolted Provinces for pardon and restoration of the privileges of british subjects. “The narrow limits to which you have reduced your exceptions and the generality of the assurances you have given of a restoration of the former constitutions were I doubt not well considered and judged necessary and expedient but as there are many things in the consitutions of some of the Colonies and some things in all which the People have allways wished to be altered and others which the common advantage of both countries requires to be changed it is necessary to be attentive that neither your acts or declarations preclude any disquisition of such subjects or prevent such alterations being made in their constitutions as the people may solicit or


[Page 448]
414 July 17, 1781 stand to be sent by land carriage to Portsmouth and there distrib uted on board the Transports as I understand they are much wanted for arming the Loyalists. They are addressed to the com mander of the forces in South Carolina.” From Lord George Germaine to Sir H. Clinton dated White Hall 7 March 1781 “Sir “Since my letter to you of the 7th of Feby. I have received your dispatches numbered four 113 to 117 inclusive, and laid them before the King. “The revolt of the Pensylvania line and Jersey brigade tho’ not attended with all the good consequences that might have been expected, are certainly events of very great importance and must have very extensive effects both in reducing Washington’s present force, and preventing its being recruited by new levies, and as I doubt not you will avail yourself of his weakness and your own great superiority to send a considerable force to the head of the Che- sepeak, as soon as the season will permit operations to be carried on in that quarter, I flatter myself the southern provinces will be recovered to his Majesty’s obedience before the long promised succours, none of which are yet sailed, can arrive from France, And Mr. Washington unable to draw subsistence for his troops from the west side of Hudsons river, be compelled to cross it and take refuge in the eastern provinces. I am very anxious to hear of Lord Cornwallis’s progress since Genl. Leslie joined him, I have no doubt his movements will be rapid and decisive, for his Lordship appears to be fully impressed with the absolute necessity of vigorous exer tions in the service of this Country in its present circumstances, the success of Genl. Arnold’s enterprize up James River which the rebel newspaper’s confirm, must greatly facilitate his Lordship’s opera tions by cutting off Green’s supplies; and obliging the militia to return to take care of their own property, Indeed so very contempt ible is the rebel force now in all parts and so vast is our superiority every where that no resistance on their part is to be apprehended that can materially obstruct the progress of the King’s Arms in the speedy suppression of the rebellion, and it is as pleasing tho’ at the same time a mortifying reflection when the duration of the rebellion is considered which arises from a view of the returns of the Provincial forces you have transmitted, that the american Levies in the Kings services are more in number than the whole of the inlisted troops in the service of the Congress. “I am very glad to find you have commissioned a board of Directors of the refugees and I hope the Admiral will have been able to spare them shipping to carry on their operations on the sea coast of the New England provinces, many of those within the lines who are unfit for military service are desirous of being settled in the


[Page 450]
416 July 17, 1781 think proper.” See JCC, 20:754; and Washington Papers, DLC. He also sent the same resolve with a brief cover letter of this date to Gen. Nathanael Greene, which is in the Perry Collection, OCIWHi. Richard Potts to Thomas Sim Lee Dr Sir, Philadelphia July 17. 1781 I wish I could by this post give you any authentic Information of our Affairs to the south, but Congress have received no Letters from either commanding Officers in that Department for many days. Reports from thence pass through Maryland, and these Approach nearer to truth in proportion to their Vicinity to the Scene of Operations. Those are the only Source of this days Intelligence. Congress have had before them a number of Official Letters from the Ministry in Brittain to their Commander in Chief, and other Heads of Departments in America, these were intercepted in a packet taken in Europe and transmitted by Mr. Jay. 1 From the Letters of Lord Germaine to Sir Henry Clinton &ca. it appears that the Expectation of a speedy Conquest was fully impressed on the Brittish Cabinet, and that administartion already regretted their proffered Clemency through their Commissioners held out in their proclamations. He observes to General Clinton and the other Commissioners that their Offers of pardon were not sufficiently guarded with Exceptions, and that the Supplicants for pardon being readmitted to a full Enjoyment of the Rights exercised under their former Connection was more than Government ever intended to grant. Or in other Words that they meant to deprive them of their Charters and constitute their Governments more to the Will of the Parliament. He expresses much Satisfaction at the General’s Infor mation that there were more provincials in his Majestys Service in America than that of the United States, but laments the mortifying reflection that under those Circumstances the Rebellion should have continued so long. His Lordship apprehends General Clinton’s Generosity in recommending so many of the provincial Choirs [Corps] to be put upon the Brittish Establishment and then secure of Victory, gives such a Construction to his Majestys directions on that Subject as to restrict the Benefits of it to very few. These Instances serve to shew, if it remained to be proved, what would be the treatment of the friends to America in it, if his, Germaine’s imaginary Ideas of Success were to be realised. No sooner had they any foundation for such a Hope, than they begin [...] to estimate the Value, and regret the Loss of Estates secured under former Submissions; and wish to discharge from their Service without the Rewards held out formerly, those whom they have seduced to be instrumental in accomplishing their supposed Con-


[Page 452]
418 July 17, 1781 Capt. Ohara had a Surtout made for you and left it in my care, I have got the favour of Colo. Few to carry it and hope it will be delivered safe. With the highest respect and esteem I have the honor to be, Dear sir, your most Obt. Humble servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 For William Few’s departure for Georgia, see Georgia Delegates to the Speaker of the Georgia Assembly, July 18, 1781, note 1. Roger Sherman to John Lawrence Dr Sir Philadelphia July 17th 1781 By Letters received this day from General Green dated June 9th we have an account of the Surrender of the Brittish Garrison at Augusta in Georgia Prisoners of War to General Pickens & Lt Col. Lee So that the Enemy occupy no Post in Georgia except Savannah. General Green had besieged the Enemy’s Fort at Ninety Six in South Carolina, which is the only post they hold in that State except Charlestown. We have a report that the enemy has Sent a reinforce ment to Ninety Six & that General Green has raised the Siege but full credit is not given to [it here]. We have letters from France & Spain dated in April but they contain nothing very material. I inclose the two last Philadelphia papers. I wrote by Mr. Brown for the money due for my debenture the last Circuit. 1 A line from you by the return of the Post, informing me whether there is any provision for the payment of it will oblige your humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (CtHi: Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., Papers). 1 See Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, July 3, 1781. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia 17th July 1781 The affair of Vermont is not yet Decided. I Expect by next post we Shall be able to forward you the Result of Congress. 1 I take the Liberty of Inclosing you the paper of this Day & have the honor to be with much Esteem Dr Sir your most obedt Servt. Jno Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Vermont Controversy Collection). 1 See Sullivan to Weare, August 7, 1781.


[Page 453]
July 17, 1781 419 John Sullivan to John Wendell Dear Sir Philadelphia July 17th 1781 I am honored with your favor of the 3d Instant and shall pay particular attention to its Contents; the affair of Vermont is now before Congress and I flatter myself proper measures will be adopted to punish the Defection of the Towns East of Connecticut River: and also the unwarrantable usurpations of Vermont. I think Congress will fix a Day for determining the Claims of N. Hamps and New York. 1 I Thank you for the Intelligence respecting the Spy. I believe that by That or some other Channel you will soon discover that The Leading men in Vermont if not a great majority of the Inhabitants are in the British Interest. I sincerely wish Mr Morris had hard Cash Sufficient to pursue the Plan you propose but he has not Enough for that and for carrying on the present Campaign, which Last must be preferred to Every other Consideration. As to the proposed Congress of vienna we have every thing to hope but nothing to fear from that Quarter. Russia has already fixed two preliminary Articles viz an absolute Recognition of the Indepen dance of America: And the Restoration of Dutch property by the Court of London, all the powers of Europe Except the Emperor of Germany will from principles of policy Endeavor to Separate forever Great Britain and America—The Emperors Interest on the Contrary urges him to Augment the power of Britain as his only Security against the growing power of France. The King of Prussia is bound by Every principle of policy to Increase the power of france in order to Diminish that of the Emperor. This being the Case Either a peace will take place agreeable to our wishes or the Congress will break up without any thing more being Effected than a Determination of the Emperor to Espouse the Cause of Britain and that of the Empress to oppose it. This cannot Effect America but in the most advantageous manner, for the force of Germany added to that of Britain when opposed by Russia will not be so Dangerous to America as that of the Catawba Indians, it has no Naval force & when that of Russia is added to that of France Spain & Holland the Superiority will be so Decisive that all attempts against America will either Cease or prove fruitless, the Land forces of Germany if put in motion will be immediately opposed by Prussia & Should a part of that of france and Spain become necessary this will not diminish That Naval Superiority which will Serve Effectually to Baffle their attempts against the united States. I shall mention you to Mr Morris and Inform you orally of his reply. I Say orally because I mean to Leave this place in a few weeks. Mr Livermore Sends his Compliments.


[Page 458]
424 July 21, 1781 James Lovell to John Adams Sir Philada. July 21st. 1781. I do not find by President Huntington’s Letter Book 1 that he has forwarded the within Resolve of July 12 th 2 respecting your Powers of Sepr. 29th 1779 therefore I take the Opportunity of two Vessels which are to sail in a few Hours, to communicate it doubly. Your humble Servant, James Lovell for the Comee. of for. Affrs. private The whole of the Proceedings here in regard to yr. two Commissions are, I think, {ill judged but} 3 I persuade myself no {dishonour was for you int}ended, the Business greatly in every view {chagrins me}. This you will have learnt from my former Letters written in an half light. 4 By her own Acct. Your Lady was well June 30. Yr. last to us is of Oct. 24. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Thomas McKean had succeeded Samuel Huntington as president of Congress on July 10, but no letter transmitting these resolves to Adams from either president has been found. 2 The “within Resolve” had revoked Adams’ “commission and instructions for negotiating a treaty of commerce between these United States and Great Britain.” JCC, 20:746-47. The motion to revoke his commission was actually offered by James Madison, but the initiative for this move came from French officials in an open diplomatic effort to effect the subordination of the American negotiators to the French government. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:188-90; William E. O’Don nell, The Chevalier De La Luzerne, French Minister to the United States (Bruges: Desclee de Brouwer, 1938), pp. 139-42; and Lovell to Abigail Adams, July 13, 1781, note 5. 3 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Lovell in cipher. 4 See Lovell to John Adams, June 21, 1781. Thomas McKean to Benjamin Franklin Sir, Philada July 21. 1781 By the Act of the 26th June, which I have the Honor to inclose, you will perceive that the United States in Congress assembled have appointed Mr Francis Dana Secretary to the Commission for negoti ating a Peace, 1 until such Time as he can proceed to the Court of Petersburg either in a public or private Capacity, without risking the Interest or Dignity of the United States; and have continued to him, while acting in that Capacity, & during the Time he shall be in a private Capacity in Russia, the Salary allowed him by the Act of the 5th October 1779, which is one thousand Pounds Sterling. I am therefore to desire you to pay him, out of any Funds you may have in your Hands belonging to the United States, the Amount of his


[Page 462]
428 July 23, 1781 Thomas McKean


[Page 463]
July 23, 1781 429 conviction, either at common law or by impeachment: Also they are to have fixed salaries, and the real sum first allowed cannot, consistent with the constitution, be diminished; and as the salaries were designed to be such as to place them above dependence or the temptation of corruption, so that they might be free from any kind of biass whatsoever either from the people collectively or their representatives, they are rendered incapable of sitting as members of CONGRESS, for which appointment they must look up to the general assembly and be so far subject to their influence, or as members of the council or general assembly, for which they must be obliged to the freemen at large. Now I am at a loss to conceive, what influence or biass a judge of the supream court can be laid under to any suitor or other person or persons in Pennsylvania, by his being a delegate in congress, or a member of council or assembly for any other state: or how this can in the least affect his judicial conduct. In a political light, it can be no disadvantage to the interests or public weal of Pennsylvania to have ever so many of her citizens members of congress for other states. As to the vote of the house of assembly of the 24th of February, 1779, quoted by Tenax, I would premise, that, though every man is obliged to know the laws of the country he resides in, and to square his conduct by them, yet no man is legally bound to know or take notice of any resolve, vote, or minute of an house of assembly, unless duly served with a properly authenticated copy thereof; and then only in particular cases. As I have been well informed, no such copy was ever served upon or delivered to the chief justice, I flatter myself it will be ceded by all men, that in point of law he was not bound to know any thing of it; and I am authorized to declare, that, after this hasty vote passed, many of the forty-two, sensible of the error, applied to the chief justice personally, and advised him to continue in congress, informing him, that the whole of them, a very few excepted, had altered their opinion; and further, that none of the members ever expressed the least dissatisfaction with him on that account, but on the contrary were pleased with his conduct. Indeed, the vote was founded in surprize and error, and would not bear scrutiny or examination. A member of congress and a judge is clothed with considerable power and honour; and no man ought to be deprived of either, more than of property or liberty (even if they were no ways involved in this question) but by the law of the land, or the judgment of his peers. Natural justice requires, that no man should be condemned without being heard; and as no such opportu nity was afforded, the vote must be considered as the bare opinion of the house on a mere speculative question, and could not possibly be attended with any other operation. That the judges of the supream court cannot be removed but for misbehaviour or mal-administration in office, after a conviction in the manner I have mentioned, must be evident to every intelligent


[Page 468]
434 July 24, 1781 Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Charles Carroll of Carrollton My dear Sir, Phila. July 24h. 1781 The last accounts from General Green were, that he was obliged to raise the Seige of 96, but expected to come to some action with Lord Rawdon. Genl. Moutrie who left Chas Town the 8th Inst, informs, that it was reported in that place, that Lord Rawdon had retreated to Orangeburgh 80 Miles from C. T; & that General Green had reinvested 96. The last information from the Marquis, mentions an Action between part of our Troops & Cornwallis near Wmsburg and that in consequence thereof his Lordship had crossed James River, and generally conjectured here that he intended to Ports mouth, & from thence to N York & Chas Town, but I this moment am told that RH Lee has wrote to some Gentln. in this place, that he was on his March to the Carolinas. I wish this may be true, for he must lose great part of his Army in accomplishing of it at this Season of the year. We lost in the action near Wmsburg in killed, wounded & missing about 140 men, many officers wounded but none killed; a Lieut. Coll of the Jerseys taken prisoner. The Marquis says that the British lost many more but had taken great pains to conceal their dead. I fear as the dead were carried off, that we did not do great execution. What progress Genl Washington will make against New York God only knows. I confess that my expectations are but small. It is said that two British Ships of the Line, & Seven Transports are gone up North River, if this be true it is done to draw Genl Washing towards West point. We have had no late accounts from Europe or the West Indias. Attempts have been made upon the people of Vermont by the Generals Clinton & Haldimand to seduce them to the British Interest, & I fear not without some success. If we do not soon make them independt. it is probable the British will gain them over. Ned Rutledge, Gadsden & Young Middleton are dayly expected in this Town from Augustine being exchanged. Admiral Digby with 5 Ships of the line are it is said arrived at New York, the Kings third Son a Midshipman onboard the Adms. Ship. What the French and Spaniards are about none but them does know, but our Interest seems to be considered as a remote object. Your School fellow I believe is not the worst General the British have had in America. He never retreated. It is true that the King of G B. did not accept of the Mediation between him & the U.S. of Hol[lan]d but propose their difference to [be] setled at the General pacification. The English have certainly suffered in the East Indias. I shall make Enquiry of the N E Dels, the mode of packing Hay at Boston, & inform you of the information I may receive.


[Page 474]
440 July 24, 1781 drafts drawn by Livermore “to the amount of £100 in silver lawful money,” for which see N.H. State Papers, 8:908. 2 See Charles Thomson to Weare, July 11, 1781. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee July 24, 1781. Tis true, my Friend, that I have two of your Letters to acknowl edge besides the one reed, yesterday June 12th and [13th?], lay unacknowledged when July 13th came to hand. 1 Besides my great Weight of Public Business as an Apology, I own I depended on your Brother L and Sister S 2 to convey information, which, discovered by interceptors, would not have the same ill Consequences as if from my Pen. I have not Leisure for Cyphers and the Nature of the Things which would be the subjects for my Letters is such that I could only write in Cyphers. Digby is said to have arrived at New-York with 5 Ships of the Line—no Land Forces—The Tyrant’s 3d Son a Midshipman on Board. If they have eluded the French intirely in Europe we can expect no great naval Doings here by our ally, who, you may nevertheless be assured, intends to be superior in these Seas this Season. Yr. Brother having been to Head Quarters can and doubtless does, by the Inclosed, 3 inform you respecting Land Operations. I am greatly pleased at what the Marquis de Fayette writes of yr. Son. I take much Interest in what must conduce to your Happiness. Yr. Frd. & humb Servt. J.L. MS not found; reprinted from James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, September 15, 1781, where it appeared under the heading “A Sixth Mail. Contents of a Southern Rebel Mail, Lately taken by a Party of Associated Loyalists.” 1 Only Richard Henry Lee’s June 12 letter to Lovell is in Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:235-38. 2 That is, Arthur Lee and Alice Lee Shippen. 3 An extract from the “Inclosed” July 23 letter of Arthur Lee to Richard Henry was also published in the September 15 issue of the Royal Gazette. Richard Potts to Samuel Hughes My Dear Sir, 1 Copy Philadelphia July 24th. 1781. I have received your Letter by the Post, and by Return inclose you the last Papers for the Amusement of your Leisure Hours. They contain the latest Advices & include every Occurrence worth Com municating. In them you will find the Capitulation entered into


[Page 484]
450 July 26, 1781 1 George Clymer, Joseph Montgomery, and Thomas Smith were the Pennsylvania delegates attending Congress at this time. 2 The council’s July 23 letter reads: “Agreeable to the Resolution of Assembly we have prepared a Petition to Congress requesting a Hearing upon the Claim set up by Connecticut for the Susquehanna Lands agreeable to the Articles of Confederation— But as we would not embarrass Congress or take up their Time with a disagreeable Discussion at an improper Season, we shall be glad of your Opinion whether it will at this Juncture be seasonable & proper.” For this letter, the “Petition therein aluded to,” and the Pennsylvania Assembly resolution calling for a new effort “to bring to final settlement the long depending dispute” between Connecticut and Pennsylvania, see Susquehanna Co. Papers, 7:84, 86-87, 90-91. For the council’s decision in October to revive the subject (the reasons for delaying it “having ceased”), see Pa. Council Minutes, 13:79; JCC, 21:1092, 1107, 1115-16; PCC, item 77, fols. 21-24; and Richard Law to Jonathan Trumbull, November 6, 1781. Georgia Delegates to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 27 July, 1781. We have this instant been notified of the present opportunity to your Army, and with infinite satisfaction embrace it, to testify to you the high sense we have of your arduous exertions for the honor & welfare of the department in general, and for the State of Georgia in particular. 1 In the name of the people of that State, we beg leave to offer to you our most grateful and sincere thanks. Permit us also to add, that it is the constant theme of all orders and ranks of men this way, that you have done wonders, however much the unlucky reinforcement to the enemy may vary the scene. We flatter ourselves that the people of Georgia will immediately organize their Constitutional form of Government, of which they are very fond; & feel the utmost confidence, from the earnest you have given us, that you will afford it every possible Countenance & support. 2 The appointment of Major Jackson 3 to raise a corps in that State, is also a great proof of your discernment. He is a young gentleman particularly distinguished for his inflexible integrity, undaunted bravery, and zealous love for his Country; and we have the highest expectations from the arrangement. We lament the cruelties that must have taken place, after your putting our people again in possession of their Country; but we ought to make great allowances for the feelings of the father, the husband, the friend—the british have set the melancholy example— Retaliation may be carried too far. We would fain hope it has not been the case with our constituents: but we admit the foundation of implacable resentments. We beg leave to assure you, Dear Sir, that, let the issue of your command be what it may, in the face of such difficulties, we shall


[Page 485]
July 28, 1781 451 always admire and esteem you; being with the greatest respect and regard, your much obliged, & most Obedient servants, Geo. Walton Richd. Howly RC (N: Signers of the Declaration). Written by Walton and signed by Walton and Howly. 1 This letter was undoubtedly delivered with Congress’ commendation of Greene for his conduct of the southern campaign, for which see Thomas McKean to Greene, July 26, 1781. 2 For the reorganization of Georgia, see Georgia Delegates to the Speaker of the Georgia Assembly, July 18, 1781, note 1. 3 That is, Maj. James Jackson, who became lieutenant colonel of the Georgia State Legion in August 1781 at Greene’s suggestion and was presented the keys to Savannah when it was evacuated in July 1782. See The Revolutionary Records of the State of Georgia, ed. by Allen D. Candler, 3 vols. (Atlanta: Franklin-Turner Co., 1908), 3:25; and Heitman, Historical Register, p. 239. Elias Boudinot to Peter Wilson Sir 1 Philadelphia. July 28th. 1781 I think it a Duty as well as an honor to have the Pleasure of addressing you on my taking a Seat in Congress as one of your Delegates, and shall be very glad of a continued Correspondence while at this Place, as I should be allways glad to Conform myself to the general Ideas of my Constituents. I set off for this Place on the 18th Instt. but was much surprized on my arrival here to find that by the resolution of the Joint Meeting appointing Dr Elmore & myself, that we are restricted from representing the State of New Jersey unless one of the former delegates are present. This we consider as making an invidious Distinction between us, and could not have taken our Seats under this partial Appointment consistent with our reputation & feelings had not Dr. Witherspoon assured us that it must be a bare misprision of the Clerk, this has prevailed on me to continue here till we can hear from you, which I must beg to be by return of the next Stage. I would be glad of your information what appeared to you to be the Sense of the Legislature, for tho’ Congress make no Objection to our representing the State, yet it will not be safe or prudent for us to vote alone, under the express declaration of the State to the Contrary unless we are properly assured that it is a Mistake. 2 As this goes by the Stage, which is an uncertain Conveyance, I can say nothing in point of News but what may be made publick, with safety. Our affairs both abroad and to the Southward, bear the most flattering Aspects, and we are encouraged to hope & Expect the happiest Consequences from the continued Struggles of this Year. It


[Page 486]
452 July 28, 1781 is a matter of the highest Consequence, that the requisitions of our worthy General on the different States be punctually & immediately Complied with. You could not do a more essential Service to these States, than to urge the completion of the levies for the Army. Lord Cornwallis has returned to Portsmouth and the Marquis after gaining great Laurels in his late attack on his Lordship is refreshing his little Army, so as at the same time to cover the Country. Could you with propriety communicate what you consider as the Ideas of our Legislature, relative to the dispute of Vermont & the expediency of their being declared a free & independent State, I should be much obliged. FC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. 1 Peter Wilson (1746-1825), a member of the New Jersey Assembly, 1777-81, was principal of Hackensack Academy. DAB. 2 See Boudinot to John Stevens, July 24, 1781, note. Thomas McKean to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, July 28. 1781. Your Excellency’s Favors of the 6th, 16th, and 21st Instant came safe to hand and were read in Congress. 1 Inclosed herewith you will receive an Act of Congress of the 16th respecting Brigadier McIn tosh, who has lately arrived in this City from Charles-Town; he is on his Parole. 2 The last Dispatches from Colonel Laurens, our special Minister at Versailles, give further Proofs of the sincere Attachment of our good Ally to our Cause and Country; but as I am induced to believe you have had Information from him of the Contents, I need not descend to particulars. Nothing of Importance has occurred since my last. I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedient humble servant, Tho M:Kean President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by McKean. 'JCC, 20:737, 21:777, 787. These letters are in PCC, item 152, 10:159-62, 167-70, 175-78; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:329-31, 389-90, 404-5. As Mc Kean had previously acknowledged Washington’s letter of the 6th (in his July 14 letter to the general), he may actually have meant to list Washington’s July 10 letter to Congress, which was read on July 17 (/CC, 20:756), and is in PCC, item 152, 10:163-66, and his Writings, 22:356-57. 2 For the adoption of this “Act,” which repealed a February 15, 1780, resolution suspending Gen. Lachlan McIntosh from any employment in the southern depart ment, see JCC, 20:752-53; PCC, item 162, fols. 301-3; and these Letters, 14:420.


[Page 487]
July 28, 1781 453 William Sharpe to Thomas Burke Sir Philadelphia July 28. 1781 Mr. Johnston, who left this place on the 14th instant will commu nicate to your Excellency every thing material from this quarter on his arival in the state. I greatly lament the absence of so able a representative and of so judicious and very agreable collegue. Upon the resignation of Mr. Huntington he was almost unanimously elected and earnestly solic ited to take the chair; but his ill state of health and other considera tions induced him to decline it. 1 The most particular object which rendered it necessary for me to continue here a few weeks longer was to procure and forward arms to our State agreeable to a resolution of Congress which we obtained for that purpose on the 26 of April a copy of which I do myself the honor to inclose. The enemy being in force in Virginia made it necessary that the arms first repaired should be sent there. The want of money and the deranged condition of the laboratories are the causes of this business going on so slow. Fifteen hundred stand are all that we can get at present. Five hundred are now ready; it may be three or four weeks before the remainder are finished. On applica tion I have obtained an order for 1500 cartouch boxes and a sufficient quantity of fixed amunition. The arms are equal to any in the army, with good bayonets. The next great difficulty is for the quarter-master to procure waggons for the transportation. I shall spare no pains nor leave any thing in my power unessayed to have them forwarded without loss of time. The Superintendent of finance and the board of war have such difficulties in the dispensation of our small fund of money, that without my close attention the State will never recieve one of those necessary articles. Tho your delegates here have not received any explicit instructions on this subject, yet I flatter myself that our conduct will meet with the entire approbation of your Excellency and the legislature. I am perswaded that if the State had been well armed Lord Cornwallis would not have been permitted to march and countermarch through that country and plunder its best citizens with impunity. Our Frigate Alliance arived at Boston about the 8th of June. Six weeks before which the Ship Marquis de la Fayette (with all our cloathing, arms &c on board) was seperated from her in a heavy gale of wind and not since heard of. It is supposed that she foundered. It is also supposed that the same fate attended the vessel on board of which Colo. Palfrey sailed for France last December. Such is the strange fatality which attend our procuring supplies from France that the court have determined to send a quantity under their own immediate direction.


[Page 488]
454 July 28, 1781 A Letter dated in April hath been recieved from Colo. Laurens which gives a prospect of some further pecuniary aid from that quarter. Conferrences on the subject of a general pacification will probably not open before the close of this campaign. The seperate mediation offered by the court of Petersburg between the States General and England hath been deferred by the latter until the general negociations shall open. This event is thought favourable to the common cause and was probably dictated by the same delusive views and principles which are manifested in Lord George Germains letters to Sir H. Clinton. About that time the british ministry were informed of the defection in the Pennsylvania and New Jersey lines of the army—The inter cepted letters in the eastern mail containing a dismal picture of our affairs—The parade and pomposity of Lord Cornwallis in the southern States—and the flattering prospects which his Lordship and Sir Henry entertained at that time of subduing america, together with the hope that the inhabitants of Vermont would join the Canadian forces this campaign) and formed the data of Ger mains letters. The most conspicuous of those intercepted letters are contained in the inclosed papers, to which I beg leave to refer you. A letter has lately been received from Madrid. That court perti naciously insists on those things which have so long been their object, so that a treaty with them is apparently remote. Our money negociations goes on with a little more ease than formerly and Mr. Jay has obtained some cloathing for our army. Should any thing material occur while I continue here I will with pleasure communicate it. I presume it is unnecessary for me to request your particular attention to keep up our representation in Congress. I am per- swaded that you view it with me as a matter of great consequence to the southern states and I doubt not that every effort will be used to accomplish it. With the highest respect and esteem I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Most Obedient Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 1 Johnston himself explained the circumstances of his departure from Philadelphia in a July 30 letter to Governor Burke written while en route home. "Having no prospect of being relieved or supplyed with money for my expences and my disorder, which abated a little on the first approach of warm weather, returning so as to render me of little use in Congress, I left Philadelphia the 14th, for which I hope I shall be held excusable by this State.” And in a brief letter of August 6, Johnston added the following observation concerning Sharpe’s determination to escape Philadelphia: “I wrote you a few lines the other day from Roanoke but do not now recollect whether I mentioned to you the Necessity of sending on as soon as possible two Delegates to Congress, one will answer no usefull purpose as Mr Sharpe had resolved, as soon as he could see about 1500 Stand of Arms and a quantity of fixed ammunition in motion for the State, to return home.” N.C. Slate Records, 15:588-89, 22:554-55.


[Page 489]
July 29, 1781 455 William Sharpe to Nathanael Greene Dear General, Philadelphia July 28. 1781 I hope you will see Governor Rutledge an[d] Colo. Few who will be able to give you a minute account of the public affairs here and in Europe. Copies of the most conspicious letters from Lord George Ger maine to Sir Henry Clinton intercepted and sent here by way of France were sent you by Colo. Few which I hope you will duly recieve. Colo. Laurens last letter from France gives a prospect of some farther pecuniary aid and that the Minister of Marine will, if possible establish a naval superiority on the american seas before the close of this campaign. 1 The seperate offer of mediation made by the court of Petersburg between the States general and England hath been deferred by the latter until conferences shall open the subject of a general pacifica tion. This event cannot be unfavorable to us, and no doubt was dictated by the same views and principles which is manifested in Germains letters. There is nothing material from the main army nor from the West Indias. If you have obliged the enemy to abandon their post at ninety six, as is reported, it will be gaining a very great point. The fatagues that you and your little army undergo pain me to the heart. May you live to enjoy the fruit of your labor. With the highest respect & esteem I am my dear GenL, Your most Obt. Humble Servt. Wm. Sharpe RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 Apparently a reference to John Laurens’ April 9 letter to Congress, for which see Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, July 17, 1781, note 2. Laurens’ May 15 letter from Paris (erroneously endorsed by Charles Thomson “Letter May 25. 1781, John Laurens") also contained the information mentioned by Sharpe, but it was carried by Capt. William Jackson who had gone to Amsterdam to hasten preparations for the sailing of the Indien and consequently did not arrive in Philadelphia until February 28, 1782. See PCC, item 41:451,459, item 165, fols. 115-18; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:416-17. Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearly beloved Wife, Philadelphia July 29th. 1781. Tho late in the Evening, I am glad to get rid of my fellow Lodgers, and retire from their very disagreeable Company (on this day) to hold converse with my better Self. As it is uncertain whether I shall have time to write again before the Post goes, shall inform you of my Situation.


[Page 490]
456 July 29, 1781 I tryed in vain to get Lodgings near the State House, and altho’ I was kindly invited to my old Quarters, yet the irregularity of Congress Hours & the Circumstances of the family were such as obliged me to refuse it. The City is so filled with the distressed Georgia & Carolina refugees, that I was afraid I should be prevented getting any Quarters out of a Tavern. At last I have got a room at a Mrs. Clarks, in the House Mr. Searle formerly lived, at the Corner of Chestnut & front Streets opposite Woods the Watch-maker. I am in the third Story & with very disagreeable Company, particularly on the Sabbath. I give 7 Dollars per Week for my Board & find my own Drink, wood & Candles. My Situation is not very desirable & my Services here, not such as will satisfy me for the loss of what I prize above all temporal Pleasures I mean domestic Ease & Happiness. I know it may be answered that I am destitute of that laudable ambition & Pursuit of Honor that should urge every Man to activity. I confess I have other Views & other Pursuits—and as I find so many ready to supply my deficiencies in this respect, that I am contented to pass thro’ Life in humble Obscurity, if it be [the] will of my heavenly father, who has a right to dispose of me & my Services as he shall see best. Resignation to his will is I hope the great Pursuit of my Life. If nothing turns up here, more than at present, I shall try to be home about the 20t Augt. I got my Trunk safe but have been obliged to get a new pair of Buckles mine not being sent. I have no News to Communicate except that in general our affairs both abroad & at Home (I mean to the Southward) wear the most flattering Appearances. Lord Cornwallis since his drubbing by General Wayne, has retreated quite to Portsmouth & the Marquis is refresh ing his Troops in such Manner as to cover the Country. Julia goes on Tuesday for Princeton, so that I shall then be all alone. I hope my beloved Wife is much happier with her little family about her, than I am here. If I was convinced that I was doing essential Service to my Country, it would give me Pleasure even to forego that large Share of Happiness I have left behind, but I feel myself inadequate to the Errand on which I am sent, and ardently wish some Person of superior Talents was in my room. I am not so humble as to suppose I am not as equal to the Task as many that have been here before me, but their deficiency does not give me Capacity. I am convinced the Affairs of America requires now the Abilities of a Pitt & a Necker to preside over her Councils. However I did not choose myself, nor ever did solicit the Choice from any other Person, and therefore while I remain in this important Station, will make up by Integrity & Application my want of those other Qualifications necessary for this important Trust. I will leave this Letter unfinished till Tuesday. Monday Night. 1 What shall I say to my beloved Wife—in distress & pain, and no tender Hand to afford relief, or sympathetic Heart to


[Page 494]
460 July 31, 1781 with regard to the event of them. Col. Willet we understand has lately given a decisive defeat to a party from Canada on the Frontiers of N. York. 2 With very sincere regard I am, Dr. Sir, Your obt friend & Servant, J. Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:204-5. 1 See ibid., pp. 192-93. 2 Col. Marinus Willett’s victory over a large party of “Tories” and Indians near Canajoharie, N.Y., on July 1 was reported in the August 2 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. George Partridge to Samuel Holten My dear Sir, Phila. July 31st 1781 Knowing your disinterested benevolence to your friends as well as to your Country I must take the freedom of requesting a Line from you to inform me how matters are with you. The Letter from a Commee. of the Legislature is yet before the Commee of Congress whither any bills will be obtained for the payment of interest is uncertain, & by no means to be depended upon. 1 The Redemption of the Remainder of the old money is now under Consideration of a Commee. & the mode of redemption will I hope be setled soon. The Independence of Vermont has taken up several days in Congress, the Idea is more familiar, and not so shocking even to the Dominion as formally, & tho’ I have no great apprehentions that the Enemy can bring over those people to their obedience; yet I think it necessary to do something to quiet their minds and Settle the Affairs which I believe will soon take place. I am very glad to see the same Gentlemen are in Council as last year, and doubt not but your Business must go on easy & well while this is the Case. For news I must refer you to the inclosd. paper and shall only add that 4 or 5 Cartels have lately arrived from Charlestown & Augustine with some soldiers, but principally Citizens from Charlestown, who have been driven out by the Enemy from the city & taken from Guard ships. Many of these people are gentlemen who have lived in ease & affluence, but are now real objects of Charity & compassion; as the Enemy, contrary to the faith of the most solemn treaty, & every feeling of humanity, denyd. them the smallest pittance of their own Estates. Congress have recommend them to the Charity of the people, and I hope that something handsome will be done by contribution. I am Sir with great Esteem your most obedient humble Servt. Geo Partridge P.S. I wish you would inform me how taxes come in or whither any difficulties in collecting beef &c.


[Page 496]
462 July 31, 1781 New York living without the limits of the disputed territory would return to their Allegiance. The British Ministry esteem it as object of Great importance to them, to engage the people of Vermont in their Interest, and have accordingly Instructed Gen. Clinton & Gen. Haldiman to use their best endeavours for that end. And tho’ I dont think the people have any inclination to come under the British Yoke, or to do anything injurious to this Country, yet if left in their present Situation, they may be led to take Steps very prejudicial to the United States... 2 I think it very unlikely, that Congress can attend to the Settlement of the dispute by a Judicial decision, during the War, for though the parties were heard last fall respecting their claims, yet it cannot now be determined upon the right, without a new hearing, because there are many New Members that were not then present. I am credibly Informed that a great Majority of the members of the Legislature of the State of New York at their last winter session were willing to relinquish their claim of Jurisdiction over that district, and that they Should be admitted to be a Seperate State, but the Governor for Some reasons prevented an act passing at that time. We have No News remarkable here. Paper currency is very much at an end, Some of the New Bills are bought & Sold, but Silver and Gold are the only currency—the prices of Commodities are much fallen, many articles are as low, as before the war. I Send you two of the last News papers. And am with Great Esteem & Regard, Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman P.S. Since writing the foregoing Congress have recommitted the report. 3 New York delegates arrived to day—They are instructed to move for a decision of the affair of Vermont. 4 RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). FC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton, this date, note 3. 2 Thus in the RC. At this point in the FC Sherman had inserted and lined out the following sentence: “I therefore think it would be much the Safest and best way for the States of New Hamshire & New York to pass Acts Similar to that passed by Massachusetts, without waiting for any recommendation of Congress.” 3 JCC, 21:818. 4 See L’Hommedieu to Clinton, this date. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Sr. Phila. 31st July 1781 The Rider being robed of the Mail a few miles on this side of Wilmington prevented your Excellency from receiving our Letter of last week a copy of which we now inclose. 1 Nothing material having since intervened we have only to add that the information given by


[Page 515]
August 7, 1781 481 Thomas McKean to Joseph Reed and Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia August 7. 1781 Your Excellency will receive inclosed herewith copies of divers letters announcing the motions of Lord Cornwallis’s Army to be for Baltimore or the head of Chesapeake. 1 These Letters came to hand yesterday, and the General and the President of Delaware are both furnished with copies. The Enemy, I suspect from the intercepted Letter of Lord G. Germaine to Sir Henry Clinton of the 7th Febry. last, 2 have still some hopes of being joined by the Tories and Traitors of Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland; but I flatter myself they will now find but few of this description. I have the Honor to be &c &c Th. McK. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “To President Reed. N.B. A similar Letter to President Rodney.” 1 This intelligence was forwarded to Congress in an August 4 letter from Maryland governor Thomas Sim Lee, enclosing letters to him from James McHenry of July 30, from the marquis de Lafayette of August 1, and from Commodore James Barron to Lafayette of July 31 reporting the movement of British ships from Cape Henry up Chesapeake Bay. See JCC, 21:832; PCC, item 70, fols. 481-93; and Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 4:292-93. 2 See McKean to Washington, July 17, 1781, note 1. 3 McKean also wrote the following letter to the Eastern Navy Board this day, enclosing an August 3 resolve denying the board’s recommendation of John Buckley for a promotion to a lieutenancy on board the Alliance. “Your letter of the 31 [2 l]st of July was read in Congress on the third instant, and an Order passed in consequence of it, a copy of which you have herewith enclosed.” See JCC, 21:828-29; and PCC, item 16, fol. 57, item 37, fols. 499-501. Thomas McKean to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, August 7th. 1781 I was yesterday honored with your Letter of the 2d Instant, and communicated it with the Inclosures immediately to Congress. 1 Re-iterated Complaints from our unfortunate Prisoners at New- York, whose Treatment is cruel, beyond Description and their Situation really deplorable, gave rise to the Act of Congress of the 3d Instant, a Copy of which is inclosed herewith. How their Distresses will be alleviated is difficult to tell: Humanity to the Enemy Prisoners seems to be no longer a Virtue; Retaliation through the Medium of the Simsbury Mines, may possibly awaken them to a Sense of Duty. 2 By the last Accounts from Maryland, the Fleet with Lord Cornwal lis amounting to near forty Sail, and having on Board (it is supposed) near three thousand Troops, had proceeded on the 1st Instant from Hampton Road towards Anapolis: 3 His Lordship


[Page 516]
482 August 7, 1781 himself was said to remain at Portsmouth, and two Men of War & eight Transports in Hampton Road. Governor Lee had on Saturday last six hundred Regulars at Annapolis, and was collecting the Militia; he appears to be in good Spirits. This Intelligence has been sent to the Presidents of Delaware & Pennsylvania. Can this Manoeuvre be to draw the Marquis’s Forces on this Side James River, in Order to facilitate the March of the Horse to South Carolina; or is it for the Purpose of collecting Provisions & Forage before they proceed for New York; or can they flatter themselves with Conquest thro’ any Assistance promised by the disaffected near the Head of the Bay, which Lord George Germaine alludes to in his Letter of the 7th of Feby. last to Sir Henry Clinton: If the latter was expected, or even the Recovery of their Prisoners at Lancaster or York-town, I should suppose Lord Cornwallis would have acted in Person. As soon as any thing more is known respecting this Movement I shall inform your Excellency of it. I am, Sir, with the most respectful Attachment, Your Excellency’s Most obedient humble Servant, Tho M:Kean President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by McKean. 1 JCC, 21:832. Washington’s letter is in PCC, item 152, 10:183-90; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 22:445-48. 2 The enclosed resolve was adopted in response to a committee report drafted by Elias Boudinot recommending that Washington remonstrate against the “unneces sary severity” of the treatment of Americans confined on board prison ships at New York, demanding in answer “to know the reasons” that Congress might decide “measures for due retaliation...if a redress of these evils is not immediately given.” /CC, 21:815, 829-30. Boudinot, upon whose motion this committee was appointed to inquire into “the state of the American prisoners in the power of the enemy,” had been commissary general of prisoners during 1777-78. See George A. Boyd, Elias Boudinot, Patriot and Statesman, 1740-1821 (Princeton, NJ.: Princeton University Press, 1952), pp. 33-67, 88-89. McKean also transmitted a copy of the enclosed resolve to commissary of prisoners Abraham Skinner under cover of a brief letter that is dated August 9 in his presidential letterbook (PCC, item 16, fol. 57) and August 7 in the file copy in the McKean Papers at PHi. 3 See the preceding entry. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Sim Lee Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 7th. 1781. The Board of War assures us that the remaining 500 Stand of Arms, & the two Field peices will be sent down immediately— probably the Waggons will leave this place to morrow. 1 We applied to the Board to send a guard, but find it cannot be done. Instruc tions will be given to the Conductor to convey the arms &ca down by the safest rout. We take the Liberty of suggesting to you whether it wou’d not be proper to direct a guard to meet the waggons on the road.


[Page 519]
August 7, 1781 485 I hope Some will be Sent by the first Safe opportunity. I am with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency’s, Very humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Sherman was chairman of the committee on the New Hampshire Grants that was appointed on July 9, and author of the committee report whose recommendations on Vermont independence were adopted by Congress this day. See /CC, 20:732, 21:836-39; and PCC, item 20, 1:11-13. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia Augt. 7th 1781 The affair of Vermont has been in agitation a Long time. Nothing is yet determined on but I am Convinced the Result will be a recognition of its Independence Limiting it by the West Bank of Connecticut River. A Committee will be appointed to Settle the Terms upon which they may be received—A Report of this kind is now on the Table and will be considered in two or three Days. 1 After it is determined I shall Set out for Home as I have formerly notified you. I am Sorry to inform you that in order to pay off my Arrears & defray Expences Home I shall be in want of a hundred pounds Lawful money & not being able to Sell a Bill at two months Sight have been compelled to Sell one at ten Days Sight, which should not have done had it been possible to Avoid it. If any Difficulty should Arise I hope to be at Home before the time of payment arrives to prevent any injurious Consequences. I have the honor to be very respectfully Sir yr most obedt Servt, Jno Sullivan RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 This report was considered and adopted this day, for which see the preceding entry. 2 For Sullivan’s financial difficulties at this time, see also James M. Varnum to Sullivan, August 10, 1781. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Phila. 7th Augt. 1781 1 We have received your Excellencies favor of the 25th ult. 2 and are happy to hear, contrary to our private information, that the State hath not suffered in any material degree by the expedition of L’d Cornwallis into the Heart of the Country, and in particular that he was joined by so few of our People. The spirit of opposition being high, we doubt not your Excellency will be able after the Harvest to draw forth a Force sufficient to oppose their future excursions and


[Page 521]
August 8, 1781 487 1 New York had complained that Connecticut citizens had been indiscriminately plundering the property of patriots and loyalists alike on Long Island under cover of commissions issued by Gov. Jonathan Trumbull authorizing the seizure of enemy goods there. The enclosed resolve requested that Governor Trumbull immediately “revoke the said commissions...so far as they authorise the seizure of goods on Long Island, or elsewhere, on land not within the State of Connecticut.” See JCC, 20:722, 747, 21:835-36; PCC, item 67, 2:390-415; and Ezra L’Hommedieu to Clinton, July 31, 1781. McKean also sent a copy of this resolve to Governor Trumbull under cover of the following letter of August 9. “Your Excellency will receive herewith inclosed an Act of Congress of the 7th instant, respecting Commissions granted by you for capturing the Enemy’s property on Long-Island. “This Act was passed in consequence of representations of very dangerous abuses committed by persons holding those commissions.” PCC, item 16, fol. 60. 2 For the adoption of this resolve, which New Yorkers believed tantamount to recognizing the independence of Vermont, see JCC, 21:836-39; New York Delegates’ Memorial, August 3; New York Delegates to Clinton, August 7; and Committee of Congress Interview with the Vermont Agents, August 18, 1781. Thomas McKean to the New Hampshire Grants Residents Gentlemen, Philada August 8. 1781 You will receive enclosed herewith an Act of Congress of the 7th instant, and the names of a Committee elected by Ballot on this day in consequence thereof, respecting matters of the highest concern to your interest and happiness. 1 It will be unnecessary for me to point out the advantages to you or the common cause, that must attend the appointment of an Agent or Agents on your part as speedily as possible, to repair to Philadelphia with plenipotentiary Powers, & to compleat a business in so fair and promising a train. I have the honor to be, with due respect Gentlemen, Your most obedient humble Servant, Th. McK. Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “To The People residing on the New- Hampshire Grants on the west Side of Connecticutt river, or their representative Body.” 1 See the preceding entry, note 2. John Sullivan to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia Augt 8th 1781 Agreable to Notice given you in my Last I now Draw on you in favor of Colo Clement Biddle for one hundred & Twenty five pounds Pensylvania Currency—& have only to add my Solicitations for the Speedy Discharge of them as Colo Biddle accepted the


[Page 524]
490 August 10, 1781 General Heath to settle the dispute was reached. See JCC, 21:831, 848, 896-97; James Duane to George Clinton, August 14; and New York Delegates to Clinton, September 9, 1781. 2 For additional documents related to this case, including Gov. George Clinton’s November 24 letter to Congress representing the “truly deplorable” plight of the artificers, whose wages in some cases were still in arrears from 1778, see Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 7:154-55, 213-24, 246-48, 255-59, 522. Charles Thomson to John Jay August 9th, 1781. “Since writing the foregoing letter I have seen Germaine’s intercepted letters, which were forwarded by you. 1 Is it not astonishing that the experience of six years fruitless, expensive and ruinous war has not yet taught the nation or the rulers of the nation of Britain wisdom? Because our army is small is the conquest of America therefore easy and certain? Can they have forgotten that the war was begun when we had not a single soldier in the field? That it was the yeomanry of the country who quitting their peaceful farms rushed to arms in 1775, repelled the invaders at Lexington and cooped up General Gage’s army at Boston, fought the battle of Bunker Hill and voluntarily engaged to continue in service until January following in hopes of driving the enemy before that time out of their Capital & territories and obtaining a redress of their grievances?” Continues with a six-page summary of the war from the spring of 1776 to Sir Henry Clintons embarkation of an expedition against South Carolina in January 1780, concluding “My former letters have already informed you of the issue of that business.” MS not found; abstracted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1878): 54-61. A continuation of Thomson to Jay, July 11, 1781. 1 See Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee, July 17, 1781, note 2. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston My dear Sir. Philada. 10th August 1781. Congress have this day elected you to be their minister for foreign Affairs on which accept my Congratulations, and my sincere Wishes that you may execute this great office to your Country s best advantage, and to your own Honour. 1 I presume you will be with us so soon that it is quite useless to detail the Occurrences which have passed since I took my Seat in Congress. Present my Affectionate Regard to your Mamma, your Lady and every branch of the Family—And believe me to be with the utmost Regard, Dear Sir, Your Affectionate & most obedt Servt, Jas. Duane


[Page 525]
August 10, 1781 491 Robert R. Livingston


[Page 526]
492 August 10, 1781 RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 See Thomas McKean to Livingston, August 11, 1781. For the creation of this office and Livingston’s appointment to it, see also Thomas Burke to William Bingham, January 30, 1781, note; Jennings B. Sanders, Evolution of the Executive Departments of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1935), pp. 108-11; and George Dangerfield, Chancellor Robert R. Livingston of New York, 1746-1813 (New York: Harcourt, Brace and Co., 1960), pp. 135-45. Livingston’s election was also the subject of the following letter of this date, from Duane and Ezra L’Hommedieu to New York governor George Clinton. “This Morning Chancellor Livingston was elected Minister for foreign Affairs—An Appointment which will be very agreeable to the foreign Courts in our Friendship on Account of his Rank, Connections and abilities.” Members of Congress Collection, MiU-C. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Aug. 10. 1781 I am persuaded to believe that I have acknowledged the Receipt of your Favor of June 30th tho it is not so endorsed. 1 I think I recollect to have discovered my Unwillingness to persuade my dearest Friend my affectionate faithful generous-spirited Maria to put herself in the Way of a Meeting with a Stranger prejudiced against me and perhaps prompt to utter her Prejudices. I am sure such Ideas rose in my Mind when I first read your Wishes that I should urge an Acceptance of your Invitation, given I am sure, in unfeigned Politeness and pressed afterwards for a most benevolent Purpose. I thank you cordially for your kind Intentions. But I maintain my former Judgment of the Consequences. I hope you see enough of my Temper to prevent you from ever giving me the real Name of Cornelia or Clarinda or whatever C it was mentioned in one of yr. Letters, now in Boston. The good Opinion & Confi dence of Mrs. L is one of the Chief of the very few Things that are to constitute my Happiness for the short years I may have to live. I have made Communications to Mr. S. A. 2 if not to you that will answer all those Questions which you was restrained from asking thro’ Fear of Rivington. I do really think that no Pique or ill Will against your Mr. A exists here. Whatever has been done that can excite a Suspicion of the Kind has sprung out of mistaken Principles of general Policy. I am not induced to suppose La Luzerne otherways than friendly & respectful; But when he has, agreably to what Vergennes wrote to him, desired Instructions to our Negotiator to act cordially & unreservedly with those of France, the Measures adopted here, in Consequence, have exceeded his Expectations. I wish you not to suffer any Vexation of Mind beyond what I do myself. There is no such Idea here as any Criminality in Mr. A


[Page 528]
494 August 10, 1781 James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Sir Aug. 10. 1781 When I have been asked here regularly and anxiously, for many Weeks back, whether I had not given you offence I answered preremptorily no. But now that the Question is put to me whether you have not taken Offence against me the answer becomes foreign. The Question is therefore submitted to the Tribunal where alone it can be answered. The Imagination of the Querists supposes the Ground of offence to be discovered in your printed Letter where you use your in preference to my—“nothing shall be wanting on my part to serve the interest of yourself and your amiable Friend.” 1 You have not been pleased to own the Receipt of mine of May 8, 8/9, 14, 29, June 14, 26 goes now, July 13, 2 & perhaps more, tho the last might have been in hand so as to be answered last post. If you should see Genl. Sullivan you would get all our evil-deeds for 3 months back. You must take them at second hand from Mr. S A 3 who will see the Genl. Lee’s Corps have had known Success against Rawdon’s parties so as to make us confirmed that something very fine has taken place at Monk’s Corner. Genl. Green at the date of his Letter reed. Today knew not the Proceedings of the Party sent thither but the Flaggs in a short Passage say the post was ruined by our People. Am I to give up all hope of offensive opperations on the North River to the defective Quotas of New England? God forbid. I am greatly baulked in not hearing from you the Comments made upon yr. published Letter of May 20. Here they say I was speculating. But indeed very few saw or took Interest in the Reading of the Budget catched at that Time. R R Livingston was yesterday chosen Secy, for for. affairs. 4 And a Comtee was the day before chosen to find from agents of Vermont their Expectations & Designs in case we recognize them. 5 This is more graceless now than it would have been some time ago but NY & NH were not then ripe for it. Yrs. affectionately, JL RC (MHi: Gerry Papers). Addressed: “The Honble. Elbridge Gerry, Boston or Marblehead, Care of S A Otis Esqr. Boston. Favd. by the Chevalr. J P Jones.” Endorsed: “Boston 12 Oct 1781. This day reed & Forwd by Your most Hbl. Ser, Sami. A Otis.” 1 Lovell was referring to a letter from Gerry of May 20, which had been intercepted and printed in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette on June 9, discussing the currency speculations of Gerry, Lovell, and a Miss Dalley, for which see Lovell to Gerry, February 20, March 16, 20, and 27, 1781. Gerry’s response to this letter apparently relieved Lovell’s apprehensions over the possible consequences of making this passage public, for in his October 2, 1781, letter to Gerry, Lovell cryptically observed that “It gives much Pleasure to find that, ‘your’ was a Misprint.”


[Page 529]
August 10, 1781 495 2 No letters from Lovell to Gerry of May 8-9 and 29, or June 26 have been found, but letters from Lovell to Gerry of May 8 and 14, June 5-13 and 14, and July 13 appear in this volume. 3 That is, Samuel Adams. 4 Lovell probably concluded this letter on August 11, because Robert R. Livingston was elected to this post on August 10. See Thomas McKean to Livingston, August 11, 5 The committee to confer with agents from Vermont was appointed on August 8. JCC, 21:841-42. James M. Varnum to John Sullivan Sir, Philadelphia 10 August 1781. 1 O.Clk. Ev. The Letter which you did me the Honor to write of this date, 1 has surprized me infinitely more than the Subject which occasioned my Address to you of Yesterday’s date; Can you suppose Sir, as a Gentleman of Honor and Sense that Explinations should have been sought on my part, into your Reserve, when I acted as a Legislator and you as a Party? I mean Sir, a Party of Interest, not with me. Good Heaven! Is America so abandoned to every Idea of Propriety as to admit that the first Councellors shall apologize to Applicants for a Refusal to their rejected Petitions? No Sir; Reflection will convince you that your Reserve was incompatible with every Idea of Candor; And that you should have opened the Subject to me, and not to my Colleague. If Sir, you grant “the Propriety of the Principle,” mentioned in my Letter, why would you wish me to deviate in your behalf? You give the Reasons, by observing “I have done it in other Instances.” Sir, I am obliged to say, you are mistaken in the Fact. But, otherwise, can my Acquiescence in adopting wrong Measures authorise the Propriety of your Misapplication, or justify me in protracting an Error? Pray Sir, if “the Principle I lay down,” “ought to be invariably pursued,” is it not as wrong in you as me to deviate from it? Your Application, or rather Advocation for a most partial Report, was a total Deviation from the general Principle, in which Principle, you, and every honest Man must agree; That I ever suffered this Principle to slip me “in a Variety of Instances,” I utterly deny. Sir, I do not know of an Instance in which Depreciation has been allowed to the medical Staff, or any Individuals, during my being in Congress, who retired from Service previous to the Resolution of Congress allowing Depreciation To the Line at large. My growing cold therefore upon the Principle, is saying no more than that I was not vain enough to pursue unremittedly an im- prob[ab]le Object, to the Detriment of more important Concerns. “That my Friend should be the first Victim to the Power of my Eloquence,” is a Suggestion at which my Heart relucts! “Is my Friendship watchful to wound a Friend”? Surely Sir, you did not


[Page 530]
496 August 10, 1781 consider the Force of your Expressions. To have called me knave, Vilain, & Scoundrel, would have been more generous! Here Sir, I must candidly declare, that I believe your Demand would have been acquiesced in, had it not been for my Opposition. I must lament, at the same Time, that a false Principle of personal Delacacy would have been the operating Cause! Shall it be said that a Member of Congress can receive Acknowledgements upon certain equitable Demands, to which Congress have not extended a general Principle? No. And I wish no greater Testimony than you will support at a more deliberative Moment. Your Claim Sir, did not rest upon “extreme Hardships;” but upon Principles of Justice; And consequently, you must abandon the Principle in the private Pur suit. This I am sorry to say, as I can not believe you intentionally wrong; but must observe, that Friendship never will, can, or ought to induce a Gentleman “whose Friendship has no Bounds,” to push his Friend upon the Point of Delicacy, beyond his Judgement. When Sir, you mention my “attacking you,” you do me the greatest Injury. When you draw a Contrast forming Advantages, you little attend to generous Feelings; & when you speak of Victory, “fatal to you,” you stab me directly, and in the tenderest part. Be assured, Sir, that instead of “Victory,” I obtained the most mortifying Reflection in my Life, that I was bound in Honor, Conscience and Virtue to oppose my best of Friends, in what I thought the most improper Demands. “In your Absence”? Had your Application been made upon anyjust rational Principles, you could not have been present at all; As you became a voter in your own particular Cause; or, prevented the Representation of a State—But, you spoke in your own Cause, under the Previlidges of a Legislator, And retired after I began to oppose the Report of the Committee. It is therefore assuming too much, when you insinuate that your Retiring should have caused my Acquiescence in a Measure that my Soul disap proved. I fear Sir, I have been too tedious upon a Subject, on which your Letter convinces me your Enmities are too deeply formed. Human Nature has its Errors. I think your Nature so good upon the great Scale, that I firmly believe you have displayed its darkest Shades in this Transaction. And notwithstanding I feel myself greatly injured, without a real Cause, I must persuade myself that your Conclusions are more the Result of accidental Causes, than from an original, habitual or intentional Malignity. Whatever may be your Conduct respecting me, I shall not forget how much the public is indebted to you; Your excellent Qualities and Capacity to render future Services. I shall neglect no Opportunity of impartially serving you, but must ever withhold from you, as I would from the highest Angell in Heaven, a Sacrifice of my Judgement. The cold, the collateral manner in which you mention the Time of your Depar ture, denies me the Honor of waiting upon you, as I intended, a few


[Page 536]
502 August 12, 1781 Judgmt & Bravery. Lee’s Words are “They were soon routed, dispersed & Cut to pieces”—except a Capt., Lieut., Cadet, 45 Men & Horses with Accoutrements compleat brought off Prisoners and one Man of the Whole escaped to be a living Evidence of the Fact. By a Flag from Charles Town we are informed that we succeeded also at Monks Corner. A Vessel just this Moment from Cadiz announces the Capture & arrival in France of the whole Statia Fleet with their Convoy—also the Capture & arrival at Cadiz [of] 5 English India Men. 2 I forgot to tell [you] that there has been a Mutiny among the English Troops at Carolina, in quelling of which 100 Men were killed & wounded. I am in great Haste but with Love to Sister & all with you, My Dr. Brother, Yours Affectly, Boudinot RC (NjP: Thorne Boudinot Papers). 1 Elias’s brother Elisha Boudinot (1749-1819), former commissary of prisoners for New Jersey, 1778-79, was a Newark lawyer and clerk at the Essex County circuit court. Livingston, Papers (Prince), 2:556. 2 See the preceding entry, note 2. Thomas McKean to George Washington Sir, Private. Philadelphia. August 12. 1781. By a vessel from Cadiz last night we are informed, that our Minister at the Spanish court, as late as the 11th June, 1 had made but little progress in a negociation with them; they still appear friendly, but aim at cessions we cannot make; they give encourage ment respecting money at sometimes, again they are disappointed and cannot promise any thing certain; they have however given Mr. Jay liberty to accept Bills to the amount of One hundred and fifty thousand Dollars, but have no known funds appropriated for the payment. In short their conduct appears rather insincere and mysterious. Our public dispatches are intercepted; or obstructed in so much, that a free correspondence is almost impracticable. Mr. Cardoqui was to sett off from Madrid for Philadelphia sometime in June; but his intentions of coming here have been so often an nounced, and the delay not accounted for, that Mr. Jay will say nothing about him hereafter, until he has actually sailed. France acts a truly friendly part. We shall certainly obtain from her, this year, twenty millions of livres; four of which will be retained for Doctor Franklin, to discharge the interest on Loan-Office Certifi cates; two supplied in military stores &c. and the residue be subject to the directions of Congress. I have the strongest reasons to believe that Colonel Laurens is now on the Ocean, and has with him two millions and an half of this money in specie: I pray most sincerely for his safe arrival.


[Page 537]
August 12, 1781 503 It is yet more than probable, that there will be a negociation for a general peace some time this Fall: the Congress to assemble at Vienna. France has proposed that the United States of America shall have a Minister or Ministers Plenipotentiary at the Congress: The Emperor is afraid this proposition may obstruct a measure he has much at heart; it has been suggested, that if the United States are heared by Memorial it would probably answer; but to this France does not seem to consent. The Emperor was expected in June or July at Paris on a visit—The probable consequence of which is yet in dubio. Sweden and Denmark have refused to assist the Dutch with Ships of War; Russia is undecided. Count Panin, the Prime Minister of Russia, is removed. Mr. Neckar’s resignation has been accepted by His Most Christian Majesty; this great Character was not agreeable to the court of Spain, nor to the Officers at Versailles; he is said to have conducted with too much Hauteur. Out of Admiral Rodney’s thirty four Ships, laden with the plunder of St. Eustatia, Monsieur Piquet has certainly captured twenty four; and it is said, that five more have been picked up by Privateers; the Escort, consisting of a 74, one 64 and two Frigates, with five of the convoy, escaped by their swiftness in sailing. An expedition was in great forwardness at Cadiz, to consist of eight sail of the line besides frigates &c. and eight or ten thousand Land-forces; the destination unknown. They were to sail in July, and conjectured to be for the West-Indies or this Continent. By a letter from the Marquis La Fayette of the 6th from Pamunky we have intelligence, that Lord Cornwallis, with the Fleet formerly mentioned, and an addition of Whale-boats, carrying the greatest part of the British Army, have arrived in York river, and landed at Gloucester and York-town, which they now occupy. 2 Your Excel lency is probably acquainted with their situation; however the Marquiss describes the one to be a small neck projected into the river; the other surrounded by the river and a Morass. Genl. O’Hara commands at Portsmouth. The Honorable Robert R. Livingston was appointed by Congress, on Friday last, Secretary for foreign affairs. Georgia has re-established her Government, and South Carolina is expected to be soon in capacity to do the same. I am, Sir, with the most respectful attachment, Your Excellency’s Most obedient humble Servant, Tho M:Kean RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by McKean. 1 Letters just received from Spain from John Jay of May 29 and from William Carmichael of June 2 and 11, 1781, were read in Congress on August 13. See JCC, 21:856; and PCC, item 88, fols. 147—52, item 89, fols. 154—60. Jay’s letter and the first of Carmichael’s are also in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:459-60, 466-67. 2 Lafayette’s August 6 letter to President McKean is in PCC, item 156, fols. 218-21.


[Page 542]
508 August 14, 1781 Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 14th. 1781 We are honoured with your Excellency’s letter of the 4th. of this month, enclosing copies of an act of the council of Safety for expediting a supply of hard mony for the Connecticut Line of the army, which we are very glad to see, and of your Excellency’s letter to Governor Clinton vindicating the seizure of british goods on Long Island. This measure he had complained of to Congress as attended with many abuses, and particularly dangerous to be pursued while the intended operations should be carrying on against New York—which induced Congress to come to an advisory resolve upon the matter, a copy of which we herewith inclose. We wish however, for their fuller information on so interesting a subject, that they had had the benefit of your Excellency’s letter, and shall yet lay it before them. 1 Your Excellency will have received two letters written circular to the States by the Superintendent of finance, sollicking the grant of the 5 per Cent, duties heretofore recommended by Congress, and pressing for a speedy adjustment of the accounts of supplies and other disbursements made by the States. 2 Both of which requests it appears to us of much importance to the public and especially the interest of our State, should be complied with. We enclose for your Excellency’s perusal a late act of Congress respecting Vermont—preparing the way for recognizing her inde pendance, and her admission into the Union. The States of New York and New Hampshire embarrassed and alarmed of late with the increasing claims of this people, have been very pressing for a decission, and there is reason to expect they will acquiesce in the measure now adopted. Our affairs, at this time, to the Southward appear to be gaining strength. General Greens support from the Country, which he is now able to protect, increases. Civil government is reestablishing in Georgia and expected soon to be in South Carolina. Lord Cornwallis yet remains in Virginia, but the force collected under the Marquis La Fayette has been able of late to cover the Country from his ravages. Letters have just been received from Mr. Jay at Madrid, but they do not communicate any thing of special importance. One, of a later date, from Mr. Carmichal his secretary, 3 mentions, as a matter he was convinced of from information he had obtained, that a demand from the Court of France to that of Vienna, that an American Commissioner should be admitted at the proposed Congress for a general pacification, was acceded to; but that it does not yet appear when or where this Congress will be held. An Embarkation of eight


[Page 554]
520 August 14, 1781 States, will shew Britain the nullity of such a claim, as to themselves, & the inadmissibility of it, on the part of generous Mediators. 2 RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 For Congress’ designation of five private citizens to raise funds for relief of the distressed refugees of South Carolina and Georgia, see Thomas McKean to William Bingham, et al., July 25, 1781. On the motion of the South Carolina delegates, Congress resolved on August 10 that the funds raised “be paid into the hands of the delegates of the said states” and that receipts be lodged at the treasury. See JCC, 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Mathews to Greene, August 23, 1781. Daniel Mowry to Daniel Manton Sr, 1 Philadelphia, 14th Augt. 1781. I Have To Inform you that we have accts, from Gen. Greene Down to the 17th of July wherein we Learn our affairs Bear a much Better Countance Then they did heretofore, Lord Cornwallis is now at York in Virginia, have Lately had Several Skirmises wherein our people have had the better, the Last Gen Greene hath Taken forty od of the Enmeys men & horse Compleatly Equipted. Congress appointed a Committee To Convean, Consulte and agree with a Committee appointed by the State of Varmont on Conditeons of Commincing a Sovring Independant State which last Mentioned Committee are arived at Philade— Commissioned for the Purpose aforesaid whereupon it is Probable Varmont will Commince a free Sovring and Independant State and Receved into the Union agree able To Consideration of the united States of america. I am here in Comfortable Health, find a very agreeable Companion in my Coleague Gen. Varnum who proves able To do Justice To the State whom he represents. Hope thise Lines may find you, your Family and all freinds well & remain Your assured Freind & Humble Servt. Dan. Mowry. MS not found; reprinted from James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, September 12, 1781, where it appeared under the heading “Continuation of the Contents of a new Rebel Mail (being the Fifth) which was taken by a party of Refugees, On Tuesday last.” Addressed: “To Col. Daniel Manton, Rhode Island State, Johnston.” 1 Daniel Manton, a Rhode Island militia colonel, had been elected an assistant in the Rhode Island Assembly in May 1781. Bartlett, Records of R.I., 9:402. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia 14th August 1781. The Super-Intendent of Finance has lately written circular Letters to the States; 1 Their Contents have been approved by Congress. We


[Page 555]
August 14, 1781 521 are at a loss to conjecture the Reasons wch. have induced the State of Rhode Island to delay complying with the Requisition of Congress respecting the five per Cent Duty. This Requisition was so essential to the Adoption of a regular, frugal and productive System of Finance, that we cannot enter into the necessary Details of a permanent Revenue without realizing it. It must be obvious that unless we can call forth the Resources of the respective States equally it will be impossible to execute any great Object, while the States who do most will be the greatest Sufferers. It is as obvious that without a permanent Revenue in the Disposal of the United States, we can neither fulfill past Ingagements nor obtain future Credit. The Resources of the Country are not sufficient to carry on the War, without anticipating the Revenues. This cannot be done Without Credit, nor this exist without Funds. We have not a Doubt but Matters will soon be put into such a Train as to settle the public Accounts on equitable Principles. Measures are taking by Congress to enable the Financier to adopt such Modes, as will do justice to all the States, & remove those unhappy Consequences wch. result from a mutual Jealousy. We must therefore beg Liberty urge the Propriety of the Measures, & a Compliance with them. The Congress have appointed a Committee of five to confer with a Committee to be appointed from the State of Vermont, and agree upon Terms for admitting them into the Union. Three Gentlemen have arrived from Vermont ’tho’ in Consequence of Powers granted by that State previous to the Resolution of Congress. 2 Our latest Advices from General Greene gives Matters a much more favorable Complexion in the Southern Department than could have been expected. Lord Cornwallis taken Post on York River in Yorktown and Gloucester with most of his Army. We have the honor of being, Sir, with great Respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servts. J M Varnum Dani Mowry RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Varnum, and signed by Varnum and Mowry. 1 A reference to Robert Morris’ circular letters to the states of July 16 and 25; but since Rhode Island was one of six states that had not yet granted Congress authority to levy a 5% impost, it was also one of the recipients of his July 27 circular letter exhorting compliance with Congress’ February 3 appeal for this grant. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 1:305-6, 380-84, 395-402. 2 See James Duane to George Clinton, this date, note 4.


[Page 556]
522 August 14, 1781 Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Sr. Phila. Augt. 14th. 1781 We have your favor of the 27th ulto. 1 The Delegates moved in Congress for a resolution to furnish our State with some passports for Vessells to import Salt only from Bermuda and load with Indian Corn and flour in return—the motion meeting opposition was committed and no Report is yet made. We shall hasten this business all we can and use our best endeavours to support it. 2 The Allied Army under the command of Genl. Washington continues in the Neighbourhood of Dobbs’ Ferry waiting events to commence operations agt. New York. From Spain we have advices of a powerfull armament preparing in that Kingdom for a secret expedition, supposed agt. Minorca, and that it would be in action in the course of the last month—8000 Troops it is said were to be employed on this occasion. The celebrated Necker, being disgusted and applying for his dismission, it was granted him—whether his retiring from Office may affect the credit of the nation time will discover. It is to be lamented that any disagreements, at this critical conjuncture which calls for vigorous and united efforts, should appear in the Councils of our good Ally. It is with reluctance we request your Excellency to press the Agent to send forward supplies for our Support. 3 Necessity alone could induce us again to mention it; but we feel for the honor of the State as well as for ourselves upon this occasion, and wish to avoid every mode of supply that may be disagreeable to either. We have the Honor to be, Sr, yr. most obedt. Servt. Jos. Jones. Theok. Bland RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Jones and signed by Jones and Bland. 1 Undoubtedly Nelson’s letter of July 26 in which he observed that “the more I reflect on the Resolve of Congress respecting the Bermudians the greater my concern is, well knowing that from them we had the only prospect of supplying this state with the necessary article of salt.” See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:199. 2 Jones and James Madison had made a motion in Congress on August 9 that such trade be permitted. It was referred to a committee which reported this day recommending that eight passports be issued to Nelson. Congress, however, ap proved sixteen passports “protecting such a number of vessels as shall be sufficient to import fifty thousand bushels of salt for the use of Virginia.” At the same time Congress granted Gov. Thomas Sim Lee of Maryland eight passports for the importation of 25,000 bushels, cautioning, however, “that nothing less than the pressing necessities of Virginia and Maryland could have induced Congress to relax the resolution made against farther intercourse with the enemy.” See JCC, 21:848, 870-73; and Thomas McKean to Lee and to Nelson, August 15, 1781. See also Virginia Delegates to Nelson, August 7, note 3; and Maryland Delegates to Lee, August 18, 1781, note 1. 3 Virginia “Agent” David Ross had written to Nelson on July 19 that “our Delegates in Congress having been in the utmost distress for money, Mr. Nicholson has negotiated a loan for £400 for their present support.” Cal. of Va. Slate Papers, 2:230.


[Page 557]
August 15, 1781 523 The loan negotiated by George Nicolson was apparently not forthcoming, however, for in October Nelson had to apologize to the delegates because Ross still had “not established some Means of supplying you with Money.” See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:276. James Lovell to John Jay Sir Philadephia 15 Augt 1781 Herewith you will receive according to the resolution of Congress of the 10th Such information relative to the Surrender of Pensacola, and the Subsequent arrival of the Garrison, at New York, as I have been able to obtain which you will make use of according to your discretion, and the Spirit of the enclosed resolution. 1 I am Sir your Friend and very H. Sert. Signed James Lovell P.S. 16 Aug. It appears to me not amiss to enclose to you a report of a Committee on the 10th as it stands negatived on the Journals of Congress. 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). In a clerical hand. 1 See JCC, 21:854. The “information relative to the surrender of Pensacola” that accompanied this resolve has not been identified, but for Congress’ distress over the capitulation terms granted the British garrison at Pensacola, see Thomas McKean to Washington, July 2, 1781. 2 Undoubtedly the resolve proposed to empower Jay “to make such further cession of the right of these United States to the navigation of the river Mississippi as he may think proper” that was rejected by unanimous vote on August 10. JCC, 21:853-54. Thomas McKean to Thomas Bradford Sir, Philadelphia. August 15th. 1781. Colo. Randolph 1 informs me that a party of the Enemy, or rather Tories employed by the Board of Directors, 2 as they are called, at New-York, have on Friday last taken his brother James Randolph, an Inhabitant of Monmouth county not in arms, as a prisoner; and from their threats has reason to apprehend the most cruel treatment of him, if they do not murder him, on account of his avowed & decided conduct in support of the liberties and independence of his country. I must request you to remonstrate in the warmest manner against this conduct, and that you will make particular enquiry into this matter, and let me know the result, in order that steps may be taken for immediate retaliation. If such measures are pursued by our inveterate enemies, they will before God and Man be solely responsible for the consequences. Our vengeance has been slow, but it may nevertheless be sure.


[Page 567]
August 20, 1781 533 Mercurius. 3 Complaints are Idle. While Gentn. & men of abilities think themselves disgraced by being raised to posts of honor—so long will our affairs wear a Confused aspect, so long shall we want energy. Do not flatter yourselves, do not fall into a state of lethergy and think that your danger is over. I have narrowly watchd the designs and manoeuvres of the Enemy, their late invasions have been with the following designs; To offer themselves to their Friends, To get acquainted with and establish Correspondents in the Country—to discover its weakness & its strength—to Call forth numerous bodies of Militia & thereby Harrass and fatigue the yeomanry—increase confusion and disorder in our finances, destory our Military stores, take off our laborers and thereby diminish our ability to form Magazines, cramp our trade, weaken our power of sending reinforcements to the Southern states—and Establish posts from whence they can Issue out the next Campaign and attack a Country in great force already weakend, exhausted, Harrassed, & perhaps dispirited—destroying every thing before them. These are to me the evident designs of the enemy; and the object of their last Campaign. My advice is to be prepared against such pernicious designs. Organize and arrange your Militia, construct small but strong water defences to retard the progress of their shipping up the Rivers; have Six thousand well armed & well officerd Militia in the Field or ready to take the field in the Spring, have horses, Waggons, tents &c for them—have Magazines of Military stores well fortified in the upper inaccessible parts of the Country, secured against sudden attacks from Cavalry, repeal your tender law and give vigor to public Credit. If my finances will admit I propose to set off from this Place the 1st of October—but in the mean time I desire you will not omit writing to me by every opportunity. God Bless you. P.S. Since writing the above Some vessels are arrived here from the W Indies who bring accounts that they fell in with the French W. I. fleet of 26 Sail of the line Steering for our Coast. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). In Bland’s hand, though not signed. 1 For the letter to “Fanny” see Bland to Frances Tucker, August 14, 1781. The letters to “my Father, Mr. Banister, Govr. Nelson &c.,” and to St. George Tucker by “the post before” have not been found. 2 That is, Thomas Tudor Tucker, for whom see Bland to Tucker, July 3, 1781, note. 3 Bland was quoting one of the adages of Desiderius Erasmus—“not every wood is fit for a statue of Mercury"—apparently from one of the numerous editions of his Adagiorvm that had been printed by Bland’s time.


[Page 568]
534 August 20, 1781 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My Dr. Sir, Philadelphia Augt 20th 1781 As it is possible that I may be prevented getting home before the Post, I will just give you the Intelligence of the Day. By official Letters reed this Morning, 1 we are advised that Monsr. De la Motte Piquet has Captured & carried safe into Brest 35 Ships being the whole of the Statia fleet, the 2 Men of War & Frigate that convoyed them got away. Heyder Ali has taken Arcott by Storm after three unsuccessfull Attempts, this City was in the Vicinity of Pondicherry—he put every Man to the sword, except such as escaped by flight, and about 50 british Officers concealed by the French. Fally Cherry another Garrisoned City underwent the same Fate. Porto novo & Pondich erry were then taken in the same Manner. Sixty thousand Moors were marching to Bengal which had thrown the English into the greatest Consternation. Heyder Ali was beseiging Velour the strongest settlement in the interior Parts of Indostan. The Garrison could not hold out more than 6 weeks. The 5th July the sailed for A , 2 Am unfeignedly yours, E.B. [P.S.] See Mrs. B’s Letter. 3 RC (NjP: Stimpson-Boudinot Collection). 1 Boudinot’s information was taken from a July 1 letter from Samuel Parsons at Martinique that was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 21:883; PCC, item 78, 18:411-13. 2 That is, the French fleet sailed for America. 3 Not found. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 20th Augt. 1781. I have been punctual in corresponding with your Excellency since I resumed my Seat in Congress, but have not learned whether one of my Letters has been received. The Vermont business goes on briskly: If their agents had been authorized to renounce their late Encroachments everything was prepared for establishing their inde pendent State within the Limits of their first Claim. But those people have connected themselves so closely with the Settlers of the grants on the East side of Connecticut River that they find it difficult to shake them off. Under these Circumstances we shall endeavour to get everything effected for the future Security of our State against Encroachments, which shall be in our power. I am however per fectly satisfied that much will depend on a liberal System for


[Page 577]
August 20, 1781 543 They are very essential; but enormously expensive. However, let these Corps remain as at present, after joining the two Virginia Regiments; They must also be recruited at large, & not credited to any State. We must alter our System with Regard to Waiters. Officers can readily obtain Servants, if we furnish them with Money for the Purpose; and at a much cheaper Rate than Soldiers are obtained. The prodigious Number of our Brigades becomes an Object of Magnitude, upon the Principles of Finance. A Brigadier General requires much Provision, & much Forage. Suppose three Regiments should constitute a Brigade; the whole Infantry will then compose seven Brigades, allowing Hazens Regiment to remain as it is. We need not, upon this Arrangement, retain more than fourteen Brigadiers in Service. The Idea of Divisions will vanish, & indeed they enter not into the Principles of Grand Tacticks: Major Generals will then command Wings, Lines, & Seperate Departments. We may dispense with several Gentlemen in that Grade; And with a great Deal of Expence. But in these Reductions the greatest Delicacy must Be observed. They should therefore retire upon half Pay, liable to be recalled into Service whenever the Commander in Chief shall deem it expedient. A total Reform is necessary in the civil Depart ments of the Army; But as these Lines will come under the immediate Attention of the Financier, I shall not trouble your Excellency with any Observations upon that head. My Observation respecting Georgia may be taken in too great a Latitude. There are virtuous Citizens of that distressed State, distressed in different parts of the Continent, & I am well informed that they have raised three hundred State Troops at the Request of General Greene, who behave extremely well. The Plunderers are made up of Tories, & some independent Parties, in Nature of Marauders. Perhaps this new raised Corps may be adopted upon the general Plan. We have been so fortunate at last as to elect a Minister of foreign Affairs. The Time draws near for appointing a Secretary at War. There will be a great Difficulty respecting the Candidates. I recollect a Question in one of your Excellency’s former Letters to General Sullivan. Be pleased to receive from me the real Answer. That Gentleman was in Nomination, And to get rid of the Embarrass ment, Congress postponed the Election. 3 General Greene is most talked of, but he cant be taken from the Line. Will General Heath fill the Place with Propriety? I know he sometimes hesitates; but he has many excellent Qualities. How will General Glover answer for Commissary General of Prisoners? Will it be political to promote Generals Greene & Lincoln to the Rank of Lt. General? The detaching Mr. Peters to Camp was a political Manoeuvre of your Friends. He has been a long Time in the Process of Reformation & it is believed, will soon come out intirely purified. General Cornel is an


[Page 578]
544 August 20, 1781 excellent hand—& has been of infinite Service in the War Office. In the Course of Octr. or November next, I shall return to Rhode Island; Previous to which I hope the Arrangements for next Campaign will be compleated. I have the Honor of being, with the most perfect Respect, your Excellency’s most obedient, & very humble Servt., J M Varnum. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Varnum, Theodorick Bland, and Daniel Carroll were the members of the committee appointed July 26 to consider the arrangement of the army for 1782. See Committee of Congress to Washington, August 7, 1781, note. 2 Varnum also wrote “after” above “with," but let both words stand. 3 See John Sullivan to Washington, March 6, 1781, note 4. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Sir, Philada. Augst. 20th. 1781 We have the honor to inclose herewith to your Excellency a copy of the correspondence between us & the Executive of this State relative to a legal process instituted by Simon Nathan against the goods imported in the Ship Franklin on account of the State of Virginia: 1 with sundry papers relative to a charge against Mr. Gabriel Penn to which the Committee of Commerce request the attention of the Executive. 2 In consequence of your Excellency’s on the subject of salt, we have obtained from Congress passports for the importation of fifty thousand bushels of that article from the Island of Bermudas, which the President informs us he has already transmitted to you by Express. 3 We have the honor to be with the highest respect & esteem yr. Excelly’s obt. & humble servants. Jos. Jones Theok. Bland J. Madison Junr. Edm. Randolph RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Bland, Jones, and Randolph. 1 Enclosures not found, but see Virginia Delegates to the Pennsylvania Council, July 9-10, and to Joseph Reed, July 13, 1781. It is not clear why the delegates delayed forwarding this correspondence to Virginia. 2 These sundry papers” have not been found, but for information concerning Gabriel Penn, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 3:23In.2. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Nelson, August 14, note 2; and Thomas McKean to Nelson, August 15, 1781.


[Page 579]
August 21, 1781 545 Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philadelphia Augt 21st. 1781 Enclosed you have a hand Bill published yesterday 1 (tho’ I think imprudently)—it is not all true, yet your Excellency may depend on the Substance of it. I expect we shall have warm work on our Coast this Campaign. Sir Sami Hood with the greatest part of the English Fleet in the West Indias, will also be here, so that we may expect to see at least forty Ships of the Line in our Seas. I give your Excellency this Information, not only as pleasing, but that all our Exertions may be united. This Day’s Paper contains all the other News—except that I have seen the amount of the Value of the Statia fleet carried into France, which is Sixteen & half Million of Livres. I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s most obedt. hble Serv, Elias Boudinot RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 See James Duane to George Clinton, August 20, 1781, note 2. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 21st. 1781 I had the pleasure of receivg yours of the 17th. I wrote a few lines by an Express enclosing a Letter to Col. Fitzhugh and another under cover to the Commanding officer at Baltimore giving an acct of the Arms, & Field pieces that were on their way down. I hope they gott safe to your hands. 1 Every thing in my power shall be done to obtain more arms, but I dare not at present give you reason to expect I shall succeed—they are exceedingly wanted in North Carolina. Several Vessels arrivd here last Sunday from Cape Francois— which they left on the 5th instant in Compy with the French fleet consisting of 23, some say 27 Ships of the line & a few frigates. They kept company 3 days & parted off Cape Nichola Mole on the 8th—the fleet then sailing Westerly. The Captns. & passengers beleive Count de Grasse is bound for our coast. Among other reasons for this beleif, they say, that several American pilots are on Board. If this be so, we may expect, I suppose soon to hear of Rodney. The Intrepid, an old 74 French ship, accidentally Took fire at the Cape, & was burnt, most of her Stores, rigging &c sav’d, & a french frigate was blown up at sea, the crew perish’d. Mr. Sami. Parsons writes to the Presidt from St. Pierre July 1st. 2 The Substance—Official intelligence from Marseilles via Malaga, that Heyder Ali Kan had taken by Storm Arcate, every man put to


[Page 580]
546 August 21, 1781 Daniel Carroll


[Page 584]
550 August 21, 1781 Hudson’s River. The Agents and their Friends contended that the West Bounds of the Towns granted by the late Government of New Hampshire should wholly form the Division Line: but this would have been so violent an Encroachment on our ancient Grants that Congress unanimously rejected the Attempt. From the Termination of the above Line those Grants and the Northern Waters fix our Limits. The Grants are by no means a proper Boundary as there were no actual Surveys prior to the Patents and the Occupants were left to settle at Discretion but there was no Remedy. Your Excellency will perceive that we have been placed in a Situation truly painful. Those who reasoned without Prejudice admitted it was a Sacrifice of the Rights of Individual States for the publick Safety: but they conceived, bad as was the Precedent, it was a necessary Sacrifice in our present critical Circumstances. On these Principles our Title was winked out of Sight, altho’ it was maintained by the most satisfactory Evidence. It will be fruitless to enlarge on this vexatious Subject. A Decision might prossibly have been de ferred: but the Confusion would have increased. Your Excellency will be pleased to observe that the Dissent of our State has been given in every Stage of this Business. We insisted on a judicial Determination on the Right, in the Spirit of the Act of Congress of September 1779. 2 The present Act is grounded on Expediency or Policy, tho’ it is not so expressed. We have the Honour to be with the utmost Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedient & very Humble Servants, Jas Duane Ezra LHommedieu Tr (N: Legislative Papers). 1 See Ezra L’Hommedieu to Clinton, this date, note 3. 2 For these congressional resolves of September 24, 1779, see these Letters, 13:547-54. James M. Varnum to George Washington Sir, August 21st. 1781. Upon the foregoing System, each Battalion of Infantry consisting of five hundred Rank and File, a very considerable Reduction of Officers will be necessary. 1 I have ever esteemed it a Misfortune that by the last Arrangement a large Number of Officers retired upon half pay, without being liable to a Recall into Service. Rapid Promotions are extremely injurious to the Service. The Appoint ment of Ensigns upon every Vacancy detracts from regular Disci pline, and too often lessens the Number of Rank and File, by the Promotion of Serjeants, who cost the Public too much upon the


[Page 586]
552 August 21, 1781 posed Arrangement, or a more eligible one, will greatly subserve those Purposes, I persuade myself it will be acceeded to without Reluctance. I am, with the greatest Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedt. & very humble Servt. J M Varnum RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For the “foregoing System,” see Varnum to Washington, August 20, 1781. Virginia Delegates to Thomas Nelson Sir, Philadelphia, Augt. 21st. 1781. We had the Honour, yesterday, of writing to your Excellency by Mr. Nicolson; 1 since which no Intelligence of Importance hath transpired. By some Accident or other the Mail from Virginia did not arrive yesterday; and we are not favoured with any Accounts from that quarter. The inclosed Gazette will give you the News of the Day. We have the Honour to be with great Esteem, Yr. Excellency’s most obedt. & hble Servants. Jos. Jones. M. Smith 2 James Madison Junr. Edm. Randolph Theok. Bland RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Smith and signed by Smith, Bland, Jones, Madison, and Randolph. 1 Apparently George Nicolson, who had been sent to Philadelphia to purchase military supplies for state troops. See Virginia Delegates’ Memorandum, April 27, 1781, note 3. 2 This is the last delegate letter signed by Meriwether Smith, who obtained a leave of absence on August 31. He probably remained in Philadelphia for another month, however, for he was appointed to a committee on September 3 and later claimed £590.8 for 246 days service "from 28th Jany. 1781, to the 30th Sep. 1781 inclusive.” See JCC, 21:925, 930; and Continental Congress Papers, Vi. See also Charles Thomson to Smith, September 15, 1781. James Lovell to Elizabeth Dana August 23, 1781. I shall be well pleased, my dear Ma’am, 1 on a variety of grounds, to find that the information I am about to give you, became insignificant by the Time it reached you. I suspect Comodre. Gillon or Capt. Eden will have anchored at Boston from Holland. The Reward of My Intentions is already paid down. That which is


[Page 590]
556 August 23, 1781 1 That is, the committee to correspond with the commander in the southern department. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Mathews to Greene, August 28, 1781. James M. Varnum to George Washington Sir, August 23d, 1781. Your Excellency’s Letters to Congress inclosing the Memorial from the Officers of the Rhode Island and Connecticutt Lines, respecting Promotions in their District to the Rank of Brigadier General, is before the Committee mentioned in my Letter of the 20th instant.' Upon the present Arrangement, their Claim appears well founded; But should the proposed Alteration take Place, Promotions will probably be deferred. However, I am confident your Excellency’s Sentiments upon these Subjects will have essential Influence. I have the Honor of being &c. J M Varnum RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s August 18 letter enclosing the Connecticut and Rhode Island officers’ memorial of August 15 was read in Congress on August 22 and referred to the committee appointed on July 26 to confer with the commander-in-chief. Secretary Thomson’s journal entry on the subject is in error, however, for he confused the letter with another from Washington of the 17th (a “private” letter to Thomas McKean), and mistakenly identified the committee as one appointed on July 28. See JCC, 21:791, 893; PCC, item 169, 8:171, 174; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 23:13-14, 17-18. James Duane to Abraham Brasher Dear Sir 1 Philad. 24th August 1781. I may think myself bound to lay some further proof before the publick to expose the malice of an Anonimous Scribbler who sticks at no Falsehood to injure my Reputation. 2 I wish you to forward me two seperate Certificates under your Hand One stating the Facts you mentiond to me respecting the debate in Convention on the repeated Attempt to seize Gov Tryon & the Reasons which were offerd substantially against it. I do not mean, nor woud it perhaps be agreeable to you that you shoud enter into particulars. The other Certificate I wish to be confined to your Appointment to the command of the Guard to prevent Tryon’s Seizure 8c the orders you receivd from the Convention, ascertaining that it was subsequent to his Apprehension of such Seizure 8c before 8c how long Before he went on Ship board. With great Regard, I am Dear Sir, Your Affect. 8c Obed humble Servt Jas. Duane


[Page 592]
558 August 24, 1781 and Grammar which may amuse the Teeth of any one of the C’s of your Circle who chuses to search for mischief. I am induced, upon second thought, to repeat what may lag on the road with Col. Skinner. Upon reviewing and securing your Goods against moths, I found that instead of Gauze I might have said Gauze Handkerchiefs for D. Tafts: that there are Buttons, Twist, Serge and something of the Sattinet kind for Mr. Wibert found within his Cloth. Rationally respectfully, Mistriss Adams’s humble Servant, JS 3 MS not found; reprinted from James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, September 8, 1781, where it appeared under the heading “Part of the Contents of a new Rebel Mail (being the Fifth) which was taken by a party of Refugees, On Tuesday last.” Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 4:196-98. 1 For this brief letter explaining his efforts to forward Abigail’s European drygoods, see ibid., p. 196. 2 See Lovell to Elizabeth Dana, August 23, 1781, note 2. 3 Rivington had apparently mistaken Lovell’s initials “J L” for “J S.” Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Dr Sir, Phil. Augt [25] 1781 I think it my Duty in every great national Question especially that are of general Importance & in which the Welfare of the union is concerned, to keep the Legislature informed of the proceedings in Congress and particularly of the Conduct of their Delegates that nothing of Consequence may be done by them contrary to the Sense of their Constituents. It would indeed be an advantageous Circum stance for the State, was a committee of Correspondence appointed on the recess of the Legislature, thro whom mutual Information might be kept up between the Delegates in Congress & the State. Suffer me on this Occasion officially to trouble your Excy. with some late Transactions in Congress relating to the State of Vermont so called, in which I apprehend the united States are particularly interested, and which in the End are likely to involve the States in a civill war, and to beg your Excy. to lay the same before the Legislature at their next Meeting. When I took my Seat in Congress last July, I found that frequent Applications had been made to Congress by the States of New York & N Hampshire in order to settle the Line between the two States on the West of Connecticut River—by which a Tract of Land of about 100 Miles Long & [5?]0 broad claimed by the Inhabitants as an independent State, would be included in one or both of those States. The Inhabitants stiling themselves the State of Vermont made application to be recognized an Independent State & received into the Union, engaging to fulfull


[Page 597]
August 28, 1781 563 This was supposed by Congress to be a full expiration of the ordinance, and they would not believe but it would prevent any misconstruction thereafter. I shall endeavour to get something more pointed if possible, tho I much Question whether any resolution will be so much regarded in Connecticut as to prevent their plundering, Retalliation from the State of New-York will be the only thing that will prevent it. The Law of the Land is now plainly against it, and I am very sure there will be no kind of Difficulty in reversing the Judgments that have been obtained by the Admiralty, in the Court of appeals, it has been unfortunate for our Friends that the Court did not sit at Hartford according to Expectation. I have frequently conversed with the Judges on the Subject, and find there is little or no probability of their going, they have not received but a small part of their Salerries, and say unless they can get money from the Public, which is unlikely they are incapasitated to go the journey & be absent from home on Expence, for so long a Time. They have advised to have the Cases sent up here to be tryed, which I think will be better for our Friends than to permit them to remain longer undetermined. I have wrote to Colo. Seymour 4 to send up the Records of the Causes of Fanning and Gardner if it be agreeable to them. The Expence of the Lawyers here will not be equal to the Demands of those in Connecticut. I have spoke to Mr. Wilson to undertake the Causes in Case they are brought up. It is my Opinion that the Judgment below, would be reversed if they had no advocate at all; it may however be best to have Council as probably the Captors will, the Court is now adjorned but will sit again in this Place in about Six Weeks. I wrote to you before that Congress refused to determine the Dispute with Vermont on the Principles engaged by the Resolution of the 12th of Sept. 1779 but have proceeded upon the Principles of Expediency, and have proposed recognizing their Independence and admitting them into the foederal Union if Terms can be agreed on, one Preliminary is that they relinquish all Jurisdiction or Claim on the East Side of Connecticut River & Seventy Miles East of Hudson’s River, what those people will determine on I know not, but to me it is pro[ba]ble [t]hat this Tract of Country will be sacrificed and lost to New-York, to answer the avaricious Views of some States, the Conduct of our legislature at Albany last winter & the Influence of some of our Principal People in the State since had greatly tended to bring this Business to its present State. I conclude that I can not give you news more than you will have to the Eastward and in the inclosed Papers. The Prospect of Peace does not appear to be so near as it did sometime ago, and the prospect of taking New-York this campaign is very small, tho’ upon a general View of our affairs in Europe and America, our Prospects are very flattering. I conclude you have thought it strange that the Main Army should


[Page 598]
564 August 28, 1781 leave the State of New-York, which is reported here to be the Case. I make no doubt notwithstanding we may be disappointed in our Expectations of taking New York the Campaign will terminate greatly in our favour. With respects to the Children I am your most Humble Servt. Ezra L’Hommedieu P.S. I shall not omit procuring the Book you mention. 5 MS not found; reprinted from James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette, September 12, 1781, for which see James Duane to George Clinton, this date, document note. Addressed: “Colo. William Floyd, Middletown, Connecticut.” 1 Although this intercepted letter was published without a date, L’Hommedieu almost certainly wrote it on August 28, the same day he wrote the letter to David Gelston that was published in the same issue of the Royal Gazette and printed here as the following entry. 2 L’Hommedieu received two letters from Floyd dated August 16, both of which report the plundering of Long Island residents by Connecticut privateers. The letters are in the Floyd Papers at the William Floyd Estate, National Park Service, Patchogue, N.Y. 3 See Thomas McKean to George Clinton, August 8, 1781, note 1. 4 Not found. 5 In his second letter of August 16, cited in note two above, Floyd had asked L’Hommedieu to bring him “one of those Books printed in Philadelphia that Contains all the Constitutions of the Several States,” for which see James Madison to Thomas Jefferson, May 5, 1781, note 1. Ezra L’Hommedieu to David Gelston Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia, August 28, 1781. I Have this Day received your Favour, and beg you will excuse my not writing to you before, as it was not owing to Inattention, but the want of Leisure; and have now only Time to return you Answer in few Words. I am Sorry that it is not in my Power to answer all your Questions, when we shall have Peace is uncertain, the Period appears to be further of[f] than it did some time ago; tho’ upon taking a general View of our Affairs in Europe & America our Prospects are very flattering; and altho’ we may not get Possession of New-York this year, there is every reason to expect the Campaign will terminate greatly in our favour. With respect to Gov. Trumbull’s Commission by a late Resolve of Congress, 2 he is desired immedi ately to recall them, which I conclude he has done before now. I am confident every Judgment obtained in the Courts of Admiralty on Captures by those Commissions, will be reversed by the Court of Appeals, ’tis unfortunate for our People that the Court will not probably sit in Connecticut soon. I think it will be best for them to have the appeals determined here, as a Delay may be injurious to them. At my Arrival here I found a general Disposition to recognize the Independence of Vermont, and to admit them into the Foederal


[Page 599]
August 28, 1781 565 union on certain Conditions, and to take up the Business on the principle of Expediency separate from the merits of the Cause. I have not Time to inform you of the various motives that probably induced the different States to countenance this Measure, but undoubtedly the Conduct of the Members of our Legislature, at least some of them, last Winter at Albany, has had its full effect here, and I think it more than probable that New-York will be obliged to sacrifice her rights for what may be called the general Good, but more properly to answer the ambitious and avaritious Views of some particular States and Individuals. As to our Finances they are at present very low, owing in great measure to the want of public Credit; it has been a fortunate Circumstance that a Financier General has been appointed with very large Powers, in whose Hands are deposited all our Funds. The New Continental Money issued under the Direction of the State has appreciated in this City from six for one to two and an half the present current Exchange. Since I have been here I have great dependence on the abilities and Exertions of this Gentleman, and altho’ we are now much distressed for want of Money, I trust, if the States can be prevailed on to do what they [are] able, we may carry on the war without distressing individuals so much as has heretofore been practised. I have been very happy in the enjoyment of my health in this unhealthy Climate in the hot season. I have suffered much but not equal to my fears, the mornings and evenings begin to be comfortable, I hope I may be preserved from Sickness, and return in Safety to my family and Friends. I am Sr. most respectfully, Your very Huml. Sert. Ezra LHommedieu. MS not found; reprinted from James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazelle, September 15, 1781, where it appeared under the heading “Continuation of the Contents of a new Rebel Mail (being the Fifth) which was taken by a party of Refugees, On Tuesday last.” Addressed: “David Gelston, Esq., East Haddam." 1 David Gelston (1744-1828), a member of the New York assembly since 1775, later served briefly in Congress in 1789. Rio. Dir. Cong. 2 See Thomas McKean to George Clinton, August 8, 1781, note 1. Thomas McKean to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia, August 28. 1781 Since I had the pleasure of writing to you on the 26th day of July last I received your favors of the 17th &: 19th ofjuly, and of the 29th of May, the two former came to hand on the 13th of August by Captain Archer and the latter only on the 20th of August; in so dilatory a manner have they been conveyed, though by Expresses. These letters have been laid before Congress, who were pleased with


[Page 606]
572 August 28, 1781 John Witherspoon to Robert Donald Sir Philadelphia Aug. 28. 1781 Yesterday I was favoured with yours of the 15th by Post. It would give me great Pleasure to contribute any thing to the Benefit of Mr Pagan 1 or his family, I have therefore written the enclosed Letter to Govr Neilson 2 & hope you will find no Difficulty in effecting what you desire. Should tbeir be any Difficulty with you if Mr Pagan could find the Way here he could be immediately admitted a Citizen & then he would be entitled to this same Privilege in Virginia by the Confederation. I should be glad to know the present Situation of Mr Pagan himself 3 & family. He & I were concerned some years ago in some Land and there is a valuable Property of his in Rygate on Connecti cut River in the State of Vermont which I am affraid he is in some Danger of having taken from him as a british Subject, there is also a considerable Quantity of Land belonging to us in Nova Scotia which is in a like Danger. I sent him a Letter upon this Subject Some time ago but have heard nothing from him. If you have any Way of communicating with him you might let him know. His Right to the Land on Nova Scotia is in my Hand as being indeed in Common between us & I am ready to deposit his wherever he or his Friends think proper. I am Sir, your most obedt humble Servant J no Witherspoon P.S. You will please to cover, direct & Seal the Letter to the Governor. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Addressed: “Mr. Robert Donald, Mercht Petersburgh.” 1 David Pagan, a nephew of Robert Donald and the son of John Pagan, a Glasgow merchant who was a partner with Witherspoon in several land ventures including ownership of one-half the township of Ryegate, Vt., and 40,000 acres in Nova Scotia. See Edward Miller and Frederic Wells, History of Rhygate, Vermont (St. Johnsbury, Vt.: The Caledonian Co., 1913), pp. 10-14, 36-40; and Bernard Bailyn, Voyagers to the West: A Passage in the Peopling of America on the Eve of the Revolution (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1986), pp. 390-97, 610. 2 The following letter of this date to Virginia governor Thomas Nelson is also in the Dreer Collection, PHi. “1 am informed there is a young Gentleman not more than 19 Years of Age named David Pagan a Son of a very worthy Friend of mine in Glasgow who was with an Uncle in Virginia [in] 1775 but then went home & finished his Education. He was sent out to Charles town by his Friends, has come to Portsmouth in your State & wants very much to come out & become a Subject of the State of Virginia. His Uncle in Petersburgh [i.e., Robert Donald] I suppose will lay the Matter before your Excellency & from the Circumstances I should think there can be no Difficulty in granting his Request. I will take it as a very particular favour if you will give Directions in what Manner he should proceed as you best know the laws of Virginia with respect to Citizenship. “We have all here been long in much Concern for the Situation of Virginia but I


[Page 609]
August 30, 1781 575 1 The following letter from Huntington to Thomas McKean, his successor as president of Congress, also contains information on his return to Connecticut and the perquisites of the presidency. “The Bearer Mr Jesse Brown,” he wrote to McKean from Norwich on August 27, “will herewith deliver your Excellency the two Coach Horses which are kept for the use of the President of Congress. “After they had brought me home their Shoes were Immediately taken off, & I ordered them kept in the best manner, they are now in very good order.” McKean Papers, PHi. 2 Probably John Burgoyne’s A State of the Expedition From Canada, As Laid Before the House of Commons, By Lieutenant-General Burgoyne, And Verified By Evidence; With a Collection of Authentic Documents... .(London: J. Almon, 1780), for which see Thomas R. Adams, The American Controversy: A Bibliographical Study of the British Pamphlets About the American Disputes, 1764-1783, 2 vols. (Providence: Brown University Press, 1980), 2:693-95. 3 Although Rivington printed this signature as “D Witherspoon," it seems clear that this was merely a printer’s error and that the letter was in fact written by Dr. John Witherspoon, not his son David. 4 See Thomas McKean to Certain States, August 25, 1781. President McKean’s letter to Connecticut governor Jonathan Trumbull was also among the intercepted letters published in this same issue of the Royal Gazette. Thomas McKean to Joseph Reed Sir, Philada August 30th. 1781. Your Excellency has inclosed herewith an Act of Congress of yesterday, together with a letter from Major General St. Clair, to be laid before Council. It gives the greatest uneasiness to Congress that their funds at present will not enable them to expedite the march of the Troops mentioned by the General, but they hope you will be able to devise some means to accomplish this desireable purpose. 1 I have the honor to be &c T. McK. Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 Gen. Arthur St. Clair’s request for money to pay his recruits had been referred to a committee which conferred with the Superintendent of Finance, Robert Morris, on August 28. Upon learning that Morris had no funds for St. Clair’s troops, the committee simply recommended that the request be referred to the Pennsylvania Council. Although the council was able only to supply a few additional tents for St. Clair, the general returned to Morris the following week and eventually obtained a warrant for a month’s pay for his detachment. See JCC, 21:913, 916, 918-19; Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 2:119-20n.l, 186-87, 213, 221, 244, 315, 3:9, 11; and Pa. Council Minutes, 13:47.


[Page 611]
INDEX In this index descriptive subentries are arranged chronologically and in ascending order of the initial page reference. They may be preceded, however, by the subentry “identified” and by document subentries arranged alphabetically—diary entries, letters, notes, res olutions, and speeches. An ornament (☆) separates the subentry “identified” and document subentries from descriptive subentries. Inclusive page references are supplied for descriptive subentries; for a document, only the page on which it begins is given. Eighteenth century printed works are indexed both by author and by short title. Other printed works are indexed when they have been cited to document a substantive point discussed in the notes, but not when cited merely as the location of a document mentioned. Delegates who attended Congress during the period covered by this volume appear in boldface type. Accounts: John Sullivan, 31; Thomas Smith, 40-42; Convention Army, 91; Robert Niles, 134; Fort Pitt audited, 172; Charles Thomson, 206; Arthur Lee, 250, 505; Oliver Pollock, 344; Penet, d’Acosta, Freres & Co., 375; Continental agents, 380; William Bingham, 380; Udny Hay, 489 Adagiorvm (Desiderius Erasmus), 533 Adam, John, charged with profiteering, 204 Adamant (H.M.S.), 67 Adams, Abigail Smith (Mrs. John): letters to, 17, 165, 178, 238, 255, 275, 327, 351, 367, 405, 411, 492, 537, 557; ☆ letter quoted, 327; chides James Lovell for sexual innuendo, 368, 405-6; mentioned, 179 Adams, Andrew, elected to Congress, xviii Adams, Elizabeth Wells (Mrs. Samuel), letter to, 59 Adams, John: letters to, 109, 254, 333, 339, 378, 424; ☆ ordered to protest seizure of American ship, 100; letter intercepted, 239; seeks Dutch loan, 255, 261; negotiating authority diluted, 302, 310, 320, 339-40, 352, 406-8, 424; relations with Vergennes, 306; negotiating instructions, 333, 378; commission to negotiate commerce treaty with Britain revoked, 424; authorized to negotiate Dutch alliance, 539; Dutch mission, 553, 557; mentioned, 43, 169, 276, 299, 311, 322, 324, 331, 351, 402, 492 Adams, Peter Boylston, 17 Adams, Samuel: letters from, 20, 55, 57, 59, 92, 119, 176; letters to, 259, 387; ☆ attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; recommends Matthew Clarkson, 20; opposes John Sullivan as secretary of war, 30-31; sketch of, 37; on Massachusetts’ government, 55-57, 92-94; on republican virtue, 56-57, 93-94; elected to Massachusetts senate, 57; returns home, 58, 200, 202; seeks prisoner’s release, 60; committee on provisioning French forces, 79, 105; opposes congressional commendations, 149, 153; accuses John Paul Jones of withholding prize shares, 153; supports reinforcing southern department, 169; committee on Massachusetts fiscal protest, 171; reconciliation with Samuel 577


[Page 612]
578 Index Cooper, 176-77; on New York’s excessive influence, 388; mentioned, 220, 276, 277, 328, 352, 406, 411, 492, 495 Adams, Samuel, Jr., clothing allowance, 59-60 Adams, Thomas, resigns congressional seat, 90-91 Admiralty. See Board of admiralty Admiralty, courts of, 354 Admiralty proceedings: piracy trials, 141, 170; prescribed by Congress, 141; in the Canary Islands, 294; New York appeals against Connecticut privateers, 563-64 Affleck, Edmund, 80 Agents, Continental. See Bingham, William; Bradford, John; Curson, Samuel; Gouverneur, Isaac; Parsons, Samuel; Smith, Robert; Williams, Jonathan Agriculture, rich harvests predicted, 388, 437 Akers, Charles W., The Divine Politician. Samuel Cooper and the American Revolution, 177 Alemena (H.M.S.), 226, 326 Alexander, Robert, 272 All, Isaac, 178 Allan, John, authorized to raise artillery company, 82-83 Allecto, Greek Fury, 202 Allen, Andrew, 272 Allen, Ethan: and British overtures, 530; mentioned, 351 Allen, Ira: presents credentials to Congress, 511; negotiates Vermont Indepen dence, 528-30; mentioned, 469, 548 Allen, Jeremiah, 404, 407, 408, 411 Alliance (Continental frigate), 153, 178, 241, 326, 346, 351, 374, 453, 481 America (Continental ship): John Paul Jones appointed commander, 356, 373; mentioned, 375, 395 America (H.M.S.), 7, 21, 67 “America Independent,” Francis Hopkinson opera performed, 75 Anderson, Mr., 411 Anderson, Archibald, death, 103 Anderson, Gillian B., ‘“The Temple of Minerva’ and Francis Hopkinson, a Reappraisal,” 76 “An Independent American” (James Jay pseudonym), 102 Annapolis, Md., 435 Antigua, 247, 554 “Anti-Quibbler” (William Clajon pseudonym), attacks Thomas McKean, 537-38 Appleton, Nathaniel: Continental loan office commissioner, 361; mentioned, 393 Arbaud, comte d’, seizure of American prize ship protested, 247-48 Arbuthnot, Marriot: and battle of Cape Henry, 83, 95; mentioned, 80, 167, 255, 358, 413, 414 Archer, Capt., 506, 565 Arcot, India, captured, 534-35, 545-47 Ardent (French ship), 67 Arendt, Henry Leonard Philip, baron d’, seeks compensation for mission to Prussia, 96-97 Ariel (Continental ship), 43, 71 Armand-Tuffin, Charles, marquis de la Rouerie, seeks depreciation pay, 323 Armed Neutrality. See League of Armed Neutrality Arms and ammunition: for Maryland, 142, 180, 194, 216, 291, 295, 314, 332, 353, 465, 482, 545, for Virginia, 183, 185, 207, 224, 256, 571; for North Carolina, 256, 453, imported, 279; cost, 190 Army. See British army; Continental Army; Militia Arnold, Benedict: requests reinforcements, 6; Virginia operations, 25, 240; joined by Cornwallis, 281; receives British payments, 415; mentioned, 9, 17, 21, 23, 34, 51, 59, 69, 70, 73, 75, 82, 84, 92, 94, 95, 97, 101, 113, 118, 123, 124, 131, 141, 142, 144, 148, 272, 385, 413, 414


[Page 633]
Index 599 275, 276, 294, 301, 317, 319, 324, 339, 351, 367, 380, 405, 407, 411, 424, 440, 446, 480, 492, 494, 523, 537, 552, 557; letter to, 222; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi, 528; debates voting requirements under confedera tion, 17-19; committee for foreign affairs, 53-54, 226, 294, 324, 424, 523; seeks prisoner’s release, 60; currency transactions, 61-62, 72, 97, 142, 202, 494; com mittee on Samuel Parsons’ accounts, 174-75; on fiscal policy, 179-80; 220-22; health, 220, 222, 239-40, 260-61, 405, 537; delegate expenses, 220-22, 260, 328, 407, 493; recommends Benjamin Putnam, 247; explains cipher, 301; cipher letters, 339, 352, 406, 424; on mediation proposals, 339-40; chided for sexual innuendo, 368, 405-6; committee on William Bingham accounts, 380; urged to return home, 407; on fisheries claims, 408; intercepted letters, 494; mentioned, 331, 425, 530 Lovell, Mary Middleton (Mrs. James), 16, 17, 221, 239, 328, 405, 406, 411, 492 Lowell, John: letters to, 391, 567; ☆ requests settlement of Massachusetts ac counts, 393; mentioned, 177, 388 Lowndes, Christopher, 335 Lowndes, Francis, 335 Loyalists: in North Carolina, 66, 165, 201, 347, 358, 399; in New Jersey, 80, 216, 523; in South Carolina, 101-2, 347, 366, 399, 414; in Virginia, 118, 124, 166, 347, 399; intercept mails, 230, 446; influence in Congress denounced, 272; recruited by Britain, 281; in Maryland, 299-300, 413, 439, 481; in Pennsyl vania, 413, 439, 481; British use of, 413-17, 439, 442-43, 454, 460, 481-82; in Delaware, 446, 481; in New York, 460; mentioned, 178, 388. See also Board of Associated Loyalists “Lucilius” (pseudonym), attacks James Duane, 271-72 Lumber, 250 Lyman, Samuel: letters to, 127, 420; mentioned, 73 Lynds, James, death, 388 Lyon, Humphrey, 294 Lyon, Matthew: letter intercepted, 225; mentioned, 245 Lyons, Peter, captured, 337, 383 McCall, Mr., 102 McCarrick, Mr., and Dover case, 294 McDougall, Alexander: letters from, 10, 44, 48, 54, 114, 261; letters to, 5, 64; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; elected secretary of marine, 5, 30, 51, 55, 63, 102; declines appointment as secretary of marine, 44-45, 114; delegate attendance, 45, 55, 95; on fiscal policy, 48-50; on Vermont controver sy, 54-55; second in Thomas Burke-John Sullivan challenge, 64-65, 261-62; committee to revise army code, 369; mentioned, 97, 168, 174, 388 McDowell, Samuel, 366 McHenry, James, promotion, 42-43, 269 Machias, Mass., reinforcements for, 83 McIntosh, Lachlan, reinstated, 452 McKean, Thomas: letters from, 387, 398, 403, 409, 412, 422, 424, 427, 447, 448, 449, 452, 466, 467, 474, 475, 481, 487, 488, 501, 502, 504, 516, 523, 524, 530, 537, 538, 553, 559, 560, 565, 575; letter to, 107; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; portrait, xxviii, 428; hosts confederation celebration, 3; debates voting requirements under confederation, 17-19; on fiscal policy, 34-35; sketch of, 38; committee on provisioning French forces, 105; delegate attendance, 106, 139; elected president of Congress, 252, 388, 391, 394-95, 398, 400; Vermont committee, 397; defense against charges of pluralism, 427-31, 474-75, 537; denounces William Clajon, 537; mentioned, 8, 320, 390, 424 MacLean, Francis, Nova Scotia command, 442-43 Macpherson, William: assigned to southern army, 47-48; mentioned, 488 McQueen, James, 195


[Page 634]
600 Index Madison, James, Jr.: letters from, 33, 72, 100, 123, 126, 157, 166, 183, 185, 191, 197, 205, 207, 213, 214, 264, 277, 381, 389, 408, 444, 459, 462, 464, 485, 516, 544, 552, 570; memorandum, 190; ☆ attends Congress, xxv; elected to Congress, xxv; debates voting requirements under confederation, 17-19; sketch of, 38; proposes augmenting congressional power, 67, 157-58, 232; committee on provisioning French forces, 105; committee on prisoner treatment, 123; on status of captured loyalists, 124; seeks reinforcements for Virginia, 169; com mittee on Matthew Tilghman protest, 190; contracts for arms for Virginia, 190-93; on Continental impost, 277-78; recounts southern campaign, 382; on enemy cruelties, 385; Vermont committee, 397, 479; moves to revoke John Adams’ commission, 424; book purchases, 465; delegate expenses, 522; pro poses embargo exemption, 522; mentioned, 97, 162, 245, 326, 437, 536 Madison, James, Sr., letters to, 197, 464 Madison, William, 197 Mail. See Intercepted letters; Post Office Malcom, William: letter to, 77; seeks back pay, 77 Mangnall, John, and Dover case, 294 Manize, Capt., 334 Manton, Daniel: identified, 520; letter to, 520 Marbois. See Barbe-Marbois, Francois, marquis de Maria I, Queen of Portugal, 208 Marine, secretary of: Alexander McDougall elected, 5, 30, 51, 55, 63, 102; Alexander McDougall declines appointment, 44, 114; selection postponed, 248 Marion, Francis: captures Fort Watson, 265; mentioned, 66, 101, 497 Mars, Roman god, 506 Mars (Massachusetts privateer), 286 Martin, Mr., 507 Martin, Alexander, 297 Martin, John, 421 Martinique: Continental agents at, 175; mentioned, 181, 289, 290, 292, 293, 296, 380, 410 Maryland: ratifies Articles of Confederation, 5, 102, 158; new emission money, 49, 163; artillery companies, 69; and relocation of Convention Army, 91; warned of invasion, 138, 184, 188-90, 193; seeks artillery, 142, 180; currency shortage, 143; unrepresented, 171, 219, 296; new emission money act, 236; Continental troops, 257; Baltimore merchants outfit Continental troops, 268; troops requested for Virginia defense, 283, 285, 288-90, 300, 316, 347; purchases arms, 291, 295, 300, 314, 332, 353, 373, 465, 482, 545; confiscates loyalist property, 299-300; relocation of Convention Army ordered, 313; requested to raise cavalry, 318, 323; absentee property law, 335; militia, 347; Invalid Corps, 355; fiscal quotas, 360-64; Continental loan office commissioner, 361; loyalists, 413, 439, 481; seeks embargo exemptions, 522, 524, 531 Maryland Assembly: requests southern reinforcements, 291; appeals for troops, 310 Maryland Council: urges embargo exemption to provision prisoners, 250; ships commodities to defray delegate expenses, 282, 352-53; mentioned, 242. See also Lee, Thomas Sim Maryland delegates: letters from, 58, 98, 136, 142, 243, 250, 281, 290, 295, 310, 313, 314, 352, 373, 465, 482, 531; ☆ seek artillery pieces, 142, 180, 193, 215; seek commodity remittances to replace paper currency, 241-43, 270; congres sional expenses, 270, 426; attendance, 296; mentioned, 167 Maryland Senate: devaluation of state currency denounced, 299; mentioned, 309 Maryland Gazette, 299, 310 Mason, Capt., 553, 557 Mason, George, 14 Mason, John, 479 Massachusetts: gubernatorial election, 55-57, 92-94; recruitment, 164; protests Continental impost proposal, 171; requested to investigate privateer abuses,


[Page 635]
Index 601 195, 286; unrepresented, 219-21; urged to complete troop quotas, 267; objects to relocation of Convention Army, 269; fiscal quotas, 360-64; Continental loan office, 361, 393; requests credit for old emission bills, 392-94, 402, 460, 567; privateer commissions, 401; cedes Vermont claims, 459, 461, 515, 517. See also Hancock, John Massachusetts delegates: attendance, 58, 200; quorum requirement, 71; congres sional expenses, 260; debate appointing additional plenipotentiaries, 309 Mathews, John: letters from, 24, 26, 159, 181, 198, 208, 223, 253, 262, 278, 293, 348, 349, 518, 554, 566; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv; elected to Congress, xxiv; debates voting requirements under confederation, 18; on Charleston prisoners at St. Augustine, 26; sketch of, 38; on appointment of secretary of marine, 45; candidacy as president rumored, 95; proposes funding plan, 153; on fiscal cri sis, 160-61; supports western expedition, 162; opposes Continental officers holding civil office, 168; corresponding committee, 199, 293, 555; on recruit ment of prisoners, 208; urges augmenting congressional power, 253-54; confers with La Luzerne, 311; recommends Stephen Drayton, 349; on peace prospects, 518-19; mentioned, 28, 285, 446 Maurepas, Jean-Frederic Phelypeaux, comte de, 182 Maury, Walker, 465 May, Mr., 182 Mazzei, Philip: letter to, 381; mentioned, 206 Meade, Mr., 140 Meade, David, 75 Meade, Everard, 75 Meade, George: letter to, 447; leads refugee relief effort, 447 Meade, Richard Kidder, 75 Medical committee, criticized, 165 Medical department: chief physicians appointed, 47; clothing allowance, 59-60; regulations adopted, 154; restaffs southern hospitals, 266; granted depreciation pay, 322-23, 344, 370; mentioned, 339 Medicine, practice of, 465 Melvin, Maj., 182 Meyrick, James, 415 Middleton, Arthur: elected to Congress, xxiv; mentioned, 426, 434, 436 Middletown, Conn., 564 Mifflin, Jonathan, 390 Mifflin, Thomas, 45 Miles, Samuel: reports expenses of Continental stables, 357; mentioned, 127 Milford, Conn., 512 Militia: at battle of Guilford Court House, 99, 101; North Carolina, 111, 436; Virginia, 111, 164-65, 261, 347, 533; Pennsylvania, 283; draft proposed, 316; Delaware, 347; Maryland, 347; mentioned, 370, 372, 386, 387, 482 Miller, Daniel A., Sir Joseph Yorke and Anglo-Dutch Relations, 1774-1780, 70 Miller, David, 204 Miralles, Juan de, death, 333 Mississippi River: relaxation of American claims to rejected, 523; mentioned, 242 Molohon, William, 353, 373, 465, 476, 531, 548 Monck’s Corner, S.C., 494, 497, 501, 504, 509, 554 Money. See Paper currency Montagu, Lord Charles, recruits American prisoners, 208 Montgomery, Joseph: letter from, 449; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; sketch of, 38; committee on Vermont independence, 528-30; mentioned, 349 Moody, James, captures mail, 134 Morgan, Daniel: commended for Cowpens victory, 47; mentioned, 12, 23, 58, 382 Morris, Gouverneur: letter from, 55; ☆ on Vermont controversy, 55; mentioned, 110, 388 Morris, Robert: letters to, 174, 186, 203, 267, 359, 380; ☆ elected superintendent


[Page 636]
602 Index of finance, 51, 63, 107, 218, 231; sets conditions for accepting finance superin tendency, 109, 115, 186, 216; endorses Samuel Parsons' accounts, 175; autho rized to appoint attorneys, 203-4; accepts finance superintendency, 263; appointed Pennsylvania fiscal agent, 376,' 392; endorses William Bingham accounts, 380; on settlement of state accounts, 394, 568; authorized to requisi tion states, 401; employs Walter Stone, 425-26; confers with Washington, 472, 477, 498, 535; seeks troop reduction, 477; urges ratification of impost amend ment, 508, 520-21; mentioned, 30, 248, 273, 274, 279, 316, 321, 346, 356, 370, 384, 389, 395, 419, 473, 526, 536, 575 Morrisania, N.Y., 394 Mortimer, Charles, 228, 514 Motte, Isaac: letters from, 143, 182, 349; ☆ attends Congress, xxv; elected to Congress, xxv; lodgings, 183; recommends Stephen Drayton, 349 Motte, Jacob, death, 102 Motte, Mary Broughton (Mrs. Isaac), 183 Moultrie, William, 195, 199, 208, 423, 425, 434, 435 Mowry, Daniel: letters from, 442, 520, 568; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv, 305, 442; elected to Congress, xxiv, 305; urges ratification of impost, 520-21; mentioned, 378 Moylan, James, 255, 407 Moylan, John: letter to, 196; appointed clothier general, 165, 196 Moylan, Stephen: ordered to Virginia, 24, 372; recruitment orders, 319; men tioned, 193 Muhlenberg, Frederick A., letter to, 78 Muhlenberg, Peter: relieves Newport, Va., 17; mentioned, 25 Munitions. See Arms and ammunition Murphy, Orville T., Charles Gravier, Comte De Vergennes, 548 Murray, Alexander, 140 Murray, Henry, 312 Music: Francis Hopkinson’s opera performed, 75; William Boyce hymn, 507 Muskets, 207, 256 Nash, Abner, letters to, 5, 74, 81, 107, 155, 170, 174, 249, 267, 283, 286, 302, 322, 354, 358, 398, 403 Nash, Richard, 554 Nathan, Simon: claims against Virginia, 100, 126, 389-90, 408-09; attaches Virginia property in Philadelphia, 390, 409, 544 Navarro, Diego Jose, letter to, 333 Navy. See British navy; Continental Navy; French navy Necker, Jacques: extends line of credit to Benjamin Franklin, 104-5; resignation, 503, 510, 517, 522, 526, 547; Compte rendu au roi, 547; mentioned, 456 Negroes. See Blacks Neilson, Mr., 71, 218 Nelson, Paul David, General Horatio Gates, 258 Nelson, Robert, captured, 337 Nelson, Thomas: letters to, 398, 403, 444, 462, 485, 522, 524, 525, 544, 552, 570, 572; ☆ elected Virginia governor, 383, 444, 512; letters intercepted, 433; seeks embargo exemption, 522, 524-25; mentioned, 25, 125, 366, 531 Nelson, William, captured, 337 Neptune (French ship), 67 Netherlands, United Provinces of the: attacked by Britain, 70-73, 77, 137, 144, 155; relations with Britain, 100, 184; relations with Russia, 198, 200, 208; and League of Armed Neutrality, 200, 503; loan from sought, 255; alliance with sought, 539; receives John Adams, 553, 557; mentioned, 109, 205, 218, 402, 437, 463, 473, 505, 514, 519 Neufville, Jean de, & Son, promotes Dutch loan, 255 New England convention (1780), 28, 89 New Hampshire: unrepresented, 6-8, 106, 171, 219, 560, 574; and Vermont


[Page 637]
Index 603 claims, 32-33, 50-51, 351, 419, 515, 528, 548; opposes Vermont independence, 54-55, 396-97; recruitment, 164; fiscal quotas, 360-64; Continental loan office commissioner, 361; privateer commissions, 400-401; boundary claims, 479-80; Vermont claims, 558-59. See also Weare, Meshech New Hampshire delegates: letter from, 279; ☆ attendance, 439; pay and allow ances, 439-40 New Hampshire Grants. See Vermont New Jersey: new emission money, 49; loyalists, 80, 216, 523; requested to supply flour, 133; unrepresented, 139-40, 560, 574; revalues Continental dollar, 212-15; fiscal quotas, 360-64; Continental loan office commissioner, 361; Continental regiments mutiny, 414. See also Livingston, William New Jersey delegates: letter from, 266; ☆ attendance, 266; seek credentials clar ification, 433, 451 New London, Conn., 228 New Orleans: U.S. trade with, 344; mentioned, 207 New South Church (Boston), 59 New York: seeks repeal of legal tender laws, 27, 34; Vermont dispute, 32-33, 528, 534, 558-59; seeks fiscal relief, 48-50; cession of western claims, 50; opposes Vermont independence, 54-55, 396, 458, 468-71, 483, 548-50, 563, 565; authorizes Continental impost, 84, 129, 156, 171; unrepresented, 106, 171, 219, 251, 259, 351, 373, 439; reimbursed for raising state troops, 129-30; mili tia, 130; recruitment, 164; authorized to raise additional regiments, 173; urged to complete troop quotas, 267; protests Connecticut privateer raids, 318, 458, 486-87, 508, 527, 561-64; fiscal quotas, 360-64; Continental loan office com missioner, 361; excessive influence of lamented, 388; loyalists, 460; protests Vermont boundary encroachments, 470. See also Clinton, George New York, N.Y.: attack proposed, 311, 316, 383; attack planned, 459, 464, 522; mentioned, 425 New York delegates: letters from, 48, 483, 488, 489, 492, 549; memorial, 468; ☆ attendance, 54, 95, 462; oppose Vermont independence, 488; oppose nego tiations with Vermont, 530 New York Mercury, 239 New York Royal Gazette, 80, 109, 110, 129, 132, 142, 148, 154, 224, 225, 301, 317, 329, 426, 432, 433, 436, 437, 439, 440, 441, 446, 494, 520, 553, 558, 560, 562, 564, 568, 569, 574 Newcastle, Del., 134, 136, 144, 189 Newel, Dr., 133 Newman, James, 197 Newport, R.I., 13, 24, 67, 167 Newport, Va., 17 Nicolson, George: purchases arms, 207-8, 264-65; mentioned, 191, 389, 522, 552 Niles, Robert, accounts, 134 Ninety-Six, S.C.: besieged, 366, 377, 418; relieved by Lord Rawdon, 422-23, 425, 434-35, 442, 444; evacuated, 472, 476, 497, 501, 504; mentioned, 181, 201, 303, 309, 347, 381, 382, 387, 402, 410, 417, 437, 455, 484 Noble, John, 332 North, William, protests seizure of Renown, 100 North, Triscot & Blake, 103 North Carolina: loyalists, 66, 165, 201, 347, 358, 399; militia, 111, 436; Thomas Burke elected governor, 145; seeks arms, 256, 359, 453; fiscal quotas, 360-64; unrepresented, 463, 560, 574; privateer commissions, 525. See also Burke, Thomas; Nash, Abner North Carolina delegates, letter from, 358 O’Brien, Michael Morgan, 405 O'Donnell, William E., The Chevalier De La Luzerne, French Minister to the United States, 424 O'Hara, Capt., 340, 418


[Page 638]
604 Index O’Hara, Charles: death reported, 200; mentioned, 106, 501, 503 Olcott, Peter: Vermont agent, 32; mentioned, 29, 469 Oliphant, David: letter to, 267; ☆ appointed deputy director of hospitals, 266; mentioned, 532 Oneida Indians, relief for sought, 51 Opera, Francis Hopkinson’s “America Independent” performed, 75 Orangeburg, S.C., 425, 434, 435, 498 Ordnance, contractors paid in specie, 35 Orpheus (H.M.S.), 181, 184 Osgood, Samuel: letters from, 391, 404, 567; letter to, 57; ☆ attends Congress, xxi, 58; elected to Congress, xxi, 528; criticizes Pennsylvania fiscal policy, 392-93; committee on Massachusetts accounts, 394; delegate expenses, 404; mentioned, 220, 222 Otis, Mr., 180 Otis, Samuel A., 494 Paca, William: pluralism of, 475; mentioned, 296 Pagan, David, 572 Pagan, John, 572 Palfrey, William: death, 201-2, 319, 355, 402; mentioned, 51, 221, 256, 453, 514 Panin, Nikita Ivanovich, count, 503 Paper, sought for Maryland currency, 143 Paper currency: plan for sinking Continental bills proposed, 15; endorsers of new emissions appointed, 34; redemption of certificates with debated, 34-36, 48; payment of quartermaster contracts with debated, 35-36; Maryland new emis sion money, 49, 163; New Jersey new emission money, 49; Pennsylvania new emission money, 49, 128, 179; exchange rate, 49-50, 61, 64, 76, 90, 113, 124, 128, 154, 166, 176, 179, 197, 212-16, 220-23, 228, 236-37, 241, 304, 350, 384, 392, 445-46, 514, 548-49, 565, 568; depreciation, 87, 149-51, 218-25, 233, 244, 251, 378, 459, 536; speculation in, 90, 97, 202, 241; Virginia new emission money, 125, 446; payment of interest on new emissions proposed, 126; new emission money, 142, 401; new emissions shortage, 145-46; commodity substi tutes proposed, 241-43, 270, 288, 295, 314; circulation collapse, 256, 462; retirement of old emissions, 302-3, 392, 402, 567; status of new emissions, 360; mentioned, 53, 59, 138, 259, 299, 432, 433. See also Finance Parker, Peter, 309 Parliamentary Register, 511 Parsons, Samuel: accounts as Continental agent in Martinique, 174-75; reports capture of Tobago, 410-11; mentioned, 181, 296, 511, 545 Partridge, George: letters from, 460, 527; ☆ attends Congress, xxi, 58; elected to Congress, xxi, 527; mentioned, 220, 222 Paterson, William, declines election to Congress, 266 Patterson, Samuel: appointed to endorse Continental bills, 34; Continental loan office commissioner, 361 Paul Jones (frigate), 3 Pay. See Continental officers Paymaster general’s department, 151 Payne, Mr., 220, 222 Peabody, Nathaniel: letters to, 242, 261, 446, 480; ☆ committee on depreciation pay, 82; mentioned, 16, 17, 142, 180 Peale, Mr., 163 Peale, Charles Willson, xxvii, xxix Pendleton, Edmund, letters to, 158, 277, 436, 459, 516 Penet, Pierre, 389 Penet, d’Acosta, Freres & Co.: Continental accounts, 375 Penn, Gabriel, 544 Pennsylvania: celebrates ratification of confederation, 3; relocation of Convention


[Page 639]
Index 605 Army to ordered, 11-12; Continental regiments readiness questioned, 24; endorsers of new emission bills appointed, 34; new emission money, 49, 128, 392, 565, 568; Continental regiments reassigned, 74, 124; authorizes Con tinental impost, 128-29, 156, 171; requested to supply flour, 133; Continental troops unpaid, 145-46, 167, 575; lifts embargo, 167; provisions from requested, 168; new emission money act, 179; objects to relocation of Convention Army, 269; mutiny suppressed, 270; troops requested for Virginia defense, 283, 285, 288-90, 295, 297, 300, 316, 346; repeals tender law, 292; requested to raise cavalry, 319, 323; seeks adjustment of troop quotas, 348-49; fiscal quotas, 360-64; Continental loan office commissioner, 361; requested to raise riflemen, 371; in-kind quota arrearages, 376; vests fiscal authority in Robert Morris, 376; anticipates rich harvests, 388, 437; authorizes attachment of Virginia property in Philadelphia, 390, 408-9; fiscal policy criticized, 392-93; Continental regi ments mutiny, 399-400, 414; permission sought to impress French seamen from American ships, 404; loyalists, 413, 439, 481; pluralism of Thomas McKean attacked, 427-32, 474-75; boundary dispute with Connecticut, 450. See also Philadelphia Pennsylvania Assembly: debates redemption of commissary certificates, 49; debates Continental impost, 78-79; mentioned, 345 Pennsylvania constitution, pluralism provisions, 427, 430-31 Pennsylvania Council: letters to, 389, 449; ☆ opposes relocation of Convention Army, 11; revalues Continental dollar, 212-16; 223, 228, 237, 241; submits tes timony in Fort Pitt inquiry, 304; confers with congressional committee, 432; reprieves Thomas Wilkinson, 432; requests hearing on boundary dispute with Connecticut, 450; mentioned, 575. See also Reed, Joseph Pennsylvania delegates: letter from, 449; motion, 348 Pennsylvania Supreme Court, 390, 427, 429, 432, 474 Pennsylvania Gazette, 5, 70, 102, 181, 415 Pennsylvania Journal, 181 Pennsylvania Packet, 5, 125, 136, 155, 194, 203, 212, 216, 258, 378, 415, 501, 511, 566 Penobscot, Mass., 415, 442, 443 Pensacola, Fla.: captured by Spain, 184, 344; besieged, 200; articles of capitula tion, 367, 422, 432, 437, 438, 441, 445, 523; mentioned, 278, 334, 420, 527 Peters, Richard: confers with'Washington, 477; mentioned, 349, 543 Petersburg, Va., 265, 281, 572 Pettit, Charles: resignation, 339; mentioned, 41 Philadelphia: view of, xxvi; cost of living, 220, 223, 456, 500; migration of south ern refugees to, 456, 460; housing costs, 498, 507, 536; southern refugees seek aid, 518, 570; householders compensated for confiscated lead, 560 Philadelphia, Academy of, 388 Phillips, William: captures Williamsburg, 205; Virginia expedition, 231, 240; mentioned, 115, 140, 246, 256, 261, 263, 265, 383, 573 Pickens, Andrew: commended for Cowpens victory, 47; captures Augusta, 418; mentioned, 101, 201, 309, 347, 441 Pickering, Timothy: letters to, 196, 349, 357; ☆ complains of tender laws, 35; seeks tents, 196; recommends economy measures, 339; recommends reduction of Continental stable expenses, 357; mentioned, 184, 489 Pickles, William, captured, 344 Picquet de La Motte, Toussaint-Guillaume, captures British convoy, 473, 476, 501, 503, 534 Pierce, William, 366 Pigot, Robert, 567 Pinckney, Charles (1732-82), 101 Pintard, John, identified, 472 Pintard, Lewis: identified, 472; letters to, 471, 507, 534; mentioned, 534 Pintard, Susanna Stockton (Mrs. Lewis), 472


[Page 643]
Index 609 exemptions, 348, 486; returns to South Carolina, 381; seeks refugee aid, 518; mentioned, 208, 341, 345, 455 Ryan, Mr., 221 Rye, 426 Ryegate, Vt., 226, 572 Sagittaire (French ship), 332 St. Augustine, Fla.; status of Charleston prisoners held at, 26, 195; mentioned, 101, 426, 434, 436, 460, 476, 518 St. Christopher, 155 St. Clair, Arthur: seeks pay for troops, 575; mentioned, 338 St. Domingue, appointment of U.S. consuls to proposed, 516 St. Eustatius, 59, 64, 70, 73, 74, 86, 109, 155, 175, 226, 251, 326 St. Lucia, 289, 292, 293, 358, 554 St. Martin, 100 Salem, Mass., 195 Salt: imported, 125, 348, 486, 522, 524-25, 531, 544; price, 465; mentioned, 98, 286 Sampson, Simeon, capture of Portuguese brig protested, 286 Sanders, Jennings B., Evolution of the Executive Departments of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789, 492 Saratoga, battle of, 9 Saratoga (Continental ship), 112 Sargeant, William, 334 Satin, price, 5 Sauratown, N.C., 15 Savannah, Ga., 377, 387, 418, 498 Schomburg, Alexander, 80 Schulte Nordholt, Jan Willem, The Dutch Republic and American Independence, 70, 553 Schuyler, Philip: letter to, 95; ☆ on selection of secretary of war, 31; mentioned, 388 Scott, John Morin, elected to Congress, xxii Scull, Nicholas, xxvi Searle, James, 456 Secretary for foreign affairs. See Foreign affairs, department of Secretary of Congress. See Thomson, Charles Secretary of marine. See Marine, secretary of Secretary of war. See War, secretary of Selin, Anthony, seeks Continental commission, 458 Sergeant, Jonathan Dickinson: attacks Thomas McKean, 427-32, 474-75, 537-38; and “Tenax” pseudonym, 432, 537 Seymour, Thomas, 563 Sharpe, William: letters from, 136, 240, 255, 273, 296, 340, 358, 417, 422, 453, 455; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; defends John Paul Jones, 153; committee on public debt, 174; committee on Samuel Parsons’ accounts, 174-75; corresponding committee, 293; denounces Samuel Chase, 435-36 Sheftall, Mordecai, letter to, 421 Shelala (ship), 256 Sheldon, Elisha: cavalry regiment remounted, 227; mentioned, 337 Sherman, Roger: letters from, 374, 401, 418, 461, 484, 508, 539, 569; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix, 317; opposes stronger court martial penalties, 368; delegate expenses, 374; Vermont committee, 397; proposes negotiation of Vermont independence 461, 484-85 Shiell, Hugh: second in Thomas Burke-John Sullivan challenge, 65, 261-62; men tioned, 97


[Page 644]
610 Index Shippen, Alice Lee (Mrs. William, Jr.), 411, 440 Shippen, William, Jr., 538 Shrewsbury, N.J., 247 Silver, 81, 102, 149, 304, 462, 479 Sim, Mary Carroll (Mrs. Patrick), 312 Simcoe, John G., 326 Simm, John, 330 Simons, Keating, 144 Simons, Maurice, 144 Simpson, Edward, 571 Simpson, James, 101 Simsbury mines, Conn.: Convention Army relocated to, 88; and prisoner treat ment, 481 Singleton, Anthony, 103 Skinner, Abraham: letter to, 482; mentioned, 558 Slaves. See Blacks Smallman, Thomas, criticizes Daniel Brodhead, 287 Smallwood, William, letter to, 300 Smith, Capt., 221 Smith, Mr., 515 Smith, Alexander Lawson, promotion recommended, 69 Smith, Devereux, criticizes Daniel Brodhead, 287 Smith, Isaac, 17 Smith, James, seeks reimbursement, 74 Smith, John (Capt.), captured, 257 Smith, Meriwether: letters from, 118, 166, 185, 191, 207, 224, 234, 264, 341, 389, 462, 552; memorandum, 190; ☆ attends Congress, xxv; elected to Congress, xxv; on appointment of secretary of marine, 45; opposes Continental officers holding civil office, 168; seeks reinforcements for Virginia; 169; contracts for arms for Virginia, 190-93; delegate expenses, 234-35, 342; ways and means committee, 235; taunted, 326; delegate attendance, 552; mentioned, 100, 215, 366, 514 Smith, Robert: appointed Continental agent at Havana, 402; mentioned, 114 Smith, Samuel Stanhope, 252 Smith, Thomas: letters from, 40, 449; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; seeks payment of Continental accounts, 40-42; mentioned, 349 Smith, Thomas (loan office commissioner): disbursements, 361; mentioned, 41 Smith, William (doctor), 123 Soarez de Figueiredo, Joze da Fonseca. See Figueiredo, Joze da Fonseca Soarez de South Carolina: loyalists, 101-2, 347, 366, 399, 414; fiscal quotas, 360-64; refugee aid subscribed, 447; refugee flight to Philadelphia, 456, 459, 460, 518, 527, 570; privateer commissions, 525. See also Rutledge, John; Southern military department South Carolina delegates: letter from, 349; seek refugee aid, 518 Southern campaign: North Carolina operations, 66; battle of Guilford Court House, 95-96, 99, 101, 103, 105-6, 110-11, 132, 144, 200; Cornwallis with draws to coast, 163-65; Virginia operations, 231, 326, 337, 347, 422, 425, 434-35, 436; battle of Hobkirk’s Hill, 257-58, 263; South Carolina operations, 309, 321, 381, 387; review of, 382-84, 398-400; British withdrawal to Charleston, 472, 476, 498; Monck’s Corner skirmish, 497-99, 501, 504, 509, 554; mentioned, 205, 265, 304, 313. See also Ninety-Six, S.C. Southern military department: reinforced, 24, 102, 124, 253, 436-37; hospital purveyor for appointed, 107; supply needs, 127; hospital regulations adopted, 154; arms needs, 183; prisoners of war, 198-99; sent clothing, 215; Thomas Hutchins appointed geographer, 229; status of medical department prisoners, 252; medical department restaffed, 266; cavalry needs, 318-19, 323, 372; Lachlan McIntosh reinstated, 452; prisoner exchange proposals, 477-78. See also Greene, Nathanael


[Page 646]
612 Index Surveillante (French frigate), 67 Susquehannah Company, 450 Swanzey, N.H., and Vermont dispute, 397 Sweden, and League of Armed Neutrality, 503 Swift, Jonathan, A Tale of a Tub, 254 Switzerland, 348 Syme, John, 197 Tait, David, criticizes Daniel Brodhead, 287 A Tale of a Tub (Jonathan Swift), 254 Taliaferro, John: letter to, 438; mentioned, 562 Tariff. See Impost, Continental Tarleton, Banastre: raids Charlottesville, Va., 330, 337, 383; mentioned, 66, 281, 326, 381 Taxation, 128, 151, 231, 304, 363 Tayler, John: identified, 500; letter to, 499 Taylor, Thomas, 80 Telfair, Edward, elected to Congress, xx Temple, Benjamin, 372 Temple, John, 310 “The Temple of Minerva,” Francis Hopkinson opera performed, 76 “Tenax” (Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant pseudonym), attacks Thomas McKean, 427-32, 474-75, 537-38 Tender laws. See Legal tender Tenerife, Canary Islands, 294 Tents, 196, 222, 575 Ternay, Charles-Henri d’Arsac, chevalier de: death, 135; mentioned, 256, 257 Terrible (H.M.S.), 554 Thomas, Jane Hanson (Mrs. Philip), health, 141 Thomas, Philip, letter to, 140 Thompson, John, appointed to endorse Continental bills, 34 Thompson, William, xxviii Thomson, Charles: letters from, 206, 229, 354, 359, 398, 400, 490, 525; ☆ accounts, 206; seeks copying device, 331; requests report on Continental dis bursements, 359; recapitulates southern campaign, 398-400; cipher letters, 400; distributes privateer commissions, 525; mentioned, 7, 13, 24, 123, 151, 171, 175, 285, 321, 334, 349, 411, 432, 455, 514, 556, 569 Thome (privateer), 388 Tichenor, Isaac, identified, 245 Tilghman, Matthew: letters to, 136, 138, 181, 189, 190, 193, 194; ☆ protests con gressional slight, 190 Tilghman, Tench, promotion, 42-43, 248, 269 Tilly, Arnaud, le Gardeur de, 13, 24, 73, 118, 124 Tilton, James, 395 Tobacco: price, 374; mentioned, 75, 127, 185, 199, 240, 250, 282, 288, 314, 365, 417, 465, 476, 531, 532, 573 Tobago: captured, 410—11, 510; mentioned, 289, 532 A Topographical Description of Virginia, Maryland and North Carolina (Thomas Hutchins), 206 Topping, Aileen Moore, 334, 367 Trade: with British citizens restricted, 97-98, 107, 119, 125; with Havana, 270, 278, 344, 402. See also Embargo; Impost, Continental Treasury: cash shortage, 145-46, 160, 290, 374, 570, 575; reports disbursements, 359. See also Board of treasury; Continental loan office Trenton, N.J., 107 Tristram Shandy (Laurence Sterne), 327 Trumbull, Jonathan, Sr.: letters to, 5, 15, 63, 74, 81, 83, 85, 87, 88, 96, 107, 125,


[Page 647]
Index 613 135, 155, 156, 170, 174, 199, 203, 227, 235, 236, 237, 249, 267, 283, 286, 302, 322, 354, 374, 398, 401, 403, 447, 463, 484, 487, 508, 559; ☆ urges payment of Robert Niles’ accounts, 134; mentioned, 92, 526, 562, 569, 574 Trumbull (Continental frigate), 511 Tryon, William, 556 Tucker, Frances Bland Randolph (Mrs. St. George): identified, 113; letters to 112, 231, 505; mentioned, 371, 531 Tucker, St. George: letters to, 74, 229, 369, 531; mentioned, 506 Tucker, Thomas Tudor: identified, 371; seeks depreciation pay, 370; mentioned 507, 532 Tufts, Cotton, 17 Turnips, 472 United Provinces. See Netherlands, United Provinces of the Uti possidetis, in peace negotiations, 274, 279, 284, 297, 309, 421 Van Cortlandt, Pierre, 52 Vanderhorst, Arnoldus: paroled, 223; mentioned, 101 Van Dyke, Nicholas: letter from, 105; letter to, 139; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; attendance requested, 139; committee on Vermont independence, 528-30 Varnum, James M.: letters from, 66, 99, 115, 175, 304, 375, 376, 442, 443, 495, 520, 539, 550, 556, 568; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv; elected to Congress, xxiv, 176, 305; portrait, xxvi, 116; seeks congressional adjournment, 7; on selection of secretary of war, 31; sketch of, 37; on appointment of secretary of marine, 45; on augmenting congressional power, 66-67, 115-17; moves John Paul Jones commendation, 149; opposes western expedition, 162; delegate expenses, 175-76, 378; on Rhode Island constitution, 213-14; committee on Horatio Gates inquiry, 258; committee on southern defense, 286; on Robert Morris, 376; Vermont committee, 397; laments congressional factionalism, 444; commit tee on army arrangements, 477, 540-44, 550-52; protects Washington from political interference, 477; opposes John Sullivan’s compensation claim, 495-97; urges ratification of impost, 520—21; mentioned, 28, 165, 448 Vengeance (H.M.S.), 226 Venus, 506 Vergennes, Charles Gravier, comte de: granted control over American plenipoten tiaries, 302; relations with John Adams, 306, 406-8; attacks Jacques Necker, 547; mentioned, 31, 43, 301, 339, 343, 412 Vermont: seeks representation in Congress, 32-33; debate postponed, 54-55, 351; land interests of congressional delegates, 225-26, 244, 572; independence claim, 396-97; and British overtures, 413, 420, 426, 434, 436, 442; debate resumed, 419-20, 458, 460, 461, 479-80; and British overtures, 454, 458, 462, 471, 483, 515, 529-30; independence opposed, 468-71, 483; boundary encroachments protested, 470; independence negotiations proposed, 484-88, 499, 517; sends agents to Congress, 511, 520-21; boundary claims, 528-29, 559; independence negotiations, 528-30, 534, 548-50, 558-59, 563-65; popula tion, 529; mentioned, 97, 259, 335, 373, 395, 418, 433, 439, 452, 473, 494, 508, 526, 539 Vienna, Austria, 419 Virginia: reinforced, 6, 9, 145, 184, 197, 230, 263, 285, 288-90, 292, 297, 300, 353; relocation of Convention Army ordered, 11-12, 88, 269, 313; defenseless ness lamented, 13; cession of western claims, 14, 50, 54; informed of French naval plans, 33-34; requested to settle Convention Army accounts, 91; imports French supplies, 100, 124, 126-27, 166, 183-84; and Simon Nathan claims, 101, 126, 389-90, 408-9; militia, 111, 164-65, 261, 347, 533; seeks custody of captured loyalists, 118, 124, 183-84; new emission money, 125, 446; invasion warning, 138, 184; plans expedition against the Indians, 162; loyalists, 166,


[Page 649]
Index 615 clothing requisitions, 402-3; plans New York attack, 459, 464; plans Yorktown campaign, 477; prisoner exchange authority enlarged, 553-54; mentioned, 13, 15, 23, 85, 102, 125, 164, 180, 183, 184, 186, 224, 256, 291, 309, 347, 377, 399, 401, 414, 415, 425, 434, 438, 439, 442, 443, 466, 476, 514, 522, 568 Washington, Lund, 141 Washington, Martha Dandridge Custis (Mrs. George): health, 366; mentioned, 368, 467, 473 Washington, William: commended for Cowpens victory, 47; mentioned, 103, 106 263 Waters, Samuel, protests Spanish seizure, 294 Watterson, John S., Thomas Burke, Restless Revolutionary, 145 Wayne, Anthony: ordered to Virginia, 230, 253, 263; suppresses mutiny, 270, 278; Green Springs skirmish, 422; mentioned, 256, 292, 297, 298, 326, 347, 353, 383, 410, 420, 456 Weare, Meshech: letters to, 5, 32, 74, 81, 107, 155, 170, 171, 174, 203, 223, 233, 235, 243, 249, 259, 267, 279, 283, 286, 300, 302, 322, 332, 350, 354, 373, 375^ 396, 398, 400, 403, 418, 439, 447, 478, 485, 487, 504, 515, 549, 559; men tioned, 242 Webb, George: identified, 433; letter to, 432 Welch, Thomas B., xxix Wendell, Barrett, 420 Wendell, John, letters to, 375, 419 West Florida, 386 West Indies, appointment of U.S. consuls to proposed, 516. See also Antigua; Barbadoes; Bermuda; Cuba; Curasao; Guadeloupe; Havana; Hispaniola; Martinique; St. Christopher; St. Domingue; St. Eustatius; St. Lucia; St. Martin; Tobago Western claims. See Lands, western Westmoreland, N.H., and Vermont dispute, 397 Westmoreland, Pa.: Continental garrison seeks relief, 237; mentioned, 304 West Point, N.Y.: provisions need, 133; garrisoned with Invalid Corps, 355; men tioned, 222, 323, 426, 434, 435 Wethersfield, Conn., 258, 263, 275 Wharton, Samuel, Plain Facts, Being an Examination Into the Rights of the Indian Nations of North America, 125 Wheat, 426 Whitesides, Peter, 465 Wibird, Anthony, 16, 17, 239, 558 Wickwire, Franklin, Cornwallis, the American Adventure, 465 Wilkinson, Mr., 143 Wilkinson, Andrew, 80 Wilkinson, Thomas, reprieved for piracy, 432 Will, William, 390 Willett, Marinus: letter to, 173; ☆ regiment reduced, 173; defeats loyalist force, 460 William and Mary, College of, 386 William Henry, prince, house of Hanover, 426, 432, 434, 437, 438, 440, 443, 445 Williams, Jonathan, 178 Williamsburg, Va., 205, 371, 372, 381, 402, 425, 434, 435 Wilmington, Del., 5 Wilmington, N.C., 101, 163, 164, 165, 313 Wilson, James, 513, 514, 563 Wilson, Peter: identified, 452; letter to, 451 Windship, Amos, 16, 97, 141, 178, 179, 238, 329 Windsor, Conn., 268 Wine: price, 53, 76; mentioned, 139, 163, 286 Winthrop, James, petitions Congress, 398
