Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 6, January 1, 1777 to April 30, 1777
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_06/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 9]
Editorial Method and Apparatus v CtHi CtY DLC DLC(ESR) DNA DNDAR DeHi M-Ar MA MH-H MHi MWA MdAA MdAN MdBJ-G MdHi MeHi MiDbEI MiU-C N NHi NHpR NN NN-B NNC NNF NNPM Nc-Ar NcU Nh-Ar NhD NhHi NjGbS NjHi NjMoHP NjR OCIWHi OHi PHC Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford Yale University, New Haven, Conn. Library of Congress Library of Congress, Early State Records Collection National Archives Daughters of the American Revolution, Washington, D.C. Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington Massachusetts Archives, Boston Amherst College, Amherst, Mass. Harvard University, Houghton Library Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass. Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis United States Naval Academy, Annapolis John Work Garrett Library, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore Maine Historical Society, Portland Edison Institute, Henry Ford Museum & Greenfield Vil lage Library, Dearborn, Michigan William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor New York State Library, Albany New-York Historical Society, New York Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, N.Y. New York Public Library New York Public Library, Berg Collection Columbia University, New York Fordham University, New York Pierpont Morgan Library, New York North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Man agement, Concord Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord Glassboro State College, Glassboro, N.J. New Jersey Historical Society, Newark Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown, N.J. Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J. Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland, Ohio Ohio Historical Society, Columbus Haverford College, Haverford, Pa.


[Page 12]
viii Editorial Method and Apparatus Paullin, Marine Committee Letters Paullin, Charles O., ed. Out-Letters of Continental Marine Committee and Board of Admiralty, 1776-1780. 2 vols. New York: Printed for the Naval History Society by the De Vinne Press, 1914. PCG Papers of the Continental Congress. National Archives and Records Service. Washington, D.C. PMHB Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. PRO Public Record Office. London. Rush, Letters (Butterfield) Rush, Benjamin. Letters of Benjamin Rush. Edited by Lyman H. Butterfield. 2 vols. Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical Society by Princeton University Press, 1951. Shipton, Harvard Graduates Shipton, Clifford K. Biographical Sketches of Those Who Attended Harvard College. Sibley’s Harvard Graduates. Boston: Massachusetts Historical Society, 1873—. Warren-Adams Letters Warren-Adams Letters, Being Chiefly a Correspondence among John Adams, Samuel Adams and James Warren. 2 vols. Massachusetts His torical Society Collections, vols. 72-73. Boston: Massachusetts Histori cal Society, 1917-25. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) Washington, George. The Writings of George Washington. Edited by John C. Fitzpatrick. 39 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1931-44. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence Wharton, Francis, ed. The Revolutionary Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States. 6 vols. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1889.


[Page 21]
List of Delegates to Congress xvii Charles Carroll of Carrollton Elected: February 15, 1777 Did not attend January-April 1777 Samuel Chase Elected: November 10, 1776; February 15,1777 Attended: January 1? to February 27, 1777 Thomas Johnson Elected: November 10, 1776 Did not attend in 1777 William Paca Elected: November 10, 1776; February 15, 1777 Attended: January 16? to February 27? 1777 Benjamin Rumsey Elected: November 10, 1776; February 15, 1777 Attended: February 17-?; April 8?—30,1777 William Smith Elected: February 15, 1777 Attended: February 18?—27; April 2?-30,1777 Thomas Stone Elected: November 10, 1776; February 15, 1777 Did not attend in 1777 Matthew Tilghman Elected: November 10, 1776 Did not attend in \TT1 MASSACHUSETTS John Adams Elected: November 15, 1776 Attended: February 4 to April 30, 1777 Samuel Adams Elected: November 15, 1776 Attended: January 1 to April 30,1777 Francis Dana Elected: November 15, 1776 Did not attend January-April 1777 Elbridge Gerry Elected: November 15, 1776 Attended: January 1 to April 30, 1777 John Hancock Elected: November 15, 1776 Attended: January 1 to April 30, 1777 James Lovell Elected: November 15, 1776 Attended: February 4 to April 30, 1777


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress Robert Treat Paine Elected: November 15, 1776 Did not attend in 1777 NEW HAMPSHIRE Josiah Bartlett Elected: December 24, 1776 Did not attend in 1777 Nathaniel Folsom Elected: April 1,1777 Did not attend in April 1777 George Frost Elected: April 1, 1777 Did not attend in April 1777 Matthew Thornton Elected: December 24, 1776 Attended: January 1 to April 30, 1777 William Whipple Elected: December24, 1776 Attended: January 1 to April 30, 1777 NEW JERSEY Abraham Clark Elected: November 30, 1776 Attended: January 1 to April 14, 1777 Jonathan Elmer Elected: November 30, 1776 Attended: January 3? to February 14; March 13 to April 30,1777 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant Elected: November 30, 1776 Attended: January 1 to February 25; March 19? to April 2; April 12?-30, 1777 Richard Stockton Elected: November 30, 1776 Did not attend in 1777 John Witherspoon Elected: November 30, 1776 Attended: January 1—18?; February 7?—26; March 14? to April 30, 1777 NEW YORK George Clinton Elected: April 21, 1775 Did not attend in 1777


[Page 23]
List of Delegates to Congress xix James Duane Elected: April 21, 1775 Attended: April 16-30, 1777 William Duer Elected: March 29, 1777 Attended: April 7-30, 1777 William Floyd Elected: April 21, 1775 Attended: March 17? to April 26? 1777 John Jay Elected: April21, 1775 Did not attend in 1777 Francis Lewis Elected: April 21, 1775 Attended: January 1 to April 30, 1777 (Remained in Baltimore on Marine Committee business until returning to Philadelphia on April 13) Philip Livingston Elected: April21, 1775 Attended: April 16-30, 1777 Robert R. Livingston Elected: April 21,1775 Did not attend in 1777 Lewis Morris Elected: April 21, 1775 Attended: February 21 to April 25, 1777 Philip Schuyler Elected: April 21, 1775 Attended: April 7-30, 1777 Henry Wisner Elected: April 21, 1775 Did not attend in 1777 NORTH CAROLINA Thomas Burke Elected: December 20, 1776 Attended: February 4 to April 30, 1777 Joseph Hewes Elected: December 20, 1776 Did not attend in 1777 William Hooper Elected: December 20, 1776 Attended: January 1 to February 4,1777


[Page 24]
XX List of Delegates to Congress PENNSYLVANIA George Clymer Elected: July 20, 1776; February 22,1777 Attended: January 1 to April 30, 1777 (Remained in Philadelphia with Executive Committee, January-February) Benjamin Franklin Elected: July 20, 1776; February 5,1777 Did not attend in 1777 William Moore Elected: February 5, 1777 Declined, February 6, 1777 Robert Morris Elected: July 20, 1776; February 5, 1777 Attended: January 1 to April 30, 1777 (Remained in Philadelphia with Executive Committee, January-February) John Morton Elected: July 20, 1776 Did not attend in 1777 Daniel Roberdeau Elected: February5, 1777 Attended: March 12 to April 30, 1777 George Ross Elected: July 20, 1776 Attended: January 16?—28? 1777 Benjamin Rush Elected: July 20, 1776 Attended: January 24 to February 27,1777 James Smith Elected: July 20, 1776 Attended: January 16 ? to February 27? 1777 Jonathan Bayard Smith Elected: February 5, 1777 Attended: March 12 to April 30, 1777 George Taylor Elected: July 20, 1776 Did not attend in 1777 James Wilson Elected: July 20,1776; February 22,1777 Attended: January 1-3?; January 28? to April 30, 1777 RHODE ISLAND William Bradford Elected: October 28, 1776 Did not attend Congress


[Page 29]
Illustrations XXV in Baltimore. His congressional career ended when Congress adjourned to Philadelphia at the end of February, and in April he was appointed surgeon-general of the middle department, where he remained until January 1778. His feud with William Shippen, Jr., director general of hospitals, and subsequent criticism of Washington’s leadership, in a famous letter to Patrick Henry, brought his military and political career to a close, whereupon he resumed his medical practice in Philadelphia and through his medical lectures and writings became perhaps the most widely known physician of his generation in America. Mezzotint by St. Memin, 1802. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress. LC-Z62-64712 Abraham Clark’s Motion on Washington’s Proclamation 412 Abraham Clark was a radical political leader from New Jersey who throughout his career in Congress abhorred the growth of military authority and encroachments on state sovereignty. To Clark, General Washington’s January 25, 1777, proclamation—which required all those who had recently declared their fidelity or sworn their allegiance to the king to take an oath of allegiance to the United States or else withdraw themselves and their families behind British lines—was a threat on both counts. He therefore offered this motion to rebuff an extension of military jurisdiction in New Jersey, the area most affected by Washington’s action. A committee of Congress sharply disagreed with Clark’s assessment of Washington’s proclamation, arguing that “considering the situation of the Army [it] was prudent and necessary,” but Congress tabled the committee’s report in order to avoid a potentially divisive debate. Undeterred by the committee’s rebuke, Clark remained concerned about encroachments on individual rights from whatever the source. As he explained to the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly: “We set out to Oppose Tyranny in all its Strides, and I hope we shall persevere.” Papers of the Continental Congress, item 36, 1:4, National Archives and Records Service. Thomas Burke 426 Thomas Burke, who served as a North Carolina delegate to Congress from 1777 to 1781, was one of the foremost defenders of state sovereignty during the era of the American Revolution. An Irish immigrant who came to North Carolina and prospered as a doctor and lawyer, Burke anticipated by more than a century the Actonian dictum that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. “The delusive intoxica tion which power naturally imposes on the human mind,” he once warned, “inevitably leads to an abuse & corruption of power, & is in my humble opinion the proper object of political vigilance & jealousy.” In the Dickinson draft of the Articles of Confederation, Burke perceived great


[Page 31]
Illustrations xxvii tion of Independence, thereby becoming the delegate whose name appears last on the document. A physician in Londonderry, N.H., he was one of four doctors and eight foreign born delegates who signed the Declaration. After six months of inconspicuous service in Congress, Thornton returned home to sit on the bench of the New Hampshire Superior Court until 1782, after which he served a two-year term in the state senate. Painting by N. B. Onthank. Courtesy of the New Hampshire Historical Society. Resolves of Congress on Pennsylvania’s Defense 580 Congress again became alarmed for the safety of Pennsylvania in April 1777 when Gen. Israel Putnam, reporting on recent movements of General Howe’s forces in New Jersey, suggested that the British might be contem plating the capture of Philadelphia. A committee was therefore appointed to confer with Pennsylvania officials, but since many delegates were con cerned about the possible collapse of the state’s government and the deter mination and ability of its citizens to resist invasion, steps were also taken to insure that Pennsylvania’s paralysis did not fatally undermine the defense of the middle colonies. Accordingly, Congress, asserting its “indispensible duty” to intervene and declaring the executive authority of Pennsylvania “incapable of any exertion adequate to the present crisis,” published a series of resolves of April 14 and 15 exhorting “the good people of Pennsylvania chearfully to submit” to whatever emergency measures Congress and the Pennsylvania Council jointly deemed necessary. Rare Book and Special Collections Division. Library of Congress. LC-USZ62-66968 Benjamin Rumsey’s April 17, 1777, letter to Thomas Johnson 605 Benjamin Rumsey was born in Cecil County, Md., and educated at the College of New Jersey. Active in Maryland’s struggle against British authority, he served as a member of the Maryland Convention and the Council of Safety in 1775 and 1776, and held a colonel’s commission in the Harford County militia. He was elected a delegate to Congress in the autumn of 1776 and almost simultaneously was appointed a commissioner to encourage the reenlistment of Maryland soldiers. In Philadelphia he attempted to compromise a dispute between Maryland and Congress over the terms his state wished to offer men to reenlist, and he frequently busied himself with the details of supplying Maryland companies marching through Philadelphia en route to join Washington’s army. He attended Congress only a few days during his sojourn in Baltimore but resumed his seat after the delegates returned to Philadelphia before leaving in May, when Maryland seemed to be threatened from another quarter. Concerned over the state’s ability to pacify three eastern shore counties where loyalists threatened the stability of the new state government and encouraged a


[Page 39]
January 1, 1777 7 order them to be sent to me and every Expence shall be paid arising thereon. This Recommendation of Colo. Baylor I doubt not will meet with your approbation, and that on his Return from Virginia, you will give him a Commission with such Pay as you shall think suitable and Adequate. Wishing you very sincerely the Compliments of the Season, I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & Regard, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [PA.] I shall Send you the Letter Books by the first safe hand. 4 By this oppory. I send you four Bundles containg two hundred Com missions, the rest shall immediately follow. 5 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 Washington’s December 27 letter to Hancock describing the battle of Trenton is in PCC, item 152, 3:401-4, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:441-44. 3 Hancock sent Washington most of the November 28, December 28 and 30 resolves pertaining to Schuyler’s command and also forwarded December 31 and January 1 resolves requesting Washington to supply Schuyler with powder and to promote Lt. Col. George Baylor. See JCC, 6:988-89, 1047-48, 1051, 1059, 7:7; and Hancock to Schuyler, September 27, 1776, note 4. 3 See Hancock to the States, December 30, 1776. 4 In his December 24 letter to Hancock, Washington had asked for the return of the letterbooks he had entrusted to Congress’ safekeeping before the battle of Long Island in August 1776. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:426-27, 6:434; and Hancock to Washington, August 17, 1776. 6 After this sentence in the LB, Hancock wrote: “I also sent by another Express, a copy of the foregoing Letter, with Six Bundles containing three Hundred Com missions.” William Hooper to Joseph Hewes My dear Hewes Baltimore Jany 1, 1777 I was favoured with two letters from you by Capt. Allon. I lament your hard fortune, and unless some measures are immediately taken to prevent the infamous practices of the Privateers, America will soon be in a state of general confusion—one Part warring against another, and the defence less Southern colonies become a devoted prey to their more formidable Eastern neighbours. I laid your letter relative the Capture of the Brig Joseph before the congress without any embellishment or reserve. The New England Gentlemen, felt the force of the Imputation but considered it as too general. I have an order that our President should write the President and Council of Mass’tts requesting to make an immediate en quiry after the Vessell and the Pirates who have taken her, secure her and them & report immediately to congress. I have also procured a reference of your letter to the marine Committee, who I hope will take some spirited


[Page 40]
8 January 1, 1777 resolves to avenge the Injury done you and to prevent the repetition of such unjustifiable depredations. Morris is not here, but I have requested him in a letter which I wrote him yesterday enclosing yours to correspond with me upon the subject and exert his utmost endeavours to interest Congress in favour of your Application, by a publick epistle to our Hon ours. This is all which can be done at present, when I hear more particu larly from you I shall prosecute every expedient to improve such informa tion to your benefit. 1 The Congress upon Part of G. Howe’s Army advancing within 9 Miles of Cooper’s ferry, by the advices of Mifflin and Putnam removed to this dirty infamous extravagant hole, where with all possible ceconomy we live at the rate of 50/ per day, Every necessary of life being double what they cost us in Philadelphia, & before we left that every thing was enormous. In a letter which accompanies this I send you an account of the signal success obtained at Trenton. It has already had a fine effect upon our recruiting service, one Reg’t whose term of Enlistment was expired having reenlisted to a man since that Event. It has operated the contrary effects on our Enemy—as from what we can learn they are Pannic Struck. Cer tain it is that 2000 which were at Bordentown moved towards Princeton with great Precipitation and carried off all their Stores with them. The State of General Washingtons Army is pretty nearly as follows. Of Lees detachments brought from the East Side of Hudsons River about 2300 effective men Other continental Regiments 2700 Genl Cadwallader with 1200 Militia 1200 Genl Ewen perhaps as many 1200 Militia come in & coming in very fast since the battle will make perhaps 2600 10000 With these Genl Washington will I imagine again enter the Jersies and attempt to drive the Enemy back to New York. Should he succeed Your cause is safe, and my apprehensions about Philadelphia at an end. Howe has about 12,000 in the Jersies, Headquarters at Brunswick & the principal part of the army collected there, most of the outposts are called in, they have a small force at Princeton. Genl Washington is at Newton in Bucks County, where a plot was formed against him and his family, happily defeated by an early discovery of the Tories Intentions. Lee’s Capture surprizes us all. He was taken about 2 miles from his army where he had stopped to write answers to dispatches. A man in the neighbourhood immediately rode off to Brunswick 25 Miles distant, gave information, 80 or 90 light horse were immediately dispatched under the command of Col Harcourt who arrived about 10 oGlock in the morning and surprised Lee and his Aid de Camps, 6 in number, at the writing table. A guard of 10 men which men unfortunately at a little distance from the house were cut off from communication with the Genl. Lee was


[Page 43]
January 1, 1777 11 “1. He appointed his own apprentice who had not been with him 3 months, Apothecary General at 50 Dollars a Month, pocketted the whole & charged the youth for his board. “2. He had 8 or 10 mates at 3/9 a day & charges the continent 7/6—they are quite ignorant. “3. From 50 to 100 sick are entirely trusted to these boys. “4. There always have been a great abundance of Stores locked up & with great expence removed from place to place greater than the first cost, & the sick perish for want of them. Hundreds in Hackinsack lying in straw in cold barns with nothing but Beef & bread to eat. “5. He makes money of the Tallow, by making candles & selling them to the hospital, therefore nothing but Beef given them, this I have from his Q Master Who was to have part of the proffit. & I am told he pockets all the retained rations— but this I cant prove. Nor should I choose to be called upon to prove any thing. I have my information from the united voice of his own officers.” Lee Papers, PPAmP. Although Morgan was dismissed as director general on January 9 and Shippen’s plan for hospitals was transmitted to Congress by General Washington in February, it was not until April that Congress adopted new regulations for military hospitals based largely on Shippen’s recommendations and appointed Shippen as director general. JCC, 7:24, 161-64, 231-37, 244-46, 253. For a discussion of the assistance Shippen received in the preparation of his plan from Dr. John Cochran, who subsequently became physician and surgeon general of the army in the Middle Department, see Morris H. Saffron, Surgeon to Wash ington. Dr. John Cochran, 1730-1807 (New York: Columbia University Press, 1977), pp. 28-39, 213-17. ! This is a quotation from Juvenal Satires 6. 292-93, which may be translated: “A heavier burden than the arms of war, Luxury lies like an incubus upon us, avenging the world that Rome has conquered.” Marine Committee to John Baldwin Sir 1 January 1st. 1777 Mr. Patterson is now going down to Egg Harbour to take the care and management of your Prizes in that place, and as its probable you may return there from your present Cruize, you are hereby directed on receipt of this Letter to send up immediately a return of the Provisions and Stores that will be wanted to compleat the Wasp for a three months voyage. Send also a List of your men and an account of what Slops and clothing may be necessary if you should be ordered to proceed to Europe. You may heave down the schooner & get her in good order against the return of the Express by whom you make these returns and if you are ordered on the service mentioned all things necessary shall be sent you. Keep this to yourself until further orders. Mr. Patterson will supply you with money for such expences as arise on the Vessel at Egg Harbour and if more is wanted write us for it. I am on behalf of the Marine Comee., Your hble Servant, R Morris V. P.


[Page 45]
January 1, 1777 13 I have not been favoured with one letter Publick or privat Since I left my own House. I would take it as a great Honor, to Receive a letter from you, or any worthy friend. 1 My Worthy College Col. Whipple is well. Pray Sir take the trouble to present my Compliments to the Honble Council & House & Except the Same from Your Most Obedient, & Sir, your Hble sert. Matthew Thornton RC (MeHi). 1 Meshech Weare’s December 16, 1776, letter to the New Hampshire delegates did not arrive in Baltimore until January 19, 1777. See William Whipple to Weare, February 3, 1777. Oliver Wolcott to Andrew Adams? Sir, 1 Baltimore, 1 Jany. 1777 Your Favour of the 30 Novr came to hand last Evening for which I most sincerely thank you. I wrote to you the 15 Nov. which I hope you have reed. 2 Your observations of the Necessity of establishing a respecta ble Army are in my Judgment Very Proper. Congress have empowered Genl Washington to raise 16 Battalions in addition to those already granted and 3,000 Cavalry. Also have given the Genl a Power for six months to conduct at his Descretion the operations of the War, establish magazines, call upon the Militia when necessary, regulate every Depart ment in the Army, Displace and appoint any officer below the Rank of Brigadr. Genl. &c. In a Word the Whole of the Military Department is put into his Hand for six Months. Upon this that the Preservation of the Civil Liberties of the People, at the present Time, depends upon the full Exertion of the Military Power. An Embargo for six months is laid upon salted Provisions. 3 For other matters of publick Intelligence referr you to the enclosed I hope We may obtain further advantages agt the Enemy in the Jersys. The Congress is this moment going off. I have only to say that We must have an Army, to carry on a War without one is a New Peice of Business. That they ought to be provided for in the best manner, and that without discipline they will not be serviceable and that if We can once bring one into the Feild, they will be much better provided for, disciplined and governed than they have hitherto been. In a Word I be lieve if We can get an Army it will be a good one—more happy themselves and more Beneficial to the Publick than any we have yet had. Great Complaints are made that the Assemblys have appointed great Numbers of Very insufficient officers and have neglected the most apparent Merit. Your kindness for me particularly exacts my Gratitude. I wish I was less sensible of the Injury I have reed. Any but those who have exercised Power to answer sinister Purposes to my Injury I can easily forgive, but


[Page 46]
14 January 1, 1777 these men I hope may deserve not only my Forgiveness but that of their Maker. I am at no Loss as to what they deserve. But God forbid that the Villany shall ever induce me to relax my Endeavours to serve my Country as farr as I am able. I saw the Baseness of these Mens Design and the Ef fect of my own undertaking in a good Degree contrary to my own Opinion I undertook, and therefore ought to suffer. I am generally tho’t to be pritty inflexible in my own Opinion. I certainly will study to be more so. My Compliments to Mrs. Adams and with Candor Accept this hasty Sketch from Sir, your most Obedient, humble Servant Oliver Wolcott RC (N). 1 Andrew Adams of Litchfield, Conn., with whom Wolcott maintained a steady correspondence, was the probable recipient. The subjects discussed here are similar to those discussed in other letters to Adams; and the contemporary endorsements on this and three other of Wolcott’s letters to him—“Coll. Wolcott’s Letter,” on this and one of March 22, 1776, and “Genii. Wolcotts Letter,” on letters of March 22 and April 9, 1777—appear to be in the same hand. 2 Not found. 3 See the resolve of December 30, 1776. ]CC, 6:1054. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear Baltimore 1 Janry 1777 I Wrote to you the 25t and 13t last, Since which Nothing material has Occurred, except the Battle at and near Trenton, in which the Amer ican Army took 918 Prisoners, killed 20 or 30, took 4 Colors, 6 Brass Feild Pieces &c, the particular acco. of which you will have. I hope We may flatter ourselves that further Advantage will be soon obtained in that Quarter. I have not yet heard what the Troops which went to R Island are about but I hope there Designs will be frustrated. Nothing of consequence from the Southward. How long the Congress will continue here will depend on Contin- gences. For myself I wish it might not be long for it is infinitely the most dirty Place I was ever in. No One can Walk about here but in Boots. The Air and Paths are in the same Condition that they are with us the latter End of March and beginning of April. This Weather I Suppose will continue near Two Months. The Place is said to be healthy but I am sure it is extremely uncomfortable. By the Blessing of God I am well Otherwise than my having a Cold which I hope will pass off before long. My best Regards to my Family and Freinds whom I hope God will Protect and Bless. Take Care of your Health, make the Cares of Life Easy. Prosperous and happy Times I trust will Return to our Country, and that God will grant us the Peace and Happiness of former Days, A


[Page 51]
January 2, 1777 19 Executive Committee to William Palfrey Sir January 2nd 1777 Your letter to Congress of yesterday is now in our Office, and which we shall dispatch to Baltimore by Express. As we concur with you that the engagements with the Soldiry Should at all times be complied with, we Shall recommend it to Congress to Send you a Sufficient Supply of Money. In consequence of a request from his Excellency the General, We yesterday sent him Fifty Thousand Dollars for the purpose of Paying the 10 Dollars bounty you mentioned so that we hope the Army will suffer nothing untill you get a Supply. We are Sir, Yr. mst Obt Serts. [P.5.] We send you Six Sticks of Sealing Wax. LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Baltimore 2d Jany 1777 Your Favour of the 23d Deer is just come to Hand & inclosed are the Orders of Congress for emporting Flower & Rice. I should have wrote by your young Gentleman, but he stopped at Philadelphia. Capt Doughty will go off the 4th or 5th with 400000 Dollars, & the Loan Office Certifi cates will either be sent by Express or under his Care to each of the New England Commissioners, who will also receive the necessary Directions. I will move in the Morning for a Warrant on the Loan offices of Con necticut & Massachusetts for 300000 Dollars, in your Favour, which answers all that is mentioned in your Letter relative to Business. 1 I am informed that in the New York Paper is the Copy of a Letter from the C. G. to a Memr of Congress wherein Colo Reed is censured; I have not seen it, or heard to whom it is directed—but shall not be surprized if to myself. 2 I congratulate You on the Success of our Arms at Trentown; Our Men embrace every favourable oppertunity to give Tests of their Courage, & should be ever indulged in their martial Inclinations. The Regiments in the Detachment that attacked the Enemy were Reeds, Poor’s, Starks, N.H.; Glover’s, Sergeant’s, Hutchinson’s, Patterson’s & Graton’s, M.B.; Durky’s, Ct.; Varnum’s, R.I.; Stone’s, Maryd.; & Reads, Weadons, Lauson’s, Scot’s & Buckner’s, Virga., making in the whole 2500. The public should be apprized hereof, that by doing Justice to the brave, they may Excite them to nobler Acts & raise a laudable Emulation, free from Envy & Boasting, thro out America.


[Page 52]
20 January 2, 1777 The Lexington a Continental Frigate of 14 Guns arrived here this Morning from Cape Francois after having about ten days since been captured by a thirty two Gun Frigate. The officers were all taken out & about twelve or fifteen Men put on board her by them but the Wind being high they lost one of their Boats & were unable to add to this Number, in Consequence of wch. the Crew of the Lexington retook the vessel & arrived here with the following Cargo: 1400 Ells Cloaths & Coatg., 500 Ells Flannel & 300 of Oznab., 1 bbl. Salt petre, 200 thousand needles, 636 thousand pins, 366 reams paper, 386 Blankets, 12 3/4 Tons Sulphur, 5000 Flints, 500 stand arms with Bayonets, 7 1/2 Tons Lead & 8 Tons powder. 3 I remain sir with much Esteem your Friend & humble serv, E Gerry Jany 3d. The Order proposed in the first part of this Letter having passed Congress is now enclosed. I think it will be necessary to inform yourself from the Loan Office Commissioners who of them is or may be best sup- plyed with Money & inform the Treasurer that he may send an order accordingly. In the Evening. I am just come from a Visit to our good Friend General Gates who is on the Recovery, which will doubtless give You pleasure. I suspect that a mercenary party at Albany have endeavoured to gravel you in supplying the Army, & find that at certain Times when there should have been two Months (or six Weeks at least) provisions in the Garrison, there has been only a Supply for the same Number of Days. This is a Matter of serious Concern, as the Enemy by investing the Garrison at such a Time, would oblige it to give them Battle upon their own Terms or re treat by the way of the new Road to the N E States. Pray inform me whether You can establish a Magazine of provisions at Bennington for an Army of 10000 Men three Months & keep up the usual Supplys not- withstandg opposition & without the assistance of the Albany Gentle men ; & if not, whether it would be a good plan to direct a certain Quantity to be provided in or near Albany by the York Convention or General Schuyler to supply the Militia that may occassionally come in, or answer any other Demands that may be found necessary during the next Cam paign? & also what Quality of provisions & Quantity should be thus or dered? I think your powers & connections may render this needless, but as it can be done without interfering in your Department, if You think there is the least Chance of it’s being necessary & advise thereto [it] shall be adopted. The Bearer brings the Certificates to the Commissioner of the loan offices in N England. RC (Ct). 'For the results of Gerry’s action, see the January 3 postscript of this letter and 7CC, 7:12.


[Page 53]
January 2, 1777 21 2 Commissary General Joseph Trumbull’s letter of November 18, 1776, to Wil liam Williams was captured and printed in the New York Gazette; and the Weekly Mercury, December 9, 1776. It is also in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3 :1497-98. 3 For further information on the capture and recapture of the Continental brig Lexington, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:534, 836. John Hancock to Ebenezer Hancock Dear Brother Baltim[or]e. 2 Jany. 1777 This will be handed you by Coll. Stewart a Friend of Mine, & a Gentle man of an Amiable Character, & Spirited officer. 1 1 Desire your particular Attention to him, & the exercise of every Civility in your power, & that you will Accommodate him with a Bed in your house during his Stay in Boston, & in short I beg you do every thing in your power to Render Col Steward’s Abode in Boston as agreeable as possible. I have wrote Mr Bant. 2 Introduce Col Stewart to all my Friends. I wish you happy & am, Your’s affectionately, John Hancock RC (PHC). Addressed: “To Ebenezer Hancock Esqr, Dfeputy] Paymaster Gen eral, at Boston.” 1 See Committee of Congress to Walter Stewart, December 31, 1776. 2 Not found. John Hancock to Robert Morris Sir, Baltimore Jany. 2d. 1777. I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your several Favours to the 20th. ulto. all which were immediately laid before Congress. The enclosed Resolves will inform you of the Measures Congress have taken relative to the Northern Army, a Copy of which I have forwarded to Genl. Schuyler. 1 1 transmit to you a Copy of the Circular Letter which Congress ordered to be sent to all the States, in Consequence of their vesting the Commander in Chief with the large and extensive powers I enclosed to you in my last. 2 I am this Minute informed by Captain Boyce of the Marines, who was on Board the Lexington, that she was taken by the Pearle Frigate off the Capes of Delaware. The Weather proving extremely bad, only seven Hands were put on Board. In Consequence of which the Lexington’s Crew rose; and having taken Possession of her, have brought safe into this Harbour. She is loaded with Powder, Arms, & dry Goods. I shall order her to be immediately unloaded, & dispatch her as fast as possible. I must ask the Favour of you to send me by the next Express, Half a Ream of good Writing Paper, two Pounds of the best Sealing Wax, a Box


[Page 57]
January 3, 1777 25 Harpsicord, which I am told was the best that ever came to America. You Have little chance for the Tellescope. Old Weatherspoon has not escap’d their fury. They have burnt his Library. It grieves him much that he has lost his controversial Tracts. He would lay aside the Cloth to take revenge of them. I believe he would send them to the Devil if he could, I am sure I would. Thus endeth the postscript. RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:3-4. 1 See Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee, December 20, 1776, note 3. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore Town, Jany 3d 1777 Congress have received no Letters from General Washington since the 29th. We are informed by private Letters, that all our forces, about 10,000, are in the Jerseys, and that the Enemy are retreating. It is certain, that Genl. Heath has retaken Hackensack and some Prisoners. Mr. Shearman, Delegate from Connecticut, informs that the Enemy are in Possession of New Port, Rhode Island, and that about 10,000 are collected to oppose them. The enclosed Petition was put into my hands. Your Board will make proper Enquiry and grant Redress. Captain Yates delivered Me the enclosed. Mr. Carroll informs Me, that an Application was heretofore made to Congress relative to the Case of Milne and Jenkins & declined Giving any opinion. I have given the State of their Case to the Georgia Delegates, I will write You further on this Subject. 1 General Smallwood will communicate to You his Directions from Con gress; I shall procure Money from them as soon as it can be signed, and shall forward the General with a Sum to enable him to expedite the new Levies. I doubt not the ready Concurrence and assistance of your Board. On the Success in procuring a New Army depends our all. I wish You would give a Line to any Officer, who may apply to You for Money & signify what Sum I shall advance. I think it would be proper for You in a full Board to consider the Propriety of Convening our general Assembly. Our State is as yet un represented. I am, Gent, with Respect and Regard, Your Most Obedt. Servt. Sami. Chase RG (MdAA). 1 See William Paca to the Maryland Council of Safety, December 7, 1776, note 2. See also Chase to the Maryland Council, January 19? 1777.


[Page 63]
January 4, 1777 31 that Philadelphia was the dearest Place that ever I knew. Baltimore ex ceeds it. On this Account, on Account of its Distance from the Scene of War, and on Account of its being the dirtiest Place I ever saw, I most sincerely wish myself back to Philadelphia, which I left with great Re luctance. By a Letter which I receiv’d from Newport on the 6th of Dec. I am led to hope that my Wife and Children have escaped from Newport. If they should be Prisoners I hope you will promote their Freedom. I am with great Respect Yr Honor’s most obedient, humble Servant, Wm Ellery s. RC (MdBJ-G). Addressed: “To The Honorable Nicholas Cooke Esqr, Governor of the (Colony) State of Rhode Island & Providence Plantations.” 1 See Ellery to Cooke, December 31, 1776. Secret Committee to John Langdon Sir, In Secret Committee Baltimore 4th Jan 1777 We some time ago desired you to purchase two or three ships and send them to Virginia, or South Carolina, since which we have not had the pleasure of hearing from you, but hope that business is in good forward ness. 1 We have now to desire you to purchase another ship and send her to France if a cargo can be procured at your place suitable for that mar ket. No doubt masts will answer very well and perhaps some other arti cles of greater value may be procured—however of this you are a much better judge than we can be. Our wish is that the cargo may be valuable and that the ship may be dispatched as soon as possible. Many articles that are much wanted in the army, we imagine may be obtained at the Islands, St Peters, Newfoundland. We therefore desire you would charter two small vessels (which should be very fast sailers) if cargos can be procured proper for that market 2 and order from thence canvas for tents, or any sort of woolen or linen goods suitable for soldier’s clothing. Your drafts on this Committee will be duly paid, for whatever sums you may want for the execution of this business at the Islands of St Peters and Meguelon. We are with great respect, your most humble servts, Richard Henry Lee F Lewis Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). 1 For Langdon’s progress in this regard, see his January 23 letter to Robert Morris in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1020. 2 For Langdon’s response to this request, see his January 23 letter to William Whipple, ibid., pp. 1020-21.


[Page 68]
36 January 5, 1777 Richard Henry Lee to Adam Stephen Dear General 1 Baltimore 5 January 1777 Nothing could have happened more opportunely than the drubbing you have given the Hessians at Trenton. God grant the blow may be fol lowed up until you expell these Robbers from the Jersies at least. If they do not get severe castigation for their late maneuvres in Jersey, they will sophisticate all Europe with lies. The genius of America seems now to be awakening from profound sleep. Let the moment be improved for making a vigorous and decisive impression. We have had several valuable arrivals lately with powders, woolens and arms. More are daily expected. But you seem now to have got into a shorter and surer method of obtaining these things by stripping the enemy. I heartily approve the plan. I am still of opinion that the Spring torch will light up a general war in Europe, but still we should be prepared to receive the enemy in every quarter. Both in public and in private as little should rest upon externals as possible. Will you please to tell our Major Parker that I will forward his com mission by the first good opportunity. Congress has adopted the European plan in offering six Hessian field officers for Gen. Lee. If it is not accepted, I hope a noble feud will take place between these foreigners and their British Allies. I am, as of old, your affectionate friend, Richard Henry Lee RC (CtY). Addressed: “Brigadier General Stephen in the Jersies. Favored by Colo. Hartley.” 'Adam Stephen (1730?-91), who had been promoted to the rank of brigadier general in September 1776, was promoted to major general on February 19, 1777, but was dismissed from the service later in the year for being intoxicated on duty. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography. Board of Treasury to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Sir Baltimore Jany 6th 1777 Capt Doughty, who has taken charge of the Loan Office certificates for the Eastern States, will be in want of a guard to escort him as far as Hartford in Connecticut. 1 I am therefore desird to request the favor of you to order one for that purpose, which we think ought to consist of six Horsemen, who will expedite the conveyance of these certificates. Capt Doughty will be in Philadelphia on the 10th Instant. I am, on behalf of the board of Treasury, Sir, Your obedt Hbe Servt, Thos. Nelson jr. RC (NN). Written and signed by Thomas Nelson. 'See JCC, 7:17-18.


[Page 70]
38 January 6, 1777 notwithstanding their Fatigue and he understood that Genl Heath was at Morris Town with a considerable number of Troops and was to join Genl Washington on Saturday, when they were to Surround Brunswick & attack it in all quarters. This is nearly the substance of Mr Browns account. You may fully depend that what he relates is exactly what he has seen & heard being a Young Man of Veracity. Capt James Nicholson has also just returned from Trenton again, he confirms all the above particulars having heard them at Trenton from other persons that had come in there. He adds also that an Express was come down from Genl. Washington to Genl. Putnam & pushed on from Trenton to Bordentown where he expected to meet him yesterday, & by the enclosed letter from Genl Putnam you will perceive he Crossed yesterday to Burlington & the Force he has with him; more are following constantly. Capt Nicholson further says that the Enemies Troops that lodged in Trenton on Thursday night, pushed for Prince Town soon as they missed our army, that they were greatly fatigued & harrassed & that the Country between Trenton & Prince Town was full of Stragglers that cou’d not get on fast enough, that they generally quitted the Road, got into the Woods and lost them selves & were divided into small parties of threes & fours, some of which came into Trenton & surrendered whilst he was there & the Country Militia having begun to rise was picking them up & bringing them in very fast. Those that surrendered said great Numbers of their Countrymen wou’d come in if they knew how well they wou’d be treated. It is now said that Ld Cornwallis Commands the Main Body of the Enemy consisting of between 4 & 5000 that was at Trenton & that Genl Howe is at Brunswick with about 3 or 4000. Genl. Washingtons Force we do not know but it was judged by Mr Brown to be 12,000. We think that is impossible, however he says the Country is undoubtedly rising & that he will gather Strength every day. Genl Heath is said to have from 3 to 7000 but we have no Certainty respecting him. The bearer of this who came express from Boston says he heard Genl. Heath was at Pecks Kill. Upon the whole, we are in a state of much uncertainty & anxiety, but hope soon to be agreably relieved from it, our Militia come in daily. Colo Flemings Battalion is near at hand, part of Cooks is already here, the Jersey Militia turning out and our army will grow too formidable for the Enemy be the Event at Brunswick what it may. We know Congress will be anxious & soon as we can give it, they shall have information of what happens. We opened the dispatches from Boston but finding our interposition unnecessary we send on the Express with these dispatches & this letter. You will find enclosed the Copy of a letter from Major Hubley & thereby learn the success of Major Mifflins expedition. You have also enclosed a letter from J. Trumbull, D. paymaster Genl, at Albany. Capt Hallock & his officers will go down to day to the Lexington but they must not go


[Page 72]
40 January 6, 1777 Jany.7th. We have an imperfect Acct, by the Post of the Engagement at Trenton—and are anxiously waiting for Particulars. In Hopes of receiv ing them, I have detained the Express till this Morning. The Resolution sent you some time ago respectg the Magazine at York, is superceeded by the subsequent Resolve ordering one at Carlile. 3 RC (DNA: PCC, item 58). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and two portions of postscripts by Hancock. Addressed: “Robt. Morris Esqr. & others of the Come.” 1 See JCC, 7:12-13; and John Witherspoon to David Witherspoon, March 17, 1777. 2 Foregoing paragraph written by Hancock. 3 See JCC, 6: 1033, 1044. Foregoing sentence written by Hancock. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Baltimore Jany. 6th. 1777 The enclosed Resolves, which I have the Honour of transmitting, call for your immediate Attention; and I am to request you will take Measures in Pursuance thereof, as soon as possible. 1 Genl. Lee’s Situation seems to to be extremely dangerous and critical; and from Genl. Howe’s Behaviour to him, it is highly probable, he will be brought to a Trial for Desertion. Genl. Lee, it is said, by Mr. Eustace his Aid de Camp, having addressed two Letters to Genl. Howe, received them both back again unopened, and enclosed under a Cover directed to Lieutenant Colo. Lee. I hope the Flag which Congress ordered to be sent to make Enquiry into the Manner in which he is treated, has been dispatched, and a Remonstrance in Conse quence of it, should the Information you have received of his Treatment, have rendered that Step necessary. You will please to propose an Exchange of the six Hessian Field officers for him, & at the same Time make Enquiry whether the Report which Congress have heard of Mr. Stockton’s being confined in a Common Jail by the Enemy, has any Truth in it, or not. 2 By a Letter which Congress yesterday received from Mr. Morris we are informed that Genl. Cadwallader, with the Troops under him, had joined your Army—that the Enemy were at Trenton.—that the two Armies were divided only by a Creek, and that a General Engagement was hourly expected. In the mean Time, Congress are infinitely anxious to hear the Event; and humbly hope, that Victory has declared in Favour of those, whose sacred Cause should inspire them with Ardour on every solemn appeal to that Being, who hateth all Injustice, Tyranny, and oppression. I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt P.S. If the Desire of Congress to procure Genl. Lee’s Exchange cannot be effected, and the Enemy, preferring the Gratification of Revenge to the


[Page 73]
January 6, 1777 41 Civility they owe their Hessian Auxiliaries, determine to keep or to abuse him, it will be very agreeable to Congress that their Determination, with the enclosed Resolve, be made known to the Hessians as fully as possible. To secure Genl. Lee as effectually as maybe from personal Insult & Injury, Congress have come to the present Resolution; 3 which you, Sir, are desired to convey to Genl. Howe with all convenient Dispatch. 4 It will be very agreeable to Congress that the Hessian Field Officer intended to be ex changed for Colo. Ethan Allen be sent to notify it to Genl. Howe, taking his Parole to return in a fixt Time, if Colo. Allen is not returned in his Place. It will fall within the Wish of Congress if Colo. Rohl, or one of the Hessian Officers, should be also sent with the Flag proposing the Exchange of Genl. Lee; but the propriety of it is submitted to you. Jany. 7th. We have had an imperfect Acct, of the Engagement at Tren ton, and anxiously wait for further Particulars. It was in Hopes of receiv ing them that I detained the Express till this Morning. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 In addition to the resolves about General Lee and Richard Stockton discussed in the body of this letter, Hancock also sent Washington some resolves passed between January 3 and 6 about provisions for American prisoners, the exchange of Ethan Allen, reinforcements for Washington, and pay for seamen. JCC, 7:12, 15, 16. 2 See JCC, 7:10, 12-13; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:501-2. 3 See JCC, 7:16. 4 The preceding two sentences were evidently taken from a partial draft of the postscript prepared by Richard Henry Lee, a member of the committee appointed on December 20, 1776, to inquire into the condition and treatment of prisoners of war. Lee also apparently drafted the resolves concerning Ethan Allen and Charles Lee enclosed by Hancock in this letter. His drafts of these resolves and the postscript of this letter are in the Lee Family Papers, ViU. Robert Morris to John Hancock Dear Sir Philada. Jany 6th. 1777 I am favoured with yours of the 2d Inst and had much joy indeed, when I found the Lexington was arrived, because She wou’d be a mischievous Enemy, altho a very good Friend in proper hands. I have directed the Captain & Officers to proceed down to Baltimore immediately judging they will be wanted in fitting her out again. Gap Hallock can also distinguish the Goods that are for Account of the Public from those on Other Account. I thank You for the promised care of those that are for me which I suppose to be the property of Mr. Ceronio at the Cape. I wou’d have them delivered to Mr. David Stewart to whom I give orders respecting them. Gapt Hallock & his Officers are under parole and


[Page 75]
January 6, 1777 43 in my name & then pass them for their money, [. . .] my Dr Sir I will promote this business by all means in my power. I am perfectly satisfyed to have Aiderman Lee joined with my Brother in the Continental busi ness being convinced it will promote the Public good but at the same time such Commission or Compensation shou’d be allowed as will be sufficient for two instead of one, and I am confident they will both earn what they are to receive. The quantity of Tobo we shou’d ship to France ought to have no limit & sorry I am that the Vigilance of our Enemies, the Scarcity of Ships & Seamen with many other Causes keeps us from making the nec essary progress, but our difficulties in this respect are almost insurmount able. I think we shall be in debt in every quarter, We must owe money in Martinico, St Eustatia & Cape Francois and I wish to remit to these places instantly if possible. We must be heavily in debt in old France if Mr Deane succeeds & whether he does or not we shall otherways be in debt if the Goods ordered are shipped. As things are now Circumstanced the Chance of getting out Merchant ships is against us, but I wou’d propose sending the Lexington & all our small Cruizers into the West Indias with orders to Carry their Prizes into the French Islands & send proper Powers to Mr Bingham &c to sell these in all cases that are clearly within the Laws of Congress, and in all probability these vessels will pay of your Debts & provide fresh Funds for further importations. If you approve of this Idea get the Congress to grant Mr Bingham a Commission or to empower the Marine Committee to give him instructions suited thereto, it may be very usefull & cannot hurt us in any shape. I am now at the 7th & have reed the letter from the Secret Committee of the 4th and Congratulate you on the safe arrival of Capt Welsh, whom I had given up as taken by the Enemy. Capt Vicary who sailed with him is carried into New York. I am called upon by all the agents I have em ployed in the purchase of Tobacco for more money and must send it to them, but I think it is much better it shou’d be sent from Baltimore than that I shou’d send it from hence where money is so much wanted & daily called for, the purchase is considerable & really amounts to a great deal of Money and if we can but get the Goods to Market which in due time I hope we shall, it will make our affairs easy. As I judge it will be too trouble some to the Committee to divide this money amongst my Correspondents I propose sending down an Order in favour of Mr David Stewart & then I will give him directions to send by express the Sums necessary to each & I immagine it will require 80 to 100,000 Dollars to compleat the orders I have given them at different times which amot to several thousand hhds of Tobo. the particulars of which I cannot ascertain here as my papers are out of Town. I will write to the Secret Committee on this Subject when I draw the bill & am in haste, Dr Sir, Your Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris


[Page 78]
46 January 7, 1777 Executive Committee to George Washington Sir Philada. Jany 7th 1776 [i.e. 1777] I was this day honoured with your favour of the 5th Inst, which arrived in time to forward the enclosures by Post. We waited with impatience to learn the consequence of your late movements and have been highly grati- fyed, at the same time we see plainly some Important event is still to hap pen, the Enemy must mean to evacuate the Jerseys or to give you Battle. The latter may be ruinous in its consequences to either party & therefore its probable will only be sought for by those that have the superiority, this we fondly hope will fall to your lot, if joined by Genl. Heath & Genl Mc Dougal & the Jersey Militia as we are taught to Expect will be the case. Shoud they loose a Battle or evacuate Jersey, surely they cannot afterwards make out a decent paragraph for Gaines infamous paper 1 after being out General’d & obliged to abandon the Country they thought themselves Se curely possessed of. Your Excellency will find enclosed a paper herein, drawn up by a Capt Gamble lately a prisoner onboard the Fleet in New York. 2 He declares that the Treatment of both Sea & Land Prisoners in that place is Shocking to Humanity. This man deserves Credit & his ac count of their Ill usage is confirmed by all the Prisoners that come from thence. As to the information he gives at the bottom of his paper he says he will forfeit his life if every tittle of it is not as near to the Truth as pos sible for an inquisitive man in his situation to come at. We think this wou’d be a good time to remonstrate to Genl Howe & Lord Howe against the base usage our People meet with and to Threaten immediate retalia tion of the British prisoners in our possession if they did not alter their Conduct. 3 It is probable Genl Howe may say it is Contrary to orders & not with his knowledge if our people Suffer, but this is not sufficient. Our poor Soldiers & Sailors are perishing for want of Food, fresh air & cleanliness, whilst those of theirs in our possession are feasting on the fat of this land. They have said we Treat them well through fear. It is time to Convince them we are not afraid, altho we are actuated by principles of Humanity, but those principles now Dictate the necessary of severe usage to British Officers in particular that they may hereafter make it a point for their own sakes to see proper care taken of those that fall within their power. De pend on it good Sir We do not write in this stile to gratify any feelings of our own, they are all repugnant to what we propose. Lieutt Josiah has just called on us & confirms the acct of Ill usage &c. He says he was exchanged for Lieutt Ball & that no person has been given up for Lieutt. Boger now in New York. There is a Cap Burke that was formerly Cap Manlys Lieutt. in his successfull Cruizes. Burke succeeded to the Command of Manlys Vessell, was taken by the Liverpool Frigate to which Mr Boger belongs & Cap Bellew sent Burke to N York for the express purpose of having him ex-


[Page 79]
January 7, 1777 47 changed for Boger, & as he is said to be a very good officer, has been Ill used and suffered a good deal, we dare say your Excellency will demand his release by the First Flag. We have the honor to be, Sir, Your Excellencys Obedt Servts. Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton RC (DLC). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. 1 Hugh Gaine was printer of the New York Gazette; and the Weekly Mercury, a loyalist newspaper. 3 Capt. William Gamble, a Pennsylvania naval officer, had been in command of the schooner Colonel Parry when it was captured by the British in November 1776. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:877n.2. 3 On January 13 Washington wrote a letter to Lord Howe, enclosing Captain Gamble’s “paper” and criticizing British treatment of American naval prisoners. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:3—5. Francis Lewis to the New York Council of Safety [January 7, 1777] I lately wrote you by an Express, wherein I informed you that the State of New York was not represented in Congress, nor indeed has it been for several months past, except at some small intervals. 1 I am at present the only Delegate for New York at this place, and the Members are continu ally urging me to request you would compleat your representation in Con gress, as business is now multiplying upon their hands, and so many mem bers detached upon Committees &c that the business in Congress is re tarded, add to this that our state sometimes suffers for the want of a Vote in Congress, which I beg you would speedily remmedy. 2 I have the honor to be respectfully, Gentlem, your very Humble Servt, F. Lewis RC (NN). Endorsed: “Baltimore Jan. 7th 1777.” See also Journals of the N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:776, 782. 'See Lewis to the New York Committee of Safety, December 27, 1776. 3 On January 22 the committee of safety read a report on Lewis’ letter offering suggestions for improving attendance among the New York delegates but deferred action on it until the New York Convention met. Journals of the N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:776, 782; and Calendar of Historical Manuscripts relating to the War of the Revolution, in the Office of the Secretary of State, Albany, N.Y., 2 vols. (Albany: Weed, Parsons, and Co., 1868), 1:605-6.


[Page 81]
January 8, 1777 49 Samuel Adams to James Warren Dear Sir, Baltimore Jany 8th 1777 I have several times referrd you to a Hint which I gave you in a Letter not long ago, and which I have not thought it prudent to repeat, lest by an Accident my Letter should be intercepted. 1 I have still the same opin ion of the Importance of this Affair; but having conversd with General Gates who is now in this Town, upon that and other Matters, we have concluded upon a more sure Way of effecting it, than that which I pro posed to you. I wish therefore, if you have already communicated it to any of our Friends, you would injoyn them to close Secrecy, and that it may be even forgot by them till the Event of it shall be known to the World. I am much pleasd to find that the New England Troops have so great a Share in the Honor of the late Action at Trenton. Genl Gates speaks very highly of the Militia you sent him the last Fall. He applauds greatly their Zeal for the Gause, and particularly their Readiness to tarry in the Service after the Expiration of the Term of their Inlistments in Novem ber, and he tells me he gave them an honorable Discharge. I have not the Pleasure of knowing Genl Brickett, but he mentions him to me as a worthy good officer. We have further good Accounts from our Army, which are credited although they are not yet authenticated. I verily beleive that the Incursion of the Enemy into the Jerseys will in the Event be much to our Advan tage, and that this Campaign will end gloriously on our side. I never will be sanguine in my Expectation, for I know the Events of War are un certain; but there seems to be an enterprizing Spirit in our Army which I have long wishd to see, and without which we may not expect to do great Things. The same enterprizing Spirit also takes Place here. We have done Things which I would not have flattered myself with the least Hope of doing a Month ago. This Express will carry to the Council a Resolution which I presume will be communicated to you of Course. 2 Hereafter I will give you a very particular and good Reason why it is not communicated to you in this Letter. We understand that by the Enemies Treatment of General Lee there is a Design to try him as a deserting officer and take away his Life. Con gress have directed General Washington to acquaint General Howe, that if this is his Intention, five of the Hessian Feild Officers now in our Hands together with Lt. Colo Campbel will be detaind and sacrificd as an atonement for his Blood, should the Matter be carried to that Ex tremity; and this Resolution will most undoubtedly for my opinion be executed in full Fate. Your second and last Letter which was very short, was dated the 2d of Deer. I am disappointed every Post in not receiving your favour. Adieu my Freind, S Adams


[Page 90]
58 January 8, 1777 would be again returned to us, but alass I have been totally mistaken in him, he was ever mark’d, you know I must mean A.A. 3 O that if of yours, if we are but Honest in Publick Councils & ca; look at the Paragraph mark’d thus X and find it answered. I most sincerely thank you for your kind wishes to see me again at the Hills, I generally appropriate some moments on Sunday to that Place let me be where I will, but in this infernal Sink I scarcely think of any thing else, there is not even a Tavern that we can Ride to for Exercise and amusement within 15 miles of the Place, I mean such as a Gen tn can dine in with Comfort. My Compliments to Walton. I have Reed his two Favors 4 and would write to him but really have nothing to say that can either give him pleasure or amusement. I have a wish that his Country was Represented, but alass it is not, you may as soon change the Devil into an angel of Light as a C 1 man into any thing else. He should not if I could help it stay where he is if he could be of Service here, but as he can not I leave him to assist you and to Toy away a Leasure Hour now and then with his Fille de Joy. I am much oblig’d to my Friend Mease for the Sugar and for geting the Chairs, how we shall get them I know not without he can prevail on his Good Friend Jonathan Mifflin to take them on board one of his Shallops. I am, Dr Sir, your affect Hble Servt, Benj Harrison P.S. Ben seems to wish himself clear of his Place. Will his Resigning it be any Prejudice to his Commission Business; if not I shall approve of his doing it, he will be able to attend the latter more closely. Two Troops of Horse are come in from Virga, they will move on briskly to-morrow, the whole six will be with you by Wednesday, order stables for them, they want a great Number of Carbines. RC (MdBJ-G). 1 Morris’ January 2 letter to Harrison has not been found. 2 See Morris to Harrison, December 29, 1776. 3 Andrew Allen. 4 George Walton’s letters have not been found. Robert Morris to Silas Deane January 8, 1777 I am now arrived at the 8th of January 1777 without having had any oportunity of dispatching this Letter, as there are constantly 6 or 8 sail of the Enemies ships cruising in our Bay and off the Capes where they have taken many of our inward bound vessells & effectually blocked up all those we have in this Port. This detention affords me the pleasure of giving you a detail of what has passed since the 20 Deer, when the above was written & thank God the picture will be more pleasing to you as the


[Page 91]
January 8, 1777 59 Reality has been to me. You’ll observe in my former narative I left the Enemy posted at all the little Towns & Villages in New Jersey that afforded them good quarters, ready however to form an attack agst this place whenever the Ice should afford them a Bridge across Delaware. I then gave it as my opinion, this was a favorable disposition to attack them in. It seems Genl. Washington thought so too & meditated a heavy blow agst. them—such it would have proved had this plan Succeeded intirely & such has proved that part in which he did succeed. Orders were given to Genl Cadwallader (posted at Bristol with this City’s asso ciations) to Genl. Ewing with a body posted at Trenton Ferry, to cross Delaware on Christmas night when Genl. Washington himself crossed about 9 miles above Trenton with about 2400 & instantly marched them down for this place in two Divisions by different Roads. His design was to Surprise the Garison in this place before daylight, but the weather being extremely Cold, the Ice in Delaware retarded his boats & they did not reach the Scene of action untill 8 oClock but as they were attended by a most severe No. East Storm of hail, Rain, Snow & wind, the Surprize was compleat. There was 4 Regimts of Hessians commanded by Colonel Rholl stationed here. Their advance guards made some Resistance to our advance parties & alarmed the main body time enough for about 3 or 400 & 70 Light horse that were here also to get over Trenton Bridge & make off. The remainder had drawn up, but both Divisions of our army coming on them at the same time by different Roads they Sur rendered, there was 918 Prisoners that thus Surrendered with the Colours of the 4 Regimts., 6 field pieces and Considerable Bagage & stores, those that made off by way of the Bridge would have been taken by Genl. Erwing could he have Crossed at the Ferry, but the Ice made so fast & that place is so dificult when there is Ice that it was not possible as he did all that Men could do to get over, therefore some, but not the whole of the flying party did escape, many have been taken since & our Pris oners from that Expedition amounts to 1100 or 1200. Colonel Rholl died of his wounds & some other officers were Killed with about 40 privates, we did not lose a Man & had only Capn. Washington & two Privates wounded. General Cadwallader got over about 1000 men of his party but the Ice made so fast on him that he could not get over the artillery nor the Remainder of his Force & was obliged to bring back those that had Crossed. His object was to have Surprized the Posts at Mount Holly & then to have marched up the River whilst Genl. Washington marched down that they might Surround all the Troops Cantoned at Burlington, Bordentown & their Vicinity. This plan was well Laid & had not the Ice prevented would have been well Executed. Genl Washington finding those material parts frustrated & knowing the Enemy’s Strength to be vastly superior to that with him at Trentown recrossed Delaware & brought off the Hessian Prisoners, field pieces, Stores &ca. However he


[Page 94]
62 January 8, 1777 face them, [took] up some Bridges to impede their March, & [struck on] the one Side of Somerset Court House, where he halted [all night.] From thence he marched to a place called Pluckamise, thence to Morris Town where he was resting and refreshing his troops the 7th Instant for I am now at the 9th and have Just reed dispatches from him. Ld Cornwallis anxious for the Safety of Brunswick pushed for that place & now Genl. Howe is Collecting all his force that was scattered in New Jersey to that point. General Washington at the same [time] will be reinforced as I Expect by Generals Heath & McDougal but [their] numbers I dont know. I think Genl Howe’s [whole] force in New Jersey does not amount to more [than] 8000 men, he has lost in Killed, wounded and taken above 2000 since Christmass & our loss in atchieving this consists in Genl. Mercer dangerously wounded, Colonel Haslet & Potter killed a few other inferior officers], and these with all the Privates will not amount to 150 men. These Treats [feats] have turned the Scale. [The] Militia of this Place, Maryland & Jersey begin to turn out & think themselves good Soldiers but this winter Campaign is very severe on their being [. . .] and badly pro vided agst. the inclemency of the Season. They Know their Enemies are warmly cloathed and well provided, however they have stood it surpriz- ingly [well]. Since the 25th the Eastern States are also turning out, [and?] seem bent on driving the Insurgents off Rhode Island, and it is also said they have a design to attack New York whilst we keep them employed in New Jersey. Thus you see the face of affairs is greatly changed since I began this Letter, but the Campaign is not yet finished. I wish it was, because Congress have now taken very spirited & effectual measures to render our Army and arms more formidable, by the extensive powers they have vested in Genl. Washington and I cannot but regret his want of Leisure to begin a Reformation that is extremely necessary. Indeed, they [have voted] him to raise & officer 16 Batons, of Infantry more than formerly ordered, also 3000 Light horses, a fine Corps of artillery & engi neers &c &c. Thus whilst we have strength & are excerting [it], let France join us & she will be well seconded and suported, but if fresh importations of foreign cut throats are permitted to come over our Men will be wasted, our Finances exausted, and France lose the Glorious oportunity of assisting the opressed & of gaining the advantages of a Comerce that has [enriched] Great Brittain to a Degree that astonished [all] Europe. Measures are taking to reestablish the Credit of our Money which I doubt not will be attended with Success, but you must exert yourself to procure us timely aid in this virtuous struggle, in which we seek only to keep what belongs to us, [and] to maintain those rights which God gave, Great Britain long Confirmed but would now ingloriously rob us of. 1 Tr (MH-H). A continuation of Morris to Deane, December 20, 1776. 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Morris to Deane, January 29, 1777.


[Page 95]
January 9, 1777 63 John Witherspoon to David Witherspoon Dear David, Baltimore, Jan. 8, 1777. Three days ago I received your favour of the 20th past, with pleasure. I must tell you a trifling circumstance. When I cast my eye on the back of it, I thought it was somebody that wrote very distinctly and neatly, and did not think of you, till I saw with satisfaction your name at the bottom. There are, however, still some small inaccuracies—be ambitious of im proving every day. Just about the time I received your letter, I had given to Col. Nayler letters for Mr. Smith and Fanny 1 and yourself, all wrapped in a parcel for Mr. Smith. In my letter to him, of a sheet of paper, I gave a very full and particular account of our flight from Princeton, and the situation of your mother as well as myself. She is at Pequea—I hope well, but I have not heard from that place since I left her. We carried nothing away of all our effects, but what could be carried upon one team. Benjamin Hawkins drove your mother in the old chair, and I rode the sorrel mare, and made John Graham drive the four young colts. This I write least the letter should miscarry, but have not time to repeat the whole detail. In the close of that letter, I had the pleasure of writing that General Washington had gone over the river at Trenton, surprised and taken a great number of Hessians. Since that time he has been in the Jerseys, and though we have not a letter directly from himself, yet letters from Philadelphia have made us believe that on Thursday night last he deceived the enemy at Trenton, made a forced march, met Lord Howe at Stonybrook, defeated him, took about 700 prisoners, and afterwards took Princeton, and is still pursuing the enemy towards Brunswick. 2 If before this letter is sent off a further account comes, you shall have it. . . , 3 J. Witherspoon. MS not found; reprinted from Christian Advocate 2 (October 1824): 445. 1 Witherspoon’s letters to his son-in-law, Samuel Stanhope Smith, and his daugh ter, Ann, have not been found. 3 See Executive Committee to John Hancock, January 3 and 5, 1777, which were read in Congress on the 6th and 8th respectively. ]CC, 7:14, 18. 3 Ellipsis in Tr. Samuel Adams to John Adams My dear Sir Baltimore Jany 9 1777 I have every Day for a Month past been anxiously expecting the Pleas ure of seeing you here, but now begin to suspect you do not intend to give us your Assistance in Person. I shall therefore do all that lies in my Power to engage your epistolary Aid. You will by every Opportunity receive my


[Page 105]
January 9 2 1777 73 Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, Baltimore 9th January 1777 I have no doubt but that Mr. President inclosed you with his last dis patches the printed account of General Washingtons success at Trenton. The number of Hessian prisoners there made, do not fall much short of 1100. Since that event we have had no regular account from the army, but from a Committee of Congress at Philadelphia we have the accounts brought into Philadelphia by a number of persons and believed there, in substance as follows. The British forces stationed at Brunswick, Trenton, and other places in New Jersey, hearing of the success at Trenton, col lected and marched towards that place to attack our army, now strengthened by the junction of all its detachments and by several corps of Militia. Gen. Washington ordered two Brigades to advance on the Princeton road and interrupt the enemies march. About 3 miles from Trenton they met the enemy and being attacked by a much superior force, were compelled to retreat, which they did slowly keeping up a retreating engagement until they joined the main body drawn up on the heigh grounds on this side a bridge that divides the village of Trenton nearly in two parts. The enemy attempting to force the bridge were received by Gen. Mifflin with the Philadelphia militia and a number of Field pieces, who drove them back with great loss, and some batteries being now opened on the heights commanding the enemies part of the Town, they were soon obliged to quit it with loss. The armies still con tinued posted opposite each other until midnight, when Gen. Washington (having received certain intelligence that Gen. Howe was on his march in person, with a large reinforcement to join his army) having pre viously directed large fires to be made to deceive the enemy, decampt, made a forct march that night to meet Gen. Howe, met with him at a place called Quakers bridge, gave him battle and routed his troops, taking from 6 to 800 prisoners. Pursuing the fugitives he entered Princeton where a number of Officers, 6 or 7 field pieces, and the 40th Regiment were taken. The British army that remained at Trenton knew nothing of General Washingtons design until they heared the firing next morning, and then, having possessed themselves of the heights for some time, they retreated towards Brunswick along the Pennytown road, a circuitous, western way, leaving the place of engagement on the right hand a good distance. This extraordinary motion denotes panic, because their direct rout to the scene of action was along the road to Princetown, as thus 1 The account goes on—That our Army was pursuing from Princeton to Brunswick, where the enemy had large Stores kept. We know that Gen. Heath with above 3000 men is about Hackingsack and Colo. Ford with 1500 Jersey militia is before him in the way to Trenton. This is the posture we understand things to be in, and we wait in hourly expectation of re ceiving authentic intelligence of the total rout of the enemies army in


[Page 106]
74 January 9, 1777 Jersey and their disgraceful evacuation of that State. Thus we bid fair to derive great advantage from what we once apprehended would injure us extremely, the dispersion of our army. The enemy knowing we had no army, and trusting to their Tory intelligence that no forces could be col lected, had divided their troops in such a manner as to expose them to ruin from Militia only, or chiefly so; for excepting about 1500 Eastern troops, the same number of Virginians, about 200 of Smallwoods Mary landers and a broken Pennsylvania regiment, the rest of Gen. Washing tons army is Militia. Another valuable consequence will result from this success, it will prove to our enemies that America, without an army, is formidable in its militia. For sudden exertions, the Militia certainly do well, but they cannot bear the continued discipline of camps and cam paigns. This certainty makes it of the last importance that our regular Army should be assembled with all possible dispatch, and such you will find to be the sense of Congress by their requests to the several States for this purpose. Our wicked Enemy to Freedom & all its friends, are actually preparing to try Gen. Lee by a special Court Martial. For it seems, that in order to be aided by a court martial that Gentlemans resignation of his commission was not accepted. We have sent to remonstrate with Mr. Howe on this subject, to demand Gen. Lees enlargement on his parole, and to assure that the same infliction exactly that is applied to Gen. Lee, shall directly be applied to 5 Hessian Field officers and Colo. Campbell their favorite Engineer who shall be reserved for that special purpose. We have offered 6 Hessian field Officers in exchange for Gen. Lee. I heartily wish you the compliments of the season, and am with great esteem dear Sir your most affectionate and obedient servant, Richard Henry Lee [P.5.] Be pleased to let the scheme of lottery be published in our papers that people may be prepared against the Tickets are sent. RC (Vi). William Wirt Henry, Patrick Henry, Life, Correspondence and Speeches, 3 vols. (New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1891), 3:36-39. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 At this point Lee drew a diagram of the Trenton-Brunswick area, showing Washington’s line of march and the British army’s retreat. See ibid., p. 38. Robert Morris to Nicholas Cooke Sir. Philadelphia January 9th 1777. I have the honor to transmit you herewith a letter from the Honb Mr Ellery who desires me to give you an account of the battle of the 3 inst. which he supposes to have been fought at Trenton. 1 Common fame had been too busy and magnified the transactions of that day by private in-


[Page 113]
January 10, 1777 81 very impatient for his money & hopes the bills will be returned for pay ment immediately. The 9th Virginia Battalion is nowhere & in want of a paymaster. The Colo recommends Mr Robt Foreman to that office as you will see by the enclosed Note. The Colo wants money to pay off their arrearages but seems embarrassed for want of a paymaster. We shall advance him the Sum of Ten Thousand Dollars which is Short of what is due to the Regiment & he must be accountable for the same. We have also advanced Colo Antill one Thousand Dollars for the recruiting serv ice, he wants more, and the New Jersey recruiting officers all are in Want. These officers all agree that Men enlist very fast and we hope there will soon be a respectable army, but we must have more money or quit the Committee room. It seems Genl Mercer was put under parole by a Sur geon of the British army & therefore Considered as a prisoner. Colo Biddle now here tells us he heard just as he left head quarters, that 100 Prisoners & 30 Waggons had been taken by a Scouting party of ours. We are Sir, very respectfully, your Obedt Servts, Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council Gentlemen, Baltimore Jany 10th. 1777. I have it in Command to forward the enclosed Resolve, and to request you will bestow that Attention to it which its great Importance demands. To you, the Congress have submitted the Propriety of making an Attack on the Province of Nova Scotia with a View to destroy the immense Quantities of military Stores that are there deposited to be employed against us. 1 I need not particularize the vast Advantages, or the Glory, resulting from this Expedition should it be happily carried into Execution. Nor need I suggest Motives to stimulate you to undertake it. Being fully con vinced that if shall appear to you practicable and calculated to advance the Interest of America, you will most certainly adopt it, I shall only add, that the Destruction of above Half a Million of Stores must be a Severe Blow on the Enemy, and may possibly prove a principal Mean of ridding our Country of those cruel Foes, who, with impious Hands have been spreading Ruin and Desolation over it, to the utmost of their Power. I have the Honour to be with great Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Serv. J. H. Presid


[Page 114]
82 January 10, 1777 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ‘See JCC, 7:20; and Elbridge Gerry to John Adams, January 8, 1777, note 4. John Hancock to the States Gentlemen, Baltimore Jany 10th. 1777. The Necessity of filling up the Army with the utmost Expedition, has induced Congress to direct me to request that you will as soon as possible inform them what Success the recruiting Service has met with in your State, towards raising the Troops required by a Resolve of the 16th of September which was formerly transmitted to you. 1 I am therefore most earnestly to entreat your Compliance with this Resolve as speedily as possible. 2 I have the Honour to be, your most obed. & very hble Serv. J. H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ‘See JCC, 5:762-63, 7:25; and Hancock to Certain States, January 9, 1777, note 2. 3 Hancock added the following sentence to the letter he sent to Virginia: “I am particularly to request you will order Colo. Woods & the West-Augusta Battalions to march immediately to join Genl. Washington, & that you will pay all necessary Attention to the Execution of the enclosed Resolves relative to the State of Virginia.” These resolves dealt with the defense of the Virginia frontier and were passed on January 8 in response to a letter of the 4th from George Morgan that is not in PCC. See JCC, 7:14—15, 21-22. Richard Henry Lee’s draft of these resolves is in Lee Family Papers, ViU. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Baltimore Jany 10th. 1777. The enclosed Resolves will inform you of the Proceedings of Congress since my last. 1 I have wrote to the Council of Massachusetts Bay on the Subject of the enclosed Resolve relative to an Attack on Nova Scotia, the Propriety of which the Congress have submitted to that State. You will please to inform Doctor Morgan and likewise Doctor Stringer of their Dismission from the Service of these States. 2 I am so extremely hurried in the Execution of the Resolves of Congress, that I have only Time to request your Attention to the enclosed. The late Movements of our Army have filled us with the most anxious Expectation and we are impatient for the Event. I have the Honour to be with perfect Esteem & Regard, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Sert, 3 John Hancock Presidt


[Page 115]
January 11, 1777 83 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 In addition to the resolves on Nova Scotia and on Doctors Morgan and Stringer mentioned in the text of this letter, Hancock also sent Washington resolves about the exchange of one of General Lee’s officers, magazines of pro visions in Georgia and South Carolina, state recruiting, and supplies of salted meat. JCC, 7:18-20, 24-27. 2 Washington did as Hancock asked on January 18. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:28. ’Hancock also wrote a brief letter this day to Robert Morris, enclosing some resolves of Congress that have not been identified, acknowledging receipt of the Executive Committee’s January 6 letter, and asking him to forward Hancock’s letters of this date to Washington and to the states. Vail Collection, NHi. Robert Morris to Silas Deane Dear Sir Philada. Jany 11th. 1777 I have written you a long letter on the present State of public affairs 1 & intend this on Commercial matters. Your favour dated Paris 30th Septr. last is the only one I have from you 2 and from the tenor of it I judge that several of yours to me & mine to you must have miscarried. I have long been aware that you wou’d suffer vexation for want of remittances & have often told the Committee so, yet such has been our Situation & Circum- stances it was not possible to mend the matter. In a former letter I told you of the several Captures of ships & Cargoes intended for different parts of Europe to provide you with Funds. Our Ports were shut the greatest part of the Summer & now again when we expected them certainly to be open, the Enemy are Cruizing at the mouths of our Bays and along the Coast with more industry than ever. I have told you in my other letter that the Eastern States had little fit for exportation to Europe, their Fish- erys being prevented there is no Oil, Fish, whale Bones &c as formerly, they are not employed in making Pot & Pearle ashes as usual & in short there is nothing for an European Market but Masts & Spars from New Hamp shire, some little Bees’ Wax & Flaxseed in Connecticut & Rhode Island. The Secret Committee gave orders to Mr Langdon to Ship Masts & Spars on the Public Account & to John Bradford Esqr. at Boston to purchase such Prize Goods as wou’d serve for remittance. They Commissioned Mr Shaw at New London to buy Flaxseed &c but all to little purpose. Mr Langdon has done something the rest have not. At New York nothing cou’d be done you must be sensible, indeed Genl Washington was obliged to stop for the use of the Army some Cargoes that Mr. Livingston & Mr Lewis had shipped there. Here we were blocked up the best part of the Season and lost several Valuable Cargoes intended for you. Indeed the principal part of our Trade was obliged to be carried on in small Vessells & these Were hardly sufficient to pay for the necessarys we im ported from the West Indias. In Maryland & Virginia we have been buy ing much Tobacco & as fast as Vessells cou’d be got to carry it to Market


[Page 122]
90 January 12, 1777 the bills shall be punctually paid but if that will not do I will furnish you with money from hence from time to time the sums you may write for. I am Dr Sir, Your obedient humble servant, Robt Morris Tr (DLG). 1 Morris’ letter containing “proposals for speculating in prize goods &c” has not been found, but see Langdon’s letter of November 19, 1776, to Willing, Morris & Co., in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:205-6. John Hancock to Richard Bache Sir, Baltimore, Jany 13th. 1777. The Danger of employing Persons in the Post Office Department, either as Riders or Deputies, whose Principles are unfriendly to the American Cause, being both great and obvious, the Congress are anxious to prevent it, if possible. With this View they have passed the enclosed Resolve, 1 in Consequence of Information that some Persons have been engaged in that Department, whose Disaffection might probably lead them, either to betray the Dispatches committed to their Care, or to pay so little Attention to their Duty on the Road, as not to arrive in due Time. From this Cause it must have happened, that the Post who should have arrived at Baltimore last Thursday, did not deliver his Dispatches till Sunday Afternoon. The Congress, therefore, that they may be fully able to judge of the real Characters & Principles of the Persons you have employed in the Post office, have directed that you immediately transmit a List of their Names, together with the List of those who recommended them to you and likewise that you assign Reasons why the late Resolves of Congress for regulating your Department, have not been complied with. 2 I am, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. J. H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Richard Bache Esqr, Post Master Genl., Philada.” 'See JCC, 7:29-30. 2 Bache’s January 18 reply to Hancock is in PCC, item 61, 1:1-4. John Hancock to Robert Treat Paine My Dear Sir, Baltimore Januy. 13th. 1777 The very constant Attention I have been oblig’d to give to Business since my Arrival here, and my unsettled Scituation even to this moment not family necessaries about me, tho’ I give £25 per mo. this Currey, for my house only two rooms, one floor, have prevented my being able to set down in a quiet manner to write to you, which I fully intended long be-


[Page 123]
January 13, 1777 91 fore this, but this Day having Rec’d your Friendly Letter of Deer 23d from Middletown, I could not avoid Stealing time to Acknowledge the Receipt of it, and to Thank you for your very kind Remembrance of me & mine, and to assure you that it will at all times afford me much Satis faction to hear from you, & to know what is passing in your Quarter, & you may Depend in Return every thing from me that passes in my De- partmt. worthy being Communicated. Colonel Steward who was with you in the Jersies gave me an Accott. of your Scituation, & of the loss of your fine horse, I really pitied your Case, but knew your Fortitude and the prospect of a speedy Union to your Family would induce you to Sur mount all Difficulties, and to press forward to the Goal with unremitting Diligence, and wish this Letter may meet you safe at home enjoying the Felicities which you have long been a stranger to, & which I am very Confident you there found equal to your wishes, as I Trust you found your Family happy in health, & doubly so on your Arrival. I Beg my best Respects to Mrs. Paine, & to all Friends with you. My Scituation upon Leaving Philada. was really distressing, you well know the State of my Family at that time, a Wife but Nine Days in Bed, a little Infant just Breath’d in the World, a large Family & considerable Effects, all to take Charge of, in the Winter Season, cold Houses to put up at, & such a Number of passengers on the Road, doubtful whether I should even obtain Shelter, & among Strangers too. All these Circum stances with many others, needless to mention, plac’d me in a Scituation truly distressing, & indeed is what I cannot Describe tho’ I severely felt it. But by the Kind hand of Providence I pursued my Journey and arriv’d at this place without any accident, & my wife & little one & indeed all of us bore the Journey far beyond my Expectation. On my arrival I had no house prepar’d, Mr Purviance was so obliging as to Take us in, & we Remain’d there Ten Days, & we were Treated by him & his Lady with the utmost Civility, in short I never met with more Civility in my life, free from Ceremony, & Desirous of making our Stay Agreeable. Mrs. Purviance a Polite, agreeable Lady, I Respect the Family much, their Civilities will ever endear them to me. I at length got to housekeeping; but the Change was disagreeable enough; from Mr. Purviance’s in a good part of the Town & among Friends, to my own & the only one I could get, in a Remote place among Whores & Theives, I had not been Forty eight hours at my house before it was Rob’d, the Theives took out a Trunk with Linnen, Books, papers, some hard Money &c, but the Money was Recover’d & part of the things, that I am oblig’d to keep a good watch lest they should Take every thing out of the house. I long to Return to Boston, I think it my next Turn; I have just Rec’d the new Delega tion; some of you must Come on here, for three are oblig’d to be con stantly present or the Representation is Destroy’d. I brought your Trunk safe here, & have it with my things in my own house, subject however to be stolen with mine; I will Embrace the first good oppory. to Send it to


[Page 125]
January 13, 1777 93 I have insensibly carried this Letter to an immoderate length, that you will Censure me I believe, but I will promise you my next shall be more concise, nor will I trouble you with so long a letter, till I Receive a longer one from you. Mrs. Hancock, Miss Katy, and (Mr & Mrs Hillegas who are now with me & going to sup here) beg to be Remembered to you. Mrs Hillegas asks when she shall Teaze you again. We are all well. My Respects to all Friends. In all Scituations I shall be fond of Rendring you every Service in my power, & Command me at all times. Rest assur’d that I am with Real Sentiments of Esteem, your Friend & Servt. John Hancock RC (MHi). Addressed: “To The Honble Robert Treat Paine Esqr. at Boston or Taunton. Recommended to the Care of the Honb. Thom. Cushing Esqr. who is desir’d to deliver it to Mr. Paine if in Boston, if at Taunton, he is desir’d to for ward it to that place from his Humb Servt. John Hancock.” 1 Hancock is probably referring to the proposed expedition to Nova Scotia. See Hancock to the Massachusetts Council, January 10, 1777. s A reference to several angry letters Paine had written to political leaders in Massachusetts the previous January denouncing John Adams’ disparaging com ments on Paine’s service in Congress. Adams had recently returned to Massachusetts where he had many opportunities to relate his view of the long-standing differences within the Massachusetts delegation. Hancock undoubtedly saw Paine’s recent return as a chance to explain their position to the Massachusetts General Court. For Paine’s “very particular letters” and a discussion of the divisive issues concerned, see Paine’s four letters of January 1, 1776, especially Paine to Joseph Hawley, note 1. See also Hancock to Thomas Cushing, January 17, 1776, note 1. Thomas Nelson to Robert Morris Dear Sir Baltimore Jany 13th 1777 I would apologize to you for the trouble I give you, did I not know your readiness to countenance every person, who steps forth to relieve America from the distresses that threaten her. This will be deliver’d to you by Capt Thos Nelson who is going up to join his Regiment under General Washington. He is Brother to the young Gentleman whom I rec ommended to you the other day. To the honor of this family be it spoken that there are but three Children, Sons of aged Parents, and they are every one of them in the Regular Service, and are now on their march to the Jersies. This Gentleman may perhaps want a supply of Gash some time hence; You may render him an essential service by answering his drafts, which will be punctually paid at sight. I shall have occasion to trouble you again, when the other Brother passes thro this Town. In the mean time I beg leave to assure you that I am, with great sincerity. Your obedt Servt, Thos Nelson jr. RC (MdBJ-G).


[Page 126]
94 January 13, 1777 William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Baltimore 13th Jany 1777 Since my last we have had accots of many Skirmishes in Jersey in which our Troops have been Victorious. We lost about 20 men at Princetown on the 3d inst among which was some Brave officers. I don’t recollect their names except Coll Hazet of Delaware & Major Morris of the Phila Militia. Genl. Mercer was said to be among the slain but it seems he was only wounded & like to do well. He had 5 Bayonet wounds. About 100 of the Enemy were killed in this action & 3 to 400 taken. We have kill’d & taken more than 2000 since Chrismas. Our loss since that time does not exceed 40. The last accot from the Genl, was the 7th inst. He was then at Morristown & the Enemy no where to the westward of Brunswick. I am inclin’d to think that the Humain Mr. Howe is sick of his Winter Campaign & I fear will escape with the Remains of his Army into York. The Ravages committed by the Enemy have had a most excellent effect on the people of Jersey. The Militia now turn out with great spirit & Harrass the Ravagers of their Country in every quarter. I fancy the Tyrant of Britain has been Premature in confering the Dig nity of Knighthood on his Humane Dispenser of Pardons. His Popeship seems to be in a fair way to lose all his Lauralls. The Hessian Officers com plain much that they shod be distinguished as Plunderers, when, they say, the British Troops Plunder more than they do. I believe the truth is they both endeavour to excel in what they know will recommend them to their Commander in chief. I am really at a loss to account for my not receiving any intelligence from N. Hampshire. I am as great a stranger to what is doing in that state as to what’s doing in the moon. How goes on your recruiting service? What officers have you for the new army? It is of the last importance that the new Leavies should be Compleated without loss of time. The greater our exertions the sooner we shall put an end to this destructive war. Business goes on with spirit since we have got out of the Putrid air of the Sodom of America. Several Prizes have lately arriv’d here. The Dela ware is again clear of the Enemies ships. I suppose they were call’d in for the protection of York, for it seems the Present inhabitants of that City were exceedingly alarm’d at our late Success. I shall set out for home in about a fortnight unless I am reelected. In that case I shall have no objection to continuing here till the coming season will admit of traveling with more comfort then at present. We have various reports from Rhode Island but no authentic advices. My Colleague 1 is well & desires his Compliments to you. We agree very well in sentiment, but, Inter nos, N.H. is oftener div d than she used to be. My Regards to all Friends & be assured that I am with every Sentiment to Esteem, Your Friend &c, Wm. Whipple


[Page 128]
96 January 14, 1777 very pleasing to Congress as it has been to us. We recommended Mr Weiss to preserve in his translation the Spirit of the original if possible. The Convention of New York if we remember right desired 300 Copies in Dutch. We mean to send you 2 or 300 Copies to be Circulated amongst the Germans of Virginia & Maryland & the rest to be dispersed amongst those in this province & altho the Convention may publish it in their State, yet few of their publications may reach the rest of America & we wish for orders to publish it here either in News papers or in a pamphlet as may be judged best. You have herewith a letter from Genl. Washington of the 9th, 1 there are later accounts in Town & every day brings fresh intelligence of the Capture of Prisoners or bagage &c. However it is cer tain the Enemy are Collecting their Force at Brunswick & we must not expect they will close the Campaigne in the disgracefull Style it now wears for them, if they can help it, & we are of opinion they are meditating some blow against Genl. Washington or this place. This opinion is Corobo- rated by the Account Capt Thos Bell gives us. He was taken at Sea & carried into New York, and after some time got leave to go onshoar where he had an opportunity of seeing & hearing what passed. He says the affair at Trenton came on them totally unexpected and alarmed ’em exceedingly. They ordered all their troops from Long Island except those under Command of Oliver Delaney & about 500 under Govr. Montfort Brown that they nearly swept all away from N York as he does not think there is 1000 left in that place. He left that place last Wednesday & that day a Gentn who had no suspicion of his coming away (for he ran away) told him they were collecting all their Force at Brunswick on purpose to route & brake up Genl. Washingtons army. He learnt also from the Master of a Transport that formerly used this place, that he with many other Transports was ordered up the Sound to Rhode Island to bring down 5000 Troops from thence & he saw the Ships go up the sound. I have sent this Intelligence to Genl Washington informing him that Capt Bell is a Man of Veracity & certainly heard what he relates, but does not aver it of his own knowledge. I send you herewith a Newspaper brought by Capt Bell who says most of the Men of War are out Cruizing and he understood were to keep our Coast all Winter, they have taken many Prizes & we fear will do us much mischief. You have herewith a letter Capt Bell brought from a French officer (to RM) who he says is a Count, a very Gentleman like man that was taken in a Sloop bound from Bourdeaux with Powder. This Gentn had dis patches from Mr Deane which he threw overboard, there is a translation of his letter also. This Gentn thinks himself extreamly ill used by Ld Howe, resents it highly & carrys himself very high when he sees anybody belong ing to him.


[Page 129]
January 14, 1777 97 We enclose herewith a kind of Memorial from the Chevalier Deverni- jou, a Young Gentn that was with General Lee when taken. He signalized himself at that time by the resistance he did make & the strong desire he shewed to defend the General. We ordered him a months pay advance as Capt of Horse to which Genl Washington has appointed him in those now raising in Connecticut. Congress will please to direct whether any Com pensation must be made for his losses and this matter deserves serious attention as there will be other applications of the same kind. The French officers alledge that their Monarch makes good the losses his officers meet with in Battle. Genl Gates no doubt will be able to give good Council on this Subject, our officers shou’d be encouraged, but the States must be taken care of. We are told Colo Houssicker is in New York wearing a black Cockade, here he wore a red one. There are bad reports & Suspicions respecting him. We are sorry to inform you of the Death of Genl. Mercer, which Major Morris (Genl Lees aid du Camp) says happened as he came through Prince Town. We have daily reports of partys taking Prisoners & baggage in the Jerseys. The Militia of that State are certainly turning out, but we hear such of ours as have been out six Weeks talk strongly of returning. We are daily obliged to grant Money for the recruiting service as well as for other public purposes & unless a fresh supply is sent up to Mr Mease we fear being run aground. We have given him another order on the Loan office for 50,000 Dollars, but believe they are not all there yet. With the greatest respect we remain, Sir, Your obedt. Servants, 2 Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton P.S. Colo Fleming of the 9th Virginia Regt, wants a paymaster & enclosed is his recommendation of a person he has employed to act in that Station untill one is appointed. RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. 1 Washington’s January 9 letter to Hancock is in PCC, item 152, 3:449, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:486-87. 2 This day Morris also wrote to Leonard Jarvis, a deputy Continental prize agent in Massachusetts, acknowledging receipt of letters from Jarvis to the Marine and Secret Committees and stating that “You will doubtless have heard that Congress are removed to Baltimore, & I am left here, Chairman of a committee appointed to conduct the Continental business at this place, all which I mention that you may know I am fully empowered to give directions in the marine & mercantile affairs of the Continent.” Lee Family Papers, MH-H.


[Page 132]
100 January 14, 1777 ing Business there will give a spring, & Join’d to the Influence of our successes will make up for the flight of Congress. I am much oblig’d to you for your kind Notice of my Family Connec tions, I assure you, my Friend, under their then Scituation, I left Philada. with a heavy heart, but by the kind hand of Providence we arriv’d safe at this place, and I must make my self as happy as I can. tho’ very incon veniently Scituated. We have not yet had a Representation from New York, Delaware or Maryland, the latter is rather strange. The News from Congress you have in the Resolves which I have & shall constantly forward you. Money is signing with all possible speed, tho’ we want some of your Philada. Signers who would Expedite the [business. Marine Matters we have little [.. .] No Books nor papers. The Lexington [. . .] down & will soon be ready for the Sea. [The] Marine Committee [. . .] shall determine about Nicholson & the Lexington & you shall know in my next. 2 I am so often call’d upon, & oblig’d to attend to all kind of Business, that I have hardly time to write any Friend. I long to see you here, & yet you must stay at Philada. I have some of your own wine left for you. I wish to have one Set down with you in my poor habitation, I know no one more welcome. I must bid you Adieu. Business calls. Mrs. Hancock, Miss Quincy [& my] little Girl are well. I wish Mrs. Morris was in the Town. I hope if you come to Bush, you will bring her & pay a short Visit here, it must be so. I beg my best Respects to Mr Clymer & Mr. Walton, and believe me to be with every Sentiment that Respect & Esteem can Inspire, My Dear Sir, Your very Obedt Sert, John Hancock [P.S.] Coll. Harrison & Mr Hooper are sick, the latter with a fever. RC (MdBJ-G). 1 Not found. 3 See Committee of Secret Correspondence to Henry Johnson, February 24, 1777. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter My Dear Col. Baltimore Jan. 14 1777 Tho I have wrote pretty fully to Col. Tayloe, upon the present state of our affairs & sent him the papers, which I know you will partake of; yet I cant help saying a word, to convince you, that I can never forget you. Dont you give us credit for our good policy in removing from Philadel phia? Nothing else cou’d awaken the Whigs of that State to a sense of their danger. The lethargy of the middle States was really alarming; thank God! it is removed, our new Army once well on foot, & all is safe, but I believe, my friend, we must be content with homespun the rest of our lives.


[Page 135]
January 14, 1777 103 We expect soon to hear the determination concerning the Friendship, and remain with esteem, Sir, Your most obedient and very Humble servants, Richard Henry Lee Francis Lewis Wm. Whipple P.S. A Waggon now going to Philadelphia with goods Mr. Snowden, will be returning empty, perhaps the Indigo may be cheaply sent that way. Tr (NN). 1 See Secret Committee Summary of Proceedings, March 6, 1777; and Robert Morris to John Hancock, January 6, 1777. James Wilson to Robert Morris Dear Sir Carlisle 14th Jany 1777 Congress see, at last, the Propriety of distributing the executive Busi ness of the Continent into different Departments, managed by Gentle men, not Members of Congress, and whose whole Time and Attention can be devoted to the Business committed to their Charge. Measures were adopted, when I left Baltimore, for making the necessary Arrangements. 1 There is an Office, which, I believe, would be of considerable Use to the Public, if properly discharged. I will describe to you my Ideas of it. The Duties of the Officer should be—to manage all Admiralty Causes, on Behalf of the Continent, in the Courts of Admiralty and Appeal, where the Congress sits—to conduct all Enquiries and Prosecutions in stituted by Congress—to give his Opinion upon such Questions in the civil and maritime Laws, and the Law of Nations as shall be stated to him, for that Purpose, by Congress, the Board of Admiralty, the Board of Com merce, or the Committee of secret Correspondence—to draw, or reduce to Form public Instruments, when required by Congress, or the Boards, or Committee aforesaid. Several other Duties will naturally fall to his Share, which cannot be enumerated, nor comprised under any general Head. The Propriety of the first Article is obvious. I shall suggest one advan tage, that will probably result from it. It will be of Importance that the Laws and Practice of the Courts of Admiralty should be brought, as soon and as well as possible, into a System. By the Intervention of Juries, which are unknown in the Admiralty Courts of other Countries, this is rendered a Matter of much Delicacy and Difficulty. The uniform Practice of one, whose Duty and Business it would be to make this Subject his particular Study, wou’d be of considerable Use. All conversant in Courts know that they receive a Tincture from the Practioners as well as from the Judges.


[Page 136]
104 January 14, 1777 The second Head of the Duty of this Officer is, in my Opinion, abso lutely necessary. Enquiries must be had into the Management of public Affairs: Prosecutions also must be instituted against public Officers, who are accused of mal-conduct. When a Committee is appointed for such Purposes; it is every Body’s Business to manage Matters—you know the Consequence—it is no Body’s Business. The Friends of the Person accused think themselves, and are thought by others, justified in doing every Thing in his Behalf. It is troublesome—it is disagreeable, without having an official Obligation and an official Justification, to undertake the Task of Prosecutor, to manage the Examination of Witnesses who appear, to direct others to be sent for, who, from the Course of the Testimony, are discovered to be capable of throwing Light upon the Subject, and to take many other Steps, without which the Matter cannot be sifted to the Bot tom. The Result is, that Things are Superficially passed over, without Satisfaction to the Public, to those who make the Enquiry, or him, con cerning whom it is made; provided he has been innocent. An Officer, ap pointed to manage Enquiries and Prosecutions, on Behalf of the Public, would prevent these Mischiefs. The third Branch of the Duty of this Officer is by far the most im portant. I hope the United States will never be involved far in the Maze of European Politics, but it is incumbent upon us to know something of them, even to steer clear of them. Every Letter from our Commissioners at foreign Courts—almost every Resolution of Congress about foreign Affairs will bring into View some Principle of the civil or maritime Law, or of the Law of Nations. It is impossible for Members of Congress, how ever enlarged their Genius, and however extensive their Knowledge may be; accurately to investigate Subjects of this Kind amidst the Hurry of so much other Business, which likewise demands their Attention. Treaties are considered, in Europe as a Kind of Science. In our Transactions with European States, it is certainly of Importance neither to transgress, nor to fall short of those Maxims, by which they regulate their Conduct to wards one another. All States as far as I know, have an Office similar to that which I have described. It includes Part of the Office of Advocate General, and Part of that of Attorney General in England. If your Sentiments upon this Subject correspond with mine, you will mention it to Congress. If they agree to institute the Office; and no one offers for it better qualified, in your Opinion, than myself; I will be ob liged to you for proposing me. My Reading and Course of Studies have been such as, in some Measure, to prepare me for it. One Thing I can engage—that no Pains nor Industry shall be wanting on my Part, to qualify myself as fully for it as possible. I have expressed myself with all the Openness of a Friend to a Friend. I would not mention the Subject, if I did not think it of Consequence. I would not mention myself, if I did not think I could be of Service in this


[Page 137]
January 14, 1777 105 Line. I have not been so unsuccessful in private Life, as to be obliged to obtrude myself upon the Public. You will make such Use of what I have written as your Judgment and your Friendship shall tell you is proper. I am, Dear Sir, Your very humble Servant, James Wilson P.S. I presume you are now at Baltimore: if at Philadelphia I will be obliged to you for a few Lines on the Subject of this Letter. 2 Direct your Letter to the Care of Mr. William Null Mercht in Baltimore. If I should be still here when it comes to his Hand, he will forward it to me. 3 RC (NjHi). 1 Wilson was a member of the committee that had been appointed on December 26, 1776, “to prepare a plan for the better conducting the executive business of Congress.” JCC, 6:1041-42. ’ See Robert Morris to James Wilson, January 31, 1777. 3 This day Wilson also wrote the following letter to Arthur St. Clair. “It is long since I have had the Pleasure of hearing from you; but am sensible that you have as good, if not better Reasons for not writing than ever I had. The active and glorious Scenes in which you have lately bore a Share are a sufficient Apology to your Friends for not being favoured with your Letters. It comforts me to hear of you, when I cannot hear from you. “I have enjoyed nine Days at Home; and, in that Time, have seen my Family encreased by the Addition of a fine young Boy. The Situation of public Affairs is so interesting that I find myself incapable of fixing upon those tranquil Pleasures in my Library of which I have often formed such fond Ideas when perplexed and distracted with Business. While I cannot forbear thinking of the Public, I believe it will be best for me to continue acting in it (provided that can happen with Propriety) and return to Baltimore as soon as I can leave Mrs Wilson. “I feel very sensibly for General Mercers Misfortune, and for the Loss the Serv ice will sustain in being deprived, for some Time, of his valuable Talents. I hope however, he will recover and do well. “Colonel Mackay and Major Butler will inform you of the very extraordinary Proceedings of the Captains and Subalterns in the Westmoreland Regiment. They have gone so far as even to suspend the Major. You know his Worth and Char acter. From all the Accounts I have had from Gentlemen upon whose Judgments I can rely, I am satisfied, that he has had great Merit as an officer; and that his Merit has been the Cause of the Persecution raised against him. But I need not stimulate your own Friendship for him. “These Committee Appointments play Vengeance. If the Captains and Sub alterns succeed in this Stroke against their Major, I have no Doubt but that the next one will be aimed at the Head of the Colonel. Indeed I have good reason to conclude that this is Part of the Plan originally laid.” St. Clair Papers, OHi. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Baltimore 14t Janry. 1777 As I have Wrote to you so lately as the It and 5t instant, I have little more at present to acquaint you with, than that by the Blessing of God I am well. To hear from me I well know will be a Satisfaction to you, tho I


[Page 146]
114 January 16, 1777 quantity of these need not be very considerable because the movement in Slays will be very rapid & the sole object of this expedition shou’d be to burn all the Enemies Vessells in the Lake which we apprehend may be effected with ease & when once done, let them return. The Surprize of the Enemy will prevent their following. We hope this matter may deserve attention & if the plan be adopted some Sea officers might be found here that wou’d be usefull. Congress will excuse us for troubling them with our thoughts, we shoud do it were we with them. We have the pleasure to inform you of the safe arrival of the Sloop Sachem, Capt James Robison, from Martinico, but the letters are not yet come up, so that we know not what stores or advices she brings. You shall be informed soon as possible. The Men of War having been chasing her about the Coast for ten days past, but she slipt in at last & we believe is got into Morris’s River from whence we shall order up her Cargo in Waggons. You have herein the Copy of Capt Jones’s Acct of his last expedition in the Alfred, he is a fine Fellow and shou’d be constantly kept employed. If the Congress please I will propose to him one or two expeditions & leave him to take his Choice of them. The Enlisting business goes on firmly but we fear the fitting out of Militia will drain all our Magazines & distress us again when the new Army get together, however we have the pleasure to enclose you Copy of a letter from Messr. Abm Livingston & Mr Turnbull two young Gentn sent by the Secret Committee to procure cloathing in the Eastern States, also one from Mr Otis, which are pleasing. The originals we deliver to Mr Mease as the General has appointed him Cloathier General. We have the honor to remain, sir, Your Obedt hble servts, Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. ’'Unless this is a reference to the committee’s January 14 letter, the letter in question has not been found. 2 See ]CC, 1-A9. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Sir Baltimore 16h Janry. 1777 I was favoured with your letter of the 1st Inst together with sundry resolves of the Honbl the Convention, and their printed Address to their Constituents, all which I have communicated to Congress and they highly approve of your measures. 1 I am directed by Congress (at their expence) to get a sufficient number of those Addresses reprinted here, in order to be disspersed through this, and the southern States, as also a number to be struck off in the German


[Page 147]
January 16, 1777 115 languge, 300 Copys of the latter to be forwarded to the honbl Convention at Fishkills. As there is no Press with Types for the German languge in this Town, I have this day sent one Copy to the Council of safety at Phila. requesting them to get it translated into that languge, and when printed to send the first 300 Copys to you, the rest to be disspersed through that, and the neighbouring States. 2 Permit me Sir to repeat my sentiments on the necessity of having the State of New York fully represented in Congress, which has not been the case for many months past, and tho’ Congress in their collective capacity has ultimately the public good in view, yet such is the depravity of human nature, that partiality will often (and perhaps impreceptably) influence the minds of individuals when the interest of a particular State is im mediately concerned. I have the pleasure to inform you that Congress has seriously considered your late application relative to Cloathing the Troops raising in your State, and they have promised to exert their utmost abillities to effect that necessary business. In September last Congress requested the legislatures of the several States to appoint in their respective States a Commissary for the purpose of purchasing all necessary Cloathing and in November the Secret Committee sent of! two Agents (one of them Mr Abm. Liv- j ingston) with instructions to confer with those Commissaries in each State, as far eastward as New Hamshire, to assist in the purchasing & procuring said Cloathing, to make returns of the quantity & quality both to Congress & Genl Washington, to be distributed to such Troops as shall be inlisted upon the new establishment but we have not as yet received any advice from those Gentlemen. 3 On the 12th last month when I left Phila., there was in the hands of Mr. Hayman Levy, purchased by order of your Commissary Mr. Cur- tenius, shirts, stockings, &c, amounting to upwards of £11000, with orders to send them to Mr VanElvendorph at Esopus, but such was the confusion among the Citizens of Phila. in moveing their Effects, that it was impos sible for me to procure Waggons. I therefore obtained a press Warrant from the Council of safety, & delivered it to the Waggon Master Genl., & I have been since informed they were met with upon the Road to Min- nisynk, should be glad to know If they arived. I have the honour to subscribe myself, Sir, Your most Obedt Humbl Servt, Fras Lewis P.S. On the 15th Capt. Rogers arived here in the Armed Vessell Mont gomery belonging to your State, with two Prizes vizt. a Brigt. & Schooner, the former with 3000 bushels salt from Anguilla, the latter with a valuable Cargo of salted Beef, Pork, Hams, Linnens, Woolens, sail Cloth, Cheese, Shoes, spices, Port in hampers, Beer, Pease &c bound from Hallifax for Nw York. The Salt is claimed by a person of this Town as his property, said to be on freight. Upon Capt Rogers’s applying to me for advice, I immediately employed a Proctor to file a Libell & prosecute to Condemna-


[Page 148]
116 January 16, 1777 tion. I have supplyed Capt. Rogers with money for his present exigences & shall be glad to receive your instructions for the future Conducting this Affair. I think it advisable to get the Montgomery out again as soon as possible. The Brigt. mounts Ten Carriage Guns with Ten men. 4 RC (PHi). 'See Executive Committee to John Hancock, January 7, 1777, note 2. 3 See ibid.; and JCC, 7:42. Lewis’ letter to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety, dated January 18, is printed below. 3 See JCC, 5:821; and Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Council, Decem ber 4, 1776. 4 On February 13 the New York Committee of Safety wrote a letter to the New York delegates, instructing them how to proceed in this case, Morgan, Naval Docu ments, 7:1191. Board of War to the Executive Committee Gentlemen War Office Jany 17th. 1777 I am directed by the Board of War to request you that as soon as you have collected the Returns of Arms & military Stores & have gained as perfect a Knowledge of their Situation as Circumstances will admitt, you will be pleased to write General Washington on the Subject enclosing him Copies of the Returns given into you agreeable to the Letter the Board did themselves the Honour to write you on the 14th Inst. When the Gen eral is acquainted with the Distribution of the Arms &c among the Militia passing thro’ Philadelphia he will take the proper Steps to prevent the Persons to whom they were furnished from carrying them off as their own Property on their Return from Camp. This is too often practised, & has superadded to the real Want of Arms an artificial Scarcity, & is one among the many & ruinous ill Consequences attendant on the Militia Scheme. Could the Arms be drawn out of the Hands of the Militia & put into those of the regular Troops it would be a great Point gained & this the General when properly informed will be able with his usual Prudence to effect. The Board have been told that there were a great many supernumerary Arms at Camp. This is a Matter well worth enquiring into & you will be pleased to mention it in your Letter to the General. 1 I am with the greatest Esteem, Your very obed & most hble Servt, Richard Peters Secy. RG (DNA: PCC, item 147). ' In behalf of the Board of War, Peters also wrote letters to the Executive Com mittee on this date and on January 26, transmitting a total of $500,000 for the use of the committee—$300,000 in the first letter and $200,000 in the second. PCC, item 147, fols. 21, 47. Moreover, on January 30 Peters wrote to the Execu tive Committee to urge compliance with the Board of War’s letters of January 14 and 17. Ibid., fol. 57.


[Page 157]
January 21, 1777 125 RC (MdAA). 1 This letter was undoubtedly written on January 18 or 19. The subject of the letter is the petition of Capt. James Campbell which Chase laid before Congress on January 18. And on the verso of Chase’s letter Capt. George Cook wrote a letter on the same general subject to the council dated January 19. See JCC, 7:49; and Md. Archives, 16:62-63. 2 Not found; but for Campbell’s petition to the Maryland Council of Safety praying for the exchange of his former officers and crew held prisoner by the British at New York, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1003-4. 3 See William Paca to the Maryland Council of Safety, December 7, 1776. 4 For the council’s January 25 order to Capt. George Cook “to confine all such Prisoners belonging to this State that were taken by the Ship Defence that will not enter into the Service of the State or on Board of some of the private Ships of War,” which was apparently issued in response to this letter from Chase, see Md. Archives, 16:75. Executive Committee to Mark Bird Sir 1 January 21st 1777 We have occasion to send four Tons of Nail Rods to Genl Schuyler at Albany for the Continental service 2 and are informed by captain Joy that you can readily Supply us. We therefore request that you will im mediately employ Waggons with honest carefull drivers and send away that quantity immediately to Albany writing to Genl. Schuyler that you do it by our direction and that it is for Continental use. These rods are much wanted there and you will render an essential service to your Country by complying with our request immediately. We will pay the cost to you or your order, whenever you please. Should you find any dificulty in getting Waggons and it Should become necessary we do hereby Authorize you to empress so many as may be neces sary for this Service and if needfull you may call any continental Officer or Troops in the vicinity to your Assistance, they being hereby directed to do in the premisses what is needful to effect this business and this shall be their or your Warrant for so doing, We being fully empowered by Congress to order and conduct all Continental business in this State. But altho we empower you to impress Waggons we would prefer hiring them by agreement with the owners, and you may Assure them of being dis charged at Albany, writing to General Schuyler that you have done so and he will comply therewith. We are Sir, Yr. hble Servts. LB (DNA: PCG, item 133). Addressed: “Colo. Mark Burd.” 1 Mark Bird was the owner of an iron furnace and foundry in Berks County, Pa. He was a colonel of the Berks County militia, chairman of the Berks County Com mittee, and a delegate to the Pennsylvania Provincial Conference, 1776. PMHB, 31:48, 58:312, 326, 328. 3 See ]CC, 7:33.


[Page 159]
January 21, 1777 127 forms Mr. Purviance that it is the desire of the marine committee that he, with Mr. Stewart, would immediately give the necessary directions for cutting timber, and agreeing with persons for building the two frigates here. 1 Mr. Hancock being much engaged in forwarding despatches, pre vented his sending him the regular resolution, but he shall have them in the morning. 2 MS not found; reprinted from Robert Purviance, A Narrative of Events which occurred in Baltimore Town during the Revolutionary War (Baltimore: Jos. Robin son, 1849), pp. 209—10. 'See JCC, 6:970. 2 On the preceding day the Secret Committee sent Samuel and Robert Purviance the following note over the signature of Richard Henry Lee, Francis Lewis, and William Whipple: “Please to deliver Mr Francis Lewis a Member of Congress One pair of Blankets out of the Continental Stores, he to be accountable for the same.” Robert Purviance, Narrative of Events, p. 209. Marine Committee to Esek Hopkins Sir, In Marine Committee. Baltimore Jany 21t. 1777..As we are informed that the Enemies Fleet and Army have Orders to leave Rhode Island, if this proves true, you are hereby directed to fit for Sea the Continental Frigates, Warren, and Providence, with all possible Expedition; and order them to proceed, forthwith, to cruise upon the Enemies Ships of War that are now interrupting the Commerce of the United States from the Harbour of New-Port to the Capes of Virginia. And they are to take, bum, sink, or destroy all such of the Enemies Vessels as they shall fall in with. The other Continental armed Vessels, that are in your Port, you will order to proceed to Sea, and do their best Endeavour to intercept Supply Ships that may be coming to the Enemy at New York. You will please to see that the Wages are duely paid to the Seamen, and that the Prize Money due to them, be paid to them by the Agent as punctually as Circumstances will admit, to prevent Murmers among the Seamen. We have heard some Complaints for Want of Attention to the Seamen, which induces us to mention it to you. We wish to hear from you as often as possible, 1 and are Sir, your hble Servants. By order of Marine Come. John Hancock Chairman RC (RHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. Addressed: “To Esek Hopkins Esqr. Commanding the Continental Navy at Providence or Else where.” 1 Hopkins’ February 28 reply to this letter is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1319-20.


[Page 160]
128 January 21, 1777 William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Baltimore 21st Jany 1777 Last Sunday I rec’d your favor of the 26th ulto by Mr Betten. I assure you it was a great rarity—you refer me to several letters which have not come to hand which I suppose is owing to some defect in the Post Office. The postmaster has lately had a rap which I hope will produce good effects. I have obtained an order in favor of the State of New Hampshire for 100,000 but as there are large demands on the Treasury at this time I don’t think it possible to send Mr Betten away in less than a week, if so soon. 1 By him I shall send the money you desire. I have rec’d no directions from you to pay Mr Wharton. I enclosed you Capt Smith’s receipt for 2700 dollars for the schooner Friend’s Adventure—he happened at Phila delphia in a very unlucky season, Congress being then about adjourning to this place and I was so exceedingly engaged in the business of Marine and Secret Committees that I could not pay that attention to Capt Smith that I should otherwise have done, however I hope he arrived with you safe. I wish to be infomed particularly how you go on, both in the Marine and Commercial departments. I was in great hopes you would have had guns from Connecticut for the Raleigh, but you say you have no prospect of them. No answer has been received from Governor Trumbull on that subject though I have long expected it. I am doing every thing in my power to procure them here and if my endeavors had not been so often baffled should think I had a fair prospect of success. I hope you are going on with preparations for the 74. Our removal hither has disconcerted matters, so that I have not been able to procure the dimensions but expect them from Philadelphia every day. In the mean time I hope the timber will be Procured and every other necessary that you can collect and I hope by the time this reaches you the vessels I mentioned in some of former letters will be on their passage here for iron &c. We are in hourly expectation of some interesting intelligence from the army; by the last advices they had nearly surrounded Brunswick where the enemy were confined to a very small compass and much distressed for fuel and forage; it is also reported that Howe has ordered his troops from Rhode Island. It’s said Cornwallis was going to carry the intelligence of the ravages they had made to the Tyrant and actually had his baggage on board when the news of the surprize of Trenton arrived at York. This and what has happened since puts a very different complexion on their affairs and I suppose will stop their Herald. Excuse this scrawl as I am in very great haste, yours &c, Wm Whipple [P-S.] I shall write by Betten. Tr (DLC). 1 Congress appropriated $100,000 for New Hampshire on January 20, in response to Meshech Weare’s letters of December 16 and 27, 1776, to President Hancock


[Page 162]
130 January 22, 1777 My kindest Love to my Children and Freinds and be assured that I am yours with the tenderest affection, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). Board of War to Charles Thomson Sir. War Office 22d Jany. 1777. Colonel Frank Lee informs me that to the best of his remembrance the Congress on receiving General Lee’s Letter with respect to Coll. Muyhlen- berg’s Regt., entd. into a Resolve that the Officers of that Regt, shou’d take Rank from the day they marched out of the Province. 1 As I am about writing to the Colonel I shou’d be glad you wou’d inform me, and if possible send me a Copy of the Resolve. I am sir, with the greatest Respect, Yr. most obt. Serv. Joseph Nourse, Is. Clerk, Bd. war RC (DNA: PCC, item 147). 1 In a letter to the Board of War written on August 2, 1776, Gen. Charles Lee had discussed the complaints of Col. Peter Muhlenberg about reports that his Eighth Virginia Battalion would not be accepted into Continental service until it was up to full strength. Congress read Lee’s letter on August 29, but, contrary to Francis Lightfoot Lee’s recollection of events, Muhlenberg’s unit had already been taken into Continental service on August 16. ]CC, 5:649, 716; and NYHS Collections 5 (1872): 183-84, 187-93. Executive Committee to John Hancock Sir, Philada. Jany 22d. 1777 We have just received the enclosed letters from the General. 1 They came to hand within half an hour of one another. On this occasion we cannot help expressing how sorry we are to observe the weak state of his Army and as Genl. Putnam most certainly has a large Body of Men at Prince Town, it leaves us in doubt whether a proper communication of intelligence be kept up between them or not. Capt Jno Nicholson left Genl Putnam on Monday & says he has not less than 6000 Men with him, more or less are sent off from hence every day, here are 3000 in this City now and Genl Gates & Ld Stirling propose marching with them tomorrow or next day soon as they can be fixed with arms & blankets which are much wanted. There are Muskets in this State but they all want repairs & no body is left to do it, therefore if the City Militia come back it will be a general benefit to the service. The General in his letter to us 2 recom mends the removing of the Public Stores which is attended with great loss,


[Page 164]
132 January 22, 1777 Robert Morris to the Committee of Secret Correspondence Gentn Philada. Jany 22d. 1777 The Sachem after going up the Bay & meeting with Ice went down to Cape May from whence the enclosed packet was sent to me by express. I had before reed an Acct, of the Piratical Conduct of Capt Patterson. 1 Such things ought to be taken in time or we shall acquire a similar charac ter to the Inhabitants of Barbary. I hope you will urge Spirited Measures on this Occasion & it will lay the foundation for Calling some other de linquents to a severe Account. I am extreamly hurried but always your most obed servt, Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Addressed: “To The Honble Benjn. Harrison Esqr. Chair Man of Commee of Correspondence Baltimore.” 'Morris enclosed William Bingham’s December 6, 1776, letter with supporting documentation alleging piracy against Capt. William Patterson of Maryland. For the subsequent responses of Congress and Maryland, see Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety, January 29 and February 6; and Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham, February 1, 1777, note. George Walton to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 22d January, 1777 Mr Randolph, who came last night from some expedition towards Black-point, informs me, that, at different times within these few days, he saw three several persons who were directly out of New-York; and who all agreed in this, That there were but very few troops in the city, and that patrol duty was performed by the inhabitants in rotation; That there have been many secret movements in the night-time of stores and heavy artil lery, and that, on Tuesday last six heavy peices of Artillery were carried from New-York over to Staten Island down opposite to Perth-Amboy. These, no doubt, are intended to cover a Retreat that way, if they should be necessitated to make one. I have not troubled your Excellency with this trifling intelligence with any view of its being materially useful to you: but as good information in war is as the optics of man, the most trifling may sometimes be of ad vantage. I wish you health, and am, with great respect, Sir, Your Most Obedi ent Servant, Geo Walton RC (DLC).


[Page 174]
142 January 24, 1777 RG (MdAN). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 Not found. 2 See Marine Committee to Esek Hopkins, January 21, 1777. Robert Morris to William Hooper Pha Jany 24th 1777. In all the Transactions of America nothing has given me more Concern than that kind of irregular Conduct on bd the Am. Privateers that savours more of Moorish Piracy than Christian Forbearance. We have already many Instances that ought to be reprobated and the perpetrators brot to a Condign Punishment if the United States of America means to preserve a National good Character. One I have ment[ione]d to the Committee of Secret Correspondence be cause there was an open violation of the Laws of Nations and a palpable Insult on our real or pretended good Friends the French. 1 Others have happened in Violation of the Authority of Congress and the Ships & Cargoes belonging to the States of America have been seized on Frivolous pretences and sent into their own Ports, those Insults have been overlooked because the States have probably not suffered any great Loss as the Prop erty has reverted to them & the Captors have been supposed to act from good Motives &c but what shall we say for these Plunderers when Individ uals, honest Industrious Men, Friends to the Freedom & Independence of America lose their Property Credit & reputation by these Depredations, & the Misrepresentations they make to Cover their own Villainies, indeed my good friend if we do not take some effectual measures to punish the guilty and put a Stop to this kind of Arbitrary Thieving we shall be Sharers in their Guilt and probably incur the suspicion of being Sharers in the Plunder. I am led into these remarks by a letter from our Friend Hewes who has had two Vessells taken on the high Seas by Am. Privateers on no better pretence than the Captains pretending the Owners were Tories, the last of them is particularly ment[ione]d and described by Mess. Hewes & Smith in their letter to me of the 13 Deer a copy of which is enclosed, and when Congress have leisure I wish you would propose some Salutary Measures to put a Stop to these Growing Evils. 2 I think the Captains & owners of Privateers shd give Security in very large Sums, and every State be answer able to those who grant Com[mission]s to, this wod make the latter cau tious & villains wod find it difficult to deceive them, something I am sure must be done unless we wish to plunder one another & lay all the World under Contribution as a lawless Set of Freebooters, which God forbid shd ever be the Characteristicks of the Country I love.


[Page 175]
January 24, 1777 143 MS not found; reprinted from extract in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1031-32. 1 For the case of Capt. William Patterson alluded to here, see Morris to the Com mittee of Secret Correspondence, January 22, 1777, note. a For the incident involving the capture of Hewes & Smith’s brig Joseph, see Wil liam Hooper to Joseph Hewes, January 1, 1777, note 1. Benjamin Rush to Julia Rush My dear Julia, Baltimore Jany. 24. 1777. I had rode but a few miles before the badness of the roads, the difficulty of the ferry, and the lazyness of Diamond convinced me that you had acted very wisely in determining not to accompany me to Baltimore. But upon my arrival here I was thankful that you did not share with me in the trouble I met with in procuring tollerable lodgings. At present I am accommodated in a room lately occupied by Mr Sergeant which I must abandon as soon as he returns which will be in a few days. The rain which fell yesterday has rendered the Streets so very muddy that they are impas sible to women. No ladies are seen abroad but in carriages. It will be eno’ of the expence of living here to tell you that Mr. Middleton After keeping his family at a tavern for a while at the rate of £100.0.0 a week was obliged for want of agreeable accommodations to send them to Annapolis thirty miles from this place. I have been told since my arrival here that our Assembly intend to leave me out in the next appointment of delegates as a punishment for opposing their new government. 1 Welcome this storm of popular rage! I shall kiss the rod that Smites. I never was so weary of public life, & never languished more for the Sweets of domestic life than since I parted last from you. You wished me a great deal of pleasure and frolicking at Baltimore when you bid me farewell. Alas! my heart sickens at the sound of what is commonly called pleasure. In this State of banish ment from home & you, the music of Coralli would serve only to encrease my melancholly. To exchange a whole house for a single room, to request instead of commanding when the most trifling favor is wanted, and above all to give up a most affectionate wife for the society of strangers. To lay aside freedom, ease, and unbounded confidence in conversation for con stant restraint, and formality, are circumstances that illy agree with a man of my age & disposition. My brother 2 lodges in a tavern and perfectly harmonizes with me in complaining of Baltimore. My next letter I hope will be written in a better humor, and contain an agreeable acct, of the people to make up for the badness of the place. They are said to be very kind to strangers. Adieu my dear girl. Much love to Mrs. Montgomery & the family. Leave your letters to me at Dowdle’s tavern at Christiana bridge and they will- come safely by the post. Yours—yours—my dear Julia.


[Page 185]
January 28, 1777 153 Klose: “I am of opinion the within Cloaths & Tools being proved to be the property of the passenger as mentioned Shou’d be given up to him.” PCC, item 41, 5:60. In that petition Klose, “a Native of Silesia and late Missionary from the United Brethren to the Negroes in the Island of Jamaica,” requested the return of the effects which had been taken from him when the ship on which he was returning to England in December 1776 was captured by the Continental brig Andrew Doria. Congress granted this request on February 5, but unfortunately for Klose, the Andrew Doria’s prize had already been retaken by the British. Ibid., fol. 59; Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1017; and JCC, 7:89. 2 The postscript to the LB contains this additional sentence: “You have herewith a Specimen of the translation of the address of the Convention of New York to their constituents and we will send 300 Copies by the first good conveyance to the Convention and 300 to Congress, the remaining 400 we will deliver to the Council of Safety here to be distributed.” Executive Committee to George Walton and George Taylor Gentlemen, January 28th 1777 The annexed writing is a Copy of a Resolve of Congress respecting your treaty with the Indians at Easton. 1 It came to hand this Morning & we Send it forward that you may act agreeable thereto as the presents are already provided. It is not necessary for us to send you the Thousand Dollars, but if you want any part of them, you can take up so much money from some person or other that may want to make payments and we will pay your drafts for that amount. We have not one word of news Since you left us, except bare report of a Skirmish or two in the Jersies with Forageing Parties. We are sir, Your hble Servts LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). Addressed: “To Geo. Walton & Geo. Taylor Esquires, com. of Congress at Easton.” 1 See JCC, 7:62-63. Elbridge Gerry to the Executive Committee Gentlemen Baltimore Jany 28th 1777 The Commissioners of the Treasury have directed Mr Starret, who has the Care of superintending the Manufacturer of the Loan Office paper in Chester County, to deliver three thousand Sheets into your Hands at Philadelphia & request You to order it to be packed inclosed in a Case & sent by a safe Conveyance to them in this place, as soon as may be after your receiving it. The Necessity of giving Dispatch to the


[Page 186]
154 January 28, 1777 affairs of the Treasury, & of conducting this Matter with Security obliges the Committee to give You this Trouble, wch they would otherwise have gladly avoided. I am Gentlem with respect your very hum Serv, Elb Gerry RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). John Hancock to the Delaware Assembly and the New York Convention Gentlemen, Balto. Jany. 28th. 1777 The Necessity of every State being properly represented in Congress to add Weight & Reputation to the Counsels of America, as well as to keep up that Union & good Correspondence so essential to our Country, will naturally suggest the Motives that induced the Congress to pass the above Resolve, which I have no Doubt you will immediately comply with. 1 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed & very hble Ser. J H Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 The enclosed resolve of January 24 urged both states to send full delegations to Congress, “there being no delegates attending from . . . Delaware, and but one from . . . New York, who ... is not empowered to give the vote of that State.” JCC, 7:61. Marine Committee Order Ordered, Baltimore In Marine Commee. Jany. 28th. 1777. That Colo. Wolcot transmit to governor Trumbull the resolve of Con gress of Jany. 23d. for building two frigates in Connecticut & that he impower governor Trumbull & his Council to determine upon the places where they shall be built, & to appoint proper persons to execute & super intend the business, provided the season will admit of the timber being properly cut so as to effect the building of the frigates next summer. 1 By order of Marine Committee, John Hancock Chairman Tr (DLC). 1 Oliver Wolcott transmitted Congress’ January 23 resolve and the Marine Com mittee’s January 28 order in a letter of January 29 to Governor Trumbull that has not been found. The Connecticut Council of Safety took steps to begin construction of the two frigates on February 17 and 18. JCC, 7:58; and Morgan, Naval Docu ments, 7:1221-22.


[Page 187]
January 28, 1777 155 Arthur Middleton to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Tuesday Evening, January 28, 1777 Mr. Middleton presents his Compliments to Mr. Purveyance, & requests the favour of him, if convenient, to order the Blankets to be delivered this Evening to the Bearer. If it is not convenient, A. M. will send for them Tomorrow morning. A Note of the Cost will oblige A. M. who will send the money Tomorrow. 1 MS not found; reprinted from C.F. Libbie & Co. Catalog, November 15—16, 1889, item 872. 1 On the verso of Middleton’s letter is the following note, written in Baltimore on January 27 and addressed to Robert and Samuel Purviance: “Gentlemen, Deliver to Arthur Middleton esquire on order, eight blankets from the Continental Store and charge them to Mr. Middleton. We are Gentlemen your humble Servants, Richard Henry Lee, Fra. Lewis, Wm. Whipple.” Ibid. The signers of this note were members of the Secret Committee. Robert Morris to the Committee of Secret Correspondence Gentn. Philada Jany 28th. 1777 I have this day rec’d the enclosed letter from Mr. Bingham, & as our River now promises a speedy opening I shall send him a supply of News papers & intelligence. 1 It may also be proper that you do it from Baltimore and if you approve taking a person into pay for the purpose of Collecting News, News papers, Political Publications & writing a Diary of Public transactions I will try to find a fit person & engage him in this Work, so very necessary; for we find by experience it is impossible for Members of Congress to do these things regularly & constantly whilst they have so many other dutys to mind. I have reed the Copy of a letter from Mr. Deane that was taken but was preserved without the Captors ever coming at the Contents, it is as follows 2 — “Dr Sir Bordeaux Septr. 17. 1776 “I shall send you in October Cloathing for Twenty thousand Men, thirty thousand Fusils, one hundred Tons of Powder, Two hundred Brass Canon, Twenty four Brass mortars with shell, shot, Lead &c in propor tion. I am to advise you that if in Future you will give Commissions to Seize Portugueze Ships you may depend on the Friendship & alliance of Spain, let me urge this measure, much may be got, nothing can be lost by it. 3 Exercise at all events your Navy, I will procure if Commissioned any quantity of Sail Cloth & Cordage. A General War is undoubtedly at hand in Europe & consequently America will be Safe, if you baffle the Arts &


[Page 188]
156 January 28, 1777 Arms of the two Howe’s through the Summer, everyone here is in your favour. Adieu. I will write again next week.” I beleive this was wrote at Paris altho dated Bourdeaux for a blind, but am not sure. I am a good deal of his opinion respecting the Portugueze. The only doubt is whether, that Kings declaration & shutting up his Ports against us, will justify us in the Eyes of the World or in other Words, whether he has given us sufficient cause to declare War on him & his Subjects. If he has we shou’d not hesitate, the bait is tempting & that insignificant Nation can do us no harm. Our River is now nearly clear of Ice and I propose pushing out Captn. Biddle. 4 I do think we cannot employ him & the small Vessells better than to send them to Martinico for the Stores mentioned in Mr Ds letter, and I will send out the Indico now here as a remittance towards paying our Debts in that Island. I have engaged a proper person to carry your dispatches to France & send him out in a French Ship that if she once gets out to Sea will appear as if She had loaded in Martinico & she is actually French property, which gives a fine chance of going safe. J have wrote a full Account to Mr Deane of all that has happened to our Armies since the taking of Fort Washing ton to this day, but think you had best do the same, that is Continue from the date of your last letter to the present time. I am very respectfully, Gentn, Your obed Servant, Robt Morris P.S. Here will be several opportunities both to Europe & the West Indies soon. RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Addressed: “To The Honble Benjn. Harrison Esqr. Member of Congress Baltimore. For Committee of Correspondance Rob Morris.” 1 The date of Bingham’s letter has not been determined. 2 This is Silas Deane’s September 17, 1776, letter to Morris. For the response of Congress, see Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris, February 2, 1777. 2 Congress had cautiously adopted a resolution on December 23, 1776, calling for explicit information on the actions of Portugal. Committee of Secret Corre spondence to the Commissioners at Paris, December 21, 1776, note 7. On May 1, 1777, Congress appointed a committee “to inquire into the laws and customs of Nations respecting neutrality, and to report their opinion whether the conduct of the King of Portugal, in forbidding the vessels of the United States to enter his ports and ordering those already there to depart at a short day, is not a breach of the laws of neutrality, and will justify acts of hostility against the subjects of the said King.” But no further action of Congress appears in the journals. JCC, 7:318. * Capt. Nicholas Biddle, commander of the frigate Randolph, was ordered to convoy several merchantmen out to sea. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1064—65. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Baltimore Jany 29th. 1777 Yesterday I had the Pleasure of receiving two Letters from you by the same hand, dated the 9th and 22d of December. And just now a Letter


[Page 189]
January 29, 1777 157 is deliverd to me from my Friend Mr Bradford, dated the 13th of this Month, wherein I am informd that you was then in good Health and Spirits. If you had not told me that you had written to me Six Letters since I left Boston, I should have suspected that you did not keep a good Look out for Expresses which come this Way. I have now receivd only four of them. The others may possibly have fallen into the Hands of the Lords Protectors of America. There is one Way in which you may prob ably make up the Loss to me, and that is by writing oftener. I assure you, it would not be troublesome to me to receive half a Dozen Letters from you at one Time. You tell me you was greatly alarmd to hear that General Howe’s Army was on the March to Philadelphia. I have long known you to be possessd of much Fortitude of Mind. But you are a Woman, and one must expect you will now and then discover Timidity so natural to your Sex. I thank you, my dear, most cordially for the Warmth of Affection which you express on this Occasion, for your Anxiety for my Safety and your Prayers to God for my Protection. The Man who is conscientiously doing his Duty will ever be protected by that Righteous and all powerful Being, and when he has finishd his Work he will receive an ample Re ward. I am not more convincd of any thing than that it is my Duty to oppose to the utmost of my Ability the Designs of those who would enslave my Country; and with Gods Assistance I am resolvd to oppose them till their Designs are defeated or I am called to quit the Stage of Life. I am glad to hear that the Winter has been in a remarkable Degree so favorable in New England, because it must have lessend the [. . .] 1 been increasd [. . .] 2 the Poor, is in holy Writ coupled with him who oppresses them. Be you warm and be you cloathd, without administering the neces sary Means, is but cold Consolation to the miserable. I am glad you have given Shelter to Mrs A. who had not where to lay her Head. She deservd your Notice, and she has more than rewarded you for it in being, as you say she is, grateful. Whenever you see a poor Person grateful, you may depend upon it, if he were rich he would be charitable. We are not how ever, to seek Rewards in this Life, for Deeds of Charity, but rather imi tate the all merciful Being, of whom, if I mistake not, it is said in Scrip ture, that he doth Good to the Evil and unthankful. There is indeed no such Thing as disinterrested Benevolence among Men. Self Love and social, as Pope tells us, is the same. The truly charitable Man partakes of the Feelings of the wretched wherever he sees the Object, and he relieves himself from Misery by relieving others. I am greatly grievd for the Loss we have met with in the Death of Mr Checkley. From the Account you give me of the Nature & Extent of his Disorder, I conclude he must have died before this Time. He was indeed a valueable Relation and Friend. Have you lately heard from your Brother at St Eustatia?


[Page 190]
158 January 29, 1777 We have no News here. The Events which take place in the Jerseys must be known in Boston before you can be informd of them from this Place. There is a Report that a Party of the Jersey Militia fell in with a larger Party of the Enemy, killed about twenty and took a greater Num ber Prisoners besides fifty three Waggons and Provisions. This is believd. It is also said that General Heath has taken Fort Washington. If it be so, we shall soon have the News confirmd. 3 RG (NN). 1 MS damaged, approximately ten words missing. 3 MS damaged, at least one line missing. 3 Remainder of MS missing. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Balt. Town Jany. 29. 1777 I am directed by Congress to lay the enclosed Copy of a Letter from Mr. Bingham before our General Assembly. 1 The privates of Captain Smiths Company petitioned the Congress & I am ordered to enclose the papers to your Board. 2 I am, respectfully, yr. obedt. Servt, S Chase RC (MdAA). 1 Enclosure not found. See Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham, February 1, 1777, note. 3 For the January 24 remonstrance of the men of Capt. Nathaniel Smith’s com pany, threatening “to make our humble address to the Honorable Continental Congress,” see Md. Archives, 16:73-74. John Hancock to the Executive Committee Sir, Baltimore Jany 29th 1777. You will perceive from the Resolves herewith transmitted, that Con gress do not at present see the Necessity of moving the public Stores from Philada., and that if any Circumstances should render such a Measure proper, you are to take such Steps therein as you think will contribute most to the public Good. 1 I beg Leave to request your Attention to the other Resolves, and have the Honour to be, Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.5.] Pray did you Send an Express to Boston with the Letters Inclos’d you in mine of Jany. 10th?


[Page 192]
160 January 29, 1777 John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Baltimore Jany. 29th. 1777. You will perceive from the Resolves herewith transmitted, that the Letters which Congress have Received from Genl. Fermoy & several other French Officers, are referred to your Consideration, without a particular Recommendation in Favour of either of those Gentlemen. 1 I do myself the Honour to enclose their Letters. A Representation to Congress from Colo. Kermovan, I transmitted this Morning by the Colonel. I have wrote to the Govr. of Virginia on the Subject of the enclosed Resolve. Your Favour of 22d inst. I had the Pleasure of receiving, and this Day laid the same before Congress. 2 I have the Honour to be, with perfect Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. Serv, John Hancock Presidt [P..?.] As some Steps have been Taken with Respect to the Magazines at Brookfield & Carlile, the Congress judge it best they should be Erected there in preference to the other places mention’d by Genl Knox. 3 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 In addition to the resolve about the French officers referred to here, Hancock also sent Washington resolves of January 28 and 29 about stores in Philadelphia, two Virginia battalions, and money for Gen. Thomas Mifflin and the state of Connecticut. ]CC, 7:65-66, 68-70. Hancock must not have dispatched this letter until February 1 because he also enclosed a resolve of that date about Capt. James Scott of Virginia. ]CC, : 82. 2 This letter is in PCG, item 152, 3:489-94, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 7:48-52. 3 See ]CC, 6:1044. Knox had recommended the establishment of magazines at Hartford, Conn., and York, Pa. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:23. Robert Morris to Silas Deane [January 29, 1777] I am now at the 29th Jany. without [having] had an oportunity to send away this very long Letter, our River having been full of Ice since the 9 or 10th Instt, however there is now an appearance of its becoming free again & several vessells will be pushing out altho the Men of war still Keep hovered above the Capes & I fear will do us much mischief [by] taking inward bound vessells—but this we cannot [help] unless France will send us a fleet of Line Battle ships & then we will teach him better manners. Genl. Washington still remains at Morris Town with his Troops cantoned or rather posted round Brunswick in such a manner as to teaze and [har- rass] the Enemy extremely. They possess no other [parts] of New Jersey at this time, then Brunswick, Amboy & the Comunications between


[Page 193]
January 30, 1777 161 them. When they want forage they are obliged to send out very large parties and always meet some Loss, in short never a Day passes but we take some prisoners, kill & wound some of their Men and our people have taken from them a Number of Wagons, horses, Cattle, sheep, Bagage &c. It is a sad thing to depend on [Militia] for the defence of a Country as we find by experience] our people go out but for a short time & [by this means] Genl. Washington’s army is eternally shifting some Joining and some Leaving him so that it is [hard for] him to know his own Strength and he must remain in this disagreeable Situation until the new enlistments are Compleated. Thank God they are going on very [fast] now, as our late Successes have given [new] springs to the Service. Genl. Howe has about [7000] Men at Brunswick & he has ordered a Reinforcement from Rhode Island where the New England Militia are collected ready to attack the Guards he shall leave there. Genl. Heath has marched down towards New York with this body of Militia & some few Regulars & taken Fort Inde pendence with 400 Prisoners. We have reason to fear more he has retaken fort Washington and that we probably may expell the Enemy from New York. In short the face of things is totally changed, the spirit of the Whigs is up, the tories hide their heads, the money is regaining its Credit but not so essentially as it ought. This can only be effected by your procuring us the assistance of a fleet to protect our trade, and when we get plenty of goods the money will rise in volume as the prices decline. I have deter mined to send Capt. Thomas Bell to France for the purpose of delivering you a Letter from the Committee of Correspondence & this Letter also, the Newspapers for a Considerable time back. By him I write a Letter to my brother respecting the mode of employing Capt Bell after he has delivered his dispatches in which I hope for your Concurence & that you will become a party concerned. I have [. . .] reed, a Copy of your Letter of 17 Sepr. to J. J. and shall be very anxious for the safe arrival of the Stores. Adieu Dr. Sir &c, Robt Morris Tr (MH-H). A continuation of Morris to Deane, January 8, 1777. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Baltimore Jany. 30th 1777. The Time of Congress, since my last, hath been principally taken up in devising Ways to prevent the Depretiation of the Continental Money, and to provide for the future Army. The Resolves ordered to be trans mitted to the several States must have reached you before this, which renders it unnecessary to give the Substance or transmit Copies of them. 1 Govr. Trumbull hath transmitted the Doings of the Committee of the New-England States to Congress. They will be taken up to Morrow, and I don’t doubt approved. 2


[Page 202]
170 January 31, 1777 Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore Town Jany. 31st. 1777 I sent you yesterday by Mr. John Gassaway Nineteen thousand Dollars. 1 I must again press you to solicit a Representation for our State. The Order of this Day is to appoint a Number of General Officers. Are We uninterested in the Choice of Generals? I shall endeavor to put off this Business for a few Days. 2 Three of the middle States, N. York, Delaware and Maryland, unrepresented. N. Carolina will be so in a Day or two. Complaints are so loud in Congress on this Subject, that Expresses are sent to N. York and Delaware, and I expect our assembly will be intreated to send their Delegates. It is not only necessary to be represented, but be assured the Business, the Interest of these States require a full Represen tation. We have not 30 Members in Congress, and it is not only improper, but impossible, for so small a Number to conduct so very important Busi ness. Be pleased to communicate these my Sentiments to our General Assembly. We hourly expect to hear of some important News from Camp. I am, Gent., with Regard & Respect, Sami. Chase RC (MdAA). 1 Apparently sent in response to the council’s January 27 letter to Chase request ing “thirty or forty thousand dollars.” Md. Archives, 16:82-83. 2 This subject is not mentioned in the journals this day. On February 7 Congress resolved to appoint general officers on February 17, but failed to complete the appointments until February 19 and 21. See ]CC, 7:98, 131-33, 138-39, 141-42. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir Baltimore 31 Jany 1777 I find by your Favour of the 6th that the order for importg. Flower was at Hand; the other for Rice was sent by Capt Doughty. With respect to the Quantity, I think it was not the Intention of Congress to limit either. The affair of the Salt I think extraordinary, & what cannot be easily justifyed upon any principle of authority or Expediency. Inclosed is your Brothers Commission in Consequence of his Appointment as Dep. Ad. General; Mr. Han[c]ock informs me that he had sent One before & sup poses it miscarryed. 1 1 am in Haste, sir, your very hum ser, E Gerry RC (Ct.) 1 John Trumbull had been appointed deputy adjutant general in the northern department by Congress on September 12, 1776. JCC, 5:753. When Trumbull saw the date on his commission, he offered his resignation because he claimed that his appointment should have been dated June 28, 1776. See James Lovell to John Trumbull, March 22, 1777.


[Page 203]
January 31, 1777 171 John Hancock to the States Gentlemen, (Circular) Baltimore Jany 31t. 1777. As there is not a more distinguished Event in the History of America, than the Declaration of her Independence—nor any that in all Proba bility, will so much excite the Attention of future Ages, it is highly proper that the Memory of that Transaction, together with the Causes that gave Fuse to it, should be preserved in the most careful Manner that can be devised. I am therefore commanded by Congress to transmit you the enclosed Copy of the Act of Independence with the List of the several Members of Congress subscribed thereto—and to request, that you will cause the same to be put upon Record, that it may henceforth form a Part of the Archives of your State, and remain a lasting Testimony of your approba tion of that necessary & important Measure. 1 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servant, J H Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See the January 18 resolve on this issue in JCC, 7:48. Hancock sent each of the states a broadside copy of the Declaration printed by Mary Katharine Goddard of Baltimore. Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15650. Francis Lewis to John McKesson Dear Sir, Baltimore, 31st January, 1777. I have received your favour of the 17th instant, and am concerned to find that the appointment of Colo. Warner should give umbrage to any gentlemen in our State. 1 When it was moved in Congress, several objec tions were made to the motion; it was at length put to the vote, when a majority appeared to be for the question. This I can venture to assure you, that in all debates of this kind, Congress seems determined to put all disputes between individuals, and even between States, about property, out of sight; as debates of this kind the last year, between the States of Con necticut and Pennsylvania, took up the whole attention of Congress, to the great detriment of the service, and to but very little effect. I am well satisfied in my own mind, that Congress has not the least idea, as a collec tive body, of suffering any State to be dismembered, whatever the secret views of individuals may be. But permit me to say, that to leave our State so long unrepresented in Congress is a fault; when I observe to you that the four New-England States always keep a full representation; when, in some debates, those States may be injured who are not represented; Con gress has often complained to me of this neglect, and indeed urged it in


[Page 204]
172 January 31, 1777 THE UNANIMOU declarati OF THE I Thirteen United States of AMERICA. W HEN, ta the Cooefeof kana Eveota, it become* necefltay far eat PaoptoloAffbivo the ttoliiicd Banda wUd> km CMM&d Arm with BMtbw, aad » affeaote, among the Poweei of the Earth, tie teparwe Md equal Stattoo a which the Laos of Narwa Md of Nature** GOD entodt tkra, a dasat RefpaA to the OptataM of Mankind raquv.-t th« they imuM drciaee the CWa which impel them co th* Separation. . We bold chafe Truck* to fet feH-evident, Jim aD Men are o«*d equal. Aanhey art Mdowed, if <h<»r Catana. with Ctrtaio oaalieaabk Rigba*cbM moae thefe are Lita, Liberty, tad the Puriuk of HapptaH*.—That ta fetvn their Right*. Grwrrniaeat* art iafbwied aoMtaw Mea. Arie tag Atto toff Pattie frnm the Canker of the Goeeroed, chat wbtMvtr any form of Goiiinwwai Meuawi iir*ruAr«e of their Enda, It it the Rwht uf tW People » alter or M tbaiiti it. and to tollinne new Government, IpriM f* Finrrn AAm M foeb Prtactaira. Md orgaoitiag in Prom m fetch PWm, at to them ^*11 frt« wo* kiktoy te e*A their Seim and Happmefa. Prudeoeo, iadred. uULdidatr. tint Govwnmeoa keep rftabtahtd, fooold Mt be theaged lor H»lw aad cranfftM Cadfei > and aootdkMly di Expenewce hath foewa, th* Manhead art non difpofed Co fv9rr, while Enta mt fofferabie, tkaa to nghc rbemfelvet by sbohflung Ae Fount ta which tbry am J gwt win a Trace at Abcdn ted UforpacioM, pwrfving branAly the fame ObfoS. ertoccee a DeAga to redact them aodtr abfolute Drfpotifm, it it their Bight, k to chad Doty. to tWww off fort GovteatDeor, and to provide new Gaarde for etoM future Sacurity. Sad hat beta the pet net Sufforeaceaf tbefe Ctlaaire i and inch to wow cho Heecfcy wblrt eeetrdea then co deer the* former Syfirsia of GoaenMiMt. The Htffvy ef the pofewt King o> Greac-BrinM to a Hiffory of repeated Iniur** and UlMpedeM, dl having ta daredt Object the Eftabidhraeot of a* abluluw lyraony over AefeMaMa? To pewva Ato, tec Fafle be fobcmcted toacaedid World. Ha hat refafcd hto A&M to Lava, the met obUefome ted aacedary for ike public G *H^ ha farbiddto Uc Gownmn to pah Lean ol immediate and prtfiag Importance, T-ux, infriintTr-* to the* Operanee <K to* ASeof Acouto be ctoniried i and when fo LG ha, oarrly maleAed ta atiMd • the*. Hl hae rehafed » Mb caber Lene tor the Acxommodatioa of large Didrtttef Pep>, ewIHt took Paopto weald rvltaqurfh the Right td RejweWwucrM m the Lej.futute. a yt-w. to ihrm, and lorrmdablt to Tynan only. pfa het caited tMettae Lqp&ative Budfee at Racea ooefud, eacutofortable. aad <*Mt tn* At Depository to chrir pub!* Recorto, far At tore Purpose of fatiguing Mem tom CaaiphaarT w*h hi* Meatom. Ha taw ASUvod RiiaifcMMirt Hoof" upmiffy. torof5>oGng wwb manly Fvmncft hto timrBiri mCtaR<Ma of Ae Ptopto. H* haarefwfaileealoogTtaae, eher fetch DkCdattMt. to mfe «ken to bt elrfted > IjjM Me Laadtotirr Pewen, iMapAie of Aoaatalacoa, hm rtttKOcd co the Peopte M JwmIm lUlTuwnfT t the Steer remiineg. alba meao Tune, eapoled coal! the Dae* gmTueaffMlrceewiAeuc, aod CmwelfeMe mA*. P Ht het utattirf W pm" Popoiatioa of thefe Scam t for that PorpoCt ofo tra&tow Ae I awe km Nuunlrtruoo of Foreagnen i tetefeeg to palt Other* to*Moeuge ■MrMtarafoM hkhrr, tad rkfero Cha Cend«t«*» id oew Approunauont of Landa. Ha het i'll ufrtf 11“ *■"-!-■*—luOw, by frhdtag hit Afoot to Lent fur ledkkan Pewart.. Hi~fm~~*-}nyadrpemtaet m hit WB aiear. tor the Tenure of chew Oficrt, w4 the Ameer* WPayaeeM of Ac* Saiariea. He bn r"*^ • Meiotwdr of are OKet*. aed feat biAn Swarms of Odleen to bar- a^ a* taeto. Md eat net their Subftance. H« toe hept g at, ta Time* cd Pwe. Suediag Arm**, without the Coofeet — Hi hm**Stto»e rewder Ae Mdk*»y todependrnt rd aad feperfor to the CirB Pown. Ma hmconbned wiAe*Mnlofefoc&»* co* J>*ildi*toa foreign to our CoeSmdiM, X and voackoowlodgrd by oar Law* > giving hit AlRet to their AAt of pmended Leg?* g latKHii R hot quartrnag large Bodin of Armed Traepa among ut: a Foe pronduig them, by • mock Trial, from PttoiOuneai for any Mwdm which they S foouid cotBOM m the inhabitant* of thrle States) X Fu* cocnag off aer Trade «uh all Fart* of the World : y Fea ireptdlng Tasea on u* without our Coaker:: Fo> depriving ut, ta many Cafe*, of Ar Bencfeta ef Trial by Jury: Fob tranfoertieg u> beyond Sea* to be tried lor pretended Otkoce* * Foa abobOung the tree S> Am of Eaglifh Lawt « a neighbouring Province, eflAlilh- 3 hg there* m arbitrary GuteeMMW, and enlarging it* Bounder**, lb * to render it M 2 once ba Eaunpfe and St inUrement lor introducing the lame abtaiwt Ruhr to«» Aele Coloo** ■ W Fun taking away our Charter*, aboKfluag our mod valuable Law*, and aiming fua- M damentally the Forma of SM Govemmern* M Foe tulpeadiog our own LegiAuvre*, and declaring themfelve* InveRed wiA Power to K fegdUae lor a* m aU Caiet whaawever. C Ha baa abdicaaed Lover ament here, by dtciariog wt out of hi* Prote&foo, aad waging 8' War agaaoAua. Hs ha* ptendenta ow Scan, ravaged oor CoaAt, burwe our Towne, aad deftroyed the Xf Live* of our People.)b Ha *, at Ai* i*M, transporting larae Arwne* of foreign Mmenar'** to eomplrte M the Work* of Death, DefoiatoM. and Tyranay, already begun with CireumRaocn ef C Cruelty and Petfedy, tcareely paralleled iotbe tnoA batberoua Ages, and totally Mwoetby g the Head of a civiMad Nanon. Ol Ha hat conAraanad oa* FeUow-GccneM, taken Captive On the high Sea*, to bear Araae *q agauift their Country, io become the Eaccucioom ef their Ft*<*A aad Brethren, or to fi fall themteivea by the* Handa. J, Ha ba* excited dome** lafarreAiont ameagfe ua, end haa endraround to bring oa 2' the lahabMaan of our Frontm. Ae mercdei* indan Savage*, whole known Rak of Warfare, t> an oodiAiogoiAied DeflruAton, of all Ages, Sum, and Condrciooa. M Im every Stage of chrle Oppreflion* we have Peticiooed tor Rrdrdt io the molt taimM* M Tirmii Our repeated Petlcioo* have bene »«lwrw t only by trpeeted Injury. A Pnn'», g w.xMe Chetader a (Sui matlscd by every Act »kah may deline a Tyrant, to unfit to be £ the KuKr of a tore Peoplr. 5 Noa hart we beta wanting in Atte.it'-oni to our British Brethren. We have wemrd W them. Item lime to ) .ne, ol Attemptt by the.r Le^ llwureto mend >o unwartaatthle V Jurikl.Ctiua over ut. We have remtmied them ol the Cutumilancee of our Em-patixo 8 and FetUemeM here. Wa have *|>pe«kd to I 1 ** native Jufi*e and Magnanimity, and JJF are hare C'mjured them by the 1 *• of our common Kindred to drUrow ibcfc Uforpati- M ona, »h*b would inevitably interrupt ourConnmoM aad Correinondeoce. They mo 2 b«»e bmAal cuthc V»eut Juitueand J CooUngwiMCy. We aautk, therefore, ae. J qu«ict in CM SecrFuy, wh^b deovuceet out Separation, aad bold them, aa we bold the £ Kelt of Maaeiod, Enem** ta War, m Peace FnenJ*. • Wi. tiwrelore, the KeprtCtMauvn of the UNITED STATES oe AMERICA, ta A GENERAL CONjRtbS AH mined, ,a “* fo>f*cme Judge of the World g tor ilw Kedtuw* ol cur InwitK-nt, do, nt the Name, and by Authority of the goad M Peep* of three Culotuct, tolemoly PobhA and Declatr. Thuchefe United Coteoiei are, 8 and ot Right ought to be, F REE ano INDEPENDENT STATESi that they are £ nWolved hum aU Afoguace to the Bnci* Crown, aad that all pofaKsi Connexion be ta tween them aad the tame <* Great-Untam. «, end oogM to be. totally dtffulved* aid ■t that a* FREE anu INDEPENDENT bl'AfES. they lure tall Power to levy War, £ cunclvde react, contract Allan.et, eftaUnh Comment, and co do all other Act* aad M im B(i wn*a INDEPLNDuN i STATE* m*y of Right do. And for the Mppott 5 ut can Declaration, man a Ivm Kciarxe on the PruicAion ol DIVINE PROVIDENCE, n we mutually pledge to each other our Lnti. our Ptnmer, and our JtarWffaMr. I I I I Goddard Broadside of the Declaration of Independence


[Page 211]
January 31, 1777 179 destroy all the letters we give you as well as these orders which we would not choose shou’d fall into their hands on any account, but you must carefully avoid all vessells at Sea & then we hope you will make a safe & successful voyage which we most sincerely wish & are sir, your obedt hble servts, Robt Morris, Jacob Winey.” Notwithstanding Morris’ injunction to destroy “these orders,” “shou’d it be your misfortune to fall into the hands of the Enemy,” Geddis obviously failed to do so. Morris’ and Winey’s January 30; 1777, letter to Geddis is in High Court of Admiralty Papers, 32: 391, pt 2, PRO. Robert Morris to Thomas Morris Sir Philadelphia J any. 31. 1777 All the Letters I have written you since we parted to this Date have been in that stile of Affection, which I was in hopes you would ever merit. Sorry I am indeed to suppose there is any Cause for Changing it & the only alleviation I can have of the trouble you now perplex me with, will be to find that your Conduct will be less blameable than at present I have reason to suppose. Your friend Mr. James Duff writes me the 1 7th Novr. that you had Corresponded with him regularly from the time you arived in Europe until your arival in London, but from that Period you had never answered his Letters, altho some of them were on business of Consequence respecting the Brig. Grenada Packet, Voyage which for aught I Know remains in that Port to this hour waiting for your Answer. He says also that you had nearly expended his Credit in your favour on Messrs. Herries & Co. for one thousand Pounds sterling & that they hinted to him you had beside other resources. These Circumstances & your total Silence to me, give me the most horrid presages of what I am to expect. Nevertheless it is possible that my friendly Letter, & the unlimited Confidence I repose in you, may have drawn forth the virtuous part of your Constitution into Exertion, & you may have stepped forth & done your Duty to the Public & to your friends; happy will it be for us both if you have but when I look the Contrary way the Picture shocks all my feelings & I cannot bear it. Your follies as a boy I always forgave, expecting one day to see you despise them, & reap the fruits of your Abilities; but if you have introduced them into the European World in the Character of man and a merchant, I fear it will all be over & that your future prospects must be Gloomy indeed. This goes under Cover to my friend Mr. Jno. Ross, whom I have requested to join you immediately after the recipt of it, to examine strictly into your Conduct & if he finds you have either abused or neglected your Duty in the Public or Private Trusts I have reposed in you, that he should imme diately receive from you all the Public & Private Letters you have received from me, from our House, from the Secret Committee, or from any other Persons in consequence of the business you have been charged with and I now strictly Charge & injoin you to deliver them all up to him & to grant him a Power of Attorney to act & do what may be right in all those affairs


[Page 215]
January 31, 1777 183 is a subject that will not do for a Public letter. When I shall join the Congress, or when they will return here is quite uncertain but this you may assure yourself that my judgement approves the plan & my Friend ship prompts me to comply with your wishes and if it ever lies in my power I will most readily convince you of this truth. I think Hooper wou’d be a proper hand to broach this plan and if Jay & Johnston attended the Congress they shou’d back it. This may happen before long and I shall rejoice to see it, for I am told our assembly do not intend you shall be in the New List of Delegates. 1 I am too busy to attend or I wou’d Contest the matter warmly altho I well know, that the Honesty, merit & ability which you possess in so eminent a degree wou’d not be sufficient pleas against the previous determination of a Strong party for that I am told is the case. However you will enjoy your Family & Friends at home if you are deprived the opportunity of Continuing those Services to your Country which she so much needs & which if I mistake not she will feel the want of, untill better Men in better times shall call you forth again. I am Dr sir, Your obedt hble servant, Robert Morris RC (PHi). 1 Wilson was indeed dropped from Pennsylvania’s list of delegates when the assembly named a new five-man delegation on February 5, but he was reappointed on February 22. See Page Smith, James Wilson, Founding Father, 1742—1798 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1956), pp. 99-102; and Benjamin Rush to Julia Rush, January 24, 1777, note 1. Benjamin Rush to Julia Rush My dearest Julia, Baltimore Januy 31 1777. This is the 4th letter I have written to you since my Arrival in this place. I have received One from You which gave me great pleasure. In my former letters I gave you a general Acct, of my Situation. I shall now add to it, that after spending a week in the house of a Mrs. Orrick in a room formerly occupied by Mr Seargeant I was obliged to look out for other lodgings upon Mr. Seargeants return. I am now very comfortably situated with a Mrs Payne. Mr Seargant was so much pleased with my landlady and the accommodations which her house afforded that he has left his old quarters, and now lodges with me. There are a number of boarders in the family. One of them is a young French Officer. His his tory in one particular is very remarkable. He is one of one & twenty chil dren, 18 boys & three girls. They were all bom of the same father & mother, and are all now living. Happy family! I shall be better satisfied if the same can be said [o/] me as was said of the prophet of old “That I walked in the fear of the Lord, and begat sons & daughters,” than if it were inscribed upon my tombstone that I governed the counsels, or com manded the arms of the whole continent of America.


[Page 216]
184 January 31, 1777 Every article of provision—cloathing and the common conveniences of life are 100 percent higher in this place than in Philadelphia. I pay 50/ a week for my board, and 2/6 a day for my horse. I cannot reconcile these prices with the plenty of provisions for man & beast with which this part of the country abounds. The market contains besides the ordinary pro visions found in the Philada. market a great variety of fish and wild fowl. The town of Baltimore contains about 1000 houses—most of them large & built with brick. It is divided into two parts distant from each Other about % of a mile. Both divisions are situated upon Petapsco river about 15 miles above Chesapeak bay. The water of the river is a good deal Brackish, and even the water of the pumps & wells in the town is not wholly free from a Saltish taste. The town used to contain near 5000 inhabitants before the present war. You will be surprised when I add to this account of Baltimore that the first house in it was built not more than 30 years ago. It has for some years past vied with Philadelphia in commerce, and bids fair for being the most wealthy spot on the continent. I expect to set off tomorrow to pay a visit to Dr Howard an old fellow student of mine in the College of Edinburgh]. 1 He lives 15 miles from this place. I have as yet contracted no acquaintances with the inhabitants of the town. I associate only with delegates, & attend only to the business of the congress. I forgot to inform you before that when the acct, came to the congress of your Papa’s harsh treatment by General Howe, they immediately ordered General Washington to remonstrate against it, and to threaten to inflict similar indignities upon some tory prisoners. My pen and paper are intollerable. I hope to write to you more fully by the next post. Love to all Mr Montgomery’s family. Adieu my dearest— yours—yours—yours, B Rush RC (MdHi: Middendorf deposit, 1972). 1 Undoubtedly Ephraim Howard of Elkridge, Anne Arundel Co., Md. See Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:132—33. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Baltimore Feb 1st 1777 The Proceedings of the Committees of the four New England States have been read in Congress, and are now under the Consideration of a Committee of the whole. They are much applauded as being wise and salutary. 1 I had heard that one of your Delegates at that Convention had written a long Letter to his Friend and Confident here; and hearing it whisperd, that the Massachusetts State had disapprovd of those Proceed ings, I was led to ask the Gentleman who had receivd the Letter, con cerning it. 2 He confirmd it; and said, that not only the Trade, but the


[Page 217]
February 1, 1777 185 Landed Gentlemen in the House of Representatives were sanguine against it. I beggd him to let me see his Letter; but he ref usd in a kind of Pet, telling me it was a private Letter. I was left to conjecture, whether I had been really impertinent in asking a Sight of his Letter, or whether the Contents of it were such as it was not proper for me to see. You will easily conceive what a Scituation one must be in here, who having receivd no Intelligence himself, of the Sentiments of his Constituents, is obligd in vain to ask of another, upon what Principles they have disapprovd of a Measure (if indeed they did dissapprove of it) upon which he is called to give his own Opinion. But it is difficult to account for means peevish humors, and it is generally not worth ones while to attempt it. You see, my Friend from this Instance, the Necessity of your writing to me oftener. When I was told upon the forementiond Occasion, that I would be inti tied to see the Letters of Another; whenever I should be disposd to communicate those which I receive my self, I could have said truly that I had scarcely receivd any. Two only from you in the Space of near four Months. But I have no Claim to your Favors, however much I value them, unless perhaps upon the Score of my having not neglected to write to you by any opportunity. Your omitting of late even to acknowledge the Receipt of my Letters, I might indeed construe as a silent Hint that they were displeasing to you. But I will not believe this till I have it under your own Hand. While I am writing, your very acceptable Letter is brought to me by Mr Lovell. 3 You therein speak, as you ever have done, the Language of my Soul. Mr Adams tells me you are President of the Board of War; I am therefore induced to recall what I have just now said, which you may construe as an implied Censure for your not having written to me oftener. I am sure you must have a great Deal of Business. I am not sorry for it, for a Reason which I need not mention. I pray God to preserve the Health of your Body and the vigor of your Mind. We must chearfully deny our selves Domestick Happiness and the Tranquility of private Life when our Country demands our Services. Give me Leave to hint to you my opinion, that it would be a Saving to our State in the Way of Supplys, if the Board of War would consign the Cargoes which they order here to a Mercht of good Character rather than to the Masters of the Vessels. Possibly there may be some Exceptions. But I have Reason to think that a Cargo which arrivd about a Fortnight ago, consisting as I am told, chiefly of Rum and Sugar which were scarce Articles, was sold at least 30 per cent under what it would have fetchd, if it had been under the Direction of a Person acquainted in the Place, and Flour is purchasing by the Person who bo’t the Cargo, and I suppose expects an Allowance therefor, at an unlimitted Price. I am perswaded, if you had by a previous Letter directed a Cargo to be procured, you might have had it 20 per cent cheaper. If the Board should be of my Mind, I know of no Gentlemen whom I would more freely recommend than Mess


[Page 218]
186 February 1, 1777 Samuel and Robert Purviance. They are Merchants of Character, honest and discrete Men and warmly attachd to our all important Cause. But I get out of my Line when I touch upon Commerce. It is a Subject which I never understood. Adieu my dear Friend. Beleive me to be yours, S A P.S. I forgot to tell you that, a fair occasion offering, I movd in Congress that the Eldest Son of our dearest Freind Genl Warren might be adopted by the Continent & educated at the publick Expence. The Motion was pleasing to all & a Come is appointed to prepare a Resolve. Monuments are also proposd in Memory of him & Genl Mercer whose youngest Son is also to be adopted & educated. 4 But these things I would not have yet made publick. 5 RC (MHi). 'See John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, January 30, 1777, note. 2 It cannot be determined with certainty to whom Adams was referring, but John Hancock may have received such a letter from Thomas Cushing. Cushing, Azor Orne, and Tristram Dalton were the Massachusetts delegates at the Providence meeting. 3 Probably James Warren’s December 31, 1776, letter to Samuel Adams, in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:441-44. ‘ On January 31 Congress appointed a committee “to see what honors are due” Gens. Joseph Warren and Hugh Mercer, who had been killed in action. On April 8 Congress voted to erect monuments to them and to adopt and educate Warren’s eldest son and Mercer’s youngest son. JCC, 7:79-80, 243. 0 Adams also wrote a letter to his wife Elizabeth about this time, but only an undated fragment has been found. “Yet I would even by willing this Letter should fall into the Hands of General Howe, that from the Quotations I have made from yours he might see the unconquerable Spirit of a Boston Female. His deceasd Brother, I am sure would have honord you for it; and if we could suppose it possible that so truly good a Nobleman as he was, could for a Moment be engagd in so unrighteous a Cause, as his surviving Brothers have undertaken to support, your Sentiments would have causd the Weapon to drop from his un-nerved Arm. “We have the Speech of George the Third. I send it to you as the Printer has been pleasd to give it to us. “I am exceedingly rejoiced to hear that Mrs March has recoverd her Health. Tell her I heartily congratulate her Friend upon so unexpected a Change in their Favor.. .. “I have movd in Congress that the eldest Son of our worthy deceased Friend Dr. Warren may be an adopted Child of the Continent and educated at the publick Expense. The Members were pleasd with the Motion & a Committee is appointed to prepare a Resolve for the purpose. Communicate this only to a few Friends till you hear further of it.” Adams Papers, NN. Board of War to James Scott Sir, Board of War Baltimore Feby. 1st. 1777. I Reed, your Favor by Mr. John Barker and deliver’d yours to the Presi dent to be laid before Congress. They readily complyd with your Request


[Page 222]
190 February 1, 1777 be apprehended to be ineffectual, the Congress on your representing the Matter to them, will readily order any additional Assistance that shall be thought necessary. 1 I have wrote to Genl. Smallwood to call on such Continental Officers and Troops as he shall judge proper and necessary on your application to him for this Purpose. It will be a very fortunate Point, and contribute greatly to the Tran quility of that Country, should you be able to apprehend the Leaders of this Faction, and secure them agt. any similar attempts for the future. The Flames of Rebellion may be easily extinguished by spirited & timely Exertions at first—but if suffered to spread, the Work will be come more difficult and hazardous. It is therefore highly necessary that your Movements should be as quick & as secret as possible; and from your Zeal in Behalf the American Cause and the Repose of your Country now disturbed by the Insurrection of her Enemies, I have no Doubt of your exerting yourselves in a becoming Manner on this Occasion. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. J. H. Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 'See ]CC, 7:79, 82—83; and Ronald Hoffman, A Spirit of Dissension: Eco nomics, Politics, and the Revolution in Maryland (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1973), pp. 194-97. John Hancock to William Smallwood Sir, Baltimore Feby. 1st. 1777. The enclosed Resolves of Congress I transmit to you, 1 and am to in form you that it is the Order of Congress you should call to the Assistance of the State of Maryland such Continental Officers and Troops as you shall judge necessary on their Application to you. 2 The dangerous Tend ency of the Insurrection of the Tories in the Counties of Somerset and Worcester, requires the most vigorous & immediate Measures to suppress it. You will therefore hold yourself in Readiness, to execute such Orders as you shall receive from the Assembly of this State for this important Purpose. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obed. Servt. J. H. Presidt LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 'William Smallwood (1732-92), a native Marylander, had been appointed a Continental brigadier general by Congress in October 1776. DAB. 2 See JCC, 7:82-83.


[Page 231]
February 3, 1777 199 suspected, abjuring the authority of the King & Parliament of Britain or any other power not deriv’d from the People. When these measures are taken & the Laws faithfully executed we shall soon have things in a good way. Affairs abroad wear a very favorable aspect, we are in daily Expec tation of very interesting Intelligence from our Commissioners at the French Court & I hope it wont be a great while, before we hear from those at some other Courts, but these are matters that you must be very carefull who you trust with for the Present. Measures are taking by Con gress & I hope will be taken by every state to give stability to the Cur rency. Congress seem more firmly united than ever, & I am sensible the Removal from Philadelphia has a very good effect, ’tho I by no means approv’d of it at the time. I think on the whole our affairs look well, the Principle object is to raise the new Army, that being compleated & proper measure taken for the Security of our Trade, we shall be in a scituation, under the Smiles of Heaven, to Establish Liberty, & Happiness. J. L. writes that he shall put some Business into your hands, which I suppose he has done before this time. 2 Dr. Brackett has favor’d me with a letter (which I receiv’d only a few days ago tho it is dated 2d Deer) which I shall answer soon but believe shall not be able by this opportunity. Give my very affecte Regards to all Friends & perticularly commend me to our Mother who I hope injoys as much health & Happiness as her advanc’d age will admit off. I am You very Affecte Bror. 3 Wm Whipple RC (MH-H). ’On December 10, 1776, the New Hampshire Assembly had resolved “that a General Embargo imediately take place and continue, till the further order of this Court, on all vessels of every Denomination (excepting such as may be fitted out by order of the United States, or either of them, or by the Board of War in behalf of this State or such as may so continue from one harbor in this State to another, or such as may be permitted by the Genl Assembly, or in the recess thereof by the Council or Committee of Safety of this State).” N.H. State Papers, 8:412-13. 2 John Langdon appointed Joseph as his deputy prize agent for New Hampshire. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1021. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Whipple to Joseph Whipple, February 8, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams Baltimore Feby. 3. 1777 This Day has been observed in this Place, with exemplary Decency and Solemnity, in Consequence of an Appointment of the Government, in Observance of a Recommendation of Congress, as a Day of Fasting. I went to the Presbyterian Meeting and heard Mr. Allison deliver a most pathetic and animating, as well as pious, patriotic and elegant Discourse. I have seldom been better pleased or more affected with a sermon.


[Page 233]
February 3, 1777 201 other Looks. If the Mercury rises, there, it will rise in every other Part of the Continent, if it falls there, it will fall every where. By all that I can gather, the British Ministry have Sollicited for Cos sacks. The Swiss is doubtfull, But it is the opinion of a Man in England whose Intelligence has heretofore proved extreamly exact, that the Minis try will be able to obtain near Twenty thousand Recruits in England, Scotland and Ireland and Germany. If this Conjecture is right there is great Reason to Suppose that they will not Venture upon so dangerous a Step as that of procuring Siberians. Their late great Successes will in their opinion render them unnecessary. But in all Events, it is our Wisdom, our Prudence, our Policy, our Cunning, our Duty, our every Thing to destroy, those who are now in America. They are compleatly in our Power and if We do not embrace the opportunity, We shall not only in dust and ashes repent of our sloth, but it will be but Justice that We should Suffer the wretched Consequences of it. I am Sure, our brave New Englandmen can break the Force of Newport—and even the main Body at Brunswick May be imprisoned. But an Army is wanting. Dont let it be wanting long. Congress will do and have done what they can—but if the States will not execute the Plans and Resolutions of Congress what is to be expected? New England, I find is now in higher Estimation than it has been. Our Troops have behaved nobly, and turned the Fortune of the War. Pray let us keep up our Credit, as I am sure We can. Adieu my dear Friend. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Baltimore Feb. 3. 1777 It may not be a Mispense of Time to make a few Observations upon the Situation of some of the States at this Time. That Part of New York which is yet in our Possession is pretty well united, and pretty firm. The Jerseys have recovered from their Surprize, and are lending as much assistance as can well be expected from them. Their assembly is now Sitting, and are Said to be well disposed to do what they can. The Assembly of Pensilvania, is also Sitting. They have abolished the oath which gave so much Discontent to the People, and are gradually acquiring the Confidence of the People, and opposition has Subsided. The Delaware Government have formed their Constitution, and the Assembly is now Sitting. Maryland has formed its Constitution and their Assembly now Sitting in Consequence of it, are filling it up. There is a Difficulty in two of the Counties, but this will last but a little while. In Virginia Governor Henry has recovered his Health, has returned to Wil liamsburg, and is proceeding in his government with great Industry. N.


[Page 234]
202 February 3, 1777 Carolina have compleated their Government, and Mr Caswell is Gov ernor. In Virginia and North Carolina, they have made an Effort for the Destruction of Bigotry which is very remarkable. They have abolished their Establishments of Episcopacy so far as to give compleat Liberty of Conscience to Dissenters, an Acquisition in favour of the Rights of Man kind, which is worth all of the Blood and Treasure which has been and will be Spent in this war. S. Carolina and Georgia compleated their Governments, a long time ago. Thus I think there are but three States remaining which have not erected their Governments, Massachusetts, N. York and New Hampshire. These are good Steps towards Government in the State which must be introduced and established before we can expect Discipline in our Armies, the Unum necessarium to our Salvation. I will be instant and incessant, in season and out of season, in inculcat ing these important Truths, that nothing can Save Us but Government in the State and Discipline in the Army. There are so many Persons among my worthy Constituents who love Liberty better than they understand it that I expect to become unpopular by my Preaching. But Woe is me if I preach it not. Woe will be to them, if they do not hear. I am terrified with the Prospect of Expence, to our State, which I find no Possibility of avoiding. I cannot get an Horse kept in this Town under a Guinea a Week. One hundred and four guineas a year for the Keeping of two Horses, is intolerable, but cannot be avoided. Simple Board is fifty shilling a Week here, and Seven Dollars generally. I cannot get boarded under forty shillings, i.e. five dollars and a third a Week for myself and fifteen for my servant—besides finding for myself all my wood, Candles, Liquers and Washing. I would send home my servant and Horses, but Congress is now a moveable Body, and it is impossible to travell and carry great Loads of Baggage without a servant and Horses, besides the Meanness of it, in the Eyes of the World. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Massachusetts Council Honble Gentlemen, Baltimore 3 Feby. 1777 The number and vigilance of our enemies hath prevented us hitherto from sending the enclosed Despatches through these southern ports And since it is of the last importance to the American Cause that these letters should reach their destination with all possible dispatch, We beg the favor


[Page 240]
208 February 4, 1777 Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Baltimore Feby 4th 1777 I wrote you on my way hither from Hanover Court House in Virginia, suggesting to you my apprehensions relative to one Ferns, who appeared to me suspicious. 1 I shall now, as near as I can recollect, recapitulate the matters which dropt from him, (when he had so far indulged in drinking as to be off his guard) lest the letter I wrote should have miscarried. He was pilot to the fleet under Lord How, & brought them into Hud son’s river, was consulted by the Admiral concerning certain Expeditions which he had in contemplation, which Ferns declared to be unadvisable because of the late season. A communication was carried on between the Tories in every State and New York & a traffic of gold & silver for conti nental money. Mr. Cornell added the adventurers in this traffic. Two from North Carolina had lately dealt to a considerable amount, & I fancy reside in or near Newbern. I intend hereafter to trouble you with a letter every post, & shall give my sentiments of the different political principles which I shall perceive to actuate the several States, the measures intended to be pursued, the intelligence we receive & the important decisions in Congress. I find a considerable jealousy is entertained of the Northern States, I know not how justly; at present I must refer you to Mr. Hooper who is much better qualified to give you satisfaction on all these matters than I am. Our situ ation here is unsettled, uncomfortable, & incredibly expensive. These circumstances will I doubt not occasion another adjournment of Con gress. Mr. Hooper takes with him all the newspapers, & some copies of the King’s speech; you will doubtless see them, & I need not suggest any reflections; they will readily occur to you, & you will foresee greater events than have yet distinguished our struggles. The calamities of man kind are not speedily to be intermitted, & war & fury will rage in several quarters of the Globe. I hope however the contest will not be very injurious to America. I have the honour to be sir, with due respect, & sincere Esteem, Your very obed. serv’t, Thos Burke Feby 5th. This day it was resolved in Congress that Col. Nash should be appointed a Brigadier General, that he should proceed to the western part of our State, & expedite as much as possible the recruiting service, & that the several Battalions of Continental Troops in North & South Carolina should join General Washington as soon as may be after the fifteenth of March. 2 It was proposed to request your assistance in for warding the recruiting business, but we observed that you were already sensible of the necessity of such an exertion of your interest & influence, & being so well inclined to serve to your utmost power the cause of America, there was no need to remind you of it. I know, sir, you will omit


[Page 241]
February 4, 1777 209 nothing in your power to assist this so necessary service, & I hope through your efforts the North Carolina Battalions will come into the field as complete as those of any State. The Congress have also resolved that five hundred thousand dollars be advanced to our State when your warrant shall be produced, agreeable to the Ordinance, & when such warrant arrives, I shall use every dili gence for Expediting the remittance. 3 1 am &c, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 Burke’s January 27 letter to North Carolina governor Caswell is in N.C. State Records, 11:368-69. 2 See ]CC, 7:90-91. 3 See JCC, 7:92. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell My Dear Sir, Baltimore Febry. 4th. 1777. Your favour of the 27th Ulto I reed this day, am greatly oblidged for the intelligence it brings, being the first Certain News I have reed. From my family since Novemr. My pleasure is much increased by the additional circumstance of the People of Eliza. Town being able to Attend public Worship without interruption; as I had heard and believed Our Church & your house were both burned by the Enemy. I must now suppose the Acct, not true or you would not have omitted mentioning it. I wrote you up wards of two weeks ago by Dr Witherspoon 1 who set off for a Sight of Princeton and hath not returned; in that I ventured a large Draft on you for intelligence. I earnestly wish to know the State of our Country and of our Friends, which I have not yet been able to Obtain. Two Armies, one of which the most Savage known among civilized nations, must have Spread desolation through the Country which an age can Scarcely recover. I feel for their distresses, and wish I could think them at an end, but this is beyond my expectations. Great Britain undoubtedly hath contracted for a large Numr. of Rusians which will pay us a Visit next Summer unless Prevented. Our General cause will I think Nevertheless Obtain a Sup port, he that setteth up states doth not, usually put them down in a Year, and I doubt not but by the Providence of God we shall be enabled to withstand our Foes. A Union or aliance I believe is now forming for our Support. France, Spain & Prusia, and perhaps Sweden will unite in it, the Independance of America hath catched the Attention of Europe, and all Commercial States are wishing for a share of our Commerce. France & Spain are exerting their utmost efforts to prepare for War, our Flag is wore in their harbours, and our Vessels protected, our Prizes where carried in Secured for us, and the duties on American trade chiefly taken of. All intelligence from France & Spain as favourable as we can expect, the great Obsticle with those kingdoms were apprehensions of a Reconcilia-


[Page 252]
220 February 5, 1777 Marine Committee to Esek Hopkins Sir Philada. Feby 5th. 1777 By Consent of the Honorable Congress I have this day given instruc tions to Jno Paul Jones Esqr Commander of the Alfred to take upon him the Conduct of an Expedition wherein he will require the assistance of the Columbus, Cabot, Camden 1 & Sloop Providence, and You will please to order the Commanders to join him & to put themselves under his Command. I flatter myself with having your utmost exertions to get these Vessells well & expeditiously manned and compleatly fitted that they may sail soon as possible. I lately forwarded you a packet with instructions respecting the Frigates from the Marine Committee which I hope will arrive safe. I long to hear that you contrive ways & means to get rid of the Enemy in your Neighborhood & am with esteem sir your obedt hble Servant, Robt Morris, V.P. of the Marine Committee P.S. My Compts to your Brother. RC (CSmH). LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The LB correctly names this ship the Hampden. Marine Committee to John Paul Jones Sir Philada. Feby 5th. 1777 I have frequently received your letters advising me the particulars of your several Cruizes, and with pleasure assure you that the Contents in every instance have been very acceptable, always entertaining & in many parts usefull. These letters I have from time to time communicated to the members of the Marine Committee all of whom express their satis faction with your Conduct. You wou’d no doubt expect an answer from them to your proposal for a Cruize this Winter on the Coast of Africa, 1 and such they intended to give you long since, but the confusion occa sioned by their removal from this City to Baltimore & the multiplicity of business that has unavoidably crowded on every member of Congress, put it out of their power to give that attention to your department that they wou’d always wish to carry into every American Concern. Thus Circum stanced they never doubted but your Active genius wou’d find usefull employment for the Ship you Command, as you were so near the Com modore & cou’d go cloathed with his Authority & they have not been disapointed for you have in this way made a most usefull & successfull Voyage to Cape Breton & thence to Boston. Major Frazer passing through this City (which I have never left) sent me an account of that Cruize


[Page 255]
February 5, 1777 223 P.S. If you get the Brass pieces land them in the first port in these States & have them valued. RC (DNA: PCC, item 168). Written and signed by Robert Morris. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). The LB is dated February 1, and Paullin, who took his text from that source, repeated that date in Marine Committee Letters, 1:65-70. 1 For further information about Jones’ proposed African cruise, see his letters to Morris of October 17, 1776, and January 12, 1777, in Morgan, Naval Docu ments, 6:1302—4, 7:938—39. 3 See Executive Committee to John Hancock, January 16, 1777. 3 Before Jones was able to carry out any of Morris’ suggestions, he was ordered to sail to France. See Marine Committee to Jones, May 9, 1777; and William M. Fowler, Jr., Rebels under Sail: The American Navy during the Revolution (New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1976), pp. 99-101. Marine Committee to Robert Morris Baltimore Feby. 5th 1777 Sir, Judging it of the last consequence to the Public that the Military Stores probably lodged for the Continent in the West Indies should be brought over with all possible expedition, we have determined to send all the armed Vessels mentioned in your letter to be now at Philadelphia, and the Frigate Randolph likewise, on this business. The Island that each Vessel is to go to, and the Port she is to aim at returning to, is left to your discretion. You will please Sir to give the necessary orders for the quickest William Ellery Wm. Whipple Nathan Brownson Tho Burke Jona D Sergeant possible execution of this important service. We are Sir Your most obedient servants, John Hancock Richard Henry Lee Sami. Chase Oliver Wolcott RC (MdAN). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Brownson, Burke, Chase, Ellery, Hancock, Sergeant, Whipple, and Wolcott. Endorsed by Morris: “answd. 15 Feby. 1777.” No letter of that date from Morris to the Marine Committee has been found. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant to John Hart Dear Sir Baltimore 5th February 1777 Pursuant to the Appointment of the Legislature of New Jersey, I have attended the Congress as one of their Delegates from their first sitting at


[Page 256]
224 February 5, 1777 Baltimore to this Time. As, during this Period, publick Affairs have taken a much happier Turn & my own private Circumstances have assumed rather a melancholy Complexion, I hope your honourable Body will ex cuse my wishing to retire to the Management of my private Concerns. The Loss of my House is the least part of my Misfortune, as my Atten tion to Politicks during these unhappy Times has at once superseded my Business & prevented the Collecting my Accounts ’till the greater part of my Debtors, it is to be feared, are either ruined or not to be found. For these Reasons I find it necessary to apply myself to some Business for the Support of my Family. My Attendance in Congress must be a Bar in the Way of all such Attempts & I must therefore beg that some other' person may be appointed in my Stead. I shall however attend ’till a Person can be appointed to succeed me & am Sr. Yr. most obedt. hble Servt. 1 Jona D. Sergeant RC (NN). Addressed: “The honorable John Hart Esqr., Speaker of the Assembly of New Jersey, Haddonfield.” 1 Although he twice obtained brief leaves of absence during the next several weeks—“on account of his health” and “to visit his family”—Sergeant continued to serve in Congress until September 1777. See JCC, 7:156, 219; and Burnett, Letters, 2: Iv—Ivi. John Adams’ Diary 1777. Thursday Feby. 6th. Lodged last night for the first Time in my new Quarters, at Mrs. Ross’es in Markett Street, Baltimore a few Doors below the fountain Inn. The Gentlemen from Pensilvania and Maryland, complain of the grow ing Practice of distilling Wheat into Whisky. They say it will become a Question whether the People shall eat bread or drink Whisky. The Congress sits in the last House at the West End of Market Street, on the South Side of the Street. A long Chamber, with two fire Places, two large Closets, and two Doors. The House belongs to a Quaker, who built it for a Tavern. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield): 2:257. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore Town Feby 6. 1777, Thursday Noon Congress are very anxious, that some immediate Steps should be taken by our State, not only as to the person of Captain Patterson, but as to


[Page 262]
230 February 7, 1777 RC (DNA: PCC, item 147). ‘For some account of the Executive Committee’s difficulties in complying with this request, see its February 20 letter to the Board of War. In regard to this issue Peters wrote this letter to the Executive Committee on February 27 in the Board of War’s behalf: “I enclose by Order of the Board an Invoice of Part of the thirty Tons of Powder mentioned to be destined for Ticonderoga, the Residue will be speedily sent & after deducting that sent from Philadelphia the Board request you will order the other fifteen Tons on as speedily as possible. It is shipped by the Elk Packett & the Shipper has Orders to wait on you as soon as he ar rives.” PCC, item 147, fol. 91. 2 On February 10 and 14 Peters also wrote letters for the Board of War di recting the Executive Committee to provide “Cloaths, Arms & Acoutrements” for the Second and Seventh Virginia Regiments, which were under orders to join forces with Washington. Ibid., fols. 67, 71. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feby71777 Motion in Congress that the President write to every State excepting Virginia and Masschusetts Bay recommending a fuller representation, proposed to leave out the Exceptions, passed in the Negative. Amendment proposed that when ever any State was unrepresented the President Should write requesting a full representation. Agreed by a Majority. Mo tion to be reconsidered. Amendment proposed that when ever any State was represented by less than three President should write &c. Rejected. Question upon the whole as amended Nos 5, Ayes 4, 1 Divided. In this Debate the States fully represented insisted on the Exceptions that it might appear they had no need of a Memento. Several other States insisted that no state ought to be permitted to Commit a Vote in the General Council of the States to less than three. That less nor even that Number would Supply Committees. It was answered to the first that every State had made her representation as best Suited her Circumstances, that many were unable to spare or Support One more Numerous. That each was best Judge how many of her Citizens she would Trust, and to what length She would Trust them. That there was no need of publicly calling on them for a representation more full because they already wished the same thing but found it Inconvenient to be Effected. That therefore those who had any representation at all had [already] done what their Circum stances permit [. . .] for greater Exertions. To the Second that the repre- sefntatives of] the States who had few refused nor [....] That the weight and Trust were certainly too great for any one person but it was an evil that Could not at present be remedied, and therefore it must be born. That requiring three to form a Quorum would Embarass several States and leave Such State often without any representation at all, because if any Accident prevented the attendance of one, the Vote was Necessarily lost,


[Page 264]
232 February 7, 1777 Congress will afford every assistance in their power to prevent any Com munication between the Insurgents and the Men of War, and any plunder of our Islands or Coasts. It is earnestly wished and expected that our State will order every vessell they have and can obtain on the same Duty. I shall speak to Captain Cook about his Tender. No letters from General Washington. The Post is not yet arrived. With Respect, your Obedt. Servt. S Chase RC (MdAA). John Hancock to the Maryland Council of Safety Sir Baltimore Febry. 7t. 1777 Your favr. inclosing the Deposition of Capt Patterson was Rec’d & laid before the Congress. 1 The Second Regimt. of Virginia Troops to gether with Col Buchanan’s Regimt. of Militia are under orders to Repair to the Eastern Shore for the Suppression of the Insurgents in the Counties of Somerset & Worcester. 2 Two Arm’d Vessells are ready & the Transports are also getting ready for the Accommodation of the Troops. These with the Troops you may order, it is Judg’d will be sufficient for the purpose. I am, Sir, Your most Obedt Sert, J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To Daniel of St Thomas Jenifer Esqr, Presidt of Council of Safety.” 1 The council of safety’s February 6 letter to Hancock is in PCC, item 70, fol. 139, and Md. Archives, 16:122. Capt. William Patterson’s deposition about an insurrection in Somerset County is in PCC, item 70, fols. 143—45. 2 See JCC, 7:96-97. For accounts of this episode, see also Charles J. Truitt, Breadbasket of the Revolution: Delmarva in the War for Independence (Salisbury, Md.: Historical Books, Inc. 1975), pp. 59-68; and Ronald Hoffman, A Spirit of Dissension: Economics, Politics, and the Revolution in Maryland (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1973), pp. 196-205. Marine Committee to John Bradford Sir Philadelphia Feby. 7th 1777 Your Letters of the 21 December & 17th January to the Marine Com mittee 1 are with me and I have great pleasure in acknowledging on be half of that Committee your Zeal and attention to the Public business. The tiding contained in those Letters was very acceptable and I was particu larly pleased with Captain Jones’s success. By this Express I send him


[Page 265]
February 7, 1777 233 orders for an other Cruize, 2 but by an expression in one of your Letters I imagine he or you have wrote to the Committee and proposed altering the Ship Alfred, that Letter must have passed through here without com ing to my hands and the Committee have said nothing to me about it. Should they give any Orders that contradict mine let them be obeyed but if nothing contradictory, Captain Jones will abide by what I have wrote him. I have observed that you frequently did propose discharging those Vessels that were fitted out as Cruizers by General Washington and the Committee were always of your opinion but some how or other in the multiplicity of business and in their late confusion they omitted to give you orders. Now Sir, as I know it was their desire to have those Vessels paid off and dismissed the service I will venture to authorize your doing it and shall send the Committee a Copy of this Letter which you may deem a proper authority: But as I have mentioned in another Letter your employing one of those Vessels to carry the dispatches to France, you must either keep that one in pay or buy her, which I should much prefer, and if any of the rest of them are good Vessels, suitable for Cruizers I should think it best to buy them and continue them in the service, espe cially as I suppose some of the Commanders and Officers have merit to deserve a continuance in the service: but I am utterly against continuing them on hire and so I think are all the Committee. You may inform Mr. Turnbull that altho the Congress wish by all means to procure the Public Stores on the most reasonable terms possible, yet they cannot desire to injure One part of the Public service for the sake of another, and that the Honest Tars ought to have fair play in the sales of their Prizes. We don’t wish to take any advantages of them but would chuse he would guard against monopolizers, Forestallers and combinations of that kind. If you can persuade Commodore Hopkins to give up his Guns you may, but I dont think the Committee will order it as there has already been some altercation on that subject. On Behalf of the Marine Committee I am, sir, Your Obed servant, Robert Morris V. P. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 An extract of Bradford’s December 21 letter is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:539. ’ See Marine Committee to John Paul Jones, February 5, 1777. Robert Morris to John Bradford Dear Sir Philada. Feby 7th. 1777 I have already wrote to you two or three Official letters this morning & now come to treat of what Concerns myself & my Friends. 1 The only private letter I have of yours unanswered is dated the 16 Deer, which in deed does not require any reply and you wou’d learn by a letter I wrote you


[Page 267]
February 7, 1777 235 the Vessell & Cargo is not equal to what they wou’d sell for here at this time & had she performed her voyage they wou’d have sold higher in No Carolina. Shou’d this Vessell & Cargo be in your Port I think the Owners of the Privateer shou’d be Condemned to deliver her up to the Owners in No Carolina, that they shou’d pay the full Value for every thing embez- zelled, that they shou’d pay for loss of time, Wear & tear, that a master & hands shou’d be hired to carry her to Edenton in No Carolina, the Ves sell & Cargo to be insured there & the Owners to pay all the Cost. This I hope you will have done & send her to the Owners soon as possible. They want Vessells in North Carolina, having Cargoes waiting for them, therefore it will not do for them to sell her. They [. . .] want Salt, Bark & all the other articles there [as much] as they can anywhere. In short all [I can say?] on this Subject is, that if you get the [. . . let] her be well fitted with Sails, Rigging and [. . .] valued before she sails & send her to [Messrs. Hewes] & Smith at Edenton with as much of [. . .] as you can get, put in a good honest [master]. Insure the value of the Cargo & advise [. . .] she is to sail & when she does sail. I depend [upon you] to do every thing in your power to serve these Worthy Gen tn & am RC (DLC photostat). Morris’ signature and the ends of approximately ten lines torn from the original. 1 Only one of these letters has been found; see preceding entry. a Not found; but see Morris to Nathaniel Shaw, January 23, 1777. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Baltimore 7th Feby 1777 I have receiv’d your favor of 2d Deer but not ’till the 26th Jany. 1 What occasions this delay in the posts I know not, but suppose the fault must lay with the Post Master Genl. He has lately had a Rap, which I hope will have a good effect. I am sorry there is such Backwardness in Col Longs Regiment to March, but its what I always feared. I hope the new army will soon be rais’d, for this Method of calling out the Militia to march such a distance, is the most ruinous plan that ever was invented. I am sorry you want any thing to keep up your Spirits. I shod think the Glorious cause in which we are ingaged is sufficient for that purpose. The prospect of laying a foundation of Liberty & Happiness for Posterity & securing an Asilum for all who wish to injoy those Blessings is an object in my opinion sufficient to raise the mind above every misfortune. The loss of Forts Washington, & Lee, is not I hope to be imputed to Treachery, or Cowardice, but rather to want of Experience. This defect time will supply, & the enormous ravages commited by the Enemy wherever they have pass’d will teach the People wisdom, & inspire them to Noble Deeds.


[Page 272]
240 February 8, 1777 MS (NcU). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, Feb ruary 7, 1777. 1 Remainder of MS missing. Abraham Clark to John Hart Dr Sir, Baltimore Febry 8. 1777 I lately heard the Assembly of New Jersey had met but cannot learn where, am therefore unable to give a proper direction. The four New England Colonies have had a meeting of Committees from their Legisla tures to consult measures for their mutual defence & for regulating Trade & Commerce. Their proceedings are before Congress, and I expect will soon obtain their Approbation, and recommendation will thereupon be sent to N. York, N. Jersey, Pensa. & Maryland to appt. Comees. to meet at Phila. for the purpose of regulating the Price of all Articles of Trade &c. The Southern States will also be desired to meet for that purpose. Those matters if passed you will soon have notice of. I am much alarmed with Genl. Washingtons Procla. of the 25th Janry. He hath assumed the Legislative & Executive Powers of Government in all the states. I moved Congress to pass a Resolution I produced for pre venting its fatal Consequences and the establishing such a precedent. My motion was Comtd. and is now before the Come. 1 I hope our Legislature will take proper Notice of it, whatever issue it may have in Congress and not tamely Submit their Authority to the Controul of a power unknown in our Constitution. We set out to Oppose Tyranny in all its Strides, and I hope we shall persevere. A Regulation for providing Carriages for the Army & to prevent as much as possible the Custom of impressing hath long been before Con gress, Comtd. & recomtd. and so it remains. 2 I Wish you will not delay passing a Law for Regulating impresses of this kind. The Devastations of New Jersey by the Enemy will I think make it Necessary to prevent Cattle &c running at large, as fences on the main road are mostly destroyed and cannot soon be made and I think, no person ought to be compelled to fence agst. street Cattel at any Time. Mr. Sergeant talks of resigning and Mr. Stockton by his late proceedure cannot Act, 3 I wish their places may be Supplied by such as will be reputable to New Jersey, not only by their integrity but Abilities. The Tories in the two lower Counties of Maryland on the Eastern shore & Sussex on Delaware, are very troublesome and Collecting forces Aided by several Men of War in Delaware but more Especially in Chesopeak Bay. The Militia & two Continl Regiments are marching Against them. I expect Congress will soon remove from hence to Lancaster, tho’ it is not yet determined—if that should happen I shall be greatly perplexed


[Page 277]
February 8, 1777 245 place as it is in many parts of the continent and nearly twice as high as in Philadelphia. But there are Other considerations which ought to influence us. Our return will have the same effect upon our politicks that General Washington’s late successes have had upon our Arms. Its Operation per haps may not be confined to the Continent. It may serve our cause even in the Court of France. Your letter produced another Motion in Congress of greater conse quence than the one just now mentioned, namely to raise the interest of money received into our loan offices to 6 per Cent. It produced a very long, and serious debate. The question was postponed ’till Monday next at the request of Connecticut. There is good reason to believe from the part the several states took in the debate that it will be carried in the Af firmative by a majority of two or three states. Col. R H Lee has changed his mind upon this Subject, and was one of the warmest Advocates for raising the interest upon the floor. We live here in a convent. We confverse] only with One another. We are precluded from all opportunities of feeling the pulse of the public upon our measures. We rely upon the Committee of Philada. to feel it for us-—and we expect once more to hear thro’ you how it beats upon the Subject of returning to Philadelphia. From Dr Sir your most humble Servt, B. Rush RC (CtY). 1 Not found. 2 See Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates, this day. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple [February 8, 1777] When I wrote this long letter I expected to have sent it off in a day or two after the date, but a veriety of causes has prevented Mr. Bettens be ing dispatched sooner, so that I am now at the 8th Feby. & believe he will go off tomorrow. No intelligence from abroad ‘tho anxiously Ex pected daily nor is there any thing new from the Army. The British Ty rants Speech I suppose has reach’d you before this by which you’ll see he thinks it time to take care of his own safety ‘tho he has assurences of amity from all the Courts in Europe. He also begins to think it an ardu ous task to inslave America, this I hope he will soon be more thoroughly convinc’d of. WW RC (MH—H). A continuation of William Whipple to Joseph Whipple, February 2, 1777. Endorsed by Joseph Whipple: “reed. March 7th.”


[Page 281]
February 9, 1777 249 new Powers, their names were therefore transmited to him & he will deliver the Commissions. 3 The seeming advantages gained by the Enemy in New Jersey, will Eventually be serviceable to the United States. The cruel Ravages com- mited in that Country by the British Troops, has raised such a Spirit of resentment in the Inhabitants that the Militia who could not be pre vail’d on before to lend their assistance to defend their own Country now turn out with great Spririt, & have already done very essential service. On the whole, from present appearences, Our Army will end the Winter Campaign with Eclat. We are in Daily expectation of very Important Intelligence from Europe, But no disposition of the European Powers Ought to cause the least relaxation in our measures. We therefore hope every Exertion will be used to raise, and Equip, the new army. When that is compleated, America will be on a Respectable footing, we then may look Bold on every Power in Europe, & shall be in a good Scituation to form what Alliencies we Please. We observe by a Vote of the Genl. Assembly which you have favor’d us with a Copy of, that we are again Honour’d with their choice to repre sent the State in Congress. 4 We beg leave through you, sir, to return our most sincere Thanks, for this instance of their Confidence, & can only say that we shall exert our utmost Abilities to deserve it. As a close ap plication to Business without a due proportion of Exercise has a tendency to unnervate both Body & mind, we hope provision will be made to give us a Respite in the Spring, we wish to have leave to return home the begining of May. Mr Betten will be able to give you a much better accot. of the Army than we can as their Scituation may be considerably altered between the time we last heard from them, & the time he passes them. We therefore beg leave to refer you to that Gentleman. We are, Sir, with real Esteem & Regard, Your Most Obt Serts, Wm Whipple Matthew Thornton RC (James S. Copley Library, La Jolla, Calif.). Written by Whipple and signed by Whipple and Thornton. ’See William Whipple to John Langdon, January 21, 1777, note. 2 This is probably the letter of Weare to the New Hampshire delegates printed under the date December 16, 1776, in N.H. State Papers, 8:420. The enclosed December 4, 1776, resolve was “to Desire the Honble Congress to transmitt to the State 20,000 Dollars to provide Cloathing &c for the army.” Ibid., p. 404. 3 See Hancock to the New Hampshire Assembly, February 8, 1777, note 2. 4 On December 23, 1776, the New Hampshire Assembly reappointed Josiah Bartlett, Matthew Thornton, and William Whipple as delegates to Congress and provided “that any one of them in the absence of the others have full power to represent this State, and that no more than two of them attend at one time.” N.H. State Papers, 8:437.


[Page 284]
252 February 10, 1777 We have the Honor to be, Your most obedt hum Servants, Robt Morris Geo Clymer P.S. The Ship from Nantes has brought no other dispatches than a letter to Doctr Franklin sent to the Secret Committee, & a London News paper with a letter from thence to Col Lee that will be forwarded by Mr. Bradford. 2 RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Clymer. 1 On this point, see Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 20, 1777. 3 This day the Executive Committee also wrote the following note to Philadel phia wagon master Robert Erwin: “Be pleased to pay the within Accot. amounting to Twenty seven pounds, seven shillings and three pence.” RC privately owned, 1975. On the back of this note is an account for the payment of £27.7.3, “To the Team in the Continental Service carrying a load of British Prisoners from Philada to Fredericks Town (Maryland)” in July 1776. Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates Feby. 10. [1777] On motion to raise the interest of money to 6 per cent for loan office tickets, 1 it was said in the negative— 1 That there was no other way of laying out money. 2 That loan office tickets are the same as money, and therefore in case of the want of money new emissions are equally proper. In the affirmative it was said by Mr Sergant, That loan office tickets would be confined only to one State. By Mr. Jas. Wilson, That Bonds, lands &c. were transferrable as well as loan office tickets, and therefore the argument of their being the same as money is without force. That the money lenders had all their money paid in to them, that 3 millions had been received by the usurers in Pen- sylvania all of which was probably in thier hands, and that if the interest was raised to 6 per cent it wd. procure money. Mr John Adams. That loan offices tickets would not circulate because they bore an interest. That Massachusetts Bay in the last war emitted 50,000 in notes bearing an interest of 6 per cent which were immediately locked up and withdrawn from the circulation even tho’ gold & silver was plentiful among them. That new emissions would only encrease the difficulty, that the continent would bear only 7 millions. That Unless the interest was raised, the money holder would employ his money in specu lation in buying lands, and in monopolising goods, by which means the necessaries of life were enhanced in thier price. That this alone would regulate the price of goods, that no other wisdom [...] 2 emission he would


[Page 285]
February 11, 1777 253 rather see our army disbanded, and Howe let loose to ravage the whole country. Upon calling the question The States (10 in number divided equally). As a proof of the impropriety of each state having a seperate Vote, it is remarkable that there were 18 members for raising the interest & 10 only against it. The States that voted in favor of it were New-Ham- shire, Massachusetts Bay, New Jersey, Pensylvania, and Virginia. The inhabitants of these states collectively make near two thirds of the whole inhabitants of the united States. (On the question) Mr. John Adams [. . .] 2 political character in the same light as they do a suit of cloaths. They put it on & Off at pleasure. But we trifle with all morality—we trifle with the happiness of millions, by not holding up to [....] 3 MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. For a description of these notes, see Rush’s Notes on Proceedings in Congress, December 5, 1776, note 1. 1 This motion was made on February 8, but the debate was resumed on the 10th. See JCC, 7:102-3. 3 MS damaged, two lines missing. 3 At this point in Rush’s notebook a leaf has been tom out leaving only a narrow strip of his notes at the left hand margin. On the second line on the verso of this mutilated leaf appear the numerals “11, 1777,” which suggest that Rush began making an entry for the debates of February 11. Despite Burnett’s conjecture that “most of the destroyed entry was, therefore, probably under date of Feb. 11,” it seems more likely that the 19 lines that can be seen at the margin pertain to February 10 and that only a line or two was written on the 11th. See Burnett, Letters, 2:245. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Baltimore Feb 11. 1777 I beg Leave to inclose my Account of Expences from the 26th of April 1775 to the 27th of August 1776 amounting to A I intended to have laid it before the House of Representatives when I was last in New England, but the sudden Adjournment of the General Assembly in September, & my Hurry in preparing for my Journey hither after its sitting again in October, prevented my attending to it. When I sat off from Lexington after the memorable Battle there, I had with me only the Cloaths upon my Back, which were very much worn; those which I had provided for myself being in Boston, and it was out of my Power then to recover them. I was therefore laid under a Necessity, in order to appear in any kind of Decency, of being at an extraordinary Expence for Cloathing and Linnen after my Arrival in Philadelphia, which I think makes a reasonable Charge of Barrils, Leonards and Stills Bills in my Account. It may perhaps be necessary to say something of the Charge of Horse hire in the last Article. When I left Watertown in September 75, two


[Page 293]
February 12, 1777 261 nent, for supplying their Army and Navy, will be vastly more than the two per Cent in dispute. Besides all the Injustice, Chicanery, Extortion, oppression, and Discontent, which is allways occasioned every where by a depreciating Medium of Trade, I am much afraid of another Mischief. I fear that for want of Wisdom to raise the Interest in Season, We shall be necessitated within a few Months to give Eight or Ten Per Cent, and not obtain the Money We want after all. I have been so often a Witness of the Miseries of this after Wisdom, that I am wearied to death of it. Had a Bounty of Twenty dollars a Man been offered Soldiers last Time, it would have procurd more than the enormous Bounties that are now offered will procure. Had Government been assumed in the States Twelve Months sooner than it was it might have been assumed with Spirit, Vig our and Decision, and would have obtained an habitual Authority, before the critical Time came on when the Strongest Nerves of Government are necessary. Whereas now, every new Government is as weak as water and as brittle as Glass. Had we agreed upon a Non Exportation, to commence when the Non importation commenced, what an immense Sum Should We have Saved? Nay very probably We Should have occasioned a very different House of Commons to be chosen, the Ministry to have been changed and this War avoided. Thus it is. You who will make no ill use of these observa tions may read them, but the Times are too delicate and critical to indulge freely in such speculations. It is best I believe that no mention Should be made, that the Rate of Interest has been again debated, lest Some Saving Men Should withold their Money, in hopes of compelling the Public to raise the Interest. If the Interest Should never be raised, those who lend in our State, will fare as well as others: if it Should, the Interest of all will be raised, that which is borrowed now, as well as that which shall be borrowed hereafter. I Sincerely wish that our People would lend their Money, freely. They will repent of it, if they do not. We shall be compelled to emit Such Quantities, that every Man except a few Villains will loose more by Depreciation, than the two Per Cent. Not to mention again the Scene of Anarchy and Horror, that a Continuation of Emissions will infallibly bring upon Us. The Design of Loan offices, was to prevent the further Depreciation of the Bills, by avoiding further Emissions. We might have emitted more Bills promising an Interest but if those had been made a legal Tender, like the other Bills, and consequently mixed in the Circulations with them, they would instantly have depreciated all the other Bills four Per Cent, if the Interest was four, and more than that too, by increasing the Quan tity of circulating Cash. In order to prevent these Certificates from Circu lation and consequently from depreciating the Bills, We Should give them Such Attributes as will induce Men of Fortune and others, who usually lend Money, to hoard them up. The Persons who usually lend Money


[Page 294]
262 February 12, 1777 are 1. Men of Fortune, who live upon their Income, and these generally chose to have a Surplusage to lay up every year, to increase their Capitals. 2. Opulent Merchants, who have more Money than they choose to risque, or can conveniently employ in Trade. 3. Widows, whose Dower is often converted into Money, and placed out at Interest, that they may receive an annual Income to live upon, without the Care and Skill which is nec essary to employ Money advantageously in Business. 4. Orphans, whose Guardians seldom incline to hazard the Property of their Wards in Busi ness. 5. A few Divines, Phisicians, and Lawyers, who are able to lay by a little of their annual Earnings. 6. Here and there a Farmer and a Trades man, who is forehanded and frugal enough to make more Money than he has occasion to spend. Add to these 7. Schools, Coiledges, Towns, Parishes and other Societies, which Sometimes let Money. All these Persons are much attached to their Interest and so anxious to make the most of it that they compute and calculate it, even to farthings and single days. These Persons can get Six Per Cent, generally, of private Borrowers, on good security of Mortgages or Sureties. Now, is it reasonable in the State to expect that monied Men will lend to the Public at a less Interest, than they can get from private Persons? I answer yes, when the Safety of the State is not in doubt: and when the Medium of Exchange has a stable value, because larger Sums may be put together, and there is less trouble in collecting and receiving the In terest and the Security is better. But the Case is otherwise, when Men are doubtfull of the Existence of the State, and it is worse still, when they see a Prospect of Depreciation in the Medium of Trade. All Governments in Distress are obliged to give an higher Interest for Money, than when they are prosperous. The Interest of Money, always bears Some Proportion to the Profits of Trade. When the Commerce of a Country is Small, in few Hands, and very profitable, the Interest of Money is very high. Charles the fifth was necessitated to give twenty four Per Cent, after wards it fell in Europe to Twelve, and since to six, Five, Four, and Three. I think I never Shall consent to go higher than Six Per Cent, as much as I am an Advocate for raising it to that, and in this I have been con stant for full Nine Months. The Burthen of Six per Cent upon the Com munity will very soon be heavy enough. We must fall upon some other Methods of ascertaining the Capitals We borrow. A depreciating Cur rency, We must not have. It will ruin Us. The Medium of Trade ought to be as unchangeable as Truth: as immutable as Morality. The least Variation in its Value, does Injustice to Multitudes, and in proportion it injures the Morals of the People, a Point of the last Importance in a Re publican Government. 2 RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Congress did raise the interest rate to six percent on February 26. JCC, 7:158.


[Page 295]
February 12, 1777 263 See also Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates, February 10, 1777. “For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Warren, March 15, 1777. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feb’y 12th [1777] Maryland & Pennsylvania were very solicitous to procure a vote of Con gress approving a Meeting lately held by Committees appointed by the four New England Governments, to the end that this approbation might imply a right to disapprove. It occasioned very long & interesting debates. At length the general opinion was that Congress had necessarily a right to inquire into the cause of any meeting, & to require to know what was transacted at any such meetings, & also to require an explanation of any thing that was dubious, & satisfaction for anything that was alarming to the whole, or any one of the States; that this right necessarily existed in their power to take care each for his respective State, that no injury hap pened to her from without. But that Congress had no right to prohibit meetings, or censure them if the transactions in them were not in jurious to others. The Delegate of North Carolina refused to say what his State could not do, declaring he thought she could do every thing which she had not precluded herself from by plain & express declaration: to yield up any of her rights was not in his power, & very far from his inclination. That by the Law of Nations she had a right to demand a satisfactory ac count & explanation of any transactions of one or more States, & she had appointed him to watch lest any injury should come to her from without. In this he would use his best endeavours. The Question put, the approba tion was denied, many voting against it lest its ambiguity should create further disputes: of this number was North Carolina. 1 Tr (Nc—Ar). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, Feb ruary 7, 1777. 1 See also John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., January 30, 1777, note. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feb. 12th to 19th. 1777 Several days of this week are consumed in debates on the appointment of General Officers. The debates were perplexed, inconclusive, & irksome. The Delegates of several States were desirous of fixing a rule of promo tion, & several were offered & rejected. Maryland, Virginia, & North Carolina desired that each State should recommend Officers in proportion to the men they furnish: three Battalions, one Brigadier; nine, one Major General. This was rejected. It was then proposed to promote General


[Page 302]
270 February 13, 1777 Forks of Delaware. Though he fell down on his knees and begged his life, yet they pierced him through and through with their bayonets, and mangled him in a most shocking manner. Some of the people at Princeton say they thought they were killing me, and boasted that they had done it when they came back. But this is uncertain—the fact of his death and the manner of it is beyond all doubt. I must write a few lines to Fanny, and am, with my best respects to John Smith, Dear David, Yours, &c. Jno. Witherspoon.” Christian Advocate 2 (October 1824): 443-44. The ellipses are all in the Tr, and the “inquiry” mentioned by Wither spoon grew out of his membership on the committee appointed on January 16 to investigate the conduct of the invading British and Hessians in New Jersey and New York. JCC, 7:42-43. Witherspoon was not the only New Jersey delegate whose property was pillaged during the British advance through that state. See Abraham Clark to James Caldwell, February 4, 1777, note 1. 3 David was teaching at Hampden-Sidney Academy in Virginia. 3 Ellipsis in Tr. Executive Committee to John Hancock Sir Philada. Feby 13th. 1777 Major Ottondorffe came yesterday from Camp & relates that an Action happened last Saturday at Quible Town in the Jerseys between a Forag ing Party of the Enemy, not less than 3000 Strong & about 500 of ours, who took the advantage of the Ground maintained as long as they cou’d keeping up a smart fire the whole time & soon after they were forced to retreat, a reinforcement came that made them about 2000. They then attacked the Enemy & drove them from the Field of Battle into their Works at Brunswick having left 327 Dead Men behind them. They had Eight Field pieces & our side none. This is the Substance of what Genl Gates cou’d collect from the Majors bad French, Dutch & English Linguo. We are waiting with impatience for the particulars by express from the General & will send it forward the moment it comes. 1 The Major thinks the Enemy will not remain much longer in the Jerseys. Therefore we hope Congress have determined to return here where their presence is so very necessary to the various Works going forward. We hope also to be speedily informed that the Loan office Interest is raised to six per Cent as money is most exceedingly wanted, The Quarter Master General, Commissarys & every department in the utmost distress for want of Money. Capt B. Jones of the Artillery confirms Major Ottendorfs Account & Colo Biddle writes his Father “an Action happened on Satur day & ended Gloriously.” We are in great haste sir, Your obedt Servts, Robt Morris Geo Clymer RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Clymer. 1 The committee’s report of this battle was greatly exaggerated. See Executive Committee to Hancock, February 15, 1777.


[Page 303]
February 13, 1777 271 Francis Lewis to Horatio Gates Dear General Baltimore 13th Febry. 1777 I yesterday received a letter from my friend Mr. Garrit Repalje, dated (from Squire’s Point 20 Miles from Morristown) the 4th Inst, informing me that Mrs. Lewis with her Daughter, were returned into New York, but that he should on that day, send off his wife and son to head Quart, where if they can procure a Passport, to proceed to New York in order to bring out Mrs Lewis and her Daughter to his house at Squire’s Point, from whence he will conduct them to Phila. Should this be effected I presume they will return through the Gamp, if so, must beg you Sir will interpose your kind Offices that they may be furnished with a Baggage Waggon &c to expedite their Journey. I am in hopes Congress will soon returne to Phila., where I shall hope to hear often from you. With my best wishes for your wellfare I am, Dr Sir, Your very Humble Servt, F Lewis RC (PHi). Medical Committee to George Washington Sir Baltimore Feby 13th 1777 The Congress Apprehending that the Small Pox may greatly endanger the Lives of our fellow Citizens who compose the army under your Ex cellency’s Command, and also very much embarrass the Military Opera tions, have directed their Medical Committee to request your Excellency to give Orders that all who have not had that Disease may be Inoculated, if your Excellency Shall be of Opinion that it can be done without preju dice to your Operations. 1 Some Battalions from Virginia are now on their march to Join you, and are ordered to take the upper rout, in order to avoid Philadelphia where the Infection now prevails. It is submitted to your Excellency whether they ought not to stop somewhere in order to undergo Inoculation. The Committee request your Excellency to give the Necessary orders if it be your Opinion that they can be so long spared from Service. We beg leave to remind you that the Southern Troops are greatly alarmed at the Small Pox, and that it very often proves fatal to them in the Natural Way. This Suggestion we doubt not will, with regard to this object, draw your particular attention to the Troops who may be ordered to Join you from those States. We hope Sir this attention may prevent the Danger and Inconvenience apprehended by Congress and we have the most perfect reliance on your Excellencys well known Humanity, and


[Page 307]
February 14, 1777 275 for by the resolution before you. Have we any charecter to spare? Have we committed no mistakes in the management of the public Affairs of America? We have sir. It becomes us therefore to be careful of the remains of our Authority & charecter. It is a common thing to cry aloud of the rapacity & extortion in every branch of business & among every class of men. This has led some people to decry the public virtue of this country. True sir there is not so much of it as we could wish, but there is much more that is sometimes allowed on this floor. We estimate our virtue by a false barometer when we measure it by the price of goods. The extortion we complain off arises only from the excessive quantity of our money. Now sir a failure in this Attempt to regulate the price of goods will encrease the clamors against the rapacity of dealers, and thus depreciate our public virtue. Consider sir the consequence of measuring our virtue by this false standard. You will add weight to the Arguments used at St James’s to explode patriotism altogether, & by denying its existence in this country destroy it forever. Persuade a woman that there is no such thing as chastity, & if there is that She does not possess it, and She may be easily seduced if She was as chaste as Diana. Sir, The price of goods may be compared to a number of light substances in a bason of water. The hand may keep them down for a while, but nothing can detain them on the bottom of the bason but an Abstrac tion of the water. The continent labours under a universal malady. From the crown of her head to the Soal of her feet She is full of disorders. She requires the most powerful tonic medicines. The resolution before you is Nothing but an Opiate. It may compose the continent for a night, but She will soon awaken again to a fresh sense of her pain & misery. Col: Richd. Henry Lee, in the affirmative. Mr President, The learned Doctor has mistook the disorder of the continent. She labours under a spasm, and Spasms he knows require palliative medicines. I look upon the resolution before you only as a temporary remedy. But it is absolutely necessary. It is true the regulations formerly recommended by Congress were not faithfully carried into execution, but this was owing to the want of regular goverments. New & regular goverments have been insti tuted in every part of America, and these will enable all classes of people to carry the resolutions into execution. Mr Sami Chase, in the Affirmative. Mr President, This is a necessary resolution. It is true if failed formerly in Philada. because it Abounded with tories. But it succeeded in Maryland. It must be done. The mines of Peru would not support a war at the present high price of the neces saries of life. Your Soldiers cannot live on their pay. It must be raised unless we limit the price of the cloathing & other articles necessary for them. Mr. Seargant—negative. The price of goods cannot be regulated while the quantity of our money and the articles of life are allowed to fluctuate.


[Page 309]
February 15, 1777 277 regulate the price of imports we shall immediately put to stop to them for ever. Dr Rush. Sir, It has been said that the high price of goods in Philada. arose from the monoplies, and extortion of the tories. Here I must say the tories are blamed without cause. A similar Spirit of Speculation prevails among the Whigs in Philada. They are disposed to realise thier money in lands, or goods, But this is not owing to any timidity or disaffection among them. They fear the further depreciation of your money by future emissions. Stop your emissions of money & you will stop Speculation, & fill your treasury from the loan Offices. I beg leave to inform Congress that the committee of Philada. was supported by the country people in thier Attempt to regulate the price of West India goods, but were not withstanding unsuccessful. Now sir, the country people are equally con cerned with the merchants in keeping Up the price of every thing, and in eluding laws for reducing them. I am not apt to reply to words much less to play upon them. The gentleman from Virginia has miscalled the malady of the continent. It is not a Spasm, but a dropsy. I beg leave to prescribe two remedies for it. 1 Raising the interest of the money we borrow to 6 per cent, this like a cold bath will give an immediate Spring to our affairs—& 2 taxation. This like tapping, will diminish the Quantity of our Money, and give a proper value to what remains. The resolution was amended. The plan of the 4 New England states was referred only to the Other states, to act as they tho’t proper. 2 MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. For a description of these notes, see Rush’s Notes on Proceedings in Congress, December 5, 1776, note 1. 1 This debate pertained to “the report of the committee on the proceedings of the committees from the four New England States” concluded on January 2, 1777. See JCC, 7:87, 93,97, 111-12, 118, 121. 2 For the final form of the resolve that was adopted on February 15, see JCC, 7:124-25. John Adams to Abigail Adams Baltimore Feb. 15. 1777 Mr. Hall, by whom this Letter will be sent, will carry several Letters to you, which have been written and delivered to him, several Days. He has settled his Business, agreably. I have not received a Line from the Massachusetts, since I left it. Whether We shall return to Philadelphia, soon, or not, I cannot say. I rather conjecture it will not be long. You may write to me, in Congress, and the Letter will be brought me, wherever I shall be. I am settled now agreably enough in my Lodgings, there is nothing in this Respect that lies uneasily upon my Mind, except the most extrava gant Price which I am obliged to give for every Thing. My Constituents


[Page 310]
278 February 15, 1777 will think me extravagant, but I am not. I wish I could sell or send home my Horses, but I cannot. I must have Horses and a Servant, for Congress will be likely to remove several Times in the Course of the ensuing Year. I am impatient to hear from you, and most tenderly anxious for your Health and Happiness. I am also most affectionately solicitous for my dear N. J. C. and T. to whom remember Yours. 1 We long to hear of the Formation of a new Army. We shall loose the most happy opportunity of destroying the Enemy this Spring, if We do not exert ourselves instantly. We have from New Hampshire a Coll. Thornton, a Physician by Pro fession, a Man of Humour. He has a large Budget of droll Stories, with which he entertains Company perpetually. I heard about Twenty or five and twenty Years ago, a Story of a Phy sician in Londonderry, who accidentally met with one of our new England Enthusiasts, call’d Exhforters], The Fanatic soon began to examine the Dr. concerning the Articles of his Faith, and what he thought of original Sin? Why, says the Dr., I satisfy myself about it in this manner. Either origi nal Sin is divisible or indivisible. If it was divisible every descendant of Adam' and Eve must have a Part, and the share which falls to each Indi vidual at this Day, is so small a Particle, that I think it is not worth considering. If indivisible, then the whole Quantity must have descended in a right Line, and must now be possessed by one Person only, and the Chances are Millions and Millions and Millions to one that that Person is now in Asia or Africa, and that I have nothing to do with it. I told Thornton the story and that I suspected him to be the Man. He said he was. He belongs to Londonderry. RC (MHi). Adams. Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:161-62. 1 That is, their children Nabby, John, Charles, and Thomas. Samuel Adams to John Pitts My dear sir Baltimore Feb 15 1777 I am favord with yours of the 21 of December for which I am much obligd to you. 1 I am much concernd to hear that the Tories in Boston & Massachusetts Bay have lately grown insolent & that no Measures are taken to suppress their Insolence. They are the most virulent, & I am of Opinion, the most dangerous Enemies of America. They do not indeed openly appear in Arms, but they do more Mischief secretly. I am very apprehensive that they greatly operate to the preventing Inlistments and doing other essential Injury to our Cause. If they are not properly dealt with, I am perswaded, the Publick will much regret the Omission very soon. I do not wish for needless Severities; but effectual Measures, and


[Page 311]
February 15, 1777 279 severe ones if others are insufficient, to prevent their pernicious Councils & Machinations, I think ought to be taken, and that without any Delay. It will be Humanity shown to Millions, who are in more Danger of being reducd to thraldom & Misery by those Wretches than by British & Hes sian Barbarians. I cannot conceive why a Law is not made declaratory of Treason & other Crimes & properly to punish those who are guilty of them. If to conspire the Death of a King is Treason and worthy of Death, surely a Conspiracy to ruin a State deserves no less a Punish ment. 2 I have Reason to think you have a Number of such Conspirators among you; and believe me, you will soon repent of it, if you do not speedily take Notice of them. But let me ask you my Friend, Whether some of the late Addressers, Protesters and Associators, are not seen in the Circles, in the Houses and at the Tables of Whigs? Is there not Reason to expect that those who exiled themselves thro Fear of the just Vengeance of their Countrymen will be invited by the kind of Treatment of those who have equal Reason to dread that Vengeance, to return into the Bosom of their much injurd Country. But I need add no more. Believe me to be cordially, your Friend, FC (NN). 1 This is probably a reference to Pitts’ December 25, 1776, letter, which is in the Adams Papers, NN. 2 The Massachusetts General Court did pass legislation confiscating loyalist property and establishing oaths of allegiance. See James Warren to Samuel Adams, April 2, 1777, Warren-Adams Letters, 2:448. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feb. 15th. [1777] Yesterday was consumed in desultory debates upon a report of a special committee upon the proceedings of the four New England Governments above mentioned, & it was recommitted. This day it was brought in under a form agreeable to what was the sense of the House on what was yester day considered. At first it expressed the opinion of Congress, that the proceedings were founded in justice, policy, & necessity, & merited the warmest approbation. The second declared neither approbation nor opin ion except particularly relating to the New England Governments, be cause of their peculiar circumstances, but proposed laying it before the other States for their imitation if they thought proper, avoiding as much as possible any expression that might suggest to the States that Congress approved or disapproved. In this form it passed without a negative; & it was voted that several States should be advised to confer with each other on this subject: viz New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Mary land, & Virginia: North Carolina, South Carolina, & Georgia. 1 Nothing very remarkable happened in this debate except that Virginia insisted


[Page 312]
280 February 15, 1777 In CONGRESS,’; 1 FEBRUARY 15, 1777. Refolded, I I HAT confidering the fituation of the New-England States, Congress approve! of the meafures adopted and recommended by the Committee from the Four New-! England States for the defence of the State of Rhode-Ifland, and alfo of the mea. I fures to be taken for preventing the depreciation of their Currency, except that 1 part which recommends the firiking bills beating intereft, which being a meafure tending to j depreciate the Continental and other Currencies, ought not to be adopted ; and it is fo recom mended by Congrefs to the faid New-England States. | I That the plan for regulating the price of labour, of manufaflures, and of internal produce | within thofe States, and of goods imported from Foreign parts, except military ftores, be refer- i red to the confideration of the other United States, and that it be recommended to them to | adopt fuch meafures as they (hall think moft expedient to remedy the evils occafioned by the prefent fludluating and exorbitant prices of the articles aforefaid. I ? That for this purpofe it be recommended to the legiflatures, or in their recefs to the execu- j tive powers of the States of New-York, New-Jerfey, Pennfylvania, Delaware, Maryland and I Virginia, to appoint Commiflloners to meet at Xork-Town, in Pennfylvania, on the third 1 Monday in March next, to confider of and form a fyftem of regulation adapted to thofe J States, to be laid before the refpedlive legiflatures of each State for their approbation. i i That for the like purpofe it be recommended to the legiflatures or executive powers in recefs * of the legiflatures of the States of North-Carolina, Soulh-Carolina, and Georgia, to appoint (Commiffioners to meet at Charles-1 own, in South-Carolina, on the firft Monday in May next, i ' That it be recommended to the legiflatures of the feveral States, to take the moft effectual s meafures for manning the Continental Frigates fitted for the fea in their refpeflive ftates. < I That it be earneftly recommended to the United States to avoid as far as poflible further I.emiffions of Paper Money, and to take the moft effeftual meafures for fpeedily drawing in and finking their Paper Currency already emitted. j I a That fuch parts of the proceedings of the faid Committees as relate to the price of labour J and other things be publifhed and tranfmitted to the other ftates, together with thefe refo- ; lutions. By Order of Congrefs, JOHN HANCOCK, Breftdent, Baltimore-. Printed by JOHN DUNLAP, in Markel-Jireet. Resolves on the New England Convention


[Page 320]
288 February 15, 1777 early day you mention, though my exertions shall not be wanting to accomplish it; they shall, however, be transmitted as soon as possible.” Quincy, Harvard Uni versity, 2:518. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Honble Gentlemen, Baltime Febry. 15th. 1777 The Honour confer’d upon me by Appointing me one of your Delegates in the American Congress, as it is a very distinguished one, so it has al ways been cherish’d by me with the greatest Satisfaction. I am led there fore by Duty and Inclination to Discharge the Trust Reposed in me, untill the Period Arrives when it will Devolve into the hands of those who gave it. But there are some Circumstances which Oblige me to Solicit your In dulgence in permitting me to Return to Boston for a short time. 1 It cannot be unknown to you, Gentlemen, that very soon after my Appointment to a Seat in Congress, I had the honour of being call’d to preside in that Assembly, in which Department I have endeavour’d to Ex ecute the Arduous and extensive Business Annexed to it, in the most faithfull manner, and to the best of my Abilities, but whether with Repu tation or not, my American Brethren, as they must finally Determine, to them I willingly submit my Conduct. This much however I may Assert, that I have spared neither Attention or Labour to Satisfy the wishes of Congress; and so unremitted has been my Application to the Duties of the Chair since my Appointment to it, that I have never been Absent a single hour. Such close Confinement both in Congress, and out of it, having at length considerably impair’d my Health, and feeling it decline every Day, I am induc’d to Ask your Consent to Visit my Native Country, with a view to spend a few Weeks, in hopes the Benefit of the Ride, and Relaxation from Business will Restore my Constitution and Relieve my complaints. Should you afterwards think my Services in Congress will Contribute to the Interest of America, or the State of Massachusetts Bay, I shall again chearfully Return to my Duty, having Determin’d that no Difficulties or Fatigues, shall Deter me from contributing all in my power to save the Liberties of America, and to establish them on the firmest foundation, for this purpose only I wish to Live, & for this I am willing to Die. I have the Honour to be with every Sentiment that Respect & Esteem can Inspire, Hon’ble Gentlemen, Your most Obedt huml Servt. John Hancock [P.5.] I will not abuse your Indulgence of Leave; if there is a real necessity of my Returng. in point of Health I shall improve it, not else. RC (M-Ar). 'President Hancock did not leave Congress until October 31, 1777. JCC 9:852-53.


[Page 327]
February 15, 1777 295 Sum of Money to deposite it in our loan Office & take Certificates bearing four per Cent interest rather than the money. To induce them to do this I told them none had been yet sent to the Eastern States & they wou’d readily obtain the money for these Notes as they wanted it, but to guard against disapointments I gave them letters to the Continental agents re questing their assistance if necessary & telling them the Gentlemen must not be disapointed because they had taken this step to promote the public Service & under my assurance that they shoud not suffer by it. Mr Brad ford writes me from Boston that it will be extreamly difficult to obtain money for those notes (about 60000 Dollars) because the Treasurer of that State is taking in all the money he can get & giving Treasury Notes for it at six per Cent. Here the People who are willing the Continent shou’d have their money refuse it possitively because they cannot afford to reduce their income, especialy as the price of living is more than doubled, in short if the Congress do not embrace this measure at once they are undone, every department of Public business is in want of money, they cannot make it fast enough & if they will not borrow on the terms other People do, what must follow. When four per Cent was agreed on I was in favour of it, only, because I thought the immense sum in Circula tion wou’d oblige the great holders of it to lodge it in the Public Funds and be glad to get it there, but now that experience shews us our Credit is not well established, that our money is greatly depreciated, and at the same time our Necessitys are daily encreasing, I wonder upon what prin ciple it is that any Gentleman can expect a supply by loan equal to those necessitys. I am told the Southern States object & think they shall pay the Interest & the others receive it, but this is a phantom, whilst they Con tinue to raise such Valuable Commodities as Indico, Rice & Tobacco, they will Command their share of the Riches of the Continent and discharge their debts with more facility than their Neighbours. I cannot urge further than I have already done in the public letters from the Commit tee, the return of Congress to this City lest we be suspected of motives that I treat with great Contempt. Philadelphia Can do as well without as with the Congress, but I am Confident they cannot do as well out of as in it. For my own part I mean in all my Conduct to promote the general Inter est of America & lay onside local attachments except in such instances as they become a duty. My inclination prompts me to decline a public Sta tion, but being called on I cannot gratify myself, when the consequence will be to deserve blame from the worthy part of those that are embarked with me in this Cause & you may depend I will not spare my exertions to Serve & Save my Country. I am Dear Sir, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris RC (MdHi, Middendorf deposit, 1972).


[Page 328]
296 February 15, 1777 William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Baltimore 15th Feby 1777 My last 1 accompanied the money from the Marine Committee viz 42,000 dollars, but as this goes by Express to Boston it may come first to hand. The last letter I rec’d from you was 27th Deer. There are still a number of the enemy’s ships in Chesapeak Bay though some vessels do get past them both inward & outward bound and some have fallen into their hands. It will be prudent to order the vessels you send this way to call in at some of the inlets between Cape Henlopen and Cape Charles where they may get information of the enemy’s ships. Dela ware Bay is at present open, but there is no knowing how long it will be so. The Randolph is sailed and the Delaware will sail soon and the Vir ginia from this place in about two weeks. A ship is arrived at Philadelphia from France, but brings no public letters; but a private letter of the 9th Novr. says France and Spain are making the greatest preparation for war ever known; England is also exerting every nerve to get a formidable fleet at sea. Holland has likewise ordered 12 ships of the line to be got ready as soon as possible. These things justify an opinion that a general war is not far off. The Tyrant of Britain’s speech tells us he is endeavoring to con ciliate matters between Spain and Portugal so we find that dispute is not yet settled. I hope a few days will bring us important and agreeable intelligence from Europe. That I may soon have it in my power to trans mit you such as will expel every anxious thought is the wish of your very sincere friend and humble Servant, W Whipple [P-S.] Congress begin to talk of removing to Philadelphia again. I think it probable they will do so shortly. Tr (DLC). 1 Not found. John Adams’ Diary 1777 Feb. 16 Last Evening I supped with my Friends Dr. Rush and Mr. Sergeant at Mrs. Page’s over the Bridge. The two Coll. Lees, Dr. Witherspoon, Mr. Adams, Mr. Gerry, Dr. Brownson, made the Company. They have a Fashion in this Town of reversing the Picture of King G. 3d, in such Families as have it. One of these Topsy Turvy Kings was hung up in the Room, where we supped, and under it were written these Lines, by Mr. Throop, as we were told. Behold the Man who had it in his Power To make a Kingdom tremble and adore


[Page 329]
February 16, 1777 297 Intoxicate with Folly, See his Head Plac’d where the meanest of his Subjects tread Like Lucifer the giddy Tyrant fell He lifts his Heel to Heaven but points his Head to Hell. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:259. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Baltimore Feb. 16. 1777 A few days ago, a small Expedition was made by the Authority of this State aided by a Detachment of Continental Regulars, to suppress the Tories in the Counties of Somerset & Worcester on the Eastern Shore of Chessapeak, where they are numerous and have arisen to a great Pitch of Insolence. 1 We this day have a Rumour that one of their Principals, a Doctor Cheyney, is taken and we hope to hear of the Business being ef fectually done, very soon. In my opinion, much more is to be apprehended from the secret Machinations of these rascally People, than from the open Violence of British and Hessian Soldiers, whose Success has been in a great Measure owing to the Aid they have receivd from them. You know that the Tories in America have always acted upon one System. Their Head Quarters used to be at Boston—more lately at Philadelphia. They have continually embarrasd the publick Councils there, & afforded In telligence, Advise and Assistance to General Howe. Their Influence is extended throughout the united States. Boston has its full share of them, and yet I do not hear that Measures have been taken to suppress them. On the Contrary, I am informd that the Citizens are grown so polite, as to treat them with Tokens of Civility & Respect. Can a Man take Fire into his Bosom, and not be burned? Your Massachusetts Tories com municate with the Enemy in Britain as well as New York. They give and receive Intelligence, from whence they early form a Judgment of their Measures. I am told they discoverd an Air of insolent Tryumph in their Countenances, and saucily enjoyd the Success of Howes Forces in Jersey before it happend. Indeed, my Friend, if Measures are not soon taken, and the most vigorous ones, to root out these pernicious Weeds, it will be in vain for America to persevere in this generous Struggle for the publick Liberty. General Howe has declared that he intends that General Lee shall be tried by the Laws of his Country. So he is considerd as a Deserter from the British Army—You know the Resolution of Congress concerning this Matter. It is my opinion that Lt Colo Campbel ought immediately to be secured. He is to be detaind as one upon whom Retaliation is to be made.


[Page 330]
298 February 16, 1777 Would you believe it, that after the shocking Inhumanities shown to our Countrymen in the Jerseys, plundering Houses, cruelly beating old Men, ravishing Maids, murdering Captives in cold Blood, and systematically starving Multitudes of Prisoners under his own Eye at New York, this humane General totally disavows his own winking at the Tragedy, and allows that a few Instances may have happend which are rather to be lamented. Congress is now busy in considering on the Report of the joynt Com mittees of the Eastern States. A curious Debate arose on this Subject, which I have not time now to mention. I will explain it to you in my next. Adieu my Friend, S A RC (MHi). 1 See Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety, February 7, and John Hancock to the Maryland Council of Safety, February 7, 1777, note 2. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Baltimore Feby. 16th 1777. My last to you was by Mr Hooper, & I suppose you have received it long before this. 1 I then announced my intention of troubling you every post & I now sit down in order to perform, in some part, my promise. Of the political principles of the respective States I am not yet able to speak very clearly, for they are kept as much as possible out of view. I conjecture however, that all are under some apprehensions of combina tion in the Eastern States to derive to themselves every possible advantage from the present war, at the expence of the rest. I am not yet satisfied that there is any combination amongst them. I rather think that they only combine when they have one common interest, which is seldom the case, & I am sure this is not peculiar to them. On some late questions I observed they divided: one was relative to the interest to be paid on Loans, another relative to meeting of several States. In the sequel of this letter I mean to give you an abstract of the debates on these questions, 2 & therefore shall say no more of them here. But, sir, I am more concerned to find that Pennsylvania, Maryland, Jersey, & some others are exceedingly jealous of the states whose bounds to the westward are yet unascertained, & I am much mistaken if they do not upon all occasions endeavour to fix very extensive powers in a mere majority of Congress in order to get resolutions unfavourable to the claims of such states entered into. To be more ex plicit, I believe they will endeavour by degrees to make the authority of Congress very extensive, & when it shall be fully established & acknowl edged, to make such a party in it as will pass resolves injurious to the rights of those States who claim to the South Seas. You will see by some


[Page 340]
308 February 17, 1777 Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Sir, Baltimore in Maryld. 17th Feby. 1777 The papers that go with this to yourself and the other Commissioners, are so full on the subject of news that it is not very necessary for me to say much on that subject here. There scarcely comes a post but brings us an account of some skirmish in which the enemy get beaten, and driven back (without their forage) within their lines on the hills near Brunswick, where their distress we know is very great. This has been a most fatal winter Campaign to our enemies, and unless some change happens in their favor, which cannot be seen at present, it bids fair to be abundantly more so yet. Upon the whole, notwithstanding the contemptible Ministerial boasts in their Gazettes, and in Parliament, the great force they sent here has cut a most pitiful figure indeed. In humanity they figure still worse than They do in arms. Their ravages in the Jersies, until They were checked and driven back, beggars all description. Rapes, Murders, and devastation marked their steps in such a manner as would have disgraced the Savages of the Wilderness. The old English esteem for valor seems quite done away, and in several instances where young Americans displaid heroic spirit, and happened to fall in to their power, they have butchered them in cold blood in a most cruel and barbarous manner. They have been so frequently shameless in this way, after remonstrance has been in vain made to Gen. Howe, that the patience of our Soldiery is exhausted, and it appears as if no more prisoners will be taken, until Mr. Howe & his people learn the practice of humanity. I have received two letters from [....] 1 But he thinks strongly in favor of Great Britain. Was it not the most unrelenting and cruel persecution of us that forced us from her, and are we not compelled upon the clearest principles of self preservation to seek from Strangers what our kindred denied us? Must a great Conti nent be buried in ruin because the people of England cannot rouse from a lethargy which suffers the most abandoned of Men to trample upon the rights of human nature? It is decreed above, and we are parted Forever. Every Friendly American Nerve will now be strained to procure the active interference of France, by which, under God, the liberty of North Ameri ca must be secured. Mr. Lee’s stewart at Green Spring (Fauntleroy) has behaved so ill during our absence, that I have removed him, and got a Manager from Hanover (a John Ellis) who I believe will do well. I pur chased a quantity of Oznaburgs from Philadelphia for the people this winter, and they make their own woolen & Cotton Stuff's. I hope the time will shortly come, when we may correspond more openly, fully, and free ly; in the mean time, cannot you send me by return of Captain Johnson two pounds of the best Jesuits Bark prepared? You know how necessary that medicine is for me, and I know that it is not to be had here on any terms at present. Let Mr Lee know as much of this letter as imports him.


[Page 341]
February 17, 1777 309 The Congress have determined to return to Philadelphia in eight days from this time. We shall have a number of exceeding fine Frigates at Sea very soon, from 24 to 36 guns. Farewell & send me a long letter by return of this vessel. I am exceedingly uneasy about my poor Boys & beg of you to get them to me in the quickest and safest manner. RG (ViU). In Lee’s hand, though not signed. 1 Two lines inked through and illegible. Marine Committee to Elisha Warner Sir Febry. 17th 1777 Since writing the annexed Orders 1 I have received advice that it is re ported in the West Indies that this City is in the Hands of the enemy in consequence of which all the homeward bound Vessels are going into Chesapeake Bay where innevitably they will fall into the enemies hands, therefore as soon as you deliver these dispatches to Captain Biddle which you must first perform and then proceed in Cruize of[f] the Capes of Vir ginia keeping outside of the enemies men of war, and give all inward bound Vessels notice of their danger and that our Bay is clear of the enemy. Keep a Sharp look out along Shore and you will retake some of the Prizes they are sending to New York. I am Sir, Your hble servt. Robt. Morris V. P. LB (DNA: PCG Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to Warner, February 15, 1777. Robert Morris to John Hancock Sir Philada. Feby 17th. 1777 The enclosed letter & its translation were put into my hands to lay them before Congress. The Writer General de Kalb was a Brigdr. Genl, all the last War in Germany, has many years commanded a French Regi ment & is said to be a man of Interest at the Court of Versailles. 1 He speaks & writes English well, is a polite Gentn and an excellent Soldier. This Character of him is given to me by Doctr. Phile and Capt Hasen- clever who are personally acquainted with him. He was in this Country in the disturbed times of the Stamp Act & was then supposed to be sent by the French Court to watch the dispute and its progress. 2 If you choose to en courage him Doctor Phile will transmit your pleasure. 3 I have the honor to be sir, your obedt servt, 4 Robt Morris


[Page 345]
February 18, 1777 313 from the Printer, but as he has disappointed me, I Send him off, and am to Acquaint you that yesterday I Rec’d Directions from Congress, to Adjourn on Tuesday next 25th Inst, from the Town of Baltimore to the City of Philadelphia. 1 This I dare Say will afford you pleasure, and I am to Request that immediately on Receipt of this you will please to Issue orders to Mr Hiltsheimer for four good cover’d Waggons, with four good Horses & a Sober Driver to each, to be Sent to me with all possible Dispatch to Convey down to Philada. the Publick Papers &c. Do let them be well Chosen, and I beg your immediate Attention to this. The Inclos’d Resolves when you have perus’d them, do forward to the Genl, by any oppory. As I shall soon have the pleasure of seeing you in Philada. I shall not Add, but Refer what I have further to Say for a social hour. If, my Friend, I can be of any Service to Mrs Morris on my way, let me know it, & you may Depend I shall most chearfully obey you. Would you Chuse her to Come in Company with us, I will Call for her & Conduct her with all the Safety & Care in my power. Give me but a hint, & it shall be Complied with. I Judge I shall be in Philada. by Saturday or Sunday week. God Bless you, Remember me to all friends, I am your Affection[at]e Friend &c, John Hancock [P.S.] Your Letters I have Rec’d to 15th Inst. Dont forget the Waggons. Did you Send the Express to Boston as desir’d in mine of 10 Jany, with the Letters then Inclos’d, I have had no Return. The North Carolina Express is impatient. Money went off yesterday, for you, Genl Mifflin & Council of Safety. 2 RC (MdHi). ’See JCC, 7:127. 2 On February 13 Congress had advanced $100,000 to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety “for the recruiting service.” JCC, 7:113. John Hancock to Robert Morris My Dear Sir, Baltimore, Febry 18, 1777. I send Mr Tailor, my Secry, to Philada to procure a suitable house well furnish’d for me, and I have taken the Liberty to desire him to apply to you for yr advice in this instance, not doubting yor good offices. Congress will adjourn on Tuesday next to that day week then to meet in Philada and I hope on Saturday or Sunday week to Take you by the hand; my Friend, it will give me pleasure to see you, & I hope our coming there will in some degree Releive you from the great Burden that has laid upon you. I assure you I have felt for you. No money, constant application for


[Page 346]
314 February 18, 1777 it, & a steady succession of Business to attend to has made yr scituation hard indeed, however you gave up all pro Bono Publico & I know you will persevere—you are as well Calculated to go thro’ Business as any Gentleman I know, that I believe you bear up under it as well as any Gentn could. Pray do hurry on the waggons I wrote you for this morg. I cannot move without them, nor can Thompson—four will be enough— do let them be good and well Cover’d, with good horses and drivers. Can I be of any Service to Mrs Morris on the Road? Command me if I can. I am almost hurried out of my Life, but I will bear up. Complimts to Mr Tailor, Genl Mease, Mr Nesbit, Mr Beach & all Enquiring Friends. I hope soon to Join you at the Oyster Club. Adieu & believe me, Yours Sincerely, John Hancock. [PY.] A number of friends Purviance, Lux, Peters &c &c. dine with me tomorrow, when we shall not be unmindful of our Philada friends. Tr (DLC). Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Dear Sir, Baltimore, 18th Feby. 1777. I have repeatedly wrote pressing letters, backed by resolves of Congress, for a full representation of our State, but have as yet not been honoured with an answer. 1 Permit me still to remind you, that in my opinion, our State may suffer for the want thereof; for instance the General has rec ommended to Congress the promotion of three major-generals from brigadiers, and ten brigadiers from colonels; and has given in a list of some persons as a hint to Congress. The mode and persons has occasioned many days’ debate, and is this day to be brought on again, and notwith standing many declarations to the contrary, Colonial prejudices sway the minds of individuals, that each State appear interested in the debates, for promotion in the line of their respective States. 2 From this, sir, you may judge how the State of New-York is circumstanced, having no vote in this and many other weighty points, and which I hope the Honourable Convention will speedily rectify. I informed you in my former letters, that Capt. Rogers of the Mont gomery private sloop of war, was in this port with two prizes, one of them with a quantity of woolens, linens, &c. which wait your directions for their disposal; as we are informed that three British ships of war with tenders, are cruizing in Chesapeake bay, to assist the tories on the eastern shore of said bay. Congress has thought fit to send down all the armed vessels (of which the Montgomery is one,) to suppress the insurgents, which they have effected, and I expect Capt. Rogers up in a few days,


[Page 349]
February 19, 1777 317 spare the guns he had provided for the ship built in Connecticut to the Raleigh, provided others could be procured in season for the Trumbull and as I have heard that Capt Manly has been in Connecticut after guns and have since heard he has guns for his ship, I suspect there has been some underhand dealing in this business and think the villainy should be brought to light, therefore hope you’ll spare no pains to get to the bottom of it—in order thereto it will be necessary to know of Govr Trumbull at whose request they were spared to Manly. Congress are about returning to Philadelphia. I believe they will ad journ thither next week. Till then I do not expect to have it in my power to send you the dimensions of the 74 gun ship, nor do I suppose it in dispensably necessary at present, as the timber may be getting and other materials preparing while the workmen are employed on the other ship. 2 I am exceeding fearful of the vessels you are sending to this place and Virginia, as there are several ships now in Chesapeake Bay who have taken many vessels, but I have no order to direct them to be stopped but shall take the earliest opportunity to consult the Committees and write you fully on the subject. In the meantime hope no time will be lost in getting them ready for sea. In great haste, I am your friend &c, Wm Whipple Tr(DLC) 1 An extract of Langdon’s January 23 letter to Whipple is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1020-21. 2 Dimensions for the 74-gun ship were inclosed in the Secret Committee’s April 2, 1777, letter to Langdon. Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen Baltimore Feby 19. 1777 The events of war have not since our last furnished any thing decisive. The enemy’s army still remains encampt upon the Hills near Brunswick & our troops still continue to beat back their Convoys insomuch that we understand their horses die in numbers and we have reason to believe that the difficulity of removing their Stores, Cannon &c will be insuper ably great until the opening of the Rariton furnishes a passage by water for their return to N. York. The American Army, is not numerous at present, but the new levies are collecting fast as possible, and we hope to have a sufficient force early in the field. We hear by a Speech of the King of Great Britain to his Parliament, that much money will be called for, no doubt to prosecute the war with unrelenting vigor. That we shall op-


[Page 353]
February 19, 1777 321 I have got a Young Gentn that can be depended on to proceed in the Sloop Independance for Martinico & thence to France in a French Bottom with your dispatches marked No. 2. 3 I shall add every material intelli gence since the date of your letters. I have sent the Fly in search of the Randolph, Capt Biddle, with orders for him to proceed for Martinico & have embraced that Conveyance also to transmit the amplest advices I cou’d give. I also send you herewith a packet which I reed from France some time ago & from the old date I concluded it at that time to be a Copy of one Doctr Franklin received before he departed. Therefore I locked it up in tending to be the bearer of it myself but accidentally looking into it again I am doubtfull whether it is the Copy I took it for or not and as I dont care to trust any body with the Translation of it I now send it for you to do as you please with, and as its detention here a few weeks has been purely Accidental I hope you will not blame me, for it might have hap pened in the same manner to any of you. I suppose the Prussian officer will soon be applying to me; those French Gentn sent by Mr Penet are very impatient for being employed & really I think the Congress cannot too soon determine to form a Corps of Foreign Officers to Act in a Body & as they learn our language keep drafting them out into other Regiments. If you want to send other dispatches the Sac hem will soon be ready to carry them & so will the Andw Doria & Race Horse after her. The Fly being too small to carry remittances I have or dered her after speaking the Randolph & delivering the dispatches to pro ceed off the Capes of Virginia to turn from thence the inward bound Vessels & I sent the Fly two mo[nths] provisions for that Cruize. The Mus- quito wants repairs & the Georgia Packet is loaden for Georgia. I hope soon to see you here & am, Gentn., Your obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). 'Morris’ July 13 letter to Deane has not been found. For Morris’ other letters, see entries under their respective dates. 3 In his October 25, 1776, letter, Deane complained that “your silence ever since the 5th of last June discourages me at times. Indeed, it well nigh distracts me. From whatever cause the silence has happened, it has greatly prejudiced the affairs of the United Colonies of America.” Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:183. • Undoubtedly John Reed, brother of Joseph Reed. See Morris to William Bing ham, February 25, 1777. Robert Morris to the Secret Committee Philadelphia February 19 1777 I have transmitted the Resolve of Congress of the 5 February to the Commissioners at Paris as you will see by the Copy of a letter I wrote


[Page 354]
322 February 19, 1777 them yesterday. You should have sent me half a dozen Authenticated Copies of the Resolve—it went by the Fly to the Randolph which will carry it to Martinico. A Copy Certified by myself goes by the Independ ence & you had best send me some more for other opportunitys. In Consequence of the Resolves of Congress and an Order from the Ma rine Committee I have sent down the Schooner Musquito yesterday with two Months provisions to the Fly which was then lying at Rheedy Island and I sent down Orders to Capn Warner immediately to proceed to the Capes and give notice to the Light House to make the Signal for Capn Biddle whenever they saw a Ship in the offing. 1 I told him to keep Cruiz ing every day in the Offing and told him the Signal Biddle would make to be known by. Each Night I told him to run in under the Land to pre vent the Enemys Ships from Cutting him off. By this means he will be sure to meet the Randolph as she will come in sight of the Light House on purpose to learn if there be any fresh Orders for him. Capn Warner will then deliver the Sundry orders and despatches I sent for Capn Biddle and they will part, the Fly to Cruize off the Capes of Virginia and the Ran dolph for Martinico & herein I enclose a Copy of the Orders I sent him and of the sundry letters relative to his Voyage, which I hope will meet approbation, and as they relate in some degree to the Marine Department I think you had best lay them before the Marine Committee or if you think necessary before Congress, because there are other Vessels will soon go for Martinico, and if any part of which I have written is disapproved counter orders will probably arrive in time. I hope Biddle will send us a Galeatea, a Pearl, or a Camelias before he leaves this Coast. 2 Pray desire the Marine Committee if they are not com ing up to Send me Orders respecting the Delaware. I have wrote General Washington to Send her Marines, and as it will be difficult manning her, I think she had best Sail soon as ever she has enough of men to work her, proceed to Windward of Barbadoes and Cruise untill she Manns herself from Prizes and then go to Martinico for supplies to return her with. The Washington May be Managed in the Same way, but there is no Guns for the Effingham therefore I think she had best load and send her to France to be compleated. And I dont know how it happens but there is no Guns made nor making for that ship. Somebody should Superintend the Cast ing of Cannon than [jzc] they do but I think Gentn out of doors should be employed to conduct that business and have no other pursuit. Tr (William Bell Clark transcript from Bank of North America Papers, PHi). Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1236-37. 1 Writing in his capacity as vice president of the Marine Committee, Morris sent the following letter to Lt. Thomas Albertson on February 18. “You are im mediately to proceed down the River in search of the Sloop Fly, Captain Elisha Warner, which I am told is not at Rheedy Island. You must find him speedily as possible and deliver him the Letter and Packet given you herewith and return to


[Page 355]
February 19, 1777 323 this City bringing his receipt.” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:82. Morris’ letter to Warner has not been found. a The three vessels named were British frigates. Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates Feby 19. 1777 Upon the question for referring the appointment of three major gen erals to the general officers of the army 1 it was said in the negative. Dr Rush. “I have heard the congress more than once called a republic. I love to realize the idea, and I hope it will inspire us with the virtuous principles of republican goverments. One of the most powerful & happy commonwealths in the world Rome called her general officers from the plough & paid no regard to rank, service or seniority. We have of late been successful it is true, but I despair of our country being saved ’till the instrumentality of military wisdom & virtue are employed for that pur pose, and these can never be had ’till we use a sovereign power in calling them forth where ever we find them. It is no purpose to talk of the prac tice of despotic princes. They promote acording to seniority it is true, but they possess an absolute power of recalling, disgracing, or breaking their general officers as soon as they make them, and we find they are fond of exercising this power upon the least neglect, inattention or want of Success. The case is different with us. A general may lose a battle or a province, and we possess no power to recall or to displace him. If the motion is passed I shall move immediately afterwards that all the civil power of the continent may be transferred from our hands into the hands of the army, & that they may be proclaimed the highest power of the people.” (Mr. John Adams. )Dr Wetherspoon. “Mr President, I am against the motion. It will produce faction, and disputes among your generals. I once left the honors of the college over which I preside to the choice of the senior class, But it produced so much confusion & ill blood, that I was obliged to resume that power again, and have since exercised to the sat isfaction of my pupils as well as my own.” Col Richd Henry Lee. “I wish the learned Doctor would distinguish between the practice of children & men. Our generals would certainly make a judicious choice, and would not be governed by the principles which actuate boys at School.” Mr. John Adams. “Mr. President, I differ from the gentleman who spoke last. There are certain principles which follow us thro’ life, and none more certainly than the love of the first place. We see it in the forms on which Children sit at Schools. It prevails equally to the last period of life. I am sorry to find it prevails so little in this Assembly. I have been distressed to see some members of this house disposed to idolise an image


[Page 360]
328 February 20, 1777 were only for rhetoricians & such as write 3 for amusement, that he could wish our Energy might appear in our Actions, and that our Language might be simple and unadorned. He said he admired the Peasants of Switzerland who in their Struggles for Freedom were as Remarkable for Modesty in their Language, as for Vigor in their Exertions, that he wished the Congress would Imitate them in both. On the Question the Excep tionable passage was expunged. The Debate now turned on the Question whether the Law of Nations was proper to be mentioned. Some Gentle men Argued that it was improper to apply it to the proceedings against General Lee because they proposed trying him by the Laws of his own Country, but others Insisted that they had no power to try him more than any other Prisoner by those Laws. Many Distinctions were attempted which I did not understand. At length the North Carolina Delegate de clared he thought all Laws were 4 to be laid aside but what both Parties were subject to in Common, these were only the Laws of Nature and Na tions. The Municipal Laws of all Countries at War were Silent with re spect to the mere Transaction that relates to, or were the Consequence of War. That it was the proper Policy of Britain still to regard the Americans as Subjects and to Insist on the Execution of the Municipal Laws, but it was the proper policy of America to maintain that the American States stand in no other relation to] Britain than as an Independant Empire at War with her, and therefore that the Law of Nations alone ought to be observed between them, that retalliation is the only Instrument whereby Nations can Compell the Observance of that Law, and America ought therefore firmly to retalliate when the Law of Nations was Violated. The Question was carried in favor of the Insertion of the Law of Nations. MS (NN). Tr (Nc-Ar). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 7, 1777. 1 Washington sent Howe’s January 23 letter enclosed in a letter to Hancock of February 5 that was read in Congress nine days later. PCC, item 152, 3:505-6, 517-22; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:102-6; and JCC, 7:121, 124. 2 For these resolves, see JCC, 7:135. Washington subsequently protested that Congress’ threat to retaliate against British prisoners of war was unwise, but despite this Congress reaffirmed its decision on March 14. See JCC, 7:177-79; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:211—13, 252-53; and Burke’s Notes of Debates, March 14, 1777. 3 Remainder of text taken from MS. ' ‘ “Ought” in Tr. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore Town Febry. 20th. 1777. I am sorry to inform You that the Report of the Engagement on Fryday week is without any other Foundation than a little Skirmish, which the General barely mentions in his Letter to our Committee in Philadelphia. 1


[Page 361]
February 20, 1777 329 Congress are anxiously expecting a Reinforcement to our brave and worthy General from the new Levies. Above Six weeks ago Congress di rected General Smallwood to take a Tour thro the State, and exert his Influence in Raising our Quota, and they called on all our public Bodies, and every Friend to America to yield him their assistance. 2 I mention this because Congress flattered themselves with great Success from this Measure, & it is said it has been neglected. A little Attention to our public Affairs, and the State of our Army will convince any Man that the most vigorous Exertions are necessary and must be adopted to procure our Quota. I shall not enlarge on this im portant Subject. I beg Leave to call your immediate attention to it, and if a Moments delay can be granted, be pleased to consider the following Extract of a Letter from Genl. Washington to his Friend Colo. Harrison, of 12 Instant. 3 “With great Truth I can add, that Heaven alone knows upon what principle they (the Enemy) act, or by what Means, they are kept quiet. That we are not able to make the least Stand, if they move, is as clear as the Sun in its’ meridian Brightness. Whilst You are at an Expence equal to the Maintainance of a large Army, & expect that We are very strong, We have scarce Men enough to mount the Common Guards.” I thought this Intelligence necessary for your Information, but the Communication of it to our General Assembly must be made with every Caution of Secrecy. The Knowledge of it may bring Destruction on our Country. I wish it was in my Power to advise in the present Crisis. The Mode in the Resolve of Congress to Gen. Smallwood may be of some Service. The Gentlemen of this County have not as yet assisted, by public Meet ings & associations, to carry any public Measures into Execution. I beg Leave to submit the enclosed proposal to your Consideration. 4 If adopted it ought to be late in the Session, and after all other Exertions have been made. I am, Gent, with Regard & Respect, Your Obedient Servant, 5 Sami. Chase RC (MdAA). ’See Executive Committee to John Hancock, February 13 and 15, 1777. 3 See JCC, 6: 1032, 1058. 3 Not found. * Not found. 3 This day Chase also wrote two other letters which were directed to the public and printed pseudonymously in the Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser on February 25, 1777. The first, signed “Tom Tell-Truth,” feigned “gratitude to the patriotic virtuous King, the august incorruptible Parliament, and wise disin terested Ministry of Britain” for the magnanimous peace terms recently offered to America by General Howe. The second, signed “Caveto” [Beware], warned Ameri cans not to be deceived by “the insidious and wicked Court of Britain, and her artful Agents,” from whom they should “expect nothing but Fraud, Force, Rapine, Murder, and Desolation.”


[Page 365]
February 20, 1777 333 fairly tried; and the event evidently proves that money can not be got without a higher Interest. In my opinion then, the Interest must be either raised, or the principal surrendered into the hands of our Enemies. For, most assuredly, the whole great cause of this Continent, which we have been so long supporting thro’ a multitude of difficulties, depends upon our exertions at this crisis. If it should ever be decided against us, it will be within a few months; and it infallibly will, unless the Commander in chief is supplied with cash. I have the honor to be, sir, your most Obedient Servant, Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 'See Executive Committee to John Hancock, January 17, 1777, note 3. James Wilson to Arthur St. Clair My dear Sir [February 20, 1777] 1 Yesterday Congress proceeded to the Promotion of General Officers. There was much Difficulty and Delicacy in settling the Principles, on which the Promotions ought to be founded. I expresed my Sentiments in Favour of adhering to the Line of Seni[ority adopted, by Observations which I will not repeat [at present?] to you, that, if it was proper to devi ate [from that line], you were the officer, in whose Favour the alteration ought to be made. Lord Stirling, General Mifflin, yourself, General Stevens and General Lincoln were chosen Major Generals. I need not express my Satisfaction at your Promotion. I feel peculiarly pleased that I have seen the Event take Place before I leave Congress. I am exceedingly hurt that our deserving Friend General Thompson was passed over: It is Misfortune sufficient to be a Prisoner. I am, how ever, willing to believe that the only Reason, with many Gentlemen, for omitting him was an Apprehension that a Promotion would increase the Difficulty of his Exchange. If you have not already engaged yourself, you will much oblige me by appointing Billy Bird your Aid de Camp. You will recollect that, when he first entered into the Service, I was solicitous he should be formed under you. You know [however, of his] Activity: He is young: But he is far from [being perfect] in Sense and Judgment. If he is not [yet exch]anged; I hope his Exchange will soon take [place. I] have been informed that he has either obtained or has a Prospect of obtaining a Lieutenancy in the light Horse. But I would, on every Account, perfer what I now recom mend him to. I have good Reason to believe, and think it not improper to hint, that the important Command of Ticonderoga is destined for you next Cam paign. I presage it a Theatre of Glory. 2


[Page 367]
February 21, 1777 335 How happy would this Entertainment have been to me if I could by a single Volition have transported one Lady about five hundred miles. But alass! this a greater Felicity than falls to my share. We have voted to go to Philadelphia next Week. We have made General Lincoln a Continental Major General. 1 We shall make Coll. Glover a Brigadier. 2 I sincerely wish We could hear more from General Heath. Many Per sons are extreamly dissatisfied with Numbers of the general Officers of the highest Rank. I dont mean the Commander in Chief, his Character is justly very high, but Schuyler, Putnam, Spencer, Heath, are thought by very few to be capable of the great Commands they hold. We hear of none of their heroic Deeds of Arms. I wish they would all resign. For my Part I will vote upon the genuine Principles of a Republic for a new Election of general Officers annually, and every Man shall have my Consent to be left out, who does not give sufficient Proof of his Quali fications. I wish my Lads were old enough. I would send every one of them into the Army, in some Capacity or other. Military Abilities and Experience, are a great Advantage to any Character. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:165-66. ‘Benjamin Lincoln was one of five major generals appointed on February 19. JCC, 7:133. 3 This day Congress promoted ten men, including Jonathan Glover, to brigadier general. JCC, 7:141. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office Feby 21st 1777 I am directed by the Board of War to inform you that it is the Opinion of Congress that the Men of the Corps of Virginia Light Horse under the Command of Major Bland receive the usual Bounty on their reinlist ing for three Years or during the War into the Continental Service. 1 General Ward having declined the Command of the Eastern Depart ment I have it in Direction to enclose a Copy of his Letter that your Excellency may supply his Place with a proper Successor. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Your most obed & most humble Servt, Richard Peters Secy [P.S.] Enclosed are Copies of a Letter & Return sent by Mr Meesom from Albany. Congress having resolved to retaliate the Treatment of Genl Lee on the Hessian Field Officers & Col. Campbell the Board would be obliged by your Excellency’s Information where the former was sent. 3 Lieut Col. Schaffer, Majors Hanstein & Matthias are at Dumfries & Lt Col.


[Page 371]
February 21, 1777 339 Hiltziemer for the four Waggons strongly enjoining him to send the best and Mr Brown went up to enforce the message, but he says it is not possible to get them off before Monday Morning and that then they will go well equipped. The Resolves are gone to the General & before now you have an Answer to your dispatches of 10th Jany. I have told Mr. Tailor to inform me if he wants any assistance & you may depend on his meeting it directly. I fancy he will get your old House (D. Williams) for you. I thank you most kindly for your Friendly offers respecting Mrs. Morris but as you have three Females to take care of, I think it wou’d be a shame to give you trouble & I have sent home one of my Clerks with a Carriage & Horses to bring up my Family before the Delegates begin to move because Crowded roads make bad accomodations for everybody. I hope Mrs. Morris & my little flock will be here before you & blame myself that I did not gratify my own inclination & send for them long since. Pray tell Mr Thompson I sent his letter for Somerville to Mrs Morris’s & tell Mr Burke I will engage lodgings for him if I can & believe there is not much danger but you’l find every thing much dearer than formerly, or rather Money worth less. I have really had my hands, Head & Heart full business since I saw you but thank God my Spirits never failed. I hope soon to take you by the hand & pass that social hour that gives an honest soul more real joy, than all the follies & Vanitys in the World. I wish you & the Ladies a pleasant Journey & am Dr sir Your affectionate hble servt. Robt Morris Feby 22d. What a Cursed change since last night but never fear they shall not come here. I refer to the letters by Express to Congress, 1 & am Dr sir Yours, Robt Morris RC (NjMoHP). 1 For General Washington’s letters to Congress of February 20, one of which reported “we have strong reason to believe that the Enemy are on the point of making some push,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:168—71. See also JCC, 7:148-50; and Hancock to Washington, February 25, 1777, postscript. Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates [February 21, 1777.] 1 Congress received a letter Feby 20th X'l'n from Genl Lee 2 a prisoner in New York (written by permission of Lord & general Howe) request ing a conference with two or three members of congress upon matters of the last importance to himself, & in his opinion to America, upon which it was said by Dr. Rush. Mr President, In considering of the propriety of this re quest it becomes us 1 to attend to the present situation of the court of


[Page 372]
340 February 21, 1777 Britain, 21y to the conduct & charecters of Lord & general Howe, and 3 to the conduct, & charrecter of general Lee. 1 The court of Britain is alarmed with the fear of a French war. They wish to terminate the present war in America by a negociation as well as by the sword. They have no terms to offer us. They mean only to deceive & divide us. 2 Lord & genl Howe were chosen as fit instruments for seducing & deceiving the colonies. They have practised many Arts for that purpose. Witness the conference they extorted from the congress thro’ Genl Sullivan last sum mer. They have been told by the reinforcement of tories that lately joined them its effect upon the people of America, & they expect thro’ a better instrument (Genl Lee) to produce greater & worse effects by a conference with the members of congress set on foot at their request by the general. 3 General Lee with all his great qualities possesses the weak ness of being easily imposed upon. His charecters of men are dictated by caprice or passion. I have seldom known him give a true charecter of any man. He is fond of negociations & conferences. He tried to bring about an interview with Genl Burgoyne at Cambridge for that purpose. He urged a second interview with Lord Howe last summer. I believe Gen Lee to be honest & sincerely attached to our cause, but some people suppose he threw himself in the way of being taken prisoner. Consider ing all these things I maintain that a compliance with the generalj’s] request would be impolitic, & highly dangerous to the union & safety of the united States. Mr. Jno Adams. Mr President, I am against the proposed conference. It will do mischief. The last conference with Lord Howe did no good. The Whigs were alarmed with it, and the tories complained that the reason why it did not end in a negociation was because improper men were sent, and because the congress did not relax eno’ from its dignity. I admire Genl Lee for his military talents, but he possesses an unbounded Share of Vanity. This Vanity led him to correspond with Gen] Burgoyne—and induced him to propose himself as one of a committee to confer with Lord Howe. His Lordship has no terms to offer us. The kings Speech is decisive against us. It lets loose all the dogs of war & corruption upon us, But it carries a remedy to its terrors along with it— it holds out the probability of a war wth. France. Mr Chase. I am against the conference, but I move for the publication of Genl Lee’s letter to the congress in order to satisfy our constituents who have heard that it contains propositions of peace. Mr. Middleton. I am against the conference for the reasons that have been given. Lord Howe has made use of Genl. Lee as a decoy duck to take in the colonies. I am against the publication of the General[’s] letter to the congress, Unless you publish with it his letter to Genl Washington in which he requests the company of his Aid de camp and his dogs. Col Harrison. I suspect Lord & General Howe have offered Genl Lee his life on condition of his bringing About this conference which is de-


[Page 376]
344 February 22, 1777 John Wharton Esqr. Board of Assistants to the Marine Committee, Carpenter Wharton Esqr. Commissary of Provisions, Benjamin Flower esqr. Commissary of Military Stores, James Mease esqr. Cloathier General & John Maxwell Nesbitt Esqr. Continental Agent to hold all publick monies, goods and Stores under their care and custody respectively in readiness to be removed on the shortest notice with assurance that you would supply them with waggons and every assistance from your depart ment. 1 We therefore give you this notice of Said orders, requesting your complyance with such part as depends you, and having told the several Parties that this is a precautionary measure we requested prudence and discretion might be used in the execution to prevent any unnecessary Alarm to the Inhabitants and we recommend the same to you. The Com missary of Provisions will remove his Stores to the Magazines ordered by the General immediately and you will take effectual measures to provide for the Safety of the Horses and Waggons, Forage & Stores under your direction. We are sir, Yr. Obedt. Servts. LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). Addressed: “To Brigdr. General Mifflin, Quarter Master General.” 1 See Executive Committee to Benjamin Flower, this date. Executive Committee to George Washington Sir Philada. Feby 22d. 1777 We have dispatched an express to Congress this morning with your letter of the 20th which will be with them in time to prevent their adjournment next Tuesday from Baltimore. We have had a Conference with the Council of Safety and after Communicating to them the intel ligence Contained in your Excellencys letters to Genl Gates and that to Congress We requested them to give immediate orders for putting all their Force by Water into the best posture they possibly can, we also advised their Collecting such of the Militia as have not been in actual service into such readiness, as to be subject to immediate orders, this can be done without giving any alarm, or at least any general alarm. Genl Gates will station proper officers at New Town and give orders respecting the Boats on the Jersey side of Delaware, the present Cold Weather has made so much Ice in the River & Creeks that they cannot be brought over, therefore if any sudden movements of the Enemy make it necessary, they must all be destroyed. We read with much concern one paragraph in your Excellencys letters to Genl. Gates relative to the removal of the public Stores, in which you are pleased to cast a blame that we do not deserve. 1 Every requisition & recommendation of yours has been strictly and instantly attended to by this Committee. We have complyed with


[Page 379]
February 22, 1777 347 I am Dr Sir with great respect, Your most obedt Servant, B. Rush Tr (DLC). Burnett, Letters, 2:270-71. 1 For Congress’ response to Gen. Charles Lee’s letters on this subject, see Rush’s Notes of Debates, February 21; and Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 21, 1777. Secret Committee to Robert Purviance and Samuel Purviance, Jr. Sirs In secret Committee at Baltimore, 22nd Feb. 1777. Enclosed is an order for one bbl. of Powder for the Brig. Friendship which you will please to deliver immediately to Mr. Fitzsimons that he may apply to the Commissary for the same as the Brig only waits for the powder in order to sail. You’l please to observe that it is the resolve of the Committee that this Brig take no more than four 4 pounders 4 swivills & 6 muskets, the remainder to be left in your custody till called for by the Committee. You’l take the Captain or owner’s receipt for these warlike stores deliv ered him. Richard Henry Lee Wm. Whipple Francis Lewis MS not found; reprinted from George C. Thomas, ed., Autograph Letters and Autographs of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence (Philadelphia: privately printed, 1908), no pagination. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Baltimore 22d Feby 1777 I have receiv’d your favor of the 15 Ult. The intolerable delays & uncertainty of the Post has prevented my writing so often as I should otherwise have done, but I hope an effectual remidy will spedily be apply’d to this evil when our correspondence will meet with less inter ruption. I am sorry your Health will not admit of your returning to Congress. My Colieage 1 seems determin’d on taking his departure in May, at which time I am very desirous of returning also. In short no pecuniary advantage wod induce me to tarry even to the end of that month. I therefore hope to have leave to go home the beginning of May. After repeated requisitions of Genl. Washington, Congress have made a number of Genl. Officers. The Gens Proposal is that there shod be a


[Page 382]
350 February 23, 1777 to assume the Title of Gentlemen, and they hold their Negroes and Con victs, that is all labouring People and Tradesmen, in such Contempt, that they think themselves a distinct order of Beings. Hence they never will suffer their Sons to labour or learn any Trade, but they bring them up in Idleness or what is worse in Horse Racing, Cock fighting, and Card Playing. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:260—61. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir, Baltimore Feby 23rd 1777 As the State of the Army is by no Means such as could be wished, and in Point of Discipline and Order has suffered much since you relinquished the Department of Adjutant General, In Confidence therefore that you will retrieve it, and place it again on a respectable Footing, I am directed by Congress earnestly to solicit you to reassume the Office of Adjutant General, with your present Rank and Pay. 1 The Good of the Service, which is so essentially concerned in your com plying with the Desire of Congress on this Occasion, will, I make no Doubt, induce you to gratify their Wishes. At the same Time I am per suaded, you will always add to your own Happiness whenever you can any Ways promote the Cause of American Liberty and Independence. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Serv. John Hancock Pres. RG (NHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 Gates hesitated to accept the post of adjutant general, apparently desirous of an independent command, and before he came to a decision Congress placed him in command of the army at Ticonderoga on March 25. See ]CC, 7:136, 202; Hancock to Gates, March 25, 1777; and Paul D. Nelson, General Horatio Gates: A Biography (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1976), pp. 78-80. John Hancock to Robert Morris Dear Sir Baltimore Febry. 23. 1777 Your favrs. to 19th Febry. I have Rec’d. The latter was deliver’d me last Eveng. As I shall so soon be with you shall not make a particular Reply. Before this I hope the Money is with you. Marine Matters shall not Touch upon; the Books & papers of that Department you will please to keep with you, & wish on our first meeting at Philada. we may enter with Spirit & Dispatch on Marine Business, & put things on respectable footing; I think there is an absolute necessity of a Reform in many in stances, but more when I have the pleasure of Seeing you. Capt Nichol-


[Page 384]
352 February 23, 1777 you will please to direct your Letters to me at Philada., the Powers of the Committee of Congress in that Place expiring on our Arrival there. I have wrote to Genl. Gates requesting him to resume the Office of Adjutant Genl, nor have I any Doubt of his Compliance. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 Hancock sent Washington a variety of resolves on military affairs passed on February 5, 7, 13-14, and 19-22. See JCC, 7:90, 98, 114, 119, 133, 135-36, 140-42. Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Feby 24th [1777] A Letter from General Washington was read Informing Congress that General How and Lord Piercy had come over from New York to Bruns wick with a reinforcement of Troops and heavy Artillery, that he appre hended the Enemy Intended to enlarge their Quarters and procure For- rage in Jersey or to march towards Philadelphia, that he was not in a Condition to prevent either. 1 The Congress went into a Committee of the whole hereupon—and General Washington was ordered to call to his aid all the Continental Troops under General Heath on the North side of the River, and all that were in Providence, to write letters to all the Collonels in the States North of Maryland ordering them to send the recruits to Join him as fast as they were raised, except such regiments as were destined for the Northern Department. 2 The Board of War was ordered to write similar letters to all the other States North of North Carolina, and the State of New York was requested to supply the place of General Heath with Militia. 3 New Jersey and Pensylvania were also requested to reinforce General Washington with Militia from each. 4 To this report of the Committee of the whole was subjoined a Declara tion of Congress that it was their Intention to reinforce the General so as to enable him not only to Curb and Confine the Enemy within their present Quarters but with the Blessing of God Entirely to subdue them before they are reinforced. This pompous Paragraph was very much Condemned by some Gentlemen as an unworthy Gasconade—and it was warmly debated. North Carolina observed that Threats were unbecom ing a Private Gentleman, and much more unbecoming a Political 5 Body, That this pompous boast if not realized would render the Congress ex ceedingly ridiculous, and there was great reason to fear it would not. That our vigor ought to appear by Efforts, not Words, that at best it was a useless superfluity and ought to be expunged. The Question was put and Jersey, Pensylvania, North Carolina and South Carolina voted for expunging, the rest for retaining. 6 N.B. Maryland was not represented. 7


[Page 389]
February 25, 1777 357 of Congress to the several states to Enact Laws Empowering all Con stables, Ferry keepers and Freeholders to take up persons suspected of being Deserters and Carry them before any Justice of the Peace. An Amendment was moved the purport of which was that the Power should go Immediately from Congress without the Intervention of the States. Many Gentlemen were inattentive and it passed. The Delegate from North Carolina desired to be informed if he might enter his Protest against it. He was informed by the Chair that he could not, he then desired to have his dissent entered on the Journal declaring he was not Apprehensive of any Injury from it in the State he represented because he knew it would never be there observed, the People too well knowing the Maxims of their Gov ernment, but that as it was as much as his Life was worth to Consent to the Congress exercising such a Power, he desired that he might be able to prove from the Journals that he did not. He said it appeared to him that Congress was herein assuming a Power to give authority from them selves to persons within the States to seize and Imprison the persons of the Citizens, and thereby to endanger the personal Liberty of every man in America. A motion was now made for reconsidering. On the recon sideration the Debate lay chiefly between Mr Wilson of Pensylvania, and the North Carolina Delegate. Mr. Wilson argued that every object of Continental Concern was the subject of Continental Councils. That all Provisions made by the Continental Councils must be carried into execu tion by Continental authority. That the Army was certainly a Continen tal object, and preventing Desertion in it was certainly as necessary an object as the raising of it. That nothing could be more necessary to pre vent Desertion than to take Effectual Measures for apprehending desert ers, that this Power must necessarily be in the Congress, and that they certainly had Power to authorise any persons in the States to put them in Execution. That the Power of taking up deserters was in every Soldier and officer of the army, and that the Congress might make any Justice of Peace in any state such an officer and thereby give him that Power, and if by making him an officer they Could give him that Power, they surely could without. That the officers and soldiers of the army were certainly not subject to Laws of the states. That this was no more than what was every day done in appointing Commissioners to purchase provisions and other things under the resolves of Congress. That the Congress had always directed their resolves to be put in Execution by Committees of Inspec tion and it was never denied that they had Power. The Delegate of North Carolina answered that he admitted Conti nental objects were subjects of Continental Councils—but denied that the provisions made by Continental Councils were to be enforced by Continental authority. That it would be giving Congress a Power to prostrate all the Laws and Constitutions of the states because they might create a Power within each that mush act entirely Independent of them, and might act directly Contrary to them. That they might by virtue of this


[Page 390]
358 February 25, 1777 Power render Ineffectual all the Bariers Provided in the states for the Security of the Rights of the Citizens for if they gave a Power to act Coercively it must be against the Subject of some State, and the subject of every state was entitled to the Protection of that particular state, and subject to the Laws of that alone, because to them alone did he give his Consent. That he hoped the Gentleman would not Insist on this Principle which in its nature was so very Extensive and alarming. That the states alone had Power to act Coercively against their Citizens, and therefore were the only Power Competent to carry into execution any Provisions whether Continental or Municipal. That he was well satisfied no Power on Earth would ever obtain Authority to act Coercively against any of the Citizens of the state he represented except under their own Legisla ture; unless it was obtained by Violence. That his fellow Citizens were struggling against unlawful exertions of Power, and they woidd submit to them from no Authority. That he admitted the army to be a proper ob ject to be governed and directed by Continental Councils, and that it is proper the Congress should provide for punishing Desertion, and that Desertion was a very [great] evil, but that who is a deserter or who is not is a Question that must be determined previous to any Punishment, and who ever can determine it has a Power over the Life and Liberty of the Citizens for as much as any man may be accused of Desertion but every one accused may not be Guilty. That if the Congress has the Power to appoint any Person to decide this Question the Congress has power unlimited over the Lives and Liberties of all men in America and the Provisions so anxiously made by the respective States to Secure them, at Once Vanish before this Tremendous Authority. However proper it might be for Congress to punish Desertion it was Necessary for the states to prevent arbitrary and unjust punishments and Imprisonments of their Citizens, and unless some mode were provided for trying the above Ques tion every man was liable to be imprisoned at the Discretion of Officers and servants of the Congress. No power could be Competent to this but such as is created by the Legislature of each state, and if any Question related to the internal Polity of a state it certainly was this which In volved all the Rights of the Citizens personal Freedom. He would not speak for other states, but for his own he would declare that the Constitu tion had anxiously provided that no man should be Imprisoned or in any Degree Injured in his Person or Property but under the authority of the Laws of the state. It was a fundamental Maxim well understood there that no Magisterial Authority could be given but by the Legislature, and none could be exercised beyond what was expressly laid down in the Laws. The Congress certainly could not give a Power within any State to hear and Determine offences or to seize and Imprison the Persons of the Citizens. Yet most assuredly the Power Contended for was no less, un less every Deserter was branded in the Face so that it could be determined without [doubt-] who was Deserter and who was not. He was sorry to


[Page 391]
February 25, 1777 359 hear the Gentleman Say that the Officers and Soldiers of the Army were not Subject to the Laws of the States, and hoped the Gentleman would retract it, for assuredly the army must always be in some State and might be in every State, and if they were not Subject to the Laws of the respec tive States, it would follow that a powerful Body of men within any State might violate with Impunity all the Rights of the Citizens and Subject them to the worst of Oppressions. This being Contrary to all the purposes for which men enter into Society, the admission of it must dis solve all Society and Government, and being peculiarly detested by the Americans who were struggling at the risque of Life and property against Oppression, it never could take place among them, until they lost al[l] Common Sense, and all Love of Freedom. That the Power of taking up deserters if it was in every officer and soldier it did not follow that every officer and soldier might call whom he pleased a deserter and Imprison and punish him as such, that there must be a Power to determine whether deserters or not, and the Congress could give no such Power without giving authority to some Individuals within the states to exercise Magis terial Discretion and subject the Citizens to that discretion. He could not conceive a State Independant if any Power could do this except their Internal Legislature who had their authority for that purpose from the People. He would declare firmly it could not be done in North Carolina by any other, if their Bill of Rights and Constitution were of any Effect, and not meer waste paper, for they provided that no freeman within the state should be in any way or Degree restrained of his Liberty or damaged in his Property except under the Laws of the state to which his Consent must be given, because every freeman had a Voice [in his?] Legislature. That in North Carolina no Military Officer could act in any civil depart ment whatever, and he believed they could not in any state where Govern ment was Established, yet if it were otherwise his civil authority must be derived from the state and not the Congress, and the rules and Limits whereby it was to be exercised must be expressly laid down by the state and could not be altered or extended by the Congress unless they had a Power over the Internal Laws of the states which Power never would be given, and no one pretended to. That the Difference was manifest between giving Commissions to purchase within the states, and giving Magisterial au thority. That One was only empowering some Individuals to exchange Money for Commodities in fair Contract which each party must pre viously agree to, here was not the shadow of restraint, but was founded on the most liberal Idea of Consent. No Contract being valid unless all the Transactions are bonafide Consented to by all the Contracters, and it was every day done by Individuals of the states the most remote, and unconnected with each other, that the other was enabling Individuals to hear and determine accusations against other Individuals, to pass Judgment, and to Subject them to punishment, which surely was the


[Page 393]
February 25, 1777 361 Laws for the apprehending deserters, and there surely was no reason to doubt but that they would on a recommendation for that purpose. That the Inconvenience the Gentleman mentioned was Imaginary. It would not follow that desertion could not be prevented or punished altho it should be admitted that the states alone were Competent to give the Power of arresting suspected persons, and trying the Question deserter or not. Nor could it be concluded from this that deserters could be appre hended nowhere but in the states where they enlisted. That desertion was a Crime and like all other Crimes to be punished wherever it should be Committed, and by the Power who had Competent Jurisdiction. That the Crime Once Committed the offender might be apprehended in any state and removed to the Jurisdiction who had power to punish, but every Individual who might be Apprehended had a right to call for the Interposion of the state where he was Apprehended to Enquire whether he was a person liable to suspicion and whether the restraint of his Lib erty was lawful or not, but the Power to Interpose in this manner could only be derived from the Internal Legislature [so?] the Power to arrest must be derived from the same source, or it would follow that the Citizens of each state might be restrained of their Liberty by an Authority not de rived from themselves which could not subsist with freedom and Inde pendance. Tis plain from these Considerations that desertion was no more secure of Impunity than Murder, for in both the offender must be arrested by Virtue of an authority derived from the state where found, and each must be tried by the Competent Jurisdiction and punished according to the Laws of the Community against which he offended. The amendment would [not] remove [the] objection because whether the word suspected was in or not [the objec]tion must remain the same. No one could be more than [suspected] before conviction, and the Ques tion of Guilt or Innocence must be determined somewhere previous to punishment. The Distinction between Magistrates as Magistrates, and as persons proper to execute resolves was incomprehensible. If any thing render them more proper than freeholders it was what distinguished them from Freeholders which certainly was being Magistrates, and what but their authority as Magistrates rendered them fitter for Executing the resolve? Twas surely their Power that was considered as rendering them more fit, and whence could they derive their Power but from their Quality as Magistrates? In fact it was an attempt to Convey authority from the Congress to the Magistrates of the states, which would Involve the Per sonal rights of every Citizen and which could be derived from no Power but the People of the respective states. To Mr. Lee. The Difference is certainly very perceptable between offering reward to any Individual who shall apprehend Deserters and Subject them to the proper tribunals for deciding Concerning Guilt or


[Page 396]
364 February 25, 1777 Messrs. Livingston & Turnbull are still waiting here the returns from Congress & grow very impatient. We have the honor to remain sir, Your obedt hble servt, Robt Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Clymer, and Walton. 1 On March 19 Congress resolved that “the baron de Arendt be appointed to the command of the German battalion in the room of Colonel Hausegger.” JCC, 7:185. Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Gerry Dr Brother Baltimore Feby 25th 1777 I have just reed your Favour of Jany 6th, in Answer to a part of wch. give me Leave to refer You to my Letter of the 21st Inst. With respect to my proposal for manning, as well as arming the Vessel that is to bring the Stores, by referring to the Letter I believe it will appear that You have misapprehended it. The premium required by the Under Writers at Salem is too high, & as the other two Setts of Bills Lading will not be wanted at present, You may wait for Oppertunity of safe Conveyance. When Mr. Abbot returns from his Cruise I presume he will pay the Ballances mentioned, but if he should defer it, be kind enough to sig nify to him my Request relative thereto; also to inclose Mr Harris’ Sales of the salt &c. I am sorry to hear from a Marblehead Whig, that the Tories are suffered to take the Lead; surely Skill is not wanted to regu late these unworthy people, & oblige them to promote the Cause from wch they wickedly have swerved. The noble Steed (some of whose ordin ary Qualities they seem to partake), becomes a most useful Animal when properly disciplined; & neglected or enlarged soon contracts a Disposition troublesome, & refracting, however I think it will not be long before they’ll receive their Quietus in America. By Letters from Mr Dean in France, the powers of Europe were expecting a formal An nunciation of our Independance at their respective Courts. 1 He thinks a general War in Europe inevitable; & to confirm the Intention of France, our Agent in the West Indies informs us that he saw a Letter from his most Christian Majesty desiring the Commanding Officer at St Domingo (Who having been a considerable Time on that Station had requested Leave to return) in the most pressing Term to remain there till further orders as he would be immediately wanted to take the Command of a considerable Army in that Quarter. 2 This the officer has chearfully ac cepted. I have communicated to Messrs Samuel & Robert Purviance, the


[Page 403]
February 26, 1777 371 with you that he hath been drove from his Studies; for he is an agreeable promising Youth and bids fair to be serviceable to Mankind. I left Phila delphia the 13th of Deer. When I shall return is uncertain but I believe it will be soon; for Congress have the Matter of a Removal thither in Contemplation. When I go there I will see him if he should be there, and give him my best Advice, and hope you will do my Children the same Kindness. Philadelphia is so near the Scene of War, that I am suspicious it will not be favorable to his Studies; for the Muses fly from the Din of Arms. However History may be read and French may be learned without that close and uninterrupted Attention which the severer Studies of Mathematicks and Philosophy demand. It grieves me to hear that the Continental Seamen have not been paid their Wages and Prize Money. Repeated Orders have been given to the Agent to have it done. The Congress are fully sensible of the Importance of having a respectable Navy, and have endeavoured to form and equip One; but through Ignorance and Neglect they have not been able to ac complish their Purpose yet. I hope however to see One afloat before long. A proper Board of Admiralty is very much wanted. The Members of Congress are unacquainted with this Department. As One of the Marine Committee I sensibly feel my Ignorance in this Respect. Under a mortifying Sense of this I wrote to you for Information in this Matter. Books cannot be had here; and I should have been glad to have been pointed to proper Authors on this Subject when I should be in a Place where Books may be had. Let me know whether it would suit you to be a Member of a Marine Board. I suppose Congress will institute One with a suitable competent Salary, there Residence to be I presume at Philadelphia. I should be exceedingly glad to be serviceable to you or any of the Friends to Liberty. Since I wrote the foregoing I have seen and conversed with Dr. Witherspoon about your Son. 1 He tells me that he left your Son, the 20th of January at Prince-Town, that he hath the Use of his Books, that at that Place, he can better learn French, pursue other Studies, preserve his Morals and Health, than at Philadelphia. I am intirely of his Opinion. It is true that he may be again driven from Prince-Town; but he is without any Incumbrance, may easily take his cloaths, and push off on the Approach of the Enemy. He might too be drove from Philadelphia if he should reside there. So that upon the whole I think, with the learned Dr that Prince-Town is the most eligible Place. We have nothing new. The Enemy we hear are reinforced and it is thought that by their having dragged some heavy Cannon to Brunswick, and some other Circumstances that they mean to make a Movement; but what their Object will be is uncertain. Congress are taking Measures to rein force Genl. Washington, until the regular Army shall be muster’d. In- listments go on as fast as could be expected; and I hope that we shall early


[Page 404]
372 February 26, 1777 in the Spring have a very respectable Army in the Field, and 2 [an] Army sufficient to vanquish our Foes. 8 Reprinted from Publications of the Rhode Island Historical Society 8 (January 1901), pp. 201-3; and RC (RNHi). From the content of this letter it is clear that Ellery did not complete it the day it was begun. The printed text ends abruptly, but because none of the MS from which it was taken has been found, it is not possible to compare it physically with the fragment of the RC that has been located and that is chiefly a continuation of a letter obviously begun much earlier. As the sense of the broken sentence with which the printed text ends is completed by the sentence fragment at the top of the RC, it appears that the two fragments belong together and constitute the full letter that Ellery began on February 26. 1 Ellery obviously added this paragraph sometime after he. had completed the preceding portion, but it contains no evidence to establish just when he wrote it. For an indication that he did not finally complete the letter until about March 15, see the continuation designated below. 2 Remainder of letter taken from RC. 8 For the continuation of this letter, see Ellery to Vernon, March 15, 1777. Executive Committee to John Hancock Sir Philada. Feby 26th. 1777 The Sundry dispatches sent herewith arrived this morning and as Gen eral Washington is so very Urgent respecting the removal of all the Pub lic Stores we shall urge the execution of the orders issued by us for that purpose last Week, altho we Still think there are insuperable obstackles to General Howe getting into this City but whilst our General is so strongly of opinion that an attack on this place is Meditated, it wou’d not be right for Congress to come here? This is an unfortunate situation. Congress shou’d be here to superintend abundance of business & yet cir cumstances turn up at the instant they were coming, that make it im prudent. Your distance from us is too great & much Public business is retarded by it. The Expresses are frequently stopped at Susquehannah, Public officers totally at a loss for instructions in many departments and every department in constant want of money. We are amazed that Con gress shou’d so peremtorily refuse to raise the Interest of money when it is so very evident to every body out of doors that it is the only measure left to supply them with money, now is the time to do it for shou’d you wait untill some fresh disaster to our Troops or some important Success of the Enemy raises again the hopes of Tories & fears of Whiggs, then comes your offer at six per Cent without producing any other effect than to make your Credit still worse than it is already and in the end you will be obliged to give ten instead of six per Cent for money to carry on the war. We cannot help mentioning this important matter very frequently as we conceive Congress are not so fully informed of their own Neces- sitys as we are. We conceive we do our duty in telling them of it and if


[Page 405]
February 26, 1777 373 future Ill Consequences arise by this plan not being adopted, the error does not lye at our door. We think as the Congress has passed a Vote to remove from Baltimore they wou’d be better situated at Lancaster than where they are, as it is but one days journey from hence & no interrupted Ferry between, this move & raising the interest wou’d be very eligible measures at present and we have Stopped the Waggons from going down until your pleasure is signifyed. Please to deliver the letter herein directed to Mr Morris, to the Com mittee of Secret Correspondance. We have the honor to remain with the utmost respect, sir, Your Obedt Servants, Robt Morris Geo Clymer RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Clymer. 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:184-85. Executive Committee to George Washington Sir Philada Feby 26th 1777 We have this Night received from Congress the dispatches sent here with. By these you will see the promotions that have taken place and that no deputation of Members of Congress are to meet Genl Lee, who I suppose will be much disapointed but surely he shou’d have pointed out more clearly the design of his request, as the consequences of comply- ance or even of the refusal may be important. 1 It wou’d appear from what we have lately heard that Genl. Howe intends sending him to England which we shall be sorry for, as such a measure may possibly involve in its consequences more destruction than either side really wish for. We have recommended to Congress either to remain where they are, or if they do remove to let it be to Lancaster which we think wou’d be much more convenient than Baltimore. The Public business meets great obstructions from their distance and the difficulties of getting dis patches backwards & forwards, they are exceedingly retarded by bad roads & the frequent stoppage at Susquehannah Ferry & in our oppinion when they did move they shou’d have gone to Lancaster, if they remove again before Genl. Howes designs are clearly evinced or frustrated, it shou’d be there. We Issued orders last Week to have all the Public Stores in readiness to remove from this place and are now urging to every de partment the propriety of carrying those orders into execution not only so far as relates to their being in readiness but as to the actual removing of them which we shall insist on in complyance with your repeated requi sitions on this head. We are, Your Excellencys Most obed & hble servants, Robt Morris Geo. Clymer


[Page 406]
374 February 26, 1777 RC (DLC). Written by Morris and signed by Morris and Clymer. 1 Washington deeply regretted Congress’ decision not to meet with General Lee, and on March 2 he urged Morris to use his influence with Congress to reverse the decision. “I wish, with all my heart,” Washington observed, “that Congress had gratified General Lee in his request. If not too late, I wish they would do it still. I can see no possible evil that can result from it; some good I think might. The request to see a Gentleman or two, came from the General not from the Com missioners; there could have been no harm, therefore, in hearing what he had to say on any subject, especially as he had declared, that his own personal Interest was deeply concerned.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:224. Washington’s disappointment was even more fully explained in a March 2, 1777, letter to Morris from Tench Tilghman, one of the general’s military secretaries. “The late determinations of Congress,” Tilghman reported, “to refuse the proposed Conferences with General Lee, and to confine the Hessian Field Officers & Col. Campbell strictly because Genl. Howe will not agree to their exchange for Genl. Lee, have embarrassed his Excellency not a little, and will, in my Opinion, in their consequences, be attended with much public disadvantage. I should not have given you my Sentiments on these Subjects thus freely and confidentially, but I know I can say more to you than the General would wish to say to Congress, least they should construe a freedom of Expression into an abuse and ill use of those extensive powers with which they have lately vested him. If my Sentiments and Reasons should happily coincide with yours upon the occasion, I hope the Influence which you possess in the House, may enable you to obtain such an Alteration in the Measures alluded to, as may be of more advantage to Genl. Lee, whom they are principally intended to serve, and of more essential good to the public. “It is true Genl. Lees letters are so mysterious that it is impossible to form any conjecture of what was to be expected from the Conference. But take it in a personal light, and surely it was hard to refuse him an Interview with two of his Friends, to whom he might have something to communicate, which in his present Situation could not possibly be conveyed by Letter. If the Conference was intended to communicate any thing of a public Nature, as some parts of Genl. Lees letter seem to hint, some useful information might have been received and no public ill could have accrued, for as these Gentlemen would have only gone to hear but not to negotiate, it would not have been in their powers, if so in clined, to have given up one Inch of the dignity of Congress, or the least par ticle of the Liberties of their Country. Indeed Members of Congress were not absolutely necessary and any indifferent Gentlemen might have been appointed. But Sir, I fear an evil will result from the refusal of this Conference, much greater than any I have yet mentioned. You very well know that the disaffected, in the province [o/] Pennsylvania chiefly, have ever held up an Argument to the people, that had not Congress from the beginning shewn a greater disposition for War than peace, Matters had never gone to the Lengths they have. And you also may remember what an amazing Influence these doctrines had untill a deputation of Congress met Lord and Genl. Howe upon Staten Island and obliged them to con fess, in a manner, that they had no powers beyond those expressed in the Act of Parliament. From that time to this, they have been pretty Silent, or at least have made impressions but upon weak Minds. Now another opportunity offers for them to assert again, that Genl. Lees letter coming thro’ Genl. Howe can be construed into nothing more than an overture for an accommodation. And as the letter as I said before, is very mysterious, every man will comment upon it, as it suits his Views and principles. I shall just mention one Reason more before I conclude the Subject of the Conference. Genl. Lee’s influence is very extensive in our Army, and if he should be sent home or any indignity offered to his person, his


[Page 414]
382 February 27, 1777 the personl safety of Congress, he believed if they were all killed or Cap tivated public Business would Suffer no other Injury except the delay until other members could be chosen, that he knew his Country had much better men than himself; and he believed every State has as good as any in Congress, but he would give his Negative for the plain reason that it was very Imprudent to put a certain stop to Important Business, and run a very precarious hazard of resuming it again even after an Interval of some Weeks which would be an Inevitable delay. The adjournment was carried, for it M.B., R.L, Connecticut, N.J., Pennsylvania, Georgia; against it New Hampshire, Maryland, Virginia, N. Carolina, S. Caro lina. 1 The same day Mr Chase from Maryland offered a resolution for entering all the Proceedings whether passing in the negative or affirmative on the Journals, and the Yeas and No’s if any state required it, also that the Congress doors should be opened, except on particular Occasions, and all Debates held in public. He was Seconded by North Carolina who observed it was very proper the Congress should have the public check on them, and that as every member was liable to be impeached by the State he represented, it was a Justice to him and to the State that his votes should be entered on the Journals, that the state might be furnished with Testimony to prosecute, and the delegate with Testimony to defend himself—postponed. 2 MS (NN). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, Feb ruary 7, 1777. ’See JCC, 7:164.: Chase’s resolution is in JCC, 7:164n. Congress did not agree to enter votes in its journal until August 2, 1777. JCC, 8:599. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore 27 Feby. 1777. Congress adjourned this Day to Philada. there to meet on Wednesday next. Captain Deames Company is ready to march, but there are no officers. I beleive there is a Lieutent. but the board of war is informed he is a worthless drunken Fellow. The Captain is unfit for the Command, and to send such a Company without some good officers will reflect a Disgrace on our State and injure the Service. I advised Capt. Deames to send forward his Company, & to wait on You for the Appointmt of officers. I hear Nothing from Camp, worthy of Notice, except that Genl. Howe has received a Reinforcement, of 4,000, from Rhode Island. Your’s Respectfully, Sami Chase RC (MdAA).


[Page 416]
384 February 27, 1777 Richard Henry Lee to George Washington My dear Sir, Baltimore Feby. 27th 1777 My brother Delegates are of opinion that the inclosed papers may avail you something in settling some disputes about rank that may come before you, and therefore it is sent. 1 Congress never did anything in this matter, as the business was put into other hands. I realy think that when the history of this winters Campaign comes to be understood, the world will wonder at its success on our part. With a force rather inferior to the enemy in point of numbers, and chiefly militia too, opposed to the best disciplined troops of Europe; to keep these latter pent up, harrassed, and distressed—but more surprising still, to lessen their numbers some thou sands by the sword and captivity! All this Sir must redound to your glory, and to the reputation of the few brave men under your command. But whilst I wonder at your success, I am realy astonished at the supineness of the people, to suffer your army to be so thin, whilst a cruel, implacable enemy is in the Country, and have providentially put themselves in the way of destruction, if the numbers of people that are not far off, would turn out for the purpose! We have done every thing in our power to hasten up the new Levies, and strengthen your hands, but the want of arms and cloaths, with the small pox obstructs and delays us prodigiously. Industry and patience will f hope surmount all obstacles, and at length collect an army together that will bid defiance to despotism, and secure the liberties of North America. About a fortnight ago, I received a letter from London, written by a well informed friend, which contains this paragraph and is dated Octr. 9th last. “The war is likely to go on another year, in which case Cheasapeak Bay will be the seat; a plan for that purpose has been laid before Ld. Geo. Germaine & it is said is approved. The Eastern Shore is the first object, or place of landing.” This letter reached me just as three or 4 large Ships came lately into our Bay, and the Tory rising on the Maryld. Eastern Shore seemed to denote the beginning of this plan. But since, we learn that the Ships are gone & the Tories dispersed. My Informant is however so good, that I cannot help thinking something like a diversion, at least, will be attempted there next Cam paign. I cannot think they mean to relinquish their grand plan of joining their Canadian with Howes army. This consideration has ever made me wish that Ticonderoga, and the avenues leading to Canada, were well attended to, that the vigilance and Military talents of Gen. Carleton may be disappointed. We are informed by our Agent in Martinique 2 7th of Jany. that a Spanish General, in a Frigate bound to S. America, called at that place in distress, sought opportunities of assuring him of the King of Spains good will to assist these States, and that a loan of money might be obtained from that Court. He further said that a land and Sea force was gone to South America, where hostilities were before that time commenced with


[Page 417]
February 27, 1777 385 Portugal. The French finances are low, but the Spanish are not so, and the opportunity is so tempting that I think a general war in Europe un avoidable. At least, I hope so. I have sent you inclosed, the translation of a letter from Doctr. De Bourg to Doctr. Franklin which lately came to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. It furnishes much useful informa tion, and evidences the old Gentlemans strong attachments to our cause. He is a Philosopher, a Physician, and a friend to America—And his inter est at Court very considerable. I have now to ask your pardon for this long letter, it is against my plan of not disturbing you, but perhaps it may be excused as I do it but seldom. I am at all times, and places, and upon every occasion; dear Sir Your most affectionate friend and obedient servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 An enclosed “Memorandum” listed eleven foreign officers and briefly described their military experience and the commitments made to them. 2 William Bingham. Robert Morris to William Bingham and Richard Harrison Gentlemen Philadelphia Feby. 27th. 1777 The Council of Safety of Maryland by their President Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Esqr. have desired me to remit you sufficient Funds to discharge an Obligation you were forced to enter into on account of a certain Capt. Patterson who commanded one of their armed Vessells and committed some Depredations within the Jurisdiction of Martinique. 1 I suppose this Remittance must be accomplished by shipping Produce to Martinique unless I can purchase a Bill. You may depend that I will do one or the other soon as possible and that I remain, Gentlemen, Your Obedt. hble servant, Robt Morris RC (PHarH). In a clerical hand and signed by Morris. 1 For Morris’ brief February 21 letter to Jenifer on the subject of the obligation incurred by Bingham and Harrison in behalf of Maryland, see Md. Archives, 16:150. Robert Morris to John Bradford [February 27, 1777] [....] My Friend Carter Braxton Esqr. of Virginia, that he has made a Contract there for a quantity of flour agreable to directions I gave him sometime ago on perceiving that this Article wou’d become scarce & dear


[Page 420]
388 February 27, 1777 bassadors to Notice him as an American that is one day or other to make a Figure in these United States. I am sure nothing more need be said on this Subject.” Deane Papers, CtHi. Robert Morris to George Washington Dear Sir Philada. Feby 27th. 1777 I have your favour of the 22d Inst. 1 which wears a very serious counte nance and the opinion I entertain of the Strength of your Judgement and propriety of your observations, creates doubts in my mind which I confess I had discarded, as to the safety of this City. From various ac counts I have been taught to believe that the Enemy have since Christmass lost so many Horses, are in such want of Forage, and their remaining Cavalry so worn down, that the defects in this department alone wou’d render any Movement of their Main body impossible without strong reinforcements. If such be their situation, a reinforcement of men without fresh & large supplys of Horses, waggons & Forage, wou’d only embarras them, and oblige ’em the sooner to quite their present station, and prob ably this may still happen, but when I find you so very Urgent to have the public Stores removed from hence, knowing as you must, that the expence & loss or Waste arising by such removal, amounts almost to the same thing as a total destruction of them It serves to convince me I have been misinformed as to the real state of the Enemy with respect to Horses, Waggons & Forage, especially as you don’t say one Word of their deficiencys in these articles that I remember. I have therefore complyed litterally with your wishes & the Committee have given orders to every department to remove all Stores not immediately wanted, as fast as they can. It seems to me however that the Enemy will be pressed with very great difficultys in their designs on this place. Allowing some degree of truth to their want of Horses, Waggons and Forage, those wants will be infinitely more felt since the late fall of Snow than before, for the Snow before it melts will exceedingly impede the motions of the stoutest Horses. They will require more dry food as nothing can be got from the sod and the difficulty of obtaining such food, as I apprehend, will be greatly encreased by your parties particularly the Rifle Men. When the Snow melts it will render the Road totally impassible for the Carriages must then be dragged through mud instead of Snow, in short my Dear Sir I cannot help conceiving that General Howe’s situation somewhat resembles that of a strong Bull in Trammells, sensible of his own strength, he grows mad with rage & resentment when he finds himself deprived of the use of it. The Bull may not so well understand the causes of his dis apointment & therefore may be more patient & I fancy if my picture has any resemblance to the truth patience wou’d be of great use to the


[Page 421]
February 27, 1777 389 British Commander. If you find him embarrassed in these trammells provided by kind Providence I hope you will be able to teaze & harrass him untill our New Enlistments shall put him in your power, or oblige him to take shelter onbd the Shipping provided for that & other purposes. I do not like to be too sanguine & yet it is very necessary in a Contest like this we are engaged in to view the best side of the Picture frequently. Remember good Sir, that few men ever keep their feelings to themselves, & that it is necessary for example sake that all leaders shoud feel & think bold in order to inspirit those that look up to them. Heaven (no doubt for the noblest purposes) has blessed you with a Firmness of mind, Steadiness of Countenance and patience in sufferings that give you in finite advantages over other men. This being the case you are not to de pend on other Peoples exertions being equal to your own. One mind feeds & thrives on misfortunes by finding resources to get the better of them, another sinks under their weight, thinking it impossible to resist and as the latter description probably includes the majority of mankind we must be cautious of alarming them. Under this Idea I have been backward about removing the public stores, well knowing that a panic is sooner caused than retrieved, and I confess myself much hurt at finding you con cerned. Your admonitions on that score were not attended to; during our greatest alarm here and when our prospects were of the worst, when my inward feelings were most wrung, I put a good face on things and was then Convinced it was of infinite use. I hate deception and cannot wish anything like it shou’d ever escape you, but I really think if the bright side of our affairs were sometimes to be painted by your pen or sanctifyed by your name it wou’d draw forth the exertions of some good men sooner than distress does from others. I hope you will excuse me for this stile of writing which almost amounts to the confidential. Was I sure of such being received in the same light in which I write it, I shou’d lament to you the absence of many great good & valueable Men from Congress, for if great care is not taken, that Body, so respectable from the Nature of the appointment, the Importance of its objects, and the re spectable Characters of its heretofore individual Members, will loose great part of its Weight & Consequences in the Eyes of our own People. We have now to lament the absence from the Public Councils of America, of a Johnson, a Jay, R. R. Livingston, Duane, Deane, W. Livingston, Franklin, Dickenson, Harrison, Nelson, Hooper, Rutledge & others not less conspicuous, without any proper appointments to fill their places, and this at the very time they are most wanted, or wou’d be so, if they had not very wisely supplied the deficiency by Delegating to your Excellency Certain powers that they durst not have entrusted to any other man. But what is to become of America & its cause if a constant fluctuation is to take place amongst its Counsellors & at every change we find reason to view it with regret? However this is deviating from my own plan. I am holding up the wrong side of the picture, altho I am one of those People


[Page 424]
392 February 28, 1777 the dupes of these infamous wretches. Our best respects to Mr C., Lady & family. Adieu my dear Col. Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (MdBJ-G). ■ 1 Lee apparently did not return immediately to Philadelphia. In his March 24 letter to Robert Purviance, written from Annapolis, Lee noted that “tomorrow I set off for Philadelphia.” Gratz Collection, PHi. And according to his accounts with the Commonwealth of Virginia, he next attended Congress on April 2, 1777. Emmet Collection, NN. 2 See Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 21, 1777. Secret Committee to Robert and Samuel Purviance, Jr. In Secret Committee of Congress Gentlemen, Baltimore Feby. 28th, 1777 We are informed that you have in your hands Nineteen hundred and eight pounds, eight shillings & six pence this currency by a Captain Bailey as the property of Monsr. Le Croix of the Island of Hispaniola—And as it appears that the said Bailey & Monsr. Le Croix have combined together to defraud the United States of a Cargo of Flour which said Bailey was directed to deliver at another place, in consequence of which, a Brig loaded here and now in this harbor, claimed by said Le Croix hath been detained by the Secret Committee under order of Congress. 1 The Com mittee willing to interrupt foreign Commerce as little as possible but at the same time obliged to secure the public from injury have directed said Vessel & Cargo to be released, taking care to secure for the Con tinent the above sum of 1908 pounds, 8/6 this Currency in your hands. You are therefore desired to retain in your hands, and apply to the use of the Secret Committee that money so left with you by Capt. Bailey, and for so doing we warrant you in the name of the Congress of the United States of America. Richard Henry Lee Wm Whipple Fras Lewis RC (NjGbS). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Lewis, and Whipple. 1 For additional details of this affair, see JCC, 7:66-67. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Baltimore 28 Feby 1777 Since my last which I think was the 18th inst I have received Yours of the 31st Deer & 22 Jany. I hope by this time a Sufficient force are at


[Page 425]
February 28, 1777 393 & on their march to Ticonderoga for the defence of that Place, Congress are very sensible of the importance of it, and have done every thing in their Power to render the post secure. What remains to be done re mains intirely with the executive, which is to raise the men & direct their operations. I suppose all the Troop from N.H. will be order’d to the Northward, Col. Poor is promoted to the Rank of Brigadier & I suppose will have the immediate command of those Troops. This Gen tn is highly recomended by the Genls under whom he has serv’d & I hope will do Honor to his Country. No accounts yet from our Commissioners at Foreign Courts. The last advice from France was 25th Octo by which there seems to be no doubt of a Europian war. Our agent at Martinico writes that he had seen a letter from the K of F to the Genl, of Hispaniola (who had asked leave to go home) desiring him to tarry as he wanted an experienced officer to command his Troops in America. 1 We have many hints of this sort which discovers that both F. & S. are dispos’d to break with Britain. A Spanish Genl, in his way to Cuba call’d at Martinica, & while there took every oppory of confering with our Agent & assur’d him that his Master wo’d do every thing in his power to serve the United States & only waited for proper application which (inter nos) I expect has been made before this time. In short our affairs so far as relates to foreign Powers wear as favorable an aspect as we can Expect. The greatest diffi culty we have to incounter is to keep up the credit of our Currency which must be done by Taxing the People, & clearing the Country of its Enemies, for those people who are commonly call’d Tories do more mischief in that way then we are aware of. RC (MH-H). In Whipple’s hand, though not signed. 1 For further information on these letters of Silas Deane and William Bingham, see Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Gerry, February 25, 1777, notes 1 and 2. James Wilson to Robert Morris Dear Sir: Baltimore 28 Feby 1777 I was favoured with your very friendly and obliging Letter. 1 It gives me Pleasure to find my Sentiments upon the Subject of my Letter Cor responds with yours. What in the name of Wonder, has induced the Assembly to reappoint me? 2 I am undetermined how to act; I really think I could be more useful to the Public in another Character. I shall have the Pleasure of seeing you in Philadelphia the week after next; when we shall have an opportunity of talking over political and other Subjects. The Adjournment to Philadelphia] was not carried without some Difficulty and some Warmth. The Measure, I am persuaded, will have


[Page 428]
396 March 2, 1777 RC (PHi). Addressed: “To William Bingham Esqr., Agent to the United States of America in Martinico.” 1 Morris also wrote Bingham the following brief letter on March 10, 1777. “Mr. Benjn. Hogeland a very worthy Young Man that has lived with Willing, Morris & Co. many Years as Book keeper requests a Credit on you which I cannot refuse, therefore beg the favour of you to supply him or answer his orders to the Amount of Fifty pounds. “Capt. Young of the Sloop Independance also desires a Credit for One hundred Pounds but is not certain that he shall use it. However, if his occasions require I beg you will supply him & charge the amot. of both to Willing, Morris & Co.” Mason-Franklin Collection, CtY. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Baltimore March 2d 1777 The bearer has permission to go to your state to solicit the discharge of the prisoners taken after the defeat at Moore’s Greek. He being a simple unobnoxious creature, I consented to his going, at their request, tho’ their Endeavour was to get some more knowing one. I believe his Em bassy will not be very successful; for I told them, they must not expect ever to live in North Carolina on any other terms than swearing alligiance to the state & giving security for their good behaviour: but this they do not relish. They are desirous of knowing whether their families & prop erty will be reserved for them, if they are exchanged. Farquhard Campbell speaks with much resentment & haughtiness; he seems to think the state ought to court him to become her subject. I found they were not at all secure in close confinement, & the guarding them was exceedingly ex pensive. I therefore consented to their being on parole in Frederick Town in this state. 1 They are incessant importuners, & I believe every Delegate is glad they are removed from the residence of Congress. Angus Mc Donald, the bearer, is to return to them if you think proper. I am, Sir, with due respect & esteem, your Excellency’s most obedt serv’t, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 See JCC, 7:102. A March 3 letter to Caswell from Farquhard Campbell, describing the opposition of Burke and William Hooper to the return of these prisoners to North Carolina, is in N.C. State Records, 11:403-5. For an earlier effort by these prisoners to return home, see William Hooper to the North Carolina Convention, November 1, 1776, note. John Hancock to Dorothy Hancock My Dear At Mr Godgraces half past 1 oClock, March 3d 1777 Thro’ much bad Road I arriv’d here at 1 oClock, in good order, I as sure the Roads are exceeding bad. I met Govr Johnston who is just come


[Page 431]
March 6, 1777 399 compare other Virginians with him, and they will appear in brighter colours. It is by comparison only that we judge of men and actions, therefore a few bad men or actions make good men and actions show more conspicuously. I am still in the small pox, therefore cannot write more than that I am, Your affectionate friend, Mann Page, Jun. MS not found; reprinted from Papers Relating Chiefly to the Maryland Line during the Revolution, ed. Thomas Balch (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy- Six Society, 1857), pp. 77-78. 1 Undoubtedly a reference to Page’s note of February 23, in which he informed Weedon that he was “under inoculation for the Small Pox, which makes it painful to my eyes to write more than to congratulate you upon your being appointed a Brigadier General, and to offer you my services upon any other and every other occasion.” Ibid, pp. 94-95. Weedon had been appointed a brigadier general on February 21. JCC, 7:141. 2 On February 9 a court martial had cashiered Col. Mordecai Buckner, of the Sixth Virginia Regiment, for his cowardice during a January 23 engagement near Brunswick, N.J. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:122. John Adams to James Warren My dear sir, Philadelphia March 6. 1777 Dr Jackson, by whom this will go, is a Manager of the State Lottery, and is bound to the New England States, to forward the Sale of the Ticketts. He wishes to be recommended to proper Persons for the Pur pose. If you can assist him with your Advise you will do a public service. I can give you no News—but the Skirmish at Spank town. This State of Pensilvania, have at last compleated their Government. Wharton is Governor and Bryan Lt Governor. 1 Their Council too is at last filled. Johnson is Governor of Maryland. 2 Govr. Livingstons Speech you will see. I hope now, the Loan offices will supply us with Money, and preclude the Necessity of any further Emissions. If they dont, what shall We do? But they will. I am at last got to think more about my own Expences than any Thing else. Twenty dollars a Cord for Wood. Three Pounds a Week for Board, meaning Breakfast, Dinner, and bed—without one drop of Liquer, or one Spark of light or fire. I am lost in an ocean of Expence. Horse feed in Proportion—five hundred Sterling will not pay my Expences for this year—at this Rate. 3 Pray make every Body who has Money lend it, that Things may not grow worse. The loan office in this Town is very successfull. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 'Thomas Wharton, Jr., and George Bryan were elected president and vice- president of Pennsylvania on March 5, 1777. Pa. Council Minutes, 11:173-74.


[Page 439]
March 6, 1777 407 1776. Deer. 14. Paid Capt. Nath. Falconer the balance of an Acct, of this expences to the Eastwd. when he was sent by the Secret & Marine Comes, to transact public business 177.10. 20th Paid Oswall Eve balance of his Acct, for manu- facturg. Gunpowdr 127.7.6 1777. Feby. 15. Paid Capt. Jeremiah Morgan to be chargd to his Acct 80. 15. Paid Capt. Sami. Smith junr. of the Ship Han cock & Adams 4 toward the freight of sd. vessel to be chargd her owner B[lai]r Meclanaghan 1125. 18. Paid J.R. Levingston Esqr. in part for manu- facturg. gunpowder 258.11.3 24. Paid Js. Fulton for porterage of G. powder &c 13.12 24. Paid Mr. Blaquiere for the fol[lowin]g Stores purchasd. from him: 89 Casks powdr. Wt 7104 lb at 4s, £2486.8.0. 18 Kegs flints 24400 at 40s, 48.16.0. 2 Bales match rope 135 lb [at] 15d, 8.8.9. 3 ream Cartge paper [at] 24s, £3.12 2547.4.9 Feby. 3d. Paid Capt. Dani. Bigelow of the Sloop Ranger for demurrge on sd. sloop while detaind in this port, to be chargd Messrs. Silas & Barnabas Deane 51. Do. 13th. G. Losch in part for manufaetg. Gun powder 250. J. Russel the amount of his Acct, for storage of Salt petre 11. £4641. 6.4 The Cash for paying the above Accts, was supplied by the Marine Come. & the Navy board has been directed to charge the Acct, to this Come, in their books. An order was drawn on Capt. Biglow of the Sloop Ranger, to de liver Corny. Carpenter Wharton for the use of the Army, all the Salt imported in sd. sloop from Curraco to be placd to the credit of Messrs. S. & B. Deane. Feby. 8th. Reed, from the Come, of Congress an order on Ths. Smith L. Officer of the State for 10,000 dlls in Certificates, wch. was receivd & sent to J. Bradford Esqr. at Boston by Patrick McCloskey an Express, to be laid out in the purchase of Goods for the pub. Acct, agreable to orders now transmitd. him. March 6th. Reed, from Michl. Hillegas Esqr. C[ontinenta]l Treasr. at Baltimore 120,000 dlls, wch. was brought up & deposited in the hands of Messrs. Mease & Caldwell & taken afterward from them & this day


[Page 440]
408 March 6, 1777 sent off to Boston, by Freeman Palsifer an express to be deliverd Messrs. Livingston & Turnbull then agts. for purchasing cloathing in the Eastn. States. MS (MH—H). This entry is preceded by the copyist’s notation that “Here the Minutes begin in the handwriting of Mr. Robert Morris” and by the statement that “On examining the papers deliverd me, by the Committee on their return from Baltimore I find they did not keep any book of Minutes therefore the follow ing are extracted from the said Papers. R. Morris.” 1 This date has been assigned because the last “summary” paragraph in the Journal of the Secret Committee appears under the date March 6. 2 At this point the copyist keyed the following note: “This Steward for purchases on public Acct, had remitted to him by the Come. 3733 30/90. See p. 137.” It was actually Stephen Stewart who received this sum from the committee. See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, May 31, 1777. For more details about the remittance made to David Stewart, see Robert Morris to John Hancock, January 6, 1777. 3 At this point the copyist noted “here Mr. Morris’s writing ends.” * Extracts of affidavits made by Robert Morris in 1785 and by Blair McClenachan in 1786 concerning the Secret Committee’s December 1776 agreement with Mc Clenachan for the charter of the Hancock and Adams, extracts of documents pertaining to the British capture of this ship in January 1778 during its return voyage from France, and a copy of McClenachan’s 1786 account with Congress for this ship are in the Lee Family Papers, MH-H. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia March 7. 1777 I am returned in tolerable Health to this Town—have received but one Letter from you since I left you, that which you sent by Mr. Rice. If you send Letters to Goll. Warren, or your Unkle Smith, they will be conveyed, with safety. I hope the Post Office will be upon a better footing soon. An Army is gathering in the Jerseys. They have frequent Skirmishes, and the Enemy generally come off second best. Whether We shall stay long here is uncertain. If We remove it will not be far. This will go by Dr. Jackson one of the Managers of the Lottery. I hope it will find you all well. I conjecture you have cold Weather and snow enough. We had at Baltimore last Saturday and Sunday a deep Snow and very sharp frost, such as froze over the Susquehannah, and obliged Us to ride up 15 miles, to cross the River at Bald fryars. We found a deep snow all the Way to this Place. Maryland and Pensilvania, have at last compleated their Govern ments. Mr. Johnson is Governor of the first and Thomas Wharton Jur. of the other.


[Page 441]
March 7, 1777 409 The Delaware State too have finished theirs. Mclnlay is Governor. 1 They have also chosen new Delegates to Congress. So have S. Carolina— so has Pensilvania. So has Maryland. There is indeed every where a more chearfull Face upon Things than there was. South Carolina is said to have a great Trade and a plenty of Things. Salt comes in frequently and there is a Prospect of supply, though dear. Our national Revenue is now the most delicate and important Ob ject We have to regulate. If this could be put upon a proper footing, We should be happy. Money comes in fast upon Loan, which is one great Step—but We must take others. I sent you from Baltimore, by Captn. Harden, to the Care of your Unkle a Barrell of Burr flour. I hope it will not be taken, but you know I am not lucky in trade. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:168-69. 1 John McKinly (1721-96), Wilmington physician, was elected president of Delaware by joint ballot of the council and assembly on February 12, 1777. Minutes of the Council of the Delaware State, from 1776 to 1792 (Wilmington: Historical Society of Delaware, 1887), pp. 67-68. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia March 7. 1777 The President who is just arrived from Baltimore, came in a few Minutes ago and delivered me, yours of Feb. 8, which he found at Susquehannah River, on its way to Baltimore. It gives me great Pleasure to find that you have received so many Let ters from me, altho I knew they contained nothing of importance. I feel a Restraint in Writing like that which you complain of, and am deter mined to go on trifling. However, the Post now comes regularly, and I believe you may trust it. I am anxious and impatient to hear of the March of the Massachusetts Soldiers for the new Army. They are much wanted. This City is a dull Place, in Comparason of what it was. More than one half the Inhabitants have removed into the Country, as it was their Wisdom to do—the Remainder are chiefly Quakers as dull as Beetles. From these neither good is to be expected nor Evil to be apprehended. They are a kind of neutral Tribe, or the Race of the insipids. How may possibly attempt this Town, and a Pack of sordid Scoun drels male and female, seem to have prepared their Minds and Bodies, Houses and Cellars for his Reception: but these are few, and more despicable in Character than Number. America will loose nothing, by


[Page 447]
March 7, 1777 415 Howe is now forming another expedition against this place and I shall not think this City safe whilst the principal part of its defence depends on Militia, and altho our New Army has been recruiting a Considerable time yet we do not find them so forward as coud be wished. The want of cloath- ing &c keeps them back a good deal, but we are spurring them on as much as possible. I do most sincerely hope you will negotiate the Loan & send out the Articles Wanted as we might then have leisure to make remittances with greater security than we can if done precipitately. We have bought considerable quantities of produce in various parts & shall export it as fast as the times, Seasons & Enemies Ships will permit. This you may depend on, and the Produce of this Country if it coud once be exported freely will soon discharge the Debt it may be necessary to Contract. The Committee will all be here next Week & write you fully themselves. In the mean time I remain with perfect Esteem & Respect, Gentn, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris [P.S.] This goes by Monsr. Coleaux who promises to deliver it & a Packet of News Papers. RC (PPAmP). 1 See Morris to William Bingham, February 26, 1777, note 4. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. No. 3. Philadelphia 7th March 1777 Since My last have receiv’d Yours of 31st Deer. & 22d Jany. to which I shall reply very soon not having time at present, The design of this being to introduce to you Mr. Jackson one of Managers of the states Lottery whose business to the Eastward is to dispose of Tickets in doing which I doubt not you’ll render him every service in your Power. 1 Congress adjournd from Baltimore the 28th Ulto & I arrivd here Yesterday & hope tomorrow there will be members enough to make a house. I must refer you to Mr Jackson for news not having time to give you a long letter even if I had any thing material to write but hope shall soon be able to give you something very interesting. The speach of the Gov. of New Jersey will I dare say please you. It is with that design I inclose it. I am Your very affecte Frd, Wm. Whipple RC (MH-H). 1 This day Whipple also wrote a letter of introduction for David Jackson to John Langdon, in which he reported: “Since my last I have rec’d your favor of the 15th January and a duplicate of 21st to which I have not time at this time to reply particularly but think they have been principally answered in some of my former letters.” Whipple also added in a postscript: “You don’t mention in any of your letters Capt Smith’s receipt or Col. Thornton’s order. I shall be glad to know if they are come to hand. By my next I shall send you another order on Col Weare for 400 dollars.” Peter Force Collection, DLC.


[Page 450]
418 March 9, 1777 mine, but not to disguise my sentiments at all, there are some of them, particularly from New England that I begin to think quite unequal to the high Command they hold. It is very true that Success generally marks the man of Wisdom, and in Some Instances Injustice is done to unsuccessfull Merit: But still it is generally true that success is a Mark of Wisdom and that Misfortunes are owing to Misconduct. The sense of Mankind has uniformly Sup ported this opinion and therefore I cannot but think it just. The Same Sense has uniformly attributed the ill Success of Armies to the Incapacity or other Imperfections of the General officers, a Truth which I have Sometimes presumed to Hint to some of our General officers with whom I could make so free. There Seems to be Justice in this because the Glory of Successfull wars is so uniformly attributed to them. I shall join with you, very chearfully, in burying past Errors, and in wishing to concoct and execute the most effectual Measures to free America from her cruel oppressors. You ask why G. Lee is denyed his Request? 2 You ask, can any Injury arise? Will it reflect any Dishonour upon Congress. I don’t know that it would reflect any dishonour, nor was it refused upon that Principle. But Congress was of opinion that great Injuries would arise. It would take up too much Time to recapitulate all the Arguments which were used upon occasion of his Letter. But Congress was never more unanimous, than upon that Question. Nobody I believe would have objected against a Conference, concerning his private affairs or his particular case. But it was conceivable that a Conference should be necessary upon Such Sub jects. Any Thing relative to those might have been conveyed by Letter. But it appears to be an artfull Stratagem of the two gratefull Brothers to hold up to the public View the Phantom of a Negotiation, in order to give Spirit and Courage to the Torries, to distract and divide the Whiggs, at a critical Moment when the Utmost Exertions are necessary to draw to gether an Army. The Words of the Count La Tour, 3 upon a similar occa sion, ought to be adopted by Us. “Remember that now there is room neither for Repentence, nor for Pardon. We must no longer reason nor deliberate. We only want Concord and Steadiness. The Lot is cast. If we prove victorious, We shall be a just, free and Sovereign People: if We are conquered, we shall be Traitors, perjured Persons and Rebels.” “The Princes of the Union were not diligent enough in preparing for war. They Suffered themselves to be amused with Proposals of accommo dation, they gave the League time to bring together great Forces, and after that, they could no longer brave it. They committed the fault which is very- common in civil wars viz that People endeavour to save appearances. If a Party would save appearances, they must lie quiet, but if they will not lie quiet, they must push Things to an Extremity; without keeping any Measures. It rarely happens, but that otherwise they are at once both criminal and unfortunate.” Bailes Life of Gustavus Adolphus. 4


[Page 453]
March 10, 1777 421 curing money in that way, for the States. I suppose some will come in as the Interest is rais’d to 6 per Cent. I wish to be informed as often as pos sible what success the office meets with, also what probability there is of raising money by Tax, every measure ought to be taken by the several states to prevent depreciation. I arriv’d here the 6th inst & expect there will be members enough in town today to make a house. We have many reports of Genl. Howes preparing for some movements. It seems he has collected the Greatest part of his Strength at Brunswick. Some say he in tends to visit this City. If that shod be the case, I see no great difficulty in his geting here, but if he does, he is unavoidably Ruined. I have there fore too good an opinion of his Generalship to suppose he will attempt so Hazardous an enterprise. The inclosed letter I began at Baltimore as youll see but did not recollect it till I had wrote this and as there is some thots in it not express in this I inclose unfinish’d as it is to save time, 1 for I assure you I have very little to spare, tho’ that need not discourage you from writing for I can always find time to read Letters. I shod be exceeding glad to know all the proceedings of your Legislative body & hope some decisive measures will be adopted by them to free the Country of its Enemies. Your affecte Bror. W Whipple RC (MH-H). 1 Probably Whipple’s incomplete letter to Joseph of February 28, 1777. Whipple designated both this letter and one of March 7 to Joseph “No. 3.” Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philadelphia March 10th 1776 [i.e. 1777] I arrivd in this City from Baltimore last Saturday. Having been in- disposd there so as to be obligd to keep my Chamber ten days, I was un able to travel with my Friends, but through the Goodness of God I have got rid of my Disorder and am in good Health. Mrs Ross, at whose House I took Lodging in Baltimore treated me with great Civility and Kindness and was particularly attentive to me in my Sickness, and Wadsworth is as clever a young Man as I ever met with. Tell Mr Collson, if you see him, he more than answers my Expectation even from the good Character he gave me of him. I hope, my dear, that you and my Family enjoy a good Share of Health. It is my constant & ardent Prayer that the best of Heavens Blessings may rest on you and on them. I lately receivd a Letter from my Son, and since I came to this Place, General Morris of New York tells me he frequently saw him at Peeks Kill, and that he behavd well. Nothing gives me greater Satisfaction than to hear that he supports a good Reputation. I hope my Friends do not flatter me.


[Page 456]
424 March 10, 1777 Mrs. Washington got here on Saturday. I went to see her. She told me she Drank tea with you. Let Harry take the Continental Horse, Saddle & Bridle, that I left at Mr. Purviance’s & tell Mr. Purviance to charge his keeping in his public credit. If Capt Hardy returns the Horse I lent him with the Saddle & Bridle he must also come. Get the heavy waggon off as soon as you can, that they may be here as early as possible as we shall much want the things after you get here. I have got your bundle safe with the Petticoat, Table Cloth, I have not sent it as I thought you would not want it. MS not found; reprinted from Lorenzo Sears, John Hancock, The Picturesque Patriot (Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1912), pp. 215-18. 1 A reference to one of the South Carolina delegates, Thomas Heyward, Jr., or Arthur Middleton, although Hancock may have meant to refer to both “gentlemen.” William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 10th March 1777 Enclosed is an Order on Col Weare for three hundred and thirty dollars, which sum I supplyed Col Thornton with, which you’ll credit me with for on account of the Marine Committee. Sent you a similar order some time ago, also a receipt of Capt Smith’s which you have not mentioned the receipt. I wish to know whether they came safe to hand. 1 The removal of Congress from this place and the marching of the Mi litia puts matters here in such a confused situation that I have not been able to procure the dimensions for the 74 gun ship but expect to forward them next post. Chesapeake Bay is now entirely clear of the enemy so that if any of the vessels directed to be sent there should arrive about this time they will be safe. I am in very great haste, your affectionate friend &c, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). ‘On this point, see also William Whipple to Joseph Whipple, March 7, 1777, note. John Adams to William Tudor Dear Sir Philadelphia March 11, 1777 Yours of the 7th instant, I just reed. 1 Am glad to find the Post begins to do its Duty, and that Intelligence is like to be more regular. I doubt whether the Enemy have at Amboy and Brunswick so many as near 10,000 Men. But are they not posted in Smaller Numbers at other


[Page 457]
March 11, 1777 425 Places? Cannot these Places be attacked or Surprised? We must con tinually harrass them. As to their marching to Philadelphia, this is in an high degree improbable. If they leave Garrisons in Amboy and Bruns wick, they will not have Numbers. If they evacuate those Places, Troops are coming from all Quarters. They will not attempt Philadelphia, with out a large Army by Land, and a formidable Fleet in the River. They must wait for Reinforcements for this. I assure you, We have never had a Return, since I have been last in Congress. It grieves me to hear you Still complain of the Want of Disci pline. It is surely high Time to learn Wisdom. Are the officers dead to all Sense of Duty, and common Prudence? Every officer ought to be hanged, who does not discipline his Men every day. A great General will order officers the best Skilled in military Disci pline, to make his Troops perform their Exercises regularly, to make them encamp and decamp and in general to keep them inured to all the military Functions. He will frequently be present at all these Exercises, and will establish good order every where to which his Presence will contribute as much as his Capacity. I have learned from Marshall Saxe, and universal History, as well as the fatal Experience of the last Campaign a great deal of Contempt for Forts, and much more for long Lines. Heaven grant We may not again depend upon Such Reeds. Is it not criminal to hint at any fault at Fort Washington? I am as little pleased with the commanding officer at that Fort, as I am with the Generalship that lost it, with 2600 Men in it. Why was not a General officer in it? Why was it not defended like Bunker Hill? Do officers think that these Things are to be forgotten? Or that Vengeance will always sleep? As to the two officers you mention, I wish they were converted into Select Men. Yet there is no very conspicuous Difference between them, and many others that my opticks can discern. You promised me to keep a Journal, and send it me. It would give me great Pleasure, and much Information which I want. We have made Lincoln a Major General. I wish to know how it is liked and how he behaves. I wish We had better Materials than We have, but We must use the best We can get. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Tudor’s March 7 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia March 11th 1777 Our adjournment from Baltimore has put all our proceedings to a stand, & our unsettled situation has prevented my writing to you as often as I


[Page 458]
426 March 11, 1777 Thomas Burke


[Page 460]
428 March 11, 1777 accomplished political negotiator, is unknown amongst us, & must long be unknown, because it is to be acquired only by the most assiduous application, & long attentive exercise in the habit of it. Courts are the only schools where it can be learned, & we yet have them not, & probably shall not have them very soon. Every man’s soul now stands forth; & in every one you read in very legible characters, that the State he represents is more wise, virtuous, or powerful than any other, & therefore ought to dictate to the rest. Where the more palpable advantage of power is want ing, each, in his own imagination supplies the superiority in wisdom or virtue; & this, I believe, in time will be realised. For conscious strength begets a security which relaxes the more painful efforts of wisdom & virtue; while conscious weakness spurs them to their highest mettle. But, strength, Sir, irresistible strength must in the end overcome all opposition. The more powerful States by combining, can doubtless subjugate the more feeble, & opposition will but rouse them to more effectual efforts. I own, Sir, 1 am under no apprehensions from the New England States. Their situa tion & natural disadvantages will prevent their becoming formidable if uncombined with others. Their situation is remote, & in a manner de tached from the other States, especially ours to the Southward, & nature has in general denied them a fertile soil. Their principal resources will always be in commerce & fisheries. This indeed will give them ships & seamen; but they can not support the one, or fit out the others, without the assistance of other States, & other States can not be excluded from fish ing & navigation. Their strength may indeed be competent to internal defence, but, I believe, not to foreign conquests. I think the most formid able combination would be Massachusetts, Pennsylvania & Virginia. The first has power sufficient to overawe & consequently to direct the other three New England States. The second could equally influence Jersey & Delaware. Virginia would be formidable to her Southern neighbours, & Maryland. New York could not resist a combination of Pennsylvania and Massachusetts; Maryland must fall a sacrifice to Pennsylvania & Virginia. Against this powerful confederacy, I fear, we should not be able to hold out long; & yet North Carolina seems to me best calculated to check the ambition of Virginia. I can not help, Sir, apprehending that any resolu tion of Congress, wherein the three formidable above mentioned States concur, must be carried into effect, even if it tended to annihilate the Independence of other States, & divided their Territory. I have said that virtue would increase or give birth to this danger. Thus I explain myself. The virtue most cultivated will be that which will most distinguish a man in the State in which he resides. The grandeur & preeminence of that State will be the favourite passion of every man in it. A zealous love for that grandeur & preeminence, & a capacity to promote it, will be what must best distinguish & recommend any individual in it. In a word, patri otism in America must always be partial to the particular States. Patriot ism to the whole will never be cherished or regarded, but as it may be con-


[Page 462]
430 March 11, 1777 those in which my country is particularly interested, I wish her to be fully informed of. To you, Sir, her principal guardian, I shall submit them with all the simplicity of unadorned truth; & where they are reprehensible I wish them to be reproved. 3 The last matter in the abstract will show you, that even thus early men so eminent as members of Congress are willing to explain away any power, that stands in the way of their particular pur poses. 4 What may we not expect some time hence, when the seat of power shall become firm by habit, & men will be accustomed to obedience, & perhaps forgetful of the original principles which gave rise to it. I believe, Sir, the root of the evil is deep in human nature: its growth may be kept down, but it can not be entirely extirpated. Power will one time or other be abused, unless men are well watched, & checked by something which they can not remove, when they please. This State is very unhappy at present; so powerful a party opposes the new Constitution, that I fear the Magistrate will not be obeyed. I am told Doctor Franklin persuaded them, by a simile, to reject a second branch of the Legislature. He said two branches would resemble a waggon with two horses at the tongue & two at the tail, who by pulling opposite ways would keep the machine still. I think the simile would have been more apt, had it represented four horses yoked to the tongue, whose business it is to assist one another in pulling on the plain, & up hill, & through all difficult places, but in going down hill the two hindmost should oppose the motion of the machine, & prevent its running too fast, to the prejudice of the horses themselves & all concerned. This simile of the Doctor’s is said to have kindled the present flame. One can hardly suppress the reflection, that the people who could be so much influenced by it, were wonderfully competent to frame Constitutions! Our expenses here, Sir, are incredible: every horse is ten shillings a day, & every thing else in proportion. 5 Tr (Nc-Ar). FC (Nc-Ar). 1 In the FC the preceding part of this sentence reads: “Whoever will Consider that no man can be known all over America until he becomes Eminent in their Councils or Armies, and that he can never get admittance into either in any con siderable Rank but through the favor of his particular State, and that he cannot obtain their favor by any other means than Convincing them that their Wishes will always be first Objects of his attention, whoever, I say, Considers this will not dispute the Truth of my Observation.” Alongside this passage Burke wrote in the margin: “This thought is expressed in a more Concise manner in the original.” a “Jurisdiction and authority” in FC. 8 Burke added the following clause to this sentence in the FC: “that the public Servants in this Department may better learn their Duty, and that I in particular may be Instructed not to give the Sense of the State in a Manner which She may not approve.” 4 See Burke’s Notes of Debates, February 26 and 27, 1777. "For the continuation of this letter, see Burke to Caswell, March 19, 1777.


[Page 465]
March 11, 1777 433 [P.S.] Do let Harry Buy & bring 1 or 2 Bushells of Parsnips. Bring all the wine, none to be got here. 3 MS not found; reprinted from Lorenzo Sears, John Hancock, The Picturesque Patriot (Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1912), pp. 219-22. 1 Thus in Sears’ text. 3 At this point, Sears inserted an ellipsis and the editorial notation “the writing is here illegible.” 8 Hancock wrote another letter to Dorothy two days later in which he admonished her to “take care of Genl. Washington’s mug. Take care in crossing the ferries. . . . Do not be too venturesome. Had you not better take some bedding in the light wagon as you will be here before the heavy wagons. I dare say you will order every thing with the utmost propriety. I commit you and family to the care of a kind Providence and hope you will have a safe and quick journey.” Thomas Madigan Catalog (November 1928), p. 38, item 102. John Hancock to the New York Delegates In Congress Chamber, Philadelphia, March 11,1777. Resolved, (as the opinion of the representatives of eight of the United States now convened at the State House in Philadelphia,) That the criti cal state of our affairs requires the immediate meeting of Congress, and that the President be, and he is hereby requested to send a message by express to the Delegates of the Delaware State, and another to the Dele gates of the State of New-York, desiring their attendance in Congress, that for want thereof the business of the Continent may no longer be delayed. Gentlemen, In consequence of the foregoing resolve, 1 I am most earnestly to request you will be pleased to give your attendance in Congress at this place as speedily as possible; our affairs require immediate atten tion, and it is absolutely necessary there should be a full representation; I therefore hope to have the pleasure of seeing you here immediately. I am much hurried; can only add, that I am, with much esteem, gentlemen, Your most obedt. servt. John Hancock, Presidt. MS not found; reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:409. 1 This resolve does not appear in the journals of Congress. The journals were not maintained daily between Congress’ February 27 adjournment in Baltimore and March 12, when a quorum finally was available in Philadelphia. Since Secre tary Thomson did not return to Philadelphia and resume keeping the journals until March 24, the entries for March 14-23 were kept by President Hancock and his secretary, Jacob Rush. Although the journal for March 12—13 is in Thomson’s hand, he must have made these entries after the fact and on the basis of rough notes kept by Hancock and Rush, since according to his own testimony (in an April 22 letter to Washington) he was not in Philadelphia at this time. Immediately after the entry in the journal for February 27 stating that Congress was adjourning to return to Philadelphia, there is a notation by Hancock listing some orders Congress issued on March 24. Hancock must have entered these orders under the former date because they were issued in response to a report of the Board of Treasury that was delivered during Congress’ recess. PCC, item 1, 7:174, 8:1—23.


[Page 469]
March 12, 1777 437 The members of Congress having left this a few days afterwards, by adjournment to Philadelphia, the appraisers when met, declared them selves inadequate to the appointment, being totally unacquainted with the value of those goods; which, together with the captain and crew’s opposition to that mode, produced an agreement between the parties, that all should be sold at auction, except the woollens and coarse linens, which the Congress was to take at the rates of a dollar currency for what cost one shilling sterling, for the woollens, and 4^. 6d. per yard for the coarse linens; the rest of the cargo that sold at vendue, I compute upon an average, went off at about one thousand per cent: as a specimen, yard wide Irish linen, that cost 2s. 8d. per yard sterling, sold for 24s. currency per yard; a dollar is 7s. Gd. Cordage sold at £14 5s. per cwt. I forgot to mention that in answer to my arguments against the motion, Congress availed themselves of a letter from General Washington, advising them that the Convention at Fishkill had there stopped (as I think) thirty-six wagons laden with clothing for the army immediately under his command. He says, “indeed I cannot blame them, knowing their dis tressed situation.” However, of this a handle was made to obviate my objections. 3 The sale of the schooner’s cargo is now completed. In short, such was the exorbitant prices which these goods sold at, that I was deterred from making a considerable purchase. Add to this the difficulty of procuring conveyances, which are all employed in transporting the Congress’s stores, the member’s baggage, together with that of the new battalions on their march to Head-Quarters, I have only bought a few casks of barley, some coils of cordage, and the four X cut saws, thinking they might be of service with Genl. Schuyler at Albany; and these perhaps I may be obliged to leave behind for the public, for want of conveyance. The trial of the brigantine laden with salt, is to come on on Tuesday the 18th inst.; I believe she will be acquitted by the Admiralty court, being claimed by an inhabitant of this town; if so, Capt. Rogers intends appealing to Congress, as it appears by the register and papers found on board, that she was owned in Ireland, and bound to N- , which the claimants pretend was only for a cover. Capt. Rogers has his sloop almost ready for the sea, and intends sailing as soon as the brigantine’s trial is over, but informs me that himself and crew are entitled to a moiety of all captures: upon my asking him for his articles, he told me that his agreement was verbal, i.e. to be upon the same footing with armed vessels fitted out by the Congress, which were originally one-third for the captors; but that previous to .his taking these two last prizes, Congress had extended it to one-half. As this is contrary to the tenor of your last letter, I shall cause the distribution of the prize money to be deferred, until I receive your further instructions on this head. 4 Our State being still unrepresented in Congress, it was thought neces sary I should remain here a few days longer to transact some business in the


[Page 474]
442 March 14, 1777 John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia March 14. 1777 Congress has been sitting several Days and proceeding upon Business. I have been in Town above a Week and have spent much of my Time, in making Inquiries after the cheapest Places in Town for Board and stabling. I have at last removed my Horses from a stable at six and six Pence a Night, to another at three dollars a Week each. So that for the future I am to pay only six dollars a Week for Hay and Oats for my Horses. Oats they must have here, for the Hay is such as our Horses cannot live upon, nor indeed their own. I am this day to remove my Quarters, from three Pounds a Week for myself and thirty shillings for my servant, to another Place where they vouchsafe to keep me for forty seven and six Pence, and my servant for twenty shillings. 1 I shall then live at the cheapest Lay. 2 Cheap indeed! What will become of you, I know not. How you will be able to live is past my Comprehension, but I hope the Regulation of Prices, will be of Service to you. I dont know whether I have mentioned to you in any former Letter, that I sent you a Barrell of burr flour from Baltimore, by Captn. Harden, in your Uncles Vessell. I hope she is not taken. I wish to hear often from you. Believe the Post may be now trusted. Believe me to be more yours, and more anxious for your Welfare than any Words can express. The Government of Pensilvania is taking Root down wards, and bearing Fruit upwards, notwithstanding the Squibbs in the News Papers. They are making Treason Laws and Militia Laws, &c. The Jersey Government is making a Militia Law too. The People of that State will be all soldiers. They are exasperated, to a great degree, at the Treatment they have received, and are panting for Revenge. The Quakers too are inflamed with Resentment. They say, that they were used worse, than any other People. In a Time of Warr, and especially a War like this, one may see the Necessity and Utility, of the divine Prohibitions of Revenge, and the In junctions of forgiveness of Injuries and love of Enemies, which We find in the Christian Religion. Unrestrained, in some degree by these benevo lent Laws, Men would be Devils, at such a Time as this. Prattle for me to my little Friends. Give them my best Wishes, Blessings and Prayers. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:174—75. 1 Adams lodged at Mrs. Sarah Yard’s until March 14, when he moved to Capt. Robert Duncan’s on Walnut Street between Second and Third streets. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:257n.7. 2 Rate or terms. OED.


[Page 475]
March 14, 1777 443 Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debates Philadelphia [March 14,] 1777 1 There was a Debate on the Subject of Retaliation soon after the arrival of the Congress at Philadelphia, occasioned by a suggestion of General Washington that our Circumstances made it impolitic to use such Lan guage, the Enemy have a superiority over us in Captive Officers at least six to one. That there is still subsisting an agreement for exchange which the resolutions of Congress for retaliation might violate. 2 Some extraordinary Opinions were thrown out by Mr. Loval and Doctor Weatherspoon, tending to the Doctrine that we were bound by no such agreements no longer than we found them convenient. Several Gentlemen denied this Doctrine, but maintained that the Enemy’s treat ment of General Lee was an infringement on their part, and the agreement was therefore become void. North Carolina vehemently opposed the Doctrine alledging that it vio lated all public Faith, and was in a word declaring to mankind that we ought never to be trusted. That it was good policy even abstracted from all moral Consideration, to keep inviolate the Faith of Nations, because on that alone was founded all compact between them, that to a young Country the reputation of Fidelity was as Essential as that of Immaculate Chastity to a Young Beauty, the Smallest blot in either must sink the Subject forever in the Estimation of mankind. That if the Cartile (which he was not informed of) was violated by the Resolutions of Congress, he was clearly of Opinion that they ought to be rescin[d]ed. The Debate now turned on the Question whether the Treatment of General Lee was an infringement. The Facts produced to prove it were the Confinement of the General under Custody of the Provost at New York, and the Evasions of General How to the Question whether he should be considered as a Prisoner of War or not. North Carolina was of Opinion this did not amount to a Direct Breach, but that a Categorical answer ought to be demanded and the Enemy informed that a refusal would be deemed a Breach, but that all farther proceeding was premature. The Congress were of a Different Opinion, and it appeared some days afterwards that General Washington thought of it in the same manner with the Congress. 3 MS (NN). For a description of these notes, see Burke’s Notes of Debates, Feb ruary 7, 1777. Although most of this MS deals with a debate that took place in Congress on March 14, the last paragraph at least was written no earlier than April 11, the day Congress read the letters from Washington cited in note 3, below. On the other hand, it is possible that the entire entry was written about that time because imme diately after the final paragraph, which could not have been composed before April 11, Burke added some brief notes on a debate that occurred in Congress on April 8, which are printed below.


[Page 476]
444 March 14, 1777 3 For Washington’s letters to President Hancock of March 1 and 6, which were debated by Congress in the committee of the whole on the 14th, see PCC, item 152, 3:559-63, 575-76; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:211-13, 252-53; and JCC, T-A1Q, 176-78. ’ In an April 9 letter to Gen. William Howe, Washington charged that Howe’s “discriminating Major-General Lee from other Captive Officers belonging to the American Army” was “utterly irreconcileable to the tenor of our Agreement” on the treatment of prisoners of war. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:378-79. Washington enclosed this letter in one of his April 10 letters to Hancock, both of which were read in Congress on the 11th. Ibid., pp. 387-89; PCC, item 152, 4:69- 72; and JCC, 7:253. John Hancock to the Virginia Governor and Council Gentlemen, Philada. March 14th. 1777. In Compliance with the above Resolve I am to request you will please to issue Orders for furnishing the Battalion commanded by Colo. Stephen with the Arms in your public Armoury as soon as you possibly can. 1 What ever Number you may procure for this Purpose and lodge with Colo. Stephen will be either paid, or an equal Number as shall be most agree able. I have the Honour to be Gentlemen, your most obed & very hble Set. J. H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Governor & Council of Virginia.” 1 See JCC, 7:173. On this day Hancock also wrote a letter to Col. Edward Stevens of the Tenth Virginia Regiment informing him of a resolve of the 13th authorizing him to purchase at least “eighty stand of arms” for his men. PCC, item 12A, fol. 161. Four days later Hancock wrote the following brief letter to Deputy Paymaster Benjamin Harrison, Jr., pertaining to Stevens’ regiment. “I have wrote to Colo. Stephen of the 10th Virginia Regiment to purchase a Number of Arms, and have directed him to draw upon you for Payment. You will therefore honour his Draughts immediately on their coming to Hand, that the Business may be expedited as fast as possible.” PCC, item 12A, fol. 161. John Adams to James Warren March 15. [1777] Thus far I had written a long time ago, Since which, after many days Deliberation and Debate, a Vote passed for raising the Interest to Six Per Cent. 1 If this Measure should not procure Us Money, I know not what Resources We shall explore. To read this will be Punishment enough for your omission to write to me all this While. I have reed nothing from you since I left Boston. Yours. RC (MHi). A continuation of Adams to Warren, February 12. 1777. 1 See Adams to Warren, February 12, 1777, note 1.


[Page 479]
March 15, 1777 447 I have been attacked by a Weakness in my Eyes and Writing is the most dangerous thing I can do whilst it Continues. On this Account I am obliged to absent myself from Congress & refrain from [business] but in all situations of life I shall ever remain with the sincerest esteem Your Excellency’s most obed, hble Servant, Robt Morris RC (DLC). A continuation of Morris to Washington, March 6, 1777. Oliver Wolcott to Joshua Huntington Sir, Philadelphia 15 March 1777 I wrote to you a few days ago which you will receive. 1 I now send you Directions for Building the 36 Gun Frigate made out by the Board of Assistants. They Apprehend that this may be sufficient for yr. Direction. They have no Draught and say it would take a Fortnight to make one. But if you shall think it necessary you will inform and it will be provided for you. Thirty Thousand Dollars goes forward for you and Mr. Cotten who is now here. You will receive your part of the Money of Govr. Trumbull. Rigging and Ducks I cannot at present direct where they may be had, but they must be provided for you. You will from time to time Advise the Marine Committee of whatever you may Want. I Am, Sir, your Most Obedient, humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott P.S. I advised you in my last to direct your Letters to such Gentlemen as might be in the Marine Committee from our State. But upon Considera tion think that there would be more Propriety in Addressing your Letters To the Marine Committee rather than to any Individual. The President of Congress as such cannot properly be addressed in this Department and as a Marine Board will always exist an Address to them is douptless best—except on any Dificulty of a particular Nature you will inform any Gentleman in a Way which will be most agreable to you. Sir &c O.W. You will receive 17,000 Dollars of Govr. Trumbull. I have delivered Mr. Cotten who is here 13,000 dollars. RC (MHi). 1 See Wolcott to Joshua Huntington, March 11, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia March 16. 1777 The Spring advances, very rapidly, and all Nature will soon be cloathed in her gayest Robes. The green Grass, which begins to shew


[Page 482]
450 March 16, 1777 RC (Ct). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 7:180. “See JCC, 7:181. James Lovell to John Trumbull My Dear Sir Phila. 16 March 1777 I have reed yours of the 3d and though I approve of the Manly Sensi bility which govern’d you on the late Occasion, yet I am sorry that any Accident should have given you this particular Occasion of shewing yourself a Man of Spirited Honor. 1 Your character is unblemished, in the Opinion of those who were to forward your Commission, therefore I have attributed past Omissions on their part to Accident. I cannot think of Design, in what has happened. I shewed your Letter to your friend Gen. Gates who had before made the most honorable mention of you to me. He will not do without you; therefore if the proper Alteration of Date is made, I will not think you can obstinately disappoint his Hopes, to say nothing of mine. Perhaps before I sent this, I may have a word or two more to say on this Subject. I took up the pen to prevent missing an Opportunity thro’ the hasty Call of the Bearer, of Assuring you of the Love & Esteem of &c &c, J.L. Tr (ScHi). 'John Trumbull had been appointed deputy adjutant general by Gen. Horatio Gates on June 28, 1776, and by Congress on September 12, 1776. JCC, 5:753. In his March 3, 1777, letter to Lovell, Trumbull explained why he was re turning his commission as deputy adjutant general in the Northern Department. The letter accompanied Trumbull’s February 22, 1777, letter to President Han cock stating that: “I find the Commission Dated the 12th Sept. 1776, which, Sir, is an insuperable Bar to my accepting it. I have serv’d in that office since the 28th June last, by the appointment of the Hon. Maj.-Gen. Gates, who was authorized to make that Appointment, by particular Instructions from Congress.” Henry Laurens Papers, ScHi; and Historical Magazine 1st ser. 1 (October 1857): 289. Congress, which had received Trumbull’s resignation on March 14 and re ferred it to the Board of War, ordered a motion to date his commission from June 28, 1776, to lie on the table on March 19. Lovell then sent a more detailed letter of advice on March 22, to which Trumbull replied on March 30: “But I designed to have my resignation accepted; nor can I consent to the method which they propose of regaining the Post I have quitted.” Historical Magazine 1st ser. 1 (October 1857): 292. After receiving General Gates’ March 19 letter on the subject and being informed by Lovell of Trumbull’s defiant response of March 30, Congress resolved on April 19 “that the resignation of John Trumbull, late deputy adjutant general of the northern department, be accepted.” JCC, 7:176, 185, 187, 281. John’s brother Joseph, who was then in Philadelphia to consult on the com missariat general, explained what had happened in a letter of May 6: “I have a


[Page 487]
March 17, 1777 455 Richard Stockton


[Page 490]
458 March 18, 1777 can cause. Nevertheless, Silas Deane had been informed by Edward Bancroft, a British intelligence agent, that “Dr. Williamson, of Pennsylvania, who came over hither with Mr. Ewing, and who (though ostensibly a zealous American) is se cretly a Spy in the service of Government, and has been in Holland some time, col lecting intelligence, is now arrived for the same purpose in Paris; that by yester day’s mail Letters were brought from him to administration which contained some things respecting you and me; that he besides wrote to a ministerial Gentleman here, and acquainted him that I had lived and been very intimate with you in Paris; that I doubtless must be concerned in your proceedings whatever they might be, and that I ought to be watched &c. &c. for the sake of Detecting Correspond ence & making Discoveries; & this he recommended to have immediately done.” Bancroft to Deane, September 13, 1776, NYHS Collections 19 (1886): 240-41. Consequently, Deane denounced Williamson as a spy in letters of October 1 and November 28, 1776, to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Wharton, Diplo matic Correspondence, 2:288, 374. And even the British ambassador to France, Lord Stormont, thought he was a potential British agent, reporting to Lord Wey mouth on October 9, 1776: “I am assured that Deane was much displeased with Dr. Williamson, and among other Things reproached Him for the Visit he made me. I mention this the rather as thinking it possible that Williamson who I imagine is returned to London and who appeared to Me to be well enough calculated for being a double Spy might be of some Use now that he finds himself Obnoxious to His Countrymen.” Morgan, Naval Documents, 7 :684-85. But contrary to the expectations of Deane and Stormont, Williamson did not return to London, sailing instead in December for Philadelphia on the ship Sally, which was forced aground by a British cruiser off the Delaware coast. There Wil liamson escaped in a small boat with his dispatches, which ironically included Deane’s letter denouncing him. See Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1302; William Whipple to Joseph Whipple, March 19, 1777; and John Adams to Abigail Adams, March 16, 1777, note 4. Williamson, who later established himself as a merchant in Edenton, N.C., repre sented that state in Congress, 1782-85, 1788. DAB. 3 Warren’s April 3 response to this letter is in the Warren-Adams Letters, 1:309-10. Samuel Adams to Mercy Scollay My dear Miss Scollay Philadelphia March 18 1777 Your Favor of the 11th of Feby by Mr Bromfield did not reach my hand till yesterday. 1 I admire your Fidelity to our departed Friend, dis covered in your unceasing anxiety for the Education and future well being of his Children. A few Days before I left Boston in October last, I had an opportunity of conversing with one of the Mr Warrens upon the Subject. I told him what we had proposd for Miss Betsy; but there seemd to be a Difficulty in removing her from the Place where she had been invited to live, upon the Score of Friendship to her late Father: and had been treated with so much Civility and Kindness. With Respect to the youngest Son and Daughter, I mentioned my strong Desire that they might be con tinued under your Care; and that Means might be contrivd to have the


[Page 496]
464 March 19, 1777 Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell [March 19, 1777] Since our arrival in this City we have done very little in Congress. Until within a few days we had no Congress, & now we have but nine States: 1 the few members in town are closely engaged in committees, & what I write is done when other people are asleep. You will therefore not wonder should you find it very incorrect. There are letters from Doctor Franklin in France of the 10th December. They represent a war in Europe as certainly imminent, & we have received a very particular mark of the favor of that Court, 2 which I am not at liberty to disclose. You will see in the paper a Resolution recommending to the States to assess blankets for the soldiery. 3 This is absolutely necessary, because such things can not otherwise be had. In our State I hope it will be attended with no difficulty, because a great many families can spare one at least, & supply themselves again before the winter by spinning. The money should be paid in the Counties, & indeed if possible immediately on the valuation, because the price will not be worth the trouble of seeking after, & the individual might lose it. Whenever it is necessary to draw for money for this purpose, your draught on the President of the Congress will be duly honored. Before Mr Hooper’s departure it was resolved, that five hundred thou sand dollars should be advanced to our state, on your warrant. 4 No such warrant has yet arrived: but some bills from the Treasurers have come to hand. I have consented to their being paid & deducted out of the above sum; because I knew that was the utmost amount of what was permitted to be drawn, by any means, on the account of our State. The treasury Board complain of these small drafts as being too troublesome, & wish you would order out the whole. ‘Tis probable, Sir, the Assembly may make choice of some more able man to serve in this Department. I should be very far from deeming it an injury to me, & am certain it could be none to the State. I have resolved, very early in this dispute, to decline no service that my country require me to perform, altho’ all offices are almost equally out of my way, & none are desirable to me. But if the Assembly should think proper to direct me to continue in this department, I hope I may be allowed to return to my private affairs, for a few weeks in the summer. If I have this permission, I promise, Sir, that I will not avail myself of it to the delay or prejudice of public business. 5 Tr (Nc-Ar). FC (Nc-Ar). A continuation of Burke to Caswell. March 11, 1777. See note 1 below for the date of the present entry. 1 To this point in the FC the present entry reads: “It is now the 19th of March and Since our arrival in the City we have done nothing. We had barely a Congress for a few days last week, but none this week yet.”


[Page 501]
March 21, 1777 469 6 rations and a Regimental Paymaster 3 by a resolution of Congress of the 10th of October last. 5 As to what you mention of a neglect to give you information of the resolutions of Congress respecting the duties of Your Office, I am sure there has been no intention to treat you with neglect, or any disesteem of your person or services, for I believe you have executed Your office to as good Satisfaction as any officer in the public Service. The resolu tions of Congress should be published monthly at least, for the informa tion of all concerned, but Congress has not yet been able to procure it to be done. I understand by the President that he transmits to general Schuyler what respects the Northern department, expecting that he would give the needful information to others. Perhaps General Schuyler does not know but that the resolutions which respect your office had been transmited to you from Congress, which I think would be the proper way. I have sent you Copies of some resolutions in time past but know not whether they came to hand. I must do General Wolcott the Justice to Say that his not Complying with Your request in your letter of the 16th of November sooner, was not from any disposition to treat it with neglect, for he seemed really concerned to have the matter accomplished, but he was left alone, & the Congress moved from Philadelphia to Baltimore about the time he re ceived the letter which necessarily occasioned the delay. I Shall always take pleasure in rendering you any Service in my Power, and especially when it will promote the public good. I am Sir due regards, Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (CtHi). 1 See the resolve of October 7, 1776, in JCC, 5:853. 2 See Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., January 30, 1777. 3 Congress authorized $300,000 for the deputy paymaster general on January 30. JCC, 7:75. 4 Congress implemented the recommendation in a resolve of April 1, 1777. JCC, 7:216. 3 See the resolves of October 10 and 21, 1776, in JCC, 6:862, 891. John Adams to John Avery Sir Philadelphia March 21. 1777 I had this Morning the Pleasure of your Favour of the 7th Instant, 1 and am glad to learn that my Letter to you of the Tenth of February was conveyed Safely to your Hand, and am obliged to you for communi cating the Resignation enclosed in it to the Honourable Board. It would give me a great deal of Uneasiness if the Honourable Board should not proceed for Months to fill up the Vacancy, if I thought as you seem to suggest that they would postpone it untill they should see


[Page 509]
March 22, 1777 477 chasing every thing at the stated Prices, and then exporting them at an immense Profit. 2 As to the Mass, getting Money, it is all a Joke. They have lost their Staple by this Quarrell, which no other State has done—the Fishery, I mean, which has destroyed their Trade. The Privateers fitted out in that State, which have made such an Ecclat, belong to Congress, and to Citi zens of other states, I suppose, one half of them and Besides, this Conti nent could not have carried on the war without them. Their Seamen have supplied the Army with most Things. Where then is the Ingratitude? Dont be anxious about the Union. I have been a Witness to such Peevishnesses a long time. They Spring from Envy at Bottom. They see the Superiority of the Mass, to every one of them, in every Point of View, and they cant bear the sight. But the ill humour will frett away. The Indi go, Rice, Tobacco, Wheat, Iron, the Staples of other States, are not affected by this War like the Fishery, the Mast and Lumber Trade which make almost the whole Trade of the Mass. For whose good has the Mass, sacrificed their Trade, and Privateers too by their Embargo? A Restraint that other States have not chosen to Subject themselves to, altho it is more wanted, both for manning the Army and Navy in them, than it was in her. I hate disputes of this sort, and I never begin them. But when Mass is attacked, I never have and never will fail to defend her, as far as Truth and Justice will warrant me and no further. There is a narrow Spirit, in many People, which Seems to consider this Contest as the Affair of Boston and the Mass, not the affair of the Continent. All that they have to do, is to wear genteel Uniforms and Armour, to get the Character of Heroes by their Bravery, and to be thought to lay Boston and the Mass, under vast obligations. For my own Part I think the obligations mutual. But if there is a Ballance it is clearly in favour of Mass. I ever disclaimed, in the most decisive Terms, all obligations to any state or Person, and ever shall. I will never solicit Charity or Favours, as a Politician, much less acknowledge obligation to others, who are under the strongest of all. Are there not Persons who insinuate themselves into your Army, with a Design to foment Prejudices, excite Jealousies, and raise Clamours? 3 RG (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Tudor’s March 16 letter is in the Adams Papers, MHi. “The Massachusetts General Court did not regulate the prices of goods until January 25, 1777. Earlier, on December 7, 1776, the General Court had imposed a general embargo on coastal voyages within the state and all shipping except that ordered by Congress, the Massachusetts Board of War, and the General Court. Finding this measure ineffective because of overland exports, the General Court on January 9 restricted the export of all foodstuffs and naval stores except by license. Massachusetts Council Minutes, December 7, 1776, January 9 and 25, 1777. DLC(ESR).


[Page 510]
478 March 22, 1777 3 Adams also wrote a brief letter this day to his wife Abigail inquiring about her letters to him and the health of their family. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:181. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell [March 22, 1777] I began this letter on the 11th instant, & it is now the twenty second (March). I will probably be some days before I close it, & if any thing occurs, I will subjoin it. March 24th. A vessel has just arrived from France with ten thousand stand of arms, a very seasonable supply. We have some apprehension that General How will turn his arms against this City, & we are providing for his reception. I have the honour to be with the greatest respect & esteem, Your Excellencys most obed, humble Servant, Thos Burke P.S. You will perceive by the paper of 26th that the account of arms was overrated. I beg the favour of you to forward the inclosed. Tr (Nc-Ar). A continuation of Burke to Caswell, March 19, 1777. Committee of Congress to Thomas Johnson Philada. March 22d 1777. 1 Your Excellency’s zeal and activity in the cause of these United States gives us confidence in addressing you upon a critical emergency. Being a Committee of Congress appointed to confer with Major Gen eral Greene now in this city, we find it is General Washington’s settled opinion that Genl. Howe may suddenly attempt to gain this Capital. 2 We wish that the new levies in your State may be forwarded with the utmost expedition possible: so that they may either join our troops already in the Jersies, or at least be at hand to arrest the enemy at the Delaware, in the supposed attempt to pass it. Our address to you in a plain narrative & wish is all which your charac ter makes necessary even on this singularly critical occasion. In the Name of the Committee, I am, With Esteem, Your Excellency’s Friend & humb Servt. Daniel Roberdeau RC (MdAA). 1 This is the first known letter written by Roberdeau as a delegate. Although he later prepared an account claiming attendance from February 5, 1777, (the date of his election) to May 23, 1778, inclusive, there is no evidence that he attended Congress in Baltimore. It seems unlikely that he actually attended


[Page 511]
March 22, 1777 479 before March 12 when Congress reconvened in Philadelphia, the day the Penn sylvania delegates’ credentials were presented and entered upon the journals. See JCC, 7:169; Burnett, Letters, 2:lxiv; and Daniel Roberdeau’s Account, May 23, 1778, Gratz Collection, PHi. 2 See JCC, 7:175, 189, 191; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:285- 88, 294-95, 299-300. Elbridge Gerry to the Massachusetts Board of War Gentlemen, Philadelphia Mar 22. 1777 I have just reed from Monsr. Pliame the enclosed Letter, which he desired me to transmit without Delay as the Circumstances of his En gagement with your Board requires immediate Dispatch. 1 The Chease- peak is not much infested at present with the Enemy’s Ships, but how long things will remain in this Situation is uncertain. He seems to be very desirous of an answer by the earliest opportunity wch I wrote him should be communicated to the Board. I remain Gentlemen Very re spectfully, your most obed. Sert, E Gerry RC (M-Ar). 1 Emmanuel de Pliarne’s March 22, 1777, letter to the Massachusetts Board of War, concerning the disposition of his ship, is in the Massachusetts Board of War Records, M-Ar. James Lovell to John Trumbull Sir Phila. March 22d. 1777 I wrote you by Mr. Bates, a few lines in regard to your manner of re turning your Commission. 1 I was not aware of some circumstances at tending your appointment, which have upon this occasion been Canvassed. I shall not accurately enter upon a discussion of the propriety or im propriety of your resignation—but shall only, as an affectionate friend, give you this early intelligence of a number of facts, which will enable you to make a final determination in this matter. The Commissions of several, enclosed in letters of less apparent re sentment than yours, had been readily admitted for Resignation. Some very cutting resolutions had been made upon the insolent passages of the late Letters of Schuyler; especially on those parts which called for Stigmas on you or your brother. Immediately your Letter is opened, and by your friends committed, instead of the resignation being instantly accepted a favorable report was made, but overruled by a Motion to post pone the Consideration. Upon this General Gates sent in a recommenda tory letter, explaining the circumstances of your Appointment. But this would not do. Congress is greatly piqued at the Style and Manner of


[Page 512]
480 March 22, 1777 your demand, in a Case which will appear to you now, in the line of Favour, not of strict right. You are to know that General Gates’s power was in Canada, so that your appointment before his entrance there, was not strictly proper. Whether your first Commission was dated after any formal debate upon this point, I cannot say—but that and the late one were of one date, founded on your nomination in Congress, I suppose. Every Member is entirely willing to accord you a Commission agree able to the date you expect, but they are determined to lose even your acknowledged abilities, if they do not receive a different request from that now before them. You were certainly unacquainted with the criticisms which may take place as to General Gates’s power of appointment out of Canada. You were also unacquainted with the provocations which have been given to Congress for Attention to the Style of the Letters of their Officers prior to the Receipt of yours. General Gates is attached to you. The Congress admit your merit: and, while they are disposed to give you a Rank, which shall save you from all appearance of Demerit, they think that you yourself will judge the Commission more valuable for proceeding from a Body attentive to their own Honor. No time will be lost by this Accident, if you determine to procure the Commission by the Method which I shall take the freedom to point out, because you may go on to act, from an absolute certainty to receive it by the first opportunity after your Letter shall arrive here. To the Honb. John Hancock Esq &c &c Sir, Since I addressed a letter to your Honor from Providence, enclosing my Commission, I have been led to find that I was mistaken in the appre hension that my appointment to the office of Deputy Adjutant General on the 28th of June (from which time I have acted) was so much in the usual manner, as to render that Commission bearing an after date, a decisive degradation, when compared with the usual practise. But the same desire of serving my Country in the most effectual manner, which has governed all my Actions in the course of my Adjutancy, since the day of my first appointment, leads me to be anxious that I may not be under appearances of disgrace, from any Circumstance in my Commission: as this would lessen my most vigorous exertions. Therefore I entreat that your Honor would move the Honorable Congress to favor me with a Commission consonant in date to my appointment by General Gates, assuring them of my Zeal for the Service of the United States and of my highest Respect for their Body. I am &c &c &c I do not affect to point out a verbal exact model for you; it is the Tenor only. 2 With something similar you may be sure of an instant com-


[Page 514]
482 March 22, 1777 Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philadelphia 22d March 1777 I have this instant reed a Letter from Dr. Smith of the 12th wherein he tells Me that you and the Children have been Inoculated for the Small Pox, and that he Apprehended you was so farr thro it as to be out of Danger, Casuallaties excepted. News which is Very agreable to Me, as I have for some Time been much concerned least you should take the Infection of that distressing Disease unprepared. I perceive that Mariana has had it bad, he Writes Very hard. I am heartily sorry for what the little Child has suffered, and Very much Want to see her. If she has by this lost some part of her Beauty, which I hope She has not, yet I well know she might spare much of it and yet retain as much as Most of her Sex possess—but I hope the small Pox will give her no uneasiness tho’ it may have a little hurt her complexion, as there is No Valuable and lasting Beauty but what exists in the Mind, and if she cultivates these Excellencies she will not fail of being beloved and esteamed. May a gratefull sence of the divine Goodness be deeply impressed upon my Mind, in that God has taken this Care of you and our Children, and for the Health which I am favoured with. I am sorry that our Assembly had not repealed or so farr altered the Law respecting Inoculation, or that People from the Principles of Self Preservation were not laid under a necessity of Violating it. The Law of Self Preservation certainly will justify Violating a Law not founded on Moral Principles but of supposed Gonveniency only, but no Laws ought to Exist which are merely political when it is clearly known that they will not be observed as Laws of that Nature are supposed to be the Symtoms of the Want either of Power or Wisdom or perhaps both. I was fully Satisfied in my own mind that the same would be the Effect of limiting the Prices of the Articles of Living. In my Judgment the most despotic Government that ever existed since the Days of Nimrod could never carry such a Law into Execution, but I have done nothing to Prejudice the Scheme this Way as it was adopted by our State. Tho’ I tho’t it was founded upon every Principle of Impolicy. But why am I eternally dabbling in Politicks. Would to God that the Knaves and Oppressors of this World would cease their Villany, so that each one might Return to domestick Injoyment, and possess unenvied that Peace, which cannot be had in any Other Circumstances of Life. I want much to See my Family. There are some Circumstance of a publick Nature which render my Return less desirable just Now than I wish it was—besides a certain Management or (I do not know what to call it) which I have Experienced and which I well know that I am to expect, there is a cer tain Volatility or publick Inflamation arising from Various Causes which I believe will not be in my Power either to Moderate or give a benificial


[Page 516]
484 March 24, 1777 John Adams to James Warren Dear sir Philadelphia March 24. 1777 This Morning, a Vessell has arrived in this City with 6800 stand of excellent Arms and 1500 Gun Locks, belonging to Congress and 1500 more private Property. These last We have ordered to be bought. 1 This News you may depend on, the Letters were brought into Con gress, in the Midst of a Debate concerning a Resolution to impower the General to procure Arms wherever he could find them. Thus it is. On how many occasions, when We have been unable to see any way to help ourselves has Providence sent Us an unexpected Relief! Thus it has been, and thus it will be. I am, &c John Adams RC (MHi). 1 Upon the receipt of this news, Congress immediately empowered the Secret Committee to “purchase such of the arms and military stores as belong to private persons.” JCC, 7:197. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 24th March 1777 My last acknowledged the receipt of yours of 18th ulto and enclosed the dimensions of the 74 gun ship, since which have heard nothing of the brig Morris or ship Mifflin nor have I heard of the arrival of the schooner which my brother wrote me had sailed for Baltimore. Both Delaware and Chesapeake Bays are at this time clear of the enemy’s ships, but a number of them are continually cruising on the coast, that I think it will be very' lucky indeed, if some of those vessels do not fall into the enemy’s hands. The Betsey frigate proving leaky bore away for the West Indies and is safe arrived at Martinico and we are told by the Agent comes to a much better market than if she had arrived at Bordeaux—her cargo being in great demand there. 1 This is a lucky accident as remittance is much wanted there. The money by Betton must have reached you before this time which I hope will last you some time. However I shall send you more as soon as the state of the Treasury will admit of it, in the meantime keep me advised of the state of the Loan Office and what probability there is of money coming in there. All the Agents are instructed to send their accounts every three months which instructions have not been duly attended to. I hope my friend will endeavor to avoid censure on this score; the Secret Committee also expect that the accounts of every ship will be transmitted as soon as possible.


[Page 519]
March 25, 1777 487 Sincerity, all Health & Prosperity, I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem, Your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (NHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 7:202. Gates did not retain this independent command for long. Soon thereafter General Schuyler came to Philadelphia in order to obtain a long- awaited congressional inquiry into his conduct as commander of the northern military department, and as a result of this investigation Congress resolved on May 22 to confirm his command over that department. This prompted Gates, who had expected to operate independently of Schuyler, to request permission from Schuyler in June 1777 to leave the northern department. Schuyler, only too glad to be rid of his main rival for command, readily complied with Gates’ request. See Jonathan G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse, N.Y.: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 142-53; and Paul D. Nelson, General Horatio Gates: A Biography (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1976), pp. 78-88. Marine Committee Examination of John Grannis [ante March 25, 1777] 1 The Examination of John Grannis on the Subject Matter of the Petition of several officers of the Frigate Warren agst Commodore Hopkins and Papers therein inclosed. 2 Question. Where do you live? Answer. In Falmouth in the County of Barnstable in the Massachusetts Bay. Qu. Are you an Officer of the Warren Frigate, and what Officer, and how long have you been an Officer on Board said Frigate? A. I am Capt. of Marines, have been so from the 14th June 1776, was sometime recruiting, and have been on board her from Time to Time upwards of Three Months. 3 Q. Are you the Man who signed the Petition against Esek Hopkins Esqr. by the Name of John Grannis? A. Yes. Q. Do you know the other Subscribers to said Petition? A. Yes. Q. Are any of them Officers of the Warren, and if Officers what Offices do they sustain? A. John Reed is Chaplain and belongs to Middleborough, and James Sellers is Second Lieut, of the Warren and of Dartmouth, both of Massa chusetts-Bay, Richard Marvin is Third Lieut, and of Providence, George Stillman first Lieut, of Marines, Barnabas Lothrop Second Lieut of Ma rines & both of Barnstable. Samuel Shaw is a Midshipman of Bridge- Water, Roger Haddock is Master of the Frigate and formerly was of New


[Page 520]
488 March 25, 1777 York, and John Truman is Gunner and James Brewer Carpenter and both of Boston in the State aforesaid. Q. Have you a personal Acquaintance with Essek Hopkins Esqr? A. Yes I have had a personal Acquaintance with him since I came on board the Ship. Q. Did you ever hear him say any Thing disrespectfull of the Con gress of the United States, and what and when? A. I have heard him at different Times since I belonged to the Frigate speak disrespectfully of the Congress, have heard him say that they were a Sett or Parcel of Men who did not understand their Business, that they were no Way calculated to do Business, that they were a Parcell of Lawyers Clerks, that if their Measures were followed the Country would be ruined and that he would not follow their Measures. I have heard him say the above in Company on Ship Board and Words to the same Effect on Shore. Sometimes the above was spoken of Congress in general, but more frequently of the marine Committee. Q. Did you ever hear him speak disrespectfully of Congress or the Marine Committee before Prisoners? A. No. I never was in his Company when Prisoners were present. Q. Do you know any Thing about his Treatment of Prisoners? A. I was on board the Frigate Providence when there [were] about Twenty Prisoners on board. They were called into the Cabin where I was and were asked by Capt Whipple 4 whether they would do Ship’s Duty? They answered No. Capt. Whipple said it was his Orders from the Commodore to put them in Irons, to keep them on Two Thirds Allowance and by God he would obey the Commodore’s Orders. They were sent out of the Cabin with an Officer, who returned & said he had put them in Irons. There were also some Prisoners sent on board the Frigate Warren, who were forced to do Ships Duty by Commodore Hop kins Orders, and he refused to exchange them when a Cartel was settled and other Prisoners were exchanged, but don’t know that it was their Turn. The Reason he assigned for not exchanging them was that he wanted to have them inlist on board the Frigate. Q. Do you know any Thing about a British Frigate being aground last Winter in the River or Bay leading up to Providence in the State of Rhode-Island &c and what? A. I did not see the Diamond Frigate when She was on Shore in Jany. last. 5 I was then on board the Warren, which with the continental Fleet lay just above a Place called Fields Point. Commodore Hopkins went down the River in the Sloop Providence and sometime after he returned I heard him say that the People in Providence blamed him for not taking the Diamond, but that the Men were not to blame for they went as far as he ordered them, and would have gone further if he would have per mitted them, but that he did not think safe to go nearer with that Sloop, for that the Diamond fired over her. I heard a Number of People who said


[Page 522]
490 March 25, 1777 Q. Had you, or to your Knowledge either of the signers aforesaid ever any Difference or Dispute with Commodore Hopkins since your or their entering into the Service? A. I never had, nor do I believe that either of them ever had. 7 I have been moved to do and say what I have done and said from a Love to Country, and I verily beleive that the other Signers of the Petition were actuated solely by the same Motives. Jno. Grannis The Sub Committee appointed to take the Examination of John Grannis have examined him as above and report the same to the Marine Committee accordingly. 8 MS (DNA: PCC, item 58). Written by William Ellery and signed by John Grannis. 1 This document was written sometime after Grannis left Rhode Island about February 24 and before the Marine Committee submitted his complaints about Commodore Hopkins to Congress on March 25. See JCC, 7:202; and Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1275-77. 2 Since Commodore Esek Hopkins’ censure by Congress on August 16, 1776— for which, see Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on the Inquiry into Esek Hopkins’ Con duct, August 12, 1776—congressional dissatisfaction with his performance as commander of the Continental Navy had grown. After returning to his command in the wake of that episode, Hopkins further offended many delegates by failing to carry out cruises off Nova Scotia and North Carolina ordered by the Marine Committee in August and October 1776, by allowing the fleet to be bottled up in Narragansett Bay in December of that year, and by failing to destroy the British frigate Diamond when it was temporarily aground off Rhode Island in January 1777. But Congress’ patience with Hopkins finally reached the.breaking point after he came under attack by ten officers and men stationed aboard his own flagship, the Continental frigate Warren. As most of these men were natives of Massachusetts, they first turned for advice to Robert Treat Paine, a delegate from the Bay State who was then at home in Taunton, and around February 11 they sent him a list of charges against the commodore and his son Capt. John Burroughs Hopkins, which accused the former in particular of being irreligious, disrespectful to Congress, unprincipled, inhumane toward prisoners, incompetent, and an obstacle to naval recruitment. Paine evidently advised the discontented officers and men to drop their charges against Captain Hopkins and concentrate on the ones against his father. In any case, John Grannis, a captain of marines aboard the Warren, left Rhode Island near the end of February with a series of papers listing the complaints of the Warren’s officers and men against the elder Hopkins, which he brought to Philadelphia and presented to the Marine Com mittee. After interrogating Grannis about these charges, the Marine Committee laid them before Congress on March 25, and on the following day Congress suspended Hopkins from his command. It is a measure of Congress’ dissatisfaction with Hopkins at this time that it took this drastic step without giving him an opportunity to defend his conduct. After this it was not surprising that Congress dismissed him from Continental service altogether on January 2, 1778. See JCC, 7:202, 204, 10:13; and Edward Field, Esek Hopkins, Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Navy during the American Revolution, 1775—1778 (Providence: Preston & Rounds Co., 1898), pp. 162-76. The documents submitted to Robert


[Page 527]
March 26, 1777 495 purchaser. You can receive Information from no other Quarter than the Treasury Board relative to this Matter, [as?] the State charged the Fish to the Continent & the original Vouchers are here. 6800 fire arms, & 1500 Gunlocks belonging to the Continent arrived here two Days since, & a number of Arms were imported by private Gen tlemen in the same Bottom. I am informed 2 or 3000. General Gates is ordered to Tyonderoga. Mr Dean was demanded by the Court of Britain & refused by France. I am sir in Haste, yours sincerely, E Gerry RC (Ct). Addressed: “To Joseph Trumbull Esqr. Commissary General at Hartford.” 'Benedict Arnold was eventually promoted to major general on May 2, 1777, as a result of his role in rallying the American forces opposing the British raid on Danbury, Conn. But his prior seniority as brigadier general in relation to the five men who were promoted on February 17, 1777, was only restored in early 1778 after intense efforts by Arnold and his supporters, following Arnold’s part in the capture of Gen. John Burgoyne’s army. See JCC, 7:323, 9:981; Washing ton, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:234, 352—53, 10:324; and James T. Flexner, The Traitor and the Spy. Benedict Arnold and John Andre (New York: Harcourt, Brace and Co., 1953), pp. 119—29. 2 See James Lovell to John Trumbull, March 16 and 22, 1777. 3 On March 15, 1777, Congress “advanced to Joseph Trumbull, Esq. commis sary general, the sum of four hundred thousand dollars.” JCC, 1:181. 1 See Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, October 22, 1776, note 4. John Hancock to George Clinton Sir, Philada. March 26th. 1777. As it is of the utmost importance that the fortresses in the Highlands of New York should be effectually secured, and that for this purpose an active and vigilant officer should be appointed to take the command there, the Congress have thought proper to fix upon you; being fully per suaded that you will exert yourself to render the forts and other works now erecting there fit for defence. They have likewise been pleased to promote you to the rank of Briga dier General in the Army of the United States. 1 I do myself the pleasure to enclose your Commission, and have the honor to be with respect, Sir, your most obedient and very humble Servant, John Hancock Presidt. [P.5.] You will please to acknowledge the receipt of the commission. Tr (MH-H). 'See JCC, 7:202-3. Congress made this appointment in response to a recom mendation contained in the New York Convention’s letter to President Hancock of March 18. PCC, item 67, 2:33-34; and Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:840. This letter to Clinton was enclosed in Hancock’s brief letter to the convention of this date, which is in PCC, item 12A, fol. 167, and Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:397.


[Page 528]
496 March 26, 1777 John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council Gentlemen, Philada. March 26th. 1777. I have the Honour to forward the enclosed Resolves of Congress, to gether with a Copy of a Letter from Colo. Campbell to General Washing ton. You will perceive from this Letter that Colo. Campbell apprehends himself treated in a very unjustifiable Manner (The Truth of which you will determine). At the same Time you will perceive the Sense of Con gress as to the Nature and Intention of his Confinement. 1 As it is a Matter of the utmost Consequence that Barracks for Prisoners should be erected in some convenient Place, the Congress have fixed upon the County of Worcester in the State of Massachusetts for this Purpose. You will therefore be pleased to execute the Work as soon as possible, agreeably to the enclosed Resolve on that Subject. 2 I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (M-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See ]CC, 7:179. Col. Archibald Campbell’s March 4 letter to Washington is in PCC, item 152, 3:585-88. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:207- 8, 214, 235-36. 2 See ]CC, 7:173, 191. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. March 26th. 1777. I have the Honour of transmitting such Resolves of Congress as have passed since my last, which are either relative to your Department, or necessary for your Information. 1 The Congress have authorized you to proceed in the Exchange of Prisoners agreeably to the Cartel at present existing, or such other Regulations as you may think proper to make in the Matter, provided the Enemy will relax in their Treatment of Genl. Lee, and acknowledge him to be a Prisoner of War, and as such entitled to be exchanged. 2 I congratulate you on the Arrival of a Vessel at this Port, from France, with eleven Thousand Stand of Arms in good Order, and I am informed, fit for immediate Use. She has brought likewise fifteen Hundred Gun Locks and a large Quantity of Flints. Six Thousand eight Hundred of the Arms are public Property. The Balance, which belong to Individuals, the Congress have empowered the Secret Committee to purchase immediately. 3 I have wrote to General Gates to repair to Ticonderoga, agreeably to the enclosed Resolve. 4


[Page 533]
March 27, 1777 501 Mistaken, there being no more than 6,800 but to make up for this disappointment, I have now the Pleasure to tell you that there is 630 Barrels Powder arriv’d at Maryland & you may soon expect to hear of large importations of this & some other articles which have been furnish by a certain Court. There is also arriv’d at Maryland two Prize ships loaded with Provisions Bound to New York, Mounting between them 24 or 26 Guns, several other Prizes were taken by the same Privateers which have not yet arriv’d. By late accots from Martinico the Genl, of that Island has commenc’d a warm dispute with the British Admiral & the Govr of Dominica, which our Agent thinks will not be made up, but daily expects a commencement of Hostilities on the Part of the French by way of Reprisals for some French Vessels that have been taken. 1 We have also accots via Martinico that Dr. Franklin was receiv’d at the French Court with all the Honors usually paid embassadors, a perticular accot of his reception will be given out to the World so soon as authen- tick intelligence arrives which is daily Expected; 2 there is also an accot in a French Paper (which I have seen a translation) of the distruction of Portsmouth dock yard, that the fire was not extinguish’d the third day & that the loss was computed at one Million Sterg. By a private letter from Bilboa, a prize sent there by an American Privateer had been un loaded & the Cargo Sold, notwithstanding the Remonstrances &c of all the British Masters & Merchants who happen’d to be there. I this moment receiv’d a letter from Baltimore which informs me that the two Prizes before mention were taken by the Sturdy Begger belonging to that place, that one of them is a ship of 300 Tons mounting 14 Four Pounders, the other a Brig mounting 14 three Pounders, that they were in Company & fought the Privateer 5 Glasses. There Cargoes are 1100 bbs flour, 500 Bags Bread, 3000 Bushels New Castle Coals address to Sir Wm. Howe K.B. That the same Privateer had taken a Brig loaded with Oats & a ship from Bristol bound to the West Indies loaded with Dry Goods which are not arriv’d. I have retir’d in the Midst of a debate in which I don’t feel myself much interested, to give you this letter of In telligence. If any part of which affords you Pleasure, my end is answer’d, and when you have an opportunity I hope you will give the like Pleasure to Your very Affecte Bror, Wm. Whipple RC (MH-H). 1 For the protests of the French governor-general of Martinique against the capture of French vessels by British privateers, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1088-90. An account of British seizures and French reprisals by William Bing ham, Congress’ agent at Martinique, is in ibid., 7:1090—92. See also Whipple to Joseph Whipple, April 14, 1777, note. a For the arrival of this “authentick intelligence,” see John Adams to James Warren, March 31, 1777.


[Page 534]
502 March 27, 1777 James Wilson to Arthur St. Clair My dear Sir Philada. 27th March 1777 I have been favoured with two letters from you since my Return to Philadelphia. Your Promise to write to me once a Week gives me great Pleasure [and] it will give me still greater Pleasure to see you soon. This, I have some Hopes, will be the Case, as General Gates is now ap pointed to the Command at Ticonderoga. I can more than conceive what you feel at your long Absence from your Family. You particularly oblige me by reserving a Place for Billy Bird. As some late Difficulties are now removed from the Cartel, his Exchange, I hope, may soon take Place. I have resumed my Seat in Congress. My Reason is, that if at any Time I can be useful to my Country, I can at this. Pennsylvania is still in the greatest Confusion. Perhaps Order may at last arise from it. The very critical Situation of public Affairs is of much Advantage to the Assembly and their Friends. 1 I shall write you more fully soon; and am, my dear Sir, Yours very sincerely, James Wilson RC (PPIn). 1 Since Congress’ adjournment from Baltimore, Wilson had devoted more atten tion to opposing the Pennsylvania government under the new constitution than to Continental affairs. On March 13 he had written the following letter to William Atlee and Jasper Yeates from his home in Carlisle. “The Assembly, taking Advantage of the Weight and Influence, which those in the Opposition to their Plan of Government bestowed upon them for the Purpose of defending the State, and repelling the common Enemy, are now proceeding, in Abuse of that Weight and Influence, to establish their Power under the Constitution. It is therefore high Time that those who think the Constitution a bad one should rouse them selves. From many Accounts I am led to believe that the Dissatisfaction with the Assembly and their Measures is very great and general; and that a successful Op position wants only a Beginning. The enclosed Declaration will shew you what Steps we are taking here. It is already signed by the most reputable Inhabitants of this Place. I could wish that similar Measures were adopted in other Places.” Roberts Collection, PHC. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia March 28. 1777 “A Plott! a Plott! an horrid Plott, Mr. A.” says my Barber, this Morn ing. “It must be a Plott 1. because there is British Gold in it. 2. because there is a Woman in it. 3. because there is a Jew in it. 4. because I dont know what to make of it.” The Barber means, that a Villain was taken up, and examined Yester day, who appears by his own Confession to have been employd by Lord


[Page 535]
March 28, 1777 503 Howe and Jo. Galloway to procure Pilots to conduct the Fleet up Dela ware River and through the Chevaux de Frizes. His Confidant was a Woman, who is said to be kept by a Jew. The Fellow and the Woman will suffer for their Wickedness. 1 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:188-89. 1 For further information on the “Plott” and the subsequent execution of “The Fellow,” James Molesworth, see John Adams to Abigail Adams, and John Adams to Horatio Gates, March 31, 1777. Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris Honorable Gentlemen Philada. March 28th. 1777 I wrote you a few lines the 7th Inst, by Monsr Coleaux & sent you the News papers to that time; by this Conveyance I send another packet of them under Cover to Mr. Delap at Bourdeaux. There are only two Mem bers of the Committee of Correspondance here at present, the rest being absent on leave. Genl. Howe’s army in the Jerseys still remains inactive, and greatly distressed for want of Forage and Fresh provisions which they cannot obtain in any tollerable plenty as our Army are posted all round them, have removed most of the Hay, Com & Provisions that was near Bruns wick and never suffer a Foraging party of the Enemy to stir out but they attack them & altho’ they come out strong enough to drive our People from their Posts very frequently, yet it has always happened the reverse, for they are constantly driven back into Brunswick with considerable loss of men, Horses, Waggons &c. Their situation is disagreable and for that & other reasons I cannot think they will be Content with it much longer, especially as desertion is become frequent amongst their best British Troops, the Grenadiers more or less of them come over to us every Week. You being at so great a distance may probably think we ought to have destroyed Mr. Howe’s Army by this time, and so we un doubtedly shou’d had we had an Army to do it, but when it is considered that Genl. Washington has drove them from their Cantonements on Delaware to Brunswick & confined them there the whole winter, during which he has killed & taken between 3 & 4000 of their Men, 4 to 500 Horses, a Number of Waggons and considerable quantities of Stores, cloathing &c, kept them pent up in a place where they are Ill supplyed with provisions & other Necessarys which has produced desertion, dis content & sickness, it will astonish all mankind to learn that he had not


[Page 547]
April 1, 1777 $1$ New Jersey Delegates to William Livingston gj r Philada. Mar. 31. 1777. The inclosed petitions from three of the Jersey Prisoners were pre sented to Congress & referred to us. We have visited them in the Hospital & find they have had the small Pox very favourably. They are almost fit to go to Work & very pressing for a Discharge. 1 We can find no Method of determining the Cause of their Detention & as the Council of Safety are sitting so near us, we beg to know from you what Report it would be proper to make. 2 We are. Sir, Your most hble Servts. Jona. D Sergeant Abra. Clark Tr (DLC). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett “from the original then in the office of Stan V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 The prisoners in question were John Jolly, John North, and William North. JCC, 7:209. On April 11 the two Norths took the “Oaths of Abjuration and Allegiance as Established by the Legislature of this State” before the New Jersey Council of Safety. Minutes of the Council of Safety of the State of New Jersey (Jersey City: John H. Lyon, 1872), pp. 18—19. 3 At this point the copyist ended his transcription of the body of the letter and summed up the remainder of it with the sentence: “A description of the prisoners follows.” John Adams to James Warren Philadelphia April 1. 1777 Having an opportunity by so carefull an Hand as Captain Wentworth of Portsmouth, I have ventured to inclose you a copy of a Letter which appears to me to be of Consequence. 1 You will make use of it with Cau tion, among such Friends only as can be trusted to make a discreete Use of it. Inclosed is also a state of the stocks in Amsterdam, on the seventh and twelfth of November by which you will see that the British Funds were falling very fast, notwithstanding the News from New York and the precipitate Efforts in England to equip a Fleet of observation. The Dutch dont appear so inimical to us, or so indifferent to our Fate as We apprehended they would be. Letters from that Quarter are fully of opinion that the opportunity for the House of Bourbon is too fair and inviting to be let slip. 2 RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Adams enclosed a copy in his hand of the January 17 letter from the commis sioners at Paris to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Warren-Adams Papers, MHi; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:248-51.


[Page 550]
518 April 1, 1777 2 See Samuel Adams to Arthur Lee, January 2, 1777. 3 James Molesworth. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia April 1st 1777 I wrote you by an opportunity which went home last week, 1 & now take the liberty of troubling you with a few lines, whose purpose is to inform you of some interesting matters that have come to light since that time. One Molesworth a person of some credit in this City was detected in an attempt to corrupt the pilots & engage several to go to New York in order to bring round the fleet. These honest fellows secured him, & so ordered the business that not the least doubt remains of his guilt, which he found so evident that dissimulation was vain & he confessed it. He was tried by a Court-Martial as a spy, found guilty, and executed. Some of his coadjutors are still in confinement, & some principal conspirators are not yet apprehended, but we have hopes of being masters of them in a short time. Letters from France of the 21st January bring very pleasing intelli gence. Some part must not yet be communicated. Two millions of livres are in bank at Paris, ready to answer our drafts. France & Spain are exceedingly friendly to us. And twelve thousand stand of arms, twenty tons of gun powder, a quantity of woolens & sundry necessary articles are arrived at Portsmouth in New Hampshire, in a French armed vessel; many others are on their way, & expected every day. In short, Sir, our prospect begins to clear up, & nothing is wanting but some vigorous exertions this season. I am sorry I can not give you a good account of our army: our recruits come in very slowly, & I fear there is very great abuse in the recruiting department. We have at present our whole atten tion bent towards the ensuing campaign. We are in a pretty fair way, if recruits do not fail us. Every thing in Europe bears the appearance of a war, & I should not wonder if the flame should catch this summer. At all Events so apprehensive is England, that she will not dare to make very vigorous efforts in America. I shall not, Sir, take up any more of your time at present, but shall trouble you again when any thing interesting occurs. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect & esteem, Your Excel lency’s most obdt Serv’t, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). Burke s last known letter to Governor Caswell was begun on March 11 and continued through March 26.


[Page 553]
April 1, 1777 521 Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Sir Philadelphia, April 1. 1777 I received your favour of the 20th Ultimo. Am Sorry to hear that the recruiting Service goes on So Slow in Connecticut at this time when we ought to have an Army in the Field Sufficient to Subdue the Enemy. General Gates is ordered to Tycondaroga. He sets out to morrow. It is not determined what other General Officers are to be sent there. General St. Glair is talked of for one. 1 Congress has this Day passed some resolutions for regulating the payment of the army which are ordered to be published in the News Papers. 2 The Pay of the Assistant Paymasters in the Northern Department was this Day augmented to forty Dollars per month and 3 rations per Day. The Pay of the Regimental Paymasters is the Same— that was fixed last Saturday the 29th Ult. 3 We have Letters from our Ambassadors at Foreign Courts as late as the 27th of January. The accounts are favourable beyond our expecta tion. They have been offered the loan of large Sums of money without Interest to be repaid when these States Shall be settled in Peace. It was not certainly known whether a War would Soon take place between France & Great Britain, tho’ very probable. You have doubtless heard of the late arrival of a Ship at Portsmouth with about 12000 Stand of Arms, 1000 Barrels of Gun Powder, a Quantity of Blankets & other Woollen goods—about 11000 Stand of Arms lately Arrived in this Port. I Shall move to have a further Supply of money immediately Sent to Albany. 4 I should think it advisable for you to return there as soon as your affairs will admit. I am your humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (CtHi). 1 Arthur St. Clair was ordered to Ticonderoga this day. See JCC, 7:217. 2 See JCC, 7:214-15. 2 See JCC, 7:209, 216. 4 Congress authorized the Board of War to send Trumbull $400,000 on April 8. JCC, 7:240. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 1st Api 1777 I Heartily Congratulate you on the arrival of the French Ship at Ports mouth. I hope Your anxiety for Arms to put in the hand of Your new Levies will now vanish. I dare say you are anxious to know what ac counts are receiv’d from Our Commissioners] at the French Court, where they are all arriv’d & are treated with all the Respect due to Gentn in their Station. Their Letter is dated the 19th [i.e. 17th] Jany at a time


[Page 554]
522 April 1, 1777 when the most dismal accounts was daily arriving of our retreating army, dress’d up in such colours as was most agreeable to the British Tyrant, & his minions. Notwithstanding all this, a Bank was Establish’d at Paris of 2,000,000 Livers without interest, or security, and at the same time the Credit of Britain is sunk so much that even in Holland the Sale of their Stock stop’d three days, for want of Purchasers, which was never before known. France & Spain are making the most vigorous prepara tions for War, the former had 30 sail of the line nearly ready for sea, the Latter was to have that number ready by the first of Api. Britain has been so mean as to require a Guarentee of Hanover to enable her Tyrant to draw all his Troops out of that Electorate, which has render’d her much more contemptable in the Eyes of all Europe then she was before. The Prince of Hesse has given leave for raising 4000 Troops, which has caus’d an insurection in his country. France is determin’d if possible to prevent Russia from sending Troops to America. The House of Austria is firmly united with France. That restless Spirit, The King of Prussia is on the wing of inquiery. He is extreamly anxious to be inform’d of our trade & wishes to see our ships enter his Ports. In short as it is the interest so it is the wish of all the Powers of Europe (Portugal, Russia & Britain excepted) that the Independence of America shod be supported. After duely considering all these Circomstances, judge you if the Enemy can expect any considerable reinforcements very speedily, but Still it behoves us to use every Exertion to have a powerful army in the field, that we may experpate those Devils incarnated. When I think of their Brutality & worse then Barbarian Cruelties it raises my Indignation beyond dis cription. Sorry I am to find such Backwardness in the recruiting service throughout the States, when one noble effort wod in a very few months rid us of those Infernals. We have many conjectures of the intentions of the Enemy, form’d from the accots. Brot. from York, by People who have made their escape from thence. Some suppose this City is their object, others think they intend to make a desent on the Eastern shore of Virginia, & Mary land, while others are of Opinion that they will still persue the original plan, of effecting a junction of their two armies. Whatever is their in tention, certain I am that if we had one half of our intended Army in the field we could easily frustrate all their Schemes and destroy their army. I wish to know how Your Loan office goes on, & whether you have lay’d an additional tax, to sink some of Your money, this is a matter that I wish was seriously attended too. People surely never were nor never will be better able to pay a Tax then at this time & it is as sure that nothing can tend so much to establish the credit of the circulating money as lessening the Quantity. If proper measures are speedily taken I doubt not (with the assistance of the funds that are & will be soon establish’d in Europe) that our paper may be as stable, as Gold or Silver.


[Page 557]
April 2, 1777 525 I expect by next Post to receive half a Dozn. at once. I may believe so as well as not for if none comes I shall be just where I am. By the Blessing of God I injoy Health. My Love to my children and Friends, and be assured that I am yours with the most inviolable affection, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 1 Wolcott’s March 15 letter has not been found. 3 Wolcott’s March 11 letter to his son has not been found. John Adams to Abigail Adams April 2 1777 Yesterdays Post brought me your kind Favour of March 8. 9. 10, with a Letter inclosed for [from] each of my Sons. But where is my Daughters Letter? That is missing. I regret the Loss of it much. You think I dont write Politicks enough! Indeed I have a surfeit of them. But I shall give you now and then a Taste, since you have such a Goust for them. By a Letter of 17 Jany. Dr. Franklin, Mr. Deane and Dr. Lee, met in Paris, and on 28 December had an Audience of the Count de Ver gennes, Secretary of State and Minister of foreign Affairs; laid before him their Commission, with the Articles of the proposed Treaty of Commerce; were assured of the Protection of his Court, and that due Consideration should be given to what they offered. Soon after they presented a Memorial on the Situation of our States, 1 drawn up at the Ministers Request, together with the Articles of general Confederation, and the Demand for ships of War, agreable to their Instructions. Copies of all which Papers, they gave to the Count D’Aranda, the Spanish Am bassador, to be communicated to his Court. They were promised an Answer from the French Court, as soon as they could know the Determination of Spain, with whom they design to Act with perfect Unanimity. In the mean Time they are expediting several Vessels laden with Artillery, Arms, Ammunition and Cloathing. The Ports of France, Spain and Florence (that is Leghorne in the Mediterranean) are open to the American Cruizers, upon the usual Terms of Neutrality. They write for Commissions to be given to Privateers, and for more frequent and authentic Intelligence. Great Efforts are now making by the British Ministry, to procure more Troops from Germany. The Princes in Alliance with France, have refused to lend any, or to enter into any Guarrantee of Hanover, which England has been mean enough to ask, being apprehensive for that Electorate if she should draw from it, any more of its Troops.


[Page 558]
526 April 2, 1777 Four more Regiments (two of them to be light Horse) are raising in Hesse, where there has been an Insurrection, on Account of drafting the People: and now great sums of Money, are distributed for procur ing Men. They talk of Ten thousand Men in all to be sent over this Spring. The Hearts of the French are universally for Us, and the Cry is strong for immediate War with Britain. Indeed every Thing tends that Way, but the Court has Reasons for postponing it, a little longer. In the mean Time, Preparations are making. They have Twenty six sail of the Line manned and fit for the Sea. Spain has seventeen sail in the same State, and more are fitting with such Diligence, that they reckon to have thirty sail in each Kingdom, by April. This must have an immediate good Effect in our Favour, as it keeps the English Fleet at Bay, coops up their Seamen, of whom they will scarce find sufficient to man their next set of Transports, will probably keep Lord Howes fleet more together for a fear of a Visit, and leave Us more Sea room, to prey upon their Commerce and a freer Coast to bring in our Prizes, and supplies from abroad. The Letter then mentions a Circumstance much to our Advantage but this is a secret. 2 So strong is the Inclination of the Wealthy, in France to assist Us, that our Ambassadors have been offered a Loan of two Millions of Livres, without Interest, and to be repaid when the united States are settled in Peace and Prosperity. No Conditions or securities are required. They have accepted this noble Benefaction, and one half of it is paid into the Hands of their Banker. On the strength of this supply, they are now in Treaty for some strong ships. Lee is in N.Y. confined, but otherwise treated well. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:195-96. 1 This may be a reference to the letter of the commissioners at Paris to Vergennes, January 5, 1777. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:245-46. s This is probably a reference to a contract for American tobacco, which was ultimately signed by Benjamin Franklin and Silas Deane with the Farmers-General of France on March 24, 1777. Ibid., pp. 300-301. John Hancock to Thomas Johnson Sir Philadelphia April 2d. 1777 I have the pleasure to congratulate you on being appointed to fill the most honorable and distinguished Station in the Gift of a free people to bestow. And having the utmost Confidence that the Affairs of the State now entrusted to your Care, will meet with all the Attention they require or deserve, it is with the highest Satisfaction I address you on this im portant Occasion. You will perceive from the inclosed Copy of a Letter from General Washington 1 that the Information it contains is of the most serious Na-


[Page 559]
April 2, 1777 527 ture, and that our Enemies are meditating an Invasion of the State of Maryland. In this Situation of Affairs, I am earnestly to request you will take such Measures, as will have a Tendency to defeat their designs, should any Attempts be made in Consequence of this Intelligence. The inclosed Resolve of Congress respecting the removal of the public Stores to the places therein mentioned, I am to request you will pay the utmost Attention to, and give Orders for removing the same as soon as possible. 2 I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect, Sir, Your most obedt & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt Tr (MdAA). ‘Washington’s March 31 letter to Hancock reported that around March 21, 3,000 British and Hessian soldiers had sailed from New York and seemed to be headed for “Chesepeak Bay with a view of making a descent on the Eastern Shore, or ... to proceed to the Head of Elk, taking Annapolis and Baltimore in their way.” PCC, item 152, 4:47-48; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:217-19. 2 Hancock sent Governor Johnson a resolution of this date calling for “the immediate removal of the powder and military stores at Annapolis to the town of Frederick, in Maryland, and the powder and military stores at Baltimore, to the town of Carlisle, in Pennsylvania.” JCC, 7:219. John Hancock to the Virginia Governor and Council Gentlemen, Philada. April 2d. 1777. The enclosed Copy of a Letter from General Washington containing the most important Intelligence, I am commanded by Congress to trans mit to you with the greatest Expedition. Altho from this Information the Enemy are said to have in View an Attack on some Part of Maryland, yet as it is uncertain where they will bend their Force, it is highly necessary that each State, and yours in particular, should make every Preparation for Defence. I am therefore most earnestly to request you will take such Measures in Concurrence with Govr. Johnson, to whom I have wrote on the Occasion, as will be most effectual to counteract the Designs & Plans of our Enemies. 1 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. J. H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 On this day Hancock also wrote letters to Gov. John McKinly of Delaware and to the Pennsylvania Executive Council. The first two sentences of these letters are identical to the first two in the present letter, but there are variations in the final sentence of each. Whereas Hancock then wrote to McKinly that “I am therefore most earnestly to request you will give Orders for taking such Measures as the Intelligence herewith forwarded must naturally suggest,” he said to the Pennsyl-


[Page 566]
534 April 3, 1777 reau. That it is possible for France to borrow, is certain, for at the Time when Mr. Turgot was removed, he was negotiating a Loan, and was likely to succeed, for Sixty Millions of Guilders. The Credit of Spain is extreamly good: That Kingdom may have what Money it will, and on the best Terms. The Emperors Credit is also good, not as Emperor but from his hereditary Dominions. Sweeden and Denmark have good Credit. The first the best. They have Money at four Per Cent, and it is not long since the King of Sweeden borrowed Three Millions of Guilders, at that Interest to pay off old debts at five Per Gent.-—his Interest is paid punctually. Prussia has no Credit but his Treasury is full, by squeez ing the last Farthing from his People, and now and then he draws a little Money from Holland, by reviving obsolete Claims. The Credit of the Empress of Russia, is very good, for she has punctually paid the Interest of Twelve Millions of Guilders, which she borrowed in her War with the Turks and has lately paid off, one Million and an half of the Principal. These are the strongest Recommendations to a mercantile People. As to America, in the present state of Affairs, it is not probable, that a Loan is practicable, but should it appear evident, that We are likely to support our Independency or should either France or Spain acknowledge it: in either of these Cases We might have Money. And when it shall be seen that We are punctual in our first Payments of the Interest, We should have as much as We pleased. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2 :197—99. 1 The remainder of this letter is partly quoted and partly paraphrased from William Carmichael’s November 2, 1776, letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:184—90. * For the activities of Sir Joseph Yorke, British ambassador at The Hague, see Daniel A. Miller, Sir Joseph Yorke and Anglo-Dutch Relations 1774-1780 (The Hague: Mouton & Co., 1970). Oliver Wolcott to Matthew Griswold Sir, Philadelphia 3d April 1777 I have done myself the Pleasure of addressing three Letters to you since I left home all of which I trust you have reed. 1 As I know that you wish to be informed of whatever respects the great Cause in which We are engaged, I shall think myself happy in giving you all the Intelligence which with Propriety I may. Dr. Franklin’s Arrival at Paris where he has been kindly reed, you have been acquainted with. France and Spain have by this Time forty ships of the Line fit for Sea and every Thing in those Kingdoms portend a War with G. Britain, which possibly may have already commenced. The call of the French Nation is for a War, and the opulent of that Kingdom have unsolicited Engaged to Advance to


[Page 567]
April 3, 1777 535 America Two millions of Livres one Quarter of which they have already paid, the Residue to be paid at Short periods, half a million cash Pay ment, which America is to repay without Interest after Peace shall be established in this country. The French Court have ordered Ten Thou sand of their Troops to Brest. The British Court have applyed to and ob tained of the Prince of Hesse six Battalions more but this affair has oc casioned Insults and Insurrections in that Principality. No Russians will be sent to America, and the utmost Force which G Britain will probably be able to send to this country the next campaign will not exceed Ten Thousand men. The above Facts are well authenticated tho they will not be published in any News Paper which you will please to consider, tho’ any other In formation may consistent with a Regard to that circumstance be given. We also learn tho not thro’ the same Channel that the British Stocks are low in Holland that even for three Days immediately proceeding the ar rival of the news that the Enemy had got possession of N. York no Trans- ferr of Stocks was made tho many offered to sell, and those who appeared most desirous of selling were such as were supposed to be best acquainted with the Expectations of the British Court. The Situation of the Enemy is much the same as it has been for some time past. Howe is probably meditating a Blow as he thinks no Time ought to be lost. We ought to think so to and have our Recruits brot for ward as soon as possible. A few months Vigorous and successfull Exertion would probably put an End to the Distresses which We have suffered. America ought not to let the British Army have lain so long a time in the Jerseys nor suffer such Losses as we have done from small partys. Two Days ago a man was hang’d here who had come from N York and had endeavoured to hire Pilots to bring the British Fleet up the River. The Enemy have been constructing light Boat at N York seventy of which are finished and We have pritty good Intelligence that they have three Thou sand of their Troops on Board, but Where their Operations may be Time must discover. Genl. Gates is to command at Ticonderoga. Commodore Hopkins is suspend. 2 Other Intelligence you will receive by the Papers. We do not know in what circumstances the Frigate Trumbull is, I hear she is ready for Sea and will go out soon, our Naval Strength must not be Idle, they might be of immense service in intercepting Supplys and succours for the Army. My best Regards for my Sister and your Family and be assured that I am sir, your most obedient humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtY). 1 Of the letters he wrote to Griswold after his return to Philadelphia in October 1776, only Wolcott’s November 16, 1776, letter has been found. a For a discussion of the circumstances which led Congress to suspend Esek Hop kins from his naval command on March 26, see Marine Committee Examination of John Grannis, March 25, 1777, note 2.


[Page 570]
538 April 4, 1777 present: but from the Description he gave of his Person, it is supposed he must be mistaken. 3 The Congress have directed Genl. Gates to take Genl. Fermoy with him to Ticonderoga, and such other French Officers as he may think proper. Genl. St. Clair being ordered to Ticonderoga, but previously to repair to this City to wait the further Order of Congress, you will please to direct him to repair here accordingly as soon as possible. 4 I have the Honour to be, with the most perfect Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Serv. John Hancock Presidt. P.S. April 7th. Since writing the foregoing, Congress have passed sundry other Resolves, which I enclose, and to which I beg Leave to refer your Attention. 5 The Hospital Departmt. will be perfected this Day, & shall be Trans mitted to you immediately after. 8 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and last paragraph of postscript by Hancock. 1 In addition to the resolves mentioned below, Hancock also sent Washington resolves of March 29 and 31, as well as of April 1-2, on a conference with General Lee, prisoner lists, compensation for James Warren, the appointments of Ephraim Blaine and three brigadier generals, the lottery, ranking of officers, the defense of Maryland and Lewes, Del., hospitals, General Armstrong, and the commissary and muster departments. JCC, 7:207, 209, 212—14, 217—24. 3 See JCC, 7:214-16, 218. 8 See JCC, 7:210, 219; and Hancock to Horatio Gates, March 31, 1777. ‘See JCC, 7:211, 217. On April 6 Hancock wrote the following brief letter to Arthur St. Clair: “The Congress having ordered you to repair to Ticonderoga and put yourself under the Command of Genl. Gates in that Department, I have it in Charge to direct that previous to your setting out for Ticonderoga, you repair with the utmost Expedition to this City of Philada. there to wait their further Orders.” PCC, item 12A, fol. 179. 6 These were resolves of April 4 and 5 about hospitals, Baron de Arendt, Ephraim Blaine, Benjamin Flower, and General Armstrong. JCC, 7:225-26, 228. ’ See Hancock to Washington, April 9, 1777. Marine Committee to Certain Naval Officers Sir (Circular) April 4th 1777 The Committee have written to the Council of war in Providence re questing their assistance in getting the Frigate under your Command manned with all possible expedition. 1 On your part as the service of your Country demands it, so this Committee expect your most diligent exer tions in geting immediately manned, and out to sea, there to Cruize in such Lattitudes as will be most likely to fall in with & intercept the en emies Transport Vessels coming to reinforce or to supply their Army at New York. 2 If it should be your good fortune to meet with any of the


[Page 571]
April 5, 1777 539 enemies Ships of war not greatly your Superior in force we doubt not but you will do honor to the Navy of the United States, and to yourself by bringing such into port with you. Should your efforts aided by the Council of War 3 be insufficient to man your ship fully for a Cruize you are in that case to endeavour to get her manned in such manner as to carry the Ship round to Boston and there exert yourself to compleat your number and proceed on the Cruize aforesaid. 4 Wishing you success and health we are Sir, Your friends & servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Ad dressed: “Captain J.B. Hopkins of the Frigate Warren. Captain Abram Whipple of the Frigate Providence. Captain Dudley Saltonstall of the Frigate Trumbull.” 1 The Marine Committee’s letter to the Rhode Island Council of War is dated April 5 and printed below. a In place of the preceding two sentences, the RC of the Committee’s letter to Dudley Saltonstall reads: “We desire that you will use your most diligent exer tions in getting the Frigate under your Command immediately manned for Sea, when you are to proceed on a Cruize in Such Latitudes as will be most likely to fall in with, and intercept the Enemies Transport vessels coming to reinforce or supply their Army at New York.” laDaM. ’ Last six words omitted in RC to Saltonstall. Ibid. 4 None of the officers to whom this letter was addressed was able to carry out the committee’s orders. William J. Morgan, Captains to the Northward: The New England Captains in the Continental Navy (Barre, Mass.: Barre Publishing Co., 1959), pp. 76-80. Marine Committee to the Rhode Island Council of War Gentlemen Philadelphia Api. 5th 1777 We have ordered the Frigates in the State of Rhode-Island &c out on a Cruise, and as it seems they are not fully manned, We earnestly request your Assistance that they may be manned with the utmost Expedition. If they cannot be fully and expeditiously manned in your State, We desire that you would order Draughts to be made from the Militia of Men best acquainted with the Sea to assist in carrying them to Boston where they may avoid a Blockade and procure Seamen, such of the Soldiers who may be put on board the Frigates to be discharged, that they may return and join their respective Companies, as may not chuse to inlist in the Sea Service. 1 We have addressed ourselves to you, Gentlemen, on a Supposition that you are invested with Powers sufficient to enable you to comply with our Request if it should be necessary to draught from the Militia, and that the Genl. Assembly may not be sitting when this reaches you. If the Assembly should be sitting when you receive this, and you are incompetent to the


[Page 575]
April 6, 1777 543 ly as it has youth on its side. We have better Prospects of Trade, a Vessell arrived yesterday from Sweden with Powder, Flynts, Lead, sulphur &c &c &c, and I think shall be able to negotiate Loans. Britain cannot procure any great Reinforcements without involving herself in a French and Spanish War—and her Credit in Holland is very low. The News from France you will learn from Coll Warren to whom I wrote it in Confidence, but he will shew it to you. The Army fills up gradually but rather slowly. There are Troops upon their March from N. Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, towards Head Quarters. The Troops from N. England I hope will soon follow. But my opinion is that the Enemy is more afraid of Us, than we are of them, even now. Their Ruin is inevitable, if our States exert themselves. If they stay at Brunswick they are undone. If they take the Field and march to Philadelphia, there they will meet their Fate, besides that by taking the Field so early, they will lay a Foundation for a sickly Army, thro the whole Campaign. If our General Court had laid their Levies on the Towns last December as I most earnestly intreated them to do, in my opinion Howes destruction would have been effected before now. I am surprised to hear you call for Lottery Ticketts. Dr. Jackson, one of the Managers, went from this Place, a long Time ago, with a Load of them to Boston. We have been engaged many days in preparing a Plan for the sick, and I think the best possible Provision will be made. No Expence will be Spared, and the best Physicians and surgeons will be employed. We have now Arms and military stores in Abundance. We have Quarter Master and Commissarys stores in Plenty. Blanketts and Cloaths are most wanted, but We have a considerable Quantity of them and expect more. We have Tents of the best Quality for thirty thousand Men. With submission to Providence we shall make it do—and so farewell tyrannical Grandam. I am sir &c. LB (MHi). 1 Cooper’s March 24 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. John Adams to James Warren My Friend Philadelphia April 6. 1777 The Business of the naval and marine Department, will I hope, be soon put in a better Train than it has been. A Board of Assistants has been appointed here, consisting of three Gentlemen, not Members of Con gress, whose whole Time is devoted to the service. Mr Hopkinson, Coll Nixon, and Mr John Wharton are the Men. 1 The first is a Gentleman of Letters, the second an able Merchant, the third an eminent shipwright.


[Page 576]
544 April 6, 1777 There is a Talk of appointing a similar Board at Boston, and a Com missioner at every considerable Port in N. England. Who would be proper Persons for those Places? They should be well acquainted with Navigation. They should be well informed in Trade. They should be Men of Char acter and Credit. 2 The Marine Committee, have lately reed Letters from Captns. Thomp son, McNeal, and several others, pointing out Defects, Abuses and Mis management, and proposing Plans of Improvement, Redress and Refor mation. These will do good. This is the way to have things go right; for officers to correspond constantly with Congress, and communicate their sentiments freely. McNeal, I suppose, by his Letter, before this, has sailed, and I hope your Embargo is off, before now, that the Privateers may have fair Play. Indeed I am sorry it was ever laid. I am against all shackles upon Trade. Let the Spirit of the People have its own way, and it will do something. I doubt much whether you have got an hundred Soldiers the more for your Embargo and perhaps you have missed opportunities of taking many Prizes and several Hundreds of seamen. South Carolina Seems to display a Spirit of Enterprize in Trade, Su- periour to any other State. They have Salt at half a Dollar a Bushell, and dry Goods in great Plenty tho dear. Many French Vessells have arrived there. Some Bermudians and some of their own. They have exported their Crop of Indigo and a great deal of Rice. They have some Priva teers, and have made several Prizes. Tobacco too, begins to be exported in large Quantities from Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina. Vessells sell at very high Prices in all these States. In short in one more year, I fancy Trade will be brisk, in every Part of the Continent, except with Us, the Destruction of whose Fishery has deprived Us of our Staple, and left Us nothing to export. We must build ships and cutt Masts, and take Fish with our Privateers &c. I am &c RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 On November 6, 1776, Congress had authorized the appointment of three men “to execute the business of the navy.” John Wharton and John Nixon were appointed on November 13 and Francis Hopkinson was added on November 18, 1776. JCC, 6:929, 946-47, 958. 2 Congress established a navy board at Boston on April 19, but James Warren, William Vernon, and John Deshon were not appointed to it until May 6. JCC, 7:281, 331. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Philadelphia April 6. 1777 Yours of 23d March, was handed to me, this Evening by Major Ward. 1 Your Letter from Plymouth by the Post, I duely reed, and immediately


[Page 577]
April 6, 1777 545 wrote an answer to it. but upon reviewing it, afterwards, I found so many bold Truths in it that I concluded not to send it, lest Peradventure it should get into Hugh Gaines Gazette; 2 and I thought it a Pitty that so many Sacred Truths should appear in Company with so many in famous Lyes, as that Paper ushers into the World, whenever it appears. I am much obliged to you for your Sentiments, concerning the Navy. A Board I believe will be established at Boston—and a Commissioner in each considerable Port in New England. Complaints are frequently brought here, from Boston and from Providence, concerning the Conti nental Agents and other officers. I am sorry for this, but cannot help it. At Providence, I fear, by what I have lately heard, there has been a System of selfishness, and at Boston of Incapacity. I had the Honour of belong ing to the first Naval Committee, which set all our maritime affairs agoing: and they did it with a Vigour, Assiduity and Dispatch, which precluded all Censure and Complaint. But I went home last December, was twelve Month, and advantage was taken of that opportunity, one or two other Members being absent at the same Time, Coll Lee went home and Gadsden, and Langdon, and Deane was left out, to choose a new Committee. 3 Since which there has been nothing but Languor, Cen sure and Complaint. Upon my Return they did me the Honour to put me upon the Board of War, which takes up my whole Time, every Morning and Evening, and renders it totally impossible for me to look into the marine Department, which if I had Leisure to do, ignorant as I am of every Rope in the ship, I would perish if I did not put that De partment in a reputable order. There is nothing wanting but some one Person, whose Vigour, Punctuality, and Constancy should draw the Com mittee together every Morning and Evening, direct their Attention to the Object, and keep it fixed there. There are Gentlemen enough of the Committee who understand the Business, and the Board of assistants are pretty well qualified and every Man upon the Continent, who knows any Thing of the subject might easily be induced to contribute the as sistance of His Knowledge at least by Letter. The Fracas between 4 and McNeal had reached this Place before your Letter. Hope it will do good. Am glad to hear that our Quota is likely to be raised at any Rate. Send them along and let us beat the Scoundrels, to Attorns, as I am Sure we can and shall. I am &c [P.S.] This Letter so full of myself, and so abusive to others, is intended barely to exculpate myself. I cannot bear any share of the Blame of the failures in the marine Department. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Warren’s March 23 letter to Adams is in the Warren-Adams Letters, 1:303-6. 2 Adams was responding to Warren’s February 22, 1777, letter, but no copy of his unsent letter has been found. Ibid., pp. 294-97.


[Page 578]
546 April 6, 1777 3 Adams appears to have been confused by the appointment of the various naval committees. Adams was only added to the Naval Committee on October 30, 1775, as part of Congress’ plans to enlarge its nascent naval program, but he was not a member of the standing Marine Committee, which was appointed on December 14, 1775. His reference to the election of “a new Committee” is apparently to the March 6, 1776, addition of Samuel Huntington, Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, Benjamin Harrison, and Edward Rutledge as replacements for Silas Deane, Rich ard Henry Lee, Stephen Crane, and Christopher Gadsden to the latter committee. ]CC, 3:311-12, 428, 4:186. 4 John Manly, who commanded one of the Continental frigates built in Massa chusetts. Hector McNeil was captain of the other. See Warren to Adams, March 23, 1777, Warren-Adams Letters, 1:304—5. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir Philadelphia Api. 6th. 1777 Your will receive with this a Letter from Messrs Sami. & Robt. Pur- viance, inclosing an Invoice of Sloop Diamond’s Cargo, and an Account of Disbursements, by which it appears that there is a Ballance due to them of £164.16.8. After waiting a convenient Time I shall make a fresh Application for the Ballance due to our State, and out of the Monies I may receive pay the above Ballance. If I should not be able to procure an Order on the Treasury in Season, I have wrote those Gentlemen that I would borrow and transmit them the Money due to them upon the first Notice. 1 Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress respecting your granting Commis sions, which I transmit because in the Multiplicity of the Presidents Busi ness it may be forgot by him. I laid the Paragraph of your Letter which related to that Point before Congress immediately upon the Receipt of your Letter. Congress did nothing in the Matter, which amounted to an Acquiescence. A Day or Two ago a Letter from the President of So. Carolina was read in Congress representing that for the Want of Com missions, Instructions &c he had issued Commissions, and desiring that a Resolve might Pass which might give Validity to his Commissions. This brought to my Mind your granting Commissions, and induced me to move the Resolve which is now inclosed. If Conti. Commissions should be wanted you will send for them in Time. 2 It is said that the Troops, which in a Letter to Commodore Hopkins 3 I mentioned had embarked, and desired him to communicate to you, have disembarked; but in a late Letter from the General he does not mention it. It is his Opinion that this City is the great Object of the Enemy and it is too the Sentiment of Genl. Greene. 4 I wish We may be prepared to receive them. I am greatly mortified to find that the Expedition designed by the Genl. Assembly hath fallen through. 5 To what Cause this is owing, I know not; but I am sorry that the Militia of this Continent should by


[Page 579]
April 7, 1777 547 the military be considered in a Light so little respectable as it is. I know not what Numbers were collected in Consequence of the spirited Reso lution of our State, but I should think that Six Thousand Militia con ducted by good officers would be sufficient to expell, destroy or captivate the four thousand said to be on Rhode-Island: A Number of whom are doubtless invalids. But this I speak with Submission; for I am un acquainted with the military Walk, I never travelled in it. However in the present as well as the last War Militia did as I remember and have done many notable Feats. I could wish to have this Business taken up again if it can be done with a good Prospect of collecting an Army of six or eight Thousand Men, and some able, spirited Officers to conduct them. I am not alone in my Opinion of the Advantages which would attend such an Expedition, nor of the Prowess of Militia. You will excuse these Hints, suggested and thrown out from a Mortification I feel in having a handfull of the Enemy in Possession of an Island so beneficial to them, when it appears to me that our Militia with the Aid of our Sister States could very easily dislodge or destroy them, and from a Love of Country. Mr. Marchant is not arrived. I hope the Request in my last will be complied with. I am with great Regard your Honor’s most obedient Servant, Wm Ellery RG (R-Ar). 1 Ellery’s letter to the Purviances has not been found. 2 The subject of Governor Cooke’s grant of privateering commissions is dealt with more fully in Ellery to Cooke, December 31, 1776, note 2. ’ No letters from Ellery to Esek Hopkins have been found. * See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:348-49. 5 For the failure of this effort to drive the British out of Rhode Island to ma terialize, see ibid., pp. 25-26, 114-15, 232-33, 270-71; and Joseph Spencer to George Washington, March 2, 1777, Washington Papers, DLC. John Hancock to Henry Fisher Sir, Philada. April 7th 1777. The Congress considering the very defenceless Situation of the Coast near Lewistown, and that the Persons & Property of the well affected In habitants of the United States are exposed to the Designs of our Enemy in that Quarter, have come to the enclosed Resolve to raise an inde pendant Company on Continental Establishment. 1 In their opinion, your Zeal in the Cause of Freedom & America en titles you to the Command of this Company, which I am directed to offer to you, and to inform you if you should decline it, that they desire you will nominate a suitable Person in your Stead, and that in either Case, you appoint the Subaltern Officers; for which Purpose I enclose you blank Commissions.


[Page 581]
April 7, 1777 549 prosperity, without even the mention of interest, and the Ports of France, Spain, & Leghorn are open to our Prizes as well as our Trade. These things look well, and if we are not wanting to ourselves, must in [time fix] the freedom and happipess of America. We have 12,000 stand of Arms arrived at Portsmouth in N. Hampshire with other Military Stores, and 8,000 stand come in here. The enemy lately made an attack by surprize on our posts upon the highlands of Hudsons River, but they were repulsed and driven on board their Ships with precipitation and disgrace by an inferior number of American Troops. They have lately embarked Troops at N. York, the Tories say for this City, themselves say they are going to Chesapeake Bay. Some think they mean nothing but to amuse, whilst others imagine they mean to renew their attack on the heights of Hudsons River. Either of the two last opinions I prefer to the former. I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you in May at Williamsburg, and remain in the mean time with great friendship and affection dear Sir yours, Richard Henry Lee RC (NNC). Daniel Roberdeau to Elisha Hinman Dear Sir Philada. April 7th. 1777 On receipt of your favor per Capt. Welsh I applied to the Naval De partment of Congress, and have now the pleasure of informing you that your command is continued in the Alfred and that your Character stands fair and respectable with the Gentlemen of that Department, to whom I refer you as I doubt not they will write per this Conveyance. I have enclosed my Letter for Mrs. Eliza. Hurlburt that you may be inform’d by her of the irreparable loss I have sustained in the death of my much beloved Mrs. Roberdeau, which I intended to communicate to you, but the Task would be too distressing to repeat my sorrow, therefore you’ll be pleased to dispense with a form. 1 I am happy in an Oppy. of serving a Gentleman who stands in so near Connection with my dear deceased Wife & am, Dr Sir, Yr. most obt. huml. Serv. Dani. Roberdeau P.S. I was informed last Evening yr. Sister & family were well at New-Ark Mountains or Morristown, but that they were much distressed in their.retreat in a stormey Night, which is the first intelligence from or of her since the month of December last, when I left her house in so weak a state that the first Stage towards this Place I was conveyed in a bed placed in a covered Waggon.


[Page 582]
550 April 7, 1777 RC (DNDAR). 1 Mary Bostwick Roberdeau (ca. 1741-1777) had died suddenly of a fever at Lancaster on February 15, 1777. Roberdeau Buchanan, Genealogy of the Rober deau Family, including a Biography of General Daniel Roberdeau (Washington: Joseph L. Pearson, 1876), pp. 49, 69-70. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 7th Api 1777 Your favor of the 15th Ulto came to hand Yesterday. 1 I hope Mr. Bettens arrival will hasten the recruiting service, its high time the Troops were in the field, for Heavans sake hurry them on, tho’ I hope they will all have march’d before this reaches you. Genl. Gates sets out [this] day to take the Command of the Northern army. One of the Lottery managers is gone Eastward & I hope has Tickets enough to satisfy the thirst for Gaming for I shod be exceeding sorry to hear our state had set up a Lottery. I find Govr Wentworths letter has made no great impression on your mind, nor can it on any one that knows him. In my last I gave you the state of matters in Europe so far as I could collect them from the latest and Best accounts from thence, by which there is very little proba bility of Britain geting such an army from Russia &c as he tels of. The Southern States are at least as firm as ever, N Carolina has form’d their Government & chosen Kasswell [Richard Caswell] Govr. Maryland has also form’d a Govt. & placed Tho. Johnson in the Chair who has pass’d a Campaign in Jersey, and its said is now as firm as a Rock. The opposition to Govt, here daily declines & they now go on tolerably well. N. York I expect will give an Infinety of trouble. A long Letter was laid this morning before Congress from that Convention respecting the N. Hampshire Grants, a deputation is also arriv’d from the Green Mountain Boys, but their matters are not yet laid before Congress. I sho’d not much care if the Devil had them all. 2 What advantage could have arisen from a compliance with Genl. Lee’s request? Genl Howe certainly wod not agree to the conference unless he Expected to reap some advantage by it, he surely wod not permit an interveiw that cod possibly opperate to his disadvantage, if he has powers to treat with America as Independant States, the door is always open for him, we know very well he has no new powers, nor nothing to offer but Pardon on submission. At the same time that we cod receive no possible Benefit by complying with the Request, the Enemy wod profit much by it. A Packet wod be immediately dispatch’d, & all the Courts in Europe amus’d with our negociations & the strongest assurences given that peace wod soon take place in America. This was the use made of the Conference last faul by which means the stores that are now arriving, have been


[Page 588]
556 April 8, 1777 you are to be governed. 1 You are immediately to proceed with the said Frigate to sea, embracing such favourable winds as may be likely to run you quickly of[f] the Coast, for as we know you are not in condition to meet the enemies Ships in Battle on advantageous terms at present, we wish you to avoid them until you get well manned and your People toller- ably trained, therefore soon as you clear the land schape your Course for the Island of Martinico, and there deliver to William Bingham esqr. American Resident at that Port the letter sent herewith directed for him. We expect a quantity of Arms, ammunition, Cloathing and Other Stores to be lodged with him by this time and he is directed to put a part of them on board the Virginia and you will direct them to be received on board, granting bills of lading for what are so received. Should Mr. Bing ham have shipped these Stores or the greatest part of them previous to your Arrival, it is likely there may be Others at St. Eustatia and you may apply there to Mr. Sami Curson junr., Mr. Cornelius Stevenson & Mr Henricus Goddet for any such that may have come to their hands grant ing them bills of Lading for what you receive. When you arrive at Mar tinico Mr Bingham will inform you what British ships of war are amongst the Windward Islands, also what other of the enemies Cruizers are there, and whether the Inhabitants of the British West India Islands continue the practice of fitting out ships in a Piratical manner without commissions and if upon a veiw of these things Mr Bingham and you should be of opinion that it will be useful to our Commerce for you to make a short Cruize amongst the Islands for the purpose of protecting our Trade and distressing the enemy by all means let it be done. The British Ships of war after being any length of time in the West Indies are rarely well manned and as we hope your Ship will sail well, we hope you may either be able to cope with them in Battle or to out sail them, as to any other Cruizers they must outsail or submit to you, but if you can add some of the enemies ships to our Navy it will render essential Service to your Country, inspirit our Seamen and do honor to yourself. Should you take any Prizes whose Cargoes are perishable or partic ularly suited to the West India Markets you may order such articles to be sold there and lodge the Money with Mr. Bingham taking his drafts for the same, but the Ship and other parts of the Cargo must come to America for condemnation. You will be particularly attentive to collect as many Seamen as possible, not only what may be necessary for the Virginia, but as many as you can bring to assist in manning the rest of our Navy. It is expected that you contend warmly on all necessary occasions for the honor of the American Flag. At every foreign port you enter salute their Forts, and wait on the Governor, General or Commander in chief, asking liberty of their Ports for the Ships of the United States of America. Take care that your peo ple do not molest their Trade or Inhabitants nor in any shape disturb


[Page 589]
April 8, 1777 557 that good understanding we have with them. We think you should not only attempt to get seamen at every port you touch at, but also encourage them to enter from every Prize you take, and if amongst these you should number any of the British ships of war, you must be particularly atten tive to prevail on the most useful Petty & Warrant officers to engage in our Service—the encouragement for them is great and we want them much. When your errand to the West Indies is compleated you are to return to some Port in these states. The uncertainty of the state of war and the stations the enemy may choose for their large Ships makes it improper we should fix positively on any one particular, but as it is likely those middle states may be the Seat of war the nearer you can land the stores to our Army the better. It is expected from every Commander in our Navy that he will use his officers and people well, still preserving Strict discipline and decorum, that prisoners be treated with humanity, that great care be taken of the ships, their materials & stores, and that due attention be paid to the private Instructions of the Navy Board. We are Sir, Your very hble Servts P. S. You have herewith signals whereby to know the American ships of war. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 But see also Marine Committee to James Nicholson, April 29, 1777, note. Benjamin Rush’s Notes April 8. 1777 The declaration of independance [first?] was said to have divided & weakned the colonies. The contrary of this was the case. Nothing but the signing, & recognizing of the declaration of independance preserved the Congress from a dissolution in Decemr 1776 when Howe marched to the Delaware. Maryland had instructed her delegates to concur in an Accommodation notwithstanding any measure (meaning independance) to the contrary. But further the declaration of independance produced a secession of tories, timid, moderate & double minded men from the counsels of America in consequence of which the congress as well as each of the states have possessed ten times the vigor and strength they had formerly. April 8th 1777 Genl. Howe’s army at Brunswick & New York is now in Motion. A majority of the people of Philada. think that their destination is up the North river in order to join Genl. Carleton so as to cut off the communi cation between the Eastern & Southern states agreeably to the original plan of the British ministry. But I think it most probable that their object


[Page 590]
558 April 8, 1777 is Philada. for the following reasons. 1. Because it is obviously agst. the interest of Howe’s army to come to Philada. and a ignorance of their true interest is the only thing that has appeared like uniformity in their conduct. 21y. The design of the present war is to chastise the people of America, and this can only be done by changing the seat of war & 31y. To purify it of toriism and to eradicate timi[di]ty & moderation. This can only be done by Howe’s coming within the sphere of the attraction of the tories & moderate men. 41y. There is a false confidence in the situation & Strength of the city of Philada, and in the Spirit & number of our troops. The same kind of confidence prevd. in New York before its reduction last year. April 8th 1777 I think it more than probable that General Washington will not Close the present war wth G Britain. 1. Because in ordinary revolutions different characters always appear in their first and last stages. 2. Because his talents are better fitted to unite the people of America into one body than to give them Afterwards a national complexion. 3. Because his talents are unequal to those degrees of discipline, and decision which alone can render an army finally successful. 4. Because he is idolized by the people of America, and is tho’t to be absolutely necessary for us to enable us to carry on the war. MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. This entry consists of three separate passages contained in a small booklet of miscellaneous notes and follows a discus sion of the political opinions of the American people during the revolution. Each of the three passages is explicitly dated April 8, 1777; they begin on pages 10, 12, and 14, respectively, of the booklet. Between the first and second are written notes on the appearance of an Indian delegation before Congress, which have been printed above under the date December 5, 1776. For information on the use previously made of the material in this booklet, see Rush’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, December 5, 1776, note 1. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. April 9th. 1777. Yesterday Evening the Congress compleated the Business of the Medi cal Department, and on so large and liberal an Establishment that we may certainly expect the most beneficial Effects will flow from it. Every Encouragement is given to Gentlemen of Skill and Reputation in that Art to enter into our Army, and a Variety of Regulations adopted to carry the Plan more effectually into Execution. As I have the Honour of enclos ing the Resolves on this Subject, I beg Leave to refer your Attention to them. 1


[Page 591]
April 9, 1777 559 It is with particular Pleasure I transmit the Resolution of Congress directing Monuments to be erected to the Memory of Major General Warren and Brigadier General Mercer. 2 Every Mark of Distinction shewn to those illustrious Men who offer up their Lives for the Liberty and Happiness of Mankind, reflects the highest Honour upon those who pay the Tribute, and by holding up to others the Prospects of Fame and Immortality, will animate them to tread in the same Path. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. 3 John Hancock Prest. RC (DLG). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 These resolves are inJCC, 7:231-37, 244-46. 2 See JCC, 7:242-43. ’On this day Hancock also wrote to Jonathan Hudson of Baltimore: “Your Favour of the 4th Inst I duely received and communicated the same to Congress, in Consequence of which they passed an Order for twenty Thousand Dollars to be advanced to you. I enclose to you a Warrant for the Money on the Treasurer at Baltimore and am, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert.” PCC, item 12A, fol. ISO- 81; and JCC, 7:238. Mann Page to John Page Dear Brother Philadelphia April 9th 1777 I am much obliged to you for your Congratulation upon my Recovery from the S. Pox, which I should have acknowledged before this, if I had not been unfortunately detained on the Road between Baltimore & Phila delphia for more than three Weeks by my Wife’s Illness. I did not get to this Place ’til Monday Evening, & am now so much unsettled that I have hardly time to write. Lodgings are with difficulty to be procured, & I fear a House cannot be had at any Rate so that I expect to be forced to put up with a Tavern. Genl. Howe keeps this divided City in constant Fear. Many wish for his coming, & many others are too timid to oppose it. If he should attempt it, which is the Opinion of several of our Generals, we must again fly; for Genl. Washington has not a Force sufficient to oppose him. It is my Opinion however that his Design is to get Possession of the North River, which appears to me to be of more real Consequence to him than this Place. Up the N. River he will at present meet with but little Oppisition. Philadelphia he cannot keep against a superior Army. Genls. Green & Putnam 1 mention his having collected a Number of Transports & Boats at Amboy, with a View, as they think to bring his Troops round by Water to this Place; but this I look upon to be done only to conceal his real Design upon the N. River. A few Days will make us certain what their Intentions are. They are moving Part of their Troops from Bruns wick to Amboy, so that if we had any thing of an Army they might be


[Page 592]
560 April 9, 1777 destroyed. What would you think of sparing for a little Time the three Regiments belonging to the State? They are, I am informed, well armed & cloathed. If we had them now they would be of infinite Service. Could we but destroy the present Army, we need not fear any Reinforcements of Russians which they might receive. By the Post I shall be able probably to inform you of something of Consequence. Excuse me to Mann for not answering his Letter, which I will do as soon as I have time, & beg him to accept of the Ovid which you have belonging to me, & to remember that it is a Reward for his Merit. Inform him that I shall be happy to give him the like frequent Proofs of my Approbation of his great Progress. Please to give our Love to my Sister. I am, dear Brother, yours affectionately, Mann Page Junr. RC (NjMoHP). 'Israel Putnam’s April 8 letter is in PCC, item 159, fols. 57-58. For Congress’ response to this intelligence, see Committee of Congress to George Washington, April 10, 1777. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia April 9th. 1777 Capt. Niles of the Spy was here last Saturday. He Said That there were a number of the Enemy’s Ships of War in Chesepeak Bay So that he could not go to Virginia, That he wanted 750 Dollars toward paying for a Cargo of Flour which he had purchased upon which I moved Con gress to Advance to the State of Connecticut one thousand Dollars which was Granted, 1 and I delivered 750 of them to Captain Niles and he drew a Bill on your Honr. for payment. The whole is Charged to the State and I must acct for it when I return home. Nothing very material has occurred here Since my last. Congress has passed Some Resolutions for regulating a Hospital in the army which will be published in the News Papers. 2 All the States are now Represented, and next Monday is assigned for considering the Articles of Confederation. 3 I wish there was a more full representa tion from our State. Congress received a Letter from Dr. Franklin, Arthur Lee & Silas Dean dated about the 27th of January. It does not contain any thing material more than what has been published in the News Papers. They have been offered a loan of Two million Livres without Interest payable after the United States are settled in Peace and Safety which they Gratefully accepted for the use of the States & 500,000 Livres has been received. All ranks favour our cause. It was not certainly known to them whether a war between Gr Britain & France would be Soon Declared. I am informed by Mr. Duer a Delegate from the State of New York that Governor Franklin is very busy with the Tories and has de-


[Page 597]
April 10, 1777 565 There are a Thousand Questions which I want to ask, but which I shall never have answered till I return home—and so I will not trouble you with them. Perhaps I may Write a Letter to somebody at Litchfield by this Post. I beleive I shall, tho I owe them no Letters, yet it may put them into a Way of not expecting a formal Letter to every one which they send Me. If they are afraid that there Letters will Miscarry they can Write upon any general Subject, which may give Me a great deal of particular Information tho’ it never can our Old Foe Howe. But I will look over my Letter and so Adieu this Time. May the best of Heavens Blessings be yours. My love to My Children and Freinds. Yours inviolably, Oliver Wolcott P.S. Since I Wrote the above, I am well informed that Howe is fortifying Brunswick while at the same time he has been sending off to Amboy a large part of the Troops which he had there. All Officers in the British service are strictly ordered to their post by the tenth inst. The British Army are principally collected at Staten Island. Many Circumstances Evidence some important Design of theirs to be soon put into Operation which it must be left to time to discover. RC (CtHi). 1 Wolcott’s March 15 letter to Laura has not been found. Committee of Congress to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 10, 1777 In obedience to an order of Congress we do ourselves the honor to inform your Excellency of the reasons and principles that have governed Congress in their resolution for forming a Camp on the west side of Delaware. 1 The repeated information that hath been received of the enemies movements, and it being the opinion of your Excellency, as well as of many other General Officers, that this City was the Object of such movements, rendered it proper that means should be fallen upon, to prevent the success of such a design, as well to guard against the bad impression that it would certainly have on the affairs of America in general, as to give security to the valuable Stores here collected, and which cannot speedily be removed. It has been considered that if the real design of the enemy should be against this City, the Troops are here well fixed, and will be an encourag ing place of resort to the Militia of this State in their present unfixt con dition, being between their old plan of association, and their new, but yet unexecuted, law. On the other hand, should the design of the enemy be upon Hudsons river, or more eastward, the Troops here may with ease


[Page 598]
566 April 10, 1777 reach that river, before those now at Head Quarters can have all crossed it. But other considerations remain, and they are, should the enemy con tinue in Jersey with a view to attack your Army, or should your Excellency mean to make a decisive impression on them when your numbers are sufficient, in either supposition, the Troops ought not to be here. And therefore, in the whole of this business, Congress means not, in any manner, to interfere with the designs, or to counteract the Judgement of your Excellency, but wish you freely to call up to Head Quarters, all, or any part of the Troops encampt here as you shall please. It is not supposed that this will occasion any delay, and will certainly prevent the injuries that would be derived to the Troops, as well in health as discipline, from their entering and remaining any time in this City. We are. with sentiments of much esteem, Your Excellencies most obedient humble servants, Richard Henry Lee Geo. Clymer John Adams Abra. Clark RC (MdBJ-G). Written by Richard Henry Lee and signed by Lee, Adams, Clark, and Clymer. 1 In response to intelligence concerning enemy troop movements, contained in Gen. Israel Putnam’s April 8 letter, Congress appointed a committee on the ninth to recommend measures for opposing an attack on Philadelphia and to confer with Pennsylvania officials. The Pennsylvania Council agreed to meet with the committee that evening, and as a result of the committee’s recommendations several resolves, including one for establishing a camp on the west bank of the Delaware, were passed on the tenth and the committee was directed to inform Washington of the reasons for Congress’ action. See JCC, 7:246—47, 250-51; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:202-3. Washington’s response to this letter, in which he recommended that troops be collected at Bristol, Pa., and forwarded to head quarters, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:400—402. For Congress’ sub sequent action, see JCC, 7:270-71; and Richard Henry Lee to Washington, April 16, 1777. John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia 10th April 1777. Your favr. of yesterday’s Date I have just Rec’d by the Return Express and shall be laid before Congress to morrow morning. 1 I have only time to Inclose you sundry Resolutions pass’d in Congress since my last, to which I request yor Attention. 2 I also inclose you a Letter from the Come, of Congress. I have the Honour to be with Esteem, Sir, Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.5.] I have Sent four Bundles of printed Resolves, which you will please to order to be distributed among the Officers. 3


[Page 599]
April 10, 1777 567 RC (DLC). 1 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:65-66, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 7:380-81. 2 These were resolves of this date on setting up a camp west of the Delaware, Washington’s appointments, troop pay, frontier defense, and the rank and pay of muster officers. JCC, 7:250-52. 3 Hancock sent Washington a broadside printed by John Dunlap containing resolves of April 1, 2, 9, and 10 on military pay. JCC, 7:214-15, 217-18, 248-49, 252. A photocopy of this broadside is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), vol. 7, facing p. 388. Francis Lightfoot Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia April 10th. 1777 I am very sorry that I was not in this City when General Green was here; nothing cou’d give me greater pleasure, than to have an opportunity of shewing every respect & civility to a Gentleman who so justly possesses your esteem. It gives me pain, that you are joined by so few of the new levies. There are great complaints to the southward, against the recruiting officers, which I fear are too well grounded; gaming in particular is said to prevail to a scandalous height, than which nothing is a more deadly foe to busi ness. I hope however you will soon be enabled to meet the Enemy on any ground. I sincerely wish you health and happiness, & am Dear Sir, Your very obt. & hble. Servant, Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (MH-H). Richard Henry Lee to George Washington My dear General Philadelphia 10 April 1777 The resolves of Congress that you will receive by this Messenger, you may be assured, are not intended, by any means, to obstruct your views a single moment. 1 If your judgment should incline you to think that the Troops had better march on to Head Quarters quick as possible, you have only so to order it, and it will give pleasure to every good man here. The business of speedily reenforcing you will not be obstructed, but accelilated, because they now enter the City, where every days stay is 30 days injury to the great purpose of strengthening your hands. And should the enemy destine here, something like a military collection, may produce a greater resort. If you will indulge my conjecture, I think they cannot purpose coming here, because the water securities against such a plan are realy formidable, and the situation of the land, where the water obstructions are fixed, is such, that great delay, and probable ruin forbids the enterprize,


[Page 601]
April 10, 1777 569 7:250-51. For the origins of this minor crisis and the effect it had on Congress’ relations with the government of Pennsylvania, see Committee of Congress to George Washington, April 10, note; and William Duer to the New York Conven tion, April 17, 1777, note 1. Schuyler, who had returned to Congress on April 7 seeking vindication of his conduct as commander of the northern military depart ment, was acting in a dual capacity as delegate from New York and commander of the Continental forces in Philadelphia. Despite dissatisfaction with Schuyler among a significant number of delegates, particularly those from New England, Congress gave him this command because the military exigencies of the moment seemed to require the services of an officer of his rank and experience. See ]CC, 7:230, 251, 255, 271, 298; and Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6, 1777. James Sykes to George Read Dear Sir, Philadelphia April 10th. 1777 Yesterday it was agreed in Congress that the subject of the Articles of Confederacy should be taken up on Monday next and that two days in each week should be employed therein until that work should be compleated. As this is a matter of the utmost importance it is certainly necessary that our State should be fully represented, especially as I am by no means competant to the task. I therefore most ardently wish you would give your attendance in Congress and beg you would write to Mr. Vandike, pressing his immediate repair hither. 1 I am in a most disagree able situation, a stranger to every person, unable to speak my sentiments in Congress and no Coleague to confer with on any subject that may concern our State. 2 There has already a matter been determined which I am afraid will throw the whole County of Sussex into confusion and disorder. I think it is a report from the board of War that an Independant Company shall be raised in that County to be stationed at Lewis Town, that Harry Fisher shall have the Command, if he refuses that he shall have at least the appointment of the Subaltern Officers. This was brought in immediately upon my taking my seat in Congress and tho I utterly disapproved the measure as far as it respected Fisher, I could not open my mouth in objection. This, Sir. shews the necessity of some person being here who has the inclination and power to object to and shew the impropriety of such appointments. I am totally unfit for it and am miser able on the occasion. From what we hear from Head Quarters it seems to be the prevailing opinion there that the Enemy intend to Philadelphia in a very short time, that the Fleet are coming into this River and their Boats are preparing for the Army to cross the same. I should be exceeding sorry to press you on a subject that I know at this Time is disagreeable, I mean your attendance here, but it appears to me to be indispensably necessary to our State that you should be in Congress, with respect to myself it is so much so that without your at-


[Page 603]
April 12, 1777 571 Medical Committee to Jonathan Potts Sr. Philadelphia 12th April 1777 Your Letter directed to the medical Committee in Congress with the inclosed returns of Medicines, Stores & sick in the Hospitals at Albany & Ticonderoga came safe to hand this day. We are highly pleased with your having the prospect of a sufficient supply of medicines in your department for the ensuing Campaign, & approve of the returns you have made us. Your proposal of keeping the Small Pox out of the Garrison at Ticon deroga we think extremely proper & hope you will carefully attend to its execution. Congress have just finished a new plan and arrangement of the medical department in the Army. It is ordered to be published immediately. As you will soon be possessed of the whole plan, we shall only inform you at present, that your appointment of Director of the northern department is renewed; the pay 5 dols. & 6 rations per diem. 1 Senior surgeons 4 dols. & 5 rations a day. Regimental Surgeons 2 dols. & 4 rations a day. The pay of every other rank in proportion. As handsome sallaries are now allowed, we expect none but persons of the best abilities will be employed or suffered to remain in your service as Hospital or regimental Surgeons, & that you will strictly superintend every branch of the medical department under your charge. We greatly approve of your scheme of a Garden for supplying the troops with Vegetables which we judge will contribute much towards preserving their health. Should forward you some seeds but think you can procure them nearer hand. We hope to hear from you by every convenient opportunity. By Order of the Medical Committee, I have the Honor to be, Sir, your very Hble Sert. M. Thornton RC (PHI). Written and signed by Matthew Thornton. Addressed: “To Doctor Jonathan Potts Director of the Military Hospitals In the Northern Department.” 1 For the hospital reorganization, see JCC, 7:231—37, 244—46; and John Adams to Abigail Adams, April 11, 1777, note. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings April 12, 1777. Present Morris, Col. Lee, Col. Whipple. Capn. Jermh. Morgan of the sloop Mary, laid before the Come, his Acct. Currt. charging the valuat[io]n insurd on the sd. sloop as by charter party made with Silas Deane Esqr., on behalf of the States, at Bermuda, together with disbursments pd in France, wages &c also a protest of the seizure of sd. sloop by the Enemy, as


[Page 605]
April 13, 1777 573 fault of Commissaries and other Officers. Nay might deny, that they were starved, frozen and infected. He was determined to put them out of the Way, and yet to deny it, to get rid of his Enemies, and yet save his Reputation. But his Reputation is ruined forever. The two Brothers will be ranked by Posterity with Pizarro, with Borgia, with Alva, and with others in the Annals of Infamy, whose Memories are intituled to the Hisses and Execrations of all virtuous Men. These two unprincipled Men are the more detestable, because they were in the opposition at home, their Connections, Friendships and In terest lay with the opposition, to the opposition they owed their Rise, Pro motion and Importance. Yet they have basely deserted their Friends and Party, and have made themselves the servile Tools of the worst of Men in the Worst of Causes. But what will not desperate Circumstances tempt Men to do, who are without Principle? and who have a strong aspiring Ambition, a towering Pride, and a tormenting Avarice. These two Howes were very poor, and they have spent the little For tunes they had in bribery at Elections, and having obtained Seats in Par liament, and having some Reputation as brave Men, they had nothing to do but to carry their Votes and their Valour to Markett, and it is very true, they have sold them at an high Price. Are Titles of Honour, the Reward of Infamy? Is Gold a Compensation for Vice? Can the one or the other, give that Pleasure to the Heart, that Comfort to the Mind, which it derives from doing Good? from a Con sciousness of Acting, upon upright and generous Principles, of promot ing the Cause of Right, Freedom and the Happiness of Men. Can Wealth or Titles soften the Pains of the Mind upon reflecting that a Man has done Evil, and endeavoured to do Evil to Millions, that he has destroyed free Governments and established Tyrannies! I would not be an Howe, for all the Empires of the Earth, and all the Riches, and Glories thereof. Who would not rather be brave, even tho unfortunate, in the Cause of Liberty? Who would not rather be Sydney, than Monk? However, if I am not deceived, Misfortune as well as Infamy awaits these Men. They are doomed to defeat, and Destruction. It may take Time to effect it, but it will certainly come. America is universally con vinced of the Necessity of meeting them in the Field in firm Battallion— and American Fire is terrible. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:207-8. 1 Washington’s correspondence with General Howe about an exchange of pris oners was received by Congress on April 11 and ordered to be published the same day. ]CC, 7:253. The correspondence appeared in the April 12 issue of the Penn sylvania Evening Post.


[Page 607]
April 13, 1777 575 the Success. That both references are to the same ship seems clear from a business letter Robert Morris wrote to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer explaining the con dition of “the muskets saved from the Ship Success (late the Morris) blown up at our Capes.” Robert Morris to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, May 15, 1777, Red Books, MdAA. See also Samuel Adams to James Warren, April 17, and Secret Committee to Caesar Rodney, April 25, 1777. Adams’ account undoubtedly rested upon Henry Fisher’s April 12 letter to the Pennsylvania Board of War describing the incident, which was subsequently pub lished in the Pennsylvania Evening Post and the Pennsylvania Gazette on April 15 and 16 respectively. John Adams to Nathanael Greene My dear sir Philadelphia April 13. 1777 In considering a Letter from the General, sometime ago, in the Board of War, it was agreed to report to Congress a Resolution, approving of the Laboratory at -Springfield, and such a Report was made, but upon some opposition to it, it was ordered to lye on the Table, where it has lain ever since. I will move to have it taken up and determined. Some Gentlemen will oppose it, particularly the President, I believe, thinking Brookfield the best Place. I am not very clear myself, that it is the best, but from a greater Confidence in the opinion of General Washington and General Knox, than in my own, I voted for it, and shall continue to do so. 1 I will hazard a Conjecture, concerning the Motions of the Enemy, in which very few here agree with me. I think they are neither to move up Delaware, nor Hudsons River untill they have a Strong Reinforcement. They are turning their Men out upon Staten Island to graze—to breath a fresh keen Air, and to take a Course of Exercise for the Recovery of their Health. Depend upon it, sir, their Army, at this season of the year, is too Sickly, relaxed and unsettled to take the Field, and it is too early if they were healthy, it would lay a foundation for a sickly disastrous Campaign. It is not to be expected that every State will provide their full Quota of Men, nor shall We have occasion for such a Number, un less the Enemy, have a Reinforcement greater than We have any Idea of at present. I can have no Conception of the Necessity of Sixty or seventy thousand Men to oppose an Army of Ten or Eleven thousand, in one Place and another of seven or Eight thousand in another. Our Men are as good as theirs, and I am not afraid to trust them Man for Man. If our officers will not lead their Men I am for Shooting all who will not and getting a new set. It is high Time for Us to abandon this execrable defensive Plan. It will be our Ruin if We do not. Long Lines, and defensive Systems have very near undone Us. Our Men, New England men espe cially universally detest and despise, defensive operations, and are dispirited by them, in such a manner as to be good for nothing. But they


[Page 617]
April 15, 1777 585 RC (Vi). William Wirt Henry, Patrick Henry, Life, Correspondence and Speeches, 3 vols. (New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1891), 3:64. RC damaged; miss ing words supplied from Tr. 1 For Henry’s March 28 letter, see ibid., 1:515. 2 The ship Success, Capt. James Anderson. 3 This information was included in Arthur Lee’s February 14 letter to the Com mittee of Secret Correspondence, which is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:270-71. Francis Lewis to Robert and Samuel Purviance, Jr. Sirs Phila. 15th April 1777 I am favored with yours of the 12th Inst, which I last night laid before the Committee. 1 In that letter you say you had transmitted to the Board 2 Inventores of the Materials belonging to the Ship & Brigtn. but no such is come to hand & Mr. Morris tells me he has received none. 3 Such is the perplexed situation of our affairs at present that nothing can be done relative to the Ships Coals &c for yesterday the alarm Guns were fired as a signal for Nine ships of War comming up the Bay, and Genl. Howes army is in Motion in order to attack this City, in a poor state for defence for the want of Troops. Pray forward all you can from Baltimore, for without reinforcemts. the conquest of this City is inevi table. Therefore it behoves you to turn out all the force you can & speedily or it will be too late. I am Gentlm., Your very Humble Servt, Fras Lewis RC (MdHi). Addressed: “Messrs. Sami & Robt Purviance, Merchts. In Baltimore.” 1 The Secret Committee. 2 Board of Treasury. 3 On April 23 Congress approved a recommendation by the Board of Treasury that “there should be paid to the honble. Francis Lewis, Esqr. for sundry goods purchased for cloathing the army out of the prize schooner Hannah, and put into the hands of Samuel and Robert Purviance, at Baltimore, the sum of £2,755.0.2 equal to 7,346 62/90 dollars.” JCC, 7:295. Mann Page to John Page Dear Brother Philadelphia April 15th 1777 I have for some time past been less punctual in writing to you than I intended, oweing first to the Small Pox, & then to my being detained three Weeks on my Way from Baltimore to this Place by my Wife’s Sickness. I am sorry to hear the recruiting Business goes on slowly in


[Page 618]
586 April 15, 1777 Virginia. It is the Case throughout the Continent. We have no Army hardly, on which Account we are loseing the most favourable Opportunity that could have offered, of destroying the Force which the Enemy now have in America. I wrote to you by Mr. Clarkson & then gave it as my Opinion, that the Enemy would not attack this City, but since that, several Pieces of Information have induced me to give up that Opinion. Indeed there is at this time a considerable Fleet in Delaware Bay, which has set every Body to work to prevent their coming up. If the Citizens would exert themselves, all would be safe; but Toryism, Fear & Avarice have totally obliterated every virtuous Principle. The General thinks that when they do attack Philaa. their land Army will cooperate with their Fleet, but that their present Design is only To cut off the Trade of this River. On Saturday last we lost a valuable Ship loaded with military stores & Cloathing from France. The Captn. fought nobly, & at last ran the Ship aground, & after putting the greater Part of the Crew, & his Papers on Shore, blew her up, but unfortunately he & six of his Crew perished by the Explosion, which happened by the Match burning too fast. A small Affair happened on Sunday Morning in the Jersey. The Enemy attempted with a considerable Party from Brunswick to surprize Genl. Lincoln at Bound Brook, which they had nearly effected oweing to the Negligence of a Militia Guard. We lost 2 field Pieces, & about twenty five Men, most of them Prisoners. The Genl. & his Men behaved well. The Enemy soon left the Town; they lost several Men. W’e have Accounts from London by the way of France, dated early in Feby, that Burgoyne with ten thousand British & German Troops is to attack Virginia early in the Spring. . . ? Yours affectionately, Mann Page Junr. Tr (DLC). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett “from the original then in the posses sion of Mr. Stan V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 Ellipsis in Tr. Secret Committee to Caesar Rodney Sir Philada. April 15th. 1777 You will doubtless have heard of the heavy loss the Public as well as individuals are likely to meet with by the Ship Success, Capt Anderson, being drove onshoar & blown up, near Cape Henlopen but as we are informed a considerable quantity of Goods are on the Beach & like to be saved, We have hopes of lightening the loss & with this View we send down the bearer Mr. Purdie, 1 who will deliver you this letter and then proceed on his way for Lewis Town. We Request the favour of you


[Page 619]
April 16, 1777 587 to hire immediately a dozen to Twenty Waggons (if you have lately heard from the Beach & by your Accounts can judge what number may be necessary proportion them accordingly) and send them down as quick as possible attended by a Carefull Sober officer of Your Militia & such a Number of Men as you shall deem a good & sufficient guard to bring them & their Loading safe back. Mr. will prepare every thing against they get down and we hope very little time will be lost. We have given him One Thousand Dollars to defray Charges but as it is impossible to judge how much may be wanted, if this Sum is not sufficient we beg you will supply him with more & we will pay his drafts or repay you as you please. It is our design that the Goods saved shall come no further than Dover untill we know the quantity & quality saved or find some other cause to give fresh orders, therefore We request you to provide a proper, dry & safe place to deposite them in, at Dover when they come up there. Well knowing your Zeal to serve your Country We suppose any apology for giving you this trouble is unnecessary but as it is possible you may not be in the way when Mr. arrives we think it necessary in that case to request this service from the Councill of Safety if such Public Body does now exist, or from some other public Body or Officer or Officers of Militia at Dover assuring them that the Service shall meet with every acknowledgment they can wish and that all Charges & expences will be duely paid. The Waggons you’l agree for on the best terms you can & the officer & men Composing the Guard will be on Continental Pay. We are Dear Sir, your obedt hble servts, For & by order of the Secret Committee of Congress, Robt Morris Chair Man RC (PHi). Written and signed by Robert Morris. Addressed: “To Brigadier General Caesar Rodney Esqr, Dover.” 1 Blank in MS here and below. This day Morris reported to the Secret Committee that he had sent Robert Purdy on this mission and had written letters to Rodney and Henry Tucker requesting their assistance. Journal of the Secret Committee, fol. 126, MH-H. Morris’ letter to Tucker has not been found. See also Secret Committee to Caesar Rodney, April 25 and May 2, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia Ap. 16. 1777 We are waiting with some Impatience to hear of the Arrival of some of the Massachusetts Troops at Head Q[uarte]rs. The Lassitude and Torpor, that has seized our New Englandmen, is to me, very surprizing. Something will happen I believe, to arrouse them from their Lethargy.


[Page 625]
April 16, 1777 593 gress therefore have strongly recommended to the State of Rhode Island to make the Attack, and to the States of Massachusetts Bay and Connecticut to afford them all the Assistance in their Power in executing this important Service. 2 I have wrote to these States on the Subject. The printed Resolves herewith transmitted, 3 being of the utmost Consequence, I beg Leave to refer your Attention to them. Should they fail of procuring the several Quotas to be raised by the respective States, it is the Intention of Congress that after the First of May, Draughts should be made from the Militia. Your Favour of the 12th Inst 4 1 was duely honoured with, and immedi ately communicated the same to Congress. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble servt. John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 In addition to those mentioned in the remainder of the letter, Hancock also sent Washington numerous resolves on military affairs passed between April 10 and 15. JCC, 7:252-58, 266, 269-70. 2 See JCC, 2:222-TS. For Washington’s lukewarm reaction to this proposed expedition, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:436. 3 These were broadsides containing Congress’ April 14 resolves on military recruiting. JCC, 7:261-63; and Washington Papers, DLC. 4 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:75-78, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 7:396—98. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington [April 16? 1777] 1 Your letter to the Committee was immediately laid before Congress, and in consequence thereof, Gen. Schuyler was ordered to carry your ideas into execution with all possible dispatch. The Troops are therefore ordered to Bristol without delay, and thither will go all such as come from the Southward. You have only to order them from Bristol to Head Quarters at your pleasure. The inclosures now sent are from France by the last Ship. The Memoir is written by one of the first Generals in France, or in Europe, purely from views of serving the American cause, which the Mareshal appears to love. The accounts from Nantes are taken from a letter of Doctr. Lee to the Secret Committee in his way from Paris to the Court of Madrid. I thought it might avail you to have the general idea therein given of the enemies views and designs the ensuing Campaign. In the letter signed by all the Commissioners, we learn that the capital operations will certainly be against New England, the exterpation of which is proposed, whilst military government & slavery is (as they think the milder punishment) intended for the middle and southern States. 2 Conversing lately with Mr. James Hunter of Fredericksburg, whose labors have benefitted the public greatly, I find


[Page 626]
594 April 16, 1777 that the indispensable article of iron has been greatly affected, and its production injured, by the constant practise of inlisting the Laborers in those works, and pressing the Teams belonging to them. There are few things more capable of throwing distress among the people, and injur ing the public affairs, than such a procedure. I would therefore submit it to your consideration Sir, whether (until the Legislatures can provide compitent laws) it will not greatly remedy the evil, if you were, by order published in all the papers, [io] forbid all Continental Officers from in listing persons engaged with, and actually serving in any iron works within the United States, or from pressing any horses, teams, or Carriages of any kind belonging to such works. I believe that this would in great degree remedy the evil, if not totally remove it. 3 I am, with great affection and esteem, dear Sir your most obedient and very humble servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 This letter was written in response to Washington’s April 12 letter to “the committee of Congress appointed to write to him,” which was read and acted on in Congress this day. See JCC, 7:270-71; and Committee of Congress to Washington, April 10, 1777, note. 2 “The inclosures” included the commissioners’ February 6 letter and Arthur Lee’s February 11 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence, which are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:261—65, 266—69. Marshall Maillebois’ “Memoir,” which the commissioners labelled “sentiments of some particulars useful in carrying on our war,” had been enclosed in their letter to the committee. 3 For Washington’s rejection of this suggestion, see his April 24 letter to Lee in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:462-65. Francis Lewis to William Allison and Robert R. Livingston Phil 16th April 1777. I have been favored with your letter of the 2d Inst, covering two Resolves of the Honble Convention dated the 1st and to which due re gard shall be paid. 1 From the information I have hitherto obtained of the quantity of salt in this City it is so inconciderable, that I apprehend none will be permitted to be sent out at present, I shall do my utmost to procure it. I did not arrive here from Baltimore untill the 13th Inst. & yesterday Mr. Livingston shewed me a Resolve of the Honble Convention dated 29th Mar requesting me to repair to that board, but as I left my Baggage at Baltimore & having also other business to transact there relative to the Montgomery Prizes, I shall be obliged to go to Baltimore previous to my attending the Convention. 2


[Page 629]
April 16, 1777 597 The Amphitrite is on her way with 52 four pounders and other use ful articles, and two other vessels with a proportion of the same magazine, from whence the mentioned Peices had been shipped; which consisted at first of 200 of that Bore & 22 Mortiers with all their Atraille, and Powder Balls & Bombs. Though a variety of reports may reach you about the insults offered by different Indians, yet, from the papers which have fallen within my sight in a necessary course, I can venture to assure that a war with them is not inevitable. They are outcast Banditti and not regular formidable Tribes which have done mischiefs. The latter profess friendship, and give very shrewd replys to British Sollicitors. I ought to mention that our proceedings by Sea are counted the most detrimental to the British Ministry’s Reputation. Our friends in France will be greatly chagrined at the present Embargo. I wish it was avoidable. I have the honor to be with great Esteem, Sir, Your obliged very humb. Servt. James Lovell [P.5'.] I wish my Respects & Love presented to your Lady, Miss Bowdoin, your Grandaughter and Mr. Bowdoin. RC (M-Ar). 1 For Arthur Lee’s February 14 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspond ence, see Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:270—71. 3 Lovell’s enclosed extract is dated “London 2d. Febry.,” but it is from the Edward Bancroft letter to Silas Deane that is printed under the date January 31, 1777, in NYHS Collections 19 (1886): 479-81. The extract copied by Lovell omitted Bancroft’s statement on the dismal pros pects for support within British political circles. “The state of politics here is in every way disagreeable: four-fifths at least of the English people despise us, and look upon us as cowards, and assert that we shall be beaten before the middle of summer. The friends of America, on the other hand, are discouraged; those of the minority who have espoused the cause of the people, find that this cause is on the side of their adversaries. Rockingham’s party has had a meeting, and wanted to make a formal secession, and publish a declaration of their reasons for acting thus; but other branches of the minority opposed this as a useless thing, and adverse to the people in the present state of affairs, so that I think nothing will be done.” Philip Schuyler to Richard Varick Dear Sir 1 Phila. April 16th 1777 I am much obliged by your several Letters, thank you for them for your good wishes and attention. Some people here are greatly disappointed. They were In hopes that I would have resigned Immediately upon my receiving Certain very unac countable resolutions of the 15th ult. 2 Finding that I would not do that they wish to avoid an Enquiry and throw out that there are no Complaints against me, and that they have never believed in any of the malicious re-


[Page 630]
598 April 16, 1777 ports propagated to my disadvantage. They have however gone too far, and all that stands on their Journals Injurious to me must be Expunged or I quit the Service. Mr. Livingston & Mr Duane are this day arrived and my business will be opened to morrow. 3 Mr Lansing Jr will write you what passes here and how our time is spent, I am too much hurried to do It. Adieu my dear Colonel & Believe me Ever, sincerely Yours &c, Ph. Schuyler RC (MiDbEI). 1 Richard Varick (1753-1831) of New York was General Schuyler’s military sec retary and deputy muster-master general in the northern department. In 1780 Varick became an aide to Benedict Arnold when that officer was commander of West Point, but he was later acquitted by a military court of inquiry of any com plicity in Arnold’s treason. Varick next became confidential secretary to Washing ton, and in this capacity he spent the rest of the war transcribing 44 volumes of the commander-in-chief’s headquarters papers and personal correspondence. DAB. a See John Hancock to Schuyler, March 18, 1777, note 2. ’On April 18 Congress appointed a committe consisting of one delegate from each state “to enquire into the conduct of Major General Schuyler, since he has held a command in the army of the United States.” JCC, 7:279—80. A full dis cussion of this inquiry will appear in volume seven. Philip Schuyler to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia April 16h. 1777. On the Intelligence received by Congress that nine of the Enemies Ships of War had got into Delaware Bay, and that a Number of Trans ports were seen in the offing, the Continental Troops in this City amount ing to 563 Rank and File were ordered to Fort Island to assist in compleat- ing the Fortifications there, which are in a very defenceless State, and to throw up a Work on Red Bank to prevent the Enemies taking possession and thereby forcing the vessels and Floating Batteries designed for the protection of the Chevaux de Frise from their Station. Your Excellency’s Letter of the Instant was received this Morning and refered to me with an order to carry your Intentions into Execution. In obedience thereto I have ordered the Troops immediately to move to Bristol, where they will be joined by 250 Virginians just arrived. 1 All the Military Stores belonging to the Public are ordered out of Town and the Quantity now left in it is very inconsiderable. 2 I advised Congress that I had been informed that very considerable Quantities of provisions and other Stores that might be greatly service able to the Enemy were collected by private persons, in Consequence of which persons are appointed by the Board of War of this State to take an exact account of them. Considerable progress has been made in the Business, and the Result has shewn that the Information was just,


[Page 632]
600 April 17, 1777 The Merchants of Britain in a Memorial laid before Ld Sandwich reckon their Losses by the Captures our Privateers have made on their W. India Trade to be £1,800,000. Insurance had arisen to 28 per Cent & Bank- ruptcys had taken place. There is no kind of Relaxation here, says a Lon don Correspondent, in Warlike Preparations, and yet the Ministry have so contrivd it, that but few People beleive there is any Danger of War. I am much puzzled, says he, about the real Intention in Respect of these great & hasty Armaments; they are certainly too expensive to be mere Scarecrow, and improbable as on one Account it seems, there is Reason to beleive they intend, when their present Loan is compleated, either to at tack France, or at least to hold very high Language to her. Certain it is, that Ld Weymouth has of late seriously & warmly urgd an immediate Declaration of War with France, and tho’ such Declaration has not been made, it is perhaps only suspended. With Regard to America we are in- formd, that Transports were getting ready to bring out the additional British & Hessian Troops & it was intended they should all sail by the beginning of March. The Campaign is to be opend unusually early and the operations directed wholly and from all sides against New England, that by early and vigorous Exertions they may crush the Northern Colonies. I think I have given this to you and my other Friends as my opinion in my Letters the last Winter. If they can subdue those stubborn States they flatter themselves the rest will submit. It is necessary that New England should sustain her Character and Firmness. Their Intention is to extirpate the People there and make Slaves of the Rest of America. I wish the Nest of Hornets on Rhode Island had been before now de stroyed. I expected it would have been done. I have been informd of the Reason why it was not done. The Congress have now recommended it to the States of M. B., C., & N.H. to call forth their Militia for that Purpose and have directed Genl Washington to send a suitable officer to take the Command. I hope it will now be done. It is certainly wise to conquer our Enemies in Detail before their Reinforcements can arrive. I fear N E will be chargd with the Loss of her former military Pride if it is not done. I have been sanguine in urging it here, and have almost pawnd my Repu tation on the Success of the Undertaking as well as the Valor of my Countrymen. I wish for more of an enterprizing Spirit, and shall feel my self happy in the Revival of such a Spirit in New England. Capt Collins who will deliver this Letter is now ready to set off and waits. Adieu my Friend. I will speak to Genl Mifflin again who is now here about Mr Temples Affair. 3 I am glad to hear of the brisk Sale of Lottery Ticketts in Boston & that the Loan office is successfull. 4 I hope Boston will be made as strong as Gibralter. Our 15 Battalions may be completed. I am pleasd with the Measures you are taking with the Tories. Dont let the Execution of the good Law be abated an Iota in a single Instance. If they take the oath, you must nevertheless keep a


[Page 633]
April 17, 1777 601- watchful Eye over them. They are a cursed Generation. We are plagud with them here beyond bearing. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. FC (NN). 'Warren’s February 2, 24, and April 2 letters to Adams are in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:444—48. ’ For the “Misfortune of the Ship Morris,” see John Adams’ second letter to Abigail Adams, April 13, 1777, note. 3 At this point in the FC Adams added: “Please to present my Respects to Mr. Bowdoin & inform him of this. I will take the first opportunity to acknowledge his last Letter.” ‘ At this point in the FC Adams added: “but am sorry that you are so much a Stranger to the Loan office as I used to be to the Friends of Government. You must be Stranger indeed, I hope not for the same Reason.” William Duer to the New York Convention Sir, Philadelphia, April 17th, 1777. I should have done myself the honor of writing to you immediately after my arrival, but have been so occupied by various business the whole Time I have been here that I have not had time to write on the different Matters relative to the State of New York and now before Congress. I am extremely concerned to inform you that there is no prospect at present of our obtaining a supply of Salt from the Continental magazines, there being only 1200 Bushels in store at this place. I have requested Mr. Robert Morris to inform me whenever any salt is to be exposed to sale, and should the other Gentleman who represent our State concur in opinion, I will employ a person to purchase, in Behalf of the State, on the most reasonable Terms possible. The Letter from the Convention relative to the Insurgents in the North Eastern parts of the State transmitted to Mr. Lewis Morris before my arrival, has been read in Congress; but as I expected daily the arrival of Mr. Duane and Mr. Livingston, I thought it most prudent to get the consideration postponed, to which Congress acceded. The deputies from New Connecticut are now in town, and have pre sented to Congress a memorial, a copy of which I shall do myself the honor to transmit you in a day or two. I can by no means think that this attempt to dismember our State will be countenanced by Congress, tho’, I am sorry to say, that I can very easily perceive that Individuals from the Eastern States mean to support Messrs. Allens in their extravagant Pretensions. I flatter myself however, that with the Assistance of my colleagues, I shall procure such Resolutions passed as will reprobate their Proceedings and oblige the revolted Subjects to render a due Obedi ence to the laws of the State. 1 I am extremely sorry to inform you, that notwithstanding the Invasion which threatens this city, a Langour prevails amongst the Inhabitants of


[Page 638]
606 April 17, 1777 I moved in Consequence thereof that Genl. Smallwood should be ordered to station a Battailion there to be under the Direction of the Executive Power of the State of Maryland untill removed or otherwise ordered by Congress. On Debate the Sense of the House seemed to be that None of the Troops already raised could be spared but that a new Battallion might be raised on continental Pay and Expence for that Purpose and have directed a Comittee to bring in a Report on the Subject composed of Colo. Duer, Colo. Wilson, Mr. S. Adams and myself. When a Report is made and any Step taken in Consequence thereof, I shall do myself the Honour to write to you on the Subject. 2 I have the Honour to be, Dr. Sir, your most hum. Servt. Benjamin Rumsey RC (MdAA). 1 Not found. * JCC, 7:275. For the committee’s report and Congress’ April 19 resolves on maintaining a Continental battalion on the Maryland eastern shore to overawe the disaffected, see JCC, 7:284-86. See also Md. Archives, 16:222-23, 225-28, 242. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings April 17. 1777 Come. met. Present Messrs. Morris, R.H. Lee, Lewis, Livingston. The Come, agreed with Mr. Morris to make a joint concern of the ship Lions J cargo now Loadg. in this port for France. She has now on board about 260 hhds of tobo. & is to be filld up with as much more of that Article as She will take & flour. The ship belongs to Mr. Morris & he values her at £4000 curry, the half of wch. sum the Come, agree to ensure on sd. ship until his return to this port, & to allow 4 guin[ea]s per hhd freight for tobo. & ten shillings sterg. per barrel for flour & 2/6 sterg. per foot for any goods &c she may bring back. MS (MH-H). Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia April 17th. 1777 Congress is desirous if possible to Subdue the Enemy that are in this Country before a reinforcement can arrive. The Small pox has greatly retarded the recruits Joyning the Army. We had information Some time ago that preparations were making to attack the Enemy on Rhode Island


[Page 641]
April 17, 1777 609 That the British Administration are inflamed with the Strongest Pas sions of Pride, Avarice and Revenge is what We have no Reason to doubt of and that they will put every Thing to the most desperate Hazard rathar than fail of accomplishing their Wishes, which is it seems is the utter De struction of the N. England Countrys and Subjecting the Rest to a military Goverment. If they were not most strongly impressed with these Passions they would pay more Regard to the Voice of Opposition in their own country which is so Very loud, and to the Increasing Bankruptcies which have lately greatly multiplied amongst them, and to the Threatening As pect of their Neighbours Circumstances, which a People not totally in fatuated, would Veiw as portending the most direfull Consequences. A circumstance of the Ferocity of the British Court may be learnt from their offering to deliver the Prisoners taken on Long Island to the East India Company to be sent to their settlements, in Case they would send to Gi- bralter for them. This Proposition We have an Authentick Account of, was Recorded in the Compy Book and that the Genl. Assembly met to consider of the Offer. This Shews the extreme Malice of that Goverment. But God Reigns and Will I believe Blast the Designs of these unrelenting Tyrants. That N England will be a principal object with the Enemy the next Campaign I think not only Probable because their Malice would dictate such a Measure, but they must feel the necessity of bringing the War to a speedy Close which they will not consider as affected in any very con siderable Degree while the N England Countrys are unsubdued. The Enemy have put on an Appearance as tho they intend an Expedi tion to this City which occasions the Removal of Stores &c, also an order to the Militia to be ready in Case of Emergency, and a direction to form a Camp near the City to which they may repair and join the continental troops. These Steps are doubtless Well, but Whatever the present Veiws of the Enemy may be, their final object I apprehend is Hudsons River and the Eastward. You will sir kindly accept my most sincere Wishes for your Happiness and be assured that I am with Sentiment of esteem, your most Obedient humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott. P.S. I should have mentioned to you Sir that the Committee from N York and Virginia inclusive who met as you have doubtless heard to Consider of the expediancy of fixing Prices &c similar to what was done in N England are dissolved without doing any Thing. 2 It may therefore be an object worthy of Consideration wheither We ought to Continue our Embargo Law respecting Prices &c. The Policy and even Practicability of the Measure has been denyed here. How this is I believe the N England Goverments by this Time have had the full Information of Experience to convince them. But if We sell and restrain our Trade in a lower and more confined Way than our Neighbours We cannot be upon an equal footing with them.


[Page 643]
April 18, 1777 611 and to request you will take proper Measures for carrying the Resolve into Execution relative to the latter. 2 You will perceive the Congress have voted five Hundred Dollars for this Purpose. Every Mark of Distinction shewn to the Memory of those illustrious Men who offer up their Lives for the Liberty & Happiness of their Coun try, reflects the truest Honour upon those who pay the Tribute; and by holding up to others the Prospects of Fame & Immortality will animate them to tread in the same Path. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Svt. J H Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See ]CC, 7:242-43, 258. 2 Or “the former” in the case of Massachusetts. Marine Committee to Benjamin Dunn Sir Philadelphia 18th April 1777 The Navy Board of this State having made application for the Assist ance of Such Continental Cruizers as can with propriety be employed to defend the Cape May Channel in Delaware Bay against the enemies Ships and tenders now mollesting the trade at the Capes, 1 We have thought proper in complyance with their request to order the Andrea Doria, Sur prize, & Fly 2 on this service. You are therefore to proceed soon as it is pos sible with the Sloop Surprize under your Command down the Cape May Channel until you join the Andrea Doria, where you will put yourself under the command of your Senior officer Captain Isaiah Robinson and in conjunction with him and the Gallies of this State exert your utmost abilities to secure the communication between this City and the Sea by means of that Channel, You must to the utmost of your power protect and assist all American Vessels inward or outward bound, and you are also to exert your utmost abilities and address to take, Sink, bum or de stroy any or all of the enemies Ships that may come in your way. When this service does not require your further attention consult your senior officer, and with his concurrence you may open the other orders given you herewith and proceed upon the execution of them. Remember there is a Cargo on board the Surprize and you will be careful not to ex pose it unnecessarilly to risque of being lost or taken. We are Sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The Pennsylvania Navy Board made this request in an April 17 letter to the Marine Committee. Pa. Archives, 2d ser. 1:133. The Navy Board’s origins and functions are described in John W. Jackson, The Pennsylvania Navy, 1775-1781: The Defense of the Delaware (New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1974), ch. 7.


[Page 645]
April 18, 1777 613 can be done afterwards. When you find the service herein recommended does not require your particular attention, either by means of your tak ing or destroying the enemies Tenders or by their quitting the Station, you may then deem these orders to be fully complyed with and opening the others given you herewith proceed as therein directed. And as you have a valuable Cargo on board you will during this service be particu larly attentive to the safety of the Andrea Doria and her Cargo, only ex posing her to danger when you are sensible the true Interest or honor of America requires it. We are sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings April 18th. 1777 Come. met. Present Morris, Lee, Lewis, Whipple. Order on J. Gibson Esqr. A. G. in favor of Messrs. Meredith & Clymer for 2133 1/3 dlls being the amount of their valuation of their Sloop Peggy charterd & insurd by the Come. sd. sloop being taken on her way to Martinique by the Enemy’s ship of war the Orpheus on the 4th July last, as appears by the Masters Protest taken before Js. Humphreys, Noty. pub. on the 30th day of Augt. last. 1 Issued the follg. drafts on the Auditr. genl, [in] favor G. Meade & Co. for 54 26/90 dlls being the amount of an Invoice of staves shipped by them on board the Brige. Freindship of St Eustatia for 3680 dlls, amt. of their Acct, dated the 10th March last. Do. for 1253 11/90 dlls balance of their Acct, for freight & charges on the Brige. Friendship. MS (MH-H). 1 This apparently superseded an earlier order. See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, September 12, 1776. George Walton to Lachlan McIntosh 18 April 1777 I freely confess to you my dear General that some pains have been taken to shake my friendship for your virtues & to lessen the good opinion of the Continent—but be assured that they never obtained credit with either. I have been privately interragated as to the firmness of your principles in this great cause, in which I know you always to have been an enthusiast, and to have seen deeper, earlier and farther into it than any other man. That ample Justice has been done you upon all such occasions I hope you will not doubt. However a mans reputation may be obscured by the puffs


[Page 646]
614 April 18, 1777 George Walton


[Page 649]
April 19, 1777 617 want of Business, for surely no Country ever cried more loudly for a vigilant, active and decisive Government. They have adjournd because— faith I cannot tell you why—perhaps for the want of authority to save their Country under their new Constitution—perhaps for want of Resolu tion to exercise the powers they have. Under these Circumstances, the civil Governours having in effect abdicated for a month, Congress have interposd and supplied an executive as you’l observe by the Resolution enclosd. 2 With the free consent of the sleeping executive, Congress might have taken the whole power of the State into their Hands and provided for it’s Safety as they pleasd. It is evident that this same supreme execu tive are under apprehensions that must encumber and defeat all Business. They must not make themselves Odious! The People may not be satisfied with such a Measure! They wish Congress woud direct what they think best! They will chearfully submit every thing to our superior wisdom, &c. &c. I am of Opinion that Congress will recommend the Revival of the Committees of Inspection &c as essential to the Salvation of the State. It is truly the only System which can give sufficient Vigour, Unanimity and Stability to publick Measures. These refined Speculative Plans may amuse; in times of peace they may produce Happiness; but flagrante bello they afford no Hope of Success, no Prospect of Advantage. The Reputation of our State stands high tho’ on the floor we are sur rounded with Strangers. This is an evil which will be cured by good man ners and sociability. It is in our power to be civil, as we keep House, and shall always have company when we dine at Home. I say we keep House, as we have taken a boarding House for our exclusive use. We have got a Committee appointed of one member from each State to examine into General Schuyler’s Conduct, but not without great diffi culty and objections from our neighbours. It was pretended that there was no Complaint against him, no accusor & that therefore an Enquiry was absurd. This subtle Evasion did not pass. I am confident that Schuyler will be acquitted with Honour. 3 Doctor Young formerly of our State has published an address to our Mountaineers advising them to be firm in their Revolt; and expressly assuring them that this is the opinion & wish of many leading members of Congress. 4 Col. Floyd informd us that he had not been able, tho’ he livd with Roger Sherman, to make the least discovery of such a disposition. I have only time now to add that I am with Compliments to all our Friends and the utmost Regard to yourselves, Dear Gent., your most obed, huml Servt, Jas. Duane RC (NNC). Addressed: “Robt. R. Livingston, John Jay, Govr. Morris & Robt Yates Esqrs.” Although the recipients were members of the New York Conven tion, they were not charged with responsibility for communicating with the state’s delegates to Congress and Duane’s motive in addressing them is not known. 1 Duane and Philip Livingston.


[Page 651]
April 19, 1777 619 Phila. & to be always present there myself or clerk. This I shall get altered or de cline, as the sum allowed me would not maintain me in that most extravagant place.” See Burnett, Letters, 2:364n.2; JCC, 8:469; and Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 7th ser. 2 (1902) : 65-66. Despite the efforts of the congressional committee, of which Gerry was a member, to straighten out the commissary department to everyone’s satisfaction, Trumbull sent a letter of resignation to President Hancock on August 2. Congress subsequently authorized him to continue his duties until “the commissaries gen eral of purchases and issues shall signify their readiness to proceed therein under the new regulations,” and then on August 7 replaced him with William Bu chanan. JCC, 8:598, 607, 620. See also Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 14:101-5; and Chester M. Destler, Connecticut: The Provisions State (Chester, Conn.: Pequot Press, 1973), pp. 28- 31. 2 On the previous day James Lovell had written to Trumbull urging him to attend Congress: “It is exceedingly critical you shd. be here directly . . . There seems to be a mighty rising fancy for contracts in a scheming set of politicians here.” Extract in Parke-Bernet Galleries Catalog, no. 2205 (September 24, 1963), p. 26, item 93. Endorsed by John Hancock: “Sir. It is the Direction of Congress that you Repair with all Dispatch to Philadelphia. John Hancock, Pres. To Col. Joseph Trumbull, Philadelphia, 20 April 1777.” The extract from Lovell’s letter apparently refers to the proposal of Col. William Buchanan of Baltimore to supply the army by contract. See Roger Sherman to Joseph Trumbull, April 2, 1777. John Hancock to John McKinly Sir, Philada. April 19th. 1777. I have the Honour to transmit you the above Resolutions of Congress, accompanied with a Warrant on the Loan Officer for fifteen Hundred Dollars for the Use therein specified. 1 I must beg the Favour of you to forward in the most expeditious Manner, the enclosed Letter to Mr. Henry Fisher. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obed & very hble Serv. J H Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Honble John McKinley, Govr. of Delaware State.” 1 This money was for a guard Congress had asked Delaware to station at Lewes on March 26. JCC, 7:203, 275. Marine Committee to Benjamin Dunn Sir April 19th 1777 We gave you orders yesterday respecting the service you are required to perform in Delaware Bay, after that is performed you are to have re course to these Orders which you are to obey and execute soon as pos sible. You are to proceed with the Sloop Surprize and Cargo on board


[Page 653]
April 19, 1777 621 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Marine Committee to Dunn, May 2, 1777. Marine Committee to Isaiah Robinson Sir April 19 th 1777 The Marine Committee gave you Instructions of yesterdays date for performing certain services in Delaware Bay which being accomplished you are to have recourse to the following Orders which you are to obey and fulfill soon as possible. You are to proceed with the Andrea Doria and the Cargo on board direct for Cape Frangois in Hispaniola and on your Arrival there wait on the Governor or General asking the protection and liberty of the Port. You will be attended in this visit by Mr. Stephen Ceronio to whom you must deliver the letter given you herewith and to whom the Cargo on board is consigned. This Gentleman will receive the said Cargo with despatch and if he has any public stores on hand that have been provided by him previous to your Arrival or if there be any arrived there from Europe you are to receive the whole or such part as you can conveniently take on board the Andrea Doria and return there with to the first safe Port you can get into in the united states of America preferring this part of the Coast if equally safe. You are to land the Stores and goods wherever you arrive giving us notice thereof and employing proper persons to take charge of them until we can direct how they are to be disposed off. We believe there is sufficient water for the Andrea Doria in Egg Harbour, several of the Inlets south of Cape Henlopen, or in several Inlets in North Carolina and probably these may be safer than the great Bays. You will be careful to keep your men on board wherever you go and then take in three or four months Provisions. We hope all this business will be finished before the first day of July. Should there be no Public Stores for these States at Cape Frangois, you will depart from thence immediately after landing your Cargo and pro ceed down to Cape St. Nicholas Mole where you are to apply to Mr. John Dupuy and if he has any goods or Stores to ship receive them on board and proceed as already directed. You will get as many men to enter on board your Brig as possible at these places and should there be no stores or goods to bring away you may then proceed on a Cruize against our enemies, taking, sinking, burning and destroying as many of their Ships and Vessels as possible. You may send your Prizes into the French Ports or for the Continent preferring the later when proper and practicable. The Gentle men mentioned will transact your business, they will supply you with whatever may be necessary, and you may order them to sell all perishable Prize goods or those suited to the West India Markets taking care they


[Page 654]
622 April 19, 1777 are really and truely indisputable Prizes agreeable to Resolves of Congress, but the Vessels and other Parts of the Cargoes must come to some Amer ican Port for condemnation. In this manner you may continue Cruizing until the first day of July, and should you return from the Cape or the Mole and land a Cargo on the Continent as already mentioned before the first of July, you may proceed on a Cruize for West India Ships or others in these Seas until that day. On the first day of July you are to open the Sealed Orders enclosed herein 1 and exert yourself to the utmost in the execution of them taking care that the Andrea Doria is clean, well manned, victualled and every way in good Order for service at that Time. 2 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Not found. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Marine Committee to Robinson, May 2, 1777. Lewis Morris to the New York Convention Phia April 19th 1777 I find the Convention have thought proper by a Resolve to request the Attendance of Mr Lewis, Mr Floyd and myself from the Continental Congress. In obediance to that Resolve (to which as every other of that Convention I feel myself devoted to comply with) I would instantly have set off, but flattered myself that I might presume on the Liberty of making some little delay, the reasons for which I fondly hope the Convention will think of Some weight. Unconnected as my Colleagues are, I should not have hesitated one moment to Obey the Summons, but all my family are now in the neighbourhood of this City, the constant apprehensions we are under here of the approach of the enemy, makes it prudent to remove them to some distance, and being destitute of any other assistance for that purpose than myself, I was assured that a delay occasioned from such motives would have its weight with the Convention in my favor. However Sir, you will be pleased to assure the Convention that such is my attachment to the cause, and such the respect I bear their commands, that should they now think proper to Summon me immediately, the private considerations I have just mentioned shall give way to their determinations. 1 I have the honor to be Sir, your Most obedt Humble Servt, Lewis Morris RC (PHi). ’After reading Morris’ letter, the New York Convention decided on May 4 to “dispense with his attendance for the present.” Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:911.


[Page 656]
624 April 19, 1777 You no doubt are justifiable in delivering the arms, as to the cloth ing, you’ll receive directions from the Clothier General. I shall pay the earliest attention to what you say respecting Roache’s ship. If there is a probability of getting cannon from the Massachusetts furnace I think it best to stick close to them as the surest way of obtaining cannon for the Raleigh. The bursting of a few, I hope will not discourage the furnace from going on—not more than half those cast in the furnaces this way have stood the proof. This city is still threatened with an invasion but whether the threats will be executed or not, is a matter of doubt with me. A plan of correspondence between this City and the enemy has lately been discovered. 7 or 8 of the Traitors are under close confine ment. Some of them will no doubt be hanged. This is disagreeable busi ness, but if we dont hang them they’ll hang us, and selfpreservation, you know, is the first law of nature. A considerable quantity of the goods will be saved from the ship blown up near the Capes, as mentioned in my last. She had a valuable cargo on board 400 lbs. of powder, 2500 stand of arms and a considerable quantity dry goods amounting in the whole to 250,000 livres for account of the public besides private property to a large amount—but the greatest loss is the life of the Captain whose bravery on this occasion is without example. The establishment of a Navy Board in the Eastern Department is now in contemplation and I imagine will soon be done. 1 This is a necessary measure and ought to have been adopted some time ago. I am much at a loss for proper men to compose this Board. Boston, I suppose will be the place of their sitting; therefore it’s probable they will be of that town, or neighborhood. My only wish is, that they may be good men. He is my choice who will best serve my country. Some gentlemen are very urgent that I would engage in this business, but it’s totally against my principles to accept an office of profit created by a Legislative Body of which I am a member and to resign my seat from lucrative views would not only be treating honor done me by my constituents with indecency but be incon sistent with that patriotic delicacy, which ever affords the most agreeable reflections. These are my present sentiments nor do I by any means think I shall relinquish them. Whoever are appointed, I suppose must reside chiefly at Boston. I wish we could have a public furnace for casting cannon set up in New Hampshire. I think I have heard that there is a large quantity of ore at Barrington and a convenient place for this business. I wish you would make inquiry about it and inform me what the ore can be pur chased for, what distance it is from a convenient place for a furnace and the distance the latter is from water carriage. I hope you will send some body to relieve me soon, as it will be very disagreeable to go a long journey in the heat of summer. My Colleague sets out in about a fortnight when I shall be left alone for New Hamp shire and you know how hard the service will be then. In full confidence


[Page 658]
626 April 19, 1777 Ships as there has been some instances of the Masters carelessness of their letters when they have been taken, but we very soon expect a packet, when I flatter myself shall be able to give you some joyful Tidings. Prizes taken by American Vessels are freely sold in France, the inclos’d Copy of a letter from a Gentn. who is never mistaken in his intelligence will shew you the scituation of the Court of Spain with that of England. 1 A fresh quarrel is breaking out between the Turks and Russians, all these things Auger well for America. Your Most effecte. Brother, Wm Whipple 23d This was to have gone by a private hand which I unluckely missed. I have now to acknowledge the receipt of Yours by Mr. Jackson and also the 17 per Post which I have not time at present to reply fully to. The loan Officer will have orders from time to time from The Treasury Board but he can pay no money that comes into his hands without special orders for that purpose. I shall write you fully per Gapt Thompson who will set out in a few days. W W Its probable I may have use’d various seals as I was obligd to Borrow till a Friend took pity on me & gave me one below in the impression. RC (MH-H). 1 The “inclos’d Copy” has not been identified, but see John Adams to James Warren, and James Lovell to James Bowdoin, April 16, 1777. John Hancock to Thomas Johnson and John McKinly Sir, Philada. April 20th. 1777. I have the Honour to transmit you the enclosed Resolves and am most earnestly to entreat you will adopt the Measures therein recommended. The Danger of an immediate Insurrection in the Counties of Somerset and Worcester in the State of Maryland & in the County of Sussex in the State of Delaware, from the inimical Disposition manifested by a consider able Part of the Inhabitants, has induced Congress to desire that those among them who have shewn a Disaffection to the Cause of America, may be apprehended and secured, in Hopes that their wicked Designs may be thereby defeated. 1 I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the Resolves, which are so ex plicit, that I shall not enlarge, only to request you will carry them into Execution with that Dispatch & Vigour which their Importance to the Peace of your State in particular, and of America in General, so loudly demands. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Sert. J. H. Presid.


[Page 667]
April 22, 1777 635 Philip Schuyler to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia April 22d. 1777. I am this Moment honored with your Excellency’s Favor of Yester day’s Date. 1 Your Excellency’s Letter of the 20t to Congress, 2 was Yesterday, as I am informed, read and referred to the Board of War. I shall apply for a Copy of it, and try to execute whatever you may have wished should be done. I have with some Difficulty cleared this City of the Troops and got them all at Bristol except about sixty, who arrived last Night and who will proceed as soon as they are cloathed. 3 On Saturday I sent one of my Aids de Camp to procure a Return, which was very imperfectly made, Copy whereof your Excellency has inclosed. I hope for a more perfect one to Day, having sent one of the Light Horse Yesterday with a Letter to the commanding officer, for that purpose, to whom I shall immediately write to make you the most exact Returns. The Fortifications at Fort Island and Red Bank are going on as expeditiously as can be expected, with only four hundred and fifty Men of the provincials of this State. I am Dr Sir with great Respect, Your Ex cellency’s most obedient hble Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (DLC). In the hand of John Lansing, Jr., and signed by Schuyler. 1 This letter is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:446. 3 In reality Schuyler is referring to Washington’s April 18 letter to President Hancock, which was received on the 20th. See Hancock to Washington, April 20, 1777. 3 See JCC, 7:289. Charles Thomson to George Washington Sir April 22 1777. Before I joined Congress after their adjournment from Baltimore, the following resolutions passed in Congress 14 March 1777. 1 “That the pay list transmitted by the general for the establishment of Colonel Sheldon’s regiment of cavalry be approved of. “That the list of officers & privates transmitted by the general as necessary to compose every regiment of Cavalry to be raised for the de fense of these united states be approved of.” No copy was taken of these papers and the president informs me he sent back the originals to you. As the journals will be incompleat without


[Page 668]
636 April 22, 1777 those papers I must beg the favour of you to send me the originals & I will transmit you a certified copy. I am, Sr, Your obedient humble Servt, Chas Thomson RC (DLC). 1 For the delay in Thomson’s resumption of his secretarial duties after the ad journment from Baltimore, and the manner in which the journals were maintained during the interval before his return to Philadelphia, see John Hancock to the New York Delegates, March 11, 1777, note. John Adams to Abigail Adams Ap. 23. 77 My Barber has just left the Chamber. The following curious Dialogue was the Amusement, during the gay Moments of Shaving. Well, Burn, what is the Lye of the day? Sir, Mr. 1 just told me, that a Privateer from Baltimore, has taken two valuable Prizes, with Sixteen Guns each. I can scarcely believe it. Have you heard of the Suc cess of the Rattlesnake of Philadelphia, and the Sturdy Beggar of Mary land, Mr. Burn? These two Privateers have taken Eleven Prizes, and sent them into the West India Islands, Nine Transports and two Guinea Men. Confound the ill Luck, sir, I was going to sea myself on board the Rattlesnake and my Wife fell a yelping. These Wives are queer Things. I told her I wondered she had no more Ambition. Now, says I, when you walk the Street, and any Body asks who that is? The Answer is "Burn the Barbers Wife.” Should you not be better pleased to hear it said “That is Captain Burns Lady, the Captain of Marines on board the Rattlesnake”? Oh! says she, I had rather be called Burn the Barbers Wife, than Cap tain Burns Widow. I dont desire to live better, than you maintain me, my dear. So it is, Sir, by this sweet, honey Language I am choused out of my Prizes, and must go on, with my Soap and Razors and Pinchers and Combs. I wish she had more Ambition. If this Letter should be intercepted by the Tories, they will get a Booty. Let them enjoy it. If some of ther Wives had been as tender and discreet, as the Barbers, their Husbands Ambition would not have led them into so many Salt Ponds. . . . 2 What an Ignis fatuus this Ambition is! How few of either Sex, have arrived at Mrs. Burns pitch of Moderation, and are able to say, I dont desire to live better: and had rather be the Barbers Wife than the Captains Widow. Quite smart I think as well as Philosophical. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:219-20. 1 Blank in MS. 2 Suspension points in MS.


[Page 669]
April 23, 1777 637 Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper My dear Sir Philada. April 23d. 1777 1 I take this earliest opportunity to acknowledge your Favor of the 26th of March. 2 Your letters are always very acceptable to me; I wish therefore that your Leisure would admit of your writing oftener. I heartily concur with you in regreting the abominable Practice of prophane Swearing in our Army. It is indeed alarming. Congress has repeatedly injoyned the General officers to discountenance this Practice by their Authority and Influence. You know my Abhorrence of it, and may depend upon my exerting the utmost of my Endeavors if possible, to root it out of the Army. We have been, and still are threatned with the Invasion of this City. I confess I have no great Apprehensions of it, for I very much question whether the Enemy are yet in a Condition to open the Campaign. 3 It is mortifying in the Extreme that a small Handfull of ragged, discontented, unpaid Mercenaries should be sufferd to remain so long in Jersey & Rhode Island. But this must be attributed to the unlucky Circumstances of our Troops having been inlisted for one year only. The Advantage which the Enemy have taken from this Mistake will I hope be prevented by a per manent Army for the future. Experience has shewn us past Errors, and we are endeavoring to correct them. The medical Department is now put upon a new footing, and Rules are establishing in the Quarter Masters for keeping our Soldiers clearly in their encampments whereby their Health as well as Lives will be preservd. The Expediency of inocculating our new raisd Troops, has retarded their March to the Places of their Destination; but we are daily getting through this Difficulty, and I am in good Hopes that we shall bring our Army into the Field, though later than was intended, in tollerable Season. A well appointed army will put it in the Power of our generals to take a more decisive Part. We must drive our Enemies into the Sea and be ready to attack them on that Element. I earnestly wish to see such an enterprizing Spirit as shall confound our Enemies, and give Assurances to the Friends of Liberty, that we still retain a just Sense of the Dignity of our Cause, and are resolved by Gods as sistance to maintain it at all Hazzards. A Resolution passd in Congress Lately recommending to the New England States to raise their Militia & dislodge the Enemy at Rhode Island. I hope this will be done. Shall we not once more see that Spirit which animated our Countrymen at Lexington & Bunkers Hill. You have Intelligence from Europe as early as we have it here. I re- joyce with you in the Arrival of the Amphitrite with Cannon & Stores from France. Our Friend A L in a Letter dated at Bordeaux the 20th of Feby says that “ten thousand German & three thousand British Troops are to sail from England for Boston early in the Spring.” 4 I have al ways been of opinion that New England would again be the Seat of the


[Page 670]
638 April 23, 1777 War, and I have in my Letters to my Friends thro’ the Winter past been endeavouring to impress this opinion upon their Minds. I am utterly at a Loss to what Cause to impute the Failure of the Eastern States to send forward a Reinforcement of Militia to Ticonderoga when it was so pres- singly urged upon them by Congress early in the Winter. I am ready to attribute it to any thing rather than a Want of Zeal & Vigor, but It is humiliating to have it suspected to be the Fact, and it troubles me be yond Measure to find honest men disposd to give Credit to what un principled Tories are industriously propagating here that publick Vir tue and the military Spirit is totally lost in New England and that People have given themselves up to Luxury and Avarice. I hope it is not the Voice of every Citizen Queer endo Pecunia primum est. If it be not the general Doctrine, I pray you my dear Sir to give me your Assurances to the Contrary. Congress a few Days ago determind to establish a Marine board in the Eastern Department to consist of three Members who are to reside in or near Boston with the Power of adjourning to any other place. They are to be subject to the Directions of the Marine Committee of Congress. I hope this Board will facilitate our Naval Affairs and put them upon a more respectable Footing. 5 This Day General Warren, Mr Vernon Late of Newport & Mr Deshon of New London were elected to this Board with a Salary of 1500 Dollars per Annum each. A Number of Gentle men of the Massachusetts had been nominated by the Members of that State; Mr C 6 was nominated by Mr Duane of New York & As the gentlemen of Connecticutt and Rhode Island were urgent, it would not have been prudent for us to have been strenuous for the Choice of all out of our own State, though I am inclind to think there might have been a better Choice. Mr Warrens Character has long been revered in Congress. Mr. C had been personally known to many of the Members, Mr Deshon to no one. The two last had an equal Number of Votes but neither of them a competent Number. On a second Tryal Mr Deshon obtaind the Election. I heartily concur with you in regretting 7 FC (NN). 1 Although this draft is dated April 23, the last paragraph could not have been completed before May 6, the day Congress appointed the members of the Navy Board at Boston. See JCC, 7:331. ’ This is probably a reference to Cooper’s March 24 letter to Adams, which is in the Adams Papers, NN. 3 In the FC the letter to this point was crossed out. 1 Not found, but see Arthur Lee’s February 18 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:272-73. 3 The remainder of this paragraph was crossed out in the FC. 0 Thomas Cushing, former Massachusetts delegate. 7 The FC ends here abruptly at mid-page.


[Page 671]
April 23, 1777 639 John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philada. April 23d. 1777. The Congress, in Consequence of Information of the extraordinary Behaviour of Mr. Franklyn who has been for some Time a Prisoner at large in your State, have come to the enclosed Resolve relative to him; by which you will perceive they judge it highly necessary that he should be put under close Confinement. I am therefore to request you will give Orders for having the Resolve carried into Execution as soon as possible agreeably to the Terms of it. 1 I am likewise to request your Attention to the other Resolve 2 trans mitted herewith, & your Compliance with the same. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, your most obed & very hble Serv, J H Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 After his deposition by the revolutionary party in June 1776, William Frank lin, the last royal governor of New Jersey, was sent to Connecticut under liberal terms of confinement. There he violated his parole by “dispersing” copies of the pardons offered by the Howe brothers to rebellious Americans, prompting Congress on April 22 to request Governor Trumbull to place him in “close con finement, prohibiting to him the use of pen, ink, and paper, or the access of any person or persons, but such as are properly licensed for that purpose by Governor Trumbull.” Trumbull carried out Congress’ wishes, and Franklin remained con fined until he was exchanged for Gov. John McKinly of Delaware in October 1778. See JCC, 7:291; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:317, 344, 450, 476; Burnett, Letters, 2:362n.4; and Larry R. Gerlach, William Franklin: New Jersey’s Last Royal Governor (Trenton: New Jersey Historical Commission, 1975), pp. 32-35. 3 Possibly the resolve of April 22 asking the states to send Congress “their statute laws . . . the additions that may be made thereto . . . [and] all dis coveries and improvements in the arts of war made in such States.” JCC 7:291. Marine Committee to Elisha Hinman Sir April 23d 1777 We expect by the time that these Orders will get to your hands, the Ship Alfred under your Command will be compleatly fitted and manned, You are therefore to proceed with said ship immediately to sea, and there Cruize in such Latitudes as will be most likely to fall in with, and intercept the enemies Transport Vessels coming to reinforce or supply their Army at New York, and you are to use your true endeavours to take, burn, sink or destroy as many of the enemies Vessels of every kind, as it may be your good fortune to fall in with. The Prizes you may be lucky enough to take you will send into such Ports of the United States as you shall think will be the safest and most Convenient. It is our desire that you shall return to Boston or some safe


[Page 675]
April 23, 1777 643 ton with power to adjourn to any other part of New England to Super intend the Building, fitting out and manning the Ships of War ordered to be Built there, & to provide Naval magazines & generally to direct the Naval affairs in New England Subject to the Orders of the Marine Committee. 3 A recommendation passed Yesterday to the Several States to furnish Congress with their Laws, and to Send them to each of the other States that they may be acquainted with each others Laws—also to com municate any new discoveries they may make in the art of War or other useful Arts. 4 By a letter from General Heath to the Board of War it ap pears that the most of the Powder made in the Massachusetts Bay is bad and not to be depended on, & that they have a large Quantity of it. I hope the Inspectors of Powder in Connecticut will take Sufficient care that what is manufactured there is good, as the Safety of the State depends on its being Good. The price of Board is increased here about one third, & horsekeeping double. There must be a large quantity of paper money in circulation while the war lasts. I wish a spirited Effort might Soon be made to Subdue the Enemy’s force now in the Country. General Wolcott is in a good State of Health. He Saw Your Honrs. Letter and desired me to Write to your Honr. what was needful, but as we had nothing very important to write thought it unnecessary for both to Subscribe the Letter. I am with Great Esteem & Regards, Your Honor’s Obedient humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct). 1 Trumbull’s April 14 letter to President Hancock is in PCC, item 66, fols. 321—22. On April 17 the former Committee of Secret Correspondence had become the Committee for Foreign Affairs, and Thomas Paine had been elected its secretary. See JCC, 7:274. 2 In September 1776 Robert Aitkin had been authorized to reprint the journals from May 1775, and he offered the January to May 1776 portion for sale in Octo ber 1776. JCC, 5:829, 6:1128. 3 See JCC, 7:281, 331. ‘See JCC, 7:291. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Philadelphia 23d Api 1777 Your two favors one of 26th March & the other 5th March which I suppose shod be April came to hand Yesterday. 1 I find You have hard work to Perswade gentn to serve their Country, what can be the meaning of this? Do Gentn still think it Hazardous to appear in a Charecter that will render them obnoxious to the British Tyrant & his infernal Tools? or are they afraid their Private interest will suffer? The day Perhaps is not far off when some of those Gentn. who now are so loath to step forth, will be making interest for a seat in Congress, they may be gratified for


[Page 676]
644 April 23, 1777 what I care, and let those who are now Laboring in the vineyard, enjoy the Blessings of Domestic Happiness, with the Pleasing Reflections that will result from a Consciousness of having lent their aid when their Country most wanted it. However, it seems you have at least found two Gentn who will come, & I wish they may set out as soon as possible. 2 Col. Thornton intends to leave this place in about ten days & I wish to follow him before the weather is too warm. The last accot. from Our Commissioners was under the 6th Feby. They then had not heard of our successes in Jersey but I imagine our dispatches must have reachd them soon after. The accots then circulating all over Europe were such as were most agreeable to the British Court and really stagered some of Our Friends but notwithstanding this our Commisrs. had established a Bank in France, & one of them had set out for Spain. Another was to go in a short time for Holland. There did not appear to be the least probability of Britains geting any assistance from Russia. The most they expected to reinforce their Army in America with is 10,000 but the Court of France say they can not send near that number. There is every appearance of a General war in Europe & it is my opinion that Hostilities are commenc’d by this time. The Opposition to the Measures of admin istration in England increases, which will help to Confound their Coun cils. We daily Expect to have more particular accots. Our Commissrs. say they did not chuse to write so perticularly by Merchant ships as there had been some instances of carelessness in masters that had been taken who sufferd the letters to fall into the Enemies hands. Our army is daily increasing and by the accot received by Spies & deserters that of the Enemy is daily weakening so that I think our pros pects are tolerably good. I shall write you more fully in a few days. In the meantime beg leave to assure you that I am very Sincerely Yours, Wm. Whipple RC (NhD). ‘These letters, under the dates March 5? and 26, 1777, are in the microfilm edition of Josiah Bartlett Papers, NhHi. 3 Nathaniel Folsom and George Frost were elected delegates to Congress on April 1, but Frost did not attend until May 16 and Folsom until July 21, 1777. See N.H. State Papers, 8:528; and ]CC, 7:365, 8:568. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir, Philadelphia 23d April 1777 Your Favour of the 3d and 9t inst is reed, in the Latter of which came inclosed a Letter from Rhina. I perceive the little Child has had the Small Pox bad. But blessed be God that she has recovered from it. I perceive that Mrs. Wolcotts Health has been for a long time low, I fear more so than I am informed of. I wish to know how she is more explicitly than I


[Page 681]
April 24, 1777 649 Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings April 24. 1777 The Comine. met. Present, Morris, Lee, Whipple, Lewis. Letters from Dani. Tillinghast Esqr. of the 15 & 18 March inclosing Invoices, of Goods purchasd for the use of the Army, & cloathing supplied the fleet was read. Orderd that he be directed to apply to the Cloathier general for the amount of the goods purchasd for the use of the Army & that he charge the cloathg. fumishd to the Marine Come. & transmit the receits of the Papers to whom they were delivrd. A Lettr from Ths. Mumford Esqr. dated March 22 was read. Agreed that if the Owners of the Schooner Polly (wch he advises is arrivd at Plymouth with a Cargo of Salt) will not agree to receive her at that place, that he be orderd to load her again on public acct, with a suitable Cargo for Eustachia addressg. her to his friends there, orderg. them to ballast her with Salt, ship what powdr. re mains with them & dispatch her back for the first safe port in these States. Mr. Barnabas Deane’s letter of the 24th March was read. Agreed that he be directed to pay Capt. Biglow, the freight of the dry goods agreable to the list enclosd in his letter, & 2/ per Bushl. for Salt, wch. if he refuses to take he will refer him for settlemt. of the whole to this Come. Come. met. Present, Morris, Lee, Whipple. The Come, have purchasd from Mr. B. Gibbs of this city Mercht. his Brige. calld the Ann, Garrick master, as she now lays at Cape Francois, in the island of Hispaniola for the sum of £1800 cury. he to pay the portage bill, & all charges to the time She deliverd her cargo there. The Come, have likewise agreed with sd. Gibbs for a bill wch. he is now to give, on M. Stephen Ceronio Merchant there for the balance of the nett proceeds of sd. Briges cargo for wch. he is to be pd. 100 per Cent advance. The Come, have likewise agreed with Sami. Penrose & Co. of this City for the purchase of their Sloop, calld the Phebe, as she now lies at Cape Francois for £1000 this cury., they to pay all charges until the time She deliverd her cargo there. Also for a Bill wch sd. Penrose & Co. are to draw on Mr. Stephen Ceronio for balance of proceeds of sd. sloops cargo for wch. the Come, are to pay one hund. per Cent. Mr. Morris producd the follg. Bills drawn upon him as Chairman of the Come, by J. Weriatt Esqr. Continental Agent in Geor gia 1 vizt In favor of Burney & Dawson dated 14 Deer, last for this curry £1696.10.0 In favor of Levi Shiftall 31st Jany 75. Do 1 Feby 75. Do 3 Feby 75. Do 4 Feby 75. Pensyla. Cury. £1996. 10


[Page 682]
650 April 24, 1777 Orderd that Mr. Morris pay sd Bills. Order on the Auditor genl, in favor of J. Brown in behalf of Mr. Morris, for 5324 dlls to pay sd. bills to be chargd sd. J. Wereat Esqr. in the Come’s books. MS (MH-H). 1 The following note in the copyist’s hand appears at the foot of the page and is keyed at this point: “In this manner Mr. Morris might have paid for all his private purchases out of the public Treasury, wch. woud not appear ’till the Agents settled their Accts. This Wereatt, like many others never settled & so the public money is accounted for. A. Lee.” For examples of similar comments pertaining to Robert Morris’ transactions found in this copy of the committee’s “journal,” see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, August 8, 1776, note 2, and May 1, 1777, note. Oliver Wolcott to Joshua Huntington Sir, Philadelphia 24th April 1777 Your Favour of the 14t [inst.] is reed, but have not had time to lay it before the Committee. Shall take the earliest Oppertunity for that Pur pose after which you may expect to hear from me again. Iron I perceive is a most extraordinary Price, and I beleive it will be difficult if possible to obtain it here, and indeed the British Frigates lying at the Capes would prevent the exportation if it could be purchased. It is proper you should have what money is necessary, but that cannot be sent to you at this Time, tho’ I beleive it will not be difficult to procure it for you soon. 1 You will probably be soon put to less dificulty on many Accounts as Congress have determined to establish a Marine Board for the N England Governments—a most necessary Institution, and which has been much Wanted. This Day probably the Commissioners will be appointed. 2 You may depend upon my Readiness to give you every Assistance in my Power. I am, sir your most Obedient, humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (MHi). 1 Huntington was superintending the construction of a Continental frigate. See Wolcott to Huntington, March 11, 1777, note 1. ’ See John Adams’ first April 6 letter to James Warren, note 2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. April 25th. 1777. You will perceive, from the Resolves which I have now the Honour of transmitting, the Measures the Congress have come into on a Variety of Subjects. 1 1 beg Leave to refer your Attention to them. Altho Congress have recommended to the executive Authority of this State to call out three Thousand of the Militia, and to order the City


[Page 683]
April 25, 1777 651 Militia to hold themselves in Readiness at a Moments Warning, yet such is the Weakness of the Government, that every Means should be used to give Efficacy to this Requisition. They have therefore deter mined to detain Genl. Mifflin in this City for some Time knowing his Popularity and Influence to be very great, provided you should be of opinion, the Service will admit of his Absence from the Army. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect & Esteem, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presid. [P.5 1.] Your Letters of the 21 & 23d have been duly rec’d. 3 As I propose in a few days to Send my Family off for Boston, I Take the freedom to Request that you will be so Obliging as to give me your Opinion which Rout would be the safest for them to Take; & what part of the North River you Judge best for them to Cross at. I am, your most Obedt, John Hancock RC (DLG). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 In addition to those mentioned in the next paragraph, Hancock also sent Washington resolves of April 23 and 25 on reinforcements, prisoner support, medical pay, Gov. William Franklin, Maj. Elisha Painter, and hospital inspec tion. JCC, 7:289-91, 298-300. 2 See JCC, 7:296. 3 These letters are in PCG, item 152, 4:91—92, 95; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:449, 462. Robert Morris to William Bingham Dear Sir Philada. April 25th. 1777 I am indebted for your favours of the 25th Jany, 19th & 22d Feby. & 12 & 13th March to which shall reply. My Scruples about Privateering are all done away. I have seen such Rapine, Plunder & Destruction denounced against & executed on the Americans that I join you in thinking it a Duty to oppose and distress so Merciless an Ennemy in every Shape we can. Therefore it matters not who knows my Concern with Ord as I am now ready to encrease the Number of my Engagements in that Way. I suppose we are entitled to one fifth of Mr. Prejents Share in the first Prize Capt. Ord took on his way from St. Eustatia to Martinico as well as those he took after your Agreement the whole of which will help to pay for & fit out the Brigt. on which I observe you had got an Abatement. I have lately had the Pleasure to hear that Ord in Company with the Rattle Snake had taken & sent into Martinico Nine Sail of transport Ships, two Guinea Men & two Sail of Transports into St. Eustatia. If this be true & it seems well authenticated we shall make a fine hand of it. I hope soon to have the Account Confirmed by you & to hear of further Success. 1 You will see by


[Page 692]
660 April 26, 1777 I am sorry to hear that such dangerous Designs are carrying on by inter nal Enemies. Eight Days ago a Committee was appointed to inquire into my Con duct, but Nothing has as yet been done. Inclose you Copy of some Res olutions of Congress that were passed before my arrival here. By these you will readily perceive that I shall not return a General. Under what Influence it has been brought about, I am not at Liberty now to mention. 1 On my Return to Albany I shall give the Committee the fullest Infor mation. I am &c. Ph. Schuyler LB (NN). 1 See Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6, 1777. Philip Schuyler to Richard Varick Dear Colonel: Philad. April 26th. 1777..... 1 Yesterday the Committee to enquire into my conduct began that Business. 2 I believe they will finish in the course of the week and that their report will be agreeable to my wishes; and such a change has taken place in the sentiments of the members who were unacquainted with me, that it is thought they will expunge the resolutions of the 15th of March, 3 copy whereof you have enclosed, but they have a much more difficult point to get over. They wish me to remain in the command, but having already appointed, (or at least implicativly so) Gen. Gates to the command of the Northern department, 4 they do not know how to manage the matter. They wish to make Ticonderoga a separate com mand; that they have a right to do, but they know that I will not serve at Albany on those conditions. Indeed, not on any unless an absolute command is giving [given] me over every part of the army in the North ern department. This they will not do, and therefore I shall return Mr. Schuyler only to Albany. Adieu and believe me most sincerely Dr. Sir yours etc. Ph. Schuyler MS not found; reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 2:341-42. 1 Ellipsis in Tr. a This committee, consisting of one delegate from each state, had been ap pointed on April 18. JCC, 7:279-80. ’ See John Hancock to Schuyler, March 18, 1777, note 2. * Schuyler construed Congress’ March 25 order to Horatio Gates “to repair to Ticonderoga, and take command of the army there” as evidence that the dele gates intended Gates to command the whole northern military department. JCC, 7:202. That this was indeed the intention of some delegates is evident from John Hancock’s March 25 letter to Gates.


[Page 693]
April 27, 1777 661 John Adams to Abigail Adams Ap. 27. 1777 Your Favours of Ap. 2 and Ap. 7.1 have received. The inclosed Evening Post, will give you, some Idea, of the Humanity of the present Race of Brittons. 1 My Barber, whom I quote as often as ever I did any Authority, says “he has read Histories of Cruelty; and he has read Romances of Cruelty: But the Cruelty of the British exceeds all that he ever read.” For my own Part, I think We cannot dwell too much, on this Part of their Character, and Conduct. It is full of important Lessons. If the Facts only were known, in the Utmost Simplicity of Narration, they would strike every pious, and humane Bosom, in Great Britain with Horror. . . ? Every Conscience in that Country is not callous nor every Heart hardened. The plainest Relation of Facts, would interest the Sympathy, and Compassion of all Europe in our Favour. And it would convince every American that a Nation, so great a Part of which is thus deeply depraved, can never be again trusted with Power over Us. I think that not only History should perform her Office, but Painting, Sculpture, Statuary, ( Medalling? ) and Poetry ought to assist in pub lishing to the World, and perpetuating to Posterity, the horrid deeds of our Enemies. It will shew the Persecution, We suffer, in defence of our Rights—it will shew the Fortitude, Patience, Perseverance and Mag nanimity of Americans, in as strong a Light, as the Barbarity and Impiety of Britons, in this persecuting War. Surely, Impiety consists, in destroying with such hellish Barbarity, the rational Works of the Deity, as much as in blaspheming and defying his Majesty. If there is a moral Law: if there is a divine Law—and that there is every intelligent Creature is conscious—to trample on these Laws, to hold them in Contempt and Defyance; is the highest Exertion of Wickedness, and Impiety, that Mortals can be guilty of. The Author of human Nature, who gave it its Rights, will not see it ruined, and suffer its destroyers to escape with Impunity. Divine Vengeance will sometime or other, over take the Alberts, the Phillips, and Georges—the Alvas, the Grislers and Howes, and vindicate the Wrongs of oppressed human Nature. I think that Medals in Gold, Silver and Copper ought to be struck in Commemoration of the shocking Cruelties, the brutal Barbarities and the diabolical Impieties of this War, and these should be contrasted with the Kindness, Tenderness, Humanity and Philanthropy, which have marked the Conduct of Americans towards their Prisoners. It is remarkable, that the Officers and Soldiers of our Enemies, are so totally depraved, so compleatly destitute of the Sentiments of Philanthropy in their own Hearts, that they cannot believe that such delicate Feelings


[Page 694]
662 April 27, 1777 can exist in any other, and therefore have constantly ascribed that Milk and Honey with which We have treated them to Fear, Cowardice, and conscious Weakness. But in this they are mistaken, and will discover their Mistake too late to answer any good Purpose for them. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:224-26. 1 The Pennsylvania Evening Post, April 24, 26, 29,-and May 3, 1777, contained in serial form the report of a committee of Congress appointed on January 16 “to enquire into the conduct of the British and Hessian generals and officers.” See Samuel Chase to the New Jersey Council, January 23, 1777, note 2. 2 Suspension points in MS. John Adams to Samuel Freeman Sir Philadelphia Ap. 27. 1777 Your Favour of 25 March I duely reed. 1 The Plan of riding you men tion, between Boston and Falmouth, appears to me, reasonable enough, but the Committee will not incline to take upon themselves, Regulations of that kind of which they cannot be so good Judges, at this Distance as the Post Masters who are nearer. My Advice would be for Mr Hast ings, Mr Libby and yourself, to confer upon this Subject with each other, in Person or by Letter and, any Representation of this Matter to the Post Master General, Mr Bache, in which you three can agree will no doubt be readily adopted. Mr Hastings’s Memorial has been considered, and the Post Master General has been impowered to make an addition to his allowance, not exceeding two hundred Dollars a year which I hope will do him Justice. I wish it was in my Power to send you the Constitutions of the several States, but it is not. They are not to be had here. I wish you Success, equal to your Desires, in establishing an happy Form of Government. But the Rage of Speculation and the Flames of Passion have spread so far, in our State, that I am not without my Fears that you will be too much divided in Sentiment to erect a very vigorous Government. Our State abounds with ambitious Men, in such Numbers, and with avariti- ous ones, who are still worse, and with others in whom both Passions unite, in a great degree, who are the most dangerous of all, that I fear our Government, will be turbulent, our Laws unstable, and consequently our Exertions too languid. 2 Time however, may correct Extravagances, and make our Posterity happy, but I much fear that our Happiness of the present Age must con sist chiefly in the Contemplation of theirs. You and I however, I hope shall have the Consolation of reflecting that We have done our Utmost, upon the purest Principles of Philan thropy, to promote the Happiness of the present as well as future ages.


[Page 695]
April 27, 1777 663 I find it difficult to get an oppertunity of sending the Journals of Con gress, such of them as are printed. But will embrace the first I can find. I hope that our State will compleat its Complement of Men, to a single soldier. This Campaign will be the most interesting, and I have Strong Hopes, will be the last that will be attended with much Hazard or Difficulty. At least the Stronger We are this year, the more likely it will be to put a Period to the War. I am, sir, with much Respect, your most obedient sert, John Adams RG (MeHi). 'Samuel Freeman (1743-1831), a Falmouth (Cumberland Co.), Mass., mer chant, served in the Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1775-79. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 8:578-79; and L. Kinvin Wroth et al. eds., Province in Rebellion: A Documentary History of the Founding of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 1774-1775, 4 vols. (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1975), 4:2856. His March 25 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 The Massachusetts General Court resolved itself into a constitutional conven tion on June 17, 1777, and promptly delegated its powers to prepare a constitu tion to a committee. The committee draft was accepted by the convention on February 28, 1778, but it was sharply rejected by the state’s voters. See Stephen E. Patterson, Political Parties in Revolutionary Massachusetts (Madison: Uni versity of Wisconsin Press, 1973), pp. 153-96. John Adams to William Tudor Philadelphia April 27. 1777 Aha! Exchanging the Pride, Pomp and Circumstance of Glorious War, for the soft charms of Wedlock and domestic Felicity, I Suppose— abandoning Gun, Drum, Trumpet, Blunderbuss and Thunder, for the less terrible Sounds of the Wranglers at the Bar. Well! Young Folk must have their Way. But I suppose by that Time you have laid the Foundations of a Young Tudor or two, you will be on Fire again with military Ardor, and get into the Army. You must find the Pleasures of Books, and the City active and violent enough for your Nerves so long Stretched with the Grand and sublime Events of War. I believe it lies with the Agent to employ whom he will in filing Libells. But I have been so long out of the scaene that I know nothing about it. There will be soon a Navy Board in Boston, and then it will lie with them. Who the Men will be I know not. Men of Business and Integrity I hope. It would give me Pleasure to give you Business, if in my Power, but I dont know how. I am &c, John Adams RC (MHi).


[Page 696]
664 April 27, 1777 John Adams to Unknown Philadelphia April 27th. 1777 Sunday. 1 I think it is Montesquieu, who Somewhere observes, that the English of Charles’s days were perpetually bewildered in their Pursuit of a Republic, for being themselves extremely corrupt, they Sought in vain for that pure and disinterested Principle upon which, alone, a Commonwealth can Stand. The Principle of Republican Government, is as little understood in America as its Spirit is felt. Ambition in a Republic, is a great Virtue, for it is nothing more than a Desire to Serve the Public, to promote the Happiness of the People, to'increase the Wealth, the Grandeur, and Prosperity of the Community. Thus, Ambition is but another Name for public Virtue, and public Spirit. But the Ambition which has Power for its object, which desires to increase the Wealth, the Grandeur, and the Glory of an Individual, at the Expense of the Community, is a very heinous Vice. What Shall We Say of Oliver Cromwell? What Shall We Say of others, his Coadjutors? Can we Say, that they were actuated by a Love of the Public? Were they not governed by Selfish Motives? I make no Scruple to confess that I think Oliver totally destitute of the Republican Principle of public Virtue. He thought himself honest and sincere. So did Balaam, when he asked Leave to curse Israel. There never was a greater self deceiver than Oliver Cromwell. The Man after Gods own Heart, to whom Nathan Said Thou art the Man, deceived himself in the Same manner. How sincere was he, when he felt such honest Indignation against the Man who had taken his poor Neighbours Lamb. We, in America, are so contaminated with the Selfish Principles of Monarchy, and with that bastard, corrupted Honour, that Monarchy inspires that we have no Idea, no Conception, no Imagination, no Dream, of the Passions and Principles which Support Republics. What will be come of Us? God knows. The Commissary General, this Evening related me an Anecdote which gave me great Spirit as it seems an Evidence that Integrity was not lost out of the world. He Said that in comparing his accounts he missed Seventy Pounds, and puzzled himself a long Time, to no Purpose to discover where it could be gone. For several Months he had given it up as lost and un accountable. At last Coll Cary of Bridgewater {of whose military Abili ties, I had no opinion) came to him and told him that after he went home from Cambridge where he had commanded a Regiment of Militia, he paid off every Bill and had Seventy Pounds left. He recollected that he had reed no Money but from the Commissary General, and therefore that he must have reed too much. This accounted for the Commissarys Loss. Here was Integrity. If all Americans were Carys, we should be fit


[Page 705]
April 29, 1777 673 I think, we shall meet with difficulties of the most arduous nature. The inequality of the States, and yet the necessity for maintaining their sep arate independence, will occasion dilemmas almost inextricable. You shall, Sir, know the whole progress of the matter, if I can conceive and convey it with sufficient clearness. Maryland has set an exceeding good example to the other States in laying a tax. I hope it will be followed in ours. I mean not in the mode, but the thing. It is the only adequate remedy for the abundance of circu lating money, with its consequent depreciation. I have obtained, from Congress, leave to purchase two hundred gun locks out of the public stores. 4 I have sent them to Hillsborough, and hope they will very soon be applied to the arms which are there prepar ing, and that the arms themselves will be put into the hands of soldiers, and sent to their proper places. Opinions here are various with respect to the intended movements of the Enemy: ’tis certain however they have yet made none of any conse quence. The officers in general are of opinion, they will attempt this city, and it seems determined to dispute it with them. This too is the prevailing opinion in Congress, and I am much pleased with the serenity and vigor with which we, at present, seem to regard objects of danger. Some of us, who are of a more martial cast, have gained the ascendancy so far that the timid are too fearful even to disclose their fears. I am pretty certain our next campaign will be active and interesting, if we are not disappointed in getting an army. The Northern, or what are usually called the New England, States are at present very languid: their troops do not at all come forward. Ticonderoga is in a very defenceless situa tion; and there appears very little reason to expect force there so soon as it will be wanting. We have no fresh intelligence from France, nor indeed have any vessels lately arrived from any part of Europe. I am, Sir, exceedingly anxious to hear of our affairs in our own State: so uninformed as I am, I may perhaps consent to something that might do her an injury. I write very frequently to every part of the country, but never receive a line in answer. Except the letters from your Excellency dated in February, 1 have not received one from North Carolina since my arrival at Congress. I wish I could be informed of the success of my request to be permitted to return in the summer, if the Assembly think proper to command my further attendance in this service: or whether they may not make choice of some more able man to fill the Department. I will detain you, Sir, no longer, only to declare that I am, with the greatest respect & esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 The only known notes on the Articles of Confederation kept by Burke are those which he apparently put together in final form only after his return to North Carolina in November 1777. See Burke’s Notes as well as his Remarks on


[Page 706]
674 April 29, 1777 the Articles of Confederation, both of which have been conjecturally dated Novem ber 15, 1777. 2 Burke’s amendment significantly altered the locus of sovereignty in the pro posed Confederation. Whereas the draft articles of confederation that had been approved for consideration in the summer of 1776 threatened to subordinate the states to Congress by stating that “Each State reserves to itself the sole and exclu sive regulation and government of its internal police, in all matters that shall not interfere with the articles of this Confederation,” Burke’s amendment vindicated the principle of state sovereignty by flatly declaring in its final form that “Each State retains its sovereignty, freedom and independence, and every power, juris diction, and right, which is not by this confederation expressly delegated to the United States, in Congress assembled.” This amendment, which ultimately be came article two of the plan of Confederation approved by Congress in November 1777 and thereafter ratified by the states, guaranteed that under the Confederation supreme authority resided in the states rather than in the central government. See JCC, 5:675, 9:908; and Merrill Jensen, The Articles of Confederation: An In terpretation of the Social-Constitutional History of the American Revolution, 1774- 1781 (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1940), pp. 129-39, 161-76. 3 Burke subsequently submitted a plan for a two-house Congress that was rejected by the delegates. JCC, 7:328-29. 4 See JCC, 7:292. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir, Philada April 29th 1777 I had the Honour of receiving your Favour of the 22d Inst, together with the Inclosures and immediately laid the same before Congress; in Consequence of which they came into the enclosed Resolves, to which I beg Leave to refer your Attention. 1 As the Congress conceived your Dispatches to be of the utmost Im portance, they resolved themselves into a Committee of the whole, and having fully considered the Matter, they do not wish that you should retain Possession of that Part of Ticonderoga which lies on the West Side of Lake Champlain, if in your Opinion, the Enemy may be more effec tually prevented from penetrating the Country by applying your Force to defending and securing Fort Independance, and Lake George. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem, in great hurry, Sir, your most obedt. and very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.5.] Please to deliver to the Pay Master the Papers Inclos’d which Respect him. 2 You will observe the late Adjutant Genl Mr. Trumbull, has resign’d & Congress have impower’d you to fill that Vacancy, it is not the intention of Congress that Mr Trumbull should be reappointed. 3 RC (NHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 Gates’ letter to President Hancock and the enclosed letter from Gates to Washington of April 19 are in PCC, item 154, 1:161-72. After reading these letters on April 28, Congress immediately formed itself into a committee of the


[Page 707]
April 29, 1777 675 whole and on the following day approved a series of resolutions designed to hasten reinforcements as well as money and supplies to Gates. JCC, 7:304, 306—8. 2 See the resolves on paymasters adopted this day. JCC, 7:309-12. 2 See James Lovell to John Trumbull, March 16, 1777, note. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. April 29th. 1777. You will perceive from the enclosed Resolves which I do myself the Honour of transmitting, that Congress have had under Consideration the State of Ticonderoga and have come into sundry Resolves on the Sub ject. 1 I beg Leave to refer your Attention to them, and am particularly to urge that you immediately write to the Eastern States and request them in the Name of Congress to pursue every Means for compleating and forwarding the Troops ordered for that Post. From the approach of the Enemy in that Quarter, it is highly probable, that Delay in the Mat ter, will be attended with the Loss of that important Pass. I have wrote to Genl. Gates, and to the Convention of New York relative to the enclosed Resolves. 2 I have the Honour to be, with Senti ments of the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt April 30th. Since writing the foregoing, Congress have come to sundry other Resolves, which I enclose and to which I must refer your Attention. 3 Your Favour of the 28th Inst. 4 I was duely honoured with, and immedi ately laid it before Congress. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 7:306-8. 2 In his letter of this date to the New York Convention, Hancock wrote: “In Consequence of Dispatches from Genl. Gates containing Intelligence of the Ap proach of the Enemy towards Ticonderoga the Congress have come to the enclosed Resolves. From their great Importance I am persuaded you will exert yourselves to comply with them as far as they relate to your State in the fullest manner.” PCC, item 12A, fol. 196. 3 These were resolves of April 29-30 on the Delaware militia, paymasters, and food supplies. JCC, 7:305-6, 309-12, 315-16. ‘This letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:117-19; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 7:489-91. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philadelphia April 29th. 1777 If I were to consider punctilio more than the suggestions of friend ship, I should expect an answer to some of the letters I have written you, before I dispatched another. But I ever hated ceremonies, and shall not


[Page 709]
April 29, 1777 677 yours of the 24th and I readily acquiesce with your reasons concerning the Iron works. 1 I was indeed not apprised of so great a number of these being in Jersey. I shall certainly exert myself to have your views for Gen. Arnold and Colo. Huntington carried into execution. 2 This day the Com mittee of Secret Correspondence received a letter from Doctor Lee of later date as you will see than the former of which I sent you an extract. From the letter now received is taken what I have now the honor to inclose you. 3 I realy believe it contains the true design of the enemy, and it may serve to explain the late Apparatus of Boats with Gen Howe, and the continuance of the Troops at Rhode Island. It may be some advan tage to us to be apprized of their intentions. Doctor Lee is of opinion that the state of Europe was so critical, that it seemed impossible a war could hold off three months. However this may be, you are certainly right Sir, that our utmost vigor and vigilance should be exerted. I am, with most unfeigned esteem, dear Sir Your most obedient and most humble servant, Richard Henry Lee P.S. I think this plan of dividing their force, highly advantageous for us. Be pleased to accept my thanks for Mr. Swans appointment. 4 R.H. Lee RC (DLC). 1 For Lee’s suggestion that iron workers be exempted from military service, see Lee to Washington, April 16, 1777. 2 Benedict Arnold was belatedly promoted to major general on May 2 and Jedediah Huntington was appointed a brigadier general on the 12th. JCC, 7:323, 347. 3 The enclosed extract, which Richard Henry labeled “Bordeaux, February 20, 1777,” is identical to the first paragraph of the Arthur Lee letter printed under a February 18 date in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:272-73. * John Swan had recently been appointed to a captaincy. See Washington’s April 25 letter to George Baylor in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:470. Marine Committee Resolutions Philada. April 29th 1777 In Marine Committee. It being this day determined to form a plan for intercepting the Jamaica Fleet that will Sail from that Island for Great Britain about the 26th day of July next, Resolved That this Committee will Order such of the Continental Frigates and Cruizers as can conveniently be spared or appointed for this service to Randevouz at Abacoa One of the Bahama Islands near to New Provi dence on or before the 25th day of July next. That as it is uncertain what number or which of the ships or Cruizers may be so Ordered, those that arrive at the said Station are to wait until


[Page 710]
678 April 29, 1777 the 28th day of July, each employing themselves in taking on board wood, Water &c if wanted and to be got until that day when the several Com manders are to meet and producing their Commissions to each other the Senior officer is to be deemed Commodore and may hoist a broad Pennant during the continuance of this service. The Commodore and every Commander are then to pay due obedience to the following Instructions exerting themselves in their respective stations to execute them and to accomplish what this Committee have in view. The grand Object of this expedition being to intercept the Jamaica fleet that will be departing from that Island about the Time the Commo dore assumes his Command, he is to hold a Council of war assisted by all the Commanders and determine the following points. First where is the best Cruizing Ground. Second, How to station the Squadron over that ground so that the enemies fleet cannot pass by unobserved. Third, fix Signals for discovering the Enemy, their numbers, force and Number of the Convoy, how they bear, distance &c. Fourth, fix Signals for knowing each Other generally, & each ship in par ticular with all other necessary & proper Signals for the well govern ing & managing the fleet during the Cruize and in time of action. Fifth, each Commander to be supplied with a Copy of these orders, Copies of the Proceedings of the Council of War, Signals &c and copies of such other orders as the Commodore & council may think proper to be given to each captain in addition to these Instructions which orders are to have the same object in veiw and are to be calcu lated for the more effectual accomplishment of it. The Commodore or Council of war are empowered to order or do any thing they may think necessary or essential to enable the Squadron to perform the intended service, whether pointed out by the Committee or not. The Commodore must call on each Captain for any intelligence he may have gained respecting our enemies before he arrived at the Rande- vouz and particularly respecting the Jamaica fleet, the force and num ber of Ships of war intended as Convoy to that fleet, and proper ad vantage must be made of any intelligence so gained. These things done and the sooner they are accomplished the better, the Squadron must weigh and sail under the Signals and Orders of the Commodore to the appointed Station which we suppose will be near the Havannah and as there will be some time to wait for the Jamaica fleet geting that length such time cannot be better spent, than in repeating the Signals agreed on constantly in order that they may become familiar to every one, and whenever they appear to be misunderstood to any Ship or Ships an explanation should immediately take place. The men should be constantly exercised at the Guns, and infinite pains taken on board every Ship to sweeten the air, and keep not only the ship clean but the Men so in their Cloathing and Persons. During this


[Page 712]
680 April 29, 1777 if too distant the Commodore must call a Council of war of all the Commanders with him and any enterprize or expedition planned by that Council, that has for its object the service of the united states of America, to distress or disable the enemies of these states or to Capture their ships of war or Merchantmen will meet our Approbation & if executed with vigour will merit the praise of all America. Our ships should never be Idle. The Navy is in its infancy and a few brilliant strokes at this CEra would give it a Credit and importance that would induce seamen from all parts to seek the employ for nothing is more evident than that America has the means and must in time become the first Maritime power in the world. The several commanders em ployed to execute this Plan now laid down will have an opportunity to open the first Ideas of the importance of our Navy and a glorious chance of immortalizing their own names besides inriching all the brave Fellows under their command. To them then under Heaven we look for that success which is the Object of our wishes. 1 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 According to Gardner W. Allen, A Naval History of the American Revolu tion, 2 vols. (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1913), 1:216-21, the Marine Com mittee’s ambitious plan was never carried out, owing to an inadequate supply of American warships. Marine Committee to Nicholas Biddle Sir April 29th 1777 You are directed in the Instructions 1 in which these are inclosed to break the seal of this Letter on the 10th day of July next. At that time we expect you will be cruizing near the Island of Hispaniola, and that agree able to our former Orders you will have the Randolph Frigate in good Order and every way fit for Action. We have it in contemplation to Strike a Stroke against the British West India Trade that will be severely felt in the Pecuniary way, and that will at the same time if well executed give an eclat to our Navy that will be of infinite service to it. We propose that you shall have a share in the execution of this plan and hope it may be a distinguished One. You know that the largest and most valuable fleets of Jamaica Sugar Ships always depart from that Island about the 26th day of July under Convoy and that they pass through the Gulph on their way to England. Our design is to intercept this Fleet and take, sink, bum and destroy as many of them as possible. You are therefore to repair to the Island of Abacoa near New Providence which is the place we have appointed for the Randevouz of such Ships & Cruizers as we may find it in our power to order on this service and you must make it a point to be there on or


[Page 713]
April 29, 1777 681 before the 25th July that being the day we shall fix for every Ship or Vessel being at Abacoa. When the fleet are collected at that place the Captains must compare Commissions and the Senior is to be deemed Commodore to whom the Inclosed Orders are addressed, every Captain in the fleet will be furnished with a Copy and it is expected not only from the Captains but from every Officer in the fleet that they will use their most strenuous endeavours to effect this business in a Compleat and effectual manner and for this pur pose it will be necessary to cultivate Harmony and good understanding with One Another. We also recommend it as a constant Object of your Attention to encourage the seamen and Petty officers which you take on board Prizes to enter our service and bring as many of them as possible into America. We doubt not you will signalize your Zeal upon this occasion and happy shall be at a future day to congratulate you on the Accomplishment of this enterprize. We are sir your friends & obedt servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Not found, but see Marine Committee Resolutions, this date, which consist chiefly of the instructions that were apparently enclosed. Marine Committee to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen April 29th. 1777 Should you see this Letter it will be forwarded to you by Thomas Thompson Esqr. Commander of the Raleigh Frigate in the Service of the United States of America. This Ship was built in New Hampshire where is no Foundreys for Casting Cannon and the distance from the places where they are Cast to Portsmouth where the frigate now lies is so great that we think it better to put on board such Guns as can be got for her in the neighbourhood and send her to France to be compleated, than to Hall them by Land such an amazing distance, or than to trust them by Water to her, or her along the Coast to them, now that the enemies Ships are so numerous and powerful at the Mouths of our Bays and Harbours. We have ordered her to Brest as the most suitable Port for supplies. Cap tain Thompson will transmit you an Indent of all the Guns, Stores and Materials he wants and we hope you may procure an order for his being Supplied out of the Kings arsenals or Stores. Orders are given to the Commercial Agents to pay your drafts for the amount of such Supplies, but if you cannot obtain them in the way proposed, you will write to the Said Agents William Lee & Thomas Morris Esqrs. to purchase every thing necessary on the best terms and in the most expeditious manner they can. 1


[Page 714]
682 April 29, 1777 We have told Captain Thompson if you had any particular service, Cruize or enterprize to point out for the benefit of these States, that he should obey your Orders, otherways to return to America well manned and fitted Cruizing on our enemies ships the whole voyage. You will therefore write to him giving such Instructions as you may think best calculated to promote the honor, Interest and welfare of these States. 2 With great esteem and regard we remain Honorable Gentlemen, Your obedt. servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 For an account of Capt. Thompson’s subsequent voyage to France and the assistance he received there from the American commissioners, see Wharton, Diplo matic Correspondence, 2:436; and William J. Morgan, Captains to the North ward: The New England Captains in the Continental Navy (Barre, Mass.: Barre Publishing Co., 1959), pp. 97-102. 2 The American commissioners’ instructions to Thompson, dated November 25, 1777, are in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 7:73-75. Marine Committee to John Dupuy Sir 1 April 29th 1777 This may probably be delivered to you by Captain Nicholas Biddle of the Randolph Frigate which will be Cruizing on your Coast this Summer and should Captain Biddle pay you a visit we request that you will supply him with any Stores or necessarys the Ship may stand in need of. Should he send any Prizes into your Port we hope you will be permitted to make sale of them and that you will do it to the best advantage. Mr. Morris gives us assurance of your attachment to the American cause which induces us to trouble you on this occasion, and should you be led into advance for the supplies Captain Biddle may require, you may depend on being reimbursed by Consignments of Goods made you for that purpose, or probably Mr. Ceronio at Cape Frangois may have funds in his hands as considerable Remittances are now going to him. We are sir, your very hble serts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Dupuy was a merchant in Mole Saint-Nicolas, Saint-Domingue. See Marine Committee to Benjamin Dunn, April 19, 1777. Marine Committee to James Nicholson Sir April 29th 1777 In consequence of Letters just now received from the executive Powers of the State of Maryland we have it in charge from Congress to direct


[Page 715]
April 29, 1777 683 that you do not leave the Port of Baltimore with the frigate Virginia under your command until you receive further orders from Congress or from this Committee. 1 We are sir, your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Captain Nicholson was locked in a bitter struggle with Maryland state authori ties over the issue of impressment. After the Marine Committee had ordered him on April 8 to proceed to Martinique, Nicholson began to impress men in Balti more to make up a full crew for the Virginia. The Maryland Council of Safety wrote to Nicholson on April 24, protesting that he had no authority to impress Marylanders and ordering him to release all who had been impressed. Nicholson saucily replied on the following day that he was confident Congress would approve of his actions and alleged that impressment was an acceptable practice in other American cities. The Maryland authorities thereupon sent their correspondence with Nicholson to Congress, which, sensitive to the rights of the states, declared on May 1 that it would never countenance violations of state law by Continental officers, temporarily suspended Nicholson from his command, and threatened to dismiss him from Continental service altogether unless he made “satisfaction” for his disrespectful reply to Maryland officials. On the same day, moreover, Congress instructed the Marine Committee to “give the necessary orders for immediately dismissing the men impressed by Captain Nicholson.” Nicholson apologized to the Maryland authorities and thereby retained command of the Virginia, but the Marine Committee created fresh difficulties by ordering the release only of those impressed men “who have not Signed the Marine Articles and received the Con tinental bounty.” Maryland officials demanded the release of all the men Nicholson had impressed, and Congress rebuked the Marine Committee for so construing Congress’ orders, but in the end the captain was able to retain the services of a number of them who finally agreed voluntarily to sail with him. See ]CC, 7:312, 318-19; PCC, item 70, fols. 195-201, 209-10, 213; Md. Archives, 16:226-27, 229-30, 244, 255, 263-64, 266-69; Marine Committee to James Nicholson, April 8, and to Thomas Johnson, May 1; and William Paca to the Maryland Governor and Council, May 24, 1777. Marine Committee to Thomas Thompson Sir April 29th 1777 We have long been anxious to hear of the Raleigh frigate under your Command being compleated for the sea but hitherto the dificulty of obtaining her Guns has been insuperable. You may rest assured that the measures you have taken to obtain them from the Furnace in Massa- chusets Bay are quite agreeable to us. We approve very much of the Iron Ballast being taken from the Alfred, and in case that should not be sufficient you are authorized to take a quantity out of the Columbus so much of her Iron Ballast as may be necessary and shall defray such reasonable Charges as attend the doing of it, and further we are well pleased that Mr Paine and Mr Bradford came into this measure and gave you their assistance. You are therefore to return to the furnace in


[Page 719]
April 30, 1777 687 Loss for the Reason. Our Revolters seem to possess his Esteem: he was in their councils here, and has left a most extraordinary recommendation in their Favor, which, if we are at liberty, shall be communicated. He men tions that he has ordered 500 troops into Albany. Is this in concert with the Convention or Committee, and founded on good reasons? For when we are beyond measure distressed for troops, it must be an urgent neces sity indeed which can justify detaining so large a number in that City. In the critical circumstances of our Northern Frontiers, give us leave to suggest the Propriety of having a Committee of your House on the Spot, to represent the State, watch over its Enemies, and secure its reputation against Intrigue and Calumny, and above all, to take Care that in Case of any Misfortune to the Northward, our respectable Constituents may neither deserve or suffer Reproach. We are, with the utmost Regard Sir, Your most obedient, humble servants, Phil. Livingston, Jas. Duane, Wm. Duer. RC (N). Written by Duer and signed by Duer, Duane, and Livingston. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:428-29. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 On April 7 the New York Convention had instructed the New York delegates to oppose the admission into Congress of any delegates from Vermont and to forward any congressional resolves that infringed upon the rights of New York. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:868-69. Congress’ role in the dispute between New York and Vermont is discussed in William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, April 7, 1777, note 2. 2 See Gates to President Hancock, April 22, together with an enclosed letter from Gates to Washington of April 19, 1777, in PCC, item 154, 1:161-72. John Adams to Abigail Adams April 30. 1777 We have a fine Piece of News this Morning of the March of 2000 of the Enemy, and destroying a fine Magazine there—and the stupid sordid cowardly torified Country People let them pass without Opposition. 1 All New England is petrified, with Astonishment, Horror, and Despair, I believe in my Conscience. They behave worse than any Part of the Con tinent. Even in N. Jersy 2000 Men could not have marched so far. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:228-29. 1 Adams is referring to the British raid on the Continental magazine at Danbury, Conn. General Washington’s April 28 letter to President Hancock describing the action was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 7:314; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:490-91. See also Robert McDevitt, Connecticut Attacked: A British Viewpoint, Tryon’s Raid on Danbury (Chester, Conn.: Pequot Press, 1974).


[Page 720]
688 April 30, 1777 Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia April 30th 1777 Some very disagreeable intelligence is just opened. Two thousand of the enemy landed in Connecticut, & have penetrated as far as Danbury (about thirty miles into the country) without opposition. We had a con siderable magazine of provisions there, which have mostly fallen into their hands. We are anxious to hear other particulars of this affair. I will make no comment on it, because I hope before long to give you some more agreeable account of it. I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s very ob’d. serv’t, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair Sir, Philada. April 30th. 1777. The Congress having received Intelligence of the Approach of the Enemy towards Ticonderoga, have thought proper to direct you to repair thither without Delay. 1 I have it therefore in Charge to transmit the enclosed Resolve, and to direct that you immediately set out on the Receipt hereof. I am, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sevt. J H Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Major Genl. St. Clair, at Bedford in Pennsylvania.” 'See JCC, 7:307, as well as Horatio Gates to Hancock, April 22, 1777, in PCC, item 154, 1:161-64. Philip Schuyler to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia April 30t. 1777 Inclose your Excellency sundry Resolutions of Congress, which are to be executed, if approved of, by you, and also the Quarter Master Gen eral and Commissary General’s orders to their Deputies for that purpose, to be expedited or detained as your Excellency shall judge best. 1 The Reasons which induced the House to adopt the first Resolutions were founded on an apprehension that if the Enemy should penetrate the Country by Hudson’s River, and your Excellency should be under the Necessity to march into Ulster, that you would be greatly distressed for provisions, that part of the Country affording little or none of the Meat Kind altho’ there is great plenty of Flour, not less than 20,000


[Page 721]
April 30, 1777 689 Barrels as the president of the Convention informs me in a Letter of the 18t. Instant; that it did not appear to the House that the Removal of the salted Meat from Derby and the three other places mentioned in the Resolve would put you to any Inconveniency. If you should be under the Necessity of marching into that part of New York on the East Side of Hudsons River, Connecticut or the Massachusetts Bay a Supply of the Meat Kind can be furnished from or in the two last mentioned States and Flour in or from the former. That the Wheat mentioned in the fourth Resolve should remain where it is to be thence sent into the more interior part of the Massachusetts Bay, should the Enemy attempt a Debarkation in any of the Eastern States, and thereby render it neces sary to keep up an army in that Quarter. The fifth Resolution was founded on a Conviction that there is a Sufficiency of Flour in the Dis trict mentioned for the Support of the Northern Army. These being the general principles on which the Resolutions I have quoted were founded, the others in a Manner follow of Course. Inclose your Excellency Copy of a Return of the Wheat and Flour now in the County of Albany exclusive of what is purchased for the use of the army, which is very considerable. I propose, in a Day or two, to resign my Commission, as soon as I have done it I shall transmit to your Excellency my Reasons for such a Step. Inclose your Excellency Colonel Wood’s Return. I have attempted, ever since my last, to procure a Return of the Troops in this City, but hitherto in vain. I am however promised it to Day, and shall transmit your Excellency a Copy by the first Conveyance. I believe they amount to about eleven hundred many of which wait for Cloathing and accoutre ments & others move to Bristol to Day. I am dear Sir most respectfully, Your Excellency’s obedient humble Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (DLC). In the hand of John Lansing, Jr., and signed by Schuyler. 1 Schuyler sent Washington a variety of resolves passed this day “for establish ing Magazines of provisions in such place as may best secure them from falling into the Hands of the Enemy.” JCC, 7:315-16. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Honored Sir Philadelphia April 30th 1777 By a letter received by a Member of Congress from his Brother in France, dated 20th of February we have advice That Britain has Engaged ten thousand more German Troops who with 3000 British are to come to Boston under the Command of General Burgoin, That General How is to come to this Place: 1 By a letter from General Waine we are Informed that the Enemy were in motion at the Northward, that a partv had been discovered about 45 miles from Tyconderoga. Our force there is week—


[Page 722]
690 April 30, 1777 and wants an immedate reinforcement; General Gates was at Albany the 22d Instant. I think a vigorous exertion immediately in New Jersey would be Decisive as to the present Campaign. The loss of a Short time now, may Occasion the loss of much blood and treasure hereafter which might be Saved by a good Improvement of the present opportunity. Two Days has been Spent in considering the Confederation and three articles of it agreed to, it is proposed that it Shall be attended to at least two Days in each week, till it is finished. 2 I very much wish the Arrival of more Delegates. General Wolcot & I both want to go home. I must leave Congress soon whether they come or not, for my Constitution will not admit of So close an Application to business much longer, as I have been confined to for four months past. I remain Your Honrs. Obedient humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct). 1 See Richard Henry Lee to George Washington, April 29, 1777, note 3. 1 According to the journals the proposed confederation was debated on April 21 and 25 pursuant to a resolve of the 8th. JCC, 7:240, 287, 300. For details concern ing these debates, especially on the issue of state sovereignty, see Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell, April 29, 1777. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. No. 11 Philadelphia 30 Api 1777 My last acknowledged the receipt of such of Yours as have come to hand, I thot I had wrote you that I wish’d to be releav’d by the Middle of May, if I did not mention it to you, I certainly did to some body else for that has been my constant wish. My Colleague will not be very Ceri- monious, he will set out in a few days, but I shod think myself inexcusable in leaving the State unrepresented at this Critical & important day, but my Health absolutely requires a Respite which I hope will be given me soon. It is very Unfortunate that Guns cannot be procur’d for the Ships, but I still hope the Raleigh will be supplied from the Furnice lately Erected in the Massachusetts, but why may we not have a Furnice in New Hampshire. I have heard there is a large Quantity of ore in Barring ton, at no great distance from water carriage & streams suitable for Erect ing works on, abound in that Country, & there is a Sufficiency of wood to supply a Furnice for many years, if the Proprietor of the land, nor the State will undertake to erect works, it wod be worth while for the Conti nent to do it provided the Ore is suitable for Cannon & the land could be obtain’d on reasonable terms. The American Navy will be increasing & I know of no place so suitable for Building ships as Piscataqua River & it wod be very convenient to have the Guns made near where the Ships are


[Page 727]
INDEX In this index descriptive subentries are arranged chronologically and in ascending order of the initial page reference. They may be preceded, however, by the subentry “identified” and by document subentries ar ranged alphabetically—diary entries, letters, notes, resolutions, and speeches. An ornament separates the subentry “identified” and docu ment subentries from descriptive subentries. Inclusive page references are supplied for descriptive subentries; for a document, only the page on which it begins is given. Eighteenth-century printed works are indexed both by author and by short title. Other printed works are indexed when they have been cited to document a substantive point discussed in the notes, but not when cited merely as the location of a document men tioned. Delegates who attend Congress during the period covered by this volume appear in boldface type. Abbot, Mr. (Massachusetts), 364 Accounts: board of treasury, 76, 215, 536—37, 665; military, 95, 126, 163, 182, 536—37; 665; secret committee, 147, 205, 380-81, 406—8, 484-85, 571-72, 613, 641, 649-50; marine committee, 167, 484—85; jailor, 214-15; saddler, 214; Connecticut, 219; prisoners, 219; wagonmaster, 252; delegate, 253, 294; Har vard college, 285-87, 553; commercial, 302; prize agents, 472-74, 484; New Hampshire, 531; James Warren’s as paymaster general, 693-94 Actaeon (H.M.S.), 658, 659 Active (brigantine), 500 Adams, Abigail (1765-1813), 278, 449, 507 Adams, Abigail Smith (Mrs. John) : letters to, 193, 199, 228, 229, 250, 277, 305, 312, 326, 334, 408, 409, 410, 442, 447, 478, 502, 507, 511, 540, 542, 551, 570, 572, 574, 587, 616, 632, 636, 653, 661, 666, 669, 687; letter quoted, 541; mentioned, 665, 669 Adams, Andrew: letters to, 13, 562; mentioned, 692 Adams, Charles: letter to, 506; mentioned, 278, 449, 553 Adams, Elizabeth Wells (Mrs. Samuel) : letters to, 156, 186, 421, 462, 516; mentioned, 485 Adams John: diary, 224, 228, 237, 246, 296, 305, 334, 349, 390; letters from, 193, 199, 200, 201, 228, 229, 250, 260, 277, 305, 306, 312, 326, 327, 334, 335, 341, 399, 408, 409, 410., 416, 424, 442, 444, 447, 449, 457, 466, 469, 471, 476, 478, 484, 493, 497, 502, 506, 511, 512, 515, 525, 533, 540, 542, 543, 544, 551, 552, 553, 565, 570, 572, 574, 575, 587, 588, 589, 616, 632, 636, 653, 661, 662, 663, 664, 666, 667, 669, 670, 687; letters to, 51, 63, 193, 481; elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii; quoted, xxiii, xxiv; differs with Robert Treat Paine, 93; arrives in Baltimore, 193, 200; describes Maryland and Balti more, 193-94, 200, 237, 246, 250; urges Massachusetts to complete Continental quota, 200-201, 251, 307; on status of state governments, 201-2; on cost of 695


[Page 729]
Index 697 lodgings, 448; against recommending relatives, 463; on price regulation, 467-68; admired, 511; excerpts Arthur Lee letter, 516-17; urges attack on British in Rhode Island, 588; committees to confer with Pennsylvania, 603; committee on loyalism in Maryland and Delaware, 606; opposes profanity an army, 637; mentioned, 228, 296, 306, 581, 616 Adams, Samuel, Jr., 421, 463 Adams, Thomas, 278, 449 Adjutant general: Horatio Gates asked to resume office, 350, 352, 441; John Trumbull resigns as deputy, 450—51, 479—81 Admiralty, courts of, 103 Admiralty office: creation of proposed by James Wilson, 103-4; Robert Morris endorses James Wilson’s proposal, 182-83 Africa, proposed cruise off, 220-23 Agents, Continental: instructed by marine committee, 28, 97, 110, 127, 491-92, 658-59, 682; ordered to supply clothing to army, 122; Leonard Jarvis’ conduct approved, 162; Joseph Whipple appointed New Hampshire deputy, 199; direct American business in West Indies, 291-93; requested to send accounts, 472-74, 484-85; commissions, 485; see also Bingham, William; Bradford, John; Lang don, John; Lee, William; Purviance, Robert; Purviance, Samuel, Jr. Aitken, James, burns Portsmouth, England, navy yard, 492—93 Aitkin, Robert, 643 Albany, N.Y.: money sent to Paymaster Trumbull at, 521; mentioned, 229, 256, 383 Albany, N.Y., Committee, letter to, 659 Albany County, N.Y., disaffection in, 659—60, 686 Alberts, Robert C., William Bingham, 652 Albertson, Thomas: letter to, 322; ☆ instructed by marine committee, 322-23 Alexander, Charles: letter to, 555; commands Delaware, 506, 570; instructed by marine committee, 555 Alexander, William: letters to, 68, 345; promoted to major general, 333, 345- 46; mentioned, 26, 60, 69, 71, 79, 135, 413 Alfred (Continental ship), 26, 86, 114, 220, 221, 233, 549, 639, 683 Allan, Herbert S., John Hancock, 287 Allan, John: proposes Nova Scotia expedition, 53-54; appointed agent to Nova Scotia Indians, 113 Allen, Andrew, joins British, 9, 24, 57-58, 87 Allen, Ethan, exchange proposed, 41, 92 Allen, Gardner W., Naval History of the American Revolution, 680 Allen, John, joins British, 9, 24 Allen, William, joins British, 9, 24 Alliances, foreign: with France, 52, 209, 525, 628; with Spain, 52, 209, 525, 628; with Prussia, 209; with Sweden, 209; expected, 249; sought by Congress, 429 Allison, Patrick, 194, 199, 210, 246 Allison, William: identified, 595; letter to, 594 Allon, Thomas, 7 Amphitrite (French frigate), 597, 637 Anchors, 174 Anderson, James, heroic death, 574, 578, 584-86, 624 Andrew Doria (Continental brig), 35, 42, 98, 153, 321, 611, 612, 613, 621, 622 Anglican church, establishment abolished in Virginia and North Carolina, 202 Anguilla, W. I., 115 Ann (brigantine), 649, 657 Annapolis, Md., military stores ordered removed from, 527 Antill, Edward: identified, 514; letter to, 514; mentioned, 81, 434 Appleton, Nathaniel, 112, 243


[Page 730]
698 Index Apprentices: allowed to enlist in Maryland, 570; compensation for masters of rejected, 581 Aranda, conde de (Pedro Pablo Abarca y Bolea), communicates American treaty proposals to Spanish court, 525 Arendt, baron d’ (Henry Leonard Philip), appointed commander of German battalion, 363-64 Argout, comte d’ (Antoine Maurice Apolinaire), 188 Arms and ammunition: imported, 20—21, 52, 101-2, 155, 290, 478, 484-85, 492, 495-96, 500-501, 513, 516, 518-21, 523, 531, 549, 561, 597, 693; magazine ordered at Carlisle, Pa., 40, 72, 79-80, 126, 159-60, 247; magazine ordered at Brookfield, Mass., 51, 160, 247; returns requested, 95, 116; scarcity, 116, 130; stolen by militia, 116; magazine proposed at York, Pa., 116, 126, 160, 214; mu nitions workers’ wages criticized, 133; public armorer appointed, 133, 144; state arsenals recommended, 149-50; for Virginia troops, 159, 444; for Massachusetts, 162; for Rhode Island, 162; musket prices increase, 164; returns sent to board of war, 211-12; ordered moved from West Indies to United States, 223, 291, 556; shot needed for Wasp, 331; Massachusetts magazine location disputed, 334; arrive at Baltimore, Md., 513, 693; arrive at Portsmouth, N.H., 513, 516, 521, 523, 531, 693; sent to Massachusetts Council, 519-20; arrive at Philadelphia, 521, 531; arrive from Sweden, 561; magazine established at Springfield, Mass., 575-76; plentiful, 584; salvaged in Delaware, 586-87, 624; requested by Mary land, 668-69; mentioned, 118, 130; see also Cannon; Powder Arnold, Capt., 541 Arnold, Benedict: promotion denied because of state quota rule, 494; promoted to major general, 677; mentioned 404, 598 Articles of Confederation; see Confederation, Articles of Ashe, John, 579 Atlee, Samuel J., 145 Atlee, William, letter to, 502 Auditor general, money for, 445 Aurora (ship), 178 Austria, 522 Avery, John: letter to, 459; mentioned, 251 Aylett, William: letters to, 226, 508; authorized to purchase Continental pro visions, 226, 508-9,529, 633; salary raised, 226 Bache, Richard: letter to, 90; requested to supply list of postal employees, 90; mentioned, 137,499, 662 Baldwin, Mr., 268 Baldwin, John: identified, 12; letter to, 11; ■& instructed by marine committee, 11; mentioned, 259 Ball, George, exchanged, 46 Baltimore, Md.: map of, xxiii, endpapers; Congress’ removal discussed, 5, 8, 10, 14, 31, 87, 89; living conditions criticized, 8, 14, 31, 57—58, 91, 139, 143, 184, 191; delegates disagree over remaining at, 53, 57, 87, 94, 99, 146, 199, 216; high cost of living at, 90, 129, 143, 146, 184, 202, 210, 228, 241, 277; described, 184, 193-94, 200; congressional meeting place described, 224; fortification urged, 225; criticism of, 244-45; harbor described, 246, 250; Congress plans to leave, 305, 307, 312-13, 337; smallpox inoculation at, 326; Congress delays leaving, 363; Congress adjourns from, 382-83, 403, 415; arms and powder arrive at, 513, 693; loyalists in, 514-15, 693-94; military stores ordered moved from, 527 ; mentioned, 35, 383 Bancroft, Edward: accuses Hugh Williamson of spying, 458; letters quoted, 458, 597 Banister, John, 386 Bant, William, 21,247, 285, 286


[Page 733]
Index 701 Brimstone, 623 Bringhurst, John, 652 Bristol (Bucks County), Pa., Continental troops collecting at, 68, 566, 593, 634-35 British army: defeated at Trenton, 6, 8, 14, 22, 44, 59-60, 63, 77; at Brunswick, N.J., 8, 62, 73, 96, 106, 111, 128-29, 160, 188, 195, 283, 315, 317, 319, 348, 352, 363, 365, 376, 503, 676; captures Gen. Lee, 8-9, 22-24, 97; devastates New Jersey, 24-25, 64, 77, 94, 113, 198, 209, 298, 306, 308, 413, 661-62; in Rhode Island, 25, 44; defeated at Princeton, 26-27, 34-35, 37-38, 44, 61-63, 67-68, 73-77, 106, 376; retreats through New Jersey, 30, 50, 92, 94; reinforcements for, 30, 65, 96, 343, 366, 371, 375, 382, 600, 637; strength, 38, 62, 145, 161, 290, 363, 390-91, 416, 548, 583-84, 633; mistreatment of American prisoners, 39-41, 46-47, 71, 96, 109, 123, 133-34, 152, 163, 298, 488, 572-73; trial of Gen. Lee as deserter anticipated, 39-40, 49, 52-53, 64, 74, 78, 211, 251, 297, 327—28; congressional response to Gen. Lee’s treatment by, 49, 64, 327-28, 335, 348, 419, 443—44, 452; speculation on strategy of, 65, 300, 307, 384, 456, 471-72, 522, 549, 551, 559, 562, 564, 575, 582-83, 589, 593, 595-96, 608, 645, 673, 676; commissary for prisoners criticized, 70; losses in New Jersey, 75, 106, 111, 188, 195; movements rumored, 132, 411, 421, 432; cruelty of investigated, 134, 269-70; skirmishes with Continental Army, 149, 152, 158, 161, 165-66, 227, 270, 283-84, 290, 315, 363, 376, 395, 401, 584, 586; lacks forage, 149, 213, 227, 283, 317, 319, 445-46, 503; recruits German mercenaries, 201, 209, 522, 525-26, 596, 600, 608, 637, 693; recruitment of Russians, 201, 209, 463, 471-72, 535, 550, 644; pillages Abraham Clark’s property, 211; deficiency of horses, 213; pillages John Witherspoon’s home, 269; lacks provisions, 283, 411, 445-46; lacks cannon, 290; attack on Philadelphia feared, 343, 352, 363, 368, 372, 388, 395, 476, 478, 541, 546, 557-59, 565, 568-69, 576, 585, 598, 603, 616, 625, 632, 634, 637, 689; harassment of urged by John Adams, 424—25; attack on Delmarva peninsula feared, 527; attack on Pennsylvania feared, 527— 28; troops embark from New York, 549; raids Danbury, Conn., 687-88, 692; marches toward Ticonderoga, 689; see also Howe, William; Mercenaries; Prisoners of war British navy: burning of Lake Champlain vessels proposed, 3-4, 49; intercepts American supplies, 18, 43, 167, 215, 219, 236, 303, 317, 325, 377, 387, 633, 691; burning of fleet at Rhode Island proposed, 30; blockades American coast, 43, 58, 83, 101, 160, 167, 187, 194-95, 202, 204, 210, 257, 633-34, 691; mistreats American prisoners, 46-47, 71, 76, 96; leaves Delaware Bay, 94, 325; patrols Chesapeake Bay, 167, 204, 206, 210, 215, 219, 225, 236, 250, 296, 303, 309, 317, 325, 377, 384, 387, 691; assists Maryland and Delaware loyalists, 204, 206, 240, 314; cruises off Carolinas and Georgia, 221; Robert Morris’ plan to divide force, 221-22; requires privateers to obtain royal commissions, 259; leaves Chesapeake Bay, 386, 394, 424, 461, 479; plot to pilot fleet up Delaware River uncovered, 502—3, 512, 514; interception of transports ordered, 538-39, 555, 639-41, 684; Delaware fleet threatens Philadelphia, 577, 584-86, 598-99, 632, 634; cuts off American trade with Hispaniola, 656; see also Howe, Richard, 4th viscount “Broken Hints” (Joseph Hawley), 112, 113 Bromfield, Mr., 458 Brookfield, Mass.: magazine ordered built at, 51, 160, 247; establishing magazine at opposed, 334; authorization for magazine at repealed, 576 Brown, Capt. (Georgia), proposed exchange, 76-77 Brown, Mr. (Connecticut), 219, 468, 474, 642 Brown, John (alias John Lee), spies for British, 610 Brown, John (Philadelphia), 37, 339, 650, 686 Browne, Montfort, 96 Brownson, Nathan: letters from, 223, 255, 640; elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi; marine committee, 223, 640-41; mentioned, 296


[Page 734]
702 Index Brune (H.M.S.), 205 Brunhouse, Robert, Counter-Revolution in Pennsylvania, 603 Brunswick, N.J.: British army at, 8, 62, 73, 96, 106, 111, 128--29, 149, 160, 188, 195, 283, 315, 317, 319, 348, 352, 363, 365, 376, 503, 676; Gen. Lee confined at, 9; Gen. Howe fortifies, 562, 565; mentioned, 34, 38, 113, 270, 343, 352, 365, 366, 371, 375 Bryan, George, elected vice-president of Pennsylvania, 399, 405—6 Buchanan, Andrew, suppresses loyalist uprising in Maryland, 225, 232 Buchanan, Archibald, ship captured, 204-5 Buchanan, Richard, 57 Buchanan, William: confers on provisioning Continental Army, 530-31; proposes to supply army by contract, 619 Buckner, Mordecai: cowardice, 283, 290; cashiered from army, 355, 398-99; mentioned, 19 Bucks County, Pa.: plot against Washington discovered, 8; loyalist activity in, 24; mentioned, 383 Budden, Mr., 145 Bull, John, attends Easton conference, 119 Bulloch, Archibald, letter to, 54 Burgoyne, John: rumored southern expedition, 582, 589, 596, 608, 676; rumored attack on Boston, 670, 689; mentioned, 583, 586 Burke, Bartholomew, 211, 227, 274 Burke, Thomas: letters from, 208, 223, 298, 396, 425, 464, 478, 518, 539, 579, 640, 671, 688; notes, 230, 238, 263, 279, 300, 327, 336, 352, 356, 368, 381, 429, 430, 443, 554; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix, 289; portrait, xxv, 426; quoted xxv, xxvi; on sectional alignments in Congress, 208, 428-29; marine committee, 223, 539-40, 640-41; debates motion on repre sentation, 231; opposes raising loan office interest rate, 238-39, 368, 370; op poses further paper currency emissions, 239; opposes motion to approve New England convention, 263; on criteria for promoting military officers, 264; on Virginia’s refusal to confer with North Carolina on economic regulations, 281; on powers of Congress, 298-99; on state claims to western lands, 298-99; criticizes Virginia delegates, 299; on price regulation, 299; on duty as delegate, 300; debates style appropriate to public declarations, 327-28; on law of na tions, 328; criticizes declaration on reinforcements, 352; debates jurisdiction over deserters, 356-62; on state sovereignty, 356-62; debates return to Phil adelphia, 368-70, 381-82; on congressional rules of procedure, 368-70, 429; threatens to withdraw from Congress, 369; seconds motion to record votes in journals, 382; opposes return of loyalist prisoners to North Carolina, 396; political philosophy, 425-30; on patriotism, 428-29; on congressional power, 429; on Pennsylvania’s constitution, 430; debates British treatment of Gen. Lee, 443; debates retaliation against British prisoners, 443; on procurement of blankets, 464; requests permission to return home, 464, 673; on militia exemp tions, 554; on state control of militia, 579; committee on reforming recruiting service, 581-82; opposes evacuation of Philadelphia, 581-82; state sovereignty amendment incorporated into articles of confederation, 672, 674; opposes con gressional involvement in New York-New Hampshire Grants dispute, 672; pur chases gun-locks, 673; requests news from North Carolina, 673; plan for bi cameral Congress rejected, 674; mentioned, 147, 236, 339 Burke, William, 46, 47 Burnett, Edmund C., summarizes development of executive departments, 66 Burnett, Edmund C., Continental Congress, 486 Burnett, Edmund C., Letters, 134, 253 Burney & Dawson, 649 Burr, Thaddeus, 405


[Page 735]
Index 703 Butler, Richard, 105, 152 Butler, Thomas: appointed public armorer, 133, 144; mentioned, 140, 145 Byers, James: confers with executive committee about cannon, 45; asked to cast howitzers, 109; mentioned, 18, 71, 247, 507 Byrne, John: on British cruelties, 661; mentioned, 636 Cabot (Continental brig), 220, 221 Cadiz, Spain, 163 Cadwallader, John: promoted, 346; mentioned, 8, 24, 26, 37, 38, 40, 59, 60 Caldwell, James: letters to, 209, 211, 411; ☆ appointment as paymaster opposed, 211; compensation for, 211,411,414; mentioned, 407 Caldwell, Samuel, 215 Camilla (H.M.S.), 322 Campbell, Capt., 225 Campbell, Mr. 554 Campbell, Archibald, held in retaliation for British treatment of Gen. Lee, 49, 64, 74, 297, 327, 335, 374, 419, 452, 496 Campbell, Donald, case ruled on by Horatio Gates, 98 Campbell, Farquhard, 396 Campbell, James: letter to, 248; ft petitions Congress to redeem captured crew, 124-25; petitions Maryland council to redeem captured crew, 125; instructed by John Hancock, 246; instructed by marine committee, 248 Campbell, Zachariah, letter quoted, 225 Canada, plot among prisoners from, 69-70 Cannon: casting, 18, 45, 71, 92, 109, 163, 273, 642; captured by Americans, 34, 37, 59; committee, 101, 109-10, 247, 273, 300; imported from France, 101-2, 290; for northern department, 109, 229—30, 273; foundry proposed, 109—10, 690; for Continental Navy, 128, 316—17, 322, 578, 624, 642, 681, 683—85, 690; proposal to capture British artillery, 221; overpriced at Connecticut foundry, 264-65, 475; ordered from Massachusetts, 300; Richard Henry Lee proposes melting bells for, 395; bar iron field piece described, 493; foundry described by John Adams, 507; casting in New Hampshire urged, 624; marine committee offers to purchase, 659; mentioned, 118, 383 Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, 220 Cape Francois, Hispaniola, W.I: funnel for American supplies, 291-92, 620—21; secret committee purchases vessels at, 649; remittances for marine committee agent, 656 Cape Henlopen, Delaware, 292 Cape Maisi (Maize), Cuba, 221 Cape May, N.J., 293, 611, 612, 613 Cape St. Nicholas, Hispaniola, W.I., 221 Carew, Bamfylde Moore, 552 Carleton, Guy: predicted campaign strategy, 456, 595, 608, 676; mentioned, 65, 377, 384, 504, 517, 557, 583, 584, 628, 669 Carlisle, Pa.: magazine ordered established at, 40, 72, 79-80, 126, 159-60, 247; military stores ordered moved to, 527 Carmichael, William, 516, 534 Caroline (ship), 381 Carpenter, Richard, 92, 109 Carroll, Charles (barrister): elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi; on status of prisoners taken by privateers, 25; estate described, 349 Carroll, Charles of Carrollton: elected to Congress, xvii, 379; attends Maryland senate, 379 Carter, Landon, letters to, 100, 390, 582 Carter, Robert Wormeley, 101, 392, 583


[Page 736]
704 Index Cary, Simeon, 664 Casdrop, Thomas, 258 Caswell, Richard: letters to, 208, 298, 396, 425, 464, 478, 510, 518, 579, 671, 688; drafts on Continental treasury, 80-81; bills paid, 126; elected North Carolina governor, 550; mentioned, 202, 231 Cathalan, Etienne, 304 Cavalry: establishment authorized by Congress, 13, 33, 51, 62, 65; Virginia troops, 58; equippage imported, 101-2; regulations approved, 635 “Caveto” (Samuel Chase), 329, 330 Ceronio, Stephen, 41, 291, 292, 293, 620, 621, 649, 656, 657, 659, 682 Chamier, Daniel, 182 Chaplains, pay increased, 210 Charity, Samuel Adams on, 157 Charleston, S.C., French fleet reported at, 466, 485 Charming Peggy, 304 Chase, Jeremiah Townley, 148 Chase, Samuel: letters from, 25, 50, 124, 133, 148, 150, 158, 170, 223, 224, 231, 328, 382; -fa elected to Congress, xvii, 379; attends Congress, xvii, 149, 379; quoted, xxiv; urges convening Maryland Assembly, 25, 50; urges Maryland to fill Continental quota, 25, 329; urges Maryland Council to confine state prisoners, 124; committee on British cruelty, 133-34; disburses money, 148; requests Maryland Council to appoint Continental officers, 150—51; urges Mary land delegates to attend Congress, 170; seniority in Congress, 200, 306; marine committee, 223; recommends Maryland Council pay Martinique for illegal seizure, 225; urges fortifying Baltimore, 225; urges Maryland Council to sup press loyalist uprising, 231-32; debates price regulation, 275; writes pseudon ymous letters, 329-30; debates proposed conference with Gen. Lee, 340; solicits Maryland Assembly instruction on loan office interest rates, 379; moves to record votes in journals, 382 Chase, Thomas, 200 Chatsworth, Md. (William Lux estate), described by John Adams, 228 Checkley, William, death, 157, 463 Cheese, 173 Cheesman, Mrs., 448 Chesapeake Bay: British fleet captures American vessels in, 167, 215, 219, 236, 303, 317, 325, 377, 387; British fleet patrols, 204, 206, 210, 225, 250, 296, 309, 691; reported object of British military planners, 300, 307, 384; British fleet leaves, 386, 394, 424, 461, 479; British fleet expected to return to, 527 Chester, Peter: fortifies Pensacola, 221; mentioned, 222 Cheveaux de frize, 293, 343 Chew, John, 79 Cheyney, Andrew Francis, 297 Chockonut Indians, attend Easton conference, 118-19 Christmas, Mathias, 652 Civil rights: quartering of troops denounced, 192—93; freedom from arbitrary imprisonment, 356-62 Clark, Abraham: letters from, 209, 211, 240, 411, 440, 515, 539, 565; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; motion on Washington’s proclama tion illustrated, xxv, 412; quoted, xxv; on foreign affairs, 209-10; on cost of living in Baltimore, 210, 241; committee on James Caldwell’s compensation, 211, 411, 414; property destroyed by British, 211; proposes appointment of James Caldwell as paymaster, 211; criticizes Washington’s proclamation to loyalists, 240-41, 414; on New England convention, 240; arrives in Philadelphia, 413; plans to attend New Jersey Assembly, 413-14; proposes Elias Dayton’s


[Page 737]
Index 705 promotion, 413; marine committee, 539—40; committee on Philadelphia de fense, 565-66; committee to confer with Pennsylvania Board of War, 603 Clark, William Bell, George Washington’s Navy, 467 Clarkson, Livinus: identified, 659; letter to, 658; instructed by marine com mittee, 658-59; mentioned, 84, 528 Clarkson, Matthew, 586 Clergy: chaplains’ pay raised, 210, 411; Presbyterian minister slain by British, 269-70; prejudice against Presbyterian, 411, 414 Cleveland, Stephen, 259, 500 Clifford (George) & Teysett, 302 Clinton, George: letter to, 495; -fa elected to Congress, xviii; appointed commander of Highlands, 495, 497 Clinton, Sir Henry, 65, 365, 366 Clothier general: James Mease appointed by Washington, 114, 380-81; instructed to prepare public stores for removal from Philadelphia, 342, 344; mentioned, 122, 649 Clothing: imported, 20, 35, 155, 227, 311, 316; shortage, 68; procurement, 114-15; appointment of state commissaries recommended, 115; for Continental Army, 115, 122-23, 311, 380, 415, 436-37, 585; sought by New York Convention, 115; for New York troops, 122-23; for Virginia regiments, 230; mentioned, 291, 556 Clugny, Jean Etienne Bernard de, 533 Clymer, George: letters from, 17, 34, 35, 37, 45, 46, 50, 67, 69, 80, 95, 113, 126, 130, 134, 137, 145, 151, 163, 211, 212, 215, 251, 252, 270, 330, 331, 337, 342, 344, 354, 363, 372, 373, 565; letter to, 147; elected to Congress, xx, 144; attends Congress, xx; executive committee at Philadelphia, 17-18, 34-35, 37-39, 45-47, 50-51, 69-70, 80-81, 87, 95-97, 113-14, 126, 130-31, 145, 151-52, 163, 211-16, 251-52, 270, 330-31, 337, 342-45, 354-55, 363-64, 372-73; uses private funds to pay public accounts, 117; committee on Philadelphia defense. 565-66; mentioned, 100, 137 Cochran, Mr., 456 Cochran, Mrs., 456 Cochran, John, 11 Coffee, 267, 303 Coffin, Timothy, 445, 507 Cole, William, 338 Coleaux, Monsr., 415, 503 Coleman, Kenneth, American Revolution in Georgia, 55 Collins, John, 590, 591, 600, 607 Collson, Mr., 421 Colonel Parry (schooner), 47 Columbus (Continental ship), 220, 221, 489, 683 Commissary general’s department: money for, 17-19, 212, 449; directed to procure provisions, 19; Carpenter Wharton accused of fraud, 165, 529-31; William Aylett authorized to purchase provisions for army in Virginia, 226, 509, 529; needs money, 251, 270; prepares salted meat, 470; Joseph Trumbull’s pay re quest considered, 494; Congress considers reform of, 618-19; Joseph Trumbull ordered to Philadelphia, 618-19, 627; flour for army detained in Virginia, 633; Joseph Trumbull confers with Congress on reform of, 642; returns, 671; reforms adopted, 688; mentioned, 5; see also Trumbull, Joseph Commissary of prisoners: Lewis Pintard’s appointment rejected, 123; Elias Boudinot sent regulations, 671 Commissioners at Paris: letters to, 67, 101, 194, 311, 315, 316, 317, 378, 414, 486, 503, 681; dispatches sent to, 16-17, 353-54, 644; instructed by secret com mittee, 101-2, 311, 316; instructed by committee of secret correspondence,


[Page 738]
706 Index 194-96, 317-19; infrequent communications from, 195; seek loan from France, 316; seek loan from Spain, 318; news arrives from, 513, 521, 525, 548, 589, 693; receive loan offer from France, 513, 518, 520-22, 530-31, 535, 560; meet with Vergennes, 525; asked to procure arms for Continental Navy, 681-82; men tioned, 3, 78, 528, 529, 574, 593, 685; see also Deane, Silas; Franklin, Benja min; Lee, Arthur Commissioners in Europe: instructions for, 3-4, 52, 54; Congress authorizes addi tional posts, 52, 64-65 Commissioners to Canada: recommend William Maxwell, 413 Commissions: rate permitted Continental agents, 485; Committee for foreign affairs, succeeds committee of secret correspondence, 627, 643 Committee of commerce: establishment considered, 65-66; see also Secret Committee Committee of Congress (on British cruelty): letter from, 133; mentioned, 270 Committee of Congress (on northern military affairs) : letter from, 264; ft requests Connecticut to loan cannon to Ticonderoga, 264-65 Committee of Congress (on Philadelphia defense): letter from, 565; ft meets with Pennsylvania Council, 566; mentioned, 603 Committee of Congress (on theft of congressional packet): letter from, 505; investigates John Curlis, 505 Committee of Congress (to confer with Gen. Greene): letter from, 478; ft requests Maryland troops to reinforce Washington, 478; mentioned, 497 Committee of secret correspondence: letters from, 4, 16, 187, 194, 202, 204, 317, 353, 486, 503; letters to, 132, 155, 258, 320; instructs Larkin Hammond, 16-17; sends dispatches to France, 16—17, 55, 202-4, 315, 353-54; instructs William Bingham, 187-88; instructs commissioners at Paris, 194-96, 317-19; instructs Massachusetts council, 202—4; receives Silas Deane dispatch, 216; foreign officers recommended to, 301-2; commissioners at Paris lack intelligence from, 320-21; urged to employ secretary, 320; instructs Henry Johnson, 353- 54; instructed to discourage foreign volunteers, 452, 460; becomes committee for foreign affairs, 627, 643; mentioned, 142, 161, 310, 373, 376, 378, 385, 415 Confederation, Articles of: debated in Congress, 666, 672—74, 690; amended to establish state sovereignty, 672, 674; article on mutual assistance approved, 672; Thomas Burke’s plan for bicameral Congress rejected, 674; mentioned, xxv, xxvi, 560, 561, 569, 607 Congress: chronology, xi-xiv; meeting place in Baltimore illustrated, xxiii, 56; resolves on Pennsylvania defense illustrated, xxvii, 580; augments Washington’s authority, 3, 5-6, 10, 13, 21, 51, 62, 65, 108, 273; instructs commissioners in Europe, 3—4, 52, 54; appoints commissioner to Spain, 4, 52; removal to Bal timore, 5, 8, 10, 14, 87, 89; rewards Col. Baylor, 6-7; orders inquiry into illegal seizures of American vessels, 7, 9; committee on Joseph, 9, 289; enlarges Continental Army, 13, 33, 51, 62, 65, 273, 429; bans export of salted provisions, 13; sends money to commissary general’s department, 17-19, 212, 449; authority, 3, 5-6, 10, 13, 21, 51, 62, 65, 108, 273; instructs commissioners in arrange exchange of Maryland prisoners, 25, 125; Maryland unrepresented, 25, 50, 57, 100, 149, 170, 192, 217, 225, 352; return to Philadelphia desired, 31, 57, 99, 146, 270—71, 294; sends money to Connecticut, 33, 160, 241-42, 244, 256, 560; proposes exchange for Gen. Lee, 36, 40-41, 52, 64, 70, 74, 78, 211, 496; orders inquiry of Richard Stockton’s treatment, 39-40; orders inves tigation of Gen. Lee’s treatment, 39-40; orders magazine built at Carlisle, Pa., 40, 72, 159—60; committee on British treatment of prisoners, 41; seeks exchange of Ethan Allen, 41; New York unrepresented, 47, 100, 115, 154, 170-71, 173 192, 314, 437-38, 451; transaction of business slowed, 47, 242-43, 247, 441, 464; orders retaliation against British prisoners, 49, 74, 78, 211, 327-


[Page 746]
714 Index Doughty, John, 19, 36, 170 Dove (schooner), 29, 523, 578 Drugs, 410, 470 Duane, James: letters from, 616, 630, 686; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix; arrives in Philadelphia, 577, 598, 603, 616; ordered to attend Congress, 595; criticizes Pennsylvania government, 616-17; on inquiry into Gen. Schuyler’s conduct, 617; nominates Thomas Cushing for eastern navy board, 638; mentioned, 88, 216, 389, 520, 601 Duck: price, 294; mentioned, 118 Dudoger, Capt., 528 Duer, William: letters from, 601, 630, 686; elected to Congress, xix, 595; attends Congress, xix; criticizes Pennsylvania government, 601-2; on New Hampshire Grants dispute, 601; committees to confer with Pennsylvania, 603; criticized for intervening in Pennsylvania government, 603; committee on loyalism in Maryland and Delaware, 606; described by John Adams, 616; committee on Gen. Schuyler’s conduct, 631; mentioned, 560 Duff, James, 176, 179, 180 Dugan, Cumberland, 381, 431 Dumfries, Va.; Hessian prisoners of war sent to, 108; troops inoculated at, 634 Duncan, Robert (George), 439, 442, 448 Duncan, Mrs. Robert (George), 439 Dunlap, John, 124, 567, 570 Dunn, Benjamin: letters to, 611, 619; appointed commander of Surprize, 98; instructed by marine committee, 611-12, 619-20; mentioned, 42 Dupuy, John: identified, 682; letter to, 682; asked to provide naval supplies, 682; mentioned, 291, 292, 293, 620, 621, 657 Durkee, John, 19 Dyer, Eliphalet: elected to Congress, xv; Oliver Wolcott comments on Congres sional attendance of, 483; mentioned, 475, 564 Eagle (Massachusetts privateer), 9 East Florida, 54, 55 East India Company, offered American prisoners, 584, 596, 609 Eastern military department: funds for, 112—13, 175, 241-42, 247, 256, 284; orders for clothing agents, 122; Artemas Ward declines command, 335; William Heath appointed commander, 336 Eastern navy board: creation anticipated, 371, 544—45, 624; established at Boston, 544, 638, 642-43, 650, 663 Easton, Pa., Indian conference, 117-19, 140, 150—53, 284 Easton, Pa., Committee of Safety, 118 Eddy, Jonathan, proposes expedition to Nova Scotia, 53—54 Edward II, price regulations, 274 Effingham (Continental frigate), 322 Egg Harbor, N.J., 11 Elbert, Samuel, 256, 615 Elizabethtown, N.J.: skirmish, 162; public worship, 209 Elk Packet, 230 Ellery, William: letters from, 29, 161, 223, 282, 370, 400, 445, 446, 507, 539, 546, 589, 591, 640, 646; elected to Congress, xxi, 508; attends Congress, xxi; on currency depreciation, 30; on regulating monopolies, 30; urges attack against British in Rhode Island, 30, 546—47, 590, 647; criticizes living conditions in Baltimore, 31; wishes to return to Philadelphia, 31, 283; asks for salary increase, 162, 284; on American strategy, 162; requests attendance of addi tional Rhode Island delegates, 162, 284, 401, 507-8, 647; marine committee, 223, 539-40, 640—41; opposes raising loan office interest rates, 282; on rights of man, 370; on need for executive board of admiralty, 371; returns to Phila-


[Page 755]
Index 723 Hoffman, Ronald, Spirit of Dissension, 190, 232 Hogeland, Benjamin, 396 Hollingsworth, Henry, 354, 355 Holt, John, 434 Home, Henry (Lord Kames), Six Sketches on the History of Man, 542 Honduras, Bay of, 27 Hooper, William: letters from: 4, 7, 187, 191, 194, 202, 289; letter to, 142; ☆ elected to Congress, xix, 10, 511; attends Congress, xix; on illegal seizure of North Carolina vessels, 7-8; criticizes conditions in Baltimore, 8, 191; wishes to return home, 9, 147, 159; health, 100, 146, 191, 216-17, 289-90; committee of secret correspondence, 187—88, 194—96, 202—3, 216; praises Washington, 191; criticizes quartering of troops in Philadelphia, 192-93; on delegate attendance, 192; praises James Wilson, 192; opposes raising loan office interest rates, 193; returns to North Carolina, 193, 208, 216, 231; opposes returning loyalist pris oners to North Carolina, 396; on North Carolina’s failure to reelect Joseph Hewes, 511; letter quoted, 511; solicits endorsement of Joseph Hewes, 511; resigns seat in Congress, 511; mentioned, 183, 225, 298, 389, 464 Hope (ship), 406 Hopkins, David, 126 Hopkins, Esek: letters to, 127, 220, 505; instructed by marine committee, 127, 167, 220; fails to capture Diamond, 283-84, 488-89; complaints against heard by marine committee, 487-90; criticizes Congress, 488; mistreats British pris oners, 488; obstructs recruitment of seamen, 489; suspended from command, 490-91, 505, 535; conflict with John Grannis, 491; mentioned, 141, 233, 546 Hopkins, John Burroughs: letter to, 538; opposition to, 490; instructed by marine committee, 538-39; authorized to impress seamen, 540; mentioned, 489 Hopkins, Samuel, 647 Hopkins, Stephen, elected to Congress, xxi, 508 Hopkinson, Francis: property destroyed by British, 24-25; instructed to prepare removal of public stores from Philadelphia, 343; committee on theft of Con gressional packet (1776), 505; letter quoted, 505; appointed to navy board, 543-44 Hornet (Continental sloop), 18, 167, 214, 301, 380, 652, 659 Horses: captured at Trenton, 6-7; British forage shortage, 149, 213, 227, 283, 317, 319, 445-46, 503; livery costs, 184, 194, 202, 210, 241, 254, 430, 442, 643; British losses in New Jersey, 227; cost of hiring in Philadelphia, 254, 430; effects of British shortages, 388, 391; price, 576—77 Hospitals, military; see Medical department Hotham, William: captures American vessels in Chesapeake, 167; mentioned, 320 Houstoun, John, elected to Congress, xvi Howard, Mrs., 669 Howard, Ephraim, 184 Howard, John Eager, 668 Howe, George Augustus, 3d viscount, 186, 410 Howe, Richard, 4th viscount: letter to, 254; prisoner treatment criticized, 47, 77, 96, 572-73; offers declaration of fidelity, 241; negotiating powers, 336; suspected of divisive strategy, 336, 339-41, 346, 348, 391, 418; proclamation on allegiance, 454, 456; implicated in James Molesworth plot, 502, 512, 514, 537-38; whereabouts conjectured, 517, 654; mentioned, 46, 47, 64, 71, 156, 208,211,310, 374, 505,526 Howe, William: defeat at Princeton, 26-27, 34-35, 37-38,44, 61-63, 67-68, 73-77, 106, 376; reinforced, 30, 65, 96, 343, 366, 371, 375, 382, 600, 637; retreats through New Jersey, 30, 50, 92, 94; threat to try Gen. Lee for desertion, 39-40, 49, 52-53, 64, 74, 78, 211, 251, 297, 327-28; treatment of Gen. Lee criticized,


[Page 756]
724 Index 39-40, 49, 443-44, 452; rejects Lewis Pintard’s appointment as commissary of prisoners, 123; prisoner treatment criticized, 133—34, 572—73; depreda tions in New Jersey, 198; committee on letter to Washington, 327-28; ne gotiating powers, 336; suspected of divisive strategy, 336, 339—41, 346, 348, 418, 550-51; attack on Philadelphia feared, 343, 352, 363, 372, 377-78, 388, 390-91, 395, 409, 414-15, 472, 476, 478, 483, 492, 541, 546, 559, 583, 585, 590, 598, 603, 616, 625, 632, 634, 637, 646, 689; refuses to exchange Gen. Lee, 374; supplies captured, 501; proclamation, 517, 654; speculation on strategy of, 557—58, 562, 564, 595, 608, 670-71, 676; fortifies Brunswick, 562, 565; nego tiates prisoner cartel, 572-73; effect of British attack on Pennsylvania Germans assessed, 666-67; mentioned, 8, 34, 38, 41, 42, 46, 60, 63, 64, 65, 68, 71, 75, 79, 111, 128, 139, 156, 157, 161, 184, 186, 187, 195, 216, 247, 298, 305, 308, 310, 329, 343, 372, 374, 375, 411, 416, 421, 435, 456, 471, 503, 535, 552, 633 Howell, Mr., 12 Howell, David, 400, 401, 507 Hubley, Adam, 38, 652 Hudson, Jonathan: letters to, 559, 623; sent money, 559 Hudson River: conjectured British objective, 559, 568; plot to destroy ferries, 592,610 Hume, David, 274 Humphreys, James, 613 Humphreys, Joshua, 506 Humpton, Richard, 163 Hunter, Adam: account with secret committee, 406; mentioned, 381 Hunter, James: account with secret committee, 406; mentioned, 381, 593 Huntingdon, Mr., 69, 79 Huntington, Jedediah: promoted, 677; mentioned, 404 Huntington, Joshua: letters to, 434, 447, 650; -fa superintends construction of Continental frigates, 434-35, 447 Huntington, Samuel: elected to Congress, xv; mentioned, 546, 691, 692 Hurlburt, Elizabeth, 549 Hurn, Richard, 658 Hutchinson, Israel, 19 Hutchinson, Thomas, 217 Imbert & Co., propose to build cannon foundry, 109-10 Importation: arms, 20-21, 52, 101-2, 155, 290, 478, 484-85, 492, 495-96, 500- 501, 513, 516, 518-21, 531, 549, 561, 597, 693; clothing, 20, 35, 155, 227, 311, 316; salt, 85, 89, 163, 178, 182, 251, 258, 268, 410, 499, 649; military supplies, 155, 196-97, 290; flour, 170; rice, 170; effect of price regulation on, 276-77 Impressment: carriages, 240-41; of seamen authorized by Rhode Island, 540; con flict between James Nicholson and Maryland, 682—83; mentioned, 539 Income: deputy commissary in Virginia, 75; for American prisoners of war, 120; munitions workers, 133; Continental officers, 151; militia, 151-52, 212; dele gates’ remuneration, 162, 284, 294; missionary to Indians, 169; paymaster gen eral of northern department, 169, 266, 468; chaplain, 210, 411; military staff, 210; assistant and regimental paymasters, 521; military surgeons, 571 Independence: European attitudes toward American, 209, 211, 522, 578; see also Declaration of Independence Independence (Continental sloop), 258, 266, 302, 304, 321, 322, 380, 396, 416, 652 Indian affairs, middle department: Easton, Pa., conference, 117—19, 140, 150-53, 284; proposed attack on Pluggy’s Town, 509-10; frontier defense, 579, 582 Indian affairs, northern department: commissioners instructed, 119; missionary’s salary increased, 169 Indian affairs, southern department, 579


[Page 758]
726 Index Johnston, Francis, 18 Johnston, George: appointed aide-de-camp to Washington, 119—20; mentioned, 108, 121 Johnston, Samuel, 290 Jolly, John, petitions Congress, 515 Jones, B. (Capt.), 270 Jones, John Paul: letters to, 220, 492; instructed by marine committee, 220—23, 232-33, 492; proposes African cruise, 220-23; voyage to Cape Breton, 220; ordered to France, 223; praised by Robert Morris, 232; assumes command of Ranger, 492; mentioned, 114 Jones, Robinson, 489 Jones, Timothy, Silas Deane pseudonym, 216-17 Jones, William: exchange proposed, 35, 254-55; mentioned, 9, 182 Joseph (brigantine), 7, 8, 9, 143, 148, 234, 235, 290 Josephson, Manuel, 206 Josiah, James, 46 Journals of Congress: Thomas Burke favors recording contested issues in, 381-82, 429; publication ordered, 404, 642—43; temporarily maintained by John Han cock, 433, 635—36 Joy, Daniel, 125, 163 Juvenal, Satires, 11 Kalb, Johann, baron de, offers services to Congress, 309-10 Kames, Lord (Henry Home), Six Sketches on the History of Man, 542 Kapp, Friedrich, John Kalb, 310 Kermorvan, Giles-Jean Barazerde, memorial to Congress, 160 King, Mr. (Philadelphia iron founder), 507 Kirkland, Samuel, salary as missionary to Indians increased, 169 Klose, Gotlieb, petitions Congress, 152—53 Klyne, John, 206 Knox, Capt., 395 Knox, Henry: letter to, 168; requests cannon, 109; suggests sites for magazines, 160, 575; mentioned, 334, 665 Lake Champlain, N.Y., 4 Lake George, N.Y., 674 Lancaster, Pa.: military magazine authorized, 51; musket prices increase, 164; proposed as site for Congress, 240, 372—73, 410; mentioned, 123 Land, western: frontier defense, 65, 82, 509—10, 579; Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 171; Congressional resolution of state claims favored, 298-99 Lane, Joseph, 268 Lang, James, 652 Langdon, John: letters to, 28, 31, 33, 48, 89, 110, 128, 296, 316, 415, 424, 461, 484, 519, 528, 577, 623; instructed by marine committee, 28-29, 48, 523; suggests mast trade with France, 29; instructed by secret committee, 31, 528-29; speculates in prize goods, 89-90; appoints deputy prize agent, 199; sent money by marine committee, 296, 316, 424; needs money for naval expenses, 462; requested to send Congressional accounts, 484-85; ordered to send arms to Massachusetts, 519; sent money by secret committee, 529, 540; mentioned, 83, 199, 492, 520, 545, 684 Langdon, Samuel: letters to, 285, 286; asks John Hancock to settle Harvard accounts, 285-87 Lansing, John, Jr.: identified, 599; mentioned, 598, 635, 648, 689 Latour, Count, 418, 420 Laurance, John, replaces William Tudor as judge advocate, 498 Laurens, Henry, elected to Congress, xxi


[Page 759]
Index 727 Law, Richard: elected to Congress, xv; mentioned, 475 Law of nations, debated, 327—28 Lawrence, Alexander A., “General Lachlan McIntosh,” 615 Lawrence, John: identified, 34; sent money, 256; mentioned, 244, 405 Lawrence, Thomas, Jr., 576 Lawson, Robert, 19 Lay, Mr., 432 Lead, imported, 35 LeCroix, Monsr. (Hispaniola), defrauds secret committee, 392 Lee, Anne Gaskins (Mrs. Richard Henry), 320, 334 Lee, Arthur: letters to, 15, 246, 308, 486, 627; commissioner to Spain, 4; praised by Samuel Adams, 16; sent dispatches, 16-17, 378; ordered to purchase military supplies, 101-2, 311; news arrives from, 513, 548, 560, 693; letter excerpted by Samuel Adams, 516—17; meets with Vergennes, 525; reports British intelligence, 596; warns against dependence on European assistance, 596, 599; letters quoted, 599, 637; criticizes Robert Morris, 650; predicts attack on Boston, 670; predicts Anglo-French war, 677; mentioned, 593, 685; see also Commissioners at Paris Lee, Charles: letter to, 337; captured, 8—9, 22-24, 97; exchange proposed, 36, 40—41, 52, 64, 70, 74, 78, 211, 496; Congress orders investigation of British treat ment, 39-40; trial by British feared, 39-40, 49, 52-53, 64, 74, 78, 211, 251, 297, 327-28; Congressional retaliation for British mistreatment, 49, 64, 327-28, 335, 348, 419; money for, 152, 390; letter quoted, 310; request for meeting with committee of Congress, 310, 336, 339, 348, 363, 374—75; Congress debates proposed meeting with, 336, 339-41; request for committee meeting rejected, 336, 339—40, 346, 348, 373, 375, 391, 402, 418, 420; removal to England feared, 363, 373-74; exchange refused, 374; requests aide-de-camp, 434; mistreatment by British criticized, 443—44, 452; status as prisoner of war claimed, 496; men tioned, 3, 23, 26, 83, 92, 130, 252, 268,526, 552 Lee, Francis Lightfoot: letters from, 100, 144, 311, 390, 567, 582, 585; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; approves of move from Philadelphia, 100; board of war, 144; debates return to Philadelphia, 369; criticizes militia waste, 391; delays return to Philadelphia, 392; mentioned, 130, 281, 296, 334 Lee, Henry. 126 Lee, Ludwell, 629 Lee, Rebecca Tayloe (Mrs. Francis Lightfoot), 101, 334 Lee, Richard Henry: letters from, 4, 10, 16, 22, 28, 31, 32, 36, 67, 73, 102, 110, 119, 124, 127, 147, 155, 165, 166, 187, 194, 197, 202, 204, 215, 223, 227, 264, 308, 311, 316, 317, 319, 337, 353, 380, 384, 392, 394, 528, 539, 548, 565, 567, 583, 593, 627, 633, 640, 653, 675, 676; letter to, 259; & elected to Con ¬ gress, xxii; attends Congress, xxii; opposes removal to Baltimore, 10; on evils of luxury, 10; accusations against in Virginia, 23; secret committee, 28, 31-32, 102-3, 124, 127, 147-48, 155, 311, 316, 380-81, 392, 406-8, 528-29, 571-72, 606, 613, 641, 649, 653; praises Trenton victory, 36; drafts resolves on prisoner treatment, 41; committee of secret correspondence, 67-68, 187-88, 194-96, 202—4, 216, 317-19, 353-54; urges Virginia to fill Continental quota, 74, 319, 584; marine committee, 110, 223, 539—40, 545—46, 640—41; requests information about Virginia navy, 167; proposes stationing cruisers off Virginia, 205-6, 259; criticizes George Ill’s speech, 215; urges expanding Virginia navy, 215, 319; debates authority of New England convention, 217; urges Virginia troops to reinforce Washington, 228; favors raising loan office interest rates, 245; com mittee on northern military affairs, 264-65; debates price regulation, 275; criticized by Thomas Burke, 281; seniority in Congress, 306; criticizes British depredations, 308; debates appointing general officers, 323; on style of public documents, 327-28; on Gen. Lee’s request to meet with committee of Congress,


[Page 760]
728 Index 337; debates jurisdiction over deserters, 360; committee on deserters, 363; debates return to Philadelphia, 368-69; praises Washington, 384; speculates on British strategy, 384, 567-68, 584; circulates French memoir on frigate con struction, 394-95; urges churches to loan bells for cannon, 395; committee on Philadelphia defense, 565—66; denounces engrossing, 583; recommends military exemption for ironworkers, 594, 677; committee to confer with Pennsylvania, 603; on consequences of Franco-Spanish attack on Britain, 628; debates articles of confederation, 672; urges laws against loyalists, 676; mentioned, 16, 216, 281, 296, 334, 361 Lee, Thomas Ludwell, 23, 629 Lee, William: appointed commercial agent in Europe, 102, 176; mentioned, 43, 308,316, 351,629, 681,685 Legge, William, 2d earl of Dartmouth, xxvi Leghorn, Italy, ports open to American vessels, 549 Le Guillaume (French brigantine), 259 Leman, Mr., 35 Leonard, Mr., 253 Leonards, Miss, 448 Levingston, J. R., account with secret committee, 407 Levy, Hayman, 115 Lewes, Del.: defense, 547-48, 619; mentioned, 168 Lewis, Andrew: letters to, 121, 164; ordered to remain in Virginia, 121 Lewis, Elizabeth Annesley (Mrs. Francis), 205, 271 Lewis, Francis: letters from, 31, 32, 47, 102, 109, 114, 123, 124, 127, 147, 155, 171, 173, 205, 206, 271, 314, 316, 380, 392, 436, 594, 604, 647; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix; secret committee, 31, 102-3, 124, 127, 147—48, 155, 311, 316, 392, 406—8, 606, 613, 641, 649; arranges translation of New York Convention address, 45, 114-15, 123, 150, 159; cannon committee, 109; defends William Roger’s prize, 115-16, 173; urges New York delegates to attend Congress, 115, 171, 173, 314; wishes Congress to return to Philadelphia, 270; opposes appraisal of Montgomery’s cargo, 436-37; marine committee, 437—38; plans to return to Philadelphia, 438; absent from Congress, 451; paid for purchasing army clothing, 585; urges sending troops to Philadelphia from Baltimore, 585; arrives in Philadelphia, 594; plans to visit Baltimore, 594; requested to consult with New York Convention, 594-95, 604, 622; appeals decision of Maryland Admiralty Court, 595; mentioned, 83 Lewis (Continental schooner), 652, 658, 659 Lexington (Continental brig), 20, 21, 27, 28, 29, 32, 35, 38, 41, 100, 182, 197, 205, 255,259,311,316, 354 Libby, Mr., 662 “Life of Gustavus Adolphus” (Pierre Bayle), 418, 420 Limozin, Andrew, 136, 177, 304 Lincoln, Benjamin: letter to, 345; promoted, 333, 335, 345-46, 425 Linen: price, 437, 646; mentioned, 173 Lion (ship), 606 Lively (brigantine), 499, 500 Lively (H.M.S.),572 Liverpool (H.M.S.),46 Livingston, Abraham: appointed to procure clothing, 114-15; sent money, 380-81, 408; mentioned, 364 Livingston, Henry Beekman, 294 Livingston, Philip: letters from, 630, 647, 686; ☆ elected to Congress, xix; at tends Congress, xix; arrives in Philadelphia, 577, 598, 606, 616; ordered to attend Congress, 595; secret committee, 606; president of United Whaling Co., 647—48; mentioned, 83, 594, 601, 604


[Page 764]
732 Index Maryland Assembly: letters to, 72, 189; Samuel Chase urges special session, 50; urged to suppress loyalist uprising, 189-90; elects delegates to Congress, 379; opposes raising loan office interest rates, 379; mentioned, 201 Maryland Council of Safety: letters to, 25, 50, 124, 131, 148, 150, 158, 170, 224, 231, 232, 257, 307, 328, 382; reluctant to call special assembly session, 50; confines prisoners taken by state navy and privateers, 125; asked to send reinforcements to Washington, 131, 140; requested to appoint Continental officers, 131, 150-51; sent funds, 170; investigates William Patterson, 187—88; requested to pay Martinique for illegal seizure, 225, 385; asked to halt sailing of provision vessels, 257; asked to send delegates to Congress, 257; requested to remove stock, 307; urged to fill Continental quota, 329; requests arms, 668- 69; opposes impressment of seamen, 683 Maryland delegates: letters from 554, 668; absent from Congress, 25, 50, 57, 100, 149, 170, 192, 217, 225, 257, 352; attendance in Congress requested, 257; on criteria for promotion of military officers, 263; seeks Congressional approval of New England convention, 263; favor increasing Congress’ authority to settle western land claims, 298; divided on raising loan interest rates, 346, 378-79; debate return to Philadelphia, 369; credentials, 379; elected to Congress, 379; oppose return to Philadelphia, 381-82 Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser: publishes Samuel Chase’s pseudon ymous letters, 329-30; mentioned, xxiii Maryland navy: exchange of prisoners sought, 25, 124-25; status of prisoners taken by, 25, 124-25; alleged piracy investigated, 187-88; illegal seizure by, 224-25, 385 Massachusetts: privateers illegally seize American vessels, 7-9, 142, 234-35, 289- 90, 366, 498; militia praised, 49; quorum requirement, 112-13, 175; Con tinental frigate construction in, 139; arms for, 162; sent money, 175, 242-43, 247, 256; unrepresented in Congress, 175; news from scarce, 185; status of government, 202; North Carolina remonstrates against privateers of, 234; can non casting in, 273, 624, 683-84; laws against loyalists favored, 278-79, 297, 600-601; taxes in, 327; loyalists in, 364, 512, 514, 693; influence in Congress, 428; price regulation, 467-68, 476-77, 542; town-country split in, 467; effects of trade restrictions, 476—77; militia to assist attack on British in Rhode Island, 591-93, 600, 607, 637, 642; powder quality poor, 643; criticized for not filling Continental quota, 654, 667-68, 670; prepares constitution, 662-63; men tioned, 230 Massachusetts Assembly; see Massachusetts General Court Massachusetts Board of War: letters to, 196, 250, 479; James Warren presi dent, 185; commercial transactions, 494; mentioned, 477 Massachusetts Council: letters to, 81, 175, 202, 366, 496, 519, 611; ■& to in vestigate illegal seizures of American vessels, 7; authorized to attack Nova Scotia, 52-54, 64-65, 81-82, 92-93; requests money for military bounties, 112; criticizes John Roche, 145; instructed by committee of secret correspondence on sending European dispatches, 202-4; asked to account for powder advanced to Congress, 519; sent arms, 519-20; asked to erect monument to Gen. Warren, 610-11; mentioned, 197, 242, 251, 684 Massachusetts delegates: letter from, 175; divisions among, 93; quorum re quirements, 112-13, 175; Baltimore lodgings, 228; vote to raise loan office interest rates, 238, 253, 260, 378; approve declaration on reinforcements, 352- 53; hostility to Washington, 353; vote to return to Philadelphia, 382; urge Massachusetts to assist in attacking British in Rhode Island, 588 Massachusetts General Court: ordered to investigate illegal seizure, 9; proposes expedition to Nova Scotia, 53-54; alters quorum requirement, 113; commercial venture with Elbridge Gerry, 197; pays Samuel Adams’ delegate account, 254; adopts laws against loyalists, 279; John Hancock requests congressional leave


[Page 765]
Index 733 from, 288; adopts economic regulations, 477, 542; asked to support attack on British in Rhode Island, 591-92; prepares constitution, 663; mentioned, 93, 684 Massachusetts House of Representatives, opposes New England convention pro ceedings, 184—85 Massachusetts Superior Court: John Adams resigns as chief justice, 250-51, 312, 469; mentioned, 553 Masts: exported, 28—29, 31, 48, 83, 420; mentioned, 528, 625 Mathias, Mr., 118 Matthias, Wilhelm Eckhard, 335 Maxwell, William: promoted, 413-14; mentioned, 269, 454 Meade (George) & Co., account with secret committee, 613; mentioned, 32, 304 Measam, George, 335 Mease, James: letter to, 189; appointed clothier general, 114, 380-81; in structed to prepare public stores for removal from Philadelphia, 342, 344; mentioned, 18, 58, 97, 137, 145, 189, 215, 314, 407,529, 623 Medical committee: letters from, 271, 571; orders smallpox inoculation, 271 Medical department: charges against Director General John Morgan, 10-11; William Shippen, Jr.’s, reorganization plan, 10-11; John Morgan dismissed, 11, 54, 65, 82, 348-49; William Shippen, Jr., appointed director general, 11; Samuel Stringer dismissed as director for northern department, 65, 82, 108, 348-49, 461; Jonathan Potts appointed director for northern department, 108; sent money, 212; reform recommended, 348-49, 405, 470; surgeons needed, 348; drugs for, 410, 470; reorganized, 538, 558, 560, 570-71, 584, 607, 637; Jonathan Potts reappointed director for northern department, 571; surgeons’ salaries, 571; noncombat losses criticized, 574; surgeons appointed, 607; surgeons’ mates, 671 Medicines: imported from West Indies, 303—4; for army, 410, 470 Melchior, Isaac, 193 Mellish (British transport), 26, 499 Mercenaries: taken prisoner at Trenton, 14, 22, 24, 29—30, 51, 59, 73, 77; criticized, 22, 24—25, 64, 94, 134, 198, 637; proposed exchange for Gen. Lee, 36, 41, 52, 74, 78; American retaliation against Hessian officers, 49, 327, 335, 374, 419, 452; American effort to curtail use of, 52; taken prisoner at Princeton, 67-68, 75; proposed settlement in America, 78; Hessian prisoners sent to Virginia, 108; British recruitment of Germans, 201, 209, 522, 525-26, 596, 600, 608, 637, 693; British efforts to recruit Russians, 201, 209, 463, 471—72, 535, 550, 644; Hessians sickly, 445, 472; insurrection in Hesse-Cassel over British drafting of, 522, 526, 535, 693; use of Germans against Virginia rumored, 589, 596; use of Germans against Boston rumored, 670 Mercer, Hugh: killed at Princeton, 37, 68, 94, 97; reported captured by British, 78-79, 81; Congressional support of son considered, 186, 459; monument for, 186, 559, 610—11; mentioned, 62, 105, 134 Mercer, Mrs. Hugh, 634 Mercury (French ship), 520, 528 Meredith, Capt., 304 Meredith & Clymer, account with secret committee, 613 Merkle, Johann Philip, 148, 259, 291, 304 Merlin (H.M.S.), 9 Merryman, John, 349 Middle department navy board, 337, 342, 543, 544 Middle states convention, fails to regulate prices, 561, 609, 642 Middleton Arthur: letter from, 155; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; debates proposed conference with Gen. Lee, 340; mentioned, 143, 424 Middleton, Polly, 439 Mifflin, John, 38


[Page 773]
Index 741 Parker, Josiah, 290 Parker, Richard, 36 Parliament: George Ill’s speech to, 182, 186, 188-89, 207-8, 210, 215, 219, 227, 236, 245, 290, 317; mentioned, 381 Paterson, John: promoted, 346; mentioned, 19 Patterson, William: accused of piracy, 132, 143, 187-88, 224-25, 385; mentioned, 11, 232, 241 Pay; see Income Paymaster general’s department: sent money, 69, 79; money sent Ebenezer Han cock for eastern department, 112-13, 175, 241-42, 247, 256, 284; needs money, 134; money sent to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., for northern department, 135, 169, 256, 468-69, 521; Richard Dallam appointed to pay flying camp, 151-52; salary increases in, 169, 266, 468, 521; regulated by Congress, 521, 537; James Warren’s accounts balanced, 693-94 Payne, Mr., 446 Payne, Mrs. 183 Payne, Elijah Freeman: accused of piracy, 9, 234, 289; described, 289 Peale, Charles Willson, xxviii Pearl (H.M.S.), 21, 27, 29, 35, 42, 255, 322 Pearson, Joseph, 255 Peggy (sloop), 613 Penet, Pierre, 321; see also Pliarne, Penet & Co. Penn, John, 9 Pennsylvania: loyalists, 8-9, 24, 87-88, 374; Continental troops, 18, 68, 74, 105, 113, 189; morale raised by Trenton, 30; militia, 38, 60, 92, 130, 212, 352, 367, 411, 579, 603, 650-51, 655; construction of frigates, 42, 139, 150, 212, 506, 570; government weak, 87, 651; lethargy stopped by Congress’ removal, 87, 100; Westmoreland regiment ousts major, 105; boundary dispute with Connecticut, 171; status of government, 201; regulation of prices, 240; sent money, 258; urged to confer with middle states on regulating prices, 279; spirit improved, 305; loyalists criticize Congressional reluctance to negotiate with Britain, 374; George Bryan elected vice-president, 399; Thomas Wharton, Jr., elected presi dent, 399, 408; Continental recruiting slow, 416, 642; influence in Congress, 428; opposition to constitution of, 430, 502, 686; enacts treason and militia laws, 442; British attack feared, 527—28; operates salt works in New Jersey, 554; frontier defense, 579; Congressional intervention in government, 601-3, 616-17, 631; factionalism, 601-2; navy, 611-12; effect of British plunder on Germans in, 666-67; see also Philadelphia Pennsylvania Admiralty Court, 147 Pennsylvania Assembly: confers with executive committee on Easton conference, 117; appoints delegates to Congress, 144, 183; reelects Robert Morris to Con gress, 260; elects state officials, 405-6; adjourned, 603; militia act criticized, 631; mentioned, 121, 147, 201, 307 Pennsylvania Board of War: inventories provisions in Philadelphia, 598-99; con fers with committee of Congress, 603; asked to call out militia, 650—51; men tioned, 575 Pennsylvania Council of Safety: letters to, 36, 69, 123, 258, 267, 310, 416; -fa executive committee lends money to, 18; intercepts John Dickinson letter, 24; assists Washington, 27; to supply escort for loan certificates, 36; oversees cannon casting, 45; recommends agent for American prisoners, 51; accounts, 95; asked to translate New York Convention address, 115, 117, 119, 123; provides presents for Easton Indian conference, 152; quartering of troops in Philadelphia criticized, 192-93; pays Brittingham Dickinson, 258; requested to lease state vessels to Congress, 267-68; sent money, 313; urged to confer with states on regulating prices, 332; requested to prepare Philadelphia’s defense, 344; requested to send


[Page 774]
742 Index reinforcements to Washington, 366-67; mentioned, xxvii, 22, 57, 68, 79, 105, 121, 153, 211, 284, 331, 343, 375 Pennsylvania delegates: elected to Congress, 144, 183; vote to raise loan office interest rates, 238, 260, 346, 378; seek Congressional approval of New England convention, 263; favor increasing Congress’ authority over western lands, 298; praised, 307; James Wilson superseded, 326; vote to amend declaration on rein forcements, 352; vote to return to Philadelphia, 382; attendance, 478-79; on military exemptions for militiamen employed at salt works, 554; confer with committee of Congress, 603-4 Pennsylvania Evening Post, 134, 573, 662 Pennsylvania Executive Council; letter to, 527; elects state officials, 406; asked to prepare against attack, 527-28; meets with committee on Philadelphia de fense, 566; adjourns, 602—3, 616-17; asked to call out militia, 650-51; men tioned, 548, 568 Pennsylvania Journal, 205 Pennsylvania Navy Board, requests aid from Continental Navy, 611-12 Pennsylvania Packet, 147 Penrose, Mr., 35 Penrose, Joseph, account with secret committee, 641 Penrose, Samuel, account with secret committee, 641 Penrose (Samuel) & Co., account with secret committee, 649 Pensacola, W. Fla., proposed expedition against, 221 Pepper, captured, 492 Pequea, Pa., 63, 268, 269 Percy, Hugh, 2d duke of Northumberland, 343, 352 Perkins, Mr. (Connecticut), 434 Peters, Richard: letters from, 95, 116, 229, 230, 335, 671; letter to, 196; absent from Baltimore, 133; queries Washington on recruiting instructions, 227; men tioned, 314 Phelps, J. (physician), 219 Philadelphia: Congress’ return desired, 31, 57, 99, 146, 270-71, 294; militia, 37, 59, 73, 130, 650-51, 655; cannon casting is recommended, 45; defense, 68—69, 343—44, 565—66, 568—69, 585, 598, 603, 635; Continental stables, 80, 121; removal of public stores considered, 130-31, 135, 144, 158, 181, 188-89, 342-45; commodities scarce, 137-38; Pennsylvania Admiralty Court held, 147; lacks specie, 152; riding school proposed, 152; smallpox prevalent, 159, 271, 289; loyalists, 182, 275, 277, 297, 514, 577, 693; quartering of troops criti cized, 192-93; Congress urged to return to, 213-14, 270-71, 273, 283, 294-95; economic importance, 213; prisoners maintained, 215; Congresss postpones return to, 238, 244, 342—43, 363, 367—68, 375; cost of living criticized, 294, 399-400, 442, 643, 646; Congress decides to return to, 300, 305, 307, 309, 313, 315, 317, 320, 325-26, 332, 335, 337, 348, 351-52, 370; report of British capture circulates in West Indies, 309; smallpox inoculation at, 326; British attack feared, 343, 352, 363, 368, 372, 377-78, 388, 390-91, 395, 409, 414-15, 472, 476, 478, 483, 492, 504, 541, 546, 557-59, 583, 585, 590, 598, 603, 616, 625, 632, 634, 637, 646, 689; public stores ordered to remain, 345; removal of public stores from, 372—73, 388, 390, 394, 598; Congress adjourns to, 381— 83, 390, 393-94, 398, 403, 413, 415; church bells requested for cannon, 395; inhabitants leave, 409; residents described by John Adams, 409; delegates’ lodgings in, 448, 617; arms arrive at, 484-85, 492, 495-96, 500-501, 521, 531, 549; James Molesworth plot against, 502-3, 505, 512, 514, 518, 537-38; Gen. St. Clair ordered to, 538; Gen. Schuyler commands at, 568-69, 598-99, 632, 634-35; threatened by British fleet, 584, 599; shortage of salt, 594, 601; proba bility of British attack questioned, 595; provisions at inventoried, 598-99; con-


[Page 775]
Index 743 spirators arrested, 610, 624, 632; Continental troop strength, 689; mentioned, 124, 229, 230, 252 Philadelphia Associators, 37, 59 Philadelphia Ledger, 101 “Philanthrop,” Jonathan Sewall pseudonym, 356 Phile, Frederick, 310 Phillips, William: identified, 474; letter to, 473; -fa instructed to arbitrate prize dispute, 466-67, 473-74 Phoebe (sloop), 649, 657 Pickering, Thomas, 691 Pierce, John, 468 Pilots: sought to aid British fleet, 502-3, 512, 514, 517—18; protection at Lewes, Del., urged, 509 Pinckney, Charles, elected to Congress, xxi Pinkham, Jonathan, 647, 648 Pintard, Lewis: recommended as agent for American prisoners, 51; appointment as commissary of prisoners rejected, 123 Piracy: illegal seizures by American privateers, 7-9, 138, 142, 234—35, 289-90, 366, 498; illegal seizure by Maryland naval vessel, 132, 143, 187-88, 224-25, 385; condemned by Robert Morris, 234; British, 259, 556; see also Privateering Pitts, John, letter to, 278 Platt, Zephaniah, 577 Pleasants, Mr., 57 Pliarne, Penet & Co., 16,57, 136, 177, 178,387,479 Pluckrose, Mr., 118, 431 Pluggy’s Town, Va., proposed attack on, 509-10 Plural officeholding, 251 Pluto, 191 Polly (schooner), 649 Poor, Enoch: promoted, 346, 348, 393; mentioned, 19, 248 Pork: export banned, 13; for Continental Army, 72 Portsmouth, England, dockyard burned, 492-93, 501 Portsmouth, N.H., military supplies arrive at, 513, 516, 518-21, 523, 531, 549 Portugal: Silas Deane proposes privateering against, 155; closes ports to Ameri can shipping, 156; dispute with Spain, 296, 384-85, 391, 395, 463; ignores American independence claim, 512, 514, 516, 522, 693; mentioned, 52 Postlethwayt, Malachy, 554 Post office: delays in service, 90; list of employees requested, 90; service criticized, 128; committee to revise regulations, 312, 338; deputies’ pay increased, 553; expands service, 662 Potomac River, 281 Potter, James, 62 Potts, Jonathan: letter to, 571; & appointed chief physician, northern depart ment, 108; mentioned, 78 Powder: imported, 20-21, 35, 290, 501, 513, 516, 521, 523, 543, 693; magazines established, 79-80; for northern department, 229-30, 330, 383; captured by British, 303; manufacturing, 407, 641, 643; French Creek, Pa., magazine de stroyed, 434; sent to Massachusetts, 519—20; mentioned, 96, 118, 163 Powell, Jeremiah, 203 Power, political, Thomas Burke on, 425-30 Prejent, Cotiney de: privateering ventures, 651; mentioned, 266, 267, 302, 304 Presbyterians: observe Fast Day, 200; prejudice against clergy of, 411, 414 Prices: in Baltimore, 8, 31, 129, 277; lodgings, 90, 143, 210, 228, 399, 442; commissary extravagance, 165; regulation recommended by New England con-


[Page 776]
744 Index vention, 165, 169, 240, 274, 299, 332; board (meals), 184, 202, 241, 399; livery, 184, 194, 202, 210, 241, 254, 430, 442, 643; rum, 210, 241; wine, 210, 241; state regulation debated, 217-18, 274-77, 327; delegate support for regulation of, 228, 273; John Adams against regulation, 229, 276-77, 327, 669; ships, 250, 641, 649; cannon, 264-65, 475; effect of regulation on Con gressional authority, 274-75; effect on importation, 276—77; salt, 276, 544, 649; states urged to confer on regulation, 279, 281-82, 332, 404; beef, 294; fowl, 294; mutton, 294; molasses, 304; freight charges, 338; raisins, 365; European manufacturers, 387; tobacco, 387; wood, 399; failure to regulate tea, 436; success of regulation doubted, 436; cordage, 437; linen, 437, 646; woolens, 437; regulation in Massachusetts, 467-68, 476—77, 542, 669; fish, 494; corn, 529; middle states convention fails to regulate, 561, 609, 642; horses, 576-77; flour, 591; marine insurance, 607-8; in Philadelphia, 616, 643, 658; tobacco regulated by secret committee, 641-42 Princeton, N.J.: American victory at, 26-27, 34-35, 37—38, 44, 61—63, 67—68, 73-76, 106, 376; mentioned, 8, 48, 371 Prisoners, political: treatment of Richard Stockton, 184; William Franklin’s parole violation, 639 Prisoners of war: Gen. Lee captured, 8-9, 22—24, 97; British taken at Trenton, 14, 22, 24, 29-30, 59-73; American seamen released by British, 18; British taken at Princeton, 34, 37-38, 61, 63, 67—68, 73, 75, 94; proposed exchanges, 35, 38-42, 46-47, 52, 71, 74, 76-77, 83, 92, 124-25, 182, 211, 216, 254-55, 294, 331, 333, 440-41, 488, 496, 572-73, 657; British mistreatment, 39-40, 46-47, 71, 96, 109, 123, 152, 163, 298, 488, 572-73; committee on British treatment of, 41; retaliation against British, 46, 49, 71, 74, 78, 211, 327-28, 335, 348, 374, 419, 443, 452, 496; agent for Americans recommended, 51, 70—71, 122-23; British taken in New Jersey, 51, 81, 97, 145, 503; plot among Canadians, 69- 70; supplies for Americans, 70-71; escape, 96, 354; Hessians sent to Virginia, 108; Americans paroled, 117; pay for Americans, 120; Continental and state redemption defined, 124, 441; committee on British cruelty, 133-34; British sent to Maryland, 252; Americans sent money, 268; North Carolina loyalists paroled to Frederick, Md., 396; North Carolina loyalists seek return home, 396; treat ment by Continental navy, 440; barracks for British, 496; New Jersey men peti tion Congress, 515; cartel negotiations, 572-73; North ministry offers Americans to East India Company, 584, 596, 609; mentioned, 25, 85, 126, 671 Privateering: American ships illegally seized, 7-9, 138, 142, 234-35, 289-90, 366, 498; status of prisoners, 25, 124; against Portuguese ships urged, 155-56; re stricted by New Hampshire, 198—99; Martinique’s governor protests British seizures, 259; William Bingham’s ventures, 302-03, 652; preferable to service in Continental Navy, 491; Continental commissions substituted for state com missions, 546; Americans permitted to recruit French seamen, 578-79; embargo in northern states, 581-82; impact on British West Indian merchants, 584, 589, 600, 607-08, 632; Robert Morris’ ventures, 651-52; see also Piracy Prize agents, Washington’s, ordered to settle accounts, 473-74 Prizes: at Egg Harbor, N.J., 11; purchased for Robert Morris, 89; arrive at Baltimore, 111; dispute over William Rogers’ claim, 115-16, 173, 436-37, 594-95; passenger’s goods ordered returned, 153; cargo list, 174; American pro tected by France and Spain, 209; money used to construct Continental ships, 212; share distribution, 233, 371, 437, 472-74, 491; disposition, 292, 626; American captures in West Indies, 636; mentioned, 27, 35, 42, 43, 86, 98, 111, 309, 311, 314, 338, 440, 475, 492, 501, 594, 623, 657, 679, 685 Proctor, Donald J., “John Hancock,” 287 Proctor, Francis, Jr., 363 Profanity, opposed by Samuel Adams, 637 Providence, R.I., New England convention at, 30, 165, 169, 186, 217-18


[Page 777]
Index 745 Providence (Continental frigate), 127, 167, 220, 221, 283, 488, 489, 539, 640 Prowess of the Whig Club (William Goddard), 330 Prussia: American commissioner appointed to, 52; projected alliance with United States, 209; favors trade with United States, 522, 533; credit assessed, 534; mentioned, 236 Purdy, Robert, salvages goods from Success, 586-87, 653 Purviance, Catherine Stewart (Mrs. Samuel), 91, 334 Purviance, Robert: letters to, 155, 312, 331, 392, 585, 623; recommended by Samuel Adams, 186; directed to pay crew of Lexington, 312; ordered to supply shot to Wasp, 331; account with secret committee, 406; instructed by secret committee, 623; mentioned, 28, 48, 237, 334, 390, 398, 445, 507, 523, 540, 546 Purviance, Mrs. Robert, 334, 364, 445 Purviance, Samuel, Jr.: letters to, 28, 110, 126, 127, 155, 312, 392, 585, 623; instructed by secret committee, 28, 623; provides house for John Hancock, 91; instructed by marine committee, 110, 127; recommended by Samuel Adams, 186; directed to pay crew of Lexington, 312; account with secret committee, 406; mentioned, 237, 314, 334, 364, 398, 423, 424, 431, 432, 445, 492, 507, 523, 540, 546 Putnam, Israel: letter to, 648; advises Congress to leave Philadelphia, 8; mili tary ability questioned, 335; fears attack on Philadelphia, 559, 603; mentioned, xxvii, 34, 38, 51, 60, 68, 92, 130, 135, 144, 181, 189 Quakers, 57, 224, 409, 442, 476 Quartermaster general’s department: needs money, 135, 212, 251, 270; sent money, 313; instructed to prepare removal of public stores from Philadelphia, 342-44; reports availability of supplies, 470; Gen. MifUin remains in office, 494; regula tions revised, 637, 688; mentioned, 121 Quibbletown, N.J., skirmish, 270, 584 Quincy, Josiah, History of Harvard University, 287 Quincy, Katherine, 93, 100, 137, 334, 423, 432 Quorum requirements: Massachusetts, 112-13, 175; Congress, 230; New Hamp shire, 249; New York, 595 Quykunk Indians, attend Easton conference, 118-19 Race Horse ( H.M. Sloop, renamed Surprize), 42, 98, 204, 254, 321 Raisins, price, 365 Raleigh (Continental frigate), 128, 317, 578, 624, 681, 683, 684, 690 Rall, Johann Gottlieb, 22, 41, 59, 133 Ran, Parry, 439 Randolph, Mr., 132 Randolph (Continental frigate), 18, 150, 168, 214, 223, 251, 291, 293, 296, 315, 321, 322, 348, 395, 506, 655, 656, 657, 658, 659, 680, 682 Ranger (Continental sloop), 145, 407,492 Rapalje, Garret, 271 Rappahannock River, 281 Rathbun, John Peck: letter to, 640; appointed commander of Providence, 640; instructed by marine committee, 640—41 Rattlesnake (Pennsylvania privateer), 636, 651 Raven (H.M. Sloop), 76 Rawlings, Moses, 268 Rawlyk, George A., Nova Scotia’s Massachusetts, 54 Read, George: letters to, 569, 570; elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi; requested to attend Congress, 569; introduces James Sykes, 570; letter quoted, 570 Read, Gertrude Ross (Mrs. George), 570 Read, Thomas, commands Washington, 570


[Page 779]
Index 747 Roebuck (H.M.S.), 42, 168, 189, 219, 225, 255 Rogers, William: letter to, 248; captured prize disputed, 115-16, 173, 437-38, 595; convoys troops to eastern shore Maryland, 248, 314; instructed by marine committee, 248 Rome, 10, 11 Rope, 337 Rose, Alexander, 86 Ross, Elizabeth, 224, 421 Ross, George: letter from, 147; elected to Congress, xx; attends Congress, xx; criticizes Baltimore, 147; holds admiralty court in Philadelphia, 147; described, 192 Ross, John: letter to, 180; mentioned, 176, 177, 179, 304, 305 Rossie, Jonathan G., Politics of Command, 487 Roussi, Regnier de, 368 Roxburgh, Rev., slain by British, 269-70 Rum: interstate trade, 185, 499; price, 210, 241, 267; mentioned, 303 Rumsey, Benjamin: letters from, 554, 604, 668; -fa elected to Congress, xvii, 379; attends Congress, xvii; letter illustrated, xxvii, 605; urged to attend Congress, 149; leaves Congress, 379; committee on loyalism in Maryland and Delaware, 606 Rumsey, Charles, 354 Rush, Benjamin: letters from, 143, 168, 183, 244, 259, 271, 346; letters to, 294, 310; notes, 217, 252, 274, 323, 339, 378, 557; elected to Congress, xx; at tends Congress, xx; portrait, xxiv, 324; arrives at Baltimore, 143; describes Baltimore, 143, 184; superseded as delegate, 143-44; recommends Ebenezer Finley, 168-69; on New England convention, 218; favors Congress’ return to Philadelphia, 244-45; favors raising loan office interest rates, 245, 259, 346; medical committee, 271-72; debates price regulations, 274-75, 277; debates appointing general officers, 323; debates proposed conference with Gen. Lee, 339—40; against further currency emissions, 346; on representation in Congress, 346; assesses British objectives, 557-58; assesses impact of Declaration of In dependence, 557; assesses Washington’s leadership, 558; on military hygiene, 669-70; mentioned, 296, 351 Rush, Jacob: maintains journals of Congress, 433; mentioned, 7, 22, 40, 41, 83, 98, 107, 109, 118, 121, 123, 127, 131, 140, 141, 142, 143, 159, 160, 164, 165, 227, 350, 352, 366, 368, 431, 450, 453, 487, 496, 497, 538, 559, 610, 651, 655, 674, 675 Rush, Julia Stockton (Mrs. Benjamin), letters to, 143, 183 Russell (Joseph) & Sons, 302, 407 Russell, William, 416 Russia: reportedly provides mercenaries to Britain, 209, 471-72; sending of mercenaries prevented, 463, 535, 550, 644; ignores American independence claim, 512, 514, 516, 522; credit assessed, 534; quarrels with Turkey, 583, 589, 599, 608, 626 Rutledge, Edward: elected to Congress, xxi; mentioned, 387, 389, 546 Rutledge, John: elected to Congress, xxi; issues commissions for privateers, 546 Sachem (Continental sloop), 42, 114, 118, 132, 163, 204, 267, 302, 440, 506 Sackville, Lord George; see Germain, Lord George, 1st viscount Sackville Saffron, Morris H., Surgeon to Washington. Dr. John Cockran, 11 St. Augustine, E. Fla.: proposed raid on, 222; aborted expedition against, 615; mentioned, 55 St. Christopher, W.L; see St. Kitts, W.I. St. Clair, Arthur: letters to, 105, 326, 333, 345, 502, 538, 688; -fr promoted, 333, 345-46; ordered to Ticonderoga, 521, 538, 688; ordered to Philadelphia, 538 St. Domingue; see Hispaniola, W.L


[Page 780]
748 Index St. Eustatius, W.I.: French military supplies funneled through, 291-92, 556; indigo exported to, 440, 506; staves exported to, 613 St. Kitts, W.I., proposed attack on, 221 St. Pierre, Martinique, W.I., 188 Salem, Mass., Committee, instructed by secret committee, 498 Salisbury, Conn.: cannon overpriced, 264; cannon casting, 642 Sally (ship), 454, 458, 465, 466, 641 Salt: imported, 85, 89, 163, 178, 182, 251, 258, 268, 410, 499, 649; price, 276, 544, 649; Toms River workers protected, 311; plentiful, 409; shortage in Phila delphia, 594, 601; mentioned, 170, 173, 188, 437, 438, 595 Salted provisions, exportation banned, 13, 33 Saltonstall, Dudley: letter to, 538; instructed by marine committee, 538—39 Saltpetre, imported from France, 290 Santo Domingo, W.I.; see Hispaniola, W.I. Saratoga, N.Y., 610 Sargent, Paul D., 19 Sargent, Winthrop: letter to, 474; ordered to settle accounts, 474 Sargenton, Mr., 301 Satires (Juvenal), 10, 11 Savage, Mr., 460 Savelie, Max, George Morgan, 510 Saxe, Marshall, 417, 425 Scharf, Thomas, History of Delaware, 548 Scheffer, Franciscus, 335 Schuyler, Philip: letters from, 568, 597, 598, 635, 648, 659, 660, 665, 688; letters to, 107, 226, 351, 383, 460, 652; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix, 569; requests steel and nail rods, 107; requests cannon, 109; sent steel and rods, 125, 152, 383; sent plan for attack on British, 226; sent cannon and powder, 229-30, 273, 383; military ability questioned, 335; seldom praises subordinates, 413; rebuked by Congress, 460-61, 479; criticized by Joseph Trumbull, 461; criticizes Congress, 461; procures Congressional inquiry into his conduct, 487, 569; dispute with Joseph Trumbull, 531; letter quoted, 536; reprimanded by Board of Treasury, 536-37; commands at Philadelphia, 568- 69, 598-99, 632, 634-35; northern command investigated by Congress, 597-98, 617, 630-31, 660; considers resigning from army, 598, 660, 689; conflict with Gen. Gates over northern command, 630-31, 660; sends reinforcements to Washington, 648, 654-55; opposes separate Ticonderoga command, 660; accounts approved, 665; suspected of misusing public money, 665; mentioned, 6, 7, 18, 20, 21, 98, 109, 113, 133, 215, 363, 437, 469, 602 Schweighauser, John David, 32, 178, 304, 305 Scollay, John: letter to, 467; mentioned, 459, 460 Scollay, Mercy: identified, 460; letter to, 458; mentioned, 463 Scott, Charles, 19 Scott, James: identified, 187; letter to, 186; mentioned, 160 Scudder, Nathaniel, 241 Seaflower (brigantine), 641 Seamen: status as prisoners, 71, 124; neglected, 127, 371; prize shares, 233, 371; problems of recruiting for Continental vessels, 259, 312, 322, 472-73, 489, 556-57; Lexington crew paid, 312; impressed, 539-40, 682-83 Secret committee: letters from, 28, 31, 32, 101, 102, 124, 127, 147, 311, 316, 379, 380, 392, 528, 586, 623, 653; letter to, 321; minutes, 571, 606, 613, 641, 649; summary of proceedings, 406; exports masts to France, 28-29, 48; imports military supplies, 28, 31, 101-2, 311; instructs agents, 28, 31, 83-84, 392, 498, 528—29, 623, 649; commercial transactions, 32, 101—2, 606; needs Robert Morris’ assistance, 32, 57, 124; instructs commissioners at Paris, 101-2,


[Page 781]
Index 749 311, 316; appoints commercial agents in Europe, 102, 176; appoints agents to procure clothing, 114-15; requested to report on imports received, 124; re quests books be sent to Baltimore, 124; accounts, 147, 205, 380-81, 406-8, 485, 571-72, 613, 641, 649-50; instructs Robert Morris, 147-48; directs leasing of state vessels, 268; dispenses money, 380-81, 540, 577; requires payment from Messrs. Bayly and Le Croix, 392; purchases arms, 484; requests agents to send accounts, 485; authorized to purchase arms, 496; asks Joseph Hewes to load tobacco, 510-11; asks Caesar Rodney to assist salvage effort, 586-87, 653; limits tobacco purchase price, 641-42; purchases vessels at Cape Francois, 649; mentioned, 43, 97, 111, 155, 162, 179, 181, 203, 252, 337, 353, 354, 378, 440, 585 Sectionalism, in Congress, 57, 208, 236, 298 Sellers, James, signs petition against Esek Hopkins, 487 Sergeant, Jonathan, 411, 455 Sergeant, Jonathan Dickinson: letters from, 223, 515; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii, 223; marine committee, 223, 546; health, 224; house destroyed, 224; obtains leave of absence from Congress, 224; considers resigning from Congress, 240, 441; proposes motion criticizing Washington, 241; debates interest rates, 252; debates price regulation, 275; absent from Con gress, 441; mentioned, 143, 183, 250, 296 Servants: allowed to enlist in Maryland, 570; compensation for masters of rejected, 581 Sewall, Jonathan, “Philanthrop” pseudonym, 356 Shaeffer, John N., “Comparison of the First Constitutions of Vermont and Penn sylvania,” 551 Shaw, Nathaniel, Jr.: letter to, 138; mentioned, 83 Shaw, Samuel, signs petition against Esek Hopkins, 487 Sheep, in Maryland, 194 Sheftall, Levi, 649 Sheldon, Elisha, 635 Shenango Indians, attend Easton conference, 118—19 Sherman, Roger: letters from, 144, 169, 403, 468, 474, 521, 529, 560, 606, 642, 689; elected to Congress, xv; attends Congress, xv, 34; arrives in Baltimore, 15; board of war, 144; seniority in Congress, 306; debates return to Phila delphia, 368; against state emission of interest bearing bills, 404; favors state taxation, 404-5; requests instructions on medical department reorganization, 405; committee on ways and means, 406; described by John Adams, 448; Philadelphia lodgings, 448, 617; health, 468; explains Congress’ request for Connecticut cannon, 475; criticizes Joseph Trumbull, 529-30; asks Joseph Trumbull’s advice on provisioning, 530; committee to confer with William Buchanan on provisioning, 530-31; on loyalists, 560-61; urges Connecticut to send additional delegates, 607, 642; recommends repeal of Connecticut price regulation, 609; mentioned, 25, 106 Shipbuilding: tradesmen needed at Philadelphia, 42; in Maryland, 110, 127; in New Hampshire, 128, 462, 690; in Connecticut, 139, 154, 434-35, 447, 535, 650; in Virginia, 139; in Pennsylvania, 506 Shippen, Capt., killed at Princeton, 37 Shippen, Thomas Lee, 10 Shippen, William, Jr.: letter to, 10; charges against John Morgan, 10-11; letter quoted, 10-11; plan for hospitals, 10-11; appointed director of medical department, 11; asked to send agent to American prisoners, 163; purchases medicine, 410, 470; mentioned, xxv, 422 Ships, price, 250, 641, 649 Silesia, 153 Simpson, Solomon, 647
