Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 1, August 1774 to August 1775
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_01/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 7]
Foreword Well before the signing on July 4, 1966, of Public Law 89-^91, establishing a national American Revolution Bicentennial Commis sion, the Library of Congress began considering how it could contrib ute to the celebration of the Bicentennial of the American Revolu tion. In 1968 Congress approved the Library’s general plan and subsequently authorized the addition to the Library’s staff of several historians, all specialists in early American history. The Library took as the theme for its Bicentennial program “Liberty and Learning” from James Madison, who asked: “What spectacle can be more edify ing or more seasonable, than that of Liberty & Learning, each lean ing on the other for their mutual and surest support.” Reflecting the Library’s unparalleled resources for the study of the revolutionary era, its Bicentennial program ranges widely, from the presentation of symposia to the publication of facsimiles and the texts of rare or unique material to the recording of American folk music and the compilation of bibliographies and guides. In preparing one of those guides. Manuscript Sources in the Li brary of Congress for Research on the American Revolution (Wash ington: Library of Congress, 1975), the staff of the Bicentennial Of fice discovered large numbers of letters, written by members of the Continental Congresses, which had not been published in Edmund C. Burnett’s magisterial 8-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continental Congress (Washington: Carnegie Institution, 1921- 36). Initially, it appeared that these letters might be published as a supplement to Burnett’s work, but as additional unpublished let ters of Congressmen turned up and as a cursory survey of other reposi tories suggested that even more unpublished letters were available, the Library decided that a new, expanded edition would be a valu able and appropriate Bicentennial project. As the editors of the present work grew to appreciate the magni tude of the task they had undertaken, their admiration for Burnett increased. It is not enough to say that his edition provided the inspi ration for their efforts. His research and annotations have stood the test of time and provide the foundation for much of the research which will appear in these volumes. Specialists will sense the editors’ dependence on Burnett’s pathfinding work, but perhaps few, other than the editors, can fully appreciate the dimensions of his achieve ment. The present edition has benefited immensely from the generous co operation of the editors of several other documentary publications


[Page 17]
Guide to Editorial Apparatus xiii DNA De-Ar DeHi ICHi InU M-Ar MH MHi MWA MdBJ-G MdHi MeHi MiU-C N NHi NHpR NN NNPM Nc-Ar NcD NcU NcWsM Nh-Ar NhD NjHi NjMoHP OCIWHi OMC PBMCA PHC PHi PPAmP PPL PPRF PWbH R-Ar RHi ScC National Archives Delaware Public Archives Commission, Dover Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington Chicago Historical Society Indiana University, Bloomington Massachusetts Archives, Boston Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass. John Work Garrett Library, Johns Hopkins Univer sity, Baltimore, Md. Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore Maine Historical Society, Portland, Maine William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor New York State Library, Albany New-York Historical Society, New York Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, N.Y. New York Public Library, New York Pierpont Morgan Library, New York, N.Y. North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh Duke University, Durham, N.C. University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill Moravian Archives, Winston-Salem, N.C. New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, Concord Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. New Jersey Historical Society, Newark Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown, NJ- ... . Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland, Ohio Marietta College, Marietta, Ohio Moravian Church Northern Province Archives, Beth lehem, Pa. Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia Library Company of Philadelphia Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia Wyoming Historical and Geological Society, Wilkes- Barre, Pa. Rhode Island State Archives, Providence Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence Charleston Library Society, Charleston, S.C.


[Page 18]
xiv Guide to Editorial Apparatus ScHi South Carolina Historical Society, Charleston ViHi Virginia Historical Society, Richmond ViMtvL Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association, Mount Vernon, Va. ViU University of Virginia, Charlottesville ViW College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va. ABBREVIATIONS AND SHORT TITLES Abbreviations and short titles frequently cited in the present vol ume are identified below. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) Adams, John. Diary and Autobiography of John Adams. Edited by Lyman H. Butterfield et al. 4 vols. Cambridge: Harvard Univer sity Press, Belknap Press, 1961. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) Butterfield, Lyman H. et al„ eds. Adams Family Correspondence. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1963- Adams, Works (Adams) Adams, John. The Works of John Adams, Second President of the United States. . . . Edited by Charles Francis Adams. 10 vols. Bos ton: Charles C. Little and James Brown, 1850-56. Adams, Writings (Cushing) Adams, Samuel. The Writings of Samuel Adams. Edited by Harry A. Cushing. 4 vols. Boston: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-8. T.R. Adams, American Independence Adams, Thomas R. American Independence: The Growth of an Idea. Providence: Brown University Press, 1965. Am. Archives Force, Peter, ed. American Archives: Consisting of a Collection of Authentick Records, State Papers, Debates, and Letters and Other Notices of Publick Affairs. 4th series. 6 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1837-53. Austin, Life of Gerry Austin, James T. The Life of Elbridge Gerry, with Contemporary Letters to the Close of the American Revolution. 2 vols. Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1828-29. Bio. Dir. Cong. U.S. Congress. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1971. Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C., ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Congress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36. CHS Bulletin Connecticut Historical Society Bulletin.


[Page 28]
1774 September 5 September 17 September 27 September 28 September 30 October 1 October 14 October 18 October 21 October 22 October 26 1775 May 10 May 17 Chronology of Congress September 1774 to August 1775 Congress convenes at Carpenters’ Hall; elects Peyton Randolph president, Charles Thomson secretary. Endorses Suffolk Resolves from Massachusetts. Adopts nonimportation agreement, to begin Decem ber 1. Orders Joseph Galloway’s plan of union to lie on the table. Resolves to halt exports to Great Britain, Ireland, and the West Indies effective September 10, 1775. Resolves to prepare an address to the king. Adopts declaration of grievances and rights. Approves the Association. Approves an address to the people of Great Britain and one to the inhabitants of the colonies. Agrees to reconvene on May 10, 1775, “unless the redress of grievances, which we have desired, be obtained before that time.” Elects Henry Middleton president. Approves an address to the king and a letter to Quebec. Congress dissolves itself. Second Continental Congress convenes at Penn sylvania State House; reelects President Peyton Randolph and Secretary Charles Thomson. Resolves to ban exports to British colonies failing to join the Association. xxiv


[Page 29]
Chronology of Congress xxv May 18 Receives news of the capture of Ticonderoga and Crown Point. May 24 Elects John Hancock president. May 26 Resolves to send a second petition to the king and to put “these colonies . . . into a state of defence.” June 1 Resolves against an “expedition or incursion” into Canada. June 2 Receives Massachusetts proposal to take up civil government. June 7 Resolves to observe July 20 as a Fast Day. June 9 Endorses assumption of civil authority in Massa chusetts by the provincial convention. June 10 Resolves to organize a Continental Army. June 15 Appoints George Washington commander in chief of the army. June 22 Resolves to emit $2 million in Continental currency. June 27 Approves invasion of Canada. July 5 Approves petition to the king. July 6 Approves “Declaration on Taking Arms.” July 8 Approves address to inhabitants of Great Britain. July 12 Organizes three departments for Indian affairs. July 21 Ignores Benjamin Franklin’s proposed Articles of Confederation. July 27 Resolves to establish a system of military hospitals. July 31 Adopts response to Lord North’s Conciliatory Reso lution. August 2 Adjourns to September 5. 579-852 0 - 77 - 2 Vol.l


[Page 30]
List of Delegates to Congress This section lists both the dates on which delegates were elected to terms falling within the period covered by this volume and the inclu sive dates of their attendance. The former are generally ascertainable from contemporary state records, but the latter are often elusive bits of information derived from the journals of Congress or extrapolated from references contained in the delegates’ correspondence, and in such cases the “facts” are inevitably conjectural. It is not possible to determine interruptions in the attendance of many delegates, and no attempt has been made to record intermittent service caused by illness or brief trips home, especially of delegates from New Jersey, Dela ware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania living within easy access of Phila delphia. For occasional references to such periods of intermittent serv ice as survive in the correspondence and notes of various delegates, see the index under individual delegates. Until fuller information is pro vided in a consolidated summary of delegate attendance in the final volume of this series, the reader is advised to consult Burnett, Letters, l:xli-lxvi, for additional information on conjectural dates of attend ance. Brief biographical sketches of all the delegates are available in the Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971, and fuller sketches of more than half of the delegates can be found in the Dictionary of American Biography. CONNECTICUT Silas Deane Elected: July 13, November 3,1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 Eliphalet Dyer Elected: July 13, November 3,1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 Titus Hosmer Elected: November 3, 1774 Did not attend William Samuel Johnson Elected: July 13, 1774 Declined Richard Law Elected: July 13, 1774 Declined Roger Sherman Elected: August 2? 1774 xxvi


[Page 31]
List of Delegates to Congress xxvii Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 Jonathan Sturges Elected: November 3, 1774 Did not attend Joseph Trumbull Elected: August 2? 1774 Did not attend Erastus Wolcott Elected: July 13, 1774 Declined DELAWARE Thomas McKean Elected: August 2, 1774; March 16, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 George Read Elected: August 2, 1774; March 16, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2? 1775 Caesar Rodney Elected: August 2, 1774; March 16, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 GEORGIA Lyman Hall Elected: (by the Parish of St. John’s) March 21, 1775 Attended: May 13 to August 2, 1775 MARYLAND Samuel Chase Elected: June 22-25, December 8-12, 1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to July 23, 1775 Robert Goldsborough Elected: June 22-25, December 8-12, 1774 Attended: September 5 to , 1774; May 15 to June —, 1775 John Hall Elected: December 8-12, 1774 Attended: May 10 to June—, 1775 Thomas Johnson Elected: June 22-25, December 8-12, 1774 Attended: September 6 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to July 23, 1775


[Page 34]
XXX List of Delegates to Congress Francis Lewis Elected: April 22, 1775 Attended: May 10 to August 2, 1775 Philip Livingston Elected: July 28, 1774; April 22, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 Robert R. Livingston, Jr. Elected: April 22, 1775 Attended: May 15 to July 8? 1775 Isaac Low Elected: July 28, 1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774 Lewis Morris Elected: April 22, 1775 Attended: May 15 to August 2, 1775 Philip Schuyler Elected: April 22, 1775 Attended: May 15 to June 19? 1775 Henry Wisner Elected: August 16, 1774; April 22, 1775 Attended: September 14 to October 26, 1774; May 15 to July 18? 1775 NORTH CAROLINA Richard Caswell Elected: August 27, 1774; April 5, 1775 Attended: September 17 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to June 28? 1775 Joseph Hewes Elected: August 27, 1774; April 5, 1775 Attended: September 14 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to July —, 1775 William Hooper Elected: August 27, 1774; April 5, 1775 Attended: September 14 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 PENNSYLVANIA Edward Biddle Elected: July 22, December 15, 1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to July —, 1775 John Dickinson Elected: October 15, December 15, 1774 Attended: October 17 to 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775


[Page 35]
List of Delegates to Congress xxxi Benjamin Franklin Elected: May 6, 1775 Attended: May 10 to August 2, 1775 Joseph Galloway Elected: July 22, December 15, 1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; resignation accepted May 12,1775 Charles Humphreys Elected: July 22, December 15, 1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2? 1775 Thomas Mifflin Elected: July 22, December 15, 1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to June 20? 1775 John Morton Elected: July 22, December 15, 1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to July 11, 1775 Samuel Rhoads Elected: July 22, 1774 Attended: September 5 to , 1774 George Ross Elected: July 22, December 15, 1774 Attended: September 14 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2? 1775 Thomas Willing Elected: May 6, 1775 Attended: May 10 to August 2? 1775 James Wilson Elected: May 6, 1775 Attended: May 15 to August 2, 1775 RHODE ISLAND Stephen Hopkins Elected: June 15, December 9, 1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 18 to August 2, 1775 Samuel Ward Elected: June 15, December 9, 1774 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 15 to August 2, 1775 SOUTH CAROLINA Christopher Gadsden Elected: July 6-8, 1774; January 11-17, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775


[Page 36]
xxxii List of Delegates to Congress Thomas Lynch Elected: July 6-8, 1774; January 11-17, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 Henry Middleton Elected: July 6-8, 1774; January 11-17, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 Edward Rutledge Elected: July 6-8, 1774; January 11-17, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 John Rutledge Elected: July 6-8, 1774; January 11-17, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 VIRGINIA Richard Bland Elected: August 5, 1774; March 25, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 24, 1774; May 10 to 23, 1775 Benjamin Harrison Elected: August 5, 1774; March 25, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 24, 1774; May 10 to July 29, 1775 Patrick Henry Elected: August 5, 1774; March 25, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 24? 1774; May 18 to July 29, 1775 Thomas Jefferson Elected: March 27, 1775 Attended: June 21 to July 31, 1775 Richard Henry Lee Elected: August 5, 1774; March 25, 1775 Attended: September 6 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to August 2, 1775 Edmund Pendleton Elected: August 5, 1774; March 25, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 24? 1774; May 10 to July 22, 1775 Peyton Randolph Elected: August 5, 1774; March 25, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 24, 1774; May 10 to 23, 1775 George Washington Elected: August 5, 1774; March 25, 1775 Attended: September 5 to October 26, 1774; May 10 to June 16? 1775


[Page 38]
xxxiv Illustrations Philadelphia by Pierre Eugene Du Simiti&re, probably in 1779. The authorized engravings of Du Simiti£re’s set of 13 profiles were done by Benoit Louis Prdvost, whose prints were pirated by the British. Engraving by “B.B.E.” in Portraits of the Generals, Ministers, Mag istrates, Members of Congress, and Others, Who Have Rendered Themselves Illustrious in the Revolution of the United States of North America (London: R. Wilkinson, 1783). Samuel Adams 73 Samuel Adams was widely regarded as one of the chief architects of American resistance to British authority, a view reflected in General Gage’s proclamation of June 12, 1775, exempting Adams from the offer of pardon extended to Americans in rebellion, and supported by the evidence of his extensive correspondence with Massachusetts offi cials while he was in Philadelphia. Painting by John Singleton Copley, 1770-72. Courtesy, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Secretary Thomson’s Journal of Congress 114-15 Charles Thomson’s entry in the manuscript journal of Congress for Wednesday and Thursday, September 28-29, 1774, is one of the few contemporary documents bearing upon the treatment accorded Jo seph Galloway's Plan of Union when it was introduced and debated on September 28. The deleted passage—reading “Wednesday. Here in sert Mr. Galloway’s motion 8c plan”—was clearly inserted sometime after September 30, probably as a copyist’s instruction, and was never an integral part of the minutes of the proceedings. The belief that Congress subsequently took punitive action to delete an entry per taining to Galloway’s plan—“so that no vestige of it might appear there,” as Galloway later claimed—proceeds from a misunderstanding about the nature of Thomson’s original entry and the manner in which he maintained his manuscript journal. (See pp. 112-17.) From the Papers of the Continental Congress, National Archives and Records Service. John Dickinson’s Draft Heads of Grievances and Rights 195 Page 5 from a draft of the document known as the Declaration of Rights and Grievances that was adopted on October 14, 1774. Once thought to be “the first draft of the sub-committee’s report on viola tions of rights” and printed as John Sullivan’s draft declaration in JCC, 1:63-71, this manuscript is in the hand of John Dickinson. The fact that Dickinson was not elected to Congress until October 15 only


[Page 39]
Illustrations xxxv deepens the mystery surrounding his role in the composition of this important state document. (See pp. 193-94.) From the Adams Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society. John Dickinson’s Draft Memorial to the Inhabitants 218-19 of the Colonies Pages 4 and 8 of a draft of the Memorial to the Inhabitants of the Colonies, in the hand of John Dickinson. Although Richard Henry Lee has traditionally been considered the author of this memorial, the extensive revisions, interlined passages, and marginalia contained in this manuscript leave no doubt as to Dickinson’s authorship. (See pp. 217-21.) From the R. R. Logan Collection, Historical Society of Pennsyl vania. Samuel Ward 272 Ward, who had served three terms as governor of Rhode Island before being elected a delegate to the Congress, was esteemed by his colleagues as “an honourable, a conscientious, a benevolent and in flexible Patriot.” He remains of special interest to the student of the early history of Congress because of his diary and extensive corre spondence. These papers span the year and a half from the convening of the First Congress in September 1774 to his death from smallpox in Philadelphia in March 1776. Photograph courtesy of the Rhode Island Historical Society. Thomas Johnson 274 Johnson, whose political friends represented a broad segment of leaders both inside and outside Maryland, worked actively to main tain communications among delegates during the period between the First and Second Congresses. When a Continental Army was created in June 1775, he placed the name of his friend Washington in nomi nation for the position of commander in chief. Johnson’s election in February 1777 as the state of Maryland’s first governor under the new constitution that replaced proprietary government subsequently demonstrated the strength of his influence and appeal. Etching by Albert Rosenthal (Philadelphia, 1890). Probably based on a Charles Willson Peale painting (1772), now in a private collec tion, of Johnson with his family. Lyman Hall 329 Dr. Lyman Hall appeared before Congress on May 13, 1775, and was admitted as a nonvoting delegate “from the parish of St. John’s,


[Page 40]
XXXVI Illustrations in the colony of Georgia,” although Georgia was not officially repre sented until a full delegation arrived in Philadelphia that September. Wood engraving in William Hunt, American Biographical Pano rama (Albany: Printed by J. Munsell, 1849). John Dickinson 389 Dickinson, the Pennsylvania Farmer, widely celebrated for his learning and the power of his pen, played a dominant role during the closing days of the First Continental Congress but gradually lost in fluence in 1775 as he became increasingly identified as an advocate of moderate measures and reconciliation with Britain. Engraving by B. L. Prevost, 1781, based on a drawing by Pierre Eugene Du Simiti&re. James Duane 393 New York delegate James Duane was a leading conservative spokes man for conciliatory measures. The notes he kept on several key de bates have survived to provide important information, unavailable in other documents, on a number of significant developments in Con gress. Painting by John Trumbull, 1805. Courtesy of the Art Commission, City of New York. John Sullivan 538 Four delegates—Thomas Mifflin, Philip Schuyler, John Sullivan, and George Washington—immediately accepted military commissions upon the creation of the Continental Army in June 1775. Sullivan left Philadelphia on June 27 for the American camp in Massachu setts, and John Langdon thus became New Hampshire’s sole repre sentative in Congress until the arrival of Josiah Bartlett in Septem ber. Sullivan later returned to Congress to serve another term in 1780-81. Engraving in Christoph Heinrich Korn, Geschichte der Kriege in und ausser Europa (Nurnberg: G. N. Raspe, 1776-84), based on an engraving by C. Corbutt, London. Joseph Hewes 577 A North Carolina merchant and political moderate, Hewes long hoped for a reconciliation between Britain and the colonies. He fre quently used his position in Philadelphia to promote internal unity among North Carolinians, who because of their comparative remote ness from the chief scenes of the war were thought to be poorly in-


[Page 45]
John Adams’ Diary [August 29-September 5, 1774] 1774 Aug. 29. Monday rode to Trenton upon Delaware River, to break fast. At Williams’s the Tavern at Trenton Ferry, We saw four very large black Walnut Trees standing in a Row behind the House. 1 It seems that these Trees are plenty in these Southern Provinces—all the black Walnut Timber which is used by our Cabinet Makers in Boston is brought from the Southern Provinces. This Town of Trenton is a pretty Village—it appears to be the largest Town that we have seen in the Jerseys, larger than Elizabeth Town, Brunswick or Prince town. We then crossed the Ferry over Delaware River to the Province of Pensylvania. We then rode across an Elbow, and came to the Dela ware again—a beautifull River navigable up as far as Trenton. The Country on each Side is very level. We arrived at Bristol about Eleven O Clock, a Village on the Del aware, opposite to which is Burlington. The Scenes of Nature are de lightfull here. This is 20 Miles from Philadelphia. Here We saw two or 3 Passage Waggons—a Vehicle with four Wheels contrived to car ry many Passengers and much Baggage. We then rode to the red Lion and dined. After Dinner We stopped at Frankfort [Frankford] about five Miles out of Town. A Number of Carriages and Gentlemen came out of Phyladelphia to meet us. Mr. Thomas Mifflin, Mr. McKean of the Lower Counties, one of their Delegates, Mr. Rutledge of Carolina, and a Number of Gentle men from Philadelphia. Mr. Folsom and Mr. Sullivan, the N. Hamp shire Delegates. We were introduced to all these Gentlemen and most cordially wellcomed to Philadelphia. We then rode into Town, and dirty, dusty, and fatigued as we were, we could not resist the Impor tunity, to go to the Tavern, the most genteel one in America. There we were introduced to a Number of other Gentlemen of the City— Dr. Shippen, Dr. Knox, Mr. Smith, and a Multitude of others, and to Mr. Linch and Mr. Gadsden of S. Carolina. Here we had a fresh Welcome to the City of Philadelphia, and after some Time spent in Conversation a curtain was drawn, and in the other Half of the Chamber a Supper appeared as elegant as ever was laid upon a Ta ble. About Eleven o Clock we retired. By a Computation made this Evening by Mr. McKean, there will be at the Congress about 56 Members, twenty two of them Law yers. Mr. McKean gave me an Account this Evening of the Behav iour of Ruggles at the former Congress 1765. He was treated pretty cavalierly, his Behaviour was very dishonourable. A Gentleman 2 who returned into Town with Mr. Paine and me in our Coach, undertook to caution us against two Gentlemen particu- 3 579-852 0 - 77 - 3 Vol. 1


[Page 46]
4 August 29, 1774 larly. One was Dr. Smith the Provost of the Coiledge, who is looking up to Government for an American Episcopate and a Pair of lawn Sleeves. Soft, polite, insinuating, adulating, sensible, learned, indus trious, indefatigable, he has had Art enough and Refinement upon Art to make Impressions even on Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Reed. 1774. Aug. 30. Tuesday. Walked a little about Town. Visited the Markett, the State house, the Carpenters Hall where the Congress is to Sit, 3 &c.—then call’d at Mr. Mifflins—a grand, spacious, and ele gant House. Here We had much Conversation with Mr. Charles Thompson [Thomson], who is it seems about marrying a Lady a Relation of Mr. Dickensons with 5000£. st[erling]. This Charles Thompson is the Sam. Adams of Phyladelphia—the Life of the Cause of Liberty, they say. A Friend Collins came to see us and invited us to dine on Thurs day. We returned to our Lodgings and Mr. Lynch, Mr. Gadsden, Mr. Middleton, and young Mr. Rutledge came to visit us. Mr. Linch in troduced Mr. Middleton to us. Mr. Middleton was silent and re served, young Rutledge was high enough. A Promise of the King was mentioned. He started, “I should have no Regard to his Word. His Promises are not worth any Thing,” fee. This is a young, smart, spir ited Body. Mr. Blair came to visit us, with another Gentleman. Mr. Smith, an old Gentleman, was introduced to us, by his Son. Another Mr. Smith came in with our Mr. Paine. The Regularity and Elegance of this City are very striking. It is situated upon a Neck of Land, about two Miles wide between the River De la ware and the River Schuilkill. The Streets are all exactly straight and parrallell to the River. Front Street is near the River, then 2 street, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, Sth, 9th. The cross Streets which intersect these are all equally wide, straight and parallell to each oth er, and are named from forrest and fruit Trees, Pear Street, Apple Street, Walnut street, Chestnut Street, fee. Towards the Evening, Mr. Thomas Smith, son of the old Gentle man who made us a Visit who is a Brother of Mr. Smith the Minister of Casco Bay, and Dr. Shippen and his Brother and Mr. Reed, went with Us to the Hospital. We saw, in the lower Rooms under Ground, the Cells of the Lunaticks, a Number of them, some furious, some merry, some Melancholly, and among the rest John Ingham, whom I once saved at Taunton Court from being whipped and sold for Horse stealing. We then went into the Sick Rooms which are very long, large Walks with rows of Beds on each side, and the lame and sick upon them—a dreadfull Scene of human Wretchedness. The Weak ness and Languor, the Distress and Misery, of these Objects is truely a Woefull Sight.


[Page 47]
August 29, 1774 5 Dr. Shippen then carried Us into his Chamber where he shewed Us a Series of Anatomical Paintings of exquisite Art. Here was a great Variety of Views of the human Body, whole, and in Parts. The Dr. entertained us with a very clear, concise and comprehensive Lec ture upon all the Parts of the human Frame. This Entertainment charmed me. He first shewed us a Set of Paintings of Bodies entire and alive—then of others with the Skin taken off, then with the first Coat of Muscles taken off, then with the second, then with all—the bare bones. Then he shewed Us paintings of the Insides of a Man, seen before, all the Muscles of the Belly being taken off. The Heart, Lungs, Stomach, Gutts. 1774 Aug. 31. Wednesday. Breakfasted at Mr. Bayards of Phila delphia, with Mr. Sprout a presbyterian Minister. Made a Visit to Governor Ward of Rhode Island at his Lodgings. There We were introduced to several Gentlemen. Mr. Dickenson, the Farmer of Pensylvania, came to Mr. Wards Lodgings to see us, in his Coach and four beautifull Horses. He was introduced to Us, and very politely said he was exceedingly glad to have the Pleasure of seeing these Gentlemen, made some Enquiry after the Health of his Brother and Sister, who are now in Boston. Gave us some Account of his late ill Health and his present Gout. This was the first Time of his getting out. Mr. Dickenson has been Subject to Hectic Complaints. He is a Shadow—tall, but slender as a Reed—pale as ashes. One would think at first Sight that he could not live a Month. Yet upon a more attentive Inspection, he looks as if the Springs of Life were strong enough to last many Years. We dined with Mr. Lynch, his Lady and Daughter at their Lodg ings, Mrs. McKenzies. And a very agreable Dinner and Afternoon we had notwithstanding the violent Heat. We were all vastly pleased with Mr. Lynch. He is a solid, firm, judicious Man. He told us that Coll. Washington made the most eloquent Speech at the Virginia Convention that ever was made. Says he, “I will raise 1000 Men, subsist them at my own Expence and march my self at their Head for the Relief of Boston.” 4 He entertained us with the Scandalous History of Sir Egerton Leigh—the Story of his Wifes Sister, and of his Dodging his Uncle, the Story the Girl swore to before the Lord Mayor, and all that. There is not says Lynch a greater Rascall among all the Kings Friends. He has great Merit, in this Reign. Mr. Lynch says they shall export this Year 12,000 Wt. of Indigo and 150,000 Tierces of Rice from S. Carolina. About 300 Ships are employed. Mrs. Lynch enquired kindly after Mrs. Adams’s Health, and Mrs. Smith and family and Mr. Boylstone And Mrs. and Mr. Gill &c.


[Page 48]
6 August 29, 1774 1774 Septr. 1. Thursday. This Day, We breakfasted at Mr. Mif flins, Mr. C. Thompson came in, and soon after Dr. Smith. The fa mous Dr. Smith, the Provost of the Coiledge. He appears a plain Man—tall, and rather Aukward—there is an Appearance of Art. We then went to return Visits to the Gentlemen who had visited us. We visited a Mr. Cadwallader a Gentleman of large Fortune, a grand and elegant House And Furniture. We then visited Mr. Pow ell, another splendid Seat. We then visited the Gentlemen from S. Carolina and about twelve were introduced to Mr. Galloway, the Speaker of the House in Pensylvania. He looks like Ben. Davis the Sandimanian. We dined at Friend Collins’s—Stephen Collins’s—with Govr. Hopkins, Govr. Ward, Mr. Galloway, Mr. Rhoades, &c. In the Evening all the Gentlemen of the Congress who were ar rived in Town, met at Smiths the new City Tavern and spent the Evening together. 25 Members were come. Virginia, N. Carolina, Maryland, and the City of N. York were not arrived. Mr. William Livingston from the Jerseys, lately of New York, was there. He is a plain Man, tall, black, wears his Hair—nothing elegant or genteel about him. They say he is no public Speaker, but very sen sible, and learned, and a ready Writer. Mr. Rutledge the Elder, was there, but his Appearance is not very promising. There is no Keenness in his Eye. No Depth in his Counte nance. Nothing of the profound, sagacious, brilliant, or sparkling in his first Appearance. Yesterday We removed our Lodgings to the House of Miss Jane Port, in Arch Street, about half Way between Front Street and Sec ond Street. I find that there is a Tribe of People here, exactly like the Tribe in the Massachusetts, of Hutchinsonian Addressers. There is indeed a Sett in every Colony. We have seen the Revolutions of their Senti ments. Their Opinions have undergone as many Changes as the Moon. At the Time of the Stamp Act, and just before it, they pro fessed to be against the Parliamentary Claim of Right to tax Ameri cans, to be Friends to our Constitutions, our Charter &c. Bernard was privately, secretly endeavouring to procure an Alteration of our Charter. But he concealed his Designs untill his Letters were detect ed. Hutchinson professed to be a stanch Friend to Liberty, and to our Charter, untill his Letters were detected—a great Number of good People thought him a good Man, and a Sincere Friend to the Congregational Interest in Religion and to our Charter Priviledges. They went on with this machiavilian Dissimulation, untill those Let ters were detected—after that they waited untill the Boston Port Bill was passed, and then, thinking the People must submit immediately and that Lord North would carry his whole System triumphantly,


[Page 49]
August 29, 1774 7 they threw off the Mask. Dr. Smith, Mr. Galloway, Mr. Vaughan and others in this Town, are now just where the Hutchinsonian Fac tion were in the Year 1764 [1765], when We were endeavouring to obtain a Repeal of the Stamp Act. 1774. Fryday. Septr. 2. Dined at Mr. Thom. Mifflins with Mr. Lynch, Mr. Middleton, and the two Rutledges with their Ladies. The two Rutledges are good Lawyers. Govr. Hopkins and Govr. Ward were in Company. Mr. Lynch gave us a Sentiment “The brave Dantzickers, who declare they will be free in the face of the greatest Monarch in Europe.” We were very sociable, and happy. After Coffee We went to the Tavern, where we were introduced to Peyton Randolph Esqr., Speaker of Virginia, Coll. Harrison, Richard Henry Lee Esq., and Coll. Bland. Randolph is a large, well looking Man. Lee is a tall, spare Man. Bland is a learned, bookish Man. These Gentlemen from Virginia appear to be the most spirited and consistent, of any. Harrison said he would have come on foot rather than not come. Bland said he would have gone, upon this Occasion, if it had been to Jericho. 1774. Saturday. Septr. 3. Breakfasted at Dr. Shippens. Dr. With erspoon was there. Coll. R. H. Lee lodges there. He is a masterly Man. This Mr. Lee is a Brother of the Sherriff of London, 8 and of Dr. Arthur Lee, and of Mrs. Shippen. They are all sensible, and deep thinkers. Lee is for making the Repeal of every Revenue Law, the Boston Port Bill, the Bill for altering the Massachusetts Constitution, and the Quebec Bill, and the Removal of all the Troops, the End of the Con gress, and an Abstinence from all Dutied Articles the Means—Rum, Mollosses, Sugar, Tea, Wine, Fruits, &c. He is absolutely certain, that the same Ship which carries home the Resolution will bring back the Redress. If we were to suppose that any Time would intervene, he should be for Exceptions. He thinks We should inform his Majesty, that We never can be happy, while the Lords Bute, Mansfield and North are his Confidents and Councillors. He took his Pen and attempted a Calculation of the Numbers of People represented by the Congress which he made about 2200000, and of the Revenue now actually raised which he made 80,000£ st. He would not allow Ld. North to have great Abilities. He had seen no symptoms of them. His whole Administration had been blunder. He said the Opposition had been so feeble and incompetent hith erto that it was Time to make vigorous Exertions. Mrs. Shippen is a religious and a reasoning Lady. She said she had often thought, that the People of Boston could not have behaved through their Tryals, with so much Prudence and firmness at the


[Page 51]
August 29, 1774 9 —thin and slender as a Reed—pale—his Face is not bigger than a large Apple. Yet there is Sense and Fire, Spirit, Wit and Humour in his Countenance. He made himself very merry with Ruggles and his pretended Scru ples and Timidities, at the last Congress. Mr. Reed told us, at dinner, that he never saw greater Joy, than he saw in London when the News arrived that the Nonimportation agreement was broke. They were universally shaking Hands and Congratulating each other. He says that George Haley is the worst Enemy to America that he knew there—swore to him that he would stand by Government in all its Measures, and was allways censuring and cursing America. 1774. Septr. 4. Sunday. Went to the Presbyterian Meeting and heard Mr. Sprout in the forenoon. He uses no Notes—dont appear to have any. Opens his Bible and talks away. Not a very numerous, nor very polite Assembly. Dined at our Lodgings at Mrs. Yards, with Major De boor a French Gentleman, a Soldier, Mr. Webb, and another. Went in the Afternoon to Christ Church, and heard Mr. Coombs. This is a more noble Building, and a genteeler Congregation. The Organ and a new Choir of Singers, were very musical. Mr. Coombs is celebrated here as a fine Speaker. He is sprightly, has a great deal of Action, speaks distinctly. But I confess, I am not charmed with his oratory. His Style was indifferent, his Method, confused. In one Word, his Composition was vastly inferiour to the ordinary Sermons of our How, Hunt, Chauncy, Cooper, Elliot, and even Stillman. Mr. Mifflin spent the Sunday Evening with Us, at our Lodgings. 1774. Septr. 5. Monday. At Ten, The Delegates all met at the City Tavern, 6 and walked to the Carpenters Hall, where they took a View of the Room, and of the Chamber where is an excellent Library. There is also a long Entry, where Gentlemen may walk, and a con venient Chamber opposite to the Library. The General Cry was, that this was a good Room, and the Question was put, whether We were satisfyed with this Room, and it passed in the Affirmative. A very few were for the Negative and they were chiefly from Pensylvania and New York. 7 Then Mr. Lynch arose, and said there was a Gentleman present who had presided with great Dignity over a very respectable Society, greatly to the Advantage of America, and he therefore proposed that the Hon. Peytoun Randolph Esqr., one of the Delegates from Virgin ia, and the late Speaker of their House of Burgesses, should be ap pointed Chairman and he doubted not it would be unanimous. The Question was put and he was unanimously chosen. Mr. Randolph then took the Chair, and the Commissions of the Delegates were all produced and read.


[Page 52]
10 August 29, 1774 Then Mr. Lynch proposed that Mr. Charles Thompson a Gentle man of Family, Fortune, and Character in this City should be ap pointed Secretary, which was accordingly done without opposition, tho Mr. Duane and Mr. Jay discovered at first an Inclination to seek further. 8 Mr. Duane then moved that a Committee should be appointed, to prepare Regulations for this Congress. Several Gentlemen objected. I then arose and asked Leave of the President to request of the Gentle man from New York, an Explanation, and that he would point out some particular Regulations which he had in his Mind. He men tioned particularly the Method of voting—whether it should be by Colonies, or by the Poll, or by Interests. Mr. Henry then arose, and said this was the first general Congress which had ever happened—that no former Congress could be a Pre cedent—that We should have occasion for more general Congresses, and therefore that a precedent ought to be established now. That it would be great Injustice, if a little Colony should have the same Weight in the Councils of America, as a great one, and therefore he was for a Committee. Major Sullivan observed that a little Colony had its All at Stake as well as a great one. This is a Question of great Importance. If We vote by Colonies, this Method will be liable to great Inequality and Injustice, for 5 small Colonies, with 100,000 People in each may outvote 4 large ones, each of which has 500,000 Inhabitants. If We vote by the Poll, some Colonies have more than their Proportion of Members, and others have less. If We vote by Interests, it will be attended with in superable Difficulties, to ascertain the true Importance of each Colo ny. Is the Weight of a Colony to be ascertained by the Number of In habitants merely—or by the Amount of their Trade, the Quantity of their Exports and Imports, or by any compound Ratio of both. This will lead us into such a Field of Controversy as will greatly perplex us. Besides I question whether it is possible to ascertain, at this Time, the Numbers of our People or the Value of our Trade. It will not do in such a Case, to take each other’s Words. It ought to be ascertained by authentic Evidence, from Records.® MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:114-24. 1 Samuel Adams, Thomas Cushing, and Robert Treat Paine were traveling with Adams. James Bowdoin, the other Massachusetts delegate, chose not to go to Philadelphia because of his wife’s illness. Boston-Gazette, and Country Journal, August 15, 1774. ’ Benjamin Rush, whose meeting with Adams at this time inaugurated a lifelong friendship. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:115n. ’Adams apparently thought that a decision on the site for Congress' meeting had already been reached, although according to Silas Deane the issue continued to be debated among delegates meeting informally during the early days of Septem-


[Page 53]
August 29, 1774 11 Carpenters’ Hall


[Page 54]
12 August 29, 1774 ber. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane, August 31-September 5, 1774. 4 This apocryphal story acquired greater currency with the passage of time, and years later Adams elaborated on the incident in his autobiography. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:307-8. See also Thomas Lynch to Ralph Izard, October 26, 1774; and Freeman, Washington, 3:377. B William Lee (1739-95), who was elected sheriff in 1773. DAB. • Samuel Ward calls this the “New Tavern” and James Duane refers to it as "Smith’s Tavern." It stood on the west side of Second Street between Walnut and Chestnut Streets. Robert E. Graham, “The Taverns of Colonial Philadelphia,” Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, n.s. 43 (1953) : 322. 7 For comments on the selection of Carpenters’ Hall as the site for Congress rather than the Pennsylvania State House, which was offered by Speaker Joseph Galloway, see Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane, August 30-September 5; James Duane’s Notes of Debates, September 5; and Joseph Galloway to William Franklin, September 5, 1774. More information on Carpenters’ Hall can be found in Charles E. Peterson, “Carpenters’ Hall,” Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, n.s. 43 (1953): 96-128. ’James Duane recorded that a “member of the Congress was willing to accept the office,” and Silas Deane apparently thought that the choice might have fallen on him. See Duane’s Notes of Debates, September 5, 1774, and Deane’s letter to Mrs. Deane of the same date. An anonymous account published after Thomson’s death but purporting to be Thomson’s version of the circumstances surrounding his appointment contends that Thomson was surprised when he was called to Carpenters’ Hall. It seems unlikely, however, that a subject of such importance would not have been discussed during the many preliminary meetings held among delegates before September 5 or that Thomson would have been unaware of the topic. The frequently quoted account is reported as though in Thomson’s own words: “I was married to my second wife, on a Thursday; on the next Monday, I came to town to pay my respects to my wife’s aunt, and the family; just as I alighted in Chestnut street, the doorkeeper of congress (then first met,) accosted me with a message from them, requesting my presence. Surprised at this, and not able to divine why I was wanted, I however bade my servant put up the horses, and followed the messenger myself, to the Carpenter’s Hall, and entered congress, —here was indeed an august assemblyl and deep thought and solemn anxiety were observable on their countenances! I walked up the aisle, and standing opposite the President, I bowed, and told him I awaited his pleasure. He replied, ‘Congress desire the favour of you, Sir, to take their Minutes.’ I bowed in acquiescence, and took my seat at the desk. . . . With respect to the taking the Minutes: what congress adopted, I committed to writing; with what they rejected, I had nothing farther to do; and even this method led to some squabbles with the members, who were desirious of having their speeches and resolutions, however put to rest by the majority, still preserved upon the Minutes.” American Quarterly Review 1 (March 1827): 30-31. “This last paragraph represents Adams’ own thoughts on the subject of voting in Congress. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [August 29-September 5, 1774] [August] 29. Set out early & rode thro Trenton to the Ferry. 12 a.m. Breakfasted at Williams Tavern. Cross’d the Ferry over Dela ware &: rode to Bristol 8 miles, thence to Red Lyon Tavern 7 miles &


[Page 62]
20 August 31, 1774 should meet with the best Sermon, We determined to pay Our first Devotions) he led the right Contrary way. Passing Two or three Streets he began to suspect his Error, but on inquiring for Mr. Sprouts, the honest Man asked, if it were The Presbyterian, & then told Us we were right. On This, on We went, Two or three Streets more untill inquiry was in vain, for We had got beyond the Knowl edge either of Mr. Sprout, or his Meeting. The Col. fretted, & I laugh’d at him though vexed enough I confess, to find Ourselves thus foolishly swamp’d, when had we accompanied Our Fellow Lodgers, We might have gone to hear either Mr. DeJay [Duchd], or Mr. Coombs, both eminent Men. At length coming to the South West Ex tremity of the City I proposed to the Col. that We would get a Cryer to look Out Our Meeting for Us, or else go forward to The Bettering House, then in View, or fall into the Church before Us, which from the appearance of the People entering I judged to be high Dutch, & of course could expect Nothing but to be diverted with something New in a strange Language. In We went, The House was unfinished and the People appeared poor, but they civilly shewed Us to a Seat, when to Our agreeable disappointment We were entertained by as agreeable, instructive, 8c elegantly pathetic a preacher as I have al most ever heard in my Life. He gave Us a discourse of about 50 Minutes without Notes, yet extremely correct, 8c in a fine Stile. Per haps the accidental falling upon him, 8c his being a Warm Son of Lib erty both in prayer, 8c Sermon prejudiced Us in his favor, but I do not expect to hear a better Sermon Soon. It seems they are a set of honest plain Dissenters, who to the Shame of the other dissenting Congregations, 8c their Clergy have rather been despised and perse cuted because they insisted on the right of choosing their own Minis ter, 8c chose this Gentleman from a distance. Neither of which Cir cumstances, prejudiced Me against Them, 8c I design to hear him again, before I leave the City. This Afternoon We found Mr. Sprouts Meeting, and heard old President Witherspoon. The Evening spent at Mr. Thos. Wharton’s who was extremely civil, 8c complaisant and insisted on Our using his Horses 8c Carriage while in Town, or rather his Convenience, which is the Name of a Freinds or Quaker’s Coach. This he was the more urgent in as he was he said Determined to con vince Me before I left the City that they had Lands superior to Ours. Monday Septemr. 5th. The Congress formed, by choosing The Honl. P. Randolph Esqr. of Virginia President, 8c Charles Thomp son, Esqr of this City Secretary, 8c fix'd on Carpenters Hall for the place To meet in. This proceeding, is highly agreeable to the Me chanics, 8c Citizens in general, but mortifying to the last Degree To Mr. Galloway and his Party, Thompson being his Sworn opposite as You may say, 8c by his means, prevented being one of the Congress, for this province. It was a matter of dispute whither We should


[Page 63]
August 31, 1774 21 Peyton Randolph


[Page 64]
22 August 31, 1774 Charles Thomson


[Page 66]
24 September 3, 1774 on, and endeavour to find out the Temper of the Delegates. Near two Thirds of them are arrived, and I conclude all will be ready to pro ceed on Business on Monday. I have not had any great Opportunity of sounding them. But so far as I have, I think they will behave with Temper and Moderation. The Boston Commissioners are warm, and I believe wish for a Non-importation Agreement, and hope that the Colonies will advise and justify them in a Refusal to pay for the Tea until their Aggrievances are redressed. They are in their Behaviour and Conversation very modest, and yet they are not so much so as not to throw out Hints, which, like Straws and Feathers, tell us from which Point of the Compass the Wind comes. I dined with them on Thursday. I have had two Opportunities, one with the elder Rutlidge of Car olina, whose Sentiments and mine differ in no one Particular so far as I explained myself—and I was reserved in no Point save that of a Representation in Parliament. He is a Gentleman of an amiable Character—has look’d into the Arguments on both Sides more fully than any I have met with, and seems to be aware of all the Conse quences which may attend rash and imprudent Measures. His young er Brother is rather warm. My other Opportunity was with the two New Hampshire Gentlemen. I found Col. Folsom very cool & moder ate—Major Sullivan rather more warm, but very candid and has thought solidly on the Subject. I think neither of them intends to at tach himself more to the particular Cause of Boston than will be for the general Good. They requested Opportunities of exchanging Senti ments with me often on the Occasion—and all my Observations seemed to have full Weight with them. The Marylanders are not ar rived, and but Three of the Virginians, Peyton [Randolph], Bland, and Lee are arrived. 1 I have intimated to several of the Delegates the Necessity of send ing Commissioners over, fully authorized, to the British Court, as a Mode pursued by the Roman, Grecian 8c Macedonian Colonies on every Occasion of the like Nature—that thro’ them we may be ena bled, in case our first Plan for accommodating our unhappy Differ ences should not be acceptable, to know the better what to propose next—that having these Gentlemen at the Scene of Action we shall be no longer misled by News-paper Accounts and private Letters, but shall proceed on solid Information and Principles of Safety— That without this, any Petitions or Plans, not having any Persons to explain and support them, will have very little Effect—That in all Probability the Measures of the present Congress will be deemed ille gal 8c unconstitutional, and that upon this Point only the Necessity of sending Persons Home to insist upon the Right in the Colonies of being heard, and to prove that the Illegality of the Congress arises from the Measures of Power in not suffering the Assemblies to meet;


[Page 70]
28 September 6, 1774 present State of Things shew that Government is dissolved. Where are your Land Marks? your Boundaries of Colonies. We are in a State of Nature, Sir. I did propose that a Scale should be laid down. That Part of N. America which was once Mass. Bay, and that Part which was once Virginia, ought to be considered as having a Weight. Will not People complain, 10,000 (People) Virgin ians have not outweighed 1000 others. I will submit however. I am determined to submit if I am over ruled. A worthy Gentleman (Ego) near me, seemed to admit the Necess ity of obtaining a more Adequate Representation. I hope future Ages will quote our Proceedings with Applause. It is one of the great Duties of the democratical Part of the Constitution to keep itself pure. It is known in my Province, that some other Colonies are not so numerous or rich as they are. I am for giving all the Satisfaction in my Power. The Distinctions between Virginians, Pensylvanians, New Yorkers and New Englanders, are no more. I am not a Virginian, but an American. Slaves are to be thrown out of the Question, and if the freemen can be represented according to their Numbers I am satisfyed. Mr. Lynch. I differ in one Point from the Gentleman from Virgin ia, that is in thinking that Numbers only ought to determine the Weight of Colonies. I think that Property ought to be considered, and that it ought to be a compound of Numbers and Property, that should determine the Weight of the Colonies. I think it cannot be now settled. Mr. Rutledge. We have no legal Authority and Obedience to our Determinations will only follow the reasonableness, the apparent Utility, and Necessity of the Measures We adopt. We have no coer cive or legislative Authority. Our Constitutents are bound only in Honour, to observe our Determinations.. Govr. Ward. There are a great Number of Counties in Virginia, very unequal in Point of Wealth and Numbers, yet each has a Right to send 2 Members. Mr. Lee. But one Reason, which prevails with me, and that is that we are not at this Time provided with proper Materials. I am afraid We are not. Mr. Gadsden. I cant see any Way of voting but by Colonies. Coll. Bland. I agree with the Gentleman (Ego) who spoke near me, that We are not at present provided with Materials to ascertain the Importance of each Colony. The Question is whether the Rights and Liberties of America shall be contended for, or given up to arbi trary Power. Mr. Pendleton. If the Committee should find themselves unable to


[Page 71]
September 6, 1774 29 ascertain the Weight of the Colonies, by their Numbers and Property, they will report this, and this will lay the Foundation for the Con gress to take some other Steps to procure Evidence of Numbers and Property at some future Time. Mr. Henry. I agree that authentic Accounts cannot be had—if by Authenticity is meant, attestations of officers of the Crown. I go upon the Supposition, that Government is at an End. All Dis tinctions are thrown down. All America is all thrown into one Mass. We must aim at the Minutiae of Rectitude. Mr. Jay. Could I suppose, that We came to frame an American Constitution, instead of indeavouring to correct the faults in an old one—I cant yet think that all Government is at an End. The Meas ure of arbitrary Power is not full, and I think it must run over, before We undertake to frame a new Constitution. To the Virtue, Spirit, and Abilities of Virginia We owe much—I should always therefore from Inclination as well as Justice, be for giving Virginia its full Weight. I am not clear that We ought not to be bound by a Majority tho ever so small, but I only mentioned it, as a Matter of Danger, worthy of Consideration. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:124-26. 1 These notes were made by John Adams on loose sheets of paper and left undated. The date for this entry was determined by comparing the content with James Duane’s Notes of Debates, September 6, 1774. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane [September 6, 1774] I told You I should begin another Sheet but had no conception of doing it on so disagreeable an Occasion as that of the Intelligince reed., of the Situation of Boston. Of this I can say nothing more than that this City is in the utmost Confusion, all The Bells toll muffled, &: the most unfeigned marks of sorrow appear in every Countenance. The Congress sat untill after Three, & then Adjd. but untill Five, but Our proceedings, for Various Reasons, will be kept Secret, so on that head shall say Nothing, until We break up, for though We may pub lish to the World the whole, it is improper to do it prematurely. You may tell Our Freinds that I never met, nor scarcely had an Idea of Meeting With Men of such firmness, sensibility, Spirit, and Thorough Knowledge of the Interests of America, as the Gentlemen from the Southern provinces appear to be. In this I do not speak from preju dice, but from the knowledge I have of them in their public as well as their private Conversation, both of which I attend to with a pleasure, that ballances many, if not more than all the anxieties, & Troubles of


[Page 72]
30 September 6, 1774 such a Journey. May New England go hand in hand with them & We need not fear a want of Spirit. I intended to have entertained You with a breif Sketch of their Character & Appearance but this is the 19th page of my Letter, must therefore conclude, 8c reserve the rest for a future Opportunity, but of the Transactions of the Congress you will have no Intelligence, to be relied on, Untill We publish. Jos. Webb told me he sent the Massachusetts Spy which I did not receive. Tell or write Your Hond. Father that the Report in his Case will be the same, as before, of which I give him joy. I will not begin a 20th page. Read or shew this at Discretion, remember Me to all. Capt. Hubbard sets out in the Morning. Hope for the best, all is here Unanimous. I am wishing You Health, The Sweetner of every Enjoy ment. Yours Silas Deane N.B. The Congress are not here after to disclose their proceedings but by Agreement. There is good Reason for it. I make no excuse to Jos. Webb, for not writing him particularly, as this is designed for his perusal and as I before said is a Family .Letter 8c a Summary of pro ceedings, 8c Sentiment to this Tuesday 6th of Sepr. 1774. Nine at Night. 1 RC (CtHi). A continuation of Deane to Elizabeth Deane, August 31—September 5, 1774. 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Deane to Elizabeth Deane, September 7, 1774. James Duane’s Notes of Debates Tuesday the 6t September [1774] The Congress met And the first Question debated was whether the Congress shoud Vote by Colonies & what weight each Colony shoud have in the determination? Mi Henry from Virginia insisted that by the oppression of Parlia ment all Government was dissolvd 8c that we were reduced to a State of Nature. That there were no longer any such distinctions as Colo nies. That he conceiv’d himself not a Virginian but an American. That one of the greatest Mischiefs to Society was an Unequal Repre sentation. That there might 8c probably woud be further Occasions for a Congress 8c that it was time to form such a System as woud give each Colony a Just weight in our deliberations in proportion to its opulence 8c number of Inhabitants its Exports 8c Imports. He was answerd by Mr [ ] J of Rhode Island who insisted that every Colony shoud have an equal Vote. That we came if neces sary to make a Sacrifice of our All 8c that the weakest Colony by such a Sacrifice woud suffer as much as the greatest.


[Page 73]
September 6, 1774 31 Col. Harrison from Viriginia insisted Strongly on the Injustice that Virginia should have no greater Weight in the determination than one of the smallest Colonies. That he should be censurd by his Con stituents Sc unable to excuse his want of attention to their Interest. And that he was very Apprehensive that if such a disrespect should be put upon his Countrymen we shoud never see them at another Convention. The debate then took a different Turn. It was observd that if an equal Representation was ever so Just the Delegates from the several Colonies were unprepard with Materials to settle that Equality. That was an Objection that coud not be answered. The Question was then put and 1. Resolved that the Sense of the Congress shall be taken by Vot ing in Colonies each to have one Vote. 2. Resolved that no person be permitted to speak twice on the same point unless with the Leave of the Congress. 3. Resolved that no Question be determined the same day it is de bated if any one of the Colonies desires that the determination be deferred to another day. 4. Resolved that the doors of the Congress be kept shut during the debates And that every Member be obligd under the strongest obli gation of Honor to keep secret the proceedings of the Congress until they shall be ordered to be publishd by the Congress. 5. Resolved that a Committee be appointed to state the Rights of the Colonies, the several Instances in which they have been violated & infringed and the means most proper to obtain Redress. 6. Resolved that a Committee be appoint’d to State &: Report the several Statutes respecting the Trade & Manufactures of the Colo nies. 7. A Question was put whether this Congress shoud be opend to morrow Morning with prayers. Mr Samuel Adams proposd the revnd Mr Duche 2 for this Service. Debates arose on this Subject. Those who were for the motion in sisting on the propriety of a Reverence & Submission to the Supreme Being & supplicating his Blessing on every Undertaking on the prac tice of the Romans the British Parliament & some of the Assemblies on the Continent. The difference of the religious Tenets of the Members. That it woud be considerd as Enthusiasm & Cant, &: the Efficacy of private Devotion. The want of a Suitable form in the book of Common pray ers: And the Hazard of submitting such a Task to the Judgement of any Clergy were the Topics urgd by those who were of opinion against the Motion. It was however Resolved that the Congress shall be opend tomorrow morning with


[Page 83]
September 7, 1774 41 This was changd by: 3 And this Authority exercised bona fide for the purposes of securing the Commercial Advantages of the whole Empire to Great Britain with a Just Regard to the Interest of its respective Members ought not to be Questioned. But in this declaration we absolutely exclude every Idea of Taxation internal & external for raising a Revenue on the Subjects of America without their Consent. 4 [IL] That the Acts of Navigation and for the Encouragement of Trade passed in the Reign of King Charles the second tho’ in some Respects extremely burthensome to the Colonies, do in this general Tendency establish wise & salutary Regulations on which the Wealth Strength and Safety of the whole british Empire greatly depend; And having become necessary by the policy of other Nations & taken place before the Settlement of some of the Colonies; and been adopt ed in others in their Infancy by positive Law; and in all submitted to and recognized for more than a Century ought to be considered in the Light of a Compact between the parent State and these Colonies. That from the Spirit of this Compact, & the Necessity of a Supreme controuling Power in this Respect, 8c for the Protection which we have enjoyed 8c still derive from Great Britain we cheerfully ac knowledge that it belongs only to Parliament to direct 8c superintend the Trade of all his Majesty’s Dominions And that this Authority ex ercised bona fide for the Purposes of securing the Commercial Ad vantages of the whole Empire to Great Britain with a Just Regard to the Interests of its respective Members ought not to be drawn into Question. But in this Declaration we absolutely exclude every Idea of Taxation internal 8c external for raising a Revenue on the Subjects of America without their Consent. [IL] That the Acts of Navigation and for the Encouragement of Trade passed in the Reign of King Charles the second tho’ in some Respects extremely burthensome upon the Colonists, do in their gen eral Tendency establish wise 8c Salutary Regulations on which the Wealth Strength and Safety of the whole british Empire greatly de pend; (From the Policy of other European Nations they became in dispensable highly expedient and That} And having taken place before the Settlement of some of the Colonies, in others been adopted in their Infancy by positive Laws and in all submitted to and recognized for more than a Century they ought to be considered in the Light of (a reasonable 8c beneficial} an ancient Compact between the parent State and the Colonies! From the Spirit (of these ancient Acts} whereof the (Necessity} Expediency of (one} a (Supream} controuling Power over the general Commerce of the Empire as well as on Account of the Protection we have derived from the (naval strength of the Par ent Kingdom) parent Kingdom we chearfully acknowledge that it belongs only to the british Parliament to direct and superintend the


[Page 84]
42 September 7, 1774 Trade of all his Majesty’s Dominions, and that this Authority while it is exercised bona fide for the Purposes of Securing the Advantages of the Commerce of the whole Empire to Great Britain with a just Regard to the Interests of its respective Members ought not to be questioned. In this declaration we nevertheless absolutely exclude every Idea of Taxation internal and external for raising a Revenue on the Subjects of America without their Consent. III. That it is the Duty of the several Colonies not only to provide a Competent and honourable Support for the Administration of his Majesty’s Government and the Dispensation of Justice within their respective Limits: but also to grant a present and annual Supply to wards defraying the Expence of the royal Navy from which we derive the great Blessings of Protection in Common with the rest of our Fel low Subjects throughout the Empire. IV. That it is the Duty of the several Colonies on every Emergen cy that may threaten the Security (of any part) of the Empire to contribute their Aids of Men and money in the common Cause, ac cording to their several Abilities And that this Congress is firmly per- swaded that the respective Legislatures of the Colonies will agree to any reasonable Plan which shall be recommended by his Majesty for drawing forth the united Strength and Aids of these Branches of his royal Dominions Whenever it shall be found necessary. V. That the Colonies are (bound by and) entitled to the benefits of, the common Law of England and such of the Statutes of that Realm, [& from Experience have been found] applicable to [their respective] local Circumstances, as existed at the time of our Colonization. 5 We do not however admit but absolutely reject the Authority of the Statutes of 26th King Henry 8th [Ch. 13th] 6 and King Edward 6 respecting [the trials for] Treasons and Misprisions [or Concealmts] of Treasons [committd out of the Realm as applied to Us by a late Constructn. which would effectually destroy all Secu rity of the Lives, Liberties & Properties of the Colonists] which can not, nor were intended to be of force where (Justice is duly administered) [Tribunals are Established For the due Administra tion of Justice] according to the Laws of England, but only in re mote and foreign parts where offenders for want of (proper) such Tribunals cannot be brought to legal Trial. That these his Majesty’s Colonies are Lik [ewise] entitled to all the Immunities and Privi- ledges granted to them by the royal Charter and Confirmed and se cured by their several Codes of provincial Laws; And that these re spective Rights cannot be altered or abridged by any other Authority than that of their respective Legislatures. VI. That the Colonists within their several Colonies are respective ly entitled to a free and exclusive power of Legislation in all Cases of Taxation and internal Polity, Subject only to the negative of the


[Page 92]
50 September 8, 1774 P.S. You will judge how Things are like to be in Boston, and whether it will not be best to remove the Office entirely to Braintree. Mr. Hill and Williams, may come up, if they choose, paying for their Board. 3 RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:150-51. 1 Adams apparently wrote this letter before receiving, later in the day, an accurate account of the British raid on the Quarry Hill powderhouse on September 1. ’John Thaxter (1755-91) , first cousin of Abigail, law apprentice of Adams, 1774-77, and tutor to the Adams children. Nathan Rice (1754-1834) also served as Adams’ law clerk, 1774-75. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), l:142n. 3 Edward Hill (1755-75), and Jonathan Williams (d. 1780) were law clerks of Adams. Ibid., p. 146n; Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:228n. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane Philadelphia Sepr. 8th. 1774 Thursday Morning. We are all in the greatest anxiety, that of a most cruel suspence as to the certainty of the Boston rupture, as No fresh intelligence has as yet arrived. Though intirely in Health, yet to shake off a Lassitude gathering on me, I rode out this Morning in Company with Miss Levy, who Lodges here, Five Miles South of this City before Breakfast. This is perfectly fine, both the Natural Soil, & the improvements, and she was able to give Me the Names of the Owners of the different Seats We pass’d by, which was as entertain ing, as the Morning Air was refreshing. I wish’d often You could have taken a Seat with Us, & admired the Country &: prospects. A River on each Side of Us the Delaware &: Schuylkill at about Three Miles distance, the former ftdl of large Topsail Vessels, at Anchor, or under Sail, & the latter winding through a Fine intervale Mead ow full of Cattle, Fatting for Market, for in these Meadows, they feed all their Beef for the City. B. Deane sets out in the Morning so shall close my Journal this Evening. 3 p.m. Having promised to wait on Mr. Marshall my kind Freind, before mentioned at 4 oClock, I have only Time to add, that to Our Joy Putnam’s blundering Story is contradicted, and that every thing as yet wears the most favorable aspect which Zeal & Unanimity can promise Us. My Freinds must content themselves with my expensive Tarry, for to settle the Rights, & ascertain the privileges of a Conti nent like this, is a Work of Time, & serious beyond the Conception of a bystander. You will read this in full Circle, & the bearer must explain it. My Love to all, Sally, Hannah, Hetty, Jesse, &c, &c. I am most affectionately Yours Silas Deane [P.S.] Turn to the Morning Service, in the prayer book, for the 7th Day of the Month, Psalm 35th I think it is. As Doctr. Turner goes in


[Page 93]
September 8, 1774 51 the Morning I close my Letter with adding, that The Bells of the City are Now ringing a peal of Joy on Acct, of the News of Boston’s hav ing been destroy’d being contradicted. 1 RC (CtHi) . A continuation of Deane to Elizabeth Deane, September 7, 1774. 1 For the conclusion of this letter, see Deane to Elizabeth Deane, September 9, 1774. James Duane’s Speech to the Committee on Rights [September 8, 1774] 1 The Task assigned to this Committee is no less important than it is difficult. It may be reduced to three Heads— 1. To State the Rights of the Colonies. 2. Their Grievances. 3. The Means of Redress. It is necessary that the first point, our Rights, should be fully dis cussed and established upon solid Principles: because it is only from hence that our Grievances can be disclosed; & from a clear View of both that proper Remedies can be suggested and applied. To ascertain the Constitutions of the Colonies has employed the Thoughts and the Pens of our ablest Politicians. But no System which has hitherto been published is solid or satisfactory. During Disputes which arose from the Stamp Act an Exemption from internal Taxes (seemed to be the ultimate of the General Voice Wish) seemed to give general Content. The Regulation of Commerce was submitted to Parliament. Their Authority to alter the police (and administration) of our respective Governments was not in Contem plation because it had not been exercised. Upon the Repeal therefore of the Stamp Act we had Reason to conclude that the Blessings of Security in our Liberties 8c Harmony with the Parent State woud be placed on a permanent Basis. But short was our Repose and fleeting our Expectations. A despot ic Minister soon discovered that under the Idea of a commercial Regulation our Property might still be invaded, and that by a guileful Change of a name we might still be oppressed at his pleasure. Hence arose Mr Townsends project of loading british Commodi ties (which we are restrained from importing from any other Nation) with American Duties—-As if this poor Evasion coud blind the Colo nists, and conceal the Evil which was cloaked under so thin a dis guise. The Resentment & Vigorous opposition of this Country, 8c the im mense Loss to which it exposed the british Manufacturers compeled the Repeal of this detested Law—Excepting the Article of Tea which has been the fatal Cause of our present Misfortunes. 579-852 0 - 77 - 6 Vol. 1


[Page 94]
52 September 8, 1774 It is now Sir essential to place our Rights on a broader & firmer Ba sis to advance and adhere to some solid and Constitutional Principle which will preserve Us from future Violations—a principle clear & explicite and which is above the Reach of Cunning, & the Arts of op pression. I hope if we have the Happiness to rest upon such a princi ple, we shall have the Fortitude and the strength to maintain it. Let it be founded upon Reason and Justice, and satisfy the Consciences of our Countrymen. Let it be such as we dare refer to the Virtuous and impartial part of Mankind, and we shall and must, in the issue of the Conflict, be happy & triumphant. (If this principle can call in to its Support) I conceive it to be the Duty of every Member to offer his Sentiments on this great Occasion without Reserve or Scruple. It will be examined with Candour and have all the weight it merits and if mine is defective it will be Ex cused from the uprightness of the Intention with which it is offered, & because it is an indispensable Duty. I shall not forget that we are Colonies, That we are indebted to her for the Blessings of Protection, and that she ought to derive from every commercial Advantage which is the Result of our Connection and Dependence, Nor shall I anticipate either our own past Merit or the cruel Oppressions under which we now labour, because these will more properly be the Subject of our next Head of Enquiry. To the Rights of the Colonies I mean at present to be confin’d. They may be (divided into two Heads) derived from two Sources. 1st. (As they are derived) from the common Law, &: such ancient Statutes as are coeval with our (Emigration) Colonization. 2. As they are granted and secured by Charter. Upon This last head I shall (refer to) reserve myself for further Information from Gentlemen whose local Circumstances have led them to discuss it with more precision, then Leisure has enabled me. I shall only observe that their Charters are to be esteemed as Com pacts, that they have long been acquiesced in, and if exceptionable in their origin can not now be violated but by oppression. 2 The first is a principle that is more general and extensive if not more solid and se cure: and this I shall proceed to consider. England is governed by a limited Monarchy and a free Constitu tion. But if the Subject is bound by a Law to which he does not as sent, either personally or by his Representative, he is no longer free but under an arbitrary power, which may oppress or ruin him at pleasure. It is admitted by the English Judicatories and has been solemnly resolved by the King in privy Council; that the Common Laws of England and such Statutes as existed prior to our Emigration are fundamentals in our Colony Constitution. Upon this grand Basis the


[Page 95]
September 8, 1774 53 prerogatives of the Crown 8c the Rights of the Subjects are as fully ascertained in the Plantations as in the parent State. By the same Constitution the King has the Excutive power and is the Fountain of Title offices and Honours. Hence arises his royal Au thority Prerogative 3 in the formation of Colonies to establish a Sys tem of Governt. legislative, Juridical and executive suitable to the Circumstance of a People who are blessed with the Priviledges which they never meant nor were supposed, nor coud forfeit, {by removing to a distant a more remote part of the English Empire} by altering their local situation within the same Empire. The priviledges of Englishmen were inherent They were their Birth right and of which they coud only be deprived by their free Consent. Every Institution legislative and Juridical, essential to the Exercise 8c Enjoyment of these Rights and priviledges in constitutional Security, were equally their Birth right and inalienable Inheritance. They coud not be with held but by lawless oppression and by lawless oppression only can they be violated. It is objected that upon this principle the Colonies are independent and exempt from the Authority of the British parliament and free from all Obligation to render to the parent State those advantages which ought to be the Recompence of Protection, to result from the very nature of Colonization And to be justified from the Usage of ev ery commercial Nation. To which it may be answerd that the Sovereignty and Prerogatives of the Crown {must effectually prevent the Independence of the Col onies} our own Security 8c the Ties of Friendship 8c common Interest the similiarity of our Government Laws and manners will be suffi cient to prevent {a Rupture} an Independence which nothing but Oppression can ever reconcile to an American Ear. {With respect to the Advantages arising from our Commerce it is certain that if we were under no Obligation the principal Advantages woud center in the parent Country where Manufactures are as cheap ir better in Quality.} But we need not depend on this observation. Had Great Britain till this late day taken no measures to secure the Commerce of the Colo nies but left them free to pursue their own Interest and Inclinations I shoud not hesitate to pronounce {any restrictive Act of Parliament of this late day to be} that all Restraints by Authority of Parliament would now be unauthoritative and oppressive. This however is not the Case. Every Just and reasonable Advan tage the parent Country has long since effectually secured and uni formly enjoyed. 4 1. That political Liberty is the great Object of the English Consti tution.


[Page 100]
58 September 9, 1774 Randolph was unanimously Elected to the Chair by the name of President. Charles Thompson was Chose Secretary and two Door keepers and Mesengers was also appointed. The Congress then pro ceeded to business and have Set every day since. I doubt their Rising before some time in October. Perhaps the Middle. All the Seven del egates appointed for Virginia are here, & more Sensible, fine fellows you’d Never Wish to See, in short it is the greatest Assembly (in pro portion to the Number) that ever was Collected in America. And the Bostonians who (we know) have been Condemned by Many for their Violence, are Moderate men, When Compared to Virginia, South Carolina and Rode Island. In Short all the Colonies Seem to be hearty in the Cause, and have the greatest Respect paid them by all the first people here. A Letter to Mr. Cushing by Express from Boston informs that all is Quiet as Yet, That their Superior Court had Met under the act of Parliament for altering their Government, but that it Could not proceed for want of Jury men who would not attend, That allmost all the Judges appointed under that act had waited on the Governor with Resignations. 2 Captain Inglis is arrived with Some dry Goods from London, George Emlens Ship is Expect ed every day quite full, there is an Accot. of her Sailing, All &: Fort ner are also Expected soon. I have been Verry poorly ever Since I Came to town, but hope Shall get better. Remember me to Betsey, Sally, Caesar and to all Enquiring friends, the Congress Meets at Nine, therefore have not more time than to Say I am Yr. Humble Servt. Caesar Rodney RC (PHi) . Addressed: “To Mr. Thomas Rodney at Dover, favoured by Mr. McFerson." 1 Thomas Rodney (1744-1811), brother of Caesar Rodney, Delaware political leader, and later a delegate to Congress, 1781-82, 1786. DAB. 3 Suffolk County jurors at the August term of the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature refused to take their oath when Peter Oliver, who stood impeached by the House of the General Court, attempted to sit as chief justice. While a mob roamed Boston, the court sat but heard only nonjury cases. John Adams, Legal Papers of John Adams, ed. L. Kinvin Wroth and Hiller B. Zobel, 3 vols. (Cam bridge: Harvard University Press, 1965) , l:xc. Roger Sherman to Unknown Philadelphia Sept. 9th. 1774. Reports information concerning types and prices of stocking looms available in Philadelphia and re quests further instructions from a third party who apparently ordered one. Continues: “I Send this by Mr. Barnabas Deane. . . . The Congress have entered on Business but not come to any Conclusions. We were Alarmed a few Days ago with a report that Boston was


[Page 101]
September 9, 1774 59 fired upon by the Land and Sea forces, but it has been Since Contra dicted.” RC (CtY) . Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 9, 1774] 9th. The Comee. met, agreed to found our Rights upon the Laws of Nature, the Principles of the english Constitution & Charters &: Compacts; ordered a Sub. Comee. to draw up a State of Rights. 1 MS (RHi) . 1 John Adams’ diary for this day consists of the terse entry: "Attended my Duty upon Committees. Dined at home." Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:131. Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. My dear Children Philadelphia 9th Sepr. 1774 Through the divine Goodness I am very well. Cajoe had some Complaints yesterday like the small Pox but he is much better this Day that We think it was only a cold or Fatigue. As far as I can judge there will be very little Danger of my taking it. The Congress is full excepting the Gentlemen from North Caroli na. We chose the Honble Payton Randolp Esqr. of Virginia Presi dent &: Mr. Charles Thompson of this Town Secry. Agreed that each Colony should have one Voice on every Question. This was warmly debated, some of the larger Colonies wanted a larger Number of Voices. We agreed upon Honor not to discover any of the Proceed ings until it was determined to make them public. You must there fore expect nothing from Me on that Head. We are as unanimous as I expected. Much the largest Part of the Province is hearty in the Cause of Liberty. The southern Gentlemen have been used to do no Business in af ternoon so that We rise about 2 or 3 o’Clock & set no more that Day & as we meet late in a Morning We shall sett a long while. I dont doubt but You will do all You can in the Business. Be careful of the shop Sc charge every thing unpaid for. I hardly think I shall want much Money if any so that you need not be uneasy on that Acct. Your Orchard ought to be carefully shut up that You may save what Apples you can, try to buy some Cyder for none is to be had here or on the Road. It is Time your fat Cattle were on the Island. They


[Page 102]
60 September 9, 1774 should be fed with Potatoes. Your Hogs also ought to have Potatoes plentifully every Day. I had the Pleasure of seeing Mr. Davis here this Day. He is gone to preach in the Country & is to call upon Me as he comes back but I fear I shall not be able to go home with him. All that I can say is that I shall endeavour to do my Duty here as soon as I can & if I am well return as soon as possible. You have my daily Prayers & I hope you will all pray for yourselves. If your dear Sister 1 be alive May God of his infinite Goodness still support & comfort her Sc carry her chearful- ly through her great Change. My most affectionate Regards to your Aunt. I hope She will stay till my Return. That the Lord may be with You & bless you is the ardent Prayer of your affect. Father. S Ward RC (RHi). Addressed: “To Mr. Samuel Ward Junr. In Westerly in the Colony of Rhode Island." 1 Hannah Ward (1749-74), Samuel Ward’s eldest daughter, died the day before this letter was written. Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg) , p. 214. John Adams’ Diary 1774 Septr. 10. Saturday. Attended my Duty upon the Sub Committee. 1 Dined at home. Dr. Morgan, Dr. Cocks [Cox?], Mr. Spence [Spencer?], and several other Gentlemen, Major Sullivan and Coll. Folsom dined with us upon Salt Fish. Rambled in the Evening with Jo. Reed, and fell into Mr. Sprouts Meeting where We heard Mr. Spence preach. Mr. Reed returned with Mr. Adams and me to our Lodgings, and a very social, agreable and communicative Evening We had. He says We never were guilty of a more Masterly Stroke of Policy, than in moving that Mr. Duche might read Prayers, it has had a very good Effect, &c. He says the Sentiments of People here, are growing more and more favourable every day. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield) ,2:131. 1 The exact composition of the subcommittee remains unknown, but Samuel Ward and John Rutledge were also members. Adams later stated that the subcom mittee was appointed because the grand committee’s “discussions spun into great length, and nothing was decided.’’ Adams asserted his own leading role in compos ing the resolves reported by the subcommittee. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:309-10. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear [September 10-11, 1774] Barney supp’d with Us last Night, and set out this Morning at


[Page 103]
September 10, 1774 61 Five. By him You will receive Our proceedings to The Time of his Departure. The Family we Lodge in here consists of a Widow Lady turned of Forty as I judge, genteel 8c sensible, has been handsome, 8c is still comely. She has a Daughter her eldest Child, lately married to a Lieutenant, in the Regiment here, one Mr. Trist, who lodges with Us. 1 She has also Two Sons, that are one at Apprentice with a Mer chant, the other at School. This is the standing Family, but every Room is now full. Two more Gentlemen from Charlestown So. Caro lina—8c a Sick Gentleman from Jamaica lodge here. The Two former arrived last Evening, the Latter poor Man has been here sometime, & will probably never more remove but by help of others to his last Lodgings,—the Grave. I have not seen him. The Officer here, is much to be pitied, his Commission is his principal dependence. He loves this Country, he loves his Young Wife, who is very deserving, and who is a warm daughter of Liberty, yet is ordered this Morning, to be ready, to March in the After Noon for Boston. This is really af fecting and my passions are too sensible of soft impressions to view the Struggle between duty so called, Interest 8c Honor military on the one hand, and Affection, 8c an honest Regard 8c Tenderness on the other. As We have all dined, 8c supp’d together, on a free footing at the same Table, he seems the nearer to Us, and Our repeatedly as serting that the Troops at Boston would be cut off if they attempted anything against That Town 8c province, gives him 8c his Connections the most Uneasy 8c Melancholy Apprehensions. Could he get rid of his Commission on any Terms, short of ruining himself he would gladly do it. The Troops here which are to assist in reducing New England, & all America amount to One Hundred 8c Eighty of which [Sixty?] are old worn out, invalids, unable to March [as far] as Boston in Six Weeks were they to have the [plunder] of the Town for their asking —and the rest disaffected to the unnatural employ. It is a doubt with Me, whether the People here will let them March. Had Blood been shed by the Soldiery at Boston, there would have been No doubt at all, for these Soldiers in that Case would before this have been dis armed, 8c dispersed, but it is dangerous to begin hostility, but on the most urgent occasion 8c indeed absolute Necessity. I design to view them when on their March. I gave you the Character of the South Carolina Delegates or rather a Sketch. I will now pursue the plan I designed. Mr. Randolph our worthy President may be rising of Sixty, of noble appearance, & pre sides with dignity. Col. Harrison may be Fifty an uncommonly large Man, and appears rather rough in his address, 8c speech. Col. Wash ington is nearly as Tall a Man as Col. Fitch and almost as hard a Countenance, yet with a very young Look, 8c an easy Soldierlike Air, 8c gesture. He does not appear above Forty five, yet was in the first


[Page 105]
September 11, 1774 63 RC (CtHi) . Deane apparently composed this letter over the space of 10 days, concluding it “Monday Evening 11 oClock 19th Sepr. 1774.” It is printed here in three parts under the dates September 10-11, September 12-18, and September 19, 1774. 1 Ensign Nicholas Trist, Eighteenth Regiment of Foot, whose company had just been ordered to march to Boston. See Robert Treat Paine’s Diary, September 9, 1774. ’For the continuation of this letter, see Deane to Elizabeth Deane, September 12-18, 1774. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 10, 1774] 10th. Met, added two to the sub. Comee. which sat & considered the Subject & adjourned to 9 o’Clock on Monday. MS (RHi). John Adams’ Diary 1774. Septr. 11. Sunday. There is such a quick and constant Succession of new Scenes, Characters, Persons, and Events turning up before me that I cant keep any regular Account. This Mr. Reed is a very sensible and accomplished Lawyer of an amiable Disposition—soft, tender, friendly, &rc. He is a friend to his Country and to Liberty. Mr. Reed was so kind as to wait on us to Mr. Sprouts Meeting, where we heard Mr. Spencer. These Ministers all preach without Notes. We had an Opportunity of seeing the Custom of the Presbyterians in administering the Sacrament. The Communicants all came to a Row of Seats, placed on each Side of a narrow Table spread in the Middle of the Alley reaching from the Deacons Seat to the front of the House. Three setts of Persons of both sexes, came in Succession. Each new sett had the Bread and the Cup given to them by a new Minister—Mr. Sprout first, Mr. Treat next and Mr. Spencer last. Each Communicant has a token, which he delivers to the Deacons or Elders, I dont know which they call em. As We came out of Meeting a Mr. Webster join’d us, who has just come from Boston, and has been a generous Benefactor to it, in its Distresses. He says he was at the Town Meeting, and he thinks they managed their Affairs with great Symplicity, Moderation, and Dis cretion. 1


[Page 109]
September 12, 1774 67 Committee the Congress has injoined every member to keep a Secret till the Whole business is done, When the Whole of their proceedings Will be published to avoid needless disputations out of Doors. This is much to the disappointment of the Curious. 3 We do not Expect to rise till Some time in October. There are more Strangers in Town now (Exclusive of the Gentlemen of the Congress) than ever was known at any one time. George Emlen’s Ship Captn. Miller is Ar rived from London as full as She Can Swim with dry Goods. All is Looked for every day, and it is Supposed Fortner will not be Long behind him. An Irish Ship is just Come to town Who Landed her passengers at Newcastle, and says that in puting them on Shore a Small Boat with 22 of them With their Effects was overset 19 of Whom Lost their lives between the Ship and the Warff. I beg you’l Write me by the first oppertunity Giving a State of Affairs below both public and private, and if any thing occur’s out of the Common Road I Shall take Care to advise you of it. I am Sorry for the Loss of our poor Neighbour Minchall, more especially for his family Who must most Sensibly feel it. The gentlemen of the City are entertaining the Gentlemen of Congress every day by parcels—and on Fryday next the Citizens in General are to entertain the Whole Congress at the Statehouse. It is intended to be the greatest enertainment that ever was made in this City, the Expence of Which is Computed to a Thousand pounds at least. I Do not now Recollect any thing more by way of news. Therefore desire to be Remember’d as heretofore. I am Your friend & Relation Caesar Rodney RC (PHi). 1 John Macpherson, Jr. (1754-75), Pennsylvania lawyer, became aide-de-camp to Gen. Richard Montgomery. William Macpherson Hornor, "Extracts from the Let ters of John Macpherson, Jr., to William Patterson, 1766-1773," PMHB 23 (1899) : 51-59. ’Jonathan Shipley (1714-88), Bishop of St. Asaph, wrote the pamphlet, A Speech Intended to Have Been Spoken by the Bishop of St. Asaph, on the Bill for Altering the Charters of the Colony of Massachusetts. The Speech went through several London editions and was widely republished in the colonies. For a broader discussion of Shipley and for a reprint of both the Speech and his similarly popular Sermon Preached before the Incorporated Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, see Paul H. Smith, comp., English Defenders of American Freedoms, 1774-1778 (Washington: Library of Congress, 1972), pp. 9-14, 29-43. 3 Efforts to keep debates and activities of Congress secret were a limited success. Thomas Wharton (1735-78) , Philadelphia merchant and subsequently President of Pennsylvania, claimed that "by a rule established at the opening of the Congress, we cannot get copies of their proceedings, but my intimacy with the leading members of most of the colonies, gives me an opportunity in conversation of knowing their daily results. . . Thomas Wharton to [Thomas Walpole], Sep tember 23, 1774, "Selections from the Letter-Books of Thomas Wharton of Phila delphia, 1773-1783,” PMHB 33 (1909) : 446. 579-852 C — 7 Vol. 1


[Page 110]
68 September 12, 1774 Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 12, 1774] 12th. The Sub. Comee. met, made some Progress in stating the Rights and adjourned. (Some No. Carolina Delegates arrived.) 1 MS (RHi) . ’Joseph Hewes and William Hooper. JCC, 1:30. The parenthetical phrase with which this entry ends appears to have been written after the 12th. It is crowded into a comparatively small space in the MS after “adjourned,” the probable initial concluding point of the September 12 entry, but above the first line of Ward’s entry for the 13th. Ward generally kept his diary faithfully, but occasionally he inserted passages which were not composed on the day of the events described. John Adams’ Diary 1774. Septr. 13. Tuesday. Attended my Duty all Day, on the Sub Comtee. Agreed on a Report. 1 MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:133. ’Between his diary entries for September 13 and 14, Adams penned a detached note: “1. & 2. Phil. & Mary. C. 10. ss. 7.” The British statute cited is "An Acte wherby certayne Offences bee made Tresons,” 1554-55, the seventh section of which discusses one of the exemptions of the law. This is one of the few surviving written references that reveals Adams’ interest in statutes relating to treason. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 13, 1774] 13th. The Sub. Comee. met & went on with the Business & ad journed. MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1774. Sept. 14. Wednesday. Visited Mr. Gadsden, Mr. Deane, Coll. Dyer, &c. at their Lodg ings. Gadsden is violent against allowing to Parliament any Power of regulating Trade, or allowing that they have any Thing to do with Us. Power of regulating Trade he says, is Power of ruining us—as bad as acknowledging them a Supream Legislative, in all Cases


[Page 111]
September 14, 1774 69 whatsoever. A Right of regulating Trade is a Right of Legislation, and a Right of Legislation in one Case, is a Right in all. This I deny. Attended the Congress and Committee all the forenoon. Dined with Dr. Cox. Dr. Morgan, Dr. Rush, Mr. Bayard, old Mr. Smith dined with us. Dr. Rush lives upon Water Street and has from the Windows of his back Room and Chamber, a fine Prospect of Dela ware River, and of New Jersey beyond it. The Gentlemen enter tained us, with Absurdities in the Laws of Pensylvania, New Jersey and Maryland. This I find is a genteel Topic of Conversation here. A mighty Feast again, nothing less than the very best of Claret, Mad eira, and Burgundy. Melons, fine beyond description, and Pears and Peaches as excellent. This Day Mr. Chase introduced to us, a Mr. Carrell [Carroll] of Anapolis, a very sensible Gentleman, a Roman catholic, and of the first Fortune in America. 1 His Income is Ten thousand Pounds ster ling a Year, now, will be fourteen in two or 3 years, they say, besides his father has a vast Estate, which will be his, after his father. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:133-34 1 Charles Carroll of Carrollton (1737-1832), Maryland lawyer and statesman. Although his national career did not begin until 1776 with his appointment by Congress as a commissioner to Canada and subsequent election as a delegate. Carroll had gone to Philadelphia on September 6 to monitor the activities of Congress. His observations are contained in three letters to his father, Charles Carroll, Sr., September 7, 9, and 12, 1774. MdHi: Carroll Papers. Although “their debates are kept secret, and the deputies are under a tie of honour not to reveal what passes,” Carroll apparently acquired intimate knowledge of the proceedings and was pleased with his trip. “When I see you,” he continued in his letter of the 12th, “I shall be able to give you a full account of their deliberations.” For a similar claim, made by Thomas Wharton, that affairs of Congress were discussed in the presence of outsiders out-of-doors, see Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney, September 12, 1774, note 3. John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Phyladelphia Septr. 14. 1774 I have written but once to you since I left you. 1 This is to be im puted to a Variety of Causes, which I cannot explain for Want of Time. It would fill Volumes to give you an exact Idea of the whole Tour. My Time is to totally filled from the Moment I get out of Bed, untill I return to it. Visits, Ceremonies, Company, Business, News Papers, Pamphlets &c. &c. &c. The Congress will, to all present Appearance be well united and in such Measures, I hope will give Satisfaction to the Friends of our Country. A Tory here is the most despicable Animal in the Creation. Spi-


[Page 112]
70 September 14, 1774 ders. Toads, Snakes, are their only proper Emblems. The Massachu setts Councillors, and Addressers are held in curious Esteem here, as you will see. The Spirit, the Firmness, the Prudence of our Province are vastly applauded, and We are universally acknowledged the Saviours and Defenders of American Liberty. The Designs, and Plans of the Congress, must not be communicat ed, untill compleated, and We shall move with great Deliberation. When I shall come home I know not, but at present I dont expect to take my Leave of this City these four Weeks. My Compliments, Love, Service where they are due. My Babes are never out of my Mind, nor absent from my Heart. Adieu. John Adams RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:155. 1 Adams had written twice previously on this trip: from Princeton, N. J., August 28, and Philadelphia, September 8. John Adams to William Tudor My Friend Phyladelphia Septr. 14. 1774 I have been so totally taken up, that I dont know whether I have acknowledged your Agreable Letters or not. 1 They have been of Use as well as Amusement to me I assure you. You can hardly conceive the avidity with which your Letter and Mr Trumbulls, and indeed every Scrap of Letter or Newspaper from Boston is read here. You cannot conceive the Esteem and Honour in which the Mass, is held here. While I write this, the Gentlemen Delegates are all around me reading your News Papers. I hear them all around me praising and admiring. By (God) g-d says one, I dont believe there is such a Peo ple in the World!—another Answers him, I really dont think there is so fine a People upon the Globe—So cool, So cautious, so prudent, and yet So unalterably determined. My Dear Friend, pray write to me by every opportunity. Dont wait for Returns from me. I have so much Business—so much Plea sure—so much Ceremony and so much Trifling to do here that I have not Time to write a Line. Yet I will give you a remembrancer when I can. The Congress are well united—but all is secret as yet. We shall do tolerably well. As Choice a Collection as North America can afford, I will an swer for it. Adieu John Adams


[Page 120]
78 September 17, 1774 Instructions as to their future Conduct. The Congress met on that business this day and have Resolved thereon—Which You Will see in the Packet of Munday being ordered imediately to be printed, as Well that the General, as the people might know What they thought of the Matter. If Morris or Henry Stays till Munday I Will Send you the Monday’s paper. Mr. Richard Penn has got Hockley office 1 —about £1200 a Year. Your Accot. of Politicks in Kent as Set forth in Your Letter by Butler, places them in that State I Expected they would be. However do not Doubt but a great Majority of the people Will Show Such a firm Attachment to the Cause in Which I am embarked as (With the assistance of My Real friends) Will defeat their little, Low, Un- greatfull Schemes. 2 If the Shallops go before Munday I shall Inclose you the New York paper of Thursday in this—if not Shall inclose the Mundays paper with it in another Cover. Let me here every thing, by Every opportunity. V. Loockerman will give you accot. of the Enter tainment of Yesterday—by Whom I Wrote Several days ago. Re member me kindly to all friends—and next to Relations, to Doctr. McCall who did not forget me. I am Yrs. Caesar Rodney RC (PHi). 1 Richard Penn, Jr. (1735-1811) , son o£ proprietor Richard Penn and brother of John Penn, lieutenant governor of Pennsylvania. Richard Hockley, merchant, served as receiver general of Pennsylvania, 1753-68, and then assumed the duties of naval officer, which he performed until his death in 1774. His father, Richard, had been a business partner of proprietor Thomas Penn. Nicholas B. Wainwright, “An Indian Trade Failure: The Story of the Hockley, Trent and Croghan Company, 1748-1752,” PMHB 12 (1948) : 352, 372n. 2 In a letter of September 11, 1774, Thomas had warned Caesar that his political opponents were attempting to gain their purpose “of throwinge you off the assembly.” Rodney, Letters (Ryden) , p. 46. Charles Thomson to the Printer of the Pennsylvania Packet Sir, [September 17? 1774] Please to insert in your paper, the following extract from the Min utes of the Congress now sitting at Philadelphia. 1 By Order of the Congress, Charles Thomson, Secretary MS not found; reprinted from Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet, or the General Advertiser, September 19, 1774. 1 The “extract from the Minutes” printed in the Packet included the Suffolk County Resolves, the county’s address to Gen. Thomas Gage, and the two resolu tions supporting Massachusetts passed by Congress September 17. JCC, 1:31-40. See also Peyton Randolph to Joseph Warren, September 17, 1774.


[Page 121]
September 18, 1774 79 Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 17, 1774] 17th. The Congress met, considered the Situation &: Conduct of the County of Suffolk, approved their Conduct & recommended to them to persevere according to their Resolutions as formed at a late County Meeting and recommended to the sevral Colonies to continue Donations as long as necessary. (Mr. Hopkins sick.) MS (RHi). John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Phyladelphia Septr. 18. 1774 I received your very agreable Letter, by Mr. Marston, and have received two others, which gave me much Pleasure. I have wrote sev eral Letters, but whether they have reached you I know not. There is so much Rascallity in the Management of Letters, now come in Fashion, that I am determined to write nothing of Consequence, not even to the Friend of my Bosom, but by Conveyances which I can be sure of. The Proceedings of the Congress, are all a profound Secret, as yet, except two Votes which were passed Yesterday, and ordered to be printed. You will see them from every Quarter. These Votes were passed in full Congress with perfect Unanimity. The Esteem, the Affection, the Admiration, for the People of Bos ton and the Massachusetts, which were expressed Yesterday, And the fixed Determination that they should be supported, were enough to melt an Heart of Stone. I saw the Tears gush into the Eyes of the old, grave, pacific Quakers of Pensylvania. You cannot conceive my Dear, the Harry of Business, Visits and Ceremonies which we are obliged to go through. We have a delicate Course to steer, between too much Activity and too much Insensibility, in our critical interested situation. I flat ter myself however, that We shall conduct our Embassy in such a manner as to merit the Approbation of our Country. It has taken Us much Time to get acquainted with the Tempers, Views, Characters, and Designs of Persons and to let them into the Circumstances of our Province. My dear do, intreat every Friend I have to write me. Every Line which comes from our Friends is greedily enquired after, and our Letters have done us vast service. Middlesex and Suffolk have acquired unbounded Honour here. There is No Idea of Submission, here in any Bodies head.


[Page 125]
September 19, 1774 83 Arrival in this City. Our Friend Mr Quincy informd me before I left Boston of his Intention to take a Passage for England. I am perswad- ed he may do great Service to our Country there. Agreable to his and your Request I have desired Gentlemen here to make him known to their Friends and Correspondents. Last Fryday Mr Revere brought us the spirited and patriotick Resolves of our County of Suffolk. We laid them before the Congress. They were read with great Applause, and the inclosed Resolutions were unanimously passed, which give you a faint Idea of the Spirit of the Congress. 2 I think I may assure you that America will make a point of supporting Boston to the Ut most. I have not time to enlarge, & must therefore conclude with as suring you that I am with great Regard Your affectionate Humble Servant Samuel Adams RC (MHi) . 1 Charles Chauncy (1705-87) , Congregational minister of the First Church in Boston and one of the most influential religious leaders in New England. DAB; and Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 6:439-60. 3 JCC, 1:39-40. Thomas Cushing to Richard Devens and Isaac Foster, Jr. Gentlemen Boston [i.e., Philadelphia] Sept. 19. 1774 We have received your Favor of the 5th Instant inclosing a Copy of the Proceedings of the Comttee from the Several Towns & districts in the County of Middlesex and communicated them to the Congress. 1 The Members of the Congress were highly pleased with your Resolutions 8c much applaud The Wisdom, temperance and Fortitude of your Conduct but as at the time your Proceedings came to hand the Congress were very Busy 8c several large Committees were closely engaged upon matters of great Importance there was then no opportunity particularly to take under Consideration the State of the Province of the Massachusetts Bay. However on the 16 Instant an Express arrived 8c brought us the Resolutions of the Coun ty of Suffolk and as in the Letter Accompaning them there was an express application to the Congress for advice, The affairs of the Massachusetts were immediately taken up 8c several Resolutions passed, 2 which I now Inclose, approving of the Wisdom 8c Fortitude with which our People in general had Conducted the opposition to the late ministerial Measures. And we trust, they will strengthen the hands 8c Comfort the hearts of the Freinds to American Liberty as well as Confound 8c Discomfit its Enemies. In great haste I am in be- 579-852 0 - 77 - 8 Vol. 1


[Page 131]
September 21, 1774 89 principally relied on, as related in a letter to you from Col. Mat thews, the chairman, might seem to be in a great measure invalidated by his certificate as chairman “at a meeting of the inhabitants of the precincts of Goshen and Cornwall.” And Mr. De Hart’s certificate might probably pass for those others of the county. Upon the whole it was our unanimous opinion that we could not with any prospect of success oppose Mr. Wisner’s qualifications on the evidence we were yet possessed of, but to wait for the vouchers which you seem so de termined to exhibit against him, which we must submit to your dis cretion. MS not found; reprinted from Franklin Burdge, A Second Memorial of Henry Wisner (New York: Privately Printed, 1898), pp. 15-16. ’John Haring and Henry Wisner were elected as delegates for Orange County on August 16 at a meeting “of all the Committees of the County of Orange," reportedly attended by only 20 of the county’s estimated 1,000 eligible freeholders. Wisner, perhaps in an effort to broaden his support, had his election confirmed on September 3 at a meeting of the inhabitants of the Orange County precincts of Goshen and Cornwall, after which he went to Philadelphia and took his seat in Congress on the 14th. Wisner won this second election by only two votes, however, and then alledgedly only through some electoral irregularities, which William Wickham and David Matthews, both conservatives, described to Low in a letter of September 16, now lost. Wisner managed to overcome the complaints of Wickham and Matthews, as Low goes on to explain here, by producing certificates attesting to the validity of his joint election with Haring in August and his own confirmato ry election in September. Hence he retained his seat and was joined on the 26th by Haring, who was then admitted to Congress. Burnett, who in this respect was otherwise very scrupulous, knew that Wisner attended the First Congress but failed to mention it in his record of Wisner’s service as a delegate. Burnett, Letters, l:lvii, 17n.l5; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:879; NYHS Collections 10 (1878): 367; and Burdge, Second Memorial, p. 15. "There are facsimile reprints of these certificates in G. Franklin Wisner, The Wisners in America and their Kindred: A Genealogical and Biographical History (Baltimore: Privately Printed, 1918) , pp. 25, 27. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 20, 1774] 20th. The Comee. met, resumed &c, and adjourned. (Mr. Hopkins sick.) MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1774. Wednesday. Septr. 21. Captn. Callender came to breakfast with Us. Coll. Dagworthy and


[Page 133]
September 23, 1774 91 1 In their diary entries for this date, both Robert Treat Paine and George Washington explicitly noted their presence at Chews’ dinner. Robert Treat Paine’s diary, September 22, 1774, MHi; Washington, Diaries (Fitzpatrick) , 2:165. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 22, 1774] 22nd. The Congress met, made & ordered publick a Request to the Merchts. not to import & also to direct a delay of Orders already sent until the Congress came to Resolutions on that Point. 1 The Comee. met afterwards. MS (RHi) . 1 For the text of this resolution, see JCC, 1:41. John Adams’ Diary 1774. Fryday. Sept. 23. Walked along Second Street Southward, untill I got out of the City into the Country. The Uniformity of this City is dissagreable to some. I like it. Dined with the late C[hief] Justice Allen—with all the Gentlemen from North Carolina, and Mr. Hambleton [Hamilton], late Gover nor—and Mr. Andrew Allen Attorney General. We had much Conversation, about Mr. Franklin. The C[hief] J[ustice] and Attorney General had much droll Chat together. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:136-37. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Friday 23d. Sepr. 1774 My last by S Webb brought Me down to Tuesday of this week, the 22dd when he left Us, much regretted by the Younger Lodgers in the Family and I assure You, not a little miss’d, by a Numerous, & I may add a very genteel acquaintance in the City. I told you in my Last That I could not in future be so particular, but as I gave you a sketch of the S. Carolina, &: Virginia Delegates and the North Caroli na being now arrived I will fill up the space by telling You there are Three of Them, Mr. Hooper, Mr. Caswell, &: Mr. [Hewes]. 2 The first is a Bostonian bred & Educated at Cambridge College, Class mate with Jos. Trumbull: a Lawyer by profession, ingenious, polite,


[Page 141]
September 25, 1774 99 that. The Remainder of the Day is necessary for Relaxation & my Eyes are such I dont think it prudent to write by Candle Light. I fear my Friends will take it unkindly &: how to help it I know not but shall comply with their Expectations as much as possible. Give my most affectionate Regards to your Aunts and to all my immediate Connections. I reed, a kind Letter from Mr. Ethan Clarke but could write him nothing certain, in my next may be able. May God of his infinite Mercy preserve You from all evil and lead You in the Way everlasting. Your most affectionate Father Sam: Ward [P.S.] I say nothing about my own Business because of the Sabbath. 3 RC (RHi) . Addressed: "To Mr. Samuel Ward Junr. In (Rhode Island) Westerly." 1 A reference to the death on September 8 of Ward’s eldest daughter, Hannah. See Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr., September 9, 1774. “Very likely these were broadsides containing Congress' resolution of September 22, requesting American merchants to suspend importations of British goods until Congress had publicly announced “the means to be taken for the preservation of the liberties of America." For a facsimile reproduction of the broadside with the September 22 resolution see the page facing JCC, 1:42. 3 Ward was a Sabbatarian Baptist who observed the Sabbath on Saturday. Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg), p. 20; Frank S. Mead, Handbook of Denominations in the United States, 2d ed. rev. (New York: Abingdon Press, 1961) , pp. 50-51. John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Phyladelphia Septr. 25. 1774 1 I would not loose the Opportunity of writing to you—tho I must be short. Tedious, indeed is our Business. Slow, as Snails. I have not been used to such Ways. We sit only before Dinner. We dine at four O Clock. We are crowded with a Levee in the Evening. Fifty Gentlemen meeting together, all Strangers, are not acquaint ed with Each others Language, Ideas, Views, Designs. They are therefore jealous, of each other—fearfull, timid, skittish,— 2 RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:162-63. 1 Adams’ activities this Sunday included attendance at a Quaker Meeting and supper at the home of Stephen Collins. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) ,2:137. “This unfinished letter was probably not sent; it bears no seal, address, or endorsement. 579-852 0 - 77 - 9 Vol. 1


[Page 143]
September 25, 1774 101 Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [September 25, 1774] Fine day. A.M. [Wind Rains?] Stopped. P.M. to Quaker Meet ing. General Meeting of Quakers in Philada. Evening reed letters from J. Greenleaf, B. Kent & J. Palmer. MS (MHi) . George Read to Gertrude Read Sunday Morning half past 7 O’Clock [September 25? 1774] 1 My dear Gitty This being Sunday Morning I was in hopes Betsey Biddle wou’d have set off to see you but she went to Pat. Turners yesterday &: did not return last Evening. I have not seen her since this day Week though we are in the same Street and hardly A Square’s distance. The day is Consumed in this Way—Shaving, Washing, breakfasting, waiting an Hour for the Barber’s coming, near half an Hour under his hands—running to the Congress, sitting there ’till 3 O’Clock then running to dine upon Invitation—waiting an hour before dinner ap pears—then running home to avoid the Night Air. Not A moment to spare is disagreeable yet very little in all the bustle. We are wide of our business. I shall send the Carriage down this Week that you may return with it when you please but think the sooner the better on Ac count of the Weather. This is to go by Mr. Barclay who is waiting. I dine to day at Gurney’s where I expect to meet Mr. Biddle—tomor row at Mr. Dickinson’s a 2d time and Wednesday at Mr. Rd. Penn’s &c. This is tiresome duty. Prepare to come up as I wish to see You. I cannot come to you but conclude abruptly yours most Affectly. Geo. Read RC (MdHi photostat) . 1 Read’s remarks indicate that he wrote this letter during September, but after he had been in Philadelphia some time. Since he wrote another letter to Mrs. Read on September 18, he must have written this one September 25. Richard Penn entertained the delegates (an invitation mentioned by Read) on Wednesday, September 28. John Adams’ Diary, September 28, 1774. George Washington to Joseph Chew Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sept. 25. 1774 It would have given me sincere pleasure to have serv’d you in your request of March the 10th (which by the by did not come to my


[Page 146]
104 September 26, 1774 The Sugar carries the greatest Revenue—the Rum a great deal. If you dont stop the Lumber immediately, you cant stop it at all. If it takes Place immediately, they cant send home their next Years Crop. A Non Exportation at a future day, cannot avail us. What is the Situation of Boston and the Massachusetts. A Non Exportation at the Virginia Day, will not opperate before the fall 1766 [1776], I[t] would not affect the Trade of the Colonies to the Mediterra nean or other Parts of the World. I am for a more distant Day than the first of November. Mr. Linch. We want not only Redress, but speedy Redress. The Mass, cant live without Government I think one Year. Nothing less than what has been proposed, by the Gentleman last speaking, will put the Colonies in the State I wish to see them in. I believe the Par liament would grant us immediate Relief. Bankrupcy would be the Consequence if they did not. Mr. Gadsden. By saving our own Liberties, we shall save those of the West Indies. I am for being ready, but I am not for the sword. The only Way to prevent the sword from being used is to have it ready. ’Tho the Virginians are tied up, I would be for doing it without them. Boston and New England cant hold out—the Country will be del uged in Blood, if We dont Act with Spirit. Dont let America look at this Mountain, and let it bring forth a Mouse. Mr. Chace. We cant come into a Non Exportation immediately without Virginia. Mr. Cushing. For a Non Importation, Non Exportation and Non Consumption, and immediately. Coll. Bland. It has been our Glory [. . . .] 2 Mr. Hooper. We make some Tobacco. I was instructed to Protest vs. Petitioning alone. Tar, Pitch, and Turpentine We can ship nowhere but to Great Britain. The whole of the Subsistence of the People in the Southern Parts, are from naval Stores. G. Britain cannot do without Naval Stores, from N. Carolina. Mr. Ed. Rutledge. A Gentleman from the other End of the Room talked of Generosity. True Equality is the only public Generosity. If Virginia raises Wheat instead of Tobacco they will not suffer. Our Rice is an enumerated Commodity. We shall therefore loose all our Trade. I am both for Non Im and Exportation to take Place immediately. Mr. Henry. We dont mean to hurt even our Rascalls—if We have any. I move that December may be inserted instead of November.


[Page 149]
September 27, 1774 107 fering to raise 200,000 £. St[erling] annually and to appropriate it to the maintenance of a Ship of War. But is not this Surrendering our Liberty? I have not Time however to discuss these Questions, at present. I hope to have the Pleasure of considering these Things in private Conversation. Mean Time, I pray God to direct assist and protect you, and all our Friends, amidst the Dangers that Surround you. Am glad to hear Mr. Cranch is about taking Refuge at Braintree. I wish every living Creature, except the Tories, was well provided for in the Country. My Respects to all your worthy Family. I remain, with great Respect your Friend & humb Sevt John Adams 1 RC (MeHi) . 1 In his diary Adams recorded these activities for the day. “Dined at old Dr. Shippens with Mr. And Mrs. Blair, young Dr. Shippen, the Jersey Delegates and some Virginians. Afterwards went to the Hospital and heard another Lecture upon Anatomy, from young Dr. Shippen.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:137. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [September 26, 1774] Fine weather. Dind Dr. Shippen. P.M. went to Hospital. Wrote to J. Greenleaf, Dr. Cobb. MS (MHi) . Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 26, 1774] 26th. The Congress met agreed upon non Importation 1 & ad- journd. MS (RHi) . 1 Although Congress generally agreed on the desirability of nonimportation in its debates on September 26, not until the next day did it approve a formal resolution in favor of this action. John Adams’ Notes of Debates, September 26-27, 1774; JCC, 1:42-13. Samuel Adams’ Notes on Trade [September 27? 1774] 1 A Suspension of our Trade with G B will leave the Value of 2 Million Sterling in Manufactures & India goods on their hands. > /


[Page 150]
108 September 27, 1774 It will shorten the Revenue near one million, one half of which arises from Tobacco. It will deprive them of many raw Materials viz Indigo, potash, Lumber, Iron, Pitch, Tar 8cc. A Suspension of Trade with the W Indies—they will want Lumber to save their Crops—provision to feed their Slaves—Horses to work their Lands. Britain will feel it severely, for many Plantations are ownd there—those which are ownd in the West Indies owe to British Merchts one Crop before it is made. Stoping Exportation of Flax Seed to Ireland will put at least 300,000 Linnen Manufacturers out of Employ—34000 hhds are usualy exported from America in the Winter—the Irish can get but little from Holland or elsewhere—half the Irish Linnen Manufacture is due to G B before it is made. Many Gentn 8c members of Par in Engd own Estates in Ireland. MS (NN). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 After devoting several days to "consideration of the general state of American rights,” the delegates decided on September 24 to "deliberate on the means most proper to be pursued for a restoration of our rights,” and on September 26-27 discussed suspension of trade with Britain as a "means” to be used to obtain restoration of those rights. On the 27th Congress resolved to begin nonimportation effective December 1, 1774, and on the 30th voted to prohibit "the exportation of all merchandize and every commodity whatsoever to Great Britain, Ireland and the West Indies” effective September 10, 1775. JCC, 1:42—43, 51—52. Simultaneously a committee was appointed to prepare a plan to carry these resolves into effect, and at various times during the following week Congress debated a motion for the immediate suspension of certain exports upon which Britain was particularly dependent—a proposal that was not finally rejected until October 6. It was surely in the context of weighing the impact of a suspension of trade with Britain that Adams drafted these notes, but it is not known when or for what specific purpose they were prepared, although it seems more likely that they were written before rather than after the nonimportation resolution of September 27 was adopted. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 27? 1774] 27th. The Congress met 8c conside[re]d non Imp [ortatio] n 8c non Exp[ortatio]n. 1 MS (RHi) . J Ward probably wrote this passage on September 30 or October 1. The passage itself has been inserted into a small space in the MS between Ward’s entries for September 26 and 28. Since Ward initially misdated his diary entries for September 28, 29, and 30 one day too early and did not rectify his error until September 30 or October I, the obvious conclusion is that at this time Ward also realized that he had made no entry for September 27 and inserted the entry printed above.


[Page 151]
September 28, 1774 109 John Adams’ Diary 1774. Wednesday. Sept. 28. Dined with Mr. R. Penn. A magnificent House, and a most splen did Feast, and a very large Company. Mr. Dickinson and General Lee were there, and Mr. Moiland [Moylan], besides a great Num ber of the Delegates. Spent the Evening at Home, with Coll. Lee, Coll. Washington 1 and Dr. Shippen who came in to consult with us. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:140. 1 George Washington’s diary for this day reads: "Dined at Mr. Edward Ship pen’s. Spent the afternn. with the Boston Gentn.” Washington, Diaries (Fitzpat rick) , 2:165. John Adams’ Notes of Debates [September 28, 1774] Mr. Galloway. The Proposal I intended to make having been op posed, I have waited to hear a more effectual one. A general Non Importation from G. Britain and Ireland has been adopted, but I think this will be too gradual in its Operation for the Relief of Bos ton. A General Non Exportation, I have ever looked on as an indigest ed Proposition. It is impossible America can exist, under a total Non Exportation. We in this Province should have tens of Thousands of People thrown upon the cold Hand of Charity. Our Ships would lie by the Walls, our Seamen would be thrown out of Bread, our Ship wrights &c. out of Employ and it would affect the landed Interest. It would weaken us in another Struggle which I fear is too near. To explain my Plan I must state a Number of facts relative to Great Britain, and relative to America. I hope no facts which I shall state will be disagreable. In the last War, America was in the greatest Danger of Destruc tion. This was held up by the Massachusetts] and by the Congress in 1754. They said We are disunited among ourselves. Their is no in different Arbiter between us. Requisitions came over. A No. of the Colonies gave most exten sively and liberally, other [s] gave nothing, or late. Pensylvania gave late, not for Want of Zeal or Loyalty, but owing to their Disputes, with Proprietors—their disunited State. These Delinquencies were handed up to the Parent State, and these gave Occasion to the Stamp Act. America with the greatest Reason and Justice complained of the Stamp Act.


[Page 152]
no September 28, 1774 Had they proposed some Plan of Policy—some Negociation but set afoot, it would have terminated in the most happy Harmony be tween the two Countries. They repealed the Stamp Act, but they passed the declaratory Act. Without some Supream Legislature, some common Arbiter, you are not, say they, part of the State. I am as much a friend of Liberty [as] exists—and No Man shall go further, in Point of Fortune, or in Point of Blood, than the Man who now addresses you. Burlamaqui, Grotius, Puffendorf, Hooker. There must be an Un ion of Wills and Strength. Distinction between a State and a Multi tude. A State is animated by one Soul. As We are not within the Circle of the Supream Jurisdiction of the Parliament, We are independent States. The Law of Great Britain dont bind us in any Case whatever. We want the Aid and Assistance and Protection of the Arm of our Mother Country. Protection And Allegiance are reciprocal Duties. Can We lay claim to the Money and Protection of G. Britain upon any Principles of Honour or Conscience? Can We wish to become Aliens to the Mother State. We must come upon Terms with G. Britain. Some Gentlemen are not for Negociation. I wish I could hear some Reason against it. The Minister must be at 20, or 30 millions to inforce his Meas ures. I propose this Proposition. The Plan. 2 Classes of Laws. 1. Laws of Internal Policy. 2. Laws in which more than one Colony were con cerned, raising Money for War. No one Act can be done, without the Assent of Great Britain. No one without the Assent of America. A British American Legislature. Mr. Duane. As I mean to second this Motion, I think myself bound to lay before the Congress my Reasons. N. York thought it necessary to have a Congress for the Relief of Boston and Mass. And to do more, to lay a Plan for a lasting Accommodation with G. Brit ain. Whatever may have been the Motive for departing from the first Plan of the Congress, I am unhappy that We have departed from it. The Post Office Act was before the Year 1763. Can we expect last ing Tranquility. I have given my full Assent to a Non Im and Expor tation Agreement. The Right of regulating Trade, from the local Circumstances of the Colonies, and their Disconnection with each other, cannot be ex ercised by the Colonies. Mass, disputed the Navigation Act, because not represented, but made a Law of their own, to inforce that Act.


[Page 153]
September 28, 1774 111 Virginia did the same nearly. I think Justice requires that we should expressly ceed to Parlia ment the Right of regulating Trade. In the Congress in 1754 which consisted of the greatest and best Men in the Colonies, this was considered as indispensable. A civil War with America, would involve a national Bankruptcy. Coll. Lee. How did We go on for 160 Years before the Year 1763? We flourished and grew. This Plan would make such Changes in the Legislatures of the Col onies that I could not agree to it, without consulting my Constituents. Mr. Jay. I am led to adopt this Plan. It is objected that this Plan will alter our Constitutions and there fore cannot be adopted without consulting Constituents. Does this Plan give up any one Liberty?—or interfere with any one Right. Mr. Henry. The original Constitution of the Colonies, was founded on the broadest and most generous Base. The Regulation of Our Trade, was Compensation enough for all the Protection we ever experienced from her. We shall liberate our Constituents from a corrupt House of Com mons, but thro them into the Arms of an American Legislature that may be bribed by that Nation which avows in the Face of the World, that Bribery is a Part of her System of Government. Before We are obliged to pay Taxes as they do, let us be as free as they. Let us have our Trade open with all the World. We are not to consent by the Representatives of Representatives. I am inclined to think the present Measures lead to War. Mr. Ed. Rutledge. I came with an Idea of getting a Bill of Rights, and a Plan of permanent Relief. I think the Plan may be freed from almost every objection. I think it almost a perfect Plan. Mr. Galloway. In every Govennment, Patriarchal, Monarchical, Aristocratical or democratical, there must be a Supream Legislature. I know of no American Constitution. A Virginia Constitution, a Pensylvanian Constitution We have. We are totally independent of each other. Every Gentleman here thinks, that Parliament ought to have the Power over Trade, because Britain protects it and us. Why then will we not declare it. Because Parliament and Ministry is wicked, and corrupt and will take Advantage of such Declaration to tax us—and will also Reason from this Acknowledgment, to further Power over us. Answer. We shall not be bound further than We acknowledge it. Is it not necessary that the Trade of the Empire should be regulat ed by some Power or other? Can the Empire hold together, without


[Page 156]
114 September 28, 1774 Secretary Thomson’s Journal of Congress


[Page 157]
September 28, 1774 115 579-852 O - 77 - 10 Vol. I


[Page 158]
116 September 28, 1774 Benjamin Franklin’s plan of confederation, introduced July 21, 1775, which had a reception similar to that accorded Galloway’s plan. JCC, 2:194-99; and Benjamin Harrison to Unknown, November 24, 1775. Thomson’s notation, following his September 27 entry and marked for insertion at the point of his "x”—"Wednesday. Here insert Mr. Galloway’s motion & plan”—was probably meant only as a copyist’s instruction and was obviously added and lined out after he made the entry for September 30. Of course Galloway, as a member of the committee appointed October 21 "to revise the minutes of the Congress,” would have seen this deletion. JCC, 1:101. It is understandable that he would have been distressed, particularly since on October 22 the delegates rejected a motion to reconsider the plan, and even that he later portrayed himself to governors William Franklin and Cadwal- lader Colden as the victim of a conspiracy. But if he pardonably exaggerated his treatment in his reports to high-ranking royal officials and in various pamphlets written during the next six years, he was not the only delegate who could have denounced Congress for ignoring his proposed recommendations. Little evidence survives to explain the circumstances which led to rejection of the motion to reconsider his plan on October 22. Perhaps the most telling is to be found in the exchange that took place between John Dickinson and Charles Thomson on the one hand and Galloway on the other, early in 1775. In a lengthy rebuttal to Galloway’s Candid Examination, which they submitted to the Pennsyl vania Journal; and the Weekly Advertiser, March 8, 1775, Dickinson and Thomson provided some interesting details which merit equal consideration with Galloway’s story. "Much has been said against the Congress, for rejecting this plan. The matter, I am told, stands thus—When it was first introduced in Congress, most of the members heard it with horror—as an idle, dangerous, whimsical, ministerial plan. Some of the ‘Pennsylvania Oracles,’ Friends, with whom infinite pains had been taken before hand, moved to have it committed. This was rejected, then, a motion was made that the plan might lye on the table to be taken up at any future day. This was carried in the affirmative. When the minutes came to be revised, towards the end of the sitting, the Plan was omitted. Here the patriot [Galloway] raged—and insisted on his right to have it on the Minutes. The question was put, and a great majority thought the inserting it in the Journal would be disgracing their records, and accordingly rejected it. Certainly, in such a Society, every question must, of course, be determined by a majority. If then a majority were of opinion, that the inserting it on their Journal would be disgrace ful and injurious, they unquestionably had a right to reject it. If his plan was defencible, why did he not enter into the argument with a Gentleman from Virginia who challenged him to it, and who said, he could prove it to be big with destruction to the Colonies? ’Tis true he did, when thus called upon, say, that he would defend it, if the Congress would appoint a day for that purpose. But this, Sir, was when all was hurry, and the forms of business only, delayed their breaking up.” For Galloway’s "reply” to Dickinson and Thomson, and further discussion of the entire exchange, see Joseph Galloway, A Reply to an Address to the Author of a Pamphlet, entitled, ‘A Candid Examination of the Mutual Claims of Great Britain and her Colonies,’ &c. (New York: James Rivington, 1775) ; Julian P. Boyd, Anglo-American Union: Joseph Galloway’s Plans to Preserve the British Empire, 1774-1788 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1941) , pp. 45-50; and Robert M. Calhoon, "’I Have Deduced Your Rights’: Joseph Galloway’s Concept of His Role, 1774-1775," Pennsylvania History 35 (October 1968) : 372-73. Finally, in addition to the sources noted above and the account Galloway elaborated in his 1780 statement printed below, another account that he sent to two Philadelphia newspapers in April 1775 also bears significantly on the consider ation given his plan. In response to a charge appearing in William and Thomas Bradford’s Pennsylvania Journal; and the Weekly Advertiser on April 5, 1775—that


[Page 159]
September 28, 1774 117 Galloway claimed credit not due him and that Benjamin Franklin (at the Albany Congress in 1754) was the true author of the plan—Galloway asserted that Frank lin’s name had been deliberately associated with the plan when it was circulated among the delegates in Congress. “I shall offer but one argument more in vindication . . . that he [Galloway, speaking in the third person] could entertain no design of taking from Doctor Franklin, or the Congress of 1754, the merit of the first [plan], He carried with him to the Congress the plan of 1754, with the reasons, under every article, which induced the then Commissioners to adopt them, in the Doctor’s own writing. He shewed it to several of the members, as the plan proposed by the Doctor, and agreed to by the Commissioners. He delivered it to one of the Delegates, without the least injunction or reserve. From that Delegate it passed into the hands of several others, until the gentleman to whom it was first delivered could not, for some time, discover in whose hands to find it. This was done to enable the members to compare the two plans, to digest the better the one then proposed, and if any addition could be made to it, that it might be done when it should be taken into consideration agreeable to the rule of the Congress [i.e., to the motion to reconsider the plan]." The Pennsylvania Gazette, April 26, 1775; and Story & Humphreys’s Pennsylvania Mercury, and Universal Advertiser, April 28, 1775. Joseph Galloway’s Plan of Union [September 28, 1774] A plan of a proposed Union between Great Britain and the Colonies of New Hampshire, The Massachusets Bay, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pensylvania, Maryland, the three lower Counties on Delaware, Virginia, North-Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. 1 That a British and American Government 2 for regulating the Ad ministration of the general Affairs of America be proposed and es tablished in America, including all the said Colonies: within and un der which Government each Colony shall retain its present Constitu tion and powers of regulating and governing its own internal Police in all Cases whatsoever. That the said Government be administer’d by a president General to be appointed by the King and a Grand Council to be chosen by the Representatives of the people of the several Colonies in their re spective Assemblies, once in every three years. That the several Assemblies shall choose Members for the Grand Council in the following Proportions—Viz. New Hampshire Massachusets Bay Rhode Island Connecticut New York New Jersey Pensylvania


[Page 169]
September 28, 1774 127 non-importation agreement; because whatever protestations, in that case, may be made to the contrary, it will prove to the world, that we intend to throw off our allegiance to the State, and to involve the two countries in all the horrors of a civil war. “With a view to promote the measure I have so earnestly recom mended, 1 have prepared the draught of a plan for uniting America more intimately, in constitutional polity, with Great Britain. It con tains the great outlines or principles only, and will require many ad ditions in case those should be approved. I am certain, when dispas sionately considered, it will be found to be the most perfect union in power and liberty with the Parent State, next to a representation in Parliament, and 1 trust it will be approved of by both countries. In forming it, I have been particularly attentive to the rights of both; and I am confident that no American, who wishes to continue a sub ject of the British State which is what we all uniformly profess, can of fer any reasonable objection against it. “I shall not enter into a further explanation of its principles, but shall reserve my sentiments until the second reading, with which I hope it will be favoured.” The introductory motion being seconded, the Plan was presented and read. Warm and long debates immediately ensued on the ques tion, Whether it should be entered in the proceedings of Congress, or be referred to further consideration. All the men of property, and most of the ablest speakers, supported the motion, while the republi can party strenuously opposed it. The question was at length carried by a majority of one Colony. Reprinted from Joseph Galloway, Historical and Political Reflections on the Rise and Progress of the American Rebellion (London: G. Wilkie, 1780) , pp. 65-81. 1 Although Galloway wrote this account several years after the events described, a fact to be carefully considered when evaluating his remarks, the passage reprint ed here has been dated September 28 to focus on the speech he made in behalf of his plan of union. This reconstruction of that speech, he explained, "is taken from his short notes.” Historical and Political Reflections, p. 70. For further background on Galloway’s submission of his plan, plus a discussion of comparisons between this version and John Adams’ Notes of Debates, this date, see Julian P. Boyd, Anglo-American Union: Joseph Galloway’s Plans to Preserve the British Empire, 1774-1788 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1941) , pp. 32-38. “That is, by Joseph Galloway. 3 Cf. John Adams’ Notes of Debates, this date, where Galloway is reported to have said, "America with the greatest Reason and Justice complained of the Stamp Act.” ‘John Adams wrote that Galloway claimed: “I am as much a friend of Liberty [as] exists—and No Man shall go further, in Point of Fortune, or in Point of Blood, than the Man who now addresses you.” Ibid.


[Page 172]
130 September 29, 1774 This occasions infinite Delays. We are under obligations of Secre cy in every Thing except the Single Vote which you have Seen ap proving the Resolutions of the County of Suffolk. What Effect this Vote may have with you is uncertain. What you will do, God knows. You Say you look up to the Congress. It is well you Should: but I hope you will not expect too much from Us. The Delegates here are not Sufficiently acquainted with our Pr[ovince] and with the Circumstances you are in, to form a Judg ment [o/] what Course it is proper for you to take. They Start at one Thought of taking up the old Charter. They Shudder at the Prospect of Blood. Yet they are unanimously and unalterably against your Submission, to any of the Acts for a Single Moment. You See by this What they are for—vizt, that you Stand Stock Still, and live without Government, or Law. At least for the present and as long as you can. I have represented to them, whenever I see them, the Utter Impossibility, of four hundred Thousand People ex isting long with[ou]t a Legislature or Courts of Justice. They all Seem to acknowledge it: Yet nothing can be as yet accomplished. We hear, perpetually, the most figurative Panegyricks upon our Wisdom Fortitude and Temperance: The most fervent Exhortations to perseverance, But nothing more is done. I may venture to tell you, that I believe We Shall agree to N. Imp., N. Consumption, and Non Exportation, but not to commence so soon as I could wish. Indeed all this would be insufficient, for our Purpose—a more ad equate Support, and Relief to the Massachusetts Should be adopted —But I tremble for fear, We should fail of obtaining it. There is however a most laudable Zeal, and an excellent Spirit, which every Day increases, especially in this City. The Quakers had a General Meeting here last Sunday, and are deeply affected with the Complexion of the Times. They have recommended it to all their People to renounce Tea, and indeed the People of this City of all De nominations have laid it generally aside Since our Arrival here. They are about Setting up Companys of Cadets, voluntarily. &c &c &c. It is the universal opinion here that the General, Gage, is in the Horrors, and that he means only to act upon the Defensive. How well this opinion is founded you, can judge better than I. I must beseech you to Shew this Letter to no Man, in whom you have not the most perfect Confidence. It may do a great deal of Mis chief. We have had numberless Prejudices to remove here. We have been obliged to act, with great Delicacy and Caution. We have been obliged to keep ourselves out of Sight, and to feel Pulses, and Sound the Depths—to insinuate our Sentiments, Designs and Desires by means of other Persons, Sometimes of one Province and Sometimes


[Page 174]
132 September 30, 1774 lent in Great Britain prove too clearly that Americans have can have little well grounded Hope of Defence, Protection or Security from anything but their own wisdom ir Valour, Frugality and Industry, in Times to come, Resolved that it be recommended to all the Colonies, to establish by Provincial Laws, where it can be done, a regular well furnished, and disciplined Militia, and where it cannot be done by Law, by vol untary Associations, and private Agreements. Resolved that it be recommended to all the Colonies, to encour age Arts Manufactures and Agriculture, by all Means in their Power, and for this End to establish in each Colony a distinct Socie ty-) MS (MHi) . In the hand of John Adams and endorsed by Charles Thomson: "J. Adams’ Motion Sept. 30th.” 1 These resolutions were drafted in the midst of a continuing debate on nonex portation. Although they were not endorsed at this time, key elements appeared in later instructions and resolutions adopted by Congress. JCC, 1:52; and Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:144n. a Phrases from this resolve were used in Congress’ instructions to the committee to prepare a letter to General Gage on October 7. JCC, 1:57. 3 Parts of this paragraph were included in the October 8 resolve of Congress on American opposition to the use of British force in Massachusetts. JCC, 1:58. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [September 30, 1774] Fine day. Dined Mr. [Jere.?] Smith. This Month has been remarkably cool [for the?] Season Sc [suny?] days. The Congress has sett day by day from 9 oClock AM to 3 PM. MS (MHi) . Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 30, 1774] 30th. The Congress met, went on with Means &c. MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1774. Saturday [October 1] Dined with Mr. Webster. Spent the Evening with Stephen Collins.


[Page 177]
October 1, 1774 135 Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. My dear Children Philadelphia 1st Octr. 1774 Sammy’s Letter by last Post I have the Pleasure of and did design to have wrote yesterday and given some general directions about Business but could not get Time We rose so late from Business. The manner in which I live is so different from that to which I have been long used to that it incommoded Me vastly at first but Na ture kindly gives Way to Necessity & I can bear it as well again as at first. I am very well & think there is little or no Danger of the small Pox. We have much good Company here and have every Thing around us in the most elegant Taste but I am confirmed in the Opinion I have long been of that Happiness does not depend upon any Thing without Us. I have seen a man worth £50000 law[ful] m[one]y very unhappy in his Coach, a Rival in the public Eye, an imprudent Step in an only Child embitter all his Pleasures, and with Regard to myself though I am much pleased with the noble Sentiments 8c Ardor of some of the Congress, the Consciousness of my having come here upon the best Principles and having invariably pursued the public Good give me a much greater Satisfaction than every thing else, and the Pleasure of being with & taking Care of my little Tribe is much greater than all the Grandeur 8c Gaiety around Me can inspire. Again I think much of the noble Pleasures of Religion of the Worship of God in my own Family & in his House and long to share those truly important Re real Pleasures with you Re my Brethren Re Friends but Providence has pointed out this as the Scene of Action at present and I pray that I may [be] enabled to see Re do my Duty. Besides seeing Mr. Davis twice one of our Brethren of his Church was to see Me. He appeared to be a very modest good Man, my De sire is very great to visit them but whether I can conveniently do it is very uncertain. The Congress have come to a Resolution that a Non Importation Re non exportation Agreement shall take Place, [the fi]rst on 1st Deer, next, the last not until 10th Sepr. 1775. I lament its being post poned so late 8c did all I could to prevent it. Flaxseed will not be al lowed to be exported I think. I am in hopes we shall rise in a Fortnight or three Weeks but can form no Judgment with Certainty. There is a Vessel here which will sail for Newport this Week com ing 8c I design to write by her. In the mean Time Remember Me to all my Friends and in the most affectionate Manner to all your Aunts. I am vastly glad your Aunt Marchant has joined you 8c hope They will Stay until I come home that I may Once more have the Pleasure of seeing them at my own House. That the Lord may be


[Page 180]
138 October 2, 1774 and Kings (Simon Boerum) . Another county—Albany—first elected its own dele gates and then decided to allow the New York City delegation to act in its behalf, and three others—Westchester, Dutchess, and Ulster—simply took the latter course. On the other hand the six remaining New York counties took no action at all in regard to the election of delegates. Carl Becker, “The Nomination and Election of Delegates from New York to the First Continental Congress, 1774,” Political Science Quarterly 18 (1903) : 28-46. ‘For details of this “Strange Story” see Duane to John Tabor Kempe, October 11, 1774. John Adams’ Diary 1774 Monday Octr. 3. 1774. Breakfasted at home with Coll. Dagworthy of Maryland, Captn. Dagworthy his Brother, Major De Bois, Mr. Webb, Dr. Clopton &c. The hurry of Spirits I have been in, since my Arrival in this City, has prevented my making Remarks in my Journal as I wished to have done. The quick Succession of Objects, the Variety of Scenes and Characters, have rendered it impracticable. Major De Bois says he will drink Dispute this Morning. The Congress not come to Decision, yet. 1 Dined at home. This Day Charles Thompson and Thos. Mifflin were chosen Burgesses for this City. The Change in the Elections for this City and County is no small Event. Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Thompson, now joined to Mr. Mifflin, will make a great Weight in favour of the American Cause. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:146-47. 1 Adams is undoubtedly referring to instructions for the committee to prepare an address to the king, which were debated at length October 3, 4, and 5. JCC, 1:53-55. Silas Deane’s Diary [October 3, 1774] Monday Congress opened. 3d Octo. The president in the Chair. Ten oClock—both Motions read. Col. Lee makes a Motion for Amendment. See the Motion Sec onded by Col. Lee. 1 Opposed by Mr. Rutledge as being out of the Line of Our Busi ness, and in degree, a Declaration of Warr, which if intended, no other Measure ought to be taken up, but that We should he says speak out at Once. Col. Lee opposes him &: defends his Motion— that it is the Duty of the Congress to put the Americans on defending themselves.


[Page 181]
October 3, 1774 139 Mr. Roger Sherman, for it, confusedly enough though miss’d the Question if sat down. Col. Harison against it, that it will tend, only to irritate, whereas Our Business is to reconcile—that we are unable to defend Ourselves. Mr. Henry for it. Says that a preparation for Warr is Necessary to obtain peace—That America is not Now in a State of peace—That all the Bulwarks, of Our Safety, of Our Con- stitn. are thrown down, That We are Now in a State of Nature—That We ought to ask Ourselves the Question should the planns of Nonim[portatio]n & Nonexp [ortatio]n fail of success—in that Case Arms are Necessary, & if then, it is Necessary Now. Arms are a Resource to which We shall be forced, a Resource afforded Us by God & Nature, & why in the Name of both are We to hesitate provid ing them Now whilst in Our power. Mr. Rutledge again moving to postpone this and to take it up here after that it is out of Order and is a New Motion. Mr. Henry corrects him. Mr. Rutledge again. Col. Lee in the same Way. Mr. Duane in support of his first Motion that he is not for Warr, nor are his people. Mr. Rutledge again to Order. Mr. Pendleton declares it to be in Order but that it is exceptiona ble and proposes it to be amended. Mr. Rutledge junr. against it. Col Dyar for it at large. Mr. Low against it. Col. Bland against it. Mr. Henry again lengthy & zealous for it. Mr. Hooper against it as a most impolitic measure at this Time & if pursued will defeat its design. North Carolina has a Militia Law. South Carolina also has such a Law. Virginia has had one for a Cen tury, but N. Carolinas is a Temporary one pass’d at the express de sire of the Governor. General Gage is now beseiged, & is dependant on our Lenity. That N. Carolina is able to defend itself. Mr. Duane again. Mr. Lynch for it and Lengthy says We have already adopted much the same thing—That all Europe can not subdue it, &c but proposes a different Bill which Col. Lee agrees to. Mr. Jay says he would be for it were it as innocent as it is wise. Col. Bland against it. The Motion was again altered & amended and the Question being put was carried Unanimously. 2 Mr. Lynch moved respecting the Regulations of Trade or Acts of Charles the Second should be considered as obligatory. After long debating put off the Question untill Tomorrow Sc adjd. Supp’d at Evening at Mr. Mifflins. 3


[Page 185]
October 5, 1774 143 letter from London dated 4 of August Which Informs that a Man of War, which left Boston on the sixth of July, had brought them such Intelligence of the Conduct of General Gage as had thrown them into Confusion & Consternation, as they apprehended the Consequence of it wotdd be a Civil Warr Sc that they were under great apprehensions that it had Commenced before that time. I am in good health 8c hope this finds you in the same agreable situation. I remain in haste yr af fectionate Husband, Thomas Cushing RC (MHi) . 1 John Dickinson. “These men were elected to the Pennsylvania Assembly. See John Adams’ Diary, October 1 and 3, 1774. 3 Cushing is referring to the nonimportation resolution of September 27 and the nonexportation resolution of September 30. Cushing was a member of the commit tee appointed on September 30 “to bring in a plan for carrying into effect, the non-importation, non-consumption, and non-exportation resolved on." JCC, 1:43, 51-53. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 4, 1774] 4th. Met & gave Instruction to the Comee. for addressing 8cc. MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1774. Wednesday Octr. 5th. Dined with Dr. Cadwallador, in Company with Governor Hamil ton, Gen. Lee, Mr. Henry, Mr. Pendleton, Mr. De Hart, and many others—Mr. Maese and others. Spent the Evening at Home with Mr. McDougal, and Mr. Sherman—in sad and solemn Consultation about the Miseries and Distresses of our dear Town of Boston. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:147. Silas Deane’s Diary [October 5, 1774] Wednesday Octo 5th. Attended in Congress. A Lettr, or petition, from Mr. Goddard respecting the post Office was read. Ordered, to lye on the Table. And the Motion of Yesterday taken up. 1 Mr. Read


[Page 186]
144 October 5, 1774 in favor of the Motion that some declaration ought to be made in the pacific Way. That the Regulations, of Trade, for the present ought to be pass’d over. It is better for the present to Temporize. Col. Dyer, for altering the Motion—but appears very confused. Maj. Sullivan, that the Motion is not sufficiently explicit but that We ought to Speak out. Proposes an amendment. Mr. Lynch against the whole Clause, as 1763 will leave some of the worst Acts in force —the Rice being enumerated—The Hatt Act—The Act for extend ing Land in America to the payment of Debts—The Act of Wm & Mary, & the 5th of George 2d. extend the power of jurisdictn. of Ad miralty invidiously. The Greivance of the Crown appointing Coun- cellors to act as Legislators, in the respective Colonies, are he says all of them Greivances to be remonstrated against. Mr. Adams jun. for the Motion. Says it does not imply, that We are to submit to all preceeding Acts—but that We shall by such re peal be in the State We were in in 1763 as to harmony. Mr. Low complains, that the Motion is not sufficiently explicit, that We ought to speakout, complains of being misapprehended, 8c, of being in a suspicious point of Light. Col. Lee answers, and is at large for the Motion. Col. Dyer again, (quite on one side of the Question). Mr. Adams senr. for the Amendment in part but proposes anoth er. Mr. Cushing strangely against it. Mr. Lynch for it. Mr. Jay, for the last amendment to appearance at first, but finally means to confound every thing. Mr. Henry answers him and is severe on Mr. Jay. Mr. Rutlidge senr. against the Whole of the Motion, 8c thinks it ought to be totally rejected as Admiralty Courts were extended be fore the Year 1763, which are the most enormous of any Whatever, and that he will never be easy while that extension remains as it in effect is destroying all privileges in the destruction of Trial by Juries. Mr. Henry 8c Mr. Rutledge dispute about the meaning of an Act of Parliament. Mr. Cushing in support of his Motion. Mr. Mifflin in support of the same. Mr. Jay up against the Motion. Mr. Sherman, up on Acct, of taking up the Greivances at large, 8c dropping the Motion. Mr. Read explains himself as to some Expressions in his Speech. Mr. Johnson, lengthy 8c in favor of the Motion. Col. Lee makes a New Motion for an Amendment in the Instruc tions to the Committee—reads it and it is seconded.


[Page 191]
October 5, 1774 149 full. America Ought not to Leave it Problematical! whether they will Ever put up with the Loss of their Liberties or not. When our Impor tant all is in Question, to use Weak & doubtfull Argts. is to give up the Cause or at Least to Weaken the Confidence of all our friends &: add Great Sp [iri] t to our Enemies, whereas on the other hand Meas ures Sufficiently Spirited & Extensive, will discourage & dishearten the Proudest of our Oppressors, & Strengthen the hearts of our Suf fering Brethern in Boston on Whose Resolution & Perseverance, the great cause of American Liberty much Depends, for if they Shd. Yeild the point, I dont know where the Next Stand might be Expect ed to be made. MS (NN) . In the hand of Robert Treat Paine. 1 Although this MS is undated, it seems certain that Paine delivered this speech on October 5 near the end of the debate on a motion for the immediate nonexpor tation of flaxseed—at which time, according to Silas Deane’s diary, “Mr. Pain, spoke about the impropriety of using the word sacrifice &c.” This debate had its origin in the delegates’ discussion of "the means most proper to be used for a restoration of American rights,” a discussion which had led to the adoption on September 30 of a resolution prohibiting all exports to Great Britain, Ireland, and the West Indies effective September 10, 1775. ]CC, 1:51-52. In the aftermath of this decision, Congress also had resolved on October 1 to prepare "a loyal address” to the king and the following week intermittently debated instructions for the committee appointed to prepare the "address” in the midst of the continuing debate on "means.” It was in this context that a motion had been made on October 1 for the immediate suspension of the export of some select items, of which flaxseed for Ireland was deemed the most important. The motion "for instant Nonexportation of Flaxseed” was subsequently postponed to Monday, October 3, but as the debate on Monday and Tuesday again focused on instructions for the committee to prepare the address to the king, it was not until Wednesday October 5 that attention returned to nonexportation, at which time “Mr. Adams,” according to Deane, moved “to bring on the Motion for Nonimportation of Flaxseed.” Although Deane does not further identify “Mr. Adams” (he often used the terms senior and junior to distinguish Samuel from John) , it seems probable from Samuel Adams’ interest in Paine’s speech and his participation in the debate the following day that it was indeed he who moved to resume debate on “instant Nonexportation and rose twice subsequently to speak on the subject before the end of the day. This conclusion is also supported by the fact that Paine’s notes for this speech are located in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. For further information on Adams’ interest in the subject of economic sanctions against Britain, see Samuel Adams Notes on Trade, September 27? 1774; and Silas Deane’s Diary, October 5, and 6, 1774. -Two pages containing the first two points in Paine’s speech are missing, but from the remaining text and the context of the debate in Congress on this day it can be surmised that Paine had discussed some of the consequences of halting exports to Great Britain, Ireland, and the British West Indies.


[Page 192]
150 October 5, 1774 John Sullivan to John Langdon Sir, Philadelphia, Septem’r [i.e. October] 5th, 1774. Your favor came safe to hand by Mr. Wharton. Am much obliged for the seasonable hint you have given respecting masts. I should gladly give you an account of our proceedings but am under an obli gation of Secrecy. Except with respect to the general non Importa tion & non Exportation the former to take place on the first of De cember next, the latter in September following. 1 We have selected those Acts which we determine to have a Repeal of or forever re strain our trade from Great Britain, Ireland & the West Indies; among which Acts is the Canada Bill, 2 in my opinion the most dan gerous to American Liberties among the whole train; for when we re flect on the dangerous situation the Colonies were in at the com mencement of the Late War with a number of those Canadians on their backs who were assisted by Powerful Indian Nations deter mined to extirpate the Race of Protestants from America to make way for their own Cursed Religion so Dangerous to the State & fa vorable to Despotism, & contemplate that by the late Act their Terri tory is so far extended as to include by far the greater part of North America: that this will be a city of refuge for Roman Catholicks who will ever appear in favor of the Prerogative of the Crown backed by an abandoned Minister, aided by the whole force of Great Britain & assisted by the same Indian Nations, we must suppose our Situation to be Infinitely more Dangerous now than it was then, for while we are engaged with the Canadians on our Frontiers our Seaports must yield to the Ministerial fleet & army & if they once prevail no man must expect safety until he professes that Holy Religion which our Sovereign has been pleased to establish. I am certain that two Gods may as well exist in the universe as those two Religions where the Papists have power to extirpate the professors of the other. We can easily discover the designs of the Act &: are determined to Counteract it at all events. I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you in a few days after this Letter comes to hand &: give you a particular account of our proceedings: in the interim I am yours respectfully, Jno Sullivan MS not found; text from Alfred Langdon Elwyn, comp.. Letters by Josiah Bartlett, William Whipple, and Others, Written before and during the Revolution (Phila delphia: H. B. Ashmead, 1889) , pp. 5-6, and Tr (DLC). 1 Nonimportation was agreed to September 27 and the nonexportation resolve was adopted September 30. JCC, 1:43, 51-53. 3 The Quebec Act, which became the focus of debate in Congress on October 17. See James Duane's Notes of Debates, October 17, 1774.


[Page 193]
October 6, 1774 151 Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 5, 1774] 5th. Met & gave another Instru [ctiojn; 1 considered of non Impor tation. MS (RHi) . 'See JCC, 1:54-55. John Adams’ Notes of Debates [October 6, 1774] 1 Mr. Gadsden. There are Numbers of Men who will risque their all. I shudder at the thought of the Blood which will be spilled, and would be glad to avoid it. Mr. Pendleton. How is the Purchaser to know whether the Mo- losses, Sugar, or Coffee, has paid the Duty or not? It cant be known. Shant We by this hang out to all the World our Intentions to smug gle? Don’t We complain of these Acts as Grievances, and shant we ins ist on the Repeal. But this will give an Advantage to the West Indians and will make it their Interest to oppose our obtaining Redress. Coll. Dyer. This Subject as every Part of our Deliberations are im portant. The Q[uestion] is how far to extend the Non Importation of dutiable Articles. Mr. Chace. I am against the Question before you. What are the Ways and Means of obtaining Redress. In the manner it is penn’d it would not answer the End. How shall the Buyer know whether the Duties have been paid or not. Our Enemies will think that We mean to strike at the Right of Parliament to lay duties for the Regulation of Trade. I am one of those who hold the Position, that Parliament has a Right to make Laws for us in some Cases, to regulate the Trade— and in all Cases where the good of the whole Empire requires it. My Fears were up when We went into the Consideration of a Bill of Rights. I was afraid We should say too little or too much. It is said this is not a Non Importation Resolution. But it is, for there is no Importation of goods but according to the Law of the Land. Mr. Linch. I came here to get Redress of Grievances, and to adopt every Means for that End, which coidd be adopted with a good Con science.


[Page 194]
152 October 6, 1774 In my Idea Parliament has no Power to regulate Trade. But these Duties are all for Revenue not for Regulation of Trade. Many Gentlemen in this Room know how to bring in Goods, sug ars and others, without paying Duties. Will any Gentleman say he will never purchase any Goods untill he is sure, that they were not smuggled. Mr. Mifflin. We shall Agree I suppose, to a Non Exportation of Lumber to the West Indies. They cannot send their Sugars to Eng land, nor to America. Therefore they cant be benefited. Mr. Low. Gentlemen have been transported by their Zeal, into Reflections upon an order of Men who deserve it the least of any Men in the Community. We ought not to deny the just Rights of our Mother Country. We have too much Reason in this Congress, to suspect that Independen cy is aimed at. I am for a Resolution against any Tea, Dutch as well as English. [We] ought to consider the Consequences possible as well as [pro]bable of every Resolution We take and provide ourselves [wit] h a Retreat or Resource. [Wha] t would be the Consequence of an Adjournment of the [Con]gress for 6 months? or a Recommendation of a [new?] Elec tion of another to meet at the End of 6 Months? [Is it?] possible they may make it criminal, as Treason, [Mi]sprision of Treason, or Felony or a Prasmunire? [Bo] th in the Assemblies who choose and in the Mem [ber] s who shall accept the Trust. [Wou]ld the assemblies or Members be intimidated? [Wou]ld they regard such an Act? 2 Will, Can the People bear a total Interruption of the [We] st India Trade? Can [they] live without Rum, Sugar, and [Mo] lasses? Will not their Impatience, and Vexation defeat the [Me] asure? [Thi]s would cutt up the Revenue by the Roots—if Wine, Fruit, [M] olasses and Sugar, were discarded, as well as Tea. But, a Prohibition of all Exports to the West Indies, will annihilate the Fishery—because, that cannot afford to loose the West India Fish—and this would throw a Multitude of Families in our fishing Towns into the Arms of Famine. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:147-49. 1 Although the manuscript is undated, Adams’ notes apparently pertain to the discussion in Congress that followed Richard Henry Lee’s motion of October 6 "to take the Dutied Articles into Consideration.” The subject of the debates relates to Lee’s motion and the resolve on nonimportation of molasses, coffee, pimento, wines, and indigo adopted by Congress October 6. JCC, 1:57; and Silas Deane’s Diary, October 6, 1774. Adams' diary for this date sheds no light on these debates, stating only: “Dined with Mr. Hodge, Father in Law to Mr. Bayard.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:147.


[Page 202]
160 October 7, 1774 the Soldiers under your Command. These Enormities committed by a Standing Army, in our opinion, unlawfully posted there in a time of Peace, are irritating in the greatest Degree, and if not remedied will endanger the involving all America in the Horrors of a civil War! Your Situation Sir is extremely critical. A rupture between the Inhabitants of the Province over which you preside and the Troops under your Command would produce Consequences of the most se rious Nature: A Wound which would never be heald! It would probably establish Animosities between Great Britain &: the Colonies which time would never eradicate! In order therefore to quiet the Minds & remove the Jealousies of the people, that they may not be driven to such a State of Desparation as to quit the Town & fly for Shelter to their Friends & Countrymen, we intreat you from the As surance we have of the peaceable Disposition of the Inhabitants to desist from further fortifications of the Town, and to give orders that a free & safe Communication between them &: the Country may be restored & continued. MS (NN) . In the hand of Samuel Adams and endorsed by Adams: "This was offerd to the Committee of Congress to be reported as a Remonstrance to Genl. Gage.” 1 Nearly two lines left blank for insertion of the other colonies. On October 6, Congress received a letter from the Boston Committee of Correspondence concern ing Gage’s fortification of Boston. On the seventh, a committee composed of Thomas Lynch, Samuel Adams, and Edmund Pendleton was appointed to prepare a letter to Gage, which according to Secretary Thomson’s journal was reported, amended, and adopted on the 10th. JCC, 1:55-60. But Samuel Ward noted in his diary that on October 8 the committee reported a draft which was recommitted, and it seems likely that this Samuel Adams draft formed the basis for the letter first reported by the committee. Adams’ “Remonstrance,” as he termed it, is harshly phrased and makes little attempt to soften the asperity of his charges. From the tone of his letter, it seems clear that the purpose of recommitting the draft reported to Congress was to substitute a milder letter reflecting a conciliatory posture more in keeping with the general mood of Congress. It is possible that the John Adams draft letter of October 7-8 was penned at this time for the purpose of reaching a compromise acceptable to the majority of the delegates. The letter finally adopted by Congress is printed in the Journals with the proceedings for the 11th, JCC, 1:60-61. The document received by Gage, in the hand of Charles Thomson and signed by Peyton Randolph, is in the Gage Papers, MiU-C. Richard Henry Lee’s Motion for Quitting the Town of Boston [October 7-8? 1774] The Congress are of opinion that it is inconsistent with the honor and safety of a free people to live within the Controul and exposed to the injuries of a Military force not under government of the Civil


[Page 203]
October 7, 1774 161 Power, and as General Gage has thought proper to take possession of the Town of Boston with an armed force, and is converting that once free City into a Military Garrison The Congress advise from every motive of honor safety and wisdom that the Free Citizens of Boston no longer expose themselves to the dangerous consequences of these Military Manouvres, but quit their Town and find a safe asylum among their hospitable Countrymen, who we doubt not will on this trying occasion, display that virtuous humanity which may be so deservedly exercised 1 towards their brave oppressed Fellow Citi zens. And again we earnestly recommend it to all British America that they do from time to time plentifully supply these their dis tressed and diserving Countrymen. 2 MS (ViU) . In the hand of Richard Henry Lee, and endorsed by Lee: “Motion for Quitting Town of Boston." 1 Lee wrote “extended" over the word "exercised” but did not line out the latter. 3 Ford states that this motion was rejected but offers no documentation for the statement. JCC, l:59n. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 7, 1774] 7th. Met, appointed a Comee. to write to Genl. Gage &: the Come, of Correspondence. Consider’d the Instructions to be given the Co mee. MS (RHi) . Samuel Ward to Henry Marchant Dear Sir Philadelphia 7th Octr. 1774 A Resolution adopted at the Opening of the Congress to let noth ing transpire without particular Permission prevented my earlier writing to You 1 and some other Friends, and as the same Resolution is still in being I can only say that the Congress opened with the celebrated Number of 45 which hath since been augmented to 54 most of whose Names You have seen in the Papers. Committees for a State of Rights, Greivances and Ways &: Means of Redress were immediately appointed; the unanimous Resolutions made upon the Resolves & Request for Advice from the County of Suffolk I doubt not gave You & all the Friends of Liberty the high est Pleasure. 2 The Non Importation &: Non Consumption Agree-


[Page 205]
October 9, 1774 163 Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [October 8, 1774] Dind Mr. George Clymer. Congress adjourned this day to 6 oClock P.M. then met & adjo [ur] ned. MS (MHi) . Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 8, 1774] 8th. Met. The Comee. reported a Letter to the Genl. 1 which was recommitted & reported again at 6 o’Clock. Not being a Quorum from some Colonies we adjourned. MS (RHi) . ‘That is. Gen. Thomas Gage. John Adams’ Diary 1774. Sunday [October 9] Went to hear Dr. Allison, an Aged Gentleman. It was Sacrament Day and he gave us a sacramental Discourse. This Dr. Allison is a Man of Abilities and Worth, but I hear no Preachers here like ours in Boston, excepting Mr. Duchfe. Coombs indeed is a good Speaker, but not an original, but a Copy of Duch&. The Multiplicity of Business and Ceremonies, and Company that we are perpetually engaged in, prevents my Writing to my Friends in Mass, as I ought, and prevents my recording many Material Things in my Journal. Phyladelphia with all its Trade, and Wealth, and Regularity is not Boston. The Morals of our People are much better, their Manners are more polite, and agreable—they are purer English. Our Lan guage is better, our Persons are handsomer, our Spirit is greater, our Laws are wiser, our Religion is superiour, our Education is better. We exceed them in every Thing, but in a Markett, and in charitable public foundations. Went in the Afternoon to the Romish Chappell 1 and heard a good discourse upon the Duty of Parents to their Children, founded in Justice and Charity. The Scenery and the Musick is so callculated to take in Mankind that I wonder, the Reformation ever succeeded. The Paintings, the Bells, the Candles, the Gold and Silver. Our Sa- 579-852 0 - 77 - 13 Vol.l


[Page 207]
October 9, 1774 165 Lace—his Pulpit was Velvet and Gold. The Altar Piece was very rich—little Images and Crucifixes about—Wax Candles lighted up. But how shall I describe the Picture of our Saviour in a Frame of Marble over the Altar at full Length upon the Cross, in the Agonies, and the Blood dropping and streaming from his Wounds. The Musick consisting of an organ, and a Choir of singers, went all the Afternoon, excepting sermon Time, and the Assembly chant ed—most sweetly and exquisitely. Here is every Thing which can lay hold of the Eye, Ear, and Im agination. Every Thing which can charm and bewitch the simple and ignorant. I wonder how Luther ever broke the spell. Adieu. John Adams RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:166-67. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear [October 9, 1774] I wrote you per James, which I fancy you are this Moment Sun day 10 oClock AM receiving. On seeing him return alone You will be doubtless apprehensive of bad News, but on opening my Letters will be convinced of the Contrary. Just the reverse happened to me yesterday, while in Congress. Our Servant call’d on Me with a Large Letter by the post from J. Webb. I opened it in haste, and with pleas ure saw a long Letter inclosed, wrote in Your hand, my heart beat with Joy at the sight, and before I had Time to unfold the Cover suggested to Me that You were Now greatly recover’d, if not, quite well, or You could not write so much, & so well. Mr. Mitchel, and You write so nearly alike that It is not easy to distinguish—in a Word it was a Narration of his Tour to the Northward, agreeable enough at any other Time & not disagreeable in itself then, but in the disappointment it occasioned. I left home, the 22d of last August, it is now the 9th of October—but my Letter by Jemmy will shew You the Situation of my mind, no way releived I can assure You, from its anxiety, by the increasing that, which first Occasioned it—A Total Si lence in you, and the Family & consequently an absolute uncertainty as to the State of your Health. I have nothing New to write worth sending this distance. The proceedings of the Congress are carried on slow and I fear will detain Us here through this Month. My kind & affectionate Regards to Hannah, Sally &: Jesse &c &c shall add to this if Time & Matter for Writing offer. I am My Dear wishing You Health and felicity. Your Affectionate Husband Silas Deane RC (CtHi).


[Page 208]
166 October 9, 1774 George Washington to Robert Mackenzie Dear Sir, Philadelphia 9th October 1774 Your letter on the 13th ulto., 1 from Boston, gave me pleasure, as I learnt thereby that you were well, and might be expected at Mount Vernon in your way to or from James river, in the course of the win ter. When I have said this, permit me with the freedom of a friend, (for you know I always esteemed you) to express my sorry at For tune’s placing you in a service, that must fix curses to [the] latest posterity upon the diabolical contrivers; and, if success (which by the by is impossible) accompanies it, execrations upon all those who have been instrumental in the execution. I do not mean by this to insinuate that an officer is not to dis charge his duty, even when chance, not choice, has placed him in a disagreeable situation; but I conceive, when you condemn the con duct of the Massachusetts People, you reason from effects, not caus es; otherwise you would not wonder at a people who are every day receiving fresh proofs of a Systematic exertion of an arbitrary power, deeply planned to overturn the Laws & Constitution of their Coun try, & to violate the most essential & valuable rights of mankind, being irritated, & with difficulty restrained from acts of the greatest violence and intemperance. For my own part, I confess to you can didly, that 1 view things in a very different point of light to the one in which you seem to consider them; and though you are led to be lieve, by venal men (for such I must take the liberty of calling those new fangled Counsellors which fly to Sc surround you, Sc all others, who, for honorary or pecuniary gratifications will lend their aid to overturn the Constitution, & introduce a system of arbitrary Govern ment) altho’ you are taught, I say, by discoursing with such men, to believe that the people of Massachusetts are rebellious, setting up for independency & what not; give me leave, my good friend, to tell you, that you are abused—grossly abused; and this I advance with a de gree of confidence, 8c boldness which may claim your belief; having better opportunities of knowing the real sentiments of the people you are among, from the Leaders of them, in opposition to the present measures of Administration, than you have from those whose busi ness it is not to disclose truth, but to misrepresent facts in order to justify as much as possible to the world, their own conduct; for give me leave to add, & I think 1 can announce it as a fact, that it is not the wish or interest of that Government, or any other upon this Con tinent, separately, or collectively, to set up for Independency; but this you may at the same time rely on, that none of them will ever submit to the loss of those valuable rights 8c privileges which are es-


[Page 209]
October 10, 1774 167 sential to the happiness of every free State, and without which, Life, Liberty & property are rendered totally insecure. These Sir, being certain consequences which must naturally result from the late acts of Parliament relative to America in general, &: the Government of Massachusetts Bay in particular, is it to be wonder’d at, I repeat, that Men who wish to avert the impending blow, should attempt to oppose it in its progress, or prepare for their defence, if it cannot be diverted? Surely I may be allowed to answer in the nega tive; & give me leave to add, as my opinion, that more blood will be spilt on this occasion (if the Ministry are determined to push matters to extremity) than history has ever yet furnished instances of in the annals of North America; and such a vital wound given to the peace of this great Country, as time itself cannot cure or eradicate the re membrance of. But I have done. I was involuntarily led into a short discussion of this subject by your remarks on the conduct of the Boston People; & your opinion of their wishes to set up for independency. I am as well satisfied, as 1 can be of my existence, that no such thing is desired by any thinking man in all North America; on the contrary, that it is the ardent wish of the warmest advocates for liberty, that peace &: tranquility, upon constitutional grounds, may be restored, & the hor rors of civil discord prevented. I am very glad to hear that my friend Stewart was well when you left London; I have not had a letter from him these five years, nor heard of him, I think, for two. I wish you had mentioned his em ployment. Poor Mercer! I often hear from him; much cause has he, I fear, to lament his having fallen into the accursed state of attend ance & dependance. I remain with very great esteem, Dr. Sir, Your most Obedt. Servt. G. Washington LB (DLC) . Addressed: "To Capt. Robert McKenzie.” 1 Mackenzie’s letter is in the Washington Papers, DLC, and is printed in Stanislaus M. Hamilton, ed„ Letters to Washington and Accompanying Papers; Published by the Society of the Colonial Dames of America, 5 vols. (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1898-1902) , 5:49-50. Mackenzie, a captain in Washington’s Virginia regiment during the French and Indian War, had obtained a lieutenant’s commission in the Forty-third Regiment of Foot, which was among the British units stationed at Boston. John Adams’ Diary 1774 Monday. Octr. 10th. The Deliberations of the Congress, are spun out to an immeasura ble Length. There is so much Wit, Sense, Learning, Acuteness, Sub- tilty, Eloquence, &c. among fifty Gentlemen, each of whom has been


[Page 218]
176 October 11, 1774 Soon after the close of the last war, all british America was strick en with amazement and concern, to find the Ministry had adopted a plan for taking the Property of the Colonists from them without the consent of their Representatives, under the Pretence of raising a rev enue in America for the purposes of defending and protecting the Colonies, and for supporting the Government and Administration of Justice here, with the further plausible reason of reembursing Great Britain a part of the Expence encurred by defending the Colonies in the last war. To inforce this unconstitutional and unjust System of Taxation, every fence that the wisdom of our british Ancestors had carefully erected against Arbitrary power, has been violently thrown down in America; 2 and a variety of Acts of Parliament have been passed depriving the american Subjects of the invaluable Trial by Jury in Cases of Property, by enabling the Prosecutor to carry the defendent into far distant Courts of Admiralty. And as well by a late Statute in the [ ] 3 year of his present Majesty’s reign as by an extension of an obsolete and tyrannic Act of King Henry the eighth, the same equitable method of Trial in cases that touch life is likewise taken away from the Colonists, who are to be carried in chains 3000 miles from their native country without evidence or As sistance of friends to be tried by a Jury of strangers. A standing Army with all its oppressive concomitants has been fixed without our consent. The colony of Massachusetts Bay has had its antient charter sub verted, thirty thousand People in the Town of Boston invested by military violence, and the horid Crime of murder there encouraged by an Act authorising the removal of Offenders from the Justice of the Province and carryed to Great Britain, where distance and ex pence will surely prevent there being followed. Nor has the fury of ad ministration stopped here, but determined to destroy both the reli gion & Liberty of british America they have procured an act of the last Session for extending tire Province of Canada in such manner as to border on the western frontiers of all the Northern Colonies and there established a dispotic Government and the roman catholic Re ligion, well knowing from the truth of history that this bloody and intollerant religion is at such fatal variance with Protestanism, that the inhabitants of that now greatly extended Country will thereby be well fitted both from civil & religious Principles to carry Slaughter and destruction into the free protestant Colonies whenever they shall be encouraged by a wicked Ministry to do so. 4 It has been already observed that the ostensible reasons which have been assigned for this Attempt to destroy natural, constitution al, chartered, and antient rights, is for the purpose of raising a reve nue to protect and defend the Colonies, to support Government and the Administration of Justice here and to reimburse Great Britain


[Page 219]
October 11, 1774 177 the Expence of defending the Colonies in the last war. The two for mer reasons are sufficiently answered by stating the notorious facts, that from the first Settlement of the Colonies until the late War they sustained these Expences themselves and during the Continuance of that war having at their own charge supported [ ] s men, in doing which our late & present Sovereigns were so well satisfied, that we had consulted our Zeal for the common cause more than our Ability, that declarations from the throne to. this effect abound on the Journals of Parliament, recommending the Justice of reemburs- ing us, and although Parliament did vote considerable sums for this purpose, yet it is a truth well known that these were chiefly applied to the further support of the war and in consequence did not operate to remove the Burthens created by these zealous and unrestrained Efforts against the common enemy. The royal recommendation to Parliament to reimburse The Colonies is founded upon this clear principle of substantial justice, that wealth, the sinews of war, is withheld from the Colonists by the British acts of Navigation which place them under a monopolized Trade, confining their purchase of european Commodities to the british markets and directs the Dispos al of american Products through the same Channel, which in fact obliges the Colonists who consume british Merchandize to the amount of three millions annually, to pay the Taxes of all Manufac turers, Merchants and Seamen concerned in making, selling and transporting the same. In the Acts of Navigation therefore, and not by unconstitutional Taxation, a just and rational Man will search for & find the American assistance of the common cause. Conclusive as this reasoning is yet the Colonists have given ample testimony in the two last wars of their Zeal and readiness to strain every Nerve in aid of the mother country, whenever called upon to do so in a constitutional manner by royal requisitions to their respec tive Colony Assemblies. When we contend against being taxed by the british parliament where we are not, and in which from our Dis tance we cannot be represented, we find ourselves warranted by rea son, the english Constitution, by express compacts with our Princes, and by usage as old as the Settlement of these Colonies. We should certainly be Slaves if we were not exempted from such Taxation. Property must become too precarious for the Genius of a free peo ple, which can be taken from them at the will of others who cannot know what Taxes such people can bear, or the easiest mode of rais ing them; and who are not under those restraints which are the greatest Security against abuse, the Danger of removal at a new election and being themselves affected by every tax imposed on the people. It cannot be necessary for us to prove to a british under standing that liberty is essential to human happiness, and that the safety of property is the security of liberty; every page of english his-


[Page 220]
178 October 11, 1774 tory proves their generous, brave attachment to these principles, and we should be unworthy of the british Ancestry which is now our boast, if we did not esteem our constitutional liberty far above the possession of Life, disgraced with the Shackles of Slavery. It grieves us to find that some malignant Spirits in Great Britain charge us with designing independency and wanting to dissolve all connection with the parent State. To such incendiaries, foes to the happiness of both countries, we reply that our whole history from the beginning, our uniform tenor of conduct is directly in the teeth of their assertion. And altho’ we cannot help being misrepresented by the Agents of dispotism &: avarice, we absolutely and solemnly disa vow all thoughts of Disunion from Great Britain and we do profess and declare our steady loyalty to our sovereign Lord king George the third, and our ardent wish to promote the glory happiness and commercial interest of the Mother Country, which would be in em- minent danger indeed, if three millions of people already in these Colonies by submitting to Slavery should render themselves fit In struments to enslave the rest of their fellow subjects; a plan it would seem, in great favor with administration, who design the ruin of American Liberty by establishing Popery and Despotism in Canada, that thereby the people and property of all North America being at Ministerial devotion, may with great effect be applied to subdue that stubborn English Virtue, which heretofore contending for its darling Liberty, has proved the ruin of many wicked Ministers and evil Counsellors, too many of whom have of late years unhappily sur rounded the Throne and vitiated the British councils, to the infinite distress and confusion of the whole Empire. Whenever Parliament is pleased to restore us to the state we were in at the conclusion of the last war, by repealing the Acts claiming a right to and establishing the means of raising a revenue in America: and those most oppres sive Statutes against the Colony of Massachusetts Bay, because they have bravely contended for their own and American freedom; when the law shall be declared against endangering the life of every Amer ican by making him liable to transportation to England for Trial; when the dangerous Quebec Act is no more; these oppressive griev ances being removed, we shall think no longer of restraining our Ex ports and Imports, but intent on promoting the common interest and happiness of the united Empire will be industrious to improve the vast uncultivated territory of North America, and being chiefly en gaged in Agriculture, the commodities for exportation, and the con sumption of British Manufactures will be continually increasing. But this most desirable connection between Great Britain and the Colo nies supported by such a happy intercourse of reciprocal benefits must be interrupted, if the people of America are distressed and ruined by unconstitutional Taxes. Their Liberty and antient rights


[Page 222]
180 October 11, 1774 Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 11, 1774] 11th. Met, finished the Resolves relative to the Massachusetts &: dismd. the Express. MS (RHi) . James Duane’s Notes of Debates Wednesday 12th Oct 1774 Mr Ward. On Trade. 1st, Every man is born free and may chuse his own form of Gov ernment. 2d, Bound by the compact, by charter between Crown and people. Here no Acts of Parliament can bind. 3d, Colonies obliged by this, acts only by compulsion. 4th, Principle of Protection gives them a right to a compensation, but state the amount and we have overpaid them. 5th, Necessity of the case does not apply, the Colo nies distinct command under one head and [under?] 1 one kingdom should not be governed by another. 6th, One Company would not leave it to another to settle the terms. 7th, As to the prudence of the measure,—the Nation and Parliament were corrupt—would any chuse a factor of this character? 8th, Oppressive measures against East Indies. 9th, Giving up this point is yielding all. J. Adams. Approves it—my amendment. Mr Lee. 1st, Ministry may say they 2d, Slitting mills avoided by this Motion offer a proposition. 2 External Lynch. If a Right to bind us in one case may in all but we are bound by none. 2d Danger of Parliament’s abusing the power for then they must be Judges of the Regulations. Tr (NN) . 'MS reads "one or” before "one kingdom," but this is probably a misreading of "under” by the copyist. 3 Thus in MS. Presumably Duane’s original notes were either damaged or incomplete, or the copyist was simply unable to decipher the section dealing with Richard Henry Lee’s remarks. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Dear Sir Philadelphia October 12th 1774 We are now Reviewing our proceedings & hope in a few Days to


[Page 224]
182 October 12, 1774 too [Cruel?] sitting with Act in force in Massa [chusetts]. Differ [en] t feelings make different Sentiments. If the Cause be general, the Plan 8c Relief must be general 8c we must make the whole Consistent; what shall Boston (where we are attacked) do while Relief is operating. We must raise a Seige as well as Support an Assault. They have Drawn the Sword 8c will not retreat, they have began to force measures. Galloway. At Com [mencement] of last War America in great danger, 8c they held this up to England 8c pray’d their Aid. The Colo- nys disunited, or Stamp Act had never been made. We may want the Aid of Mother Country but cant expect it with[ou]t they have a Security of Aids. I think it the proper time to negotiate. When we were young G B supported us. Wh[e]n grown up we should pay ’em. We ought to contribute to Common Safety. We ought to save their Honour. Rut[ledge]. The Claim of Taxing is founded on the Petitions of Mass., Virg., last War, that there can’t be a Union with[ou] t it. We came here to Settle Rights. You think Amer, of such importance as to force G. Brittain. What are our Weapons? Every one must use what they have. Boston is now using theirs. Pend[leton]. Must we not bring the rights of others in View in Settling our own Rights? We must Acknowledge her Rights or she will not come to a treaty with us. It is said if we allow the Reg. of Trade it will be abused, but we have had bad Gov., Judges, Repre: must we therefore have none? I mean Neither to Acknowledge the power nor be Silent, but to Strike out a middle way. Unless we allow this, they will not treat with us. Cush[ing], I should be glad to have a Line 8c a plan of Union. My plan is our Scituation 1763. Sull[ivan], The last Proposition] more dangerous than the for mer, for it will remain on Record. How can we ask for Repeal of the former Acts? Chase. The former Congress 2 admitted the Right of Parliamt. to regulate Trade. There is a diversity of opinion abt. it. The Rule that Represent [atio]n is the foundation of Legislation doth not extend to the Colonys. It proves too much, it proves inde- pendancy.


[Page 226]
184 October 12, 1774 Samuel Ward’s Notes for a Speech in Congress Mr. President [October 12, 1774] 1 The Question before you is certainly of the utmost Importance, in the Solution of it are involved the Happiness or Misery not only of the present Generation of Americans but of Millions yet unborn. I must therefore beg your Permission to enter largely into the Subject. 2 The Parliamt. ought not to be allowed the Regulation of our Trade for many Reasons. 1st. Because We having no Voice in their Election they are not our Representative]s & consequently have no Rights to make Laws for Us in any Case whatsoever. To put this Matter in a clear Point of View it is necessary to recur to the Origin of Parliaments. It is now universally allowed that all good Government is founded in Compact. Mankind prompted to Society by Nature (to associate) & finding they could not procure or enjoy the necessaries and Conveniences of Life or defend themselves from Force & Injury in an unconnected separate State (assembled dr) formed themselves into various (Countries) some in one Country, others in another in the Infancy of Society. They directed & managed their own affairs in Person as they thought most for the common Good. In Time (the larger larger) Societies became very extensive & the Members so numerous that they became impracticable to supply the Want of this personal Direction of many public affairs. The Wisdom of our saxon Ances tors devised the best Substitute in the Power of Man to point out which was that the People should appoint & authorize certain Per sons in whose Wisdom 8c Virtue They could confide (in) to repre sent the whole Body of the Nation & in their Behalf to enact in Con junction with their Chief or King such Laws Rules 8c Ordinances as would be for the general Good of the Community. This it will be allowed was the Origin of the english Parliament. The End of their Appointment was to (Take Care of) Preservation & Promoting of the Interests 8c Happiness of whom—of their Constitu ents undoubtedly & not of the People of France Spain or Holland. 3 [. . .] of all the Benefits of an extensive 8c valuable Inheritance [conveyed?] to them from their worthy ancestors who purchased it with their Blood 8c Tresure 8c of the Fruits of their own Labours and reduce them to such a miserable State of Vassalage as to be com pelled to consume their Lives in the vilest Drudgery 8c Servitude in Order to acquire Property for their Oppressors who like true Tyrants would allow them no greater Share of the Produce of their own La bours than will be barely sufficient to preserve their miserable Beings in such a State as may qualify them for further Servitude.


[Page 232]
190 October 13, 1774 (2) It will remove all suspicion that we seek after independence. 3. It is necessary that it should be expressly recognized. a. Because in the great dispute between Hutchinson and the Mas sachusetts, it is left doubtful. b. Because every different house of Assembly must instruct its Agent on this essential point. c. Because a difference of sentiment will shew our weakness and may end in our disunion. d. But above all because our Bill of Rights makes this explanation indispensible. Vide—Art—bound by no Law without participation in Legislature—and exclusive Right of legislation. 2 e. These totally defeat all Regulations of Trade. Inst: Custom House and exactions there, seizures on shore, writs of assistance &c. Objections. 1st. It is said we are not authorised to give up any right and this is setting up a Right for G. B. Answer. 1. Besides the justice and policy of such a recognition; it is un avoidable when we are considering a right in connection with the par ent State. 2. It is giving G. B. no new right: but only acknowledging what she has enjoyed ever since our Colonization. 3. It is agreed on all hands that there must be some supreme con trolling power over our trade, and that this can only rest with Parlia ment. Objection II. It is said to be too dangerous, because on pretence of a Right to regulate Trade, Parliament may raise a Revenue upon us, and otherwise oppress us. Answer. 1. If we argue against the use of power because it may be abused, the argument proves too much. It strikes at all society and all government—but to a state of so ciety confidence is essential. 2. Instance the prerogative of the Crown to call an Assemby. It never may be called—yet we do not deny the prerogative. II. But here can be no room for apprehension. They exercise the right and none mean to dispute it. Our interest will be served by admitting it under restrictions (to wit) that it be conducted bona fide, with a just regard to the interest of the respec tive members of the Empire excluding every idea of taxation internal and external for the purpose of raising a revenue without our con sent. [ ] 3 our admission cannot injure us. 2. Supposing the power should be abused. Can we not remon-


[Page 233]
October 13, 1774 191 strate and oppose—shall we be less able hereafter to do our selves justice than at this day? Objectn. III. That this Proposition is improper in our Bill of Rights; because instead of a privilege it is a burthen. Answer. 1. It is certainly improper in the order it stands; it ought to follow our claim to exclusive legislation by way of edification and it will then be considered. Object. IV. It may be said that because we admit the authority of Parliament in this instance, it may be [asserted?], as a proof of their power in all cases. Answer. There is a most manifest distinction. 1. In cases of internal policy and taxation our legislatures are competent—have enjoyed such jurisdictions. They are secured by Charter—not so with respect to trade. 2. The Parliamentary authority over our trade was co-eval with our settlement, and is considered as a compact. 3. This exhibits a line and fixed rule so much desired for ascer taining that power. Tr (NN) . 1 Although undated, these notes probably formed the basis for Duane’s remarks on October 13. John Adams’ brief summary of Duane’s arguments on this date suggests that Duane’s remarks were delivered at this time. John Adams’ Diary, October 13, 1774. See also JCC, 1:63; and Samuel Ward’s Diary, October 13, 1774. ’This paragraph refers to the fourth resolution of the declaration of rights and grievances which was adopted by Congress on October 14. JCC, 1:68-69. 3 MS blank; copyist apparently unable to decipher a sentence from Duane’s original MS notes. Robert Treat Paine’s Notes of Debates [October 13? 1774] 1 Duane. On regulating Trade. We are unable to defend our Rights &: therefore we must allow them the right. We must not argue from an abuse agt a Use. The Pari, have as good a right to regulate as if the Acts were made before we emigrated. It was before some of us did, &: the same Rule Will hold to Hen 8. ch. 37. Our Charters say we must make no Laws contrary to Laws of England, but will not the denial of this right be contrary.


[Page 234]
192 October 13, 1774 What shall I tell our House of Assembly? They must instruct their Agent. The People of N England must not think of any assistance from other Colonys in fighting. Nothing but giving up this will stop the Effusion of Blood. Chase. Can you regulate the Trade with[ou]t meddling to inter nal Polity? I am agt. Stirring it, but now it is Stirrd I am for allowing it expressly. Hooper. Colonys are bound by Laws wch dont injure them. The Duty on wine is bad. Johnson. I Acknowledge the Right & you may make the terms. Q[uere] in w[ha]t instance have they been deprived of the Prac tice? [Speaker unidentified]. Regulation includes protection, & under that Taxes must be raised. Adams. Allowing the Right on principle of Trade is not danger ous. MS (MHi) . In the hand of Robert Treat Paine. 1 The substance of the comments Paine recorded here strongly suggests that they were made during the debate of October 13. See Paine’s Notes of Debates, October 12, note 1; and James Duane’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, October 13, 1774, note 1. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 13, 1774] 13th. Met, considered of the Right of Parliament to regulate Trade. (Mr. Hopkins for some of the Modes proposed. I was for none.) MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1774. Fryday. Octr. 14. Went in the Morning to see Dr. Chevott 1 and his Skelletons and Wax Work—most admirable, exquisite Representations of the whole Animal ^Economy. Four compleat Skelletons. A Leg with all the Nerves, Veins and Arteries injected with Wax. Two compleat Bodies in Wax, full grown. Waxen Representations of all the Muscles, Tendons &c., of the Head, Brain, Heart, Lungs, Liver, Stomack, Gutts, Cawl-Blad-


[Page 236]
194 October 14, 1774 assuming that the document was "the first draft of the sub-committee’s report on violations of rights,” reproduced it verbatim from Adams’ printed version, retain ing even the exact double-column format used in conjunction with the final declaration of rights and grievances adopted by Congress. Despite the assumptions of Adams and Ford, this MS is in the hand of John Dickinson (see illustration) . That Dickinson did not take a seat in Congress until October 17, and that the MS is among the papers of John Adams only deepens the mystery that surrounds the document. Charles Francis Adams correctly identified it as a version of the declaration of rights and grievances, but it is certainly not the first draft of either of the great committees’ reports—the report on “rights” or the report on “violations”—which were submitted to Congress on September 22 and 24 respectively. Debate on the two reports originally began September 24, but almost immediately the delegates shifted their attention to "the means most proper to be pursued for a restoration of our rights,” consideration of which led to adoption of nonimportation and nonexportation, submission of a plan of union, and discussion of the contents of an address to the king. Not until October 12, according to the journals, did Congress resume consideration "of the rights and grievances of these colonies,” which were also deliberated the 13th. It may well be that the two original reports were not combined into the form of a single consolidated statement of grievances and rights until shortly before Congress approved the resolutions Thomson entered in the journals under the date October 14. The appearance of these resolutions under the date October 14 also raises several questions. Since it is clear from Samuel Ward’s diary and James Duane’s notes of debates that Congress continued on October 15 and 17 to discuss the grievances to be included in their list, it is certain that Thomson could not have written the journal entry for October 14 earlier than the 17th. The fact that John Adams spent all day Sunday, October 16, home “very busy in the necessary Business of putting the Proceedings of the Congress into Order,” suggests that he may well have spent the day revising the declaration of rights and grievances. John Adams’ Diary, October 16, 1774. If this were the case, it would not be surprising that Dickinson gave Adams this draft "Heads of Grievances and Rights,” even if it were not strictly speaking Dickinson’s creation and may indeed have been only a copy he was permitted to make from another draft. Of course, if the document did come into Adams’ possession in this manner, it would not explain why Dickinson was privy to some of the most intimate matters before Congress when he had not yet been elected as a delegate. But perhaps this possibility is not inconsistent with what is known about The Farmer’s extraordinary fame and influence. For other evidence that Dickinson played a more prominent role at the First Continental Congress than has been previously appreciated, see Dickinson’s Draft Memorial to the Inhabitants of the Colonies, October 19-21? 1774, and his Draft Address to the King, October 22? 1774, two documents whose authorship has long been attributed to other delegates. For a recent assessment of the authorship and publication of the “Bill of Rights” and “List of Grievances,” see James H. Hutson, comp, and ed., A Decent Respect to the Opinions of Mankind: Congressional State Papers, 1774-1776 (Washington: Library of Congress, 1976), pp. 50-52. James Duane’s Notes of Debates Friday 14th October 1774. On the Resolution for Trade to qualify the [fourth] proposition. 1 S. Adams. Did not think the Claims respecting the internal policy [ ] a


[Page 237]
October 14, 1774 195 John Dickinson’s Draft Heads of Grievances and Rights 579-852 0 - 77 - 15 Vol. I


[Page 244]
202 October 16, 1774 affecting the Colonies attended To and considered—when You add to This, The Time necessarily spent as well as Difficulty to be en countered at last, To bring Men, From infancy, habituated to differ ent modes, of Treating Subjects, perfectly to harmonize, You will set down no small portion of Our Time to this Head of Business. Our Greivances You will say are evident To all, and may be enumerated in one Day as well as in a Month,—on second Thought You will perhaps be willing to give Us longer Time on that part—For a Greivance deserving the Notice of the United Continent must not only be a real, but one so general. That a Stand must be made against it, and Our measures for redress, be persevered in, untill it is removed. To enumerate as greivances, matters of lesser Moment, would be below the dignity, 8c lessen the weight of this Continental Council, here again, We have recourse To the Statutes, the Usages, 8: Customs of both Countries to direct Us, as Well as to their, 8c Our Bill of Rights. The Measures to be pursued for, or mode of obtain ing Redress is a delicate, yet important Subject. These Three Sub jects have taken up the Cheif of Our Time. We meet at Nine, 8c set untill half past Three, then adjourn untill the Next Morning, this brings Us to Dinner at Four or afterwards, which being generally in parties, on invitation out, or at Our Lodgings concludes the Day, and though We have sat, now, Six Weeks, We have not had One day’s respite. Two Expresses from Boston, have taken up part of Our Time, by one of them I wrote largely, the substance of which You have doubteless seen. 2 The Assembly of this province met Yes terday and chose Mr. Biddle Speaker, and appointed Mr. Dickinson an additional Member, to represent this Province in Congress, so that We may expect his Company Tomorrow in Carpenters Hall. This will find You at New Haven, Next Saturday. Mr. T. Sey mour I hear is a Brother Member. Present my Compliments To him, and Tell him, that Watson of Hartford, merits the severest reproof, for printing in his paper the false, 8c scandalous paragraphs, from Rivington’s Gazette, respecting the Congress. Rivington in private Life is more infamous than Chartres, 8c in public a greater incendi ary than Clodius, yet this Stupid Watson, reprints in the Connecticut Courant the improbable Forgeries, of this most superlatively vile, re tailer of Scandal. 3 I have repeatedly admonished Watson, but to no purpose, a press in his hands, is like firebrands, Arrows, 8c Death in the hands of a Fool or Madman, and all We have to console Our selves with, is that his Weakness prevents his doing extensive mis chief. Rivington is become so detestable every where to the South ward of New York, 8c even in That City, to all, but a Ministerial Junto, that his Papers are stopp’d Universally, and his Name is used only as a Standard by which to compare whatever is mean, base, ser vile, 8c treacherous; yet this Fellow, is one of Watson’s Authors.


[Page 245]
October 16, 1774 203 I ask pardon, for saying so much, on this unworthy Subject, but I feel for the honor of the Colony, affected by such rascally publica tions. Connecticut stands in a reputable, and important point of View, with the other Colonies The more so as We have not been si lent on their History, and police, as well as on their other Connec tions, & their Manners. The Cause of Boston You have already seen is made by Us a Common Cause, 8c You must not be surprized at a Resolution, of all the Colonies, here represented, made Unanimous ly, to stand by, 8c support them to the last with Life, 8c Fortune, and that Resolution published on the housetop at Westminster. I hope We shall be at New Haven before the Assembly rises. It is quite un certain whither I shall be able to procure a place for Your Son, as No Mercht. in this City will give any Answer to a Question respect ing future Business untill he hears, the Report, of the doings of this Congress, but I have spoke to several kind, 8c worthy Freinds on the subject, who have promised to make thorough inquiry. I should pre fer this City, To any place on the Continent for a Lad to serve his Time in. The Manners are simple, 8c pure, and their industry and Oeconomy, exceeding any thing to be expected in so populous a City. I mean by simple 8c pure only comparatively, for here are De bauchees, Whores, 8c Rogues as well as in other places, but not so Numerous. I have spoke for Four places, 8c may possibly obtain Them, if so I can provide for You and Your Brothers Sons. I am de termined to fix a Brother, 8c Soninlaw of mine here, if possible. I pray that a Regulation of the Connecticut Militia may be attended to in earnest, much, perhaps all Depends on it there 8c throughout America. I have neither Time, nor Room to write at large, in a Word if You go on making Colonels 8cc in the Common old Way All is over as to a Militia. While all America is about to exhibit proofs of Virtue, let Those old Field Officers never more than Nominally so, at least sacrifice a Sound to a Reality. Compliments to Freinds. Yours Silas Deane [P.S.] Shew this to Col. Saltonstall, 8c others as You please. 4 RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1973) . 1 Thomas Mumford (1728-99), Groton, Conn., merchant, representative to the Connecticut Assembly, and agent for the Secret Committee of Congress in 1776. James G. Mumford, Mumford Memoirs (Boston: Updike, Merrymount Press, 1900) , pp. 142-50. a The Suffolk Resolves, delivered to Congress September 17, and the Boston Committee’s September 29 letter expressing alarm at British fortification of Boston, laid before Congress October 6. JCC, 1:31, 55. 8 Deane is probably referring to Rivington’s allegation “that the Congress have not yet’ been able to agree on any point.” Rivington’s New-York Gazetteer . . ., October 6, 1774; and Connecticut Courant, and Hartford Weekly Intelligencer, October 10, 1774. ‘Gurdon Saltonstall, Jr., was Deane’s father-in-law.


[Page 246]
204 October 16, 1774 George Read to Gertrude Read My dear Gitty Phila. 16th Octr. 1774 It is now brot. to Sunday Morning again & no certainty yet of the time I am to return to you. The Virginians give out that they will go off this day Week, but 1 doubt the business before us will not be in that State it ought by that time. Mrs. Biddle left this on Friday and that Evening her Husband was made Speaker of the House of Assembly of this Province. I have not seen him since. I am told the Chair went A begging. Galloway was named twice or Thrice to it. John Morton of Chester County once. Mr. Dickinson once. Galloway & Dickinson excused themselves for want of health & unexpectedly A Member for Northampton County got up and prefaced his Motion very well, as it is said, taking Notice of the difficulties the House were under and said that he had A per son in his Eye who had both Health and abilities equal to the Service and as soon as he named Mr. Biddle the House were in an Uproar, refused to hear any apology from him 8c as many as could lay hold of him did and forced him into the Chair—on a unanimous Vote. 1 Tho I am pleased with the distinction that is paid him—I am afraid it will be prejudicial to his Interest. I dined at the Governor’s yesterday very agreeably, the Set were Mrs. Elliott from New York, Mr. Gibson 8c his Wife, Miss Oswald, John Wilcocks 8c myself—and last night I went to Club with Mr. Hamilton whom I met with at the Coffee house but our Company there was not so sprightly. I am told there are letters in Town from Boston mentioning Genl. Gage’s declining State of health, supposed to be owing to uneasiness of Mind 8c that he is now actually confined to his Bed—most persons who wish for Peace wish his recovery. It is also said that there are some Letters in A Late Vessel from Liver pool mentioning that the American Cause is gaining ground in England 8c that Hutchinson 8c Bernard will be made the Scape Goats by the Minis try. I hear of Numbers of Persons having Intermittents so that the Philadelphians must Leave boasting of the healthiness of their Town. Mr. Paca of Anapolis was seized with it yesterday. Jas Allen has it 8c others I do not now recollect—I have felt nothing of it since you left me. Eating 8c drinking distress me most. However I was moderate yesterday, the ladies were the Means of it in some Measure and the wine at the Tavern at Night was bad. All are well at Jemmy Read’s and send their love to you. I yesterday delivered my resignation in Writing of the Attorney General’s Office to the Governor when he told he wou’d Order A Commission to be made out for Jacob Moore as Mr. Rodney had strongly recommended him. Mr. McPherson came to me on Thursday and asked me to go with him to the gover nor, but I was obliged to decline it—as Moore was the person I had


[Page 249]
October 19, 1774 207 John Dickinson’s Draft Memorial to the Inhabitants of the Colonies [October 19-21? 1774] To the Inhabitants of the Colonies of Massachusetts Bay, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, The Counties of New Castle, Kent and Sussex on Delaware, Maryland, Vir ginia, North Carolina and South Carolina, Brethren, We, the Delegates nominated and directed by the good People of the Colonies aforesaid, to meet at Philadelphia in the last Month of September, for the purposes respectively mentioned to Us by our Constituents, have in pursuance of the Trusts reposed in Us accord ingly assembled, and taken into our most serious Consideration, the important Matters recommended to Us as Subjects of our Delibera tions. Our Resolutions thereupon have been (published) communicated to You, and need not here be repeated: But as (our Power was de rived from You, and We are of consequence accountable to You) the Situation of public Affairs grows daily more and more alarming; and as it may be more satisfactory to You to receive Information from Us in a collective Body, than in any other Manner, of those Sentiments, that have been approved upon a full & free Consultation and Discussion in Common Council by the Representatives of so great a Part of America, We esteem ourselves indispensably obliged to add this Address to the Resolutions already published. In every Case of intended Opposition by a People to their Rulers, or of one State to another, Duty to Almighty God the Creator (and Judge) of all Men and Nations, commands, that a strict and impar tial Judgment be formed of all Measures leading to such Conse quences, and of the Causes that may have provoked, or may in any degree excuse them; that, neither Affection on the one side, nor Re sentment on the other, being permitted to confuse the Understand ing, or to prejudice the Integrity of the interested. Reason may be enabled to take a dispassionate View of all (Transactions) Circum stances, and to settle the public Conduct on sure and solid Founda tions of Wisdom 8c Justice. From Counsels thus tempered and directed arise the best (Expectations) Hopes of Divine Favor, the firmest Encouragements to those concern’d, and the strongest Recommendations to the rest of Mankind. Our Minds being deeply impress’d with a Sense of these Truths,


[Page 250]
208 October 19, 1774 We have diligently, deliberately, and calmly enquired into and con sidered the Proceedings of the legislative and executive powers of Great Britain that have excited so much Uneasiness & apprehension in these Colonies, and also the Behaviour of the Colonies. Upon the whole, so extraordinary and important is the Evidence, that We are reduced of Necessity to the ungrateful alternative of keeping Silence, and betraying the Innocent, or of speaking, and censuring those We wish to revere. In making the Choice of those distressing Difficulties; We prefer the Course dictated by Honesty and a Regard for the Wellfare of our Country. Soon after the (Accession of the present King, and the End of the last War, the Conduct of Parliament and Administration towards these Colonies began to change in a most remarkable Manner) Con clusion of the last War, a memorable Change commenc’d in the (Conduct) Treatment of these Colonies. By a Statute made in the fourth Year of the present Reign, in a Time of profound peace, al ledging the “Expediency of new provisions 8c Regulations for ex tending the Commerce between Great Britain and his Majesty’s Do minions in America, and the Necessity of raising a Revenue in the said Dominions, for defraying the Expences of defending, protecting, and securing the same,” the Commons of Great Britain undertook to give 8c grant to his Majesty many heavy Rates 8c Duties to be paid in these Colonies, the said Statute prescribing a great number of severe penalties 8c Forfeitures for enforcing its Observance. In two sections of this Act, a remarkable Distinction is made between the Subjects in Great Britain and those in the Colonies. By the one, the Penalties 8c forfeitures incurr’d there, are to be recovered in any of the King’s Courts of Record at Westminster or in the Court of Exchequer in Scotland; and by the rest, the Penalties 8c Forfeitures incurr’d here, are to be recovered in any Court of Record or in any Court of Ad miralty or Vice admiralty, at the Election of the Informer or prose cutor. The Inhabitants of these Colonies full of Confidence in the Justice and Kindness of Great Britain had scarcely Time allowed them to receive and animadvert properly on the Nature of this Act, before another, well known by the Name of the Stamp Act, past in the fifth Year of this Reign, engaged their whole Attention. By this Statute Parliament in the most explicit manner exercis’d the new power of taxing these Colonies and extended the Jurisdiction of Courts of Ad miralty 8c Vice admiralty in the Colonies, to Matters happening with in the Body of a County, on Land, directing the multitude of Penal ties 8c Forfeitures thereby (impos’d) inflicted to be recovered in the said Courts here, but making the Distinction before mentioned, as to Penalties 8c Forfeitures to be recovered elsewhere. 1 In the same Year, by another Act another Tax was impos’d on


[Page 251]
October 19, 1774 209 these Colonies by the establishment of several new Fees, for the Customs. In the next Year, the Stamp-Act was repealed, not because it was founded on an erroneous principle, but as the repealing Act recites, because “the continuance thereof would be attended with many In conveniences, and might be productive of Consequences greatly det rimental to the commercial Interests of {these Kingdoms') Great Bri tain.” In the same Year, and by the immediately following Act, it was “declared, that his Majesty in parliament, of Right had Power to bind the People of these Colonies by Statues in all Cases whatsoev er.” In the same Year, another Act was past for imposing Rates & Du ties payable in these Colonies. In this Statute the Commons avoiding the Terms of giving and granting, “humbly besought his Majesty, that it might be enacted” &c. But from a Declaration in the Pream ble that the Rates & Duties (were declared to be) were “in Lieu” of several others granted by the Statute first before mentioned, for raising a Revenue, and from some other Expressions, it (plainly) appears, that these Duties were intended for that purpose. In the next Year, 1767, an Act was made “to enable his Majesty to put the Customs and other Duties in America, under the Manage ment of Commissioners” &c And the King thereupon erected the present expensive Board of Commissioners; (with power to enter ir search Houses ire) for the express purpose “of carrying into Execu tion the several Laws relating to the Revenue &: Trade in America." The people of these Colonies, having after the Repeal of the Stamp Act; resign’d themselves to their antient unsuspecting Affec tions for their parent State, and anxious to avoid any Controversy with her, in Hopes of a favorable Alteration in Sentiments Sc Meas ures towards them, did not press their Objections against the above mention’d Statutes made subsequent to that Repeal. Administration attributing to trifling Causes, a Conduct that really proceeded from generous Motives, were encouraged in the same Year, 1767, to make a bolder Experiment on the Patience of these Colonies. By a Statute, commonly call’d the Glass, Paper ir Tea Act, made fifteen months after the Repeal of the Stamp Act, the Commons of Great Britain, resumed their former Language & again undertook to “give and grant Rates of Duties to be paid in these Colonies,” for the express purpose of “raising a Revenue, to defray the Charges of the Administration of Justice, the support of Civil Government, and defending the King’s Dominions” on this Continent. The Penalties & Forfeitures incurr’d under this Statute are to be recovered in the same Manner, with those mentioned in the foregoing Acts.


[Page 259]
October 19, 1774 217 upon a Review of past Events, be persuaded that they, the Defend ers of true Religion, & the Assertors of the {Liberties of) Rights of Mankind, will take part against their affectionate protestant Colo nists, in Favor of our open and their own secret Enemies whose In trigues for several Years past, have been wholly exercis’d in Sapping the Foundations of civil & religious Liberty. Another Reason that engaged Us to prefer the {present) commer cial Mode of opposition, arose from an Assurance that this Mode will prove efficacious, if it be persisted in with Fidelity & Virtue; and that your Conduct will be influenc’d by these laudable Principles cannot be questioned. Your own Salvation, and that of your posterity now depends upon Yourselves. You have already shewn {a due sense of the Blessings for which You are strugglin [g]) that you entertain a proper sense of the Injuries offered to you, & a just sense of the Blessings You are striving to retain. Against the temporary Incon veniences You may suffer from a Stoppage of Trade, You will weigh in the opposite Ballance, the endless Miseries You 8c your Descen dants must endure from an established arbitrary Power. You will not forget the {Glory) Honour of your Country, that must {inevitably) from your Behaviour take its title in the Estimation of the World, to Glory or to shame; and You will, with the deepest Attention reflect, that if the peaceable Mode of Opposition recommended by Us, be broken and rendered ineffectual, as your cruel 8c haughty Enemies, from a contemptuous Opinion of your Firmness, insolently predict will be the Case, You must inevitably be {compell[ed]) reduc’d to chuse, either a more dangerous Contest, or a final and infamous Submission. {We cannot conclude this address) Motives thus cogent, arising from the emergency of your {Affairs) unhappy Condition, must ex cite your utmost Diligence 8: Zeal, to give all possible Strength 8c En ergy to the Measures calculated for your Relief. But, We think our selves bound in Duty, to observe to You, that the schemes agitated against these Colonies have been conducted with such an Excess of Fury, that it appears probable to us, that some other Acts of viol ence may be committed in the approaching Winter or next Year. We judge it therefore prudent, that You should extend your Views to those Events that may happen and be in every Respect, as well pre pared as You can be for every Contingency. Above all Things, we earnestly entreat You with Devotion of Spirit, Penitence of Heart, and Amendment of Life, to humble Yourselves and implore the {Assistance) Favor of Almighty God: 8c We fervently beseech his di vine Goodness to take You into his gracious Protection. MS (PHi) . In the hand o£ John Dickinson. This 17-page draft, heavily interlined and containing numerous marginal notes that survived in the final memorial adopted October 21, is in the R. R. Logan Collection of Dickinson papers at PHi


[Page 262]
220 October 19, 1774 (see illustrations) . Although authorship of the “Memorial to the Inhabitants of the Colonies” has traditionally been assigned to Richard Henry Lee, this MS demonstrates that Dickinson was the author of the memorial that Congress ap proved. No other contemporary evidence bearing upon the authorship of this document has been found. As in the case of nearly all the public papers prepared in committees of Congress, the earliest known accounts pertaining to individual authorship date from the early 19th century. Thus until this collection of Dickin son’s papers became available in 1969, historians were forced to rely upon accounts reconstructed from memory by Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, and John Jay written during the years 1805 to 1823. It is of particular interest that most of these accounts have a common origin in an 1805 query William Wirt directed to Thomas Jefferson. In response to Wirt’s plea for information on Patrick Henry, whose biography Wirt planned to write, Jefferson penned an account which covered some matters that transpired in September and October 1774, although he had not been a delegate to the first Congress. Wirt incorporated Jefferson’s comments into his Sketches of the Life and Character of Patrick Henry (Philadel phia: James Webster, 1817), pp. 108-9, and until recent years these were frequent ly relied upon by students of the Revolution, notwithstanding the fact that Jeffer son had obtained his information at second hand, and because of this stated that he ought not to be quoted on the subject of “the addresses prepared for Congress by Henry and Lee.” PMHB, 34 (October 1910) : 406. When John Adams read Wirt’s study of Henry, he immediately wrote to Jay, questioning Wirt’s account of the authorship of the various petitions and addresses of Congress. Jay’s response, which was vague, apologetic in tone, and based chiefly on the printed journals of Congress, confirmed only that he was the author of the address to the people of Great Britain. William Jay, The Life of John Jay: with Selections from His Correspondence and Miscellaneous Papers, 2 vols. (New York: J. & J. Harper, 1833) , 2:378-84. But in an account he wrote in 1823 to the grandson of Richard Henry Lee, in answer to a question about Lee’s role as a member of “the three leading committees appointed by the Congress of 1774,” Jay was more explicit, although he again insisted that his recollection was "not distinct.” “It was agreed, in the committee,” Jay recalled, “that Mr. Lee should prepare a draught of the proposed memorial [“to the people of British America"], which was the first, both in order and importance; and that I should prepare a draught of the proposed address to the people of Great Britain, both of which were done accordingly. On the 18th October, the address to the people of Great Britain was reported to Congress. . . . On the 19th October, the committee reported a draught of a memorial to the inhabitants of the British colonies. ... I have always believed that this memorial was written by Mr. Lee, nor have any reasons to doubt it, come to my knowledge.” Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee . . ., 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H. C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825) , 1:271. That Dickinson did not take his seat in Congress until October 17 only deepens the mystery about when and under what circumstances this document came to be drafted. Since so little time was available to compose such a long draft, one might conclude that Dickinson immediately set to work on his version to offer as an alternate to the committee’s original draft when it was reported and ordered to lie on the table October 19. As a consequence of the debate on the memorial on the 20th, he may then have been asked to complete his draft to rescue the delegates from an impasse. In any case, this was undoubtedly the document that was “gone through and debated by paragraphs” and approved the 21st. Whatever the exact circumstances, which must remain conjectural, and notwithstanding the fact that the journals indicate that Lee, Jay, and William Livingston were the sole members of the committee appointed to draft both the address to the people of Great Britain and the memorial to the people of British America, the testimony of this


[Page 263]
October 20, 1774 221 draft speaks clearly in behalf of Dickinson’s authorship of the latter memorial. Whether he built his work upon the committee’s reported draft or began fresh to compose an essentially new document cannot be determined, but it is possible that on this point there is a parallel to the joint contributions of Dickinson and Thomas Jefferson in drafting the “Declaration of the Causes and Necessity for Taking up Arms” the following July, for which see the suggestive comments of Julian P. Boyd in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) , 1:190-92. ’The last 16 words of this sentence were omitted in the final version. JCC, 1:92. “This brief paragraph was omitted in the final version. JCC, 1:94. 3 Footnoted and placed in the margin of MS, as were the dates added at the end of the following two paragraphs. 4 Thus in the MS and printed "original” in the early editions of Extracts from the Votes and Proceedings of the American Continental Congress, but the word "origin” was subsequently used in various 1774 printings of the Journal of the Proceedings of the Congress, Held at Philadelphia, September 5, 1774. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 19, 1774] 19th. Met, read the Memorial to the Americans. MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1774 Thursday Octr. 20. Dined with the whole Congress at the City Tavern, at the Invita tion of the House of Representatives of the Province of Pensylvania, the whole House dined with Us, making near 100 Guests in the whole—a most elegant Entertainment. 1 A Sentiment was given, “May the Sword of the Parent never be Stain’d with the Blood of her Children.” Two or 3 broadbrims, over against me at Table—one of em said this is not a Toast but a Prayer, come let us join in it—and they took their Glasses accordingly. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:155. ’Robert Treat Paine recorded his attendance at this dinner in his diary for this day: “Dind at City Tavern with the Congress, they being Invited by the House of Assembly of this Province, a very Elegant Entertainment.” MHi. George Washing ton’s diary account for the 20th is similar: “Dind at the New Tavern with the Pensa. Assembly. Went to the Ball afterwards.” Washington, Diaries (Fitzpatrick) , 2:168. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 20, 1774] 20th. Met, considered the Memorial and signed the Association. 1


[Page 266]
224 October 21, 1774 the true Spirit of English liberty. The Religion of Rome bloody Idol atrous & strongly inimical to Protestantism will ever stimulate its Votarys to attempts fatal to those who differ from them in Religious 8c Civil Policy. Strongly impressed with these Sentiments we chear- fully contributed our blood 8c treasure to the conquest of that coun try in the late war confident that we should thereby change a danger ous 8c hostile neighbour into a British Province Sc strengthen the Protestant interest & the cause of Liberty. Our amazement therefore is indeed extreme to see these well-grounded hopes disappointed, & that Popery & the Laws of France have found Establishment & Pa tronage in a British Parliament. The local extent assigned for the Operation of this fatal scheme of Goverment is an additional Circum stance to make it dangerous & alarming to the ancient British Colo- nys. Thus encompassed with Injurys apprehensions 8c Dangers, your faithfull American Subjects look up to your Majesty for Assistance 8c Releif. We most earnestly entreat you Royal Sire to interpose your Royal Influence to procure us Redress of these our Greivances. We are distressed with the most Poignant feelings, by that prospect which the present System adopted by Parliament holds up to our view. Unworthy submission, or unjust Resistance are Equally far from us 8c abhorrent to our Ideas. Either would render unfit objects of yr. Majestys Paternal regards—Drive us not to Despair—Urge us not to the last extremity most gracious Sovereign. We can never sub mit to the Encroachments of the British Parliament. Compell us not therefore to that Situation in which All is Gloom 8c horror, 8c from whence no Ray of Peace or Comfort can be discern’d. All we ask is that we may be restored to that State in which America stood at the Close of the last War. We desire no new privileges. Restore us royal Sir our Ancient 8c indubitable rights 8c we are contented. We shall then return with Joy 8c Gladness to that friendly intercourse 8c mu tually beneficial commerce so much to be desired by the mother Country 8c the Colonys, but which has of late been so unhappily dis turbed. Thus restored to peace 8c tranquility we shall bless the royal hand that was held forth for our Deliverance. We shall rejoice under the Dominion of a Prince to whom Allegiance Affection 8c Gratitude shall concur to bind us by their most sacred ties. Your Majestys faithfull Americans will ever be ready to offer their blood 8c treasure to Support your Majestys illustrious house. And we trust that no length of Time no distance of Situation or change of Circumstances shall ever efface the remembrance of that Signal interposition of yr. Majesty upon which we rely for Deliverance from the wicked At tempts of those Ministers whose Designs are fatal to the true inter ests of yr. Majesty 8c destructive to all that is dear to us.


[Page 267]
October 21, 1774 225 MS (PPL) . In the hand of Patrick Henry. 3 On October 1, 1774, Congress resolved to prepare an address to the king, and for that purpose appointed a committee consisting of Richard Henry Lee, John Adams, Thomas Johnson, Patrick Henry, and John Rutledge. The next week. Congress devoted three days to debating instructions to the committee, but subse quently other matters intruded to dominate the work of the delegates, and another two weeks elapsed before Congress returned to the subject. On October 21 a draft address to the king was read and debated in Congress, but when it met a cool reception the document was recommitted and John Dickinson was added to the committee. On the 24th the enlarged committee reported another draft address, which was "debated by paragraphs . . . approved and ordered to be engrossed” the following day, and two engrossed copies were signed by the delegates on the 26th. JCC, 1:53-55, 102-4, 113. For a discussion of the work of the committee and the date and authorship of the three drafts of the address that survive, see Edwin Wolf 2d, “The Authorship of the 1774 Address to the King Restudied,” WMQ 22 (April 1965) : 194-99. See also Richard Henry Lee’s Draft Address to the King, October 21? 1774; and John Dickinson’s Draft Address to the King, October 22? 1774. a In the final version transmitted to England, this list of objectionable acts was revised and expanded to a 14-paragraph catalog of grievances. Wolf, “Authorship,” pp. 203, 220-21. 3 The substance of this paragraph is contained in the resolution adopted by Congress October 3. JCC, 1:53-54. Richard Henry Lee’s Draft Address to the King [October 21? 1774] 1 May it please your most excellent Majesty Graciously to permit your dutiful Subjects the Representatives of your loyal People in North America to approach the Throne and humbly to entreat the royal attention to those Grievances, which have for ten years past, with increasing violence threatned danger and ruin to Antient Constitutional Rights which your Majesties faithful Subjects in this western world have long enjoyed under your Majesties royal Progenetors. The history of these Colonies, may it please your Majesty, is one continued proof of unshaken loyalty to their Sovereigns, of unremitting zeal for the glory and prosperity of Great Britain, to which, their active labors have much contributed. No rebellions, no traiterous dissaffections have ever disgraced their story, or disturbed the repose of the Mother Country. These truths may sufficiently prove to your Majesty, that nothing less than immi nent dangers and most oppressive Grievances could now move a numerous people of such steady and persevering Loyalty. Such, may it please your Majesty, are certain Acts of your British Parliament passed in the 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th & years of your Majesties reign, which destroy every idea of property in your Majesties Ameri can dominions, and in many cases deprive the Subject of his antient, equitable, and legal trial by Jury, and unncessarily endanger his life,


[Page 279]
October 24, 1774 237 against superior Numbers had incorporated You with the Body of British Subjects, We rejoiced in the truly valuable Addition both on our own and your Account, expecting, as Courage & Generosity are naturally united, our brave Enemies would become our (best) hearty Friends, and that the Divine Being would bless the Dispensa tions of his overruling Providence to You, by securing to You &: your latest posterity, the inestimable advantages of a free British Consitution of Government, which it is the Priviledge of all British Subjects [to] enjoy. These Hopes were confirmed by the Proclamation issued in the Year 1763, plighting the public Faith for your full Enjoyment of those advantages therein solemnly promised. Little did We imagine, that any succeeding Ministers would so au daciously and cruelly abuse the royal Authority, as not only to with hold from You the irrevocable Rights to which You were thus justly entitled, 2 Rights purchased from arbitrary Monarchs by our Ances tors, at the Expence of their Blood, but, with a detestable Cunning even to direct the Exercise of those Rights in such an incidious Man ner, as might most effectually tend to prejudice You against the proffored Blessings, and incline You to think, that You only rejected a rough Casket belonging to others, while You should throw away inclosed Jewells above all Price, your own legal property, that your base Deceivers might profit by your innocent Error. But since We have liv’d to see the unexpected Time, when Minis ters of this flagitious Temper have dared to violate the most sacred Compacts & obligations, and as You, educated under another Form of Government, have artfully been kept from discovering the un speakable Worth of that Form You are now undoubtedly entitled to, We esteem it our Duty, for the weighty Reasons herein after men tioned, to explain to You, as well We can, the Nature of some of its most important Branches. “In every human Society,” says the celebrated Marquis Beccaria, following the steps of the immortal Montesquieu in impressing senti ments of Humanity, “there is an Effort continually tending to confer on one Part the height of Power and Happiness, and to reduce the other to the extreme of Weakness & Misery. The intent of good Laws, is to oppose this Effort, and to diffuse their Influence, univer sally, 8c equally.” These few Lines have intensely collected into a small Compass, the (Principles) Causes of almost all Civil Discords. Rulers stimu lated by the pernicious “Effort,” and Subjects, animated by the just “Intent of opposing good Laws against it,” have that vast Variety of Dissensions, that fill the Histories of so many Nations. All these His tories demonstrate the Truths of this simple Position, that to live by the Will of one Man or sett of Men, is the production of Misery to


[Page 282]
240 October 24, 1774 for You, to watch over your Wellfare, & to direct in what quantity and manner, your Money shall be taken from you? No. The Powers of making Laws for you, are lodg’d in the Governor 8c Council, all of them dependant upon 8c removable at the Pleasure of a Minister. Be sides, by another late Statute, You are subjected to Excise Regula tions, the Horror 8c detestation of all free States, thus wresting your property from You by the most odious of Taxes {These are the in sulting Favors of a Ministry) and in the very Act altering your Gov ernment, and intended to flatter You, it is expressly declared that You “Yourselves within your several Towns 8c Districts shall not as sess, levy, 8c apply any Rates 8c Taxes within such Towns 8c Districts respectively, but for the inferior purposes of making Roads, & erect ing ir repairing public Buildings, or for other local Conveniences.” Why this degrading Distinction? Ought not the honestly acquired property of Canadians to be as sacred as that of Britons 8c therefore dependant on their own voluntary Gifts 8c Grants? Have they not Sense enough to (manage) attend to other public Affairs than gath ering Stones from one Place, 8c piling them up in another? Unhappy People! Who are not only injured but insulted; not only Ruin’d by your oppressors but trampled under their Feet; and after all derid- ingly told, that the whole is for your Good. Nay more! With such a superlative Contempt of your Understanding 8c Spirit, has an inso lent Ministry presumed to think of you our respectable [. . .] fellow subjects, as firmly to persuade themselves, that your Gratitude for the Injuries 8c Insults they have recently offer’d to You, will engage You to take up arms, 8c render yourselves the ridicule 8c Detestation of the World, by becoming poor Tools in their Hands, to assist them in taking that Freedom from Us, which they have treacherously de nied to You; the unavoidable Consequence of which Attempt, if successful, would be the Extinction of all hope of You or your pos terity being ever restored to Freedom. What would your Countryman the immortal Montesquieu, {an Honor not only to his Nation but to Human Nature, say, were he living) have said to such a Plan of Domination? Hear his Words with an Intenseness of Thought suited to the {Magnitude) Impor tance of the Subject. “In a free State, every Man, who is supposed a free Agent ought to be concern’d in his own Government: so the leg islative should reside in the whole Body of the People—or their Representatives.” “The political Liberty of the subject is a Tranquil ity of Mind, arising from the opinion each person has of his Safety. In order to have this Liberty, it is requisite the Government be so constituted, as that one Man need not be afraid of another. When the power of making Laws and the power of executing them are united in the same persons, or in the same Body of Magistrates, there can be no Liberty, because Apprehensions may arise, least the


[Page 284]
242 October 24, 1774 conquered into Liberty, if you act as you ought. This Work is not of Man. You are a small People, compared to those whose open arms invite You into Fellowship. {They are at Your Doors. You must inevitably be their Friends or their Enemies. They are at Your Doors. Their Hostility must be incessant, unaltered, not to be guard ed against. Great Britain is at a very [great] Distance. Her Fleets & Armies. The Happiness of a People inevitably depend on their abili ty ir their Spirit to assert it wanted to complete striving of) You may make them your unalterable Friends. For their own Sakes, they nev er will desert or betray you. The Injuries of Boston, have rous’d ev ery Colony to an Association, from Nova Scotia to Georgia. You are the only Link wanting to complete the bright 8c strong Chain of Union. Nature (intended you for the [. . .]) has join’d your Coun try to theirs. Do You join Your politicial Interests. Be assured, that the Happiness of a People inevitably depends on their Liberty, 8c their Spirit to assert it. The value 8c Extent of the {Blessin[gs]) ad vantages tendered to You are immense. Heaven grant, You may not discover them to be Blessings, as the unwise generally do, after they have bid an eternal Adieu.” {Be not alarm’d with false Fears of Dif ferences in religious Sentiments. The united Body of Swiss Cantons is happily composed of Roman Catholic & Protestant States, ir defy the World to hurt them.) We are too well acquainted with the Liberality of Sentiment dis tinguishing your Nation, to imagine, that Difference of Religon will prejudice You against a hearty Amity with Us. 6 You know that the transcendent Nature of Freedom elevates those who unite in her Cause, above all such low-minded Infirmities. The Swiss Cantons furnish a memorable proof of this Truth. Their union is compos’d of Roman catholic 8c protestant States, living in the utmost Concord 8c Peace with one another and thereby enabled ever since they bravely vindicated their Freedoms, to defy and defeat every Tyrant that has invaded them. We know, there are among You, 8c among all Societies, Men who prefer their own Interest to the Welfare of their Country. The Tem per of such selfish persons renders them incredibly active in oppos ing all public spirited Measures, from an Expectation of being well rewarded for their sordid Industry, by their Superiors to whom those Measures are displeasing. 7 We doubt not, but these Men will throw in your Way every Objection 8c Difficulty, their partial Aims can forge or form. But We address the Body of the Canadian People, on a subject of the last Importance, not to one or another Class or Rank among them, but to the whole. You will therefore, We doubt not, be upon your Guard against those, who by their offices 8c Connections are led to pursue private Interests at the Expence of the general. All their glosses 8c Calumnies cannot depreciate with sensible 8c honest


[Page 285]
October 24, 1774 243 Men, the laudable Cause in which We are already engaged, and re quest You to share. This Our Invitation asks You not to commence Acts of Hostility against the Government of our Common Sovereign. It is only that You will consult your own Glory & Welfare, and not suffer Your selves to be enveigled or intimidated by infamous Ministers so far as to become their Instruments, and plunge your Swords into our inno cent Bosoms, that ardently wish You every kind of Liberty 8c Felici ty, and will rejoice to embrace You a loving Brethren in one social Band, founded on the generous Principles of equal Liberty, & ce mented by such an Exchange of endearing Offices as to render it perpetual. In Order to complete this highly desireable Union, We submit to your Consideration, whether it may not be expedient for You to meet together in your several Towns 8c Districts 8c {chuse Representatives') elect Deputies, who afterwards meeting in a prov incial Congress, may chuse Delegates to represent your Province in the Continental Congress to be held at Philadelphia {in the Province of Pennsylvania) on the Day of 1775. In the present Congress beginning on the fifth Day of the last Month, and continued by adjournments to this Day, it has been with universal Pleasure and an unanimous Vote resolved, that You should be invited to accede to our Confederation, which has no oth er Objects, than the perfect Security of the natural 8c civil Rights of all the constituent Members according to their respective Circum stances, and the Preservation of a happy 8c lasting Connection with Great Britain on the great, & salutary & constitutional Principles here in before mentioned. For effecting these Purposes, We have ad drest an humble 8c loyal Petition to his Majesty, praying Relief of our Grievances; and have associated to stop all Importations from Great Britain 8c Ireland after the first Day of next December, 8c all Exportations to those Kingdoms 8c the West Indies, after the tenth Day of next September, unless the said Grievances are redrest. That Almighty God may incline your Minds to approve our {just) equitable 8c necessary Measures, to add yourselves to Us, to put your Fate whenever You suffer Injuries you are determined to oppose not on the small Force of your single province, but on the consolidated Powers of North America, and may grartt to our joint Exertions an Event happy as our Cause is just, is the {sincere ir) fervent Prayer of Us your sincere 8c affectionate Friends 8c Fellow Subjects. MS (PPL). In the hand of John Dickinson. 1 Congress resolved to prepare an address to the people of Quebec on October 21 and for that purpose appointed a committee consisting of Thomas Cushing, Richard Henry Lee, and John Dickinson. On October 24 the committee reported a draft, which was debated and recommitted, and on the 26th reported a second S79-852 0 - 77 - 13 Vol. 1


[Page 287]
October 25, 1774 245 Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Monday Octr. 24. 1774 The address to the inhabitants of Quebec being brot. in & read was recommitted. The address to the King was brot. in & read. 1 Ordered that the same be taken into consideration tomorrow. MS (James O. Keene, Birmingham, Mich., 1953. DLC microfilm.) 'New-York Historical Society text reads: “The committee to whom the address to the King was recommitted reported a drat, which was read.” Virginia Delegates to George Washington Philadelphia Octr. 24th 1774 We Depute Colo George Washington to sign our Names to any of the Proceedings of the Congress. 1 Benj Harrison Peyton Randolph Richard Bland RC (DLC) . Written by Harrison and signed by Harrison, Randolph, and Bland. 'Bland, Harrison, and Randolph left Philadelphia October 23 or 24 to attend the Virginia House of Burgesses, of which Randolph was the speaker. On the basis of George Read’s letters to his wife of October 16 and 24, Edmund Burnett questionably concluded that they departed the 23d and postdated the present document. Burnett, Letters, l:lxiv. A volume of accounts attributed to Philadel phia cabinetmaker Benjamin Randolph and designated "Philadelphia Ledger, 1768-87,” NN, indicates that the account of “Colonel Benjamin Harrison” was credited with a cash payment of £1 10s., October 24, 1774. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 24, 1774] 24th. Met, read recommitted the Letter to Canada, read the Ad dress to the King, gave Directions for prin[tin]g procee [ding] s. MS (RHi). Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Tuesday Octr. 25. 1774 The address to his Majesty being read & amended was approved.


[Page 289]
October 26, 1774 247 Thomas Lynch to Ralph Izard Dear Sir: Philadelphia, October 26, 1774. On my arrival here, I wrote you 1 the occasion of it. I now have the pleasure of enclosing to you a pamphlet, which contains the result. 2 There remains only an address to the Canadians and the pe tition to the King, to complete all our works, and these will be soon printed in England; should they reach you abroad, please consider whether their being translated into French and Dutch, may not have a good effect, as we shall want supplies of woollens and other goods from them, in case our mother country, (as it is called,) continues her oppression. The New England men, continue a behavior truly heroic. Without rashness, or any tumultuous proceedings that belong to mobs, they oppose a steady, manly, cool and regular conduct, neither declining nor precipitating war. I saw a gentleman a few days ago, who was at Cambridge, when the men who had met to oblige the councillors and judges to resign their offices, received intelligence that Gage was marching his little army to attack them. He declares that this news occasioned not the least appearance of hurry or confusion. The men who were armed, prepared to receive their enemy; the unarmed, hasted home, and brought their arms. Their numbers being but little superior, shows they will not decline an equal combat. If so, where is England to find an army to encounter two hundred thousand of these same New Englanders, besides at least five hundred thousand others, in the rest of America, who have solemnly engaged in the same cause. I think I mentioned a little speech, made by an Assemblyman, (it is said of Virginia.) “I will raise and support, one thousand men at my expense, as long as you shall want them, and march at their head, wherever you direct.” There are many such men in America. 3 I remember to have heard, that Amherst had told the King, that he would undertake to march five thousand men, from one end of the continent to the other, notwithstanding the opposition of all the inhabitants. If the story is true, his successor seems quite of a contra ry opinion. Indeed, if the former took up that idea from the provin cials, he will consider an army, formed out of the dregs of the peo ple, as a very different thing from the yeomen of the country, acting voluntarily in the immediate defence of their liberty and property. I enclose a newspaper, to show the temper of the people of Mary land, as a specimen of that which prevails in all the colonies. In short, I think you may venture to pronounce that America, though most sincerely attached to England and desirous of a perpetual un ion, will, by force only, be brought to admit of domination; and they may learn from the case of Corsica what force to apply to America,


[Page 292]
250 October 27, 1774 John Dickinson to Arthur Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia October 27th 1774 Yesterday the Congress broke up. You will immediately know their proceedings from Publications. Colonists have now taken such Ground, that Great Britain must relax, or inevitably involve herself in a Civil War, likely in all human probability to overwhelm her with a Weight of Calamities, in Com parison of which “plus quam civilia bella,” the Contentions, between the Houses of York 8c Lancaster, or the Distractions of the last Cen tury were gentle Misfortunes. A determined & unanimous Resolution animates this Continent, firmly & faithfully to support the Common Cause, to the utmost Ex tremity, in this great Sturggle for the Blessing of Liberty, that alone can render Life worth holding. I grieve for the Fate of a brave & generous Nation plung’d by a few profligate Men, into such Scenes of unmerited & inglorious Dis tress. Let her rouse her natural, noble Spirit—be true to herself, 8c of course be true to Us. Let her not so far adopt the base yet Visionary Schemes of Fools 8c Knaves, that She may think her Dignity con cern’d to maintain the projects of those, whom her Justice com mands her to punish. Give us the Butes, Mansfields, Norths, Bernards 8c Hutchinsons 8cc whose Falsehoods and Misrepresentations, have enflamed the People—Call not their Cause, the Cause of Great Britain—Throw all Errors 8c occasions of Dissatisfaction on their guilty heads. A new Ministry of such a Character, that England 8c America both can trust, may do great Things; Especially if a considerable Change be made at the next general Election. Why should Nations meet with hostile Eyes, because Villains 8c Ideots have acted like Villains 8c Ideots? I wish for peace ardently; but must say, delightful as it is, it will come more grateful by being unexpected. The first Act of Violence on the Part of Administration in America, or the Attempt to rein force General Gage this Winter or next Year, will put the whole Continent in arms from Nova Scotia to Georgia. May God of his infinite Mercy grant a happy Event to these af flicting Agitations. [P.S.] It is suspected here, that a Design is regularly prosecuted by the Ministry, to make his Majesty dethrone himself, by the Calami ties 8c Convulsions his Reign is likely to bring on his whole People. Please to inform Me, what is thought on this Point in England. RC (MH). In Dickinson’s hand, though not signed.


[Page 294]
252 October 28, 1774 As to your Complaint against an Expression in a late Letter, know, Dear Sir, I wrote in Agonies of Mind for my Brethren in Boston. 1 I trembled, least something might have happened, which I could not only forgive but applaud, but which might have been ea gerly & basely seiz’d by others, as a Pretence for deserting them. This was the sense of Men in Philadelphia the most devoted to them. And under this Apprehension, We agreed to make use of the strong est Expressions. May the Father of Mercies bestow every Blessing upon You, is the fervent Prayer of, my dear Sir, your faithful 8c af fectionate Friend John Dickinson RC (MHi). ‘Dickinson’s letter to Quincy of June 20, 1774, contained a warning: “Nothing can throw us into a pernicious confusion, but one Colony’s breaking the line of opposition, by advancing too hastily before the rest. The one which dares to betray the common cause, by rushing forward, contrary to the maxims of discipline established by common sense, and the experience of ages, will inevitably and utterly perish.’’ Quincy’s "complaint” was registered in his August 20 letter written from Boston, in which he concluded: “I see no reason to apprehend our advancing before our brethren, unless the plans they should adopt should very evidently be too languid and spiritless to give any rational hopes of safety to us, in our adherence to them.” Both letters are printed in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:434, 725-26. Edward Rutledge to Ralph Izard My Dear Sir: Chester, October 29, 1774 A moment’s leisure gives me an opportunity of communicating to you the business we have transacted, which is briefly this. We have formed a bill of Rights, by which we insist, that no power on earth has a right to intermeddle with our internal polity; but that the Par liament of Great Britain, has, of necessity, a right to regulate trade. We have framed a list of grievances, and have formed an associa tion, not to import any goods, &c., either from Great Britain or Ire land, until such grievances, as have arisen since the year ’63, and are enumerated in such association, shall be redressed. We have further resolved, that, “if a repeal of those laws, by which we are oppressed, does not take place, anterior to the 10th of September next, we will not export any commodity to Great Britain, Ireland or the West In dies, except rice to Europe.” 1 It will take more wisdom than I am master of, to reconcile this plan to reason; for, upon the most mature deliberation, I disapprove of it. I have repeatedly held forth my testimony against it, as inexpe dient and weak. I do not mean the bill of Rights; that I think well of, and offered it every support in my power: for I hold it as a clear truth, that they have no right to interfere in the regulation of our in-


[Page 295]
October 29, 1774 253 ternal polity, where we have a power within ourselves that is equal to the exigencies of our affairs; it being as ridiculous to suppose that there could be two complete legislatures, as that there should be two superior beings. But no good reason can be urged why we should be satisfied with a restoration of such rights only, as have been violated since the year ’63, when we have as many others, as clear and indisputable, that will even then be infringed. Nor can any sufficient reason be as signed, why a non-exportation should not be put on foot immediate ly, or a non-importation delayed, until we are ripe for a non-expor tation, as, I suppose, that the more interested the people of Great Britain are in the colonies, the more property they have with us, the more desirous and industrious will they be to obtain a repeal of the oppressive acts. But I was very desirous that both of them should take place at an early day, and think a few months would have put everything to rights again. But to make the matter more absurd, we have come into a resolution not to export indigo. This, I was totally against. I proposed to stop all exportation—nothing short of that would satisfy me. I saw no reason why the inhabitants of this, and the neighboring colonies, should have full liberty to export their wheat and flour to every part of Europe, and that we should be re stricted so much in our trade; for under the statute of Charles II., we could not carry rice to any part of the world, except to England and Scotland. It is true that, by some subsequent acts, we had liberty to carry it to other parts, but these were only temporary satutes; and the one which permits it to be carried to the south of Cape Finis- terre, will expire with the present session of Parliament. Their com modities, not being enumerated, may be carried to any part of the globe. It was said, if they were in an advantageous situation, why not al lowed the use of it? The answer is ready: because equality is the ba sis of public virtue. People who are affected but in speculation, and submit to all the hardships attending it, will not shut up their ports, while their neighbors, who are the objects of ministerial vengeance, enjoy, in a great degree, the benefits of commerce. Nor is the fact true, that Great Britain will not be distressed by withholding our trade to other parts of the world, for the wealth which is acquired by such trade, must go to our enemies. But to stop the exportation of indigo, is still more foolish; it is unequal, too, between the different parts of the province. St. Helena, is not well affected; the Georgians are disaffected. How easy will it be for the people, in that part of the province, to carry their commodity to that market. Again: if they give up the planting of indigo, what can they do? They can plant nothing else but provisions, which they can never dispose of, as the West India trade will be at an end.


[Page 296]
254 October 29, 1774 But why stop; does it pay duty? No. It receives a bounty; it is use ful, they say, in dying. Cannot these things be procured from the French? Yes. But if they could not, why shall we distress our own people, for no other purpose, than to oblige the people of England to weave white cloth, instead of blue? I had much more to say, but have not time. However, this I must add, that, if the acts are not repealed before May, at which time we are to have a new Congress, we shall certainly go much farther; for, submission never can, nor ever shall take place. Remember me to Mrs. Izard. I am just this moment setting out for Carolina. God bless you! MS not found; reprinted from Ralph Izard, Correspondence of Mr. Ralph Izard of South Carolina, from the Year 1774 to 1804; with a Short Memoir, ed. Anne Izard Deas (New York: Charles S. Francis & Co., 1844), pp. 21-25. 1 This quotation is an accurate paraphrase of the fourth article of the Associa tion. JCC, 1:77. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell [Philadelphia. October 31, 1774.] Reports the adjournment of Congress “on Thursday last.” 1 All ranks of people here generally approve their recently published proceedings. "The Germans who compose a large part of the Inhabitants of this province are all on our side. . . . Some of our friends are under apprehension that Ad ministration will endeavour to lay hold of as many Delegates as pos sible & have them carried to England and tryed as Rebels. This induced the Congress to enter into a resolve in such cases to make re prisal. I have no fears on that head. . . .” He hopes to arrive at Ed enton in December. 2 RC (NcD, Iredell MSS) . Endorsed: "Philadelphia 31st Oct. 1774. Jos. Hewes.” The manuscript is badly damaged, but the document’s fragmentary nature was not noted when it was published in Griffith J. McRee, Life and Correspondence of James Iredell, One of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, 2 vols. (New York: D. Appleton and Co., 1857-58) , 1:227. 1 Congress adjourned on Wednesday, October 26. ’James Iredell (1751-99), North Carolina statesman and jurist, was at this time collector of the port at Edenton. DAB. Edward Rutledge to Thomas Bee [Philadelphia? October, 1774.} “I long to tell you 1 what we have done, but am prevented, from silence having been imposed upon us all by consent, the first week in congress; this, however, I may say,


[Page 297]
November 7, 1774 255 that the province will not be able to account for our conduct until we explain it, though it is justifiable upon the strictest principles of hon our and policy. Don’t be alarmed; we have done no mischief, though I am sure, if Mr. had had his way, we should. But you may thank your stars you sent prudent men, and I trust that the youngest is not the least so. The gentleman to whom you alluded is, if possi ble, worse than ever; more violent, more wrong-headed. 2 But I do not mean to censure others; sufficient for me if I pursue a right line, and meet with the approbation of my countrymen.” MS not found; reprinted from extract in John Sanderson, Biography of the Signers to the Declaration of Independence, 9 vols. (Philadelphia: R. W. Pomeroy, 1820-27), 3:13-14. ’Thomas Bee (1725-1812), lawyer, planter, member of the South Carolina Assembly, was subsequently a delegate to Congress, 1780-82. Bio. Dir. Cong. 3 Sanderson believed that Christopher Gadsden was the "gentleman” alluded to here—a hypothesis that seems to be confirmed by Gadsden's remarks in South Carolina Delegates’ Report to the South Carolina Provincial Congress, January 11, 1775. Joseph Galloway to Thomas Nickleson Novr. 1. 1774. Philada. To the husband of his wife’s sister, of Poole, Dorsetshire, concerned primarily with family finances. Con cludes: “As to the unfortunate Dispute between The Mother Coun try & her Colonies, I fear it is now arrived to such an Heighth that It will be with great Difficulty accommodated. Nothing has been want ing on my Part to moderate the Violent Temper of the Warm &: in discreet People here, and bring about a Reconciliation between the two Countries upon Principles of Liberty and Government. But what can one or a few Men do in so Arduous a Task. You will no Doubt see the Resolves of our Congress and their other Proceedings. I can not say I approve of them, they are too warm & indiscreet and in my Opinion have not pursued the right Path to an Accommodation. All the Violent Parts of them I strenuously opposed from Conscience & Judgment and because I was convinced they must widen the Differ ences between us.” RC (DLC) . William Hooper to Mary Hooper New York November 7. 1774. Letter to his mother expressing re gret at his inability to visit her in Boston because “the Congress


[Page 304]
262 November 13, i774 dant Country on the Globe, inland Seas or Lakes, and Rivers ex tending quite across the Continent in those parallels, and the West ern extremity lands Us at the very Door, of the Treasures of the East, and The South. If the Contemplation of these future events give Us pleasure every effort of Ours to ripen them if successful, in degree realizes them. This can hardly be called the pleasure of the imagination only, but rather the pleasure of anticipating great, & im portant realities, & such as are hastening on, 8c in the arrival of which, the happiness of Mankind is most deeply interested. RC (NN) . Enclosure: MS (NN) . ’John Holt, publisher of the New York Journal, had printed an extract of a letter from Montreal, dated October 9, 1774, discussing resolves adopted at a recent meeting at which Montreal’s British inhabitants had stated their abhorrence of the Quebec Act and pledged to struggle to obtain its repeal. The New York Journal; or, the General Advertiser, November 10, 1774. William Hooper to James Duane My dear Sir Philadelphia Nov. 22. 1774 After a cold disagreeable Journey I arrived here on Saturday eve ning last. I cannot leave this place without expressing my gratitude for the many Civilities I received from yourself 8c your Friends in New York. It will give me the greatest pleasure to have it in my power hereafter in Carolina or elsewhere to be useful to you or them. I find no material change in the political System of Philadelphia since I left it. The same patriotick fervor still kindles in the breasts of the Inhabitants and urges them to a strict adherence to the meas ures which the Grand Continental Congress has taught them are to produce the salvation of themselves 8c their posterity in time, and such is the faith of some of these political patients that they are will ing to extend the blessed Influence to all Eternity. God bless the Congress! Surely they were inspired! I have surprized every person with whom I have conversed with the candid representation I have made of the political Creed of the New Yorkers and their firm and steady resolution strictly to adhere to the proceedings of the Congress. They view it as a kind of Change which required the immediate and almighty interposition to effect— they call it miraculous 8c begin to augur favourably of the cause in which they are embarked from Heaven having thus signally discov ered its approbation of it in the conversion 8c reformation which it has thus worked in your Countrymen. Strange that you have been so flagrantly misrepresented. I am perfectly sincere when I say that


[Page 305]
November 22, 1774 263 your Province has been cruelly misrepresented—but it is a Consola tion to you that it has been by a set of men who would have treated a second Saviour in the same manner if he had encountered the li centiousness of their Religion as their politicks. I have been informed since I came here that the Pamphlet enti tled, The friendly address to the Americans ire has thro a mistaken zeal of the people been prevented from being publickly sold in this City; 1 Strange Infatuation that while we contend with enthusiastick ardor for the liberty of the press ourselves that we should with such an intolerating spirit deny it to others. It is a strange freedom that is confined to one side of a Question! Doctrines in politicks that will not bear a freedom of discussion carry with them more than a suspi cion of being erroneous, and I am confident that the world will not be so easily gulled in these as in the unquestionable mysteries of Church faith. They will take the freedom to think for themselves, 8c even to condemn what will not upon a fair dispassionate enquiry stand the test of solid reason & sound Criticism. I do not mean to in sinuate that the Pamphlet referred to has merit. I think it the most trifling performance that the publick have yet been insulted with. The Author has wrote to the passions—to inflame 8c mislead weak minds. He has conjured up the Horrors of a Civil War to affright the timid. It will at once discover the disingenuity of the Author when We find him asserting that the American contention is as to the Quantum of the Taxation not the mode of imposing it. Be that as it will, Neglect would be his greatest punishment. Let him speak in ob scurity, Persecution is what he covets. This poor son of the Church is aiming at promotion 8c he knows the dirty Channels thro which in the present administration it flows. It argues a weak mind to contend with a clergyman, it is a squabble with the other Sex. Genl Lee has prepared an answer to it which you will soon see. 2 He is on the wing for Maryland whither He is invited to observe the military maneuvers of 500 Militia lately incorporated there. They have destroyed a Cargo of Tea in So. Carolina. We leave this on Thursday. In Carolina I flatter myself I shall hear from you. Mr Hewes joins me in respectful Compts to yourself 8c [. . .] Lady 8c I am Dear Sir With sincere esteem Your most Obed Hum Sevt Will Hooper RC (NHi). 1 [Thomas Bradbury Chandler], A Friendly Address to All Reasonable Ameri cans on the Subject of Our Political Confusions . . . (New York: James Rivington, 1774). T. R. Adams, American Independence, p. 83. 2 Gen. Charles Lee’s rejoinder to Chandler was published under the title Stric tures oh a Pamphlet, Entitled, A “Friendly Address to All Reasonable Americans, on the Subject of Our Political Confusions." (Philadelphia: William and Thomas Bradford, 1774) . Ibid., pp. 94-95.


[Page 306]
264 December 2, 1774 Samuel Chase to James Duane Annapolis. December 2nd. 1774. Discusses the detention of an in dentured servant. “I shall not fail to communicate any Matter, which may occur here material to the public Cause. We have heard of the unexpected Dissolution of parliament (as foretold by Junius) and believe it to be a ministerial Trick to take the Nation & Opposition by Surprise. We are anxious to hear of General Carlton’s Motions in Quebec, is he arming the Canadians or not? Pray inform Me what You can learn from that Quarter, & I sollicit You with freedom to write Me every Intelligence of the least Importance, and be assured that You may communicate with entire Confidence your Thoughts to Me. . . . my most respectful Compliments to your Brethren Jay, Low, 8c Alsop.” RC (NHi) . "Duane Correspondence,” Publications of the Southern History Asso ciation 10 (September 1906) : 299-300. John Dickinson to Thomas Cushing Dear Sir, Fairhill Deer. 11th 1774 I am much oblig’d to You for the Extract You were so kind as to inclose in your late Letter; and heartily rejoice, that I can repay in some Degree the favorable Intelligence it contain’d, by informing You, that, Yesterday our House of Representatives, taking into their Consideration, the Report of the Delegates from this Province, by a Resolve in the strongest Terms, “approv’d of all Resolves 8c proceed ings of the Congress, and recommended to the good People of this province, a strict Attention to and an inviolable Observation of the Matters 8c Things contained therein.” A Ship sailing directly for Eng land, a Copy of the Resolve was immediately transmitted by her. May God Almighty look down with Mercy upon Us, 8c bring our righteous Cause to a happy Conclusion. Procrastination is Preserva tion. States acting on the Defensive, should study for Delays. It is a melancholy Employment to peruse those various Instances recorded in History, in which, the best Causes have been ruin’d by an Excess of virtuous Zeal, too hastily to promote them. I ever thought, 8c think still, that a just Reverence for the Lives of our Countrymen, should determine us at all Events to wait for a Turn of European Affairs, and of British Sentiments. Either of these may save Us [with] out an Effusion of Blood. If at last, the Choice must be the Sword, or r Submission, [then] America cannot hesitate. Please to present my Compliments to your good Family, 8c to Messrs Adams, Paine, Adams and Hancock. I am Dr. Sir, with great


[Page 307]
December 12, 1774 265 Truth, your very affectionate 8c very humble Servant, John Dickinson RC (PRO: C.O. 5, 118). John Adams to Edward Biddle? Dear Sir Braintree Deer. 12. 1774 I received your kind favour 16. Ulto. with great Pleasure last Week at Cambridge. 1 I rejoice at the Proofs your City, has given, of her inflexible Attachment to the public cause, and Determination to Support it. There are many Names in your List of Committee Men, which I had not the Pleasure of knowing, but there are Abilities, Vir tues, and Spirit enough, in those whom I knew very well, to secure the good Behaviour, of any Committee which could I think be cho sen in Your 8c my beloved City. The Letter to Quebec, Shall be faithfully 8c Speedily forwarded. Our Provincial Congress, and the Committee of Correspondence in Boston, have had under Consideration, various Planns, for opening a Communication, with Several Parts of that Province. You kindly inquire What We are doing or Suffering? You will See, by a Printed Pamphlet, which I will Send you as soon as it is out, what our Provincial Congress, has been doing. I.e. you will see in Part; not all. Our People, thro the Province, are every where learn ing the military Art—exercising perpetually—So that, I Suppose, if occasion should require, an Army of, Fifteen Thousand Men from this Province alone, might be brought into the Field in one Week. The Difficulties We Suffer, however for want of Law and Govern ment, are innumerable. A total Stagnation of Law, 8c Commerce al most. No Man can pay his just Debt, because he can get no Business to do, by which he can earn any Money, and if he has ever So much due to him he cant get a Shilling of it from his Debtors. We are trying by a Thousand Experiments, the Ingenuity as well as Virtue of our People. The Effects are Such as would divert you. Imagine, 400,000 People, without Government, or Law, forming themselves in Companies, for various Purposes, of Justice, Policy, 8c War. You must allow for a great deal of the ridiculous, much of the Melancholly, and Some of the Marvellous. I must not be par ticular, because my Letter, may miscarry. I have some Times wished, Since my Return, that We had fallen in, totis Viribus, with the Motion, made by Mr Ross and Seconded by Mr Galloway, that this Province Should be left to her own Discre tion, with Respect to Government and Justice, as well as Defence. 2 Our Provincial Congress had in Contemplation, Some Sublime Con-


[Page 308]
266 December 12, 1774 ceptions, which would in that Case have been carried rapidly into Execution. Your Account of the Generals intended Journey to Maryland gave me great Pleasure. I hope the whole Continent will, provide them selves, at this Time with Arms and Skill. No Country ought ever to be without Either. The intuitive, the holy, the decisive Spirit, mentioned in a late Phyladelphia Paper, cannot avoid recollecting at this Time, my Friend, that the Grecian Commonwealths, were the most heroic Con federacy, that ever existed. The politest, bravest, & wisest of Men. Their Sculptors, Painters, Architects, Poets, Physicians, Criticks, Historians, Phylosophers, orators, Warriors, and Statesmen, were the brightest ornaments of their whole Species, and Examples for Imita tion to all succeeding Generations. The Period of their Glory, was from the Defeat of Xerxes to the Rise of Alexander. Let Us not be enslaved, my dear Friend Either by Xerxes, or Alex ander. The Town of Boston, is like Zion in Distress—Seneca’s Virtuous Man, Struggling with Adversity. Spectaculum dignum ad quod respi- ciat Deus—Suffering amazing Loss, but determined to endure Pov erty and Death, rather than betray America and Posterity. Be pleased to present my most respectfull Compliments and grate full Acknowledgements, to Mr Dickinson, Thompson &c &c &c I have not Time to name them all—I mean almost the whole City of Philadelphia. I should have written to you, long before this, If I had not been prevented by an Inflammation in my Eyes, So violent that I have not been able to write, or read. Pray, write me, as often as possible, and let me know, how, the fourth Resolution in our Bill of Rights, is re lished and digested, among the Choice Spirits along the Continent. I had more Anxiety about that than all the rest. But I find it is ex- treamly popular here. Our Provincial Congress have approved and adopted it, in Strong Terms. They consider it, as a great Point gained. They think it has placed our Connection with G. B. on its true Principles, and that there is no danger from it to Us, and there is quite as much allowed to her, as Either Justice or Policy require. FC (MHi) . Incomplete draft in the hand of John Adams, unsigned and unad dressed. 1 Adams was probably responding to a letter from Edward Biddle, who appar ently had recently sent Adams copies of the Letter to the Inhabitants of the Province of Quebec (Philadelphia: William and Thomas Bradford, 1774). The document had been printed in Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet or, the General Advertiser, November 14, 1774. Just before Congress had adjourned, responsibility for “translating, printing, publishing & dispersing” it had been assigned to the


[Page 309]
December 14, 1774 267 delegates of Pennsylvania, to be assisted by the Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and New York delegates. Similarly, Biddle—with John Dickinson and Charles Thomson—had previously been appointed to a committee to oversee the printing of the Journal of the Proceedings of the Congress. Biddle, along with Joseph Galloway, had also been a member of the committee to state the rights of the colonies, and Adams’ letter implies familiarity with the work of the committee. Since Galloway was certainly not the recipient of the letter, and both Dickinson and Thomson are mentioned in it, Adams must have been writing to Biddle. JCC, 1:28, 102, 113, 122; and Adams, Works (Adams), 9:348n. 3 The motion of George Ross is not mentioned in the journals, but it was probably made during the debate on the letter from the Boston Committee of Correspondence, October 7-10, JCC, 1:57-60. Thomas Johnson, Jr., to Horatio Gates Sir. Annapolis 14 Deer. 1774. Before you left us you engaged my Promise to advise you of any Thing I might think material. 1 I have now the pleasure to inclose you the Resolutions of our provincial Convention from which you will collect our Temper. 2 You must by this Time be confirmed in the sudden Dissolution of the parliament immediately on the Scarbor ough’s getting Home and as some say caused by the Intelligence she carried. This Step from which [. . .] no certain Conclusion can be drawn of the Intention of Government with respect to America is dif ferently spoke of according to the parties Men are engaged in, their [fears?] &c. But we have lately heard this of a Vessel in Potomack that had a very short Passage from Glasgow. She brings Paquets as late as the 27 Oct. They are in Town. I have not seen them but am told Wilks is Ld Mayor, Wilks & Glynn for Midd[lese]x, Sawbridge, Bull, Oliver & Haley for London, William Lee for Southwark, and that Mr. Cruger will be in for Bristol. From all the latest Letters I have heard of, the Tide of popular Opinion is changing in favor of America, but I am afraid Governmt. will not be wise enough to re move intirely the Grounds of Jeolesy and Contention, but like Quacks in Politicks endeavour to still the present Clamour by an Adoption of temporary Expedients. The Candidates for London &c. signed a Kind of Test by which they promise their Endeav[ou]rs to shorten parliamts., exclude placemen, repeal the Boston Acts, the Act for Trial in England of those who offend in America, and I think the Quebec Bill, and it is said the Test is running pretty gener ally through England. If so England may yet enjoy a healthy Consti tution and America be restored to her Rights. I shall hope for a vir tuous independt. House of Commons &: if that is obtained that Branch I trust will not push the Scheme for a Revenue or Systematic Corruption in America. Mr. Purvia nee favoured me the other Day with some Extracts of a


[Page 312]
270 December 14, 1774 be disposed to make any new Attempts upon Us Nothing would so effectually prevent their taking Place as our continuing firmly United & being ever on our Guard. For these Reasons I proposed an Annual Congress. Upon the whole Our Powers, I think, are very full And I heartily wish that those of all the other Delegates may be so. For the more Uniform and full tire Powers of the several Delegates Are, the more Scope they will have for exerting their abilities in the Service of their Country. We may then debate with Freedom, resolve with Wisdom & Unanimity & execute with firmness whatever the Interest &: happiness of our Country require. If any Amendments occur to You, be kind enough to favour Me with them &: I doubt not but they will be readily Adopted. I am greived to tell You that the Distresses of those brave People of Boston increase. Many who have hitherto supported themselves are now forced to apply to the Public. May the Colonies Continue their generous Donations &: may Heaven grant them a speedy Deliv erance. Please to make my Compliments to the Speaker Mr. Biddle, Mr. Mifflin and the other Gentn. who were Delegates with Us, & to the Secy with my particular thanks for a Journal extraordinary, & present my most respectful regards to Your good Lady. I am with very great Esteem and Regard, Dear Sir Your most obedient humble Servant Sam Ward P.S. I have not had time to communicate this Intelligence to Mary land. If you think best be pleased to do it. RC (PPL) . FC (RHi) . Endorsed: "Copy To J. Dickinson Esqr. Decbr. 1774.” A revealing variation in the FC is duly noted below. 1 A reference to a circular letter from the Earl of Dartmouth to governors in America, October 19, 1774, enclosing an order in council of the same date which forbade "the Exportation from Great Britain of Gunpowder, or any sort of arms or ammunition.” Edmund B. O'Callaghan and Berthold Fernow, eds., Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of New-York, 15 vols. (Albany: Weed, Parsons and Company, 1853-87) , 8:509. 3 After “Delegates” in FC Ward added and then deleted: "being sensible of the Inconveniences of the [. . .] Instructions of the Gentn. of Virginia . . . .” This was a reference to the fact that the convention which elected the Virginia delegates to the First Congress had instructed them to confine their attention to colonial grievances against Great Britain in the period since 1763. Although other delegates also wanted to protest certain British policies adopted before then, the Virginians refused, arguing that they could not follow this course of action because “it had been agreed upon at home, not to go beyond that year [1763], as thereby, the greater odium would be thrown upon the reign of George III., which was so fatal to the peace of America.” As a result, Congress had decided on September 24 to consider only those objectionable acts of Parliament which had been passed since 1763. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:689-90; JCC, 1:23, 42; South Carolina Delegates’ Report to the Provincial Congress, January 11, 1775.


[Page 313]
December 14, 1774 271 Samuel Ward to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Westerly 14th Deer. 1774 As it is of the greatest Importance that every Colony should have the earliest Notice of the hostile Intentions of Administration I have enclosed You Copies of Lord Dartmouths Letter & the Order re ceived with it. 1 Our Genl. Assembly immediately ordered Copies of them to be sent to Mr. Cushing to be communicated to the provincial Congress. They then ordered the Cannon at Fort George (which was not tenable) to be sent to Providence where they will be safe and ready for Service, 200 bbls, of Powder, a proportionate quantity of Lead & Flints Sc several Pieces of brass Cannon for the Artillery Compy. were order’d to be purchased, a Major General (an officer never before chosen in the Colony) was appointed, several independ ent Companies of light Infantry Fusiliers, Hunters &c were formed, the Militia was order’d to be disciplined & the Commanding Officers empowered to march the Troops to the Assistance of any Sister Col ony. The Spirit & Ardor with which all this was done gave Me ineffa ble Pleasure and I heartily wish that the other Colonies may proceed in the same spirited Manner for I fear the last Appeal to Heaven must now be made & if We are unprepared We must be undone. The Idea of taking up Arms against Great Britain is shocking but if We must become Slaves or fly to Arms I shall not hesitate one Moment which to chuse for all the Horrors of civil War & even Death itself in every Shape is infinitely prefarable to Slavery which in one Word comprehends every Species of Distress Misery Infamy & Ruin. I have enlosed the Resolve of our Assembly upon the Report of their Delegates. The polite Notice taken of all the Gentn. of the Con gress I hope will be acceptable; You may rely upon a most punctual Adherence to the Association in this Colony. The other Copy contains the Appointment and Instructions of the new Delegates. The Power of appointing Time & Place for holding a Congress I thought absolutely necessary for the small Pox & many other Things may make it inconvenient to sett at Philadelphia. The Power of adjourning is equally necessary for it will take much Time to chuse new Members &: in the interim the Public may suffer the greatest Mischiefs &: the trifling Expence of Meeting is the only Ob jection. It was supposed by some Gentn. that if our Grievances were re dressed this Winter there would be no Necessity of another Congress. I am of a different Opinion. Many new Regulations of Commerce Manufactures &c, may be adopted for the general Good of the Colo nies and should the Ministry be inclined to make any new Attempts upon Us our being united &: on our Guard would be the most proba ble Means of preventing them. For these Reasons I proposed an an-


[Page 314]
272 December 14, 1774 Samuel Ward


[Page 318]
276 December 28, 1774 and Horse Jockies is to be played off against the Cause of Liberty in England and America: and that no Hopes are to be left for Either but in the Sword. We are in this Province Sir, at the Brink of a civil War. Our Alva, Gage, with his fifteen Mandamous Councillors, are Shutt up in Bos ton, afraid to Stir, afraid of their own Shades, protected with a Dozen Regiments of Regular Soldiers, and strong Fortifications, in the Town, but never moving out of it. We have No Council, No House, No Legislature, No Executive. Not a Court of Justice, has Sat Since the Month of September—Not a debt can be recovered, nor a Tres pass redressed, nor a Criminal of any kind, brought to Punishment. What the Ministry will do next, is uncertain—inforce the Act for al tering our Govt, [it] cannot. All the Regiments upon the Establish ment, wd not do it—for Juries will not serve, nor Represent. Whatever Alva and his Troops may think of it, it has required great Caution and Delicacy in the Conduct of Affairs, to prevent their Destruction. For my own Part I have bent my chief Attention to prevent a Rupture, and to impress my Friends with the Impor tance of preventing it. Not that I think the Lives of 5 or 10 thousand Men, tho my own should be one of them, would not be very profita bly Spent, in obtaining a Restoration of our Liberties. But because I know, that those Lives would never go unrevenged, and it would be vain ever to hope for a Reconcilation with great Britain afterwards. Britains would not easily forgive the Destruction of their Brethren. I am absolutely certain that New England men never would that of theirs. Nor would any Part of America ever forget or forgive, the destrucion of one New England man in this Cause. The Death of 4 or 5 Persons, the most obscure, and inconsiderable that could have been found upon the Continent, on the 5th March 1770 has never yet been forgiven by any Part of America. What then would be the Consequence of a Battle in which, many Thousands must fall of the best Blood, the best Families, Fortunes, Abilities and moral Charac ters in the Country? America, never will Submit to the Claims of Parliament and Ad ministration. New England alone has 200,000 fighting Men. And all in a Militia, established by Law, not exact Soldiers, but all used to Arms. 2 FC (MHi) . 1 James Burgh (1714-75), British academician and political writer, had appar ently sent Adams a set of the first two volumes of his work, Political Disquisitions; or, an Enquiry into Public Errors, Dejects and Abuses . . ., 3 vols. (London: E. and C. Dilly, 1774-75) . ’ The final section of this document is missing.


[Page 322]
280 December 29, 1774 with this long disquisition but remember that you have twice pressed me to communicate my thoughts with Freedom, and I am encour aged from a Sense of duty as well as the Expectation of a rich ex change by expecting from you the same fraternal Candour. I am with great Esteem Dear Sir Your most Obedient Humble Servant Jas. Duane FC (NHi) . Tr (NHi) ; in hand of Samuel W. Jones. Tr (NN: Bancroft Collec tion) . Illegible and missing words in FC supplied from the two Trs. 1 Delegates to the Maryland Provincial Convention held at Annapolis December 8-12, 1774, had passed a resolution calling upon all inhabitants of the province between the ages of 16 and 50 to form themselves into militia companies which were designed to replace Maryland’s traditional militia system and to provide the revolutionary movement there with reliable military power in the event of an armed conflict with Great Britain. David Curtis Skaggs, Roots of Maryland Democ racy, 1753-1776 (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, Inc., 1973) , pp. 156-57. 2 A large number of Portsmouth inhabitants, prompted by a message from the Boston Committee of Correspondence reporting the coming of British regulars to garrison Fort William and Mary, stormed this stockade on December 14, 1774, and removed approximately 100 barrels of powder from it. The next evening another crowd broke into the fort and made off with about 60 small arms and 16 pieces of cannon. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1041-43, 1069-70. 3 Duane wrote the last two sentences in the margin of the FC as a substitute for his initial, less charitable view of the effect on Boston of the Boston Port Act: “This in my opinion can have no effective Object on the [. . .] Trade of the province and it may be questioned whether the Town itself with the Contributions of the Colonies & the immense Sums diffused by so great a Fleet & Army will upon the whole be very much impoverished.” ‘That is, Galloway’s Plan of Union. 3 FC torn; about six words missing. ’ FC torn; about three words missing. James Duane to Thomas Johnson My dear Sir New York 29th Decemr 1774 I have Just finished a long Letter to Mr Chase in Answer to one with which he was pleased to honour me. To avoid Repetition I have requested him to submit it to your Perusal. Addicted like you to a close Attention to the Duties of my profession I have ever avoided both from the want of Inclination & Leisure an active part in politics. Unhappily for my Repose the alarming state of our publick affairs & the Acts of my Countrymen oblige me at once to plunge into the midst of a Tempest which I find myself unable to direct. For the As sociation I am under no Concern the universal Acquiescence of the people having exceeded my most sanguine Expectation. But the ap proaching Session of our General assembly gives me the most painful Solicitude. The Necessity of maintaining an Union of Sentiment & Conduct with our Sister Colonies on the one hand & on the other the


[Page 323]
December 29, 1774 281 dread of a civil War which I fear they will think sufficient Care has - < not been taken to prevent most powerfully operate on their Minds 8c distract their Councils. I tremble for the Event! If they pursue a Middle path, assume a Resolution to maintain their Rights with For titude and at the same time hold up a plan of Accommodation 8c Un ion, they must tread upon Thorns, expose themselves to Suspicion 8c Distrust 8c perhaps yield up points which their Sister Colonies will not approve. It is a great Misfortune that altho’ I have carefully watchd the Temper of the Congress I am myself yet to learn what System will content a Majority of the Colonies; 8c conscientously Declare I can give them no New precise Information. It seems it was not a Subject fit to be determin’d by the united Councils of the Colonies & yet as you Justly remark every Colony will too probably be acted upon distinctly, 8c reduced to the necessity of declaring the Condi tions on which they will accede to an Union 8c close this unnatural Breach which threatens the Empire with a Dissolution. The people here however misrepresented are sincerely devoted to the Cause of Liberty. And tho’ they are ungenerously condemned in other colonies [. . .] they will not suffer the press to be restraind, nor a decent Freedom of speech to be controled. These Indulgences in part proceed from a proper sense of Liberty. Under this advantage It is not difficult for a Man of Observation to discern the General Opinion on important 8c popular subjects. It seems to be agreed here that every pacific 8c persuasive Expedient ought to be tried before a Recourse to Arms can be Justified; and accordingly the petition to the King as well as the Association are highly approved. Here they conclude we ought to rest till Time is given for the Operation of these Solitary Measures on the Success of which they greatly rely. If we proceed to Extremities the principal Burthen of a War they think will fall upon New England without any effectual Succor from their Neighbours 8c they cannot be persuaded that undisciplind 8c destitute of competent Artilery Ammunition, or Authority to enforce the Acts of War or [the Means] of defence these Colonies will long be able to maintain a Conflict with the formidable power of Great Britain. And if they shoud be subdued all is lost, 8c for an Age we must submit to the imperious Dictates of our Conquerors. They at the same time consider our Eastern Neighbours as highly irritated, impatient under severe and unmerited Sufferings, and so ready to rush into war that they are constrain’d by no other Consid eration than a Respect to the advice of their Sister Colonies. The En terprize of our New Hampshire Friends against Fort William 8c Mary; the Seizure of the Cannon 8c Ammunition, and their removal into an interior Town, which some Construe to be repugnant to the Spirit of that Resolution of the Congress which restrains the Massa chusetts from offering Violence to the King’s property, they conceive


[Page 326]
284 December 30, 1774 as that woud be weakening a System, by a division of its principles and their Operations upon the Preservation of which entire, its whole Strength materially depends. A Conduct of this kind is therefore so inconsistant with the Principles of all Governmts, her own Interest and Welfare, and the Power and Dignity she holds among Nations, that I have ever thought it, the greatest of all Absurdities in America to expect it. 3 But, it seems, America is of a different Opinion, and beleives, if I may judge from her Conduct, that G. Britain will yield up the only Principle of Union which can form them into one State; and she has accordingly resolved on the Part she will Act. The Language she hold[s] up to the World is—“That the Colonies are entitled to a free and exclusive Power of Legislation in their several Provincial Legis latures, subject only to the Negative of the Crown.” The Parliament is not even to retain the Power of repealing a Law of the Colonies. But, out of their mere Grace 8c Favor, they “Consent to the Opera tion of” [not to the Power of making] "such Acts of Parliament as are” [not shall be hereafter] “bona fide restrained to the Regulation of our external Commerce.” 4 And yet this is to be done if it be possi ble to do it, which many will doubt, “for the purpose of Securing the Commercial Advantage of the whole Empire to the Mother Country, and the Commercial Benefits of its respective Members.” But how the Commercial Benefits of the whole Empire can be secured to the Mother Country and at the Same Time to its American Members, I think will puzzle a Casuist to determine. Here we have American Claims and Pretensions. Thus the Issue is join’d between the two Countries—The one asserting her Supremacy in all Cases whatever, and the other denying it in all. And the Measures, which the latter seems determind to pursue in Maintenance of her Claims, are al ready carrying into Execution. They are, a Refusal of all Commercial Connection, and if that should not succeed, Opposition to the Exer cise of Parliamentary Jurisdiction by Arms, if necessary. When these Facts shall appear, beyond a Doubt, to the grand Council of the Nation; when they find that the Claims of the Colonies are evidently the Claims of Independency, will it not strike them with the most alarming Apprehensions, and in all Probability induce them to exert their whole Strength to Suppress a Spirit so dangerous to their future Welfare, if not to their Existence as an independant Na tion, shoud their whole Strength be necessary for the Purpose? That she will do this, unless some unforeseen Event shall intervene to pre vent it, seems more than probable from her former Conduct, which has been more firm and uniform than many imagined. Before the last War G. Britain seemed little acquainted with the Value and Impor tance of America. The Intercourse between them during that Period opened her Eyes, and placed the Colonies before them in their most


[Page 327]
December 30, 1774 285 alluring Forms. And therefore she was determined to preserve an Object which was of such great Consequence to her, and which she had retaind at the Expence of so much Blood and Treasure. With this View G. Britain has maintained, ever since, at her own Expence, a Military Force in most of the Commercial Cities in America. But it was not her Design to retain America meerly for the sake of expend ing her own Strength in Protecting her. Her Views were rational and therefore went farther. They were to add Strength & Dignity and a farther security to the British Empire. And therefore she expected that the Colonies, as Members of the State, shoud, as they certainly ought, contribute their just and reasonable Proportion of Aids, to wards those important Ends. She well knew that this was the primary and essential Duty of every Member of a Society. But having found from all the Experience which the last War afforded, that the Colo nies neither did, nor were in a Capacity from their Disunion, to com ply with this rational Obligation upon any princple of Justice either in respect to themselves or the Mother State, the Parliament passed the Stamp Act. This Act, tis true, was soon after repealed, but that repeal was occasioned more by the State of Parties at that Time at Court, than any Alteration of Sentiment in the British Legislature re specting their Right, or to the Measures taken for that Purpose by America. Of this Truth the Declaratory and sundry other Subsequent Act[s] are full proof. But shoud any one doubt, after considering these Proofs of a Resolution in the British Government to maintain its Legislative Authority over us at all Adventures let him consider its Conduct in Respect to the Duty on Tea, the Manner of sending that Commodity to the Colonies for Sale, the Plan 8c firm Measures Concerted and pursued to enforce the Act—The Boston Port Bill— the one for the Alteration of their Government—The Act for trial of American Offenders 8cc and I think they must remove every Doubt which either Hope or Ignorance or Inattention to the Facts may have raised. The Parliament is now sitting—The proceedings of the American Congress with the Resolves of all the Provincial Congresses and County Committees are before them. The Spirit of American Inde pendency breathing throughout all of them will be painted in the strongest oratorial Colours, and the Necessity for vigorous and firm Measures to subdue it urged with Success, and Supplies granted to carry them into effectual Execution. Fleets and Troops will cross the Atlantic early in the Spring: the one to take Care of the Ports and Coasts the other to secure the Dependency of the Commercial Cities in America. These purposes effected, the Experience of Ages in forms us that the internal Parts of a Country dependant on Commerce for its Health, and in many Respects for the Conveniencies and Comforts of Life cannot hold out long. The Stopage of our Trade,


[Page 328]
286 December 30, 1774 which, perhaps will be but a small Part of the Business of those Fleets & Troops will alone throw America into Convulsions insup portable. The Merchant without Trade, the Mechanics without Em ploy, and the Farmer without a Sale for his Produce, will feel a new Distress and one as intolerable as new. They will then, and not be fore, enquire for themselves into the Cause of their Misfortunes, and that Enquiry in all Probability will lead them to a Submission. But shoud the Force of the Mother Country be exerted against us, how little will all the threatened Opposition of the American Congress avail? Where are their Fleets or Armies? There are Men, but where their discipline—their Veteran Officers, their Arms or Ammunition, their Money, or their Power to form and enforce the Execution of a Plan of Opposition to the Valour and Strength of one of the most Powerful Nations in the World? All the Art, Sophistry and Heroism of the greatest American Heroes to be found in a late Convention will not be able to sustain the Shock nor raise the Sinking Spirits of the deluded People. This is only a light shaded Picture of the Distress in which, I have been long apprehensive, the rash and violent Proceedings of the Short-sighted American Politicians woud involve their Country. I have therefore opposed them whenever I met them in my Small sphere of Public Life; and used my utmost Endeavours to prevail on America to pursue a safer and more rational Conduct. The Plan of Negotiation wou’d have been, in my Opinion the Plan of Safety; it woud have led us into the Harbour of Liberty—to a firm &: solid Es tablishment of our Rights, and to an Union with the Mother State upon Principles of permanent Freedom. Nor wou’d it have been a difficult task for the late Congress to have taken this Ground, had their Principles disposed them to an Union with the British Govern ment. The Materials are always at Hand to a Person acquainted with the History of the Colonies—their Connection with G. Britain and the Principles of the English Constitution. The History of the Colo nies afford abundant Proof that they are, and can be considered in no other Light than Members of the British Government. The Terri tory was discovered by Sebastian Cabot, authorised for that Purpose by Henry the 7 th, Sovereign Trustee of the English State, under the Great Seal—the Seal of the State—or the Seal of the King Lords and Commons. 5 The Intent of the Discovery was to increase the Territo ry, extend the Commerce and add to the Wealth and Power of the State. The Charters of Settlement have been all granted in the same Manner under the Authority of the Great Seal and by the subsequent Kings in their Politic, not private, Capacity, and as the Sovereign Representative of the politic Body of the whole State. In many of them the Purposes before mentioned are declared to be the Objects and Designs of the Grants. There is no Exemption in any of them,


[Page 341]
January 23, 1775 299 cutt off all Hope of a peaceable Settlemt. 8c they shd. be advised of them as they [are] expected by Febry. you may depend on it the N E people will try their Strength even were they sure to go alone and will endeavr. if possible to get rid of the Troops now at Boston be fore they can be joined by any more. They will you may be sure re sume and endeavour to settle an internal Governmt. to collect and draw their Strength to a point which will be most essentially neces sary in Case of any Misfortune or Disappoint [ment] in the Outset. You will be pleased to peruse the Ltr I write to Mr. Cushing and if my Sentimts. correspond with yours seal and forward it. We now stand on a very ticklish point of Time. I really wish every Thing could be kept just moving till we hear from thence 8c that if the least prospect of Accomod [atio] n opens we may prudently cultivate 8c im prove the Occasion. But if no Hope is left our own Resolutions ought to be ready formed in our own Minds. It will be a great Question whether we shall resolve to continue the present Appearances of Governmt. which indeed is not strong enough to protect agt. Violence and is only treated with Respect from principle by those from whom Violences need not be apprehended 8c which must necessarily be a Clogg in our Motions so long as it continues, or whether a real sub stantial active Governmt. coinciding with the Views of America shall be established by Consent. 1 need not observe to you that the free dom with which I write to you claims your utmost Discretion and the Subject your mature Thoughts. No Man in the British Dominions more passionately wishes for a Reconciliation than myself but if the terms are so hard as Slavery to America I have formed my Resolu tion and am clear for employing every Means of Self Defence. If the Report is true that 10 or even 4,000 Men more are to be sent to Bos ton I do not know that we ought if we could to stay the Hands of the N E people till their Arrival. The Season of the Year may afford an Oppty that if lost may be lost forever. I am sure if they must fight it out I cannot blame them for taking every Advantage, and the Time appointed for their Convention with what I have collected of the Dispo [sition] of the people pretty well explain to me their Inten tions. I heard some Time since of the Appointmt of field Officers. I am very sorry to understand that Ammunition is wanting. I wish some of the Ingenious amongst you would bestow some Thoughts and Experiments on Salt Petre 8c Sulphur. I have little Doubt but that we might supply ourselves amply with both. You judged right that I had Nothing to do with the cursed Hand Bills. 2 The ill timed Resolution here has done us a real Disservice. I as well as many others are greatly embarrassed by it. I cannot exe cute a Measure so flatly agt. my best informed Opinion 8c am sure a pursuit of it will throw us into Divisions which we shall not be able to erase within Ourselves. S[amuel] C[hase] went alone in it not only


[Page 342]
300 January 23, 1775 witht. any of the Comee except M [atthias] Hammond 3 that I know of but the Sentiment was expressly disapproved by several of us. I do not know any more likely Way to put the people on thinking than for several of us to withdraw from the Commee which I believe we shall do. They will at first Beware but I am in Hopes it will make them a little more cautious. This Humour of serving people will if not checked Spread itself so as to be very inconvenient. I learn from Fred [eric] k that small parties of unthinking Men are forcing others to enrol who are principled agt. bearing Arms. The people at large are not a Body fit for Deliberation, they are gen [era] lly carried away with a warmth of Zeal that overleaps sedate & wise policy. Several with us will not subscribe meerly because of the Threat & some who very freely subscribed declare they will not pay their Money for the same Reason; had it not been for this unlucky flight I beleive we shd. have raised our Money witht. difficulty. As it is I am afraid we shall not. Genl. Lees Observations 4 will soon be printed but he esteems the manual Exercise 5 of very little Consequence he does not even touch upon it: his chief view is to prove the best Line of Fire consists only of two deep and Major Gates is fully in Sentimt with him & to give the simplest and easiest Directions for forming a Line of Impres sion or Resistance of 4, 6, or 8 Deep. It has been delayed so long to get a plate cut. We go on with good Spirit in our Compys. We have but two in Town. We have some surplus men but not eno. if every Body would enrol to make up a third Compy. A good many perform the manual Exercise, which is done with us in the prussian Manner & differs but little from yours, with dexterity. The Country people of our County show an unexpected forwardness. I am satisfied you will make all the allowance you ought for my ta citurnity but I am really ashamed that you have so much Cause of Complaint against me for intire Silence. When I write you at all I leave Nothing behind which I think worth mentioning. I am Sr. Your Affect, hble Servt. Th Johnson Junr [P.S.] You will Notice that I have not stated the Matter fully to Mr Cushing but left it as if nothing had been yet moved in the Conven tion. I think any Argumt. from my Ltr will be the stronger. RC (Herbert Klingelhofer, Bethesda, Md., 1974). 1 Samuel Purviance, Jr. (1728-88?), Baltimore merchant and revolutionary lead er, subsequently became chairman o£ the Baltimore Committee of Observation. David C. Skaggs, Roots of Maryland Democracy, 1153-1116 (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1973) , pp. 133-34, 152. a These handbills, which were widely denounced, consisted of the printed pro ceedings of a January 16, 1775, meeting in Annapolis of the inhabitants of Anne Arundel County. The most objectionable feature of the proceedings was a resolu tion authorizing the local committee of observation to collect contributions for the purchase of arms and ammunition and publicly to brand as enemies to America those who refused to contribute. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1149-41.


[Page 347]
February 5, 1775 305 pears to Me to be weak, &: a Deception to ourselves & our Friends. I have been for some Time strongly impressed with a Belief, that the present unhappy Dispute with Great Britain would not wait the Event of a commercial Opposition, and that she must either give up the Right of Taxing America, or enforce obedience by the Sword. Delay must ruin the Minister. Some decisive Mode must be adopted, & instantly executed, or he must fail. Lord North is too well ac quainted with his Weakness; he must be convinced that the Colonies, if they adhere to their association, must succeed. If the Question was to be decided by Justice or Policy, I should not doubt, that our in dubitable Rights would be restored, our Capital Grievances re dressed, and peace and Harmony once more established with the Mother Country; but when I reflect on the enormous Influence of The Crown, the System of Corruption introduced as the Art of Gov ernment, The Venality of the Electors (the radical Source of every other Evil) the open & repeated Violations, by Parliament, of the Constitution, at Home, The regular, arbitrary System of Colony ad ministration, The several Acts relative to the Massachusetts, The Quebec Bill, and The Re-election of the Members of the last Parlia ment, I have not the least Dawn of Hope in the Justice, Humanity, Wisdom or Virtue of the British Nation. I consider them as one of the most abandon’d & wicked People under the Sun. They openly sell themselves & their Posterity to their Representatives, who as openly traffic their Integrety &: Honor to The Minister. The Roman Senate in the Reigns of Claudius Caesar, Domitian or Nero, were not more servilely wicked, than the present House of Commons. They no long er regard even the Appearance of Virtue. Our Dependance must be on God & ourselves. I still retain my Opinion, that the Right of Parliamt. to regulate our Trade ought to be acknowledged in the most precise and explicit Terms, and shall deliver the same Sentiment, if called on, in my leg islative Capacity. You are pleased to ask Me, what plan of Union is to be adopted, or what Conduct an Assembly can pursue, which wod. be acceptable in every Colony. Your Candor entitles You to an An swer. If our Assembly was called, & those Questions proposed, I should be very averse to take them into Consideration; I would, if possible, decline Giving any pointed Answers, & endeavor to refer a Subject of such Importance & in which all America is so deeply inter ested, to the next Congress. If I could not prevail, I would claim a free & exclusive power of Legislation, in all Cases of Taxation &: in ternal Polity; I would expressly deny a Right in Parliament to make any Laws to bind the Colonies, except only for the Regulation of their Trade: The Right bona fide to regulate our Commerce I would recognize in the most clear and express Terms. Without such Claim by the Colonists they can neither be free nor happy; without such


[Page 349]
February 6, 1775 307 after requesting my most respectful Compliments to Mesrs. Jay, Low & Alsop, that I am [with] great Sincerity Your Affectionate and Obedient Servant, Sami. Chase. RC (NHi). ■On January 26, 1775, the New York Assembly rejected a motion to consider the proceedings of the First Congress, and on the 31st it decided to send its own petitions and remonstrances to the king and both houses of Parliament. Chase was probably aware of the assembly’s first action when he wrote to Duane, but whether he also knew of the second is less certain. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1286-87. Samuel Chase to John Dickinson Dear Sir. Annapolis. February 6th. 1775. It [is] with Pleasure I acknowledge the Receipt of your Letter of the 29th of January. From an entire and perfect Approbation of the Resolve of the Congress, that if the late Acts of Parliament, relative to the Massa chusetts Bay, should be attempted to be carried into Execution by force, that in such Case all America ought to support that Colony in her Opposition; From the Declaration, by the Congress, to the Throne, that our accumulated Injuries were too severe to be any longer tolerable, and that our Militia would protect Us in Time of Peace; From a Concurrence with the Sentiments expressed to the In habitants of Quebec, that We were resolved never to resign our Rights, but with our Lives, and to the People of G. Britain, that We never would submit to be Hewers of Wood or Drawers of Water for any Ministry or Nation in the World; In Compliance with the Advice of the Congress, to extend our Views to the most unhappy Event, and to be in all Respects prepared for every Contingency; From a Consideration of our defenceless State, unable to protect Ourselves or assist our Friends, and for many other Reasons, our Provincial Convention passed the Resolutions, which I enclosed You in my last Letter. We must either resist or infamously submit. If We are resolved to resist, and to defend our Liberties at the Risque of our Lives, a mili tary force appears to Me to be necessary, and Arms and Ammuni tion the only Means; to resolve to resist, without preparing a military force & Arms will be, in my Opinion, of little Consequence. I there fore wish your Province had resolved instantly to arm. If the attempt had been made, & failed, it would have encouraged our Enemies, & alarmed our Friends. Our Province was very desirous to receive some Assurance, from her Sister Colonies, of Assistance, if attacked, & will remain in perfect Confidence of their Support if necessary. I have been for some Time strongly impressed with a Belief, that 579-852 0 - 77 - 22 Vol. 1


[Page 350]
308 February 6, 1775 the present unhappy Dispute with G. Britain would not wait the Event of a Commercial Opposition, and that she must either give up the Right of Taxing America, or enforce obedience by the Sword; Delay must ruin the Ministry. If the Question was to be decided by Justice or Policy, I should not doubt, that our indibutable Rights would be restored, our capital Grievances redressed, and Peace & Harmony once more established with the Mother Country; but when I reflect on the enormous Influence of the Crown, the System of Cor ruption introduced as the Art of Government, the Venality of the El ectors (the radical Source of every other Evil) The open and repeat ed Violations of the Constitution, at Home, the regular, arbitrary System of Colony Administration, the several cruel and barbarous Acts relative to the Massachusetts, The Quebec Bill, And the Re election of the Members of the last Parliament, I have not the least Dawn of Hope in the Justice, Humanity, Wisdom or Virtue of the British Nation. I consider them as one of the most abandoned & wicked People under the Sun. They openly sell themselves to their Representatives, who as openly traffic their Integrety 8c Honor to the Ministry. Our Dependance must be on God and Ourselves. Nihil ab extra quaesumus. The Conduct of the Commons of New York is very alarming, if they attempt to act separately Confidence will be destroyed. You have in our last Weeks Gazette his Majestys Speech and the Address of the Lords and Commons. From an Apprehension that the Protest of the Lords may not have reached You before this, I have enclosed You a Copy. The Proceedings of the Congress had not arrived in London, the 9th of December. By a private Letter We are informed, that Lord North is greatly enraged against the Colonies, and has declared that he will shut up all our Ports, and decide the Dispute with the Sword. The Martial Ardor prevails very generally here, above 100 Com panies, of 81 Men each, are already formed on the Western Shore. Honoured with a Communication of your Sentiments, I will pay due Regard to your Request, and endeavor to merit your Confidence. I am with great Esteem Dear Sir Your affectionate 8c obedient Servt. Sami Chase RC (PPL). John Adams to a Friend in London Feb. 10, 1775 The account you give of an overbearing influence in the house, 1 and the want of feeling and spirit out of it, is of a very serious and


[Page 351]
February 10, 1775 309 melancholy kind: Americans are very sensible that such accounts are true, and expect to fall a sacrifice to the knavery in the cabinet and the folly out of it, unless preserved by their own virtue, their frugali ty, or valour, or both. Shorter parliaments, a more equitable representation, the abolition of taxes and the payment of the debt, the reduction of placemen and pensioners, the annihilation of bribery and corruption, the reforma tion of luxury, dissipation and effeminacy, the disbanding the army, are all necessary to restore your country to a free government, and to a safe, honourable, and happy life. But is this practicable, is there a resource in human nature for hope of such a miraculous change? is there one example of it in history or experience? a nation is easily corrupted, but not so easily reformed. The present reign may be that of Augustus, but upon my honour I expect twelve Caesars will suc ceed it. What is to become of America if they should? ought she not to think in time, and prepare for the worst. I have a great curiosity to know how the proceedings of the Con gress at Philadelphia are relished in London, at St. James’s, and St. Stephens. I think it may be seen from them, that America is not in sensible of her danger, nor inattentive to the means of her safety. I am also very anxious to know what the friends of liberty think of the hasty dissolution of parliament; for my own part, I have ever thought this the most insidious and artful step of the present reign, it seems to betray more contempt of the people, at the same time that it betrays a dread of some remaining sense and integrity among them, than any thing else which has been done. You will allow, Sir, that the broil with America is a very great national concern. At a time when America was assembled to concert measures relative this great con cern, a new parliament is called of a sudden, before the people could hear from America, as if the minister disdained or dreaded that the nation should have opportunity to judge of the state of America, and choose or instruct their representatives accordingly; as if the minister scorned or feared that the people, the electors, should have oppor tunity to hear and converse together upon facts, before they chose their members. The design of the ministry seems to have been likewise to give the friends of liberty the go-by, in England as well as in America; deter mined to pursue their system, they would not suffer the friends of the constitution to converse or correspond together before the day of election, lest the constituents should bind the candidates to act an honest part. It is not easy to convey to you, Sir, an adequate idea of the state of this province. It is now at last true, that we have no gov ernment, legislative, executive, or judicial. The people determined never to submit to the act for destroying their charter, so dearly pur chased, preserved and defended by the toil, treasure and blood of


[Page 358]
316 February 25, 1775 Congress. Ld North is staggering And a little Firmness will tumble him down. I live here in a constant State of hot Debate. All will go well. I am in good Heart & hope we shall send Galloway home sick of his Poli ticks. We intend to go into a Committee of the Whole House & open the Doors. I have a Rod well soaked for him. 4 Do tell my dear Billy that it is impossible for me to write now. My Anxiety to have Crist down is the great Inducem[en]t to write at this early Hour. I am D Doctor Yrs E Bid [die] RC (DLC) . Addressed: “To Doctor Jonathan Potts, Reading.” ’Jonathan Potts (1745-81), Reading, Pa., physician, Berks County deputy to the Pennsylvania Provincial Congress, January 1775, later served prominently in the medical department of the Continental Anny as deputy director general of hospi tals in the northern and middle departments, 1777-80. DAB. ’When the Pennsylvania Assembly reconvened February 21, 1775, Governor John Penn attempted to divert Pennsylvania from making common cause with the other colonies and proposed that the assembly petition the crown in its own behalf "as the only proper and constitutional Mode of obtaining Redress.” Pa. Archives, 8th ser. 8:7186. In this attempt, he was supported chiefly by Joseph Galloway and the Quaker Party. Recognizing that a motion to petition the king according to the governor’s recommendation would fail, Galloway on February 24 moved to post pone the debate to Wednesday, March 8. See Galloway to William Franklin, February 28, 1775. 3 Henry Christ, Sr., of Reading, who with Biddle represented Berks County in the assembly. Pa. Archives, 8th ser. 8:7148. Biddle, speaker of the assembly and political ally of John Dickinson and George Ross, was determined to have his supporters in attendance when the debate resumed March 8. 4 For Galloway’s report on the tactics employed to outmaneuver him in the assembly when debate was subsequently resumed, see Galloway to William Frank lin, March 26, 1775. N. J. Archives, 1st ser. 10 (1886) : 581-85. See also Pa. Archives, 8th ser. 8:7192, 7210-13. Robert Treat Paine to Stephen Collins Kind Sr, 1 Taunton Feby. 25th. 1775 Your freindly Epistle of the 14th ulto. I have lately reed. & it is now before me. 2 I am much obliged to you for the Care of my purse; I wish our endeavours to recover it had succeeded, for the scituation of our public affairs, makes Cash very scarce, as well as much want ed; respecting any suspicion that the Goldfinders have got it, perhaps an enquiry of their circumstances since the affair might be servicea ble, at least so far as to know if it were worth while to try again. I cannot concieve on what principle it is that the Torys should tryumph in the late Conduct of Portsmouth & other places securing


[Page 359]
February 25, 1775 317 their Guns & Ammunition; no freind of Government can rejoyce in anything that disturbs Government, much less in what they call Acts of Rebellion, and their tryumph must spring from a malicious, dia bolical desire, that the Vengeance of G. Britain may be reaked on the American Colonys; we are very much obliged to you for every hint you give of any danger of dividing the Colonys; our Freinds from one End of the Continent, to the other may depend upon it, that in this Colony no step is taken of any Importance with[ou]t considering how it will be approved of by the other Colonys, & our earnest desire to do nothing that might give Uneasiness, has prevent ed some steps being taken which perhaps might have been Salutary. With regard to the particular matter of moving the Guns &c, any person who attends to the Current of affairs must know the reason of it was the forbidding Arms & Ammunition being imported, & the Conduct of Administration wearing so hostile an Appearance as to loudly call upon the natural inherent principle of Self preservation. Those who hold the Doctrines of passive Obedience & non resistance will fault their Conduct, whilst others who view these transactions as Connected with the rights of mankind & Englishmen, will have more liberal apprehensions from them. But our Enemys omitt no oppor- tunitys to asperse the Whiggs; Sc even the Whiggs who are at a dis tance from the scene of action, dont Sufficiently Consider the difficult Scituation of their Freinds, who in the Centre of action are Contin ually impressed, & in danger of being shackled Sc rendered unable to Struggle by patience & remissness, or of giving Offence & causing Di visions by any Enterprize which might save them. They who wish well to our Common Cause will Consider all Circumstances before they form a judgment, & they who are unfreindly will stick at nothing to reproach us. The report you mention of Mr. Adams & Mr. Cushing, 3 is much Such a kind of story, as one industriously reported here vizt. that the (learned, the Sincere, the deliberate, the judicious) Farmer of Pen- sylvania, had tack’d about, & gone over to the Tory Cause. My Freind, you must have observed that ever since the Congress rose, the great father of lies has been fully employ’d in misrepresent ing every thing, & making some pompous lies clearly out of nothing. The Story you mention is one of this Sort, no such motion was made or thought of as I know of much less did Mr. Cushing ever in his life use such language, & as for the dissolution of the Congress, it was done upon the same principle the Grand Congress was dissolved Vizt. to give the Inhabitants Opportunity of Sending Other men if they pleased, after they had done every thing which they then thought proper to do &: a new one has just sat. I hope the freinds of our Common Cause will not grow cool, much less forsake it, upon any Supposition that we are rash in our measures. If in our Extremi-


[Page 360]
318 February 25, 1775 tys we Should not conduct as cool Reason would dictate, we are to be pityed, but I dont know that the Cause is the worse, i.e. has G. Britain a right to make us Slaves, because when we endeavour to hinder it we do not do it with the most discretion. Pray remember me to yr. good Wife 8c to all my freinds at Philada. of whom I recollect too many to be enumerated; hoping yr. best Welfare 8c the redress of all Greivances I am yr. obliged 8c hble Servt R T Paine RC (PHi). 1 Stephen Collins (1733-94), native of Lynn, Mass., was a prominent Quaker leader and merchant in Philadelphia. Katherine A. Kellock, ‘‘Stephen Collins, Philadelphia Merchant,” Business Archives 36 (1972) : 6-13. 2 This letter to Paine was one of several that Collins wrote to Massachusetts patriot leaders during the interval between the First and Second Continental Congresses, expressing fears of divisions in revolutionary ranks. In addition to his letter to Paine, Collins’ letterbook contains letters to Samuel Adams of November 10, 1774, and to William Tudor of January 14 and February 17, 1775, DLC. On a similar theme see John Dickinson to Thomas Cushing, January 26, and Thomas Cushing to John Dickinson, February 13, 1775. 3 Collins had repeated the rumor of a move in the Massachusetts Provincial Congress “to Raise Twenty thousand men Immediately & Attack the Kings troops. The Report is that S. Adams made the motion & urged it very Strongly. That T. Cushing opposed it as Strongly alleging that the Southern Colonies would not approve of it nor Stand by You. That S. Adams reply’d he well knew You would have the suport & Assistan[ce] of all the Colonies, on which T. Cushing gave him the Lie, with Saying that is a Lie Mr. Adams & you know it, & you know that I know it is a Lie, which ocasioned much altercation & Debate, and was the means of the Congress being Desolved.” Collins to Paine, January 14, 1775, DLC. Joseph Galloway to William Franklin Febry. 28, 1775 When I consider the Spirit 8: Firmness with which you have endea voured to discharge your Duty to your Sovereign, 8c to serve the People over whom you preside, and their weak, evasive, ill-wrote, no meaning Answer, I find it difficult to determine, whether I feel great er Satisfaction 8c Pleasure at the one or Contempt for the other. Poor weak sighted Men, who are floating with the Tide of Licentiousness 8c Sedition, which they expect will run forever, when a little common Sense wou’d tell them that it must soon change, and that with it they must change their Language 8c embrace your friendly Advice. I am happy in telling you, that the People of this Province (Penn sylvania) are altering their Sentiments 8c Conduct with amazing rap idity. We have been successful in baffling all the Attempts of the vio lent Party to prevail on the People to prepare for War against the Mother Country. The Quakers, the high 8c low Dutch, the Baptists, Menonists, Dumplers 8cc. are promoting Moderate Measures; in so


[Page 361]
February 28, 1775 319 much that I hope, with some Trouble, all Violence will soon cease, 8c Peace 8c Order take Place of Licentiousness 8c Sedition. The Tories (as they are called) make it a Point to visit the Coffee House dayly 8c maintain their Ground—while the violent Independents are less bold 8c insolent, as their Adherents are greatly diminished. On Thurs day 8c Friday last, determined to abide the Consequences what ever they might be either in respect to my Person or Estate, I spoke my Sentiments in Assembly without the least reserve. I censured 8c con demned the Measures of the Congress in every Thing—aver’d that they all tended to incite America to Sedition Sc terminated in Inde pendence—contended for, 8c proved the Necessity of Parliamentary Jurisdiction over the Colonies in all Cases whatsoever—exposed the Folly of those who hoped, that the British State would suffer its Au thority to be in the least impaired, much less totally given up—ex plained the rights of America, Sc pointed out the Necessity of our tak ing different Measures from those already taken for a recovery of them. I stood single 8c unsupported, among a Set of Men every one of whom had approved of the Measures I was censuring, reprobating their own Conduct to them—8c endeavouring by cool & dispassionate reason 8c Argument to convince them of their Errors. The Opposition as I expected was violent Sc indecent. I kept my Temper unruffled 8c firm which gave me no small Advantage. My Opponents were, The Governor’s father-in-Law (our late chief Justice) the Pennsylvania Farmer, 1 Chs. Thompson, Thos. Mifflin 8c Geo. Ross. The Motion was to petition the King agreeably to the Governor’s Advice in his Mes sage, for which we are more indebted to you Sc Gov. Colden than to him. The Success my Arguments met with; greatly exceeded my most sanguine Expectations. Fourteen Members came over to me; but there being 38 in the House, 8c finding I should lose the Vote without four more Converts—I was obliged to alter my Plan, 8c to move to postpone the Debate untill next Wednesday week hoping that Pro crastination 8c News by the next Pacquet might assist me. My Design being suspected a warm Opposition succeeded—however we carried the Question, 19 for it, 18 against it. 2 But after all the Issue yet re mains uncertain I rather think as the independent Party will exert ev ery Nerve, 8c at last die hard, it will take more Time to defeat them. And that I shall not be able at this Time to carry such a Petition as I wish to send, as none should go, but one which may render it consist ent with the Dignity of Government to receive. Should that prove the Case I hope to prevail on the House to adjourn to the Middle of April when I shall have no Doubt of Success. I think I have mentioned to you a Design of publishing my Senti ments on the Dispute between G. Britain 8c the Colonies; I now send the Pamphlet, 3 of which I beg your Acceptance, and, at your Lei sure, your Candid Sentiments on it. I wish’d for them before it went


[Page 363]
March 21, 1775 321 the Colonies more formidable than ever. Concordia res parva cres- cunt. “We have lately opend a Correspondence with Canada which, I dare say will be attended with great and good Effects.” 4 FC (NN) . Adams, Writings (Cushing) , 3:194-98. 1 Adams’ earlier accounts of Massachusetts affairs in his letters to Lee of January 29 and February 14, 1775, are in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 3:169-72, 179-80. 'New York’s delegates to Congress were not elected until April 22, 1775, when a provincial convention of representatives from nine of 14 counties chose a 12-man delegation. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:358. 3 Myles Cooper, loyalist president of King’s College. 1 Adams had arranged for the Boston Committee of Correspondence to send John Brown (1744-80) , Pittsfield, Mass., lawyer and militia colonel, as agent to Canada to sample sentiment toward the American colonies. DAB; and Allen French, The First Year of the American Revolution (New York: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1934) , pp. 145-46. For Brown’s report to the committee, March 29, 1775, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:243-45. For Brown’s later appearance at the second Congress, see Silas Deane’s Diary, May 18, 1775. Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee Boston Mar [27] 1115. Describes conditions in Massachusetts. “I have just received Letters from our Friends in London dated the 24, 26 and 28 Deer and 4th & 7 th Jany; some Extracts from which I have thought it necessary to have inserted in our publick News pa pers as youl see by the inclosd. One Paragraph which alarms me I have not disclosd to any one; it is this—‘I have been in the Country with Lord Chatham to shew him the Petition of the Congress of which he highly approves. He is of Opinion that a solemn Renuncia tion of the Right to tax on the one side, and an Acknowledgment of the Supremacy on the other, should accompany the repeal of all the obnoxious Acts. Without this, he says, the Hearts of the two Coun tries will not openly embrace each other with unfeigned Affection and Reconcilement.’ In this short Sentence I think it is easy to see, that his Lordships plan of Reconciliation is the same with that which he held forth in his Speech at the time of the Repeal of the Stamp Act. However highly I think of his Lordships Integrity, I confess I am chagrind to find, that he expects an Acknowledgment of Suprem acy in terms on our part. 1 imagine that after such Acknowledgment, there may be a variety of Ways by which Great Britain may enslave us besides that of taxing us without our Consent. The possibility of it should greatly awaken our Apprehensions. Let us take Care lest America in Lieu of a Thorn in the Foot should have a Dagger in her heart. Our united Efforts have hitherto succeeded. This is not a Time for us to relax our Measures. Let us like prudent Generals im-


[Page 364]
322 March 21, 1775 prove upon our Success and push for perfect political Freedom.” RC (ViU) . RC damaged; missing words supplied from FC (NN) . Adams, Writings (Cushing) , 3:205-9. Joseph Galloway to William Franklin [Trevose. March 26, 7775.] Is pleased that Governor Franklin has expressed confidence in him and that the king is determined to assert British authority in America. “I did intend to have communicated to you the Event of the De bates in our Assembly before this Time; But I have been a good deal indisposed, & besides engaged in writing a reply to the scurrilous An swer to “A Candid Examination” Sec. 1 I have just finished it, and I wish it could undergo your revisal before it goes to the Press, but that is impossible—And for that reason I have taken the more Pains with it. I am pleased with the Attack because it has given me an Oppor tunity of supporting the Principles of the Pamphlet by some new Ar guments, 8c of exposing the Ignorance & independant Notions of the Pennsylvania Farmer 8c his Colleague Mr. Thompson. Mr. Rivington will send you one as soon as it is published. “As I seldom keep Copies of my Letters, I know not particularly how far I communicated the Proceedings in our Assembly. ... I think I wrote you the substance 8c the Event of the two first Days De bate upon the [Governor’s] Message, 8c that the further Considera tion of it was postponed for near 10 Days. I need not therefore re peat it here. On the Saturday before the Day of the further Debate the independent party despairing of Success in preventing a Petition to his Majesty, moved that the Doors should be thrown open, 8c the Mob let in upon me. I was secretly advertised of this Design, 8c had spoke to a Number of Friends to be there in Case the Motion should succeed, being determined it should have no other Effect, but to pre pare myself better 8c to speak with more Firmness 8c more fully upon the Measures of the Congress. However upon debating the Motion, we carried it in the Negative 24 to 14. This was an humiliating Blow to my Opponents. I had hitherto carried every Question, 8c constantly by an increased Majority. And yet altho’ I had brought a Number of the Members (not less than 16 out of 39) to petition upon proper Grounds, I found it impossible, as there were very little hopes of gaining four more. I therefore resolved to change my Ground 8c to prevail on the House to adjourn to some Day between this 8c the 10th of May, the Time of Meeting of the next Congress; In Expectation that by the Change of the Peoples Sentiments out of Doors, which had already undergone an amazing Alteration, and the Intelligence


[Page 366]
324 March 26, 1775 least have sent for me 8cc. 2dly. That they had treated the House with insolent Disregard & Disobedience; for that they had not inserted in the Answer either Sentiment or Word of what was Yesterday unani mously agreed upon. 3dly. That it contained palpable Untruths. To these I added many other Arguments, But all was in vain. This was not a Time when reason was to prevail. The great News of Yesterday had altered the Minds of some of the weak & irresolute of the Ches ter & Philada. Members & upon the Question they carried it against the Commitment 20 to 16. The answer went thro’ the House. I op posed it in every stage—And upon the Question whether it should be transcribed it was carried 22 to 14. And in Order to shew that the House was divided—which they much dreaded—I insisted upon the Yeas 8c Nays to be taken down 8c published as you have seen. The House stands adjourned to the first of May. “I intimated before, that I had met with Insults during my Stay in the City. Shortly after the two first Days Debates—late in the Eve ning a Box was left at my Lodgings nail’d 8c directed to me. Upon opening it next Morning I found in it a Halter, with a threatening Letter. I read the Letter 8c nail’d up the Box—lock’d it carefully in my Charriott Box, determined not to mention it to any Body—as I knew it would be impossible that the Person sending it should keep it long a Secret 8c hoping by that Means to discover them. I waited a Fortnight 8c nothing transpired. At length it came out from two of the Persons whom I verily believe sent it—And from the Clue, so far as I have traced it, it comes from two Members of Assembly, a discard ed Assembly Officer 8c a Head of the White Oaks. However it had no other Effect on me than to fix me in my former resolutions to oppose those lawless Measures at all Events. “I am happy in your Approbation of my Pamphlet. I find from all Quarters it is universally applauded by Men of Candor 8c Abilities. Your Sentiments 8c mine are not different respecting the proper Un ion with G. Britain, nor respecting the Addition to my proposed Plan. I thought of it at the Time, but omitted it because I knew the Plan would be less exceptionable to those Democratic Spirits to whom it was to be proposed, 8c by whom adopted in the first In stance, 8c because I thought it might be added in the Negotiation. The great End I had in View in offering the Plan, I have often before told you was to prevail on the Congress to take the Ground of Nego tiation 8c Proposition. ... I am Confident no Endeavours will be used by Government here, only "to save Appearances,” to prevent the Appointment of Deputies for the intended Congress. When I re fused to accept of the Appointment in December I could not prevail on Judge Morton to join me in the refusal. However, I am deter mined to oppose the appointment in our sitting in May, 8c exert every Nerve to prevent it.” 2


[Page 374]
332 April 29, 1775 cord at length. Continues: "I cannot say, I am convinc’d of the Truth of all the Particulars above mentioned; tho all of them are supported by many probabilities. But these Facts, I believe, You may depend on. That this most unnatural and inexpressibly cruel War began with the Butchery of the unarm’d Americans at Lexington—that the Provincials, incredible as it may be at St. James’s or St. Stephens’ fought bravely—that the Regulars have been defeated with consider able Slaughter, tho they behav’d resolutely—that a Tory dares not open his Mouth against the Cause of America even at New York— that the Continent is preparing most assiduously for a vigorous Re sistance—and that Freedom or an honorable Death are the only Ob jects on which their [Sons?] are at present employed. “What human Policy can divine the Prudence of precipitating Us into these shocking Scenes? Why have We been so rashly declared Rebels? Why have Divisions been sent to disarm Us? Why Orders to commence Hostilities? Why was not General Gage at least restrain’d from Extremities till the sense of another Congress could be collect ed? It was the determined Resolution of some already appointed del egates for it, to have strain’d every nerve at that Meeting, to attempt bringing the unhappy Dispute to Terms of Accommodation, safe for the Colonies and honorable 8c advantageous for our Mother Country, in whose Prosperity 8c Glory our Hearts take as large a Share, as any Minister’s of State, and from as just and as generous Motives, to say no more of them. “But what Topicks of Reconciliation are now left for Men, Who think as I do, to address our Countrymen? to recommend Reverence for the Monarch or Affection for the Mother Country? Will the Dis tinctions between the Prince and his Ministers, between the People 8c their Representatives wipe out the Stains of Blood? Or have We the slighest Reason to hope, that those Ministers 8c Representatives will not be supported throughout the Tragedy as They have been thro the first Act? No. While We revere 8c love, the Sword is opening our Veins. In all human probability, the same Delusions will still prevail, till France 8c Spain, if not other Powers, long jealous of Britain’s Force 8c Fame, will fall upon her embarrass’d with an exhausting Civil War, and crushing or at least depressing her, then turn their arms on these provinces, which must submit to wear their Chains or wade thro Seas of Blood too dear bought and at best a frequently convuls’d and precarious Independence. “All the ministerial Intelligence concerning Us is false. We are a united, resolved People—are or quickly shall be well arm’d 8c disci plined. Our Smiths 8c Powder Mills are at work Day 8c Night. Our sup plies from foreign Parts continually arriving. Good officers, that is, well experienc’d ones, We shall soon have—and the Navy of Britain cannot stop our whole Trade. Our Towns are but Brick and Stone 8c


[Page 377]
May 8, 1775 335 successful if we are beat into a Submission under the Execution of the Acts of Parliament, that Submission and Slavery will last no long er than their comparative strength and our comparative Weakness. Our Children will resume the Contest on the first favourable Occa sion and though Individuals and many of the best amongst us may be lost, the Liberties of America will be saved but if we become Tribu taries by Consequence, Individuals of the present Day will be saved but the Liberties of America will be lost. Unless there shd be a prospect of seeing you at Phila. I shall be obliged to you for a Line now and then. Pray make my Compliments to Mrs. Gates. I am Dr. Sir Yours Th. Johnson, Junr. RC (NHi) . Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane [New York, May 7 th, 1775.} Recounts the journey of the Con necticut and Massachusetts delegates across Connecticut and New York. Describes their grand procession into New York City, led by a battalion of 800 men and cheered on by the welcoming throngs. 1 Continues: “Tories are silent, but not quite dead; but a most critical watch is kept over them, and every letter intercepted. The people are in suspense as to seizing the Fort as yet, and wait the advice of the Congress; but a most surprising spirit prevails, and New England men are extolled to the skies.” MS not found; abstracted from NYHS Collections 19 (1887) : 43-46. 1 Samuel Adams’ letter of this date to his wife, reporting the "great Honor” accorded the Massachusetts and Connecticut delegates by the city of New York, is in Adams, Writings (Cushing) , 3:214. John Hancock’s letter of the same date to Dorothy Quincy, containing an even more elaborate description of their New York reception, is in the Magazine of American History 19 (June 1888) : 509-10. And for John Adams’ letter to his wife written from New York May 8, see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:195-96. Benjamin Franklin to David Hartley Dear Sir, Philada. May 8. 1775. Monday I arrived here on Friday Evening, 8c the next morning was unani mously chosen by the General Assembly a Delegate for the ensuing Congress, which is to meet on Wednesday. You will have heard before this reaches you of the Commence ment of a Civil War; the End of it perhaps neither myself, nor you, who are much younger, may live to see. 1 I find here all Ranks of


[Page 378]
336 May 8, 1775 People in Arms, disciplining themselves Morning & Evening, and am informed that the firmest Union prevails throughout North America; New York as hearty as any of the rest. I purpose to communicate to you from time to time the most authentic Intelligence I can collect here, and hope to hear frequently from you in the same Way. I am with great Esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obedt huml Servt 2 B Franklin RC (MH). 'David Hartley (1732-1813), English statesman, inventor, pro-American MP from Hull, 1774-80. DNB. ’This day Franklin also wrote a brief letter to Joseph Galloway. “I am much oblig’d by your kind Congratulations. I am concern’d at your Resolution of quitting public Life at a time when your Abilities are so much wanted. I hope you will change that Resolution. I hear my Son is to be at Burlington this day Week to meet his Assembly. I had purposed (if he could not conveniently come hither) to meet him there, and in my Return to visit you at Trevose. I shall know in a day or two, how that will be. But being impatient to see you, I believe I shall accept the kind Offer of your Carriage, and come to you directly. If I conclude upon that, I shall let you know. At present I am so taken up with People coming in continueally, that I cannot stir, & can scarce think what is proper or practicable.” Arthur Loeb Collection, Philadelphia, Pa., 1975. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney New-Castle May the Sth 1775. “I arrived here yesterday after noon 8c soon after waited on Col. Bland one of the delegates from Virginia, who is since gone up to town in the stage 8c says the other delegates from his colony, (he believes) might have got as far as Chester last night. Mr. Hall, Mr. Johnson 8c Mr. Tilghman of Mary land set out from here this day soon after dinner 8c about the same time, a brig from South Carolina passed by with the delegates from that colony. Mr. Chaise of Maryland went through this town yesterday. 1 Mr. Read 8c I are to set out to-morrow morning attended by the Militia of this town at the instance 8c request of the Company. The Province Assembly 2 who are now setting have added Dr. Benja min Franklin 8c Mr. James Willson of York Co. to the Congress.” Tr (DLC) . Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 57. 1 For additional information on the journey of the Virginia and other southern delegates to Philadelphia, see Washington, Diaries (Fitzpatrick), 2:194-95; and Richard Caswell to William Caswell, May 11, 1775. ’ The provincial assembly of Pennsylvania.


[Page 381]
May 11, 1775 339 1 A more detailed account of the delegates’ entry into Philadelphia was penned by Massachusetts loyalist, Samuel Curwen. “First appeared 2 or 300 Gentlemen on horseback preceded by the new chosen city Military Officers 2 and 2 with drawn swords followed by J[ohn] H[ancock] and S[amuel] A[dams] in a Phaeton and pair the former looking as if his journey and high living, or his solicitude to support the dignity of his character as the first man in Massachusetts, had impaired his health. Next came J[ohn] A[dams] and Mr. C[ushing] in a single horse chaise, behind followed R[obert] T[reat] P[aine], and after him the N. York, at least some of the many Delegates from the Provinces.” Samuel Curwen, The Journal of Samuel Curwen Loyalist, ed. Andrew Oliver, 2 vols. (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1972) , 1:8. Richard Caswell to William Caswell My Dear Son Philadelphia 11th May 1775. By a Gentleman Bound to Tar River I now Write to inform you, 1 that after I parted with you at Halifax Mr. Hewes 8c myself proceed ed on our Journey, as follows. Sunday evening we Arrived at Peters burg in Virginia where we met the express with an Accot. of a Battle between the Kings Troops 8c the Bostonians. The next day we crossed James River 8c Lodged at Hanover Court House, where we had an Accot of 1500 Men being under Arms to proceed to Williams burg in Order to Oblige Lord Dunmore to return some powder he had taken out of the Magazine 8c lodged on Board of a Man of War in James River; what was done in that matter we have not since Heard. The next day we were constantly meeting Armed men who had been to Escort the delegates for Virginia on their Way towards this place. We Lodged that night at Port Royal and were only 2 or 3 Hours after the Virginia Gentn. The next day we got down to Potow- mack Side before the Boats returned that had carried the Virginians over. Here were part of the Militia of three Counties under Arms 8c in the Uniform of hunting shirts, they received us 8c Conducted us, on the return of the Boats, to the waters edge with all the Military honors due to General Officers, we then crossed the River and learned at the Ferry on Maryland side that a Company of Indepen dants in Charles County had Attended the Virginia delegates from there under Arms, we proceeded 8c overtook them at Port Tobacco, where indeed the Independants made a Most Glorious Appearance. Their Company consisted of 68 Men beside officers all Genteelly drest in Scarlet 8c well equiped with Arms 8c Warlike Implements with drum 8c Fife, Sentinels were placed at the doors 8c occasionally releived during the Time we stayed there. The next Morning We all set out together 8c were Attended by the Independants to the Verge of their County, where they delivered us to another Company of Independants in Prince George’s 8c they in 579-852 0 - 77 - 24 VoLl


[Page 382]
340 May 11, 1775 like Manner to a second and that to a Third which brot us through their County. We Lodged that night at Malborough & the next day tho we met with a Most Terible Gust of Lightining, thunder, wind, Hail & rain. Arrived at Baltimore at the enterance of Which Town we were received by four Independant Companies who Conducted us with their Colours Flying, drums Beating & Fifes playing to our Lodgings at the Fountain Tavern (Grants). The next day we were prevailed on to stay at Baltimore, where Colo. Washington Accom panied by the rest of the delegates reviewed the Troops. They have four Companies of 68 Men each Compleat, who go thro their Exer cises extremely Clever, they are raising in that Town three other Companies which they say will soon be full. We were very Genteelly entertained here in the Court House. The next day we Breakfasted at My old Master Cheynes & dined at Susquehanah, crossed the River & Lodged at the Ferry House. As I had in some Measure been the cause of the Virginia Gentn. going round the Bay by recommending that road & being the only person in the Company Acquainted with the road I was Obliged to keep with them so that I did not call on any of my relations. I sent George in to Jos. Dallams where he left the Letters I brot. for our Friends and was informed my Grand Mother & all Friends were Well except Mrs. Dallam who had been poorly some Time. The next day we got to Wilmington where we fell in with Several of The Maryland delegates Sc came all into this City to Dinner on the 7th Instant. Yesterday the Congress met Agreable to Appointment & this day it was Resolved that they enter upon the Consideration of American grievances Monday next. Here a Greater Martial Spirit prevails if possible, than I have been describing in Virginia & Maryland. They have 28 Companies Com pleat which make near 2000 Men who March out to the Common & go thro their Exercises twice a Day regularly. Scarce any thing But Warlike Musick is to be heard in the Streets, there are Several Com panies of Quakers only, and many of them beside enrolled in Other Companies promiscuously. Tis sayed they will in a few days have 3000 Men under Arms ready to defend their Liberties. They are raising Men in New York & all the Northern Governments, the Yorkers I am told by their Delegates are determined to Defend their Liberties 8c since the Action between the Kings Troops 8c the Provin cials scarcely a Tory is to be found amongst them. I herewith inclose you a paper in which is a List of the Killed 8c Wounded of the Kings Troops, But ’tis said this is not Genuine, a Much greater Number being Actually Killed. On the side of the Bostonians 37 were Killed outright 4 are Missing 8c I forget The Number of Wounded I think thirty odd. Thus you have the fullest Account I am Able to give of these mat ters and as the Accot. is so long twill not be in my power to Commun-


[Page 383]
May 11, 1775 341 nicate the same to any other of my Countrymen 8c friends but thro’ you. You may therefore remember me in the Strongest manner to Your Uncles, Capt Bright & others of my particular Friends. Shew them this Letter, and tell them it will be a Reflection on their Coun try to be Behind their neighbours, that it is Indispensibly necessary for them to Arm & form into a Company or Companies of Independants. When their Companies are full, 68 private Men each to Elect Officers Viz a Capt. 2 Leut. an Ensign 8c Subalterns, And to meet so often as possible 8c go thro the exercise, receive no Man but such as can be depended on, at the same Time reject none who will not dis credit the Company. If I live to return I shall most Chearfully Join any of my Countrymen even as a rank and file man, And as in the Common cause I am here exposed to danger that or any other diffi culties I shall not shun whilst I have any Blood in my Veins, But freely offer it in Support of the Liberties of my Country. Tell Your Uncles (the Clk 8c Sher.) it may not be prudent for them so far to engage, yet awhile, in any Company as to risk the losses of their of fices. But you, my Dear Boy, must become a Soldier 8c risk your life in Support of those invaluable Blessings, which once lost Posterity will never be able to regain. Some men I fear will start objections to the enrolling of Companies 8c exercising the Men 8c will say it will be acting against Government, that may be Answered "That it is not so” That we are only Qualifying ourselves and preparing to defend our Country 8c Support our Liberties. I can say no more at present But that May God Almighty protect you all 8c his Blessing Attend your good endeavors, is the Ardent prayer of, My Dear Child, Your Affec tionate Father Rd Caswell P.S. Only shew this Letter to such as I have described above 8c don’t let it be Copied, Consult Capt Bright 8cc. RC (Nc-Ar) . N. C. Colonial Records, 9:1247-50. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. ‘William Caswell (d. 1787?), son of Richard Caswell, and subsequently a captain in the Fifth North Carolina Continental Regiment and a brigadier general of North Carolina militia. The younger Caswell had accompanied the North Carolina delegation to the First Congress in 1774 and had kept an itinerary of their travel to and from Philadelphia as well as a record of their attendance at various social functions in that city while Congress was in session. Although internal evidence clearly reveals that this itinerary was compiled by William, the editor of The Colonial Records of North Carolina mistakenly ascribed its authorship to Richard Caswell. N. C. Colonial Records, 9:1064-70; N. C. State Records, 13:754-56; and J. Bryan Grimes, comp., North Carolina Wills and Inventories . . . (Raleigh: Edwards and Broughton, 1912) , pp. 118-22.


[Page 384]
342 May 11, 1775 Silas Deane’s Diary [May 11, 1775] Thursday 11th. Mr. Dushay opened with an excellent prayer. Day spent in examining Certifi [cate] s and ordered that on Monday Next the Congress should resolve itself into a Commee. of the whole house on the State of America. Affidavits 8cc respectg. Lexington Battle read & ordered to the presses. MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 90. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philadelphia 11th May 1775 I arived here the 9th, in company with the Virginia delegates. Yesterday the Congress met when all the Provinces that sent dela- gates before were Represented except Rhode Island, the two Gover nors from that Colony are expected in a day or two. Mr Randolph is Chosen President & C. Thompson Secretary. Doctr. Franklin arived here on Fryday last and on Saturday was appointed a Delagate, by the assembly of this Province. They also added Mr. Thomas Willing 8c Mr. Wilson to the number. Galloway has turned apostate; he strug gled hard in the House of assembly to get a majority to Condemn the proceedings of the late Congress, 8c to Petition the King 8cc. as the as sembly of New York had done. By this Step he has lost the Confid ence of all ranks of People. A few days ago a Box was left at his Lodgings in this City directed for Jos. Galloway Esqr. He opened it before several Gentleman then present and was much surprised to find it contained a Halter with a note in these words “all the Satisfac tion you can now give your injured Country is to make a proper use of this and rid the World of a Damned Scoundrell.” He is gone off no body can tell where tho it is thought to New York. 1 All kinds of business is at hand here. Nothing is heard but the sound of Drums 8c Fifes, all Ranks 8c Degrees of men are in Arms learning the Manual Exercise Evolution 8c the management of Artillery. They have now in this City Twenty eight Companies of Foot of 68 men each including Officers all of whom are out twice every day in Training. Several more Companies are forming, they have also two Companies of Light Horse in short it is impossible to describe the Spirit of these people and the alteration they have undergone since I left them in December last. All the Quakers except a few of the old Rigid ones have taken up arms, there is not one Company without several of these people in it, and I am told one or two of the Companies are composed entirely of Quakers. The people of this Province in general


[Page 393]
May 16, 1775 351 man of the Talbot County Committee of Observation, believed that the meeting of the next convention, which later met July 26, 1775, should be postponed. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:381; and Herbert Klingelhofer, “The Cautious Revolution: Maryland and the Movement toward Independence: 1774-1776,” Md. Hist. Ma gazine 60 (September 1965) : 262. Samuel Ward’s Diary [May 15, 1775] 15th. A Number of Members arrived. The Secry allowed to em ploy Tim[oth]y Mallock [Matlack] as Clerk under an Oath of Se- cresy; a Petition from the Murray’s; 1 ordered that the Congress be resolved into a Comee. to morrow as above; New York asked Advice relative to the Troops; the Delegate from St. Johns did not insist on a Voice save where the Colos. were not called. Arrived myself at this Time. Advice given to N. York. Memorial from Shoemaker & Drink er relative to Vessels &c. A Comee. appointed to consider what Posts in Prov. N. York ought to be guarded, Colo. Washington &c. The Comee. then adjd. MS (RHi) . Mohn and Robert Murray, Quaker merchants from New York, had come under fire from the committees of observation of New York City and Elizabethtown, N. J., for landing goods from England in the latter province in contravention of the nonimportation agreement. Congress responded to the Murray’s petition “desiring to be restored to their former situation with respect to their commercial privi- ledges” by resolving on the 27th that henceforth all violators of the association should seek redress for their offenses from the provincial conventions of the colonies in which the violations had taken place. JCC, 2:53, 67; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:144-48. Silas Deane’s Diary [May 16, 1775] Tuesday 15th [i.e. 16th] Letter or Petition from Jno. Murray, & Robt. Murray read, &: ordered to lie on the Table. Resolved into a Committee of the whole house, M. Tilghman in the Chair. Col. Lee opens the Debate and reads proposals for raising an Army. Mr. Lynch seconds him—also Mr. Jno Rutledge who insists that previously some other points must be settled, such as do We aim at independancy? or do We only ask for a Restoration of Rights & put ting of Us on Our old footing—speaks long & well. Mr. Robt. R. Livingston succeeds him in the same way—short.


[Page 395]
May 16, 1775 353 1 Footnote by William Temple Franklin: “Suppos’d to be relative to the different temperature of the Sea—in different Latitudes, & Currents.” 3 Ellipsis in MS. New York Delegates to the New York Committee of One Hundred Dear Sir New York [i.e. Philadelphia] 16 May 1775 Inclosed we send you the advice of the Congress on the Subject on which you requested it, 1 & lest the Advice to remove the military Stores might be construed to extend to those belonging to the Crown we think it prudent to suggest to you that the contrary Construction is the true one. You would have reed, this Advice before had not sundry Circum stances not material or perhaps proper to explain concurred in defer ring till now. We are Gent your very hble Servts. Jas. Duane Lewis Morris Frans. Lewis Phil. Livingston John Jay John Alsop RC (NN) . Written by John Jay and signed by Jay, Alsop, Duane, Lewis, Philip Livingston, and Morris. J The New York City Committee of One Hundred sent a letter to Congress on May 10, asking what measures to take in view of the imminent arrival in the province of British reinforcements. Congress reacted to this letter by passing a resolution requesting New Yorkers to remain on the defensive after the coming of new British troops “so long as may be consistent with their safety and security.” This resolution of May 15 was the enclosure to which the delegates refer here. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:531, 618; and JCC, 2:49-52. The New York delegates’ letter and Congress’ resolution were made public and were printed in many American newspapers. Samuel Ward’s Diary [May 16, 1775] 16th. Met, the Letter from Murrays read & ordered to lye on the Table, resolved into a Com[mitte]e of the whole to take into Con sideration the State of America, Mr. Tilghman in the chair re- p[orte]d that no Re[solution]s were come into & desired Leave &c. MS (RHi).


[Page 396]
354 May 16, 1775 George Washington to the Fairfax County Committee Gentn. Phila. May 16th 1775. If I could have communicated any thing by the last Post certain and satisfactory, I should most assuredly have done it agreeable to my promise, but the only articles of Intelligence which came to my hands were containd in the Gazetees & went regularly to you. This is pretty much the case at present, and leaves me little to add as the Congress are again under the Tye of Secrecy in respect to their proceedings till the business is finish’d, or particular parts of it pub lish’d by Order. The principal design therefore of my writing to you at this time, & under these circumstances is, to recommend strongly, in case a Convention of the Virga. Delegates should be called (as the Treasurer has been advis’d to do) in my absence, that some other person may be chosen Pro: tern to serve in my Room; in order that the County may, at this important Crisis, be fully represented. The necessity of a full, and able Representation at such a juncture as this, must be too obvious to need a comment, or words to enforce the Recommendation. We have a very full Congress, and I flatter myself that great una nimity will prevail among the Members of it. The Colony of New York is said, not only to be hearty, but zealous in the cause. I wish, & I hope it may be so but, as 1 never entertaind a very high opinion of your sudden Repentances, I will suspend my opinion till the ar rival of the Troops there. The Provencial Congress of the Massachusetts bay have voted 13,600 Men. The other Governments of New Engd. have followed their example in proportionate numbers, & the Troops at Boston are confind within the neck by about 9000 of them, Intrenchd, by which means all Communication between the Town & Country is cut off, and the Army and Inhabitants of Boston, it is said, somewhat dis- tressd for Provisions. We have no late Acct, from thence; but it is supposed Genl. Gage will keep close till he receives his reinforcemt., to consist, our Accts, say of abt. 2000 Men to be expected the last of this Month. What he will then do, time only can tell. The Depositions taken after the Action at Lexington I inclose you, when op- p [ortunit] y offers please to forwd a Copy or two into the back Coun ties. As Mr. Milner has just given notice that he shall set out at One clock this day instead of Tomorrow (as I expected) I am obligd to write in more haste than I otherwise should have done, I am with sincere esteem Gentn. Yr. Most Obed. Ser. Go. Washington


[Page 402]
360 May 18, 1775 Regiment of Light Dragoons, later served as adjutant general of the British Army at New York. DAB; and D. A. Story, The de Lanceys, A Romance of a Great Family with Notes on Those Allied Families who Remained Loyal to the British Crown during the Revolutionary War ([London]: Thomas Nelson & Sons, [1931]), pp. 18-19, 74, 88-90. George Read to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir 18th May 1775. I reced yours attended with Fifty Pounds paid of the Boston sub scriptions by Mr. Tattlow but have heard nothing from Mr. Tybout though I sent your Letter the day after I came up. 1 It is said an ex press came to Town last Evening with an Account of Some Connect icut Volunteers under the Command of A Coll. Arnold had taken Possession of the Fort at Ticonderoga or Crown Point in which there is near 200 Cannon &c—this to prevent the Canadians marching down into the New England Colonies. Upon the Paymt. of the 1000 dollars to Mr. Samuel Adams as Chairman of the Committee of Do nations at Boston he desired that I should in the Name of that Com- ittee &c. give thanks to the Contributors. I am in haste yor. most Hble Servt. Geo. Read [P.S.] We know not how long we may stay here—all secret as be fore. RC (DeHi) . 1 Identification of the recipient of this letter rests upon the statement by William T. Read that the letter was originally found in the papers of Nicholas Van Dyke (1738-89) , who was a member of the Newcastle committee soliciting funds for the relief of Boston. William T. Read, Life and Correspondence of George Read, a Signer of the Declaration of Independence . . . (Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1870) , pp. 102-3; and DAB. Samuel Ward’s Diary [May 18, 1775] 18th. Met, Mr. Hopkins joined us. Rules of the last Congress adopted. News of taking Ticonderoga. 1 Mr. Brown gave much Intel ligence relative to Canada &c. Resolution that the Stores be removed from Ticonderoga &c to the So. End of Lake George &c, a post to be taken there, an acct, of the Cannon to be taken &c. MS (RHi) . r This day Congress received a letter of May 15 from Isaac Low, chairman of the


[Page 404]
362 May 19, 1775 for the Colony of the Massachusetts, and your opinion of Their Prudence and Integrity, are very obliging. I was with my Friend Mr Hancock near the Scene of Action at Lexington on the 19th of April. The authentick Accounts lately publishd prevent the Necessity of troubling you with my Detail of that memorable Battle. I rejoyce that my Countrymen had adhered punctually to the Direction of the Gen eral Congress, and were at length driven to Resistance through Ne cessity. I think they may now justly claim the Support of the confed erated Colonies. I was much pleasd to be informd by you, that your Colony had observd a Day of Fasting and Humiliation. It is upon the Blessing of God alone that we must depend for a happy Issue to our virtuous Struggle. I will write to Mr Veazy by another opportunity, having at present not sufficient Leisure. Pray present my unfeigned Regards to your Brother, and be assured that I am sincerely Your obliged and affectionate Friend and Countryman. Sami Adams RC (Bentley Courtenay, Madison, Wis., 1972). 1 Months later, following the delivery of donations from Maryland for the "Poor of Boston,” Adams wrote another letter of thanks. "When I returned to New England last August, I found that a Part of the Committee appointed by the Town of Boston to receive Donations remained Prisoners there, & the rest were dispersed over that & the neighboring Colonies, so that I was at a Loss to whom to commit the Monies ... a Committee of both Houses was appointed. ... I then delivered the Monies I had received into the Hands of Moses Gill Esqr. a Gentleman of Fortune & Character. ... As the Assembly did me the Honor to make me the Chairman, I am directed by the Committee to return you their hearty thanks for the Trouble you have taken upon yourself for the Comfort of our distressed Brethren.” Adams to Samuel Purviance, Jr., November 17, 1775, The Collector 58 (November 1945) : 190. Silas Deane to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Philadelphia 19th, May 1775 Sir, Your Letter of the 15th we received last Evening by Mott and Now inclose the resolutions of the Congress respecting the Military Stores at Ticonderoga. 1 Have not Time to mention at large the Rea sons which induced them to prefer a Removal of the Stores, to the keeping the post but in general, that it was judged, a post on this Side might [be] seized on, and kept at much less expence, &: to equall ad vantage. Shall write Your Honor, more particularly by Mr Mott, who does not set out, untill Monday next meantime am with the greatest Truth & regard. Your Honors most Obedient &: Humble Servant Silas Dean P.S. Mr MotLgoes earlier than I expected, am sorry he was not ear-


[Page 405]
May 20, 1775 363 lier in as Mr Brown had the advantage of giving the first Intelligence, which has been handsomly rewarded, but doubt not Mr Mott will re ceive Such marks of Notice 8c generosity from the Colony as his Zeal, ability and firmness richly Deserves, and it is my humble Opinion that he, 8c Mr Allen, are the most suitable Men that can be found, for the Defending 8c maintaining, of the Frontiers, 8c such Posts, as may be taken to the Northward. Tr (Ct). 1 See JCC, 2:55-56. Edward Mott of Preston, Conn., and captain in the Sixth Regiment, May 1775-February 1776, was the leader of the Connecticut men dis patched by Deane April 29 to implement the plan for capturing Ticonderoga. Henry P. Johnston, ed., The Record of Connecticut Men in the Military and Naval Service during the War of the Revolution, 1775-83 (Hartford: Case, Lockwood 8c Brainard 8c Co., 1889) , pp. 29, 76; and CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 87. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [May 19, 1775] Fair. Dined out. Honble John Hancock Esq. Chosen President in the room of Payton Randolph Esqr. resigned. 1 MS (MHi). 1 Paine’s entry regarding Hancock’s election was made at a later date and with a different pen. No supporting evidence has been found to indicate that Hancock was elected on the 19th rather than the 24th of May. JCC, 2:58-59. Samuel Ward’s Diary [May 19, 1775] 19th. Met, report of the Comee. for N. York made 8: refd. to the Comee. of the whole which went into the Cons [ideratio] n of the State of America. After some Time Mr. Ward reported no Resolu tions were come into 8c desire Leave to sett again. MS (RHi) . Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [May 20, 1775] Fair. Dind at City Tavern with Congress. MS (MHi) .


[Page 412]
370 May 22, 1775 you the Least Information Respecting our proceedings. We can only Say That all the Colonies are firmly united 8c are preparing for the worst. We hope That you will In Imitation of the other Colonies pro ceed to Choose your officers & Establish your militia upon The New Plan which has been adopted by Every Colony upon the Continent. We Shall bring with us Governor Wentworths Letters to Lord Dart mouth for 12 months past that you may Judge whether he is your friend as he pretends or whether he is not Rather your Inveterate Enemy. Gentlemen we are with great Respect your most obedt Servts Jno Sullivan John Langdon P.S. We Earnestly Entreat you to prevent our General Court from making any application to Great Britain for Redress of Grievances as that would Draw the Resentment of all America upon our Province it being agreed that no one Shall make terms without the advice Sc Jno Sullivan Jno Langdon Consent of the whole. 4 Yrs as above. RC (Nh-Ar) . Written by Sullivan and signed by Sullivan and Langdon. 'Guy Carleton (1724-1808) , governor of Quebec, major general and commander of British forces in Canada. DNB. ’Guy Johnson (c. 1740-88) , longtime deputy superintendent of Indian affairs in the northern department, became superintendent upon the death of his father-in- law, Sir William Johnson, in 1774. DAB. 3 See JCC, 2:55-56. For New Hampshire’s response in opposition to Congress’ recommendations, see N.H. Provincial Papers, 7:497-500. ' See Edmund Pendleton’s Proposed Resolution, May 24-26? 1775. Samuel Ward’s Diary [May 22, 1775] 22d. Met & resolved as above 8c Mr. Ward reported as above. 1 MS (RHi) . 1 See Ward’s Diary, May 19, 1775. James Wilson to John Montgomery Philadia 22d May 1775 Dear Sir I write this Letter just to tell you that I am in a Hurry and have Nothing to say. 1 The public News you will learn from the News-papers, which I have sent to Mrs Wilson. The Proceedings of the Congress, you know, are secret. I must beg of you; and I know


[Page 415]
May 23, 1775 373 watch over them, & not let the evil Day be anticipated by any Re missness or Want of firmness on our Part—-for that would not only be highly criminal towards our King & Country, but also leave an ev erlasting Stain on the present Age, if We meanly shake off the Task of preventing it from Ourselves & leave it for Posterity to struggle with as they can.” Captain Harvey’s Speech. “I should not rise to trouble You this Day, could I reconcile to my own breast the giving a silent Vote on a Question upon which de pends not only the Existence of this Country but the Happiness of Millions. If conciliatory Measures shall fail, this Country has no Al ternative left, but to make use of that power they enjoy, under Heav en, for the protection of the whole Empire; 8c to shew the Americans that as our Ancestors deluged this Country with their Blood, to gain this Constitution for Us, We like Men, in Defence of faction at Home & Rebellion abroad, are determined, in glorious Emulation of their Example to transmit it perfect & unimpair’d to Posterity or perish in the Attempt.” Sir Wm. Mayne’s Speech. “Whether the Americans will accede to this (meaning his Motion 20th of February) I know not. If they reject it, their Blood must be on their own Heads.” Ld. North’s Speech. “The Question lies within a very narrow Compass. It is simply whether We shall abandon our Claims and at once give up every Advantage arising both from the Sovereignty & the Commerce; or whether to ensure both We shall resort to the Measures indispensably necessary on such an occasion.” id. “Life itself is not worth keeping in a State of Uncertainty & Fear. Things are now brought to a Crisis. The Conflict must be borne, & I hope will never end, but in relinquishing our Connection with Ameri ca, or fixing them on a sure & lasting Basis.” Sir Wm. Meredith’s Speech. Yet he is against the Taxation of America. “If the Colonies reject just Conditions, they must be reduced to unconditional Obedience.” id. [i.e. Ld North’s Speech]. Even Governor Pownall so long advocating our Cause now ap proves of the Ministerial Violence. A great Number of other Speak ers. It is evident that these Persons spoke not only their own Senti ments but those of the whole House. A proof of this &[...] of a most memorable Nature. A 9th Reason. 3 When Lord North made his Motion on 20 Febru ary, the whole Body of Court Troops in the House were likely to de sert him—only because his proposal had something like the Appear ance of a conciliatory Measure, till Sir George Elliot rose 8c “desired them not to divide among themselves”—8c afforded Mr. Dunning an opportunity of exercising his severest Wit upon him. 4 10. The Measures of Administration are popular at Home. A


[Page 416]
374 May 23, 1775 great Number of indisputable Evidences to this proposition now in Town from Friends to America. Almost the whole landed Interest is against Us—-the whole Hosts of persons in Office, with their immense Connections composing the vast Mass of People breathed upon 8c tainted by Ministerial Influence—almost the whole trading & manufac turing parts of the Nation not intimately connected with America—& very many of those who are thus connected. I can procure clear Evidence of these Facts. Who then are on our side? The Dissenters —parts of the Traders & Manufacturers immediately concerned in our Commerce—and the small Band of independent virtuous Spirits in the Kingdom. Besides the very Motion which appears so contemptible to us 8cc was not calculated merely for the Mind of America. It had 2 Objects. To divide [....] 5 The other was To render the Measures of Ad ministration still more popular in that Kingdom by holding up to the People there the Appearance of Humanity, Condescension, Forbear ance & I know not what gentle, generous Virtues—in descending from the dignified Preeminence of the Supreme Imperial State—& offering us a Plan of Reconciliation—Sc a Plan formed on the most equitable Principles of bringing the rich & luxurious Colonists to bear an equal share with the People of Great Britain of the heavy 8c op pressive Burthens under which the latter labour 8c ease them at least of one half of their Loads, or as the Motion artfully expresses it— “contributing their proportion to the Common Defense." A motion so reasonable says Mr. Jenkinson “that if the Americans reject it, it leaves them without Excuse in the Eyes of all Mankind.” 6 And in Case this mild system of Negotiation, Reconciliation 8c Benignity is rejected by the Colonies, to kindle the People of Great Britain into tenfold Rage against Us. This system is level to the understanding of every Porter 8c Chairman, and who knows here, but this may be the Effect of this Maneuvre? Who knows, but this may be the Effect of their receiving Intelligence of the unhappy Hostages in Massachus- sets Bay—it may terrify but it may also irritate. General Gage has procured Depositions to prove our brave Brethren fired first. This Circumstance, contemptible as it is, 8cc, may cause them to be re garded as Aggressors. They may be provoked at such a Dishonor to their Arms returned from despised America 8c may be the more animated to restore their Lustre by revenging the Disgrace. No person here knows with Cer tainty how these several Events may operate on the Minds of a high spirited People—drunk with Success. The Reliance of Administra tion on N.Y. has led them into a great Error. In Policy they should have sent a greater Force. They may correct their Error. The most stupid Pilots will shun the Shoals upon which they have once been aground. They will know they have nothing now but their own


[Page 417]
May 23, 1775 375 strength to trust to. Will so great an Empire give up such a Cause in- gloriously? The whole Band of Ministers will know that nothing but the utmost vigor & Dispatch can save them. They will remember that the last glorious War began with British Defeat—& this of Colonel Smith will be called a Trifle in Comparison with that Misfortune. 7 We have been once already deceived in our Calculations of the Ef fects to be produced by Our Firmness. The Impression made at Home by the Magnanimity of the late Congress was not so great as there was Reason to apprehend. The only Rescript We have received to our humble Petition to our Sovereign was written in Blood. Yet notwithstanding all these Reasons, I am inclined to think that the Unanimity & Firmness of these Colonies will within a 12 month dethrone the Ministry. Yet I fear there is more of Hope than Reason in that Expectation. One Thing I am sure of—that no Man here is sure—that our Firmness & Unanimity let it be ever so extraordinary, will procure Us immediate Relief of our Grievances by a change of Ministry or of ministerial Meas ures. It is impolitic then in the utmost Degree to depend on the realizing an Event, which is indisputably uncertain. Our Firmness & Unanimity may conduct Us into the Miseries of War or the Blessings of Peace. We have no Prophet among us who can predict which part of the alternative will take Place. In this Situation our Affairs will stand if We only pre pare vigorously for War. There is another Mode We may pursue. 2dly. We may prepare as has been mentioned and also petition. There is great Reason to believe that a Petition may be so framed as to be more likely to open a Way to our Relief than the former. That dwelt on our Rights—several of which are denied at Home. Those Rights have therein been fully & recently set forth & claimed. A Repetition is needless. A Petition now may proceed on the single unexceptionable Ground of praying Relief from our Fears &: Jealousies occasioned by the System of Colonial Administration adopted since the Conclusion of the late War. To this prayer may be added Expression of Loyalty to the King—Attachment to his person, Family & Government— Love to our Parent State—our Readiness & Willingness at all Times with our Lives &: Fortunes to support, maintain &: defend the Inter ests of his Majesty & our Mother Country by every Effort that can be reasonably expected from the most faithful Subjects &: the most affectionate Colonists that for this purpose We shall always be dis posed cheerfully to contribute to the Common Defence as the public Exigencies may require and our Circumstances will permit, & ear nestly beseech that by doing Justice to the Sincerity of these profes sions in believing them to be as they are most strictly true; we may be restored by the abolishing our apprehensions to the happy & fer-


[Page 418]
376 May 23, 1775 vently wished for Opportunity of expressing in the most acceptable Manner our unfeigned Devotion to his Majesty 8c the State from which We derive our Origin. I have very particular Reasons to believe it will produce good Ef fects. But still it will be uncertain how far such a Petition may be sat isfactory. If it produces no favourable Effect; the same Events must happen as if We had only prepared for War. And while Great Britain is silent from Notions of Dignity 8c America from Notions of Firm ness each rushes on blind with their respective Passions to the De struction of the other. Is there a Necessity for this Mode of Conduct that may lead Us into an useless Effusion of Blood? Or can any thing less than abso lute Necessity justify such a Conduct in the Sight of the Creator not only of Us but of our Enemies? While We are expecting Concessions from them, 8c they are ex pecting Concessions from Us—our Trade stagnates—our Merchants 8c Citizens, our helpless Women Sc Children 8c aged are reduced to Distress—some to poverty—8c every Species of Wretchedness—our best & dearest Blood is sluicing from our Veins—Sc all the Variegated Miseries Sc Horrors of War are advancing 8c surrounding Us—Sc offers to us not even the Choice of Calamities—shocking as such a Choice might be—but close compacted Complication of them—circularly complete Sc utterly inevitable. 3dly. We may prepare, petition, 8c send Agents to treat of an Accom modation. In order to determine whether this is not the proper Time to treat, I would beg Leave to call the Attention of Gentlemen to 3 Points re lating immediately to ourselves—Sc to 3 other Points relating to Great Britain. As to the 3 for America. 1st. We are now successful in the first Engagement. 2. We are united from one End of the Continent to the other.We are vigorously preparing for Resistance—If not fully prepared already. 3. Common Sense 8c soundness declare, that We ought therefore to treat if no other Reason offered. Certain it is that Delay is as much our Ally as Winter was the Ally of the King of Prussia in the late War. It is almost universally so in defensive Wars. This is a defensive War on our Part. Three Points immediately relating to Great Britain to be regarded. 1. Changes or Accidents in the Court or Kingdom. 2. Al terations in the Affairs of Europe. 3. Our Commercial Opposition should be allowed Time to be felt. Blisters applied to extract Humours from gross diseased Bodies sometimes prevent the Necessity of bleeding. But after applying Blis ters, a prudent Physician will certainly strive to avoid bleeding if there is any Danger in the Operation untill the Blisters have been al lowed Time to draw—8c during that Interval he will endeavour to keep the Patient in as calm a Temper as may be possible.


[Page 419]
May 23, 1775 377 There are some other Considerations that deserve the Attention of Gentlemen. We have not yet tasted deeply of that bitter Cup called the Fortunes of War. A bloody Battle lost—The peculiar Distress of the brave Defenders of American Liberties in the Massachusetts Bay —The Multitude thrown out of Employ by the Loss of their Fisher ies & the stoppage of their other Trade—Disease breaking out among their Troops unaccustomed to the Confinement of an Encampment —Divisions in any one province which might interrupt provisions or Relief going to their Aid by Land—the Enemies superiority forbid ding it by Sea—The Difficulties from Distance if no other Objections —The Danger of Insurrection by Negroes in Southern Colonies—In cursions of Canadians & Indians upon the Northern Colonies—Inci dental Proposals to disunite Us—false Hopes—selfish Designs—Giv ing up the Point of Taxation or some other partial Concession that might be greedily catched at by a peaceable People jaded out with the tedium of Civil Discords—may all operate hereafter to our Dis advantage. Great Britain lately had the golden Opportunity in her own Hands. Had any mighty spirit presided over her Colonies, he would have sent over 20,000 Men & a formidable naval Armament to Bos ton. The bravest Man in this Assembly would have then felt his seat not quite so easy as it is now. Then thus armed He should have pre pared Terms fit for Freemen to offer & for Freemen to receive. She missed the lucky Moments—Thanks be to the Traytors, so far meri torious even in their Guilt, who persuaded her We were a divided People & she is sending over 3 Generals &: 3 thousand Men to con quer this Continent. She has lost a Battle—& all America is more united & more deter mined beyond all Comparison than We were during the Course of the last Winter. Now the Turn is in our Favor. Let us improve it. I suppose no Gentleman will deny, that one of these Events will take place, if the War continues. Either it will be on our Part success ful, or unsuccessful. If unsuccessful We may pretty well guess the Consequences. I leave them to every Gentleman’s Guess. But sup pose We have every Success our warmest Wishes & Resentments could prompt us to desire—over whom shall We triumph? Our Fath ers—From whom We derive our Lives—& every Blessing of our Lives. We know the Value of their protection against the Powers of Europe. Our Fathers are high spirited. An ill directed Courage may so far exhaust her strength already tottering under an enormous Bur then of Debt, as to render her an unequal Match for her old Ene mies. I must confess my greatest Fear for America in this Contest is least she should receive the deepest Wounds thro the sides of Great Britain. For whatever may be the Events of this Contest, We must at last return to the Place from which We set off. The Ship of Our


[Page 424]
382 May 23, 1775 Continent has been put since that Petition was sent Home, gives Us a Right to ask for more than We then asked. We ought to secure to our Countrymen by profiting of their noble spirit now roused among them —by gaining a fixed Establishment of some other Points. I will men tion only two—The Independence of our Judges by their holding their Commissions during Good Behaviour and a permanent &: unal terable Settlement of the most important parts of our Commerce—to be confirmed by Statutes 8c Acts of our Assemblies. Acknowledging Right of Regulation will lead to this Establishment. I mean not to de part absolutely from the Ground taken by the late Congress but to quit it gradually by Treaty. I move, that it be resolved— 8 MS (PHi) . In the hand of John Dickinson. 1 This MS is one of several surviving documents pertaining to Dickinson's attempts during the third week of May to marshall support for his plan to initiate negotiations with Great Britain. These notes undoubtedly relate to debates in the committee of the whole that took place shortly before the committee reported out the resolutions adopted by Congress on May 25 and 26. Silas Deane’s record of the debates in the committee strongly suggest that Dickinson delivered these remarks on the 23d or 24th. See Deane’s Diary, May 23 and 24, 1775. Dickinson’s notes, written in a small hand and full of interlineations and crowded marginalia, present great difficulties in preparing a printed text, and since Dickinson repeatedly used abbreviations representing a form of personal short hand, no attempt has been made here to indicate the expansion of abbreviations. It has been possible, nevertheless, to reconstruct nearly the entire document, and this printed text undoubtedly reflects the views Dickinson expressed at this time. An earlier draft of these notes bears the label: “Arguments in Congress in Favour of a Reconciliation & sending over persons to lay the Colonies at the Feet of his Majesty & prayfing] for Peace.” The resolves Dickinson offered at the conclusion of the speech survive in another, greatly expanded version and have been printed as a separate entry. Little is known about the background of the debate in which Dickinson delivered these remarks. A report that reached London early in July suggests that Dickinson had previously proposed linking negotiations to an offer of an annual grant to the crown, but that the idea met a hostile reception. In any event, if Dickinson did propose such a subsidy he did not long advocate it, for there is no mention of the topic in his surviving notes, the comments of other delegates, or the resolutions he offered. The account printed in London obviously became garbled in transmission, for certainly the mention of Otis is erroneous, but it is possible that Dickinson could have delivered a lengthy speech on this topic before May 18. It is interesting to note that on this date the delegates considered the capture of Ticonderoga (news of which reached Philadelphia the night of May 17) , an event that substantially altered the circumstances confronting Congress. Thus it is not unlike ly that if Dickinson had suggested an annual grant before the 18th, the proposal encountered considerable criticism, and subsequent events led him to drop the idea. The full text of the London Chronicle report, whose accuracy and prove nance must remain conjectural, was printed as follows: “By letters from New York there is an account of the proceedings of the Congress at Philadelphia, as low down as the 18th of May; by which it appears, that from what had transpired of their proceedings, they were very far from being unanimous; that Mr. Dickenson had, in a most elaborate speech of two hours long, proposed a plan of reconcilia-


[Page 426]
384 May 23, 1775 in the Conclusion be destructive to both Countries, that for the pur pose of contributing by all the Means in our Power to the Promotion and Completion of this most desirable Accommodation We will present an humble & dutiful Petition to his Majesty, pray ing Relief from our Fears and Jealousies occasioned by the System of Colonial Administration adopted since the Conclusion of the late War—expressing our Loyalty to the King—our Attachment to his person, Family and Government—our Love to our Parent State— our Desire to preserve our usual Connection with her—our Readi ness & Willingness at all Times with our Lives 8c Fortunes to support maintain 8c defend the Interests & Rights of his Majesty and of that State by every Effort that can be reasonably expected from the most faithful Subjects & the most affectionate Colonists—that for effect ing these purposes we shall ever be cheerfully dispos’d to contribute to the Common Defence by Aids of Money, and also of Men, as the public Exegencies and our Circumstances will permit. Earnestly be seeching his Majesty, that Justice may be done to [t/te] Sincerity of these professions by believing them to be as We solemnly declare them to be, strictly true, that so the Relief for which We supplicate being afforded us by the Wisdom 8c Goodness of his Majesty & Par liament We may be restored to the happy and ardently wished for Opportunity of demonstrating, as we are resolved with one Mind to do, in the [most] acceptable Manner, our Gratitude for the attention given to our prayers, and our [. . .] Majesty & that beloved Coun try from [. . .] rejoice & glory that we derive our Origin. 3. That we will send Home part of our Body in behalf of them selves 8c the other Petitioners to present the said Petition 8c to treat of an Accommodation. That for this purpose, we will give Instructions to our said Agents, suited as nearly as may be to every possible State of Affairs that may exist on their Arrival in England, or may after wards happen there, containing full & most exact Directions how they are to conduct themselves in every Part of their Behaviour, and what Concessions and what Demands they are to make in every Event favorable or unfavorable that shall occurr, reserving to our selves an Exemption from all Obligation upon Ourselves or our Con stituents by any Act of our said Agents untill the same shall be rati fied by this Body. 4. That after We have resolv’d and agreed upon the said Demands 8c Concessions, and have thereby fully settled the Conditions of Ac commodation, the obtaining of which we are determined to persevere in our Opposition to the Measures of the British Ministry, at all Haz ards, we will associate and confederate with one another in our own Names 8c in the Name 8c on the behalf of our respective Constituents, in the most solemn Manner, by the Ties of Honour, Virtue, & the Wellfare of our Country, to continue our said opposition in the Man-


[Page 427]
May 23, 1775 385 ner that shall be directed by this Congress and by any succeeding Congress to be appointed by the Inhabitants of the Colonies repre sented in this Congress, by our most Strenuous efforts & utmost vig our, untill we obtain such Redress of the Grievances of these Colo nies, which this Congress shall determine as aforesaid to insist on. That we will furnish in due Time our respective Quotas of Men & Money, for the Service and during the Time, to be agreed on, and that We or our respective Colonies shall not & will not accommodate or treat of an Accommodation but jointly with all the Colonies repre sented in this Congress. 5. That We will write a Letter to General Gage, informing him that we are making the most vigorous preparations for Resistance against the British Forces & the Defence and Preservation of our Lives 8c Liberties, that the Colonies represented in this Congress have entered into a solemn association 8c Confederacy, to carry on their Opposition to the Measures of the British Ministry, at all Hazards, and never to treat of an Accommodation unless it be jointly. That we have a strong Hope founded on an humble Confidence in the protect ing Goodness of Divine Providence, and the Means which he has graciously been pleased to put into our Hands, of a successful Issue to our just Exertions, should We be reduced to the Necessity of em ploying them, yet at the same Time We most earnesly desire, that a Period may be put to this unhappy Dispute. That for this purpose, We intend to present an humble 8c dutiful Petition to his Majesty, 8c to send over some Members of this Congress with proposals of Ac commodation which, we hope, will bring this Contest to an End, 8c restore the former Harmony between the Mother Country 8c these Colonies. That We judge it proper to give him this Information, that if he can think it consistent with the Orders he has receiv’d from Ad ministration, to forbear further Hostilities against the Inhabitants of these Colonies or any of them, and to remove the Apprehensions of such Hostilities, untill an answer can be receiv’d to our Answer 8c proposals, the farther Effusion of British Blood by British Hands may be stopt—8c mutual Resentments be no more heighten’d by mu tual sufferings. That he will favour Us with an Answer to this Letter as soon as possible—and if he does not chuse to return an answer, that we will consider this Silence [as a] Refusal to forbear Hostilities as is above mentioned. 6. That we will approve of the Resistance that has been made 8c is now making in the Colony of the Massachusetts Bay against the Bri tish Forces, and that We with our Lives 8c Fortunes support them therein. 7. That the Delegates of the Colony of the Massachusetts Bay be requested to procure 8c give to this Congress Information of the Names and Places of Abode while living of the Officers 8c Men who


[Page 430]
388 May 23, 1775 Regulation of foreign Trade. Briefly—Time will settle this Matter fully in our Favor. Let us only keep quiet for 40 or 50 Years. 4[thl]y. If they can regulate, They can legislate. Answer, the [. . .] essential to internal [. . .] to external Acts. It formerly was in the Crown in England [. . .] no Freedom without it. [. . .] Power vested in Crown in England. Declarations of Peace and War, Leagues, Treaties. Our Legislative consent internally, Not externally. Where shall the Right lodge? It must lodge somewhere. What is Con sent? In Congress or Assemblies? Difference of opinion. They have the Power, We cant take it away. A confirmation of a Right. Regula tion Exclusive. Tax internal or external. Regarding Us as much a [. . .] subjecting us to Reproaches. No Danger our Trade willing it self in process of Time by our Power & the Insults of Great Britain. The more & more every Day dependent on our Commerce, our Re monstrances will be regarded more & more. Lord Chathams. I fear He insists on it. [. . .] Recognition of this Power in every Colony. It has had fatal Effects. N. York has divided on that Point & every Colony I believe to the Southward of that province will acknowledge it if ever it comes before them. The acknowledgment now the Ought of Parliament & essential to shew to our Friends. Confirmation of Acts of Navigation —by Acts of Assembly. If denied it opens a bad omen to our Union & Success. I have the like Complaint to make on the Arguments I offered concerning a Treaty. Gentlemen have confined themselves singly to this Question, Whether it would procure Us Redress of our Griev ances. That is not the Ground on which I offered it to Consideration. I say—1st. It may open a Channel to Accommodation. 2[nd]ly. If it does not procure an Accommodation &: a Redress of Grievances, Yet it will be attended with such other Advantages that it would be an inexcusable Want of Policy to omit it—(1) Encreasing our Friends in England (2) confirming our People here. 3[rd]ly. It may prevent Reinforcements coming over. 4[th]ly. It may prevent Effusion of Blood. 5. It will enable Us to be better prepared. 6. It will allow Time for our Commercial opposition to work its Effects. 7. It will give us an opportunity to consult with Ld. Chatham &: our Friends in general in England to form Agreements with them [. . .] act in Concert with [them?], stipulating strenuously to support them, pave the way to some bold Steps on the other side of the Atlantic that may be decisive. A Point of vast Magnitude. As to Letter to General Gage, it will be attended with the happiest Effects, let him answer it as he will. If he agrees to stop Hostilities till an Answer comes, nothing can be done this summer & all the Time We are preparing & exercising, &c. If he refuses—the Question of defense & offense is at End. Every American & every Englishman


[Page 431]
May 23, 1775 389 John Dickinson


[Page 435]
May 23, 1775 393 James Duane


[Page 438]
396 May 23, 1775 delphia: Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849), p. 521. 1 Humphry Marshall (1722-1801), Pennsylvania botanist, corresponded with Franklin chiefly on matters of scientific interest. DAB; and Darlington, Memorials, pp. 485-93, 515-23. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell Dear Sir: Philadelphia, 23d May, 1775. I know your anxiety to be informed what is doing in Congress, and wish I was at liberty to gratify it, but the secrecy enjoined the mem bers puts it out of my power to give you any information worth your attention. You will see by the papers which I send to Mr. Smith, the advice that is given to the people of New York relative to their city; to those papers I must beg leave to refer you for news; you will find by them the New Yorkers have taken an active share in the opposi tion; a tory dare not show his head amongst them; the cry of liberty is irresistible in most of the colonies; a military spirit has seized all orders of people; this city is full of armed men; they have now 28 companies of foot and two of horse; each company consists of 68 men including officers; they are called out twice every day to learn the military discipline, and I can assure you some of the companies perform it equal to any regular troops. Capt. Gillis makes so short a stay here that I fear I shall not have it in my power to send any shoes by him. I have urged the shoe makers to get them done, but they had so many orders not completed when I applied, that I fear the ladies and yourself must wait till the next opportunity for them. I received the shell per Capt. Gillis, and shall get it made into a box for Miss Penny as soon as possible. The ladies have always my best wishes, make my compliments acceptable to them. I have wrote to Mr. Johnston, so has Mr. Hooper; if he is not at home when Gillis arrives, I desire you will open our letters to him, and read the contents before you send them. I am, very respectfully, dear sir, Your obliged and very humble servant, Joseph Hewes [P.S.] I beg you will excuse haste. I now trespass on Congress hours. MS not found; reprinted from Griffith J. McRee, Life and Correspondence of James Iredell, One of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, 2 vols. (New York: D. Appleton and Co., 1857-58) , 1:254-55. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philadelphia 23d May 1775 I wrote to you 1 some days ago by a Mr. Reed who said he should


[Page 439]
May 23, 1775 397 pass thro’ Edenton, but he went off before I had finished my Letter. I sent it by a vessel to Currituck. We have done very little in Con gress, the Secrecy injoyned the Members puts it out of my power to communicate any thing worth your attention. The Congress had en tered into a Resolve that no Vessel shall be suffered to Load for Newfoundland, St Johns, Nova Scotia, or the British Fishery on any of the Coasts of America, to take place immediately, thereby to pre vent the British Fishery from being supplied with Provisions 8c Stores. It was moved to amend this resolve by prohibiting all impor tation from these places to take place instantly, to this it was objected and very Justly too, that many persons in these places were indebted to the other Colonies and that such a resolve would prevent them from sending their Effects to this 8c other of our ports, and would in jure ourselves. So the whole matter was put of[f] for some days in order to debate the latter part of the resolve, the first part being agreed to Unanimously, this prevents me from sending the resolve to the Edenton and Chowan Committee. Advice has been given to the People of New York, this you will see in the papers which I have sent to Mr. Smith. 2 The New Yorkers have stepped forward and tak en an Active share on the opposition, not a Tory to be seen amongst them, all ranks of People are embarked in the Common cause deter mined to oppose ministerial Vengeance. A military spirit has dif fused itself in an extraordinary manner thro’ this Province, it is said a Majority of the Quakers have taken up Arms certain it is that many in this City have done it, some of which are Officers and appear in Uniform. This strong current of opposition to ministerial measures in some instances bordering on licentiousness calls for the most prudent and temperate deliberations of the Congress. To bear and forebear is a precept of Morality calculated exactly for these times and as we must draw the Sword I hope Necessity, not resentment will influence our measures. It is highly necessary that North Carolina should be puting her self in a State of defence, a Company of Militia ought to be formed in each County and Trained frequently. You prevailed on Hooper and my self to be elected delegates to attend the Congress, you have been instrumental in puting the halter about our Necks, if we should be obliged to promise too much for our Province we shall want your abilities and influence to carry us through. In the interim you ought, I think, to Exert yourself in geting the Province put in a state of defence, encourage the People to Associate in Companies for that purpose and to make themselves acquainted with Military dis cipline, this you may do without appearing active in it yourself. Hooper calls to me from the next room and says he is writing a long Letter to you, he is much better qualified to give you information than I am therefore I beg leave to refer you to him for a further ac count of politicks.


[Page 440]
398 May 23, 1775 When you have read our Letters 8c the Newspapers I believe you will think it unnecessary to give any Orders for Goods, no person here thinks of it at present, if any alteration should happen I will give you the earliest account I possibly can of it. I have sent you all the Articles you mention in your letter of the 2d except [Stares Porter?] none of which can now be had. My best Compliments to your Family. Adieu, and believe that I am with great Sincerity, Dr Sir, Your obliged huml Sert Joseph Hewes RC (CSmH) . 'This letter is unaddressed, but that Hewes intended it for Samuel John ston (1733-1816) can be deduced from his comment that William Hooper was in “the next room and says he is writing a long letter to you,” as Hooper did indeed do this day. Johnston, a lawyer, assemblyman, governor, and delegate to Congress, 1780-82, was one of the most influential leaders in the North Carolina revolution ary movement. Bio. Dir. Cong.; and DAB. ’ Congress’ resolve of May 15, urging New Yorkers to remain on the defensive for as long as possible after the arrival of British regulars in their province, was printed in Dunlap's Pennsylvania Packet, or the General Advertiser on the 22d. William Hooper to Samuel Johnston Dear Johnston Philadelphia May 23 1775 The close attention which I am compelled to pay to the business of the congress scarce gives me an opportunity to pay my duty to my friends. As we meet at 9 oClock in the morning and set till 4 in the Afternoon you will readily conceive that the little leisure we have is not sufficient for the common functions of life 8c exercise to keep us in health. While I am writing I encroach upon congress hours, 8c if I could furnish you with any thing entertaining it might be some apolo gy for the transgression, but the strict secrecy which is enjoined upon the members leaves us at large to communicate nothing worthy atten tion, that happens within the Walls of the State House. Let it suffice that the most perfect harmony subsists among the Members, the Character of the New Yorkers is no longer suspicious, they take a forward and an active share in the Opposition, all ranks of people amongst them are embarked in the common cause and are sacredly resolved to preserve the Cargoe or perish with the ship. The few Tories amongst them are silent, the cry of liberty is irre sistible. The Clergy who are never happy but when dabbling in fac tion have met a just reward for their misguided Zeal 8c have been compelled, (6 of them) to seek protection on board a Kings Ship. Rivington follows their fortunes, & his printing Shop which forged Calumny and sedition for the whole Continent is shut up. New York must now become the seat of War, the Taking of Ticonderoga will


[Page 447]
May 24, 1775 405 Province in such Opposition and their necessary defence against all future Attempts of the like nature. That for this purpose as well as to guard against all Invasions or Insurrections which may be meditated or attempted in other Colo nies, The Number of Men following ought to be raised and em bodied in the Sevl. Colonies & Provinces that is to say in New Hampshire in the Massachusets Bay in Rhode Island and Providence Plantation in Connecticut in New York in New Jersey in Pensa. in the three Counties on Delaware in Maryland in Virginia in North Carolina in So. Carolina 8c [in the] Parish of St. Johns in Georgia to be emploied, as occasion may require, either for the [. . .] defence and security of the Colony wherein they are raised, as for the Assistance of any other part [of] America where their Services may be wanting. Besides which the Militia throughout the Whole ought to be provided with Arms and Amunition 8c kept in con stant training 8c exercise in the best manner. Resolved, That for raising, Arming 8c Maintaining the Men so to be embodied, a sum of money ought to be raised by a Continental contribution in the following Proportione, that is to say, By New Hamp. £ By the Massachusets Bay £ By Rhode Island and Providence Plantation £ By Connecticut £ By New York £ By New Jersey £ By Pennsylvania £ By the Counties on Delaware £ By Maryland £ By Virginia £ By North Carolina By South Carolina £ and by the Parish of St. Johns in Georgia £ And in Case money cannot be borrowed immediately in any Colo ny to answer their Quota as aforesaid, such Colony to Issue notes of credit for the Redemption of which [the Public Fai] th of such Colo ny shall be pledged by their Provincial Convention, and in the sd. [Parish] of St. Johns such Security given as shall be approved of by [ ] 2 —the Redemption to be made by annual Proportions of the sum to be redeemed in each Province, so as to Call in 8c sink the whole within years after the Restoration of Peace between Great Britn. 8c the Colonies and the Respective Legislatures of the latter shall have it their power to provide for such Redemptn. in a Constitutional way: And it ought to be earnestly recommended to every freind of American liberty to receive such notes in all pay ments &: use their best endeavours to give them Credit 8c assist their Genl. Currency throughout the Continent. The Genl, form to be as follows— “The Public Faith of the Colony of Virginia is hereby Pledged for the Redemption of this Bill (which is to pass for the sum of ten shill ings) by the Payment of its amount in gold at per Ounce, in


[Page 457]
May 28, 1775 415 of your departure for the Manour. By a Line from Brother Robert I learn that you arrived safe in a fine passage of only one day. I now long much to hear of your and my dear Children’s Health which will make me easy; for I thank God I am myself as well, and as free from my late disorder, as if I never had been attacked, and considering the Business I am sent upon in tolerable Spirits, being quite at home with Mr and Sister Patterson who treat me with great Regard And Atten tion. I hope our Stay here will not be very long, tho’ we have not gone very far in Business as it takes time to hear the different Views and Sentiments of the members, and to produce one way of thinking, be fore essential points can be determined. Every body here, who is capable, is learning military discipline, not excluding the young Quakers of whom there are several Compa nies. Gentlemen of the greatest Fortune and Distinction have accept ed the Command of the Regiments Mr Dickinson and Mr Cadwal- lader being of the number. I wish their Example may have Influence in our province. You know my Opinion that every Province will here after be respectable only in proportion to their knowledge in Discip line and their Resolution in Spirit. I have no news to write to you. It is still uncertain whether any Troops will come to New York. If there should a sufficient Force will be raised to prevent this doing us any Injury. Kiss my dear Children for me. Pay my dutiful regards to our par ents and friends and believe me to be ever My dearest Polly Your most faithful 8c most affectionate Husband Jas Duane RC (NHi). Richard Henry Lee to Gouverneur Morris Dr. Sir, Philadelphia 28 May [17] 75 The friends of virtuous liberty in New York have certainly effect ed a most important change in the political system of that flourishing City. I congratulate you Sir and your worthy Associates in this happy revolution. It is most certain that a profligate Ministry have greatly relied on the assistance of your fine fertile province for carrying into execution their cruel System. A System by which existing millions, and Millions yet unborn are to be plunged into the abyss of Slavery, and of consequence deprived of every glorious distinction that marks the Man from the Brute. But happily for the cause of humanity, the Colonies are now united, and may bid defiance to Tyranny and its in famous Abettors. You will see that Mr. Rivingtons case is involved in all of a similar [nature?] which are to be determined on by the


[Page 458]
416 May 28, 1775 Colony Conventions where the offence is committed. 1 I am sorry, for the honor of human Nature, that this Man should have so prosti tuted himself, in support of a cause the most detestable that ever dis graced Mankind. But he repents and should be forgiven. It is not yet too late to exert his powers in defence of the liberty and just rights of a much injured Country. I wish you happy Sir and assure You that I am, with singular esteem, Sir your friend and Countryman Richd Hen Lee FC (PPAmP) . 1 The New York City Committee of Observation had requested that Congress consider the case against James Rivington for publication of divisive statements in his newspaper, and Morris had urged Lee to support a favorable ruling for Rivington. However, as Lee implies, Congress had already decided that all cases involving violations of the association should be determined by the appropriate provincial conventions. See the resolve of May 27, 1775, JCC, 2:67. Documents concerning Rivington’s case are printed in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:726, 836-37, 899-900. John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Phyladelphia May 29. 1775 Our amiable Friend Hancock, who by the Way is our President, is to send his Servant, tomorrow for Cambridge. I am to send a few Lines by him. If his Man should come to you to deliver this Letter, treat him very kindly, because he is a kind, humane, clever Fellow. My Friend Joseph Bass, very cleverly caught the Small Pox, in two days after we arrived here, by Inoculation and has walked about the streets, every day since, and has got quite over it and quite well. He had about a Dozen Pimples upon the whole. Let his Father and Friends know this. We are distressed here for Want of Intelligence and Information from you and from Boston, Cambridge &c. &c. &c. We have no regu lar Advices. I received one kind Letter from you, in one from Coll. Warren. An excellent Letter, I had from him. It has done him great Honour, and me much good. My Duty and Love to all. I have had miserable Health and blind Eyes almost ever since I left you, but, I found Dr. Young here, who after scolding at me, quantum sufficit for not taking his Advice, has pill’d and electuary’d me into pretty good Order. My Eyes are better, my Head is better, and so are my Spirits. Private. 1 The Congress will support the Massachusetts. There is a good Spirit here. But We have an amazing Field of Business, before us. When I shall have the Joy of Meeting you and our little ones, I know not.


[Page 459]
May 29, 1775 417 The military Spirit which runs through the Continent is truly amazing. This City turns out 2000 Men every day. Mr. Dickinson is a Coll. Mr. Reed a Lt. Coll. Mr. Mifflin a Major. He ought to have been a Genl, for he has been the animating Soul of the whole. Coll. Washington appears at Congress in his Uniform and, by his great Experience and Abilities in military Matters, is of much service to Us. Oh that I was a Soldier! I will be. I am reading military Books. Every Body must and will, and shall be a soldier. John Adams RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:207-8. 1 Appears in the margin in MS. John Adams to Joseph Palmer Dr Sir Phyladelphia May 29. 1775 We have had but little Intelligence from Cambridge or any Part of Massachusetts since I left it. Your Difficulties press upon you So fast, as to take up all your Time I Suppose—so do ours. I believe no Assembly ever had more extensive and complicated objects before them than our Congress. We shall be united. But I can Say no more. Mr. Aquilla Hall and Mr Josias Carvill Hall the Bearers of this will inform you of the state of the Colonies. They are two young mil itary adventurers—Volunteers, joining the Army in the Massachu setts, to gain Experience & skill. They are of one of the first Families in Maryland and have independent Fortunes. Their Letters will make Impressions on the Southern Colonies. It is of Importance that they be treated with Respect. I beg you would introduce them to our Friends, &c &c. My Respects to your Family & to all Friends. News of every Kind will be told you by the Bearers. I am yr Friend John Adams RC (CSmH) . Addressed: “To Coll Joseph Palmer, Braintree, to be found at Watertown or Cambridge probably, favd. by Mr Hall.’’ John Adams to John Winthrop Dr Sir Phyladelphia May 29. 1775 The Bearers of this are two young Gentlemen from Maryland. Aquilla Hall and Josias Carvill Hall, both of one of the best Families in Maryland, and both of independent Fortunes. Their Errand to


[Page 460]
418 May 29, 1775 Cambridge is to join our Army as Voluntiers, against the Enemies of their Country in order to gain Experience, in the Art of War, in which they have already made good Proficiency. As it is of importance that they should be treated with Politeness and Respect, I have taken the Freedom to give them this Letter— and to beg the favour of you to shew them Harvard Coiledge. 1 The Congress, Sir, have great Objects before them in [deed]. All is Secret but what you will see in the News Papers. If the Ministry, upon receiving Intelligence of the Battle of Lexington, dont receed all Ceremony will be over. As at present We shall be fully United and I hope shall do well. My respectfull Compliments to all Friends. News of every Kind will be told you by the Bearers. Yr huml Sevt John Adams [P.S.] We Suffer excessively for Want of Letters and Intelligence from Cambridge. I must beg you would do me the Honor to write me, and desire all our Friends to do the same. RC (MHi). 1 John Winthrop (1714-79), scientist and political ally of John Adams, was Hollis Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy at Harvard College. DAB; and Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 9:240-64. Silas Deane’s Diary [May 29, 1775] Monday—Mr. Douglass came in in the Morning. 1 At Congress &c Sec. The Lettr. to Canada read in Congress—and pass’d. 2 MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 92. 1 Benjamin Douglas (1739-75), New Haven lawyer and Deane’s personal friend. Franklin B. Dexter, Biographical Sketches of the Graduates of Yale College, 6 vols. (New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1885-1919), 2:656-51. 2 This day Congress approved a new address to the people of Canada, one thousand copies of which it ordered translated into French for dissemination among the Canadians. JCC, 2:68-70; 3:507. Samuel Ward’s Diary [May 29, 1775] 29th. Approved the Letter to Canada, no Provisions &c to go to Nantucket unless from the Massachusetts. A Comee. appointed to


[Page 467]
May 1775 425 George Washington to George William Fairfax Philadelphia May 31st. 1775. Discusses matters pertaining to Fairfax’s business affairs. Mentions Lexington and Concord and en closes affidavits taken after the engagement. 1 “General Gage ac knowledges that the detachment under Lieutenant Colonel Smith was sent out to destroy private property; or, in other Words, to destroy a Magazine which self preservation obliged the Inhabitants to estab lish. And he also confesses, in effect at least, that his Men made a very precipitate retreat from Concord, notwithstanding the reinforce ment under Lord Piercy; the last of which may serve to convince Lord Sandwich (and others of the same sentiment) that the Ameri cans will fight for their Liberties and property, however pusilani- mous, in his Lordship’s Eye, they may appear in other respects. “From the best Accounts I have been able to collect of that affair; indeed from every one, I believe the fact, stripped of all colouring, to be plainly this, that if the retreat had not been as precipitate as it was (and God knows it could not well have been more so) the Ministeri al Troops must have surrendered, or been totally cut off, For they had not arrived in Charlestown (under cover of their Ships) half an hour, before a powerful body of Men from Marblehead and Salem were at their heels, and must, if they had happened to have been up one hour sooner, inevitably intercepted their retreat to Charlestown. Unhappy it is though to reflect, that a Brother’s Sword has been sheathed in a Brother’s breast, and that, the once happy and peaceful plains of America are either to be drenched with Blood, or Inhabited by Slaves. Sad alternative! But can a virtuous Man hesitate in his choice?” Tr (DLC) . Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 3:290-92. 1 Affidavits concerning the engagement at Lexington and Concord are printed in JCC, 2:28-44. Benjamin Franklin’s Proposed Resolutions [May ? 1775] Resolved, That the Thanks of this Congress, and of all America, and in our Opinion of Britain likewise, are due to the Right Honourable the Earl of Chatham; for his benevolent Endeavours to accommodate the present unhappy Differences, and particularly for the wise 8c excel lent Plan he offer’d in the House of Lords for that purpose, which was rejected by their Lordships without Consideration, and which if it had been received 8c attended to, might have been the Basis of a Reconciliation 8c lasting Agreement. 1


[Page 468]
426 May 1775 Resolved, That the Thanks of the Congress be presented likewise to Edmund Burke Esqr. and to David Hartley, Esq. for their generous Endea vours in the same common Service to the whole British Empire. Resolved, That the Thanks of this Congress be also presented to the Right Reverend The Bishop of St. Asaph, for his most excellent Sermon & Speech on American Affairs. 2 And to all the noble Lords 8c Com moners in both Houses of Parliament who have been pleased to es pouse the Cause of our much injured 8c oppressed Country. MS (PPAmP) . In the hand of Benjamin Franklin and endorsed by Franklin: “Resolutions of Thanks.” Although it is undated, it seems probable that Franklin drafted the document during the early weeks of the Second Congress. 1 Chatham’s plan “for settling the Troubles in America,” which he had devel oped in collaboration with Franklin, was introduced in the House of Lords on February 1, 1775, and rejected the same day by a vote of 61 to 32. Carl Van Doren, Benjamin Franklin (Garden City, N. Y.: Garden City Publishing Co., 1941), pp. 510-13; and Great Britain, The Parliamentary History of England from the Earli est Period to the Year 1803, 36 vols. (London: T. C. Hansard, 1806-20) , 18:198-216. An account of Chatham’s plan and its rejection was printed in Dunlap's Pennsyl vania Packet or, the General Advertiser, April 17, 1775. 3 See Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney, September 12, 1774, note 2. Fragment of a Speech in Congress [May? 1775] 1 The great God, Sir, who is the searcher of all things, will witness for me, that I have spoken to you, from the bottom and purity of my heart. We have heard that this is an arduous consideration. And surely, Sir, we have considered it earnestly. I may think of every gen tleman here, as I know of myself, that, for seven years past, this question has filled the day with anxious thought, and the night with care. The God to whom we appeal, must judge us. If the grievances, of which we complain, did not come upon us unprovoked and unex pected—when our hearts were filled wth respectful affection for our parent state, and with loyalty to our King—let slavery, the worst of human ills, be our portion. Nothing less than seven years of insulted complaints and reiterated wrongs, could have shaken such rooted sentiments. Unhappily for us, submission and slavery are the same; and we have only the melancholy alternative left—of ruin or resist ance. The last petition* of this Congress to the king, contained all that our unhappy situation could suggest. It represented our grievances; *In 1774, presented last Christmas. [Almon’s footnote.]


[Page 475]
June 2, 1775 433 correspondence with the enemy.” DAB; and Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 13:380-98. He came to Philadelphia as the emissary of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress car rying a May 16 letter requesting the advice of Congress on assuming “the reins of civil government” in Massachusetts and urging that the Congress take control of the army gathered around Boston. This letter is printed in JCC, 2:76-78. Adams’ recollection of Congress’ response to the letter appears in his autobiography, Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:351-52. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Friday June 2d. 1775 This comes by express, this Moment setting out, have therefore only to say that I am well, 1 but the City grows extreme warm 8c I wish for the Northward Air but must wish for a While in Vain. I am in hopes, that the Congress will, on their Adjournment, appoint a large Committee of their Body to sit constantly at Hartford or else where near the scene of Action. I send You a Newspaper of To Day 8cc., 8c am 8cc S. Deane RC (CtHi). 1 Deane wrote to his wife May 31, 1775, pleading "Want of Time” as the excuse for his infrequent and brief letters. CtHi. Benjamin Franklin to Nathaniel Seidel Reverend 8c dear Sir, Philada. June 2. 1775 I am much oblig’d by your kind Congratulations on my Return; and I rejoice to hear that the Brethren are well and prosper. 1 I am persuaded that the Congress will give no Encouragement to any to molest your People on Account of their Religious Principles; and tho’ much is not in my Power, I shall on every Occasion exert my self to discountenance and prevent such infamous Practices. Permit me however to give a little Hint in point of Prudence. I remember that you put yourselves into a good Posture of Defence at the Begin ning of the last War when I was at Bethlehem; and I then understood from my much respected Friend Bp. Spangenberg, that there were among the Brethren many who did not hold it unlawful to arm in a defensive War. If there still [are] any such among your young Men, perhaps it would not be amiss to permit them to learn the military Discipline among their Neighbours, as this might conciliate those who at present express some Resentment; and having Arms in Read iness for all who may be able and willing to use them, will be a gen eral Means of Protection against Enemies of all kinds. But a Decla ration of your Society, that tho’ they cannot in conscience compell


[Page 476]
434 June 2, 1775 their young Men to learn the use of Arms, yet they do not restrain such as are so disposed, will operate in the Minds of People very greatly in your Favour. Excuse my Presumption in offering Advice, which indeed may be of little Value, but proceeds from a Heart fill’d with Affection and Respect for a Society I have long highly es teem’d, and among whom I have many valuable Friends. I am with great Regard & Veneration, Revd. Sir, Your most obedi ent humble Servant B Franklin [P.S.] Written in great Haste. RC (PBMCA) . 1 Bishop Seidel’s letter to Franklin, asking that he be the Moravians’ "Advocate" in Congress and use his influence on behalf of measures permitting "every Reli gious Society [to] enjoy their Privileges full & undisturbed, as long as they do not act against their Country,” is printed in PMHB 29 (1905) : 245-46. The status of pacifists in Pennsylvania was brought before Congress at the beginning of July by the Lancaster County Committee of Correspondence, but the delegates sidestepped the issue and left it to the Pennsylvania Assembly, which on June 30 had passed a series of resolves to prevent ill feeling and to permit pacifists to make contribu tions for their defense in lieu of bearing arms. See Pennsylvania Delegates to the Lancaster County Committee, July 6, 1775. Thomas Johnson, Jr., to Samuel Purviance, Jr. My dear sr. Phila. 2d June 1775 I am sorry to hear of your Indisposition. Perhaps it is not without some Degree of Selfishness that I wish an Establishment of your Health and as the most likely Means of it approve your resolution to go to Fred [erick] or some other place where there’s a good Air &: for a while endeavour to unload your Mind of its oppressing Anxiety. It grieves my Soul that my own Countrymen who have not only tasted but eaten of the fruits of Liberty should be such ungrateful Niggards as to refuse the Return of a pittance for Our preservation out of the profusion of her Bounty which she smilingly bestowed on them. If such alone could feel the [sting?] of Despotism so far as might serve for their Condition it would be my second wish that they should. It is far from certain that any Troops will be sent to N York. If there should I am in Hopes things will be put on such a footing in that Quarter that they will not be able to make a garrisoned Town of the City or penetrate into the Country. The American Army is much too strong for the Regulars in the Massachusetts. As Wm Lee writes his Brother not more than 2000 Troops will be sent even if so we may certainly by acting on the Defensive protract the Business and give a fair Chance for a favourable Operation of our Commercial System. But whether the ardour of the people their Resentment, perpetually


[Page 481]
June 3, 1775 439 only to Inform you of Our progress to this place, & at this time what we are att Liberty to Communicate from the Congress you will from time to time See in the public papers. There is no doubt but the Con gress will approve and Support the Measures Which have been taken by the New England Colonies & I think we have got New York now Compleatly taken in. The advice given to New York with respect to the Troops that might be attempted to be landed there was in Conse quence of their strong Solicitation to preserve their City from ruin. 1 It was said to be Impossible to prevent their landing & that an Imme diate Attack would Induce the Men of Warr to lay the City in ruins. There is Care taken to have Sufficient Batteries in the most Conven ient places up along Hudsons river to prevent any King’s Ships or Cutters going up there. New York are raising 3 or 4000 Men. There are preparations making in every quarter but Unhappily No or but Very little powder except in the New England Colonies. We have just now receivd letters from Albany that Guy Johnson has lately been much Alarmd, is fortifying, 8c Collected a Number of his Irish Roman Catholicks in that County to protect him, and has Alarmd all the Indians in that quarter pretending that he has heard the New England people are coming to take him Sc his family 8c make him their prisoner. But the Majistrates of Schenectida 8c of Albany have had a talk with the Indians, Assured them of the falsity of that report by which the Indians are quieted & give the Strongest Assur ance they will take no part in the dispute Between great Britain & her Colonies Unless their Superintended Johnson is Molested. If he is they must protect him. I hope he will soon be quieted. The Express is now only waiting for me therefore cannot one quarter finish my let ter. We Understand Genii Burgoyne 8cc are arived. If so be on your guard for I think you may depend upon a Violent push from him. He will rather Sacrifice all the English Troop than suffer the disgrace of being Cooped up by you Yankees therefore keep a good look out. I hope if he make Any Attempt you will draw & decoye him into the Country by a retreating fire &: then you may have him from every quarter. I must break of[f] in this spot. Youll therefore wait for more in my Next. The Conduct of Connecticutt is highly Approved here. Our Govrs letters are much Esteemd. God bless you all Suc ceed 8c prosper you. I hope the Army will run no great risques at first for but little benefit. In Utmost haste from your sincere friend 8c Hbe Servt Elipht Dyer [P.S.] I have Inclosed you a print sent to the Congress by the Cham [b] erlain of London as it is said. 2 RC (CtHi). 1 See resolution of May 15, 1775. JCC, 2:52. 2 Probably the address of the mayor and aiderman of London to the king, April


[Page 482]
440 June 3, 1775 10, 1775, supporting the American cause, and the king’s response, expressing “the utmost astonishment” that his subjects were “encouraging the rebellious disposition ... of my Colonies in North America." Copies of these documents, reprinted from the London Gazette, April 11, 1775, arrived in America at the end of May. Ezekiel Russell, printer of Salem, Mass., reprinted them in broadside form under the date May 29, 1775. Charles Evans, American Bibliography, 12 vols. (Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34) , No. 14163; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1853-54. Subsequently they were reprinted in several of the American newspa pers. John Jay’s Draft Petition to the King [June 3-19? 1775] 1 To the Kings most excellent Majesty The Petition of the freeholders & Freemen of the Colonies of New Hampshire, Massachuses Bay, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pensylvania, the on Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina & the Parish of St Johns in the Colony of Georgia, by their Representatives convened in general Congress at the City of Philadelphia the Day of 1775. Most humbly sheweth That your Majestys American Subjects bound to your Majesty by the strongest Ties of Allegeance 8c affection and attached to their Parent Country by every Bond that can unite Societies, deplore with the deepest Concern the continuance of that System of colonial Ad ministration which for twelve Years past has filled the minds of the loyal Inhabitants of North America with apprehensions of the most alarming Nature. That reposing the utmost Confidence in the paternal Care of their Prince and the Justice of the British Nation they were urged by the perilous Situation of their Liberties to sollicit his Majesty’s Attention by their late Petition to their real & unmerited Greivances, and to re quest his royal Interposition in their Behalf. That tho disappointed in their Expectations of Relief they still re member their Duty to their Sovereign, & imputing the Rigour of their Treatment to insidious Counsels 8c wicked Misrepresentation, they again beg Leave to entreat for Justice & to request only that Portion of Liberty to which God and the Constitution have given them Rights. That Nothing but the Overruling Laws of self Preservation could ever have induced them to pursue any Measures which might be deemed offensive to their King or disrespectful to the British Nation, and that they ardently desire an opportunity of manifesting their Fi delity to the one and evincing their affection for the other.


[Page 484]
442 June 3, 1775 petition, largely the work of Dickinson, on June 19, which Congress finally ap proved, apparently with only a few minor amendments, on July 5. Congress then entrusted the petition to Richard Penn for presentation to George HI, but the king refused to receive it. JCC, 2:65, 79-80, 100, 126-27, 158-62; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:627; Thomas Jefferson, The Works of Thomas Jefferson, ed. Paul Leicester Ford, 12 vols. (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-5), 1:17-18; Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:317-18; and NYHS Collections 11 (1878) : 284-85. The present text is an early draft by John Jay of the second petition to the king. Although Jay’s draft and Dickinson’s petition are both conciliatory in tone, they are dissimilar in nearly all other respects. It is not known exactly when Jay composed this draft, but he probably did so sometime between the appointment of the committee and the presentation of its report to Congress. It is also impossible to state what use was made of Jay’s draft, but since Jay proposed that the king appoint commissioners to inquire into American grievances and that the colonial legislatures confirm Parliament’s right to regulate American commerce, it can be assumed that the committee rejected it because it was too conciliatory. New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress Gent. Philadelphia, 3rd June, 1775. We have received your several letters, and communicated such of your papers to the Congress as were intended for their inspection. Your plan for raising money we are much pleased with, though we have some doubt of its being adopted; however, as the reasons on which it is founded, appear to us to be conclusive, we shall use our endeavours to carry it through. Till the success is known, you will, we dare say, see a propriety in keeping the whole secret. We observe with pleasure the attention of our Colony to Indian af fairs, as they are really of the highest importance. Should you con ceive the interposition of the Congress necessary, you will let us know the mode in which you think it will be most effectual. You inquire whether the direction relative to the militia of New- York was intended to extend farther than that city and county. In an swer to this, we must inform you that it was the design of the Con gress that the whole Province should be well armed and disciplined. 1 We wish to hear that you have received some supply of powder, as we fear that none is to be procured here; the people conceiving they have not a sufficient stock for their own defence. We believe, howev er, that Connecticut will take care to supply their troops at Ticonder oga with that article, as the command of that post is for the present vested in their officers, owing to your repeated declaration of your in ability to furnish the arms and ammunition necessary for its defence. We think it an object of great consequence, to know in whom you would wish to vest the command of the Continental Army in our


[Page 486]
444 June 3, 1775 Philip Schuyler to Samuel Stringer Dear Sir Philadelphia June 3d 1775 Your favor of the 15th Ulto. I had the pleasure of Receiving a few days ago and Immediately Answrd, that of the 27th I reed this day. The Conduct of the Albany Committee has given great Satisfaction to the Congress. You cannot wonder that I should be pleased with Every transaction that reflects honor on my Dear Countrymen. I mentioned to You in my former that I did not believe the ports would be shut before the time limitted by the last Congress If then; I have a farther reason (which I am not at liberty to Communicate) from an Occurrance since I wrote to Corroborate that Opinion. I have wrote your Committee three letters Since my Arrival but have not had a line Acknowledging the receipt of any whence I Conclude they had not Come to hand when you wrote. The Article of Powder is under Serious Consideration, but difficult as It is to procure that Essential Commodity I hope however we shall Soon have a Supply. 1 May Indulgent heaven Smile propitiously on Endeavours of the Americans to remain a free and a happy people, may my Country men Stand distinguished in the Glorious Struggle, and may an all di recting Providence Guide us safely thro the Dangers of this unhappy Contest untill we arrive at the much wished for haven of peace. I am Sir Your’s & the Gentlemen of the Committee’s Most Obed. &: huml Servt. Ph. Schuyler RC (ICHi) . Addressed: "Samuel Stringer Esqr. Chairman of the Committee of Correspondence of Albany.” ‘This day Congress appointed the Pennsylvania delegates as a committee to borrow £6,000 for "the purchase of gunpowder for the use of the Continental Army.” JCC, 2:79. Samuel Ward’s Diary [June 3, 1775] 3rd. A Comee. appointed to consider of the State of the Massa chusetts, a Comee. to borrow £6000 &c, Comees. for a Petition to the King, Address to the People of England, Do. to Ireland, Letter to Jamaica, Comee. for considering Money necessary. MS (RHi) .


[Page 487]
June 5, 1775 445 Philip Schuyler to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen N. York [i.e. Philadelphia] June 4th, 1775. As I am ordered by the Continental Congress to liquidate the ac counts of the people employed in the reduction of Ticonderoga, that they may be paid, and as Messrs. [Ethan] Allen and [Seth] Warner were concerned, there will be money due to them; and as they are in want of some, I could wish you to advance them thirty pounds, and to make it a Continental charge, for which I shall debit them in their account with the public. I am, gentlemen, Your most obedient hum ble servant, Ph. Schuyler. MS not found; reprinted from Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:10. Benjamin Franklin to Thomas Life Philadelphia June 5. 1775. Instructs Life, agent in London for the Connecticut Assembly, to withdraw Franklin’s petition in a legal ap peal which no longer seems worth prosecuting, “hostilities being commenced by General Gage against America, and a Civil War be gun, which I have no Chance of living to see the End of, being 70 Years of Age.” Tr (William Salt Library, Stafford, England, U.K. Courtesy the Earl of Dartmouth) . Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philadelphia 5th June 1775 I wrote a long Letter to you by Captain Gilles, and now would write a much longer if I was at liberty to mention the business taken up by the Congress, but that I cannot do till the injunction of Secrecy is taken of[f]. They have much before them, scarce a day passes without the Arival of an express from some quarter, and altho’ Ne cessity strongly urges that they should be speedy in their determina tions, yet they proceed very slowly. I wish to God you was here that I might advise with you on some matters of great importance. I could say a thousand things to you in my Chamber that I cannot by any means put on paper. I am exceedingly uneasy (so are my Col leagues) not that I think we are doing any thing but what Necessity will Justify, but I fear we shall be obliged to promise for our Colony


[Page 488]
446 June 5, 1775 much more than it will perform and perhaps more than it is able to bear. When a large extensive Country Loses its Trade, when its Ports are all Shutt up and all exportation ceases, will there be Virtue enough found in that Country to bear heavy Taxes with patience. Suppose a Country, no matter where, should be under such circum stances, and Necessity should oblige the inhabitants to raise a large Army for their defence, how is it to be paid? Suppose the exigences of that country should demand one million Sterlg. per Annum, how is it to be raised? how made? how sunk? I will not trouble you far ther with imaginary Countries, but beg leave to call your attention to your Own, where I think it will be absolutely Necessary to have a Provincial Convention immediately. I think Mr. Harvey may appoint some day in August for the Meeting, an express should be sent to ev ery County with Letters to some of the most popular Men that are friendly to our cause, and great care should be taken to have as full a representation as possible. Some matters will be laid before them that will require the utmost exertions of every friend to American Liberty amongst you. I cannot pretend to say when the Congress will break up, perhaps I may be able to guess at it a month hence. It has been often proposed by some of our Members out of Doors to Adjourn to Hartford or New haven in Connecticut in Order that we might be near the seat of Action, but some of the Southern Gentlemen have not yet given their Consent, nor do I think they ever will. Hooper and myself are willing. I shall be pleased with the Change, it would afford me an opportunity of Visiting the Camp of the American Army near Boston which I want much to see. My best Compliments are offerd to the Ladies of your family, to Mr. Iredell and the Ladies there and to Mrs. Dawson & her family. Caswell & Hooper Join in respectfull Salutations to you with, Dear Sir, Your mo Obed hum Servant Joseph Hewes [P.S.] I have given Mr Underhill some News papers he will show them to you—see my Letter to Mr Smith. RC (NN facsimile). Extract printed in Burnett, Letters, 1:112-13. RC incomplete; missing words supplied from Burnett. William Hooper to Samuel Johnston My dear Johnston Philadelphia June 5th 1775 I wrote you lately by Mr Hewes’s Vessell. I have nothing to add but to request of you to exert your utmost influence to prevail upon the people to enroll themselves in Companies, sacredly to attend to the preservation of what little Gunpowder remains amongst them, 8c


[Page 489]
June 6, 1775 447 to rest assured that no terms will be obtained from Lord North but what are purchased at the point of the Sword. Pray forward the In closed by the first Opportunity. Mrs. Hooper is as yet at a loss whether I have fixed my feet in Philadelphia. Make my Compliments acceptable to your Lady & Family & believe me to be Dear Sir Your Friend Will Hooper [P.S.] Expect to hear fully from me b[y a] Vessel which [. . .] (Captain Farrow?) bound to Edenton on Wednesday next. Should no opportunity offer from Edenton sooner, pray send the packet addressed to my Brother’s by post. RC (NNPM). Tr (DLC) . Postscript supplied from Tr. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [June 5, 1775] Rainy A.M. Heard of Skirmish of Noddles Scce. 1 Dined at Mr. [James] Mease. MS (MHi) . 'The battle on Noddle’s and Hog’s Islands occurred May 27-28 and resulted in the capture of the British schooner Diana. Allen French, The First Year of the American Revolution (New York: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1934) , pp. 190-93. George Washington’s Diary [June 5, 1775] 5. Dined at Mr. Richard Penn’s, on a Committee all the after- nfoojn. 1 MS (DLC) . Washington, Diaries (Fitzpatrick) , 2:198. 1 Apparently the committee “to bring in an estimate of the money necessary to be raised,” which was appointed June 3 and reported to Congress June 7. See Silas Deane’s Diary, June 3-5, 6, 1775: and JCC, 2:80-81. Silas Deane’s Diary [June 6,1775] Saturday set out for Wilmington returned on Monday, spent the Evening, and Day insuing, on Committees, making an Estimate. MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 92.


[Page 497]
June 7, 1775 455 compensate our Losses. Abstracted from this Consideration we are doing our Duty to which we must be contented to sacrifice every oth er Object. I can yet form no Judgement how long the Congress will sit. There are Subjects before us of great Magnitude and Difficulty which re quire time to discuss and Arrange; and much as I long to be with my Friends at the Manour I must be patient. This family is well. It is extremely uncertain whether you will see any of them this Summer tho’ they ardently wish for that pleasure. Hood the Collector is run off to England, & the whole Charge of the Customs rests upon Mr Patterson. He has applied for Leave of Ab sence; but whether he will obtain it; or make use of it if he succeeds, is equally uncertain, as he pays great Attention to his Trust; & per sonally inspects every Transaction of the office. He seems concerned that you have not in a long time favoured him with a Letter. I am much obliged to him and my sister for the truly polite and affection ate attention they are pleased to pay me. Both of them Join me in our most dutiful and Affectionate Regards to yourself Mamma &: the Family. Be pleased to present mine to my dearest Polly & our little ones. I have missed no opportunity of writing to her. I hope she keeps up her Spirits and uses moderate Exercise; and that my daugh ter attends to her Improvement: and my son not too troublesome. I am dear & honord Sir Your ever dutiful & affect. Son & most Obedi ent Servant Jas. Duane RC (NHpR) . Endorsed by Livingston: "A letter from Son Duane Red 15 June 1775.” 1 Robert Livingston (1708-90), third lord of Livingston Manor and father of Duane’s wife Maria (“Polly”) . Livingston held no public office during the Revolu tion but supported the American cause by allowing the revolutionary government in New York to make use of his iron mines and foundry. Edwin Brockhoist Livingston, The Livingstons of Livingston Manor . . . (New York: Knickerbocker Press, 1910), pp. 227, 545. William Hooper’s? Draft Resolve [June 7-12, 1775] 1 Resolved that it be and hereby it is recommended to the Inhabit ants of the united Colonies in America of all Denominations That Thursday the 20th day of July next be set apart as a day of public humiliation fasting and prayer, that a total Abstenence from Servile labor and recreation be observed and all their religious Assemblies Solemnly Convened to humble themselves before God under the heavy Judgments felt and threatened to confess our manifold Sins, to implore the forgiveness of Heaven, {that a sincere repentance &


[Page 498]
456 June 7, 1775 reformation may influence our future Conduct) and that a Blessing may descend on the husbandry, Manufactures 8c other lawful Em ployments of this people and especially that the Union of these American Colonies in defence of their Just Rights 8c priviledges may be preserved, confirmed and prospered, that the Congresses may be inspired with Wisdom, that Great Britain and its Rulers may have their eyes opened to discern the things that shall make for the peace and Happiness of the Nation and all its Connections And that Amer ica may soon behold a Gracious interposition of Heaven for the re dress of her many Grievances, the restoration of her invaded Liber ties, a reconciliation with the parent State upon terms Constitutional and Honourable to them both and the Security of them to the latest posterity. MS (MHi). 1 On June 7, 1775, Congress resolved that the colonies should observe a day of fasting and prayer on the following July 20, and appointed John Adams, William Hooper, and Robert Treat Paine as a committee to draft a resolution to this effect. This committee reported a resolution to Congress on June 12, and the delegates approved it the same day. The present resolve, written sometime between the 7th and the 12th, is an early draft of the fast resolution adopted by Congress, and is much milder than the final resolve in substance and in tone. Authorship of this draft has been conjecturally assigned to Hooper, because the original MS, although located in John Adams’ papers, was definitely not written by Adams or Paine and is in a hand closely resembling Hooper’s normally less florid penmanship. JCC, 2:81, 87-88. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [June 7, 1775] Cool Rainy. Din’d Dr Franklins. This Evning Majr. Skene arrived from London 8c he 8c his Papers taken into Custody. 1 MS (MHi) . 1 Philip Skene (1725-1810) , former British army officer and owner of a vast estate in the Lake Champlain region, was appointed lieutenant governor of Ticonderoga and Crown Point while in London in January 1775. Skene’s return to America acquired added significance when warnings were received that he had been autho rized to bribe members of Congress into adopting a conciliatory position. When Skene arrived in Philadelphia he was immediately confined, and a congressional committee was appointed to examine his papers. On June 10, Congress placed Skene on parole, but his activities in Philadelphia continued to arouse such concern among the delegates, that in early July he was sent to Connecticut for imprisonment. He was subsequently released from prison in the fall of 1776. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography. For the official response of Con gress in the Skene affair, see JCC, 2:82, 86, 108, 126-27. In addition to numerous references to Skene in letters and diary entries of the delegates during the ensuing weeks, his departure for America is discussed in Stephen Sayre to Samuel Adams, April 4, 1775, NN, and Arthur Lee to Richard Henry Lee, April 7, 1775, ViU.


[Page 500]
458 June 8, 1775 Silas Deane’s Diary [June 8, 1775] Thursday June 8th. C[ap]t. Riley arrived, saw the review after which attended Congress—reed, a Lettr. from Govr. Trumbull dated 1st of June. Wrote the followg. Lettrs. to Mrs. Deane, Mr. Hosmer, Mr. Root, Mr. Mumford, Mr. Webb, to Govr. Trumbull in Answer to his—in the Evening waited on Majr. Skene by Order of the Con gress, and examined papers &C. 1 Cost—4s 6d there 8c at Burns’s. MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 89. 1 John Adams, Thomas Mifflin, and Deane were appointed as a committee to examine the papers of Philip Skene and to report to Congress "whatever may relate to the present dispute between Great Britain and America." JCC, 2:82. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Thursday June 8th 1775 Capt. Riley arrived this Morning, which with the review, and the arrival of Maj'r. Skene the elder, from London, has so engaged Me that I cannot describe the review and can only say I wish You had seen it. Capt. Riley when arrived will describe it at large, Mr. Bowen the Bearer of this will call on you and can describe the Situation of Affairs here. Majr. Skene is close prisoner, with the Officers arrived with him. I am to have an interview with them this AfterNoon by Order, and may write you more on this Subject as I have Oppy 8c Liberty. The 20th of July will be kept as an Universal Fast thro’ the Colonies as I expect You will Soon See in the papers. I am with Complimts. To all Freinds My Dear Yours for ever S D RC (CtHi) . Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Sr Philadelphia June the 8th 1775 I wrote to you a few days since by an express who came from your Comtee att Cambridge. As he was waiting I wrote in so much hurry that I know not what was Contained in that letter. You will therefore take it for better or for worse. Last evening we had two ships arrived at this place from London in which we have Intelligence I think to about the 25th of April. Ev ery thing seemd tolerabley quiet in England. Lds. North 8c Dats- mouth had full expectation that their late proposal for the Colonys to


[Page 504]
462 June 8, 1775 Hern. It should contain all the Hay the Island yeilds or rather more; they may cut a Path to the Pond. I hope your Wheat field is plowed. The small Pox hath been extremely thick in all Parts of the Town but none of Us have taken it that We know of 8c as it now abates We have some Hopes that We may escape it, should it be otherwise that entire Confidence which We all ought to have in the Wisdom 8c Goodness of God will support us under it; Yesterday compleated half a Century with Me 8c I may yet say few 8c evil have been my Days, if my great Master hath any further Business for me to do he will cer tainly continue Me here 8c I hope enable Me to see and do it. When he has no farther Service for Me I hope I shall chearfully retire 8c you as chearfully resign Me 8c happily experience the Truth of that gracious Promise “when my Father 8c Mother forsake Me the Lord will take Me up.” It is not in my Power to observe the Sabbath as I could wish but hope all of You will be careful of your Duty to God 8c your Father in that Respect. I am concerned about little Betsy. I hope her Sister will be careful of her in this as well as other Respects. By two Ships which arrived yesterday 8c brought News to 20th April last I find the Administration are resolved to compel us to sub mit. The Kings Answer to the Petition of the Lord Mayor 8c Aider man in our Favor breathes nothing but Slaughter but I trust under God that the Unanimity 8c Fortitude of this Country will disappoint our Enemies 8c establish our Liberty. 1 I inclose You the Papers for the remaining News. I want to write to your Bror. 8c Sister Greene 8c to your Aunts & your Uncle Greene but I have so many public Letters to write that I cannot this Opportunity. You must remember Me in the most affec tionate Manner to them 8c other Friends. Tell the Work People 8c those who serve Me that while I am here in continual Danger of my Life to preserve their Lives and Property They will surely be so grateful as to do Me all the Service in their Power. May God of his infinite Mercy preserve my dear Children. Your very affectionate Father. Sam Ward RC (RHi) . 1 See Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, June 3, 1775. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia 9th June 1775 Yours of the 1st is before Us. Ours in reply to yours of the 27th Ulto informed of the Resolution of the Congress, respecting the Post of Ticonderoga, and the mode of supplying the Troops there with


[Page 505]
June 9, 1775 463 provisions &C. 1 We need not therefore enlarge on that Subject fur ther than say, that We have the pleasure to find the measures taken by the Genl Assembly of Our Colony highly and universally ap proved of, by the Congress, & the readiness Our Troops were in has been considered as a very important circumstance in Our favour. Major Skeen arrived here from London the 7th Inst. & brout papers to the 25th April in which are little or nothing material, he had a Commission to command at Crown Point & Ticonderoga, with an handsome Salary, he is now made close prisoner, as is also an Officer who came with him. They were under examination last Evening, but nothing has as yet transpired to the public. The Congress have ap pointed the 20th of July next to be Observed as a Day of fasting and prayer thro all the Colonies, and shall send you in our next, the reso lution at large. We wrote for an Estimate, of the expence of the Col ony, or what it would probably amount To, for the present Cam paign, also for a Copy of the Act respecting Post Office, the former may be of very great Consequence to the Colony, to be sent us in season that we may early lay the same before the Congress. A most surprizing military ardor spreads universally through this City, and province, in which thare are it is said Thirty thousand Men constantly exercising. Yesterday, three Battallions of this City were reviewed, and their proficiency for the Time they had been employed was surprizing to every one. We are with the most sincere respect Your Honors very Hume Servants Elipha Dyer Silas Deane [P.S.] Inclosed is a paper of last Evening. Tr (Ct). 1 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., May 31, 1775. Silas Deane’s Diary [June 9, 1775] Friday. At Congress at Night on board Ship and elsewhere examg. papers of Major Skene &c. Cost 5/. MS (CtHi). CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 92. Samuel Ward’s Diary [June 9, 1775] 9th. Report of the Comee. relative to the Massachuts. Bay read &:


[Page 506]
464 June 9, 1775 approved, the provin[cia]l Congress to write to the Towns to chuse Representatives, they to chose Councillors which Assembly & Coun cillors to execute the Powers of Govt, until &C. 1 MS (RHi) . *JCC, 2:83-84. Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. My dear Son Philadelphia 9th June 1775 Tho fatigued with thinking & writing almost the whole Day I can not omit this favourable Opportunity of writing to You. I mentioned amongst other Things the Necessity of your Mens being clean, & dressing their Victuals properly. In the Beginning of the last War great Numbers died wholly for Want of Care. See that your People have vegetables if to be got, that they lie as dry as con veniently may be, in one Word at the same time that you keep up a proper Authority take all possible Care of them. Dont suffer them to be idle but on the other Hand dont make their Duty too severe. You’l remember my dear Son what I said to You before You left home, that I did not fear for You a cannon or musket Ball a Bayonet or any other Instrument of Death while you was virtuous, Vice is the only Enemy truly to be feared. Shun it in every Form if possible, es pecially in those Instances which I mentioned to You. She like other Deceivers will promise you much but however flowery & gay the Paths to which she may first lead you may be they certainly termi nate in Misery 8e Ruin. Dr. Church who does me the Favor to take Charge of this can tell You all the News from here. The Congress have taken many spirited measures which will transpire in Season; the Army may rely upon being effectually provided for & supported. Give my affectionate Regards to the General & all the officers. I think much of them and shall do every thing in my Power for their Service. I shall write to the Genl, the first Opportunity. I am Your very affec. Father Sam Ward RC (RHi) . Addressed: “To Capt. Samuel Ward in the Rhode Island Camp near Boston.” John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Phyladelphia. June 19. 1775 Dr. Church returns to Day, and with smarting Eyes, I must write


[Page 507]
June 10, 1775 465 a few Lines to you. I never had in my Life, such severe Duty to do, and was never worse qualified to do it. My Eyes depress my Spirits and my Health is quite infirm. Yet I keep about and attend Congress very constantly. 1 I wish I could write freely to you my Dear, but I can not. The Scene before me, is complicated enough. It requires better Eyes and better Nerves than mine. Yet I will not despond. I will lay all Diffi culties prostrate at my feet. . . . 2 My Health and Life ought to be hazarded, in the Cause of my Country as well as yours, and all my friends. It is impossible to convey to you any adequate Idea of the Embar rassments, I am under. I wish that you and our Friends may not be in greater Distress than I am. I fear you are. Pray let me know as of ten as possible. Our Friends write to Mr 3 not to me, this time. They dont let us know the State of Boston People, nor the State of the Army in Boston, so exactly as I could wish. Two days ago, We saw a very wonderfull Phcenomenon in this City—a field Day, on which three Battailions of Soldiers were re viewed, making full two thousand Men. Battailion Men, Light Infan try, Grenadiers, Rifle Men, Light Horse, Artillery Men, with a fine train, all in Uniforms, going thro the manual Exercise and the Ma- neuvres, with remarkable Dexterity. All this has been accomplished in this City, since the 19th. of April. So sudden a formation of an Army never took Place any where. In Congress We are bound to secrecy: But, under the Rose, I be lieve, that ten thousand Men will be maintained in the Massachu setts, and five thousand in New York at the Continental Expence. We have a Major Skeene, just arrived from London with a Com mission to be Governer of Crown Point and Ticonderoga, and Sur veyor of the Woods &c., close Prisoner. 4 He must dispute for his Government with Arnold and Allen. My Love and Duty, where due. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:213-14. 1 In a second letter to Abigail of this date, Adams noted optimistically that Dr. Church had given him a lotion, “which has helped my Eyes so much that I hope you will hear from me oftener than you have done.” On the other hand, he added, “When I shall come home I know not. We have Business enough before Us to detain us, untill the 31. of next December. No Assembly ever had a greater Number of great Objects before them. Provinces, Nations, Empires are small Things, before Us. I wish We were good Architects.” Adams, Family Correspond ence (Butterfield) , 1:214. 2 Suspension points in MS. 3 Adams probably meant “Mr.” John Hancock. For a similar complaint, see Adams to Moses Gill, this date, and Adams to Abigail Adams, July 4 and 7, 1775. 4 Adams was a member of the committee appointed to examine the papers of Skene. JCC, 2:82.


[Page 512]
470 June 10, 1775 carries a Recommendation to the other Colonies to Supply you with all the Powder they Can safely Spare. In great haste I am with Re spect Yr most humble Servt. Thomas Cushing P.S. Pray let me Hear from you Soon concerning my dear Country. Must refer you for particulars to Dr Church. RC (DLC). 1 See Congress’ resolution of June 9 advising the provincial congress on the resumption of government in Massachusetts. JCC, 2:83-84. The impact of Congress’ recommendation to resume government essentially under terms of the Massachu setts charter of 1691 has been discussed by Stephen E. Patterson, Political Parties in Revolutionary Massachusetts (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1973) , pp. 117-24. Thomas Cushing to Joseph Hawley Dear Sir Philadelphia June 10. 1775 I wrote you about Ten days ago by Messrs Halls, since which have not been favoured with any of your’s. 1 Inclosed you have a Vote of the Congress relative to our Peoples taking up Government, which I apprehend will Correspond with yr Sentiments. A motion was made in Congress that advice should be given to the present provincial Congress to chuse Councellors, but there being many objections to it, it was withdrawn. The Person that made the motion observd that the choice of Representatives would occasion great Delay— & that there could not at present be an Equal Representation as Boston would not be permitted by the General to chuse Representatives Upon this Oc casion. He was answered that the Delay would not be great, that it was best to adhere as near to the Charter as possible 8c not to vary from it but in Case of Absolute Necessity—that as to the Town of Boston either the present Provincial Congress, or the New Assembly could easily make some provision for their being Represented either by directing the late Inhabitants to meet at Cambridge or some other Town & chuse their Representatives or by divising some new Mode of Collecting the Voice of the People upon this Occasion. 2 As to giv ing a Credit to our Provincial Notes 8c the Regulation of the Army at or near Boston it will be determined upon very soon, I hope in a few days you will have the determinations of Congress upon these heads. It will therefore in my opinion be best to suspend any farther orgini- zation of the army till you hear further. There is an opinion prevail ing here, how well founded I cannot pretend to say, that when ad ministration has advice of the Battle at Lexinton 8c find that our People are determined to fight for their Libertie, that they will be for accomodating matters 8c will Readily hearken to any Proposals of


[Page 514]
472 June 10, 1775 Point near 200 St per An[nu]m for that. Surveyor of His Majty Woods at another Salary. I believe also to Command a Canada Regi ment. All this with his great plantation had opened his Views Amaz ingly but the whole prospect was suddenly closed. It is probable he will remain in Custody till Affairs are better setled & the officer with him. Am Sr Yr Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Let me hear from you as often as you please we did just now learn from N York paper that they have taken the Scarborough at Portsmouth but it does not gain Creditt. But I Quere why you may not play Vexation with some of their ships in a good season. RC (Ct) . A continuation of Dyer to Trumbull, June 8, 1775. John Hancock to Dorothy Quincy Philad’a, 10th June, 1775. “I am almost prevail’d on to think that my letters to my Aunt &: you are not read, for I cannot obtain a re ply, I have ask’d [a] million questions & not an answer to one. I beg’d you to let me know what things my Aunt wanted & you, and many other matters I wanted to know, but not one word in answer. I Really Take it extreme unkind, pray my D[ea]r use not so much Ceremony & Reservedness, why can’t you use freedom in writing, be not afraid of me, I want long Letters.” Encloses several articles for her personal use, and assures her that if she has additional needs “I will attend to all your Commands.” 1 MS not found; abstracted from Henry C. Walsh, “Three Letters from Hancock to ‘Dorothy Q’,” Netu England Magazine 12 (1892) : 532-33. 1 Hancock was engaged to marry Dorothy Quincy, who had been a guest of Thaddeus Burr in Fairfield, Conn., since her flight from Boston. They were married August 28, 1775, during the late summer recess of Congress. Extracts of two other letters of Hancock to Dorothy Quincy, written during this period and reflecting a similar concern for her reception of his presents and her refusal to write regularly, dated June 11 and July 2, 1775, are in Ellen C. D. Q. Woodbury, Dorothy Quincy Wife of John Hancock with Events of Her Time (Washington: Neale Publishing Company, 1901) , pp. 83-84. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Provincial Congress Gentlemen, Philadelphia June 10th. 1775 In Consequence of your Application to this Congress for Advice respecting a form of Government to be Adopted in the Massachu-


[Page 515]
June 10, 1775 473 setts Bay, under your present Circumstances, I am Directed by the Congress to Transmitt you their Resolution thereon, which is here Inclos’d. 1 I am also to Inform you that the Congress have been so pressed with Business that they have been prevented Determining upon the other matters mention’d in your Letters to them; but they will very soon come under their Consideration, & their Resolutions thereon shall be forwarded you. I also Inclose you a Resolve of Congress for furnishing our Army with Flour, this you will keep Secret, at least as far as the Nature of it will Admit, as the publication may give an Alarm, which may pre vent the good Effects of it. Last Evening Mr Fessenden your Express Arriv’d with your Dis patches of June 4th., 2 which I shall this Morning lay before the Con gress, and when Consider’d by Congress, their Determinations shall be immediately Transmitted you. I am, with much Esteem Gentlemen, Your most Obed, Huml Servt. John Hancock, President RC (M-Ar) . ’Congress approved a resolution June 9 declaring that no obedience was due to the Massachusetts Government Act of 1774 and recommending that the Massachu setts Provincial Congress make provisions for the election of a new assembly and council, which should “exercise the powers of Government” until such time as the king appointed a governor who would rule the colony "according to its charter.” JCC, 2:83-84. 2 In a letter to Elbridge Gerry of this date, Hancock made another reference to Fessenden’s arrival. “In Consequence of your Express last Eveng. I Call the Congress together early.” Extract of Hancock to Gerry, June 10, 1775, in The Collector 61 (July 1948) : item M1231. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Provincial Congress Gentlemen Philadelphia June 10th. 1775 By order of the Congress, I Transmit you the Inclose’d Resolu tions passed by the Congress this Morning. 1 The Necessity of the present Emergency Requires a Speedy Compliance with the first, and I need not Inform you that the Nature of the Service Requires it to be done with as much Secrecy as possible. I am also Directed by the Congress to Request you will please to Transmitt to them, as soon as may be, an Estimate of the Powder, Arms &: Ammunition in your Colony including private as well as publick Stocks. By Doctor Church this morning I forwarded you the Resolution of Congress Respecting the Mode of Government.


[Page 516]
474 June 10, 1775 I am Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock President [P.S.] The Inclosed Letters for the Lieut. Govr. of Rhode Island, & the Gentlemen of New Hampshire, 2 please immediately, on Receipt to Send off by Express; pray don’t fail. RC (M-Ar). 1 For these resolutions see JCC, 2:85-86. 3 In addition to these letters to Rhode Island and New Hampshire, Hancock sent a similar letter this day to Governor Jonathan Trumbull of Connecticut; all are virtually identical to the first two paragraphs of his communication to the Massa chusetts Provincial Congress. The letter to New Hampshire is printed in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:956. John Hancock to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen Philadelphia June 10th. 1775 1 The Inclosed Resolutions of this Congress I am Directed to Trans mitt you, and to Desire you will order it to be Executed in as Expedi tious & Secret manner as possible, Referring to your Judgement the most suitable place for Landing it & where there will be the least Risque of Interruption from the Ships of War. 2 You will please to Consign it to the Committee of Correspondence in each place with a Direction to forward the Flour to the army as soon possible. I have it also in Charge to Recommend to you that the Flour be Transported in small Quantities as there may be Danger of the Ene my. I am Gentlemen Your most obedt servt. John Hancock Presidt. RC (N). Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:3. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Under this date Hancock sent an identical letter to the Massachusetts Provin cial Congress. MHi. 2 On June 9, 1775, Congress approved resolutions requesting the New York Provincial Congress to supply the Continental Army at Boston with 5,000 barrels of flour, asking the Providence and Massachusetts Committees of Correspondence to forward these supplies to the army, and pledging congressional compensation for any expenses incurred by compliance with these requests. JCC, 2:84. Thomas Jefferson to St. George Tucker Dear Sir Wmsburgh June 10. 1774 [i.e., 1775] I am to acknoledge the receipt of your letter, and to scribble a line


[Page 517]
June 10, 1775 475 in answer, being just in the moment of setting out on my journey. The situation of your island is truly hard, and I should think deserves a relaxation of our terms if I may trust my first thoughts on the subject. 1 I also think it probable it might be mutually beneficial to us. Should I continue of that opinion I will certainly do any little of fices in my power to bring it about. But I refer it to yourself whether there should not be some body with some kind of public authority as well to give information of facts, as to satisfy the Congress that the inhabitants of Bermuda will enter into such engagements as may se cure them against any infraction of the American Association. I have time to add nothing more than that I am Dr. Sir Your friend & servt., Th: Jefferson RC (ViW) . Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) , 1:170. 1 Bermuda’s dependence on British North America for basic foodstuffs made a number of islanders apprehensive at the prospect of having these shipments stopped after Congress’ nonexportation program went into effect on September 10, 1775. Accordingly in March, Col. Henry Tucker, a prominent Bermuda merchant and political leader, asked his son, St. George Tucker, then in Virginia striving to launch a legal career, to urge the Virginia delegates to persuade Congress to exempt Bermudians from the full rigors of nonexportation. The younger Tucker thereupon wrote to Jefferson and Peyton Randolph on June 8, reminding them of the Bermudians’ need for provisions and vulnerability to British retaliation in the event they actively supported the American cause, and expressing their willingness to accept some congressional restrictions on their trade if allowed to continue to import necessaries from the mainland after nonexportation began. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:167-69, 170n; and Wilfred B. Kerr, Bermuda and the American Revolution: 1760-1783 (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1936) , pp. 39-40. Well before St. George Tucker received Jefferson’s present letter (with its hint that “some body with some kind of public authority” be sent to Philadelphia) some Bermudians had taken steps to ensure that Congress would hear their case. In May delegates were selected to go to Philadelphia; they departed at the end of June bearing an address to Congress, which, while carefully preserving Bermuda’s neutrality in the conflict between Great Britain and the mainland colonies, asked that they be allowed to import provisions despite the nonexportation agreement. Upon their arrival in Philadelphia, the Bermudians sought out Benjamin Franklin, apparently because of his fame, and Franklin presented their address to Congress on July 11. But since Congress was in no mood to grant unilateral concessions, it promised formally only to consider the Bermudians’ address, while privately in forming them that their petition was more likely to succeed if they seized the gunpowder that was stored in the royal magazine at St. Georges, the island’s capital. Consequently, before the Bermuda delegation left Philadelphia around the middle of July, a private understanding was reached with Franklin whereby the Bermudians agreed to supply Congress the powder in return for an exemption from the forthcoming trade ban. JCC, 2:174, 187; William Bell Clark et al., eds., Naval Documents of the American Revolution (Washington: Department of the Navy, 1964- ), 1:794-95, 1120; Henry Tucker to Benjamin Franklin, August 12, 1775, PPArnP; and Kerr, Bermuda and the American Revolution, pp. 42-47. When the Bermuda delegates arrived home events moved swiftly. On August 12, St. George Tucker (recently returned from Virginia) and his father drew up for Jefferson and Franklin, respectively, proposals for preventing reshipment of goods sent to Bermuda. As Colonel Tucker noted, “the Congress are all inclined to serve


[Page 518]
476 June 10, 1775 us but the plan is only wanted to prevent our Assisting the West Indies.” And on August 14 a group of islanders broke into the royal magazine and made off with about 1,800 pounds of gunpowder, which they shipped to Philadelphia in a vessel provided by the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety. The Bermudians’ achievement was duly noted, and on October 2, barely two weeks after Congress had recon vened, the committee on trade reported in favor of maintaining commerce with Bermuda, and on November 22 Congress approved an elaborate set of resolves, some of them based upon suggestions made by the Tuckers, enabling islanders to obtain a wide variety of provisions from the mainland in spite of nonexportation. JCC, 2:246, 3:268, 362-64; Henry Tucker, Sr., to St. George Tucker, August 6, 1775, Tucker-Coleman Papers, ViW; Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) , 1:239-40; Henry Tucker, “Proposals offered to the General Con[gress by] the Inhabitants of Bermuda . . ca. August 12, 1775, PPAmP; and Kerr, Bermuda and the American Revolution, pp. 48-54. New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress Phila 10th June 1775 Gentlemen, We are now to acknowledge the Honor of your dispatches of the 7 th Inst. 1 We have long foreseen the difficulties you must be reduced to for want of money. They will not be lessened by the resolutions of the Congress of yesterday recommending it to you to procure and for ward five Thousand barrells of Flour for the use of the Army at Bos ton. We communicated the paragraph of your letter in which you com plain that unless the Congress shall make some speedy order with re lation to the levying of money it will be impossible for you to comply with their farther Requests. They however seem perswaded that their Vote of Credit, which accompanies the order for the Supply will re move every obstruction, and relying on your Zeal for the Common Cause they hope you will be able to throw in this provision which we are apprehensive will soon become highly necessary. We may venture to hint to you that the emission of paper money will be discus’d on Monday and we expect in the course of next Week to be able to present you with a determination of this impor- tent business, which will free us from much anxiety. We shall not fail to attend to what you suggest concerning the In dians. This is an object to our Colonie of the highest moment and we hope in due time it will be considered by the Congress. We think the Indians will not be disposed to engage in this unhappy quarrell unless deceived and deluded by missrepresentations and this, with Vigilence and care on our part, can be prevented. As one step towards it, which we much applaud, are the assurances you have given the Superin tendent of his safety.


[Page 522]
480 June 11, 1775 the most surprising Account of the Confidence Administration have placed in this Gent. It seems he has been of their Cabinet council & that Lds. N [or] th & Dartmouth have much Depended on his Intelli gence of this Country & the Dispositions of the people here, & their plan of opperation has been much dictated by him & it seems he is betrusted with all their secrets, & much depended upon to carry their Designs into Execution. He was it seems to make overtures with the Congress 8c has Authority to draw upon the Treasury in England for what he finds Necessary not only to bribe 8c bring over some Mem bers of the Congress but to Divide 8: confound the whole if possable. It is said and not without probable evidence that he had brought over Important Commissions for some Members of the Congress 8c of those who have been esteemd of Among the first Patriots, but through good Providence all his Schemes are at once Confounded. We are more surprised here that the Ministry have made so great a Confidant of him as he appears Neither to have Art or Abilitys for their purpose, to what low dirty & mean Shifts are this Disparing Ministry put to, to Accomplish their Wicked designs 8c plots against America. The firmness Union and steady perseverence in the great American Cause believe we may say still prevails in this Congress, but we have so many Expresses & Matters Incidental that almost Daily Comes before us that it makes our Progress slow 8c causes many Delays in the more great 8c Important Matters. A Continental Army 8c Continental resources Including Continental Currancy & their proportions among the United Colonies with a proper 8c firm Confederacy you are sensible are great 8c important Objects but we see Nothing Discourageing in either. We have this Day received Ad vice from the Army Near Boston of their great fears of a Deficiency in the Article of Ammunition. Every Step is taking by the Congress to lay a foundation for a proper Supply by sending 8c Collecting from every Colony what small parcells of Salt Petre can be Obtaind from every private family or store 8c to be sent to New York or Philadel phia where their are Powder Mills 8c Workmen Sufficient if they can be supplied with Materials. They have sent their request to all the Colonies Eastward to supply the Army for the present with what they can spare, Connecticutt among the rest. Also to have an Account forwarded as soon as may be what Powder in Stock Colony Town the several Colonies are possessed of. Believe as so late 8c thorough enquiry has been made in Connecticutt that you will be able to send us the Account with so much precission as is Necessary without being at the expence of sending through the Colony. We doubt not that a just and True account will be kept of the very expence 8: Ad vancement of our Colony in the Genl Cause as we expect it will be a Continental expence. Almost every Colony esteem themselves in some Danger in the Present Dispute from either external or Internal


[Page 524]
482 June 12, 1775 Inhabitants of Canada of May 29, 1775. JCC, 2:88. “Ward might be referring here to an early draft of his List of Measures Adopted by Congress, July 31? 1775. Silas Deane’s Diary Tuesday, June 13. [1775] At Congress. Numbers Dollars. 1 165.426 6 New Hampshire 100.000 .... 82.713 Massachusetts 350.000 .... 289.496 Rhode Island 58.000 .... 47.973 Connecticut 200.000 .... 165.426 New York 200.000 .... 165.426 New Jersey 130.000 .... 107.527 Pennsylvania 300.000 .... 248.139 Delaware 30.000 .... 24.813 Maryland 250.000 .... 206.783 Virginia 400.000 .... 330.852 N. Carolina 200.000 .... 165.426 S. Carolina 200.000 .... 165.426 2.418.000 2.000.000 992.556 £49.627.16 The foregoing Calculation is meerly Temporary, and to be cor rected hereafter. 1 Genl. Washington appointed. 2 MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 92. “After long considering ways and means of raising revenue for the common defense. Congress finally approved an emission of two million dollars in paper currency on June 22. JCC, 2:103. Deane’s “calculation” is apparently an estimate of redemption quotas for the colonies based on population and probably represents computations discussed in the committee of the whole. For a similar calculation, see Samuel Ward’s List of Measures Adopted by Congress, July 31? 1775. “Washington was not appointed commander of continental forces until June 15. JCC, 2:91. Thomas Johnson, Jr., to Samuel Purviance, Jr. My dear Sir. Philadelpa. 13 June 1775. I am obliged to you for yours of the 6 &: 7 th & 10th Instant. We


[Page 526]
484 June 13, 1775 ery Thing in it’s power to promote this very useful Work but I be lieve most Gent of the Congress have as much to learn as myself. 2 I shall be very agreeably surprized whenever your Country leading Gent, shall act on a large Scale in politicks. I wish you would fret yourself as little as possible. Nothing that you and all your Town can do will expand their Hearts. I have not yet had an Oppty of execut ing your Commission with regard to Colo. Steven. I will again write to you soon and on that Subject. The people here continue their In dustry to learn the Military Art, every Thing wears a favourable Ap pearance. I suppose you have heard that Colo. Skeen lately appoint ed Govr. of Ticonderoga & Crown Point was stopped here the other Day on his Landing. He is now on his parol. The Congress Hour is near at Hand. I have neither Time nor matter to add further than that I am Dr. sr. Your most obedt. Servant Th Johnson junr RC (PPAmP). 1 A reference to Richard Glover, The Substance of the Evidence Delivered on the Petition Presented by the West-India Planters and Merchants to the Hon. House of Common . . . the 16th of March, 1775 (London: H. S. Woodfall, 1775) . T. R. Adams, American Independence, p. 127. This pamphlet was reprinted serially in the Pennsylvania Journal; and the Weekly Advertiser, June 21, 28, 1775, and contained a petition from West Indian planters and London merchants calling upon Parliament to take steps to soften the anticipated impact of the Association on the West Indian economy and to preserve commercial relations between the islands and the northern colonies as well as the arguments before the House of Commons in support of these pleas by Glover, an English merchant and poet. See also Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1540, 1721-43; and DNB. “Johnson had been appointed on the 10th to a committee to encourage the manufacture of saltpetre in America. JCC, 2:86. Virginia Delegate to Unknown June 13, 1775 Notwithstanding the many accounts of the sailing of the troops from Ireland, a vessel is just arrived here from Newry, in five weeks, the Captain of which says, that none had sailed; and that, just as he was coming away, orders were said to have come to them to hold themselves in readiness to embark for Gibraltar. Col. Skene (owner of the schooner taken on Lake Camplain, whose son was also taken there, and is now prisoner in Connecticut) is just arrived from London, with a commission to be Governour of Ticonderoga and Crown Point, but, private letters say, is charged with a power from administration to influence the members of the Congress, by arguments drawn on the Treasury, over which he has unlimited power; but as we have no occasion for his services at the forts, and do not intend to deal in his reasonings, he remains a pris-


[Page 527]
June 14, 1775 485 oner upon his parole, to keep within eight miles of the city, between the two rivers, and not to correspond with any person on political subjects. As to the two engagements at the islands near Boston, 1 we are told, but not with a degree of confirmation, that the last, on Noddle’s island, was a very serious business, near 1500 being engaged on each side, and that the regulars had 200 killed and wounded, the loss on the side of the provincials being merely trifling. I think we may finish in a fortnight, but can only guess, without forming any precise judgment about it. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Purdie) , June 23, 1775, “Supplement.” The extract follows another unindentified Virginia delegate letter, dated June 14, 1775, and appears under the heading: “Extract of a letter from another of the Virginia delegates, dated June 13." 1 See Robert Treat Paine’s Diary, June 5, 1775. Edmund Pendleton to William Woodford Dr. Sir Phila. June 14. 1775. I have the pleasure of yrs. of the 3d & did not mean when I spoke of the dissentions about Mr. Henry’s Manoeuvre, to hint at blaming our Commee, or the probability of division among them. They took the right method of commanding the Zeal &: good intention of the Party, tho’ they disapproved the Measure. 1 I am sorry Mr. Christie escaped, as I am inclined to think that from him we might have got into the Particulars of the intended Indian Treaty, which might have proved an important discovery at this time, as we are suspicious of something unfair being intended: Whether the Kings Pork is eat by the worthless Crew in the Navy or Army, or by the Govrs. slaves is matter of very little concern to Us, tho’ the Enquiry was a Judicious Step. I imagine Johnny Taylor has given you an Account of what lit tle news is stirring, of which indeed there is a great dearth; provi dence seems to have smiled on our struggles & given Us success in ev ery attempt hitherto; May we continue to deserve divine favour &: I doubt not, we shall have it throughout. I am very glad our Vestry have chosen Mr. Sheild, & doubt not the Clamours will soon subside, & that those who now make a noise will applaud the Vestry for what they have done, tho’ perhaps some whose opposition was to the Ves try & not for the sake of the Ignorant Mr. Ford (who if he appears in the paper, will I venture to prophecy, prove the Justice of giving Mr. Sheild the preference) may still make a noise. You mention to John ny a Report from Mr. Sheild & Mr. Hunt dishonourable to our Dela- gation. We had it before &: 1 fear has too just a foundation. It highly


[Page 528]
486 June 14, 1775 dishonours Us & our Countrey, & Our Assembly has surely examined into it, & either restored Bland to his Credit on his Innocence appear ing, Or on the contrary wiped off the Stain from the Colony, by de grading him from the Delegation & expelling him [from] their House, sending him to stink in infamous Obscurity. 2 I am much pleased wth. yr. scheme for manufactories at Fredg. For I see plainly that if we can’t succeed that way, much of our money must come here for various Articles, Commissions for which give the trades men here much emploiment, and as they have their hands full of work, I doubt it will be difficult to perswade any of them to leave this plenti ful market; however I will enquire whether any & what Artists in yr. branches can be engaged to come Over &: let you know. Yr. things are not yet done, but am promised they shall be in a day or two. I am Dr. Sr. Yr. Affe. hble Servt. Edmd Pendleton RC (PHi) . 1 See Pendleton’s letter to Woodford, May 30, 1775. 3 Charges made by Rev. Samuel Sheild and others that Richard Bland had solicited a government appointment to collect taxes and had promised to promote ministerial measures against America were examined by the Virginia convention July 28 and declared false. See the Virginia Gazette (Dixon and Hunter), July 8, 22, and August 5, 1775. Virginia Delegate to Unknown June 14, 1775 Col. Washington has been pressed to take the supreme command of the American Troops encamped at Roxbury, and I believe will ac cept the appointment, 1 though with much reluctance, he being deep ly impressed with the importance of that honourable trust, and diffi dent of his own (superiour) abilities. We have determined to keep 10,000 men in Massachusetts Bay, and 5000 in different parts of New York government, at the expense of the continent; and probably a large sum of money will be emitted, in order to carry on the war, preparations for which go on rapidly in this place. It seems likely that some of the newly arrived Generals were in tended for the southern colonies, but no troops can be spared from Boston. The Provincials talk much of storming that town, and it is expected by many. The Congress will sit long. Adjusting the expenses of each colony for the common cause, and settling proper funds for the army, are subjects fruitful of debate, and of the utmost consequence. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Purdie) , June 23, 1775,


[Page 535]
June 16, 1775 493 and then make a Short adjournment, probably leaving a committee to Superintend in our Recess. I expect to be at liberty to write you more fully in a few days and Shall omit no opportunity of acquainting you with every thing as fast as I can. Present my most respectful regards to Govr. Cook, to Mr Treasur er Clark and any of our friends to whom they will be acceptable. I am your very affecte Brother Sam Ward RC (RHi) . Tr (MH). RC fragmentary; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 That is, George Rome, an English factor for a London mercantile firm who resided in Newport, R. I., and was a loyalist. Lorenzo Sabine, Biographical Sketches of Loyalists of the American Revolution with an Historical Essay, 2 vols. (Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1864) , 2:237-38; and David S. Lovejoy, Rhode Island Politics and the American Revolution, 1760-1776 (Providence: Brown University Press, 1958) , p. 162. George Washington’s Diary [June 15, 1775] 15. Dined at Burnes’ in the Field. Spent the Eveng. on a Committee. 1 MS (DLC) . Washington, Diaries (Fitzpatrick) , 2:199. 1 Probably the committee for drafting rules and regulations for the army, to which Washington was appointed on June 14. JCC, 2:90. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams Philadelphia June 16 1775. Complains that he has received no let ters from her. Asks for news and affirms his good health. “I wish I could consistently inform you what is doing here. I can however tell you that Matters go on, though slower than one could wish, yet agre- able to my Mind.” In a postscript dated June 17 acknowledges re ceipt of a letter from Elizabeth and expresses pleasure at news that her family has escaped from Boston. RC (NN) . Adams, Writings (Cushing) , 3:217-18. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Phila. June 16th 1775. I received your’s of the 11th inst. & by it find you had not had my


[Page 538]
496 June 16, 1775 Suited to the Temper & Genius of our People than any other Gent not brought up in that Part of the Country. We have no doubt but that he will render himself very Agreable 8c Acceptable to all. His ap pointment will tend to keep up the Union 8c more strongly Cement the Southern with the Northern Colonies, 8c serve to the removing all jealousies Army composed principally of New Englanders (if happily they prove Successfull) of being formidable to the Southern Colo nies. There is Sir 8, or 10 Companies of the expert riflers 8c marks men all Warriors preparing to come from the Western parts of this Province 8c Virginia, to join the Army Near Boston as soon as possi ble. On the late News of a Number of Troops now Actually on their passage for New York, 8c Daily expected, the Congress have thought fit to desire you upon application from New York Congress to Order the remainder of our Troops on the Western parts of the Colony to re pair to or Near New York 8c Occupy some important post there, which you will receive by this express. 2 It gives the Congress some Concern least you Sir should Apprehend some Indelicacy in their mode of applying to you, through the Intervention of the York Pro vincial Congress. We beg leave just to explain the reasons of their Conduct therein, it is apprehended still that New York (i e) their Cautious men are for saving for themselves 8c the Province a safe re treat if possable. We readily see they most Carefully Avoid taking any lead in these Matters, therefore the more they are brought to move and Apply the more they will Involve themselves in the same Predicament with the other Colonies, which will give us a stronger Security for their future firmness in the General Cause. We may pre sume to let you [know] that this Congress are providing a Continen tal fund, to reimburse the expence of the Continental Army, and for the present exagence to emitt a paper Currency on the Credit of the United Colonies, redeemable by each Colony in a proper Time setled by the Congress as nearly equal as possable at this Time, tho subject to a Correction, when they may be able to make a more full 8c just estimate, as all the Colonies are not at present furnished with the Materials Necessary therefor, you will Sir be so good as to excuse the Incorrectness of this Midnight Scrible and in behalf of my Self 8: College Deligates have the Honor to be with most Sincere respect your Honors most Obedient Humble Servant Eliphalet Dyer Tr (Ct). 1 For the letters of Jonathan Trumbull and Ethan Allen mentioned above, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:713-14, 940-41. 3 See resolution of June 16. JCC, 2:95.


[Page 546]
504 June 18, 1775 The pay which has been voted to all the officers, which the Conti nental Congress intends to choose, is so large, that I fear our people will think it extravagant, and be uneasy. 4 Mr. Adams, Mr. Paine, and myself, used our utmost endeavors to reduce it, but in vain. Those ideas of equality, which are so agreeable to us natives of New England, are very disagreeable to many gentlemen in the other colonies. They had a great opinion of the high importance of a conti nental general, and were determined to place him in an elevated point of light. They think the Massachusetts establishment too high for the privates, and too low for the officers, and they would have their own way. I hope the utmost politeness and respect will be shown to these of ficers on their arrival. The whole army, I think, should be drawn up upon the occasion, and all the pride, pomp, and circumstance of glo rious war displayed;—no powder burned, however. There is something charming to me in the conduct of Washington. A gentleman of one of the first fortunes upon the continent, leaving his delicious retirement, his family and friends, sacrificing his ease, and hazarding all in the cause of his country! His views are noble and disinterested. He declared, when he accepted the mighty trust, that he would lay before us an exact account of his expenses, and not accept a shilling for pay. The express waits. MS not found; reprinted from Adams, Works (Adams) , 9:357-59. ’This measure was not adopted by vote of Congress until June 22. JCC, 2:103. a These resolves do not appear in the journals and were probably agreed to while Congress sat in the committee of the whole. John Hancock to Elbridge Gerry, this date. 3 Gerry had previously urged the appointment of Washington and Lee in a letter of June 4, 1775, to the Massachusetts delegates. Austin, Life of Gerry, 1:77-79. 4 For the pay rates agreed to June 16, see JCC, 2:93-94. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Sunday June 18th. 1775 I wrote You the other Day a short Lettr. after receiving yours, of the 11th inst., in which referr’d You to a long one date forgot giving an Acct, of my Tour, to Wilmington, and a description of the dress of the Troops here, the review &c &c or rather I referr’d to you Capt. Riley who was present at it for a Volume would not describe it at large, with the queer figures of Mortality which any public Occasion here exhibits. You have often beheld a Gerrman Countenance and the lower order or Western Irish one, these made up so much the greater part of the Spectators, that a Lady of but tolerable Biauty


[Page 551]
June 18, 1775 509 Robert Treat Paine to Artemas Ward Hond. & beloved Sr Philada June 18 1775 I could not omitt this opportunity of Congratulating you on yr. ap pointment to the second Command in the American Army 1 & of the heroic & amiable General Washington to the first Command. He will be with you soon I expect, to strengthen yr. hands & rejoice your hearts. Mean while I dare say you will keep a good look out against Surprizes. It has given us great Greif that We have heard so Seldom, if at all particularly from the Camp. I think we have exerted our utmost at tention to yr. Welfare, the perticulars of which we are not yet pre pared to express. We have no perticular news—but by our Presidents Letters you may Learn Some matters which it is needless for me to repeat. Remember me to my many friends in Camp. Wishing you health & prosperity I subscribe yr friend & Sevt R T Paine RC (OCIWHi) . 1 Artemas Ward (1727-1800), a storekeeper in Shrewsbury, Mass., and a leader of patriots in the General Court, commanded the American army at Cambridge, and was appointed first major general and second in command of the Continental Army on June 17, 1775. DAB; and Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 12:326-48. George Washington to Martha Washington My Dearest, Philadelphia, June 18th 1775 I am now set down to write to you on a subject which fills me with inexpressible concern—and this concern is greatly aggravated and Increased when I reflect upon the uneasiness I know it will give you. It has been determined in Congress, that the whole army raised for the defence of the American Cause shall be put under my care, and that it is necessary for me to proceed immediately to Boston to take upon me the Command of it. You may believe me my dear Patsy, when I assure you in the most solemn manner, that, so far from seek ing this appointment, I have used every endeavor in my power to avoid it, not only from my unwillingness to part with you and the Family, but from a consciousness of its being a trust too great for my capacity and that I should enjoy more real happiness and felicity in one month with you, at home, that I have the most distant prospect of reaping abroad, if my stay were to be seven times seven years. But as it has been a kind of destiny, that has thrown me upon this serv ice, I shall hope that my undertaking of it is designed to answer some good purpose. You might, and I suppose did perceive, from the Ten-


[Page 561]
June 20, 1775 519 advize General Ward to humiliate himself and his Country so far as to serve under him. General Ward was elected the second and Lee the third.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:321-24. Samuel Adams to Joseph Warren Dear sir Philada June [20,] 1775 1 I have but one Moment to inform you that this Congress having as I before wrote you appointed General Washington to the Command of all the American Forces, and Majors General Ward &: Lee, they yesterday proceeded to the Appointment of two more Majors Gener al viz Schuyler and Putnam. General Lee has accepted of his Ap pointment and will I suppose tomorrow set off with General Wash ington for Cambridge. The Congress seems determined to support their Army before Boston. They are fully sensible of the Importance of it & have recommended to the Colonies of Connecticutt R Island & N Hampr. to send the Troops they have agreed to raise without Delay to Cambridge, those to remain till further orders (excepting such as were destind to the several Posts in the Colony of N York). You have doubtless been informed by Mr H[ancock] that you may soon expect ten Companies of Rifle Men to joyn the Army. I am more &: more satisfied in the Appointmt of Genl. Lee. He is certainly an able officer & I think deeply embarkd in the American Cause. The Congress have agreed to indemnify him from any Loss of Property he may sustain by acting as an officer in the Army, 2 but this I mention only to you at present &: the small Circle. If any should be disaffected to his Appointment pray use your utmost Endeavours to reconcile them to it. I am in great Haste. Your assured friend S. Adams RC (MHi) . J The date of this letter has been inferred from Adams’ opening statement on the appointment June 19 of Generals Schuyler and Putnam. JCC, 2:99. “Congress took this action on June 19. JCC, 2:98-99. For the split over Lee’s appointment within the Massachusetts delegation, see John Adams to James War ren, June 20, and to Cotton Tufts, June 21, 1775. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia June 20th. 1775 The Intelligence we almost Daily receive here being so far Distant from where the great Operations most likely will be, makes our deci sions somewhat perplexed and in many respects not so readily Ac-


[Page 569]
June 20, 1775 527 the hope of pacific measures that might avail something, but that hope has almost vanished. Some without Doors talk of sending some Body home. In my judgment ’tis the only step that affords the least glimmering of peace. It is thought Gen. Gage when the troops all ar rived, will be 11 or 12,000 strong. The Provincials now have about 18,000. It is supposed they will not attack but it is generally thought that Gage will. Indeed from all circumstances I think it probable, and dreadful slaughter there will be. I wish I could have entertained you more agreeably, but I fear this is the subject on which we must speak and write for some time to come. May Heaven protect us. Pray don’t fail mentioning the receipt of my letters. You do not in your last. Give my love to Peggy, and be assured that I remain, Most affection ately yours, Mat. Tilghman. MS not found; reprinted from The Collector 21 (April 1908) : 63-64. 'Two of the delegates mentioned are obviously Robert Goldsborough and John Hall. Since Samuel Chase, Thomas Johnson, and William Paca remained in Philadelphia, the “L” printed in this document may be a misreading of an "S” in the MS intended to designate Thomas Stone. George Washington to the Captains of Several Independent Companies in Virginia Gentlemen, Philadelphia, 20 June, 1775. I am now about to bid adieu to the companies under your respec tive commands, at least for a while. I have launched into a wide and extensive field, too boundless for my abilities, and far, very far, be yond my experience. I am called, by the unanimous voice of the Col onies, to the command of the Continental army; an honor I did not aspire to; an honor I was solicitous to avoid, upon a full conviction of my inadequacy to the importance of the service. The partiality of the Congress, however, assisted by a political motive, rendered my reasons, unavailing, and I shall to-morrow set out for the camp near Boston. I have only to beg of you, therefore, before I go, (especially as you did me the honor to put your companies under my direction, and know not how soon you may be called upon in Virginia for an exer tion of your military skill,) by no means to relax in the discipline of your respective companies. I have the honor to be, &c. MS not found; reprinted from George Washington, The Writings of George Washington, ed. Worthington C. Ford, 14 vols. (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1889-93), 2:489-90.


[Page 570]
528 June 20, 1775 George Washington to John A. Washington Dear Brother, Philadelphia June 20th 1775 I am now to bid adieu to you, & to every kind of domestick ease, for a while. I am Imbarked on a wide Ocean, boundless in its pros pect & from whence, perhaps, no safe harbour is to be found. I have been called upon by the unanimous Voice of the Colonies to take the i Command of the Continental Army—An honour I neither sought after, nor desired, as I am thoroughly convinced that it requires greater Abilities, and much more experience, than I am Master of, to conduct a business so extensive in its nature, and arduous in the exe cution; but the partiallity of the Congress, joind to a political motive, really left me without a Choice; and I am now Commissioned a Gen- erl. & Commander in Chief of all the Forces now raisd, or to be - raisd, for the defence of the United Colonies. That I may discharge the Trust to the Satisfaction of my Imployer, is my first wish—that I shall aim to do it, there remains as little doubt of. How far I may succeed is another point—but this I am sure of, that in the worst event I shall have the consolation of knowing (if I act to the best of my judgment) that the blame ought to lodge upon the appointers, not the appointed, as it was by no means a thing of my own seeking, or proceeding from any hint of my friends. I am at liberty to inform you, that the Congress, in a Committee, (which will I dare say, be agreed to when reported) have consented to a Continental Currency—have ordered two Million of Dollars to be struck for payment of the Troops, &c. and have voted 15,000 Men as a Continental Army—which number will be augmented, as the strength of the British Troops will be greater than was expected at the time of passing that vote. Genl. Ward, Genl. Lee, Genl. Schy- ler and Genl. Putnam are appointed Major Genls. under me—the Brigadier Genls. are not yet appointed—Majr. Gates Adjutant Genl. I expect to set out tomorrow for Boston & hope to be joind there in a little time by Ten Companies of Riflemen from this Province, Mary land, & Virginia—for other Articles of Intelligence, I shall refer you to the Papers, as the Printers are diligent in collecting every thing that is stirring. I shall hope that my Friends will visit, & endeavor to keep up the spirits of my Wife as much as they can, as my departure will, I know, be a cutting stroke upon her; and on this acct, alone, I have many very disagreeable sensations. I hope you &: my sister (although the distance is great) will find as much leisure this Summer, as to spend a little time at Mount Vernon. My sincere regards attend you both as also the little ones and am Dr Sir Yr most Affecte. Brother Go Washington


[Page 571]
June 21, 1775 RC (DLC) . 529 John Adams to Cotton Tufts Dr Sir Phyladelphia June 21. 1775 Major Mifflin goes in the Character of Aid de Camp to General Washington. I wish You 1 to be acquainted with him, because, he has great Spirit Activity, and Abilities, both in civil and military Life. He is a gentleman of Education, Family and Fortune. C[ushing] and H[ancock] and P[aine] have given us a great deal of Trouble, in the Election of Lee, and I expect will avail them selves of all the Whims and Prejudices, of our People. 2 We are like to have more trouble of the like kind in the choice of Brigadiers General. Old Pomroy must be the first. P[aine], to do him Justice, has renounced his Connections in this Instance. He de clares he cant and wont vote for him. I had rather vote for Prebble in his Bed. I expect our People when they come to know the Pay of the gener al officers and others, will grumble. Adams, Paine and I fought against it totis viribus—But in vain. It is amazingly high. But the Southern Genius’s think it vastly too low. 3 Farewell, John Adams RC (NHi) . 1 Cotton Tufts (1732-1815), Weymouth, Mass., physician, was first cousin and uncle of Abigail Adams. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:14. “For more information on the division within the Massachusetts delegation, see John Adams to James Warren, and Samuel Adams to Joseph Warren, June 20, 1775. “The pay schedules for general officers are in JCC, 2:93-94. John Adams to Joseph Warren Dr Sir, Phyldelphia June 21. 1775 This Letter I presume will be delivered into your own Hand by the General. He proposes to set out, tomorrow, for your Camp. God Speed him. Lee is Second Major General, Schuyler, who is to command at N. York is the third and Putnam the fourth. How many Brigadiers general we shall have, whether five, Seven or Eight, is not deter mined, nor who they shall be. One from N. Hampshire, one from R. Island, two from Connecticut!, one from N. York, and three from Massachusetts, perhaps. I am almost impatient to be at Cambridge. We shall maintain a


[Page 572]
530 June 21, 1775 good Army for you. I expect to hear of Grumbletonians, some from parsimonious and others from Superstitious Prejudices. But We do the best we can, and leave the Event. How do you like your Government? Does it make or remove Dif ficulties? I wish We were nearer to you. The Tories lie very low both here and at New York. The latter will very Soon be as deep as any Colony. We have Major Skeene a Prisoner, enlarged a little on his Parol. A very great Tool. I hope Govr Tryon, will be taken care of—but We find a great many Bundles of weak Nerves. We are obliged to be as delicate and soft and modest and humble as possible. Pray Stir up every Man, who has a Quill to write me. We want to know the Number of your Army—a list of your officers—a State of your Government—the Distresses of Boston—the Conditions of the Enemy &c. I am, Dr sir your Friend John Adams [P.S.] We have all recommended Billy Tuder for a Secretary to the General. Will he make a good one? This moment informed of Powder arrived here, 500 Blls they say. We must send it along to you. RC (MHi). Thomas Cushing to James Bowdoin, Sr. Dear Sir, Philadelphia, June 21, 1775. You 1 will doubtless have been informed that the Congress have unanimously appointed George Washington, Esqr, General & Com mander in Chief of the American forces. I beg leave to recommend him to your respectful notice. He is a compleat gentleman. He is sin- sible, amiable, virtuous, modest, & brave. I promise myself that your acquaintance with him will afford you great pleasure, and I doubt not his agreable behaviour & good conduct will give great satisfaction to our people of all denominations. General Lee accompanies him as Major General; I hope his appointment will be agreable to our peo ple, & that he will be received with all due respect. I am, with great regard, Your most humble servt. Thomas Cushing RC (MHi) ; reprinted from “The Bowdoin and Temple Papers,’’ Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 6th ser. 9 (1897) : 384-85. 1 James Bowdoin, Sr. (1726-90), Boston merchant, member of the Massachusetts Assembly, 1753-57, and Council, 1757-76, was later governor of Massachusetts, 1785-87. He was elected to the First Continental Congress but did not attend. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, ll:514r-50; and DAB.


[Page 573]
June 22, 1775 531 John Hancock to Dorothy Quincy Congress Room 21st June 1775. Notes the receipt of her letter, and wants to know if his gifts have suited her. Continues: “I verily think now we shall Adjourn to Connecticutt, as the Seriousness of the Times seems to Call for it. I shall let you know in Time, I hearti ly wish for it. ... I am greatly hurried, have Five hundred Com missions to Sign for the Officers of our Army. I am now going to Sign General Washington’s Commission. He will pass thro’ Fairfield in 4 or 5 days.” RC (CtY). Stephen Hopkins to Ruth Hopkins Philadelphia June 21, 1775. Reveals that since his arrival in Phila delphia in the middle of May “I have had an ill turn and two or three fits of the fever and ague, but am now well,” and expresses concern for his wife, who “has not been very well for several days and is now quite poorly.” 1 Concludes: “Col. Washington will set out from here in a day or two for New England, to take the command of the Conti nental army, of which he is appointed Commander-in-Chief. He will be accompanied by Gen. Lee, who also has a command in that army, which is taken into the pay of all America.” MS not found; abstracted from Essex Institute Historical Collections 2 (I860) : 118. 1 Nearly a month later Hopkins again reported that they were "still unwell.” Hopkins to Ruth Hopkins, July 16, 1775. NN. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Phila June 22 1775 Our patriotick General Washington will deliver this Letter to you. The Massachusetts Delegates have joyntly given to him a List of the Names of certain Gentlemen in whom he may place the greatest Confidence. 1 Among these you are one. 2 We have assurd him that he may rely upon such others as you may recommend to him. Excuse my writing to you so short a Letter and believe me to be Your affec tionate friend Sami Adams [P.S.] Major General Lee and Major Mifflin accompany the Gener al—A Triumvirate you will be pleasd with. Cannot our friend Joseph Greenleaf be employd to his own & his Countrys Benefit? 579-852 0 - 77 - 36 Vol. 1


[Page 581]
June 23, 1775 539 the Line of Conduct, which they have hitherto ingloriously pursued. You will write Me, in your next, the Reception which the Gentlemen met with in Connecticut, & what your Opinion is of them. I may not add as the post waits. 2 I am your most Affectionate Husband S Deane RC (CtHi) . 1 Deane undoubtedly wrote this letter on June 24. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Deane to Elizabeth Deane, June 26-27. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [June 23, 1775] Early this Morning, General Washington & other officers of the American Army set out for the Army Escorted by the Light Horse & the officers of Foot on Horse Back. I rode 3 miles with him 8c then turnd of[f] 8c rode to Point no Point, 7 a.m. Evening Dr. Smith preach’d to 2d Battallion at Christ’s Church an excellent Sermon, Evening Rain’d very Cool. MS (MHi) . Roger Sherman to David Wooster Dear Sir Philadelphia June 23d. 1775 The Congress having determined it necessary to keep up an Army for the Defence of America at the Charge of the United Colonies have Appointed the following General Officers: George Washington Esqr. Commander in Chief Majr. Generals Ward, Lee, Schuyler and Putnam; Brigadier Generals Pomroy, Montgomery, your Self— Heath, Spencer, Thomas, Majr. Sullivan, of New Hampshire, 8c one Green of Rhode Island. I am sensible that according to your former Rank you were intitled to the place of a Major General, and as one was to be appointed in Connecticut I heartily recommended you to the Congress. 1 I informed them of the Arrangment made by our As sembly, which I thought would be Satisfactory to have them continue in the Same Order, but as General Putnam’s fame was Spread Abroad and especially his successful enterprise at Noddles Island the account of which had Just arrived, it gave him a preference in the opinion of the Delegates in General So that his appoint [ment] was Unanimous among the Colonies. But from your known Abilities and firm attachment to the American cause we were very desirous of your continuance in the Army, and hope You will accept of the ap-


[Page 582]
540 June 23, 1775 pointment made by the Congress, I think the pay of a Brigadier is about 125 Dollars per Month. I Suppose a Commission is Sent to you by General Washington. We received Intelligence yesterday of an Engagement at Charlestown but have not had the particulars. All the Connecticut Troops are now taken into the Continental Army. I hope proper care will be taken to Secure the Colony against any Sudden Invasion, which must be at their own expense. I have nothing further that I am at Liberty to acquaint you with of the doings of the Congress but what have been made public. I would not have any thing published in the Papers that I write lest Something may inadvertantly escape me which ought not to be published. I Should be Glad if you would write to me every convenient opportu nity & inform me of Such Occurrences, and other matters as you may think proper and useful for me to be acquainted with. I am with great esteem Your humble Servant Roger Sherman P.S. The General Officers were Elected in the Congress not by Nomi nation but by Ballot. RC (MWA) . 1 In April the Connecticut assembly had commissioned Wooster as major gener al, with Spencer as brigadier general and Putnam as second brigadier general. Wooster responded to Congress’ appointment by returning the Continental com mission with his reply to Sherman of July 7: “I enclose with this the commission delivered to me by General Washington. You will see that somehow by mistake it was never dated. You will be good enough to deliver it to Mr. Hancock with my best compliments, and desire him not to return it. I have already a commission for the assembly of Connecticut.” Lewis Henry Boutell, The Life of Roger Sherman (Chicago: A. C. McClurg and Co., 1896), p. 88. Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. My dear Son Philadelphia 23rd June 1775 This is the first Time that I ever wrote to a Person whom I did not know whether to consider as one of this World or of the next; if Heaven has spared You, devote your Life to the Service of God & your Country; if You are wounded or a Prisoner let the Satisfaction that You are engaged in the Cause of God & Man support You; if neither let your Heart overflow with Gratitude to the great Preserver of Men; if You have been successful Humanity will direct the most generous Treatment of our vanquished Enemies at the same Time that Wisdom directs the pushing the Victory to the utmost; if You have met with a Check, Let a firm Reliance in the Justice of your Cause & the divine Protection give fresh Vigour rouse every generous Sentiment in the Army as far as your little Influence will extend & bravely exert every Nerve in Defence of your Country. We have im-


[Page 583]
June 24, 1775 541 mense Resources and nothing will be wanting to make you soon su perior to your Enemies. Major Mifflin Who does Me the Favor to deliver You this is wor thy of the greatest Regard as a Friend to his Country. I am afraid the common Cause here will suffer much by his Absence for he is almost the Soul of the City. May God of his infinite Mercy preserve You all. Your very affec tionate Father Sam Ward P.S. Time admits no more. The Congress has chosen your Brigadier Genl, as a continental brigadier Genl. & as such he is to be commissd. 1 You are all to re- cive continental Commissions from the General. RC (RHi) . Addressed: "To Capt. Samuel Ward of the Rhode Island Forces near Boston.” 1 Ward is here referring to Nathanael Greene (1742-86) , who at the age of 32 was the Continental Army’s youngest general officer. JCC, 2:103; and DAB. John Hancock to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen, Philadelphia 24th June 1775. By Order of the Congress I inclose you certain Resolves passed Yesterday, respecting those who were concerned in taking and gari- soning Crown Point and Ticonderoga. 1 As the Congress are of Opinion that the Employing the Green Mountain Boys in the American Army would be advantageous to the common Cause, as well on account of their Situation as of their Dis position and alertness, they are Desirous you should embody them among the Troops you shall raise. As it is Represented to the Con gress that they will not Serve under any Officers but such as they themselves Chuse, you are Desired to consult with General Schuyler, in whom the Congress are informed those People place a great Con fidence, about the Field Officers to be Set over them. 2 I am Gentlemen Your most Obedient humble Servt. John Hancock President RC (N) . Tr (DNA: PCC, item 40) . RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 For these resolves see JCC, 2:104-05. 2 This day Hancock also sent Gen. Philip Schuyler a brief note enclosing copies of both this letter to the New York Provincial Congress and the congressional resolves mentioned therein. NN.


[Page 584]
542 June 26, 1775 Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane Monday June 25th [i.e. 26th]. [Philadelphia June 26-27, 1775] I miss’d the Opportunity of sending the above. We are at present in the most uneasy of all Situations that of Suspence. News of a Bat tle is arrived, but The particulars are very Confused. I hear Capt. Chester was in the hottest part of it, & lost Three Men, write Me I pray You all the particulars. Tuesday Morning Nothing further has arrived. Genl. Sullivan sets off this Day for the Army. He is appointed a Brigadier, & is of New Hampshire. My last Lettr. from you was of the 10th inst & it is Now the 26th. My Complimts. to all Freinds, if my Brother fitts out his Vessel at all he cannot make too great dispatch. RC (CtHi) . A continuation of Deane to Elizabeth Deane, June 23, 1775. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia June 26th 1775 Yours per express, dated the 20th We received and are happy to find that every Measure within your Power for the Public good has been Uniformly pursued, while the Advice from the Congress has been rather as approving than Directing Your. Conduct. 1 You will By this express receive a Letter from the President informing you of the appointment of General Washington 8c other General Officers, and by Unanimous Order of the Congress expressing the high sense they retain of your important Services to the United Colonies, at this critical period. In the arrangement of General Officers, the Character of General Putnam commanded every Vote for his Major General Ship, An Honor peculiar to the Commander in Chief 8c himself. We hope that his Appointment will give no Umbrage to General Woos ter, or General Spencer as they are honorably provided for. We wish the prospect of a Supply of one Article was more favorable but from the large quantities in the West Indies hope for the best. The Article of Salt Petre is now under Consideration, and shall in a few Days be able to write at large on the Subject. The Account brought us by Mr Avery of the Action of the 17th has given us the greatest possable anxciety, as it leaves us in suspence 8c Uncertainty as to the event of so important an Action, and our re ceiving no further Advices has increased it greatly. By a Letter from Albany received Yesterday we are informed of the Defection of the Caughnawaga Indians effected by the presents


[Page 596]
554 June 28, 1775 or even to correct what I have written. Adieu my Friend S Adams [P.S.] The two inclosd Letters to Mrs Hooper and Mrs Inman are from Wm Hooper Esqr one of the Delegates from No Carolina who desires me to recommend them to your Care. RC (MHi) . 1 Adams was a member of the committee appointed to confer with Lee on June 19, but the specific sum of indemnification was not recorded in the journals. JCC, 2:98-99. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philadelphia June 28th. 1775. By Direction of this Congress I transmit you several Resolutions which pass’d Yesterday the Importance of which you will readily see, and the Necessity of your immediate attention to the Execution of them. 1 The Alteration of the Sentiments of the Congress since your Departure relative to making an Impression into Canada was occa sioned by a Letter they received from the Committee of Albany, a Copy of which you have inclosed. 2 I have by Order of Congress, wrote to Governor Trumbull upon the Subject of Money and Ammunition. The Congress have directed you to make Application to him, for which Letter is forwarded by Express, and you will please to give him as early Notice as possible, of what Supplies of both you may have occasion for. I have not Time to add, but to desire you will acknowledge the Receipt of the Resolutions. 1 am Sir Your most obedt. Servant John Hancock President [P.S.] You will observe as much Secrecy as the Nature of the Serv ice will admit. Tr (NN) . 1 See JCC, 2:109-10. 2 See Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:1048. John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia June 28. 1775 By Direction of the Congress I now Transmitt you severall Reso lutions pass’d yesterday, by which you will Observe they have Direct ed Major General Schuyler to Examine into the State of the Posts at


[Page 597]
June 28, 1775 555 Ticonderoga & Crown Point, and of the Troops Station’d there, as also to Enquire into the Disposition of the Canadians and Indians. You will likewise find they have Directed him to Take or destroy all Vessells, Boats or Floating Batteries prepar’d by Governor Carlton on or near the Waters of the Lakes, and to Take possession of St Johns 8c Montreal if he finds it practicable, 8c not Disagreeable to the Canadians. The Alteration of the Sentiments of Congress since your Departure relative to making an Impression into Canada was Occa sion’d by a Letter they Receiv’d from the Committee of Albany, a Copy of which you have Inclos’d. They gave their Directions upon these important matters directly to Major General Schuyler, as he would be near the Posts above mention’d, and as their being Sent to you would Occasion such Delay as might prove Detrimental to the Service. I Send you the Remainder of the Commissions Sign’d, should you have Occasion for more, please to Acquaint me, 8c they shall be im mediately Transmitted you. Brigr. Genl. Gates not yet Arriv’d in the City, I Expect him to morrow, and shall Deliver him his Commissions, and promote his Joining you as soon as possible. Inclos’d is a Letter from him. With my best wishes for every personal Happiness, and Success in all your undertakings, I have the Honor to be, Sir Your most Obedt Huml. serv. John Hancock President RC (DLC). Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Hond. Sir Philadelphia 28 June 1775 Yesterday the Congress ordered Major Skeen (who has some time been Confined here within certain limits) to be sent to Hartford and confined to the limits of that Town on his parole of honor, not to de part nor hold correspondence with our Enemies, or Meddle in politi cal Affairs. Also a resolve was passed to request your Honor on be half of the Colony to Supply General Schuyler with such sums of Money, and Quantities of Ammunition as he may apply for, and can be furnished by the Colony. 1 It is supposed that he wont have occa sion for more than £20,000 in Bills of Credit of our Colony, if so much, to be repaid by the Continent. We were not able to Inform what some of Money was in our Treasury but thought it probable he might be furnished with what is necessary. I am most of all con cerned about a Supply of Gun Powder our Colony have taken Such an Active part, that I should not think it strange if Some Attack should be made upon it, and it wont be safe to be destitute of Am-


[Page 598]
556 June 28, 1775 munition. I am affraid that our stores are two much exhausted al ready. Care has been taken by our Enemies to prevent our being supplyed [fey] the Dutch or Danes, in the West Indies. It is probable General Schuyler may indertake some important enterprise which I wish to have the Colony afford him all possable Assistance. I wish to be informed of the arrival of any Supplies of Powder in any of the New England Governments. I dont know whither your Honr has been informed who are appointed General Officers in the Continental Army. All Officers below the rank of a Brigadier are left to the appointment of the Several Colonies but their Commissions to be signed by the President of this Congress. The Congress have ap pointed four Major Generals viz, Artemus Ward, Charles Lee, Philip Schuyler and Israel Putnam; and Eight Brigadiers viz Colo Pomroy Colo Montgomery of New York, General Wooster, Colo Heath, Colo Spencer, Colo Thomas of Massachusetts, Major Sullivan of New Hampshire, Mr Green Rhode Island. They were Elected by Ballot in the order above. We informed who were appointed in Connecticut and in what Or der, and the Rank they had before Sustained in the Army, but Gen eral Putnam had rendred himself famous by his Intrepidity and espe cially in the late Action at Noddle’s Island so that the Election was unanimous. An Ajutant General is appointed from Virginia. I forget his Name. The Chief General is allowed 3 Aid De Camps and each Major General 2. Their pay is 33 Dollars per Month, the Persons to be appointed by the Generals respectively. I have not seen all the Letters wrote by Colo Dyer & Mr Dean to your Honour. As I lodge at some Distance from them we have but little leisure to confer togath- er. The Congress sits from 9 in the Morning to 4 or 5 and sometimes 6 in the Afternoon. I have not been absent when the Congress were on Business So much as ten Minutes during the Session. The contro versy between Great Britain and the Colonies has been carried to greater extremity than I expected but I have now no expectation that the Ministry will relax their Measures unless they are convinced that they cannot carry them into Execution. The Salvation of the Colonies under Divine Providence depends upon their united and Vigorous application to Arms, that is the only conciliatory Plan that appears to me likely to prove Successful, or at least without which no other will have any effect. I am Your Honors Most Obedient humble Servant Roger Sherman Tr (Ct) . 1 JCC, 2:108, 110.


[Page 599]
June 29, 1775 557 Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Philadelphia June 29th. 1775 I hope before this, You have seen Genl. Washington, & Friends, on their Way, in health, & spirit. The Bearer of this is General Gates of Virginia a Gentleman, of great experience in Warr, and who leaves an affluent, & independant situation for the Service of these Colonies. 1 If he calls on You, you will receive him with the respect due to his Character. He is appointed Adjutant General to rank as Brigadier General. I have no Time To Write Mr. Webb a particular Letter, Wrote him last Night on Business. My respects to him & the whole of both Families. You will introduce him to the General, and ask him to give him directions on the road & assist as farr as possible in forwarding his Journey. I am my dear your’s S Deane [P.S.] The Generals name is Horatio Gates—an Englishman served as a Major in the Regular Army thro’ last Warr. Anecdote. The Rifle Men are raising fast. A Commission is given to one Mr. Cresop to command from Virginia. He being absent when it Arrived, his Father the brave old Colonel Cresop, 2 Now Ninety Two years of Age took the Command, and determines to join the Army, at their head, if his Son, should not arrive in Season. I saw a Lettr. from him this Morning which exceeded any thing I ever read. I will if possible get a Copy. Remember my Caution as to my Lettrs. RC (CtHi) . 1 Gates was also the bearer of a personal letter Deane wrote this day to his stepson, Samuel B. Webb, who was in the Second Regiment of Connecticut troops at Cambridge. Webb, Correspondence (Ford), 1:72-73. a This may have been in reference to Col. Thomas Cresap (1702-90) , pioneer of western Maryland, and his son Michael (1742-75) . The latter was commissioned captain of the 1st company of Maryland Rifles, June 21, 1775, but died of a chronic illness a few months later. DAB. Delaware Delegates to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 29th. 1775. The Bearer hereof, Mr. John Parke, has taken his degrees of Bachelor and Master of Arts in the College in this City, and studied the law under one of us (Mr. McKean) for almost four years. 1 He is an Ensign, in the 2d. Battalion of the Militia here, and is desirous of serving his country as a Volunteer under you. He has frequently drawn his pen and is now resolved to draw his sword in support of


[Page 600]
558 June 29, 1775 the American cause. We therefore beg leave to recommend him par ticularly to your countenance and favor and hope you will distinguish him agreeable to his merit as soon as an oppertunity of promotion presents. 2 We wish you health, success, happiness and every blessing Heaven can bestow, and are, Sir, Your most obedient humble servants Caesar Rodney Tho McKean RC (DLC). Written by Rodney and signed by McKean and Rodney. 1 John Parke (1754-89) , lawyer and poet from Kent County, Del., was appointed assistant quartermaster general of the army at Cambridge in August 1775. DAB. a A letter recommending Parke was also written by John Hancock to Elbridge Gerry. Hancock described Parke as “a gentleman of reputation here and firmly attached to the American cause,” and urged Gerry to “introduce him to the connection of our friends; you know who I mean.” Hancock to Elbridge Gerry, June 29, 1775, Magazine of American History 12 (July-December 1884) : 460. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 29th June 1775 Nothing material has occurred since you left this place, except the imperfect accounts we have of the Charlestown battle, which upon the whole seems to have nothing unfavorable to our great cause, but the loss of Dr. Warren. To an infant Country, it is loss indeed, to be deprived of wise, virtuous, and brave Citizens. I hope however, still to hear, that our Enemies have lost Characters very useful to them. We received the account of this engagement late on Saturday evening last, and a few of us immediately applied to, and prevailed with the Committee of this City, to dispatch 90 odd quarter Casks of powder to the Camp, which I hope will arrive safe and in good time. We are this day informed in Congress that the six Nations and Canada Indians are firmly disposed to observe a strick neutrality, and I think we shall endeavor to cultivate their friendship. The Con gress has been engaged these two days about the mutiny and military regulations, and at last we shall adopt those of Massachusetts with very few alterations. 1 You will see that we have again taken up the business of entering Canada, and have left the propriety of it to Gener. Schuyler. If it can be done, in a manner agreeable to the Cana dians, it will certainly shut the door against dangerous tampering with the Indians on all our Western frontiers. Nothing has yet been done about a Military Hospital, 2 and I suppose we shall wait for your return of the state of the Army. Dr. Shippen says that three young Gentlemen here perfectly compitent, will be ready when called on, to serve in the capacity of Surgeons.


[Page 603]
June 1775 561 Virginia Delegate to Unknown [Philadelphia, June 30, 1775] You will see that our enemies had little to boast of, for being able to force our troops from Bunker’s hill. It is no wonder they did so, with superior numbers, ships of war, floating batteries, and field artil lery. Their loss has certainly been very great, and now they dare not go from under protection of their ships cannon. Our army now be fore Boston amounts to about 15,000 effective men, commanded by generals Washington, Ward, Lee, Putnam, Gates of Berkeley, with several brigadiers. In New York, we have now about 4000; and they are to be increased to 5000, under the immediate command of gener al Schuyler. The Canadians absolutely refuse to join Carleton, and the Indians assure us they will observe a strict neutrality. Thus, we seem to be well secured in the north against ministerial madness. A faithful observance of the association with us will surely rouse the sleeping lion ere long, and bring exemplary punishment on the most abandoned ministry that ever abused mankind and disgraced human nature. Sir William Meredith has cheated the Liverpool-men, and they are sending out goods as usual; but all their ships, yet arrived, have been sent back. It will be necessary, however, to keep a good look-out, to prevent their slipping in through other doors less atten tively watched than this place, and Charlestown in South-Carolina. We are here confined to a constant and painful attendance on business, from 9 in the morning, to 4, 5, and sometimes 6, in the af ternoon; and, what is more, have not the most distant prospect of ris ing yet. We have sent to Virginia and Maryland for two companies of ri fle-men from each province, and six from this, to join the army be fore Boston. Two millions of dollars are ordered to be struck, upon the faith of the twelve united colonies, for the payment of the conti nental army. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Purdie) , July 21, 1775, “Supplement.” Printed under the heading: "Extract of a letter from one of the Virginia delegates, dated Philadelphia, June 30." Benjamin Franklin’s Vindication [June-July? 1775] 1 Forasmuch as the enemies of America in the Parliament of Great Britain, to render us odious to the nation, and give an ill impression of us in the minds of other European powers, have represented us as unjust and ungrateful in the highest degree; asserting, on every occa-


[Page 610]
568 July 1, 1775 RC (CtHi) . 1 See Deane to Philip Schuyler, July 3, 1775. a See JCC, 2:97. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philadela. July 1st. 1775 I duly Rec’d your Letters of 29 8c 30th ulto. (that Refer’d to by you of 28th not yet come to hand) and immediately laid them before the Congress, in Consequence of wch. I have their Directions to Transmitt you their Resolution, whereby you will observe that Genl Wooster is order’d with the Troops under his Command to Remain at New York, and that you Raise as many of the Green Mountain Boys 8c others in the Vicinity of Ticonda. as will be necessary to Exe cute the Resolutions of Congress I heretofore Transmitted you. 1 You will please particularly to Notice that altho’ the Congress have given you peremptory Instructions to Take or Destroy all the Boats Ves sells 8cc preparing by Gov Carlton on or near the Lake, yet with re spect to your proceedg. to Montreal 8c Quebeck such Circumstances are pointed out by their Resolution which they Expect you [to] be fully possess’d of previous to your undertakg the prosecution of that Expedition. I inclose you the Arrangement of the officers with their pay so far as has been determin’d by Congress, as soon as the whole is Settled you shall be made Acquainted; as to the Allowance of provisions, that at present must be left to your Discretion, untill you hear further from this Congress or the General on that Subject. I am to inform you that besides the Quantity of powder Sent from Connectict. to Ticonderoga, the Committee of this City by Desire of Congress yesterday Sent forward 50 quarter Casks of Powder to that place. Any Resolutions of Congress that take place respectg you I shall be Carefull immediately to transmitt you. I am Sir Your most Obedt. Servant. John Hancock president. [P.S.] If you are in Want of any more Commissions, let me know & they shall be sent, none are to be issued, but such as go from this Congress. RC (PHC). Tr (NN) . RC incomplete; signature and postscript supplied from Tr. ’See JCC, 2:123-24.


[Page 611]
July 1, 1775 569 Richard Henry Lee to Robert Carter Dear Sir: Philadelphia, 1 July, 1775. We had the news of Williamsburg by Mr Jefferson. It seems in deed as if Lord Dunmore was taking true pains to incur the censure of the whole reasonable world, conceiving, I suppose, that it is the most likely way to please his masters in the administration. The en closed printed hand-bill will give you an account of a very bloody en gagement between a detachment of the continental army and the ministerial forces from Boston. 1 Our enemies are compelled to re main under cover of their ship’s cannon. Should they come out we have 15,000 men under command of Generals Washington, Ward, Lee, Putnam and others, ready to give a good account of them. The ministerial plan against New York we shall oppose with 5,000 men, under the immediate command of Gen. Schuyler. The Canadians (20 noblesse excepted) have peremptorily refused to join Gov. Car leton, and when he has warmly solicited the Indians to take up the hatchet against us, they tell him it is buried too deep, they cannot find it. To us they promise a strict neutrality. Things being thus se cured where our enemies proposed to make the deepest impression, it remains with us in the middle and southern colonies to take care that the association be faithfully observed, attend to military discipline, to the making of salt-petre for future supplies. These things, with the necessary application to manufactures, will prevent the powers of darkness from prevailing against us. . . . We just hear that thirteen transports are arrived at New York with about 2,000 soldiers and on their being ordered round to Boston, they meet and swear they will not go there to fight against their friends. Gen. Howe, who commanded the ministerial troops in the late battle, we have our accounts, is since dead of his wounds. He was, by much, the best officer they had. He came on this business much against his judgment, and died fighting against the country, that in honor of his brother’s virtue, erected a splendid monument to his memory in Westminster Abbey. The Congress, I fear, will sit a great part of the summer. Business crowds, fast upon us, and the public here seems unwilling we should get up before it is known how the battle of Lexington was received in England. Yours obediently, Richard Henry Lee. MS not found; reprinted from extract in The Collector 2 (September 1888) : 9. Recipient identified in Stan V. Henkels Catalog, no. 663 (April 1891) , item 940. 1 Perhaps Elijah Hide’s account of the June 17 battle at Charlestown that was printed in broadside form by Francis Bailey of Lancaster, Pa., on June 26, 1775. Charles Evans, American Bibliography, 12 vols. (Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34) , no. 13857; and Am. Archives, 4th ser 2:1018-19.


[Page 613]
July 2, 1775 571 Congress for the gunpowder requested by the delegates, Georgia having recently acquired more than six tons from a captured British schooner. To this end the Council of Safety sent William Henry Drayton and Miles Brewton to Savannah, where they succeeded in persuading the Provincial Congress to provide them with five thousand pounds of gunpowder, which they dispatched by ship to Philadel phia on July 21. On August 1 payment of $293 to the South Carolina delegates for gunpowder was approved “by order of Congress." JCC, 2:237; William Bell Clark et al., eds., Naval Documents of the American Revolution (Washington: Depart ment of the Navy, 1964- ) , 1:856, 931-32; and John Drayton, ed., Memoirs of the American Revolution, from its Commencement to the Year 1776, Inclusive; as Relating to the State of South-Carolina: and Occasionally Refering to the States of North-Carolina and Georgia, 2 vols. (Charleston, S. C.: A. E. Miller, 1821) , 1:271-73. a MS blank. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada July 2 1775. The Messrs. Hall of Maryland are just now arrivd here from Cam bridge which place they left the 22 Ult. They have brot us but one Letter, viz from our good Friend Coll Palmer. I am glad to hear that the Number of killed & wounded on the side of the Enemy amounts to so many more than 1000. I dare say you would not grudge them every last Hill near you upon the same Terms. A Gentleman of New York the Son of Mr. Phillip Livingston one of the Delegates from that place writes him that the Pilot who brot in the Nautil[us] Ship of War lately from Boston reports that he heard the officers on board frequently lament the Death of General Howe. If this be true I re- joyce in it, for that Man deservd to die for his Ingratitude. Indeed my Friend, your Cause here suffers by our not receiving more frequent and particular Accounts from you. The Delegates from the other three Colonies have better Intelligence of what is doing near Boston than your own. We know Nothing of the Disposi tion of the Army, not even who commanded in the late important Engagement. I know your hands are full of Business, but may not a Committee be appointed to collect and send to us material Intelli gence. There is a regular Post but we hardly think it worth while to send a Servant to the office for Letters. I have a thousand things to say to you which I cannot write. Did I not flatter my self that we were doing essential Service to the com mon Cause, I would not tarry here a Moment. Some Matters are agreed to and many more talkd of which I know you will be pleasd with—but let me tell you that were you here your Patience wd be tried. It is not in the Power of Man to create Events. Our Business is to foresee as far as we are able prepare for and improve them. It is my opinion that great ones will be produced in a short time. Perhaps


[Page 619]
July 3, 1775 577 Joseph Hewes


[Page 627]
July 5, 1775 585 be raised, and kept in pay by and at the joint Expence of the Twelve united English Colonies of North-America (Philadelphia: William and Thomas Bradford, 1775). JCC, 2:111-23. Thomas Jefferson to George Gilmer [July 5, 1775] The battle of Charlestown I expect you have heard, but perhaps not so as you may depend on. The provincials sustained two attacks in their trenches, and twice repulsed the ministerial forces, with im mense slaughter. The third attack, however, being made with fixed bayonets, the provincials gave ground, retired a little way, and rallied ready for their enemy; but they, having been pretty roughly handled, did not choose to pursue. We lost between 60 and 70 killed, and about 150 wounded. The enemy had 1400 killed and wounded, of whom were about 500 killed. Major Pitcairn was among the slain; an event at which every one rejoices, as he was the commanding-officer at Lexington, first fired his own piece, and gave command to fire. On our side doctor Warren fell, a man immensely valued to the north. The New Englanders are fitting out privateers, with which they ex pect to be able to scour the seas and bays of every thing below ships of war; and may probably go to the European coasts, to distress the British trade there. The enterprising genius and intrepidity of these people are amazing. They are now intent on burning Boston, in order to oust the regulars; and none are more eager for it than those who have escaped out, and who have left their whole property in it: So that, their rage has got the better of every interested principle. Nobody now entertains a doubt but that we are able to cope with the whole force of Great Britain, if we are but willing to exert our selves. It will indeed be expensive, extremely expensive; but people must lay aside views of building up fortunes during these troubles, and set apart a good proportion of their income to secure the rest. As our enemies have found we can reason like men, so now let us show them we can fight like men also. The government of Pennsylvania have raised £35,000 to put their country in a posture of defence. There appear to be as many soldiers here as men. Powder is the great want, and towards having plenty of that nothing is wanting but salt petre. The Congress have directed 20,000 men to be raised immediately, the greater part of which is already raised. Two millions of dollars also are voted. This is all I am at liberty to tell of their proceedings. As to the time of their rising, it is totally beyond conjecture, express es after expresses daily coming from the northward; and the machina tions of the people in office, on other parts of the continent, keep us


[Page 628]
586 July 5, 1775 from making any progress in the main business. At the same time, such an impatience for home seems to possess us all, that nothing keeps the Congress together but the visible certainty that, till our mil itary proceedings are got into a good train, their separation would endanger the common cause greatly. If things cannot be got into such a state soon as they may be left, we must petition to be exchanged, for fresh hands, that we may return to our families. P.S. After folding up my letter, we received an account, from an undoubted hand, that the mortality among the wounded regulars has been so great, that the killed on the spot, and those who have died of their wounds, make up 1000. The reason of this is, that they have been long confined to salt provisions, having not so much as a vege table, a drop of milk, or even any fresh meat. MS not found; reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:185-86, where the recipient and the reply to this letter are also discussed. Virginia Delegate to Unknown [Philadelphia, July 5, 1775] The last accounts from Boston, and which are pretty Authentick, inform us, that Gage lost in the late battle, of killed upon the spot, and since dead of their wounds, 1000 men, and that 500 are ill in the hospital of their wounds. General Howe is not killed, as was sup posed; but there is the greatest reason to believe General Burgoyne is among the slain, as he has certainly not been seen since the battle. In Boston, they give out, that he is gone home. Another battle is soon expected; and our people say, they are ready to give a good account of the enemy. We have not the smallest appearance yet of the Congress rising. On the contrary, business mul tiplies on us every day; And many insist, that we shall not rise whilst the armies keep the field. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Purdie), July 21, 1775, “Supplement.” The extract follows another unidentified Virginia delegate letter, dated June 30, 1775, and appears under the heading: "Extract of another letter, from the same gentleman, dated Philadelphia, July 5." John Adams to William Tudor Dear Sir Phyladelphia July 6. 1775 I have at last the Pleasure of acknowledging your Favour of the 26 June. I have mourned, week after week, the loss of all my old Corre-


[Page 629]
July 6, 1775 587 spondents, in a Course of Time when they were of more Conse quence to me and to my Errand, than ever. What is become of Tu dor? Where is Tudor? Is he gone to England? Is he sick? Is he afraid to write? Is he gone into the Army, and become so intent on War with his Enemies, as to forget his Friends? These were Questions very often in our Mouths. But the Past shall be forgiven upon Condition, that you keep an exact Journal of occurrencies from day to day for the future and transmit it to me by every oppertunity. We have Spent this whole Day in debating Paragraph by Para graph, a Manifesto as some call it, or a Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of our taking up Arms. 1 It will be printed Tomorrow, and shall be transmitted as Soon as possible. It has Some Mercury in it, and is pretty frank, plain, and clear. If Lord North dont compli ment every Mothers Son of us, with a Bill of Attainder, in Exchange for it, I shall think it owing to Fear. Surely, upon the Same Principle that he has ordered or suffered Gage, to proclaim Adams and Hancock unpardonable, he must order all of Us to be declared so—for all have now gone further than they ever did. The military Spirit in this City, would agreably Surprise you. It breaks out into a great Variety of Forms—Rifle Men, Indians, Light Infantry, light Horse, Highlanders, with their Plaid and Bag Pipes, and German Hussars. This Morning a Person came to the Door of the State House where the Congress Sitts, in all his Pontificalibus. I went out to see him. His Errand was to shew us the Dress, and Armour of a German Hussar. A Stout Man, with an high large Cap on his Head, with a Streamer flowing from it down to his Waistband: a deaths Head painted on the Front of it. A large Hussar Cloak, ornamented with gold Cord, Lace, and Fringe. A Scarlet Waist coat underneath, with gold Button holes and yellow Mettal Buttons, double breasted—a light Musquet, Slung over his shoulder, and a Turkish Sabre or Scyme- tar by his side, longer, better fortified and more conveniently shaped than our Highland broad Sword. His Horse, well bridled, Saddled— Pistals in gold Holsters. An active Fellow, Slinging his Musket and Sabre about and mounting with great agility—taken all together the most formidable military Figure, I ever Saw. It Seems he has a great Inclination to See, Burgoines, light Horse. He tells us, he can inlist immediately 50 or 60, German Veterans who have long Served in Germany, and are as desirous of going in the Character of Hussars, or Troopers, as he is. 2 This would Set before our New England People, a fine Example for their Imitation: But what is of more Moment, it would engage the Affections of the Germans, of whom there are many in N. York,


[Page 630]
588 July 6, 1775 Pensylvania, Maryland and other Colonies, more intensely in the Cause of America. What will be done, I know not. Let me intreat you, as you love your Country, and your Friend write me by every oppertunity. My Compliments to your Father and Mother and all Friends. John Adams RC (MHi) . J Sce JCC, 2:127-57. The authorship and the evolution of the text of the “Declaration” has been discussed at length in Julian P. Boyd, “The Disputed Authorship of the Declaration on the Causes and Necessity for Taking Up Arms, 1775,” PMHB 74 (January 1950) : 51-73; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:187-219. 2 For further comments on this incident, see Adams’ second letter to James Warren this date. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Phyladelphia June [i.e. July] 6th. 1775 Every Line I receive from you, gives me great Pleasure, and is of vast Use to me in the public Cause. Your Letters were very usefull to me last Fall. Your Character became thus known, as much esteemed. The few Letters I have reed from you this Time, have increased the Desire of more, and Some other Gentlemen who happened to know you, particularly Governor Hopkins and Ward of Rhode Island have confirmed every good opinion which had been formed. I must intreat you to omit no opportunity of Writing and to be as particular as pos sible. Want of frequent Communication and particular Intelligence led us into the unfortunate Arrangement of General officers, which is likely to do so much Hurt. We never reed the most distant Intimation of any Design to new model your Army; and indeed Some of Us, were obliged to give up our own Judgments meerly from Respect to what We took to be the Arrangement of our provincial Congress. I have made it my Business ever Since I heard of this Error, to wait upon Gentn. of the Congress at their Lodgings, and else where to let them into the secret and contrive a Way to get out of the Difficulty, which I hope we shall effect. 1 I rejoice to hear of the great military Virtues and Abilities of Gen eral Thomas. Alas poor Warren! Dulce et decorum est pro Patria mori. Yet I regret his Appointment to such a Command. For God Sake my Friend let us be upon Guard, against too much Admiration of our greatest Friends. President of the Congress, Chairman of the Com mittee of Safety, Major General and Chief Surgeon of the Army, was too much for Mortal, and This accumulation of Admiration upon one Gentleman, which among the Hebrews was called Idolatry, has


[Page 631]
July 6, 1775 589 deprivd us forever of the Services of one of our best and ablest Men. We have not a sufficient Number of such Men left to be prodigal of their Lives in future. Every Brain is at Work to get Powder and salt Petre. I hope We shall Succeed: but We must be very Oeconomical of that Article. We must not use large Cannon, if We can possibly avoid it. This Letter will go by two fighting Quakers. Mr Stephen Collins [and John] Kaighn. The first is the most hospitable benevolent [man] alive. He is a Native of Lynn—a Brother of Ezra Collins of Boston, 8c—is rich, and usefull here. The last has been the Instru ment of raising a Quaker Company in this City, who behave well, and look beautifully in their Uniforms. My Love, Duty, Respect 8cc where due. Adieu John Adams [P.S.] Secret and confidential, as the Saying is. 2 The Congress is not yet So much alarmed as it ought to be. There are Still hopes, that Ministry and Parliament will immediately receed as Soon as they hear of the Battle of Lexington, the Spirit of New York 8c Phyladelphia, the Permanency of the Union of the Colonies 8cc: I think they are much deceived and that We shall have nothing but Deceit and Hostility, Fire, Famine, Pestilence and Sword, from Administration and Parliament. Yet the Colonies like all Bodies of Men must and will have their Way and their Humour, and even their Whims. These opinions of Some Colonies which are founded I think in their Wishes and Passions, their Hopes and Fears, rather than in Reason and Evidence will give a whimsical Cast to the Proceedings of this Congress. You will see a Strange Oscilation between Love and Hatred, between War and Peace. Preparations for War, and Nego- ciations for Peace. We must have a Petition to the King and a deli cate Proposal of Negociation 8cc. This Negociation I dread like Death. But it must be proposed. We cant avoid it. Discord and total Disunion would be the certain Effect of a resolute Refusal to petition and negociate. 3 My Hopes are that Ministry will be afraid of Nego ciation as well as We, and therefore refuse it. If they agree to it, We shall have occasion for all our Wit, Vigilance and Virtue to avoid being deceived, wheedled, threatened or bribed out of our Freedom. If we Strenously insist upon our Liberties, as I hope and am pretty sure We shall, however, a Negotiation, if agreed to, will terminate in Nothing. It will effect nothing. We may possibly gain Time and Pow der and Arms. You will see an Address to the People of G. Britain, another to those of Ireland, and another to Jamaica. You will also see a Spirited Manifesto. We ought immediately to dissolve all Ministerial Tyrannies, and Custom houses, set up Gov ernments of our own, like that of Connecticutt in all the Colonies,


[Page 632]
590 July 6, 1775 and confederate together like an indissoluble Band, for mutual de fence and open our Ports to all Nations immediately. This is the sys tem that your Friend has aimed at promoting from first to last; But the Colonies are not yet ripe for it. A Bill of Attainder, &c may soon ripen them. RC (MHi) . Adams had mistakenly written June in the dateline, but the contents o£ the letter indicate that it was written in July. 'John Thomas (1724-76) threatened to resign when William Heath, his junior in the Massachusetts service, was ranked above him in the brigadier generals’ list. On July 19, Congress promoted Thomas to Seth Pomeroy’s spot as first brigadier general. JCC, 2:191; Allen French, The First Year of the American Revolution (Boston and New York: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1934), pp. 295, 304-6, 753-54; and DAB. 3 Adams wrote this postscript in a small hand, in a narrow column of a separate sheet of paper, and enclosed it with the larger letter to Warren. 3 Adams recalled these divisions in his autobiography, where his most bitter comments centered on the Petition to the King. “This Measure of Imbecility, the second Petition to the King embarrassed every Exertion of Congress: it occasioned Motions and debates without End for appointing Committees to draw up a declaration of the Causes, Motives, and Objects of taking Arms, with a view to obtain decisive declarations against Independence &c. In the Mean time the New England Army investing Boston, the New England Legislatures, Congresses and Conventions, and the whole Body of the People, were left, without Munitions of War, without Arms, Cloathing, Pay or even Countenance and Encouragement.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:321. John Adams to James Warren Dr sir Phyladelphia June [i.e. July] 6th 1775 I have this Moment Sealed a Letter to you which is to go by my hospitable, honest, benevolent Friend Stephen Collins. But, I have several Particulars to mention to you, which are omitted in that Let ter. Ten Companies of expert Riflemen have been ordered already, from the 3 Colonies of P [ennsylvania], M [aryland], & V [irginia]. Some of them have marched, under excellent officers. We are told by Gentlemen here that these Riflemen are Men of Property and Fami ly, some of them of independent Fortunes, who go from the purest Motives of Patriotism and Benevolence into this service. I hope they will have Justice done them and Respect shewn them by our People of every Rank and order. I hope also that our People will learn from them the Use of that excellent Weapon a Rifled barrell’d Gun. A few Minutes past, a curious Phenomenon appeared at the Door of our Congress. A German Hussar, a veteran in the Wars of Ger many, in his Uniform, and on Horse back, a forlorn Cap upon his Head, with a Streamer waiving from it half down to his Waistband, with a Deaths Head painted in Front a beautiful Hussar Cloak orna-


[Page 636]
594 July 6, 1775 Wheather they will want more, or Not you will be the best Judges but we fear that the Congress will not think of taking more into pay from Connecticut than Six Thousand. We should think that a Draught of Minute Men, to be under immediately on Marching would be a good Regulation, and what will undoubtedly be agreeable to the Congress. Those provinces are now at a great expence with their Militia, and this in perticular their Assembly have come into resolutions (which we will procure, and send you in Our Next) for putting this Province, into the best possable state of Defence. There is nothing from London than the 24th of May. With the greatest truth, and regard, Subscribe for my Self and Col- leages, Your honors most Obedient and Very humble Servant Silas Deane Tr (Ct) . 1 The reading of Trumbull’s letters is not recorded in the journals. John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia July 6th, 1775 The Congress have thought proper to Order Philip Skene Esqr. Lieutenant Govr. of Crown Point and Ticonderoga together with one Mr. [ ] Lundy who appear to have intentions Inimical to the Liberty of America, to be sent to Hartford in your Colony, there to be confined on their Parole within such limits as your honor shall point out to them. 1 The Safety of America requiring that these men Should not be suf fered to go at large the Congress rely on your Honour, that you will take Measures to have the Orders of Congress Strictly Observed. It is left to you, Sir to settle what may be allowd for their support 8c expences, while they are in confinement for the payment of which the Congress will provide. By order Congress I am Sr Your obedient humbbl Servant John Hancock President Tr (Ct) . 'See JCC, 2:126-27. Henry Middleton to Arthur Middleton My dear Son, Philadelphia July 6th. 1775. I have just time to acquaint you 1 that I have sent under the care of


[Page 644]
602 July 7, 1775 from our loving Mother Country, but Cruelties more abominable than those which are practiced by the Savage Indians. The account you give me of the Numbers slain on the side of our Enemies, is affecting to Humanity, altho it is a glorious Proof of the Bravery of our Worthy Countrymen. Considering all the Disadvan tages under which they fought, they really exhibited Prodigies of Val our. Your Description of the Distresses of the worthy Inhabitants of Boston, and the other Sea Port Towns, is enough to melt an Heart of stone. Our Consolation must be this, my dear, that Cities may be re built, and a People reduced to Poverty, may acquire fresh Property: But a Constitution of Government once changed from Freedom, can never be restored. Liberty once lost is lost forever. When the People once surrender their share in the Legislature, and their Right of defending the Limitations upon the Government, and of resisting every Encroachment upon them, they can never regain it. The Loss of Mr. Mathers Library, which was a Collection, of Books and Manuscripts made by himself, his Father, his Grandfa ther, and Greatgrandfather, and was really very curious and valu able, is irreparable. The Family picture you draw is charming indeed. My dear Nabby, Johnny, Charly and Tommy, I long to see you, and to share with your Mamma the Pleasures of your Conversation. I feel myself much obliged to Mr. Bowdoin, Mr. Wibirt, and the two Families you mention, for their Civilities to you. My Compli ments to them. Does Mr. Wibirt preach against Oppression, and the other Cardinal Vices of the Times? Tell him the Clergy here, of ev ery Denomination, not excepting the Episcopalian, thunder and light en every sabbath. They pray for Boston and the Massachusetts— they thank God most explicitly and fervently for our remarkable Suc cesses—they pray for the American Army. They seem to feel as if they were among you. You ask if every Member feels for Us? Every Member says he does—and most of them really do. But most of them feel more for themselves. In every Society of Men, in every Clubb, I ever yet saw, you find some who are timid, their Fears hurry them away upon ev ery Alarm—some who are selfish and avaricious, on whose callous Hearts nothing but Interest and Money can make Impression. There are some Persons in New York and Philadelphia, to whom a ship is dearer than a City, and a few Barrells of flower, than a thousand Lives—other Mens Lives I mean. You ask, can they reallize what We suffer? I answer No. They cant, they dont—and to excuse them as well as I can, I must confess I should not be able to do it, myself, if I was not more acquainted with it by Experience than they are.


[Page 645]
July 7, 1775 603 I am grieved for Dr. Tufts’s ill Health: but rejoiced exceedingly at his virtuous Exertions in the Cause of his Country. I am happy to hear that my Brothers were at Grape Island and be haved well. My Love to them, and Duty to my Mother. It gives me more Pleasure than I can express to learn that you sus tain with so much Fortitude, the Shocks and Terrors of the Times. You are really brave, my dear, you are an Heroine. And you have Reason to be. For the worst that can happen, can do you no Harm. A soul, as pure, as benevolent, as virtuous and pious as yours has nothing to fear, but every Thing to hope and expect from the last of human Evils. Am glad you have secured an Assylum, tho I hope you will not have occasion for it. Love to Brother Cranch and sister and the Children. There is an amiable, ingenious Hussy, named Betcy Smith, for whom I have a very great Regard. Be pleased to make my Love ac ceptable to her, and let her know, that her elegant Pen cannot be more usefully employed than in Writing Letters to her Brother at Phyladelphia, tho it may more agreably in writing Billet doux to young Gentlemen. The other Day, after I had received a Letter of yours, with one or two others, Mr. William Barrell desired to read them. I put them into his Hand, and the next Morning had them returned in a large Bundle packed up with two great Heaps of Pins, with a very polite Card re questing Portias Acceptance of them. I shall bring them with me [when] I return: But when that will be is uncertain. I hope not more than a Month hence. I have really had a very disagreable Time of it. My Health and es- pecialy my Eyes have been so very bad, that I have not been so fit for Business as I ought, and if I had been in perfect Health, I should have had in the present Condition of my Country and my Friends, no Taste for Pleasure. But Dr. Young has made a kind of Cure of my Health and Dr. Church of my Eyes. Have received two kind Letters from your Unkle Smith—do thank him for them—I shall forever love him for them. I love every Body that writes to me. I am forever yours. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:241—43. Silas Deane’s Diary Friday 7 th. At Congress still on petition. 1 [July 7, 1775]


[Page 646]
604 July 7, 1775 MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 93. 1 According to the journals, the address to the inhabitants of Great Britain was considered this day. The second petition to the king was approved and ordered engrossed July 5 and was signed July 8. JCC, 2:127, 157-58. John Dickinson to Arthur Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 7th 1775 The enclos’d will convince You how Affairs stand in America. 1 I am Sir, your Affectionate friend. {John Dickinson) [P.S.] The Bearer Dr. Hutchinson, a worthy young Gentleman of this place, can give You a Detail of the several Engagements at Bos ton &c. 2 As several Copies of the Deci [arati] on are gone by this Ship with several Errors in them, it may be projier to have the inclos’d put first into the Press. RC (MH) . In the hand of John Dickinson; signature inked out. 1 Apparently a copy of the Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking up Arms. ’Undoubtedly James Hutchinson (1752-93) , Philadelphia physician, who went to England at this time to complete his medical studies under Dr. John Fothergill of London. DAB. Benjamin Franklin to Jonathan Shipley Philada July 7. 1775 I received with great Pleasure my dear Friends very kind Letter of April 19, as it informed me of his Welfare, and that of the amiable Family in Jermyn Street. I am much obliged by the Information of what passed in Parliament after my departure; in return I will en deavor to give you a short Sketch of the State of Affairs here. I found at my arrival all America from one End of the 12 united Provinces to the other, busily employed in learning the Use of Arms. The Attack upon the Country People near Boston by the Army had rous’d every Body, & exasperated the whole Continent. The Trades men of this City were in the Field twice a day, at 5 in the Morning, and Six in the Afternoon, disciplining with the utmost Diligence, all being Volunteers. We have now three Battalions, a Troop of Light Horse, and a company of Artillery, who have made surprizing Prog ress. The same Spirit appears every where and the Unanimity is amazing.


[Page 648]
606 July 7, 1775 necessary to the Comfort of Life, & generally import only Luxuries and Superfluities, her preventing our doing that, will in some respects contribute to our Prosperity. By the present Stoppage of our Trade we save between four and five Millions per Annum which will do something towards the Expence of the War. What she will get by it, I must leave to be computed by her own political Arithmeticians. These are some of my present Ideas which I throw out to you on the Freedom of Friendship. Perhaps I am too sanguine in my opinion of our Abilities for the Defence of our Country after we shall have giv en up our Seaports to Destruction; but a little time will shew. General Gage we understand enter’d into a Treaty with the Inhab itants of Boston, whom he had confin’d by his Works, in which Treaty it was agreed that if they delivered their Arms to the Select Men, their own Magistrates, they were to be permitted to go out with their Effects. As soon as they had so delivered their Arms, he seiz’d them and then cavil’d about the meaning of the word Effects which he said was only wearing Apparel and Household Furniture, and not Merchandize or Shop Goods which he therefore detains: And the continual Injuries and Insults they met with from the Soldiery, made them glad to get out by relinquishing all that kind of Property. How much those People have suffered, and are now suffering rather than submit to what they think unconstitutional Acts of Parliament is real ly amazing. Two or three Letters I send you enclosed may give you some, tho’ a faint Idea of it. Gage’s Perfidy has now made him uni versally detested. When I consider that all this Mischief is done my Country, by Englishmen and Protestant Christians, of a Nation among whom I have so many personal Friends, I am ashamed to feel any Consolation in a prospect of Revenge; I chuse to draw it rather from a Confidence that we shall sooner or later obtain Reparation. I have proposed therefore to our People that they keep just Accounts, and never resume the Commerce or the Union, ’till Satisfaction is made. If it is refused for 20 Years, I think we shall then be able to take it with Interest. Your excellent Advice was that if we must have a War, let it be carried on as between Nations who had once been Friends &: wish to be so again. In this ministerial War against us, all Europe is conjur’d not to sell us Arms or Amunition, that we may be found defenceless, & more easily murdered. The humane Sir W. Draper, who had been hospitably entertain’d in every one of our Colonies, proposes, in his Papers call’d the Traveller, 2 to excite the Domestic Slaves, you have sold us, to cut their Master’s Throats. Dr. Johnson a Court Pension er, in his Taxation no Tyranny adopts and recommends that Meas ure, together with another of hiring the Indian Savages to assassinate our Planters in the Back Settlements. They are the poorest & most in nocent of all People; and the Indian manner is to murder and scalp


[Page 651]
July 8, 1775 609 follow the noble example. They say the Americans are cowards, pol troons, dare not fight; yet these doughty heroes take care to deprive us of the means of defence. If we are so fearful, why disarm us? But they know the contrary. In the first of General Gage’s attempts against the people, his regulars were put to flight by half their num ber of militia, without officers or commanders. . . . This account comes through men of character on the spot, and may be depended on; it is confirmed by most undoubted letters, and you may say so. There are now marching to the camp, a thousand riflemen. They are, at ’listing, rejected, unless they can hit a playing-card, without a rest, at one hundred and twenty yards distance. Almost every fenci- ble man, in all the colonies, is trained, and ready to supply any loss. The regulars have, in any case, never appeared equal to our troops, man for man. What, then, have we to fear? loss of money, alone; and may the wretch perish, who puts that in competition. Will Lord Ef fingham come to us? he would be almost adored. 1 Dear sir, can the friends of old England find no way to stop this fatal war going on—to the certain destruction of that once great state? All America pants for reconciliation; they dread, what may be easily prevented by government, a total separation. Should war go on another year, a government must be formed here—it is unavoidable; and when once that is done, it will be, I fear, impossible to restore the connection. When America acts unitedly, she will feel herself too strong to submit to such restrictions as she now does. In short, the time will be past. The people of New-York are now fixed on the side of liberty. Georgia is near coming in. Mrs. Lynch unites with me, in compliments to Mrs Izard. We hope to see you, before we leave this part of America. Your affec tionate friend, Thomas Lynch. MS not found; reprinted from Ralph Izard, Correspondence of Mr. Ralph Izard of South Carolina, from the Year 1774 to 1804; with a Short Memoir, ed. Anne Izard Deas (New York: Charles S. Francis & Co., 1844) , pp. 99-101. 'Thomas Howard, third Earl of Effingham (1747-91), eccentric British Army officer, was well known for his sympathy with the American cause both before and during the War for Independence. Sir Egerton Brydges, K. J., Collins Peerage of England; Genealogical, Biographical, and Historical . . ., 9 vols. (London: F. C. and J. Rivington et al., 1812) , 4:282. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Saturday July 8th. 1775 I have wrote You many Lettrs. My last was by Govr Skene, who set off yesterday, for Wethersfeild who carried Letters from Me. His


[Page 662]
620 July 10, 1775 Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Sr Philadelphia July 10th 1775 I have only time in Congress this moment to Inclose you this Mornings paper Containing a declaration of the United Colonies set ting forth the Causes of their taking up Arms &c also their Address to the Inhabitants of Great Britain which together with Another Peti tion to the King are this day forwarded to London by Mr Richard Penn late Govr of this Province who is gone for England with his family to reside there sometime. He is Esteemd Very Friendly to the American Cause & is joind with our Agents there to Present the Peti tion to the King. We hope before it arrives by the Blessing of Heaven attending our Army a good Account may be given of the Hostile Troops sent over to this country for Murther &: rapine. The Riflers from this Province are on their March. Hope they may prove service able & give a good Account of the British officers before summer is out. Before this I dare say you have Welcomed the New Genlls to the Camp. Hope they may fully Answer the expectations of the Army as well as the Colonies from them. I wish you may succeed in the Ap pointment for which Application was made for you. I hope you will not fail procuring any additional weight if necessary. Expect soon to hear from you. May Heaven give Success to our Army. My regard to Genlls, Colls, &:c &c of our Acquaintance &: believe me to be sincere ly Yours Elipht Dyer P.S. You will see by the New Arrangement that the Companies are to Consist of but 68 privates which will Make room for a Number more officers in the Connecticutt Troops. I wish (if so) you would remember to his honor the Govr as probably the appointment will lye with him Lieuts Grosvenor & Gray for Captains. They ought at first to have had that birth. Grosvenor has been Tryed in Action, Gray we all think will prove well. Yrs. E D RC (Ct). John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia July 10th. 1775 Since my last to you, nothing has Taken place in Congress particu larly Respecting your Department. I by order of Congress forward you the Declaration, & Address to the People of England. I must beg the favour you will Reserve some birth for me, in such Department as you may Judge most proper, for I am Determin’d to


[Page 663]
July 11, 1775 621 Act under you, if it be to take the firelock & Join the Ranks as a Vol unteer. I have the Honor to be with profound Respect, Sir Your most Obedt. servt. John Hancock [P.S.] I hope to be with you soon, as there seems to prevail an Opinion that we may have an adjournmt. in a little Time. We Expect soon to hear from you, all Military matters are suspended till your State arrives. RC (DLC). John Adams to James Warren Hond & Dr Sir Philadelphia July 11th. 1775 I have the Pleasure of inclosing you, a Declaration. Some call it a Manifesto. And We might easily have occasioned a Debate of half a Day, whether, it Should be call’d a Declaration or a Manifesto. Our Address to the People of Great Britain will find many Admir ers among the Ladies, and fine Gentlemen: but it is not to my Taste. Prettynesses Juvenilities, much less Puerilities, become not a great Assembly like this the Representative of a great People. 1 RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Warren, July 23, 1775. Pennsylvania Delegates to the Lancaster County Committee Gent Philada. July 11th. 1775 Yours relative to the Riffle Compy. to which Capt. Smith is ap pointed we have reced. In the same you mention that there are a Number of Men Raised by Mr. James Ross out of which a good Company may be formed. We Immediately laid this Matter before Congress and they were pleased to Approve of them & directed that they should be immediately taken into the Service. 1 You will please to Certify to us the Officers as heretofore in the other Compy. And endavour to have them fitted off with the utmost dispatch to follow Capt. Smith who we suppose will have March’d ere this reaches. We would have you send the best of the Men the establishment you know. The Congress highly approve the generous bounty given by the


[Page 669]
July 15, 1775 627 the Occasion—that Worster talks high of his Thirty Years Services, and that Spencer left his Forces, to shift for themselves, though ex pecting hourly to be attacked, to return home, and pray an Altera tion. I see the Bottom of the whole, and am well aware that the Storm is raised, or at least blown up, by others, and am at no Loss to fore see the direction of it, but am determined to do my duty, and will on no Occasion sacrifice, the good of my Country, to the whim of any old Man, or old Woman rather, or their sticklers. When Worster was appointed I wash’d my hands of the Consequences by declaring him, in my Opinion, totally unequall to the Service. This I did openly in the Face of the Assembly, and if I tho’t him unfit for a Major Gener al of Connecticut Forces only, could any one think, I would oppose the Voice of the Continent, & act contrary to my own Sentiments, by labouring to prefer him to Putnam, on whom, by every Acct, the whole Army has depended, ever since the Lexington Battle? I wish all such Men would leave Our Army at once. As to Spencer, I once had a good Opinion of him, but his leaving the Forces in the Manner I hear he has, shocks it very greatly, and if true I wish him to resign at once and let Another take his place. Pray listen to these reports, and inform Me, how farr I am charged with being Active in this Ar rangement. I have various reasons to expect their Freinds will Father it all on the old ScapeGoat, as Sherman is known to be in favor of Worster, & Dyer and Spencer are Brother Councellors. 1 If the Warr lasts I hope Matters will come into a more regular, 8c decisive Course than They 2 RC (CtHi). 1 For other references concerning the appointment of general officers, see Eli- phalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, June 20, 1775. a Remainder of MS missing. Edmund Pendleton to William Woodford Dear Sir Phila. July 15th. 1775 Mr. Spotswood leaves this tomorrow morning 8c intends to contin ue his journey to Richmond, which affords me an Opportunity of paying my Respects, tho’ there is nothing worth relating since my last to Colo. Taylor that I now recollect. Should there be any thing, Mr. Spotswood will deliver it you. We are quite at a loss for the reason of not hearing from our General who has been at the Camp a fortnight, 8c various conjectures are formed on the Occasion; I know he is clear of meriting blame 8c therefore think an Action happened about the time his express should have come away 8c he waits to send us the event 8c particulars of it, but this is mere Opinion 8c a whisper on the contrary runs about Town that Gage has sent proposals to our Genl. 579-852 0 - 77 - 42 Vol.l


[Page 672]
630 July 16, 1775 glad to have any farther Thoughts you may judge proper to hint con cerning that Matter. I cannot tell what to say about Croghan. I think it dangerous to employ him; and dangerous to let him alone. Give little Polly a Kiss for me. Now I have said some thing; but Nothing with more Truth than that I am Dear Sir Yours sincerely James Wilson RC (ICHi) . 1 By a resolution of June 24, 1775, the Pennsylvania Assembly had authorized its delegates in Congress to recommend officers for the battalion of Pennsylvania riflemen. Pa. Archives, 8th ser. 8:7241. Wilson had previously received the follow ing recommendation from Edward Biddle: “As I can not attend the Delegates to settle the Officers of the Rifle Regiment, I take this Method of mentioning the Gentlemen I would propose as Field Officers, Vizt. Mr. Thompson, Colonel, Mr. Magaw, Lieut. Col., & Mr. Nagel, Major.” Biddle to Wilson, July 14, 1775, NN. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 17. 1775. Discusses his experiences with Dr. Thomas Bond (1743-94), Philadelphia physician, with whom he took an early morning trip into the country this day. “A most amuz- ing and refreshing Excursion We had, and such Excursions are very necessary to preserve our Health, amidst the suffocating Heats of the City, and the wasting, exhausting Debates of the Congress.” Urges Abigail to teach the children “Geography and the Art of copying as well as drawing Plans of Cities, Provinces, Kingdoms, and Countries —especially of America. I have found great Inconvenience for Want of this Art, since I have had to contemplate America so much, and since I had to study the Processes and Operations of War.” RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:251-52. Silas Deane’s Diary [July 17, 1775] Monday 17th. Genl. Washington’s Express arrived. 1 At Congress on Two Committees. 2 MS (CtHi). CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 93. 1 Although Deane records the arrival of an express from Washington this date, Eliphalet Dyer wrote the day following that no word had been received from Washington since his arrival at Cambridge, and President Hancock wrote Wash ington the 19th that “your despatches reached me last evening.” Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, July 18, 1775; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:1689. The journals indicate that Washington’s first communication from camp was read to Congress on July 19. JCC, 2:190.


[Page 673]
July 17, 1775 631 2 A committee to recommend compensation for Samuel Kirkland’s services among the Indians was appointed this day and reported the next. ICC, 2:186-87. Deane was also a member of a committee to recommend ways and means to protect the trade of the colonies, which reported on July 21 and may also have met this day. JCC, 2:177, 200. Lyman Hall to Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant Philadelphia. July 17. 1775. Wishes Sergeant 1 had come to Phila delphia so that he, Hall, could “have Adjusted & Settled the Inclosed Acct.” Proposes to pay Sergeant “from £50 to 80 or 90, &: more if I can Directly.” RC (PHi). 1 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant (1746-93), Princeton lawyer, member of the New Jersey Provincial Congress, and a delegate to Congress, 1776-77. Bio. Dir. Cong.; and DAB. John Hancock to Peter Van Brugh Livingston Philadelphia, July 17, 1775. Sir, Major General Schuyler having represented to the Congress the necessity of appointing a deputy adjutant-general or a brigade-major for the troops under his command, I am ordered to send you the fol lowing resolve passed this day. 1 I am, Sir, Your obedt. humble servt. John Hancock, President. [P.S.] I inclose you an Authenticated Commission to be fill’d up with the Name of the Gentleman appointed by your Congress. You will please to make a Return to me of the person so appointed. The Inclos’d Letter for General Schuyler, I beg you will immedi ately forward to him by Express. [P.S.] Please to forward by the Express to General Schuyler a Num ber of the Articles of War. I forwarded them to New York, directed to Genl Schuyler but apprehend they did not meet him there, as he has wrote me for them from Albany. The commission referred to is sent by Mr. Lewis. RC (N) . Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:4. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 This day Congress authorized the New York Provincial Convention “to recom mend to Genl. Schuyler, a proper person for a deputy adjutant general or a Brigade Major, for the army in the New York department.” JCC, 2:186. The New


[Page 681]
July 20, 1775 639 mous applause of this Continent. Let it be remembered he had every Vote of the Congress, and his health has been the second or third at almost all Our Tables in This City, but it seems he does not Wear a large Wigg nor screw his Countenance into a form that belies the sentiments of his generous Soul. He is no adept either at political or religious canting & cozening, he is no shake hand body, he therefore is totally unfit for every thing, but only fighting. That Department I never heard that these intriguing Gentry wanted to interfere with him in. I have scarce any patience, O Heav’n! blast, I implore Thee ev ery such low, narrow, selfish, envious maneuvre in the bud, nor let one such succeed far enough to stain the fair page of American pa triotic politics! General Washington writes, that Spencer left his post without so much as waiting on him, or sending him a Single Word of his Inten tions. You can be at no Loss to infer what Opinion is formed of him from this Conduct indoors 8c out, suffice it to say the Voice here is that he acted a part, inconsistent, with the Character, either of a Sol dier, a Patriot, or even of a Common Gentleman to desert his post in an hour of Danger, to sacrifice his Country, which he certainly did as farr as was in his power, and to turn his back sullenly on his General, a General too of such exalted worth, and Character, will I can assure you, unless he take the most Speedy & effectual Measures to atone, draw down upon him the Resentment of the whole Continent. I am daily, 8c hourly making as fair Weather as possible of this transaction, and a painful task it is. It is one I am unused to, and therefore labor hard to gloss over what I condemn from the bottom of my Soul. But my principles are, (the Eye of my God knows them, and the most envious Eye of Man, nor the bitterest Tongue of Slander, can not find any thing in my political Conduct to contradict them) they are to sacrifice all lesser considerations to the service of the whole and in this Tempestuous season, to Throw chearfully overboard, private Fortune, private emoluments 8c all partial, or interested Views, even my Life, if the Ship with the Jewel Liberty on board may be saved. This being my Line of Conduct, I have a Calmness of Mind I thank God resulting from such resolutions which more than ballances, ev ery external Trouble, of which I have not a few, and of which the late Conduct of a part of Our Officers in Support of Spencer is not the least. Inclosed I send a Letter for Parsons which please to read, then Copy, seal, and forward. I will say no more on the very disa greeable Subject than, that the Copy and this Letter may hereafter shew my Sentiments at the Time. I am glad Our Assembly did not interpose in favor of Spencer. They have hereby acted up to the high Character they sustain with the Congress and the only consistent part He, Spencer, can now act is to throw up his Commission, 8c give place to Men who do not think


[Page 686]
644 July 21, 1775 wrote an endorsement on another copy of the proposed articles, which is located in PCC, item 9, and reads as follows: “July 21, 1775. Agreeably to Order the Congress resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole to take into Consideration the State of America, when doct. B. Franklin submitted to their Consideration the following Sketch of Articles of Confederation.” A discussion of the various surviving copies of Franklin’s proposed articles, among which is a copy annotated by Thomas Jefferson, can be found in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:177-82. In addition to the copies discussed by Boyd, there is a copy in the hand of Josiah Bartlett in the Peter Force Papers, DLC, and an incomplete copy in the Samuel Ward Papers, RHi, of which articles one through three are in the hand of Charles Thomson and four through eleven are in the hand of Samuel Ward. Variations between these copies and the other surviving ones are slight. However, the copy in James Duane’s Papers, NHi, contains the following marginal comments, in an unidentified hand, pertaining to articles 7 and 9 of Franklin’s document. “The delegates from each colony [cf. Article 7] should be changed as the Council is & I believe that if each colony had but one vote in the present manner of voting it would be a more equal government; but much may be said on this Subject; it requires consideration. This council [cf. Article 9] should consist of one from each colony.” It is interesting that the journals of Congress contain no mention of the submission of Franklin’s proposed resolutions this date, perhaps simply because Franklin submitted them in the committee of the whole, and they were not laid before the Congress. For a discussion of a similar instance in which the journals are silent on a significant matter brought before the delegates, see Joseph Gallo way’s Proposed Resolution, September 28, 1774, note. See also Benjamin Harrison to Unknown, November 24, 1775; Silas Deane’s Proposals to Congress, November ? 1775; and Richard Smith’s Diary, January 16, 1776. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Congress Chamber July 21st. 1775. Forwards July 20 resolution of Congress about the employment of the Continental Army in New York. 1 Tr (NN) . ’See JCC, 2:194. Benjamin Harrison to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia July 21st. 1775 I Rec’d your very Acceptable favour of the 10th Inst, by Express. Your fatigue 8c various kinds of trouble, I dare Say are great, but they are not more than I Expected, knowing the people you have to deal with by the Sample we have here. The Congress have Taken the Two Regiments now Raising in Connecticutt into Service which with Riflemen & Recruits to your Regimts. will I hope make up the Num ber voted by your Council of War. I wish with all my Heart your


[Page 687]
July 21, 1775 645 Troops were better & your Stores more Complete. Every thing that we can do here to put you in the best posture possible I think you may depend will be done. I trust you will have a Supply soon of Am munition, without any Accident you may Depend on it. The want of Engineers I fear is not to be Supplied in America. Some folks here seem’d much displeas’d at your Report on this hehd, they Affirm there are two very good ones with you, a Coll Gridley I think is one. I took the Liberty to say they must be mistaken, they were certainly either not in the Camp, or could not have the Skill they were pleas’d to Say they had. This in my soft way put a Stop to any thing more on this Subject, indeed, my Friend, I do not know what to think of some of these Men, they seem exceeding hearty in the Cause, but still wish to keep every thing among themselves. Our President is quite of a different Cast, Noble, Disinterested & Generous to a very great De gree. The Congress have given you the Appointment of Three Bri gade Majors. Mr Trumbull has the office you propos’d for him. The appointment of Commissary of Artillery, of Musters, 8c Quarter Mas ter General are also left to your Disposal. Nothing is yet done as to the Hospitall, but I will bring it on very soon. Your Brothers in the Delegation have Recommended it to our Convention to Send some Virginians to the Camp at the Expence of our Colony to learn the Military Art, 8c I hope you will see them soon. 1 We have given the Commission of First Brigadier to Mr Thomas as Putnam’s Commis sion was deliver’d it would perhaps have offended the old Gentn. to have superceeded him; the other I hope will still Act, the Congress have from your Accott. a high Opinion of him, 8c I dare Say will grant any thing in their power that he may here after Require. Your Hint of the Removal of the Congress to some place nearer to you will come on to morrow, I think it will not Answer your Expectations if we should Remove, You shall have the Result in the Close of this. 2 The Military Chest I hope will be Supplied soon, they begin to Strike the Bills this day, so that I hope some may be forwarded to you next week. What has Occasion’d a Delay of this Article I know not. With out, an Imitation of the Congress in its Slowness has become fashion able. I have had no farther Accott. from our Country about the Gov ernor, except that he is still at York Town with three Men of War. He, Montague 8c [Foye] went the other Day by Water to his Farm, and were within three or four Minutes of being all Taken by Capt Meredith from Hanover, who are with about 150 Men from other Counties guarding Williamsbg. from any Attempt he may make with his boiled Crabs. Meredith says, his Intentions were to Carry his Lordship to Williamsburg to put him into the Palace 8c promise him protection, to convince him 8c the World that no Injury was intended him. However as he missed his Stroke, I dare Say he will be Charg’d with intending to murder him. We think the Season too far Advanc’d


[Page 694]
652 July 23, 1775 public Virtue seem to be lost out of the World. Enough of this. I have laboured with my Colleagues to agree upon proper Persons to recommend for a Quarter Master General, a Commissary of Mus ters and a Commissary of Artillery, but in vain. The Consequence has been that the appointment of these important, and lucrative Officers is left to the General, against every proper Rule and Princi ple, as these offices are Checks upon his. This is a great Misfortune to our Colony, however, I hope that you and others will think of proper Persons and recommend them to the General. 2 There is, my Friend, in our Colony a great Number of Persons, well qualified for Places in the Army, who have lost their all, by the outrages of Tyranny, whom I wish to hear provided for. Many of them will occur to you. I beg leave to mention a few. Henry Knox, William Bant, young Hitchbourne, 3 the Lawyer, William Tudor, and Perez Morton. These are young Gentlemen of Education and Ac complishments, in civil Life, as well as good Soldiers; and if at this Time initiated into the service of their Country might become in Time and with Experience, able officers. If they could be made Cap tains or Brigade Majors, or put into some little Places at present I am very sure, their Country would loose nothing by it, in Reputation or otherwise. A certain Delicacy which is necessary to a good Charac ter, may have prevented their making any applications, but I know they are desirous of serving. I must enjoin Secrecy upon you, in as strong Terms as Mr Hutch inson used to his confidential Correspondents; and then confess to you, that I never was Since my Birth, so compleatly miserable as I have been since the Tenth of April. Bad Health, blind Eyes, want of Intelligence from our Colony, and above all the unfortunate and fatal Division, in our own Seat in Congress, which has lost us Reputation, as well as many great Advantages which We might otherwise have obtained for our Colony, have made me often envy the active Hero in the Field, who, if he does his own Duty, is sure of applause, tho he falls in the Execution of it. It is a vast and complicated System of Business which We have gone through, and We were all of us, unexperienced in it. Many Things may be wrong, but no small Proportion of these are to be at tributed to the Want of Concert, and Union among the Mass. Dele gates. We have passed a Resolution, that each Colony make such Provi sion as it thinks proper and can afford, for defending their Trade in Harbours, Rivers, and on the sea Coast, against Cutters and Tenders. 4 We have had in Contemplation a Resolution to invite all Nations to bring their Commodities to Market here, and like Fools have lost it for the present.® This is a great Idea. What shall We do? Shall We invite all Nations to come with their Luxuries, as well as


[Page 695]
July 23, 1775 653 Conveniences and Necessaries? or shall We think of confining our Trade with them to our own Bottoms, which alone can lay a Founda tion for great Wealth and naval Power. Pray think of it. I rejoice that the Generals and Coll Reed and Major Mifflin are so well received. My most respectfull Compliments to them all. I thank you and Mrs. Warren a thousand Times for her kind and elegant Letter. Intreat a Continuance of her Favours in this Way, to your old Friend. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand though not signed. Addressed: "To the Hon James Warren Esqr Watertown, favoured by Mr. Hitchboume.” Although Benjamin Hichbom was subsequently captured enroute to Massachusetts, Warren wrote to Adams on July 31st that he had received this letter. Since other letters in Hichborn’s care were confiscated and published by the British, the manner in which this letter was delivered remains something of a mystery. See Warren-Adams Letters, 1:95; and Adams to Abigail Adams, July 24, 1775, note. 1 See JCC, 2:191. “After Warren had met with Washington on August 1, he reported to Adams: “I find the Colony, as you predicted, will suffer by referring the appointments you mention to him. They will, I think, go to the southward.” Warren-Adams Letters, 1:97. ’This recommendation of Benjamin Hichborn, coupled with the fact that Adams wrote at least four letters on July 23, casts doubt upon his later explana tion of how he happened on the 24th to write the two famous letters to Warren and Abigail which were intercepted and published, to his considerable embarrass ment. Adams explained in his autobiography that: “A young Gentleman from Boston, Mr. Hitchbourne, whom I had known as a Clerk in Mr. Fitch’s office, but with whom I had no Particular connection or Acquaintance, had been for some days soliciting me, to give him Letters to my Friends in the Massachusetts. I was so engaged in the Business of Congress in the day time and in consultations with the Members on Evenings and Mornings that I could not find time to write a Line. He came to me at last and said he was immediately to sett off, on his Journey home, and begged I would give him some Letters. I told him I had not been able to write any. He prayed I would write if it were only a Line to my Family, for he said, as he had served his Clerkship with Mr. Fitch he was suspected and represented as a Tory, and this Reputation would be his ruin, if it could not [be] corrected, for nobody would employ him at the Bar. If I would only give him, the slightest Letters to any of my Friends, it would give him the Appearance of having my Confidence, and would assist him in acquiring what he truly deserved the Charac ter of a Whigg. To get rid of his importunity, I took my Penn, and wrote a very few Lines to my Wife and about an equal Number to General James Warren.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:318-19. ‘See JCC, 2:189. ’On July 21 and 22 Congress considered the report of the committee "to devise ways and means to protect the trade of these colonies,” but on the 22d "the same was postponed to be taken up at some future day.” JCC, 2:200-202. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Philadelphia July 23d 1775 I reply’d particularly to Your’s respecting Spencer and inclosed a


[Page 696]
654 July 23, 1775 Lettr. To Parsons, both of which I trust you received, nothing New has since occurred worth transmitting. The Congress (I think) will adjourn, in Two Weeks to the 10th of September but whither to meet here or in Connecticut uncertain. If here the Time will admit only of seeing my Freinds & returning in Season, in which case the Southern Gentlemen will not return at all, but some of them take a Tour, to the Camp, or elsewhere in New England. I hope to be at home in Three Weeks if I get my Carriage repaired in Season. It must be made in a Manner New. Mr. Sherman is I think, peculiarly Unfor tunate, at Philadelphia, tho by no means faulty. I may not add, 8c indeed should not have wrote This, but That I will let no Opportunity slip me, if it give Me only the pleasure of say ing Howd’ye do. Remember Me to all, particularly to Sally. How is the weather? Are not the Evenings warm. I am &c S Deane [P.S.] This is stole from Sunday after hearing Two elegant Warr Sermons. RC (CtHi) . Eliphalet Dyer to William Judd Dear Sr Philadelphia July 23d 1775 I this day heard by Capt Strong that you 1 was on your waye to Susquehannah and about to settle there and that your design was on the West branch. I am Very glad that a Gentn. of the Capacity & Abilities I esteem you (Without flattery) to be possessed of is about to move into that Country as Gentn of knowledge 8c prudence may be of great service there especially at this Critical time when a jarr between two Colonies may be of allmost fatal Consequence to the whole. 2 I am therefore obliged for your prudent Conduct to let you know that the Proprietor their Friends Agents, 8c land Jobbers who have purchased large Tracts in our Country are extreemly Jealous least we from Connecticutt take advantage of the times and press upon 8c Violently remove their people from their settlements. They have propagated that Opinion among the Penns people on the West branch 8c below Wyoming 8c that part of the forces raised in Connect icut are for that purpose, that our assembly in this time of distress are making strides into that Country extending their Claim 8cc, 8c In deed they goe farther 8c trye to possess the minds of Southern Gentn of the Congress that we are a hardy daring enterprising people 8c if we prove Successful against the Ministerial Army here we shall after that make our way by force into any the Southern Colonies we


[Page 697]
July 28, 1775 655 please. Mr Dickinson the Pensylvania farmer as he is Called in his Writings is lately most bitter against us & Indeavours to make every ill Impression upon the Congress against us but I may say he is not very highly Esteemd in Congress. He has taken a part very different from what I believe was expected from the Country in general or from his Constituents. But Sr I mean to let you know 8c be apprised that a little Matter, a little driving or Imprudence now in that Coun try may blow all up into a flame or the least threat or offer of force or Violence. Therefore Sr hope you will take every precaution 8c guard our people against every appearance of that kind. Let all the seders under the propriet [or] s & their land holders know they will not be put off by force but may be quieted in their actual possessions & Improvements as their own on the most reasonable terms, free from quit rents or Services to any. Flatter them to let our people set down among them on the Vacant lands, I mean the Common people and let them know as far as you can make them understand, how much better it will be for them to come in under our Colony 8c that they will be secured by Our Government. If you are about to settle a Township let those who are settled under Penn within the Limits know that they shall have a part with you where they are setled down 8c Actually Improved to Some more or less if even a hundred acres to some & that they shall be one with you. The Proprietors of every Township have a right to do this, to flatter in the bulk of the People will be the wisest method at present and We can deal with the great land holders by 8c by when we have the main of the people [on] our side. For some of the great purchasers there Under Penn would be glad also to purchase in the Connecticutt Claim. I believe it would be best to take in some of the greatest Influence in that way but it will not do abruptly to goe with a Number to the West branch for they have lately been made very Jealous. You must goe first 8c only with one or two. Let the people know that your designs are not of force, gain their Consent 8c get gradual possession. Do not be fond to exer cise Jurisdiction (as I understand you are appointed Juste Pacis there) where they do not own the Connecticutt Claim. I mean it will not do at this time to force your Authority among our own people 8c who are setled under Connecticutt. I hope the best order may be ob served, that you may conduce much to by some proper harangue in some of your publick Meetings 8cc 8c the Necessity of keeping up Au thority. I want to have you frilly gaine the affections of 8c Confidence in the people in that part, every thing in my power to Serve you there or with us will not be wanting. You may be free to Communicate to me whatever you think proper in Confidence or otherwise. Finally do all the good you can, Cultivate a good understanding with brethren in Authority. If the authority do not Unite but take a Contrary part to each other, you are all ruind. Your Sup[erio]r knowledge will


[Page 698]
656 July 23, 1775 give you all the weight and Influence you can wish for, if you exer cise with Prudence. The Congress have taken every Step to quiet the Indians. 3 Belts are sent forward every thing providing for a Treaty, Indian goods for presents 8cc but if hostilities should begin the Coun try will defend the frontiers. It is provided for but hope there is no danger. This Sr for your assured Friend 8c Hie Servt. Elipht Dyer RC (CtHi) . 1 William Judd (1743-1804), Farmington, Conn., lawyer, moved to the Wyoming valley in 1774. Connecticut authorities appointed him justice of the peace and commissioned him major in the militia in May 1775. He later served in the Continental Army, 1777-80, and the Connecticut assembly, 1786-94. Franklin B. Dexter, Biographical Sketches of the Graduates of Yale College, 6 vols. (New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1885-1919) , 3:25-27. 2 Despite repeated appeals by the Connecticut delegates for prudence and peace ful conduct, the Judd expedition to establish a Connecticut settlement on the west branch of the Susquehannah River aggravated the old jurisdictional dispute be tween Pennsylvania and Connecticut in the Wyoming valley and forced serious consideration of that dispute during the next session of Congress. See Silas Deane to Zebulon Butler, July 24; Connecticut Delegates to Zebulon Butler and Others, August 2; Dyer to Butler, October 1; and Deane to Thomas Mumford, October 16? 1775. For background on the discord and the Connecticut delegates’ involvement, see Christopher Collier, Roger Sherman’s Connecticut (Middletown, Conn.: Wes leyan University Press, 1971) , pp. 77-84, 139-40; and Julian P. Boyd and Robert J. Taylor, eds., The Susquehannah Company Papers, 11 vols. (Ithaca, N. Y.: Cornell University Press, 1962-71) , 5:xxi-lii. 3 See the proceedings of July 12 and 13. JCC, 2:174-83. Benjamin Harrison to George Washington [July 23, 1775] 23d. The Debate about the Remove was taken up yesterday and Determin’d in the Negative. 1 I propos’d a Committee but could not Carry it. I think the last Method would have answer’d your purpose best, but the Gentlemen could not think of parting with the least par ticle of their power. Pendleton left us yesterday, all Maryland are gone off this Day, and we intend to follow them [next] Sunday if nothing material happens betwixt this & then. Our Going I Expect will break up the Congress, indeed I think it high time there was an End of it. We have been too long together. Edmund Randolph is here, & has the greatest Desire to be with you, he has beg’d of me to Say something in his favour, 8c that if you can you will keep one of the places now in your Gift for him. He is not able to Support him self, or he would not Ask this of you. You know him as well as I do. He is one of the cleaverest young men in America, 8c if Mr. Reed should leave you, his place of Secretary cannot be better Supplied.


[Page 703]
July 24, 1775 661 best posture of defence possible, and to apply to Connecticut for Powder. You can have no prospect of any from this place. I hope Peace will be preserved between You, & those claiming un der Penn, should Violences of any kind be committed the Conse quences will be terrible beyond description, as Our Enemies will be sure to take advantage of the Times, and prejudice the Colonies against Our Claim, and it is probable as things are ripening that the Colonies will be Our Judges at last. I am wishing You, & the Settlers all possible happiness & success. Your most Humle. Servt. Silas Deane P.S. You may rely upon it, that any rash Measures, at this Time, will ruin Our Cause forever—by no means attempt to disseize peaceable possessors. You will draw the resentment of the Congress if You do. Cannot You obtain a friendly Association for the present between both parties for mutual defence, a petition to the Congress (in Case of Danger), from the whole, of the Inhabitants, will undoubtedly be attended to but if a party should petition, it will occasion the greatest Susspicion possible. I am very Anxious least some violent Stepps should be taken, but hope You will be able to prevent them. RC (PWbH) . 1 Zebulon Butler (1731-95), a director of the Susquehannah Company and representative for Westmoreland in the Connecticut assembly, was a leader of the Connecticut settlers in the Wyoming valley. DAB. Deane’s attempts to avert a crisis are more fully explained in his letter to Thomas Mumford, October 16? 1775. For other references to the dispute, see Eliphalet Dyer to William Judd, July 23, 1775, note. John Hancock to Artemas Ward and John Thomas Dear Sirs Philadelphia July 24th. 1775 The Bearer Capt Thomas Price who Commands a Company of Rifle Men from Maryland, is a Gentleman of [. . .] great Reputa tion, & strongly Recommended to me as a gentleman of great Meritt, & who I should wish might meet the Countenance of you & all our good Friends with you. I therefore Beg to Introduce him to your particular Notice, & pray your Civilities to him, & earnestly Desire you will In troduce him to the Notice 8c Acquaintance of the Circle of my Friends. I Beg your particular Attention to my Recommenda [tio] n of this Gentleman, which I shall Esteem a favour. I hope in a fortnight to pay my Respects in Person. I am Gentn. Your very hum Servt. John Hancock RC (NN).


[Page 704]
662 July 24, 1775 John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada 24th July 1775 Your letter of the 10th inst. with the enclosed papers being duly received was laid before Congress and immediately taken into con sideration. In answer to the several Matters therein contained I am to inform you that the Congress appointed a committee to enquire what quanti ty of light Sail Cloth, Sheeting and Oznabrigs could be obtained in this town for the purpose of making Tents, and in this business the Committee are now closely employed. 1 It is agreed that tow cloth will be most proper for hunting shirts, & of this the Congress are informed a sufficient quantity may be ob tained in Rhode island and Connecticut. It is expected you will give orders for purchasing there the quantity necessary. Agreeable to your recommendation they have appointed Joseph Trumbull Esqr. Commissary-general of stores and provisions for the army of the United Colonies. The appointment of a Quarter Master General, Commissary of Musters, and a Commissary of Artillery is left to you, the Congress not being sufficiently acquainted with persons properly qualified for these offices. They have ordered a company of Matrosses to be raised in this city and sent forward. General Thomas, they have appointed First Brigadier General in the room of Mr Pomroy who did not act under the commission sent him and have ordered General Thomas’s commission to bear date the same day Genl Pomroy’s did. They have empowered you, if you think fit, to appoint three Bri gade Majors of such persons as you chuse to honor with that com mand and to commission them accordingly. They have appointed a committee to consider and report on the establishing an Hospital and appointing a director. As soon as they have brought in their report and the Congress have come to any resolution on that subject you will be made ac quainted with it. Letters are sent with a recommendation to the colonies of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island and Connecticut to compleat the deficiencies in the regiments belonging to their respec tive colonies, which you shall retain in the Continental Army. In clos’d are the Letters to N Hampshire & Rhode Island, wch. please to order forwarded by express immediately. And it is earnestly recommended to Rhode Island to send forward to you three hundred and sixty men lately voted by their General As sembly, and to Connecticut to send forward fourteen hundred men


[Page 705]
July 24, 1775 663 lately voted by the General Assembly o£ that colony. Upon intelligence that Mr. Johnson is endeavouring to instigate the Indians to acts of hostility the Congress have impowered General Schuyler to dispose of and employ all the troops in the New York de partment in such manner as he may think best for the protection and defence of these colonies, the tribes of Indians in friendship and ami ty with us and most effectually to promote the general interest, still pursuing, if in his power, the former orders of this Congress and sub ject to the future orders of the Commander in chief. 2 As the Congress are not fully acquainted with the number of the enemy you have to oppose and the extent of your operations, they re posing confidence in your prudence have resolved, that “such a body of troops be kept in the Massachusetts-Bay as you shall think neces sary provided they do not exceed twenty two thousand.” 3 In a letter from Lord Dartmouth to Govr Martin dated Whitehall May 3d. 1775 after recommending him to embody such of the men in four counties (which Govr Martin had represented as favourable to the views of administration) as are able to bear arms is the follow ing Paragraph. “I confess to you, Sir, that this appears to me to be a matter of such importance that I cannot too earnestly recommend it to your attention, and that no time may be lost, in case of absolute Necessity I have received his Majesty’s commands to write to Genl. Gage to apprize him of this favourable circumstance and to instruct him that he do, upon application to you, send some able and discreet officer to you in order to concert means of carrying so essential a service into effect and if necessary to lead the people forth against any rebellious attempts to disturb the public peace.” 4 Whither the five Vessells, you mention to have sailed from Boston on the 11th instant, are gone on this service time must manifest. The Bills ordered to be struck by Congress are in great forward ness; as soon as a sufficient quantity worth sending is compleated, it will be sent to you. I have the pleasure to inform you that the Congress have received a letter from the Provincial Convention of Georgia dated 8th instant, 5 informing that all the parrishes in that colony except two, which it is supposed do not contain a score of freeholders inhabitants, met by their delegates in convention on the 4th inst.; that those parrishes that upon former occasions seemed reluctant have manifested a laudable zeal on this occasion; that several Gentlemen in Savanna, that have hitherto been neuter or declared against America, now speak of the proceedings of parliament as illegal and oppresive; that the conven tion had applied to the Governor to appoint a day of fasting and prayer with which request the Governor informed them he would comply; that they have chosen five delegates to represent their colony in this Congress viz, John Houston, Archd. Bullock Esqr., The Revd.


[Page 706]
664 July 24, 1775 Doctor Zubly, Lyman Hall and Noble Wimberly Jones Esqrs; and lastly that they have resolved strictly to adhere to the Continental Association and are heartily disposed zealously to enter into every Measure that the Congress may deem necessary for the safety of America. Mr Thomas & Mr. Trumbull’s Commissions are Inclos’d in un seal’d Letters to them. When any thing Occurrs Respectg your Department you shall be made Acquaintd. I have the honor to be with great Esteem, Sir Your most Obedt. hum Servt John Hancock President [P.S.] Have enclos’d for Mr. Trist, if any oppor [tunit]y please to send to Boston. I have Sent five Bundles of Commissions, 284 the rest shall follow. RC (DLC) . 'The matters discussed in this and the next nine paragraphs were acted upon by Congress on July 19. JCC, 2:190-92. 2 See JCC, 2:194. 3 On this resolution, adopted by Congress July 21, see JCC, 2:202. 4 For the text of Dartmouth’s letter to Governor Martin, see N. C. Colonial Records, 9:1240-42. “For the text of this letter, see JCC, 2:193n. Benjamin Harrison to George Washington [July 24, 1775] 24th. Nothing New in Congress or from Virginia to day. I should therefore have Closed without saying more had not an Application been made to me to introduce to you Capt. Thomas Price of a Company of Rifle Men from Maryland. He comes with a high Char acter from thence, &: is look’d upon as most firmly Attached to the Cause of America. He has a large Family which he has left merely to forward the Service. The Deputies from that Country are gone home. I have seen a Letter in his favour to Mr Tilghman highly commend ing him, & as he could not thro’ that Channell get a Recommendation I have been prevail’d upon to introduce him, which Liberty I hope you will Excuse. I am My Dear Sir Your most Affecte. Servt. B. Harrison P.S. We Expect to leave this place next Sunday. I shall yet beg the favour of a Line now & then, &: shall leave orders with Bradford to forward them, in Return you shall be most minutely informed of ev ery thing going forward in Virginia. Tr (PHi) . A continuation of Harrison to Washington, July 21, and July 23, 1775.


[Page 716]
674 July 28, 1775 gress from giving him a dismission as they much resented his with several other officers leaving the Army after the Generalls Arrival and at so Critical a season. We are all exhausted sitting so long at this place and being so long confined togeather that we feel pretty much as a Number of passengers confined togeather on board ship in a long Voyage. We shall take a short recess by Next Week. What we have done good or bad will soon be published. My respects to the Genlls 8c Regards to all Enquiring Friends remembring Coll Reed Mr Mifflin 8cc And am Sr Sincerely Yours Eliph Dyer [PS] Since I wrote the above I have had the pleasure of seeing Coll. Thomson who is Coll, of the Regiment of Riflers and by whom I send this letter. He is a Gentn. who bares a Very good Martial Car- racter has been Tried in Service and is much depended upon by this Province. Your Civilitys to him will be very Acceptable should be glad you would Introduce him to Genii Putnam 8c others proper 8: sincerely wish that Gentn. of his Station as well as others from these Provinces may return with so good an Opinion of the New England ers as may fix their reputation 8c Cement a more firm Union with these Colonies. The same for Leiut. Coll. Hand who Accompanies him. Yours E D RC (Ct) . 1 That is, James Warren. “Silas Deane also wrote to Joseph about this same time, informing him of his brother’s appointment and introducing him to a Mr. Bird, the bearer. Deane to Joseph Trumbull, July 28? 1775, Ct. Roger Sherman to William Williams Dear Sir Philadelphia July 28th. 1775 I this Day received Your favour of the 22d Instant. We Should have wrote to You oftener but had not much Intelligence of impor tance to communicate but what was by order of Congress Transmit ted to the his Honr. the Govr. which we Supposed you would be ac quainted with, besides we have had but little leisure being obliged to attend Congress from 8 or 9 in the morning to 4 or 5 in afternoon. We have lately received Six Tuns of Powder which is Sent to the army near Boston, also 5000 lb Sent to General Schuyler this Day. A Ship arrived here from Bristol Yesterday which Sailed the 4th of June 8c brings intelligence that the account of the Battle of Lexington Sent by the province with the affidavits had arrived in London, that it occasioned the Stocks to fall one 8c half per cent, that Lord North was greatly Astonished 8cc but there had not been time to know what effect it would have on the people.


[Page 717]
July 28, 1775 675 The Congress have recommended the making Salt Petre 8c gun Powder and offer half a Dollar per pound for all the Salt Petre that Shall be made in any of the United Colonies within fifteen months from this Day. I am Sorry for the Uneasiness occasioned by the ap pointment of General officers; 1 General Wooster is dissatisfied as well as General Spencer. I feared that would be the Case. We had just heard of the Engagement at Noddles Island before we proceeded to the appointment of General officers, which engagement being con ducted by General Putnam occasioned him to be highly esteemed for his Bravery by the Congress. The officers were chosen by Ballot— but previous to giving in the votes I informed the Congress of the Choice and Arrangement made by our Gen. Assembly and that I supposed if the Same order Should be preserved by the Congress it would best Satisfy the officers 8c the Colony. Colo. Dyer was not then in the Room but came in immediately afterward and made the same representation without knowing what I had said, but the votes turned as you have heard. There was likewise an uneasiness in the Massa chusetts Bay on a like occasion which General Washington being made acquainted with before he delivered the Commissions repre sented it to the Congress and it was rectified, but he had delivered General Putnam his Commission before he heard of the uneasiness, so that I dont know how the difficulty can be remedied at present. I hope Generals Wooster 8c Spencer will consider the Grand Cause we are Engaged in of So much Importance as not to let it suffer any dis advantage on account of this disagreable circumstance which was not occasioned by any disregard in the Congress toward those Gentlemen but for want of a more mature consideration of the ill consequences that might attend Such a transposition. The Congress has Set much longer than I at first expected it would, but I believe not longer than was needful. I hope it will ad journ the beginning of next week 8c have a recess of a few weeks. It is very tedious Sitting here this hot Season: I have herewith Enclosed a Declaration and an address to the people of England. The whole pro ceedings will be published within a few Days—which will make a considerable volume. The reason why I dont Sign more of the Letters is not because our Lodgings are very far distant but because express es are often Sent off in haste, and Colo Dyer and Mr Dean being to gether have the Custody of the Papers. I sometimes Sign with them, sometimes they Sign my name, others they Sign only with their own names it not being very material and in Congress hours it is needful Some Should attend while others are writing. I have not been absent at any time while the Congress has been sitting. Mr. Jonathan Trum bull Junr. was this Day appointed Paymaster for the New York De partment. The pay is 50 Dollars per month. I am Sir Your Sincere Friend 8c humble Servant Roger Sherman 579-852 0 - 77 - 45 Vol.l


[Page 719]
July 29, 1775 677 with confidence, for I have seen both; and I have seen a set of very large powder works, and another of saltpetre. I hope. Sir, we shall never see a total stagnation of commerce for any length of time. Necessity will force open our ports; trade, if I mistake not, will be more free than usual. Your friend, Dr. Franklin, to whom I read your letter, and who desires his kind compliments to you, has been employed in directing the construction of row-galleys for this city. The committee of safety for this province have ordered twenty of them to be built; some of them are finished. I have seen one of them; it has twelve oars on each side. They rowed up the river the first time, four miles in an hour, against a tide which ran down four miles an hour. The Congress have recommended to the colonies to make provision for the defence of their navigation in their harbors, rivers, and on their sea-coasts. Of a floating battery I have no idea —am glad you are contriving one. You tell me, Sir, that General Lee complained that “he did not find things as the Massachusetts delegates had represented them.” What General Lee could mean by this, Sir, I know not. What partic ular he found different from the representation, I do not know; nor do I know which delegate from the Massachusetts he received a mis taken representation from. I think he should have been particular, that he might not have run the risk of doing an injury. If General Lee should do injustice to two of the Massachusetts delegates, he would commit ingratitude at the same time; for to two of them he certainly owes his promotion in the American army, how great a hazard soev er they ran in agreeing to it. I know him very thoroughly, I think, and that he will do great service in our army at the beginning of things, by forming it to order, skill, and discipline. But we shall soon have officers enough. MS not found; reprinted from Adams, Works (Adams) , 9:360-62. J On July 28 Congress recommended to the colonies several measures designed to encourage the production and collection of saltpetre, sulphur, and gunpowder. JCC, 2:218-19. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada July 29 1775 I have receivd your favor of the 20th Instant by Express. I ob serve that our new House of Representatives is organizd and am ex ceedingly pleasd with the Choice they have made of their Speaker. I find that two of the former Boston Members are left out—C is kickd upStairs! 1 &c &c. I have not Leisure at present to write to you particularly. I expect soon to see you. I must inform you that you


[Page 720]
678 July 29, 1775 were yesterday unanimously chosen Paymaster General with the pay of 100 Dollars per month, if I do not misremember. The Bearer hereof is a Maryland young Gentleman by the Name of Lux. His Father is a Gentleman of Character as a Mercht in Balti more who is a friend to American Liberty and I am informd has shown Benevolence to the poor of my native Town. I am therefore bound in Gratitude to desire your Notice of him so far as to recom mend him to some of our military officers. He proposes to joyn the Army. Excuse this unconnected Epistle and be assurd that I am Your unfeigned freind Sami Adams [P.S.] Dr Church is Director General & chief Physician of the Hos pital with the Power of appointing Surgeons &c. I wish my Son coud get Employmt in the Army. He has lost his Freind under whose Care he was educated! Mr Lux has several Companions with him young gentlemen who are in quest of Laurels. RC (MHi). 1 Thomas Cushing, a moderate in Massachusetts politics, was elected to the Council by the House of Representatives in 1775. Subsequently, his frequently conservative stance in Congress led to his omission from the Massachusetts delega tion to Congress for 1776. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 11:389-91. New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety Gentlemen Philadelphia 29 July 1775 We have reed, your Letters of the 18th & 22d Inst; 1 and tho sensi ble of the Inconveniences arising from a Scarcity of Arms, are much at a Loss respecting the best Measures for a Supply. As we have good Reason to believe that an Application to the Congress to recommend a Loan of the Jersey Arms would not suc ceed, we have agreed not to make it. No Colony has as yet given the Congress any trouble on that Head, and we are unwilling that New York should be the first. We advise however that accurate Accounts of Disbursements for arms be kept, so that should any Charges of that Kind be made against the Continent our Colony may be pre pared to support their Claim. Besides it is easy to foresee that New Jersey under the present Circumstances of public Affairs, would very reluctantly part with their Arms, &: be displeased with any Recom mendation for that Purpose. Permit us to recommend to your most serious attention the Ne cessity of laying your Hands on all the Powder that is, or may be im-


[Page 722]
680 July 29, 1775 you. ... By the last accounts from that Province we hear that Georgia has acceded to the Association & Delegates are appointed to join us in Congress. This must give Joy to all well wishers to the Cause; for when Administration shall find their favourite Colonies New York & Georgia can no longer afford them the pleasing Hopes of Dissention, they will then be forced to adopt Wisdom & Peace, as their only Refuge; Hostilities & Intrigues being equally unsuccessful. Yesterday we determined to adjourn . . . until the fifth of September; 2 This was contrary to the unanimous Sense of our Colo ny; but without Vanity I may say that Numbers in this Instance pre vailed over Wisdom. “Give me Leave to introduce . . . Mr. Tilghman, 3 the very wor thy Bearer of this Letter. ... If you hold a Conference in August in all probability I shall pay my Respects to you in Person, as I shall be a Wanderer upon the Eastern part of the Continent until the Con gress shall again meet. . . . May you be victorious in all your Con flicts.” MS not found; abstracted from extract in The Month at Goodspeed's 36 (February 1965) : 142M3. 1 Congress appointed Walter Livingston commissary for stores and provisions in the New York department July 17. JCC, 2:186. ’Rutledge must mean that Congress informally decided on July 28 to adjourn as soon as possible until September 5, because a resolution to this effect was not actually approved until July 29. JCC, 2:224. ’Tench Tilghman (1744-86), a Philadelphia merchant, was secretary and treas urer to the Indian Commissioners for the Northern Department, 1775-76, and aide-de-camp to General Washington, 1776-83. DAB. Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. Philadelphia 29th July 1775. Is pleased with his son’s letters of July 8 and 16. “The Sense you have of the divine Protection & Goodness will I hope ever induce you to live in such a Manner as not to forfeit it. I have often thought that the Hand of God might be clearly seen in the planting of these Colonies, in preserving them in a most remarkable Manner & that the same divine Goodness still at tends them, the Union of the Colonies, the Bravery &: Order of the Troops, the extremely small Losses sustained considering the vast Dangers to which we have been exposed, the good Dispositions of the Canadians and Indians, the most plentiful Crops of Grain ever known, the safe Arrival of large Quantities of Powder and the Dis covery of all the necessary materials amongst Us for supplying our selves for the future with innumerable other Blessings fully prove. May every Heart be filled with affection &: Gratitude, may We all de-


[Page 726]
684 July 30, 1775 P.S. Mr William Barrell will deliver you this Letter. He was kind enough to tell me he would go out of his way rather than not oblige me in carrying it. He boards with us at Mrs Yards, and is a reputable Merchant in this City. Richard Checkley is his Apprentice. You know his Sister Mrs Eliot. I know you will treat him with due re spect. RC (NN). 1 Samuel Adams probably left Philadelphia on August 2 and arrived in Water town on August 11. Boston Gazette, and Country Journal, August 14, 1775. His accounts show the payment of £.66.12.0 for 111 days of service at this session of Congress. DLC. “Adams had been elected as a representative from Boston, and on July 21 the House of Representatives selected him as a member of the Council. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:271, 275. Samuel Adams to William Palfrey Dear Sir, Philadelphia, July [30] 1775. 1 My friend Colo. Hancock gave me the pleasure of perusing your letter to him. I am exceedingly pleased with the notice which General Lee has taken of you in appointing you one of his Aids de Camp. 2 I shall only observe that your own Merit has rendered needless my ut most endeavours to serve you, which however shall never be wanting upon any future occasion. The bearer of this letter is Mr. William Barrell a reputable mer chant of this city. He is a native of Boston, perhaps not unknown to you. He is warmly engaged in the cause of his Country, and is an Of ficer in one of the City Regiments lately raised. After saying thus much I dare say you will pay him proper respect, in doing which you will oblige your Friend Sami. Adams Tr (MH). 1 Since Adams indicated that William Barrell was the bearer of both this letter and the preceding one to his wife, the date July 30 had been assigned to this letter to Palfrey. “William Palfrey (1741-80), Boston merchant and business manager for John Hancock, was appointed aide-de-camp to Gen. Charles Lee in July 1775 and subsequently served as paymaster general of the army, 1776-80. Appleton’s Cyclopae dia of American Biography. Joseph Hewes and Robert Smith to a London Mercantile Firm Gentlemen, Edington [Edenton], July 31. [1775]


[Page 732]
27,000 private men with the general & staff officers necessary for such a body of infantry. dollars 1. General & commander in chief per month 500. 4. Major generals [. . .] @ 166. dollars per month 664. allowance for th[e major gen]eral in separate department 166. 8. Brigadier gener[als . . . a]t 125. pr. m. 1000. 1. Adjutant gene[eral] 125. 1. Deputy Adjutan[t gener]al or Brigade major suppose 60. 1. Commissary General 80. 1. Deputy Commissary General 60. 1. Quarter master General 80. 1. Deputy Quarter master General 40. 1. Paymaster General 100. 1. Deputy paymaster 50. 1. Cheif Engineer 60. 2. Assistant do. @ 20. dollrs. each 40. 1. Chief Engineer in a separate department 60. 2. Assistants do. @ 20. dollrs. each 40. 3. Aid de Camps @ 33. doll, each 99. 1. Secretary to the General 66. 1. Secretary to the Major General in separate department 33. [1]. Commissary of the musters 20. [1]. Deputy muster master for New York department suppose 20. [8]. Aid de camps to the Major Generals @ 33. doll. pr. month each 264. [8]. Brigade majors @ 30 doll. pr. M. each 240. 1. Commissary of the Artillery suppose 50. 3,917 46. battalions of 554. privates @£1551-18 pr. M. 237,956 24. companies of riflemen or light infantry @£181-2 pr. M. 14, [480] 10. companies of Artillery consisting of 57. men each, officers included at £142-7 each company pr. M. [4,733] 36,000 rations of provisions @ 6d pr. day each, for one month 90, [000] Transportation of them, stores &c. will at a gross calcula tion amount to one half the expence of the provisions but this must be governed by circumstances, so cannot at 396, [086] [Total for six months] 2,376,5[16] 2000 barrels of Gunpowder


[Page 733]
August 1, 1775 691 140 tons of lead Shot & shells with the necessary [. . .] and repairs to be made to the artillery for the two armies Tents, drums & colours for the whole of the troops Entrenching & Pioneers tools Hospital, medicines, Physician, Chirurgeon [Apo] thecary & attendants Unavoidable & Contingent expences which [cannot be] foreseen the above articles for 15,000 men am[ount to] the sum of £105011 by the former es[timate] £105011 the like articles for 27,000 men will [. . .] be 70006 175017 which in dollars amounts to 583,39 [0] 2,959,90 [6] MS (DLC) . Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) , 1:182-84. 1 It is not known for what purpose Jefferson made these notes, although the first section, tabulating the apportionment of bills of credit to be redeemed by the 12 colonies, pertains to a resolution of June 22, 1775, the day after he took his seat in Congress. ]CC, 2:103. The figures in this section are the same as those recorded in Silas Deane’s Diary, June 13, and Samuel Ward’s List of Measures Adopted by Congress, July 31? 1775, although Ward’s calculations were for the apportionment of an emission of $3 million. Few documents have survived to indicate just how Congress computed the expenditures that would be required for colonial defense in 1775, and since such discussions were conducted primarily in a committee of the whole, the journals of Congress provide little information on the subject. See JCC, 2:65, 89-90, 91, 93-94, 103-4, 201-2, 207; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), l:184n. Because the resolutions setting the size of the army in Massachusetts and in the New York department at 22,000 and 5,000, respectively, were not approved until July 21 and July 25, it is unlikely that Jefferson made these notes before late July, since they presume an army of 27,000 men. It also seems that there is only an incidental connection between the section on bills of credit, which pertains to decisions reached in June (and is written perpendicularly to the rest of the document) , and the remainder of Jefferson’s notes, which relates to matters under discussion into the last week of July. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 1st August 1775 After the fatigue of many days, and of this in particular, I should not sit down at eleven oClock at night to write to a Gentleman of whose goodness of heart I have less doubt than I have of yours. But well knowing that you will pardon what flows from good intentions, I venture to say that my hopes are you will find from what the Con gress has already done, and from what I hope they will do 579-852 0 - 77 - 46 Vol.l


[Page 734]
692 August 1, 1775 tomorrow, 1 that it has been a capital object with us to make your ar duous business as easy to you as the nature of things will admit. The business immediately before us being finished, the approaching sickly season here, and the great importance of our presence in the Virga. Convention, have determined a recess of a Month, it standing now, that the Congress shall meet here again on the 5th of September. The capital object of powder we have attended to as far as we could by sending you the other day six Tons, and tomorrow we shall propose sending six or eight Tons more, which, with the supplies you may get from Connecticut, and such further ones from here, as future expect ed importations may furnish, will I hope enable you to do all that this powerful article can in good hands accomplish. We understand here that Batteries may be constructed at the entrance of the Bay of Boston so as to prevent the egress &: regress of any Ships whatever. If this be fact, would it not Sir be a signal stroke to secure the Fleet & Army in and before Boston so as to compel a surrender at discretion. While I write this, I assure you my heart is elated with the contem plation of so great an event. A decisive thing that would at once end the War, and vindicate the injured liberties of America. But your judgment and that of your brave Associates, will best determine the practicability of this business. I think we have taken the most effec tual measures to secure the friendship of the Indians all along our ex tensive frontiers, and by what we learn of the Spirit of our Conven tion now sitting at Richmond, a Spirit prevails there very sufficient to secure us on that quarter. The particulars of their conduct I refer you to Mr. Frazer for, who comes fresh from thence, & who goes to the Camp a Soldier of fortune. 2 You know him better than I do, and I am sure you will provide for him as he deserves. We are here as much in the dark about news from England as you are, the London Ships having been detained long beyond the time they were expected. The indistinct accounts we have, tell us of great confusion all over England, and a prodigious fall of the Stocks. I heartily wish it may be true, but if it is not so now, I have no doubt of its shortly being the case. I will not detain you longer from more important affairs, than to beg the favor of you, when your leisure permits, to oblige me with a line by Post, to let us know how you go on. There is nothing I wish so much as your success, happiness, and safe return to your family and Country, because I am with perfect sincerity dear Sir Your Affectionate friend and countryman. Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 Although Secretary Thomson’s journal entry for August 1 states that Congress adjourned this day, it is clear from Lee’s comment to Washington as well as the August 2 letters and diary entries of Benjamin Franklin, Francis Lewis, Philip


[Page 743]
August 15, 1775 701 Adjutant of a Regimt. 18^ do do 7-6-8 Quarter Master do 18% do do 7-6-8 Surgeon 25 do do 10-0-0 Surgeon’s Mate 13% do do 5-6-8 The Congress did not particularly ascertain the number of Days in a month, but I am confident they meant calendar month, as I ob served in their calculation, they generally counted 30 to a month. I am Sr Yr humble Servt. Cha Thomson RC (NHi) . 1 Thomson’s figures for the pay rates of army surgeons and surgeon’s mates differ from those in the journals. Congress having there decided to pay surgeons $1 1/3 per diem and surgeon's mates $2/3 per diem, both of which are greater than the rates given by Thomson. JCC, 2:209-10, 220. Samuel Ward to Benjamin Franklin Providence 12th August. 1225. Describes recent British naval op erations off Connecticut and Rhode Island and notes that in the vi cinity of Newport the British “stopped the FerryBoats, strictly exam ined every Person and took down the Names. They had heard of my Return and expected I should have gone to Newport and were in hopes of getting one Delegate into their Possession. . . .” Alludes to the capture by the British of Benjamin Hichborn, 1 an American post rider, and stresses the need for other post riders to exercise greater caution in the future. Continues: “The Love of Liberty triumphs in this Town over all other Considerations, every thing for the common Defence is pursued with immense Ardor every Danger is despised and every Difficulty is surmounted and at the same time they are thus attentive to the general Interest of America. They are taking most ef fectual Measures for their own immediate Safety; Batteries on each Side of the River are opened in such advantageous Situations as will easily destroy any Ships which may attempt to come near the Town.” RC (PPL) . Abstracted from Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg) , pp. 74-76. 1 See John Adams to James Warren, July 23, 1775. John Hancock to Joseph Reed Sir Watertown Augst. 15. 1775 This moment Rec’d your favr. 1 I have not with me Copies of the Talks to the several Tribes of Indians, nor was there time to Insert them in the Journals. I inclose you Copies from the Journals of all


[Page 747]
August 24, 1775 705 much & received little, or less than Nothing, and it would be very un happy that any Gentleman concerned in the first Adventure that Way should be Neglected. If you design for Montreal See Col. Arnold will I trust have the Command of a body of Men, capable of making a powerful diversion in your favor, but at any rate he ought to be made Use of, not to provide for him mer[e]ly, but to take the advantage of those abilities, &: Activities of which I am sure he is possessed. Nothing (your presence excepted) can be more agreeable than a Line from You, if Dated Montreal the better. I am Dr Sir Yours S. Deane RC (NN) . Apparently his letter of August 4, posted from “Elisabeth Town,” in which he wished Schuyler success and promised him "a long letter from Wethersfield.” NN. His letter of August 15 from Wethersfield, however, was also brief, but he promised a longer one from “the Camp, near Boston,” for which he was about to depart. NN. A Delegate in Congress to a Correspondent in London [August 24, 1775] You will see by the publick Papers some of the Proceedings of our Congress; the rest will soon be published. Three million of Dollars are now striking by their Orders, for defending the Rights of Ameri ca. The very Quakers in this and other Provinces are in Arms, and appear in the Field every Day in their Regimentals, and make as good a Figure as the best; you may be sure we are in earnest, when they handle a Musquet. All trade to England, and every other Part of the World, will most certainly be stopped on the 10th of next Month, and if the Ministry do not very soon see the Justice and Equity of placing the Colonies in the same Situation they were in before the Year 1763, in which both Sides experience Satisfaction and mutual Benefit, then you may expect to hear in the Course of next Winter that the Congress have opened all our Ports to every foreign Power that will come with their Manufactures, and trade with us for our Produce. Whether that will not be one Means of dissolving our Connection entirely with Great Britain, I shall leave to wiser Heads to determine; I am far, very far, from wishing such an Event; but, nevertheless, I am very apprehen sive, from the present Temper of our People, that a few more violent Steps will lay a Foundation for it. MS not found; reprinted from the Daily Advertiser (London) , October 19, 1775. Printed under the heading: “Extract of a Letter from one of the Gentlemen of the Provincial Congress at Philadelphia, Aug. 24.” Force, who took his text and date for this letter from the Weekly Magazine, or Edinburgh Amusement, October 26,


[Page 751]
August 27, 1775 709 on a large Road and one which the people, passing to & from both Armies use. He has- therefore all the intelligence of every thing he can wish to know, & ’twill the advantage of sending it to the Enemy that he would have in a Town. One thought farther, he is a very communicative man, 8c in the Secrets of Administration, were he near some Judicious person many important discoveries might be made, of this I am Confident from the Opportunities I had with him at Philadelphia. I will Trouble your honor no farther on this disa greeable Subject, as I am Confident you will give such Orders as will do me Justice, as well as the Public in whose behalf, and by whose express Orders I gave the Assurances I did. Your Sons were well on Tuesday last. I am 8cc S Deane FC (CtHi) . 1 Deane was a member of the congressional committee that originally examined Skene and supervised his parole. JCC, 2:82, 86. 3 For Trumbull’s explanation in response to Deane’s assertion that the desires of Congress had not been complied with, see his August 30 letter to Deane, NYHS Collections 23 (1890): 546-50. See also JCC, 2:108-9, 126-27; and John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., July 6, 1775. Benjamin Franklin to Silas Deane Dear Sir, Philada Augt. 27. 1775. I am much oblig’d by your Favour of the 13th Inst. Mr [William] Goddard, Riding Surveyor to the Cen. Post Office is gone to the Southward, for Settling the new Post-Offices all along to Georgia. Mr [Richard] Bache, the Comptroller, is to set out next Week North ward on the same Business, who will take with him Directions from me to establish all the Officers in your Government that you recom mend and the new Offices and Stages that appear likely to support themselves. I am glad to hear that the Gunsmith’s Business goes on so well with you. We make great Progress on it here; but the Price is high. If we would acquire that Manufacture in Perfection, it must be by as suring the Workmen of a large Demand, for a Number of Years, and at a Price certain. Then they will be encourag’d to bring up Appren tices for different Parts of the Work, and also to make Tools and Machines for facilitating 8c expediting it, such as Fuages for Lock Plates Sc Cocks Mills for grinding and boring the Barrels, 8cc. Those bred to Parts of the Work only, will dispatch more and do it better. And then I am confident Arms may be made as good and as cheap in America as in any Part of the World. I intend therefore to propose to our Assembly to give that Encouragement here, by engaging to take 2000 Muskets per Annum for Ten Years, at a good Price, which I


[Page 756]
714 Index Becker, Carl, “Nomination and Election of Delegates from New York,” 138 Beckly, Mr„ 365 Bedford, Miss, 359 Bedford, Gunning, appointed deputy muster-master general, 632, 635-36 Bee, Thomas: identified, 255; letter to, 254; mentioned, 535 Beers, Isaac, 19 Bell, Henry, 559, 578 Belton, Joseph, 710 Bermuda: exemption from trade ban, 474-76; address to Congress, 475; supplies powder to Congress, 476 Biddle, Mr., 87 Biddle, Clement, described, 92 Biddle, Edward: letters from, 315, 630; letter to, 265; elected to Congress, xxx; attends Congress, xxx; debates means for restoring American rights, 145; elected to Pennsylvania Assembly, 156; elected speaker of Pennsylvania Assembly, 202, 204; distributes Letter to Quebec, 266-67; opposes Pennsylvania’s petition ing the king, 315; criticized by Joseph Galloway, 323; health, 359, 649; mentioned, 101, 233, 270, 624, 625 Biddle, Elizabeth Ross (Mrs. Edward) ,101, 204, 624 Biddle, Rebekah Cornell (Mrs. Clement) , 92 Bigelow, Mr., 672 Birch, William, xxxiii Bird, Mr., 674 Bird, Benjamin, letter of introduction, 591 Black, Mr., 361 Blacks: clothing for, 595; insurrection incited, 606-7 Blair, Samuel, 4, 85, 107 Blake, Edward, 595 Bland, Richard: letter from, 245; -ft elected to Congress, xxxii; attends Congress, xxxii; described, 7, 62; arrives in Philadelphia, 24; debates rules, 28; debates nonimportation and nonexportation, 103-4; debates means for restoring American rights, 139; leaves Philadelphia, 245; debates state of America, 401; falsely charged, 485-86; mentioned, 291, 336, 345 Bliss, Col., 333 Boerum, Simon: letter from, 442; elected to Congress, xxix, 138, 331; attends Congress, xxix, 134, 136; arrives in Philadelphia, 346 Bollan, William, 345 Bond, Thomas, 630 Boston: bombardment rumored, 27, 29, 32-34, 37, 49, 51, 54, 58-59, 85; town meeting, 63-64; relief, 157, 258-59, 360-62; evacuation recommended, 157, 160-61; Congress protests Gen. Gage’s fortification of, 158-63, 171-72, 205; militia, 268; fire, 422; British reinforcements for, 467, 489, 520, 526; plight of inhabitants, 523, 602, 606 Boston Committee of Correspondence: letter to, 71; mentioned, 72, 76, 154, 157, 162, 356 Boston-Gazette, 10, 55, 76, 591, 684 Boston Harbor: raids, 432, 443, 447-49, 485; blockage considered, 671, 692 Bostwick, David, 35 Boundary disputes: Pennsylvania and Virginia, 170, 421, 665-66; Connecticut and Pennsylvania, 656, 661, 693-94 Boudinot, Elias, 413 Bounties: proposed for New York troops, 560; mentioned, 449 Bowdoin, James: identified, 530; letter to, 530; -ft elected to Congress, xxviii; mentioned, 534, 602 Bowen, Dr., 410


[Page 757]
Index 715 Bowen, Mr., 458 Boyd, Julian P., Anglo-American Union, 116, 119, 127 Boyd, Julian P., “Disputed Authorship of the Declaration on . . . Taking Up Arms,” 588 Boyd, Julian P„ ed., Papers of Thomas Jefferson, 221, 644, 666, 691 Boyd, Julian P., and Taylor, Robert J., eds., Susquehannah Company Papers, 656 Boyle, John, 684 Boylston, Thomas, 451, 466 Brackett, Joshua, 85 Bradford, Mr., 664 Bradford, Katy, 359 Bradford, Thomas: identified, 292; letter to, 292 Bradford, William: identified, 292; letter to, 292; mentioned, 246 Brewton, Miles, 571 Bright, Capt., 341 British constitution, 288, 471, 548; see also Rights, American British fisheries, nonexportation to, 397, 400, 451-52 British navy: colonial support proposed, 39, 93-94; weakness of, 450-51 British troops: transferred from Philadelphia to Boston, 57, 61; provisioning sus pected, 137, 487, 492; expected at New York, 400, 496, 501; provisioning for bidden, 435; reinforcements for Gen. Gage, 467, 489, 520, 522, 526; numbers at Boston, 527; scant provisions, 586 Brook, John, 632 Brown, Capt., 338, 368 Brown, Henton, 546 Brown, John: identified, 321; -fr reports on Canada, 356, 360, 452; mentioned, 357, 363, 438, 479 Brown & Collinson, 546 Brydges, Sir Samuel Egerton, Arthur Collins’ Peerage of England, 609 Bulloch, Archibald: letter from, 326; explains nonattendance at Congress, 326- 28; elected to Congress, 663 Bunker Hill, Battle of, 532, 534-37, 540, 542-45, 552-53, 558-59, 561, 569, 575, 578, 580-81, 585-86, 595, 605, 614, 629, 688 Burbeck, Mr., 650, 667, 668 Burdge, Franklin, Second Memorial, 89 Burgh, James: identified, 276; letter to, 275; mentioned, 298 Burgh, James, Political Disquisitions, 275, 276 Burgoyne, John: identified, 467; -fc debates American affairs, 372, 383; mentioned, 586, 614 Burke, Edmund: letter to, 349; praised by Congress, 426 Burke, Edmund, Speech . . . on . . . Conciliation with the Colonies, 349 Burnett, Edmund C., Continental Congress, xxiii Burnett, Edmund C., ed., Letters, v-vi, xxiii, 428-29, 560, 566 Burr, Aaron: account of Bunker Hill, 578; mentioned, 634, 642 Burr, Thaddeus, 472, 532 Butler, Andrew, 78 Butler, Richard, appointed Indian agent, middle department, 706 Butler, Zebulon: identified, 661; letters to, 660, 693 Butterfield, Lyman H., ed., Adams Family Correspondence, 333, 529, 649, 658 Butterfield, Lyman H., ed., Diary and Autobiography of John Adams, 10, 105, 193, 433, 442, 498, 653, 658, 659, 682 Cadwalader, John, 6, 415, 437 Cadwalader, Thomas, 143


[Page 758]
716 Index Caldwell, Andrew, 457 Calhoon, Robert M., "I Have Deduced Your Rights,” 116, 313 Callender, Capt., 89 Camden, 1st earl of (Charles Pratt), 80 Campbell, Donald, appointed deputy quartermaster general, 632, 635, 668 Canada: intelligence presented to Congress, 356, 360, 412, 414, 452, 625; address to inhabitants, 409, 418, 481-82, 502; American invasion of, 430-31, 452, 548, 554-55, 558, 568, 700, 704; see also Letter to Quebec Canadian Indians; incited by British, 542-44, 548; neutrality, 558, 561, 569; mentioned, 625 Candid Examination (Galloway), 113, 119, 290, 313, 320, 325 Carleton, Guy: incites Indians, 542-44, 548, 607; mentioned, 264, 431, 555, 561, 568, 569 Caroline County, Va., committee disapproves of Hanover march, 420-21, 485 Carpenters’ Hall: view of, xxxiii, 11; described, 9; mentioned, 4, 13, 14, 19, 20, 25, 27, 37, 197, 246 Carroll, Charles, of Carrollton: identified, 69; letter to, 526; described, 69; quoted, 69 Carter, Robert, letter to, 569 Cary, Mr., 510 Cary, John H., Joseph Warren, 76 Cary, Richard, 236, 670, 671 Cary, Samuel, 670 Caswell, Richard: letters from, 339, 511; elected to Congress, xxx; attends Con gress, xxx, 91; described, 91-92; describes militia escort, 339-40; arrives in Phila delphia, 340; urges military preparations, 341, 514; returns home, 613; men tioned, 400, 446, 576 Caswell, William: identified, 341; letter to, 339 Catholic church; see Roman Catholic church Caughnawaga Indians, incited by British, 542-43, 548 Cecil County, Md., donations for Boston poor, 361-62 Census, population information requested, 622-23 Chandler, Thomas Bradbury, American Querist, 174 Chandler, Thomas Bradbury, Friendly Address, 263, 313 Charleston, S. C., Secret Committee, letter to, 570 Charlestown, Mass., burning of, 574, 605 Charlestown, Mass., Battle of; see Bunker Hill, Battle of Charlton, Mrs. 97 Charlton, James, 400 Chase, Samuel: letters from, 264, 304, 307, 632, 636, 700; letter to, 277; -fr elected to Congress, xxvii; attends Congress, xxvii; debates nonexportation, 103-4; debates nonimportation, 103-4, 151; debates means for restoring American rights, 145; described, 168; debates American rights, 182, 192; urges military preparations 304-5, 307; explains Maryland resolution, 304, 307; criticizes Parliament, 305 308; on Galloway’s plan of union, 306; dines at City Tavern, 358; debates reconciliation, 371; debates state of America, 401; on Canadian expedition, 700; mentioned, 69, 173, 189, 280, 336, 527, 670 Chatham, 1st earl of (William Pitt) : plan for reconciliation, 321, 425-26; praised by Congress, 425-26; mentioned, 80, 703 Chauncy, Charles: identified, 83; letter to, 82; mentioned, 142, 534 Checkley, Richard, 684 Chester, John, 365,495, 533, 542, 640 Chew, Benjamin, entertains delegates, 90 Chew, Colby, 102 Chew, Joseph: identified, 102; letters to, 101, 488


[Page 759]
Index 717 Cheynes, Mr., 340 Chovet, Abraham: anatomical waxworks, 192-93; mentioned, 197 Christ, Henry: identified, 316; mentioned, 315 Christie, Mr., 485 Christie, James, loyalist activities, 636-37 Church, Benjamin: identified, 432; letter to, 580; appointed director of army hospital, 670, 672-73, 678; mentioned, 435, 464, 465, 468, 469, 470, 473, 499, 534, 552, 559, 603 Clark, William Bell, et al., eds., Naval Documents, 487-88, 571 Clarke, Ethan, 99 Clarke, Joseph, 493 Clergy: political activities, 478-79, 537, 576, 603, 613; German, 598 Clinton, George: letters from, 358, 419, 469, 487, 579, 678, 695; elected to Congress, xxix, 331; attends Congress, xxix; leaves Philadelphia, 695 Clinton, Henry, identified, 467 Clopton, Dr., 138 Clymer, George: identified, 697; appointed Continental treasurer, 697; men tioned, 156, 163 Cobb, David, 13,72, 85,107,179 Coffin, Capt., 487 Colden, Cadwallader, 116, 319 Collier, Christopher, “Inside the American Revolution,” 337 Collier, Christopher, Roger Sherman’s Connecticut, 656 Collins, Ezra, 579, 589 Collins, John, 600 Collins, Stephen: identified, 318; letter to, 316; -ft fears American disunity, 318; quoted, 318; letter of introduction, 597; mentioned, 4, 6, 13, 99, 132, 206, 402, 579, 583, 589, 600 Collinson, Peter, 566 Collinson, Thomas, 546 Commissary general, Joseph Trumbull appointed, 641-42, 647, 662, 672 Committee on Rights: appointed, 31, 36, 45-46; debates in, 38-44, 46-49, 51-54; subcommittee, 59, 60, 63, 68, 72; mentioned, 37, 57, 66, 75, 84, 86, 89, 90, 93, 168 Committee on Trade (1774): appointed, 31, 36; report, 86; mentioned, 45, 57, 84 Concord; see Lexington and Concord Confederation, advantages discussed, 291 Confederation, Articles of, Franklin’s proposed plan, 643-44 Congress: activities summarized, xix-xxiii, 161-62, 168-69, 180-81, 201-3, 234- 35, 256-58, 612-13, 686-87; unanimity, xx, 87, 227, 337, 497; chronology of, xxiv-xxv; convenes, 9, 25-26, 337, 338; appoints a secretary, 10, 12-14, 20, 23, 25-27, 58-59, 168, 337, 342, 344; rules, 10, 14, 23, 26, 27-33, 59, 360; voting method in, 10, 26, 28-31, 55, 59, 168; secrecy of proceedings, 29, 30, 32, 66- 67 , 69; opened with prayers, 31-35, 44-45, 55, 74-75, 342, 344-45, 347; committee to thank Rev. Duche, 35, 45; described, 49, 59, 99, 128-30, 141, 154—55, 164, 236, 297, 432, 436, 657-58; committee to draft a letter to Gen. Gage, 160, 162; committee to draft an address to the king, 225; plans second session, 233; com mittee to draft a letter to Quebec, 243; adjourns, 246, 248, 249, 254, 680-83, 692, 694-96; expenses apportioned, 249; proceedings discussed, 252-54, 257-58, 292- 97, 307; proceedings criticized, 252-55, 286-87, 290, 295-96, 307, 315, 319, 322-24; foreign distribution of proceedings, 258-59; proceedings approved, 262, 264, 269, 271, 273, 275, 291-92, 295-96, 302, 304, 307, 314, 328, 330; annual meeting recommended, 270-73; Georgia unrepresented, 326-27; proposed adjournment to Connecticut, 348-49, 365-66, 433, 446, 494-95 , 519-20, 522, 531, 543, 593, 600; debates military preparations, 351-52, 383-85, 388-95, 401-2, 404-7; committee on New York defense, 351, 356, 361; committee to write to Canada, 409; ammuni-


[Page 760]
718 Index Congress (continued) tion committee, 412, 414; post office committee, 418-20, 423; policy toward pacifists, 433-34, 598; committee to draft a petition to the king, 441-42; com mittee to draft an address to the people of Great Britain, 444, 551; committee to purchase powder, 444, 457; committee on military estimates, 447; fast day com mittee, 456; committee to examine Skene papers, 458; adjournment discussed, 469, 645, 647, 656, 681-82; saltpetre committee, 484; withdrawal of southern col onies rumored, 487; committee on army rules, 493, 506; pledges support to Washington, 536; committee to draft a letter to city of London, 615; committee on trade, 626, 648, 653; committee on expenses, 648; committee on lead and salt, 686; list of measures adopted, 686-87; advances money to New York, 695; see also Committee on Rights; Committee on Trade; Delegates; Journals of Congress Congress, president of; see Hancock, John; Middleton, Henry; Randolph, Peyton Connecticut: responds to Boston alarm, 85-86; proposed adjournment of Con gress to, 348-49, 365-66, 433, 446, 494-95, 519-20, 522, 531, 543, 593, 600; ordered to reinforce Ticonderoga, 422-24, 429, 431, 449, 479; accounts requested, 422, 480; troops ordered to New York, 496, 498, 501, 520, 635; troops ordered to Boston, 520, 522, 536; troops taken into Continental service, 520, 540, 646-48; requested to supply Gen. Schuyler, 547, 554-56; settlement in Wyoming Valley, 654-56; boundary dispute with Pennsylvania, 656, 661, 693-94 Connecticut Assembly: approves proceedings of Congress, 291-92; in special session, 330; appoints militia officers, 540; mentioned, 661 Connecticut Courant, 202, 203 Connecticut delegates: letters from, 168, 422, 423, 462, 479, 542, 618, 646, 672, 693; summarize work of Congress, 168-69; comment on Continental troop quotas, 618-19; urge peaceful conduct in Wyoming Valley, 693-94 Connor, Morgan, letter of introduction, 591 Continental Army: funding of, 447, 453, 457, 482, 490, 496, 503, 508, 515-16, 518, 524-26, 528, 536, 561; established, 465, 486, 490, 499, 502-3, 508, 515-16, 519, 524, 526, 528, 613; supplies for, 474, 476, 662; Washington elected commander in chief, 482, 486-87, 490, 494-99, 502-3, 507-10, 519-21, 524-26, 530-31, 533, 539; rules and regulations, 493, 506, 558, 584-85, 599, 612, 629; Connecticut troops, 496, 498, 501, 520, 522, 536, 540, 618-19, 635, 646-48, 662; Massachusetts troops, 502-3, 519, 613, 662; general officers appointed, 503, 508-9, 518-21, 525, 528-29, 533, 539-40, 542, 544, 547, 556, 588, 626-27, 642, 645, 657, 662; pay discussed, 504, 529, 702; New Hampshire troops, 522, 524, 536, 662; Rhode Island troops, 522, 526, 536, 662; North Carolina troops, 545^46; hospital, 558-59, 662, 670; med ical supplies, 580; battalion organization, 593; colony quotas, 618-19, 634, 642, 662; Pennsylvania troops, 621, 662; engineers, 645, 650; enlarged, 650-51, 663; checks on power, 652, 667; subordinate officers appointed, 672-78; estimated expenses for 27,000 men, 689-91; pay rates, 700-701; advice to officers, 702-3; see also Northern military department; Powder; Riflemen Continental treasury: treasurers appointed, 697; see also Paper currency Cooke, Nicholas, 493 Coombe, Thomas: described, 9; mentioned, 13, 20, 62, 163 Cooper, Dr., 670 Cooper, Mr., 507 Cooper, Sir Grey, 422 Cooper, Myles: loyalist activities, 137; mentioned, 174, 321, 359, 367 Cooper, Samuel, 74, 142, 333, 497, 508, 517, 534 Copley, John Singleton, xxxiv Corbutt, C. (pseud.), xxxvi Cox, Dr., 60, 69


[Page 762]
Index 720 Deane, Silas (continued') 168, 201, 227, 258, 291, 331, 335, 345, 348, 362, 365, 402, 422, 433, 436, 448, 458, 462, 479, 493, 504, 506, 532, 533, 537, 542, 557, 566, 572, 573, 592, 609, 616, 618, 626, 628, 638, 641, 646, 653, 660, 693, 704, 708; letters to, 330, 365, 709; elected to Congress, xxvi; attends Congress, xxvi; arrives in Philadelphia, 15, 337, 346; Philadelphia residence, 15; describes Philadelphia, 15-20, 50, 55-56; describes delegates, 16-18, 29, 34-35, 61-62, 91-92; urges boycott of Rivington’s Gazetteer, 19; attends church, 19-20, 62; on choosing secretary of Congress, 20, 23; admires Quakers, 23; lists delegates attending Congress, 56-57; describes British troops, 61; on means for restoring American rights, 133, 138-40, 146; health, 140; on nonexportation, 153-54; summarizes work of Congress, 201-3; suggests foreign distribution of congressional proceedings, 258-59; on western land settlement, 259-62; on confederation, 291; describes New York sentiments, 335; debates state of America, 351; on proposed adjournment to Connecticut, 365-66, 433; on reconciliation, 371, 401-2; on American defense, 401-2, 407; com mittee to write to Canada, 409; ammunition committee, 412; travels to Wilming ton, Del., 435, 447-49; describes Congress, 436; describes Pennsylvania militia uniforms, 437; committee on military estimates, 447; examines Skene papers, 458, 463, 479-80; estimates currency redemption quotas, 482; describes daily routine, 494, 505; committee on army rules, 506; plans bold stroke at New York, 505-6, 567, 573; describes trip to New Jersey, 616-17; describes Germantown, Pa„ 617; committee on trade, 626, 648; on appointment of general officers, 626-27, 638-39; committee on expenses, 648; favors Canada expedition, 704; on treatment of prisoners, 708-9; mentioned, xxii, 26, 68, 90, 521, 522, 543, 556, 674, 675, 705 Deas, Anne Izard, ed., Correspondence of Ralph Jzard, 248, 254 De Berdt, Mrs. Dennys, 8 De Bois, Maj., 138 De Boor, Maj., 9 Declaration of Rights and Grievances: contributions to, xxxiv, 38-44, 193-96, 200- 201; legislative synopsis, 193-94; mentioned, 197 Declaration on the Causes and Necessity for Taking Up Arms: discussed, 584, 587, 588; dispatched to London, 604, 620; mentioned, 612, 614, 618, 619, 620, 621, 629, 675 Defense, American; see Military preparations; Militia De Hart, Balthazar, 88-89 De Hart, John: elected to Congress, xxix; attends Congress, xxix; arrives in Phila delphia, 346; mentioned, 8, 143 De Lancey, James (1732-1800), identified, 359 De Lancey, James (1747-1804) : identified, 359; mentioned, 367 De Lancey, Oliver, 137 De Lancey, Oliver, Jr.: identified, 359; mentioned, 367 De Lancey, Peter, 359 Delaware delegates, letter from, 557 Delaware Indians, invited to Pittsburgh conference, 706 Delegate, unknown: letter from, 705; speech, 426 Delegates: attendance list, xxvi-xxxii, 56-57; arrival in Philadelphia, 3, 14-15, 337, 339-40, 346; lawyers among, 3, 34, 136-37, 173-74; social activities, 3-10, 33, 65, 67, 75, 92, 221, 348, 358-59, 412; described, 5-8, 16-18, 24, 27, 29, 34-35, 58, 61-62, 91-92, 167-68, 236, 339, 649; meet at City Tavern, 6, 13, 14, 16; religious diversity among, 74; assessed for expenses of Congress, 249; travel to second Congress, 335-36, 339-40; attend commencement, 355-56, 359; visit camp at Cambridge, 694, 696 Deming, Lemuel, 15 Denison, Nathan, letter to, 693


[Page 766]
724 Index Friends, Society of; see Quakers Fristoe, William, 236 Frye, James, 667, 668 Frye, Joseph, 667, 668 Gadsden, Christopher: letter from, 570; elected to Congress, xxxi; attends Con gress, xxxi; Philadelphia residence, 15; debates rules, 28; described, 35; on regula tion of trade, 68-69; debates nonexportation, 103-4, 154; debates nonimportation, 103-4, 151; debates means for restoring American rights, 133, 146; debates American rights, 199; reports to South Carolina Provincial Congress, 293-94; on weaknesses of British navy, 450-51; visits camp at Cambridge, 695; mentioned, 3, 4, 255 Gadsden, Thomas, 15, 348, 695 Gage, Thomas: letter to, 158; -fr seizes powder at Charlestown, Mass., 27, 45; fortifies Boston, 77, 154; Suffolk County, address to, 77-78; answers Suffolk County address, 97; Congress’ remonstrance to, 158-63, 171-72, 205; health, 204; proclamation, 552, 572, 587; intercepted letter, 576, 611; treatment of Bostonians, 606; mentioned, xxi, 82, 130, 143, 268, 343, 349, 350, 368, 425, 460, 527, 543, 544, 595, 609, 613, 615, 627, 663, 665, 683, 704 Galloway, Elizabeth, 296 Galloway, Grace Growden (Mrs. Joseph) , 296 Galloway, Joseph: letters from, 23, 27, 255, 282, 295, 313, 318, 322, 325; letter to, 336; plan of union, 117; resolution, 112; statement, 119; elected to Congress, xxxi; attends Congress, xxxi; compared to Hutchinsonians, 6-7; offers statehouse, 19, 25; describes delegates, 24, 27; suggests sending commissioners to Great Britain, 24-25; on choosing secretary for Congress, 27; debates American rights, 47-48, 182; debates nonexportation, 109-12, 153; debates nonimportation, 109-12; proposes plan of union, 109-28, 234, 287-89; debates means for restoring Ameri can rights, 145—46; described, 168; meets with Baptists, 193; on association, 222; criticizes proceedings of Congress, 255, 286-87, 290, 295, 319; declines appoint ment as delegate, 295; comments on loyalist pamphlets, 313; supports Pennsyl vania's petitioning the king, 315-16, 319, 322; describes proceedings of Pennsyl vania Assembly, 322-24; harrassed, 342-43; excused as delegate, 343, 357; men tioned, xxii, 15, 20, 65, 92, 94, 156, 173, 204, 265, 267, 280, 346 Galloway, Joseph, Candid Examination, 113, 119, 290, 313, 320, 325 Galloway, Joseph, Examination . . . Before the House of Commons, 113 Galloway, Joseph, Historical and Political Reflections, 127 Galloway, Joseph, Reply to an Address to the Author of . . . "Candid Examination," 116, 222, 325 Gardner, Thomas, 534, 537 Gates, Horatio: identified, 268; letters to, 267, 334, 703; -fa appointed adjutant general, 503, 521, 528, 544, 557; departs for army at Boston, 557; mentioned, 300, 502, 526, 555, 561, 566, 624 Gentlemen’s Magazine, 646 George III: speech to Parliament, 315; replies to London Address, 439-40, 459, 462, 482; refuses to receive petition (1775) , 442; see also Address to the King (1774) ; Petition to the King (1775) Georgia: unrepresented in Congress, 326-28; represented in Congress, 348, 351; mentioned, 502-3 Georgia delegates: letters from, 326; ft explain nonattendance at Congress, 326-28 Georgia Provincial Congress: elects delegates to Congress, 328, 643, 646-47, 663-64, 680; provides powder for Continental Army, 570-71; adopts Association, 643, 664 Gerlach, Larry R., “Revolution or Independence?,’’ 511 German hussars: uniforms described, 587, 590-91; mentioned, 624


[Page 767]
Index 725 Germantown, Pa., described, 617 Gerry, Elbridge: letters to, 450, 469, 473, 477, 503, 507, 580; mentioned, 532, 534, 597 Gibson, Mr., 204 Giles, Capt., 445 Gill, John, 155 Gill, Moses: identified, 466-67; letters to, 466, 580; mentioned, 362, 507 Gill, Rebecca Boylston (Mrs. Moses) ,451, 466 Gillis, Capt., 396 Gilmer, George, letter to, 585 Gipson, Lawrence H., Jared Ingersoll, 23 Glover, Capt., 292 Glover, Richard, Substance of the Evidence, 483, 484 Goddard, William: identified, 65-66; promotes Continental post office, 143; sets up post offices, 709; mentioned, 65 Goldsborough, Robert: elected to Congress, xxvii; attends Congress, xxvii; debates means for restoring American rights, 133; mentioned, 45, 527 Goodhue, Capt., 72 Goodrich, Capt., 495, 640 Goodrich, Mr., 368 Graham, Robert E., "Taverns of Colonial Philadelphia,” 12 Grant, James: identified, 469; mentioned, 468 Grape Island, Boston Harbor, raid, 432, 443, 448 Gray, Ebenezer, 620, 642 Gray, George, 457 Gray, William, 66 Great Britain; see addresses to the people of; British constitution; British navy; British troops; George III; North ministry; Parliament; Reconciliation; Rights, American Great Britain, Parliamentary History of England, 426 Green Mountain Boys, 541, 568 Greene, Mr., 536 Greene, Catharine Ray (Mrs. William) , identified, 501 Greene, Nathanael, appointed brigadier general, 539, 541, 556 Greene, William, identified, 501 Greenleaf, Benjamin, 179, 534 Greenleaf, Joseph, 72, 85, 101, 107, 531 Gridley, Richard: identified, 503; mentioned, 502, 645, 650, 667, 668 Grievances; see Rights, American Griffen, Mr., 624, 625 Griffin, Samuel, 356 Grosvenor, Thomas, 620, 642 Grotius, Hugo, De Jure Belli ac Pads, 189 The Group (Warren) , 364—65 Gunpowder; see Powder Gunsmiths, 709 Haley, George, 9, 87 Hall, Aquilla: letters of introduction, 408, 417-18; mentioned, 571 Hall, John: elected to Congress, xxvii: attends Congress, xxvii; mentioned, 336, 527 Hall, Josias Carvill: letters of introduction, 408, 417-18; mentioned, 571 Hall, Lyman: letter from, 631; portrait, xxv, 329; elected to Congress, xxvii, 328, 664; attends Congress, xxvii, 328, 348; voting in Congress, 351; mentioned, 298, 647 Hamilton, Mr., 204


[Page 778]
736 Index Nonexportation: debated, 103-5, 107-9, 131-33, 145-49, 153-54; of flaxseed, 103, 105, 108, 133, 135, 145^9, 153, 162; of lumber, 103, 105, 108, 133, 145, 153; of indigo, 253, 294-95; rice exempted from, 293-95; to Newfoundland, 355, 397, 400, 451-52; to British fisheries, 397, 400; effective date reconsidered, 611-12; mentioned, 130, 131, 135, 141, 142, 150, 152, 162, 181, 395, 432, 705; see also Association Nonimportation: anticipated, 91, 97, 99; debated, 103-5, 107-8, 151-52; mentioned, 130, 131, 135, 141, 142, 150, 154, 162, 168, 181, 206, 395; see also Association Norris, Miss, 64 Norris, Isaac, 64 North, Frederick (Lord) : debates American affairs, 373, 383; mentioned, 7, 422; see also North ministry North Carolina: military preparations urged, 341, 343, 397, 446, 511-14; loyalists, 576; Presbyterian congregations addressed, 576 North Carolina Committees, letter to, 511 North Carolina delegates: letters from, 511, 575, 615; urge military preparations, 511-14; mentioned, 91 North Carolina Provincial Convention, delegates recommend convening, 399, 446 North ministry: blamed for breach with colonies, 250-51; criticized, 273, 275, 277- 78, 303-5, 308, 313, 331-32, 334, 685, 703-4; response to Congress’ resolutions awaited, 275, 285, 291, 305, 309-12; conciliatory proposal, 352, 366, 383, 410, 471, 566, 689, 704; scheme to corrupt American leaders feared, 456, 471, 479-80; British support assessed, 468; misrepresentations denounced by Benjamin Frank lin, 561-66 Northern military department: orders, 548, 554-55, 558, 568, 660, 663; provisions for, 554-55; officers appointed, 632, 635-36, 679, 699; paymaster’s office, 672-73, 675, 696, 697, 699; see also Schuyler, Philip Northumberland, 2d duke of (Hugh Percy) , 337, 425 Nova Scotia, nonexportation to, 397, 400 O’Callaghan, Edmund B., and Fernow, Berthold, eds., Documents Relative to Colonial New-York, 270 Ohio, 102 Ohio Indians, 706 Ogden, Mr., 634 Olive Branch Petition; see Petition to the King (1775) Oliver, Andrew, ed., Journal of Samuel Curwen, 339 Oliver, Peter, 58 Oneida Indians, 672 Orange County, N.Y.: Goshen and Cornwall meeting, 89; elects delegates to Con gress, 89 Orne, Azor, 478, 534 Oswald, Miss, 204 Oswald, Eleazer, 704 Otis, James, Sr., 534 Otis, James, Jr., 365 Outram, Capt., 368 Paca, William: letter from 636; elected to Congress, xxviii; attends Congress, xxviii; debates American rights, 43, 182-83; described, 168; debates state of America, 401; mentioned, 173, 189, 204, 527 Pacifists: contributions in lieu of military service, 430-31, 598; Moravians as, 433- 34; see also Quakers


[Page 779]
Index 737 Paine, Robert Treat: diary, 12, 32, 44, 54, 57, 66, 72, 75, 77, 85, 90, 93, 101, 107, 132, 154, 163, 179, 197, 206, 221, 236, 248, 338, 348, 355, 363, 443, 447, 456, 537, 539, 638, 695; letters from, 316, 477, 509, 534, 597; notes, 181, 191, 200; speech, 146; yjj- elected to Congress, xxviii; attends Congress, xxviii; arrives in Philadelphia, 3, 10, 13, 338-39, 346; gives toasts, 8; Philadelphia residence, 13; attends church, 13, 101, 236; attends committee on rights, 54; health, 66; de bates nonexportation of flaxseed, 145-49; on American rights, 181-83, 191-92, 199-200; meets with Baptists, 193, 197; leaves Philadelphia, 248, 695; on American unity, 317; fast day committee, 456; on making powder, 478; mentioned, xxii, 4, 91, 259, 264, 529 Paine, Sally Cobb (Mrs. Robert) , 179 Palfrey, William: identified, 684; letter to, 684 Palmer, Joseph: identified, 333; letters to, 106, 333, 417, 516, 583; mentioned, 101, 128, 534, 545, 571, 579 Palmer, Joseph Pearce, 667, 668 Paper currency: emission anticipated, 419, 474, 482, 492, 496; redemption quotas, 482, 525, 536, 687, 689; first emision, 498, 502-3, 507-8, 515-16, 518, 524-26, 528, 536, 543, 561, 663; second emision, 650-51 Parke, John: identified, 558; letters of introduction, 557-58 Parker, Joseph, 457 Parliament: authority discussed, 38, 43, 285, 305-6, 321, 372-82; regulation of trade, 43, 68-69, 109-12, 180, 182, 184-92, 305, 403; elections, 267, 275-76, 309, House of Commons debates American affairs, 372-74, 383 Parliamentary authority; see Rights, American Parliamentary Register, 422 Parsons, Samuel, 459, 520, 522, 634, 639, 641, 643,. 654 Partridge, Benjamin, 369 Paterson, Catherine Livingston (Mrs. John) , 415 Paterson, John, 19, 415, 455 Patterson, Stephen E., Political Parties in Revolutionary Massachusetts, 470 Paymaster general, James Warren appointed, 668, 670, 672-73, 677-78, 681-82 Peale, Charles Willson, xxxv, xxxvii Peggy Stewart (brig) , 244 Pemberton, Israel: identified, 584; mentioned, 193 Pendleton, Edmund: letters from, 330, 420, 485, 488, 581, 622, 623, 627; resolu tions, 402; elected to Congress, xxxii; attends Congress, xxxii; arrives in Philadelphia, 14; debates rules, 28-29; debates American rights, 43-44, 46, 182, 196; described, 62; debates means for restoring American rights, 133, 139; de bates nonimportation, 151; debates state of America, 401; debates reconciliation, 402-6; debates American defense, 404-7; drafts Washington’s will, 510; committee to draft an address to the people of Great Britain, 551; committee to draft a letter to city of London, 615; leaves Philadelphia, 656; mentioned, 102, 143, 160 Penn, John: recommends that Pennsylvania petition the king, 315, 323; mentioned, 78, 82, 96, 204 Penn, Richard, Jr.: identified, 78; described, 96; entertains delegates, 109; trans mits petition to the king, 618, 620; mentioned, 82, 101, 173, 189, 442, 447, 600 Penn, Thomas, 78 Pennsylvania: boundary dispute with Virginia, 170, 421, 665-66; politics discussed, 302-3; militia, 340, 342-43, 347, 356-57, 364, 396-97, 415, 430-31; 436-37, 451-52, 459, 460, 463, 465, 537, 539, 579, 585, 594, 604; boundary dispute with Connecti cut, 656, 661, 693-94; riflemen for Continental Army, 491-92, 598-99, 621, 629- 30; see also Riflemen Pennsylvania Assembly: elections to, 133, 318, 142, 155-56; elects speaker, 202, 204; entertains Congress, 221; approves proceedings of Congress, 264, 295-96, 302;


[Page 780]
738 Index Pennsylvania Assembly (continued) instructions to delegates, 296, 302; considers petitioning the king, 315-16, 319, 322; proceedings described, 322-24; accepts Galloway’s resignation as dele gate, 325; policy towards pacifists, 433-34, 598 Pennsylvania Committee of Safety: sends powder to New York, 699; mentioned, 476 Pennsylvania delegates: letters from, 457, 491, 578, 598, 621, 665; instructions to, 296, 302; borrow money for powder, 444, 457; recommend officers for rifle battal ion, 598-99; described, 649 Pennsylvania Evening Post, 449 Pennsylvania Gazette, 177 Pennsylvania Journal, 116, 325, 484 Pennsylvania Mercury, 117 Pennsylvania Packet; see Dunlap's Pennsylvania Packet Pennsylvania Provincial Convention, proceedings, 302-3 Percy, Hugh, 2d duke of Northumberland, 337, 425 Peters, Richard, on lawyers, 64 Peterson, Charles E., "Carpenters’ Hall," 12 Petition to the King (1775) : draft, 440; committee, 441, 444; legislative synopsis, 441-42; approved, 580, 604; discussed, 589-90, 688; dispatched to London, 618-20; mentioned, 605, 622; see also Address to the King (1774) Philadelphia: view of, xxxiii; welcomes delegates, 3, 338-39, 346; described, 4, 15-23, 50, 55-56; residences of delegates, 5-7, 13-15, 415; loyalists in, 6-7, 69-70, 319; martial spirit in, 340, 342-44, 346, 348, 356-57, 364, 365, 396-97, 436-37, 451-52, 459, 463, 465, 518, 579, 587, 604; Presbyterian ministers of, 575-76; matrosses for Continental Army, 662 Philadelphia, buildings and landmarks (alphabetically arranged) : Bettering House, 55-56, 75, 77; Christ Church, 9, 45 , 54, 539; City Tavern (also called New or Smith’s Tavern), 3, 6, 9, 13, 14, 16, 33, 221, 246, 346, 348, 358, 361, 363, 412, 443; Conestoga Wagon Inn, 356; Fairhill, 64, 66; First Presbyterian Church, 164; Pennsylvania Hospital, 4-5, 13, 107; prison, 56; St. Mary's Church, 164; Society of Fort St. David, 64, 66; State House, 4, 13, 19, 25, 65, 67, 75, 133, 246, 338, 361; see also Carpenters’ Hall; Library Company of Philadelphia; Philadelphia, College of; Philadelphia Market Philadelphia, College of, commencement, 355-56, 359 Philadelphia Committee of Safety: letter to, 578; sends powder to Boston, 545, 558; sends powder to New York, 560, 568; mentioned, 582, 613, 615 Philadelphia Market: view of, xxxiii, 17; described, 4, 16-18 Philipse, Frederick, 367 Pidgeon, John, 667 Piercy, Rev., 235, 438 Pinckney, Charles Cotesworth: letter to, 535; mentioned, 595 Pitcairn, John, killed at Bunker Hill, 581, 585 Pitt, William; see Chatham, 1st earl of Pitts, James, 534 Pitts, John, 507, 508, 534, 552 Pittsburgh, Indian Conference, 694, 707 Plan of union: proposed by Joseph Galloway, 109-28; debated, 109-12; legisla tive synopsis, 112-13; rejected by Congress, 234; discussed, 278-79, 287-89; men tioned, 280, 306; 324; see also Galloway, Joseph Platt, Zephaniah, letter to, 258 Political Disquisitions (Burgh) , 275, 276 Pomeroy, Seth: appointed brigadier general, 539, 556; retires, 618, 641; mentioned, 529, 545 Port, Jane, 6, 13


[Page 781]
Index 739 Porter, Col., 448 Portsmouth, N. H., inhabitants seize military stores at Ft. William and Mary, 277, 280-81 Post Office: proposal to establish, 143; committee appointed, 418-20, 423; estab lished, 668, 709; postmaster appointed, 671, 694; deputy postmasters appointed, 679 Post riders, 419, 701 Potomac River, navigation, 301 Potts, Jonathan: identified, 316; letter to, 315 Powder: seized by Gen. Gage, 27, 45; seized by New Hampshire inhabitants, 227, 280-81; scarcity, 357, 435, 477, 480; ammunition committee, 412, 414; seized by Gov. Dunmore, 421, 490; committee to purchase, 444, 457; manufacture of, 466, 468, 477-78, 481, 545, 593, 601, 675, 677; for Boston, 467, 470, 477-78, 480, 530, 545, 558, 570-71, 574, 638, 669, 673, 674, 692, 694; Congress requests stock estimates, 473, 480; supplied by Bermuda, 476; for New York, 547, 554, 555, 560, 568, 593, 673, 674, 679, 694, 699; intercepted, 571, 643, 647; importation authorized, 670 Powell, Samuel, 6, 45, 54 Powell, Thomas, letter to, 460 Pratt, Charles, 1st earl of Camden, 80 Prebble, Jedediah, 529 Presbyterian church, services described, 9, 63, 163-64 Presbyterian church, Pastoral Letter from the Synod of New-York and Philadelphia, 478-79, 575-76 Presbyterian ministers of Philadelphia: letter to, 575; -ft address North Carolina ministers, 576 President of Congress; see Hancock, John; Middleton, Henry; Randolph, Peyton Prevost, Benoit Louis, xxxiv, xxxvi Price, James, reports on Canada, 412, 414, 452 Price, Thomas, letters of introduction, 661, 664 Priestley, Joseph: letter to, 352; mentioned, 608 Prisoners, political; see Skene, Philip Privateering, in New England, 581, 585 Proceedings of the American Continental Congress, 258 Providence, R.I., defensive preparations, 701 Pryor, Joseph, 344 Public Advertiser, 566 Purcell, R.; see Corbutt, C. (pseud.) Purviance, Samuel, Jr.: identified, 300; letters to, 298, 312, 357, 361, 434, 482; -fa health, 434; mentioned, 267-68 Putnam, Israel: conducts Noddle’s Island raid, 449, 539, 556, 675; appointed major general, 518-19, 521, 525, 528-29, 533, 539, 556; position among general officers, 522, 539, 542, 556, 627, 675; mentioned, 32, 45, 50, 54, 459, 516, 532, 561, 569, 593, 634, 638, 643, 645, 674 Quakers: care for poor, 55—56; as political moderates, 155, 315, 318, 399; join militia, 342-43, 357, 364, 415, 432, 452, 459, 579, 589, 599, 705; mentioned, 23, 99, 101, 193, 431 Quebec: 264; see also Letter to Quebec Quebec Act: as a grievance, 145, 150, 179, 19&-200; proposed defeat by western settlement, 259-62 Quincy, Dorothy: letters to, 472, 531; mentioned 335 Quincy, Josiah, letter to, 676; mentioned, 670 579-S52 0 - 77 - 49 VO1.1


[Page 782]
740 Index Quincy, Josiah, Jr.: identified, 82; letters to, 81, 251; mentioned, 83, 252, 676 Quincy, Norton, 432 Quitrents, Franklin’s resolution on, 688-89 Randolph, Benjamin, 245 Randolph, Edmund: identified, 669; recommended to Washington, 656-57, 669 Randolph, John: identified, 708; letter to, 707 Randolph, Peyton: letters from, 76, 245; letter to, 326; elected to Congress, xxxii; attends Congress, xxxii; portrait, xxxiii, 21; Philadelphia residence, 7; described, 7, 23, 61; elected president of Congress, 9, 13-14, 20, 25, 57-59, 168, 337-38, 342, 344; leaves Philadelphia, 227, 245, 402, 406; dines at City Tavern, 358; resigns presidency, 363; mentioned, 24, 74, 160, 233, 330, 420, 421, 475, 535, 708 Read, George: letters from, 82, 101, 204, 244, 358, 360, 400, 624; elected to Congress, xxvii; attends Congress, xxvii; health, 82; reports Boston intelligence, 82; describes daily routine, 101, 358; debates means for restoring American rights, 143-44; resigns as attorney general for Delaware, 204-5; dines at City Tavern, 358; visits home, 559; mentioned, 336 Read, Gertrude Ross (Mrs. George) , letters to, 82, 101, 204, 244, 358, 400, 624 Read, James, 204, 400 Read, Mrs. James, 205 Read, William, Life and Correspondence of George Read, 82 Reconciliation: summarized, xix, xxii-xxiii; debated, 371-95, 401-6; prospects dis cussed, 298-99, 466, 483, 546, 589, 703-4, 707-8; southern plan for rumored, 487; and religion, 596-97; see also Address to the King; addresses to the people of Great Britain; Petition to the King; Plan of union Recruitment; see Bounties; Militia Redwood, William, 407 Reed, Mr., 343, 397 Reed, Esther De Berdt (Mrs. Joseph) , 8, 92 Reed, Joseph: identified, 702; letter to, 701; -fa described, 63, 92; appointed Washington’s secretary, 633, 647; mentioned, 4, 8, 13, 34, 45, 60, 64, 90, 173, 227, 236, 246, 364, 417, 517, 617, 625, 641, 653, 656, 671, 674 Religion, and reconciliation, 596-97 Remembrancer (John Almon) , 298, 310, 428 Reply to an Address to the Author of . . . ‘'Candid Examination" (Galloway) , 116, 222, 325 Revere, Paul, 65, 75, 76, 83, 85, 154, 156, 179, 205 Rhoads, Samuel: elected to Congress, xxxi; attends Congress, xxxi; mentioned, 6 Rhode Island: militia, 269, 271; troops ordered to Boston, 522, 526, 536, 662; ac counts requested, 535 Rhode Island Assembly: letter to, 547; approves proceedings of Congress, 269, 271 Rhode Island delegates, instructions to, 269, 271 Rice, Nathan: identified, 50; mentioned, 657 Rice, exempted from nonexportation, 293-95 Richmond and Lennox, 3d duke of (Charles Lennox) , 80 Ridgely, Dr., 344 Riflemen, for Continental Army, 491, 496-97, 503, 507-8, 518, 528, 545, 557, 561, 574, 578, 590, 594, 598-99, 621, 629-30 Rights, American: discussed, 24-25, 59, 68-69, 71, 181, 193-95 , 200-202, 206; de bated, 38-44, 46-49, 51-54, 180-92, 194, 196-200; mentioned, xxi, 98; see also Committee on Rights; Committee on Trade; Declaration of Rights and Griev ances; Massachusetts Government Act; Quebec Act; Suffolk Resolves


[Page 790]
748 Index Webb, Samuel B., Correspondence (Ford, ed.), 641 Webster, Pelatiah: identified, 64; mentioned, 63, 132 Weekly Magazine, or Edinburgh Amusement, 706 Wentworth, Sir John, 370 West, William, 87 West Indies, dependence on united colonies, 483-84 Western lands; see Land, western Westmoreland, Conn., 661 Westmoreland County, Pa.: Pennsylvania-Virginia boundary dispute, 170; men tioned, 629, 666 Wethersfield, Conn., Committee of Correspondence, letter to, 84 Wharton, Thomas: identified, 67; quoted, 67; mentioned, 20, 62, 65, 69, 150 Wheelock, Eleazar: identified, 543; funds for Indian school, 543, 624 Whitcomb, John, 667, 668 White, Mr., 62 White, Anthony Walton: identified, 579; letter of introduction, 579 White, Henry, investigated, 583 White, John, 193, 611, 615 Wibird, Anthony, 74, 602 Wickham, William, letter to, 88 Wightman, Reuben, 235, 492 Wilcocks, John, 204 Wilcox, Alexander, 142, 246 Williams, Col., 543 Williams, Edward G., Journal of Richard Butler, 706 Williams, Jonathan: identified, 50; mentioned, 71 Williams, William: letters to, 423, 674; mentioned, 481 Willing, Thomas: identified, 584; letters from, 431, 457, 492; -fa elected to Con gress, xxxi, 342, 344; attends Congress, xxxi; on lawyers, 64; against invasion of Canada, 431; mentioned, 8, 338, 345, 422 Willson, Thomas, 15 Wilmington, Del.: described by Silas Deane, 448-49; mentioned, 435 Wilson, James: letters from, 370, 457, 491, 578, 598, 621, 628, 635, 665, 706; elected to Congress, xxxi, 336, 342, 344; attends Congress, xxxi; debates state of America, 352, 401; debates reconciliation, 371; appointed Indian commissioner, middle department, 629, 706; described, 649; holds bond on paymaster, 699; prepares for Pittsburgh conference, 706 Wilson, Rachel Bird (Mrs. James), 370 Winthrop, John: identified, 418; letter to, 417; mentioned, 497, 517, 534 Wirt, William, Life and Character of Patrick Henry, 220 Wisner, Franklin, The Wisners in America, 89 Wisner, Henry: letters from, 442, 449, 596, 637; elected to Congress, xxx, 137, 331; attends Congress, xxx, 89; credentials, 89; mentioned, xxii Witherspoon, John: described, 8; mentioned, 7, 20 Witherspoon, John, Pastoral Letter from the Synod of New-York and Philadelphia, 478-79, 575-76 Wolcott, Erastus, elected to Congress, xxvii Wolcott, Oliver: identified, 698; letter to, 698; appointed Indian commissioner, northern department, 624, 635, 660, 672, 697-98 Wolf, Edwin, 2d, "Authorship of Address to the King,” 225, 227 Wollaston, John, xxxiii Woodbury, Ellen C.D.Q., Dorothy Quincy, 472 Woodford, William: identified, 421; letters to, 402, 485, 581, 627
