JAMES MADISON'S SPEECH ON AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION
House of Representatives
June 8, 1789

Speaker and Gentlemen,

I am sorry that I am now to trespass on your time, but as the subject in which I wish to engage the house seems to interest the feelings of many gentlemen, and as I know it is the earnest desire of several in this house, I shall proceed with as much brevity as possible.

It appears to my mind that this house is bound by every motive of prudence, not to let the first session pass over without proposing to the states some things to be incorporated into the constitution, as will render it as acceptable to the whole people of the United States, as possible. I know as a general principle, that the ablest advocates and the best friends the constitution has, do not contend that it is free from imperfections; but they none of the less firmly believe, if evils are likely to flow from those imperfections, they are considerable, and worthy of correction at a period when we may do it the more easily. There is a great number of our constituents that are dissatisfied; and there being nothing so alarming to the advocates for the constitution as to see this spirit prevail, I confess that every thing that is calculated to lessen the warmth of its enemies ought not to be disregarded.

REASONS FOR THE AMENDMENTS

It is a fortunate thing that the objections to the constitution have been so clearly pointed out by the opposers of it; the great body of the people who opposed it, dislike it because it did not contain effectual provision in favour of the personal rights. We have in this country extolled to the highest degree those privileges which are contained in the bills of rights of the several states. It has been maturely considered by Congress and myself, whether we ought not to revise the whole of the constitution; but we are of opinion, that a partial revision is the safest mode of proceeding in this delicate circumstance.

It has been said, by an able and respectable friend, that if we do not now recommend amendments, the friends and advocates of the constitution in the several states, will be taught to suppose that we are not sincere in our professions, or not in earnest in our attempts to obtain the confidence and support of a great body of the citizens. I confess that this is an argument of some weight.

NATURE OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS

It will be proper, I think, to go on with this business immediately after the session opens. The public mind is wound up and agitated on this subject; and, so far as I can perceive, from the present correspondence with the several states, and the legislature of a few states, they will be likely to ratify the proposed amendments, if a proper selection is made of the articles which shall be submitted to them.

I have prepared such an one, as, in my judgment, contain the most essential rights. I should not think the words I propose to use so happy as they ought to be, but I have endeavored to collect the greatest possible mass of useful matter, in as few words as possible.

The amendments which have occurred to me, proper to be recommended by congress to the states, are these:

First. That there be prefixed to the constitution a declaration, that all power is originally vested in, and consequently derived from the people.

That Government is instituted for the common benefit, protection, and security of the people, nation or community; of all the various modes and forms of Government that is best, which is capable of producing the greatest degree of happiness and safety and is most effectually secured against the danger of mal-administration; that the Community hath an indubitable, unalienable, and indefeasible right to reform, alter or abolish Government in such manner as shall be judged most conducive to the public weal.

SUMMARY OF KEY AMENDMENTS

The amendments Madison proposed covered:
1. Protection of conscience and freedom of speech and press
2. Freedom of peaceable assembly and petition
3. Right to bear arms (militia context)
4. Prevention of quartering of soldiers
5. Protection from unreasonable searches and seizures
6. Protection of due process and property rights
7. Protection of jury trials in criminal cases
8. Protection against excessive bail and cruel punishment
9. Retention of rights not enumerated in the Constitution
10. Reservation of powers not delegated to the Federal government to the states

MADISON'S PHILOSOPHICAL FOUNDATION

Madison's arguments were founded on the goal of a harmonious political order and the ideals of justice. He believed that a bill of rights would:

- Extinguish the apprehensions of Anti-Federalists
- Convince opponents of the "principles of amity and moderation" held by the government's supporters
- Educate the people about their rights
- Provide an independent judiciary with the means to curb tyranny by the executive or legislative branches
- Prevent more drastic changes to the Constitution by satisfied opponents

CONGRESSIONAL RESPONSE

Madison insisted that Congress pay attention to the wishes of "a respectable number of our constituents," and that the Representatives "incorporate such amendments in the Constitution as will secure those rights, which they consider as not sufficiently guarded."

The House of Representatives took Madison's original proposals seriously, debated them extensively during the summer of 1789, and approved 17 amendments on August 24, 1789.

HISTORICAL SIGNIFICANCE

James Madison, once the most vocal opponent of the Bill of Rights, had come to appreciate:
- The importance voters attached to these protections
- The role that enshrining them in the Constitution could have in educating people about their rights
- The chance that adding them might prevent opponents from making more drastic changes to the Constitution

Madison's "hounding" of his colleagues relentlessly secured passage of amendments that would become the foundation of American civil liberties.

---

SOURCES
- Teaching American History: Speech on Amendments to the Constitution (1789)
- Founders Online: Notes for Speech in Congress, [ca. 8 June] 1789
- U.S. Capitol Visitor Center: James Madison's notes for his speech introducing the Bill of Rights, June 8, 1789
- Library of Liberty: 1789 - Madison, Speech Introducing Proposed Amendments to the Constitution
