ri
spiitsstingstatrensesses

east

a arenes eS
ie SENET =i
Baceeeiereeeentts
$2 octce
BETES ae
Speserettprectet

eres
saaigagisintsiers
Ses eeaisigees

=

qusssinaeset ss
retatth tesetases

3h
: a pitt eth ey ett ste
Beat pean te pee Ee Ftetpestees otstee st
Siders ctor PES? SEiszE sagt
= :: 2 att Stabateneeses
cS Sr eptgeea =

eerie estges tess Seb tetete tt tots

terres ro

Pee
aries

Ss- Brot teat <2

pestresed
Library

Bought from the

William Davis
Memorial Fund

Pye:
on

fie ead eae

‘

Se

ae es, SS

a3 Ae

WITHDRAWN

ROBERT MORRIS

PATRIOT AND FINANCIER

SA tA Wows

2 QO CH fe PO a a fl
A Ce Md Ze, Sioés ntheal Ce tenegiof thee
a

Glbor Zi Lowa 0D Maal’

hy
11 frodde CLALOW, LF POD AS 2 Che family tf,

ALLEGHENY COLLEGE LIBRARY

Sea
W330

ROBERT MORRIS

PATRIOT AND FINANCIER

BY

ELLIS PAXSON OBERHOLTZER, Pu.D.

WITH PORTRAITS AND OTHER ILLUSTRATIONS

New Work
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
LONDON: MACMILLAN & CO,, Ltp,

BOGS

All rights reserved

CoPryRicHT, 1903,
By THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

> Set up, electrotyped, and published July, 1903.

ad Noriyood WBress
ate ~ J. 8S, Cushing & Co.— Berwick & Smith Co.
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A.

ALLEGHENY COLLEGE
LIBRARY —__,

PREFACE

Tuts biography is founded for the most part upon the
valuable Robert Morris papers, which were recently ac-
quired by the Library of Congress from the General John
Meredith Read estate, and which now repose in the
Division of Manuscripts of that library. While other
material in Philadelphia and elsewhere has not been neg-
lected, the diaries and letter-books in their old leathern
covers at Washington, to which students were so long
denied access, must always be the principal source of our
information concerning the life of this neglected patriot
whose services to the nation were so eminent. Robert
Morris has had almost no other biographer than Profes-
sor Sumner, and his work, to his own regret, was perforce
compiled without consultation with General Read’s papers,
although the attempt was made to secure the latter’s con-
sent to their use in that behalf.

These sixteen manuscript volumes have been the sub-
ject of much curious legend. Falling to some of the heirs,
they had a checkered history. They were still in such
hands early in the century that they could be referred to
by Jared Sparks when he prepared the “ Diplomatic Cor-
respondence of the American Revolution.” Later they

marvellously disappeared, until one day when General
v
ALLEGHENY COLLEGE LIRR ARV

-
vi PREFACE

Read was passing through a French country town he dis-
covered them, it is said, upon a rubbish heap ready to be
conveyed to the paper-mill. Recognizing their value, he
took them to his home in Paris, and held them jealously
for a great price which he was unable to secure. At his
death they were offered for sale to several American
libraries, and, fortunately, were acquired by Congress,
where they are now in the nation’s safe-keeping.

Of the sixteen volumes, three comprise Mr. Morris’s
official Diary, the entries extending from February 7,
1781, to September 30, 1784, embracing, therefore, his
entire term of office as Superintendent of Finance. Vol-
umes IV to X, inclusive, seven volumes, are his official
letter-books, into which his clerks at the Office of Finance
transcribed all letters on public matters written during
his term of service. These letters begin upon March 13,
1781, and end only with his retirement from the post on
November 1, 1784. The next three volumes are private
letter-books, containing copies of letters written at a
much later date, from December 22, 1794, to March 7,
1798. This period covers the time of his accumulating
business difficulties, his siege at “The Hills,” and his trans-
fer from his beautiful country home to the prison-house
in Prune Street. Many insertions in the last of these
three books are in the Financier’s own handwriting, and
seem to have been made at his leisure in his cell. Two
supplementary volumes contain official copies of the jour-
nals of Congress, ordered by a public vote of that body
to be sent to the Superintendent for his information, while

PREFACE Vil

a third is a transcript of the accounts rendered to Con-
gress by Beaumarchais. In the official letter-books there
are copies of 3024, and in the three private books 2702,
letters, a total of 5726, not more than 250 of which have
ever been printed. Among the number are 78 letters to
John Jay, 63 to Washington, and 51 to Franklin. There
are letters, indeed, upon the most important subjects
to public men of all ranks, — congressmen, governors,
generals, commissioners, receivers, — the record throwing
a flood of new light upon the history of the American
Revolution.

It seems reasonable to suppose that a man of such
methodical business habits at two periods of his career
would not have passed the rest of his life without leaving
a record of his correspondence, and it may be hoped that
this may yet be found. Considerable biographical mate-
rial is to-day still held by members of the family and
is inaccessible. My efforts to reach the Stuart and Pine
portraits have been vain. The information at hand
regarding Morris’s early life is scant, as it must forever
be, a fact which will make this portion of my biography
seem very unsatisfactory. His birth was humble and his
parentage obscure. We know only of his unremitting
labors for his country, his magnanimity, patriotism, and
the deep, unselfish love he bore his family and his friends,
—a good and great prince of his time, —whose own doing
was, and is in memory still, a daily answer to the asper-
sions of his enemies.

CONTENTS

From THE Otp WorLD To THE NEW : 5 ° il
Tuer MercHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS ° ° ake
Iy THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 3 ’ . 5 we
“ PREACHING TO THE DEAD” . ° . ° - 114

BorrowinG AND RETURNING - . e . Biliaye

His ENEMIES . : : s 5 5 e e . 243
His FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS . A ° . 5 Penh

CHAPTER
I
IL
Ii
IV.
Vv
VI. Senator Morris . A . . . ° . . 214
vil
Vill
IX. His Hovusrs anp Lanps . ° ° ° ° « 29%
x

EVENING SHADES . = 2 ° e ° = - 3ol4

XI. ArtTeR SUNSET ‘ : - . . . A - 330
BIBLIOGRAPHY . A - ° Fy e ° e e - 309

INDEX . ° . ° e ° ° ° ° e e - 363

ILLUSTRATIONS

PorTRAIT OF ROBERT Morris, AFTER GILBERT STUART.
Photogravure . . . cae om ns - o Frontispiece

FACING PAGE
SavaGe’s Portrait oF RoBert Morris. Photogravure . 66

“Tue Hitis on SCHUYLKILL” . 5 : . - A . 116
Mary Morris, AFTER TRUMBULL . 5 5 . A - 168
Tue Morris AND WASHINGTON Homes IN HigH STREET . 226
Morris’s “Forty” . : ; : . 5 : c . 298

Fac-sIMILE oF A LETTER FROM Mr. MORRIS WRITTEN ON

THE EVE OF HIS IMPRISONMENT 5 < 7 : . 3846

ROBERT MORRIS: PATRIOT AND
FINANCIER

CHAPTER I
FROM THE OLD WORLD TO THE NEW

A VESSEL which passed in at the Capes and up the
Chesapeake to drop her anchor at Oxford, Maryland, in
or about the year 1747, brought with her a youth thirteen
years of age who was of no more interest to any one, except
his father, who met him when he disembarked, than most
other boys. He was a strong-looking young Englishman.
He came out to make America his future home; and while
there was a determination written on his face and a
humorous and friendly twinkle in his eye, his arrival
was without meaning enough to make it seem worth while
for any one to hand down to us descriptions of his early
life. The future Financier of the American Revolution
came of as humble a parentage as it is safe for the fates
and destinies to allot to great men. His grandfather was
a mariner who voyaged about the English coast. His
father had been bred to the trade of a nailmaker. Of his
mother nothing has ever been narrated, and he seems never
to have known her love or care. He, however, was fortu-
nate enough to receive some early attention from a grand-
mother, of whose kindnesses he spoke with gratitude in

B 1

‘

2 ROBERT MORRIS

future years,! and his father had two sisters, one of whom
was a butcher’s wife in Liverpool, and the other the
domestic helpmeet of a clerk or merchant’s assistant in
some London business house.”

Robert Morris was born on January 31, 1734, in Liver-
pool, from which port the grandfather, Andrew the
mariner, went down to the sea in ships, and which was
therefore the family home. “Old England, my native
country,” he used tenderly to muse in his later years. His
father, Robert Morris, Sr., having abandoned his trade as
an iron worker, emigrated to America some time before the
century had yet reached the forties, and settled in Oxford
on the Chesapeake as the agent of a large firm of tobacco
merchants, Foster Cunliffe and Sons of Liverpool. He was
also a native of Liverpool, having been born in 1711.3
The American town to which he came was at that time an
important market and outfitting station for the whole
eastern and western shores of Maryland. No other port
on the bay was so busy, and it was not unusual for seven
or eight ships to be anchored there at one time, unloading
European goods and taking on American cargoes, which
were made up for the most part of tobacco.

Mr. Morris, Sr., was charged with the purchase and —

shipment of the baled leaf to his principals in England.
He was a jovial soul, and a bon vivant who made friends
easily. Whatever his early education had been, he was at

1 Waln’s ‘‘ Life of Morris.’’
2 Boogher’s Repository, Vol. I. Phila, 18838.
8 Pa. Mag., Vol. XXVI. p. 158.

—

———_

FROM THE OLD WORLD TO THE NEW 3

least given to the reading of books. He is known to have
had a library, for to each of many of his friends he left at
his death “any six books” which might be chosen from it,
and in his dying hours Henry Callister, who succeeded
him as Cunliffe’s representative at Oxford, read to him
from Plato’s ** Pheedo,” which is said to have soothed his
mind and alleviated his physical sufferings! From his
father, therefore, Robert Morris may have inherited a good
deal of ability and intellectual understanding. He came
to America at his parent’s desire as soon as he was able
to travel alone on one of Cunliffe’s ships, and was given
into the charge of a Rev. Mr. Gordon to be educated.
This gentleman did not impress his new pupil as a teacher
from whom much knowledge might be derived, wherefore
progress was slow, and the elder Morris took his son to
task for his inattention to his books. “I have learned,
sir,” the boy replied, “ all that the master could teach me.” ?

Whether this were true or not, it was not long before
the boy reached the city which was to be his lifelong
home. Among the Maryland tobacco factor’s friends was
numbered Robert Greenway, a merchant of Philadelphia,
who agreed to look after the lad, educate him, and put
him in the way to business advancement. He was not
long in finishing with teachers and. schools, and Greenway
put the lad to work in the mercantile house which two
Englishmen, Charles and Thomas Willing, had established
in Philadelphia about the year 1726. Young Morris
entered the counting-room and soon exhibited an adapta-

1 Boogher’s Repository, Vol. I. 2 Waln’s “ Life of Morris.°?

:
4 ROBERT MORRIS

bility for business which won the favorable attention of
his employers and prepared the way for his rapid rise in
commercial life. Once, in Charles Willing’s absence, the
young man having received early notice from a ship
which had just arrived in the Delaware that the price
of flour had suddenly advanced in foreign markets,
contracted on the firm’s account for all that could be pro-
cured in the neighborhood. The merchants of Phila-
delphia on Mr. Willing’s return complained to him of
the methods employed by his clerk. The free purchases of
the young man had increased the price of the commodity,
and they, having sold their stock, were left to replenish
it at the higher rate. Mr. Willing commended young
Morris’s enterprise, and discerned in him qualities which
in a little while led to his being made a partner in the firm.?

In the meantime the boy lost his father. While he
saw little enough of the Oxford tobacco merchant, going
seldom to Maryland and his parent coming rarely to
Philadelphia, the tragedy that orphaned him strongly
affected the lad’s warm heart. It was in the summer of
1750. Morris, Sr., was only forty and his son seven-
teen when the ship Liverpool, laden with a cargo, arrived
in Chesapeake Bay. At that day it was the custom for
a vessel captain, on reaching port after a successful voy-
age and again before setting out for sea, to entertain the
consignee or consignor on board ship. Morris went out
in a small boat with a party of friends to meet the vessel.
He had some premonition of disaster, for he asked the

1 Waln, p. 191.

FROM THE OLD WORLD TO THE NEW 5

captain on this occasion to dispense with a feature usual
to such ceremonies,—the firing of a salute after the
departure of the guests. At his desire the commander
of the ship gave orders to the men that the compliment-
ary shot should be omitted, at which the sailors quite
generally expressed dissent. Each mariner was accus-
tomed to receive a glass of grog after the salute. The
captain mentioned the fact to Mr. Morris, who, in this
time of general good feeling, yielded, although it was
stipulated that the gun should not be discharged until
the sailors should receive a prearranged signal from
the yawl in which the company was being conveyed to
the shore. One informant tells us that the sign was the
captain’s laying his finger upon his nose; another, that it
was the dropping of a handkerchief. Whichever ac-
count we accept, we are assured that the movement was
made prematurely. In the one case a fly lodged upon
the captain’s nose, and he involuntarily raised his hand to
brush it off, while in the second case a lady let her
handkerchief fall, also without thought of the conse-
quences. The sailors, mistaking the movement for their
signal, fired their salute, the shot, as luck would have it,
passing through the backboard of the pinnace of the
yawl, breaking one of Mr. Morris’s arms a little above
the elbow.1 It was not a serious wound, but proper sur-
gical treatment was unobtainable in Oxford. Blood-pois-
oning ensued, and in a few days the patient died, before

1 Boogher’s Repository, Vol. I; Waln’s ‘Life of Robert Morris” ;
Redwood Fisher’s ‘‘ Reminiscences.’’

6 ROBERT MORRIS

the boy in Philadelphia knew of his father’s injury.
He had chosen his own burial-place. He named the
friends whom he wished to look after the settlement
of his estate, one of whom was Mr. Greenway of Phila-
delphia. He directed them to cause “a handsome stone
to be put over me, with any inscription they shall think
proper.”! On a time-stained piece of marble in the old
White Marsh Burial Ground in St. Peter’s Parish, Talbot
County, Maryland, about four miles from Oxford, these
lines may still be read: —

In Memory oF
Rosert Morris, A NATIVE OF LIVERPOOL, IN GREAT BRITAIN
Late MERCHANT OF OXFORD
In THIS PROVINCE.

Punctual Integrity influenced his dealings.
Principals of honor governed his actions.
With an uncommon degree of Sincerity,
He despised Artifice and Dissimulation.
His Friendship was firm, candid and valuable.
His Charity frequent, secret and well adapted.
His Zeal for the Publicke good active and useful.
His Hospitality was enhanced by his Conversation,
Seasoned with cheerful wit and a sound judgment.
A Salute from the canon of a ship,
The wad fracturing his arm
Was the signal by which he departed
Greatly lamented as he was esteemed,
In the fortieth year of his age,
On the 12th day of July,
MDCCL?

1 Robert Morris, Sr’s., will in Boogher’s Repository.

2 Fisher’s ‘‘ Revolutionary Reminiscences connected with the Life of
Robert Morris.”’

FROM THE OLD WORLD TO THE NEW 7

Robert Morris was now alone in the world, except for
some relations in England whom he did not know and
whose acquaintance in future he never sought. Indeed
he was soon to be somewhat worse than alone. He was
to have a half-brother, born, after his father’s death, to
@ woman in Maryland, to serve as a curse to the public
career and a heavy private expense to the young mer-
chant in Philadelphia, who, oddly enough, recognized the
relationship, and treated the boy with the loving regard
which most men reserve for their own children.

Robert Morris, Sr., had left a personal estate valued at
about $7000, and his son Robert was the principal legatee.
Mr. Greenway in Philadelphia was designated as the
young man’s guardian, but so many small bequests were
to come out of the little fortune that the amount re-
maining was not large. “I commend my soul to Al-
mighty God, the author and giver of life, and my body
to be decently interred in the earth in hopes and full
confidence of a joyful resurrection through the merits of
Jesus Christ, the Son of God my Redeemer and Saviour,
and I dispose of that worldly estate with which it has
pleased the Almighty to bless me, as follows,” Mr. Morris’s
will began. One hundred pounds must be paid to Ellin
Eccleston, his “beloved sister,” the butcher’s wife, in
Liverpool, the same amount to his sister, Margaret Trout,
wife of the merchant’s helper in London, and to Mrs. Wise,
in Maryland, for whom there was reason that he should
provide, and there were various other friends and relations,
among whom he distributed small sums of money, silver

8 ROBERT MORRIS

tankards, silver pipes, books, silver waiters, mahogany
armchairs, and mourning rings.

The son looked on while the estate was being partitioned
among men and women who were for the most part
strangers to him. Although the few thousand dollars
which remained were much better than absolute penury,
the starting-point of many self-made men, it was not for his
small inheritance but because his manner had pleased his
employer, that Charles Willing, in 1754, when Morris
reached his majority, made him a partner in the firm.
Desiring to bring forward his son Thomas as the active
head of the business of the house of Willing, and at the
same time befriend the boy in his counting-room, Charles
Willing joined the two young men in its future manage-
ment under the firm name of Willing and Morris. This
house, under their energetic conduct, in a few years be-
came one of the most prominent and stable of the great
mercantile establishments of Philadelphia. Willing and
Morris owned and navigated their own ships. They
traded with Europe and the West Indies. The two
partners early in the progress of the Revolution entered
Congress, and together served their country patriotically
throughout the war. It was to Thomas Willing that Morris
turned when, as Financier of the Revolution, he desired
to organize the Bank of North America, and the two
men and their firm codperated in carrying through the
daring operations to save the credit of the colonies and
to support Washington in his work of ridding the coun-
try of the British foe. As Willing, Morris and Co.,

FROM THE OLD WORLD TO THE NEW 9

Willing, Morris and Inglis, and Willing, Morris and
Swanwick, the firm continued to play a prominent part
in the commercial life of Philadelphia until near the
end of the eighteenth century.

Morris, in the early history of his firm, sometimes made
voyages with his ship captains to the West Indies, and
on at least one occasion he visited Europe. It is re-
lated that during one of the wars between France and
England his vessel was captured and he was taken pris-
oner by the French. Being put ashore after rather cruel
treatment, and being left without a shilling in his purse,
his situation was for a time very precarious. His in-
genuity, however, enabled him to mend a Frenchman’s
watch, for which service he secured a small payment, and
thus made his way to a port in which he found a home-
ward bound ship. The business of Willing and Morris
was so extensive and lucrative that both partners were
accounted wealthy, men long before the colonies declared
their independence.

In 1765 Robert Morris was active in resisting the
enforcement of the provisions of the Stamp Act. Al-
though an Englishman by birth, he identified himself with
the American cause in the first stages of the contest be-
tween the motherland and her colonies. On October 5,
1765, the nose of the Royal Charlotte, an English merchant
vessel, under escort of the Sardine, an English man-of-
war, appeared around Gloucester Point. The ship, which
was filled with “the horrible stamp paper,” had been

1 ‘6 Life of Robert Morris, the Great Financier,’’ Phila, 1841. ;

10 ROBERT MORRIS

lying at anchor down the river for several days. The
officers feared to bring her up. It was well understood
that the colonists would resist the landing of the paper
vigorously. When the Charlotte finally hove in sight,
all the other ships at their wharves and in midstream
displayed their flags at half-mast. The bells of the city
were tolled. Drums muffled with crape were beaten up
and down the city streets by particularly sable negroes
employed for the work. Men closed their shops and
offices, and the highways were filled with people who
ran hither and thither excitedly. A crowd collected at
the State House where, at four o’clock in the afternoon,
a meeting was held to decide what course should be pur-
sued to prevent the execution of the King’s tyrannous
measures.

The leading lawyers and merchants in the city made
impassioned addresses to the people, and after the
speakers had been heard and their sentiments loudly
cheered, a committee of seven was appointed to visit
John Hughes, a well-to-do Philadelphia shopkeeper, who
had been chosen to receive and sell the stamps. He was
asked the direct question whether or not he proposed to
take up his commission and perform the duties of his
office. In the meantime the meeting would remain in
session, in the hope of receiving an immediate reply.
Robert Morris was one of the members, and the spokes-
man of the committee.1 He and his colleagues repaired
at once to Hughes’s house, but the King’s stamp agent

1 Charles Henry Hart, Pa. Mag., Vol. I.

FROM THE OLD WORLD TO THE NEW 11

was confined to his bed with a serious malady. Never-
theless they mounted the stairs to his room, talked
with him for an hour, in spite of his condition, and
told him that the populace would undoubtedly come to
the house and tear it to the ground, stone by stone, if
he were disposed to receive the stamps and collect the
tax. Hughes pleaded his grave illness, and asked that
the committee wait for a definite reply until Monday
morning. This was a Saturday afternoon. Morris and
the other delegates returned to the State House and
made their report, but the people were dissatisfied with
the result of the mission, and it was only on the plea
that Hughes was at the point of death, that they were
prevented from going to his house in a mob. They
at length were quietly dispersed, and when Monday
came, the seven committeemen called again at Hughes’s
house. Morris explained that they did not ask him to
resign his office. They desired only that he should not
accept of the appointment—a rather subtle distinction
—and they received a written statement from Hughes
to the effect that he would make no attempt to en-
force the obnoxious act, at least until it should be gener-
ally put into execution in the other colonies. The crowds
in the meanwhile had reassembled at the State House,
and when the answer was publicly read, they at first
seemed to be appeased. They cheered thrice for Hughes
and the seven committeemen who had extracted the
promise from him. In a little while, however, they
began to suspect and distrust, and Hughes soon was

12 ROBERT MORRIS

compelled to go farther. He was obliged to pledge him-
self to take no steps to distribute the stamps until the
citizens of Pennsylvania and Delaware (for his appoint-
ment covered both colonies) wished him to perform his
duties. This declaration was so comprehensive, and
offered so good a guarantee, since it transferred all the
responsibility to the people, where they wished it to be,
that Mr. Hughes was reinstated in the good opinions
of his fellow Philadelphians.!

In November the merchants of Philadelphia met and
passed the famous Non-importation Resolutions. These
were signed by Robert Morris, his partner, Mr. Willing,
and about four hundred other merchants. By this docu-
ment the subscribers agreed, when placing their orders in
England, to stipulate that the goods must not be shipped
until the Stamp Act was repealed, and that orders already
sent out should be cancelled, except in the case of such
merchants among the subscribers as were owners of
vessels which had already cleared for Great Britain.
These ships might bring back coal, earthenware, pipes,
grindstones, iron posts, empty bottles, and other bulky
articles with which owners at that time usually weighted
their vessels. On no account were dry goods of any kind
to be included in the cargoes. Moreover, no merchant,
a party to the agreement, should sell merchandise of any
kind on commission after January 1, 1766.

Morris’s prominent connection with the movement to re-
sist the Stamp Act’s impositions and clothe the Americans

1 See newspapers of the time,

FROM THE OLD WORLD TO THE NEW 13

in homespun until the obnoxious law should be repealed,
is proof of his patriotic interest in the American cause
from the time the difficulties with the mother country
began. His Americanism was never in question, even
when ten years later he advised against an untimely
declaration of independence, lest it should prevent a
reconciliation, which he hoped for profoundly. He had
won the confidence and the high respect of the com-
munity into which he had so lately come as a poor boy,
and in 1766 Governor John Penn selected him as a mem-
ber of the Board of Port Wardens. This seems to have
been his first public office, and his wide experience as an
importer and a vessel master made him highly competent
to fill it.

It was about this time that Morris, a man nearing
thirty-five, turned his thoughts to matrimony. He had
firmly established himself as a merchant. He possessed
a moderate fortune, and was a partner in a growing busi-
ness. He sought the hand of Miss Mary White, the
daughter of Colonel Thomas White of Maryland and
the sister of William White, later the first bishop of the
Protestant Episcopal Church in Pennsylvania and one
of the founders of the church on this Continent. Colonel
White was a native Englishman, who, like Morris, when
he was still a boy had sailed for the colonies, settling in
Maryland as a lawyer and surveyor. He became the
owner of several thousand acres of land in the province,
and married a Miss Hall, who lived until 1742. By
her he had three daughters. Three years after her death

;
14 ROBERT MORRIS

he removed to Philadelphia, visiting his Maryland pos-
sessions only two or three times a year, to give them
oversight. In 1747 he married again, his choice falling
upon a widow, Esther (Hewlings) Newman, the daughter
of Abraham Hewlings of Burlington, New Jersey. Of
this union two children were born, Mary, who became the
wife of Robert Morris, and William, the future bishop
of the English Church in America.! The family held a
social position which Mr. Morris’s had never possessed.
Miss White’s father and mother were people of the high-
est character. ‘ Billy,” as she affectionately called her
brother, was an honor to his parents, to the church, and
to the young nation upon which he exercised so great a
moral influence, and she herself proved her nobility and
womanliness in happy as well as the unhappiest situa-
tions.

Robert Morris and Mary White were married in Phila-
delphia on March 2, 1769, by the Rev. Richard Peters.
He was a man of thirty-five, and she a girl of twenty; he
experienced in the world and its affairs, made so by stern
need, and she quite fresh to its revelations, who still,
in 1777, when John Hancock was on the point of resign-
ing the presidency of Congress, and the office had been
offered to Morris, wrote to her “ Mamma: ” — “Don’t you
feel quite important? I assure you I do, and begin to
be reconciled to independence.” ?

It was as a man forty-one years old, six years married,

1 Colonel Thomas White of Maryland, Pa. Mag., Vol. I.
2 Hart, Pa. Mag., Vol. I.

e tf
-
he ee

FROM THE OLD WORLD TO THE NEW 16

with four children, — three sons and a daughter, — and as
the active partner in the leading importing house in
Philadelphia, with many ships upon the sea, that Mr.
Morris entered the Continental Congress in 1775 to begin
his distinguished career in assisting the American people
to achieve their independence from Great Britain.

“ALLEG IMENY C COy AR: TREY, TMP? ARY

CHAPTER II
THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS

RoBeRtT Morris, while he had actively opposed the
Stamp Act, was not a radical partisan on the subject of
independence. In his political views he was always aris-
tocratic. Men of large business interests, both he and his
partner, while they were Whigs in their sympathies, con-
sidered the consequences of an open declaration of inde-
pendence. They hoped even after the war had begun
that some way might open for a reconciliation and a
settlement of the dispute between the motherland and
her American colonies. It has been said by some of
Morris’s biographers that he had overtraded prior to the
Revolution, and that he had nothing to lose by the war, so
that he embraced the Whig interest eagerly, in the hope
that it might lead to a betterment of fortune. Convert-
ing his ships into privateers to prey on British commerce
and to reap advantages denied to other men, he expected
to find the war the source of profit to him which it
actually proved to be. Evidence of the truth of this
charge does not exist, except in the bare assertions of a
few of his contemporaries, who bore him no friendship.
His actions throughout the years 1775 and 1776 show
that he resisted the war tendency —so much so that he
THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 17

nearly sacrificed his own popularity as a public man. A
less respected personality would not have been returned
to Congress on his record for a vote against the Declara-
tion of Independence ; and, as a matter of fact, no other
of Morris’s colleagues in the Pennsylvania delegation
who voted with him did go back.

It is related that on St. George’s Day, April 23, 1775,
about one hundred of the principal men in Philadelphia
assembled at the City Tavern according to their cus-
tom on the occasion of this anniversary.1. Mr. Morris
was the presiding officer. When the festivities were still
at their height, a messenger arrived bringing news of the
battle of Lexington, which had been fought four days
before. At the announcement this company of English
loyalists, in the midst of their toasts to the mother coun-
try and the King, sprang to their feet. They overturned
the tables, and ran into the street as though they had been
suddenly called to their country’s defence. Mr. Morris
found himself facing an almost empty hall,and then and
there he pledged himself to the service of the colonies in
a struggle, the final result of which no man could cer-
tainly foretell. In a few weeks a so-called Committee of
Safety was appointed by the Pennsylvania Assembly.
It was made the duty of this body of twenty-five members
to exercise supervisory military powers within the prov-
ince. Benjamin Franklin was elected its president and
Robert Morris a vice-president, and they continued in
their offices until July, 1776, when an independent repub-

1 Waln’s “‘ Life of Morris.”

‘

18 ROBERT MORRIS

lican government was organized for the state, and other
agencies of defence were provided. Mr. Morris was very
active in this committee. At its first meeting on July 3,
a year before the Declaration, he was made the chairman
of a sub-committee, the members of which were authorized
“to procure any quantity of powder in their power with
the utmost expedition,” and they were employed busily
for months in organizing the militia, fortifying the river,
and supplying the posts, batteries, and battalions with
arms and ammunition.

In the meantime, on November 8, 1775, the Pennsylvania
legislature elected Mr. Morris to Congress, and he was
one of seven members of which the delegation from that
province was composed. Here his practical knowledge
of commerce and navigation placed him high upon several
important Continental committees. He was at once ap-
pointed the chairman of a secret committee, with power to
contract for the importation of arms, cartridges, and gun-
powder. A month after he had taken his seat he was
made a member of a committee which was to devise the
ways and means for establishing a colonial navy. As a
result of their recommendations, Congress determined to
add five ships to the fleet, appointing a regular naval com-
mittee, with Morris as a prominent member, the beginning
of his connection with that branch of the Continental
service of which he was later to become the chief.

In April, 1776, the Philadelphia merchant commenced
his career as a public financier. He was specially com-
missioned by Congress to suggest methods and provide

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 19

measures for procuring money to prosecute the war, and
this proved to be a work from which he found no relief
until the final peace.

On June 7 Richard Henry Lee had brought forward
his resolution in Congress in favor of a declaration of
independence from Great Britain, and the famous instru-
ment itself made its appearance in that body on July 2.
When the first vote was taken, four of the seven delegates
from Pennsylvania, Robert Morris, Thomas Willing, John
Dickinson, and Charles Humphreys, were found to be
opposed to the step, and two days later, when the docu-
ment was to be approved in a final way, Mr. Morris and
Mr. Dickinson absented themselves from the session.
Morris believed that the Declaration was premature.
While actively preparing for war, he hoped that it might
still by some miracle be averted. He aimed to calm the
intemperate and hasty, and as time wore on, when in
Philadelphia in December, 1776, virtually the head of
the Continental government (Congress having fled to
Baltimore), Morris, writing to the Commissioners in
France of the unhappy state of the country, said, “ Our
people knew not the hardships and calamities of war
when they so boldly dared Britain to arms.”

The radical forces, however, had forced Morris into his
responsible position, and he did not swerve from his way.
Nowhere was extreme democracy so rampant as in
Pennsylvania, where a group of men, with Thomas Paine
at their head, were busily working to overturn the pro-
prietary government, and set up in its place a fantastic

‘
20 ROBERT MORRIS

republic with a legislature of a single chamber. Morris’s
public services, his financial prestige, and commercial
judgment they could not do without. The punishment
which awaited the other Pennsylvanians who had voted
against the Declaration—the loss of their seats in
Congress — was not meted out to him. Explaining
his position at this time Mr. Morris wrote to Joseph
Reed :—

“T have uniformly voted against and opposed the
Declaration of Independence, because in my poor opinion
it was an improper time, and will neither promote the
interest nor redound to the honor of America, for it has
caused division when we wanted union, and will be
ascribed to very different principles than those which
ought to give rise to such an important measure. I did
expect my conduct on this great occasion would have
procured my dismission from the great Council, but find
myself disappointed, for the convention has thought it
proper to retain me in the new delegation, and although
my interest and inclination prompt me to decline the
service, yet I cannot depart from one point which first
induced me to enter the public line. I mean the opinion
that it is the duty of every individual to act his part in
whatever station his country may call him to in hours of
difficulty, danger, and distress. Whilst I think this a
duty, I must submit, although the councils of America
have taken a different course from my judgment and
wishes. I think that the individual who declines the

1 Oberholtzer’s “ The Referendum in America.”

‘

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 21

service of his country because its councils are not con-
formable to his ideas makes but a bad subject; a good
one will follow, if he cannot lead.’!

Despite his views on the subject, which are here so
plainly expressed, Mr. Morris on August 2 subscribed
his name to the Declaration of Independence. He was
one of the “signers” of that famous document, but much
had occurred in one brief month to strengthen the re-
solves of those who first had faltered at the thought of a
separation from the mother country and a prolonged civil
war.

The old proprietary government in Pennsylvania estab-
lished by the Penn family, representatives of which were
still in the province, serving as governors and agents for
the sale and lease of lands, was distrusted by the Whig
elements, and it was deemed very important by the more
radical that it should be swept away. Before the Declara-
tion had yet been drafted or signed, this feat had been
pretty well accomplished. The people’s liberties were
guarded by Committees of Correspondence and Com-
mittees of Inspection and Observation in every county,
and these “minute men” called a conference to meet in
Philadelphia in June to consider a plan for assembling
a convention which should frame a constitution for a
free state. The members of this body were hurriedly
chosen. They at once took all branches of the service
out of the hands of the old agents, usurping executive
and judicial as well as all the legislative powers, in the

1 Hart, Pa. Mag., Vol. I.

22 ROBERT MORRIS

province, passing laws and ordinances, making rules and
regulations for the militia, and selecting delegates to
the Continental Congress. A constitution, so Utopian
and odd that it was the subject of strife between two
bitterly hostile factions throughout the war, was framed
and promulgated.!

While this convention, as we have said, reélected
Morris to Congress, he was opposed to the framing of
new constitutions, just as he was opposed to a declaration of
independence, and he was particularly displeased with this
constitution, in common with most of the other leading
men of the state. As late as in October, 1777, after Bur-
goyne’s surrender, Mr. Morris wrote to General Gates : —

“Mr. Johnson, and indeed all the other Maryland
delegates, are at home forming a constitution. This
seems to be the present business of all America ex-
cept the army. It is the fruit of a certain premature
declaration which you know I always opposed. My
opposition was founded on the evil consequences I fore-
saw, or thought I foresaw, and the present state of several
of the colonies justifies my apprehension. We are dis-
puting about liberties, privileges, posts, and places, at
the very time we ought to have nothing in view but
the securing of those objects and placing them on such
a footing as to make them worth contending for amongst
ourselves hereafter.”

Meanwhile, the Constitution of 1776 having been
adopted by the convention, which declared it to be the

1 Oberholtzer’s ‘* The Referendum in America,”

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 23

supreme law of the new state, great opposition to it was
developed, especially in Philadelphia. Town meetings
were held. Its peculiar features, such as a single and
unchecked house of assembly, the absence of a governor,
and the establishment in his stead of a hydra-headed
executive council, a Council of Censors which was to
meet every seven years to determine if the provisions
of the Constitution had been properly observed, and a
judiciary which was adjudged to be subservient to the
legislature, alarmed men of sounder and more conserva-
tive view. The Anti-constitutionalists when, in Novem-
ber, 1776, the time came for the first election under the
Constitution, prepared for an active campaign. Mr.
Morris was nominated for the legislature on their ticket,
and received a large vote. The whole Anti-constitutional
list of candidates was elected, and at a public meeting
instructions to the city’s representatives in the Assembly
were prepared and were read from the steps of the
State House by Dr. Benjamin Rush, the crowd of people
gathered there signifying their approval by raising their
hands. The members were asked to use their “ utmost
influence to prevent the immediate execution” of the
Constitution, and demand a prompt revision of that
instrument. After having prepared another form of
government suitable for a free state, they were to publish
it and dissolve their body, having previously issued writs
of election for the members of a new assembly.

In the legislature, however, Mr. Morris and his friends
were outnumbered by the radicals, who had been returned

24 ROBERT MORRIS

from the interior counties where the most democratic
opinions were entertained. John Dickinson and his fol-
lowing withdrew from the Assembly. Some of the dele-
gates never took their seats. A speaker could not be
elected until late in November because of the strife be-
tween the factions, and two weeks later, Howe, who was
active in New Jersey planning a descent upon Philadel-
phia, frightened away most of the assemblymen who were
in town willing to organize the government. On Decem-
ber 12 Congress fled to Baltimore, leaving Mr. Morris in
charge of its affairs, affording him the first large oppor-
tunity to prove his ability as a public executive and
manifest his devotion to the colonial cause. A few days
after Congress had departed, Morris wrote to the Com-
missioners in France that Philadelphia was “the greatest
scene of distress that you can conceive.” ‘The whole
city seemed to be on wheels. The streets were filled
with beds, furniture, and baggage, and scarcely anybody
remained but the Quakers, some sick soldiers in the hos-
pitals, and a small body of troops making a desperate effort,
with Morris’s help, to put the city in a state of defence.

This was one of the crises of the war, and Morris
came out of it a hero in the eyes of the young nation.
It was just before the famous Christmas night when
Washington crossed the icy Delaware and surprised the
Hessians at Trenton, following up his daring stroke in
a few days with further punishment which caused Phila-
delphia to breathe easier again. Riders came into town
early in this December of 1776, announcing that an

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 25

advance guard of Hessians and Highlanders had taken
possession of Burlington in New Jersey, and that they
were pushing forward to Cooper’s Ferry, just opposite
the city. Congress, therefore, hurriedly decamped,
though not without first authorizing Morris to borrow
$10,000 for the use of the Marine Committee in
strengthening the defences on the Delaware and deput-
ing him, together with George Clymer of Pennsylvania,
and George Walton of Georgia, though unofficially, a
committee of Congress to remain in the city to perform
certain executive duties on the Continent’s behalf. On
reassembling in Baltimore on December 20, Congress
formally resolved that these three men be “a committee
of Congress with powers to execute such Continental
business as may be proper and necessary to be done in
Philadelphia.” This committee was Morris. He wrote a
few days later that he had not seen either Clymer or
Walton, and he did not know whether they had fled or
not. Anyhow, he remained faithfully at his post, com-
municating daily with Congress through John Hancock,
who was its President, with Washington and Gen-
eral Putnam, and with the Commissioners in France,
borrowing money and expending money, hurrying for-
ward the city’s defences, urging the workmen at the
shipyards to hasten the work on vessels which still
stood on the ways, and holding the fleet in readiness
for departure down the bay at sign from him when
approaching danger would seem to warrant it.’
1 Letters to John Hancock in 1776, Pa. Hist. Soc. Bulletin, 1848.

‘

26 ROBERT MORRIS

A less forceful character would have shirked his duty.
He was in a way self-appointed to his task. He might
have gone like the rest, though his property in the city
was of great value, and it was to his own interest to
protect it if he could. He might have hesitated to
assume responsibilities that belonged to him no more
than to any other man, and to make obligations on his
own credit for a government which might never repay
him a shilling or thank him for his exertion. He was
now in the war in earnest, and Congress, from its dis-
tant refuge, liberally pledged him its support.

Even at this early period in the course of the war
Morris’s solicitude regarding the Continent’s finances
was very great. As a practical man of business and
affairs he was from the outset opposed to the emission
of inconvertible paper money —a policy that was freely
resorted to both by Congress and the legislatures of
the separate colonies. He wrote to Congress in Balti-
more: “It is very mortifying for me when I am obliged
to tell you disagreeable things; but I am compelled to
inform Congress that the Continental currency keeps
losing its credit. Many people refuse openly and
avowedly to receive it.” In the country he tells Con-
gress “nothing can be got for your money.” Many
persons refused to receive £250 worth of it in ex-
change for £100 worth of hard money. It everywhere
took two paper dollars to induce a holder to part with
one silver dollar. A pair of shoes cost $3 and a hat $12.
“A common laborer asks $2 a day for his work, and

a
ni

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 27

idles half his time,’ Mr. Morris complains, with that
characteristic humor which gives so much interest to
all his writings, and which flashed through his conver-
sation and his speech. “Some effectual remedy should
be speedily applied to this evil, or the game will be up.”
Bad as all this seemed to be, even Mr. Morris could not
have foreseen that, in five years, it would take one thou-
sand of these paper dollars to buy a silver dollar, that men
would light their pipes, and the barbers of Philadelphia
plaster the walls of their shops with this disgraced and
worthless currency. :

Morris’s interest in the infant Continental navy led him
to strain every nerve to save the frigates in the harbor
from the enemy. He urged the builders of some uncom-
pleted boats to use all possible expedition so that they
might be sent to sea before the British should succeed in
crossing the Delaware. The citizens, in so far as any re-
mained, were set to work at shipbuilding, and Mr. Morris
himself was a frequent visitor to the yards for the purpose
of superintending the operations and encouraging the men
to greater activity. Much of the labor was performed
by volunteers. As early as in April, 1776, Christopher
Marshall writes in his diary that he went up with James
Cannon, a teacher of mathematics in the College of Phila-
delphia, to Eyre’s shipyard in Kensington, where they
found Dr. Young and some friends at work on a frigate.
They helped until night; and the next day, going back
again he met a hundred of his fellow-citizens, including a
body of militiamen, in their uniforms, all busy moving bar

28 ROBERT MORRIS

iron and timbers so that the ships could the sooner put to
sea.

The work was greatly delayed, in spite of Mr.
Morris’s urgent appeals. The first attempts to cast
cannon at the colonial foundries were unsuccessful.
Mechanics had been called away from their regular
pursuits and were now out in the field with the militia.
No coal could be got for the anchorsmiths. Trade was
stagnated in both the inward and the outward direc-
tions. Seamen were independent and insolent, since
they could make more in privateering than in honest
ocean trade. “In the Eastern states,’ Mr. Morris
writes, “they are so intent on privateering that they
mind little else.” Imported goods were bought for the
army as soon as they arrived, and the price was artifi-
cially enhanced. The cost of ships and material of
which ships were built, had risen rapidly in common
with nearly everything else. By diligent exertions,
however, Mr. Morris wrote to Congress that he hoped
to send six vessels to sea “if General Howe will give
me but a few days more, and Lord Howe keep away
his myrmidons.” News having been received of the
movements of the British army which caused him
to feel alarm for the safety of the little squadron, he,
in December, ordered the ships to hoist their sails and
make an effort to escape. In explaining to the Presi-
dent of Congress his reasons for taking this step upon
his own responsibility, he observed: “In this, I flatter
myself, I shall be entitled to the approbation of Con-

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 29

gress, whether I meet it or not, for my intentions are
good, and I procure myself much trouble, with the
sole view of serving the cause.” Hearing better ac-
counts from New Jersey, however, he called the ships
back again. “Circumstanced as our affairs now are,”
he wrote, “I conceive it better to take the liberty and
assume some power than to let the general interest
suffer.” It is no exaggeration to say that, at this
time, Robert Morris was the acting executive head for
the whole Continent.

It was well that the ships had not gone farther, as there
were several British men-of-war down the bay, but they
were not so many or so active as to prevent the Andrew
Doria from running the blockade. She came into port
from St. Eustatia to increase Morris’s little navy, and
brought a cargo of worsted stockings, sailors’ jackets,
blankets, muskets, pistols, powder, and lead, which he at
once took it upon himself to distribute among the various
camps and magazines, lest the enemy should suddenly
enter the city which was threatened by scouting parties
every day. Mr. Morris took care to remove stores of salt,
provisions, and clothing to certain posts which he estab-
lished in the interior, at Lancaster and other places. His
expresses, coming in and going out of the city constantly,
kept him in touch with the Commander-in-chief, and at this
eventful season the foundations were laid for his endur-
ing friendship with General Washington.

There are times in the career of every army when
money is absolutely necessary to facilitate a military

‘

30 ROBERT MORRIS

movement, and although Washington relied upon the
enthusiasm and patriotic ardor of his troops to a larger
extent than any other great commander the world has
ever seen, he found himself in this embarrassing situation
at Trenton in the year 1776. It is commonly declared
that Morris was appealed to and supplied the sinews
which enabled Washington to make his attack on the
Hessians as they were carousing at Trenton on Christmas
night.1 This seems to be a mistake. A sum of money,
though it was not large, was applied for by Washington
four days after the brilliant stroke at Trenton. This
was needed to procure intelligence about the movements
and designs of the enemy. It went out from Philadel-
phia on December 30, but all told the shipment com-
prised only four hundred and ten Spanish dollars, two
English crowns, a French half-crown, and ten and one-
half English shillings.

The next day, the last day of the year, late in the
evening, a rider came in from the Commander-in-chief’s
camp asking for a larger sum, which was required for
immediate use. Morris was now confronted with the
task of his life.

While there were times later on in his career as the
Revolutionary Financier when he encountered greater
difficulties in getting what he so frequently called the
“needful” to carry on the war, he already complained
that the calls upon him for money were “loud, large,
and constant.” “I am paying your debts, at least those

1 Sparks’s ‘* Writings of Washington,”’ Vol. IV. p. 545.

jae

i, i?

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 31

of the Marine Committee, and directing fifty necessary
things to be done,” he wrote to Congress, but he was by
no means prepared for these demands from the army as
well as from the navy. He had told Congress that the
troops returning from Canada were “calling aloud for
their pay.” They should have it, he said, in his shrewd
and witty way, as “they very generally promise to re-
enlist when they have spent what is due them.” Wash-
ington had told Morris and Morris had told Congress
what the designs of the enemy were in reference to
Philadelphia. They hoped to take Washington’s bat-
talions as well as the whole city when the favorable
moment arrived, and this they thought would be around
the first of January, when the river might be frozen over,
and when the Continental army would disband because
of the expiration of the term of service of the soldiers.
“You might as well attempt to stop the winds from
blowing or the sun in its diurnal as stop them from
going when their time is up,” Morris wrote to the Presi-
dent of Congress, John Hancock, in Baltimore. But
this body of gentlemen knew not what to do, and while
Washington, relying on his own resources, had given the
foe one heavy blow, electrifying the colonists with hope
that had nearly gone out of them, he lacked the means
to follow up his victory. He had crossed the Dela-
ware a second time with that unflinching courage that
served him so well in the darkest hours. He prevailed
upon the troops to remain six weeks longer on the
promise of a bounty of $10 for each soldier, and on

'

32 ROBERT MORRIS

December 31 he wrote to Morris for the money to make
his promise good. The next morning Morris replied to
the Commander-in-chief as follows: “I was honored with
your favor of yesterday by Mr. Howell late last night,
and ever solicitous to comply with your regulations, I
am up very early this morning to despatch a supply of
$50,000 to your Excellency. You will receive that sum
with this letter; but it will not be got away so early
as I could wish, for none concerned in this movement
except myself are up. I shall rouse them immediately.
It gives me great pleasure that you have engaged the
troops to continue, and if further occasional supplies of
money are necessary, you may depend on my exertions
either in a public or private capacity.” }

It was on this occasion, the story goes, that Morris
visited his Quaker friends, now almost the only men of
substance remaining in the city. Hostile to the war as
he was, one of these men of peace, who had risen from
his bed almost as early as Mr. Morris, accosted him.
“What news so early, Robert?” said the Quaker. “The
news is just this, my friend,” said Morris, “ General
Washington needs a certain sum of hard money, and I
must send it to him immediately. I would like you to
lend me dollars,” mentioning the sum. “But what
is thy security, Robert, for this large sum?” “My word
and my honor,” said Morris. ‘Thou shalt have it,” the
Quaker replied.?

1 Sparks, loc. cit.

? Fisher’s ‘‘ Revolutionary Reminiscences” ; ‘‘ The Lives of Eminent
Philadelphians’? by Henry Simpson, p. 705.

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 33

Morris on this occasion and later in the war did not go
to the wealthy Quakers of Philadelphia and come away
empty-handed. The money went out to Washington
with the letter an hour or two after sunrise, and having it,
the Commander crept up to Trenton a second time, by a
sudden movement marched around the main body of the
British army, and striking their rear-guard unexpectedly,
administered them a decisive defeat. He then took up
his winter quarters in the mountains of New Jersey, thus
ending a campaign which a fortnight before had promised
nothing but sorrow and gloom for the Whigs of America.

Mr. Morris, as a practical man of affairs, was convinced
from the very beginning of his public career that the
duties of government could not be well performed by
committees and boards. He knew how necessary it was
to give large powers to single men, making them respon-
sible to the people for the proper discharge of the work
which was intrusted to them. He perceived, and again
and again pointed out, the inherent weakness of the system
of government which had been established for the Conti-
nent, and which was nothing more than a mass meeting of
delegates, the Continental Congress. He distrusted the
Pennsylvania state government under the Constitution of
1776, and the powerless national government which was
established by the Articles of Confederation on the same
grounds. Mr. Morris was able to formulate his opinions
on this subject while he was left in charge in Philadelphia,
and in those few weeks, which were a baptism of fire for
this patriot so new to the responsibilities and obligations

D

‘

84 ROBERT MORRIS

of public life, his character developed very rapidly. On
December 16, less than a week after Congress closed its
sessions in Philadelphia to go to Baltimore, Morris wrote
to the Committee of Secret Correspondence in his direct
and forcible style: “If Congress mean to succeed in this
contest, they must pay good executive men to do their
business as it ought to be done, and not lavish millions
away by their own mismanagement.” It was “misman-
agement,” he said, and would continue to be this because
no member of Congress could attend its meetings and
serve the country as an executive officer at the same time.
“T do aver,” he continued, “ that there will be more money
lost, totally lost in horses, wagons, cattle, etc., for want of
sufficient numbers of proper persons to look after them,
than would have paid all the salaries Paine ever did or
ever will grumble at.” Thomas Paine, who had made
himself a character of some public influence since he had
published his inflammatory pamphlet called “ Common
Sense,” especially in Pennsylvania, where he was looked
upon as in some respects the father of that state’s pecul-
iar constitution, had come forward now as a kind of
watch-dog of the Treasury, although his begging appeals
for employment, frequently received by Washington and
Morris during the next few years, constituted him a not
very inspiring figure in the réle of economist.

Mr. Morris wrote about the same time to the Commis-
sioners in France: “I will not enter into any detail of
our conduct in Congress, but you may depend on this, that
so long as that respectable body persists in the attempt

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 35

to execute as well as to deliberate on their business, it
never will be done as it ought, and this has been urged
many and many a time by myself and others, but some of
them do not like to part with power and pay others for
doing what they cannot do themselves.” The wisdom of
Mr. Morris’s recommendations was justified by later
events. It was only by taking the colonies’ affairs out
of the hands of boards and giving them over to responsi-
ble individuals, that the war was brought to a successful
close ; only when single ambassadors superseded commis-

‘sions in Europe and chiefs of departments took the place

of administrative boards at home, that the enemy lost
hope and agreed to a treaty of peace.

Mr. Morris remained at his post in Philadelphia
through a very trying and uncertain period. His wife
and children had followed Congress southward, taking
refuge with Mrs. Hall, her stepsister in Maryland.
“Having got my family and books removed to a place
of safety,” he wrote, “my mind is more at ease, and my
time is now given up to the public, although I have
many thousand pounds worth of effects here without
any prospect of saving them.” He told Congress that
he would be glad to finish their business in Philadelphia
“with General Howe’s permission.” He had heard that
parties of British soldiers were very active in New
Jersey, having come so near as Haddonfield, only nine
miles from the State House. There were rumors of the
near approach of the enemy by each boat that crossed
the river, but General Washington had desired him ta

36 ROBERT MORRIS

remain in the city, and promised to give him the earliest
possible notice of any movement of the main body of
the British which was likely to put him in immediate
jeopardy. “I have throughout the alarm been deter-
mined not to quit until fairly done off,” he says again.
“ At the same time I have been constantly prepared, my
things packed up, horses and carriages ready at any
moment, and constant means of intelligence had they
approached.” Therefore it was with a deep sigh of
relief that he heard the news of the victories at Trenton,
and the safety of the city brought joy to Mrs. Morris
also, who from her retreat in Maryland, on learning of
the Continental success over the Hessians, wrote to her
husband as follows: “I hope, indeed, the tide is turned,
and that our great Washington will have the success his
virtues deserve, and rout that impious army who from no
other principle but that of enslaving this once happy
country have prosecuted this cruel war.”

In February, 1777, thinking that the immediate danger
of the British capture and occupation of the city was past,
President Hancock wrote to Morris: “I hope our coming
there will in some degree relieve you from the great bur-
den that has laid upon you. No money, constant applica-
tion for it, and a steady succession of business to attend
to has made your situation hard indeed.!”

The delegates seem to have hated their new place of
abode very heartily. Mr. Morris had at first regarded

1 This period is illuminated by the letters to Robert Morris, published
in the Collections of the New York Historical Society for 1878.

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 37

their flight as somewhat hasty, and he wished that they
might come back again, and they, or many of them, were
of the same mind. Benjamin Harrison wrote: “I wish
Congress would move back with all my heart, for I am
most horribly vexed with this place.” He supposed,
however, that they could not, as the “Yankees” were
opposed to a return, and they ruled as absolutely “as
the Grand Turk in his dominions.” Mr. Hancock,
though he was a Yankee, and the President of Congress,
complained that he could get only a very poor house in
Baltimore as a place of residence. There were only
two rooms on the first floor, and one of these he was
obliged to let his servants occupy. William Hooper, in
February, 1777, wrote that many members were sick,
and they “with one united voice ascribe this catalogue
of ills to this place.” Congress presented “such a scene
of yellow, death-like faces that you would imagine Rhada-
manthus had shifted his quarters, and was holding court
in Baltimore.” But when the congressmen finally passed
their resolution to come back to Philadelphia, Morris
advised that they remain where they were a little while
longer. It would not be prudent, he said, to return too
soon. The British had resumed an offensive activity in
New Jersey, and their raiding expeditions during the
winter extended into the country round about the city.

Hancock appreciated the force of the argument. He
discouraged a return in the face of the great danger.
“Before we come back we must give these fellows a
good trimming,” he wrote to Mr. Morris, but the dele-

'

38. ROBERT MORRIS

gates at length took matters into their own hands, and
resumed their sessions in the Philadelphia State House
on March 12, 1777. Although rumors frequently
alarmed the people of the city during the spring and
summer, Congress continued to remain in Philadelphia
until September, when riders from the South announced
the landing of the British army on the shores of the
Chesapeake. It was marching northward, and the
books and records of the government were hurriedly put
into the hands of wagoners for transport under guard to
Lancaster, where the members made a temporary stand,
moving on in a little while to York. After the battles
of Brandywine and Germantown, and other engagements
within sight of Philadelphia, the enemy settled down to
spend the winter in the Continental capital, while Wash-
ington’s tattered troops found refuge in the snowy hills
at Valley Forge.

In the meantime the new Assembly of Pennsylvania,
of which Morris had been elected a member in the pre-
ceding November, had not yet been able to organize a
state government which the people would obey or respect.
The factions had laid aside their quarrel long enough
to elect a speaker on November 28, but the alarm at the
approach of Howe’s army had so depleted the population
of the city that from December 14 to January 13 no
quorum appeared in the meeting room.

John Dickinson and his friends had refused to take their
seats, and writs were issued in February for new elec-
tions to fill their empty places. There was a provision

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 39

in the Pennsylvania Constitution that no officer of the
state should hold two offices simultaneously. Mr. Morris
was still a member of Congress, and a very active one
on a commission issued to him by the convention which
framed this Constitution, and also a member of the
Assembly. His fellow assemblymen reélected him to
Congress on February 5, and this was the signal for
the speaker to declare his seat in the state legislature
vacant. This and other vacancies in the city’s delega-
tion in the Assembly were filled by an election held on
February 21, and on March 56 the state government was
organized, Thomas Wharton, Jr., being elected President
or Governor, and George Bryan Vice-President by
means of a rather simple ceremony which was concluded
by a procession through the public streets.

The Assembly, after this evidence of its vigor, con-
ceived that it might with propriety adjourn, but on
April 14 a resolution had been brought into Congress
and passed, declaring that as the state was in immedi-
ate danger of invasion, that body would consider it “an
indispensable duty” to supervise the government of the
state. ‘The executive authority of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania,” Congress said, “is incapable of any
exertion adequate to the present crisis.”

James Allen, a Tory and a member of the Allen
family which had made itself prominent under the old
proprietary government in Pennsylvania, wrote in his
diary at this sorry period: ‘The government of this
province or state, as they term it, is truly ridiculous.

40 ROBERT MORRIS

Not one of the laws of the Assembly are regarded. No
courts open, no justice administered. A new justice
issues a warrant to a constable under the old govern-
ment. Few of the justices elected throughout the state
accept their offices. It is a mockery of justice.”

We have it on the authority of other witnesses to
the events of this critical time, that it was almost im-
possible to find citizens who would accept the posts
which the new government had to bestow. Men were
“persecuted to accept office,” one newspaper declared.
Three out of five delegates representing the state in
Congress were opposed to the Constitution, and one of
these was Mr. Morris. The speaker of the Assembly,
John Bayard, had presided at the town meeting called
to take measures against the new Constitution in the
previous October, and he was elected to the Assembly
on that ticket.

Assemblymen resigned to take county offices, and
some families had moved out of the state rather than
live under such a government, if we may believe their
own declarations. A majority of the members of the
Board of War, a state military body which had just
been created, refused to take the oath of allegiance to
the Constitution, and nine out of ten members of the
Navy Board had likewise declined taking the oath.
Two brigadier generals refused to accept their commis-
sions from the state President and his councillors. Two
men could not be prevailed upon to take the office of
prothonotary worth £1000 a year.

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 41

While the Constitutionalists, Paine and his following,
were still active in their defence of the Constitution, as
they continued to be for fifteen years with a faith that
would have done credit to the devotees of some reli-
gion, the flames of discontent with the new government
now broke out afresh all over the state. That the gov-
ernment was “incapable of any exertion adequate to the
present crisis” and on the testimony of the Continental
Congress fretted true Pennsylvanians who felt these
things with a sense of deep disgrace and shame. In
May, a petition of which Mr. Morris was a signer, was
presented to the executive authorities of this unsatis-
factory state government declaring that as “ weakness
and languor” were apparent in every part of it, as jus-
tice was not regularly administered nor the laws obeyed,
and as prices were rising to an exorbitant height, the
Assembly should be recommended to call a convention
for revising and amending the Constitution. Mr. Morris
was appointed a member of a Committee of Correspond-
ence to send out and distribute through the counties of
the state, copies of a memorial which it was hoped the
people might generally sign, declaring the “impracti-
eability of carrying the government into execution,” and
praying the Assembly to take the necessary steps to
bring the scandal to an end. These memorials led to
the preparation of counter memorials by Paine and his
group of radical democrats, and the Assembly having
been reconvened, resolved in June to take a middle
course. It would not call a convention unless a major-

'

42 ROBERT MORRIS

ity of the people approved, and to ascertain their senti-
ments a commissioner would be appointed for each
county to go about from house to house with a bag on
his back or a box in his hand to collect the votes of
the citizens, and determine whether they were satisfied
with the Constitution or whether they wanted a new
one. This vote, however, was never taken. The reso-
lution had scarcely passed the Assembly when the Brit-
ish Army directed its regiments toward Philadelphia,
harrying the country as it passed along. The state
government repaired to Lancaster, where Congress had
also sought refuge, and where Mr. Morris and nearly
all the rest of the men prominent in the public life of
Pennsylvania, and of the confederated colonies, gath-
ered to watch the gloomy progress of the war.

Mr. Morris was still as active as his situation would
admit in the committees of Congress to which he belonged.
He was asked to take the Presidency of Congress in 1777,
when John Hancock announced his intention of retiring
in order to return to supervise his extensive business
interests in Boston. Morris, however, declined, on the
ground that his private affairs would not admit of his
giving any more freely of his time and abilities to the
public service... The Secret Committee changed its
name to the Committee of Foreign Affairs and then to
the Committee of Commerce. Mr. Morris continued
with it throughout its many difficult operations. By
his private business connections he was able to arrange

1 Hart, Pa. Mag., Vol. II.

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 43

for exports of produce in exchange for imports of arms,
ammunition, and general supplies needed for the Conti-
nental Army. His knowledge of finance enabled him
to extend material aid in many ways, and important
transactions were intrusted to him personally or to
the house of Willing and Morris. Coincidently he con-
tinued to carry on his own business, and extensive
transactions on private and public account were so in-
separably linked that unpleasant charges were soon cir-
culated very freely. It was asserted that he was taking
advantage of the knowledge he possessed because of his
place in Congress to increase his own fortune. His
enemies went still farther, and declared that he was vio-
lating embargoes, that he was hopelessly confusing the
public with his own affairs, that he was making large
profits in exchange, and that he was an influence to
enhance prices artificially so that the government as well
as the people must pay more for the necessaries of
life. He admitted that government business was done
under cover of his own name to deceive the British foe
and to get better terms of purchase at home and abroad.
A seller immediately raised his price if he suspected the
goods were being bought for the government. This
conflict of interests, while it would to-day be regarded
as quite inadmissible, was justified by the serious plight
in which the colonies then found themselves. Practically
defenceless for lack of good governments in possession
of the taxing power, or a public credit upon which to
secure loans, or well-developed manufacturing industries

‘
44 ROBERT MORRIS

upon which to call for supplies, or even a united popvu-
lation, it was a time for unusual expedients.

- The Tories were always busy in an effort to create
mischief, and the Whigs themselves were divided into
factions, especially in Pennsylvania, where they were
constantly striving to get at each other’s throats.
Secrecy was absolutely necessary. If Congress could
drive better bargains through Mr. Morris than without
his aid, he could afford to wait for his justification, and
this came to him afterward in abundant measure. His
affairs were investigated and his character vindicated by
a committee of Congress. He was called to a higher
place in the councils of the Continent. But the crowning
vindication was the uninterrupted friendship of the men
who knew him best, of Washington and Hamilton, and
those whose names Americans most revere.

Robert Morris’s illegitimate half-brother Thomas was
now causing him much aggravation. He had educated
this young man in the best schools in Philadelphia, and
treated him as his own son. Thomas, unappreciative
of so much good fortune, went rapidly to ruin. Early
in the war Morris secured his appointment as commercial
agent at Nantes, where he was to represent the govern-
ment of the United States, and also Mr. Morris’s firm
in Philadelphia, being recommended incidentally to ac-
quaint himself with the French and Spanish languages.
It was hoped that separation from his evil companions
in America would induce better habits. His brother
meanwhile supplied him with money and did him the

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 45

honor to trust him and believe in his reform long after
others had abandoned him. His conduct of the office
at Nantes was so irregular that it called forth represen-
tations to Congress from the American Commissioners
in France. Mr. Morris at first considered this as an
attack upon him personally, instigated by political
enemies. He looked upon the reports to Congress as
unfriendly acts, until Deane wrote that Thomas’s behav-
ior was “outrageous,” and Izard, that he was “a dis-
grace to America.” Morris, convinced then that he had
been unwise in his defence of the young man against
the criticisms of the Commissioners, free to admit his
own mistakes, wrote a long letter to the President of
Congress. “It adds very much to the distress and
unhappiness this unworthy young man has involved me
in,” he said, “to think I should have passed censures
on Dr. Franklin and Mr. Deane which they did not
deserve. I did it under a deception that most men of
feeling would have fallen into, and I shall as freely own
it to them as I do to you, holding it more honorable to
acknowledge an error and atone for any injuries produced
by it, than with a vindictive spirit to persist because you
- happen to have committed it. My distress is more than
I can describe. To think that in the midst of the most
arduous exertions I was capable of making to promote
the interest and welfare of my country, I should be the
means of introducing a worthless wretch to disgrace and
discredit it, is too much to bear.” }
1 Sumner’s Robert Morris, Vol. I. pp. 212-215.

‘
46 ROBERT MORRIS

|

Morris recommended Congress at once to dismiss
Thomas from the office at Nantes, but this step was not
necessary, for in February, 1778, the Commissioners wrote
that the young man was dead. His dissipations had ended
his unfortunate and misspent career.

While the Congress met at York, Morris seems to have
attended its sessions very little after November. On
November 11, 1777, he wrote to the Pennsylvania state
authorities, requesting them to grant him a leave of
absence for six months. “It is now three years since I
have devoted nearly the whole of my time to the public
service,” he declared, “and I have almost entirely neg-
lected my own affairs.” Owing to this neglect, he
added, they had “run into a good deal of confusion.”
He promised at the same time, if the vacation were granted,
to settle up the accounts of the Secret Committee. He
would still repair to Congress whenever the public
business with which he had been heretofore closely con-
nected seemed to require his attendance at the sessions.
This leave of absence was extended to Mr. Morris by
the Council of Safety to which he directed his letter,
and the body expressed itself as “fully sensible” of the
importance of his services and the justice of his request.
Before he was allowed to retire, however, Congress called
upon him to go to camp with two other delegates, Mr.
Gerry and Mr. Jones. This committee was to visit
General Washington, and urge upon him the advantages
of conducting a winter campaign against the British Army

1 Corr. of Henry Laurens of S.C., New York, 1861, p. 71.

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 47

in Philadelphia. While the mission was undertaken,
consuming some weeks of the time which Morris had
set aside for himself, it lacked practical outcome. The
condition of Washington’s battalions was not such as to
fit them for a winter campaign, and Congress was in-
formed of this very soon, when the committee returned
to York and made a report upon the state of affairs at
Valley Forge.

Congress at this time was a much weaker body than
ever before in its history. The abler men who were
called to the new nation’s councils when independence
was declared, like Morris, had so long neglected their
private affairs, that they were seeking relief from the
burdens of public service. The number of members in
attendance at the meetings was so much reduced that an
appeal was sent out to the states to fill up their delega-
tions. Factional feeling ran high among those who
remained. The principal work during the first few
weeks of the sessions at York was the adoption of the
ill-starred Articles of Confederation, by which it was
hoped to bring the states together into a permanent
union. Morris was present during the debates on the
articles, and he led the Pennsylvania delegation in sign-
ing the instrument, the weakness of which, after it went -
into force in 1781, he was the first to perceive.

When his leave of absence had expired, Mr. Morris
again made his appearance in Congress. By this time
the British had evacuated Philadelphia, and the delegates
returned to their old meeting-place to find the marks

‘

48 ROBERT MORRIS

of a hostile army impressed upon every part of the
city. Morris was reélected to Congress for the fourth
time in December, 1777. He was still the principal fiscal
agent for the Continent. He provided Congress with
much of what it required, even to a few thousand quills
needed by the clerks in the government offices, and
large contracts for arms and rations and other war sup-
plies were passing through his hands constantly. His
ships, from the time the war broke out, had done a great
deal of privateering. They captured many British mer-
chantmen and brought them into port, the proceeds being
divided among the owners and the crews. A censorious
diarist of the time remarked that he could always tell
from Mr. Morris’s great round face whether his ships
had lately made any captures. It wore a contented
smile whenever his captains came in with British booty.
The truth is, however, that Morris, like Franklin, dis-
liked this licensed buccaneering by privateers. He re-
garded it as defensible only because the colonies lacked
a strong navy, in which case it became a national service
for private owners to fit out their own vessels and send
them to sea to harry the enemy’s commerce.

The state of public opinion on financial questions at 2
this time was crude to the last extreme. Great sums
of paper money had been issued both by Congress and
the separate states. It was imagined, it seems, that
mere patriotic sentiment would give value to such a cur-
rency, and induce men to accept it for the value that
was printed on its face. Even Washington wanted to

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 49

see all men gibbeted as “murderers of our cause” who
exerted themselves, as he said many did, to depreciate
the currency and to raise the prices of commodities.
To prevent these results various ineffective legal meas-
ures were taken. To keep the paper issues in circula-
tion tender laws were passed, and for violations of these
laws rough penalties were often prescribed. Those who
refused to take the paper at the worth of specie sub-
jected themselves to severe punishments. While the
value of the paper money was to be maintained by arti-
ficial means, artificial methods were also relied upon to
keep down the prices of the necessaries of life. Con-
ventions were held, at which schedules of prices were
adopted, and committees were created to see that the
will of the conventions was enforced. Whoever sold
goods above the rate which had been fixed upon as the
upper limit of justice by the convention would be made
to suffer for it. Many dealers were thus proscribed and
driven out of the community in which they tried to
carry on trade. They were fortunate indeed, if they
escaped actual bodily harm from the angry populace.
These price schedules were aimed at forestalling or en-
grossment, terms in familiar use at the time to describe
an act which is known to-day as “cornering” the market.

There were men, it was alleged, who held a stock of
merchantable supplies with which they refused to part,
except at monopoly prices. These extortionists were
confused in the public mind with the Tories, and in 1778,
1779, and 1780, when the evils of inconvertible paper

E

50 ROBERT MORRIS

had reached their height, many of the offenders, and
those who were suspected of offending, came off very
badly. The tar pot and feather bag, and many worse
indignities awaited them. There was so little appre-
ciation of, or respect for the rights of the merchant
that he was not to be allowed to follow the ordinary course
of business and get the best price he could for the goods
he wanted to sell, nor was any kind of speculation to be
permitted him, such as would be implied by storing
his goods until, in his judgment, the most favorable
moment had come for disposing of them. The prices of
wood, hay, lumber, leather, textile fabrics, meat, flour —
all were to be regulated by legislature. For a dealer
to hold his goods when the people. wanted them proved
to be a very troublesome practice, not only to the poor
when they must buy the necessaries of life with the
almost worthless paper money, but also to the states in
laying in their quotas of supplies for the Continental
army. ‘The legislatures and conventions were convinced
that such “monopolists,” as they considered them to be,
were in existence, and were plying their business to the
public and private disadvantage, and they therefore
enacted a great variety of laws which were extremely
embarrassing to legitimate trade.

Another device of the same general character was the
embargo, the assemblies of the different states passing
laws to prohibit the shipment of various kinds of produce
into other states or to foreign countries. By holding
whatever’ a state produced within that state, it was

= 4

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 51

argued that prices could be kept down to a more reason-
able level. Such regulations to prevent a free move-
ment of goods from one state to another led to jealousy
and distrust among the different colonies, and paralyzed
commerce, which, if it had been allowed to proceed in -
the regular way, might have been a source of strength
to the country at a time when it was sorely needed. Mr,
Morris vigorously protested against all these artificial
devices to give value to a worthless currency, to fix
prices by a tariff which any body of men might estab-
lish, and to prevent the free exchange of merchandise
by embargoes.

In 1778 Morris’s term in Congress again expired, and
he could not be reélected. He had been four times
chosen to represent Pennsylvania, once by the old pro-
prietary Assembly, once by the Constitutional . Conven-
tion of 1776, and twice by the state legislature. By
the very democratic Pennsylvania Constitution no one
could hold office for more than two terms, and Morris
was now compelled to step aside. At the autumn elec-
tions in 1778 he was at once returned to the legislature
of Pennsylvania from Philadelphia city on the Anti-
constitutional ticket. This was a very exciting session,
as the movement for submitting the question of a revision
of the Constitution to the people of the state then again
reached its culmination, and Morris was active in seeking
the overthrow of the government. When he entered
the legislature he declined to take the oath of allegiance
to the Constitution except in a conditional way. He

‘

52 ROBERT MORRIS

was a prominent member of the Republican Society in
Philadelphia, which existed to combat the Constitutional
party, and his prominence in this movement made him
many enemies among the common people, who regarded
the Constitution of 1776 as in a sense the palladium
of their particular liberties. It was in this way, in the
year 1778-1779, that Mr. Morris became the object
of a most disagreeable attack. He was accused of vio-
lating some of the price conventions and embargoes.
In addition to this local squabble, he had become mixed
up in the bitter quarrel between Silas Deane and Arthur
Lee, and taking Deane’s side of the controversy, he was
not at a loss for troublesome enemies for the rest of the
war. Deane had been sent to France by Mr. Morris’s
secret committee early in the war, to purchase supplies
for the colonies. He at the same time was interested
in some of Morris’s private business ventures. Congress
was finally induced to recall him as one of its representa-
tives in Europe, and two parties at once appeared on
the scene, those friendly to Deane, and those opposed
to him, the latter working under inspiration from Lee’s
contemptible mind. Paine and the extreme democrats
took up Lee’s cause, and Washington and Morris and
Hamilton were recognized to belong to the other party.
The newspapers were filled with Paine’s articles, and
he published charges about Deane which were most abu-
sive in character, soon involving Mr. Morris in the
controversy.

The attack began early in 1779, and it was so vigorous

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 53

that it forced Morris to make public replies. It was
alleged that he had not settled his accounts with Congress,
although he had had the books of the Secret Committee
in his possession for several months, and that he had con-
fused the public with his private monies. Mr. Morris
said that he had twice settled the accounts of the firm of
Willing and Morris, and upon the last occasion Congress
owed them a balance, so that it could avail the public
little to press for a final reckoning. The matter came
into Congress. Henry Laurens there made insinuations
which implied an irregularity on Mr. Morris’s part, while
he had been so prominently connected with the commit-
tees. Morris thereupon wrote to Congress, asking for an
investigation as to his official conduct. He desired that
the books of the Secret Committee might be thoroughly
examined with respect to the entries and settlements in-
volving himself and his firm, so that Congress and the
public might know the truth about them. The committee
having been appointed, its investigations proceeded, and it
at length made the following report: “Your committee
are of opinion that the said Robert Morris, has clearly and
fully vindicated himself, and your committee are further of
opinion that the said Robert Morris in the execution
of the powers committed to him by the said Secret Com-
mittee, has acted with fidelity and integrity, and an
honorable zeal for the happiness of his country.” At
this time John Jay was the President of Congress, and
he, on February 15, 1779, forwarded the report to Mr.
Morris. “It gives me great pleasure,” he said in an

|
54 ROBERT MORRIS

accompanying letter, “to transmit to you an unanimous
act of Congress of the 11th inst., not only acquitting
your conduct in the transaction it relates to of blame,
but giving it that express approbation which patriotism
in the public, and integrity in every walk of life always
merit and seldom fail ultimately to receive.”

The whole episode profoundly aggravated Mr. Morris’s
friends. “I do not remember to have been more sur-
prised and provoked at any event,” wrote General Mifflin,
“than at the rascally and ill-managed attack against
your character. The attention you have given to the
public business for the three last years, and the com-
mercial sacrifice you have made to your country, I be-
lieved would have placed you out of the reach at least of
every censorious scoundrel; but I was deceived. Paine,
like the enthusiastic madman of the East, was determined
to run amuck. He sallied forth, stabbed three or four
slightly, met with you, but missing his aim fell a victim
to his own stroke, and by attempting too much, will
enjoy a most mortifying and general contempt.”

This affair in Congress had scarcely blown over when
the unpropertied classes of Philadelphia, of which the
Constitutional party in Pennsylvania was composed,
singled out Mr. Morris as a monopolist who was making
himself rich by taking advantage of the people’s necessi-
ties. A vessel laden with dry-goods had arrived in the
city in May, 1779. Morris was interested in these ship-
ments, and it was popularly supposed that upon their
arrival the price would fall. Instead of this, when they

ieee

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 5d

were unloaded the price actually rose, and a town meet-
ing was called to take the matter under consideration.
Mr. Morris’s late colleague in Congress, Daniel Rober-
deau, presided over this session. Much heated language
was employed, and it was charged that Morris had vio-
lated the price convention and that his dry-goods were
being sold above the tariff. A committee, of which
Paine and other prominent political opponents were mem-
bers, was appointed to wait upon him and demand an
explanation. The meeting showed a most unpleasant
temper, and went so far as to express a desire that Mr.
Morris and others who were the enemies of the common-
weal should be banished from the city. This officious
committee continued its activities for several months.
In July it endeavored to prevent a shipment of flour
which Mr. Morris and Mr. Holker the French Consul
General in Philadelphia had purchased for the use of
the French fleet. It was charged that they had paid
too high a price for it, and that as it was not all in-
tended for the French fleet, it was a violation of the
embargo which forbade a merchant sending goods out
of the country. The flour was actually seized and de-
tained, and so tyrannical were town meetings and the
committees which they appointed at this period, that
Paine and his associates must be treated with a respect
Mr. Morris found it very difficult to command. Another
town meeting was held late in July, and General Cad-
walader, who attempted to make a speech in Morris’s
defence, was set upon by a mob of hoodlums with clubs,

'

56 ROBERT MORRIS

whereupon the conservatives seceded and organized a
meeting of their own under the chairmanship of Mr.
Morris himself in the college yard. Here resolutions
were adopted acquitting Morris of the charge of any
unpatriotic action, and he was so much affected by the
manifestations of friendliness on the part of the assembly,
that he could not finish the speech which he tried to
deliver. Congress was obliged to intervene before the
committee would release the cargo, and Morris and the
other merchants of the city finished the business by
signing and publishing a remonstrance against the whole
policy of price regulation by mobs, and their insolent
interference with property rights.

It was a time of the most unfortunate animosities. In
July, 1779, Silas Deane wrote: “It may at this instant be
truly said that there are few unhappier cities on the globe
than Philadelphia; the reverse of its name is its present
character. It is a melancholy reflection to think that
whilst our common enemy is wasting our seacoasts and
laying our fairest and most peaceable towns in ashes, we
are quarrelling among ourselves, and can scarcely be
constrained from plunging our swords in each other’s
bosoms.”

Morris finished his term in the legislature, and was not
reélected, the Anti-constitutionalists having won the vic-
tory, in 1779, nor was he sent back to Congress. For
the first time since the war began he held no public
office. He, however, was not indifferent to the course
of public affairs. Judge Richard Peters, who was at the

THE MERCHANT PRINCE IN CONGRESS 57

head of the Board of War, testifies that Mr. Morris
during this period frequently purchased supplies for the
army on his own credit. It was in 1779 or 1780, two
of the most distressing years of the Revolution, that he
came to the government’s aid in a most practical way in a
grave emergency. General Washington had written to
the Board of War urging it to furnish him with military
supplies. He particularly required musket cartridges,
but there was no lead of which to make them. The lead
spouting on houses, lead pipe, and every other conceiv-
able supply of the metal had been melted, and it was then
selling at about fifty cents a pound. It was at a dinner
given by the Spanish minister in Philadelphia to some of
the heads of government, ambassadors, and other men of
station that Morris and Peters met. Peters wore his
troubles on his face, and Morris asked what was the cause
of his friend’s gloomy appearance. The latter replied
that General Washington required a certain amount of
lead. As it happened, one of Mr. Morris’s privateers
which had just come to port carried ninety tons of that
metal as ballast. He at once placed it at the disposition
of the government. Leaving the entertainment, Morris
and Peters soon put a hundred men at work manufac-
turing cartridges. They were busily employed all night,
and in the morning a large supply was ready to be shipped
to the army. !

The next year, the pendulum swinging the other way,
the Anti-constitutionalists were again victorious in Phil-

1 Fisher’s ‘‘ Revolutionary Reminiscences.”

‘
58 ROBERT MORRIS

adelphia. In the autumn of 1780 Morris was reélected
to the Pennsylvania Assembly. His activity in parlia-
mentary debate was never so great, nor was it ever so
necessary, as at this session. The condition of the state’s
finances were such that heroic measures must be taken by
heroic men. Supported by General Mifflin, he strove
unremittingly for a repeal of the old tender and penal
laws, nor would he give up his seat in the legislature
to accept the office of Superintendent of Finance to
which he was appointed by Congress early in 1781 until
his purpose was accomplished. He spoke forcibly and
eloquently in these debates. He contended almost single-
handed with the whole “soft money” host who still had
not learned that a currency need be more than printed
pieces of paper. As a result of his spirited tactics, in
February, 1781, the Assembly repealed the laws, making
the issues of January 29, 1777, and March 20, 1777, legal
tender. This victory was no sooner gained, however,
than the advocates of paper money, on April 6, author-
ized a new printing of £500,000 worth of bills. Morris
and Mifflin, having exhausted their efforts to prevent its
passage, aimed to have the measure reconsidered, and
finally, in June, a tax was laid to assist in redeeming the
notes, and some public lands were sold to establish a fund
from which to provide for taking up the issue. All state
laws making the Continental bills a legal tender were
repealed, and all laws in support of old state or colonial
emissions, except those of March 25, 1780, and April 6,
1781, were accorded the same treatment. Fines, penal-

“4 an eae rise in gi ite A aye state's 8 Lisa
randing paper money. He could now from his high
“e as Superintendent of Finance point to the Penn-
_ sylvania system as one worthy of the imitation of the
other American states.

a p=
Ag
oo

CHAPTER III
IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE

It is often said that the years 1780 and 1781 were the
most distressing in the entire course of the war. Among
many that were distressing, it may be difficult to discover
which were the most so, but it is certain that the financial
situation was then so wretched that a complete collapse of
the Continental cause would have occasioned no surprise.
The King of England regarded the mismanagement of the
American finances as his best ally, and hoped very confi-
dently that he would gain the victory over his rebel-
lious colonists when they could no longer pay or feed their
troops. It would seem that the condition of the states
could not well have become any worse when Mr. Morris
was called upon to place himself at the head of the gov-
ernment to extricate its tangled affairs. The paper money,
as we have seen, had become almost worthless. The war
thus far had been chiefly supported by issues of Continen-
tal bills which depreciated in value, as there was diminish-
ing prospect of their ever being redeemed. In 1775
Congress had emitted $6,000,000 worth of notes; in 1776,
$19,000,000; in 1777, $13,000,000; in 1778, $63,000,000 ;
and in 1779 no less than $140,000,000. The utter reck-
lessness with which Congress administered the affairs of
IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 61

the colonies in 1779 is almost past believing. The value
of their money fell lower and lower. Admittedly by the
official scale, $30 worth of Continental paper in 1779
was worth only $1 in specie, and after the act of
March 18, 1780, was passed, by which Congress practically
declared itself a bankrupt, and whatever hope of final re-
demption still remained was dispelled, the ratio sank so
low that paper almost ceased to have any value. Steps
were taken to try to stem the tide at a ratio of 30 to 1,
75 to 1, 525 to 1, and other arbitrary figures; but the
currency soon collapsed utterly, and it was used to light
the fires under offensive Tory gentlemen, and to paper the
rooms of good Whigs who wished to make an appearance
of luxury. In some states bundles of the notes were
buried with dirges and orations at mock funerals. In
Philadelphia men who wore the bills as cockades in their
hats marched in a procession through the public streets
accompanied by a dog which was covered with a coat of
tar in which the despised pieces of paper were thickly set.
A workman, it was observed, might lose his wages while
he was earning them. A merchant’s profits were wiped
out in anight. The government fared no better than any
private individual, and when" Congress called for taxes, it
was paid in its own money, a worthless load of spawn
from its own printing presses which would buy nothing
for a suffering army.

Christopher Marshall wrote in his diary in June, 1779,
that he had to pay $80 for two silk handkerchiefs. Sam-
uel Adams went to a shop to buy a hat, and the tradesman

62 ROBERT MORRIS

asked him $400 for it. Leather breeches were quoted at
$300 the pair and shoes at $125 the pair. Fish-hooks were
selling at a half-dollar apiece. “I was almost deterred
from buying any,” wrote a member of the Livingston
family to a friend, “but that I thought you and the
other gentlemen fishers would not choose to be totally
debarred from the sport for the sake of a few dollars,
especially as you can sell your trout at a proportionable
advance.”

There was so little to be got for such money as came
from the states when Congress made its requisitions upon
them, that at the end of 1779 calls were sent out for spe-
cific supplies. In lieu of money, taxes might be paid in
flour, corn, cattle, meat, or some other commodity which
was wanted by the army. Even tobacco would be taken,
as it was a merchantable product which could easily be
sold for cash in Europe when shipped there on Continental
account. This system, however, plagued Morris exceed-
ingly, as the cost of transporting such material was great,
and it was subject to rapid deterioration, spoiling often
before it could be used or sold. In one storehouse where
grain was awaiting public orders, it was said that the win-
dow was open and forty pigeons were preying upon it
besides ten times as many rats.

The states were so heedless and disobedient that they
were not paying their quotas, even in Continental paper
or specifics, with any degree of regularity. Congress
once, and perhaps more than once, drew upon the
states at thirty days’ sight, but they refused to honor

J
IN THE OFFICE.OF FINANCE 63

the bills. When Franklin and the foreign ambassadors
were drawn upon, they bestirred themselves to pay the
drafts by seeking loans from foreign governments, and
would have regarded it as a disgrace to the nation and
a destruction of the public credit to have allowed the
paper to go home protested. The states, however, which
were the pillars of the system of government in America
in so far as there existed a system, were so irresponsible
and impotent, that for all any one of them cared officially,
the war might have collapsed any day. Through them
all taxes must be levied and collected, and when they
failed to provide support to Congress, little seemed in
store for Washington, and the great characters who
were carrying the war on their own shoulders, but
absolute ruin. It was not that there were not patriots
in all the states. The great body of the people were
still firmly in favor of the prosecution of the war.
The newspapers were all published in the Whig in-
terest, and a Tory found his lot nowhere a pleasant
one. But Congress exhausted its powers when it
made recommendations. The Articles of Confedera-
tion had been referred to the states in 1777, but they
were to be binding on none until all thirteen had
adopted them, and the last, Maryland, did not accede
until March, 1781, just a little while before Mr. Morris
took the oath as Superintendent of Finance. And when
the Confederation was established, Congress was as help-
less as before. The states in their turn had no means
of compelling the counties, towns, and smaller political

64 ROBERT MORRIS

units. The whole country was passing through a night-
mare of liberty which had now reached its apogee.

Congress, in addition to the plan of issuing paper
money, which was an insidious form of theft, though
the first issues were made in a kind of ignorant good
faith, also contracted regular loans whenever lenders
could be found. Commissioners and ambassadors were
early sent abroad to borrow money in foreign countries,
either from governments or private individuals. They
were not only to seek the actual cash, but they were also
to buy supplies for the army and forward them against
shipments of American produce.

At home loan offices were established, and all who
would furnish Congress with money or articles which
were needed for the public service were given certifi-
cates of indebtedness. The interest on these loan office
certificates was at first payable in France, but as the
war wore on and the French government’s dissatisfac-
tion with the financial management of the Revolution
increased, it refused point-blank to send any more
money to America to pay the interest on old debts.
The French pretended to be much surprised that their
grants were being used for such a purpose. The Ameri-
cans, they conceived, might themselves take care of
their past. It was singular if they could not raise
enough in taxes to satisfy the holders of domestic loans
when France was bearing nearly all the current burdens
of the war. In its desperation Congress had turned to
a lottery as a means of raising funds to support the cam-

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 65

paigns, but there was no money to reward the officers
who made the drawings, and no money to pay the ticket
holders who had won the lucky numbers. The enemy
was invading the South, and laying waste the towns and
plantations. The southern soldiers were fighting in their
naked skins. The French allies were resting motionless
in New York and Rhode Island, and Washington had
not the means at hand to carry his army to Virginia,
where he had planned the next great blow against the
foe. It was in such a state that Mr. Morris found his
sadly afflicted country when, still in the midst of a par-
liamentary battle in the legislature against the tender
and penal laws, he was looked to as the one man in
America whose great private credit and financial skill
might help the colonists to conquer themselves, and
then conquer their freedom from Great Britain.

For many months the appointment of a single execu-
tive head to supersede the old Treasury Board had been
regarded as inevitable. The defects of the system of
government which had prevailed up to that time were
generally perceived by those of clearest sight among the
Revolutionary leaders. None realized it sooner than
Alexander Hamilton. He expressed the wish in a letter
to James Duane in September, 1780, that the different
departments of government should be consigned to the
hands of single men who together might make up a kind
of executive ministry, and suggested Robert Morris for
the head of the department of finance. “He would
have many things in his favor,” wrote Hamilton, “and

F

66 ROBERT MORRIS

could, by his personal influence, give great weight to
the measures he should adopt.”

There were others, however, who wished to see Hamil-
ton himself elevated to this post. At least one member
of Congress, General John Sullivan, cherished the thought
of making Washington’s aide the Financier of the states,
and he wrote to the Commander-in-chief about the project.
To this letter General Washington replied: “ How far
Colonel Hamilton, of whom you ask my opinion as a
financier, has turned his thoughts to that particular
study, I am unable to answer, because I never entered
upon a discussion on this point with him. But this I
can venture to advance from a thorough knowledge of
him, that there are few men to be found of his age who
have a more general knowledge than he possesses, and
none whose soul is more firmly engaged in the cause, or
who exceeds him in probity and sterling virtue.” ?

But Sullivan’s plan did not advance very far, for when
next he wrote to Washington, he was compelled to ex-
plain that he found the eyes “of Congress turned upon
Robert Morris as financier.” “I did not therefore nomi-
‘nate Colonel Hamilton,” he adds, “as I foresaw it would
be a vain attempt.”

It was plain to Congress that the man whom the
country needed in this emergency was a great character
in the business world who possessed credit and an ability
and willingness to use it for the public benefit. On

1 Hamilton’s Works, Vol. I. p. 159.
2 Sparks’s Washington, Vol. VII. p. 399.

as MOC Cd

yy JZ ef eee Cx
Afler hte fio heat br Za Oniwnd ee QE
Za C

?

7G DER IGE: WIE
wwned, ty a EIS Henry Sad and
i ee CZ wef jC
BOOM ANFY Ce Corcoran Gallery, Vyashinglen G IG;

VY Wr VIF ss BReweaewm eee. am

Se

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 67

February 20, 1781, Morris was elected by a unanimous
vote to the new office of Superintendent of Finance.
The President of Congress, Samuel Huntington, advised
him of the event in the following note: “Sir: By the
enclosed copy you will be informed that Congress have
been pleased unanimously to elect you, sir, to the im-
portant office of Superintendent of Finances. It is hoped
that this important call of your country will be received
by you, sir, as irresistible. I have the honor to be, with
sentiments of esteem and regard, your most obedient and
very humble servant,” etc. Mr. Morris acknowledged
the receipt of this letter in a few days, expressing his
reluctance to accept the office, since it was his inclination
at his time of life to seek relaxation and ease. His
private affairs claimed a large share of his attention. He
was still busy in the public line in the Assembly of Penn-
sylyania, and on no condition would he leave his place in
that body until the currency laws had been reformed.
He, however, agreed to heed his country’s call if Congress
would accede to certain conditions. If he accepted, he
must insist that he be released from any responsibility
for old Continental debts now piled mountain high.
Congress must allow him to continue in private commer-
cial connections already established, and he must be left
free to exercise the right of selecting and dismissing the
assistants, clerks, and all the officers needful for the
administration of the business of his department. Con-
gress for a while demurred, and stipulated that if it had
not the naming or dismissal of officers in the Treasury

68 ROBERT MORRIS

department, it should at least retain the privilege of
determining how many assistants should be necessary to
Mr. Morris, and the amount of salary which each should
receive. Some members professed to fear that if such
extensive powers were made over to the Superintendent,
he would take the whole matter of government out of
their hands. They suggested that he might have designs
upon some heads of departments, or even General Wash-
ington, but after repeated conferences through a com-
mittee appointed for this purpose, they granted him all
that he asked in his own immediate department as well
as in the Commissary Department, requiring as a safe-
guard against possible usurpations only that regularly
commissioned military officers, their own secret service
agents, and the Commander-in-chief of the army should
not be within his range. It was specifically stipulated
also that the Superintendent’s extensive powers should
continue only until the end of the war.

Finally, on May 14, 1781, Mr. Morris definitely in-
formed Congress that he would accept the office to which
he had been elected.

“A serious conviction of that duty which every citizen
owes to his country, especially in times of public calam-
ity,” he wrote, “will no longer permit me to hesitate
about the acceptance of the office, although I must again
repeat that I have the fullest sense of my own inability.
I shall, however, strive to find such assistance as will
enable me in some measure to answer the reasonable
expectations of Congress, to whom I can promise for my-

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 69

self nothing more than honest industry. In accepting the
office bestowed on me I sacrifice much of my interest, my
ease, my domestic enjoyments, and internal tranquillity.
If I know my own heart, I make these sacrifices with a
disinterested view to the service of my country. I am
ready to go still further, and the United States may com-
mand everything I have except my integrity, and the loss
of that would effectually disable me from serving them
more.”

The circumstances connected with his acceptance of
the office, Mr. Morris further explains by an entry in
his Diary: “ This appointment was unsought, unsolicited,
and dangerous to accept of, as it was evidently contrary to
my private interest, and if accepted must deprive me of
those enjoyments, social and domestic, which my time of
life required and which my circumstances entitled me to;
and as a vigorous execution of the duties must inevitably
expose me to the resentment of disappointed and design-
ing men and to the calumny and detraction of the envious
and malicious, I was therefore absolutely determined not
to engage in so arduous an undertaking. But the solici-
tations of my friends, acquaintances, and fellow-citizens
in full conviction of the necessity there was that some
person should commence the work of reformation in our
public affairs by an attempt to introduce system and
economy and the persuasion that a refusal on my part
would probably deter others from attempting this work
so absolutely necessary to the safety of our country —
these considerations, after much reflection and consulta-

70 ROBERT MORRIS

tion with friends, induced me to write a letter to the
President of Congress, dated the 13th of March, 1781.”

The envious and malicious, whose activity Mr. Morris
had anticipated, were not long silent. Major J. Arm-
strong wrote to his father General Armstrong as follows:
“Bob Morris sets a high price upon his ‘services, and
absolutely refused to act without an unqualified right of
private commerce, a power to displace and create at
pleasure every public officer who stands at all connected
with his office and employment, and the sole authority of
contracting for the various supplies of the army, etc.
Congress gave him all, like a young man just come to
the possession of a large but intricate estate, who after
many virtuous and great efforts to clear and ascertain
it in some indolent, wicked, or capricious moment grows
tired of acting for himself. ‘Here,’ says he, ‘take my
papers and my money, but allow me a fair subsistence.
Do with them what you will, Iam too great a fool to do
my own business.’ ” 4

Governor Reed, writing to General Greene a little later
in the year, said: “ Mr. Morris, who had been long pur-
suing a gainful traffic from which others were excluded
by embargo and restrictions, naturally presented himself
as combining the necessary qualities; but his terms were
high, and at first blush inadmissible. He claimed a right
of continuing in private trade, of dismissing all Conti-
nental officers, handling public money at pleasure with
many lesser privileges amounting to little less than an

1 Pa. Mag., Vol. V. p. 107.

a
he

IN THE OFFICE,.OF FINANCE (pl

engrossment of all those powers of Congress which had
been deemed incommunicable, and which we have some-
times thought they exercised with rather too much
hauteur. However, Mr. Morris was inexorable, Con-
gress at mercy, and’ finally the appointment made with
little relaxation in the original conditions since which
the business of that august body has been extremely
simplified, Mr. Morris having relieved them from all
business of deliberation or executive difficulty with which
money is in any respect connected, and they are now very
much at leisure to read despatches, return thanks, pay
and receive compliments, etc.”

On the other hand, there were many who expressed
their gratitude to Mr. Morris for having undertaken so
difficult a public task, and who felicitated the country
on having secured his valuable services at so difficult a
time, and these expressions came from men whose good
will and codperation it was worth while to possess.
General Gates wrote to Mr. Morris, in June, “ Your
taking up the business at this desperate crisis is not only
the more honorable to you, but will, I am satisfied from
the circumstances attending it, infinitely promote your
success.”

Alexander Hamilton wrote: “I know of no other in
America who unites so many advantages, and of course
every impediment to your acceptance is to me a subject
of chagrin. I flatter myself Congress will not preclude
the public from your services by an obstinate refusal of

1 Reed’s Reed, Vol. II. p. 374.

’

72 ROBERT MORRIS

reasonable conditions, and as one deeply interested in the
event, I am happy in believing you will not easily be dis-
couraged from undertaking an office by which you may
render America and the world no less a service than the
establishment of American Independence. ’Tis by intro-
ducing order into our finances, by restoring public credit,
not by winning battles, that we are finally to gain our
object.”

Franklin, Jay, John Hancock, and all the leading
American patriots expressed their deep satisfaction at
Mr. Morris’s appointment. “I felt a most sensible

’

pleasure,” wrote General Washington, on June 4, 1781,
“when I heard of your acceptance of the late appoint-
ment of Congress to regulate the finances of this country.
My hand and my heart shall be with you; and as far as
my assistance can go, command it. We have, I am per-
suaded, but one object in view, the public good, to effect
which I will aid your endeavors to the extent of my abili-
ties and with all the powers I am vested with.”

But the Commander-in-chief did not deceive himself
as many perhaps were prone to do regarding sudden
transformations in the finances of the poor and war-torn
states. “I have great expectations from the appoint-
ment of Mr. Morris,” the General wrote to a congress-
man, “but they are not unreasonable ones, for I do
not suppose that by any magic art he can do more
than recover us by degrees from the labyrinth into which
our finances are plunged.”! No one had been more

1 Sparks’s Washington, Vol. VIII. p. 70.

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 73

solicitous than Mr. Morris himself to disabuse the public
mind of any idea it may have formulated of his own
supernatural powers. In his letter of acceptance to
Congress he spoke of the public expectations. “I am
persuaded,” he said, “that they are raised on a weak
foundation, and I must lament them because I foresee
they must be disappointed. I must therefore entreat
that no flattering prospect of immediate relief may be
raised.”

Although not yet having taken the oath of office, Mr.
Morris had no sooner accepted the appointment than he
began his patriotic exertions. His first official act was
in the interest of a bank. As a means of aiding the
government in its financial operations, such an institu-
tion had long commended itself to his judgment. Alex-
ander Hamilton had frequently urged this adjunct of
the Treasury upon Morris, though so large a capital
was contemplated that its establishment under such con-
ditions at that time was rendered quite impracticable.
Morris did not deceive himself as to what it might be
possible to do in the collection of funds wherewith to
start a bank on its useful career. He had already had
some experience of the Pennsylvania Bank which he,
his partner Thomas Willing, and other business associ-
ates in Philadelphia had organized with a capital of
£300,000 Pennsylvania currency, to furnish “a supply
of provisions for the armies of the United States.”
Morris himself had subscribed £10,000 to the capital
stock of that institution. It remained open for about a

'
74 ROBERT MORRIS

year and a half, and rendered substantial assistance to
the government.! The Financier was concerned, how-
ever, that the work should be undertaken on a larger
scale. He wished the bank to have a national charac-
ter, and on May 17, 1781, he transmitted his plans to
the President of Congress. There were some states’
rights men who doubted Congress’s authority to charter
such an institution. James Madison, among others, did
not think that the delegates of the states could arrogate
to themselves any such prerogative, and men of that
political view were quite numerous. Preliminary to the
main work in hand, therefore, Morris wished to clear
the way of constitutional obstacles, and of the Presi-
dent he asked “whether it may not -be necessary and
proper that Congress make immediate application to the
several states to invest them with the powers of incor-
porating a bank and for prohibiting all other banks or
bankers in those states, at least during the war.”

The next subject to engage the attention of the
Financier-elect was the unhappy situation of the army.
General Washington had written of his immediate need
of flour. The troops were in a starving condition,
and all sources of supply through the various states,
which by the old system had been paying their taxes
in specifics, had failed. Mr. Morris did not delay, but
heeding the call, he wrote at once to Thomas Lowrey
in New Jersey and General Schuyler in New York,
requesting each to procure one thousand barrels of flour

1 Sumner, Vol. II. pp. 22, 24.

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 75

and forward it to General Washington on account of
the Continent at once.

“Pressed by all my friends, acquaintances, and fel-
low-citizens, and still more pressed by the necessity, the
absolute necessity of a change in our monied system to
work salvation,” he wrote to General Schuyler, “I have
yielded and taken a load on my shoulders which it is
impossible to get clear of without the faithful support
and assistance of those good citizens who not only
wish but will promote the service of their country.”
He then made his appeal for the flour. “For your
reimbursement,” he continued, “you may either take me
as a public or a private man.” “I shall make it a
point to procure the money,” Morris wrote to the Com-
mander-in-chief in reporting this transaction, “being
determined never to make an engagement that cannot
be fulfilled; for if by any means I should fail in this
respect, I will quit my office as useless from that
moment.”

Mr. Morris’s third step was to write to Benjamin
Franklin asking him to name a banker in Paris who
could take over the management of the Continental
finances in France. With this banker he desired that
all money available for the use of the United States
might be deposited and made subject to his drafts, the
beginning of a remarkable system of international finan-
ciering which, if it were very irregular in its appear-
ance, saved the colonies many times when ruin stared
them plainly in the face. Still “financier elect, but

‘
76 ROBERT MORRIS

that is all,” he wrote to Washington on June 15, 1781,
even though he had actively entered upon a perform-
ance of his duties. He declined to take his oath or
accept his commission, for by these acts he would have
forfeited his seat in the Pennsylvania Assembly. “It
is of the utmost consequence,” he wrote to Washington,
“to preserve my right of appearing there until the ten-
der and penal laws are totally repealed, for I consider
those laws as destructive of all credit, even amongst
private people in dealings with one another.” He now
believed that the battle would be won in a few days,
and promised “before long” to “engage in the duties
of my department with all the energy I am master of.”
He declared that it was his intention soon to repair to
camp to visit the Commander-in-chief for a consultation
regarding a more economical administration of military
affairs, in which reform Washington had promised his
personal codperation. ‘My objects,” Morris wrote, ‘are
to reduce our public expenditures as nearly as possible
to what they ought to be, and to obtain revenues in
our own country to meet these expenses as nearly
as can be; then to show foreign nations engaged in the
war that we must look to them for the balance.”

Finally, on June 27, 1781, the state legislature being
about to adjourn, he took the oath as Superintendent of
Finance of the United States before the Chief Justice
of Pennsylvania, and his extraordinary administration of
a singular office was formally begun.

The Office of Finance was at first established in a

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 77

building which adjoined Mr. Morris’s own home in Front
Street, but in a few months, when he was appointed Agent
of Marine and assumed additional burdens, all the books,
papers, and furniture, as a measure of economy, were re-
moved to the Marine Office, also in Front Street. Here
they remained in the house of William West until June,
1782, when Morris hired the store of Jacob Barge at the
corner of Market and Fifth streets in proximity to the
other government offices.

The Superintendent appointed as his assistant Gouver-
neur Morris, who, a few months before, had met with a
distressing accident. While driving in the streets of
Philadelphia, he was thrown from his carriage and his
ankle was dislocated. The surgical practice of the time
was such that the limb must be amputated below the
knee, and he was compelled thenceforth to use a wooden
leg. The intimacy between the Superintendent and his
assistant was close and enduring. While of the same
name, they were not related, even remotely. Gouver-
neur’s services were particularly valued by his chief, not
merely because of his sound financial views and his wise
counsel, but also by reason of his familiarity with the
French language. The French allies with whom the
Office of Finance was brought into frequent contact
knew little English, which was the only tongue Robert
Morris had ever learned to speak. A number of clerks
and copyists completed the Financier’s administrative
force in Philadelphia.

The promised visit to Washington’s camp was not long

‘
78 ROBERT MORRIS

delayed. It was a journey made with two purposes in
view —to secure the Commander’s advice respecting the
curtailment of needless expenditures and to arrange for
important military operations. Congress had resolved on
July 31, 1781, that the Superintendent of Finance, with
Richard Peters, of the Board of War, and James Wilson,
should spend a few days at Headquarters with a view
to bringing the military into a better understanding
with the civil administration. The soldiers awaited
Morris’s coming anxiously. “A little of the true cir-
culating medium of gold or paper struck upon a golden
foundation is only wanting, and that I think you will be
able to create,” wrote Colonel Tench Tilghman, an aide
on Washington’s staff. While he assured the Superin-
tendent that there was “no scheme of economy which
you can propose that the army will not cheerfully comply
with,” he personally was compelled to ask for $20 or $30
in specie to relieve his own pressing wants. The Finan-
cier was promised a warm welcome “at the army” which
he would find in the field “somewhere between Peeks-
kill and Kingsbridge.” }

Leaving Gouverneur Morris in charge of the office,
the Superintendent of Finance and his two companions
on the journey set out from Philadelphia on August 7,
by a circuitous route, to avoid intercepting bodies of the
enemy, for Dobbs Ferry, near which place Washington
was encamped. They arrived there on August 11 at
about ten in the morning. In his Diary Mr. Morris

1 Collections N. Y. Hist. Soc., 1878.

. ae ¢ ,

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 79

writes: “His Excellency the General being out, we did
not see him until about one, when he returned and gave
us a cheerful and hearty welcome. We had then an
opportunity of seeing at his levee, which is held every
day at Headquarters from half after one o’clock for an
hour or an hour and a half, all the general officers of
the American and French armies, the commanders of
regiments, heads of departments, and such strangers as
visit camp. We dined with his Excellency, and next
day Mr. Peters and myself had a long conference with
the General relative to the numbers of which the army
should consist for the next campaign, and the means of
reducing the number of officers and augmenting those
of the privates. This conference branched out into vari-
ous other articles respecting departments, expenditures,
economy, etc., etc.”

On August 16, Mr. Morris by invitation visited the
Count de Rochambeau, the French commander, at his
headquarters, where he met all the officers on the Count’s
staff, discussing with them the question of supplies and
the necessary arrangements for an active campaign. The
allies had been resting idle ever since their arrival in
America, and they were eager to get into action. It was
generally believed that Rochambeau and Washington
would mass their troops in front of New York. Word
went forth that this movement was contemplated, and in
the minds of those who had knowledge of Morris’s visit
to camp, little doubt lingered as to the speedy fruition
of the project. It is frequently asserted that it was upon

‘
80 ROBERT MORRIS

the Financier’s advice that Washington changed his plan
and decided to make a sudden descent upon Cornwallis
in Virginia. Nowhere in his Diary, however, does Mr.
Morris allude to his part in persuading the generals to
abandon the idea of an attack on New York. It has
been left for historians, to whose testimony it may be
well to attach not too much serious importance, to
attribute this turn in the course of military management
to the Superintendent of Finance. Washington had ex-
pressed the desire to carry his army into the South be-
fore Morris reached the Dobbs Ferry camp. Nevertheless
it is indubitable that it was the Superintendent’s promise
to finance the movement which was the deciding influ-
ence in favor of the new plan of campaign.

While at Headquarters Morris received applications for
money constantly. Congratulations upon his accession to
the office were accompanied with requests, complaints, and
demands. He had taken 150 guineas with him on his
journey, but as there was such universal want, he shrewdly
observed that he would make no payments whatever, and
returned to Philadelphia with the sum intact. The three
men had departed from camp on August 18, under the
escort of an officer and twenty light dragoons, who left
them however after the first day out, and on August 21
they arrived in safety in Philadelphia.

Morris had many plans in his mind for the organization
of the country’s finances, but for the time all must be held
in subordination to the great task of conveying the army
under secrecy over a distance of several hundred miles to

IN THE OFFICE: OF FINANCE 81

Yorktown, and of provisioning the regiments during what
might be a very long siege. He could scarcely think of
the daring scheme except under his breath, so essential
was it that no suspicion should be aroused regarding
Washington’s new object. Immediately there was the
greatest activity both at Dobbs Ferry and Philadelphia.
Too much zeal might be as fatal as treachery. It was in
the highest sense necessary to the success of the movement
that the British in New York should have no intimation
of the intention of the troops until they were on the
march, when concealment would be possible no longer.
A week after his return from camp Morris wrote to
General Washington that Philadelphia was filled with
strangers. ‘I have had occasion to lament,” he remarks,
“that too many people have for some days past seemed to
know your Excellency’s intended movements.” His
efforts to promote the success of the campaign were
exerted along a great variety of lines. He offered Wash-
ington the use of his own home. His family “being
chiefly at Springetsbury ” their absence afforded him “the
opportunity of appropriating my house in town to your
use.” Although his beds had gone with his family, he
promised that Washington should himself have one, and
mattresses were abundant, so that the aides could make
themselves comfortable upon the floor. ‘As what I have
cannot possibly be appropriated to a better use,” he said,
“I beg your Excellency will consider and use my house
and what it affords as your own.”

It was but nine days after Morris returned to Philadel-

G

82 ROBERT MORRIS

phia when Washington himself appeared in the city at the
head of his tattered regiments accompanied by Rocham-
beau and the French troops with their bright banners,
waving plumes, and new uniforms, well fed and properly
disciplined, in striking contrast in all these respects with
the soldiers they had come across the sea to aid. The
arrival of the army was the signal for many demonstrations
by the people. Morris and other citizens of eminence
went out on horseback, according to the hospitable custom
of the time, to meet Washington and his suite, which in-
cluded Count de Rochambeau, Chevalier de Chastellux,
General Knox, and General Moultrie. They were at once
served with dinner at Mr. Morris’s town house on High,
now Market Street, which became their headquarters while
they remained in the city. Salvos of artillery came from
the ships in the river, as the leaders of this combined
movement against Cornwallis awaited the various courses
at this sumptuous feast. Count de Grasse had informed
Washington and Rochambeau that he feared his fleet
could not pass over the bar at New York, which had been
another weighty consideration to deter them from under-
taking the assault upon that city. Much depended upon
the timely arrival of the French squadron in the Chesa-
peake. At this dinner toasts were freely drunk to De
Grasse and the safety of his ships. At the very moment
these libations were being poured out to King Louis’s
navy, twenty-eight sail of the line, one ship of 100 guns,
three of 84 guns, nineteen of 74 guns, four of 64 guns, and
one of 50 guns, were passing through the Capes, but such

IN THE OFFICE-OF FINANCE 83

were the methods of communication at the time that the
banqueters in Philadelphia were not to know the news for
several days yet.

In the meantime, Morris was striving with all the
agencies at his command to fulfil his promise to Wash-
ington to lay the troops before Yorktown. The Com-
mander-in-chief had made a number of requisitions which
must be met. It was necessary to place three hundred
barrels of flour, the same quantity of salt meat, and
eight or ten hogsheads of rum at the Head of Elk for
the subsistence of the troops on their way down the bay,
for it was designed that they should cover the last part
of the journey by water. Supplies of provisions were
needed at other points along the route, and each day while
they were marching and during the siege the men and
horses must be fed. Morris also required boats to carry
six thousand or seven thousand men. He began a vigor-
ous campaign upon the state governors. He looked for
assistance from those states which were contiguous to the
point of attack, and which would reap the greatest imme-
diate benefits from this attempt to clear their country
of the enemy. He begged Virginia, Maryland, Delaware,
and New Jersey to make the cause their own. Already
on August 22, the day after his return from Dobbs Ferry,
he had addressed the governors of New Jersey and Dela-
ware as follows: “The exigencies of the service require
immediate attention. We are on the eve of the most
active operations, and should they be in any way retarded
by the want of necessary supplies, the most unhappy

: 84 ROBERT MORRIS

consequences may follow. Those who may be justly
chargeable with neglect will have to answer for it to
their country, to their allies, to the present generation,
and to posterity. I hope, entreat, expect the utmost pos-
sible efforts on the part of your state.” “Should the
operations against Cornwallis fail for want of supplies,”
Morris told the Commissary General, “the states must
thank their own negligence. If they will not exert them-
selves upon the present occasion, they never will.”

He called upon Delaware and Maryland for fresh beef,
salt, rum, salt beef, and salt pork. He urged Virginia
to furnish supplies of flour, beef, and pork, both fresh
and salted, tobacco, hay, Indian corn, and other forage
for horses and cattle. He made Matthew Ridley his
agent at Baltimore for securing boats and supplies in
that city to be placed at Washington’s disposal. Boats,
if they could not be obtained on other terms, were to
be contracted for at hard-money prices on as long a credit
as possible. Despite these liberal conditions, great diffi-
culty was experienced in inducing owners to hire their
vessels for this service, as urgent and important as it
must have seemed in the eyes of any American Whig.
To Ridley Mr. Morris wrote on August 28: “I should
suppose the patriotic inhabitants of Baltimore would make
every possible effort to afford assistance on this occasion,
and certainly if they have a due sense of their own pri-
vate or public interest, they would even find vessels for
nothing rather than not seize the present favorable mo-
ment of clearing Virginia from the enemy, opening the

ane

IN THE OFFICE.OF FINANCE 85

navigation of the Chesapeake, and setting the whole
system of your commerce once more in motion.” Not
relying upon the governors alone, he despatched letters to
members of the legislatures and prominent men with
whom he had had private business connections in Virginia
and Maryland, soliciting their aid and influence in his
work of laying Washington and the ragged troops before
Yorktown. He threatened the states with military col-
lections if they were so unmindful of their duty that
they would not assist their country’s cause in this grave
hour. His appeals were not in vain, but despite all his
eloquence, transports were obtained for only two thousand
men, so that the rest of the army must proceed more
slowly by foot to the seat of the siege.

But this was not all. General Washington’s coming
to Philadelphia had been preceded by an express rider.
Under date of August 27, he had written to Mr. Morris:
“The service they are going upon is disagreeable to the
northern regiments, but I make no doubt that a dou-
ceur of a little hard money would put them in proper
temper.” The Financier was old enough in office thus
early in his administration to understand the full meaning
of this request, but without knowing from what source
the sum should come, he promised to procure one month’s
pay in specie for the northern troops which General Lin-
coln led. While pork, flour, and rum might be extracted
from the states, he did not deceive himself with the
thought that any state could be persuaded to contribute
gold or silver. For this douceur of hard money he

'

86 ROBERT MORRIS

pitched upon Rochambeau, as a friend in need who might
prove himself a friend indeed. The French commander
had been the mark of all the social attention which the
Financier out of the depths of his princely disposition
could bestow. He had lost no time in placing himself
in the closest and friendliest relations with the Chevalier
de Luzerne, the French Minister to the United States,
whose legation was situated in Philadelphia. He for-
warded a pilot, whom out of his own experience as a ship-
master he knew to be trustworthy, to escort the French
transports from the Head of Elk, and afterward to obey

the instructions of the French fleet so long as Count

de Grasse should need the man’s services.

While Rochambeau, the French Field Marshal, and
generals were still in Philadelphia, Morris made an ap-
pointment to meet them on September 5, at Luzerne’s
house, to arrange, if possible, for a temporary loan. He
asked for $20,000 in specie’ until October 1. This propo-
sition was not received with enthusiasm by Rochambeau
and Chastellux, who declared that they had not enough
silver with them for their own uses. Some money re-
mained in Boston, but that was six or eight weeks away.
Silver was expected by Count de Grasse, but it was un-
certain when he would come to port. In no case could
they lend the sum anyhow, except it be with the consent
of the Intendant and Treasurer, who had already left the
city. Morris, to obviate this difficulty, volunteered to
accompany Rochambeau to Chester, where he calculated
that they might overtake the officers of the French ex-

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 87

chequer in America. They all together set out upon
horseback the next morning, the Financier being accom-
panied by his assistant, Gouverneur Morris, whose fluent
use of French greatly forwarded the transaction. It was
pointed out to Rochambeau very clearly that the move-
ment upon which the two armies had embarked might fail
totally, unless he came to the rescue with this small loan.
In the midst of their conversations the party were ap-
proached by a rider, whom they halted with the inquiry
as to his destination. The man explained that he bore
despatches to Robert Morris, Superintendent of Finance
of the United States. “That is my name,” answered
Morris, “ you need go no farther,” and, opening the letters,
he was able to announce to the delight of all his com-
panions that Count de Grasse had safely brought his
squadron into the Chesapeake, whereupon, the Frenchmen
parleying no longer, assured the Americans of their will-
ingness to lend the money if it should be repaid by the
first day of October.

Rochambeau and his officers asked if they might not
hope that the courtesy would be returned should they
later be in need of funds. Morris did not conceal the
difficulty of his situation, but “as to my own part,” he
assured them, with regal magnanimity, “they might on
every occasion command my utmost services, assistance,
and exertions, both as a public officer and an individual.”

The two Morrises returned to Philadelphia with lighter
hearts. On their route back to the city they met the last
division and the baggage trains of the French army, and

‘

88 ROBERT MORRIS

the whole expedition was now well forward on its way to
join Lafayette, who with a small force was manceuvring in
front of Yorktown for the reduction of Cornwallis, yet in
ignorance of the daring purpose of his foe.

But the money was yet to change hands, and the troops
were yet to be paid. Washington, who had still not been
apprised of the Financier’s success in arranging the loan,
wrote from the Head of Elk, where he was rapidly perfect-
ing plans for the transportation of his soldiers, urging
Morris to activity. ‘Every day,” he says, “ discovers to me
the increasing necessity of some money for the troops.”
He reiterated that the men under General Lincoln must
have one month’s pay if it were designed to take them far-
ther south. “I wish it to come,” he added, “on the wings
of speed.” But Morris needed no goad to give impulse to
his zeal. He had at once despatched Philip Audibert,
Deputy Paymaster General of the United States, to the
Head of Elk, armed with a letter to Rochambeau. This
officer was authorized to receive the French money on be-
half of the United States. The letter contained profuse
promises that the sum would be repaid to the Count on
October 1, and concluded, “ with every wish for the most
brilliant success to the allied arms and for your own per-
sonal glory.”

The money was delivered to Audibert in kegs, the heads
of which were knocked in so that the silver half crowns
might roll upon the ground to feast the eyes of the mu-
tinous troops.! In all there were 144,000 livres, but

1 Fisher’s ‘“‘ Revolutionary Reminiscences.’

IN THE OFFICE.OF FINANCE 89

Morris knew, for Washington had told him, that this would
fall much short of the sum necessary, although the Finan-
cier only a few days before had rather humorously ob-
served to the Commander-in-chief that if any balance
remained, it should be “paid to the use of your Excel-
lency’s table.”

None remained. Paymaster Pierce still needed $6500,
and Morris was compelled to send south a sum from the
Treasury which was “absolutely necessary,” he com-
plained, to fulfil his engagements in Philadelphia. This
experience was a trying initial test of the fibre of the
Superintendent of Finance. His own testimony is at
hand to show at what personal cost his part was per-
formed in this campaign. On September 20 he wrote to
the President (Governor) of Pennsylvania: “The late
movements of the army have so entirely drained me of
money that I have been obliged to pledge my personal
credit very deeply in a variety of instances, besides bor-
rowing money from my friends and advancing to promote
the public service every shilling of my own.” Again he
wrote, “By the greatest exertions I have at length been
able to comply with the General’s views, but that com-
pliance has exposed me almost penniless to answer en-
gagements which cannot be violated.”

Nearly two years later, on May 16, 1783, the Financier
wrote to General Greene, then in the South, where com-
plaints were freely made that Morris did not keep that
section of the Union in mind, but directed his measures
to the particular benefit of Pennsylvania. He called his

90 ROBERT MORRIS

critics’ attention to the Virginia campaign, concerning
which he again declared, “I advanced not only my
credit, but every shilling of my own money, and all which
I could obtain from my friends, to support the important
expedition against Yorktown.”

In spite of his preoccupation with the work of trans-
porting the army from New York to Virginia, Morris gave
his attention actively and incessantly to the other tasks
and duties of his office, made the more onerous by a con-
solidation of departments. His skill and experience as a
shipmaster made it natural enough that he should be
appointed Agent of Marine in connection with his Super-
intendency of the Treasury. His motives in accepting
this office, and Congress’s motives in vesting him with it,
were well understood. The Agency fell to him in Sep-
tember, 1781, when the Superintendent of Finance wrote
in his Diary : —

“There are many reasons why I would have wished
that this burden had been laid on other shoulders, or that
at least I might have been permitted to appoint a tem-
porary agent until the further pleasure of Congress. As
it is, I shall undertake the task, however contrary to my
inclinations and inconsistent with the many duties which
press heavily upon me, because it will at least save money
to the public. But on this subject I have to observe that
true economy, according to my ideas of it, consists in
employing a sufficient number of persons to perform the
public business.”

In a letter to John Bradford Mr. Morris, in explaining

—_ ,*

IN THE OFFICE,OF FINANCE v1

his assumption of the duties of minister of marine, wrote
that “ Congress, tired of the heavy expenses attending the
boards formerly established for the purpose of managing
the affairs of our infant and unfortunate navy, have en-
tirely dismissed those arrangements,” temporarily intrust-
ing the work of the Department to one “whom God
knows had already more to do than either his time or
abilities permitted him to execute equal to his wishes.”

“T accepted the Marine Agency,” he told Alexander
Hamilton, “simply with a view to save the expense of
the Department.” As proof of the sincerity of his pur-
poses, Morris promptly consolidated the two offices with
their separate forces of clerks. He found it convenient
not clearly to distinguish his functions as marine minis-
ter and finance minister. He could have directed two
or three more departments with like facility. All
branches of the public service were subordinated, from
his point of view, and indeed from the view-point of every
practical man, to the task of securing money enough with
which to keep the breath of life in the army. But a very
small number of ships yet remained to the Continent, and
Congress was without resources with which to enlarge
the fleet. Morris’s first duty was to put to order the
naval accounts, and for this work he selected John Brown,
late Secretary of the Admiralty. Brown was commis-
sioned to go to Boston, where most of the operations
of this Department were centred, owing to the superior
skill of the New England people in shipping matters, and
make report upon the state of the navy. He was there

92 ROBERT MORRIS

to receive all the books and papers belonging to the
United States, placing them in the hands of auditors.
To John Bradford, hitherto in charge of marine affairs,
Mr. Morris wrote :—

« As your accounts must be lengthy and of great import,
I give you this notice, that you may get them ready, and
as I am certain you will have been regular in keeping
them, so I am sure it will give you pleasure to have such
an opportunity of evincing your inflexible integrity to
these Republics, already become susceptible of jealousies,
even with respect to all their most faithful servants.”
He wished to have the various accounts of the navy
settled “with all possible expedition.”

In Boston a Deputy Agent of Marine was to be ap-
pointed by Brown on the advice of the Governor of
Massachusetts. ‘Thomas Russell, whose character Morris
declared to be “unexceptionable,” was chosen. He was
required to give bond to the Superintendent of Finance
in the sum of £10,000 in specie, and station himself in
Boston in the hope of securing enough money in Massa-
chusetts to fit out the frigates Alliance and Deane, and
send them to sea. ‘Two boats’ crews were to be engaged
for a year, and the ships were to sail from Boston accord-
ing to Mr. Morris’s directions “to distress the enemy.”
It was his plan to keep them constantly at sea, taking
prizes wherever they could. Captain Barry was placed
in command of the movements of both vessels, which
were finally put into the service, the Alliance being
selected as his flagship. “I do not fix your cruising
IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 93

ground nor limit the length of your cruise,” Mr. Morris
wrote, “because I expect you will know the most likely
course, and will be anxious to meet such events as will
do honor to the American flag and promote the general
interest.”

As early as in 1776 Congress had authorized the con-
struction of three line-of-battle ships with the sincere
intention of establishing a fleet strong enough to cope
with Great Britain. Had it been possible to carry out
all the plans at that time entertained for the United
States upon the sea, the navy would have become a strong
agency in national defence. The keel of one of these
three vessels which was to carry seventy-four guns and
bear the name America, was laid in May, 1777, at Ports-—
mouth, New Hampshire, but work proceeded so slowly
that in 1781 the hulk was handed over to Mr. Morris
still in a most incomplete state. The construction of
the other two was never begun. It was Mr. Morris’s
hope to finish the America. The ship was deteriorating
rapidly in its uncovered condition, and he gave his
serious attention, in spite of his other absorbing duties,
to the work of protecting this unfortunate object of
national investment. As early in his administration as
on June 22, 1781, the Financier wrote to the President
of Congress rather shrewdly and satirically: “She must
be shut in and launched this summer or she will perish.
Much money has already been expended on her, and I
think it may be more consistent with economy and with
the dignity of Congress to have her finished than to let

94 ROBERT MORRIS

her perish.” He recommended that an officer be detailed
to superintend the work at Portsmouth, and while he
suggested the sale of the ship through John Jay at
Madrid, he meanwhile thought it well to prepare her
to go to France as soon as possible, there to be coppered
and completed, “after which,” he observed, “she may
be employed so as to enliven and invigorate the opera-
tions of our army.”

In August Morris sent John Paul Jones to Ports-
mouth with orders to push forward the work upon
the ship with all possible speed, advancing him £400
for his personal use. At the same time the Finan-
cier appealed to the Governor of New Hampshire for
money to finish the vessel, promising that such sum
as was provided would be credited to the state’s account.
Jones’s labors with this ship were tedious and uncon-
genial to him. “I do not hesitate to say,” he wrote at
a later date, “that the task of inspecting the construction
of the America was the most lingering and disagreeable
service I was charged with during the whole period of
the Revolution.”! He besought Morris to grant him
a leave of absence, that he might aid Washington at York-
town, but the Agent of Marine refused the appeal, on
the ground that the Commodore could be much more
useful where he was, and so in truth he seemed to be.
The enemy several times had planned the capture of the
shipyard, and it was only by compelling the workmen and
townspeople to mount guard at night, that Jones was

1 Buell’s ** Paul Jones,’’ Vol. II. p. 69.

:
i

IN THE OFFICE,OF FINANCE 95

enabled to defeat their machinations. Progress, however,
was incredibly slow. Morris’s treasury had been drained
in financing the Yorktown campaign, and no one expected
New Hampshire or any other state to contribute money
for such a purpose.

At length, in spite of all obstacles, the ship, in
September, 1782, was almost ready for service. Men
were being enlisted for the crew when, in August, a
French 74-gun ship Le Magnifique, was wrecked at
the entrance of Boston harbor, and Morris was quick to
take advantage of his opportunity. He proposed to a
committee of Congress that the America be presented
to the King of France. Since there was no money at
hand to fit, man, and equip the ship, the States might
thus relieve themselves of a costly burden, while at the
same time obtaining credit for a generous attachment to
their ally. Congress therefore passed a resolution trans-
ferring the ship which had already been five or six years
in the building to King Louis. “You will find,” writes
Mr. Morris to a friend, “that Congress have pursued the
idea which I suggested. as to the mode of economizing
reputably by giving away the ship America. But I do
not think that economy would alone have been a sufficient
reason for this valuable present, because certainly it ought
to be a constant object with every true American to
establish a respectable marine. I am, however, well
pleased with what is done, because I think it a seasonable
tribute of gratitude to a prince whose exertions in our
favor have been both generous and great.”

]

96 ROBERT MORRIS

The America was handed over to the French officer
who had commanded the unfortunate Magnifique, but as
the French navy already contained a vessel called L’ Ame-
rique, the King rechristened his gift ship Le Franklin.

Mr. Morris’s interest in the country’s “infant and unfor-
tunate navy” was very true and sincere. He was beloved
by all the officers with whom he came into relationship.
He was never unmindful of the distresses of American
sailors, especially those who were unfortunate enough,
as so many were, to fall into British prisons. For two
years the little Continental fleet responded to his personal
call. When he desired a frigate to carry flour or bills
on Cadiz to Cuba, he gave orders to the captain to that
effect, and that the performances of the vessels, at the
disposition of the Agent of Marine, were not more dis-
tinguished, is solely ascribable to the fact that circum-
stances limited all operations of whatever kind not of
the most puerile character.

One of the purposes for which Morris early found the
navy a desirable adjunct of the Office of Finance was in the
establishment of the bank. A national bank, as we have
noted, had been the initial object of his solicitude when he
took charge of the Continental finances, and he pursued
it without remission. It was the principal feature of his
financial system. Without it his administration would have
collapsed in disgrace, and yet, to establish it was one of
the most difficult of his many troublesome tasks. The
states’ rights men were opposed to granting it a char-
ter. No money was at hand with which to fill its vaults

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 97

and tills. Appeals were sent out to governors, legisla-
tures, business men, army officers, and to the public in
general to subscribe to the capital stock.

The bank was necessary, Mr. Morris argued, because
of a great paper medium which caused coin to be exported
or concealed. This paper was so depreciated in value
that not enough of it was in circulation for purposes
of trade and taxation. If the bank were established, it
could utilize the credit of stockholders, and the private
credit of lenders and borrowers. It could absorb the
worthless outstanding paper, replacing it with bank
notes. It would soon be able to lend large sums to
the United States for the prosecution of the war. In
short, it was a plan “to unite the several states more
closely in one general money connection” for their gen-
eral weal. ‘I am determined,” the Superintendent of
Finance wrote to John Jay, “that the bank shall be
well supported until it can support itself, and then it
will support us.” He proposed that the capital stock
should be $400,000. He wished that it might be
£400,000, but regarded it as far from certain whether
even so large a sum as he had named could be secured
in the existing state of the public and private finances.
The shares were to sell at $400 each, subscribers for less
than four shares paying the whole amount at once, while
those who took larger amounts of stock were to pay
but one-half at the time of subscription, and the other
half within three months. The bank’s various opera-
tions were to be superintended by a board of twelve

H

98 ROBERT MORRIS

directors elected by the shareholders, and these officers
were to meet quarterly, appointing two of their num-
ber whose business it should be carefully to inspect the
business of the bank for the ensuing three months. The
Superintendent of Finance of America was to have access
to the books and papers of the institution at all times,
and every day the inspectors must deliver him a state-
ment of the cash account of the bank, and a list of the
notes issued and received. The bank’s notes were to
be payable in specie on demand, and were to be receiva-
ble for taxes by every state of the Union, and by the
Treasurer of the United States from the states as though
they were specie.

As early as June 11, 1781, Morris had written to
prominent Whig business men in all parts of the
country : —

“The capital proposed is but small when the extent
and riches of the United States are considered, but when
put in motion, the benefits flowing from it will be so
perceptible, that all difficulty about increasing the capi-
tal, or securing its credit, will vanish, and we shall only
have to appeal to the interest of mankind, which, in
most cases, will do more than their patriotism; but
there have been, and will continue to be, many instances
where interest is sacrificed to patriotism, and in that
belief I ask you to devote some of your time to promote
this infant plan, which, as it gathers strength, may, in
the end, prove the means of saving the liberties, lives,
and property of the virtuous part of America.”

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 99

But there was little response. Colonel Tench Tilgh-
man, who had been appointed an agent for the bank
at Washington’s camp, said that he thought he would
be “a very unprofitable agent.” Not an officer, from
the Commander-in-chief downward, could subscribe, since
none for a long time had received any “real money ”
for his services. The General himself sent word that
he was deterred from obeying the dictates of his heart
since the revenues from his Virginia estates were not
now sufficient for his current requirements. Lately he
had been obliged to part with some of his lands in order
to pay the taxes upon those which remained.! No sub-
scriptions could be obtained anywhere in the Union
except from a few of Mr. Morris’s personal friends in
Philadelphia. But, in spite of all hostility, he persisted,
as he usually did when he had once chosen his policy,
convinced Congress of the necessity of the bank, and
began to look abroad for the money which he could
not find at home.

His first important essay in foreign countries was
made through John Jay, the American Ambassador to
Spain. It was necessary that a sum of specie should be
thrown into the institution at once, and he asked Jay to
lay the matter before the governments of Spain and
Portugal. He hoped to secure this money by way of
Cuba. Robert Smith, long a captain of dragoons in
the Continental army, a son of William Smith of Balti-
more, through Morris’s instrumentalities was appointed

1 Collections N. Y. Hist. Soc., 1878.

'

100 ROBERT MORRIS

by Congress as the Continental agent at Havana. He
had settled there to engage in business on private ac-
count, and as he asked no salary for his services, and
many unfair and burdensome discriminations were being
practised in that port against American commerce, he
was designated to represent the interests of the United
States in Cuba.

In July, 1781, the Superintendent of Finance despatched
the frigate Trumbull, under command of Captain Nichol-
son to Havana. She was laden with flour consigned
to Smith, who was to receive 5 per cent for negotiating
the sale at the risk and on the account of the United
States government. With the flour went a bill for 500,000
livres tournois drawn at 60 days sight on French bankers,
and also about $120,000 worth of old bills, drawn on
John Jay at Madrid. These were to be sold on the
best terms possible to the Governor of Havana or to
private individuals. Mr. Smith was charged to put
forth every effort to interest the Spanish government in
the bills. If they were not honored by the Spanish court
when they arrived in Madrid, Morris pledged himself to
send the Governor flour at a stipulated price to remunerate
him in full for his advances. “I hope, sir,” the Superin-
tendent wrote to the Governor by Captain Nicholson, “you
will find it agreeable to your inclinations and perfectly
consistent with the duties of your station to gratify my
desires. They are very moderate, considering the necessi-

ties of this country and your ability to minister to its
relief.”

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 101

Every detail of the voyage was planned beforehand by
Mr. Morris in person. His familiarity with trade and ship-
ping peculiarly qualified him for the direction of such an
enterprise. Word was given out that the frigate would
carry flour from Philadelphia to the French fleet in Rhode
Island. The true destination of the ship was kept a
secret even from its officers. The captain’s instructions
were delivered to him in a sealed letter, which was not to
be opened until after the pilot quitted the vessel and she
was well out at sea. The packets of letters to the Gover-
nor and Smith, Mr. Morris enjoined, “must not on any
account fall into the hands of the enemy,” for which rea-
son they must be “slung, with proper weights to sink them,
if any extremity happens to induce you to throw them
overboard.” The voyage must be made with all possible
speed. On no condition should the crew go out of its
way in a chase for prizes, though if the frigate was in her
turn pursued and attacked, Mr. Morris persuaded himself
that the Trumbull would not “disgrace the American ser-
vice.” The sole object of the voyage was to secure the
silver. ‘It is unnecessary for me to mention to you,”
Morris wrote to Mr. Smith, “that we want money exceed-
ingly. This very measure must convince you of it. Ex-
ert yourself, therefore, to get it, and you will merit much
at the hands of your country. Should you not succeed in
getting the whole sum I have asked for, get as much as
you possibly can.” If merchant vessels were at “the Ha-
vana” when the time came for the Zrwmbull to leave, and
would carry the coin without cost in return for convoy,

102 ROBERT' MORRIS

Morris directed that it be distributed among the mer-
chantmen as a further safeguard against capture.

While every precaution was taken to protect the ship
on her hazardous and important mission, she had not
long left Delaware Bay when she was overtaken and
captured by British cruisers, although they did not get
her letters, which are still somewhere at the bottom of
the sea. Among the prisoners taken with Captain
Nicholson was “Fighting Dick” Dale, who had been
with Paul Jones on the Bonhomme Richard in the sen-
sational naval battle off the coast of England. The
Trumbull and her gallant crew were escorted to New
York, and Mr. Morris busied himself for many months
in trying to exchange Nicholson, Dale, and the other
prisoners, who distinguished themselves while within the
British lines in lending money to needy American sea-
men in a similar plight, and by encouraging their fellow-
unfortunates to resist the solicitations of their captors
to enlist under the enemy’s flag. He sent money to
New York to relieve their distresses, and of the conduct
of Captain Nicholson who had “spurned offers that
would have tempted a man of less virtue and patriotism,”
he spoke in the highest terms.

The plan of importing money from Cuba having mis-
carried, Mr. Morris was obliged to look elsewhere for
the cash to start his bank. The importation of a con-
siderable amount of specie from France, on which mis-
sion Colonel Henry Laurens some time before had been
despatched by Congress, offered Morris the opportunity

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 103

to realize his favorite financial project. Colonel Laurens
had had a tedious voyage on La Résolue, a French
frigate commanded by De Langle which the King of
France had assigned to this dangerous service. Her
safety had been almost despaired of, and the loss of so
large an amount of specie would have been a severe
disaster to the states.

The ship was expected to arrive in Philadelphia, and
Morris had just written to Franklin that it was sixty-
two days out from Brest, when Laurens came to the
city, announcing his safe arrival in Boston. The
frigate had been driven from its course by storms.
It had steered a devious route, on account of the
fleets of the enemy, which had been avoided with diffi-
culty on the passage. The good Whigs of America had
double cause for gratitude in September, 1781, for
almost simultaneously it was announced that Laurens
had come safely into port with the money from France,
and that Count de Grasse with his fleet had arrived in
the Chesapeake to lend the strength of his squadron
in the reduction of Yorktown.

There were many demands upon the money which La
Résolue bore to the United States. Some were so
urgent that they must be promptly satisfied. But
Morris guarded the cargo with a jealous eye. It had
come to Boston instead of Philadelphia, and now it must
be transported overland through a country occupied by
the enemy, which would use its active exertions to
capture the treasure on shore as it had upon the sea,

104 ROBERT’ MORRIS

unless every precaution were observed in fitting out the
expedition. Morris settled to this work with his char-
acteristic energy. He planned every detail of the jour-
ney, selecting for this important mission Mr. Tench
Francis, a trusted business friend. “I thought the pro-
posal was pleasing to him,” Mr. Morris comments in his
Diary, “and afforded him an opportunity to show his firm
attachment to the cause of America, which some few of
his actions early in the contest, flowing from an uncom-
mon warmth of temper, had rendered dubious in the
eyes of many people; but for my part, as I am fully
convinced of his zeal and attachment to the interest of
the United States, I employ him with pleasure, having
full confidence in his fidelity, integrity, and abilities.”
With him went a Major of Marines, Samuel Nicholas,
and their route took them to General Heath, who was
commanding in New England. Francis carried letters
to him, to John Hancock, and to Captain de Langle. “It
is my intention to have this money brought from Boston
to this place,” Mr. Morris declared, “as soon as the nec-
essary attention to its safety will permit; at the same
time I mean to have it transported with the utmost
possible economy.” He applied to the Board of War
for a body of dragoons to accompany the teams from
Boston, and this escort, at dangerous places along the
route in New York and New Jersey, was to be strength-
ened by parties of infantrymen detailed for the purpose
by General Heath. Francis was instructed to purchase
a sufficient number of oxen six years old and horses

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 105

from seven to ten years old on the best possible terms.
The animals, Mr. Morris argued, could be sold for more
in Philadelphia than they had cost in Boston. Honest,
sober teamsters were to be employed, and these were to
be armed each with a good musket and bayonet to assist
the cavalry in case of attack upon the treasure train.
To reduce the risk of shipment, and to lessen the weight,
a considerable part of the whole sum was to be invested
in Boston, in “good bills of exchange drawn by authority
of his most Christian Majesty, or of Congress.” These
bills should be bought as cheaply as possible, but not to
exceed a price of seventy-five Spanish dollars for 525
livres tournois. The coin which remained was to be
boxed carefully and loaded upon the teams. La Réso-
lue had brought in all 2,500,224 livres and 18 sous.
It was placed in double casks, but on its way to Brest,
the point of embarkation, the packages were so damaged
that it had been necessary to shift a part of the money
to boxes before the voyage began. For this and other
reasons the cargo had come to port in a shattered con-
dition. It would need to be handled with great care.
While it was essential to make sure that the whole ship-
ment had been safely received, Mr. Morris conceived that
it would take too much time to count all the pieces
separately. He directed, therefore, that 1000 or 2000
crowns be counted out and weighed. What remained
could then be weighed, and “if the scales are tolerably
good,” he concluded, “this mode will determine the
amount with accuracy.” When taken from the frigate,

106 ROBERT MORRIS

the coin, or so much of it as was not exchanged for
bills in Boston, was to be packed in small square boxes
made of strong oak boards, each box to contain from
1500 to 2000 crowns. These boxes, to the number of
about twenty, were to be placed together in a great chest
constructed of thick oak plank. The lid of the chest then
was to be well nailed down, and it was to be set upon the
axle and tongue of an ox-cart from which the body had
been detached. Heavy iron straps were to be fixed round
the chest sidewise and lengthwise, to fasten it securely
to the cart, and these must be welded by a blacksmith,
so that it would be impossible to open or take it off the
carriage until it reached its journey’s end. Each chest
was to weigh about a ton, and to the cart which held
it, Francis was directed to attach four oxen led by one
horse. The axles, wheels, and tongues were to be of
unusual strength, for the roads over which the teams
must come were very rough.

Every movement was to be shrouded in the darkest
secrecy. The route was from Boston to Worcester, to
Springfield, to Greenwood, to Salisbury, to Fishkill, to
New Windsor or Newburgh, to Sussex Court House or
Newton, to Easton, to Philadelphia. Francis was in-
structed to publish, however, that he would go from
Springfield to Claverack, from Claverack to Rhinebeck,
from Rhinebeck to Esopus, from Esopus to Minisink,
and from Minisink to Easton. When changing his
route around Salisbury, he was urged to travel with all
the speed his cattle could command, for which reason

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 107

a

he should spare them at the beginning of the journey,
and inform General Heath so that the army could take
positions from time to time to cover the movement.
Francis left Philadelphia on September 11, with all his
instructions in hand, Mr. Morris having sent him on his
way with a parting wish that when he came back he
would ask no “extravagant recompense.” “The pleas-
ure of serving your country,” said the Superintendent
of Finance, “and the confidence which is placed in you
will be a more agreeable part of your reward, and I
hope the event will justify that confidence and give joy
to every friend of the United States.”

The mission consumed nearly two months, but it was
successfully executed, for on November 6, Major Nicho-
las, who rode on before as an advance courier, came
into Mr. Morris’s office, announcing that Tench Francis
and his ox train were, when he parted with them, just
sixteen miles from the city. The treasure arrived in
Philadelphia a few hours later, and was delivered to
Mr. Hillegas, Treasurer of the United States.

Francis, having sold his cattle, horses, and wagons,
and settled his accounts with the Superintendent of Fi-
nance, immediately employed his talents in assisting Mr.
Morris in the great work of establishing the Bank of
North America. With the Boston money the Financier
was enabled to subscribe on the part of the government
for some $250,000 worth of its capital stock. Private
subscriptions, after several months of effort, barely
amounted to $50,000. Of the proposed total issue of

108 ROBERT MORRIS

1000 shares, 200 still remained unsold, even after the
United States had subscribed for 633, and it was neces-
sary to start the bank with a capital of $300,000
instead of $400,000, as had been originally intended.
Thomas Willing, Mr. Morris’s partner, was chosen to
be the first President and Thomas Fitzsimmons, James
- Wilson, William Bingham, and other Whigs of promi-
nence in business circles in Philadelphia, were members
-of the Board of Directors. Francis was elected to the
position of Cashier, and on December 31, 1781, Con-
gress, despite some opposition, incorporated the “ Presi-
dent, Directors, and Corporation of the Bank of North
America.” On January 7, 1782, the institution opened
its doors to the public in a building on the north side
of Chestnut Street west of Third Street, formerly used
by Cashier Francis as a store. The specie which he
had brought from Boston on its dangerous overland
journey was placed in the vaults, to redeem the notes
issued by the bank if timorous holders should present
them for redemption. Rather unusual methods were
employed until public confidence was _ established.
When silver was borrowed, secret agents of the bank
were sent after it to get it and deposit it again.
When notes would not circulate at par, and the holders
came to the bank to find out what security there was
for their paper, they were shown an impressive quantity
of silver, which Francis had arranged on a kind of end-
less chain running down to the vaults! The specie

1 Lewis’s ‘' History of the Bank of North America.’

ia a

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 109

was hoisted, lowered, hoisted again, and strewn about
the counters. It was reckoned quite necessary to
“‘ dazzle the public eye by the same piece of coin mul-
tiplied by a thousand reflectors.” The note holders
deceived, and thinking that the specie came from some
unlimited source, went home with their bills, the value ©
of which was soon generally established. ‘This institu-
tion, I am persuaded,” Mr. Morris wrote soon after the
bank was opened, “ will flourish under the management
of honest men and honest measures; the present direc-
tors are such men, and the present system of measures
are founded on principles of justice and equity.”
“The bank,” he said another time, “will exist in spite
of calumny, operate in spite of opposition, and do good
in spite of malevolence.”

He had told Franklin that he meant to render the
bank “a principal pillar of American credit.” In less
than two weeks after the institution was opened, the
directors were enabled to lend the United States
$100,000. In February, March, and June following Mr.
Morris received further sums, in all $400,000, therefore
$100,000 more than the bank’s total paid-up capital.
But direct loans were by no means the only advantages
which flowed to the United States through the establish-
ment of the institution. The directors discounted the
notes of individuals which came to Mr. Morris’s hands,
anticipated the receipts of public money, and were in
many ways a powerful influence to facilitate his finan-

cial operations.

110 ROBERT MORRIS

On March 25, 1782, the Superintendent of Finance
was able to write: “The establishment of a national
bank answers all the purposes expected from it, and even
exceeds in success the most sanguine hopes that had
been formed by its warmest advocates. As the opera-
tions of the bank become extended, the benefits of the
institution will be felt to the extreme parts of the United
States. Their notes acquire every day a greater extent
of circulation, and they have obtained the most perfect
confidence hereabouts.”

In reviewing the operations of his office at the close
of his term, Mr. Morris said: “It may be not only as-
serted but demonstrated that without the establishment
of the national bank, the business of the Department
of Finance could not have been performed.”

Meanwhile the operations at Yorktown claimed Morris’s
incessant attention. He was daily despatching letters
of urgent appeal to the states for provisions for the
troops. He felt quite confident that he could depend
upon the Southern states to supply him with everything
that was really essential for the soldiers except fresh
meat. To provide this he computed that one hundred
head of cattle would be needed weekly, and to General
Heath was delegated the duty of securing the requisite
number from the Eastern states. Droves had reached
New Jersey on their way southward, but Mr. Morris
had no money to pay the avaricious prices which the
farmers demanded for pasturage. They were in immi-
nent risk of starving on the road. The Financier wrote

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE TES

to the Governor of New Jersey, setting forth the absolute
necessity of forwarding the animals at once. “I know
of but two modes in which the object can be accom-
plished,” he wrote. “The one is by the payment of
money to the Commissary for the purpose. But this I
fear will not be in your power. I therefore only men-
tion it as preferable to all others, if practicable. The
other mode is by granting warrants to impress pastur-
age. I presume the state has undoubtedly vested your
Excellency with sufficient powers for the purpose, and
therefore I must pray that you will exercise them.”

Washington needed and received five hundred guineas
for a secret service fund. He made requisition upon the
Office of Finance also for a quantity of West India and
country-made rum, together with some Taffia. While
the request was forwarded north in September, because
of certain delays in the messenger service it did not
reach Morris until mid-October. He at once exerted
himself to supply the liquor. He purchased it in open
market, employed a special agent at $4 a day to carry
it to Christiana Bridge by water, thence to the Head of
Elk, and on down the Chesapeake by the most expedi-
tious means, enjoining him always to guard the casks
“against plunder, adulteration, or waste of any kind.”
“TI sincerely wish that my abilities were equal to my
inclinations,” Morris wrote to Washington. “ However,
your Excellency has cares enough, and I will not trouble
you with my perplexities.”

While the siege lasted, much flour must be transported

112 ROBERT MORRIS

to the South from the wheat-growing states. The French
allies who provisioned and financed their own campaign,
were credited with what they had collected in the North
against supplies which the Americans furnished them
from overabundant stores of certain kinds of provisions
in the South. October 1 came, and Mr. Morris, as might
have been foreseen, in spite of his positive promises to
Rochambeau, was unable to make good the French loan.
The allies were still besieging Yorktown. He did not
burden himself very greatly with the pledge, for he
knew that the French would not desert Washington for
$20,000, when the victory was so nearly won. He wrote
to Rochambeau, and called upon Ambassador Luzerne,
begging for a longer time in which to repay the money.
He wished first to receive the specie which “a very
active person” had gone to fetch from Boston. It was
November 15 before Morris was able to command
money enough to meet this engagement, and then he
could repay but a part of the sum.

Meantime Cornwallis had surrendered. On November
3, on the invitation of the Minister of France, the Finan-
cier attended a Te Deum sung in the Catholic church in
Philadelphia in honor of the great victory. The colors
taken from the English soon arrived. They were brought
in by one of Washington’s aides, who was met on the
outskirts of the city by a troop of cavalry. American
and French flags conveyed by horsemen preceded the
captured British trophies. They were escorted through
the streets of Philadelphia with much fifing and drum-

IN THE OFFICE OF FINANCE 113

ming, and were finally carried into the State House and
presented to Congress, the highest embodiment of execu-
tive power in the confederated states.

On November 15, when the Superintendent of Finance
wrote to Rochambeau offering many eloquent apologies
for his dilatoriness as a paymaster, he said: “ Before I
conclude this letter, I must trespass one short moment
on your patience, to express my congratulations on the
important and splendid success which has crowned the
allied arms before Yorktown. My voice, Sir, cannot
add to that glory which the public sentiment has most
deservedly conferred, but you will permit me to assure
you of the high gratification it gives my mind that you
are so much the object of gratitude, applause, and esteem
throughout the United States.”

CHAPTER IV
“PREACHING TO THE DEAD”

THE main source of Mr. Morris’s income should have
been the thirteen states. The war had been begun by
them ; it was prosecuted for them. The Continental Con-
gress was a mere meeting-place for their representatives.
The agencies which it established were central directing
chiefs and bureaus, deriving their authority from the states
to which they looked for support and reward. It wasa
manifest impossibility to carry on the war without these
common officers, and yet it was well-nigh impossible to
effect any result with them, so impotent and cavilling had
the state governments come to be. Loud appeals from
Continental servants failed to move them to a sense of
duty. Even Morris’s eloquent powers were exhausted in
an attempt to arouse the patriotic conscience of the legis-
latures. “It is like preaching to the dead,” he observed,
and at last he was compelled to leave them out of account,
altogether, and conduct his financial arrangements as best
he could without them.

The last state had lately ratified the Articles of Confed-
eration, and although Morris, like most of his friends, did
not lay much store by this instrument of union, he was
now in a position better than any other to discover the de-
“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 115

“

ceit and weakness of the government which Congress had
established. So jealous were the states of any central
authority, and of each other, that the Confederation was
not empowered even to levy and collect its own taxes.
Its rights were exhausted in recommending the states to
do so, and when thirteen tax laws were finally enacted by
the state governments, no Continental agent dare invade
the territory under their jurisdiction to attend to the ex-
ecution of the laws. The French government having re-
fused point-blank to lend more money to the Americans
to be used in paying the interest on former loans, Congress,
in the spring of 1781, had respectfully invited the states to
lay a duty of 5 per cent on merchandise imports and prizes
and prize goods. The task of persuading the states to
heed Congress’s recommendation was inherited by Mr.
Morris when he came to the head of the Treasury Depart-
ment, and this 5 per cent tax, together with a call for
$8,000,000 in the autumn of 1781, payable by the states at
quarterly periods, the estimates for the service of the year
1782, occupied the Financier’s talents until the end of his
term. The first recommendation yielded him nothing at
all, and the second, by the time the collector’s charges
were deducted, provided a paltry total which would barely
sustain the army for a single month.

While neither Congress nor any agent of Congress was
authorized to go into the states to compel them to do their
duty by the Confederation, Mr. Morris might address
them by letter. He urged and argued and exhausted his
persuasive force. He appealed to their pride and patriot-

116 ROBERT MORRIS

ism. When these methods failed, he wrote them in anger,
and threatened to resign. His own circulars to the
governors awakening no response, he appealed to General
Washington, who would send a supplementary circular of
his own, pressing the states to pay their quotas, else the
army must disband. And Morris did not confine his
attentions to the governors. He also wrote to such
influential friends as he had in different parts of the
colonies, to prominent members of the legislatures, and to
local politicians. In short, he availed himself of every
resource in an effort to stir the states from the over-
whelming stupor which rendered them powerless to help
themselves or to aid each other.

Mr. Morris determined that he would no longer receive
the state quotas in the form of specific supplies, and of
course he would have no more paper money. The paper
he was intent upon taking out of circulation, and he
received it, together with provisions during the first few
months of his term, on old requisitions issued before he
had come into office. Of the paper, he wrote to Franklin
in November, 1781, that he hoped now to be able to bring
in “all this useless load.” “If I could buy anything with
it,” he remarked, “I would not until the last necessity,
but it will buy nothing, so that it must be burnt as soon as
it honestly can.” While the paper money was to be
thrown into the fire, the specifics he planned to sell.
He early entered into arrangements with Washington for
disposing of the stores already in hand. He meant to
abolish this method of payment in future, and establish

AYVYEIT ADATION ANAHOATIV

“ermal Asuueg FO AJOLOOg [VOIIOSTFT 9YY JO SUOT}T[OD oO} UI TeUISTIG

LVGS AYINOOO S.SIYMOW LAAAOU «. TITMIAQHOS NO STII AHL:;,

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” =; 117

a businesslike contract system for supplying the army
with rations, clothing, and every other necessary article or
service now provided or performed by the states, for which
they demanded credit at their own prices on the Conti-
nental requisitions.

Washington having had unhappy experience of the
system of specific supplies, his army nearly starving while
waiting for the states to furnish it with food, heartily
seconded Morris’s efforts in this direction. With the
year 1781 the system was abolished. The quotas for
1782 were estimated in terms of hard money. Congress,
on Morris’s and Washington’s advice, vested the Super-
intendent with power to sell the specifics, such as flour,
salted meat, cattle, fish, rum, etc., which the states had
already turned over to the Continent, and which could not
be made available in provisioning the army. The states
which still had such stores in hand were recommended to
sell them for money and pay their taxes with the proceeds,
for no more would be received at the Office of Finance.
As may be imagined, it was by no means easy to effect so
important a reform in military management. The states
resisted the order, more through their impotency and their
indisposition to any exertion in support of the Union, than
because of a settled conviction that the new plan was not
better than the old. They possessed no specie with which
they could pay their taxes, and did not know how to set
about getting it. They could collect some provisions
from the farmers and planters who produced them, but
money was nowhere to be had. Morris went his way,

118 ROBERT MORRIS

undeterred by complaints or the assertions of those who
charged him with adopting an impossible course. He made
contracts with responsible persons and firms for supplying
every army post. Writing to Oliver Phelps of Massachu-
setts the Superintendent said: “In all countries engaged
in war, experience has sooner or later pointed out contracts
with private men of substance and talents equal to the un-
dertaking, as the cheapest, most certain, and consequently
the best mode of obtaining those articles which are neces-
sary for the subsistence, covering, clothing, and moving of
anarmy. ‘The experience of other countries could not sat-
isfy America. We must have it of our own acquiring,
and we have at length bought it, but the purchase had
nearly been our ruin.”

It was one of the principal tasks of Mr. Morris’s
administration from this time forward to advertise for
tenders, to choose from among the bidders those who
gave the lowest price and at the same time guaranteed
the most satisfactory service, to hold the men to their
contracts after they were awarded, and, more difficult
still, to perform his own part and make good his promises
regarding the necessary cash payments. It was in vain
that he sought money from the states. He must at
times discharge old contractors in order to get better
terms from new ones. In such cases James Madison
writes to Edmund Randolph that as much as 30 per
cent was added to the first price to secure a credit
of three months. In other cases contracts were divided
and distributed in order to secure more convenient periods

1) ae

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 119

of payment, but with his talent for putting a good face
upon affairs and making a virtue out of a necessity,
Morris explained to General Washington that this was
not altogether a misfortune, since “it is more consistent
with democratic ideas to divide things of this kind
amongst a number of freemen rather than to permit
any one to grasp all the advantages.”

As for the old system of specifics, he declared and re-
iterated that it was not to be tolerated, long after he
discovered that no money taxes were to be procured
from the states. “I bear my testimony against them,”
he said, “and will be judged by the event.” Specifics,
he remarked, could be collected only after long delay,
the army suffering in the meantime and its efficiency
in the field being greatly diminished. A sum must be
called for in excess of the quotas to defray the cost
of collection and cover the insurance against loss.
Moreover, the expense of transporting the supplies from
the places where they were collected into magazines in the
states to the various military posts, was so great that the
freight charges often amounted to more than the pur-
chase price of the same articles in the army’s own neigh-
borhood. Mr. Morris wrote to the Governor of Rhode
Island on January 14, 1782: “The taking of specific
supplies has by experience been found to be unequal to
the object and is extremely wasteful and expensive.
Many articles produced in the several states, in them-
selves very valuable, will by no means admit of trans-
portation, and even those which will admit of it can
120 ROBERT MORRIS

seldom be brought to where they must be consumed,
but at an expense which in many instances exceeds the
original value.”

Some particularly frank expressions of opinion for
which Mr. Morris was noted were offered to Daniel
Jenifer of Maryland, that state having been a trouble-
some offender on the subject of taxes and supplies. To
him the Financier wrote: “It is a vain thing to suppose
that wars can be carried on by quibbles and puns, and
yet laying taxes payable in specific articles amounts to
no more, for with a great sound they put little or nothing
in the Treasury. I know of no persons who want your
specific supplies, and, if they did, rely on it, that they
would rather contract with an individual of any state
than with any state in the Union. I have yet met with
no instance in which the articles taken in for taxes are
of the first quality, neither do I expect to meet with
any; and so little reliance can be placed on them as to
punctuality that you may depend they can never be sold
but at a loss. This I have experienced. Somebody or
other will make a good bargain out of you, and the best
you can make is to sell before the expenses eat up the
whole. This will be buying experience, and perhaps it
may prove a cheap purchase.”

It was in November, 1781, that Congress, following
Mr. Morris’s advice, determined to lay taxes on a cash
basis, and the amount of revenue required from the states
for the service of the year 1782 was estimated at
$8,000,000. This was the smallest sum that would meet

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 121

the country’s needs, the Financier declared, and he told
the states they were making a good bargain. It was only
by enforcing strict economies and confining the estimates
to the most essential branches of the service that the
requisitions were kept within these modest bounds. In
no previous year had the war cost less than $20,000,000.
The whole draft was apportioned among the states
by quotas according to population, and the payments
were to be made at quarterly periods, time enough
being afforded each state to pass suitable laws and put
the machinery in motion for collecting the taxes from
the people before the payments should begin. The first
quarterly requisition did not fall due until April 1, 1782,
and Morris, until he was sorely disabused of his hope,
assumed that the states were well-disposed and solvent
governments, as able to meet their obligations as Holland,
Spain, or France. His communications were nearly always
directed to the governors in the form of “ Circulars,”
which went to several and oftentimes all the heads of the
state governments simultaneously. It was upon the states
that he must rely. “If the several legislatures,” he wrote
to Washington, soon after he assumed his office, “ will
only do their part with vigor, I shall have the strongest
hopes of putting a much better face on our monied affairs
in a short time, but without their aid the wheels will
go heavily round. I shall therefore ply them closely.”
One of Morris’s first communications to the governors,
which left Philadelphia on July 25, 1781, concerned the
settlement of the accounts outstanding between the sev-

122 ROBERT MORRIS

eral states and the Continent. He sent to each a certified .
statement as to its indebtedness to the Union under the
various requisitions of Congress, as the account stood
on the books of the Treasury of the United States. He
did not make any entries on the credit side of the account
to indicate what monies, supplies, transportation, and
other services each separate state had furnished the Union.
The affairs of the Treasury had been so carelessly man-
aged that no record of credits had been kept, and he ap-
pealed to the governors to fill in these amounts in order that
he might know what remained due. He asked, too, for
copies of the laws of each state relating to the collection
of taxes and information as to the manner in which these
laws were being executed. He further requested that
he might be told of the amount and character of the paper
currencies still circulating in the states, and also as to
“what monies are in your treasury, and what sums you
expect to have there, as also the times by which they
must probably be brought in.” Mr. Morris explained
that it was a part of his policy as Superintendent of
Finance, to settle all outstanding accounts with the states,
making the clear declaration of his plans and purposes
which follows : —

“These accounts must be adjusted as soon as proper
officers can be found and appointed for the purpose and
proper principles established so that they may be liqui-
dated in an equitable manner. I say, Sir, in an equitable
manner, for I am determined that justice shall be the rule
of my conduct as far as the measure of abilities, which

he

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 123

the Almighty has been pleased to bestow, shall enable me
to distinguish between right and wrong. I shall never
point a doubt that the states will do what is right;
neither will I ever believe that any one of them can expect
to derive advantage from doing what is wrong. It is by
being just to individuals, to each other, to the Union, to
all, by generous grants of solid revenue and by adopting
energetic methods to collect that revenue, and not by com-
plainings, vauntings, or recriminations that these states
must expect to establish their independence and rise into
power, consequence, and grandeur... . To palliate or
conceal any evils or disorders in our situation can answer
no good purpose; they must be known before they can
be cured. We must also know what resources can be
brought forth, that we may proportion our efforts to our
means and our demands to both. It is necessary that we
should be in condition to prosecute the war with ease,
before we can expect to lay down our arms with security,
before we can treat of peace honorably, and before we
can conclude it with advantage.”

Far from receiving this circular in the spirit in which
it was penned, the governors seemed to consider that the
matters on which Mr. Morris asked for information did
not appertain to his line of duty. They, at any rate,
vouchsafed no replies, or at best very evasive and un-
satisfactory ones. The task of settling the accounts with
the states remained to aggravate the Financier until the
end of his term, and finally served as one of the grounds
for his going out of office.

124 ROBERT MORRIS

For the year 1781, while specifics were still being ac-
cepted by Mr. Morris, the requisitions having been made
before his administration began, cash payments from the
states could not be expected. By the arrangements which
he had succeeded in perfecting while in the legislature,
however, the finances of Pennsylvania were put in such a
condition that the state turned into the Continental Treas-
ury about $180,000 for the services of 1781, some of it in
hard money, and the rest in paper based upon adequate tax
laws and guaranteed revenues. Not another state in the
Union paid a shilling to Mr. Morris for carrying on the
military operations for that year, and he was prevented
from applying the Pennsylvania currency to immediate
uses since it was rapidly rising in value, and his financial
judgment impelled him to hold it until it would yield him
a maximum amount. He wrote to the President of Con-
gress on October 18, 1781: “ When I say that I cannot
command more than one-twentieth of the sum necessary
for the current services of the year, I am within the
strictest bounds of truth.”

Beginning with the new year, however, the privilege of
paying the quotas, or any part of them in provisions, and
supplies having been abolished, and the sum of $8,000,000
having been called for, payable in specie or its equivalent,
Mr. Morris hoped for better things. The first quarterly
payment of $2,000,000 was due on April 1, but before that
auspicious date arrived, the Financier foresaw that he
would be able to make but a very small collection. On
February 11, 1782, he wrote to the President of Con-

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 125

gress: “I would to God that I could say that there were
even the appearances of general vigor and exertion. But
the truth is very different. The United States have
called for eight millions of dollars early in November
last, of which the first quarterly payment was to have
been made on the first day of April next, but I cannot
find that a single state has yet laid the taxes.”

“T neither know what they will think proper to give,
nor when,” he added. ‘ Happy to experience a momen-
tary relief from the clamor and revolt of a starving army,
from the rage and devastation of an inveterate enemy,
and from the waste and extravagance of cumbrous, un-
wieldy departments, there appears to be no solicitude
anywhere for the support of arrangements on which the
salvation of our country depends.”

The first day of April came, and Mr. Morris waited
until May, when about $5500 were received from New
Jersey, 2 payment on account of that state’s quota. Not
a dollar had come from any other state in the Union, nor
was there apology for the delay or promise of future
payment. He had made many appeals to the governors
unavailingly, and on May 16, 1782, he wrote his most elo-
quent circular letter. The Superintendent felt that he had
exhausted his last resource. “The habitual inattention
of the states,” he wrote to Congress, “has reduced us to
the brink of ruin.” But he was fearful that if the true
condition of the country’s finances were known, the fact
would give comfort to the Tories at home and to the foe
in Great Britain; so he took the precaution to ask the

126 ROBERT MORRIS

opinion of Congress whether the letter should be trans-
mitted or suppressed. The public departments had worked
themselves to a standstill. New Jersey’s contribution cal-
culating the national expenses at eight millions of dollars
annually was, Mr. Morris said, only about one-fourth of
what was necessary to support the government for a single
day. This famous circular ran as follows: —

“ OFFICE OF FINANCE, May 16, 1782.

“Sm: I have heretofore taken occasion to observe that
the former expenditures of the United States were at a
medium rate of twenty millions of dollars annually for
the support of the war. At the present moment, while
laboring under a large debt, only eight millions have been
asked for. It is evident, therefore, that the sum now
required is as little as can possibly answer the purpose.
I venture to say that itis not enough. According to the
estimates for the year 1782, which were laid before Con-
gress by the late Board of War, the present establishment
of the army would require for pay, exclusive of the half
pay, near three millions and a half, for rations near two
millions and a half, for clothing, about twelve hundred
thousand, for forage above three hundred thousand, for
the Quarter Master’s department (exclusive of articles
on hand) above eight hundred thousand, for military
stores (exclusive of articles on hand) near two hundred
thousand, for the hospitals (exclusive of medicine, and
also of sundry stores on hand) above one hundred
thousand.

“Tf to all these be added the sum of four hundred

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 127

thousand for the Departments of the Pay Office, Com-
missary of Prisoners, and the various other contingencies
of service, which naturally and necessarily arise, without
mentioning the losses, which happen in war, here will be
an aggregate amount of nine millions, and in this sum
nothing is estimated for the interest of our debts, for the
Marine, and for the Civil List, and the Department of
Foreign Affairs.

“Of the various expenditures, much was to be provided
immediately. The heavy article of clothing, for instance,
was indispensable. Many things were to be provided
early, in order that the army might operate, and the sub-
sistence is to be paid for regularly and constantly. Yet
the states have not been asked for any money before the
1st day of April; and I appeal to them all, whether the
supplies of money they have afforded me for the last year
were such as would enable me to provide for the present.

“A three months’ expenditure was permitted by Con-
gress to elapse, before the first payment of two millions
was asked from the states; but what have they done? —
While I write this letter, near two months more are gone
forever, and a dishonorable neglect endangers our coun-
try. Little local objects have postponed those measures,
which are essential to our existence, so that the most
fatal consequences are now suspended but by a thread.
Should they fall on our heads, this solemn protest shall
point to the real cause of our calamities. I write, Sir,
to apprise you of the public danger, and to tell you
I shall endeavor to fulfil engagements, which I have

128 ROBERT MORRIS

entered into already, that I may quit my station like an
honest man. But I will make no new engagements, so
that the public service must necessarily stand still.
What the consequences may be I know not, but the fault
is in the states. They have not complied with the
requisitions of Congress. They have not enabled me to
go on. They have not given me one shilling for the
service of the year 1782, excepting only the state of New
Jersey, from which I received five thousand five hundred
dollars, a few days ago, and this is all that has come to
my hands out of two millions, which were asked for.
“Now, Sir, should the army disband, and should scenes
of distress and horror be reiterated and accumulated, I
again repeat that I am guiltless; the fault is in the
states; they. have been deaf to the calls of Congress, to
the clamors of the public creditors, to the just demands
of a suffering army, and even to the reproaches of the
enemy, who scoffingly declare that the American army is
fed, paid, and clothed by France. That assertion, so
dishonorable to America, was true, but the kindness of
France has its bounds, and our army, unfed, unpaid, and
unclothed, will have to subsist itself, or disband itself.
“This language may appear extraordinary, but at a
future day, when my transactions shall be laid bare to
public view, it will be justified. This language may
not consist with the ideas of dignity which some men
entertain. But, Sir, dignity is in duty and in virtue,
not in the sound of swelling expressions. Congress may
dismiss their servants, and the states may dismiss their

~~ ss ="- —_—-T

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 129

Congress, but it is by rectitude alone that man can be
respectable. I have early declared our situation, as far
as prudence would permit, and I am now compelled to
transgress the bounds of prudence by being forced to
declare, that unless vigorous exertions are made to put
money into the Treasury, we must be ruined. I have
borne with delays and disappointments as long as I
could, and nothing but hard necessity would have
wrung from me the sentiments which I have now

expressed.
“T have the honor to be, etc.

“ROBERT MorpRIs.”

Congress, however, advised against sending out the
letter. It was referred to a committee of which James
Madison, Governor Rutledge, George Clymer, and two
others were members, and while there could be no
doubt as to the extreme negligence of the states and
the gravity of the situation induced by their neglect,
these gentlemen decided that it would be the safer
course not to address the governors thus publicly in a
way to expose the weakness of the American cause.
They recommended that commissioners be sent instead
to the governors and legislatures, to endeavor by per-
sonal influence to incite the states to greater activity.
If this course be taken, Morris urged that the members
of the committee of Congress should begin at home.
They were in Philadelphia. The responsible officials of
the state of Pennsylvania were in that city. Pennsyl-
vania’s share for the year 1782 was one-eighth of the

K

130 ROBERT MORRIS

whole amount called for. While some money had come
in from that state in 1781, not one cent had yet been
provided for the service of the year 1782. The Con-
gressmen might test their own abilities as missionaries
without leaving the city. They promised that they would
do this. They agreed to meet with the officers of Penn-
sylvania, and explain the urgent needs of the Union, and
as a result of their experience, acquired some practical
knowledge of the great difficulties under which the Super-
intendent .of Finance must labor in his effort “to keep
the money machine a-going,” to adopt Hamilton’s phrase.
But personal appeals and frequent letters, scarcely
milder in tone than that one which Congress had sup-
pressed, were all in vain. On May 16 only $5500 had
been received from the states. On June 1 the Finan-
cier wrote to Washington that the receipts did not
yet amount to $20,000. The expenses, if they were
reckoned at eight millions a year, ran on at a rate of
$20,000 a day, and in this estimate of eight millions,
provision had not been made for several essential
branches of the service. On July 30 he wrote to the
President of Congress that he had not yet received
$50,000 out of $4,000,000 then owing him by the states,
a second instalment of $2,000,000 having fallen due on
July 1. Up to September 1 the payments barely
amounted to $125,000, and Morris estimated the ex-
penses for the next year, 1783, at $9,000,000, four mil-
lions of which he would try to secure in loans abroad,
reducing the quotas of the states to $5,000,000. But the

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 131

futility of making new demands when old ones were
still unheeded, deterred Congress from calling for more
than two millions of this amount. Here then was a
total cash requisition of $10,000,000 during Morris’s
term of office. On July 28, 1783, he said that all
taxes brought into the Treasury from every source,
from the first day of his administration, did not amount
to $750,000. Up to July 1, 1783, only South Carolina
had paid her full quota for 1782, and this came in the
form of supplies and troops for the Southern army, for
the Financier had been compelled to abate a little his
determination to receive no more payments in specifics.
Of the other states of the Union, Rhode Island had
paid but one-fourth of her quota, Pennsylvania one-
fifth, Connecticut and New Jersey each a seventh,
Massachusetts one-eighth, Virginia one-half, New York
and Maryland only one-twentieth each, New Hampshire
one one-hundred-and-twenty-first part, and North Caro-
lina, Delaware, and Georgia nothing at all.

Mr. Morris hoped on, pleaded on. He dealt out praise
and blame alternately. He encouraged states which
seemed disposed to recognize the force of their obliga-
tions, and exhausted the English vocabulary in his
appeals to such derelicts as Maryland, Rhode Island,
and Virginia. “While I assure you that nothing but
the urgency of our affairs would render me thus impor-
tunate,” he wrote almost gayly one time, “I must also
assure you that while those affairs continue so urgent,
I must continue to importune.”

132 ROBERT MORRIS

He told Congress that “the states have furnished offi-
cers, and transmitted a variety of accounts, demands, and
complaints.” He observed again that “while officers
continue numerous, the states have neglected to provide
soldiers,” and he shrewdly suggested that if they were
indisposed to supply fighting men who could serve humbly
in the line, that “the Continent ought not to pay their
officers.”

But while the states were very slow to pay anything
into the Treasury, they were free with their advice as
to how public monies should be expended. If a state
paid specie to Philadelphia for the support of the Union,
it loudly insisted that the money should be used in that
state for the purchase of military supplies, so that the
people might have the opportunity of recovering it again.
Pennsylvania wanted to furnish the Continent with wheat;
Rhode Island with blankets and woollen clothing. Mr.
Morris curtly told governors and officers of states who
came to him with such proposals and complaints, that
he made purchases for the army where the best goods
could be had on the most advantageous terms to the
Union without regard to any local consideration.

“What in the name of Heaven,” he wrote to Virginia
on July 9, 1782, “can be expected by the people of
America but absolute ruin, if they are so inattentive to
the public service. Not until December will Virginia
give anything you say toward the service of the current
year. How, then, are we to carry on those operations
which are necessary? How is our country to be de-

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 133

fended? How is our army to be supported? Is this
what is meant by the solemn declaration to support with
life and fortune the independence of the United States?”
He tells Maryland, in 1782, that he is so “habituated to
receive apologies instead of money” that he has ceased
to express surprise at the dereliction of the states. “If
complaints of difficulties were equivalent to cash,” Mr.
Morris adds, “I should not complain that the quotas are
unpaid. But unluckily this is not the case, and if the
states really mean to prosecute the war, something more
must be done than merely pass declaratory resolutions,
for no man can be found who will for such resolutions
supply food to our army.”

To Maryland he wrote again a little later in the year:
“Every operation is at present supported by credit, and
that credit has long hung but by a thread. Unless the
states give speedy and effectual aid, that thread must
break. It would long since have broken, and scenes of
military pillage, waste, murmuring, extravagance, and
confusion would again have opened if I had not for some
time declined all expenditure except what was necessary
merely to feed the army.”

“The states, Sir, must give money,” he wrote to the
Governor of Maryland, “or the army must disband.”

A circular to the governors in October, 1782, conceived
in a different mood, breathes with eloquence: “There
are certain arguments, Sir, which ought not to be used
if it is possible to avoid them; but which every one
invested with public authority should suggest to his own

134 ROBERT’ MORRIS

mind for the government of his own conduct. How long
is a nation who will do nothing for itself to rely on the
aid of others? The moral causes that may procrasti-
nate or precipitate events are hidden from mortal view.
But it is within the bounds of human knowledge to
determine that all earthly things have some limits which
it is imprudent to exceed, others which it is dangerous
to exceed, and some which can never be exceeded.”

On several occasions Mr. Morris threatened the states
with military collections, a policy which was generally
avoided during the war, except in the Southern states.
If the Treasury should be unable to pay the contractors
for necessary supplies furnished the army, no other course
seemed to offer. Other expenses could be curtailed;
other creditors could be made to wait until a more con-
venient hour. The army must be fed, and thousands of
men, as Mr. Morris pointed out, would not starve “in
the midst of a plentiful country.” The Financier gave
the Governor of Rhode Island some simple lessons in
logic. He wrote to this offender who required so much
epistolary attention: —

“The supplies must be obtained by loans or taxes, so
that if they cannot be obtained by loans, taxation is the
only resource; and in that case there is no medium between
legal taxation and military collection. For if we will not
submit to Great Britain, we must carry on the war; and
if we carry on the war, we must obtain the means; and if
we cannot get the means abroad, we must provide them at
home; and if we do not provide them by law, they must

ae

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 185

be taken by force. The inattention of the states to the
requisitions of the United States leaves Congress no choice
between loans and military collections.”

To the Governor of Connecticut, another state the dere-
liction of which was open and notorious, Morris in a differ-
ent spirit wrote in September, 1782, as follows: “I do
assure you, Sir, the affairs of America are brought into a
most critical situation by the delays and neglects which
have happened in taxation; so much so that the boldest
man could not answer for the consequences. That cir-
cumstances of the most alarming nature have not already
happened must be considered as a kind of miracle.” All
the states, the Financier remarked, were “ far too languid” ;
but Connecticut was “exemplarily so,” yet like all the
rest the people have “no sort of objection to boast of
their own exertions.”

State officers, when attention was directed to their leth-
argy, asserted freely that their state had done as much as
some other. Each aimed to show that its sacrifices for
the cause of independence outweighed its benefits and
entitled it to immunity from fresh requisitions. Each
“would be very happy to apologize to the world for doing
nothing with the thin and flimsy pretext that it has been
asked to do too much.” The states could not pay taxes
in money, for all the specie had been taken out of circula-
tion, and the people were reduced to such poverty that
nothing could be collected from them. Jealousy and bick-
ering among the different colonies marked all their finan-
cial relations, and Mr. Morris was in continual warfare

136 ROBERT ‘MORRIS

with this mean, local sentiment that pervaded every part
of the Confederation. It made demands upon his full
store of forbearance and good humor, especially as he was
often brought into the argument in a personal way. His
policy was frequently pointed to as the cause of the peo-
ple’s financial misfortunes. The charges brought forward
in Virginia caused especial annoyance to the Financier.
The Virginians asserted that he had favored Pennsylvania,
in which state he had important commercial connections,
and that he used his office to impoverish and draw specie
away from the Southern and Eastern states. To such
attacks Mr. Morris was always ready with some withering
rejoinder. He informed Virginia, that far from draining
that state and New England, he, with all his endeavors
since coming into office, had not succeeded in getting one
shilling of specie from any state except Pennsylvania; on
the other hand, he had sent specie to the other states for
the purchase of supplies. As for Pennsylvania keeping
Virginia poor, it was a ridiculous assertion. He thought
that Pennsylvania might sometime become rich. The soil
and climate were good, the people quiet and industrious,
“and their rulers,” Mr. Morris said, “ encourage commerce,
have laid aside all the idle systems of specific supplies, and
content themselves with laying money taxes. There
can be no doubt,” he moralized, “but that such a people
must become rich. On the other hand, if Virginia or any
state be poor, it must be her own fault. Prudence, dili-
gence, and economy promote national prosperity; and
vice, indolence, and prodigality involve national ruin.”

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 137

The means of bringing money into a country, he said, lay-
ing down some plain business rules, are very simple, being
nothing more than creating a demand for it. “If every
man be obliged to get some money, every man must part
with something to get money. This makes things cheap,
and those who have money always choose to expend it
where things are cheapest. If money is due from Virginia
to Pennsylvania or Maryland, it must go thither, and the
only way to get it back again is to sell something cheaper
than Pennsylvania or Maryland will sell it.”

Mr. Morris never wearied of bearing testimony in
favor of free trade, and again and again admonished
the governors as to the evils which they invited by em-
bargoes. He had been a leading influence to abolish this
system in Pennsylvania, being appointed by the legis-
lature as its agent to furnish the army with the state’s
quota of specific supplies, just prior to his appointment
as Superintendent of Finance. In this work he was op-
posed by many Pennsylvanians who believed in a different
policy. He was told that he must personally answer for
it if the army suffered as a result of the repeal of the law.
But in a few months all that he had foretold came to pass.
All the ships in the service were busy carrying flour to
the French and Spanish islands. The port of Philadel-
phia was filled in return with vessels laden with West
Indian produce which brought with them some European
goods and Spanish dollars. Flour, to the amazement of
the people, still remained plenty, and there was not a day,
Mr. Morris asserted, when he could not buy five to ten

138 ROBERT MORRIS

thousand barrels in Philadelphia. The price in the mean-
time had fallen from 28 and 30 to 17 shillings, and he
thought 15 shillings or two hard dollars would soon suffice
to buy 112 pounds. “Commerce should be perfectly
free,” he argued, “and property sacredly secure to the
owner.”

In 1782 he gave some useful advice to the Governor of
North Carolina, who had prohibited certain classes of mer-
chandise from being taken out of the state lest none might
remain for the use of the United States. While he might
be suspected here of exceeding the authority with which
Congress had vested him, such a consideration seldom de-
terred Robert Morris when he saw an opportunity to per-
form what he considered to be a patriotic service. He said
to North Carolina on the subject of its embargoes: ‘* While
I feel it my duty to require justice for the United States,
it is equally my duty to take care that equal justice be
done to the several states, individually considered, as well
as to individuals which compose them. Iam therefore to
request that all such restrictions be taken off. They sour
people’s minds, destroy the spirit of industry, impair by a
rapid as well as a certain progress the public wealth of the
state, producing a dearth of the things embargoed, enhanc-
ing the prices far more than they could have been in-
creased by any other mode. Whereas perfect freedom
makes the people easy, happy, rich, and able to pay taxes,
and the taxes when paid can be expended amid a plenty of
products, and consequently be expended to advantage. I
say a plenty of products, because I know that liberty to

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 139

a

dispose of them to the greatest advantage will encourage
men to raise them and produce a plenty.”

Many times Mr. Morris was compelled to iterate and re-
iterate that no more taxes would be received in the form
of specifics. Congress asked only for men and money,
he complained, and it got officers and a few supplies
bestowed with a sparing hand. Goods were not called
for, nor would they be taken for the service of 1782.
“Tf these plans are broken in upon and every state
again permitted to expend the money of the Union
according to their pleasure,” he wrote to Congress, “ it
will be impossible to conduct the affairs of America
either with regularity or economy.” He wished Congress
to pass a resolution that money advanced by any state to
the officers and soldiers of the American army, as pay for
the year 1782, be not credited to the state making such
unauthorized payment and be considered as a “free gift.”
To Maryland he wrote that “no articles can be admitted
in deduction from the amount of the quota,” for 1782, but
payments in cash. He would “pass no other expen-
diture,” and while Congress might do so if they chose,
«] persuade myself that they will not,” he said, “ because
if every state is permitted to spend the money raised
within it as it pleases, there is no longer any need of such
an institution as Congress.” Only an absolute prohibi-
tion, he argued, can prevent “those intricate accounts
which hitherto have involved everything in a labyrinth of
confusion.”

But in spite of his rigid determination, so frequently

140 ROBERT ‘MORRIS

expressed, there were many cases in which Mr. Morris
must accept supplies or receive nothing. He was obliged
to take specifics in the Carolinas and Georgia, where
the Southern army, under General Greene, lacked the
commonest necessities of daily life. He secured tobacco
from Virginia and sold it in Europe for specie, thus
being led into commercial transactions of magnitude,
which were sometimes very profitable to the Continent.
Again and again he was compelled to take various kinds
of merchantable goods from some dilatory state in the
hope of converting them into cash to meet the press-
ing demands of the contractors.

The system of taxation which prevailed under the
Confederation was peculiar. It seemed an absurdity
that the Union should have the right to a tax and yet
be without the power to enter a state to collect it. It
was a constant study with Mr. Morris to go as far as
he constitutionally could in the exercise of his financial
functions, never forgetting, when he felt the limitations
which the system imposed upon him, to call attention
forcibly to its grave defects. Congress, early in the
progress of the war, had appointed loan officers in the
various states who negotiated domestic loans of money
and property, issuing therefor interest-bearing certificates.
When the interest could not be paid in money, fresh
certificates were granted. Mr. Morris was unalterably
opposed to all such financial methods, and he had no
sooner become Superintendent than he sought to dis-
place these officers. The loan office system, he declared,

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 141

a

in a communication to the President of Congress, is “an
expensive and a pernicious establishment, without being
attended with a single good effect to compensate the
mischief.” He early wrote the various loan officers,
formally notifying them of his plans for the reorganiza-
tion of the Treasury Department, which would make
their further services unnecessary to the Union, and
requested each one to settle his accounts with the gov-
ernment, and transmit an accurate list of all the cer-
tificates he had issued with the dates, sums, terms of
payment, and other information essential to the prepara-
tion of a correct statement of the public debt. The
commissioners of the loan offices had many friends. It
was argued that they still ought to be utilized in such
new system as Mr. Morris might introduce, and although
the Financier had shorn them of all their powers, they
continued to keep up a show of existence in 1784,
therefore to the end of his official term.

The Superintendent of Finance desired to appoint a
receiver of Continental taxes for each state, and there
was a loan officer in each state eager for fresh occupa-
tion. But Mr. Morris had set his heart upon efficient
agents of his own. In changing from the system of
specific supplies to the contract system, based on cash
requisitions, he considered it to be essential that the
Union place representatives in the states, who, while
they could not collect the taxes directly from the peo-
ple, might receive the money from state collectors and
forward it to the Continental Treasury. Congress, by

f°
t

142 ROBERT MORRIS

Act of November 2, 1781, resolved that the taxes in
each state should be turned over to the commissioner
of the loan office for that state, or such other person as
the Superintendent of Finance might appoint, and with
this charter of authority he delegated the duty to Con-
tinental receivers.

He selected these officers very carefully. They were
men of whom he had personal knowledge, or else came
very well recommended to him by state leaders in whose
judgment he had full confidence. He went himself on
horseback to Delaware to seek a receiver for that state.
To distant states he forwarded blank commissions to
trusted political friends, in order that there might be no
unnecessary delay, asking them to choose a suitable man
for the position. For their remuneration the receivers
were to keep a share of all they collected, one-eighth
of one per cent, when suitable men could be had on these
terms, rising to one-fourth and even one-half of one per
cent in the smaller states whose total cash quotas were
not large. Always a shrewd business man in public
management, as well as in the conduct of his private
affairs, he did not fail to point out to each receiver what
sum was required of the state, and what the commission
on the total amount would be when it had been collected
and forwarded to the Treasury.

Because of the impossibility of making anything like
the full collections, Mr. Morris had the greatest difficulty
in keeping his receivers, as the paltry rewards were not
sufficient to induce any but the patriotic to hold an

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 148

office which was so unremunerative and at the same
time so unpopular. When receivers resigned, he sought
new ones; but their duties were so unpleasant, especially
after the Financier began to draw on them in anticipa-
tion of their collections, that to hold the position was
a remarkable test of fealty to the American cause. Al-
most the only solace which these officers had came
from the Superintendent’s grateful letters when they
sent him money, his friendly and encouraging advice
to continue their exertions when they failed to make
a weekly return, and a knowledge that if they were
targets for public abuse as tax-gatherers, their chief
suffered with them.

To those who defended the loan officers and argued
that they should also be the tax officers, Mr. Morris
offered three weighty objections. He urged in the first
place that they had not settled their accounts with the
Union already long depending; secondly, that many of
them were unfit persons for their tasks; and thirdly, that
if money provided by the states for current expenses
should be placed in the hands of the loan commissioners,
creditors, to whom interest was due on the certificates
issued by these officers, would have taken it all, leaving
nothing for more important purposes. Through his re-
ceivers Mr. Morris was enabled to maintain a watchful
guard of the Union’s financial interests within the
states, and he aimed to appoint only men who could
exert an influence in the legislatures to reform and im-
prove the tax systems. Colonel Hamilton, who had

144 ROBERT MORRIS

withdrawn from the army to take up the study of
law in New York, was urged to become the Continental
receiver for that state. Hamilton demurred. He said
that with him time was precious, as he planned soon to
pass the bar examinations. Morris pressed him to look
after the duties of the office in intervals between his
studies, and he finally acceded. “It is not in the spirit
of compliment,” Hamilton said, “ but of sincerity, I assure
you that the opinion entertained of him who presides in
the Department was not one of the smallest motives to
my acceptance of the office.” He explained, however,
that, in so far as he could see, there was nothing for a
Continental receiver to do in New York State. The
business of making collections was entirely in the hands
of the county treasurers. No part of the taxes gathered
was legally appropriated to Continental purposes, nor
was any agent within the state definitely authorized to
make payments to a Continental officer. These facts
were not new to Mr. Morris. “The mode of laying and
levying taxes is vicious in the extreme,” he said, but he
thought that Hamilton could be greatly useful in bring-
ing influence to bear upon the legislature. ‘“ Your situa-
tion in the army,” he wrote to the distinguished young
New Yorker, “the present situation of that very army,
your connections in the state, your perfect knowledge
of men and measures, and the abilities which Heaven
has blessed you with, will give you a fine opportunity
to forward the public service by convincing the legisla-
ture of the necessity of copious supplies, and by con-

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 145

vincing all who have claims on the justice of Congress
that those claims exist only by that hard necessity which
arises from the negligence of the states.”

But the state legislatures were not to be influenced go
easily. Each had its own system of taxation which it
was very obstinately attached to. Taxes which were
laid were not collected. The time of payment was ex-
tended, and taxes were actually remitted by the state
legislators. They were constantly anxious to remain
popular with the people who clamored under the oppres-
sive burdens of the war. “Many who see the right
road and approve it,’ Morris observed in a letter to
Dr. Franklin, “continue to follow the wrong road _ be-
cause it leads to popularity. The love of popularity is
our endemial disease and can only be checked by a
change of seasons.” But the Superintendent yielded to
no discouragement. He actively supported his receivers
in their effort to wring money from the reluctant states.
He declared that on non-payment of taxes his agents
ought to have the power to issue executions against the
persons and estates of state officers who should fail to
make proper returns to the Continent, and finally in-
structed his receivers to publish the paltry receipts in
the state newspapers, so that the public might see for
themselves how shameful was their financial deficiency.
The people of the various states could then form some
correct measure of their own patriotism. The order
was openly and generally resisted by the governors, who
urged that it would give information to the enemy

L

146 ROBERT MORRIS

which he should not possess, but Morris observed char-
acteristically that the financial condition of the Union
was “a matter of too great notoriety to be con-
cealed.” “Men are less ashamed to do wrong,” he
philosophized, “than vexed to be told of it;” and he
persuaded himself that publicity would exert a salutary
effect. :

As his term wore on he worked himself into closer
and closer quarters with the legislatures. Thomas Tillot-
son followed Hamilton as receiver for New York, where
there was much loud murmuring that the Continental
quotas were too burdensome. “The members of the
legislature consume by their wages in long sessions very
considerable sums,” Mr. Morris wrote to Tillotson, “ and
yet growl not a little at requisitions for necessary ser-
vices. I wish, Sir, you would obtain an account of all
the monies which have been applied in this way since
the last day of the year 1780, and then publish under
each other the sums paid for the United States and
those for support of their assemblymen.” Following
such a course Mr. Morris’s receivers complained that
they were looked upon as “licensed spies.” He told
them to accept the appellation if the people chose to
confer it on them. As for himself he would prefer to
call the officer “an inspector on the part of the Union
to take care of its interests in the states.”

No love of popularity could cool the ardor of the
Superintendent of Finance. Virginia still bitterly com-
plained that he had drained the state of specie so that

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 147

the people could not pay their taxes. He gave them a
Roland for their Oliver. “The complaint,” he said, “is
not founded in an anxiety either to pay their private
debts or contribute to the public service, but arises from
the want of means to purchase foreign superfluities and
administer to luxurious indolence.” He foresaw their
distress, he said, and added, “If I could form any hope
that they would listen to their real friend, I would lay
a plan for their relief, but there are people in the world
whose temper and conduct are such that it is impossible
to do them good.”

No state was the recipient of more plain remark than
Connecticut. To the Governor on July 31, 1782, Morris
wrote : —

“ As to the complaint made by the people of a want of
money to pay their taxes, it is nothing new to me nor
indeed to anybody. The complaint is, I believe, quite as
old as taxation and will last as long. That times are
hard, that money is scarce, that taxes are heavy and the
like, are constant {themes of declamation in all countries,
and will be so. But the very generality of the complaint
shows it to be ill founded. The fact is that men will
always find use for all the money they can get hold of
and more. A tax-gatherer, therefore, will always be an
unwelcome guest, because his demand must necessarily
interfere with some pleasurable or profitable pursuit.
Hundreds who cannot find money to pay taxes can find
it to purchase useless gewgaws and expend much more
in the gratification of vanity, luxury, drunkenness, and

148 ROBERT MORRIS

debauchery, than is necessary to establish the freedom of
their country.”

To his Connecticut receiver the Superintendent wrote,
in 1784, “Before your towns cry out against further
taxation, let them first pay what they ought to have paid
near two years ago.” To cover their own negligence
and deficiency they adopted the favorite device of
insinuating that Mr. Morris made no statement of the
purposes to which he applied the public monies. “They
shall not wait half so long for accounts of expenditures,”
he answered with biting satire, “as they have obliged me
to wait for money which I was obliged to expend before
I received it. The people have a right most clearly to
accounts of the appropriation of what they do pay, but
those who clamor on the present occasion stand in an
awkward position when they ask accounts of what they
do not pay.”

But while Mr. Morris in his relations with the states
through the receivers could be very severe, his supply of
patience and of good humor was in general unfailing.
In acknowledging the weekly reports of his “spies” he
never wearied of uttering a wise or kindly word. “I
only wish that every member of every legislature on the
Continent,” he said to one, “were so much _ teased,
harassed, and tormented to do what the legislatures
alone can do as I am to do what I alone cannot do.”

“I hope you will make the proper representations,”
he wrote to the receiver for Massachusetts, “and assure
them that unless the most solid reliance can be placed

“PREACHING TO THE DEAD” 149

a

on the supplies, it is not only impossible to conduct the
public business with économy, but that it will soon
become impossible to conduct it at all.” “I blush at the
shameful deficiency of the states,’ he wrote again.
Another was told that his return was “shamefully
little,” while to an officer, who had been more successful
with his collections, the Superintendent wrote: “I am
in hopes that the stream of revenue will now flow
plentifully. God knows we stand sufficiently in need
Oiih’?

He deplored the fact in one of his numerous letters to
Massachusetts that “such pitiful collections are made in
one of the first states of the Union,” exclaiming, in some
passion, as he thought of the soldiers soon to be dis-
charged and sent home, “For Heaven’s sake urge the
speedy payment of considerable sums, that we may do
something toward the relief of those brave fellows who
will be obliged to beg or do worse if they are to be so
shamefully deprived of their due.”

Again appealing to state pride, he addressed a receiver
in his semi-humorous way as follows: “I hope you will
not cease your importunities until such payments be
obtained as shall comport both with the dignity of the
state and the wants of the Union.”

To another tax agent his words were, “T cannot but
lament the deficiency of receipts which has long been
an unpleasing characteristic of your state.”

Acknowledging an envelope which was empty except
for apologies and promises, Mr. Morris wrote that

150 ROBERT MORRIS

“although they contain no receipts yet they wore a
good aspect of hope which is a diet we have long
lived on.”

“ Taxes do, indeed, come slowly in,” he mused another
time, “and my situation requires more ample collections,
but I must bear my grief as I may and wait for better
times.”

CHAPTER V
BORROWING AND RETURNING

Ir the states contributed nothing or almost nothing for
the support of the Union in the closing years of the war,
from what source were the means derived to maintain
the pretence of government and subsist the troops? This
money came through foreign loans, the advances made
by the Bank of North America, the Treasury notes issued
in anticipation of the collection of taxes and drafts on
foreign ambassadors, bankers, and the state receivers.
Morris had sound ideas on financial questions, and any
irregularities in his conduct were not induced by lack
of knowledge. In an understanding of the intricate prob-
lems of the currency, he was outranked by no man in
the colonies, unless it be Alexander Hamilton.

On January 7, 1782, Congress had directed him to
prepare and report a table of rates at which the different
species of foreign coins should circulate in the United
States. On January 15 he presented his famous report
on the currency, in which he not only discussed the whole
question of standards, coinage, seigniorage, and the cir-
culation of money, but also set forth his plans for the
establishment of a mint. ‘The ideas annexed to a pound,
a shilling, and a penny,” he observed, “are almost as
-
152 ROBERT MORRIS

various as the states themselves.” It was, at the time, as
necessary to make calculations in inland commerce as on
foreign exchanges. “The commonest things,” Morris
said, “become intricate where money has anything to do
with them.” In weights and measures there was no room
for the misunderstanding that arose whenever values were
mentioned. ‘A farmer in New Hampshire, for instance,
can readily form an idea of a bushel of wheat in South
Carolina weighing sixty pounds and placed at one hun-
dred miles from Charleston; but if he were told that in
such situation it is worth twenty-one shillings and eight
pence, he would be obliged to make many inquiries and
form some calculations before he could know that this
sum meant in general what he would call four shillings;
and even then he would have to inquire what kind of
coin that four shillings was paid in before he could esti-
mate it in his own mind according to the ideas of money
which he had imbibed.”

The coins in circulation were all of foreign manufac-
ture. While there was much English and French money,
Spanish dollars were perhaps the most familiar standard.
These passed in Georgia at five shillings, in North Caro-
lina and New York at eight shillings, in Virginia and
the four eastern states at six shillings, in South Caro-
lina at thirty-two shillings six pence, and in all the
other states at seven shillings six pence. It was Mr.
Morris’s hope to create a condition of affairs under which
the same names would mean the same things in all parts
of the United States. He desired to establish a legal tender

BORROWING AND RETURNING. 153

of definite and assured value which would be secure
from debasement, sweating, clipping, and counterfeiting.
“There was, at the time, no safety against foreign trick-
ery,” said Morris. “If, for instance, the King of Eng-
land, or any of his Birmingham artists should coin
guineas worth but sixteen shillings sterling, our citizens,”
he observed, “ would readily and freely receive them at
twenty-one shillings sterling.”

While he was not uninformed as to the arguments in
favor of bimetallism, he wished the United States to have
but a single standard. “Since the money standard affixed
to both the precious metals will not give a certain scale,”
he said, “it is better to make use of one only.” Gold
was too scarce and too valuable for use as a circulating
medium. He urged, therefore, that Congress should make
all values estimable in silver, although he clearly foresaw
that it would be liable to fluctuations as the supply of
it increased or diminished. Mr. Morris had already
brought to Philadelphia from Boston a considerable quan-
tity of “public copper,” and its coinage awaited the
pleasure of Congress. ‘The necessary machinery of a
mint can be easily made,” he said, “and there are persons
who can perform the whole business. If Congress are
of opinion with me that it will be proper to coin money,
I will immediately obey their orders and establish a mint.
And I think I can say with safety that no better moment
could be chosen for the purpose than the present; neither
will anything have a greater tendency to restore public
credit; for although it is possible that the new money

154 ROBERT MORRIS

will at first be received with diffidence by some, yet when
it has been fairly assayed, it will gain full confidence
from all, and the advantage of holding the only money
which can pay debts or discharge taxes, will soon give
it the preference over all and indeed banish all other
from circulation.”

The Financier, in the meanwhile, had anticipated Con-
gress, as he was wont to do, by bringing on Benjamin Dud-
ley, of Boston, to execute his plans for the establishment
of the first United States Mint. This was in September,
1781, and if Dudley had not already started, he was re-
quested to join Francis’s treasure train, which carried
the French money overland to Philadelphia. The ex-
pert was urged to come at once. “As the business on
which I want to confer with you is important, and will
not admit of delay, I hope to see you speedily.” On
February 16, 1782, Morris was in conference with a com-
mittee of Congress in the State House on the subject of
a mint. The members voted in favor of its establishment
unanimously, and a few days later, February 21, Congress
itself approved of the project. Dudley was set to work
immediately. He visited the Office of Finance frequently
to lay his plans before Mr. Morris. Once he reported that
‘“‘a Mr. Wheeler, a smith in the country,” could make the
screws and rollers, wherefore the man was employed for
the service. Two buildings were suggested in which to in-
stall the machinery —the Dutch Church then unoccupied,
and the Masons’ Lodge. Wheeler brought models of his

rollers, and Dudley was directed to consult with Francis

BORROWING AND RETURNING 155

Hopkinson and David Rittenhouse regarding the construc-
tion of the machines. The project, however, moved for-
ward very slowly. In July, 1782, Morris writes in his
Diary that Dudley was “very uneasy for want of employ-
ment,” for which reason he was sent to assist a Mr. Byers
in establishing a brass cannon foundry at Springfield. It
was not until April 2, 1783, that the Superintendent of
Finance received the first piece of silver coin made from
the American presses ; and a little later, on April 23, speci-
mens were forwarded to Congress with a request that a
committee might be appointed for further conferences on
the subject. Nothing came of all these preparations.
Morris was without money to pay for the experiments.
On August 19, 1783, he sent for Dudley, who was informed
‘of my doubts about the establishment of a mint,” since
Congress and the states were so sparing of their codpera-
tion, and after many visits the man’s accounts were finally
settled in 1784, thus closing a not very brilliant chapter in
American financial history.

The war would not wait for a coinage system ora mint,
and none knew this better than the Superintendent of the
United States’ finances. In lieu of other currency he sup-
plemented the notes of the Bank of North America with
his own notes, which soon came to be generally known as
«Long Bobs” and “Short Bobs,” according as they had a
longer or shorter time to run. These were issued in an-
ticipation of future collections of taxes in the states, and
were drawn to the order of his “cashier” and partner,

John Swanwick.

156 ROBERT MORRIS

They were struck on a copper plate, numbered, lettered,
and signed in Morris’s own handwriting for $20, $50, $80,
and even larger sums. That counterfeiting might be pre-
vented, the Financier deputed an agent to go to the paper-
mill with the mould and scrutinize the entire process of
manufacture. This agent must closely watch the work-
men, count every sheet of paper, and take the mould with
him whenever he left the mill, finally fetching it and the
sheets back to Philadelphia. All precautions, however,
did not avail against the counterfeiters. “The whole
Continent seems to combine against the federal govern-
ment,” writes Mr. Morris. ‘ For, while the several states
leave us in extreme indigence, the profligate are busy in
undermining those anticipations which form our only
support.” He succeeded finally in locking up “the knot
of villains” who were imitating his notes, but it was
necessary to be alert very constantly to prevent their
being sold at a discount. Through his receivers he
covered the whole Union pretty thoroughly, and they
had orders to redeem both Bank of North America
notes and Swanwick notes in coin whenever they were
presented for redemption. When a receiver complained
in November, 1783, that no notes could be found for a
remittance to the Treasury, Morris requested him to
place an advertisement in the newspapers: ‘“ Wanted
by George Olney, Receiver, etc., notes of the Superin-
tendent of Finance or bank-notes, as he has some cash
on hand to be exchanged.” The notes, when redeemed
and forwarded to Mr. Morris by the receivers, were to

BORROWING AND RETURNING 157

be cut into two parts. One-half was to be sent by one
post, and the other half by the next, so that if any acci-
dent should occur, the Treasury would be safeguarded
against confusion and loss.

The Virginians still attacked Morris’s policies and
plans. Many of his notes had gone to the South,
where his agents were instructed to put them out at
par. “The views of those who oppose the circulation
of the notes I will not guess at,” said the Financier,
“but I hope they may be virtuous and honorable mo-
tives, in which case I shall only pity a want of under-
standing to discover the true interests of their country.
If they are not of the value of money, the quota will be
more cheaply paid; and, on the other hand, if they be
as valuable as money, what objection can lie against
them?”

All these notes were redeemed by Mr. Morris at
their face value, and while many questioned their
worth, his good faith, and his ability to fulfil his prom-
ises, they in general circulated at par in all parts of
the Union. Thus, as has been observed, “ At the very
epoch in which the credit of the government was al-
most entirely annihilated, and its bills nearly without
value, that of a single individual was stable and uni-
versal.”

In treating the bank’s notes as his own notes the
Superintendent of Finance gave powerful support to
that establishment. But in spite of all he had done
and was doing to forward its operations, the directors

158 ROBERT’ MORRIS

must often urge him to repay their loans. The bank’s
doors had been less than six months open when Morris
wrote in his Diary: “Mr. Thomas Fitzsimmons, one of
the directors of the bank, came to inform me that the
bank are of opinion that they cannot, with propriety,
discount any more notes for me, nor make me any fur-
ther advances until some of the former engagements are
discharged. In this determination I acquiesce, because
it appears right and consistent with that prudence and
integrity by which they ought to be governed.”

For long periods his office was without the means to
make these repayments. Several times officers and
committees from the bank were obliged to wait upon
him and press him for money. When the date for his
retirement approached, the directors told him plainly that
they had relied upon his pledges, frequently repeated, to
discharge all his indebtedness to them before committing
the Treasury to other hands. They had made their loans
to him and not to the United States government whom no
man trusted. His word of honor and his solicitude for
the safety of the bank were powerful motives to hold
him in his office longer than he intended or desired to
occupy it.

But with bank, bank discounts, Swanwick notes and
all, Morris and his country would have fared ill indeed
without foreign loans. These the Superintendent sought
everywhere, and he wrung them out of Paris and Amster-
dam at the sword’s point, that is to say, by unauthor-
ized drafts. Congress had almost exhausted the gen-

BORROWING AND RETURNING 159

erosity of Europe before the finances had passed into
Morris’s hands. In 1779 and 1780 bills had been
freely drawn on the American Ministers in Europe, —
Franklin at Versailles, Jay at Madrid, and Adams at
The Hague. It was a method of securing the imme-
diate use of money, for the bills could be sold before
they had gone to Europe for collection, and before
there was assurance indeed that funds were at hand
to meet them. Nearly all the bills eventually found
their way to Franklin in Paris, who went to the
French Ministry so often with his appeals in order that
the paper might not be protested and the American
credit ruined, that he was finally denied further audi-
ence. France’s refusals were particularly emphatic.
The United States had received 3,000,000 livres in
1778, 1,000,000 in 1779, 4,000,000 in 1780, 10,000,000
in 1781, besides 6,000,000 in the same year, which was
a gift from the King of France and need not be
repaid.

Although Morris, on assuming office, knew that little
more was to be expected at Versailles, he did not
despair, and paid his addresses through the Minister to
that as well as other European courts. To Franklin he
directed an eloquent appeal. “An argument of no little
weight,” he declared, “is that which applies itself
directly to the bosom of a young and generous prince
who would be greatly wounded to see that temple,
dedicated to humanity, which he has taken so much
pains to rear, fall at once into ruins by a remission of

160 ROBERT 'MORRIS

the last cares which are necessary for giving solidity to
the structure.” He had little hope of pecuniary aid
from other quarters. “It is in vain,” he wrote to Con-
gress early in 1782, “that expensive establishments are
kept up to solicit succor from Spain who appears
neither able nor willing to afford it; from Holland who
seeks peace, and not to increase the causes of war; or
from Russia, who seems more inclined to crush than to
support us.” Early in his term he had addressed a
letter to John Jay at Madrid, urging him to secure a
large loan from the King of Spain. “Small sums,”
he observed, “are not worth our acceptance, and I may
add they are unworthy the dignity of his Catholic
Majesty.” Jay was charged with the task of represent-
ing to the Spanish court that great benefits would
accrue to it, should America become a free and inde-
pendent country. He suggested that when once rid of
the British redcoats, we might assist Spain “in the
reduction of the Floridas, and Bahamas, and perhaps of
Jamaica,” and, looking still farther ahead, added, “ We
shall then also be in a situation to secure Nova Scotia,
thereby depriving Great Britain of her principal resource
for ship timber, and enable us to furnish that essential
article to the navy of Spain on cheaper and_ better
terms than it can be had elsewhere.” His idea of what
the loan should be was characteristically expressed.
“The sum of five million dollars,” he said, “may per-
haps be sufficient for our present emergencies; but if a
greater sum can be obtained, we shall thereby become

BORROWING AND RETURNING 161

more extensively useful.” He hoped, too, that money
might be secured in Portugal.

While no aid came from either Spain or Portugal, he
was made glad by the announcement that France would
give 6,000,000 more to be drawn at the rate of 500,000
livres monthly. The King made it plain through his
Minister Luzerne in Philadelphia that this additional sum
was granted because of the confidence felt in Mr. Morris’s
administration. It was a godsend to the Superintendent
of Finance, who was almost without resources at home.
With this permit he began his sensational operations with
foreign bills, selling them for large sums through different
bankers in different European cities, often without the
slightest knowledge as to how they would be paid. The
King and Count de Vergennes had occasion many times to
doubt whether their confidence had not been misplaced.
In 1782 he had overdrawn his account in France to the
extent of three and a half million livres. The French
Minister in Philadelphia demanded an explanation of
Mr. Morris who blandly declared that he had miscalcu-
lated the amount in hand. He always hoped that the
money would be forthcoming from America’s friends in
Europe before the bills were presented for payment.
They were sent a long way round, often through Havana
and Cadiz, in order to get advantage of the exchange, and
to gain time, which was absolutely necessary to such
a Treasury as that over which Mr. Morris presided. In
May, 1783, he wrote to M. Grand, the banker for the
United States in Paris, that he was certain “the court

M

162 ; ROBERT MORRIS

would not suffer us to be dishonored for a small sum.”
When Thomas Barclay was sent out as a Commissioner to
settle the Continent’s accounts in Europe, Morris with
grave humor was much exercised lest some of the bills
had been paid twice, a contingency which was not very
likely to happen. ‘“ The bills drawn by order of Congress
at long sight on their ministers, as well in Spain and
Holland as in France,” he writes, “have involved the
affairs of my department in a labyrinth of confusion, from
which I cannot extricate them. I know not what has
been done respecting them, and only know that ever since
I entered into office they have not only plagued and per-
plexed me, but they have invariably consumed the re-
sources on which I had formed a reliance.”

“Those accursed bills” he called them. ‘The protest
of any public bills, particularly any which I should draw,”
he added, “would reduce our affairs here to infinite
distress.” He urged Franklin, Jay, and Adams, although
each one of them knew to a certainty that more bills were
circulating than they could pay from any funds at their
disposal, to look after the accounts of the United States,
“lest, on the one hand, I should risque the public credit
by an excess of drafts, or on the other leave their monies
unemployed while they experience severe distress from
the want.” “Mr. Morris has drawn afresh by this vessel,”
wrote John Adams to Jay in 1784. “Let me beg of you
and the Doctor to advise him to stop his hand. It is ruin-
ous to borrow money in Europe upon such terms, but it will
be more ruinous to let the bills go back. My situation

BORROWING AND RETURNING 163

is very disagreeable.” But Mr. Morris was quite intract-
able. To the European bankers he sent glowing accounts
of the wealth and resources of America. “Let it be
remembered,” he urged on one occasion, “that a century
ago the place from which this letter is written was an un-
limited forest; that the whole state of Pennsylvania did
not produce enough to support five hundred men after the
European manner, and that every other part of America
was a little earlier or a little later in the same situation.
But now this very city is worth more than all the public
and private debts put together which we owe to Europe.”
A loan was opened in Holland. Efforts to secure funds
from the government at The Hague having failed, a public
loan negotiated through Dutch bankers under guarantee
of the French government was arranged. This enterprise
was at first very disappointing. Mr. Morris complains that ~
in December, 1782, the subscriptions did not amount to
1,000,000 florins. . The costs and charges greatly reduced
the net proceeds of the operation. He feared that the
loan would not go beyond two millions out of the five
millions for which it was opened. It was on this fresh
prospect of foreign aid that the Financier had made his
extensive anticipations. Whatever its shortcomings, this
loan, which is largely to be credited to the diplomatic
skill of John Adams, saved Mr. Morris’s administration
from a great deal of disgrace. In October, 1783, the
Superintendent of Finance drew three bills against the
Holland loan at 150 days’ sight, each for 250,000 guilders,
in favor of John Ross, Peter Whitesides, and Isaac Hazel-

164 ROBERT MORRIS

hurst, all solid business houses in Philadelphia. Selling
the bills at a favorable rate of exchange, he got the use
of about $300,000 for three months or more before the
money would need to be paid in Amsterdam. One of
these bills, Ross’s, caused him great anxiety, as he had
learned, on information, which proved unreliable, that Ross
had remitted the bill and was drawing on the credit of it.
He begged the bankers in France not to dishonor it. “If,
gentlemen,” he pleaded, “ you have a sufficient confidence
in me or in my country, you will comply with my request,
provided your own convenience will in any wise permit. If
you have not that confidence, I must lament it as a misfor-
tune.” If they should grant him this favor, he promised
that he would not quit office until the sum was fully repaid.

As it happened the alarm was not justified, although
the crisis was not long delayed. In March, 1784, Mr.
Morris wrote to the President of Congress that bills to
the amount of $530,000 on Holland had been protested
for non-acceptance. This was the most desperate period
in his administration. By no means could any more
money be extracted from France. In the French view
the war had ended, and, while Franklin had faithfully
cared for Morris’s drafts and over-drafts as long as he
could, the burden now fell on John Adams and the
bankers of Amsterdam. “It is an old saying,’ mused
Mr. Morris about this time, “that when things are at
the worst, they must mend. I will not pretend to say
whether they are now at the worst, but I am sure they
are bad enough in all conscience.”

BORROWING AND RETURNING 165

In anxiety hourly for many weeks, word finally came
to Philadelphia that the bills had been saved by the
payment of a higher rate of interest. Terms were made
which Adams declared to be “enormously avaricious,”
but the point had been gained. The honor of the coun-
try and its Financier were safe, and there yet remained
only the hard words which such methods were certain to
engender. The French ministry told Franklin and Jay
at Paris that it was easy to be a financier and draw
bills when others provided the funds to pay them. An-
other time it was intimated in plain terms that the court
was not treated with a proper degree of delicacy, kings
and foreign ministers being degraded to the rank of
“cashiers.” “I wish,” Morris wrote to Jay when the
news reached him, “that the ministers in France were
sensible of one truth, which is, that my administration
either saved them a good deal of money or a great deal
of disgrace; for if I had not undertaken it when I did,
they must either have advanced ten times the amount
I received, or have deserted America after having under-
taken her cause, and perhaps have been obliged to sub-
scribe to very indifferent terms of peace for themselves.”

It was Willink and Co., the Amsterdam bankers, how-
ever, to whom Mr. Morris owed and offered the frankest
explanations. On September 30, 1784, near the close of
his term, he wrote to that firm whose offices were so
freely employed in the negotiation of the Holland loan:
“TJ agree with you in the sentiment that there is danger
in drawing before we know that the funds are placed,

166 ROBERT MORRIS

and I do believe that the protest of my drafts forced
you into higher terms than might otherwise have been
settled with the undertakers. But, gentlemen, it is no
uncommon thing for a government to find itself in situa-
tions where nothing is left but a choice of evils, and
where the smallest of these evils will be a very great
one. When you see the public accounts of my adminis-
tration, you will see that if bills had not been hazarded
without a certainty of funds to answer them, we could
not have made head against the enemy, much less could
we have forced him into a treaty of peace, which (had
we been in the very best circumstances) could not have
been more advantageous to us. JI do not, however,
approve of risques, and if I were to continue longer in
administration, I would pursue a conduct directly the
reverse of that which I have hitherto observed, and,
without making a single anticipation either at home or
abroad, wait quietly for the revenues, and in the mean-
time the service might suffer for want of the expendi-
ture. This would in time of peace produce only a little
murmuring and discontent, the consequences of which
would prove beneficial. But when a country is at war
for political existence and the life and fortune of every
citizen dependent on the controversy, the stake played
for is too great to mind a risque which may involve the
loss of two or three hundred thousand guilders, when
that risque is necessary to save the game.”
Questionable, but necessary, in a somewhat similar way,
were Mr. Morris’s commercial transactions. When he

BORROWING AND RETURNING 167

dealt in tobacco and rice, and bought or sold horses,
cattle, or ships, he invited criticism. It was inevitable
even when the business turned out well for the United
States. His most important operations were in tobacco
which came chiefly from Virginia. Many cargoes were
sent to Europe on Continental account by arrangement
with British and Dutch traders. At times the Virgin-
ians failed to supply Morris with the tobacco which he
had contracted to deliver. Again the purchasers, when
it reached them in Europe, declared it to be “rotten.”
He procured himself infinite trouble in a desire to
manage this tobacco business with advantage to the
government.

In January, 1782, when George Abbott Hall was sent
to South Carolina to act as receiver of Continental taxes
for that state, he was at the same time commissioned
to serve as Morris’s commercial agent. Hall left Phila-
delphia with a train of teams loaded with supplies for
the Southern regiments, and a warrant for $20,000 to
purchase indigo. It was, Morris tells us in his Diary,
“to be sent hither by the return wagons that would
otherwise come back empty, whereas I expect by this
plan to clear on the indigo as much money for the
public as will pay for the hire of the teams.” The
indigo was to be purchased at a half-dollar a pound
and as much cheaper as possible. If there were none
to be had, Hall was authorized to buy skins and furs.
No money was to be expended when credit could be
secured, and if any balance remained, small advances

168 ROBERT MORRIS

were to be made to General Greene. But Hall found
it no more feasible to purchase skins and furs in the
South than indigo, and he was chiefly occupied as a
money changer— buying up Morris’s notes in order to
keep them in circulation at their face value. In 1783
the Superintendent of Finance authorized him to receive
rice for taxes due the United States. It must be of as
good a quality as possible, and be shipped on favorable
terms of freight from the nearest Carolina port to the
bankers in Amsterdam, to whom tobacco was being for-
warded constantly from Virginia.

Morris not only exported; he also engaged in an
import trade on public account. Soon after he was
appointed Financier, he wrote to John Jay at Madrid,
asking our representative at the court of Spain to arrange
for shipments of salt to this country. Vessels were to
be procured either by purchase or charter. If they were
bought outright, it was specified that “they should be
fast sailers with good sails and rigging well found and
fitted, and if armed, so much the better.” Furthermore,
“honest, active, industrious, and faithful masters must
be provided for these vessels, and they must all come
addressed to my order directed for this port, with liberty
however to get into any safe port they can.” All the
commercial operations which Morris, as an experienced
trader and shipmaster, planned were not carried through,
and it was fortunate for the Financier that this was so,
else his enemies might have found many more points at
which to attack his public reputation.

From an etching made for Charles Henry Hart, after Trumbull’s portrait
of Mrs. Morris.

ee ee ne ele aa, OT TE 1 RU

BORROWING AND RETURNING 169

Morris’s interest in Cuba persisted until the end of
his term. The unfortunate voyage of the Trumbull, in
1781, which was laden with flour, the captain carrying
directions to the United States’ agent in Havana to
sell bills for specie and return with it to Philadelphia,
did not discourage the ever sanguine Financier. In May,
1782, the Alliance, under Captain Barry, was despatched
to Havana with the design of importing silver to the
amount of one hundred thousand Mexican dollars,
through Robert Smith, who still represented the United
States at that port. The ship had but just returned from
France. The captain carried thirty, sixty, and ninety
day bills, drawn upon Grand in Paris, through Harrison
and Co. of Cadiz. The Chevalier de la Luzerne in Phila-
delphia guaranteed their payment, and they were to be
sold to the Governor of Havana for hard money. As
with the Trumbull so with the Alliance, Morris planned
every detail of the voyage. If the American ship should
fall in with a French frigate, the sum was to be di-
vided equally between them. If two frigates were at
hand to act as convoys, each ship should carry one-third
of the treasure, thus reducing the risk of capture to
the lowest possible point. The Alliance, however, was
barely out of the Delaware River when the British gave
her chase. She was pursued down the bay and along
the coast, finally making her way in safety to New
London.

In November, 1782, Mr. Morris undertook another mis-
sion to Cuba, an adventure for which he came in for the

:
170 ROBERT MORRIS

severest criticism both in and out of Congress. For this
journey he selected John Brown who sailed on the Due de
Lauzun. She was convoyed by the Alliance. The ex-
planations of this transaction, which Morris’s enemies com-
pelled him to make, revealed business methods which
were sufficiently complicated to occasion remark if not
actual suspicion. In 1782 the venders of some United
States bills sold them on credit. The notes taken from
the purchasers were carried to the Bank of North America
which discounted them. A number of bills had been sold
to a Mr. Raguet who could not pay for them, when the
bank pressed him for a settlement, whereupon he offered
a ship, the Duc de Lauzun, then on the stocks. In default
of other payment this vessel was finally taken. Mr. Fitz-
simmons, in behalf of the bank, fitted her out as a mer-
chant ship. She was sent off to Havana with salted
provisions which had been laid up by General Washington,
and at the time of no use to the United States, the cargo
being filled out with flour specially purchased for the pur-
pose. John Brown accompanied the vessel with $200,000
in bills drawn upon Cadiz, which were to be sold together
with the flour and provisions to the Governor of Cuba for
cash. This mission failed as had the earlier Cuban ven-
tures. The governor would not furnish specie to the
United States, and the Due de Lauewn remained as an
asset on Mr. Morris’s books. She was afterward offered
to the King of France for 70,000 livres, which he consid-
ered an extravagant price, and remained as a bad bargain
to be disposed of finally by Barclay, while he was in

BORROWING AND RETURNING Hea
Europe adjusting the accounts of the United States for
42,675 livres.

As Morris had remarked to General Schuyler upon the
assumption of his duties as the Continental Financier, he
had come into his office with “an empty treasury and a
totally exhausted credit.” He might have included in
his inheritance a mob of persistent creditors, who called
to see him not once but many times, and to all of whom
he generously gave audience. While he labored at his
desk from early morn until late into the night, and was
busy with them much of the time that he set apart for the
public service, they attacked him, too, upon the street in
going to and coming from his meals. “It seems,” he
once complained early in his experience with the office,
‘tas if every person connected in the public service enter-
tains an opinion that I am full of money; for they are
constantly applying, even down to the common express
riders, and give me infinite interruption, so that it is
hardly possible to attend to business of more consequence.”

His bearing in reference to these creditors, to most of
whom money was justly due for salaries or services, was
characteristic. His desk was located in a room on the
second floor, but nearly all the applicants asked, and
indeed demanded, that they be shown up the stairway.
He gave patient hearing to their various pleas for several
months. At last, on New Year’s Day, 1782, he decided
that he must turn over a new leaf. “I have found per-
sonal applications from a variety of individuals for money
so extremely troublesome, inconvenient, and improper,”

172 ROBERT ‘MORRIS

he writes in his Diary, “that I have this day desired the
clerks in the office below to inform every person that
shall want to apply to me for money to do it in writing,
stating fully their respective claims, so as to enable me to
judge thereon, and assure them that every such claim
shall be answered. The greatest part of my time since
in office has been consumed in hearing the tales of woe,
which many of the public creditors relate, and which I
cannot prevent in any other way than by declining per-
sonal interviews, and substituting this mode of hearing
them in writing.” The plan, however, did not prove to
be popular with the creditors, for many were “in great
wrath at being refused admittance,” and the Superintend-
ent was soon harassed as before by men with all kinds of
grievances, which they were anxious to air in his presence.

His patient hearing of their wants and misfortunes
continued until the following June, when he made a
second attempt to introduce a reform. Then he writes:
“Finding that the daily interruptions which I met with
by persons making applications on various matters that.
chiefly relate to themselves, prevents my getting through
the business of this office in the satisfactory manner I
could wish, I have now determined to set apart three
days in the week, when I will receive from the hours of
ten to twelve all applications that are personally made.
These days are Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, in each
succeeding week, a regulation that will not only save my
time, but also that of the persons applying, as those hours
will be entirely devoted to them.” This plan, too, was

BORROWING AND RETURNING 173

destined to fail. Again Mr. Morris deceived himself.
No device could stay the persistent creditors of Congress,
and he was obliged to worry on with his troublesome
visitors until the end of his term.

The methods which he adopted to save the public
money, and prevent such small amounts as came into the
Treasury, from being frittered away in the payment of
old claims were numerous and ingenious. If this may
have seemed a very disagreeable task, and one not equal
to Mr. Morris’s talents, it was by no means the most
unimportant of his achievements as Financier. It was
an initial duty by some means or other to stop up these
small leaks in the Treasury, and to hold back the funds
for larger needs that were constantly arising, and must be
promptly satisfied if the soldiers were to continue in the
field to prosecute the war.

While the demands upon him for money were at
times a real aggravation, they often served, too, to
amuse the Financier. At any rate, he made light of
his troubles, and many curt entries in his Diary flow
from his abundant store of humor: —

“To-day I had various fruitless applications made me
for money.”

“Many applications for money, and none to give them.”

“This morning begins as usual with applications for
money.”

“The usual applications for money this morning,
which I shall use my utmost endeavors to procure,
there being very little on hand this morning.”

174 ROBERT MORRIS

“To my great surprise there was no application for
money this day.”

“After preaching up frugality, I granted a warrant
for $2000.”

“Sundry teasing applications for money which I was
obliged to decline.”

“JT put them off as I have done several others.”

“Captain Wm. Hardy preferred sundry matters cal-
culated for his own benefit which I was obliged to pass
by, being out of that line of propriety I choose to
move in.”

“T told him he must rub through another month.”

“Colonel Pickering for money which he cannot have.”

“Many applications for money notwithstanding my
extreme poverty.”

“Having been so much deceived myself, I will not
deceive others with expectations.”

“T insisted that he shall not come here to take up
any more of my time so improperly.”

“Exceedingly teased this day with a variety of fruit-
less applications.”

“Sundry persons called upon matters of little moment
except to themselves.”

“T ordered him to be paid not being able to resist
his necessity.”

“Captain L’Enfant called and tried hard to persuade
me out of some money, but I refused peremptorily.”

“Captain Castain pressed most exceedingly for money,
but I was obliged to resist his importunities.”

Ages

BORROWING AND RETURNING 175

In January, 1784, he wrote to two majors, one cap-
tain, and one lieutenant, who had sent him an impu-
dent round-robin : —

“GENTLEMEN: I have received, this morning, your
application. I make the earliest answer to it. You
demand instant payment. I have no money to pay you
with. Your most obedient and humble servant,

“ROBERT MoRBRIs.”

At other times the monotony of the situation was so
great, that even Mr. Morris’s happy disposition would
not allow him to see the bright side of the picture.
*“T could not see him,” he writes of one caller, “being
hunted and fatigued to death.”

At another moment when his great store of patience
was used up, he writes, “I begged they would exert
themselves to support, instead of plaguing and distress-
ing me with importunity.”

His annoyance at times was greatly increased on
account of his large sympathies, and again and again
did he lament the fact that he was unable to aid those
who came to him in numbers, and seemed from their own
stories to stand in such dire need of assistance. There
is a note of sadness and regret in these words: “This
day I have received a number of distressing, disagree-
able letters from all quarters. Money wanted for the
public service everywhere, and none ready or providing
anywhere.”

Again Mr. Morris writes of an applicant, whose

176 ROBERT MORRIS

appeal he was obliged to deny, “It hurt my feelings
much not to be able to relieve him.”

In another case he broke the news with sorrow in his
heart.

Major Smith of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, also worked
upon the Financier’s sympathies. “This poor gentle-
man,” he says,“I pity very much,” but no help was
secured, for Mr. Morris advised him in an unyielding, busi-
nesslike way, “not to spend his time and attention in
seeking relief where it was not to be had.”

After some pressing entreaties on another occasion he
writes, “I lamented much his situation but cannot help
him without opening a door that would soon ruin our poor
Treasury.”

It was General St. Clair who melted the Financier’s
great heart. ‘This gentleman’s distress,” Morris wrote,
“is beyond description. Nota dollar in his possession at
a time when duty calls him to camp and a starving family
to remain behind him. I must therefore supply him some
way or other, but it is exceedingly hard to advance per-
petually my own money to those whom the public distress
by non-payment.” St. Clair called at the office more than
once, and at last Mr. Morris gave him $320 from his pri-
vate purse, to be taken at some future time from the gen-
eral’s pay, if the government should ever develop an
ability to reward its faithful servants. To a later appeal
by General St. Clair for further payments Mr. Morris
wrote, “A claim like yours, founded on justice and en-
forced by other motives of the most pressing kind, ought

BORROWING AND RETURNING 177

to be complied with, and when by a total inability I am
obliged to refuse it, your sensations cannot be more dis-
agreeable than mine.”

At other times our Revolutionary Financier exhibited
still other moods. He made excuses. He almost uni-
formly told those who applied for payments on account,
that it was his rule to make no partial payments. It was
a policy of which he could not approve. If it were a just
claim, he would pay all or nothing. But as he had not
the resources to enable him to liquidate the whole debt he
must decline making any present settlement. It is true
that the troops on their way to Yorktown received a pay-
ment on account, but this step was taken only at the
pressing instance of General Washington. While many
creditors were sent away on this plea, in other cases Mr.
Morris was obliged to break his rule. When no other
method offered, he must satisfy just demands in cash,
although he first tried and often succeeded in settling the
account by putting the sum out at interest, in benefit of
the claimant, or in a worse case he would pay a part of the
amount due and carry the balance as a credit at current
interest rates. In short, every possible device was re-
sorted to to withstand the attacks which were incessantly
directed against the Treasury.

There seemed to be scarce one man in the Colonies
who did not hold some pecuniary claim against the
government. Some had come to Philadelphia to pre-
sent their accounts in person, and found themselves with-
out money enough to return home. Others had not a

N

178 ROBERT MORRIS

farthing for a night’s lodging, and still others had families
which were slowly starving because of the struggling
young nation’s disregard of the just rights of the public
creditors.

Whenever he could gracefully do so, Morris took
occasion to instil into his visitors a lesson in thrift and
economy. He preached frugality to military officers,
naval officers, hospital officers, civil officers, and agents
in the Commissary Department. The clerks in his own
office asked that their salaries might be increased, but
he refused, curtly informing them that such talent was
very abundant, and if they chose to leave the service,
many at the time out of employment could be secured
to take their places.

“As to dearness of living which is the usual reason
assigned, I can only say,” wrote the Financier, “that the
parties must economize so as to bring their expenses
within their income.”

A young man, Thomas Edison, who had a small claim
against the government, was told that “he was too
expensive for his circumstances and that Congress did
not mean to support extravagance.”

There were some, of course, to whom Mr. Morris could
not offer advice so freely. He must take politer means
of protecting the “poor Treasury” against raids. <A
colonel who applied for money to move an army corps
was plainly told that it “was better they never moved
than that they should distress or destroy the little public
credit which I have established.” And to Washington

he
on
Y .

BORROWING AND RETURNING © 179

himself who had asked for a sum to carry stores to
military posts in northern and western New York, Mr.
Morris wrote, “ Every new demand for money makes me
shudder.”

With many others, Morris satisfied his conscience by
denying personal responsibility for the debt and referred
the claim to the Paymaster General, the Secretary of
Foreign Affairs, Congress or the negligent states which

were not paying their quotas for the public service.

To a Continental officer, John Townes, whom he
addressed as John Townes, Esq., with apologies since he
was ignorant of his rank, Mr. Morris wrote: “No man
laments more than I do the situation of military gentle-
men in want of the pay that is due them, and it is one
part of my study to provide a remedy. This, however,
must be done by general system and not by partial dis-
pensations, and you will be sensible that if I act the
paymaster, I shall of necessity neglect, what is of much
more importance, my proper duties. Whilst it was in
my power, I was happy to administer to the relief of
gentlemen who, like you, were involved in distress by
misfortune, but the late movements of the army have
drained me of the means, and I am obliged to refer you
to the Paymaster General where your application should
in propriety be made.”

General Lincoln called at the Office of Finance to get
an appropriation for covered wagons, but Mr. Morris
gave it as his opinion that “we ought not to make
more contracts until the states would pay taxes to en-

180 ROBERT MORRIS

able a compliance with them, of which there is no present
appearance.” Many of the creditors were told to return
home and make common cause with their neighbors in
influencing the state legislatures to meet the requisitions
of Congress, so that there would be money in the
Treasury to pay their claims.

Baron de Frey, a foreign soldier of fortune, had applied
to Congress for money to enable him to return to Europe.
Having received nothing from that body, he called upon
the Superintendent of Finance. Mr. Morris explained
that this was a matter entirely out of his sphere, but
that if the Baron chose, he would report to Congress his
opinion in the case, which was that “they cannot con-
sistently make grants of public money on the principles
of generosity until such time as they are first enabled to
pay the money justly due to numerous distressed public
creditors.” This attention, Mr. Morris says in recording
the incident, was declined by the Baron, “and I hope,”
the Financier adds with some humor, “that he may
arrive safe in his own country.”

In still other cases Mr. Morris feigned great anger with
his visitors, being deeply insulted by what they told him.
In this réle he was very successful. Now and again his
callers said “many improper things in great passion” to
which he was obliged to reply “in some warmth.” His
interview with Cornet John Middleton is an amusing
illustration of one of the great Financier’s official moods
as well as an evidence of how the Office of Finance and
the War Office sometimes played at the game of battle-

BORROWING AND RETURNING 181

dore and shuttlecock. Middleton had called on Morris
to secure enough money to carry him back to General
Greene, then operating in the Southern states. He had
been sent north on public business by the Southern com-
mander. He had already written to the Office of Finance
for money. Failing to receive it, he called in person and
was told by the clerk that he must have an order from
the Secretary of War, General Lincoln. Securing no
satisfaction at the War Office, Middleton returned to
the Office of Finance, and Mr. Morris himself is a witness
to what subsequently occurred. “I repeated the same
thing to Mr. Middleton,” says Mr. Morris, “that he must
have an order from the Secretary of War, but the Southern
commissioner replied that General Lincoln had said this
matter lay solely with me, and referred him to me for
the money necessary to carry him back to his duty, add-
ing, with some petulance, that he did not understand being
sent from one office to another and back again in such
a manner, to which I replied, ‘Then, Sir, you have my
answer, which is plainly this, that I will not grant any
money to military officers, but upon application or repre-
sentation of the Secretary of War, and that all personal
applications to me by officers on that subject was [s?c]
improper.’ He said General Lincoln had sent him hither,
and if there was an impropriety, it lay with him, but he
supposed he knew what was and what was not within
his department. I smilingly replied, ‘Be it so, but I
will not grant any money but through him,’ to which
he replied that he could not make me do it. I told him

182 ROBERT MORRIS

this was very improper language, and was about to leave
him when he explained that he meant by that expression
no insult, but to intimate that he could not help himself.
Thus we parted, pretty much dissatisfied with each other,
although I presume that if this gentleman, and many
others wanting money from the public, knew exactly
my situation, they would find reason to applaud rather
than blame my care and attention in the expenditures.”

A few creditors, in the summer of 1783, actually drove
Morris and Congress out of the city. Eighty Continental
soldiers under arms marched into Philadelphia to col-
lect their back pay. The Financier sent for President
Thomas Willing, advising him to use precautions to pro-
tect the bank. The whole city was in a fright. Morris,
as the mutineers marched to the State House, went to
his own house to tell his family in order to “prevent
improper alarms.” He then took refuge in the home of
a friend, whither the men would not be likely to pursue
him, “to await the event.” In the evening he visited the
President of the state to urge that the militia be called
out, but his mission failing, he was ready to listen to the
advice of a Committee of Congress, of which Fitzsimmons,
Wilson, Hamilton, and Peters were members, to leave
the city secretly with that body for Princeton, Hamilton
fearing that if they remained, the Financier or some of
the Congressmen would be seized and held as hostages.
Accordingly Congress fled, and with it went Robert and
Gouverneur Morris. Public business was suspended until
further notice, the Financier intrusting the “ office and all

- . om Go
a

BORROWING AND RETURNING 183

the papers therein to the care of Mr. Samuel Lyon, the Sec-
retary, with orders to keep constantly in the office during
my absence, and, in case the soldiers came with mis-
chieyous intent, to inform them that the whole army
are interested in those papers, and indeed all America,
and that they must expect the resentment of the whole
if any destruction is committed.” Morris and his assist-
ant remained for more than a week at Trenton and
Princeton before they got permission from the President
of Congress to return to Philadelphia and resume the
direction of the Treasury Department.

While Morris had taken his post with the express under-
standing that he should not be burdened with the debts
which Congress and its financial agents had heaped up at
earlier stages of the war, he felt himself not without re-
sponsibility for these obligations. He could not well dis-
own the contracts regularly entered into by the government
if he had wished to do so. Upon his ability to live ami-
cably with older creditors depended his success in securing
new credits. Repudiation would have been equivalent
to a declaration of bankruptcy, and he was far too shrewd
and also much too honest to counsel such a course. More-
over, he at no time shrank from his fair part in the work
of funding the Continental debt and arranging for the
final payment of the creditors. He entered the Office of
Finance, vowing to use all new monies for current pur-
poses, but his administration was one long protest against
repudiation and confiscation. He resigned once because
of the states’ refusal to recognize the force of their obliga-

‘
184 ROBERT MORRIS

tions, and his final leave-taking of the office was effected
amid vigorous denunciations of a policy which disregarded
the just rights of public creditors.

In January, 1781, just before Morris became Superintend-
ent of Finance, Congress had recommended to the states
a duty of five per cent on imports and on prizes and prize
goods taken by privateers. Primarily, this policy was
adopted to satisfy the qualms of France, so that more
money could be extorted from the King and his reluctant
ministers. Complaints were loud that France was repay-
ing France, that French money, lately voted to America,
was being used to pay the interest on old loans. To allay
the unpleasantness which such a policy of necessity
engendered, it appeared advisable to create a Continental
fund, and it was conceived that ad valorem import duties,
if the states would be gracious enough to comply, might
meet the necessities of the case, and provide the money
with which to pay the interest and, at length, the principal
of the Continental debt.

Morris inherited this recommendation to the states
from the Confederation’s impotent parliament. The states,
in this matter as in others, resented the exercise of any
supervising, central authority. Some wished that the tax
should be “carried to the account of the state where it is
levied.” Morris vigorously combated such a suggestion.
“Tf there are doubts as to the justice of Congress,” he
observed, “that body should not have been intrusted with
the power of apportioning quotas on the several states.”
Always a federalist, he argued that, “articles imported

is

BORROWING AND RETURNING 185

into the country are consumed in the country. If each
pays a duty, that duty will be paid by all. The tax will
fall equally on all, and therefore ought in justice to be
carried to the general account.”

It was also suggested by the states’ rights men, that the
public debts should be apportioned among the states, each
being called to take up its separate proportion of the
whole sum. “This measure,” Morris declared, “would be
sufficient to destroy the credit of any country. The cred-
itors trust the Union, and there can be no right to alter
the pledge which they have accepted for any other, even
for a better one, without their free consent. But this is
not all; there is in it a principle of disunion implied which
must be ruinous. Even at this late period the states
might singly be subjugated. Their strength is derived
from their Union. Everything, therefore, which injures
that Union, must impair the strength which is dependent
upon it.”

On July 27, 1781, when Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
New York, Delaware, Maryland, and North Carolina
had still not given their assent to the five per cent im-
post law, Morris addressed the governors of those states
as follows: “I find upon examination that the recom-
mendation of Congress of the 3d of February last, for
laying an impost of five per cent on goods imported,
and a like impost of five per cent on prizes and prize
goods, has not been complied with by your state. The
object which Congress had in view when they issued
this recommendation was of the utmost importance,

186 ROBERT MORRIS

and every day gives it an additional weight and magni-
tude.... The public debt is large and increasing.
The faith of the United States is pledged to the public
creditors. At every new loan it must be pledged anew,
and an appeal is now made to the states individually
to support the public faith so solemnly pledged. If
they do, it is possible that public credit may be restored ;
if not, our enemies will draw from thence strong argu-
ments in favor of what they have so often asserted, that
we are unworthy of confidence, that our union is a
rope of sand, that the people are weary of Congress,
and that the respective states are determined to reject
\. its authority./ Your Excellency will be able at once
to determine whether that Union is more than nominal,
in which any part shall refuse to be bound for the
debts of the whole, or to contribute to the general
defence.”

As the months wore on, and the states still refused
to comply, Morris’s earnestness increased. On Janu-
ary 3, 1782, eleven months after Congress had asked
for the tax, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Maryland
had still not enacted the necessary laws. Instead of
addressing their governors only, he sent his circular to
all the states, so that the negligence of the trio might
be matter of common knowledge. On this occasion
he wrote: “The public debt is considerable, and the
public credit must be lost, if the interest of it be not
provided. for. Congress have done their duty in re-
questing revenue, and I have done mine in soliciting

BORROWING AND RETURNING 187

“

a compliance with their request. It only remains for
me to bear testimony against those who oppose that
compliance, and to declare that they, and they only,
must be responsible for the consequences. They are
answerable to the other states, to their fellow-citizens,
to the public creditors, and to the whole world. I
must speak plainly on this subject. I must point out
from time to time the reason of those things which have
produced murmurs and complaints against the repre-
sentative body of America. I must direct those who
suffer to those who occasion their sufferings, and those
who are injured to those who have done them wrong.
Let me, then, once more entreat that this great object
be seriously considered. Let me repeat that the hope
of our enemy is in the derangement of our finances;
and let me add that when revenue is given, that hope
must cease. He, therefore, who opposes the grant of
such revenue, not only opposes himself to the dictates
of justice, but he labors to continue the war, and of
consequence to shed more blood, to produce more devas-
tation, and to extend and prolong the miseries of
mankind.”

In August, 1782, all the states had voted to levy the
tax except Rhode Island, and this financial measure,
therefore, awaited the pleasure of that small, but at all
times obstreperous commonwealth. Its representatives
offered as many as nine separate objections to the law.
To all of these Morris made specific replies, testifying
in an unusual way to his comprehensive grasp of eco-

188 ROBERT MORRIS

nomic questions. In October the state still withheld
its approval. When he had prospects of bringing in
the last laggard, he discovered, as he had known from
the first, that the impost was a totally impracticable
kind of tax. It would be powerless to yield anything
like an adequate revenue to take care of the debt which,
if not large according to modern estimates, was an
overwhelming burden to the impotent government he
was endeavoring to serve.

It was not quite certain how great the debt of the Con-
tinent had really come to be. In a report to the Presi-
dent of Congress, in the summer of 1782, Morris placed
the acknowledged debt at $12,000,000, the unsettled debt
at $8,000,000, and the sum owed to France at $5,000,000,
a total of, say, $25,000,000... The loans needed for the
service of 1783 would, he thought, raise the amount to
more than $30,000,000. In a later report to Congress,
based on more specific knowledge, he increased his esti-
mates, and stated that the principal of the public debt up
to January 1, 1783, was $35,327,769. This total excluded
the “unliquidated debt” due to several states, and to
individuals in them, which had not yet been adjusted.
There were besides other outstanding obligations, more or
less binding upon Congress, such as the old Continental
bills, and claims for arrearages of half pay to the army.
‘Congress will easily see,” observed Morris, “that it is
not in the power of their servants to state the public
debts with any tolerable precision.”

Assuming that the impost could be collected, what

BORROWING AND RETURNING 189

would it avail? Foreign goods and prize goods might be
brought into the states to a value of $12,000,000 annu-
ally, but even in so favorable a case, the tax at five per
cent would yield only $600,000, from which a full sixth,
Morris knew by experience, must be deducted to meet the
cost of collection and cover defalcations. The impost
would be evaded, he said, because of its ad valorem fea-
ture. The law would admit of arbitrary estimates of
value. The states had not punctually or properly col-
lected taxes which they had earlier laid, and he had little
hope that they would suddenly mend their methods. He
anticipated, therefore, the need of other forms of income,
and recommended to the President of Congress various
measures designed to facilitate the operations of his de-
partment. He suggested a land-tax, a poll-tax, an excise-
tax on distilled liquors,, and a house-tax. Duties on
exports he declared were much to be preferred to duties
on imports, in the country’s situation at the period. He
presented to Congress schedules of rates carefully worked
out which, had they been approved and had the Union
been vested with a right, under the Articles of Confeder-
ation, to go into the states to collect the revenues abso-
lutely necessary to the proper conduct of the government,
would have abundantly provided for the payment of the
public creditors. But his advice did not seem to be
highly regarded. He felt the indignity keenly, for the
war having been brought to its end to all practical pur-
poses, the sole task yet remaining for him to perform was
to fund and liquidate the Continental debt.

190 ROBERT MORRIS

Mr. Morris had made definite promises to creditors at
the Office, of Finance, which lack of coéperation on the
part of Congress and the states rendered it impossible
for him to fulfil. Men to whom public money was
justly due had pursued him from Sunday to Saturday,
ever since he had become Superintendent of the young
nation’s finances. He had exhausted every subterfuge,
his own patience, and stretched his own conscientious
sense. Of a number of creditors who presented their
claims at his office, he writes in his Diary, “I told them
my disposition to pay equalled their desire to receive,
but unless the governments will levy and the people pay
taxes, I cannot possibly do them justice or gratify my
own inclinations.”

To Donaldson Yeates, as early as December, 1781, he
wrote: “I am sorry to observe such an impatience as you
represent in the public creditors. If they and their fellow-
citizens, instead of uttering complaints on every occasion,
would exert themselves in paying their own and influenc-
ing their neighbors to pay their taxes for the Continental
service, I should soon hope to see our affairs on such a
footing as to silence all complaints; but, whilst the people
are grasping at every farthing the public possesses, and
no measures are taken to replenish the fountain from
whence payments spring, what can they expect?”

“The monies obtained either at home or abroad for

”

the current service,” Morris writes again, “must be
applied to it. The monies granted for the payment of

debts shall be faithfully appropriated to that use, and,

BORROWING AND RETURNING 191

until proper funds be provided, the debts must remain
unpaid.”

To others he explained that he had frequently called
upon the legislatures to grant money to relieve their dis-
tress. As his own requests were unheeded, he recom-
mended that his applications be supported “ by memorials,
petitions, and remonstrances from the creditors individu-
ally and collectively addressed .to all the legislatures.”
The members of a committee appointed by various pub-
lic creditors who visited the Financier to solicit payment
of interest on the debt were advised “to make one com-
mon cause with the whole of the public creditors of every
kind, to unite their interests so that they might be able to
have influence on all the legislatures in the several states.”
He advised, too, that when a funding system was adopted
by Congress, “that they give invariably their whole sup-
port to that system, and that they avoid the language of
threat which has already been complained of in their pro-
ceedings.” He coolly explained that no interest would be
paid them during the current year. He was himself “ready
to pursue every reasonable and proper measure to obtain
justice for the public creditors,” and their only recourse,
so far as he could see, was to unite against state legislators
who opposed taxation “from local and popular views.”

Morris prepared impressive arguments for presentation
to Congress as well as to the separate states. There
were, he declared, two matters to be considered — “ what
justice requires,” and “ what Congress have power to do.”
In the first case “justice requires that the debt be paid,”

192 ROBERT MORRIS

the Financier observed. ‘ The principles of justice re-
quire that from a government which a court of justice
exacts from an individual.” For the answer to the
second question he appealed to the Articles of Con-
federation (eighth article) from which he deduced the
principle that the whole sum outstanding must be paid
by the states proportionably. “It is in the power of
Congress,” he urged, “to call for payment of the whole
debt by any day, such, for instance, as the first of
January. The right of Congress,” he continued, “is
perfect, and the duty to pay absolute.”

In any new scheme which might be devised for raising
taxes, it was “ indispensable,” in his view, that the collec-
tors be appointed by the authority of the United States.
In no case, he said, should tax-gatherers be of the people’s
choosing. But there was little need to discuss this point.
The question was academic to the last degree. Not only
did Rhode Island refuse to pass the law, but Virginia actu-
ally repealed it after having at first approved. Morris
suggested, recommended, pleaded. His motives were mis-
interpreted, and his personal character defamed ; and on
January 24, 1783, he sent a letter to Congress which fell
like a bombshell, even among those members who were
most troublesomely hostile to his policies. This letter
read as follows : —

“To THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

“Srr: As nothing but the public danger would
have induced me to accept my office, so I was deter-

———<s

BORROWING AND RETURNING 193

mined to hold it until the danger was past, or else
meet my ruin in the common wreck. Under greater
difficulties than were apprehended by the most timid, and
with less support than was expected by the least san-
guine, the generous confidence of the public has accom-
plished more than I presumed to hope.

“Congress will recollect that I expressly stipulated
to take no part in past transactions. My attention to
the public debts, therefore, arose from the conviction,
that funding them on solid revenues was the last
essential work of our glorious revolution. The accom-
plishment of this necessary work is among the objects
nearest my heart, and, to effect it, I would sacrifice
time, property, and domestic bliss.

“Many late circumstances have so far lessened our
apprehensions from the common enemy, that my origi-
nal motives have almost ceased to operate. But other
circumstances have postponed the establishment of pub-
lic credit in such a manner that I fear it will never
be made. To increase our debts, while the prospect of
paying them diminishes, does not consist with my idea
of integrity. I must, therefore, quit a situation which
becomes utterly insupportable. But lest the public
measures might be deranged by any precipitation, I will
continue to serve until the end of May. If effectual
measures are not taken by that period, to make per-
manent provision for the public debts of every kind,
Congress will be pleased to appoint some other man to
be the Superintendent of their Finances. I should be

fo)

:
194 ROBERT MORRIS

anworthy of the confidence reposed in me by my fellow-
citizens if I did not explicitly declare, that I will never
be the minister of injustice.
*“T have the honor to be, etc.
“ROBERT MORRIS.”

Congress, fearful of the effect of Morris’s resignation,
enjoined him to secrecy. If he should persist in his
resolution to retire, his purpose must be concealed from
the public, lest it lead to consequences of dangerous
gravity to the nation. A month passed, when Mr.
Morris again addressed Congress, praying that this in-
junction be removed for, “I wished,” he explained after-
ward, “to give due and seasonable information of my
removal to those who had confided in me.” He at
once wrote to General Washington enclosing a copy of
his resignation, with his reasons for not advising the
Commander-in-chief of his determination at the time it
was reached a few weeks before.

“TI do assure you, Sir,” said Morris in this letter,
“that nothing would have induced me to take this step
but a painful conviction that the situation of those to
whom the public are indebted is desperate. I believe
sincerely that a great majority of the members of Con-
gress wish to do justice; but I as sincerely believe that
they will not adopt the necessary measures, because
they are afraid of offending their states. From my
soul I pity the army and you, my dear Sir, in particu-
lar, who must see and feel their distresses without the

BORROWING AND RETURNING 195

*

power of relieving them. . .. I hope my successor will
be more fortunate than I have been, and that our
glorious revolution may be crowned with those acts of
justice, without which the greatest human glory is but
the shadow of a shade.”

Washington wrote in reply from his headquarters:
“Very painful sensations are excited in my mind by
your letter. It is impossible for me to express to you
the regret with which I received the information it
contains. I have often reflected with much solicitude
upon the disagreeableness of your situation, and the
negligence of the several states, in not enabling you
to do that justice to the public creditors which their
demands require. I wish the step you have taken may
sound the claim to their inmost souls and rouse them
to a just sense of their own interest, honor, and credit.
... If your resolutions are absolutely fixed, I assure
you I consider the event as one of the most unfortu-
nate that could have fallen upon the states, and most
sincerely deprecate the sad consequences which I fear
will follow.”

While Morris was as sincere as any man could be
when he asked to be relieved of his troublesome office,
the fact is not to be concealed that he hoped, by means
of this act, so to arouse Congress and the states to the
dangers of their continued negligence, that they would
at once agree to his plan, or to some other sensible
plan for funding the public debts. His enemies were
free to say that this was his motive, that he really desired

196 ROBERT MORRIS

to continue in his office, and had only taken the step in
order to impose his particular views upon the country.
On this point his letters to Congress rang with all the
eloquent horror that he could so well express when
there were those near him who read a sinister meaning
into any of his public movements. “I knew that until
some plain and rational system should be adopted and
acceded to,” he wrote one day to the President of Con-
gress, “the business of this office would be a business
of expedient and chicane. I have neither the talents
nor the disposition to engage in such business, and
therefore I prayed to be dismissed.”

Again he wrote to Congress: ‘‘ Under the resolution in
its present form I cannot stay. I shall detain your Ex-
cellency no longer than to mention that I am sensible
some other men may still suppose that I am desirous of
obtaining from Congress some more particular resolutions.
To obviate such disingenuous remarks it is my humble
request that no further question be made on my subject.”

Despite his protests it is certain that Morris hoped by
his resignation, timed as it was to take effect at a rather
distant future date, to bring Congress to his own views.
While this motive may have meant some duplicity and
implied some vanity to those industrious persons who
had long planned his undoing, it will be adjudged an
entirely patriotic motive in the light of all our informa-
tion at the present day. In his letter of January 24, he
had plainly informed Congress what it might do if it
wished to avail itself longer of his services as Financier.

BORROWING AND RETURNING 107

To General Greene on Matoh 12, 1783, Morris wrote,
amplifying his purposes and views: “ The Congress have
now and have long since had under their consideration
a due provision for the public debts; when they will con-
clude it and which it will be, God only knows. If it is
such as in my opinion will do justice, I shall stay some-
what longer in office to know the decision of the states,
and if their proceedings are what on such an occasion
they ought to be, I shall spare no labor and regret no time
in completing the business, so that my successor may re-
ceive it from my hands as clear and simple as it was
confused and embarrassed when it was undertaken. But
if these things do not happen, you and every other good
man will, I hope, acquit me for leaving a post in which
I am totally unsupported, and where I must be daily
the witness to scenes of poignant anguish and deep
injustice without the possibility of administering either
relief or palliation. ... I felt the consequences of my
resignation on the public credit. I felt the probable de-
rangement of our affairs. I felt the difficulties my suc-
cessor would have to encounter, but still I felt that above
all things it was a duty to be honest. This first and
highest principle has been obeyed. I do not hold myself
answerable for consequences. Those are to be attributed
to the opposers of just measures, let their rank and station
be what they may.”

Even by close friends like Washington and Hamilton,
Mr. Morris’s action was not fully understood. It looked
to them like a desertion of the cause at a critical hour.

198 ROBERT MORRIS

It produced consternation as well as dismay. Washing-
ton sought for reasons for the step of Hamilton, his former
aide, and his future Secretary of the Treasury, who wrote
to the Commander-in-chief of the army on April 11,
1783 : —

«“ As to Mr. Morris, I will give your Excellency a true
explanation of his conduct. He had been for some time
pressing Congress to obtain funds, and had found a great
backwardness in the business. He found the taxes unpro-
ductive in the different states; he found the loans in
Europe making a very slow progress; he found himself
pressed on all hands for supplies; he found himself in
short reduced to this alternative, either of making engage-
ments which he could not fulfil, or declaring his resigna-
tion in case funds were not established by a given time.
Had he followed the first course, the bubble must soon
have burst; he must have sacrificed his credit and his
character; and public credit already in a ruinous condi-
tion would have lost its last support. He wisely judged
it better to resign; this might increase the embarrass-
ments of the moment, but the necessity of the case it
was to be hoped would produce the proper measures; and
he might then resume the direction of the machine with
advantage and success. He also had some hope that his
resignation would prove a stimulus to Congress. He was,
however, ill advised in the publication of his letters of
resignation. This was an imprudent step, and has given
a handle to his personal enemies, who, by playing upon
the passions of others, have drawn some well-meaning

oe
A I's

BORROWING AND RETURNING 199

men into the cry against him. But Mr. Morris certainly
deserves a great deal of his country. I believe no man
in this country but himself could have kept the money
machine a-going during the period he has been in office.
From everything that appears, his administration has
been upright as well as able.”

Madison wrote to Randolph in much the same sense:
“The peremptory style and publication of Mr. Morris’s
letters have given offence to many without and to some
within Congress. His enemies of both descriptions are
industrious in displaying this impropriety. I wish they
had less handle for the purpose.”

To its credit, however, Congress, in its helplessness,
realized the serious situation in which Morris’s resigna-
tion placed it. His old foes, Lee and Bland, disparaged
his administration, Lee declaring that the man who
would publish to all the world such a picture of the
country’s condition as had been indicated or implied by
the Superintendent’s threatened retirement, was unfit to
be a minister. Many even urged that more money was
to be obtained abroad if the right steps were taken to
unloose Europe’s purse-strings. To offset such senti-
ments Alexander Hamilton and James Wilson launched
into what Madison describes as “a copious defence and
panegyric.” Nothing else offered but a Treasury Board
in place of a single minister. The vices of a Board had
been fully displayed in the earlier years of the war, and
‘‘all impartial members” foresaw that “the most alarming

1 Hamilton’s Works, Vol. I, p. 355.

200°" ROBERT MORRIS

consequences” would arise from Mr. Morris’s withdrawal
from the management of the country’s finances.
Congress, having at first enjoined secrecy in reference
to the letter of resignation, next appointed a committee,
of which Osgood, Madison, Peters, Hamilton, and Bland
were members, to treat with Mr. Morris. He was pressed
to remain in office, and promises were freely made that
he should have support in his laudable endeavors to liqui-
date the public debt. As late as on May 1, on the occa-
sion of a visit from the committee, he writes in his Diary:
“To all their arguments I opposed my observations on
the conduct of Congress toward me, and I wish for noth-
ing so much as to be relieved from this cursed scene of
drudgery and vexation. I determined not to continue,
and told them I will immediately write a letter to that
effect to the President.” Nevertheless, his determination
was not quite irrevocable, for three days later, on May 38,
after he had been visited by another Congressional Com-
mittee, of which Hamilton and Wilson were prominent
members, he writes, “I find all my friends so extremely
anxious on this subject that I have considered it maturely,
and as Congress have pledged themselves to support me
and to enable me to fulfil all engagements taken on public
account, I have concluded to continue so much longer
as may be necessary to disband the army and fulfil my
engagements already taken, as well as those to be taken
for the above purpose.” On the same day he wrote to
the President of Congress an official note, announcing
his decision to remain at his post, but “I pray it may be

BORROWING AND RETURNING 201

understood,” he added, “that my continuance in office is
limited to the particular object of fulfilling my present
engagements, and those which the necessity of our affairs
may compel me to form.”

The difficulties attendant upon the disbandment of
the army were immense. In the first place, it was not
certain that the war was really at an end. Some wished
that the troops be kept under arms, others that they be
sent home on furlough, and still others that they be dis-
missed absolutely. Morris was one of those who advo-
cated dismissal, but a compromise was effected on a
general furlough, so that if trouble were resumed, the
soldiers might easily be assembled again. But how was
this operation to be managed? The troops must be dis-
banded to save expense, but their very disbandment
entailed large outlays of money. They must not be
returned to civil life, as Mr. Morris remarked, “ with
murmurs and complaints in their mouths.” It was pro-
posed, therefore, that they should have three months’ pay,
and General Washington estimated that $750,000 would
be necessary for this purpose. How was so great a sum
of money to be obtained? The only course open was
another large issue of paper in anticipation of the col-
lection of the taxes. It was in no spirit of vanity that
Morris wrote to Congress, for he stated but the simple
truth: “This is an operation of great delicacy, and it is
essential to the success of it that my credit should be
staked for the redemption. In issuing my notes to the
required amount, it would be necessary that I should

202 ROBERT MORRIS

give an express assurance of payment, and, in so doing,
I should be answerable personally for about half a mill-
ion when I leave this office, and depend on the arrange-
ments of those who come after me to save me from
ruin. I am willing to risk as much for this country as
any man in America, but it cannot be expected that I
should put myself in so desperate a situation.”

While Congress had made some promises about the
care which it would in future give to the Continental
debt, Morris was not deceived on this point, and he made
it perfectly clear that he did not remain in office in any
belief that his own wishes would be acceded to in this
direction. To Washington, on May 29, he wrote: “I
hope, my dear Sir, that the state of public affairs will
soon permit you to lay down the cares of your painful
office. I should in ten days have been liberated from
mine if a desire to free you from your embarrassments
and procure some little relief to your army had not in-
duced a continuance of them. But it must be remem-
bered that this continuance is distinct from any idea
which may be connected with the plans for funding our
public debts.”

Morris lost no time in transacting the business which
he had undertaken. The paper for the notes which
bore the words “U.S. National Debt” as a watermark was
hurried through the mill at all possible speed and sent
to the printers. The first parcel of notes was received
at the Office of Finance on June 6. Each must be
signed by Mr. Morris personally, and he worked with

BORROWING AND RETURNING 203

tireless energy all day and far into the night until the
last note was forwarded to the Paymaster General for
distribution to the soldiers. On June 7, the next day
after the notes came to Morris from the printing-press,
the Paymaster received $50,000, on the 9th, $50,000 and
on the 13th, $100,000. In six days the Financier had
attached his name to six thousand notes in addition to
the performance of the regular duties of his office.
This paper issue was made payable six months after
date, and soon “shinplasters” of a face value of more
than $1,000,000 were in the hands of the soldiers, who
put them into general circulation very rapidly.

The Superintendent of Finance knew the task which
confronted him. He had passed through the experience
before, and he resumed his attacks upon the governors
of the states with a courage that was indigenous to his
nature. He assumed with an appearance of sincerity
that this anticipation would be cheerfully provided for
since it was made “for that service which all affect to
have so much at heart, a payment to the American
army.” He again closely plied the states, both directly
and through his receivers. The results were as meagre
as before, but as his expectations were not large he did
not give way to disappointment.

He busied himself too with the other duties of his
office from which there was still no relief. It had been
a feature of his policy in connection with his plans for
funding the public debt to appoint a number of commis-
sioners. These officers were to adjust and ascertain what

204 ROBERT’ MORRIS

were the outstanding obligations of the government.
Thomas Barclay had been sent abroad to settle and
audit the American accounts in Europe. Officers were
at work on the accounts of various departments, and
each state was to have a commissioner who must in
every case be a citizen of some other state to avoid the
appearance of partiality. It was made his duty to ad-
just the accounts with the Union, of the state to which
he was assigned. Before him also individuals who had
unadjusted and unsatisfied claims were to appear, and
if their demands were just, receive certificates of in-
debtedness. In this way it would soon be possible to
discover how great a debt the Confederation would be
compelled to answer for at the final settlement.

As in the appointment of receivers, Mr. Morris chose
his commissioners in the states on the advice of his
political friends. When they were appointed, they were
commended by letter to the governors. Nearly all these
officers had been named when, on September 4, 1783,
Mr. Morris issued an order calling upon them for re-
ports as to the characteristics of the population and the
natural resources of the states to which they had been
sent. In this circular is exhibited the scope of Morris’s
master mind. He anticipated the needs of those who
should come after him in administering the government’s
finances by arranging for an encyclopedic compilation
of all the principal economic facts about America. The
state of the country he concluded was geographical,
moral, political, and commercial. Under these four

ae

BORROWING AND RETURNING 205

heads the commissioners were to make searching investi-
gations, communicating the results of their inquiries to
the Office of Finance.

In the geographical line they were to report concern-
ing : —

The general area of the country.

The mountains, rivers, and superficial features.

The soil and the natural advantages of the land
for agriculture, mining, and other pursuits.

On the moral side Mr. Morris conceived that report
should be made on: —

The size of the population.

Mode of life and occupation of the people.

The state of husbandry.

Development of the arts, particularly the useful arts.

Character of the buildings.

Improvement of the land and the number, char-
acter, and location of mills and factories.

The state of the country politically was to be inquired
into with reference to : —

The constitutions.

The magistracy.

The system of interior police.

The revenue system.

The state of public and private credit.

Under the commercial head information must be as-
sembled regarding : —

Produce.

Roads and navigation.

206 ROBERT MORRIS

Imports and exports.

The value of lands.

The value of money.

Specific directions were given for collecting the statis-
tics on these various subjects. The resources of the
states, Mr. Morris concluded, were of two kinds, those
which were available in peace, and those which would
serve the government in war. He particularly enjoined
the commissioners to keep this distinction clear. On no
account were they to neglect to report upon the num-
ber of men who were of fighting age and who could
be called out as soldiers. They must have regard also
for the state of supply of provisions and forage, and con-
sider the means of transporting war materials to available
centres. While this exhaustive inquiry was never com-
pleted on the scale Morris hoped it might be, it was
no fault of his that events occurred to interfere with the
realization of the plan.

He still yielded nothing of his determination to pay
the public debts. The states were bound to make pro-
vision for both principal and interest, he said, “ by every
principle held sacred among men.” To fail would be
“such a fraud as would stamp our national character
with indelible marks of infamy, and render us the re-
proach and contempt of all mankind.” But Mr. Morris
found that progress now was not more rapid than before
his resignation. He struggled with his office a few
months longer, until enough money had been collected
in taxes to protect the notes he had issued to pay the

BORROWING AND RETURNING 207

army, but on August 12, 1783, he wrote to the Paymaster
General: “It becomes impossible to serve a people who
convert everything into a ground for calumny. ...
My desire to relieve the army has been greatly cooled from
the information that many of them [the soldiers] have
joined in the reproaches I have incurred for their bene-
fit, and the necessity I feel of quitting (at the earliest
possible moment) an office of incessant labor and anxiety,
whose only reward is obloquy, will not permit me even
to think of any further anticipations.”
' Virulent attacks were made upon all who discounted
the public paper. It was freely charged that the notes
were being purchased by Mr. Morris himself through
agents for his private gain. He continued to write
letters to the states. Rhode Island, the smallest, but
always the least tractable of them all, he addressed
through its governor on June 21, 1784: “I hope your
Excellency will believe me when I seriously assure
you that the greatest advocates for a change cannot
more earnestly desire my dismission than I myself do.
I hope that their sincerity and mine will speedily be
put to the trial. They, by granting money, and I by
resigning, can best evince that our professions are founded
in truth. ... Those who come after me will, I hope,
have that influence which I have not, and succeed where
I have failed. But whether they succeed, or whether
they fail, they cannot more earnestly desire the good
of America than I do.”

John Jay, writing from Europe, urged the Financier

208 ROBERT MORRIS

to continue in his place: “ Your enemies would be happy
to drive you to resign, and, in my opinion, both your
interest, and that of your country, oppose your gratifying
them. You have health, fortune, talents, and fortitude,
and you have children, too. Each of these circum-
stances recommends perseverance.” But Mr. Morris
this time was quite immovable. Replying to his friend
Jay, he wrote: “You must acknowledge that it is folly
in the extreme to continue in the drudgery of office
after you see clearly that the public cannot be bene-
fited; your own affairs suffering, your feelings daily
wounded, and your reputation endangered by the malice
and misrepresentation of envious and designing men.

Congress feared to dismiss their army without
some pay; they had not money, and could only make
payment by paper anticipation, and even this could not
be effected without my assistance. I was urged to con-
tinue, and forced into that anticipation. The army
was dispersed, and since their departure the men who
urged these measures most, and who are eternally at
war with honor and integrity, have been continually
employed in devising measures to prevent my being
able to fulfil my engagements, in hopes of effecting
my ruin in case of failure. ... I am persuaded that
sooner or later the good sense of America will prevail,
and that our governments will be intrusted in the hands
of men whose principles will lead them to do justice,
and whose understandings will teach the value of
national credit. This may be too long in coming to

BORROWING AND RETURNING 209

pass, at least for me, and therefore you may rest assured
that I quit all public employ the moment my engage-
ments are fulfilled.”

Morris continued in the Office of Finance until No-
vember 1, 1784, therefore for eighteen months after his
first resignation was timed to take effect. Then Congress
appointed a “Board of Treasury” to manage the coun-
try’s finances. Already in May he had written to Con-
gress begging that he should be relieved. “Having been
informed (though not officially),” he observes, “that Con-
gress intend to adjourn in the beginning of next month,
I am humbly to request that they would in such case
be pleased to take eventual arrangements for adminis-
tering their finances.” In October, having retired most
of his notes, and secured himself from risk as best he
could, he issued a public announcement that such paper
as was still outstanding at the end of his official term
would be “duly paid at maturity.” For such payment
he pledged himself “personally to the holders,” and on
November 1, he wrote to the President of Congress:
“JT have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency, and
pray you will deliver to the United States in Congress
the commission by which I was appointed Superintend-
ent of their Finances. It gives me great pleasure to
reflect that the situation of public affairs is more pros-
perous than when that commission was issued. The
sovereignty and independence of America are acknowl-
edged. May they be firmly established and effectually
secured. This can only be done by a just and vigorous

P

210 ROBERT MORRIS

government. That these states, therefore, may be soon
and long united under such government is my ardent
wish and constant prayer.”

At the same time Mr. Morris made a full and detailed
report of the transactions of his office covering his full
term, a large book in which is included a transcript of
his accounts. It was meant to be and remains an effectual
response to those who had so long criticised and maligned
him. It was preceded by a kind of farewell address, not
to Congress, but “to the inhabitants of the United States
of America.” To them he desired to speak directly, for
“the master,” he said, “should know what the servant
has done.” He therefore rendered an account of his
“stewardship.” The main features of his policy, his
loans, his “ anticipations,” his notes, his commercial trans-
actions, his struggles with France and Holland, Cuba
and the states, were all explained in terms which every
man could understand. “It is a misfortune,” he owned,
“that secrecy should be necessary for the support of
public credit. The officer who withholds a true state of
affairs subjects himself to blame. But there are moments
when he ought to withhold that state, and in such cases
he must bear the blame and leave his justification in the
hands of time.” Mr. Morris essayed the réle of prophet,
and in the spirit of the sage made wise in the service of
the state, concluded this remarkable document as fol-
lows : —

“The payment of debts may indeed be expensive, but
it is infinitely more expensive to withhold the payment.

BORROWING AND RETURNING 211
The former is an expense of money when money may
be commanded to defray it; but the latter involves the
destruction of that source from whence money can be
derived when all other sources fail. That source, abun-
dant, nay, almost inexhaustible, is public credit. The
country in which it may with greatest ease be established
and preserved is America, and America is the country
which stands most in need of it, whether we consider
her moral or political situation; and whether we advert
to her husbandry, commerce, or manufactures. An hun-
dred schemes are attempted for the introduction of a
paper currency, which, if it could be effected, would only
produce a little temporary relief to a few, and must in-
volve the most extensive mischiefs to all; while the plain
remedy for the evils complained of is at hand, though
neglected. A due provision for the public debts would
at once convert these debts into a real medium of com-
merce. The possessors of certificates would then become
the possessors of money. And of course there would be
no want of it among those who, having property, wish
to borrow ; provided that the laws and administration are
such as to compel the punctual payment of debts. This
subject would lead too far for the present purpose. But
it must be observed that we are just emerging from a
long and expensive war; a war more expensive than
it ought to have been, because the needy can never
economize, and because no degree of talents can compen-
sate the want of experience. How soon we may be
plunged into another, a longer or more expensive contest,

212 ROBERT MORRIS

is known only to Him from whom no secrets are hidden,
but it has enabled us (by reasoning on past events) to
conclude that the only moral surety for peace is a state
of constant preparation for hostilities. If then a rupture
should happen within the coming year, to whom are we
to look for succor, and from whom shall we ask their
treasure or their blood? Shall we apply to those veterans
who lately bore our banners in triumph; will they not
show their scars and point to the record of their wrongs?
Our prospects in case of war are far from flattering;
and unless our Union be more strongly cemented, they
will be gloomy indeed. The inhabitants of a little hamlet
may feel pride in a sense of separate independence. But
if there be not one government which can draw forth and
direct the combined efforts of our united America, our
independence is but a name, our freedom a shadow, and
our dignity a dream. To you, fellow-citizens, these sen-
timents are addressed by one who has felt their force.
In descending from that eminence on which your repre-
sentatives had placed him, he avoids the shafts which
calumny had aimed. He has no longer therefore any
personal interest in those jealousies and distrusts which
have embarrassed his administration and may prove your
ruin. He no longer asks for confidence in himself. But
it is his duty to declare his sincere opinion, that if you
will not repose in the members of that general federal
government which you yourselves have chosen, that con-
fidence and those powers which are necessary, you must
and you will (in no very distant period) become the

BORROWING AND RETURNING 2138

dupes of European politicks. What may be the final
event, time only can discover; but the probability is
that first divided, then governed, our children may lament
in chains the folly of their fathers. May Heaven avert
these evils and endue us with wisdom so to act, as may
best promote the present and future peace, prosperity,
and happiness of our country. This is the sincerest wish
of your faithful servant and fellow-citizen,
“ ROBERT MORRIS.”

CHAPTER VI
SENATOR MORRIS

“THERE is a period in the progress of things, a crisis
between the ardor of enthusiasm and the authority of
laws, when much skill and management are necessary to
those who are charged with administering the affairs of
a nation,” Robert Morris wrote to Franklin in 1782.
What Washington experienced of this on the battle-field,
and Franklin in the presence of princes and foreign
ministers in Europe, Morris suffered in Philadelphia in
directing the new Republic’s finances. He left his office
after serving his country through the most difficult time
in its history, to return to private commerce, which his
enemies incessantly complained that he had never aban-
doned. The notes which he issued were his personal
notes circulated with the aid of John Swanwick, a man
not known to the United States government, but a member
of his own firm. He and his business associates profited,
it was charged, by the purchase of this paper at a depre-
ciated price. They profited by the inside knowledge of
which Mr. Morris became possessed in sending out and
receiving cargoes of merchandise and in foreign ex-
change. They founded the bank and derived benefits
from the operations of that institution, which, in the
SENATOR, MORRIS 215

eyes of ignorant and suspicious people, assumed great
proportions. Mr. Morris’s personal protests, and appeals
in his behalf by other political leaders even of an
opposite party view, such as Mr. Madison, did not avail
to correct a notion which it was easy in that intensely
democratic time for a few diligent enemies to propagate,
with the hope of discomfiting, if not actually crippling,
the Financier in the execution of his various plans.

How largely or how directly Mr. Morris was interested
in the affairs of the house of Willing and Morris while
he was Superintendent of the United States’ finances
will never be known. It is a discussion which can
profit us little in our present view of public office.
We do not now expect those whom we select to fill
official positions to abandon all financial connections and
business sympathies. It is enough if they yield active
identification with private business, and devote their
time and attention wholly to government pursuits. This
requirement Morris met to the letter. He gave all he
had from his great fund of skill, energy, private credit,
and indeed a deal from his private fortune, to the pub-
lic service. How much of his own he expended to send
Washington on his way to Yorktown is nowhere recorded,
although we have his statement, repeatedly made, that it
was a large sum. He was a subscriber to the bank. He
advanced money from his own purse to aid needy public
creditors, especially officers in the Continental army such
as General St. Clair. He yielded bed and board again
and again to General Washington, members of his staff,

:

216 ROBERT MORRIS

and to the principal patriots, civil and military, both
American and French, who came to Philadelphia during
the Revolution, his home being the particular seat of
hospitality where whoever stopped got a warm welcome,
polite attention in a family widely famed for its genial-
ity and savoir faire, good meat, good wine, and other
entertainment not too plentiful at an unfortunate season
in the history of the colonies. In June, 1782, he loaned
Governor John Dickinson of Delaware £1000 from his
private monies to enable that state to fit out a schooner
to defend the river craft against depredations of the
enemy, so that the Delawareans might bring their prod-
uce to the Philadelphia market and thus secure specie
with which to pay their taxes. He thought it improper
to advance public funds for such a purpose, and there-
fore drew upon his own fortune. This is but one of
the many loans and gifts which Mr. Morris made from
his own store. He quietly and modestly assumed all
these responsibilities of his office, well convinced by ex-
perience that if he should let the public know of his
generous doings, many would appear to accuse him of
some selfish motive. He was called to all these expen-
sive official and semi-official obligations by a sense of
duty and pleasure. He neglected private trade for
$6000 a year, which was popularly supposed to be a
royal salary, but of which Morris wrote to Thomas Jef-
ferson — that chief of Democrats — with some of the calm
satire he so well knew how to employ: “A certain degree
of splendor is necessary to those who are clothed with

SENATOR MORRIS 217

the higher offices of the United States. I will venture
to say that without it those officers do not perform one
of the duties which they owe to their masters; and I
can say also from experience that a salary of $6000
does not exceed the expense of that officer. I speak
for my successor, or rather for my country. Neither the
powers nor emoluments of the office have sufficient
charms to keep me in it one hour after I can quit it.”

Such a sum was palpably inadequate to the office as
Mr. Morris administered it. It was his personal credit
that chiefly made him valuable above and beyond other
citizens as Superintendent of Finance, and a large factor
in his as in all men’s credit is the confidence that
appearances do so much to strengthen. His homes and
carriages, his sumptuous hospitality, his sanguine and in-
flexible temper, which had contributed to breed confidence
in his person in the first instance, must be maintained if
the public were not to lose their faith. The “splendor”
necessary to the office was not without its effect upon
the representatives of France stationed in Philadelphia,
whose reports were of so much weight in drawing forth
financial assistance from the King; it was not lost at home
upon those who had money to lend, —not even upon the
warmest patriots in the colonies, who very likely would
have thought Mr. Morris a less potent Financier if he had
lived in a modester way.

Nevertheless it was a democratic age, and not a few
complained of his wealth on the ground that it was some-
how ill got, though they like the rest no doubt would have

218 ROBERT’ MORRIS

had nothing at all to do with him as a Financier if they had
thought him a poor man. It was the budding season for
Republics. Hosts of radicals on the frontiers, and many
in the cities wanted some kind of direct government with
all the “checks and balances” eliminated. Multitudes
in France were preparing their minds for 1789, and found
in the American Revolution a promise of the general re-
lease of all Europe from princely despotism. The consti-
tution of Pennsylvania, contrived in 1776 by Franklin,
Thomas Paine, and a few less distinguished political men,
was the living example of a perfect government in the
eyes of many Frenchmen. Franklin and Voltaire were
mingling their gray locks in Paris to tumultuous public
applause. They were acclaimed as the precursors of a
new age when all men would be brothers, each the equal
of any other. The Americans, however, excepting a few,
were far too shrewd to give way to their sympathies for
an abstract political right, and were still celebrating the
birthday of the King of France with annually recurring
festivity. Portraits and busts of him and of his Queen
were found in almost every home. He was honored and
revered for his friendly interest in American liberty, even
by those who in a few years mentioned his name with
loathing, burned his figure in effigy, wore cockades and
danced about poles in the streets, drunk with enthusiasm
for the principles proclaimed by the French revolutionists.

As Morris, the merchant prince of Pennsylvania, like
Washington, the patrician planter of Virginia, and Hamil-
ton, the deep student and enthusiastic admirer of the

SENATOR MORRIS 219

English system of government, imbued with the con-
servative teachings of history, could feel no sympathy
for the ideals of the democrats before the French Revo- —
lution, they could be expected to acquire none in the
course of later events. The weak, impracticable, single-
chamber government in Pennsylvania merited distrust
from such a man as Morris, and he antagonized it very
cordially. He understood, as few others could, the
peculiar weakness of all the state governments in refer-
ence to the Confederation, and he was one of the
earliest and most ardent of American Federalists. He
was not moved in his convictions by the developments
in France as Franklin was in his simple-mindedness.
Fed at his age by the world’s flattery Franklin’s sympa-
thies made him a fair mark for the insidious philosophies
of France. Morris, like Washington, had accepted French
aid without thought of future obligation or sacrifice. It
was an alliance honorably sought, to be honorably treated
until the end of the war, and it meant no abatement in
any national ideal, no lingering debt beyond the loans
of money, to repay which no one had a tithe of the prac-
tical zeal of Mr. Morris, no debt that called us to take
up France’s cause in her future insurrections and foreign
wars to establish some universal standard of liberty.
Morris was a Federalist by ingrained conviction. His
English birth, it was charged, served in his case as in
Hamilton’s, to make him rather unsympathetic with demo-
crats. His wealth and his foreign business connections, it
was asserted, also contributed to his conservatism. What-

220 ROBERT ‘MORRIS

ever the element in his nature that kept him out of al-
liance with enthusiastic theorists, it was his experience,
as the Financier, which, more than anything else, per-
suaded him of the absolute need of a strong government.
From the moment he discovered, by practical test, that
the states would not contribute monies to the Con-
federation, and that Congress had no power to send
tax-gatherers directly to the people and compel them
to contribute to the common defence, he knew that
the government, established by the Articles, must give
way to a more vigorous system. Nothing could save it,
and he relied upon time and patriotism to convince the
people, as he was himself convinced, that the states
should be more firmly joined. He was a Federalist in
his view of the nation’s duty in funding the public debt
and in the repayment of the French and Dutch loans.
To George Olney, one of his receivers in New England,
Mr. Morris wrote: “* America is indebted to France and
to subjects of the United Netherlands. This debt is of
the United States, not of individual states, nor of private
citizens. The resort for payment, therefore, is to America
collectively, and the application must be to Congress as
the general representative. The duty to pay is absolute,
but the means can only be derived through the states. If
the states refuse, have Congress a right to compel? The
answer to this question decides whether we be one or
thirteen.”

“Whether we be one or thirteen” was the keynote of
Federalism, the demarking line between Federation and

SENATOR MORRIS 221

Confederation, between the German Bundesstaat and
Staatenbund. Morris’s position in this contest was not
open to any kind of public doubt. Of the Articles of
Confederation he very early in his administration ob-
served, “The inefficacy of that instrument is daily felt,
and the want of obligatory and coercive clauses on the
states will probably be productive of the most fatal
consequences.”

“That more power ought to be given to Congress,” he
wrote to General Greene in October, 1781, “is evident
now to many, and will probably become soon very ap-
parent to all. The disobedience of many states, and
the partial obedience of others, discontents every one of
them ; and that will, in itself, be a reason for enabling
the sovereign representative to exact a compliance with
its requisitions; but, as you justly observe, all these
things are in the womb of time, which can alone dis-
close the events we plague ourselves with guessing at.”
“Would to God,” he observed in another letter to his
friend Greene, “that the rulers of the several states
were as well convinced as you are how necessary it is
to vest more powers in Congress.” And again to George
Olney he poured out his fears and discouragements:
“Where all is to end God knows. But it seems to me
that one of the first effects must be to dissolve the Con-
federation. What will afterward follow, whether new
and better bond, or total and absolute anarchy, time, the
great arbiter of human institutions, must determine.”

On August 28, 1782, he wrote to Alexander Hamilton,

222 ROBERT ‘MORRIS

“A firm, wise, manly system of federal government is
what I once wished, what I now hope for, what I dare
not expect, but what I will not, despair of.”

Such was the attitude of this far-seeing, experienced
man of affairs, and his influence was of no little weight
in giving direction to subsequent events. He was no
longer Superintendent of the United States’ finances, or
the agent of their marine. He had made more enemies
than any other single man in public life up to that time,
because he had been intrusted with duties and had as-
sumed responsibilities greater than any other officer of
the government under the Confederation. He believed
in individual responsibility. He was convinced from his
practical experience in mercantile life, that to some one
man should be given large powers in order that the public
service should be promoted, and he was the first Federalist
to pay the penalty for his temerity. Hamilton’s day came
afterward. Washington was reserved for the savageries
of the next decade when he opposed an alliance with
France. Jay and Marshall had not yet made themselves
a mark for the furious hates of the democrats, and John
Adams, “His Rotundity, the Duke of Braintree,” upon
whom all the abuse of the time was concentrated until
he was driven back to Massachusetts and the last rem-
nants of the Federal party were crushed beneath a weight
of ribald ridicule, was still not in a place where he could
feel the full force of party antagonisms.

Morris, after withdrawing from an office in administer-
ing which he made so many malignant foes, again gave his

SENATOR MORRIS 223

attention actively to the business which he learned as a
boy, and in which his interest never waned. This was
the shipping trade. In November, 1783, he wrote to his
friend John Jay, “I am sending some ships to China in
order to encourage others in the adventurous pursuits of
commerce.” ! These vessels were well supplied with guns
for use in case of attack. One of them, the Hmpress of
China, is believed to have been the first ship ever sent from
the United States with a cargo for the Orient. “She has
opened new objects to all America,” wrote Mr. Morris to
Jay. ‘A mandarin signs a passport for all European
ships, directed to the commander of two of the Emperor’s
forts on the river of Canton, nearly in the following
words: ‘Permit this barbarian boat to pass. She has —
guns and—men, consequently can do the Emperor no
harm.’ If the government of America could concen-
trate the force of the country in any one point where
occasion required, I think our mandarins might grant
similar passports to the rest of the world.”

China at that period was full of romantic interest for
Americans. The American Philosophical Society, which
Franklin established, and of which he continued to be the
President until his death, even during his long absences
abroad, in the salutatory contained in the first volume of
its printed “ Transactions,” seriously expressed the hope
that America would in the fulness of time come to possess
much likeness to China in wealth, industry, and resources.
“Could we be so fortunate,” said the Philosophical

1 Jay’s Correspondence and Public Papers, Vol. III. p. 97.

224 ROBERT MORRIS

Society, “as to introduce the industry of the Chinese, their
arts of living and improvements in husbandry, as well as
their native plants, America might in time become as
populous as China, which is allowed to contain more inhab-
itants than any other country of the same extent in the
world.” While China’s civilization was a curious ideal
for the learned men of the United States to hold before
them, it was something of this same glamour for unknown
and curious places which attracted Mr. Morris to the East.
Still to-day many echo his belief that closer shipping con-
nections with China will “open new objects to all America,”
despite the fact that the real achievement there in more
than a century may be accounted disappointingly small.

In June, 1787, Morris despatched the ship Alliance,
equipped with ten twelve-pounders and sixty-five men
from the Delaware for China. This was the first “ out of
season ”’ passage ever effected by any vessel, either Ameri-
can or European. Robert Morris himself, with the assist-
ance of Gouverneur Morris, mapped out the route for the
captain before the ship’s departure. The course took her
south of the Cape of New Holland in order to avoid hos-
tile winds, and she arrived in Canton on December 22.
The commanders of all nationalities were greatly surprised
at the performance, the British Admiralty afterward
making inquiry as to the track of the ship.

The enemies of the Bank of North America, which was
peculiarly Mr. Morris’s own creation, had mustered
enough strength in the Pennsylvania Assembly in 1785 to
annul the charter granted it by the state government,

SENATOR.-MORRIS 225

for it had also been incorporated as a state institution.
Morris, therefore, became a candidate with his friends,
Thomas Fitzsimmons and George Clymer, for seats in
the Assembly to obtain the renewal of the grant of
authority to the financial establishment which had played
so notable a part in facilitating the pecuniary operations
of the government during the war. The attempt did
not at first succeed, but on a second trial they were
more fortunate. Although the bank’s doors had never
closed, the validity of Congress’s grant of authority was
open to doubt, and it was restored to its place in public
confidence under a state charter largely because of Morris’s
earnest and persuasive eloquence.

In spite of the snarling opposition of elements, which
regarded Morris as an aristocrat with leanings toward a
system of government that would deprive men of some of
their necessary liberties, he excited a considerable influence
in Pennsylvania politics. His services had been too dis-
tinguished for any one to leave his claims to consideration
entirely out of account. Like Washington and Franklin
he was greater than all his enemies. His record made his
place secure. His rugged force, his sound sense, and his
inflexible determination constituted him a friend to be
sought and a foe to be feared; and as the failures of the
Pennsylvania state government, and the government by
Congress, under the Articles, became more and more
manifest, the people turned to him and to the members of
his party for advice, as to the way out of their multiplied
difficulties.

Q

,

226 ROBERT MORRIS

A constitutional convention, which should establish a
government for the United States strong enough to
enforce popular obedience and respect, was the child of
Morris’s desire. There was no thought of leaving him out
of the convention, when the time was ripe for calling it
together. On December 30, 1786, the Pennsylvania As-
sembly selected seven citizens to represent the state in the
work of framing and adopting a new instrument of govern-
ment, — Robert Morris, Thomas Mifflin, George Clymer,
Thomas Fitzsimmons, Jared Ingersoll, James Wilson, and
Gouverneur Morris. Benjamin Franklin, who had but
lately returned from his long term of residence in France,
then President or Governor of the state, was added to the
delegation on March 28, 1787. Morris, by reason of his
business training, was always punctual in the fulfilment of
engagements. When bodies of which he was a member
had an appointed meeting-time, he performed his part well,
and if no quorum was in attendance at the opening hour,
it was not through his personal neglect. The members of
the Federal Convention were slow in putting in their ap-
pearance on that day in May, 1787, when they were invited
to assemble. No ceremony, and not much enthusiasm or
zeal, marked the first days of this movement to establish
the American Republic on more secure foundations. It
was May 25 before a quorum arrived in town and gathered
in the State House, ready to transact the most important
business which has ever fallen to the lot of any body of
public men in America. On that day, Pennsylvania,
within whose territorial precincts the convention met, con-

AYVYAIT ADNITION ANAHDATIV
‘elueATAsuueg Jo Aya100g [vorx04StFT 9} FO SUOTIDET[OH 94} UI [VUIsIIG °
70470 OT} 0} podouror ATrUMT ST pUe STILOT “AP, OpTTEAL “HOPSULYSUM JUOPISoTg JO [

}091}9 YIXIG FO Iou100 oy} 48 UOIsUeUT
esodsip oy3 4% poov[d svar 4J9[ 94} WO VSnoy oT,

‘VIHdUTHAVTINd ‘LAaULS ‘LANAVW MON ‘HOTA NI SHUSNOH SINYOW OML AHL

SENATOR MORRIS 227

tributed only four of her eight delegates, these being Rob-
ert Morris, Gouverneur Morris, Fitzsimmons, and Wilson.
It was commonly agreed, long before the convention met,
that Washington should be its presiding officer, and it was
also planned that Dr. Franklin should make the nominat-

ing speech, as he alone of all the members could be

regarded as a competitor for the President’s chair. How-
ever, Franklin’s ills now bore upon him heavily, and he
was prevented from attending at this session because of
the state of the weather. Under these circumstances, the
task seemed naturally to fall to Robert Morris, both
because he was a Pennsylvanian, and because of the signal
place he had won for himself asa patriot. He nominated
the late commander of the American armies in behalf of
himself and the state of Pennsylvania. Washington was
elected by ballot, by a unanimous vote, and Robert Morris
and John Rutledge of South Carolina, walking on either
side, conducted the President to the chair.!

Morris, however, took no prominent part in the debates
of the convention. “The science of law,” he declared,
“is entirely out of my line.” He was a man fully sensible
of his own limitations, but he was a regular attendant at
the sessions, and his influence and vote were always cast
on the side of federal measures.

While his old assistant and his dear friend Gouverneur
Morris who voiced his sentiments so well was frequently

1 *¢ The. Papers of James Madison being his Correspondence and his

Reports of Debates in the Federal Convention,’ edited by Henry D.
Gilpin, Vol. II. p. 722.

‘
228 ROBERT MORRIS

a speaker, Madison, in his report of the meetings, makes
record of Robert Morris rising to his feet but once dur-
ing the entire convention. This activity was evidenced
in connection with an unimportant matter. The occa-
sion was June 25, when Morris seconded the motion of
George Read of Delaware, that senators of the United
States should continue to hold their offices “during good
behavior.” If all the facts were known, it would be
found that Robert Morris was a factor of more conse-
quence than casually appears. His advice which was
freely given in conversation was sound. His position
caused him to be heard with respect by members more
familiar with the law and more forceful in public speech.
His place of authority in his own delegation, and his
friendship with Washington, Hamilton, Gouverneur
Morris, and the leading figures in the convention, made
his influence a strong undercurrent in favor of a whole-
some system of Federalism. William Pierce, a delegate
from Georgia, wrote of Mr. Morris while the convention
was in session: “He has an understanding equal to any
public object, and possesses an energy of mind that few
men can boast of. Although he is not learned, yet he
is as great as those who are. I am told that when he
speaks in the Assembly of Pennsylvania, he bears down
all before him.” A man who impressed the other dele-
gates in this wise, even when he held his tongue in awe
of the greater wisdom assembled about him, was not
without some part, silent though it may have been, in
placing a personal stamp upon the Constitution.

SENATOR MORRIS 229

When the document was signed, and the necessary
number of states had ratified it, no one rejoiced more
sincerely than the late Financier of the Revolution. The
Pennsylvania Assembly promptly, in October, 1788, chose
Robert Morris of Philadelphia and William Maclay of
Harrisburg to represent the state in the United States
Senate. The capital of the new government was at first
located in New York City, and although it was not long
in returning to Philadelphia, thither Mr. Morris and
the other members of the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives must repair to perform their first important
duty which was to open and count the votes for Presi-
dent and Vice-President of the United States. The date
of meeting of the new Congress was fixed for the first
Monday in March (March 4), 1789, but the Senators
and Representatives were not yet in the city. They had
inherited some of the sloth of the old government. A
few had arrived bringing tales about the wretched con-
dition of the roads, and the rivers which were full of
floating cakes of ice. Long detours must be made to get
free of the dangerous floes. To guarantee arrival at a
definite place at a certain time was no easy matter when
the streams were not bridged, and when roads were by
turns snowbanks, bottomless pits of mud, and again when
the frosts came frozen sloughs over which the heavy stage
wagons bumped their passengers into semi-insensibility.

But if the truth were known, the members had not
left their homes in season. They were deficient in zeal,
and an appreciation of the need of punctuality at a time
:
230 ROBERT MORRIS

when these homely virtues were of some political moment.
Robert Morris, true to his own record on such occasions,
was present on the first meeting day. He arrived in
New York at seven o’clock on the morning of March 4.
He wrote home: “ We met the members that are now
in this city from the other states, opened the two houses
by entering on the minutes the names of those who ap-
peared and adjourned until to-morrow at eleven o’clock.
There are only eight Senators and thirteen Assembly-
men, and before we can proceed to business, there must
be twelve Senators and thirty members of Assembly.”
Morris, and his senatorial colleagues who had come to
town, chafed under the delay. They were compelled to
wait until April 6, nearly five weeks, when the twelfth
member, Richard Henry Lee, arrived from Virginia. He
related that he had consumed thirty-four days on his
way from Baltimore, but with him in hand, the Senate
had a quorum of members. As the House had succeeded
in organizing a few days before, there was nothing now to
prevent Congress from opening and canvassing the elect-
oral votes. It was found that every vote, sixty-nine in
all, had been cast for George Washington, who thereby
became President, while thirty-four were cast for John
Adams, who, having received the second highest number
of ballots became Vice-President. Messengers were de-
spatched post haste, one to the Old Dominion and the
other to Massachusetts, to apprise the successful candi-
dates of their election. Massachusetts was not far away
and John Adams was soon brought down from Braintree

SENATOR MORRIS 231

to take his place as the presiding officer of the Senate.
The trip to Virginia was a more difficult and more im-
portant mission. Charles Thomson, the Secretary of
Congress, to whom this task was committed, by hard
riding, reached the Washington plantation in a week,
and waiting but a little while for the distinguished Presi-
dent-elect to make his final plans for the leaving, they
promptly set off together on the triumphal journey north-
ward, one of the most memorable that ever took place
on American soil.

Through laurel arches, among hurrahing crowds of
people, who lined the streets and filled the windows of the
houses, with songs, parading, the discharge of artillery,
the pealing of church bells, and the strewing of flowers,
the new President pursued his way from Mount Vernon
to Alexandria, to Georgetown, to Baltimore, to Wil-
mington, to Philadelphia, and on through Trenton,
Princeton, New Brunswick, and Elizabethtown to New
York City. No Roman conqueror ever had such a
triumphal march. Sometimes in his carriage and some-
times on horseback, at the head of a long line of troopers
and citizens, he passed from town to town, to found a
government in a land which sadly needed one. Gov-
ernors, mayors, aldermen, and the principal men of
affairs travelled miles to meet him, and went miles with
him on his way, to give him safe convoy to the next
body of welcoming delegates. Up betimes, like a good
Virginia husbandman, he was nearly always in move-
ment a little after five o’clock in the morning. Yet

'

232 ROBERT MORRIS

with all his diligence, so tedious were the methods of
travel that, leaving Mount Vernon on a Thursday morn-
ing, he was obliged to spend seven nights on the way,
one of them at the High Street home of Robert Morris,
who had come on from New York to welcome the Presi-
dent to Pennsylvania soil. Chaplets falling on his head
as he rode under evergreen arches in Philadelphia, sonatas
sung to him by fair women at Trenton, fine dinners, late
suppers, and social attentions of all kinds did not prevent
his final coming to Elizabethtown Point where an elegant
state barge awaited him, and thirteen pilots, dressed to
rival the Venetian gondoliers, carried him, and the dis-
tinguished party of public men who accompanied him and
who had come out to greet him, out the Kill von Kull and
up to the landing stage in New York. The boat could
scarcely find a free way among the gayly decorated craft
in the harbor. Odes were sung by trained choristers.
Washington could hardly step ashore for the crowds of
people who pressed down to the water’s brink. The
citizens hurrahed, the ladies at the windows waved
their handkerchiefs as he was escorted to the new home
which had just been hired for him in Cherry Street.

It was Morris again who played a prominent part in
the reception of Lady Washington. She could not com-
plete her plans to leave Mount Vernon with the Presi-
dent, and followed him to New York a month later.
On Thursday, May 21, 1789, an express rider reached
Philadelphia with the news that Mrs. Washington with
her grandchildren Eleanor and George Washington

SENATOR MORRIS 233

Parke Custis, on their way north, would breakfast at
Chester the next morning, whereupon two troops of
Light Horse, the Governor, and a number of gentlemen
of prominence in the city, proceeded ten miles south to
meet her. Mrs. Morris, who had not yet joined the
Senator in New York, with several ladies in carriages,
took their places in the cavalcade near Darby, and the
entire party proceeded to Gray’s Gardens where an
“elegant cold luncheon” was served.! Seventy-nine
ladies and gentlemen partook of the feast. The viands
were eaten with liberal draughts of wine, and on the
bill of expenses the guests are charged with having
drunk ten bottles of Madeira, forty-five bowls of punch,
ten bottles of American porter, two bottles of claret, one
bottle of champagne, one bottle of Taunton ale, and two
bottles of crab cider.

Lady Washington and the children were conducted
to the Morris home amid popular cheers, bell ringing,
and thirteen peals of artillery. They remained as Mrs.
Morris’s guests until the next morning when they and
their hostess all together set out for New York with an
escort of horse, where they arrived on Wednesday. They
were met at Elizabethtown Point by the President and
Mr. Morris, crossing to Peck’s Slip in the famous Presi-
dential barge which was rowed by “thirteen eminent
pilots” who were dressed in immaculate white uni-
forms. Such pomp and panoply made democrats, who
had no share in these ceremonies, deeply furious.

1 Pa. Mag. Vol. XXIV.

’

234 ROBERT MORRIS

No men could well be more different than were the
Senators from Pennsylvania. Morris was aristocratic
and punctilious as to social forms. He was a strong
Federalist, the coadjutor of those who concerned them-
selves that the government should be established on
lasting foundations. He was above the local attach-
ments and petty prejudices, which made of others
the mere representatives of the small districts they dwelt
in when at home. He had travelled, experienced, and
seen, and his whole training and disposition made him
more than a citizen of Philadelphia or Pennsylvania.
He was a citizen of the new United States. On the
other hand, Maclay, who in the division of seats by
lot had drawn the short term, was, if we judge him by
his diary, a provincial Scotch frontiersman. He went
to the Senate to represent Maclayville, which is now
Harrisburg. He was a tattling, faultfinding person of
ponderous conceit. He alone was entirely righteous.
He has been called the original democrat, his activity
in this behalf having antedated Jefferson’s, who was
still in Europe. He was without the polish or reason-
ableness of Jefferson; and while his criticisms of men
and measures sprang undoubtedly from innate disre-
spect of strong government and of all kinds of ostenta-
tion and form, the chief impression we receive of him
is that he had a mean and censorious mind. Morris
disagreed with him on almost every subject which came
up in the Senate. He gave him little of his confidence,
and would certainly have favored him with still less,

SENATOR MORRIS 935

had he known that the substance of each conversation
was to be conveyed to the pages of a diary, after filter-
ing through an uncharitable brain. Even Philadelphia
was too far away from Harrisburg for Mr. Maclay to
take personal interest in the city, and the chief object
of his striving seems to have been to carry the capital
of the United States to the Susquehanna River.
Neither Washington, nor Morris, nor Hamilton, nor any
one, no matter what his character, intelligence, or ser-
vice, was spared from ribald attack.

Both of Pennsylvania’s senators were active in the
discussions of the first session of the Senate, at this
time a body scarcely larger than a committee in which
members spoke informally without attempt at oratorical
effect. John Adams, who sat in a chair at one end of
the hall to preside over the meetings, was the object of
peculiar suspicion and distrust by such democrats as
Maclay. He was accused of monarchical tendencies as
he ever was by this faction. They suspected him of
ambitions to become the American King. “I have
really often looked at him with surprise mingled with
contempt when he is in the chair, and no business is
before the Senate,’ writes Maclay. “Instead of that
sedate, easy air which I would have him possess, he
will look on one side, then on the other, then down
on the knees of his breeches, then dimple his visage
with the most silly kind of half smile which I cannot
well express in English. The Scotch-Irish have a
word that fits it exactly —smudging. God forgive me

236 ROBERT MORRIS

for the vile thought, but I cannot help thinking of a
monkey just put into breeches, when I see him betray
such evident marks of self-conceit.” 4

It was with this man that Morris must reckon as his
colleague in the United States Senate, and they were an
ill-assorted couple indeed. At first, respectful to Morris,
supporting him in his measures, his attitude changed to
dislike, and later to unconcealed mistrust. Maclay took
sides with those who still held over Morris his unsettled
accounts, while chairman of the Secret Committee, in the
Continental Congress. There was an open rupture on
the capital question, Maclay using his influence, though
it must have been slight, in favor of the Susquehanna as
a site for the Federal district. Morris was accused of a
desire to locate the seat of government at the Falls of the
Delaware, near Trenton, where he owned large tracts of
land. How far his ambitions led him in that direction
was matter of knowledge chiefly to his enemies, for he
was as eloquent a representative of the claims of German-
town as of the more northern site. In a rather magnilo-
quent way he offered $100,000 in the name of the state of
Pennsylvania, toward defraying the expense of erecting
a capitol, if Congress would fix the seat of government
at Germantown. When taken to task by his colleague
from Harrisburg, and called upon to give his authority
for so generously pledging state funds, he character-
istically declared that if Pennsylvania would not con-
tribute the sum, he would collect it himself. He was

1 Journal of William Maclay, p. 30.

SENATOR MORRIS Pani |

never to be outdone by those who questioned his ability
to make good a financial promise, and now, as during
the Revolution, in public, as in private life, his magna-
nimity deeply impressed the popular mind.

It was well understood that Morris had been a power-
ful factor to make Hamilton the first Secretary of the
Treasury. More than one account is at hand to show
that President Washington consulted the eminent Finan-
cier, as to the proper disposition of this high post. No
one understood better than Morris how important it was
that the Treasury should be presided over by a man of
unquestioned soundness of view. No one knew better
than he the difficulties of the position, or the bitter en-
mities which a businesslike administration of the office
would evoke. Washington had selected Morris for this
portfolio. ‘“ After your invaluable services as Financier
of the Revolution, no one can pretend to contest the
office of Secretary of the Treasury with you,” he said.1
But Morris had been Financier quite long enough, and
while he knew that under the new Constitution, which
gave the Continent a definite income, the chief of the
Treasury Department would find that his lines were cast
in pleasanter places, he also knew that his own unpop-
ularity, because of his former energetic efforts to make
the states pay their just dues, would disqualify him for
competently serving the new government in this office.
He declined the proffered post on the ground that his
private affairs would prevent such close attention to the

1 Custis’s ‘‘ Recollections.”

:
238 ROBERT MORRIS

public interest, but recommended Alexander Hamilton.
While Washington always sincerely admired and trusted
Hamilton, he had not been in so good a position as Mor-
ris to observe, and therefore could not feel so certain, that
the young barrister, who had carried himself so brilliantly
in the Constitutional Convention, would measure up to
all the requirements as a Financier. But with Morris’s
assurances, the Treasury fell into hands in whose manage-
ment he knew it would be perfectly safe. Hamilton,
having always been Morris’s friendly and valued adviser
on financial questions during the Revolution, the latter
now returned the courtesy. He gave his full and unre-
served support to the new Secretary. Together they
worked out the funding scheme for the assumption of
the state debts, to carry which they were alleged to have
bargained away the capital. A sound measure of finance
was more to such minds as theirs than the location of the
seat of government. It was first necessary to have a
government which the people of America and the world
at large could honor and respect before it was a very
great matter where its public buildings should be situated.

Morris and Hamilton together worked out a tariff
bill. But for the influence of the Senator from Penn-
sylvania the measure, important because it would pro-
vide the national government with ample revenues and
because it had protective features of utility in the devel-
opment of the country’s industries, could not have passed
Congress in a form which would have commended it to
the Secretary of the Treasury. If the science of law was

ap

SENATOR MORRIS 239

entirely out of Morris’s line, in business and finance,
experience had made him a past-master. If he sat in
silence in the Constitutional Convention, it was not so
in the Senate of the United States where he spoke fre-
quently, vigorously, and effectively. In the progress of
the debate on the tariff he was constantly alert. He was
held to have superior knowledge concerning economic
conditions in all parts of the country. He was an ex-
traordinary authority on imports and exports. He had a
more intimate acquaintance with the commerce of Penn-
sylvania than any other man in that state, and he was a
powerful factor in fixing the rates of duty in the first
American tariff law. During these debates, Morris was
particularly active in repelling the attack of New Eng-
land and the South which, while he was Superintendent
of Finance, had long charged him with seeking favors
for Pennsylvania at their expense. They now renewed
their accusations but gained amazingly little by their
angry argunients. Morris, who, when he was aroused,
spoke with much natural fluency, in these matters spoke
also from positive knowledge. Maclay watched his col-
league during these discussions with greater sympathy
than was his wont. “Mr. Morris spoke with more vio-
lence than usual,” he once remarks, and again, as a New
Englander was discharging his last round, Maclay, looking
over at his fellow-Pennsylvanian, “could see his nostrils
widen and his nose flatten like the head of a viper.”
Waiting for the ripe moment, he “clearly and conclu-
sively took his enemies to task.”

240 ROBERT MORRIS

All witnesses agree that Robert Morris was a stupen-
dous political force in Washington’s administration, and
his influence did not decrease, when, in December, 1790,
the capital was removed to Philadelphia where he re-
sumed his princely entertainment of public men, sur-
rendering his own home on Market Street to Washington,
and becoming the President’s most intimate friend and
closest companion.

Jefferson, and the members of the French party, accused
Hamilton and Morris, and afterward Washington himself,
of every variety of political dishonesty. ‘While our
government was still in its infant state,” writes Jefferson,
“it enabled Hamilton so to strengthen himself by corrupt
services to many that he could afterward carry his bank
scheme and every measure he proposed in defiance of
all opposition ; in fact it was a principal ground whereon
was reared up that speculating phalanx in and out of
Congress which has since been able to give laws to change
the political complexion of the United States.”

Genet, the agent of the French Convention, who came
to the United States to set the country aflame for the
principles of the Revolution, was triumphantly received
by many classes of the people. Encouraged by the demon-
strations of the populace, the French Commissioner
inaugurated a course of impudent action which led to
his expulsion from the country. Before he came he
was admonished by his advisers that he must place his
contracts in the hands of Robert Morris if he desired

1 Jefferson’s Writings, Vol. VI. p. 174.

SENATOR MORRIS 241

his mission to succeed, a suggestion of infamous dealings
on the part of the Senator of Pennsylvania, which at the
same time gives a flattering view of the power he is held
to have had in Washington’s government. On July 31,
1793, Genet wrote home to the French Minister of
Foreign Affairs : —

“Jefferson, Secretary of State, appeared to me in the
beginning better disposed to second our views. He gave
me some useful ideas regarding the men in office, and
did not conceal from me that Senator Morris and the
Secretary of the Treasury, Hamilton, attached to the
interests of England, exerted the greatest influence
on the mind of the President, and it was only with the
greatest difficulty that he counteracted their efforts.” }

They were these influences which soon sent Genet back
to France when his zeal outran the bounds of public
propriety; these influences, too, which led to Jefferson’s
retirement from Washington’s cabinet, to a cleft of public
opinion that produced a strong opposition party, being
responsible in the ripeness of time for the election of
Jefferson to the Presidency and the ruin of the entire
Federalist organization as a future force in American
politics.

As the time came for Mr. Morris’s term in the Senate
to end, he announced his determination to withdraw from
public life. He was waited upon by members of both
houses of the Pennsylvania legislature who assured him
that he would receive a unanimous vote for a second

1 Jefferson’s Writings, Vol. I. p. 246.

ae + “he ee Renate, hentia I am snes at the scene life 4

oa
ar

so ‘mine are so extensive that the whole of my time is requi-
site to that object.” He had served the state and the

when a man of business should settle his affairs, and

nation with distinction for six years in the United States
Senate. He now left the service, and this was his last
public post.

:
Ps

%,

,

i]

Ee ae

CHAPTER VII
HIS ENEMIES

Few men who reach any height of public station suc-
ceed in satisfying every one, however studiously they aim
to make their services acceptable to the various elements
which must be reckoned with in a democracy. Morris
did not attempt the task. His object was not popularity.
Trimming to suit the weather and wind was not in his
line, and early in his public career he made enemies who
stayed with him until the end. He was a man of action,
preéminently. His mind was prolific of great schemes
in the working out of which he desired not too much
public advice. As a business man he was accustomed
to make his own decisions promptly, and to put his plans
into execution on his own initiative, and this habit clung
to him in a peculiar degree as Superintendent of Finance.
In March, 1783, Reed wrote to General Greene, “Mr.
Morris has been for a long time the dominus factotum,
whose dictates none dare oppose, and from whose decisions
lay no appeal; he has, in fact, exercised the power really
of the three great departments, and Congress have only
had to give their fiat to his mandates.”* So his indepen-
dent public course appeared to many people. Mr. Morris

1 Reed’s Reed, Vol. Il. p. 393.
244 ROBERT MORRIS

had specified, however, before he took the Superintend-
ency that he should have larger powers than Congress
was at first willing to grant. He had not sought the
privilege of financing the Revolution, and he made such
terms as in his belief would best conduce to the perform-
ance of the duties which were to be imposed upon him.
He knew the futility of any longer trying to conduct
the government and prosecute the war with multi-headed
boards in which numbers of men consumed their energies
in discussion inside a committee room, and he was the
most outspoken advocate, the boldest and most success-
ful example, of another policy in public management.
Morris took the abuse which his methods and measures
invited with much fortitude. By the time he had become
Financier experience had steeled him for almost any antip-
athy. He was philosophic, and for the most part indif-
ferent to attack, although the virulence of his enemies
sometimes assumed such forms that he felt their stinging
thrusts very keenly. He had passed through a season
of trial early in the war as a committeeman exercising
large powers in Congress. It was a time of unusual
ignorance and astounding bitterness. Not only were
the Tories eager to plant fires under good Whigs, but
the Whig party itself developed black characters like
Arthur Lee, renegades like Thomas Paine, whom Franklin
brought to America in order to utilize his sharp quill
which was soon put to nasty work excoriating American
patriots, and the relentless partisans of General Greene.
There were besides hosts of men on the Pennsylvania

HIS ENEMIES 245

frontiers, in Philadelphia and in all parts of the colonies,
who, under guise of being democrats and friends of
man, were antagonized by Morris’s wealth, position,
power, and policies. They were eager to find in him
the cause of their poverty and the general scarcity of
money. While they paid no taxes and gave him no
revenues, they were quite certain that he was making
himself rich out of the public service. The disorders
in the currency were laid at his door. When he asked
for money at home, he was told that he should seek it
in France. When he succeeded in placing a loan in
France, he was blamed because it was not larger. He
was bitterly assailed for failure to give money which he
did not possess to General Greene, whose men were
fighting in their naked skins on Southern battle-fields,
for not paying old debts, for not relieving the wants and
distresses of wounded and impoverished Continental
officers and soldiers, and was held generally accountable
for financial evils over which he had no particle of con-
trol. For what reason would a merchant hold office,
argued his enemies, if not to trade in military supplies,
to use knowledge gained in his public capacity to line
his own pockets by discounting government paper, “cor-
nering” merchandise, and sending forth privateers? It
was charged that at the beginning of the war he had
been a bankrupt, and that in a few years he had become
a rich man. Neither thing is true. He was not bank-
rupt before the war, nor was he particularly rich when
the war ended, as was disclosed by later events.

‘
246 ROBERT MORRIS

The attacks upon Mr. Morris began, as we have seen,
while he was a member of Congress, intrusted with
large powers respecting the navy and the secret service.
Considerable sums of money then passed through his
hands. He was concerned in large contracts both for
the state of Pennsylvania and the Continent, and through
his partisan activity in Pennsylvania politics he suc-
ceeded in getting the ill-will of many small men. They
attacked him mercilessly as an engrosser, but Morris
went on his way undisturbed by such outbursts. He
pitied ignorance and hated wicked hearts, but his usual
response was an appearance of indifference. The ugly
word stung for a moment, but it did not rankle in his
memory. No criticism turned him from his way once he
had made certain that he was on the right course. There
is a supercilious note in this letter to a friend in Decem-
ber, 1780, which illustrates the spirit that supported him
while under fire: “After serving my country in various
public stations for upwards of four years, my routine
in Congress was finished, and no sooner was I out than
envious and malicious men began to attack my character.
But my services were so universally known and my
integrity so clearly proved, I have, thank God, been able
to look down with contempt on those that have en-
deavored to injure me.”

Taking counsel of experience, Mr. Morris, when he
became Superintendent of Finance, insisted that his
accounts should be regularly inspected by a committee
of Congress. He made the same request respecting the

HIS ENEMIES 247

Agency of Marine, and, upon resigning his offices in 1784,
he presented an itemized report of his transactions, which
by its fulness was always a complete refutation of
charges affecting his administration during that period.
On June 12, 1782, he writes in his Diary: “On coming
to the office I found the Honorable Mr. Madison, and
gave him my opinion in favor of having committees
appointed twice a year to examine into the management
of this and other great offices, as nothing will be done
more agreeable to me than to lay the whole of my pro-
ceedings and management before Congress as frequently
as it is practicable, from a conviction that the more they
know of my proceedings the more they will be con-
vinced of my constant desire and exertions to promote
the honor and interest of the United States.”

The accounts of both the Finance and Marine offices
were rather regularly, if at times perfunctorily, investi-
gated. Mr. Morris gave the committeemen access to his
books very cheerfully. The most zealous members of
the committee were oftentimes his personal enemies.
They were frequently offensive and open in their hos-
tility to him. Such men as Lee came to the office
to examine the books again and again when other mem-
bers did not appear, and when therefore no business
could be transacted. On these occasions the Financier
entertained him with pleasant conversation, although he
well knew the animus of the visits. To Lee’s dogging
pursuit, when it at last had become no longer mortally
tolerable, Mr. Morris wrote in October, 1783, respecting

248 ROBERT MORRIS

a point in dispute, “I take the liberty to suggest that
the Superintendent of Finance has no official knowledge
of the private concerns of Mr. Robert Morris, and there-
fore cannot furnish information to the committee.”

The Financier encountered much bitter enmity in the
later years of his administration from the partisans of
General Greene, who commanded the regiments sent
south to protect Georgia and the Carolinas from the
English army, which was landed there to lay waste to
those provinces. The struggle to stir up strife between
Morris and Greene, who were the warmest personal
friends of many years’ standing, was of astonishing
warmth. Newspaper writers and pamphleteers worked
industriously to promote this fruitless discussion. The
sufferings of the Southern soldiers were very great. All
the generals were sorely pressed for supplies for their
troops, but it is undeniable that Greene’s regiments
were in a more pitiable condition than the rest. They
actually lacked clothing to cover their backs and for
food were compelled to ravage the country. Morris
would not honor Greene’s drafts—he could honor no
man’s drafts—and it was alleged had sent a secret
agent to the South with instructions to give the General
money, but only in case of the direst necessity. This
agent was fancifully pictured as a mysterious guardian
angel who came to succor when the night was blackest.!
Back of this romance was a feeling, however, that Morris
would not trust Greene. He therefore had despatched

1 Fisher’s ‘‘ Revolutionary Reminiscences.”’

HIS ENEMIES 249

a spy to watch over the General’s movements and give
him small sums from time to time when other resources
failed, as a father would a prodigal son. The truth
about the whole unpleasant dispute is that the secret
agent was no other person than George Abbott Hall,
the receiver of Continental taxes for South Carolina.
He carried some money with him from Philadelphia to
buy indigo, rice, and skins, and was authorized to give
financial assistance to Greene when it was necessary.
There was little enough money for Washington’s army
or for any public purpose, and Morris was obliged to
husband his meagre resources, bestowing only where and
when he must. Hall, instead of having money to dis-
tribute, was himself drawn upon by Mr. Morris in press-
ing emergencies. General Greene knew the unhappy
facts and retained his confidence in the Superintendent
of Finance throughout this acrimonious public discussion
which raged at furious heat between the partisans of
the two men.

But Morris was dishonest because he was rich and
because he continued in private business, his enemies
concluded, and many times he was compelled to make
statements in denial of these prodding charges. On
May 1, 1782, he wrote that he had “totally quitted com-
merce and commercial projects. By accepting the
office I now hold,” he added, “I was obliged to neglect
my own private affairs. I have made no speculation in
consequence of my office, and instead of being enriched
I am poorer this day than I was a year ago.” Again

250 ROBERT MORRIS

he wrote, “I have found it absolutely necessary to dis-
card all attention to private business, and I have put it
into other hands.”

Of a peculiarly sanguine temperament and unfailing
self-possession, his foes seldom had the satisfaction of
seeing him writhe as they hurled their javelins at him
from all sides. To the Virginians who bitterly reviled
him for administering his office for the particular
advantage of Pennsylvania, drawing their currency away
from them that it might be more abundant in Philadel-
phia, he wrote on June 4, 1782: —

“TI am very indifferent to the intended attacks on
my measures. If those ingenious gentlemen can point
out such as are more eligible to the public good, I am
ready to pursue them or to give the opportunity of
doing it to themselves, provided they can prevail on
America to trust them with my office which I wish
were placed in any other safe hands.”

To Mr. Comfort Sands, Morris wrote in 1782:—

“As to what you tell me of reports circulating to
my prejudice, depend on it, they give me no kind of
concern. All my transactions are open, and I expect
to give my country the pleasure of seeing that the
expenditures are far more moderate than they have
reason to expect. In the meantime any abuse or mis-
representation which particular persons may indulge
themselves in, I consider as the necessary trappings of
office, and if they can obtain forgiveness from their
country, they will always have mine most freely.”

HIS ENEMIES | 251

To Colonel Tilghman he continued observations,
born of the same mood: “I am not much concerned
about the opinions of such men, while I have in my
favor the voice of the wise and the good, added to the
fair testimony of an approving conscience.”

To the governors of the various states, in July, 1783,
in alluding to the purposes and motives of those who
opposed his measures, Mr. Morris wrote: “I might also
appeal to the clamors against me for opposing claims I
could not properly comply with. Long have I been
the object of enmities derived from that origin. I have
therefore the right to consider such clamors, and such
enmities as the confession and the evidence of my care
and attentions.”

At other times, Mr. Morris assumed the role of a
public adviser. “Let it be remembered,” he remarks,
“that the country which will not support faithful ser-
vants can never be faithfully served.” Again he wrote
to a fellow-sufferer, Ezekiel Cornell: “I am not ignorant
that many people employ themselves in defaming men
whom they do not know and measures which they do not
understand. To such illiberal characters, and to all which
they can write or speak, the best answer is to act well.”

But under some particularly vicious attacks Morris
was far less equable. He lost his temper, and, while he
did not engage in public discussions to prove his hon-
esty, he poured out his soul in his Diary. A Mr.
Pierce called at the Office of Finance to say that some
officers of the Pennsylvania line were publicly declar-

‘
252 ROBERT MORRIS

ing that they had been paid in notes, which were not
of face value. The Superintendent, according to the
allegation, had directed a broker to buy up the paper
as soon as the necessities of the soldiers required them
to part with it, and by this process $30,000 had been
gained by the United States, or by persons privy to
the transaction. Upon hearing this report, Mr. Morris
wrote in his Diary: “I requested him [Pierce] to wait
on those officers, and urge them to search into the
bottom of any information they had on that subject,
and pursue every trace they could find leading to such
transactions in order that they may prove my guilt or
innocence, and I promised that if I ever did buy one
single note either for public or private account, either
directly or indirectly by myself or by means of others,
I will agree to sacrifice everything that is dear and
valuable to man. Never was a more malignant and
false slander invented.”

Morris was again touched to the quick on March 17,
1783. He writes on that date in his Diary: “This day
appeared a virulent attack on my public and private
character, signed ‘Lucius,’ in the Freeman’s Journal, re-
plete with the most infamous falsehoods and assertions
without the least shadow of truth to support them and
insinuations as base and infamous as envy and malig-
nancy could suggest. JI think I know the author, and
if my conjecture is right, he is of that baneful character
which brings dishonor to those whom he means to be-
friend and the reverse to whom he opposes.”

HIS ENEMIES 253

The cause of this outburst was amply provoking. The
attack, which appeared in the form of a letter “To Robert
Morris, Esq.,” was instigated by the Financier’s abrupt
communication to Congress tendering his resignation. He
was reminded that when he assumed office, he expressly
stipulated that he should have no concern with the old
debts of the Continent. “That your sovereign will
should be received as law,” wrote Lucius, “that submis-
sion to your absolute dictation should be the only rule of
government, are manifestly your sentiments, so much has
a sudden and enormous acquisition of wealth, by specu-
lating on the distresses of the war, pampered your pride
and inebriated your understanding. ... Perhaps it will
be found that all this boast of honesty and patriotism is
prompted solely by the interest you and your friends have
in these certificates, not as original possessors, but as
purchasers from the distressed possessors at an immense
depreciation.”

A few days later this savage writer returned to the
attack in language still more bitter. Then he said:
“Your letter contains little else but insolent ostentation
of your own importance. You produce yourself as the
Atlas on which the United States entirely rest. Your
time, property, and domestic bliss are all sacrificed to
the salvation of the public. Is, then, the mere superin-
tendence of our finances with an assistant and a legion
of clerks, at ten paces from your family, so mighty a
sacrifice of time —is daily rioting in Asiatic luxury at
festive boards so fatal to domestic bliss — are $8000 a year

254 ROBERT MORRIS

for your salary — is the full enjoyment of your mercantile
connections with the immense advantages over all other
merchants which your office gives to you and your part-
ners, such puny emoluments as to render the possession
of them so glaring a sacrifice of your property? Is the
absolute direction of the finances of America and of its
marine; is the sovereign control over the multitudes em-
ployed in these departments; is the immediate patronage
of the most lucrative appointments in the United States
to the amount of $50,000 a year so poor a reward for
your financiering abilities ?— abilities so transcendent that
in one year they have reduced us to irrecoverable distress.
In fine, Sir, is not the disbursement of eight millions
annually in contracts, etc.; is not the profit and influence
arising from this; is not the hourly offering of incense
and adulation from surrounding parasites ; is not the push-
ing of your superlative abilities and merits by pensioned
dependents through all the states, sufficient to satiate
your vanity, pride, and avarice? Of all these we see you
are possessed ; let us at least know how you have deserved
them. Numbers are serving their country in the cabinet
and in the field, remote from their country, their family,
and their affairs, without patronage, without emolument,
without influence, upon pay which would hardly purchase
the crumbs which fall from your luxurious table, and yet
we do not hear from them, the vainglorious whinings of
their sacrifices and sufferings. And is it for you wallow-
ing in wealth, rioting in voluptuousness, gorged with
honors, profits, patronage, and emoluments, is it for you in

HIS ENEMIES 255

the bosom of your family, your friends, and your affairs —
is it for you to insult the public with your sacrifices of
time, property, and domestic bliss ?”

But “Lucius” was a more gentlemanly scribbler than
*‘Centinel,” the anonymous author of abusive articles
in which Mr. Morris was assailed in 1788, while the con-
test over the adoption of the Federal Constitution was
at its height. A more blackguardly controversialist
never put pen to paper. Then Morris was called “ Bobby
the Cofferer ” and still more plainly a “ public defaulter.”
He was branded as “a man without principles,” and he
was called upon to “disgorge public treasure.” It was
charged that he had made no final settlement of his ac-
counts with the United States government, and the
most slanderous accusations were openly made in the
most exasperating terms. Morris, at the time these papers
were published, was travelling in the South, inspecting
large tracts of land for the purchase of which he was com-
pleting negotiations. He was accompanied by Gouverneur
Morris. In Virginia he had been the guest of General
Washington. The Constitution was before the people for
their consideration and ratification. His friends, Hamilton
and Jay, were writing the “Federalist” papers, those
eloquent arguments in defence and elucidation of the new
form of government. Morris cared less for himself than for
the fate of the Constitution, and, violating his rule not to
make public reply to those who attacked his policies in the
newspapers, he gave “ Centinel ” a verbal settlement of the
character his method and manner abundantly invited.

'

256 ROBERT MORRIS

As chairman of the committees of Congress and as
Superintendent of Finance, Mr. Morris declared that he
had not touched one shilling of the public money. In the
last-named office he had no accounts to settle. He had
never personally received any public money, therefore
none could be in his hands. The receipts of the govern-
ment were regularly published in the newspapers. The
accounts of his expenditures were constantly open to
public inspection at the Treasury Office. His transac-
tions were under the surveillance of Congress. He
admitted the truth of the charge that he had not rendered
any final account of his operations while chairman of the
committees of Congress early in the war. He had im-
ported arms, ammunition, and clothing for the Continental
army. For various reasons settlement had been de-
layed, and he observed once more that his own solicitude
was not so great as it otherwise would be were he not
well convinced that a balance was due him rather than
the United States government. In explanation of his
public response to this attack Mr. Morris wrote in his
Diary: ‘“‘ A newspaper is certainly an improper place for
stating and settling public accounts, especially those
which are already before the proper tribunal. But I
thought it in some sort a duty to take notice of charges
which, if not controverted, might have influenced weak
minds to oppose the Constitution. This was at least
the ostensible reason for bringing me forward on the
present occasion. With what decency or propriety it has
been done I leave to the reflection of the authors. Their

HIS ENEMIES 257

exultation on my losses and crosses is characteristic. To
every pleasure which can arise from the gratification of
such passions they are heartily welcome, and the more
so, as I hope and expect the enjoyment will be of short
duration.”

It was a tactical error on Mr. Morris’s part that he
did not seize an early occasion to settle the accounts of
transactions ten or twelve years old and silence the voice
of scandal. It should have been an easy matter to
discomfit his enemies, who were busy in every political
campaign circulating these disagreeable charges against
him. His maligners were without a leg to stand on when
they assailed the other periods of his political career.
Here were a few years when Morris, by his experience
as a merchant and shipmaster, performed services of
incalculable value to the country concerning which the
public was left in statistical darkness. The distrust and
suspicion of his activity at this time, which were so freely
expressed by his enemies, continued to be the basis of
charges throughout his term as Senator. His censorious
colleague, Maclay, lost no chance to deal him a thrust
about his unsettled accounts, and the diary of the Senator
from Harrisburg teems with allusions to this subject as
though it were a national disgrace. “Mr. Morris, this
day, as he sat beside me in our places in the Senate,”
writes Maclay, ‘“‘ whispered to me that he would not be as
regular in his attendance as he used to be; that he was
occupied in settling his public accounts, which would
engage him for a great part of his time. I remarked,
'
258 ROBERT MORRIS

‘That cannot be helped.’ The business is a necessary
one.” Again Morris told Maclay that he found Hamilton
“damned sharp.” But the eavesdroppings of such a
diarist will not count very heavily against Mr. Morris,
who is treated more charitably than most other men whom
Maclay came to know while he attended the sessions of
the first Congress.

In February, 1790, Morris addressed a memorial to the
Vice-President of the United States, praying that com-
missioners be appointed to inquire into his conduct of
the Continent’s financial affairs, and after a fresh series
of inquiries and investigations, as the Pennsylvania patriot
gradually lost his prominent place in politics and became
involved in private difficulties and embarrassments which
called for sympathy and not for blame, the unhappy
discussion was allowed to subside.

Morris shared with Hamilton the opprobrium which
pursued the members of that political group in New York
who had been parties to the bargain to remove the capital.
After the dignity had been enjoyed for ten years by
Mr. Morris’s city, the prize would go to the South in
perpetuity. The success of this measure was the signal
for a renewal of much disagreeable abuse. Morris,
always known as “Bob” and “Bobby,” was now again
called “ Bobby the Treasurer ” and “ Bobby the Cofferer,”
and he was represented in current illustrated prints with
the Federal Hall on his shoulders. Members of Congress
cursed or encouraged him from the windows as he carried
it to the wharf on his way to Philadelphia, while a horned

ii
ou

HIS ENEMIES 259

devil from the roof of the ferry house shouted out,
“This way, Bobby!”

James Madison was not of Mr. Morris’s political faith,
but while in Congress in 1782 he wrote to Edmund
Randolph: “ My charity, I own, cannot invent an excuse
for the prepense malice with which the character and
services of this gentleman are murdered. I am persuaded
that he accepted his offices from motives which were
honorable and patriotic. I have seen no proof of mis-
feasance. I have heard of many charges which were palpa-
bly erroneous. I have known others somewhat suspicious
vanish on examination. Every member in Congress must
be sensible of the benefit which has accrued to the
public from his administration; no intelligent man out
of Congress can be altogether insensible of it.”

While such attacks annoyed Mr. Morris, —indeed, mad-
dened him at times beyond measure, —he rose above the
pettiness of political controversy. His mind did not
run in narrow grooves. He did not dwell with small
spirits, and what they meant to be sword thrusts were
mere pin pricks to this Brobdingnagian character.

One of the most roundly abused men of the time, he,
in the strict sense of the word, had no enemies. Against
no man in the world did he harbor a grudge. Few had
shown an uglier disposition, or had done him more
mean services than Thomas Paine, and yet, after he
became Superintendent of Finance, he employed that
man at $800 a year to write articles for the newspapers

1 Madison’s Papers, Vol. I. p. 137.

re oa ne - table ay ects of men, ad es who ene

___-volve him in private quarrels found his stature too

oe my for equal combat. They loaded their weapons in
dark copse, and, after discharging them, slunk away a

into the night.

=
-

fe
4 "4
hi te ee

De St a eee

.
ae
ie
-
ms
sy

CHAPTER VIII
HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS

RoBERT MorRIs was almost thirty-five years old when
he married Molly White. She was only twenty, but,
by character and training, well adapted to take that
social place which her husband’s wealth, political posi-
tion, and native hospitality assigned to her. She felt
deep pride in Mr. Morris’s successes. A true gentle-
woman, she was one of the most attractive figures among
Philadelphia’s Revolutionary dames. Her letters to her
mamma and her dearly loved brother “ Billy,” who later
became the first Protestant Episcopal Bishop of Penn-
sylvania, evince an affectionate family feeling which
give us much insight into the upbringing of the girl. She
also had three step-sisters, one of whom, Sophia, married
and became a Mrs. Hall, residing at Sophia’s Dairy in
Harford County, Maryland. Thither it was that Mrs.
Morris and her children went in 1776, when the British
army threatened Philadelphia, Mr. Morris being obliged
to remain behind to represent Congress in the city, since
that body had also fled to a place of safety. Her father
and mother had preceded her to Maryland, and the family
spent the winter together. Mrs. Morris’s anxieties for i
her husband, and for the security of her city and coun-
262 ROBERT MORRIS

try homes, were constant, and she wrote to him very
often until, in March, 1777, she returned with her chil-
dren to Philadelphia, the immediate danger of British
occupation seeming to have passed. Upon reaching the
city again, she wrote to her mamma: “Last Wednesday
noon I had the pleasure to arrive safe in dear Philadel-
phia after a much pleasanter journey than I expected
from our setting off, and it made me very happy to find
myself at home after so long an absence with the terri-
ble apprehensions we fled with, of never seeing it again ;”
and she added, “duty to my father, and love to sister
and Mr. Hall, and all the hospitable family whose kind-
ness to me and my exiled family I shall never forget.”

In 1779, after the death of her father who had long
been an invalid as the result of a fall from a carriage, his
injuries compelling him to depend upon canes, her mamma
wrote to her out of a mother’s heart, “May you have all
the blessings this world can bestow, and when it has an
end, ten thousand times ten thousand more than it is
capable of giving is the prayer of your affectionate,
E. White.”

A people of marked family attachments and religious
faith, the influence of the Whites was of much value to
the big-hearted Robert Morris. Motherless and father-
less and left to make his own way in the world, which
had already drawn him into bold commercial operations,
he felt the need of domestic associations, and developed
into a faithful husband and devoted parent, who loved

1 Hart, Pa. Mag., Vol. II.

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 263

and was beloved very deeply. In prosperity and unex-
pected adversity, his wife and children were his first
thought, while they to the end idolized him, returning
all the warmth of feeling of his great heart. If there
were no other reason why his own and later generations
should honor Robert Morris, it would be found in his
peculiar loyalty and goodness to his family.

Mr. Morris had seven children, five sons and two
daughters,— Robert, Thomas, William White, Hetty,
Charles, Maria, and Henry. It was his desire that they
should enjoy all the advantages of education which the
times afforded. He followed their advancement with
the interest of a proud father. Having gained his own
knowledge by hard knocks in the world about him, he
wished to smooth the way for his sons. In October, 1781,
all the seminaries in America having severely suffered by
the war, which, as he explained, operated “powerfully to
the disadvantage of the present race of American youth,”
his two elder sons, Robert and Thomas, were sent to
Europe. They were placed under the care of Matthew
Ridley, an Englishman engaged in business in Baltimore,
who was long an intimate friend of the family, later
marrying Miss Kitty Livingston, the Revolutionary belle,
Mrs. John Jay’s sister, who spent a few seasons at Mr.
Morris’s home in Philadelphia.1 When his sons were
about to sail, Mr. Morris wrote to John Jay: “These
two good and well-beloved boys leave us to-morrow.
They are tractable, good boys. I hope they will make

1 Boogher’s Repository.

'

264 ROBERT MORRIS

good men, for that is essential. Perhaps they may
become useful to their country, which is very desirable,
and if they have genius and judgment, the education
they will receive may be the foundation for them to
become learned or great men, but this is of most con-
sequence to themselves. Should it fall in your way to
notice them, I am sure you will do it.” The boys were
also supplied with a letter to Dr. Franklin at Paris, and
were taken to Geneva where they found his twelve-year-
old grandson, Benjamin Franklin Bache, who, like them,
had been sent abroad to secure a schooling. They re-
mained in the Swiss city, at that time so popular a resort
for visitors from every land, for five years. During their
vacéations they made short excursions in the neighbor-
hood, and one summer they passed their holidays in
Paris with Mrs. Jay, who showed them motherly kind-
ness and attention. In 1786 they went to Leipsic, being
old enough to enter a university, and remained there for
nearly two years. While the Constitutional Convention
was in session in Philadelphia, Mr. Morris wrote to his
boys in Germany, telling them of the work of the dele-
gates. “You, my children,” he said, “ought to pray for
a successful issue to their labors, as the result is to be
a form of government under which you are to live, and
in the administration of which you may hereafter probably
have a share, provided you qualify yourselves by applica-
tion to your studies. The laws of nations, a knowledge
of the Germanic system and the constitutions of the sev-
eral governments in Europe, and an intimate acquaint-

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 265

ance with ancient and modern history are essentially
necessary to entitle you to participate in the honor of
serving a free people in the administration of their gov-
ernment.”

In 1788 to the joy of their parents and brothers and
sisters, from whom they had been separated for seven
years, the boys returned to America. Mr. Morris had
himself keenly felt the need of a knowledge of the
law, for which reason he was careful that all his sons
who would take it should receive a legal education.
Whether they should practise it or not, they were to be
bred to the profession, and while they were promptly
provided with places in connection with the management
of his extensive business interests, they found the training
of great value to them in later life. The two sons who
had been educated in Europe, Robert and Thomas, were
destined to be a peculiar comfort to Mr. Morris. Robert
was sent to superintend his father’s affairs, around the
Falls of Trenton at Morrisville, Pennsylvania, and
Thomas was busied in directing the operations upon the
Morris tract in western New York. In his successful
negotiation of an important treaty with the Indians,
the latter won a great deal of public notice. This feat
made him the apple of his father’s eye. The service
came at a time when Mr. Morris was kept in Philadel-
phia by his creditors and was prevented from attending
to the business in person, so that the appreciation of the
young man’s aptitude and tact was particularly keen.

In 1795 Mr. Morris was gratified by the marriage of

:
a, a

'

266 ROBERT MORRIS

his eldest daughter Hetty to James Marshall, of Vir-
ginia, a younger brother of Chief Justice Marshall.
James Marshall was a lawyer, and he was almost immedi-
ately sent abroad to sell or mortgage his father-in-law’s
lands, having been appointed, before his departure,
Secretary of the North American Land Company which
was organized as a means of distributing the burden that
now bore heavily upon the great Financier. To Thomas
Law, who had sent his congratulations on the occasion
of the marriage and who had jocularly suggested an
admiration for Mrs. Morris, Mr. Morris wrote on April 20,
1795: —

“We thank you for your congratulations on the
marriage of my daughter, who is, and I hope always
will be, happy. I think you had best look elsewhere
and not form any expectations from my tipping off, for
I think your patience may be completely worn out
before that event happens to

“ Dear Sir, Yours
“ROBERT MORRIS.”

To another friend he wrote that he believed his daugh-
ter had “bestowed herself on a man of sense and honor
that knows her value and merit so that there is every
reason to expect happiness from the union.” Hetty was
the first child to wed, but “probably some of the boys
will pay homage to Hymen by and by,” he observed.
When Robert married, a few months later, his father
wrote after returning from a pleasant visit to Morris-

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 267

ville, “Robert has a charming and amiable young woman
for his wife, and I think they are perfectly happy.”

His children were constantly in the thoughts of this
great-hearted man. The Marshalls, who sailed on a ship
called the Pennsylvania, went at first to London. Hetty,
whose accouchement was expected soon after they should
arrive in England, was the object of much solicitude on
her father’s part. Writing to Marshall while they were
still at sea, expressing many hopes that the voyage might
be brief and pleasant, he said: “Poor Hetty, we think
of her, feel for her, and talk of her constantly. Happy
shall I be to hear of your setting your feet safely on the
British Isles.” Although they had sailed in October, 1795,
such were the means of communication at the time that
word of their safe arrival in England was not received in
Philadelphia until late in March, 1796. This news and
a later letter announcing the birth in February of Hetty’s
child, a son, caused much rejoicing in the Morris house-
hold. To one of his sons a little later, Mr. Morris wrote:
“Mrs. Church has behaved to Hetty in the most friendly
manner that was possible. She writes most feelingly
in acknowledgment of the attention and friendly acts
of Mrs. Church. We must show our thanks by equal
attentions to Mrs. Church’s family and relations, and I
mention this to you in that view.” Before they sailed
he had given the Marshalls letters to many friends and
connections in Europe which he had made as an individual
and as a public man. To a business house in Hamburg
he wrote that if Mr. and Mrs. Marshall and their child

’
268 ROBERT MORRIS

(he included all three) should come there, “I shall hope
for the extension of your civilities to persons so dear
to me.” Letters were forwarded to the absent members
of his family by Talleyrand-Perigord, who had visited
for a time at the Morris home, Thomas Jefferson, and
others who would agree to serve as messengers. “I long
for the time when you can both return to the bosom of
your connexions and friends,” Mr. Morris wrote to his son-
in-law in December, 1796. His letters were full of paternal
encouragement in a bad business. They were free of
blame for failure to perform a mission, the difficulty of
which none knew better than he, and when Marshall,
his wife, and two children, one of whom had passed
through an attack of smallpox, returned after a tour
which included Holland, Prussia, and Poland, it was to
find Mr. Morris a prisoner of sheriffs and constables at
“The Hills.”

The younger sons, William, Charles, and Henry, were
educated at the University of Pennsylvania.1 From
William and Charles Mr. Morris derived scant comfort.
Their wild and idle habits caused him endless anxiety at
a time when he was ill suited to carry extra burdens.
William, who was named for his uncle Bishop White,
had studied law in the office of Edward Tilghman in
Philadelphia. Before the Marshalls had yet left America,
he was sent abroad with Gouverneur Morris on land
business, but soon proved himself unworthy of trust.
The pleasures of Paris kept him long in that city. He

1 Montgomery’s ‘‘ Descendants of Colonel Thomas White.’?

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 269

failed to advise his father of his whereabouts except
through drafts for money. Many letters, including one
sent through “ Citizen” James Monroe, then our Minister
to France, did not induce the young man to furnish any
account of his doings. Robert was at Morrisville, Thomas
in New York; it was designed that William should sta-
tion himself at Washington to look after his father’s large
holdings in the new Federal capital. But William was
of another mind. He was not anxious to assume the
serious responsibilities of life. “I will do anything for
him except furnish him money, and will do that if I
must,” Morris wrote early in 1796. Later, he resolved
not to pay any more drafts unless “he appears here to
give an account of himself,’ and forbade Marshall
finding him in money “unless it be to send him home.”
“TI cannot think what has become of him,” said his
anxious parent, but finally, in May, 1797, after taking his
pleasure for three years, he returned to Philadelphia,
later to make himself useful in straightening out his
father’s tangled accounts. He died in 1798 of the
scourge of fever, which several times visited the city
in the closing years of the eighteenth century. He was
“bled, blistered, purged, sweated,” and given all the
doses which medical men of the time knew how to
prescribe and apply, as Robert Morris observed in a
letter from his prison-house. No remedy would avail,
and he was sincerely mourned by a father he had not
always honored or obeyed. In a letter to John Nichol-
son, whose wife was sick of the fever, Mr. Morris

‘
270 ROBERT MORRIS

wrote, “Send me good news of her, and do not let
her copy the fate of my poor son, of whom I cannot
help thinking constantly, his image being ever present
to my mind; his value to his family I never counted
until he was lost, and now I see its magnitude, and
that it is irreparable.” }

The fourth son, Charles, was designed for mercantile
life. At eighteen he was apprenticed to Philip Nicklin
and Co., of Philadelphia. “Three years hence,” Mr.
Morris wrote at this time, “I must brush up my old
commercial correspondents to find connections for him.”
He remained there, however, for but a little while. Then
his father was obliged to find a place for him in his
own counting-house, where he was given courses in
reading, writing, and bookkeeping, in the hope of mak-
ing him “a useful and respectable member of society,”
but soon he was “running riot again,” and, leaving
home, sought the indulgence of his brothers. He went
to New York. Mr. Morris asked Thomas not to shelter
him. “I will not pay his debts nor do anything for
him until he makes submission and amendment,” his
father wrote in a fit of pique, but this generous man
gave liberally to all his children so long as he had the
money with which to gratify their expensive tastes, and
his threats were not greatly feared.

The Morrises were always good livers. They gave
no thought to the cost of their houses, furniture, wines,
or foods. The best that could be procured was in daily

1 Letter dated October 10, 1798, in Dreer Collection.

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 271

use, regardless of expense. As a merchant in the
European, West Indian, and China trade, Mr. Morris
imported freely for his own household. Fine china,
jewels, laces, dress cloths, tapestries, blooded cattle, and
sheep, art works, books, wines, and tea too choice for
the American market came up the Delaware in his
cargoes. They went to his city house, or to “ The
Hills,” to delight his wife and children, and his vast ~
legion of friends which included all persons of title or
position in this country or Europe, whose business or
pleasure led them to the capital of the thirteen states.
To a friend in China, early in 1795, when he was still
not without hope, although his financial troubles were
full upon him, he wrote, asking that chinaware should
be purchased in Canton for Mrs. Morris. He also
wished some silks, nankeen, and “a little of the very
finest high-flavored Hyson tea for our own use.” Of a
business agent in Bordeaux he ordered a hogshead of
the best claret which could be secured in that city. If
the quality were very good, the shipment might be
increased to four hogsheads. “I want these wines for
my own use,” added Mr. Morris, “and therefore you
must send the best or none.” Again he wrote to Bor-
deaux, commissioning a merchant to procure some “ fine
old wines which had been laid up by noblemen or gen-
tlemen of fortune for their own provision.” These were
being forced into the market by reason of the “hard
times,” and he wanted forty, fifty, or one hundred
dozens. ‘ Remember,” he said in a postscript, “if the

272 ROBERT MORRIS

wines are good, we shall drink your health; if not, we
drink none of them.”

In May, 1796, a merchant in Madeira forwarded two
pipes of wine and he ordered two more, promising to pay
the drafts as before. ‘ But beside this,” he added, “ when
it comes to their turn to be drunk at my table, the shipper’s
name shall be mentioned in order to give that celebrity
which is always desirable. I shall be glad, also, if you
visit this country again to have the opportunity of making
you merry over a bottle of it every time you shall find it
convenient to be the guest of, Yours, Robert Morris.”

It is not surprising that such a home, which was at all
times open to the first in the land on the invitation of one
of the warmest-hearted of men, became the real social
capital of the Middle states. Hither came Washington
again and again, Hamilton, Gouverneur Morris, and John
Jay, who were long Robert Morris’s closest friends, John
Hancock, Thomas Jefferson, General Greene, General
Gates, Lafayette, Rochambeau, the Marquis de Chastellux,
Prince de Broglie, the Chevalier de la Luzerne, Talleyrand-
Perigord, and most of the lesser celebrities of the time.
After Congress had fled to Baltimore at the approach of a
troop of Hessians and Highlanders, leaving Morris in
Philadelphia, Hancock, then the President of Congress,
wrote him: “I long to see you here and yet you must
stay at Philadelphia. I have some of your own wine
left for you. I wish to have one sit down with you in my
poor habitation. I know no one more welcome... .
Believe me to be with every sentiment that respect and

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 273

esteem can inspire, my dear Sir, Your very obedient ser-
vant, John Hancock.”

The depth and reality of the friendship existing between
these two men are indicated by a long series of letters. In
October, 1777, when Congress had gone to York, Pa.,
Hancock wrote: “My good friend, I should esteem it a
very particular favor if you could, without prejudicing
your own stock, spare me a little Madeira, if it was only
three dozen. I care not for price, for I feel awkward not
to have it in my power to ask a friend to take a glass.”
He offered to send a light wagon to Manheim, where
Morris was then living, to fetch the wine. _A little later,
Mr. Hancock, observing that Mr. Morris walked with a
staff, “takes the freedom to send him a gold head for
a cane, of which he requests Mr. Morris’s acceptance as a
small token of his real regard and friendship for him.” !

Washington’s love for the Financier of so many of his
campaigns was deep and abiding. When he and his army
were moving South to lay siege to Yorktown, the Com-
mander-in-chief, as we have already seen, was invited by
Mr. Morris to “consider and use my house and what it affords
as yourown.” Mrs. Morris and the children were spending
the summer at Springetsbury. The mattresses were spread
about on the floors for the use of the aides, and all enjoyed
the comforts of a fine mansion at Mr. Morris’s personal
expense for several days, until the plans were completed
for the advance southward. After the surrender of Corn-
wallis, Washington again visited at the Morris home. On

1N, Y. Hist. Soc. Collections for 1878.

-
274 ROBERT MORRIS

November 26, 1781, Mr. Morris writes in his Diary: “ This
day his Excellency, General Washington, with his lady,
arrived in town. I gave them an invitation to my house
which was accepted, and in the evening I held a confer-
ence with his Excellency and the Marquis de Lafayette.”

Desiring to spend the winter of 1781-82 in the city,
Washington decided to hire a house of his own, and
through Mr. Morris’s good offices, the spacious home of
Mr. Rendon, the Spanish resident, was secured. No other
could be got. Mr. Rendon was willing himself to live for
a time in the back buildings of his residence, and here the
Washingtons remained for several months, the General
holding conferences with Mr. Morris at the Office of
Finance every Monday evening. This was the real begin-
ning of an acquaintance between the two families which
knew no interruption henceforward. In the summer of
1787, when Washington came up from Mount Vernon to
attend the Constitutional Convention, he was taken into
the Morris family and was a guest so long as the sessions
lasted. During his stay in the city, many dinners and
receptions were arranged in the General’s honor, and
the Financier’s home was the particular centre of social
and political interest in Philadelphia, celebrities com-
ing and going incessantly. While a few years later
the fastidious Maclay, Mr. Morris’s colleague in the
United States Senate, found General Washington dull at
dinner, “solemn,” and disposed to play with his fork
between courses, there were not a few who esteemed ita
singular privilege to be in his company. During periods

-~

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 275

when the convention was not in session, Washington and
the Morrises made short excursions in the neighborhood.
Once they went to Trenton on a fishing trip, and another
time up the Schuylkill to Valley Forge whither Gouver-
neur Morris accompanied the General. They stopped “at
one Jane Moore’s” to get trout on a little creek one mile
west of the river, but Washington soon tired of the sport
and left Gouverneur with the rod and line, while he went
over the works his army had built while encamped there
ten years before, which even then were in ruins. When
he returned to Moore’s, it was to meet Robert and Mrs.
Morris who had driven up to join the party.!

Thus the intimacy and friendship deepened. When
Washington was elected President of the United States,
and Charles Thomson was sent by Congress in haste to
Mount Vernon to carry the General the news and bid him
set out for New York, he stopped over for a night in
Philadelphia on his triumphal journey northward, and
this night was spent at the Morris home. Thither the
procession went. There the bands played, the guns
pealed, and the troopers dipped their colors. When
Lady Washington came on a few weeks later to join
her husband, she was met outside the city by Mrs.
Morris, escorted by a troop of horse to the Morris house,
where she remained three or four days, until the wife
of the Senator of Pennsylvania could make ready to
accompany the first lady in the land to Elizabethtown
Point, to be met by Washington and Morris in the famous

1 Baker’s ‘‘ Washington after the Revolution,’’ Phila. 1898.

'
276 ROBERT MORRIS

white barge. Again, when the capital was transferred to
Philadelphia, it was to Mr. Morris’s home that the
President came. The entire family moved out of the
residence on High (Market) Street, east of Sixth Street,
to make way for the Washingtons. This house, which
was built of brick, three stories in height, had vacant
lots laid out as gardens upon either side of it. There
was a stable in the rear, and it was accounted the most
suitable of all the homes in the city for the President’s
use. Here he held his famous levees while in Phila-
delphia. In this stable he kept his well-groomed stud
of horses, which were the pride of his Southern heart.
To this door came the great cream-colored coach which
excited the bitter prejudices of the democrats. The
Morrises themselves removed but one house away, for
lately the Financier had bought the Galloway mansion
at the southeast corner of Sixth and Market streets,
and the families ran in and out of each other’s homes
with neighborly familiarity. Mr. Morris exchanged look-
ing-glasses and a clothes mangle with General Washing-
ton, it being inconvenient to remove them to his new
home. From the end of November, 1790, until the
inauguration of John Adams on March 4, 1797, except
for a season spent in Germantown while the plague
raged, the President resided in the Morris house, and
after his return to Mount Vernon the friendship of the
two families for each other did not cease.}

Robert Morris was the friend and adviser who came

1 Hart, Pa. Mag., Vol. II.

ee a

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 277

closest to General Washington during this important
period of our political history.1_ His counsel was wel-
come, and his generous support and sympathy were
always appreciated. He sat or stood by the President’s
side at most of the social functions in Washington’s
home ; and as for Mrs. Morris, she was easily the second
lady in the land. Her position was never in dispute
during the Washington administration, either in New
York or Philadelphia. At the levees she occupied the
first place at Mrs. Washington’s right hand. Even
that bilious diarist, Maclay, admits her title to the post.
He had dined in the Morris family, with two Pennsyl-
vania Congressmen, in New York, when, with some reflec-
tions upon the manners of the period, he observes: “ Mrs.
Morris talked a great deal after dinner. She did it
gracefully enough, this being a gayer place [than Phila-
delphia], and she being here considered as at least the
second female character at court. As to taste, etiquette,
etc., she is certainly first. I thought she discovered a
predilection for New York, but perhaps she was only
doing it justice while my extreme aversion, like a jealous
sentinel, is for giving no quarter. I, however, happened
to mention that they were ill supplied with the article
of cream. Mrs. Morris had much to say on this sub-
ject; declared they had done all they could, and even
sent to the country all about, but that they could not
be supplied. She told many anecdotes on this subject;
particularly how two days ago she dined at the Presi-

1 Custis’s ‘‘ Recollections.’’

'
278 ROBERT MORRIS

dent’s. A large, fine-looking trifle was brought to table,
and. appeared exceedingly well indeed. She was helped
by the President, but on taking some of it, she had to
pass her handkerchief to her mouth and rid herself of
the morsel, on which she whispered to the President.
The cream of which it was made had been unusually
stale and rancid; on which the General changed his
plate immediately. ‘But,’ she added with a titter,
‘Mrs. Washington ate a whole heap of it.’”+

During that period after he had broken with the pro-
French element, and had become the object of the vilest
popular calumnies, Washington greatly valued his power-
ful friend’s sympathy and support and they never failed
him. On New Year’s Day, 1796, Mr. Morris wrote to
his son-in-law, James Marshall, “Great crowds are visit-
ing the President, his virtues break through the clouds
and mists endeavored to be cast by the anarchists, and his
sun of glory will forever disperse them.”

Nor were the Washingtons friends for fair weather
only. Their faith endured afterward. Mrs. Morris and
her daughter Maria visited at Mount Vernon, while Mr.
Morris was in the custody of the law, and General Wash-
ington, when in Philadelphia, in 1798, wended his way to
the prison-house once again to meet, and if possible to
console, the bankrupted and humiliated Financier of the
Revolution.

Another friend whom Robert Morris greatly prized was
Gouverneur Morris. Their intimacy was unbroken for

1 Maclay’s Journal, p. 73,

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 279

more than a quarter of acentury. Gouverneur had en-
joyed educational opportunities denied to Robert Morris,
and the association with this man was of large weight in
giving ‘form to the Financier’s political views. The
companionship and sympathy of his assistant during his
administration of the Office of Finance were of inesti-
mable benefit to Robert Morris. Practically a member of
the family during these years and afterward, Gouverneur
Morris shared his chief’s disappointments, fears, sorrows,
and joys. It was Gouverneur Morris, as we have seen, who
took charge of the Office of Finance while Robert Morris
went to meet Washington and the officers of the French
army at their camp in August, 1781, to arrange for the ad-
vance upon Yorktown. It was Gouverneur Morris who,
because of his command of the French language, super-
intended the negotiations regarding the French loans. He
it was who rode down to Chester with his chief to get the
loan of 144,000 livres from Rochambeau which enabled
Washington to dispense one month’s pay to the northern
regiments, without which they could not have been in-
duced to proceed beyond the Head of Elk on the way to
Yorktown. He was a good horseman, notwithstanding his
wooden leg, and accompanied the Financier on the rides
in the country which were his principal recreation.
February 24 “being Sunday,” Robert Morris writes in
his Diary, “ Mr. G. Morris and myself came to the office,
wrote some letters, and then went in pursuit of health on
horseback.” Gouverneur Morris was at Robert Morris’s
side at public dinners and on other social occasions. He

280 ROBERT MORRIS

was usually present at the conferences of the Superin-
tendent of Finance with members of Congress and with
Washington, Lafayette, and the heads of departments.
He fled with Robert Morris to Princeton when eighty
Continental soldiers descended upon Philadelphia to
demand a small sum of money due them for back pay.
He and Robert Morris escorted Washington to Gray’s
Ferry on his way South after the adjournment of the
Constitutional Convention. A little later the two Mor-
rises went South together and were absent six months,
inspecting and purchasing public lands, when they were
guests fora time at Mount Vernon. Still later Gouverneur
Morris went to Europe with Robert Morris’s son William
on land business, and barely escaped being swept into that
vortex which carried his old chief down to destruction.
To Gouverneur, then in Paris, Robert wrote January 2,
1791, “ You never had nor ever will have a more sincere
friend than Robert Morris.”

Their mutual intimacy with John Jay made the three
a group of peculiar strength. To Jay, Robert Morris
wrote January 3, 1783: “I cannot take time at present
to enter on any political discussions, but you must allow
me to declare my perfect satisfaction in and approbation
of your conduct in Europe. All who have had the oppor-
tunity of knowing what it has been, are struck with
admiration at your patience under difficulties and your
firmness in rising superior to them. Go on, my friend;
you deserve and will receive the gratitude of your coun-
try. History will hand down your plaudits to pos-

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 28

terity. ... Your friend Gouverneur writes you politi-
cal letters, but as he tells you nothing of himself, it is just
that I tell you how industrious, how useful he is. His
talents and abilities you know; they are faithfully and
disinterestedly applied to the service of his country. I
could do nothing without him, and our quiet labors do
but just keep the wheels in motion. ... With sincere
attachment,” etc.

Again in November, 1783, Robert Morris wrote to
Jay: “I do not know whether Gouverneur writes to
you by this opportunity. You must cherish his friend-
ship, it is worth possessing. He has more virtue than
he shows and more consistency than anybody believes.
He values you exceedingly, and hereafter you will be
very useful to each other. Mrs. Morris will write to
Mrs. Jay and say for herself what she has to say; though
I don’t believe she will tell her, as she does everybody
else, the high estimation in which she holds Mrs. Jay
and yourself. Permit me, also, my worthy friend, to assure
you both of the sincerity of that affection with which I
profess myself your most obedient and humble servant.”

This feeling of affectionate regard, unusual even for
the warm heart of Robert Morris, was fully reciprocated.
In September, 1783, John Jay wrote to the Financier:
“TI hope next summer to see you, and to brighten at
the Hills the chain which I flatter myself will always
connect us. Let not, therefore, any idea of keeping
me longer in Europe be encouraged.”

Again, Jay wrote from Madrid, November 19, 1780:

'

282 ROBERT MORRIS

“There are some hearts which, like feathers, stick to
everything they touch, and quit each with equal ease.
Mine is not one of this kind; it adheres to few, but it
takes strong hold. You must, therefore, write to me;
and if you would make your letter very agreeable, dwell
on the objects you will find at or near the Hills within
your own walls. Mrs. Jay writes by this opportunity
to Mrs. Morris, whom she loves and esteems for many
reasons unnecessary to repeat to you.”

Alexander Hamilton was only somewhat less a friend
than Washington and Jay, because of his different tem-
perament. Benjamin Harrison and Benjamin Harrison,
Jr., of Virginia, Robert Morris warmly loved and admired.
Although not sharing the great Virginia democrat’s
political views, in 1796, he secured a Spanish ram and
shipped it to Monticello in answer to an interest Thomas
Jefferson had expressed in this breed of animals while
being entertained at “The Hills.” John Paul Jones was
never out of Morris’s heart. Jones named the Financier
as his executor, and to the Philadelphia merchant fell the
task of settling up the estate for the benefit of the Com-
modore’s heirs in Scotland. From France, in June, 1780,
after his great battle with the Serapis, Jones modestly wrote
to “my much honored and esteemed friend, Mr. Morris,”
that “his Majesty ordered a superb sword to be made
for me with an inscription in Latin on the blade that
would do honor to the greatest admiral in history.”! This
trophy, gold-mounted, bore the words, “ Louis XVI, the

1 Buell’s ‘‘ Paul Jones.”’

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 283

rewarder, to the mighty deliverer for the freedom of
the sea,’ and it descended at Jones’s death to Mr. Morris.
It reached him in 1795, through Thomas Pinckney, then
our Minister to Great Britain, to whom he wrote, “I
have to return to you thanks for taking the trouble to
forward the sword of the late Admiral Paul Jones which
came safe to hand, and I have presented it to Commodore
John Barry, the senior officer of the present American
navy who will never disgrace it.”

Mr. Morris thought it fitting that those who had had
more actively to do with the naval triumphs of the war
than he should hold this trophy, although his family
wished him to retain it.) At Barry’s death the blade
passed to Commodore Richard Dale, who fought so
bravely on the Bon Homme Richard, and it remains
in the Dale family, being to-day in the possession of
his great-grandson, Mr. Richard Dale of Philadelphia.

Morris, too, had friends who liked and trusted him
wherever he went in Philadelphia. James Wilson, Thomas
Willing, Thomas Fitzsimmons, John Ross, William Bing-
ham, George Clymer, and nearly all the men of light and
leading in the commercial, political, and social life of
the city knew him only to respect and honor him. He
it was who could be depended on to uphold the American
name for hospitality in the sight of the representatives
of foreign nations. He loved his food and wine, and
knew how to make others enjoy themselves at dinner-
time. Many anniversaries would have passed without

1 Fisher’s ‘‘ Revolutionary Reminiscences.”

‘
284 ROBERT MORRIS

public notice, had it not been for his initiative. Thanks-
giving days and the Fourth of July were signals to him
for public banquets. When Washington and other dis-
tinguished guests came to town, Morris was the first to
suggest or organize a feast at some inn or coffee house.
On July 4, 1782, he writes in his Diary: “This being
the anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, I
directed the office to be shut, and dismissed all persons
employed in it, that they might be at leisure to indulge
those pleasing reflections which every true American
must feel on the recollection that six years are now com-
pleted since that decisive step was taken in favor of the
freedom of their country, and that they might each par-
take of the festivity usual on holidays. His Excellency,
the President of Congress, having provided a cold colla-
tion, Mr. G. Morris and myself waited upon his Excel-
lency to congratulate and be congratulated on the return
of this day, partook of the collation, and afterward fin-
ished the day with great satisfaction in a select company
at the house of a friend.”

On October 3, 1782, Mr. Morris invited the Congress-
men, the Minister of France, the Consul and Vice-consul
of France in Philadelphia, the Spanish Resident, the
Secretary of Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of War, and
other distinguished men in the city, to dine with him in
honor of the acknowledgment of American Indepen-
dence by the United Provinces of the Low Countries,
which he records “was done with great festivity, suitable
toasts being drank for the occasion.”

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 285

On July 4, 1783, after coming back to the city from
Princeton, whither he had hurriedly gone with Congress
at the approach of the unpaid soldiers, he writes, “ Find-
ing on my return that no public entertainment was pro-
vided for this day, I invited a company of forty gentlemen
consisting of foreigners, military and civil officers, and
citizens, and spent the afternoon and evening in great
festivity and mirth.”

Mr. Morris was not only a lavish host, but he was
also a charitable man before his fortune was scattered
in speculation. He gave freely of his means to the poor,
and his donations were not always small. To an un-
fortunate Jewish friend in Baltimore whose needs were
brought to his notice he lent five hundred pounds. Al-
though the sum was not repaid he later doubled the
amount, both contributions turning out to be gifts.! At
his own expense he erected a house on Eighth Street
below Market for Robert Edge Pine, where the English
artist might exhibit his pictures, and was a liberal
patron of his protégé. His bounty to the government,
to his friends, and to charitable objects made him the
real prince of North America, and when his financial sun
had set, there was genuine sorrow wherever his name was
known and his good deeds were appreciated.

But why, we may ask, did this character endear himself
so singularly to his fellow-men? It was more than his
generosity and hospitality which drew to him a legion
of friends from among the greatest of the United States

1 Anonymous Life of Robert Morris, Phila. 1841.

286 ROBERT MORRIS

and Europe. It was his rarely sanguine temperament,
his freedom from vanity, his sure and confident touch, and
the human note in his life. A well-proportioned man,
quite six feet tall, his personality was impressive. Of
heavy build, he was a figure of prominence in assemblages
of his fellows. Long afflicted with the asthma, at times
when the malady was most troublesome, he found no
relief except in working vigorously at a pump as though
he were on a sinking ship and his life depended on it.
Sensitive but firm, generous but just, he was heard and
respected in whatever transaction he participated. With
blue eyes, hair that was sandy in youth, although it grew
gray with advancing years, and a clear complexion, Robert
Morris’s face is handed down to us in five different
portraits: a Peale, a Trumbull, a Stuart, a Savage, and the
familiar work of Robert Edge Pine. His sociable manner,
his thought and conversation, and his writings made his
friendship prized by men whose opportunities had been
much broader than his own. He professed to no learning
which he did not possess. Gracious and democratic in
his relations with others, he used simple, unaffected
language to express thoughts which were sprightly and
refreshing for their directness and simplicity. In short,
he was recognized to meet that estimate Mr. Morris had
formed of his son-in-law, James Marshall, “a man of sense
and honor.” His conversations, as well as his letters,
were enjoyed by men wiser than he because of their
good sense and witty turns of speech. His language was
terse and correct. He had a rare appreciation of humor

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 287

in every situation, and was master of a satire which was
as artistic as it was pointed and confounding. The
writings of the Fathers may be sought in vain for ob-
servations so sensible, so well expressed, and so con-
sistently entertaining as those which occur in the Diary
and correspondence of Robert Morris, and when the man’s
life is studied in the light of these evidences of his ex-
traordinary intelligence, it is not difficult to understand
the charm of his friendship and society. Men loved
his open homes, his costly foods and wines. They liked
his generous heart. But more than all this such friends
as he made and held unto the end loved him for his
practical judgment, his alert mind, his sincerity, his hope-
ful view of the world, and the diverting and original wit
which he brought to bear upon every discussion.

Not a financier from book knowledge, yet in 1781 he
was able to lend Mr. Randolph, who had called to express
his doubts as to the right of Congress to charter the bank,
Adam Smith’s “ Wealth of Nations.” Keenly alive to
progress in science and the arts, he watched with active
interest the development of discovery and invention,
making as the result of his own studies advantageous
changes in the routes of vessels at sea. His attention
was engaged with the early experiments in Europe with
the balloon. John Jay had written him in September,
1783: “In a late letter to G. Morris I enclosed him an
account of the invention of globes wherewith man may
literally soar above the clouds. I herewith send you two
prints containing representations of the rise and descent

‘
288 ROBERT MORRIS

of one of them.” In acknowledging their receipt, Robert
Morris asks out of a practical mind, “ Pray cannot they
contrive to send passengers, with a man to steer the
course, so as to make them the means of conveyance for
despatches from one country to another, or must they only
be sent for intelligence to the moon and clouds?”

He was, however, not good game for theorists and
frauds. One who came to him, while he was in the Office
of Finance, with a plan to preserve meat without salting it
met with no encouragement from the Superintendent, and
another inventor, who had brought with him a machine for
solving the old problem of perpetual motion, “went away
convinced that his discoveries were very defective.” It
was the man whose natural sense led him to detect igno-
rance, pretension, and humbug, and to combat them by
honorable action and ridicule them in wise saws that his
friends loved so well. It was a mind of uncommon talent
and penetration which framed apothegms such as these
taken at random from writings that teem with sparkling
expressions : —

“Men are less ashamed to do wrong than vexed to be
told of it.”

“While I assure you that nothing but the urgency of
our affairs would render me thus importunate, I must also
assure you that while those affairs continue so urgent, I
must continue to importune.”

“ We are not to expect perfect institutions from human
wisdom, and must therefore console ourselves with the de-
termination to reform errors as soon as experience points

HIS FAMILY AND HIS FRIENDS 289

out the necessity for and the means of amendment. A
whole people seldom continue long in error.”

“The states seem to consider it as the most precious
part of their separate sovereignty the power of doing
injustice.”

“ Difficulties are always to be distinguished from _possi-
bilities. After endeavoring by your utmost exertions to
surmount them, you will be able to determine which of
them are insurmountable.”

“Confidence is the source of credit, and credit is the
soul of all pecuniary operations.”

“Men are more apt to trust one whom they can call
to account than three who may not hold themselves
accountable, or three and thirty who may appoint those
three.”

“T only wish that every member of every legislature on
the Continent were as much teased, harassed, and tor-
mented to do what the legislatures alone can do as I am
to do what I alone cannot do.”

“T hope the people will at length distinguish between
those who admonish them to their good and those who
flatter them to their destruction.”

“ The individual who declines the service of his country
because its councils are not conformable to his ideas
makes but a bad subject; a good one will follow if he
cannot lead.”

“‘ The inhabitants of a little hamlet may feel pride in the
sense of separate independence. But if there be not one
government which can draw forth and direct the combined

U

t
290 ROBERT MORRIS

efforts of united America, our independence is but a name,
our freedom a shadow, and our dignity a dream.”

“The autumn of 1781 found America in the situation of
that part of the federal army which then returned through
Philadelphia from the capture of Yorktown; crowned
with laurels but distressed by want.”

“T am determined that the bank shall be well supported
until it can support itself, and then it will support us.”

“This language may not consist with the ideas of dig-
nity which some men entertain. But dignity is in duty
and in virtue, not in the sound of swelling expressions.
Congress may dismiss their servants and the states may
dismiss their Congress, but it is by rectitude alone that
man can be respectable.”

“The moral causes that may procrastinate or precipitate
events are hidden from mortal view. But it is within the
bounds of human knowledge to determine that all earthly
things have some limits which it is imprudent to exceed,
others which it is dangerous to exceed, and some which
can never be exceeded.”

CHAPTER IX
HIS HOUSES AND LANDS

PREVIOUS to and during the Revolution, Robert Morris
lived in a house on Front Street below Dock Street. In
an adjoining building he hired rooms for the Office of
Finance and spent the first few months of his administra-
tion as Superintendent within sight and hearing of his
family. ‘This was his city home.

In 1770 he had bought a farm on the eastern bank of
the Schuylkill River, in the Northern Liberties, about
three miles from the Philadelphia of that day. The tract,
which originally comprised eighty acres but was extended
by later purchases to include upwards of three hundred
acres, stretched south from the present Girard Avenue
Bridge to the old water works, and east to the Ridge
Road, and was known as “ The Hills.” <A stone mansion
which was built upon the knoll now called Lemon Hill,
and which still stands there, was for nearly thirty years
the favorite retreat of the Morris family. Thither all
their guests were taken to enjoy the views of the river
and the rolling country, the pure air, and the solid com-
fort of a well-administered old dwelling-house. Over the
surrounding slopes imported cattle and sheep browsed.
The canal, by which produce was brought down the
‘

292 . ROBERT MORRIS

Schuylkill River into the city, passed through the place
for a distance of two miles. The conveniences and
outbuildings were various and of the most substantial
character. The grounds were laid out with all manner of
trees, shrubbery, and flowering vegetation. There were
hothouses for oranges, pineapples, and other tropical
plants ; and ice-houses said to have been the first connected
with any private home in America. The gardener had a
house of his own and there were two farm-houses, one of
stone and the second of brick, so that the lands might be
divided into two farms if it were necessary, one on the
east and the other on the west side of the canal. The
tract besides contained a large coach-house, a spring-house,
with a granary over it, barns, stables, a cow-house with
arched doorways (above which there were hay-lofts), a brew-
house, and many cribs and sheds. The land was in the
highest state of cultivation, being planted with fruit trees,
grains, grasses, and vegetables under the care of the best
gardeners the country could provide. It was “a spot as
beautiful as most places in the world,” said Mr. Morris
when the time came for him to leave it for a prison
cell. Mrs. Morris found peculiar pleasure in the estate
where she delighted to be, “in the enjoyment of all that’s
beautiful to the eye and grateful to the taste.”
Washington, Jay, Hamilton, General Greene, General
Gates, Lafayette —all dined within these walls, and never
forgot the hospitality of the owner of “The Hills,” and the
beauty of the scenery which nature and man’s good taste
together had prepared and stretched out here before them

HIS HOUSES AND LANDS 293

for their visual delight. The mansion was always open
and ready to receive the Morrises and their guests, being
in the hands of custodians and servants who knew that its
owner was likely to make sudden visits in chariot or upon
horseback at almost any hour.

Late in 1776, when Mrs. Morris with the children, as the
British army approached and Congress and the people of
the city went flying helter-skelter in all directions, took
refuge with her step-sister, in Maryland, Mr. Morris, dur-
ing the absence of his family, which he sadly missed, “as I
had never parted with them before,” dined at “The Hills”
each Sunday. His horses and wagons, loaded with the
more valuable of his goods, were kept in constant readi-
ness for flight, had his agents, who were posted in all
directions, given him the signal of the nearer advance of
any important body of the enemy. ‘The alarm, however,
was premature, and Mrs. Morris returned in March, 1777,
to remain for a few weeks at “ The Hills,” until Howe again
threatened the city, when, taking all that they valued
most of their household effects, both in their city and
country houses, which were conveyed in a caravan of
covered wagons out the pike to Lancaster, the family
found a shelter in the curious house built by Baron
Stiegel. This eccentric person had emigrated to America
from Manheim, Germany. Within ten miles of Lancaster,
he laid out a town which was named for his native city,
building an iron-furnace, glass-works, a Lutheran Church,
which each year still pays to his heirs a rental price in red
roses, and a great house called “The Castle ” for his own

t

294 ROBERT MORRIS

occupancy. This building was of magnificent proportions.
The interior was palatial in its appointments. The walls
were covered with imported tapestries of the most costly
kind. The woodwork and carvings were rich and artis-
tic, while the tiled mantel-pieces, fireplaces, and floors
were all suggestive of the European nobility, rather than
the plain American taste of an unfortunate period. The
castle contained a chapel in which the Baron held ser-
vices daily. In this strange but luxurious house Mr.
Morris settled his family, with Congress, of which he was a
member, not far away, first at Lancaster and then at York.
Here he entertained his friend John Hancock, and light-
ened the anxieties of many American patriots in an hour
of stress and deprivation at his hospitable board. He
remained at Manheim until Philadelphia was evacuated
by the British in 1778, returning to find “The Hills” laid
waste and half ruined by the soldiery who had quartered
themselves in the buildings and on the broad acres of
the splendid estate.

The family continued to make their city home at the
house in Front Street until 1785, when Mr. Morris pur-
chased the three-story brick mansion in High Street,
which five years later became President Washington’s
place of residence. This house, once occupied by John
Penn, had been partially destroyed by fire in 1780, and
it needed extensive repairs which, when they were com-
pleted, made it one of the most attractive homes in the
city. At about the same time Mr. Morris acquired the
adjoining property running out to Sixth Street, into

HIS HOUSES AND LANDS 295

which he removed his family in 1791, and where they
continued to reside side by side with the Washingtons.
The house at Sixth and Market streets had been built by
Joseph Galloway, the loyalist, and it had been confiscated
by the state of Pennsylvania, with the property of other
active Tories, from which Mr. Morris purchased it. In
1781, when the American regiments and their French
allies passed through Philadelphia, Mrs. Morris and the
children were at Springetsbury, a handsome villa near the
city beyond Bush Hill, built by Thomas Penn, where they
were spending the summer; and one season, while the
yellow fever raged, they occupied the John Penn house
at Lansdowne, to which Mr. Morris had fallen heir
through the default of Greenleaf, one of the partners
in his land speculations.

When all these residences lacked in suitableness and
variety, there was an estate of 160 acres, called “Trout
Spring,” in Upper Merion Township, Montgomery County,
two miles above Swedesford and nearly opposite Norris-
town. Upon this tract there was a grist-mill in addi-
tion to the farm-buildings. There was also the great
tract at Morrisville, in Bucks County, at the Falls
of the Delaware opposite Trenton, comprising twenty-
five hundred acres, which Mr. Morris had acquired
during the war at a nominal price. He undertook to
develop this property on a grand scale. He made an
attempt to persuade Congress to fix the Federal capital
upon these lands, but never pressed his suggestion nor
did he seriously entertain the thought that Morrisville

t

296 ROBERT MORRIS

would be chosen as the seat of government, although
he was frequently charged by his enemies with a desire
to entice his fellow senators and representatives into
voting for a bill to carry it to that spot. Mborris’s tract
at Trenton was divided into fourteen farms. Here he
had a grist-mill, a slitting-mill, a rolling-mill, a trip-
hammer, a wire-drawing plant, a snuff-mill, a mill for
grinding plaster of paris, a hat manufactory, a stone
quarry, a forge, and a malt-house. In fact, it was a
complete industrial settlement. A town had been begun
about a large mansion which Mr. Morris built for the
use of his own family and which was occupied for sey-
eral years by his eldest son, Robert Morris, Jr., who
was in charge at this point. This house, like the Morris
home at “The Hills,” had its ice-houses. It was sur-
rounded with beautiful gardens, and there were stables
on the place which were reckoned at the time to be the
finest in America. In the river there were shad fish-
eries, and ferries connected Morrisville with New Jersey,
the town being located on the highroad from Philadel-
phia to New York. The distance from Philadelphia was
twenty-nine or thirty miles, and the most usual method
of communication was by the river. Mr. Morris sent
furniture and supplies up the Delaware by schooner,
and not seldom his family also went by water when
there was hope of a quick passage. He personally
looked after the purchase of material for the construc-
tion of the town. In 1795 he built a large engine at
Morrisville, one of the first to be erected anywhere in

HIS HOUSES AND LANDS 297

America, importing an English machinist to execute the
work.

About the time Congress voted to fix the capital in
Philadelphia for ten years, or until the new square of
ground on the Potomac could be made ready for fed-
eral use, Morris projected his great marble palace. He
purchased an entire block extending from Seventh to
Eighth streets and from Chestnut to Walnut streets,
and engaged Major L’Enfant, the architect, who was a
little later to achieve his reputation in Washington City,
to plan and superintend the erection of the building.
He was regarded as the richest man in America, and
the architect, to whom large liberties were allowed, was
concerned that Mr. Morris should have the most mag-
nificent house in America. The Financier frequently
denied, as his misfortunes accumulated and the folly
of the undertaking became very manifest, that he had
given L’Enfant authority to lay the plans on so extrava-
gant a scale. In his occupation with other affairs Mr.
Morris took no account of the details, and when the
bills came in and he was unable to pay them, his exas-
peration induced him to make charges of deceit and
bad faith. Certainly he was entirely unprepared to see
the work on the house prolonged for three or four
years, and even then to find that there was still no roof
over the structure to protect the walls from damage by
rain and frost. Almost every ship which came in
brought furniture for Morris’s palace. His agents in
Europe were given a free hand in the purchase of costly

a ae

a
‘ , ; = 4

'

298 ROBERT MORRIS

material and fittings. The chairs and sofas came from
Paris. On a single vessel he got five thousand guineas’
worth of mirrors, but the house was still not ready to
receive all the treasures of Europe and the East with
which he planned the adornment of his splendid home.

Late in September, 1795, his patience was quite ex-
hausted. The Major had assured him that the house would
be covered in the autumn of that year, but it was urged
that no marble could be secured, and Mr. Morris instructed
L’Enfant, therefore, to run up the walls the rest of the way
in brick, and place a roof over the west wing. He had
sold his house in High Street, and was obliged to rent
a residence at a cost of over £1000 annually. If steps
were taken immediately to cover a part of the building, he
calculated that he would be able to occupy it in the follow-
ing spring or summer. “ Although it was not my intention
to have the marble you have introduced into this build-
ing,’ Mr. Morris tells his architect, “ yet an inclination
to indulge your genius induced me to permit so much of
it. Had you executed my intentions instead of your own,
my family would now have inhabited the house instead
of being liable to be turned out of doors.”

But the work still went forward very slowly. Nearly a
year had passed when, on August 15, 1796, Mr. Morris
wrote L’Enfant: “It is with astonishment I see the work
of last fall now pulling down in order to put up more
marble on my house on which there is already vastly too
much. The delay and accumulation of expense becomes
intolerable. The difficulty and cost of getting money is

ARVUSIT FOITION ANGTHOATIV

“Arviqry Vigdpepellyd ey} Ur Mow yourg repre ey Aq SUIMBIP [RULSIIO 94} UOT,

« ATION;, S.STUAOW

HIS HOUSES AND LANDS 299

vastly greater than you can conceive, and if you persist
in exposing yourself to censure and me to ridicule by
alterations and additions, you will force me to abandon all
expectation of getting into the house and to stop the work
which Iam unwilling to do, if it can be avoided, and which
can only be prevented by economy and despatch.” He
rolled sheet iron at his works at Morrisville to take the
place of slate upon the roof in order that the rain might
not beat in, but in May, 1787, although upon his own esti-
mate he had expended ten times as much as he was told
the house would cost, the roof covered only a portion of
the building and not a single floor was laid nor a single
wall plastered. In this house Mr. Morris never lived.
Robert Morris, in conjunction with his partner Thomas
Willing, had early purchased an indigo plantation of three
thousand acres in Louisiana. They placed negroes upon
the land under an overseer, but during the war abandoned
it, and after it fell under Spanish dominion, did not return
to claim it. He had had other early experiences as a land-
owner, although it was not until after the Revolution that
he invested heavily in this class of property. He foresaw,
he thought, as did many other Americans, the rapid mate-
rial development of the whole continent. It was argued
that half Europe would promptly remove to the United
States to enjoy the blessings of liberty and independence
under a government which the people of America by years
of war had just succeeded in establishing. By immigration
and natural increase the population would grow at an
unexampled rate, the wealth and resources of the country

‘
300 ROBERT MORRIS

would rapidly unfold, civilization would seek outlets in the
West and South, and in a little while values would double
and triple to the amazement of every beholder.

Mr. Morris was absolutely convinced that such an ex-
pansion of the country was near at hand, and he erred only
in expecting the inevitable result to follow too soon. He
had taken no account of the French Revolution and
Napoleon. He had not by gift of prophecy been able to
foretell that Europe would be held for years in the throes
of devastating wars when men were needed at their homes,
when land could not be sold or money borrowed, the
whole world being made cautious by a financial strin-
gency of distressing severity. The Bank of England sus-
pended specie payments. Interest rates were driven up to
a usurious level, and one of the greatest operations ever
planned up:to that time or since in American lands was
therefore destined to fail, carrying down in its vortex the
fortune and fair fame of a distinguished patriot.

His friend, General Washington, urged him not to em-
bark so extensively in the enterprise, not only because of
a fear that the load might become too heavy to bear, but
also because he dreaded complications with the Indians,
were the people to press toward the frontiers and overrun
new country too rapidly.1 Gouverneur Morris, who was at
first interested with Robert Morris in the speculation,
made his escape while there was yet time. A few of the
great men of the Republic, who had assisted in its upbuild-
ing, were involved in the final collapse of the house of

1 Custis’s ‘* Recollections.”?

HIS HOUSES.AND LANDS 301

cards, but it was with two men little known to the world
that Robert Morris established his partnership in his great
deals in American lands. One was John Nicholson of
Philadelphia, one time Comptroller General of the state
of Pennsylvania, and the other James Greenleaf of New
York, a former consul of the United States at Amsterdam,
who was let into the adventure by reason of his lavish
promises to secure money in Holland with which to finance
the undertaking.

With or without these men Mr. Morris purchased land
in all the unsettled parts of the Union. The magnitude
of his transactions is not easily comprehended. It was
a season when land agents were busy in all the principal
cities. New York and Philadelphia were the leading
marts, and while the titles were not all good and Mr.
Morris spoke of the agents with not too much respect as
“hawkers,” and once declared that he would not “buy a
lawsuit,” he was in the main an easy mark for any one
with a tract which was for sale at a reasonable price.
Land was freely offered at one dollar, two-thirds, one-half,
and even one-fourth of a dollar an acre. In large lots it
could be procured at a still lower rate, and while it was
far out of reach where it was not easily inspected, it was
fair to assume that it must sometime, and at no very dis-
tant day, acquire sufficient value to make the investment
very profitable. Mr. Morris was most attracted to New
York State. He owned at different times, in tracts which
he bought and rapidly sold again, almost the entire west-
ern half of that commonwealth. He afterward declared

:
302 ROBERT MORRIS

that if he had confined his operations to New York, he
would have been the wealthiest man in the world! In
1790 he purchased from Gorham and Phelps, the owners
of an immense belt of land, a tract containing upwards of
one million acres in the Genesee country. Mr. Phelps
had been connected with the Commissary Department of
the Massachusetts line, and Mr. Gorham was a prominent
merchant of Boston. While little was known of the
country, Mr. Morris sought information about it of several
Indian traders who came to Philadelphia, and sent Adam
Hoops, who once had served on Washington’s staff, to ex-
plore it. His report was favorable and the land was pur-
chased. Mr. Morris’s agent in London was Dr. Franklin’s
son, William Temple Franklin, in whose hands the prop-
erty was immediately placed for sale for a sum which
meant a handsome profit to its owner. In 1791, although
Morris in the meantime by letter advices had raised the
price, young Franklin disposed of it to Sir William
Pulteney at eighteen pence an acre, and in honor the princi-
pal was bound to confirm the transaction. The tract was
warranted to contain one million acres, to save a survey,
which made the transfer price £75,000, although it was
later discovered that no less than 1,296,000 acres were
comprehended in the limits named in the deed. The pur-
chaser sent to America an agent who arrived late in 1792,
and who, by adopting a system of management proposed by
Mr. Morris, was soon able to sell off a large part of the
tract at a rate which in three or four years meant a return

1 Dreer Collection.

i. —

HIS HOUSES AND LANDS 303

of about $2,500,000 for the whole investment. The fortu-
nate experience of Sir William Pulteney was a card of
some value in the campaign which was assiduously waged
to induce other capitalists in Europe to put their faith in
America. Mr. Morris still held practically all the state
west of the Phelps and Gorham line to the Great Lakes,
except as his claim might be contested by the Indians.
In 1794 he sold more than three million acres to the Hol-
land Company. By this trangaction his interests were
transferred still farther into the West, although he re-
tained for himself a tract of five hundred thousand acres
known as the Holland Reserve.

It was Mr. Morris’s plan in all his land schemes to
establish towns and settle the surrounding farms. He
preached up the country as a good home for young men,
and sent out his son Thomas as an evidence of his own
faith. He had hoped that emigration could be started
from Pennsylvania, but a wide forest separated the settled
parts of that state from the Genesee, and hostile Indians
inhabited the intervening country. The Pennsylvania
Mennonites, who had agreed to place their sons in one
township, abandoned the project.

The surveys were expensive. Axemen were obliged
to hew a wide track through the forest to make a way
for the engineers. The displeasure of the Indians in-
creased as their lands were invaded by the white men.
They wished to be protected from “the big eater with
the big belly,” and it finally became necessary to call a
great council to satisfy the chiefs, several of whom came

-

304 ROBERT MORRIS

to Philadelphia to present their grievances in person to
Robert Morris.1_ Mr. Morris was as skilful in dealing
with Indian chieftains as with most other classes of men.
He treated them like princes in some European line. He
brought Cornplanter to the city with an interpreter at
an expense of about $500, entertained him at his own
home, and sent him back to New York laden with pres-
ents. A meeting and an indemnity, however, were quite
inevitable, and Mr. Morris laid his plans to make his peace
with the Senecas as cheaply as possible. His son Thomas,
who was about to achieve a great reputation for himself
in frontier diplomacy, travelled on foot from village to
village, urging the people to come to the great council
fire. He walked unarmed without a guard except his
interpreters from Canandaigua to Niagara, and when he
was done, had quite won over the Indians to the proposi-
tion for a conference.

Robert Morris desired that it might be held at Buffalo
Creek in June, 1797, but this date was too early. Liquors,
tobacco, and presents must be accumulated. Representa-
tives of the United States and the state of Massachusetts,
which had territorial claims in the region, must be on the
ground. These details were looked after in Philadelphia.
Mr. Morris was to have met President Washington at
Mount Vernon in the summer of 1796 to arrange for the
appointment of a Commissioner on the part of the United
States. He was unable to go South, however, and the
interview was delayed until the President returned to

1 Turner’s ‘‘ History of the Phelps and Gorham Purchase.’’

HIS HOUSES AND LANDS 305

Philadelphia. In February, 1797, just before the Wash-
ington administration closed, Isaac Smith, late a member
of Congress from New Jersey, was nominated for the
office. Although he and his wife were entertained at
dinner at the Morris home, and Mr. Morris had himself
planned to accompany Judge Smith “in order to keep
him in good spirits throughout the fatigues of the journey
by sharing them with him,” that gentleman declined the
appointment. Colonel Wadsworth was then selected for
the mission, while Massachusetts named General Shepherd
to represent her interests at the council fire.

Morris calculated that in making the treaty he would
need from thirteen to fifteen hundred rations of beef,
mutton, and pork for thirty days. There must be “rum
and whiskey in proportion,” tobacco, and baubles and
gewgaws of various kinds for the women and children.
The meat could be procured in the Genesee, but the
liquors, tobacco, pipes, and presents must be forwarded
from Philadelphia and New York. Mr. Morris, to avoid
being known as a party to this form of bribery, commis-
sioned his friend, Tench Francis, who was sent to Boston
during the Revolution to bring the French money by ox-
train to Philadelphia, afterward the first cashier of the
Bank of North America, to make the necessary purchases.
Two large wagons were sent from Philadelphia, in each of
which was loaded a pipe of wine. The remaining space
was filled in with porter, spirits, smoking and chewing
tobacco, pipes of all descriptions, bright-colored cloths,
and showy presents, although for the most part inexpen-

x

é
306 ROBERT MORRIS

sive, for the chiefs and the squaws and children. The
wagoners proceeded to Wilkesbarre where the goods
were transferred to a boat to be carried to Tioga Point.
There they were reloaded upon wagons to be taken to the
shores of Lake Geneva. Crossing that lake by sloop, they
were again ready for a wagon journey overland to
Thomas Morris’s house in the heart of the Indian country.

Robert Morris meant to have this work done well.
The meeting was fixed for August 20, 1797, at the
“Big Tree,” and he built there a council house which
took the form of a large tent covered with green
boughs, and furnished with a platform and seats. It
was the greatest disappointment to him as well as to
the Indians that his financial affairs would not permit
him to attend in person, but he gave minute directions
as to the management of the negotiations. If the
Indians collected too early, he wrote to Thomas, “you
must feed them well and keep them in a good humor,”
but he preferred that no liquors should be given them
until after the work was done. It was usual on such
occasions to have “a revel and frolic,” for a week before
business was begun, as a result of which the savages
became dissipated and headless. A better way, he be-
lieved, would be to parade the rum and whiskey before
them, assuring them that it would be theirs when they
had finished the treaty.

The representatives of the United States, of Massa-
chusetts, and of the Holland Company arrived, and so,
too, did the Indians, the interpreters, and a considerable

HIS HOUSES. AND LANDS 807

body of frontier traders. Two weeks were consumed
in fruitless debate with Red Jacket, Cornplanter, Little
Billy, Little Beard, and other Indian orators who had
much to say about the seizure of their lands. It was here
that Thomas Morris displayed his diplomatic skill and
won for himself the warm encomiums of his father whose
absence made the young man’s position one of great
delicacy and responsibility. Although Robert Morris
had sent a speech to be read to the Indians, they wished
to treat with him in person. With whooping and yell-
ing they declared that “the council fire was covered
up’
when Thomas Morris, by the diligent use of his persua-
sive powers, helped by the liquor, again brought in the
warriors and their women, and induced them to sell
their lands for $100,000. Some of the Indians were
promised annuities for the rest of their lives. The suc-
cessful negotiation of this treaty was pleasing news to
the man who, by this time, had become a prisoner in his
beautiful home at “The Hills,” lest if he should go out,
he should be caught by some vigilant constable.

In 1795 Mr. Morris laid a plan for increasing his
land holdings in Georgia by purchasing the tract pre-
sented by that state to the Comte D’Estaing, who
commanded a French squadron sent to aid the colonies
during the Revolution. The Count had just been put
to death by the guillotiners in Paris. He died
without children. His natural heir was the Comte de
Colbert, who had inquired about the property through

> and were on the point of scattering into the forest,
308 ROBERT MORRIS

Mr. Pinckney, our Minister to England, who in turn
directed the inquiry to Robert Morris as an eminent
authority on the value of lands in America. Morris
asked his agent in London, William Constable, to nego-
tiate with the heirs, whoever they might be, for the
purchase of the claim for about £4000 or £5000. His
own name must not be used in the transaction, but
Gouverneur Morris, then in Europe, and his son Will-
iam, might be taken into the business. The latter, if
need be, could be sent to Georgia to attend to the
recovery of the tract. Mr. Morris did not know what
the property was worth. That it had a higher value
than the price he proposed to pay, he was fairly well
convinced. “General Jackson, the senator from Georgia,
says the estate is worth £40,000,” Morris observed
privately in his letter to London, “but you know,” he
added, “Jackson is a very sanguine man.”

As soon as the Congress of which he was a member
decided that the seat of government should be located
on the Potomac’s banks, Morris proceeded to invest
extensively in land in the most likely parts of the
District of Columbia. He and his partners purchased
about six thousand building lots in Washington, later
adding some twelve hundred more to their holdings,
making in all 7234. The site of the future city was a
primeval forest. There were no houses, barring some
cabins for workmen and negroes, until Mr. Morris began
his building operations. In the uncleared wood an
Executive Mansion and a Capitol building were rising

HIS HOUSES -AND LANDS 309

out of the ground, but progress was extremely slow.
A young Englishman, Thomas Twining, who was travel-
ling in America and visited Washington at about this
time, relates how he entered a large wood “through which
a very imperfect road had been made, principaily by
removing the trees, or the upper parts of them, in the
usual manner.” After a while more order was observed,
“the trees having been cut down in a straight line,
although no habitation of any kind was visible. I had
no doubt,” the traveller continues, “but I was now riding
along one of the streets of the metropolitan city. I con-
tinued in this spacious avenue for a mile, and then came
out upon a large spot cleared of wood, in the centre of
which I saw two unfinished buildings, and men at work
on one of them. Advancing and speaking to these
workmen, they informed me that I was in the centre
of the city, and that the building was the Capitol.
Looking from where I stood I saw on every side a thick
wood, pierced with avenues in a more or less perfect
state.”

Francis Baily, another English traveller, who made
a tour of America near the end of the century, found
the Capitol “in a great state of forwardness,” but not
much more than one-half of the city was cleared. The
streets appeared like broad avenues in a park, being
bounded on each side by thickets of trees. ‘Were it
not for the President’s house and the Capitol, you would
be ignorant that you were near the spot intended for
the metropolis of the United States.” Mr. Baily saw

:
310 ROBERT MORRIS

some boys kill “several brace of partridges in what will
be one of the most public streets of the city.”

The only hotel at which travellers could find a com-
fortable resting-place was at Georgetown, three miles
away, and there the charges were very exorbitant, about
$4 a day. Even in 1800, when the Adamses brought
their goods from Philadelphia to place them in the new
White House, many of them having been broken in transit
over the “infamous roads,” the city was a wilderness.
Mrs. Adams found the plastering still damp upon the
walls of the Executive Mansion. Not a single apartment
was finished, but some were nearing completion. She
dried her clothes on wash-days in the large audience
room. The stairways were not up. Thirty servants
were required, but there were no bells to summon them.
Fires must be kept burning, but in the midst of a forest
there was no wood for fuel, No one could be had to
cut it or cart it, and the price rose from $4 to $9 per cord.
One hundred bushels of coals were secured for the Presi-
dent’s mansion, but there were no grates in which to burn
it in the winter of 1800-1801. The people of the new
Federal city were finally compelled to send to Phila-
delphia for wood-cutters and wagoners to come into this
wilderness, where, as Mrs. Adams remarks, “you could
not see wood for the trees.”1 Her visitors travelled
a distance of three or four miles. To return a call, she
complained, consumed a whole day. Her nearest neighbor
lived at a lodging-house a half-mile away.

1 Letters of Abigail Adams.

g So
ee
‘

HIS HOUSES AND LANDS OLD

“Tt is a beautiful spot capable of every improvement,”
she wrote to a friend, which is suggestive of what another
observer said of Washington at this period of its history.
After reciting many of the discomforts of life in the new
capital, he sarcastically summarized his impressions by
recommending it as “the very best city in the world for a
future residence.”

Mr. Morris, like the apt land-jobber he had come to
be, was blind to the shortcomings of the city in which
he had financially staked his faith. He erected ten
houses in the summer of 1797, in the hope of increas-
ing values, and had constructed perhaps fifty out of
something less than two hundred buildings which were
in the city in 1800. These were mostly of brick and
were to have been roofed with slate, but as this could
not be secured in time shingles were substituted. The
greatest difficulty was experienced in securing mechanics.
Materials were expensive and scarce. In the midst of
his troubles President Washington issued a proclamation
regulating the style of house which any owner might
erect upon a city lot. “I wish,” he writes, “that the
President had abolished in toto the regulations about
building, and thereby left the owners of lots to pursue
their own fancies and inclinations. This I conceive will
be absolutely necessary to give that spur to improvement
which is wanted. The King of Prussia tried to establish
a city upon the same system of regularity of buildings,
but with absolute authority and money at command he
could not do it, and only impeded its progress by the

t

312 ROBERT MORRIS

attempt.” Mr. Morris did not himself visit Washington
City until September, 1796, when he went to remain about
three weeks. He stayed ten, making payments to the
Federal Commissioners, dividing tracts and selling lots at
thirteen, eighteen, twenty, twenty-five, and even fifty
cents per square foot which before he went to see them he
would have sold at six. He was enthusiastic about the
situation of the city. It is “a beautiful place,” he wrote
to his friends; “I am delighted with it.”” On his return
journey in November he was thrown from his horse al-
though he was not seriously hurt. So tedious were the
methods of travel that he must needs expend three nights
on the way. The first found him at Frederick in Mary-
land, the second at York-town in Pennsylvania, the third
at Petitts, forty-three miles from Philadelphia, from which
he set out at five in the morning reaching the city at five
o’clock in the evening to find the sheriff waiting at his door,
and rumors current everywhere that he would never return.

In 1794 Morris and his partner John Nicholson organ-
ized the so-called “ Asylum Company,” which was based
upon one million acres of land in Pennsylvania, chiefly in
Luzerne, Northumberland, and Northampton Counties.
They built a town on the Susquehanna which they named
Asylum, and aimed to attract settlers to their tracts. <A
year later Morris sold his interest in this enterprise to
Nicholson.}

In 1795 more than six million acres of land were
thrown into the North American Land Company, includ-

1 Plan of Assoc. of Asylum Co.

HIS HOUSES AND LANDS 313

ing 647,046 acres in Pennsylvania, of which 250,000 acres
were located north and west of the Ohio and Allegheny
rivers in a country not yet laid out into counties, much
of it being situated near the present site of Pittsburg.
Morris and his partners owned 932,621 acres in Virginia,
of which 484,025 were situated in Montgomery County,
717,249 acres in North Carolina, 957,238 acres in South
Carolina, 577,857 being in the Orangeburg district,
2,314,796 acres in Georgia, of which 1,453,516 were in
Washington County, and 431,043 acres in Kentucky.
When the tracts assigned to this company were disposed
of, Mr. Morris was still so extensive a landholder that he
owned real estate in Pennsylvania estimated to have a
value of $1,000,000 with which in 1797 to organize the
Pennsylvania Property Company, his final effort in a
long succession of struggles to save himself from a

bankrupt’s fate.
1 Plan of Assoc. of N. A. Land Co.

CHAPTER X
EVENING SHADES

Rosert Morgis’s financial misfortunes did not descend
upon him suddenly, which leads us to wonder why he
did not take effective steps to ward off the disaster. But
he had started on his downward course, and one event after
another contributed to hasten the speed with which he
was carried to the end. He had assumed the rdle of
the rich man of America, and it was costly to keep his
place. One speculation followed another until he could
go no farther. No more taxes could be paid, no more
land could be mortgaged, no more could be sold, and while .
every one knew that his vast tracts had great prospective
worth, the state of the times, financially, encouraged no
investor to submit to the waiting and the risk.

Already on June 28, 1787, while the Constitutional
Convention was in session in Philadelphia, Washington
writes in his Diary, “Dined at Mr. Morris’s in a large
company, the news of his bills being protested arriving
last night a little mal-apropos.” In 1789, when Morris
wrote to Edward Tilghman in regard to the payment
of a fee for legal instruction to his son William, he said:
“My natural temper which is generous and open prompts
me to offer a sum beyond the common run, but I am
EVENING SHADES 315

constantly checked in every attempt to gratify this dis-
position by considerations arising from the misfortunes
that have arrested my pursuits in business for three years
past, and the consequent embarrassments in which I am
involved. These considerations tell me to be just and
pay my debts before I gratify the feelings of generosity.”

It was not until 1794 or 1795, however, that Morris
experienced the full force of his misfortunes and follies.
He had sold out his interest in the old house of Willing
and Morris to John Swanwick. He had abandoned the
import and export trade, and now devoted himself solely
to his land operations. Some of his early deals soon
after the war closed were very profitable. His buyers,
whom he found chiefly in Europe, for a time looked with
favor upon American investments. The name he had
achieved for himself abroad as the Financier of the Rev-
olution caused his word to be respected in all the money
centres of the world. The bankers with whom he dealt
as a public officer continued to serve him and forward
his operations as a private man, particularly in Amster-
dam. He was himself a firm believer until the last that
the country would leap into wealth, and that the
world, then awry because of the warfare of the nations
which had been stirred up by Napoleon, and were de-
spoiling each other’s commerce on land and sea, would
soon again pursue its accustomed way to the advantage
of all its inhabitants. His temperament steeled him
for such experiences as he was soon to pass through.
His very hopefulness was the cause of his ruin. “This

t

316 ROBERT MORRIS

country is rushing into wealth and importance,” he wrote
to his friends in Europe, ‘faster than ever was expected,
by the most sanguine of the sanguinous.” “The pop-
ulation of this country,” he wrote at another time, “has
now got to produce such a mass of young people who
must every year spread over the uncultivated lands, that
their number, and, of course, the increasing value of
those lands, is almost beyond calculation.”

To China he wrote: “This country continues in the
most flourishing and thriving state of any in the world,
and promises to be the most happy asylum for the dis-
tressed of other countries.” To a prospective buyer in
Europe he gave a glowing picture of the methods which
could be pursued in the management of land. After
taking up a tract, he observed : —

“Every family that settles gives great additional value
to what remains, and although you begin the sale at
one or two dollars per acre, you end it at the rate of ten
or twelve dollars per acre. Numberless are the instances
that might be quoted to prove and support this statement,
and amongst others the province of Pennsylvania, by
William Penn, which went through this same process.
I know lands not sixty miles from this city which were
purchased within forty years for £10 per hundred acres,
that are now worth and actually sell for £40 per acre
cash down. In short, gentlemen, I have much to say
upon the subject, but not time enough to say it in, there-
fore must defer enlarging until another opportunity,
which will occur in about ten days.”

EVENING -SHADES 817

Morris for a time achieved a considerable measure of
success in persuading European capitalists to place their
money in his land ventures, and in 1793 was on the
point of carrying out some very important deals. It
was at this fortunate time that he commissioned L’Enfant
to construct his great marble house. He expected to
receive £75,000, which he actually did receive, but as
a result of the London bank failures in March, he was
compelled to pay £124,000. This burden proved to be
so heavy that he could not rise from under it. It was
the real beginning of the series of events which led to
his complete undoing and ruin. The banks refused
longer to discount his bills. Creditors in Europe and
at home were clamorous for money. James Greenleaf,
who had been taken into their partnership by Morris
and Nicholson because of the capital he had promised
to provide through a loan in Holland, was prevented by
the French invasion from carrying out his ambitious
plans. No course seemed to remain but the organiza-
tion of stock companies in the hope that shares would
sell better than acres.

The Asylum Company, which Mr. Morris established
to exploit one million acres of land and draw colonists
into the unsettled parts of Pennsylvania, he soon trans-
ferred to his partner, John Nicholson. His next step
was to organize with Nicholson and Greenleaf the North
American Land Company, to take over, develop, and
sell six million acres in Pennsylvania, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Kentucky. This

-
318 ROBERT MORRIS

was a bold undertaking which deserved success. The
capital stock was fixed at $8,000,000, or a half-dollar
per acre, which did not seem to be an excessive estimate
of the value of the land. To be sure, Morris had lately
exchanged on even terms seventy-four thousand acres
at the mouth of the Tennessee River for a lot in Chest-
nut Street near Seventh, in Philadelphia. But the pro-
moters of the company did not propose to let their land
stand under wood. Young men were to be sent out to settle
each tract. For instance, on two hundred and fifty thou-
sand acres west of the Allegheny River, in Pennsylvania,
the managers planned the erection of a sawmill and grist-
mill at the company’s expense. A surveyor would be
placed in charge of the tract, building himself a house
and plotting out around it five hundred or six hundred
acres as a farm for his own use. In the vicinity of the
farm and mills a town should be laid out. Mechanics,
such as carpenters, blacksmiths, shoemakers, and tailors,
were to be collected, and town lots sold at a low price.
The rest of the tract was to be divided into farms to
contain from one hundred to five hundred acres each,
and to be numbered when they were plotted, — one, two,
three, and so on upward,—charts being forwarded to the
officers of the company. These farms, Mr. Morris said,
would sell immediately for $2 per acre, and when thirty
or fifty families had settled on the tract, the price could
be raised. The land divided into town lots would yield
still larger returns. It was proposed that the entire
six million acres should be developed and administered

"i

EVENING SHADES 319

on the same plan. Once a year confidential men were
to be sent out from Philadelphia to the different settle-
ments to ascertain whether the resident agents were
doing their duty by the stockholders.

In the “Plan of Association” of the company the
subscribers — Morris, Nicholson, and Greenleaf — ex-
plained that they offered a scheme whereby “all persons
who have money may, if they please, participate in the
advantages resulting from the purchase, sale, and im-
provement of these valuable estates.” The capital stock
was divided into thirty thousand shares at $100 per
share, and it was agreed that interest should be paid at
the rate of six per cent, or $6 on each share, annually.
Morris and his partners selected a Board of Managers
made up of prominent men likely to give character to
the undertaking, and specified that “if the cash arising
from the sales” did not amount to a sum requisite to pay
the interest, they would themselves “advance and lend to
the managers such sums as may be necessary in addition
to what they have in hand of the company’s money to
enable them to pay $6 on each share.” The titles were
vested in Thomas Willing, president of the Bank of the
United States, John Nixon, president of the Bank of
North America, and John Barclay, president of the
Bank of Pennsylvania, who as it was sold were to con-
vey the property to the purchasers.

Offices were opened in Philadelphia and New York
for receiving subscriptions to the stock, for, although
Morris expected to retain one-tenth or perhaps one

%

320 ROBERT MORRIS

fifth of the issue for his own use, while his partners
were to have a proportionate interest, a large number of
shares were placed upon sale at once. In March, 1795,
Mr. Morris wrote with some pride to a friend in
London : —

“This is a plan of my own forming, and I am willing
to pledge my reputation and everything that is dear to
me upon the success of it, being perfectly satisfied that,
beside an annual dividend of at least 6 per cent, or $6
on each share every year, it will enable such dividends
in the course of fifteen years as will return not less
than four times, and I believe ten times, the capital.”

Letters no less hopeful and confident were despatched
in all directions to bankers and capitalists with whom
Mr. Morris had business dealings. His affairs had
reached such a pass now that he knew it was necessary
to spare no energy. His credit was tottering on the
brink ; one step more and it would fall to ruin. The
fortune which was within his grasp if times had favored
him, and he could hold his lands until their value had
increased, was gradually slipping through his fingers.
No one would lend any more money by regular means ;
perhaps some could be induced to support his schemes
if he should invite them to become stockholders in a
great company.

But this plan was also destined to fail promptly and
ignominiously. Stock was no more to the public liking
in its temper at the time than the land itself. Mr.
Morris’s trustees declined to serve, alleging that the

EVENING SHADES 3Z1

use of their names on his prospectuses was entirely
unauthorized. Mr. Barclay, Mr. Nixon, and Mr. Willing
were his lifelong friends, and this was a blow to Morris
which, if he had not already borne so much, and had
not been in a position to foresee other disasters of
much heavier force, would have been well-nigh insup-
portable. He, however, rose to every occasion, and
struggled with all his powers to clear away the obsta-
cles thrown in his path. “The land plan has its

enemies,”

he wrote to Greenleaf. “They have been
busy to prevent the trustees from accepting the trust.
I am occupied in removing the difficulties, and plague
enough I have with it, but I shall succeed in the end.”
He observed that he must now seek “other respectable
characters to supply their places.” After Mr. Morris
visited the trustees and explained his need of their
names, all agreed to serve but Mr. Willing. He declined
because of his connection with the Bank of the United
States, whereupon Jared Ingersoll was appointed to the
place.

The secretary of the North American Land Company
was James Marshall, who had just married Mr. Morris’s
daughter Hetty, and his trip to Europe was mainly for
the purpose of placing stock abroad, although he had a
number of independent tracts of land for sale if he
should meet with buyers who desired bargains in
America. Marshall scoured Europe pretty thoroughly.
From England he went to Holland, then to Prussia,
and finally to Poland. He hoped that he might be

Y

‘

322 ROBERT MORRIS

able to induce the oppressed Poles to emigrate to a
safe retreat in America, somewhere in the fifty wilder-
nesses which Mr. Morris would have been so glad to
transfer to the outcasts of other worlds. He met with
little but discouragement. “I think I can perceive a
little symptom of despondency in your letters,” Mr.
Morris wrote paternally to his new son-in-law, “but I
beg you not to give way to it. Keep your expectations
alive, and never suffer disappointments to make the
impression on your mind that would lead to the conclu-
sion that it is in vain to seek after money through the
medium of sales or loans. On the contrary cherish
with confidence the expectation that you are to succeed,
make every attempt you can think of, and one day or
other, perhaps when expectation is at its lowest ebb,
you will succeed.”

The few sales Marshall did make he complained were
not confirmed. He could not secure titles. Morris’s
affairs were so much involved that it seemed to be
impossible for him to extricate tracts for purchasers, and
the young man came home after a trip of two years by
boat, coach, and horse, into all the principal financial
centres of Europe, where war and revolution did not at
the time prevent, convinced of the futility of his mission.

Subscriptions to the capital stock of the North Ameri-
can Land Company could be secured only in very spar-
ing amounts either abroad or at home. “The result
would have been better,” Mr. Morris observed, “were
it not for the cursed scarcity of money.” The only

EVENING SHADES 323

purpose served by this enterprise in which Morris reposed
so much faith, was the creation of a new class of
certificates with an appearance of value, which he could
send to insistent creditors, and thus postpone his inevi-
table collapse. To Willink and Co., the Amsterdam
bankers who were so useful to him as the Financier of
the Revolution, he forwarded one thousand shares to
cover a pressing debt. They had refused an offer of
city lots in Washington. His standing account with
them was so large that it called for his immediate care,
but even when one creditor was satisfied, a thousand
more, both great and small, confronted him with
demands wherever he turned.

The most serious specific trouble that overtook Mr.
Morris after the London bank failures of 1793, leaving
out of account the general disordered condition of the
times at the end of the eighteenth century, was the rascal-
ity of James Greenleaf. This partner was the constant
bane of Mr. Morris’s declining days. From his knowl-
edge of the Dutch, gained while he represented the
United States in Amsterdam, it was expected that he
would be able to place loans in Holland. That he did
not succeed was probably not more than a misfortune.
He however had opened credit on one of his operations,
with Washington lots as his security, and as Amsterdam
did not honor his bills, the burden fell upon Mr. Morris as
an endorser whose account in London suffered to the
extent of £30,000. The blow was heavy and unexpected.
It was a debt merely of honor, but it must be paid

324 ROBERT MORRIS

if Morris’s personal credit was not to be shattered irrev-
ocably.

Furthermore, Greenleaf did not live up to his agree-
ment with Nicholson and Morris in regard to payments for
his share of the land purchases. He failed to pay the
Commissioners of the Federal city for lots bought from
the United States government, and even kept some of
Mr. Morris’s money, intrusted to him for that use. No
course remained but to get rid of sucha partner. Morris
and Nicholson first arranged to take care of his interest in
the Washington investment. His share was equal to each
of theirs —a third —and they gave him notes for the sum
due him, by which means Mr. Morris remarked with visible
satisfaction, “The tables are turned, and instead of his
being our debtor, we are become his debtors.” In May,
1796, they purchased their delinquent partner’s interest in
the North American Land Company, and were at last free
of him except for his dishonored paper, his suits, attach-
ments, and unceasing maledictions. His bills continued
to come in, and were a daily plague. On May 26, 1796,
Morris wrote to Greenleaf, “ You will observe that you,
Mr. Nicholson, and myself are all liable to be taken by
the sheriff at any moment if payment is not directly
made.”

But to urge was useless. While he probably had noth-
ing with which to make good his share of their mutual
debt, he was indisposed to recognize his obligation and
missed no opportunity to embarrass the fair progress of
his late partners’ affairs. He was active to prevent them

EVENING SHADES BP Ay)

from getting the certificates to their Washington lots.
He wrote to the newspapers, and aired his alleged griev-
ances in controversial language in print. He spread false
reports to Morris’s detriment in Europe, attacked Morris’s
property in Holland, and after he was put in jail, was
still active in suing and instigating suits which in no
long time brought both his associates in an unfortunate
business to the same place of penance.

Mr. Morris’s disillusionment was gradual, but it was
complete. On March 6, 1795, he wrote to his son Thomas,
“Mr. G. is here. We are cool but civil.” In December
Morris had come to the conclusion that Greenleaf was “ too
fond of himself and his own interest.” In 1797, Green-
leaf had “a knack of creating mischief” wherever he
turned, and to Willink and Co. in Amsterdam he wrote,
“The unhappy engagements which I had been tempted to
make with that man have proved a source of vexation
and misfortune to me beyond anything I could have con-
ceived possible.” A little later, in reviewing his various
troubles, Mr. Morris said, “ This miscreant has been the
principal cause of all my late embarrassments, and it was
the most unfortunate act of my life that I ever had any-
thing to do with him.”

When Greenleaf was at last in prison, it was Morris’s
and Nicholson’s desire to keep him there. On October
20, 1797, Morris sent him a letter. “ Notwithstanding the
many provocations I have met with in your conduct toward
me, I have not to this hour brought any suit or suits
against you,” he observed, but since he had learned of the

326 ROBERT MORRIS

attachments in Amsterdam, and since Greenleaf was in his
debt both by bond and on account current, he gave notice
that he would now begin process for “a full and fair settle-
ment.” This letter as was foreseen elicited only insolence in
reply, and there was no remedy in law and not much solace
in public temper for a situation that was rapidly carrying
down to destruction the one-time great Financier. Mr.
Morris had “got behind,” he explained to his friends, and
he could not “catch up.” “You must know that it is not
for want of substance or inclination,” he wrote, “ but with
ample wealth I find it next to impossible to get the pos-
session of ready money.”

To Alexander Hamilton, in a letter written December
15, 1795, he said: “I want ready money sadly but it is not
want of property. Property, however, will not command
ready money at this time without great sacrifice. I do
not like to sacrifice if I can help it, because I have worked
hard to get what I have, and will fight a good battle to
keep it.”

The sacrifice was indeed great. It seemed to Morris
that all wanted to borrow and none to lend. Certainly
not many lenders were now willing to intrust their money
to him. As for the financial distress of the period, Morris
alleged that in Philadelphia “the like was never known,”
which was also the testimony of James Carey with refer-
ence to Baltimore. On temporary loans money was bring-
ing from two and one-half per cent to four per cent per
month. “ Usurious dealings seem no longer to be consid-
ered disreputable,” said Morris.. “The avaricious spirit

ae

EVENING SHADES 827

of these times,” he sincerely deplored. ‘The enormous
usurious premiums for temporary use of money,” he com-
plained, “has introduced a spirit of avarice which never
did before disgrace this country.”

‘Money is confounded scarce,” Mr. Morris declared on
another occasion. “I am in want of money,” he remarked
again, “‘and when that is the case every other plague fol-
lows. I cannot raise the wind fast enough during this
calm in the circulation of cash,” he told Benjamin Harri-
son in 1795. “The distress is universal so that one knows
not where to seek relief. I must again ransack Europe.”
A year later he wrote to his friend Harrison at Rich-
mond, “I am, as you say, beating hard up against wind
and tide, and I fear I shall be obliged to have recourse
to steam to get along (for I am building a steam engine
at Morrisville).”

Mr. Morris daily reproached himself for the folly of his
vast speculations. “I am latterly become so fully con-
vinced that much wealth does not increase happiness,” he
wrote, “that I cannot help regretting that so much of my
time has been spent in the pursuit of it, and I would this
moment give up a great deal of what I possess if by such
a cession I could at once close the scene of business and
become master at will of my time.”

“ When my debts are paid,” he observed again, “I will
remain quiet for the rest of my life.” “If I can once get
square,” he vowed another time, “I will never contract
another debt. . .. I am heartily sick of toiling in this
world as I now perceive that all is vanity.”

t
328 ROBERT MORRIS

“‘ We are all well,” he said in a letter to a friend, “and
if my debts were paid, I should be as happy as the rest of
the family.” In April, 1797, Morris complained to one of
his correspondents, “I am plagued most cursedly for
want of money, but since the Bank of England cannot pay
[that institution had suspended specie payments], how the
devil can anybody expect that individuals should do it un-
less in the same way by giving a new for an old note.”

The situation seemed to be hopeless. ‘“ My finances,”
he said, “are in the most crippled situation that I have
ever yet experienced, and this so publicly known that it
is difficult to accomplish any money negotiations, for con-
fidence not only in me, but between man and man even
from the first to the last, is so totally destroyed that those
who have money are afraid to part with it, and when
they do, it is for high premiums and tenfold security.”

He was obliged, however, to face his many troubles.
“T blame myself,” he mused, “for haying gone so deeply
into these speculations and so do my friends and the world,
so far as it is known, but neither their blame nor my
own reproaches will take me out of the scrape.”

But when the night was darkest, Morris’s courage did
not wholly desert. He took frequent vows to fresh en-
deavors. In December, 1795, he wrote, “I expect before
long to come forth in triumph.” To Nicholson in Au-
gust, 1796, he said: “I am sadly plagued for want of
money. We must work like men and clear away these
cursed encumbrances and satisfy the cormorants.” <A
year later he was still courageous: ‘My health and

EVENING SHADES 329

spirits are as good as ever, and I hope to regain my posi-
tion, but I have an arduous task to perform. It shall,
however, be performed.”

He continued to picture to Europe the allurements of
life in America in the hope of persuading the people to
emigrate and settle upon his lands. In a letter to Leipsic
he said that he considered his tracts in Georgia to be
well adapted for the occupancy of the poor. They
were covered with timber which was wanted in the
West Indies. The crops grew spontaneously ; not only
grains and vegetables but also tobacco, cotton, and rice.
Cattle, hogs, and poultry throve, and took care of them-
selves at all seasons of the year, needing nothing from
the owner but now and then a little salt. Lemons,
“fine oranges,” limes, grapes, and peaches were easily
raised. There was not an instance of a poor family
settling in Georgia, which, if it were industrious, sober,
and economical, did not in five or ten years become “rich
and independent.” The country, Mr. Morris declared,
“only wants to be properly known, and it would be re-
sorted to from all parts of the world now overstocked
with people.” America was still prospering, except for
the spoliation of her commerce by the belligerents of
Europe, and they, he concluded, “ must pay for it by and
by. This country is growing into too much importance
to be plundered with impunity.”

To a business friend in England he wrote in the same
sanguine spirit, although there was little cause for hope

in his heart: —

‘

330 ROBERT MORRIS

“Here are unoccupied lands in this country to an
immense extent, capable of providing food and raiment
for millions and millions of men, allowing to every family
such comfortable space that they will not be willing to
engage in broils as they do in crowded Europe, where
air and subsistence can hardly be obtained by the great
mass.”

For those who sent him their duns Mr. Morris had
various and characteristic replies. To Sharp Delaney
in March, 1795, he wrote: “I have not any money, but if
I can get any, you shall have a part. Who in God’s.
name has all the money, for everybody seems to want?”

To another creditor he wrote: “ No man gets money
from me by suing so soon as without suit. I pay as fast
as I can and am always willing to pay when I can, there-
fore he that institutes a suit against me throws the money
he would otherwise receive into other hands.”

Ladies were somewhat more considerately addressed.
On May 20, 1796, he wrote this polite missive: “Miss
Cadwalader: Mr. Morris presents his compliments to Miss
Cadwalader. He would have replied to her note the day it
was received, but expecting a payment of money, he intended
that his payment to her should be the answer, but a dis-
appointment has put it out of his power at present. He
expects, however, to send it to Miss Cadwalader in a short
time.”

Late in 1796 the troubles of Mr. Morris had accumu-
lated to such an extent that longer to contend against
them was obviously a hopeless task. By messenger, by

EVENING SHADES 331

post, and in person creditors presented their long overdue
accounts. Notes were to be paid. Interest and taxes
made imperious demands upon the once opulent but now
thoroughly distrusted Financier. Many were seeking to
recover judgment. The Bank of Pennsylvania, the Bank
of the United States, and the Bank of North America had
gone to law to make good their claims, and scarcely any one
with whom Mr. Morris had had business dealings in his
recent career failed, by suit or common dun, to bring to his
notice some bill which there was no money to pay. Land
was being sold for the taxes, and every announcement of
this kind wrenched Mr. Morris’s soul. One hundred
thousand acres in Georgia had already gone under the
sheriff’s hammer, and more would follow in a short time.

“That unfortunate building on Chestnut Street,” as Mr.
Morris called his marble palace, was suffering for a roof.
The rain was driving in, to run down the unfinished walls.
In vain he endeavored to get the workmen to continue, for
he had only promises with which to pay their wages. His
family was then living in Chestnut Street opposite the
great unfinished pile, in a house situated between the resi-
dences of Mr. Fitzsimmons on the one side and General
Dickinson on the other. He hoped to finish the rooms
on the first floor for a counting-house, and settle his
family over his offices, completing the work as the state
of his finances improved. This planalso failed. He how-
ever was able to employ a man to take charge of the
premises and prevent prowlers from carrying away the
things. The house was to have been finished in 1795.

332 ROBERT MORRIS

It was a mere pile of walls without a roof, floors, or plaster-
ing in 1797, “and now I am out of money and credit,” said
Mr. Morris, in bemoaning his fate to a friend. “All
stands still, and unless times change, the work cannot be
resumed by me. Thus you may judge how sufficiently I
am chastised for my folly.”

He was unable to pay the Commissioners of the District
of Columbia for his Washington lots. They complained to
President Washington who wrote urging prompt payment
of the sum. Morris was compelled to explain to the
President, his close personal friend, the General whose
operations he had so signally forwarded upon the battle-
field, how his troubles multiplied and how he lacked the
money with which to keep his engagements with the United
States government. This was one of the most humiliat-
ing and melancholy experiences which had yet come into
Mr. Morris’s life. But he was compelled to face all his
misfortunes. He promised that the money would be
provided as soon as possible, and begged that the Commis-
sioners would not sell him out.

The French Revolutionary Minister to the United States,
Fauchet, who followed the notorious Genet, caused it to
be published in France that Morris’s Georgia lands were
not fertile and were of uncertain title. This charge greatly
annoyed the owner. He vigorously denied the allegation
through the newspapers in Europe and America. It was
but one more trial for a man who had already borne
enough. In the midst of it all his two sons William and
Charles, through their wild ways, caused him incessant

EVENING, SHADES 3u0

anxiety, and the yellow fever swept down upon the city in
its most virulent form, driving away the people of the
moneyed classes, so that it was the more difficult for him
to carry out any financial operation to avert the final event.

Morris had long promised himself and his creditors a
trip to Washington, where his partner, Nicholson, already
was employed in the work of getting titles, selling lots,
and building houses. But the same unhappy engagements
in Philadelphia which prevented him from going to the
Genesee to meet the Indians in 1797 kept him at home
in 1796. “Our numerous and perpetual engagements,”
he called them, but he broke away from them in Sep-
tember. It was said in Washington that he was afraid
to go there to face his creditors, and before he returned
in November, it was commonly reported in Philadelphia
that he would be afraid to come back. He performed
both feats, however, and survived for many months after
the experience. His return was accomplished just in time
to prevent a “domestic attachment ” on his property which,
had long been threatened, and to dispel the report that
he and Nicholson had embarked for Hamburg. In his
absence rumor had increased the anxiety of that innumer-
able host of men and women to whom he owed money. He
was welcomed home, he said, with “the severest and most
urgent duns I ever met with.” On December 29 he
wrote to Nicholson, who was still in Washington, “ Of
all the bad days since my return to this city from Wash-
ington, this has been the worst. It has been both danger-
ous and disagreeable to me. Not one moment passed free

ine at tne city of seeing it was ee to what it >

_ is here.” ‘eae
It was in the last ronth of the an 1796 that M

in a letter to his son-in-law, James Marshall, gave a

of departing courage, “ There still remains a hope and
barely that.”

i
ban,

CHAPTER XI
AFTER SUNSET

THE new year came, and with it suits, executions,
attachments, and every device which the law of the day
knew to plague great debtors. Many of Morris’s cred-
itors, especially his smaller ones, were hot upon his trail,
and were no longer to be satisfied with promises. His
friends forgave in their mercy, but with a great number
the humane sentiments had no weight. His expensive
marble palace stood in the centre of the city to testify
to the luxury of his life. He had but lately ceased to
import the costliest furniture and silk stuffs for his
great mansion; indeed, belated consignments were still
coming in. He was banqueting all the great men of
Europe who visited Philadelphia on foreign foods and
Mediterranean wines. The extravagant ways of his sons
were topics of common remark all over the city, and cred-
itors not illogically argued that this royal display was
at their expense. They resented the relationship the
longer they pondered it, and a storm was brewing which,
while slow in breaking, at last descended with fatal effect.
Nicholson kept out of harm’s way in Washington. “I
am left to be sacrificed,” Morris wrote to his partner,
bewailing his fate. “I hate to complain, but in the bitter-
-
t

336 ROBERT MORRIS ~

ness of accumulated trouble my soul must have vent.
Which way to turn I do not know. You have suffered
me to be driven too hard and too long.... Return
to your family. Besides them you will at least find one
real friend to receive you, one who has not joined the
throng in their cries, but, on the contrary, is ready to
join you in attempting to stem the torrent or turn its
course, and that friend is, Robert Morris.”

Nicholson still lingered in the Federal city. “Pray
come on hither,” Morris writes, “the moment you finish
where you are, for if I get under lock and key, you must
then expect a domestic attachment.”

Nicholson returned to Philadelphia in the middle of
February, 1797, but in March went back to Washington,
where the partners mutually agreed that his presence was
needed. During this consultation it was decided that a
new company should be formed as a last effort to check
the sweeping tide. “I confess,” Morris observed, “ that
I am fearful of issuing into the world too many plans in
quick succession, for although they may all be good, yet
injury may be done by one to another.” Nevertheless in
April he organized the Pennsylvania Property Company,
with a capital of $1,000,000 represented by ten thousand
shares of stock. This company took over such lands and
properties as remained to him in Pennsylvania, including
his beloved estate, “The Hills on Schuylkill,” and the
large tract at the Falls of the Delaware.! It was hoped
that by this operation he could relieve the pressure upon

1 Plan of Assoc. of Pa. Prop. Co.

AFTER SUNSET OoT

him by the mortgagees, and preserve his homes and farms
from sheriffs’ sales. By putting up the shares as security,
clamorous creditors might be temporarily satisfied; but
this enterprise was also destined to have no result except
to furnish a proof of the determination of Mr. Morris to
surrender only after he had fought a brave fight. He
resisted with obstinacy the partition and dissolution of the
great structure he had erected as the groundwork of the
colossal fortune, which he had hoped to enjoy and to pass
on to his family, even after all reasonable hope of succeed-
ing in his task had disappeared.

*« As to my integrity and temper,” he wrote to Willink
and Co., the Amsterdam bankers, “no change can happen
in either. They are the same they ever were, and always
must remain whilst I continue in existence.” He offered
his unfinished marble house partially to liquidate his
indebtedness to them.

At home the cordon was being drawn ever closer and
closer about him. At last he was obliged to take refuge
at “The Hills.” Beset with fi. fas, ca.sas, and bail-pieces,
it was not longer feasible for him to appear publicly in the
streets. He was scarcely privileged to leave the premises,
and was practically a prisoner except for occasional walks
over the estate, or up the banks of the Schuylkill, excur-
sions which he enjoyed between the visits of the city
constables.

“ Here we are, that is J. N. and R. M., doing penance
for our sins,” Mr. Morris observes in his Diary on June
28, 1797. Both of these splendid bankrupts, the largest

Z

t

338 ROBERT MORRIS

and most genteel which the eighteenth century had pro-
duced in America, were now penned up at the estate so
much loved and adored by its owner, and by the greatest
of Europe and the United States, whom he had so often
dined at the hospitable board within its square walls.
Lately free and prodigal, with visions of unlimited wealth,
they now complained that it was with difficulty they could
get enough money to go to market to procure food for
their families. To this retreat Morris removed all his
books and papers from his counting-house. In this situa-
tion he was able to indulge his philosophy, ponder his life,
and employ his ready wit which never deserted him in his
most unfortunate hour. The members of his family came
to visit him frequently, and sometimes all were around
him to administer such consolation as could be got out of
ruin and an impending term in a public prison. He
retained his gardener, James, and carriages and horses
still awaited his command in the stables. His son William,
who was soon to fall a victim of the fever, and who earlier
had greatly displeased his father by his idleness and dissi-
pation, now supported him manfully with valued legal
advice. The Marshalls returned from Europe in Novem-
ber, 1797. They and their children and Mrs. Morris made
bright more than one dreary day. His grandchildren, the
two Marshall boys, who were born in Europe, were a great
delight to him. He found them “as hearty as bucks and
as playful as kittens, but more mischievous.” The loyalty
of the family for which he had done so much out of his
generous soul, so long as he had the means and ability,

AFTER SUNSET 339

and for whose future comfort and independence he had
taken his great risks, was steadfast. No lesson in Mr.
Morris’s life is more wholesome, and no monument to him
more lasting, than the love and devotion which the mem-
bers of this family exhibited in and out of season, one for
another, with him as the chief exemplar and the central
object.

Once during this period of trial, George Washington
Parke Custis paid Mr. Morris a visit. ‘Iwas happy in
the company of Master Custis yesterday,” he writes in
a letter to General Washington. “He is a manly, fine
fellow.” The boy long remembered Mr. Morris’s kind-
nesses to him, and the Financier’s memory never lacked
a warm defender so long as Mr. Custis lived.

Morris and Nicholson faced their misfortunes together
without disagreement or dispute. They had together
striven to avert their disasters, and failing, were still
friends, neither blaming or reproaching the other for the
result. They trusted each other and liked each other,
their friendship being deeper than a business relation
requires. Mr. Morris had urged Nicholson to leave
Washington to its fate, which was more because he
wished the personal companionship of his partner than
through lack of faith in the sincerity of his promise to
return. It was certain that Nicholson would come back
to share the penalties of their mutual follies, but Morris
wanted him at “ The Hills” every day, where they could
together converse and ponder over their unhappy adven-
tures. It was too late now for concern about such trifles

340 ROBERT MORRIS

as the Washington lots. More important sacrifices were
being made daily and hourly because of their financial
delinquencies, and Nicholson came home to spend the
summer of 1797 in Morris’s square mansion among the
trees overlooking the Schuylkill River.

One day late in August, however, Nicholson received
word that the sheriff's men had laid their plans soon to
visit “The Hills” to make him a prisoner. Morris ar-
ranged, therefore, that his fellow in limbo should have safe
conduct to another house, promising not to reveal the
retreat until his own personal safety should make it
necessary. From this temporary haven Nicholson soon
made his way to his own home which he amusingly
dubbed “ Castle Defence.” Morris named “ The Hills”
“Castle Defiance,” and the two began a long and curious
struggle, frequently communicating with each other by
messenger though they rarely met, with the lynx-eyed
constables to test the virtue of that old adage that a
man’s house is his castle.

It was the year marked by a recurrence of the disease
which repeatedly swept the city like a plague near the
end of the eighteenth century. Nicholson left “my
castle,” Morris observes with a full flow of his native
humor, to take up residence in his own house “ with
yellow fever in his neighborhood. But, as he admits, not
a soul to come near, he runs no risque of contagion.” “I
hate the sight of a letter unless from you,” Morris wrote
one day to the partner in his speculations and his miseries,
‘Cand even yours cannot administer comfort to R. M.”

AFTER SUNSET 341

The days passed and ran into weeks and months.
“ How long I am to remain here I cannot yet tell,” he re-
marks, *“ but whilst Iam here I make myself as comfort-
able and as easy as I can, and I will get matters arranged
as soon as possible with those who cause me to be here.”

“Here is a fine day for those who can go out in the
open air to enjoy it,’ wrote Morris one morning while a
prisoner in his luxurious home. “Good night,” he con-
cluded a letter to Nicholson in the last months of 1797;
“T am here at nine o’clock with a good coal fire and a
northwester whistling outside.”

In a letter to Benjamin Harrison, in Virginia, he
mused, “Hope, the last resource of the unfortunate,
stands by me, and so long as that goddess is my com-
panion, I shall fight a stout battle until we get another
associate, which is comfort.”

During these months “ The Hills ” was a veritable Mecca
for his creditors. They came daily, or sent their demands
by messengers, lawyers, or deputy sheriffs. To many
Mr. Morris was not at home; with others he conversed
out of his second-story windows. “This bad weather
is unfortunate,” he wrote on November 22, “as it pre-
vents anybody but duns coming hither, and as to them,
nothing can keep them away.”

To many of his pursuers he made written answers.
“Tf you had spared some of the epithets in your letter
of the 11th inst.,” he remarks to one correspondent,
“it would have been less offensive to us and of no
injury to you.” On October 18, 1797, he wrote to

342 ROBERT MORRIS

George Harrison: “I have no money nor any prospect
of receiving it. Frequently distressed for the means of
subsistence, I cannot borrow for nobody will lend. I
cannot sell anything that will command money. This
being my real situation, I do not see a possibility of my
being able to pay the small note you mention of $336
which you say will become due next month.”

The only security he could offer to those who pressed
their claims was stock in the North American Land
Company and the Pennsylvania Property Company, and
no confidence was publicly expressed in either of those
ill-starred enterprises.

But others as well as duns must repair to “ The Hills”
if they wished to see Mr. Morris. He could not go to
them. “I need not tell you how happy I should be to
wait on you,” he wrote to Oliver Wolcott, the Secretary
of the Treasury, with whom it was necessary to perfect
certain plans for investing the funds of the Seneca In-
dians, “but as that is not in my power, I am compelled
to ask the favor of you to give me a call at this place.”
He promised to send his son to show Mr. Wolcott the
way. Another time a young Englishman, who meant
soon to visit Mount Vernon, recommended to Mr. Morris
by Richard Penn, called to secure a letter of introduction
to General Washington. The young man “could not
return contented without seeing the saviour of this
country,” Mr. Morris writes, wherefore the Finan-
cier cheerfully complied with the request. In conclud-
ing his letter, in the midst of all his misfortunes and

eee, ey

AFTER SUNSET 343

dangers, he prays that his respects may be presented to
Mrs. Washington and Miss Custis, and that “you will
ever believe me to be with sincere attachment, dear Sir,
yours, etc., Robert Morris.”

His property was now being scattered to the winds.
Two hundred thousand acres, which had cost him $27,000,
had just been sold in North Carolina for one year’s taxes.
“By heaven! there is no bearing with these things!”
he exclaims; “I believe I shall go mad. Every day
brings forward scenes and troubles almost insupport-
able.” The new and half-finished houses he had built
in Washington were being occupied by squatters and
plundered of every portable thing they contained.
* Alas! poor Washington,” he writes to Nicholson late
in November, 1797, “how much we overrated thy square
feet when marching over thy avenues and streets.”

His Philadelphia property was advertised for sale to
satisfy executions. He wrote to the sheriff asking him
to take the marble house in Chestnut Street if he must,
but to spare “The Hills.” But everything must go.
The sheriff had just seized a chariot, “one of the best
that ever was built in America,” he observed as it was
taken away to be thrown into that vortex which swept
out of sight everything he possessed and called aloud
for greater sacrifice.

“No man,” he writes to Nicholson, “can be more
strongly impressed than I am with the cruelty of our situa-
tion, which exposes us to the loss of an immense fortune
merely from the caprice and whims of overcautious indi-

t

344 ROBERT MORRIS

viduals who think there is no safety in the value of lots or
lands.” But the situation grew steadily worse. It daily
became more and more difficult to find bail money. Morris
did not any longer dare to step outside his house. His
main occupation was peering through the crevices in the
shutters for sheriffs and spies who lurked behind the trees.
A constable named Hunt caused him much anxiety. In
his hands several cases had been placed. “I must look
sharp for Mr. Hunt,” Morris observed, “he is as cunning
and active as Lucifer, I am told, and he will be offered a
considerable premium for taking us.”

But Hunt, in spite of his agility, did not succeed in his
task, nor did two creditors who came for the same purpose
with the necessary officers and writs on the morning of
November 24. They had made a bed of leaves in an old
quarry called Blackbeard’s Hole, and meant to make them-
selves comfortable there until, catching Morris outside the
door, they could place him under arrest. James, the gar-
dener, always faithful to his old employer, in spite of all

temptation, warned his master in time to prevent the suc-.

cess of this skilful undertaking.

Morris at length rigged up a “peep hole.” On Decem-
ber 2 he writes in his Diary, “I have been very busy this
morning watching the man that is watching me.” Again
the dogs gave the alarm, and on December 15 the gar-
deners drove off some men who had been lurking about all
night. Their fire was discovered among the rocks on the
riverside where they had warmed themselves during their
wintry vigil.

nd

AFTER SUNSET 345

Again an officer named Dunwoody came with six men,
two of whom he kept out of sight in a copse of wood.
The party was armed with sledge-hammers and pickaxes,
and it was only after much diplomacy and no little threat
that they were persuaded to abandon their intention of
breaking into the house. It was not so simple as it seemed
to storm “ Castle Defiance,” and take its lord proprietor.
The mansion not only had its dogs and its gardeners but
it was also liberally supplied with firearms which visitors
well understood were near at hand, and ready for use
against those who menaced the life or liberties of the
owner of the estate. On December 2, 1797, Morris burst
forth: “Iam beset with deputations, bribery, and spies,
and my property selling and sacrificing everywhere, and
those whose happiness I wish to promote suffering by their
engagements forme. If ever I could have had a previous
idea of such things happening to me, I would sooner have
wheeled oysters all my days than incurred the risk.”

His perils increased constantly. George Eddy was a
small creditor, but he was vicious and unyielding in his
pursuit. From him a letter was received on January 31,
1798. It was the birthday of the bankrupt Financier.
“ Perhaps it is right,” Mr. Morris observes with this fact in
mind, “that I should be fretted and vexed on this the an-
niversary of the day on which I was born, as it would have
been far better never to have seen light than at this time
of life to experience what day by day I go through.”

Eddy was quite determined to put Morris in “Prune
Street,” which was the popular name given to the debtors’

i
346 ROBERT MORRIS

apartments in the old prison at Walnut and Sixth streets.
The building ran through to Prune, now Locust, Street,
and prisoners who were taken for debt were placed for
safe-keeping in that end of the jail. Others pitied and
hesitated, but Eddy was relentless. The waiting had been
long, and while there was no prospect of escaping the final
penalty since the laws of the time regarding debtors were
unforgiving and harsh, Morris’s sanguine nature had kept
him from dwelling upon his inevitable fate. Now it
seemed very near.

“My mind is so much disturbed about going to prison,”
he wrote to Nicholson in January, “that I do not get
along with business. Indeed, I hardly think it worth
while any longer to submit to the drudgery of it.” He
wished to see the Genesee country, where his son Thomas
was, and settle there to spend the rest of his days. “ Here
is a new month begun,” he writes Nicholson on February
1, 1798, “and if you and I can weather this and the next,
we may live forever.”

The situation was desperate indeed. Those who had
entered “special bail” were pressing him hard. Either
creditors who brought the suits must be satisfied, or he
must give himself up to the law’s rough processes.
Letters came, in which he “read Prune Street in every
line.” Eddy, who had made himself bail man for
a long list of creditors at the instigation of Green-
leaf, as Mr. Morris believed, for the sole purpose of
pushing him to the wall, sent a summons in which it
was assumed that he would surrender himself at once.

‘NOSTOHOIN NHOL
‘aaNLaVd

Pact ipfh

AFTER SUNSET 347

Greenleaf had already found his way to a prison cell, but
Mr. Morris hoped that his recreant partner might be in
some other enclosure. “I do not want to be under the
same roof with such a scoundrel,” he wrote to Nicholson,
who was still for the nonce out of doors. An anecdote
about Cudjo and his master came to Morris’s witty mind.
The owner had proposed to the slave that they should
be buried side by side. To this proposition the slave
offered protest, “No, massa, no.” “Why not, Cudjo?”
asked his master. “Maybe, massa, when de debil come
for you, he mistake and take Cudjo.”

As a child looks to its father, so this father now looked
to his sons. “My sons will not hear of my going to
prison,” he writes. They had a plan for extricating him.
But what could they do? It was not more than testi-
mony of the love they bore him and a desire to save
him if they could. “I hope you may never experience
the plagues and troubles that I have,” he said to Thomas.
“Keep yourself within bounds. You will grow rich fast
enough, and enjoy yourself much more than if you over-
strain as I have done. God bless you, my dear Tom.”

It was near the end, they all knew, when Mrs. Morris
tearfully read this letter: “I am sorry, my dear Molly,
to tell you that George Eddy’s friends are pursuing
measures to force a surrender of myself. How this may
end I cannot tell, but as I am in danger, I apprise you
of it, that you may be prepared to act with that fortitude
which your good sense will enable you to see is proper
in every event. Your ever affectionate R. M.”

&

348 ROBERT MORRIS

The bankrupt still mused each evening before the fire
in his Diary. Hope could now cheer him no more.
Words have seldom been penned so truly eloquent of
sorrow and discouragement as these: ‘“‘ My money is gone;
my furniture is to be sold; I am to go to prison and my
family to starve. Good night.”

The sheriff arrived at “ The Hills” on the evening of
February 14. Eddy desired that his victim should be taken
to Prune Street at once, but he was allowed to remain
at home under guard until the next day. ‘Iam here in
custody of a sheriff’s officer in my own house,” Mr. Morris
wrote to Nicholson, while the humiliation was fresh upon
him. ‘Eddy is the most hardened villain God ever made.
He was positively determined to carry me to Prune Street
last night, but the sheriff humanely relieved me from his
rascally clutches.” But no objection or resistance could
now be of any avail. He was conveyed to prison.
Nearly everything he owned had been seized. Few
spectacles are more pathetic than Robert Morris, as he
made a catalogue of his remaining possessions on earth,
down to the last piece of bedding, his clothing, the wine,
sugar, and coffee in his pantry, an old chariot consigned
to the care of a friend in Richmond, and “an old, worn-out
gold watch that was my father’s. He died in 1751,”
Mr. Morris noted, “I have had it ever since, and do not
want to part with it even now if I can avoid it.”

The sudden acquisition of another prisoner at Prune
Street seemed to put the inmates already there, as well as
the newcomer, to much inconvenience. No room was pre-

AFTER SUNSET 349

pared for Mr. Morris, although his sons offered a high rent
for one. Confinement was very uncomfortable and dis-
agreeable because he must occupy the apartments of other
prisoners. Later, however, he was made as much at home
as circumstances would permit. He secured possession of
a cell on February 26, and to it he removed a writing-desk,
some books containing his accounts, his letter books in
which he for a time continued to make entries, his letter
cases, copying-press, maps, a bedstead and bedding, a set-
tee, chairs, and looking-glasses.

His sense of humor still served him in good stead; it
was unfailing in every situation. He wrote to Nicholson
who was still at large, although he arrived in a little while
to share Morris’s experiences and to publish a newspaper,
a pursuit which helped to pass the tedious days of penance
for both men, “ This place ought to be avoided by all that
can possibly keep out of it, and I hope to God that you
may succeed, but I doubt it.”

In May he invited Nicholson to dine at the “hotel with
grated doors,” assuring him that nothing could act as a
detainer except a bail-piece which had brought Morris to
ruin. “We will show you how we live here,” he says,
“that you may be prepared to bear your fate should it be
decided that you are to become a boarder at this hotel.”
“The inconvenience of my present situation,” he observed
another time, “‘does not admit of my usual attention to
business.”

But he could be philosophic as well as humorous. In
announcing his fate to his son Thomas, he wrote: “ It is, to

t
350 ROBERT MORRIS

be sure, an unpleasant, an unfortunate, and, I may add, an
unexpected occurrence brought on me by a desire to pro-
vide too amply for a family whose happiness is my great-
est enjoyment. As events have turned up it becomes a
duty to submit to fate, to meet the bad as well as the good
with fortitude, and to make the best of whatever happens.
Thank God I can do all this. My health is good, my
spirits not broke, my mind sound and vigorous, and there-
fore I will do all I can consistently with principles of
integrity to make the best of my affairs and extricate
myself as well as I can.”

Prisoners at Prune Street in those days were allowed
many liberties. They were permitted to walk abroad
under certain circumstances. They might dine in their
rooms with their friends and relations and receive visitors
of all kinds. Some of these privileges could not have been
very grateful to debtors. Mr. Morris divided those who
came to see him into two classes, “complimentary visit-
ors,” and visitors who were bent upon business. — His
creditors came in troops tormenting him with tales of
their losses, sufferings, and necessities. All sorts of appli-
cations for money were continued by all conditions of men
and women who could not understand why Morris would
not be able, although in prison, to relieve their wants.
Most of his friends lost greater or smaller sums by his fall,
— Alexander Hamilton, Benjamin Harrison, Bishop White,
Gouverneur Morris, and John Jay. Mr. Fitzsimmons told
Gouverneur Morris that he had been completely ruined by
the bursting of the great bubble.

“aay

AFTER SUNSET 351

-

The ties of family and friendship, however, still held
strongly. General Washington remained faithful through-
out one of the severest tests to which friendship is sub-
jected. ‘Poor Mrs. Morris!” he wrote when he learned
of the disaster, “ I feel much for her situation and earnestly
pray that Mr. Morris may—and soon—work his way
through all his difficulties ; in which I am persuaded that all
who know him heartily join me, as they do that their ease,
quiet, and domestic enjoyments may be perfectly restored.”
Late in 1798, when he came to Philadelphia to organize
the army in preparation for the war which seemed to im-
pend with France, he dined with Mr. Morris in the prison-
house. “Iam told this house is to be honored with the
presence of the great and good man from Mount Vernon,”
Morris wrote his friend Nicholson on November 12 of that
year, and invited his old partner to Prune Street to share
the pleasures of the visit.1 On September 21, 1799, the
year in which Washington died, while Mrs. Morris with
her daughter Maria was visiting her eldest daughter, Mrs.
James Marshall in Virginia, she received the kindliest let-
ter jointly signed by the General and Mrs. Washington
inviting her to Mount Vernon. She was then at Win-
chester. “We hope it is unnecessary to repeat in this
place,” the letter ran, “how happy we should be to see
you and Miss Morris under our roof for so long a stay as
you shall find convenient before you return to Philadelphia,
for be assured we ever have and still do retain the most
affectionate regard for you, Mr. Morris, and the family.”

1 Conarroe Collection, Pa. Hist. Soc.

t

352 ROBERT MORRIS

Gouverneur Morris visited Robert Morris several
times in Prune Street. “I am strongly affected by the
situation of my poor friend,” he writes, “and he seems
equally so. Mrs. Morris, who is with him, puts on an
air of firmness which she cannot support and was wrong
to assume.”

Morris’s wife and daughter Maria were with him
almost constantly, their visits being uninterrupted even
while the malignant fever raged in the summers of
1798 and 1799. They dined with him in his cell and
passed in and out day by day until they walked between
piles of coffins to reach his room.!. While other bank-
rupts in the rooms adjoining his were taken with the
disease, he knew no fear. His concern was solely for the
safety of his wife and children, and for the lives of his
friends. His sympathies went out to Nicholson, to
the men whom he found in prison brought hither by
his own financial collapse, and newer acquaintances
suffering penalties for mistakes and follies of another
origin. From the prison, now become a pest-house, he
prayed for the cold winds to drive out of the city a
plague that baffled all the physicians’ efforts and restore
the people to health.?

Although the court, which had been appealed to by
Mr. Morris’s family and friends, granted an order for
his removal to the country when the danger of the
situation absolutely required it, he deemed their solici-
tude unnecessary. The sympathy for the family with

1 Hart, Pa. Mag., Vol. II. 2 Dreer Collection, Pa. Hist. Soc.

AFTER SUNSET 353

all classes of the people was universal, even among those
who had suffered most by his stupendous misfortune.
The mechanics of the city offered to raise a sum of
money if they could thereby accomplish his release,! but
it was a hopeless task. No man in public life enter-
tained sentiments that were more antagonistic to Robert
Morris’s than Thomas Jefferson, yet on March 12, 1801,
when still young in his office as President of the
United States, he was constructing a cabinet, and was
looking over the field for a Secretary of the Navy, he
wrote to James Madison, his Secretary of State: “ What
a misfortune to the public that R. Morris has fallen
from his height of character. If he could get from
confinement, and the public give him confidence, he
would be a most valuable officer in that station and in
our council. But these are two impossibilities in the
way.” ?

There was no hope for Mr. Morris’s release, it seemed,
but a reform of the bankruptcy laws which then were
enacted by the separate states. The imprisonment of
debtors was universal. Whether with Mr. Morris’s case
particularly in mind or not, Congress now took up this
subject of legislation, and on April 4, 1800, within a
stone’s throw of Prune Street’s grim walls, passed an
act by which, on the petition of his creditors, a man
could be adjudicated a bankrupt and thereupon be released
from prison. Morris was now obliged to undergo various

1 Fisher’s ‘‘ Revolutionary Reminiscences.’’
2 Writings of Thomas Jefferson.
i
854 ROBERT MORRIS

disagreeable scenes in the presence of the Commissioners
of the District Court in which his affairs gained wide
publicity. They were recalled to his own mind to
trouble his peace and rest, but on August 26, 1801,
after much formality and delay, he gained his freedom.
Proof was brought into court of unpaid debts amount-
ing to three millions of dollars! He had been held by
the state of Pennsylvania for three years, six months,
and ten days. He was in the sixty-eighth year of his
age. It was said on some sides that his assignments
were fictitious, and that when he had failed, he had
transferred much property to his sons. Proof of this
charge is lacking. “I now find myself a free citizen
of the United States,’ Mr. Morris writes, ‘“ without
one cent that I can call my own.” On the day after
he came out of the jail, he wrote his son Thomas, as
follows: “As I know the contents of this letter will
be very pleasing to you and your family, I embrace
the first opportunity to tell you that I obtained my
liberty last evening, and had the inexpressible satisfac-
tion to find myself restored to my own home and
family. I have, however, still to go through some dis-
agreeable scenes before I can fairly cast about for a
new pursuit; but after what I have sustained, what is
to come seems nothing.”

The task of liquidating such debts, at Mr. Morris’s
age, was an entirely hopeless undertaking. He became
a not very cheerful pensioner upon his family and his
friends, a humiliated and broken man. He visited his

AFTER: SUNSET 855

favorite son Thomas. He spent the summer of 1802
at Morrisania with Gouverneur Morris, who was now
a United States Senator from New York. “He came
to me lean, low spirited, and as poor as a commission
of bankruptcy can make a man whose effects will, it is
said, not pay a shilling on the pound,” Gouverneur
Morris wrote to his friend James Parrish. “Indeed,
the assignees will not take the trouble of looking after
them. I sent him home fat, sleek, in good spirits, and
possessed of the means of living comfortably for the
rest of his days.”

The title to nearly four million acres of land sold by
Robert Morris to the Holland Land Company in New York
State had proven to be in some way defective. On this
occasion Gouverneur Morris had been friendly enough to
arrange for a payment of $1500 a year to Mrs. Morris as
her dower right so long as she lived, for although she had
inherited some property in Maryland from her father, at
her expressed wish, these estates went the way of her
husband’s in the effort to stay the advances of his raven-
ous creditors. This income paid her by the Holland Com-
pany enabled her to keep up a small house on the east side
of Twelfth Street between Market and Chestnut streets in
Philadelphia, where the family resided until Mr. Morris’s
death which occurred on May 7, 1806, not quite five years
after his discharge from prison. He was buried quietly in
the family vault in Christ Churchyard.

His widow survived him for twenty-one years, removing
later to a house on the south side of Chestnut Street above

t

356 ROBERT MORRIS

Tenth Street. It was there that she received Lafayette
who, when he came to Philadelphia in 1824, made her his
first private visit. After a separation of thirty-seven years,
he cherished the fondest memories of the Morrises, and she,
then in her seventy-sixth year, tall and of stately dignity,
was one of the distinguished figures at the grand ball ar-
ranged in the French Marquis’s honor in the new Chestnut
Street Theatre.?

Mr. Morris’s life is one of the saddest and most romantic
personal chapters in the history of North America. Two
years before his death he had written in his will: “ Here I
have to express my regret at having lost a very large fortune
acquired by honest industry, which I had long hoped and
expected to enjoy with my family during my own life and
then to distribute it among those of them that should out-
live me. Fate has determined otherwise, and we must sub-
mit to the decree which I have endeavored to do with
patience and fortitude.”

The patriot, upon whom all the other patriots of the
Revolution had depended, who had kept the Continental
army in the field out of his own purse, and from the
abundant store of his private credit, had himself fallen
with pities universally expressed. “I have owned more
ships than any man in America,” Mr. Morris wrote in
pondering his life. He had also owned more land than
any man in America, much of it now covered with thriv-
ing cities, waving fields of grain and cotton, and underlaid
with anthracite and bituminous coal and petroleum, but

1 Hart, Pa. Mag., Vol. II.

AFTER ' SUNSET 357

from the bitter sequence of his misfortunes, there was no
escape once the misstep had been taken. The times were
hostile to his vast undertakings to give value to virgin
wildernesses. His friends, who were distributed over two
continents, were powerless to render him aid. The pit he
had dug for himself was too deep. Whatever they did
contribute and could contribute, was but an atom that
soon was lost in the cavernous gulf, which there was noth-
ing in the impoverished country, or in the cautious and
retrenching banking centres of Europe, to close up. He
had miscalculated future economic conditions, and was too
sanguine of the rapid industrial development of the new
republic, which he had done so much to create. It is said
that he invited his fate. Perhaps so, but if he had suc-
ceeded, and he had a liberal chance of success, his business
judgment and acumen would have been commended by
his own and later generations, his friends would have
revered him for helping them into fortunes, his services as
a patriot would have secured just recognition a long time
since, and the task might not have been reserved for me,
in the twentieth century, of seeking out the facts which
are the warp and woof of this biography.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Account of Robert Morris’s Property. A pamphlet, undated.

Adams, Abigail, Letters of, with an introductory memoir by Charles
Francis Adams.

Adams, John, Works of, with a life of the author by Charles Francis
Adams. Boston, 1856.

Application to Friends for pecuniary relief for the Southern war.
Collections of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Phila-
delphia, 1853.

Baker, William Spohn. Washington after the Revolution. Phila-
delphia, 1898.

Boogher’s Repository. Philadelphia, 1883.

Buell, A. C. Paul Jones, Founder of the American Navy. Two
volumes. New York, 1900.

Conarroe Collection of Robert Morris’s autograph letters. Pennsyl-
vania Historical Society.

Custis, G. W. Parke, Recollections and Private Memoirs of Washing-
ton. 1859.

Diplomatic Correspondence of the American Revolution. Edited by
Jared Sparks. Vols. XI and XII. Boston, 1829.

Dreer Collection of Robert Morris’s autograph letters. Pennsylvania
Historical Society.

Fisher, Redwood. Revolutionary reminiscences connected with the
life of Robert Morris.

Franklin, Benjamin, The works of. Edited by Jared Sparks. Boston,
1836.

Graydon, Alexander. Memoirs of his own time. Philadelphia, 1846.
360 BIBLIOGRAPHY

Hamilton, Alexander, Works of. Edited by Henry Cabot Lodge.
Nine volumes. New York, 1885-1886.

Hart, Charles Henry. Robert Morris, the Financier of the American
Revolution. Pennsylvania Magazine, Vol. I.

— Mary White—Mrs. Robert Morris. Pennsylvania Magazine,
Vol. II.

—— Materials in Boogher’s Repository, Vol. I.

Homes, H. A. Description and analysis of the remarkable collection
of unpublished manuscripts of Robert Morris. Albany, 1876.

Jay, John, Correspondence and Public Papers of, 1763-1826. Four
volumes. New York, 1890-1893.
Jefferson, Thomas, Writings of. New York, 1853-1854.

Laurens, Henry, Correspondence of. New York, 1861.

Letters to John Hancock in 1776. Bulletin of the Historical Society
of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia, 1848.

Letters to Robert Morris, 1775-1782. Collections of the New York
Historical Society for 1878.

Lewis, Lawrence, Jr. A history of the Bank of North America.
Philadelphia, 1882.

Life of Robert Morris, the great Financier, with an engraving and
description of the celebrated house. Philadelphia, 1841.

Maclay, William, Journal of. Edited by E.S. Maclay. New York, 1890.

Madison, James, Papers of. Being his correspondence and report of
debates in the Congress of the Confederation and the Federal
Convention. Edited by Henry D. Gilpin. Three Volumes.
New York, 1841.

Marshall, Christopher, Extracts from the diary of. Kept at Phila-
delphia, 1774-1781. Edited by William Duane. Albany, 1877.

Morris, Gouverneur, The diary and letters of. Edited by Anne Cary
Morris. New York, 1888.

Morris, Robert, Manuscript diary of, 1781-1784. Threevolumes. Con-
gressional Library, Washington.

—— Official letter-books, 1781-1784. Seven volumes. Congressional
Library, Washington.

—— Private letter-books, 1795-1798. Threevolumes. Congressional
Library, Washington.

.

BIBLIOGRAPHY 361

Nourse, Michael. Robert Morris the Financier. Bankers’ Magazine.
Vol. IX, 1860.

Oberholtzer, Ellis Paxson. The referendum in America. New York,
1900.

Pennsylvania Magazine. Published by the Historical Society of
Pennsylvania. Many references to Robert Morris, reprints of
manuscript correspondence, etc.

| Plan of association of the Asylum Company. Philadelphia, 1795.
\ Plan of association of the North American Land Company. Phila-

delphia, 1795.
Plan of association of the Pennsylvania Property Company. Phila-
delphia, 1797.

Reed, Joseph. Life and correspondence of. Edited by William B.
Reed. Philadelphia, 1847.

Statement of the accounts of the United States of America during the
administration of the Superintendent of Finance, February 20,
1781—November 1, 1784. Philadelphia, 1785.

Sumner, W. G. The Financier and the finances of the American
Revolution. Twovolumes. New York, 1891.

Turner, 0. History of the Holland Purchase of Western New York.
Buffalo, 1849.

—— History of the Pioneer Settlement of Phelps and Gorham’s
Purchase and Morris’s Reserve. Rochester, 1851.

Waln, Robert, Jr. Life of Robert Morris. Vol. V in Sanderson’s
Lives of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence.
Philadelphia, 1823.

Washington, George, Writings of. Edited by Jared Sparks. Boston,
1834-1838.

White Family Record, by T. H. Montgomery and others. Phila-
delphia, 1879.

Wiltbank, W.W. Colonel Thomas White of Maryland. Pennsylvania
Magazine, Vol. I.

INDEX

Adams, Abigail, her experiences in
the White House, 310.

Adams, John, drafts on, 162, 163,
165 ; penalties suffered by, 222;
elected Vice-President, 230; as a
presiding officer in the Senate, 235.

Agency of Marine, location of, 77 ;
Morris appointed to, 90-92.

Allen, James, observations on Penn-
sylvania government, 39, 40.

Alliance, fitted out for sea, 92 ; sent
to Cuba, 169.

America, slow construction of, 93;
sale of, proposed, 94; presented to
France, 95.

American Philosophical Society, its
interest in China, 223.

Armstrong, Major J., his letter re-
garding Morris, 70.

Army, its disbandment, 201.

Articles of Confederation, adoption
of, 47, 63; weakness of, 33 ; rati-
fied and in force, 114; provi-
sions of, regarding the public
debt, 192.

Assumption of State debts, Hamil-
ton’s scheme for, 238.

Asylum Company, organization of,
312, 317. ;

Audibert, Philip, services in connec-
tion with French loan, 88.

Bache, Benjamin Franklin, 264.

Baily, Francis, his description of
Washington City, 308.

Baltimore, Congress in, 19, 24, 272 ;
its unpopularity with congress-

men, 37; asked to provide boats
to carry troops to Yorktown, 84;
financial stringency in, 326.

Bank of England, suspends specie
payments, 300, 328,

Bank of North America, first steps
in founding, 73 ; need of, 96 ; plans
for its organization, 97; appeal
for subscriptions to stock, 98;
specie from France to found, 107 ;
first operations of, 108, 109; suc-
cess of, 110; notes issued by, 156 ;
calls in its loans, 157 ; loss of its
Pennsylvania charter, 224; suit
against Robert Morris, 331.

Bank of Pennsylvania, 73.

Bankruptcy Laws, reform of, 354.

Barclay, John, trustee of North
American Land Company, 3819.

Barclay, Thomas, Commissioner in
Europe, 162, 170, 204.

Barry, John, in command of Alli-
ance and Deane, 92 ; sent to Cuba,
169; presented with Jones’s sword,
283.

Bimetallism, Morris’s views on, 153.

Bingham, William, 108, 283.

Bland, Mr., his disparagement of
Morris’s financial administration,
199.

Board of Treasury, its appointment,
209.

Board of War, 104.

Boston, arrival of specie in, 1038 seq.

Bradford, John, 90, 92.

Broglie, Prince de, his visit to Amer-
ica, 272.
364

Brown, John, his naval accounts, 91 ;
his mission to Cuba, 170.

Cadiz, banking through, 162, 169.

Cadwalader, General, 55,

Cadwalader, Miss, Morris’s polite
note to, 330.

Capital, National, choice of site of,
258.

Carey, James, his testimony regard-
ing financial stringency in, 326.

‘¢ Centinel,’’ his attack on Morris,
2565.

Chastellux, Marquis de, 82, 272.

China, seeking trade in, 223; first
out of season voyage to, 224.

Circulars to states, 116, 121 seg.

Clymer, George, 25, 283; on com-
mittee to consider Morris’s famous
circular to the states, 129; mem-
ber of Constitutional Convention,
226.

Colbert, Comte de, his interest in
D’Estaing’s estate, 307.

Commissioners appointed to adjust
state accounts, 204; called upon
for economic reports, 204.

Connecticut, quota of, 181 ; derelic-
tion of, 185, 147, 148.

Constable, William, Morris’s agent
in London, 308.

Constitutional Convention desired
by Morris, 226; meeting of, 226,
264; Washington in, 274.

Continental Congress, flight of to
Baltimore, 25; weakness of, 38,
47, 114, 184; return to Philadel-
phia, 36-88; departure to Lan-
caster and York, 88; relieved
of duties by Superintendent of
Finance, 71; considers Morris’s
famous circular, 129; Morris’s
resignation considered, 194 seq. §
resolution regarding mint, 154 ;
flight to Princeton, 182 ; appoints
a Treasury Board, 290,

INDEX

Contract system for supplying the
army, 117.

Cornell, Ezekiel, 251.

Cornplanter, Morris’s princely en-
tertainment of, 304.

Cornwallis, movement against, 80 ;
surrender of, 112.

Counterfeiting, dangers of, 153, 156.

Creditors, public, persistency of,
171; responsibility to, 183; im-
patience of, 190; recommenda-
tions to, 191.

Cuba, efforts to secure money from,
99, 169, 170.

Cunliffe, tobacco house of, 2, 3.

Currency, Morris’s report on, 151.

Custis, G. W. P., goes to New York,
238 ; his friendship for Mr. Morris,
339.

Dale, Richard, Commodore, capture
of, 102 ; sword presented to, 283.

Dale, Richard, Esq., 283.

Deane, his criticisms of Thomas Mor-
ris, 45; controversy with Lee, 52 ;
his description of Philadelphia, 56.

Debts, public, funding of, 183, 184,
195; size of, 188, 204.

Declaration of Independence, Mor-
ris’s advice against, 17, 19, 20;
signing of, 21.

De Grasse, arrival of his fleet, 82,
87; pilot for, 86.

Delaney, Sharp, 330.

Delaware, asked to aid in Yorktown
campaign, 83, 84; quotas of, 131 ;
impost law in, 185; loan to Gov-
ernor of, 216,

Democracy, extremes of, in Amer-
ica, 19,

D’Estaing, Georgia lands of, 307.

Diary, Morris’s, its historical value,
vi, vii; its humor and literary
value, 287.

Dickinson, John, his opposition to
Declaration of Independence, 19 ;

INDEX

'

opposed to first constitution of
Pennsylvania, 24; money loaned
to, 216.

District of Columbia, Morris’s in-
vestments in, 308.

Dobbs Ferry, Washington’s camp
at, 78.

Drafts on states, 63; on France,
63, 158 seq.

Duc de Lauzun, voyage to Cuba,
and sale of, 170.

Dudley, Benjamin, his plans for a
mint, 154.

Eddy, George, his pursuit of Morris,
345, 347, 348.

Elizabethtown Point, President
Washington’s arrival at, 232.

Embargoes, laws to create, 50, 51;
Morris’s unalterable opposition to,
137.

Empress of China, her voyage to
China, 223.

Engrossment, laws to prevent, 49.

Estimates for 1782, 120, 124.

Fauchet, his allegations regarding
Morris’s Georgia lands, 332.

Federalism, Morris’s advocacy of,
184, 209, 219, 220, 228; penalties
of, 222.

Federal party, end of, 222, 241.

Fitzsimmons, Thomas, director of
bank, 108, 158 ; fits out ship, 170 ;
advises flight to Princeton, 182 ;
member of Constitutional Conven-
tion, 226 ; his friendship for Mor-
ris, 283; his losses by Morris’s
fall, 350.

France, drafts on, 63, 75, 158;
America presented to, 95; specie
imported from, by way of Boston,
102 seg.; her refusal to pay inter-
est on old loans, 115, 184 ; Ameri-
can army clothed and fed by, 128 ;
her loans to the United States, 159,
161; generosity of king appealed to,
159; American financial methods
criticised, 165; democratic ideas
in, 218; mistakes committed by
her minister, Genet, 240.

Francis, Tench, his treasure train,
104 seq. ; cashier of Bank of North
America, 108; purchases for the
Indians, 305.

Franklin, Benjamin, president of
committee of safety, 17; his pay-
ment of drafts, 63; asked to name
banker in Paris, 75 ; audience re-
fused him at Versailles, 159; urged
to look after public bills, 162; effect
of flattery on, 219; member of
Constitutional Convention, 226,
227 ; sons commended to, 264.

Franklin, William Temple, land
agent for Morris, 302.

Freeman’s Journal, its attacks on
Morris, 252.

Free trade, Morris favors, 137.

French Revolution, stringency
caused by, 300.

Frey, Baron de, refused money at
office of Finance, 180.

Gates, General, 22, 71, 272.

Galloway, Joseph, his mansion pur-
chased by Morris, 276.

Genesee, Morris’s investments in the,
302 ; his desire to settle there, 346.

Genet, his activities in America, 240.

Georgetown, hotels at, 310.

Georgia, quota of, 181; value of
money in, 152; Morris’s lands in,
307, 318, 329, 331, 332.

Gorham and Phelps, Morris’s pur-
chases from, 302.

Grand, M., banker in Paris, 161, 169.

Greene, General, letters to and from,
70, 89, 197, 221, 243; distress of his
troops, 140, 168, 245; his commis-
sioner in Philadelphia, 181; activ-
ity of his partisans, 248 ; his drafts
on Morris, 248; guest at Morris’s
home, 272.

Greenleaf, James, his house surren-
dered to Morris, 295; partnership
with, 301, 317 ; dishonesty of, 323,
824; in prison, 325, 347.

Greenway, Robert, Morris’s guar-
dian, 3, 6.

Hall, George Abbott, his commercial
transactions in the Carolinas, 167 ;
Greene’s guardian angel, 249,

Hall, Mrs., Mrs. Morris’s visit to,
261, 293.

Hamilton, Alexander, his desire for
single heads of executive depart-
ments, 65; recommended for Su-
perintendent of Finance, 66; his
congratulations sent to Morris, 71 ;
his plans for a bank, 73; advised
concerning marine agency, 91 ; re-
ceiver of taxes in New York, 143;
on committee which advised flight
to Princeton, 182; explains Mor-
ris’s resignation to Washington,
198; ‘*panegyric’’ of Morris in
Congress, 199; urged Morris to
remain in office, 200; advised re-
garding need of a stronger goy-
ernment, 222; recommended as
first Secretary of the Treasury, 237;
his interest in the tariff question,
238 ; his part in fixing the capital,
2388 ; his assumption scheme, 238;
accused of corruption, 240; his
influence over Washington, 241;
Morris’s friendship for, 272, 282 ;
informed of Morris’s financial
troubles, 326; his losses by Mor-
ris’s fall, 350.

Hancock, John, President of Con-
gress, 14, 36, 37, 272 ; resignation,
42; in Boston, 104; Morris’s
friendship for, 272, 273.

Harrisburg, the Senator for, 229, 284,

Harrison, Benjamin, 37, 282.

'

INDEX

Harrison, Benjamin, Jr., 282, 327,
841; his losses by Morris’s fall,
350.

Harrison, George, 342.

Head of Elk, base of supplies at, 83.

Heath, General, 104.

Hillegas, Mr., receives French spe-
cie, 107,

‘‘ Hills, The,’’ guests at, 271; Jay’s
love for, 281, 282; improvements
at, 291; beauties of, 292; laid
waste by British, 294; included
in Pennsylvania Property Co.,
336; Morris’s siege at, 338 seq. ;
his appeal to the sheriff to spare,
343.

Holker, Consul General of France, 55.

Holland, aid sought in, 160 ; loan ar-
ranged, 163; protest of bills in,
164; acknowledgment of Ameri-
can independence by, 284 ; Green-
leaf’s loan in, 317, 323.

Holland Company, sale of lands to,
3038 ; its representation at Indian
council, 306; grants annuity to
Mrs. Morris, 355.

Holland Reserve, 303.

Hoops, Adam, sent to explore Gen-
esee country, 302.

Hopkinson, Francis, 155.

Howe, General, his activity in New
Jersey, 24, 28.

Hughes, John, Stamp agent, 10, 12.

Humphreys, Charles, 19.

Huntington, Samuel, informs Morris
of his election as Superintendent
of Finance, 67.

Impost Law, 185, 189.

Indians, treaty with, 265, 3038 seq.

Indigo, trains sent to South Carolina

PLOr Ot

Ingersoll, Jared, member of Consti-
tutional Convention, 226 ; trustee
of North American Land Com-
pany, 321.

“INDEX

Izard, his criticism of Thomas Mor-
Tis, 45.

Jackson, General, 308.

Jay, John, President of Congress,
53; Morris’s effort to get money
through, 99; his vain endeavors
at Madrid, 160; urged to look
after public bills, 162; asked to
buy ships and salt, 168; urges
Morris to continue in Office of
Finance, 208; informed of Morris’s
shipping ventures, 223; Morris’s
sons put in care of, 263 ; his inti-
macy with Morris, 272, 280, 281;
on balloons, 287.

Jay, Mrs., 263, 264, 281.

Jefferson, Thomas, advised about
public salaries, 216; his democ-
racy, 234; his accusations against
Hamilton and Morris, 240 ; friendly
relations between him and Morris,
268, 272, 282 ; his desire to make
Morris Secretary of the Navy, 353.

Jenifer, Daniel, advised about the
system of specific supplies, 120.

Jones, John Paul, his work on the
America, 94; his love of Morris,
282; presents sword to Morris,
283 ; Morris his executor, 282.

Kentucky, Morris’s lands in, 313.

Lafayette, Marquis de, at Yorktown,
88; the guest of Morris, 272; con-
ferences with, 274; his second
visit, 356.

Lancaster, Congress at, 38; Penn-
sylvania Assembly at, 42.

Land, speculations in, 301 seq.

Laurens, Henry, 53, 102.

Law, Thomas, 266.

Lead, difficulty of procuring, 57.

Lee, Arthur, his controversy with
Deane, 52; his disparagement of
Morris’s administration, 199; in
Congress, 230, 244; his dogging
pursuit of Morris, 247,

Lee, Richard Henry, 19, 230,

L’Enfant, architect of Morris’s mar-
ble house, 297,817.

Levees, Washington’s, 277.

Lincoln, General, money for his
troops, 85; creditors sent to, 179,
181.

Livingston, Kitty, 263.

Loan Offices, establishment of, 64;
commissioners of, 140; abolition
of, 141; Morris’s objections to,
1438.

Lottery, establishment of, 64.

Louisiana, Morris’s indigo planta-
tion in, 299.

Lowrey, Thomas,
through, 74.

“¢ Lucius,’’ his attack on Morris, 252,

Luzerne, Minister, Morris’s friend-
liness with, 86, 272; apologies to,
112; his demand for explanations,
ink,

flour secured

Maclay, William, elected senator
from Pennsylvania, 229 ; his nar-
row views, 234; his diary, 235,
257, 274; his opinion of Mrs,
Morris, 277.

Madison, James, doubts constitu-
tionality of bank, 74; on army
contracts, 118; member of com-
mittee to consider Morris’s circu-
lar to the states, 129; on Morris’s

resignation, 199; at office of
Finance, 247; his defence of
Morris, 247.

Manheim, Morris at, 273, 293.

Marine agency, 77, 90, 91, 92; in-
spection of its accounts, 247.

Marshall, Christopher, at shipyards,
27.

Marshall, Hetty, 263; marriage,
266, 267; return from Europe,
338 ; in Virginia, 351.
Marshall, James, marriage, 266 ; in
Europe, 267, 269, 321, 334; re-
turn to America, 338.

Maryland, approval of Articles of
Confederation, 63 ; asked for aid
in Yorktown campaign, 83, 84;
specific supplies in, 120; quota
of, 181; apologies from, 133;
impost laws in, 185, 186.

Massachusetts, quota of, 131; dere-
liction of, 148, 149 ; impost law in,
185, 186 : sends commissioner to
New York Indian Council; 305.

Mennonites invited to settle in
Genesee, 303.

Mifflin, Thomas, his friendship for
Morris, 54, 58.

Military collections, threat of, 134.

Mint, proposition to establish, 153 ;
machinery for, 154; failure of the
plan, 155.

Monroe, James, minister to France,
269.

Morris, Charles, 263; education of,
268 ; his dissipations, 270, 332.
Morris’s * Folly,’’ 297, 317, 331, 343.
Morris, Gouverneur, appointed as-
sistant in Office of Finance, 77 ; in
charge of the office, 78; his assist-
ance in negotiating the French
loan, 87; his flight to Princeton,
182; member of Constitutional
Convention, 226; abroad, 268,
280, 308; at Valley Forge with
Washington, 275; his friendship
for Robert Morris, 272, 279;
escape from land failures, 300;
in Prune Street, 352; his report
on Robert Morris’s tangled affairs,
855; secures annuity for Mrs.

Morris, 855.

Morris, Henry, 263, 268.

Morris, Mary, Mrs., marriage, 14,
261; visit in Maryland, 35, 261 ;
receives Mrs. Washington, 288,
275 ; at Springetsbury, 273; Ma-

¢

INDEX

clay’s opinion of, 277; visit to
Mount Vernon, 278, 351; in-
formed of her husband’s im-
prisonment, 347; visits to Prune
Street, 853; her annuity from
Holland Land Company, 355;
receives Lafayette, 356.

Morris, Robert, Sr., emigration to

America, 2; his death, 4, 5, 6;
his will, 7, 8.

Morris, Robert, Financier of the

Reyolution, his arrival in Amer-
ica, 1 seg.; his education, 3;
his partnership with Thomas
Willing, 4; his attitude toward
the Stamp Act, 9; marriage, 13,
261; elected to Congress, 18;
opposition to Declaration of In-
dependence, 19; opposed to Con-
stitution of Pennsylvania, 23
seg.; in charge of public affairs
in Philadelphia, 24 seg.; sends
money to Washington at—Iren-
ton,...81; offered presidency of
Congress, 42 ;_accused-of-engross-
.49 ; retirement from Con-
gress, 51 ; attack on-his financial
_methods, "52; investigation of his
“accounts, 58, 247, 258; his ac-
tivity in the Pennsylvania legis-
lature, 58 ; elected Superintendent
of Finance, 67; congratulated on
acceptance of office, 71; his in-
terest in a bank, 73, 96 seqg., 107,
seq. ; procures fi flour for the.army,,
74; his vi “visit to camp, 78 ; his.
efforts to ) place ‘Washington’ before
Yorktown, 81_ seq: ; secures loan
from Rochambeau, 86 seg.; ap-
pointed Agent of Marine, 90;
efforts to import specie from
Cuba, 99 seqg., 169; organizes the
Francis treasure train, 102 seq. ;
preaching to the states, 114 seq. ;
abolishes system of specific sup-
“plies, 116 seq. ; his small tax

“INDEX

collections, 125, 180, 181; his
suppressed circular, 126 seg. ; ap-
pointment of receivers, 141 seg. ;
his report on the currency, 151
seg.; his plans for a mint, 153;
issues his own notes, 155 ; secures
fresh loans in France, 159 seg. ;
opens loan in Holland, 163; ex-
plains his financial irregularities,
165 ;.his commercial transactions,
166 seg.; his patient hearing of
“public creditors, 171 seg.; flight
to Princeton, 182 ; efforts to fund
the debt, 183, 206 seq. ; efforts to
collect the impost, 184 seg. ; his
resignation, 192 seg.; resigna-
tion reconsidered, 201; notes to
pay the soldiers, 201 seg. ; his
eall for statistics, 204; second
resignation, 209; farewell ad-
dress, 210; his Federal sympa-
thies, 219; his interest in the
China trade, 224; member of
the Constitutional Convention,
226 ; elected to the United States
Senate, 229; reception of Presi-
dent Washington, 231 seg.;
adopting a tariff law, 238 seq. ;
-his influence in Washington’s
government, 240; retirement
from public life, 242; bearing
toward his enemies, 244 seg. ;
his family attachments, 262
seg.; his warm friendships, 272
seq. ; his charities, 285 ; his liter-
ary style and wit, 286 seq. ; his
country home, 291 seqg.; city
homes, 294; other homes, 295;
marble palace, 297 ; his land spec-
ulations, 300 seq.; investments
in the District of Columbia, 308 ;
setting of his financial sun, 314
in the North American

bd

seq. ;
Land Company, 317; losses
through Greenleaf, 323; rela-

tions with Nicholson, 333 seq. ;
2B
confined at ‘*The Hills,’ 337
seq. ; imprisonment, 348 ; release,
354 ; death, 355.

Morris, Robert, Jr., education of,
263, 264, 265; marriage of, 266 ;
at Morrisville, 296.

Morris, Thomas , birth of, 7; dis-
sipations of, 44, 45.

Morris, Thomas (II), 263-265; in
Genesee country, 303; his treaty
with the Indians, 304-307 ; con-
solation to his father, 347.

Morris, William White, 263; edu-
cation of, 268 ; abroad, 268, 308 ;
his dissipations, 269, 332; death
of, 269 ; usefulness to his father,
338.

Morrisania, Robert Morris at, 355.

Morrisville, Morris’s attempt to lo-
cate the Federal capital at, 236;
Thomas Morris at, 265 ; improve-
ments on the tract, 295 ; included
in Pennsylvania Property Com-
pany, 336.

Napoleon, disturbances caused by,
300, 315.

New Hampshire, asked for aid in the
construction of the America, 94 ;
quota of, 131.

New Jersey, British in, 24, 25; asked
to aid Yorktown campaign, 83;
impressment of pasturage in, 110,
111; taxes from, 128; quota for,
131,

New York City, proposed assault
on, 79; bar at harbor of, 82;
meeting of first Congress in, 229;
social life in, 277.

New York, state, quota of, 131; re-
ceiver of taxes for, 144, 146; tax
system in, 144; impost law in,
185 ; Morris’s investments in, 301.

Nicholson, Captain, sent to Havana,
100.

Nicholson, John, Morris’s partner-

370 INDEX

ship with, 801, 312; in Washing-
ton, 338, 885; Morris’s friendli-
ness with him in adversity, 269,
349, 352.

Nicklin, Philip, and Co., 270.

Nixon, John, trustee of North Ameri-
can Land Company, 319, 321.

Nixon, Maria, 2638, 352.

Non-importation Resolutions, 12.

North American Land Company,
Marshall appointed secretary of,
266; organization of, 312, 317-
819 ; few subscribers to, 322.

North Carolina, quota of, 131; Mor-
ris’s advice to the Governor of,
188 ; impost law in, 185; Morris’s
lands in, 313, 348.

Notes, Morris’s, issued in anticipa-
tion of taxes, 156; their redemp-
tion, 157; to.pay the soldiers,
203, 206; their alleged’ ‘purchase
<at ‘a discount, 282." seas

Office of Finance, location of, 76;
creditors’ attack on, 171 seq. ;
clerks in, 178; business suspended
in, 182.

Olney, George, receiver for Massa-
chusetts, 156, 220, 221.

Oxford, Maryland, 2.

Paine, Thomas, his responsibility
for the first Pennsylvania constitu-
tion, 19, 20; as an economist, 34;
his mean services to Morris, 52, 55,
244; his reward, 259.

Paper money, evils of, 26, 48, 50, 58 ;
quantity of, 60, 71; to be burned,
116.

Peale, his portrait of Morris, 286.

Penn, John, 18, 294, 295.

Penn, Richard, 342.

Penn, Thomas, 295.

Pennsylvania, first constitution of,
21, 23, 38-41, 51, 52, 219; tender
laws in, 58, 76 ; quota of, 129; offer

to supply wheat, 132; increase
of values in, 163, 316; appoints
members of Constitutional Con-
vention, 226 ; its first senators, 228 ;
Morris’s power in, 225, 228; his
defence of interests of, 239;
Virginia’s attack on, 136, 146;
Morris’s lands in, 312, 313.

Pennsylvania Property Company,
313, 336.

Perpetual motion machine, 288.

Peters, Richard, in Board of War,
57; his visit to Washington’s
camp, 78, 79.

Phelps, Oliver, 118.

Philadelphia, British occupancy of,
42, 262; evacuation of, 47; un-
happy state of, 56; filled with
strangers, 81; price of flour in,
188 ; selected as provisional capi-
tal, 258; financial stringency in,
326.

Pierce, William, 228.

Pinckney, Thomas, forwards Paul
Jones’s sword, 283; refers ques-
tion of land values, 308.

Pine, Robert Edge, 285, 286.

Poles, Morris’s effort to induce them
to emigrate to America, 321.

Portugal, 161.

Price conventions, 49, 55, 56.

Princeton, Congress’s flight to, 182,
280.

Privateering, 16, 28, 48.

Prizes, tax laid on, 115, 184.

‘Prune Street,’ Morris in, 845
seq.

Pulteney, Sir William, lands sold to,
802.

Putnam, General, 25.

Quakers in Philadelphia, 24; their
loans to Morris, 32, 33.

Quotas of states no longer to be
paid in specifics, 116 ; difficulties
of collecting, 124 seq.

i nn lls oe

‘INDEX
Randolph, Edmund, 118, 199,| missioner by President Washing-

287.

Read, George, 228.

Receivers, appointment of, 141, 142;
called spies, 146.

Reed, Joseph, letter to, 20; his let-
ter to General Greene, 70; his
opinion of Morris, 243.

Rendon, Mr., Spanish resident in
Philadelphia, 274.

Rhode Island, specific supplies in,
119 ; impost law in, 185, 186, 187;
quota for 1782, 131 ; offers to sup-
ply blankets, 132 ; lessons in logic
for, 134.

Rice received for taxes, 168.

Ridley, Matthew, agent for the Uni-
ted States at Baltimore, 84; in
Europe, 263.

Rittenhouse, David, 155.

Roberdeau, Daniel, 55.

Rochambeau, Morris’s visit to his
headquarters, 79; in Philadelphia
on way to Yorktown, 82; loan
from, 86, 112; congratulated by
Morris, 113 ; Morris’s guest, 272.

Ross, John, 164, 283.

Rush, Benjamin, 23.

Russell, Thomas, appointed deputy
agent of marine, 92.

Russia, unfriendly to the United
States, 160.

Rutledge, Governor, 129, 227.

St. Clair, General, 176.

St. George’s Day, 17.

Sands, Comfort, 250.

Savage, his portrait of Morris, 286.

Schuyler, General, 74; 75.

Secretary of Treasury, Hamilton
appointed, 237.

Secret Committee, accounts of, 53,
247, 257.

Shepherd, General, Indian Com-
missioner for Massachusetts, 305.

Smith, Isaac, appointed Indian com-

ton, 305.

Smith, Robert, agent in Cuba, 79.

South Carolina, quota for 1782, 131 ;
receiver of taxes for, 167 ; Morris’s
lands in, 318.

Spain appealed to for money, 99,
100 ; aid sought in vain, 160.

Specie, imports of, from France, 104;
scarcity of, 117.

Specific supplies in States, 62; abol-
ished, 116 ; to be sold, 117; dis-
advantages of the system, 119;
still received, 124; abatement of
rule regarding, 181, 139,

Springetsbury, 278, 295.

Stamp Act, resistance against it in
Philadelphia, 9-13.

States, negligence of, 84; circulars
to, 114 seg. ; requisitions on, 120,
124; tax-laws in, 121; their ac-
counts with the continent, 121;
their jealousy of each other, 185 ;
values of coins in, 152; their de-
lay in assenting to the impost law,
185.

Stiegel, Baron, 295.

Stuart, his portrait of Morris, 286.

Sullivan, John, suggests Hamilton
for Superintendent of Finance, 66.

Susquehanna River recommended as
a site for Federal capital, 235.

Swanwick, John, notes issued
through, 155, 156, 214; in firm of
Willing and Morris, 315.

Talleyrand-Perigord, 268, 272.

Taxation, system of, under Articles
of Confederation, 140; Morris’s
changes in, 141; various meth-
ods of, in States, 145 ; new propo-
sals for, 189; local views regarding,
191.

Tender laws, passage of, 49, 58, 76.

Thomson, Charles, his trip to Vir-
ginia, 231, 275.
Tilghman, Edward, 268, 314.

Tilghman, Tench, 78, 99, 251.

Tillotson, Thomas, receiver of taxes
for New York, 146.

Tobacco sold in Europe, 167.

Tories, activity of, 44, 49.

Trumbull, his portrait of Morris,
286.

Trumbull sent to Havana with flour,
100 ; her capture, 102.

Twining, Thomas, his description of
Washington City, 309.

Valley Forge, 38, 47, 275.

Vergennes, Count de, 161.

Virginia asked to aid Yorktown
campaign, 83, 84; quota of, 131 ;
dereliction of, 182; attacks on
Pennsylvania, 1386, 146; tobacco
secured in, 140, 167; objections
to Morris’s notes, 157 ; Morris’s
lands in, 313.

Wadsworth, Colonel, appointed In-
dian commissioner, 305.

Walton, George, 25.

Washington City, capital fixed at,
258; Morris’s speculations in, 308,
832 ; its appearance in 1800, 308,
309 ; style of houses in, 311 ; Mor-
ris’s impressions of, 312, 333, 334.

Washington, George, at Trenton,
24, 30, 31; money. sent...t,..80,
his opinion of Hamilton, 66;
expresses pleasure at Morris’s
appointment as Financier, 72;
receives flour, 74; Morris at his
camp, 78-80; in Philadelphia on
way to Yorktown, 81; his ina-
bility to subscribe to the bank, 99 ;
asks for secret. service money, 111;
his opposition to... specifics,. 117.5
informed of Morris’s resignation,
194; his opinion of Morris’s ac-
tion, 195; seeks reasons for, 198 ;

INDEX

elected President of Constitutional
Convention, 227; elected Presi-
dent of United States, 230; tri-
umphal journey to New York, 230;
guest and friend of Morris, 273,
276-278, 351; urges Morris to
keep out of land speculations, 300 ;
prescribes style of houses in Wash-
ington City, 311; asks Morris to
pay Federal Commissioners, 332 ;
letter of introduction to, 342.

Washington, Lady, her reception in
Philadelphia, 232 ; arrival in New
York, 233; invitation to Mrs.
Morris, 351.

White, Bishop, 13, 14, 261, 350.

White, Colonel Thomas, 13.

Willink and Co., Morris’s explana-
tions to, 165; invited to take land
company stocks, 323; Morris as-
sures them of his integrity, 337.

Willing, Thomas, Morris’s partner-
ship with, 8 seg. ; opposed to Dec-
laration of Independence, 19; in
Bank of Pennsylvania, 73; first
president of Bank of North Amer-
ica, 108, 182, 288 ; refuses to serve
as trustee of North American Land
Company, 319, 321.

Willing and Morris, 8, 9, 538, 215.

Wilson, James, his visit to Wash-
ington’s camp, 78; director of
bank, 108 ; on committee advising
flight to Princeton, 182 ; his ‘* pan-
egyric’’? of Morris, 199; urges
Morris to remain in office, 200 ;
member of Constitutional Con-
vention, 226.

Wines, Morris’s imports of, 271.

Wolcott, Oliver, invited to ‘‘ The
Hills,’’ 342,

Yellow fever in Philadelphia, 269,
276, 333, 340, 352.

York, Congress at, 46, 273.

Yorktown, siege of, 81, 89, 90, 110.

te we]

N 13 4
pecé

VAN 13 '6@
aitiet. 3 7

MAK 190
NOV 23 ‘65

ee

DEC 3

WOES 06s eee

eerie tee
Seeaeaeeetrdital sate pte mies Sot b
eS ae Brtiartin ors iesastes Setessceseerea snes =
= bseriteastts Reerneceerre

Has:

spirit eeretr sti.

Sesxegeas secre

[eet

ere ities tekeeetee
SetrShieeRessescea ce caress
eet,

wApceneeepspecve:
Sraarats =
S:

atest

Setfpiny

ec aerexen stat setee
wee pebabetatess
pi ghrtg tate tie

teas
race piers

pictier toate
Jo iinsesteeis
Segsiss peaeaee pe pase

Pat Utsty

sttpbessterse tens
Sexesetesieas
mibsreqatatarers:

SHR