George Washington selected correspondence, 1787-1789
Corpus gap file: washington_correspondence_1787_1789
Source: The Writings of George Washington, Volume 11, 1785-1790
Note: This file fills a Founders Online API gap from public-domain published editions because the API fetch was blocked by WAF.

TO BUSHROD WASHINGTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 10 January, 1787.

MY DEAR BUSHROD,

I condole most sincerely with you, my sister & fam
ily, on the death of my Brother 1 : I feel most sensi
bly for this event ; but resignation being our duty—
to attempt an expression of my sorrow on this occa
sion would be as feebly described, as it would be
unavailing when related.

If there are any occasional services which I can
render my sister or any of you, I shall have great
pleasure in the execution ; if I could discharge the
duties of an Executor, I would undertake the trust
most cheerfully ; but in truth I am not in a situation
to do this. Already I am so much involved in and

1 John Augustine Washington.

io8 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

so perplexed with other people's affairs, that my own
are very much unattended to. Happily, there is not
the least occasion of my assistance in the administra
tion of your deceased Father's Estate. Your compe
tency alone is sufficient for this purpose — when joined
by that of my Sister, and your brother, the task will be
easy. It may be an alleviating circumstance of my
brother's death, that his affairs fall into such good
hands, and that each of you have dispositions and
capability to do what is proper. * * *

TO HENRY KNOX.

MOUNT VERNON, 3 February, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

I feel myself exceedingly obliged to you for the
full and friendly communications in your letters of the
1 4th, 2 ist, and 25th ultimo, and shall (critically as
matters are described in the letter) be exceedingly
anxious to know the issue of the movements of the
forces, that were assembling in support of, and in
opposition to, the constitution of Massachusetts.
The moment is important. If government shrinks,
or is unable to enforce its laws, fresh manoeuvres will
be displayed by the insurgents, anarchy and confu
sion must prevail, and every thing will be turned
topsy-turvy in that State, where it is not probable it
will end.1

1 " On the prospect of the happy termination of this insurrection I sincerely
congratulate you, hoping that good may result from the cloud of evils, which
threatened not only the hemisphere of Massachusetts, but by spreading its bane
ful influence threatened the tranquillity of other States. Surely Shays must be

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 109

In your letter of the i4th you express a wish to be
informed of my intention, respecting the convention
proposed to be held in Philadelphia May next. In
confidence I inform you, that it is not, at this time, my
intention to attend it. When this matter was first
moved in the Assembly of this State, some of the
principal characters of it wrote to me, requesting they
might be permitted to put my name in the delegation.
To this I objected. They again pressed, and I again
refused, assigning among other reasons my having
declined meeting the Society of the Cincinnati at that
place about the same time, and that I thought it would
be disrespectful to that body, to whom I owe much,
to be there on any other occasion. Notwithstanding
these intimations, my name was inserted in the act ;
and an official communication thereof made by the
executive to me, to whom, at the same time that I
expressed my sense for the confidence reposed in me,
I declared that, as I saw no prospect of my attending,
it was my wish that my name might not remain in the
delegation to the exclusion of another. To this I
have been requested in emphatical terms not to de
cide absolutely, as no inconvenience would result
from the new appointment of another, at least for
some time yet.

either a weak man, the dupe of some characters that are yet behind the curtain,
or has been deceived by his followers ; or, which may be as likely as any thing
perhaps, he did not conceive that there was energy enough in the government
to bring matters to the crisis they have been pushed. It is to be hoped the
General Court of that State concurred in the report of the committee, that a
rebellion actually existed. This would be decisive, and the most likely
means of putting the finishing stroke to the business." — Washington to Knox,
25 February, 1787.

no THE WRITINGS OF [1787

Thus the matter stands, which is the reason of my
saying to you in confidence, that at present I retain
my first intention not to go. In the mean while, as I
have the fullest conviction of your friendship for
and attachment to me, know your abilities to judge,
and your means of information, I shall receive any
communications from you on this subject with thank
fulness. My first wish is to do for the best, and to
act with propriety. You know me too well to believe,
that reserve or concealment of any opinion or circum
stance would be at all agreeable to me. The legality
of this convention I do not mean to discuss, nor how
problematical the issue of it may be. That powers
are wanting none can deny. Through what medium
they are to be derived will, like other matters, engage
the attention of the wise. That, which takes the
shortest course to obtain them, in my opinion will,
under present circumstances, be found best ; other
wise, like a house on fire, whilst the most regular
mode of extinguishing the flames is contended for,
the building is reduced to ashes. My opinion of the
energetic wants of the federal government are well
known. My public annunciations and private decla
rations have uniformly expressed these sentiments ;
and, however constitutional it may be for Congress
to point out the defects of the federal system, I am
strongly inclined to believe, that it would not be
found the most efficacious channel for the recommen
dations, more especially the alterations, to flow, for
reasons too obvious to enumerate.1

1 To Mr. Jay lie wrote, touching upon the same subject, more than a month
later : "I would fain try what the wisdom of the proposed convention will

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. in

The system on which you seem disposed to build
a national government, is certainly more energetic,
and I dare say in every point of view more desirable
than the present, which from experience we find is not
only slow, debilitated, and liable to be thwarted by
every breath, but is defective in that secrecy, which,
for the accomplishment of many of the most import
ant national objects, is indispensably necessary ;
and besides, having the legislative, executive, and
judiciary departments concentred, is exceptionable.
But, at the same time that I gave this opinion, I be
lieve the political machine will yet be much tumbled
and tossed, and possibly be wrecked altogether,
before that or any thing like it will be adopted. The
darling sovereignties of each State, the governors
elected and elect, the legislators, with a long tribe of
et ceteras, whose political importance will be lessened,
if not annihilated, would give their weight of opposi
tion to such a revolution ; but I may bespeaking without
book ; for, scarcely ever going off my own farms, I see
few people, who do not call upon me, and am very
little acquainted with the sentiments of the great pub
lic. Indeed, after what I have seen, or rather after
what I have heard, I shall be surprised at nothing ;
for, if three years since any person had told me, that
there would have been such a formidable rebellion as

suggest, and what can be effected by their counsels. It may be the last peace
able mode of essaying the practicability of the present form, without a greater
lapse of time, than the exigency of our affairs will allow. In strict propriety,
a convention so holden may not be legal. Congress, however, may give it a
coloring by recommendation, which would fit it more to the taste, without
proceeding to a definition of the powers. This, however constitutionally it
might be done, would not in my opinion be expedient." — March loth.

ii2 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

exists at this day against the laws and constitution of
our own making, I should have thought him a bed
lamite, a fit subject for a mad-house. Adieu. You
know how much, and how sincerely I am your ever
affectionate and most obedient servant.

TO CHARLES WASHINGTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 14 February, 1787.

DEAR CHARLES,

When the enclosed was written, I knew nothing of
George's l intention of visiting Berkeley. The safe
conveyance afforded by him, is very favorable, and
[I] gladly embraced it.

Having seen Bushrod and Corbin Washington on
their way from Berkeley, their information is the
subject of this letter and is exceedingly distressing
to me, inasmuch as I have not the means of affording
immediate relief. By them I learn that the remaining
negros of my deceased Brother Samuel's Estate are
under an execution, and a momentary sale of them may
be expected, and this too by the extraordinary con
duct of Mr. White in applying moneys received tow
ards the discharge of a Bond not in suit, when they
ought to have given it in payment of Mr. Alexan
der's claim, on which judgment had been, or was on
the point of being obtained. How in the name of
Heaven came Mr. White to be vested with powers
to dispose of the money he should recover, unaccom-

1 George Augustine Washington.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 113

panied with instructions respecting the disposal ;
Will not Mr. Alexander when he sees every exertion
making to pay him have mercy on the orphan ? Can
he as a Father and man of feeling see the Fatherless
reduced from Competency to distress untouched ? If
there was an unwillingness to pay him, if property
had not been sold for the express purpose of doing
it, and if there was not a prospect of [its] being done
in a very short time, it would be right in Mr. Alexan
der to push matters to extremity ; but when (as I am
informed) in the case every exertion is making to
satisfy him, to cause perhaps three pounds worth of
property to be sold to raise 2O/ cash, this would be
inconsistent with that benevolence which should be
characteristic of every man and to which, from what I
have heard of the Gentleman, he is justly intitled. I
therefore think as Executor to the will and guardian
to the boys, you should before the dye is cast apply
by fair and candid representation to Mr. Alexander
on this subject, not in the cold mode of letter, but
personally, to see if this evil cannot be averted.
Vain would it be for me to offer Mr. Alexander any
assurances of the money at a short given day. I can
not get it from those who owe me without suit, and
I hate to sue them. I have offered lands for sale at
very moderate prices, but have not been able to sell
them. Otherwise, or if I could raise the money by
any other means, I would relieve my nephews with
out hesitation from the impending evil. Indeed, I
would essay any thing to save the estate ; for if the
negros are sold for ready money, they will go for a

ii4 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

song. To add aught to this is unnecessary. With
the most affectionate regards.

My love, in which Mrs. Washington joins, to my
sister and the family.

TO MRS. MARY WASHINGTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 15 February, 1787.

HOND. MADAM,

In consequence of your communication to George
Washington, of your want of money, I take the (first
safe) conveyance by Mr. John Dandridge to send you
15 guineas, which believe me is all I have, and which
indeed ought to have been paid many days ago to
another, agreeable to my own assurances. I have
now demands upon me for more than 500^, three
hundred and forty odd of which is due for the tax of
1786 ; and I know not where or when, I shall receive
one shilling with which to pay it. In the last two
years I made no crops. In the first I was obliged to
buy corn and this year have none to sell, and my
wheat is so bad, I cannot neither eat it myself nor
sell it to others, and Tobacco I make none. Those
who owe me money cannot or will not pay it without
suits, and to sue is to do nothing ; whilst my expences,
not from any extravagance, or an inclination on my
part to live splendidly, but for the absolute support of
my family and the visitors who are constantly here, are
exceedingly high ; higher indeed than I can support
without selling part of my estate, which I am disposed
to do, rather than run in debt, or continue to be

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 115

so ; but this I cannot do, without taking much less
than the lands I have offered for sale are worth. This
is really and truely my situation. I do not however
offer it as any excuse for not paying you what may
really be due ; for let this belittle or much, I am willing,
however unable, to pay to the utmost farthing ; but
it is really hard upon me when you have taken every
thing you wanted from the Plantation by which
money could be raised, when I have not received one
farthing, directly nor indirectly from the place for
more than twelve years, if ever, and when, in that
time I have paid, as appears by Mr. Lund Washing
ton's accounts against me (during my absence) Two
hundred and sixty odd pounds, and by my own ac
count Fifty odd pounds out of my own Pocket to you,
besides (if I am rightly informed) every thing that
has been raised by the Crops on the Plantation.
Who to blame, or whether any body is to blame for
these things I know not, but these are facts ; and as
the purposes for which I took the Estate are not an
swered, nor likely to be so, but dissatisfaction on all
sides have taken place, I do not mean to have any
thing more to say to your Plantation or negros since
the first of January, except the fellow who is here,
and who will not, as he has formed connections in this
neighborhood, leave it. As experience has proved
him, I will hire. Of this my intention, I informed my
brother John sometime ago, whose death I sincerely
lament on many accounts, and on this painful event
condole with you most sincerely. I do not mean by
this declaration to withhold any aid or support I can

n 6 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

give from you ; for whilst I have a shilling left, you
shall have part, if it is wanted, whatever my own dis
tresses may be. What I shall then give, I shall have
credit for ; now I have not, for tho' I have received
nothing from your Quarter, and am told that every
farthing goes to you, and have moreover paid be
tween 3 and 4 hundred pounds besides out of my
own pocket, I am viewed as a delinquent, and consid-
sidered perhaps by the world as [an] unjust and
undutiful son. My advice to you, therefore, is to do
one of two things with the Plantation. Either let

o

your grandson Bushrod Washington, to whom the
land is given by his Father, have the whole interest
there, that is, lands and negros, at a reasonable rent ;
or, next year (for I presume it is too late this, as the
overseer may be engaged) to let him have the land
at a certain yearly rent during your life ; and hire
out the negros. This would ease you of all care and
trouble, make your income certain, and your support
ample. Further, my sincere and pressing advice to
you is, to break up housekeeping, hire out all the rest
of your servants except a man and a maid, and live
with one of your children. This would relieve you
entirely from the cares of this world, and leave your
mind at ease to reflect undisturbedly on that which
ought to come. On this subject I have been full
with my Brother John, and it was determined he
should endeavor to get you to live with him. He
alas is no more, and three, only of us remain. My
house is at your service, and [I] would press you
most sincerely and most devoutly to accept it, but I

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 117

am sure, and candor requires me to say, it will never
answer your purposes in any shape whatsoever. For in
truth it may be compared to a well resorted tavern,
as scarcely any strangers who are going from north to
south, or from south to north, do not spend a day or
two at it. This would, were you to be an inhabitant
of it, oblige you to do one of 3 things : ist, to be
always dressing to appear in company ; 2d, to come
into [the room] in a dishabille, or 3d, to be as it were
a prisoner in your own chamber. The first you'ld
not like ; indeed, for a person at your time of life it
would be too fatiguing. The 2d, I should not like,
because those who resort here are, as I observed be
fore, strangers and people of the first distinction. And
the 3d, more than probably, would not be pleasing to
either of us. Nor indeed could you be retired in any
room in my house ; for what with the sitting up of
company, the noise and bustle of servants, and many
other things, you would not be able to enjoy that
calmness and serenity of mind, which in my opinion
you ought now to prefer to every other consideration
in life. If you incline to follow this advice, the House
and lots on which you now live you may rent, and
enjoy the benefit of the money arising therefrom as
long as you live. This with the rent of the land at
the Little Falls, and the hire of your negros, would
bring you in an income which would be much more
than sufficient to answer all your wants and make
ample amends to the child you live with ; for myself I
should desire nothing ; if it did not, I would most cheer
fully contribute more. A man, a maid, the phaeton and

nS THE WRITINGS OF [1787

two horses, are all you would want. To lay in a suf
ficiency for the support of these would not require \
of your income, the rest would purchase every neces
sary you could possibly want, and place it in your
power to be serviceable to those with whom you may
live, which no doubt would be agreeable to all parties.

There are such powerful reasons in my mind for
giving this advice that I cannot help urging it with a
degree of earnestness which is uncommon for me to
do. It is, I am convinced, the only means by which
you can be happy. The cares of a family, without
any body to assist you ; the charge of an estate the
profits of which depend upon wind, weather, a good
overseer, an honest man, and a thousand other cir
cumstances, cannot be right or proper at your ad
vanced age, and for me, who am absolutely prevented
from attending to my own plantations, which are
almost within call of me, to attempt the care of yours,
would be folly in the extreme ; but [by] the mode I
have pointed out, you may reduce your income to a
certainty, be eased of all trouble, and if you are so
disposed, may be perfectly happy ; for happiness
depends more upon the internal frame of a person's
own mind, than on the externals in the world. Of
the last, if you will pursue the plan here recom
mended, I am sure you can want nothing that is
essential. The other depends wholly upon yourself,
for the riches of the Indies cannot purchase it.

Mrs. Washington, George and Fanny join me in
every good wish for you, and I am, honored madame,
your most dutiful and aff. son.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 119

TO THOMAS STONE.1

MOUNT VERNON, 16 February, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

Your favor of the 3Oth ultimo came duly to hand.
To give an opinion in a cause of so much importance
as that, which has warmly agitated two branches of
your legislature, and which, from the appeal that is
made, is likely to create great and perhaps dangerous
divisions, is rather a delicate matter ; but, as this di
versity of opinion is on a subject, which has, I believe,
occupied the minds of most men, and as my senti
ments thereon have been fully and decidedly ex
pressed long before the Assembly either of Maryland
or this State were convened, I do not scruple to
declare, that, if I had a voice in your legislature, it
would have been given decidedly against a paper
emission upon the general principles of its utility as a
representative, and the necessity of it as a medium.2

1 Member of the Senate of Maryland.

3 A law had been proposed in the legislature of Maryland, which had passed
the House of Delegates, for issuing bills of credit to the amount of three hun
dred and fifty thousand pounds, to be loaned by the State in various sums, the
whole redeemable in ten years, and drawing interest at six per cent., payable
annually. The Senate unanimously refused their assent to this proposition ;
and the differences between the two bodies rose to such a height that the former
resolved to adjourn for two months, and refer the subject to the people. This
was deemed a very objectionable course by the Senate, inasmuch as it was de
signed to coerce them to act against their judgment, and thus deprive them
of the freedom and independence which it was a special object of the constitu
tion to secure to that branch of the legislature.

The objections to this paper emission did not rest wholly on the ground of
the inexpediency of a paper currency as such, but were derived in part from the
peculiar circumstances of the time. It was necessary for each State in the
confederacy to pay a large portion of the annual requisitions of Congress in
specie, 'by which alone the large demands for discharging the interest of the
national debt could be answered, This specie must be collected from the

120 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

And as far as I have been able to understand its
advocates (for the two papers you sent me were the
same, and contained no reasons of the House of Dele
gates for the local want of it in your State, though I
have seen and given them a cursory reading elsewhere)
I should have been very little less opposed to it.

To assign reasons for this opinion would be as un
necessary as tedious. The ground has been so often
trod, that a place hardly remains untouched. But in
a word, the necessity arising from a want of specie is
represented as greater than it really is. I contend,
that it is by the substance, not with the shadow of a
thing, we are to be benefitted. The wisdom of man,
in my humble opinion, cannot at this time devise a
plan, by which the credit of paper money would be
long supported ; consequently depreciation keeps pace
with the quantity of the emission, and articles, for which
it is exchanged, rise in a greater ratio than the sink
ing value of the money. Wherein, then, is the farmer,
the planter, the artisan benefitted ? The debtor may

people by taxation, an end which would be rather frustrated than promoted by
a local paper currency issued on the credit of an individual State, especially as
the country was already flooded with paper securities that had been rendered
indispensable during the war. If a State issued paper, it could be disposed of
only by loans on bonds or mortgages ; and this paper must be received for
taxes, or it would immediately depreciate, and create new embarrassments.
But if a State should take its own paper for taxes, where was the specie to be
found for paying its quota to the national government ? This paper money
must necessarily be exchanged for specie, before it could be made available for
that object. So far from increasing the quantity of metallic currency, the
effect of a surplusage of paper would be to diminish it ; and hence the State
would be obliged to go abroad to procure it, for the purpose of liquidating the
claims of Congress, and to obtain it through a disadvantageous negotiation of
its own paper. Such was the view taken by the opponents to the measure. —
Sparks.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 121

be, because, as I have observed, he gives the shadow
in lieu of the substance ; and, in proportion to his gain,
the creditor or the body politic suffer. Whether it be
a legal tender or not, it will, as hath been observed
very truly, leave no alternative. It must be that or
nothing. An evil equally great is, the door it imme
diately opens for speculation, by which the least
designing, and perhaps most valuable, part of the
community are preyed upon by the more knowing
and crafty speculators.

But, contrary to my intention and declaration, I am
offering reasons in support of my opinion ; reasons
too, which of all others are least pleasing to the advo
cates for paper money. I shall therefore only observe
generally, that so many people have suffered by
former emissions, that, like a burnt child who dreads
the fire, no person will touch it who can possibly
avoid it. The natural consequence of which will be,
that the specie, which remains unexported, will be
instantly locked up. With great esteem and regard,
I am, dear Sir, &c.

TO COLONEL DAVID HUMPHREYS.

MOUNT VERNON, 8 March, 1787.

MY DEAR HUMPHREYS,

Colo. Wadsworth, as I informed you in my last,
presented me your obliging favor of the 2Oth of Janu
ary and the Post since has handed me the subsequent
one of the i ith ulto.

My sentiments respecting the inexpediency of my
attending the proposed convention of the States in

122 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

Philadelphia remain the same as when I wrote you
last, tho' Congress I am informed are about to re
move one of the objections by their recommendation
of this Convention. I am still indirectly and delicately
pressed by many to attend this meeting ; and a
thought has run thro' my mind of late attended with
more embarrassment than any former one. It is
whether my not doing it will not be considered as
an implied dereliction to Republicanism — nay more,
whether (however injurious the imputation) it may
not be ascribed to other motives. My wish is I con
fess to see this Convention tied [tried ?] ; after which,
if the present form is not made efficient, conviction of
the propriety of a change will pervade all ranks, and
many [may] be effected by peace. Till then, how
ever necessary it may appear to the more discerning
part of the community, my opinion is, that it cannot
be accomplished without great contention and much
confusion for reasons too obvious to enumerate. It is
one of the evils, perhaps not the smallest, of demo-
cratical governments that they must feel before they
will see or act under this view of matters, and not
doubting but you have heard the sentiments of many
respectable characters since the date of your letter of
the 2oth of January on this subject, and perhaps
since the business has been moved in Congress of the
propriety or impropriety of my attendance, let me
pray you, my dear Sir, to give me confidentially the
public opinion and expectation as far as it has come
to your knowledge of what it is supposed, I will or
ought to do on this occasion. You will readily see

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 123

the necessity of my receiving it soon, if it is to have
an operation contrary to the former, because my com
munications to the executive of this State are not
considered as definitive, I must make these so
shortly. * * *i

I A letter of similar import, written to Knox, is printed in Sparks.

In an early letter General Knox had spoken somewhat doubtingly ; but after
Congress had sanctioned the meeting of a convention, and recommended it to
the States, his impressions seem to have become decided. "You will have
observed," said he, " that Congress has passed an act approving the idea of a
convention, so worded as to include all appointments already made. This
circumstance will remove all objections to the convention on account of its
legality." — February 27th. In reply to the above letter he spoke more fully
and more directly to the point :

" As you have thought proper, my dear Sir, to request my opinion respecting
your attendance at the convention, I shall give it with the utmost sincerity and
frankness. I imagine that your own satisfaction, or chagrin, and that of your
friends, will depend entirely on the result of the convention. For I take it for
granted, that, however reluctantly you may acquiesce, you will be constrained
to accept of the president's chair. Hence the proceedings of the convention
will more immediately be appropriated to you than to any other person. Were
the convention to propose only amendments and patchwork to the present de
fective confederation, your reputation would in a degree suffer. But, were an
energetic and judicious system to be proposed with your signature, it would be
a circumstance highly honorable to your fame, in the judgment of the present
and future ages ; and doubly entitle you to the glorious republican epithet,
The Father of your Country.

II But, the men generally chosen being of the first information, great reliance
may be placed on the wisdom and vigor of their counsels and judgment, and
therefore the balance of my opinion preponderates greatly in favor of your
attendance. I am persuaded, that your name has had already great influence
to induce the States to come into the measure, that your attendance will be
grateful, that your presence would confer on the assembly a national com
plexion, and that it would more than any other circumstance induce a com
pliance with the propositions of the convention." — March igth.

The following are extracts from letters written by Colonel Humphreys on
the same subject.

" I may then with justice assert, that, so far from having seen any reason to
change my opinion respecting the inexpediency of your attending the conven
tion in May next, additional arguments have occurred to confirm me in the
sentiment. What chance is there then, that entire unanimity will prevail ?

i24 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

TO JOHN JAY.

MOUNT VERNON, 10 March, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

I stand indebted to you for two letters. The first,
introductory of Mr. Anstey, needed no apology, nor
will any be necessary on future similar occasions.
The other of the i7th of January is on a very inter
esting subject deserving very particular attention.

How far the revision of the federal system, and
giving more adequate powers to Congress may be
productive of an efficient government, I will not
under my present view of the matter, presume to
decide. — That many inconveniences result from the

Should this be the fact, however, would not the several members as it were
pledge themselves for the execution of their system ? And would not this
inevitably launch you again on a sea of politics? As you justly observe,
matters must probably grow worse before they will be better. Since I had
the honor of addressing you last on this subject, I have been in the way of
hearing the speculations of many different characters on the proposed conven
tion, and their conjectures on the part you would act in consequence of your
appointment to it. I have heard few express any sanguine expectations con
cerning the successful issue of the meeting, and I think not one has judged it
eligible for you to attend. In this part of the Union, your not attending will
not be considered either by the federal or anti-federal party as a dereliction of
republicanism. The former believe it unimportant, or perhaps injurious to
the national interests, for you to come forward at present ; the latter look upon
the convention as rather intended to subvert than support republicanism, and
will readily excuse your non-attendance." — New Haven, March 24th.

Again: "I mentioned in my last that 1 had not conversed with a single
character of consideration, who judged it proper for you to attend the conven
tion. I have now seen several, who think it highly interesting that you should
be there. Gouverneur Morris and some others have wished me to use what
ever influence I might have to induce you to come. I could not have promised
this without counteracting my own judgment. I will not, however, hesitate to
say, that I do not conceive your attendance can hazard such personal ill con
sequences, as were to be apprehended before the proposed meeting had been
legitimated by the sanction of Congress." — Fairfield, April gth.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 125

present form, none can deny. Those enumerated in
your letter are so obvious and sensibly felt that no
logic can controvert, nor is it likely that any change
of conduct will remove them, and that attempts to
alter or amend it will be like the proppings of a house
which is ready to fall, and which no shoars can sup
port (as many seem to think) may also be true. But,
is the public mind matured for such an important
change as the one you have suggested ? What would
be the consequences of a premature attempt ? My
opinion is, that this Country must yet feel and see
more, before it can be accomplished.

A thirst for power, and the bantling, I had Hked to
have said monster for sovereignty, which have taken
such fast hold of the States individually, will when
joined by the many whose personal consequence in
the control of State politics will in a manner be
annihilated, form a strong phalanx against it ; and
when to these the few who can hold posts of honor or
profit in the national government, are compared with
the many who will see but little prospect of being
noticed, and the discontent of others who may look
for appointments, the opposition will be altogether
irresistable till the mass, as well as the more discern
ing part of the Community shall see the necessity.
Among men of reflection, few will be found I believe,
who are not beginning to think that our system is
more perfect in theory than in practice ; and that
notwithstanding the boasted virtue of America it
is more than probable we shall exhibit the last melan
choly proof, that mankind are not competent to their

126 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

own government without the means of coercion in the
sovereign.

Yet I would fain try what the wisdom of the
proposed convention will suggest : and what can be
effected by their councils. It may be the last peace
able mode of essaying the practicability of the present
form, without a greater lapse of time than the exi
gency of our affairs will allow. In strict propriety a
convention so holden may not be legal. Congress,
however, may give it a coloring by recommendation,
which would fit it more to the taste without proceed
ing to a definition of the powers. This, however
constitutionally it might be done, would not, in my
opinion, be expedient : for delicacy on the one hand,
and jealousy on the other, would produce a mere
nihil.

My name is in the delegation to this Convention ;
but it was put there contrary to my desire, and remains
contrary to my request. Several reasons at the time
of this appointment and which yet exist, conspired to
make an attendance inconvenient, perhaps improper,
tho' a good deal urged to it. With sentiments of great
regard and friendship, &c.

P. S. Since writing this letter I have seen the
resolution of Congress recommendatory of the Con
vention to be holden in Philadelphia the 2d Monday
in May.1

1 . . . " However desirous I am, and always shall be, to comply with any
commands of my Country, I do not conceive that I can attend the proposed
Convention to be holden in Philadelphia in May next, with any degree of
consistent conduct. For besides the declaration which I made in a very solemn
manner when I was about to retire, of bidding adieu to all public employment,

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 127

TO MAJOR-GENERAL BENJAMIN LINCOLN.

MOUNT VERNON, 23 March, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

Ever since the disorders in your State began to
grow serious I have been peculiarly anxious to hear
from that quarter ; General Knox has from time to
time transmitted to me the state of affairs as they
came to his hands ; but nothing has given such full
and satisfactory information as the particular detail
of events which you have been so good as to favor me
with, and for which you will please to accept my
warmest and most grateful acknowledgments. Permit
me also, my dear Sir, to offer you my sincerest
congratulations upon your success. The suppression
of those tumults and insurrections with so little blood
shed, is an event as happy as it was unexpected ; it
must have been peculiarly agreeable to you, being
placed in so delicate and critical a situation. I am
extremely happy to find that your sentiments upon
the disfranchising act are such as they are ; upon my
first seeing it, I formed an opinion perfectly coin
cident with yours, vizt, that measures more generally
lenient might have produced equally as good an effect
without entirely alienating the affections of the peo-

I had just before my appointment as a delegate to this convention written and
despatched circular letters to the several State Societies of the Cincinnati,
informing them of my intention not to attend the general meeting, — which was
to take place about the same time and at the same place and assigned reasons
which apply as forcibly in the one case as the other. To attend the Convention
under these circumstances might be construed disrespect to a worthier set of
men for whose attachment and support on many trying occasions, I shall ever
put the highest gratitude and affection." — Washington to Madison, 15 March,
1787.

i28 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

pie from the government ; as it now stands, it affects
a large body of men, some of them, perhaps, it
deprives of the means of gaining a livelihood ; the
friends and connections of those people will *feel
themselves wounded in a degree, and I think it will
rob the State of a number of its inhabitants, if it
produces nothing more. * * *

TO EDMUND RANDOLPH, GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA.

MOUNT VERNON, 28 March, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

Your favor of the i ith did not come to my hand till
the 24th, and since then till now I have been too
much indisposed to acknowledge the receipt of it.1

To what cause to ascribe the detention of the letter
I know not as I never omit sending once and often
twice a week to the post office in Alexandria. It was
the decided intention of the letter I had the honor of
writing to your Excellency the 2ist of December last
to inform you, that it was not convenient for me to
attend the convention proposed to be holden at
Philadelphia in May next ; and I had entertained
hopes, that another had been, or soon would be,

1 From Governor Randolph's Letter. — " I must call upon your friendship to
excuse me for again mentioning the convention at Philadelphia. Your deter
mination having been fixed on a thorough review of your situation, 1 feel like
an intruder when I again hint a wish, that you would join the delegation. But
every day brings forth some new crisis, and the confederation is, I fear, the last
anchor of our hope. Congress have taken up the subject, and appointed the
second Monday in May next, as the day of meeting. Indeed, from my private
correspondence, I doubt whether the existence of that body, even through
this year, may not be questionable under our present circumstances." — Rich
mond, March nth.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 129

appointed in my place, inasmuch as it is not only
inconvenient for me to leave home, but because there
will be, I apprehend, too much cause to arraign my
conduct with inconsistency in again appearing on a
public theatre, after a public declaration to the con
trary, and because it will, I fear, have a tendency to
sweep me back into the tide of public affairs, when
retirement and ease is so essentially necessary for and
is so much desired by me.

However, as my friends, with a degree of solicitude
which is unusual, seem to wish for my attendance on
this occasion, I have come to a resolution to go, if my
health will permit, provided from the lapse of time
between the date of your Excellency's letter and this
reply the executive may not (the reverse of which
would be highly pleasing to me) have turned their
thoughts to some other character ; for, independently
of all other considerations, I have of late been so much
afflicted with a rheumatic complaint in my shoulder
that at times I am hardly able to raise my hand to
my head, or turn myself in bed. This consequently
might prevent my attendance, and eventually a rep
resentation of the State, which would afflict me more
sensibly than the disorder that occasioned it.

If, after the expression of these sentiments, the
executive should consider me as one of the delegates,
I would thank your Excellency for the earliest advice
of it ; because, if I am able and should go to Phila
delphia, I shall have some previous arrangement to
make, and would set off for that place the ist or 2d
of May, that I might be there in time to account
130 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

personally for my conduct to the general meeting of
the Cincinnati, which is to convene the first Monday
of that month. My feelings would be much hurt, if
that body should otherwise ascribe my attending the
one and not the other occasion to a disrespectful
inattention to the Society, when the fact is, that I
shall ever retain the most lively and affectionate
regard for the members of which it is composed, on
account of their attachment to me and uniform support
upon many trying occasions, as well as on account of
their public virtues, patriotism, and sufferings.

I hope your Excellency will be found among the
attending delegates. I should be glad to be informed
who the others are ; and cannot conclude without
once more and in emphatical terms praying, that, if
there is not a decided representation in prospect with
out me, another may be chosen in my room without
ceremony and without delay, for the reason already
assigned. For it would be unfortunate, indeed, if the
State, which was the mover of this convention, should
be unrepresented in it. With great respect, I have
the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient
servant.

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.1

MOUNT VERNON, 31 March, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

At the same time that I acknowledge the receipt
of your obliging favor of the 2ist ultimo from New
York, I promise to avail myself of your indulgence

1 Mr. Madison had taken his seat in Congress as a delegate from Virginia on
the I2th of February.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 131

to write only when it is convenient to me. If this
should not occasion a relaxation on your part, I shall
become very much your debtor, and possibly, like
others in similar circumstances, (when the debt is bur-
thensome,) may feel a disposition to apply the sponge,
or, what is nearly akin to it, pay you off in depreci
ated paper, which, being a legal tender, or, what is
tantamount, being that or nothing, you cannot refuse.
You will receive the nominal value, and that you
know quiets the conscience, and makes all things easy
with the debtor.

I am glad to find that Congress have recommended
to the States to appear in the convention proposed
to be holden in Philadelphia next May. I think the
reasons in favor have the preponderancy over those
against it. It is idle in my opinion to suppose that
the Sovereign can be insensible to the inadequacy of
the powers under which they act, and that, seeing it,
they should not recommend a revision of the federal
system ; especially when it is considered by many as
the only constitutional mode by which the defects can
be remedied. Had Congress proceeded to a delinea
tion of the powers, it might have sounded an alarm ;
but, as the case is, I do not conceive that it will have
that effect.1

From the acknowledged abilities of the Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, I have no doubt of his having

1 The commissioners, who had met at Annapolis in September, 1786, sent a
letter to Congress, accompanied by their address to the several States, propos
ing a convention at Philadelphia on the second Monday of May. These
papers were taken up by Congress, and referred to a committee, consisting of
one member from each State, who reported in favor of recommending to the
several legislatures to send delegates.

132 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

ably investigated the infractions of the treaty on both
sides. Much is it to be regretted, however, that
there should have been any on ours. We seem to
have forgot, or never to have learnt, the policy of
placing one's enemy in the wrong. Had we observed
good faith on our part, we might have told our tale to
the world with a good grace, but complaints illy become
those who are found to be the first aggressors.

1 am fully of opinion that those, who lean to a
monarchical government, have either not consulted
the public mind, or that they live in a region, which
(the levelling principles in which they were bred being
entirely eradicated) is much more productive of monar
chical ideas, than are to be found in the southern
States, where, from the habitual distinctions which
have always existed among the people, one would
have expected the first generation and the most rapid
growth of them. I am also clear, that, even ad
mitting the utility, nay, necessity of the form, yet
that the period is not arrived for adopting the change
without shaking the peace of this country to its
foundation. That a thorough reform of the present
system is indispensable, none, who have capacities
to judge, will deny ; and with hand [and heart] I hope
the business will be essayed in a full convention.
After which, if more powers and more decision is
not found in the existing form, if it still wants energy
and that secrecy and despatch (either from the non-
attendance or the local views of its members), which
is characteristic of good government, and if it shall
be found (the contrary of which, however, I have

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 133

always been more afraid of than of the abuse of them),
that Congress will, upon all proper occasions, exert
the powers which are given, with a firm and steady
hand, instead of frittering them back to the States,
where the members, in place of viewing themselves
in their national character, are too apt to be looking,
—I say, after this essay is made, if the system proves
inefficient, conviction of the necessity of a change
will be disseminated among all classes of the people.
Then, and not till then, in my opinion, can it be at
tempted without involving all the evils of civil discord.
I confess, however, that my opinion of public virtue
is so far changed, that I have my doubts whether
any system, without the means of coercion in the
sovereign, will enforce due obedience to the ordi
nances of a general government ; without which every
thing else fails. Laws or ordinances unobserved, or
partially attended to, had better never have been
made ; because the first is a mere nihil, and the
second is productive of much jealousy and discon
tent. But what kind of coercion, you may ask. This
indeed will require thought, though the non-compli
ance of the States with the late requisition is an
evidence of the necessity. It is somewhat singular
that a State (New York), which used to be foremost
in all federal measures, should now turn her face
against them in almost every instance.

I fear the State of Massachusetts has exceeded the
bounds of good policy in its disfranchisements. Pun
ishment is certainly due to the disturbers of a govern
ment, but the operation of this act is too extensive.

i34 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

It embraces too much, and probably will give birth
to new instead of destroying the old leaven. Some
acts passed at the last session of our Assembly,
respecting the trade of this country, have given great
and general discontent to the merchants. An appli
cation from the whole body of them at Norfolk to
the governor has been made, it is said, to convene
the Assembly.

I had written thus far, and was at the point of tell
ing you how much I am your obliged servant, when
your favor of the i8th ultimo calls upon me for addi
tional acknowledgments. I thank you for the Indian
vocabulary, which I dare say will be very acceptable
in a general comparison. Having taken a copy, I
return you the original with thanks.

It gives me great pleasure to hear, that there is a
probability of a full representation of the States in
convention ; but if the delegates come to it under
fetters, the salutary ends proposed will in my opinion
be greatly embarrassed and retarded, if not altogether
defeated. I am desirous of knowing how this matter
is, as my wish is that the convention may adopt no
temporizing expedients, but probe the defects of the
constitution to the bottom, and provide a radical
cure, whether they are agreed to or not. A conduct
of this kind will stamp wisdom and dignity on their
proceedings, and hold up a light which sooner or
later will have its influence.1

1 " It gives me pleasure to find by your letter, that there will be so full a
representation from this State. If the case had been otherwise, I would in
emphatical terms have urged again that, rather than depend upon my going,

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 135

I should feel pleasure, I confess, in hearing that
Vermont is received into the Union upon terms
agreeable to all parties. I took the liberty years ago
to tell some of the first characters in the State of
New York, that sooner or later it would come to
this ; that the longer it was delayed, the terms on
their part would probably be more difficult ; and that
the general interest was suffering by the suspense in
which the business was held, as the asylum which
it afforded was a constant drain from the army, in
place of an aid which it would have afforded ; and
lastly, considering the proximity of it to Canada, if
they were not with us, they might become a sore
thorn in our side, which I verily believe would have
been the case if the war had continued. The western
settlements, without good and wise management, may
be equally troublesome.

With sentiments of sincere friendship, I am &c.

another might be chosen in my place ; for, as a friend and in confidence, I de
clare to you, that my assent is given contrary to my judgment ; because the act
will, I apprehend, be considered as inconsistent with my public declaration,
delivered in a solemn manner at an interesting era of my life, never more to
intermeddle in public matters. This declaration not only stands on the files of
Congress, but is I believe registered in almost all the gazettes and magazines
that are published ; and what adds to the embarrassment is, I had, previous to
my appointment, informed by a circular letter the several State Societies of the
Cincinnati of my intention to decline the presidency of that order, and excused
myself from attending the next general meeting at Philadelphia on the first
Monday in May ; assigning reasons for so doing, which apply as well in the
one case as in the other. Add to these, I very much fear that all the States
will not appear in convention, and that some of them will come fettered so as
to impede rather than accelerate the great object of their convening ; which,
under the peculiar circumstances of my case, would place me in a more disa
greeable situation than any other member would stand in. As I have yielded,
however, to what appeared to be the earnest wishes of my friends, I will hope
for the best." — Washington to Edmund Randolph, 9 April, 1787.

136 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

TO HENRY KNOX.

MOUNT VERNON, 2 April, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

The early attention, which you were so obliging as
to pay to my letter of the 8th ultimo, is highly pleas
ing and flattering. Were you to continue to give
me information on the same point, you would add to
the favor ; as I see or think I see reasons for and
against my attendance in convention so near an
equilibrium, as will cause me to determine upon
either with diffidence. One of the reasons against it
is a fear, that all the States will not be represented.
As some of them appear to have been unwillingly
drawn into the measure, their delegates will come
with such fetters as will embarrass and perhaps ren
der nugatory the whole proceeding. In either of
these circumstances, that is, a partial representation
or cramped powers, I should not like to be a sharer
in the business. If the delegates assemble with such
powers, as will enable the convention to probe the
defects of the constitution to the bottom, and point
out radical cures, it would be an honorable employ
ment ; but not otherwise. These are matters you
may possibly come at by means of your acquaintance
with the delegates in Congress, who undoubtedly
know what powers are given by their respective
States. You also can inform me what is the prevail
ing opinion, with respect to my attendance or non-
attendance ; and I would sincerely thank you for the
confidential communication of it.

If I should attend the convention, I will be in
Philadelphia previous to the meeting of the Cincin-

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 137

nati, where I shall hope and expect to meet you and
some others of my particular friends the day before,
in order that I may have a free and unreserved con
ference with you on the subject of it ; for, I assure
you, this is in my estimation a business of a delicate
nature.

That the design of the institution was pure, I have
not a particle of doubt ; that it may be so still, is
perhaps equally unquestionable. But is not the
subsiding of the jealousies respecting it to be
ascribed to the modifications, which took place at
the last general meeting ? Are not these rejected
in toto by some of the State Societies, and partially
acceded to by others? Has any State so far over
come its prejudices as to grant a charter ? Will the
modifications and alterations be insisted on in the
next meeting, or given up ? If the first, will it not
occasion warmth and divisions ? If the latter, and I
should remain at the head of this order, in what
light would my signature appear in recommendations
having different tendencies ? In what light will this
versatility appear to the foreign members, who per
haps are acting agreeably to the recommendation ?

These, and other matters which may be agitated,
will, I fear, place me in a disagreeable situation, if I
should attend the meeting ; and were among the
causes, which induced me to decline previously the
honor of the presidency. Indeed my health is be
come very precarious. A rheumatic complaint which
has followed me more than six months, is frequently
so bad that it is sometimes with difficulty I can raise
my hand to my head or turn myself in bed. This,

138 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

however smooth and agreeable other matters might
be, might, almost in the moment of my departure,
prevent my attendance on either occasion. I will not
at present touch upon any other points of your letter,
but will wish you to ponder on all these matters, and
write to me as soon as you can.

With sentiments of the sincerest friendship, I am
your most affectionate, &c.

TO HENRY KNOX.

MOUNT VERNON, 27 April, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

After every consideration my judgment was able
to give the subject, I had determined to yield to the
wishes of many of my friends who seemed anxious
for my attending the Convention which is proposed
to be holden in Philadelphia the 2d Monday of May,
and though so much afflicted with a Rheumatick com
plaint (of which I have not been entirely free for six
months) as to be under the necessity of carrying my
arm in a sling for the last ten days, I had fixed on
Monday next for my departure, and had made every
necessary arrangement for the purpose when (within
this hour) I am called by an express, who assures me
not a moment is to be lost, to see a mother and only
sister (who are supposed to be in the agonies of
death) expire ' ; and I am hastening to obey this

1 His Diary states that he received the call between four and five o'clock
in the afternoon of the 26th. He set out the next morning about five
o'clock, baited at Dumfries, and reached Fredericksburg before two o'clock,
finding the two patients better than had been reported. He set out on his
return on the morning of the 3Oth.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 139

melancholy call after having just buried a Brother
who was the intimate companion of my youth, and
the friend of my ripened age. 1 This journey of mine
then, 100 miles, in the disordered frame of my body,
will, I am persuaded, unfit me for the intended trip
to Philadelphia, and assuredly prevent my offering
that tribute of respect to my compatriots in arms
which results from affection and gratitude for their
attachment to, and support of me, upon so many
trying occasions.

For this purpose it was, as I had (tho' with a good
deal of Reluctance) consented, from a conviction that
our affairs were verging fast to ruin, to depart from
the resolution I had taken of never more stepping out
of the walks of private life, that I determined to shew
my respect to the General Meeting of the Society by
coming there the week before. As the latter is pre
vented, and the other, it is probable, will not take
place, I send such papers as have occasionally come
to my hands, and may require the inspection, and the
consideration of the Cincinnati. An apology for the
order in which they are sent is highly necessary, and
my present situation is the best I can offer. To
morrow I had set apart for the Inspection and
arrangement of them, that such only as were fitting,
might be laid before the Society ; for unless I had
time to go over them again with a person who under
stands the French language, I am not even certain
that all of what I send may relate to the affairs of the
Cincinnati, and certain I am that some are too per-

1 John Augustine Washington.

1 40 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

sonal, the sending of which will not, I hope, be
ascribed to improper motives, when the only one I
had (as I am in the moment of my departure from
home and uncertain of returning to it) is that
nothing which has been referred to me, may be
with held.— * * *

TO LUND WASHINGTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 7 May, 1787.

* * * I need not tell you, because a moment's
recurrence to your own accounts will evince the fact,
that there is no source from which I derive more than
a sufficiency for the daily calls of my family, except
what flows from the collection of old debts, and
scanty and precarious enough, God knows this is.
My estate for the last 1 1 years has not been able to
make both ends meet. I am encumbered now with
the deficiency. I mention this for no other purpose
than to shew that however willing, I am not able to
pay debts unless I could sell land, which I have
publicly advertised without finding bidders. * * *

DIARY DURING THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION,
MAY-SEPTEMBER, I 787.*

Monday *]th [MAY]. — At home preparing for my journey to
Philadelphia. * * *

Tuesday %th. — The weather being squally with showers, I

1 Two forms of this diary exist : the one is in the Library of Congress and
has been printed in the Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography,
xi., 296 ; the other, in the Department of State, is made the basis for this ver
sion. I have not hesitated to use the notes given in the Pennsylvania
ITagazine, and give such variations in the texts as seem necessary.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 141

defer'd setting off till the morning. Mr. Chas. Lee came to
dinner, but left it afterwards.

Wednesday gth. — Crossed from Mt. Vernon to Mr. Digges a
little after sunrise, and pursuing the rout by the way of Baltimore,
dined at Mt. Rich'd Henderson's in Bladensb'g, and lodged at
Majr. Snowden's, when feeling very severely a violent hd. ach &
sick stomack I went to bed early.

Thursday loM. — Very great appearances of rain in the morn
ing & a little falling induced me, tho' well recovered, to wait till
abt. 8 o'clock before I set off. At one o'clock I arrived at Bal
timore, dined at the Fountain, & supped & lodged at Doctr.
McHenry's. Slow rain in the evening.

Friday nth. — Set off before breakfast, rid 12 miles to Sherretts
for it, bated there and proceeded without halting (weather threat
ening) to the Ferry at Havre de Gras where I dined, but could
not cross, the wind being turbulent & squally. Lodged here.

Saturday izth. — With difficulty (on acct. of the wind), crossed
the Susquehanna. — Breakfasted at the Ferry house on the East
side. Dined at the head of Elk (Hollingsworth's Tavern) and
lodged at Wilmington at O'Flin's. At the head of Elk I was
overtaken by Mr. Francis Corbin, who took a seat in my carriage.

Sunday i$th. — About 8 o'clock,1 Mr. Corbin and myself set
out, and dined at Chester (Mrs. Withy), where I was met by the
Genls. Mifflin (now Speaker of the Pennsylvania Assembly),
Knox and Varnum ; the Colonels Humphreys and Minges
[Mentges] — and Majors Jackson and Nicholas, with whom I
proceeded to Philadh. At Grays Ferry the City light horse, com
manded by Colo. Miles, met me and escorted me in by the
Artillery officers who stood arranged & saluted me as I passed.
Alighted through a crowd at Mrs. House's,2 but being again
warmly and kindly pressed by Mr. & Mrs. Rob. Morris to lodge
with them, I did so and had my baggage removed thither.

Waited on the President, Doctr. Franklin, as soon as I got to
town. On my arrival the Bells were chimed.

1 " Nine o'clock."

2 Mrs. Mary House kept a boarding-house at the corner of Fifth and Market
streets. — Penn. Mag.

142 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

Monday i^th. — This being the day appointed for the Conven
tion to meet, such members as were in town assembled at the
State Ho., but only two States being represented — viz. Virginia
& Pensylvania, agreed to attend at the same place at n o'clock
tomorrow.

Dined in a family way at Mr. Morris's.1

Tuesday \^th. — Repaired, at the hour appointed, to the State
Ho., but no more states being represented than were yesterday
(tho' several more members had come in,2) we agreed to meet
again tomorrow. Govr. Randolph from Virginia came in today.

Dined with the Members to the Genl. Meeting of the Society
of the Cincinnati.

Wednesday \6th. — No more than two States being yet repre
sented agreed till a quoram of them should be formed to alter
the hour of meeting at the State House to one o'clock.3

Dined at the President, Doctr. Franklin's — and drank Tea,
and spent the evening at Mr. Jno. Penn's.

Thursday \"]th. — Mr. Rutledge, from Charleston, and Mr. Chs
Pinkney, from Congress, having arrived, gave a representation to
So. Carolina ; and Colo. Mason getting in this Evening, placed
all the Delegates from Virginia on the floor of Convention.
Dined at Mr. Powell's 4 and dr'k Tea there.

Friday iSf/i. — The representation from New York appeared on
the floor today.

Dined at Gray's Ferry, and drank Tea at Mr. Morris's ; after
which accompanied Mrs. and some other Ladies to hear a Mrs.
O'Connell read (a chanty affair). The lady being reduced in
circumstances had had recourse to this expedient to obtain a
little money — her performe. was tolerable, at the College Hall.6

" and took tea there."

From North Carolina, Delaware, and New Jersey.

" Dr. McClurg, of Virginia, came in."

Samuel Po'wcl.

" The lecture to be read this Evening is a continuance of the Dissertation
on Eloquence, which commenced in the first course ; at the conclusion of
which Solima of the Poet Ilamet, translated by Sir William Jones, will be
delivered." — Penn. Packet, quoted in the Penn. Mag.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 143

Saturday igth. — No more states represented.1

Dined at Mr. [Jared] Ingersoll's, spent the evening at my
lodgings, & retired to my room soon.

Sunday 2oth. — Dined with Mr. & Mrs. Morris and other com
pany at their farm (called the Hills) ; returned in the afternoon
& drank Tea at Mr. Powell's

Monday 2ist. — Delaware State was represented.

Dined and drank Tea at Mr. [William] Bingham's in great
splendor.

Tuesday 22d. — The Representation from No. Carolina was
compleated, which made a representation for five States.

Dined and drank Tea at Mr. Morris's.

Wednesday 2$d. — No more States being represented, I rid to
Genl. Mifflin's to breakfast. After which in company with him,
Mr. Madison, Mr. Rutledge, and others, I crossed the Schuylkill
above the Falls, visited Mr. Peters, Mr. Penn's seat, and Mr.
Wm. Hamilton's.2

Dined at Mr. Chew's, with the wedding guests (Colo. [John
Eager] Howard of Baltimore having married his daughter Peggy)
drank Tea there in a very large circle of ladies.

Thursday 2\th. — No more States represented. Dined and
Drank Tea at Mr. John Ross's. One of my Postilion boys
(Paris) being sick, requested Doctr. [John] Jones to attend him.

Friday 2$th. — Another Delegate coming in from the State of
New Jersey, gave it a representation, and encreased the number to
Seven, which forming a quoram of the 13, the members present
resolved to organize the body ; when by a unanimous vote I was
called up to the chair as President of the body.3 Majr. William

1 " Agreed to meet at I o'clock on Monday."

2 " and repaired at the hour of one to the State House."

3 The nomination of Washington for this position was made by Robert
Morris, instructed by the Pennsylvania delegation, and seconded by John Rut-
ledge. The only possible competitor was Benjamin Franklin, making the act
of the Pennsylvanians all the more graceful. There was no opposing ballot,
and, on being conducted to the chair by Morris and Rutledge, Washington " in
a very emphatic manner thanked the Convention for the honor they had con
ferred on him ; reminded them of the novelty of the scene of business in which
he was to act, lamented his want of better qualifications, and claimed the in-

i44 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

Jackson 1 was appointed Secretary and a Comee. was chosen con
sisting of 3 members2 to prepare rules and regulations for
conducting the business ; and after 'pointing door keepers, the
Convention adjourned till Monday, to give time to the Comee. to
report the matter referred to them.

Returned many visits today. Dined at Mr. Thos. Willing's
and spt. the evening at my lodgings.

Saturday 26th. — Returned all my visits this forenoon,3 dined
with a club at the City Tavern, and spent the evening at my
quarters writing letters.

Sunday 2^th. — Went to the Romish Church,4 to high mass.
Dined ; drank Tea, and spent the evening at my lodgings.

Monday 2%th. — Met in Convention at 10 o'clock. Two States
more, viz. Massachusetts and Connecticut, were on the floor to
day.

Established rules — agreeably to the plan brot. in by the Comee.
for the Governmt. of the Convention, & adjourned. No Comns.6
without doors.

Dined at home, and drank Tea in a large circle at Mr. [Tench]
Francis's.

Tuesday 2^th. — Attended Convention, and dined at home,
after wch. accompanied Mrs. Morris to the benefit concert of a
Mr. Juhan.

Wednesday 30/72. — Attended Convention.

Dined with Mr. [John] Vaughan. Drank Tea and spent the
evening at a Wednesday evening's party at Mr. & Mrs. [John]
Lawrence's.

Thursday 31^. — The State of Georgia came on the Floor of

dulgence of the House towards the involuntary errors which his inexperience
might occasion." — Madison. To Knox he wrote, 31 May: "I was, much
against my wish, placed in the chair." Madison had in April foreseen the
fitness of making him the conspicuous figure. — To Randolph, 15 April, 1787.

1 Wilson nominated W. T. Franklin, and Hamilton, Jackson.

2 Wythe, Hamilton, and Charles Pinckney.

:i " Where I could get an account of the Lodg'gs of those to whom I was
indebted for theirs."

4 St. Mary's, on Fourth Street. — Penn. Mag.

5 Communications (?)

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 145

the Convention to-day,1 which made a representation of ten
States.

Dined at Mr. Francis's and drank Tea with Mrs Meredith.

Friday^ \st JUNE. — Attending in Convention, and nothing be
ing suffered to transpire, no minutes of the proceedings has been
or will be inserted in this diary.

Dined with Mr. John Penn, and spent the evening at a superb
entertainment at Bush-Hill given by Mr. Hamilton, at which
were more than a hundred guests.

Saturday 2nd. — Majr. Jenifer coming in with sufficient powers
for the purpose, gave a representation to Maryland, which
brought all the States in the Union into Convention, except
Rhode Island, which had refused to send delegates thereto.

Dined at the City Tavern with the Club, & spent the evening
at my own quarters.

Sunday $d. — Dined at Mr. Clymer's and drank Tea there also.

Monday <\th. — Attended Convention ; Representation as on
Saturday.

Reviewed (at the importunity of Genl. Mifflin and the officers,)
the Light Infantry — Cavalry — and part of the Artillery, of the
City.

Dined with Genl. Mifflin and drk. Tea with Mrs. Cadwallader.

Tuesday $th. — Dined at Mr. Morris's with a large Company, &
spent the evening there. Attended in Convention the usual hours.

Wednesday 6th. — In Convention as usual ; dined at the Presi
dents (Doctr. Franklin's), and drank Tea there, after which re
tired to my lodgings and wrote letters for France.

Thursday *]th. — Attended Convention as usual. Dined with a
club of Convention members at the Indian Queen.2 Drank Tea
and spent the evening at my lodgings.

Friday %th. — Attended the Convention. Dined, drank Tea,
and spent the evening at my lodgns.

Saturday gth. — At Convention. Dined with the Club at the
City Tavern ; Drank Tea, and set till 10 o'clock at Mr. Powell's.

1 William Pierce and William Houston were the delegates.

2 A famous hostelry, on Fourth above Chestnut Street. It was torn down in
May, 1851. — Penn. Mag.
146 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

Sunday lof/i. — Breakfasted by agreement at Mr. Powell's, and
in company with him rid to see the botanical gardens of Mr.
Bartram ; which, tho' stored with many curious pits., shrubs, &
trees, many of which are exotics, was not laid off with much
taste, nor was it large.

From hence we rid to the Farm of one Jones, to see the effect
of the plaister of Paris, which appeared obviously great. * * *

From hence we visited Mr. Powell's own farm, after which I
went (by appointment) to the Hills and dined with Mr. & Mrs.
Morris, returned to the city abt. dark.

Monday nth. — Attended in Convention. Dined, drank Tea,
and spent the evening in my own room.

Tuesday i2th. — Dined and drank Tea at Mr. Morris's ; went
afterwards to a concert at the City Tavern.1

Wednesday 13^. — In convention ; dined at Mr. Clymer's, &
drank Tea there ; spent the evening at Mr. Bingham's.

Thursday i^th. — Dined at Major [Thomas Lloyd] Moore's (after
being in Convention,) and spent the evening at my own lodgings.

Friday i$th. — In Convention as usual, dined at Mr. Powell's &
drank Tea there.

Saturday i6th. — In Convention, dined with the Club at the City
Tavern, and drank Tea at Doctr. Shippings [Shippen] with Mrs.
Livingston's party.2

Sunday \ith. — Went to Church, heard Bishop White preach,
and see him ordain two Gentlemen Deacons ; after wch. rid 8
miles into the Country & dined with Mr. Jno. Ross, in Chester
County ; returned in the Afternoon.

Monday \%th. — Attended the Convention. Dined at the Quar
terly Meeting of the Sons of St. Patrick— held at the City Tavern.
Drank Tea at Doctr Shippens with Mrs. Livingston.

Tuesday igth. — Dined (after leaving Convention,) in a family
way at Mr. Morris's and spent the evening there in a very large
company

Wednesday 2cth. — Attended Convention. Dined at Mr. Mere
dith's, and drank Tea there.

1 Reinagle's concert. See Penn. Mag.

'-' " Spent evening at my own lodgings."

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 147

Thursday 2\st. — Attended Convention. Dined at Mr. Prager's,
and spent the evening in my chamber.

Friday 2.2nd. — Dined at Mr. Morris's, & drank Tea with Mr.
Frans. Hopkinson.

Saturday 2$rd. — In Convention. Dined at Doctr. Rushton's,
and drank Tea at Mr. Morris's.

Sunday 24^/2. — Dined at Mr. Morris's, and spent the evening at
Mr. Meredith's at Tea.

Monday 2$th. — Attended Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's,
drank Tea there, and spent the evening in my Chamber.

Tuesday 26th. — Attended Convention. Partook of a family
dinner with Govr. Randolph, and made one of a party to drink
Tea at Gray's ferry.

Wednesday 2^th. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's,
drank Tea there also, and spent the evening in my Chamber.

Thursday 2Wi. — Attended Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's
in a large Company (the news of his Bills being protested arriv
ing last night a little mal a propos) drank Tea there & spent the
evening in my Chamber.

Friday 2^/1. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's and
spent the evening there.

Saturday 30^. — Attended Convention. Dined with a club at 1
Springsbury, consisting of several associated families of the City,
the Gentlemen of which met every Saturday, accompanied by the
females of the families every other Saturday ; this was the ladies
day.2

Sunday \st, JULY. — Dined & spent the evening at home.

Monday 2d. — Attended Convention. Dined with some of the
Members of the Convention at the Indian Queen. Drank Tea
at Mr. Bingham's, and walked afterwards in the State house yard.

Set this morning for Mr. Pine who wanted to correct his
portt. of me.

Tuesday $rd. — Sat before the meeting of the Convention for
Mr. Peale, who wanted my picture to make a print or Metzotinto
by.

1 Cool Spring, Springsbury.
8 Spent the evening at home.

148 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

Dined at Mr. Morris's, and drank Tea at Mr. Powell's. After
which in Company with him, I attended the Agricultural Society
at Carpenters Hall.

Wednesday qth. — Visited Doctr. Shovat's Anatomical figures,
and (the Convention having adjourned for the purpose,) went to
hear an Oration on the anniversary of Independence delivered '
by a Mr. Mitchell, a student of Law. After which I dined with
the State Society of the Cincinnati, at Epplees Tavern, and
drank Tea at Mr. Powell's.

Thursday $th. — Attended Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's,
and drank Tea there ; Spent the evening also.

Friday 6th. — Sat for Mr. Peale in the morning, attended Con
vention. Dined at the City Tavern with some members of Con
vention, and spent the evening at my lodgings.

Saturday ^th. — Attended Convention. Dined with the Club at
Springsbury, and drank Tea at Mr. Meredith's.

Sunday &th. — About 12 o'clock rid to Doctr. Logan's, near
Germantown, where I dined. Returned in the evening, and
drank Tea at Mr. Morris's.

Monday gth. — Sat in the morning for Mr. Peale. Attended
Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's, & accompanied Mrs. Morris
to Doctr. [John] Redman's, 3 miles in the Country, where we
drank Tea and returned.

Tuesday io//z. — Attended Convention, dined at Mr. Morris's,
drank Tea at Mr. Bingham's, and went to the play.2

Wednesday nth. — Attended Convention, dined at Mr. Morris's
and spent the evening there.

Thursday i2th. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's, and
drank Tea with Mrs. Livingston.

Friday i$th. — In Convention. Dined, drank Tea, and spent the
evening at Mr. Morris's.

1 At the Calvinist Church.

2 " SPECTACULUM VITVE. At the Opera House in Southwark. This evening
the 10 July, will be performed a Concert, on the First Part of which will be
introduced an entertainment, called the Dectective ; or, the Servants Hall in
an Uproar. To which will be added a Comic Opera in two acts called Love
in a Camp, or Patrick in Prussia, &c., &c. " — Penn. Mag.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 149

Saturday \^th. — In Convention. Dined at Springsbury with the
Club and went to the play in the afternoon.1

Sunday i$th. — Dined at Mr. Morris's and remained at home all
day.

Monday i6th. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's and
drank Tea with Mrs. Powell.

Tuesday i*jth. — In Convention. Dined at Mrs. House's, and
made an Excursion with a party for Tea to Gray's Ferry.

Wednesday i8t/i. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. [Robert]
Milligan's, & drank Tea at Mr. Meredeth's.

Thursday ipth — Dined (after coming out of Convention) at
Mr. John Penn, the Youngers — Drank Tea & spent the evening
at my lodgings.

Friday 2oth. — In Convention. Dined at home and drank Tea
at Mr. Clymer's.

Saturday 2ist. — In Convention. Dined at Springsbury with
the Club of Gentn. & Ladies. Went to the play afterwards.2

Sunday 22nd. — Left town by 5 o'clock A.M. Breakfasted at
Genl. Mifflin's, rode up with him & others to the Spring Mills
and returned to Genl. Mifflin's to dinner ; after which proceeded
to the City.

Monday 2$rd. — In Convention as usual. Dined at Mr. Morris's
and drank Tea at Lansdown (The seat of Mr. Penn.)

Tuesday 2^th. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's and
drank Tea, by appointment, and partr. Invitation at Doctr.
Rush's.

Wednesday 2$th. — In Convention. — Dined at Mr. Morris's,
drank Tea & spent the evening there.3

1 A concert, introducing " The Tempest, or the Inchanted Island," and a
" Grand Masque of Neptune and Amphitrite." — Penn. Mag.

2 A Concert introducing a " Moral Poem, called the Crusade, or the Gen
erous Sultan," by Mr. James Thomson, was recited, with the "Original
Epilogue to Edward & Eleanora." — Penn. Mag.

3 " Permit me to hint, whether it would not be wise and seasonable to pro
vide a strong check to the admission of Foreigners into the administration of
our national government, and to declare expressly that the commander-in-chief
of the American army shall not be given to, nor devolve on, any but a natural
born citizen." — John Jay to Washington, 25 July, 1787,

1 50 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

Thursday 26th. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's,
drank Tea there, and stayed within all the afternoon.

Friday 2*1 th. — In Convention, which adjourned this day, to
meet again on Monday the 6th of August that a Comee. which
had been appointed (consisting of 5 members) might have time
to arrange, and draw into method and form the several matters
which had been agreed to by the Convention as a constitution
for the United States. Dined at Mr. Morris's, and drank Tea at
Mr. Powell's.

Saturday 2%th. — Dined with the club at Springsbury. — Drank
Tea there, and spent the evening at my lodgings.

Sunday 2^th. — Dined and spent the whole day at Mr. Morris's,
principally in writing letters.

Monday $oth. — In Company with Mr. Govr. Morris's and in
his Phaeton with my horses ; went up to one Jane Moore's in
the vicinity of Valley forge to get Trout.

Tuesday 31^. — Whilst Mr. Morriss was fishing I rid over the
old cantonment of the American [army] of the winter 1777 & 8,
visited all the Works, wch. were in Ruins ; and the Incampments
in woods where the ground had not been cultivated. * * *

On my return to Mrs. Moores I found Mr. Robt. Morris & his
lady there.

Wednesday, ist August. — About 1 1 O'clock, after it had ceased
raining, we all set out for the City and dined at Mr. Morris's.

Thursday 2nd. — Dined, drank Tea, and spent the evening at
Mr. Morris's.

Friday $rd. — In company with Mr. Robt. Morris and his lady,
and Mr. Govr. Morris, I went up to Trenton on another fishing
party. Lodged at Colo. Sam Ogden's, at the Trenton Works.
In the evening fished, not very successfully.

Saturday ^th. — In the morning & between Breakfast and
dinner, fished again with more success (for perch) than yester
day. Dined at Genl. [Philemon] Dickenson's on the east side
of the river, a little above Trenton, & returned in the evening to
Colo. Ogden's.

Sunday $th. — Dined at Colo. Ogdens, early, after which,1 in

1 " About 4 o'clock."

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 151

the company with which I came, I returned to Philadelphia, at
which we arrived abt. 9 O'clk.1

Monday 6th. — Met according to adjournment in Convention,
& received the rept. of the Committee. Dined at Mr. Morris's
and drank tea at Mr. Meredith's.

Tuesday ith. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's and
spent the evening there also.

Wednesday 8t/i. — In Convention. Dined at the City Tavern,
and remained there till near ten o'clock.

Thursday qth. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. [John] Swan-
wick's, and spent the afternn. in my own room, reading letters
and accts. from home.

Friday io//z. — Dined (after coming out of Convention) at Mr.
Bingham's, and drank Tea there ; spent the evening at my
lodgings.

Saturday nth. — In Convention. Dined at the Club at Springs-
bury, and after Tea returned home.

Sunday \2th. — Dined at Bush-Hill with Mr. William Hamilton,
spent the evening at home writing letters.

Monday \$th. — In Convention.2 Dined at Mr. Morris's, and
drank Tea with Mrs. Bache, at the President's.

Tuesday \^th. — In Convention. Dined, drank Tea, and spent
the evening at home.

Wednesday i$th. — The same as Yesterday.

Thursday \6th. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. [Oliver] Pol
lock's, & spent the evening in my Chamber.

Friday 17 th. — In Convention. Dined and drank Tea at Mr.
Powell's.

Saturday i8t/i. — In Convention. Dined at Chief Justice
McKean's— Spent the Afternoon & evening at my lodgings.

Sunday igth. — In Company with Mr. Powell rode up to the

1 " Halted an hour at Bristol."

2 On this day Madison records that Washington voted in favor of giving to
the House of Representatives the exclusive originating of money-bills. " He
disapproved, and till now voted against the exclusive privilege. He gave up
his judgment, he said, because it was not of any material weight with him, and
was made an essential point with others, who, if disappointed, might be less
cordial in other points of real weight,"

152 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

White Marsh. Traversed my old incampment, and contempleated
on the dangers which threatened the American Army at that place.
Dined at Germantown, visited Mr. Blair McClenegan, drank Tea
at Mr. Peters's, and returned to Philadelphia in the evening.1

Monday 2vth. — In Convention. Dined, drank Tea, and spent
the evening at Mr. Morris's.

Tuesday 2ist. — Did the like this day also.

Wednesday 22nd. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's farm
at the Hills — visited at Mr. Powell's in the Afternoon.

Thursday 2$rd. — In Convention. Dined, drank Tea, & spent
the evening at Mr. Morris's.

Friday 2^th. — Did the same this day.

Saturday 2$th. — In Convention. — Dined with the Club at
Springsbury, & spent the afternoon at my lodgings.

Sunday 26th. — Rode into the Country for exercise 8 or 10 miles.
Dined at the Hills, and spent the evening in my chamber writing
letters.

Monday 27 th. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's and
drank Tea at Mr. Powell's.

Tuesday 2%th — In Convention. Dined, drank Tea, and spent
the evening at Mr. Morris's.

Wednesday 2qth. — Did the same as Yesterday.

Thursday $oth. — Again the same.

Friday $ist. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's, and with
a Party went to Lansdale & drank Tea with Mr. and Mrs. Penn.

Saturday, ist SEPTEMBER. — Dined at Mr. Morris's after coming
out of Convention, and drank Tea there.

1 " By slow, I wish I could add, and sure movements, the business of the
convention advances ; but to say when it will end, or what will be the result,
is more than I dare venture to do ; and therefore shall hazard no opinion there
on. If something good does not proceed from the session, the defects cannot
with propriety be charged to the hurry with which the business has been con
ducted, notwithstanding which many things may be forgot, some of them not
well digested, and others, from the contrariety of sentiments with which such a
body is pervaded, become a mere nullity ; yet I wish a disposition may be found
in Congress, the several State legislatures, and the community at large, to adopt
the government, which may be agreed on in convention, because I am fully
persuaded it is the best that can be obtained at the present moment under such
a diversity of ideas as prevail." — Washington to Knox, 19 August, 1787.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 153

Sunday 2nd. — Rode to Mr. Bartram's and other places in the
country, dined and drank tea at Gray's ferry, and returned to the
City in the evening.

Monday $d. — In Convention Visited a Machine at Doctr.
Franklin's (called a mangle) for pressing, in place of Ironing,
Clothes from the wash, which machine from the facility with
which it dispatches business is well calculated for Table cloths
& such articles as have not pleats & irregular foldings and
would be very useful in all large families. Dined, drank Tea, &
spent the evening at Mr. Morris's.

Tuesday ^th. — In Convention. Dined &c. at Mr. Morris's.

Wednesday $th. — In Convention. Dined at Mrs. House's, &
drank Tea at Mr. Bingham's.

Thursday 6th. — In Convention. Dined at Doctr. [James] Hut-
chinson's and spent the Afternoon and evening at Mr. Morris's.

Friday yth. — In Convention. Dined, and spent the afternoon
at home (except when riding a few miles).

Saturday %th. — In Convention. Dined at Springsbury with the
Club, and spent the evening at my lodgings.

Sunday gth. — Dined at Mr. Morris's after making a visit to Mr.
Gardoqui, who, as he says, came from New York on a visit
to me.

Monday loth. — In Convention. Dined at Mr. Morris's & drank
Tea there.

Tuesday nth. — In Convention. Dined at home in a large com
pany with Mr. Gardoqui — drank Tea, and spent the evening
there.

Wednesday \2th. — In Convention. Dined at the Presidents and
drank Tea at Mr. Pine's.

Thursday i$th. — Attended Convention. Dined at the Vice
Presidents, Chas. Biddle's, Drank Tea at Mr. Powell's.

Friday i^th. — Attended Convention. Dined at the City Tavern,
at an entertainmt. given on my acct. by the City Light Horse.
Spent the evening at Mr. Merediths.

Saturday i$th. — Concluded the business, of Convention all to
signing the proceedings, to effect which the House sat till 6
o'clock, and adjourned till Monday that the Constitution, which
it was' proposed to offer to the People might be engrossed, and a

i54 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

number of printed copies struck off. Dined at Mr. Morris's and
spent the evening there.

Mr. Gardoqui sat off for his return to New York this forenoon.

Sunday i6//£. — Wrote many letters in the forenoon. Dined
with Mr. & Mrs. Morris at the Hills, & returned to town in the
evening.

Monday ijt/i. — Met in Convention, when the Constitution
received the unanimous assent of n States and Colo. Hamilton's
from New York (the only delegate from thence in Convention),
and was subscribed to by every member present, except Govr.
Randolph and Colo. Mason from Virginia, & Mr. Gerry from
Massachusetts.1

The business being thus closed, the members adjourned to the
City Tavern, dined together, and took a cordial leave of each
other. After which I returned to my lodgings, did some busi
ness with, and received the papers from the Secretary of the
Convention,2 and retired to meditate on the momentous wk.
which had been executed, after not less than five, for a large part
of the time six and sometimes 7 hours sitting every day, Sundays
& the ten days adjournment to give a Comee. opportunity &

'"When the President rose, for the purpose of putting the question [on
representation], he said, that although his situation had hitherto restrained
him from offering his sentiments on questions depending in the House, and,
it might be thought, ought now to impose silence on him, yet he could not
forbear expressing his wish that the change proposed might take place. It
was much to be desired that the objections to the plan recommended might be
made as few as possible. The smallness of the proportion of Representatives
had been considered by many members of the Convention an insufficient
security for the rights and interests of the people. He acknowledged that it
had always appeared to himself among the exceptionable parts of the plan ;
and late as the present moment was for admitting amendments, he thought
this of so much consequence, that it would give him much satisfaction to see it
adopted." — Madison 's Debates. The change was made. This is the only
occasion on which any remarks from Washington in the Convention are
recorded.

'2 " Major Jackson, after burning all the loose scraps of paper which belong
to the Convention, will this evening wait upon the General with the Journals
and other papers, which their vote directs to be delivered to his Excellency
Monday evening."

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 155

time to arrange the business for more than four months,1
[excepted.]

Tuesday i8M. — Finished what private business I had to do in
the city this forenoon, took my leave of those families in wch. I
had been most intimate, dined early at Mr. Morris's with whom
& Mr. Gouvr. Morris's I parted at Gray's ferry and reached
Chester in company with Mr. [John] Blair, who I invited to a
seat in my Carriage till we should reach Mount Vernon.2

Wednesday igth. — Prevented by rain (much of which fell in the
night) from setting off till about 8 o'clock, when it ceased, &
promising to be fair we departed, baited at Wilmington, Dined
at Christiana, and lodged at the head of Elk. At the bridge near
to which my horses (two of them) and carriage had a very
narrow escape, for the rain which had fallen the preceeding
evening having swelled the water considerably there was no ford
ing it safely, I was reduced to the necessity therefore of remain
ing on the other side or of attempting to cross on an old, rotten
& long disused bridge. Being anxious, to get on, I prefered the
latter and in the attempt one of my horses fell fifteen feet at
least, the other very near following which (had it happened)
would have taken the carriage with baggage along with him and
destroyed the whole effectually ; however by prompt assistance
of some people at a mill just by and great exertion, the first horse
was disengaged from his harness, the 2d. prevented from going
quite through and drawn off, and the Carriage secured from
hurt.

" In the midst of hurry, and in the moment of my departure from this city,
I address this letter to you. The principal, indeed the only design of it, is to
fulfil the promise I made, that I would send to you the proceedings of the
federal convention, as soon as the business was closed. More than this, cir
cumstanced as I am at present, it is not in my power to do ; nor am I inclined
to attempt it, as the enclosure must speak for itself, and will occupy your
thoughts for some time.

" It is the result of four months' deliberation. It is now a child of fortune,
to be fostered by some and buffeted by others. What will be the general
opinion, or the reception of it, is not for me to decide ; nor shall I say any
thing for or against it. If it be good, I suppose it will work its way ; if bad,
it will recoil on the framers." — Washington to Lafayette, 18 September, 1787.

2 " Reached Chester, where we lodged."

156 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

Thursday 2cth. — Sett off after an early breakfast, crossed the
Susquehanna and dined in Havre de Gras at the House of one
Roger's — and lodged at Skirrett's Tavern, 12 miles short of
Baltimore.

Friday 2ist. — Breakfasted in Baltimore, dined at the Widow
Balls (formerly Spurrier's), and lodged at Major Snowden's, who
was not at home.

Saturday 22nd. — Breakfasted at Bladensburgh, and, passing
through George Town, dined in Alexandria and reached home
(with Mr. Blair) about sun set, after an absence of four months
and 14 days.

DEAR SIR :

TO THOMAS JEFFERSON.

PHILADELPHIA, 30 May, 1787.

I come now to the other part of your letter, which
concerns the Cincinnati, on which indeed I scarcely
know what to say. It is a delicate, it is a perplexing
subject. Not having the extract from the Encyclo
pedia before me, I cannot now undertake to enter
into the merits of the publication.1 It may therefore
be as much as will be expected from me to observe,
that the author appears in general to have detailed
very candidly and ingenuously the motives and in
ducements, which give birth to the Society. Some
of the subsequent facts, which I cannot, however,

1 Mr. Jefferson had sent an extract from an article in the Encyclopedic,
being an account of the Society of the Cincinnati, and Washington sent it to
Knox, saying: " In my present state of mind I can hardly form an opinion
whether it will be best to lay the matter before the society as coming from Mr.
Jefferson, or as from a person of as good information as any in France. I
must therefore leave it wholly to you to do as you may think most proper."
— 27 April, 1787.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 157

from memory pretend to discuss with precision, are
thought by gentlemen, who have seen the publication,
to be misstated ; insomuch that it is commonly said,
truth and falsehood are so intimately blended, that it
will become very difficult to sever them.

For myself, I only recollect two or three circum
stances, in the narration of which palpable mistakes
seem to have insinuated themselves. Monsieur
L'Enfant did not arrive and bring the eagles during
the session of the general meeting, but some time
before that convention. The legislature of Rhode
Island never passed any act whatever on the subject,
(that ever came to my knowledge,) notwithstanding
what Mirabeau and others had previously advanced.
Nothing can be more ridiculous than the supposition
of the author, that the Society was instituted partly
because the country could not then pay the army,
except the assertion that the United States have now
made full and complete provision for paying, not
only the arrearages due to the officers, but the half-pay
or commutation at their option ; from whence the
author deduces an argument for its dissolution. I
conceive this never had any thing to do with the
institution, yet the officers in most of the States, who
never have nor I believe expect to receive one
farthing of the principal or interest on their final
settlement securities, would be much obliged to the
author to convince them how and when they received
a compensation for their services. No foreigner, or
American, who has been absent some time, will
easily comprehend how tender those concerned are

158 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

on this point. I am sorry to say, a great many of
the officers consider me as having in a degree com
mitted myself by inducing them to trust too much in
the justice of their country. They heartily wish no
settlement had been made, because it has rendered
them obnoxious to their fellow citizens, without
affording them the least emolument.

For the reason I first mentioned, I cannot think it
expedient for me to go into an investigation of the
writer's deductions. I shall accordingly content
myself with giving you some idea of the part I
have acted, posterior to the first formation of the
association.

When I found that you and many of the most re
spectable characters in the country would entirely
acquiesce with the institution, as altered and amended
in the first general meeting of 1784, and that the ob
jections against the hereditary and other obnoxious
parts were wholly done away, I was prevailed upon
to accept the presidency. Happy in finding, (so far
as I could learn by assiduous inquiry,) that all the
clamors and jealousies, which had been excited
against the original association, had ceased, I judged
it a proper time in the last autumn to withdraw my
self from any farther agency in the business, and to
make my retirement complete, agreeably to my
original plan. I wrote circular letters to all the
State Societies announcing my wishes, informing that
I did not propose to be at the general meeting, and
requested not to be reflected president. This was
the last step of a public nature I expected ever to
have taken. But, having since been appointed by

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 159

my native State to attend the national convention,
and having been pressed to a compliance in a man
ner, which it hardly becomes me to describe, I have,
in a measure, been obliged to sacrifice my own senti
ments, and to be present in Philadelphia at the very
time of the general meeting of the Cincinnati. After
which I was not at liberty to decline the presidency,
without placing myself in an extremely disagreeable
situation with relation to that brave and faithful class
of men, whose persevering patriotism and friendship
I had experienced on so many trying occasions.

The business of this convention is as yet too much
in embryo to form any opinion of the conclusion.
Much is expected from it by some ; not much by
others ; and nothing by a few. That something is
necessary, none will deny ; for the situation of the
general government, if it can be called a government,
is shaken to its foundation, and liable to be over
turned by every blast. In a word, it is at an end ;
and, unless a remedy is soon applied, anarchy and
confusion will inevitably ensue. But having greatly
exceeded the bounds of a letter, I will only add as
surances of that esteem, regard, and respect, with
which I have the honor to be, &c.

TO DAVID STUART.

PHILADELPHIA, i July, 1787.

DEAR SIR :

I have been favored with your letter of the 1 7th
ultimo. * * *

Rhode Island, from our last accts. still perseveres

160 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

in that impolitic, unjust, and one might add without
much impropriety scandalous conduct, which seems
to have marked all her public Councils of late.
Consequently, no Representation is yet here from
thence. New Hampshire, tho' Delegates have been
appointed, is also unrepresented. Various causes
have been assigned, whether well, or ill-founded I
shall not take upon me to decide. The fact, how
ever, is that they are not here. Political contests,
and want of money, are amidst the reasons assigned
for the non-attendance of the members.

As the rules of the convention prevent me from
relating any of the proceedings of it, and the gazettes
contain, more fully than I could detail, other occur
rences of a public nature, I have little to communi
cate to you on the article of news. Happy indeed
would it be, if the convention shall be able to recom
mend such a firm and permanent government for
this Union, that all who live under it may be secure
in their lives, liberty, and property ; and thrice happy
would it be, if such a recommendation should obtain.
Every body wishes, every body expects something
from the convention ; but what will be the final result
of its deliberation, the book of fate must disclose.
Persuaded I am, that the primary cause of all our
disorders lies in the different State governments,
and in the tenacity of that power, which pervades
the whole of their systems. Whilst independent
sovereignty is so ardently contended for, whilst the
local views of each State, and separate interests,
by which they are too much governed, will not yield

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 161

to a more enlarged scale of politics, incompatibility
in the laws of different States, and disrespect to
those of the general government, must render the
situation of this great country weak, inefficient, and
disgraceful. It has already done so, almost to the
final dissolution of it. Weak at home and disregarded
abroad is our present condition, and contemptible
enough it is.

Entirely unnecessary was it to offer any apology
for the sentiments you were so obliging as to offer
me. I have had no wish more ardent, through the
whole progress of this business, than that of knowing
what kind of government is best calculated for us to
live under. No doubt there will be a diversity of
sentiments on this important subject ; and, to inform
the judgment, it is. necessary to hear all arguments
that can be advanced. To please all is impossible,
and to attempt it would be vain. The only way,
therefore, is, under all the views in which it can be
placed, and with a due consideration to circumstances,
habits, &c., &c,, to form such a government as will
bear the scrutinizing eye of criticism, and trust it to
the good sense and patriotism of the people to carry
it into effect. Demagogues, men who are unwilling
to lose any of their State consequence, and interested
characters in each, will oppose any general govern
ment. But let these be regarded rightly, and justice,
it is to be hoped, will at length prevail. My best
wishes attend Mrs. Stuart, yourself, and the girls.
If I can render any service whilst I remain here, I
shall be happy in doing it. I am, &c.

162 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

TO ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
DEAR SiR : PHILADELPHIA, 10 July, 1787.

I thank you for your communication of the 3d.
When I refer you to the state of the counsels, which
prevailed at the period you left this city, and add
that they are now if possible in a worse train than
ever, you will find but little ground on which the
hope of a good establishment can be formed. In a
word, I almost despair of seeing a favorable issue to
the proceedings of our convention, and do therefore
repent having had any agency in the business.

The men, who oppose a strong and energetic gov
ernment, are in my opinion narrow-minded politicians,
or are under the influence of local views. The appre
hension expressed by them, that the people will not
accede to the form proposed, is the ostensible, not the
real cause of opposition. But, admitting that the
present sentiment is as they prognosticate, the proper
question ought nevertheless to be, Is it, or is it not,
the best form that such a country as this can adopt ?
If it be the best, recommend it, and it will assuredly
obtain, maugre opposition. I am sorry you went
away. I wish you were back. The crisis is equally
important and alarming, and no opposition, under
such circumstances, should discourage exertions till
the signature is offered. I will not at this time
trouble you with more than my best wishes and sin
cere regard.

I am, dear Sir, &C.1

1 " The disturbances in Massachusetts have subsided, but there are seeds of
discontent in every part of this Union ; ready to produce other disorders, if the

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 163

TO RICHARD HENRY LEE.

PHILADELPHIA, 19 July, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

I have had the honor to receive your favor of the
1 5th instant, and thank you for the ordinance which
was enclosed in it. My sentiments, with respect to
the navigation of the Mississippi, have been long fixed,
and are not dissimilar to those, which are expressed
in your letter. .1 have ever been of opinion, that the >
true policy of the Atlantic States, would be instead of
contending prematurely for the free navigation of that
river (which eventually, and perhaps as soon as it
shall be our true interest to obtain it,) must happen,
to open and improve the natural communications with
the western country, through which the produce of it
might be transported with convenience and ease to
our markets. Till you get low down the Ohio, I
conceive, that it would, (considering the length of the
voyage to New Orleans, the difficulty of the current,
and the time necessary to perform it in,) be the inter-
wisdom of the present convention should not be able to devise, and the good
sense of the people be found ready to adopt, a more vigorous and energetic
government, than the one under which we now live ; for the present, from
experience, has been found too feeble and inadequate to give that security,
which our liberties and property render absolutely essential, and which the
fulfilment of public faith loudly requires.

" Vain is it to look for respect from abroad, or tranquillity at home ; vain is
it to murmur at the detention of our western posts, or complain of the restric
tion of our commerce ; vain are all the attempts to remedy the evils complained
of by Mr. Dumas, to discharge the interest due on foreign loans, or satisfy the
claims of foreign officers, the neglect of doing which is a high impeachment of
our national character, and is hurtful to the feelings of every well-wisher to this
country in and out of it ; vain is it to talk of chastising the Algerines, or doing
ourselves justice in any other respect, till the wisdom and force of the Union
can be more concentrated and better applied." — Washington to Lafayette, 15
August, 1787.

164 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

est of the inhabitants to bring their produce to our
ports ; and sure I am, there is no other tie by which
they will long form a link in the chain of federal
union. I believe, however, from the temper in which
those people appear to be, and from the ambitious
and turbulent spirit of some of their demagogues,
that it has become a moot point to determine, (when
every circumstance which attends this business is
brought into view,) what is best to be done. The
State of Virginia having taken the matter up with so
high a hand, is not among the least embarrassing or
disagreeable parts of the difficulty. * * *

I have the honor to be, &C.1

TO PATRICK HENRY.

MOUNT VERNON, 24 September, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

In the first moment after my return, I take the
liberty of sending you a copy of the constitution,
which the federal convention has submitted to the
people of these States. I accompany it with no

1 " I staid two days [Octo. 5-7] with General Washington at Mount Vernon
about six weeks ago. He is in perfect good health, and looks almost as well
as he did twenty years ago. I never saw him so keen for anything in my life
as he is for the adoption of the new scheme of government. As the eyes of all
America are turned towards this truly great and good man for the first Presi
dent, I took the liberty of sounding him upon it. He appears to be earnestly
against .going into public life again ; pleads in excuse for himself his love of
retirement and his advanced age, but notwithstanding of these, I am fully of
opinion he may be induced to appear once more on the public stage of life. I
form my opinion from what passed between us in a very long and serious con
versation, as well as from what I could gather from Mrs. Washington on same
subject." — Alexander Donald to Thomas Jefferson, 12 November, 1787.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 165

observations. Your own judgment will at once dis
cover the good and the exceptionable parts of it ; and
your experience of the difficulties, which have ever
arisen when attempts have been made to reconcile
such variety of interests and local prejudices, as per
vade the several States, will render explanation un
necessary. I wish the constitution, which is offered,
had been made more perfect ; but I sincerely believe
it is the best that could be obtained at this time.
And, as a constitutional door is opened for amend
ment hereafter, the adoption of it, under the present
circumstances of the Union, is in my opinion desirable.
From a variety of concurring accounts it appears to
me, that the political concerns of this country are in
a manner suspended by a thread, and that the con
vention has been looked up to, by the reflecting part
of the community, with a solicitude which is hardly
to be conceived ; and, if nothing had been agreed on
by that body, anarchy would soon have ensued, the
seeds being deeply sown in every soil. I am, &C.1

1 A copy of the same letter was sent to Benjamin Harrison, and also to
Thomas Nelson.

" I have to lament, that I cannot bring my mind to accord with the proposed
constitution. The concern I feel on this account is really greater than I can
express. Perhaps mature reflection may furnish me reasons to change my
present sentiments into a conformity with the opinions of those personages, for
whom I have the highest reverence." — Patrick Henry to Washington, 19
October, 1787.

" I feel myself deeply interested in every thing that you have had a hand in,
or that comes from you ; and am so well assured of the solidity of your judg
ment, and the rectitude of your intentions, that I shall never stick at trifles to
conform myself to your opinion. In the present instance I am so totally unin
formed, as to the general situation of America, that I can form no judgment of
the necessity the convention was under to give us such a constitution as it has
done. If our condition is not very desperate, I have my fears that the remedy
will prove worse than the disease. Age makes men often over cautious. I am

166 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

TO COLONEL DAVID HUMPHREYS.

MOUNT VERNON, 10 October, 1787.

MY DEAR HUMPHREYS,

Your favor of the 28th Ulto. came duly to hand, as
did the former of June. With great pleasure I re
ceived the intimation of your spending the winter
under this Roof. — The invitation was not less sincere,
than the reception will be cordial. The only stipula
tions I shall contend for are, that in all things you
shall do as you please — I will do the same ; and that
no ceremony may be used or any restraint be imposed
on any one.

The Constitution that is submitted, is not free
from imperfections, but there are as few radical de
fects in it as could well be expected, considering the
heterogenious mass of which the Convention was
composed and the diversity of interests that are to be
attended to. As a Constitutional door is opened for

willing to attribute my fears to that cause ; but, from whatever source they
spring, I cannot divest myself of an opinion, that the seeds of civil discord are
plentifully sown in very many of the powers given, both to the President and
Congress, and that, if the constitution is carried into effect, the States south of
the Potomac will be little more than appendages to those to the northward of
it. You will say that general charges are things without force. They are so ;
but, in the present instance, I do not withhold particular observations because
I want them, but that I would not tire your patience by entering deeply into a
subject, before I have heard the reasons, which operated in favor of the meas
ures taken. After the meeting of the Assembly, and hearing from those, who
had a hand in the work, the reasons that operated with them in favor of their
measures, I will then more at large give you my sentiments. In the interim I
shall only say, that my objections chiefly lie against the unlimited powers of
taxation and the regulations of trade, and the jurisdictions that are to be estab
lished in every State altogether independent of their laws. The sword and
such powers will, nay, in the nature of things they must, sooner or later,
establish a tyranny not inferior to the triumvirate or centumviri of Rome." —
Benjamin Harrison to Washington, 4 October, 1787.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 167

future amendments and alterations, I think it would
be wise in the People to accept what is offered to
them and I wish it may be by as great a majority of
them as it was by that of the Convention ; but this is
hardly to be expected because the importance and
sinister views of too many characters, will be affected
by the change. — Much will depend however upon
literary abilities, and the recommendation of it by
good pens should be openly, I mean, publickly afforded
in the Gazettes. — Go matters however as they may, I
shall have the consolation to reflect that no objects
but the public good — and that peace and harmony
which I wished to see prevail in the Convention,
obtruded even for a moment in my bosom during the
whole Session long as it was — What reception this
State will give to the proceedings in all its extent of
territory, is more than I can inform you of ; in these
parts it is advocated beyond my expectation — the great
opposition (if great there should be) will come from
the Southern and Western Counties from whence I
have not as yet, received any accounts that are to be
depended on.

I condole with you on the loss of your Parents ;
but as they lived to a good old age you could not be
unprepared for the shock, tho' it is painful to bid an
everlasting adieu to those we love, or revere.- — Rea
son, Religion and Philosophy may soften the anguish
of it, but time alone can eradicate it.

As I am beginning to look for you, I shall add no
more in this letter but the wishes of the Family and
the affectionate regards of a Sincere friend, &c.

i68 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 10 October, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

I thank you for your letter of the 3Oth ultimo. It
came by the last post. I am better pleased, that the
proceedings of the convention are submitted from
Congress by a unanimous vote, feeble as it is, than if
they had appeared under strong marks of approbation
without it. This apparent unanimity will have its
effect. Not every one has opportunities to peep
behind the curtain ; and, as the multitude are often
deceived by externals, the appearance of unanimity
in that body on this occasion will be of great import
ance. The political tenets of Colo. M[ason] and
Colo. R. H. L[ee] are always in unison. It may be
asked which of them gives the tone. Without hesi
tation I answer the latter, because I believe the latter
will receive it from no one. He has I am informed
rendered himself obnoxious in Philadelphia, by the
pains he took to disseminate his objections amongst
some of the leaders of the seceding members of the
Legislature of that State. His conduct is not less
reprobated in this country ; how it will be relished
generally is yet to be learnt by me.1

As far as accounts have been received from the

1 On reaching Congress Madison found certain ideas unfavorable to the Con
stitution were fostered by Richard Henry Lee and Dane, of Massachusetts, on
the ground first that the Convention had exceeded its powers in devising a new
frame of government, and later, that the plan proposed was seriously defective.
An attempt to amend the Constitution in Congress was fortunately defeated,
and Congress unanimously resolved to send the report of the Convention to the
respective legislatures, to be submitted to a convention of delegates chosen by
the people in each.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 169

southern and western counties, the sentiment with
respect to the proceedings of the convention is favor
able. Whether the knowledge of this, or conviction
of the impropriety of withholding the constitution
from State conventions, has worked most in the
breast of Colonel Mason, I will not decide ; but the fact
is, he has declared unequivocally, in a letter to me, for
its going to the people. Had his sentiments, how
ever, been opposed to the measure, his instructions,
which are given by the freeholders of this county to
their representatives, would have secured his vote
for it. Yet I have no doubt, but that his assent
will be accompanied by the most tremendous appre
hensions, which the highest coloring can give to his
objections. To alarm the people seems to be the
groundwork of his plan. The want of a qualified navi
gation act is already declared to be a mean by which the
price of produce in the southern States will be reduced
to nothing, and will become monopoly of the eastern
and northern States. To enumerate the whole of his
objections is unnecessary, because they are detailed in
the address of the seceding members of the Assembly
of Pennsylvania, (which no doubt you have seen.)1

I scarcely think any powerful opposition will be
made to the constitution's being submitted to a con
vention of the people of this State. If it is given, it
will be there, at which I hope you will make it con
venient to be present. Explanations will be wanting,
and none can give them with more accuracy and pro-

1 Printed in the Pennsylvania Packet, 4 October, 1787, also in Pennsylvania
and the Federal Constitution, 73.

i7o THE WRITINGS OF [1787

priety than yourself. The sentiments of Mr. Henry,
with respect to the constitution, are not known in
these parts. Mr. Joseph Jones, who it seems was
in Alexandria before the convention broke up, was of
opinion, that they would not be inimical to the pro
ceedings of it. Others think, as the advocate of a
paper emission, he cannot be friendly to a constitu
tion which is an effectual bar.

From circumstances, which have been related, it is
conjectured that the Governor l wishes he had been
among the subscribing members ; but time will dis
close more than we know at present, with respect to
the whole of the business, and, when I hear more, I
will write to you again. In the mean while I pray you
to be assured of the sincere regard and affection with
which I am, my dear Sir, &c.

P. S. Having received, (in a letter) from Colonel
Mason, a detail in writing of his objections to the
proposed constitution, I enclose you a copy of them.2

1 Edmund Randolph. His refusal to sign was set down to his chagrin in not
being able to carry every thing his own way, and to his desire for popularity.

2 Colonel Mason said, in the letter here referred to : "I take the liberty to
enclose to you my objections to the new constitution of government, which a
little moderation and temper at the latter end of the convention might have
removed. I am, however, most decidedly of opinion, that it ought to be sub
mitted to the people for that special purpose ; and, should any attempt be made
to prevent the calling of such a convention here, such a measure shall have
every opposition in my power to give it. You will readily observe, that my
objections are not numerous (the greater part of the enclosed paper containing
reasonings upon the probable effects of the exceptionable parts), though in my
mind some of them are capital ones." — October 7th.

Mason's objections are printed in Ford, Pamphlets on the Constitution, 327.
Iredell's answer may be found in the same collection.

" As the enclosed Advertiser contains a speech of Mr. Wilson's (as able, can
did and honest a member as [was] in convention) which will place the most

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 171

TO HENRY KNOX.

MOUNT VERNON, October, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

Your favor of the 3d instant came duly to hand.
The fourth day after leaving Philadelphia I reached
home, and found Mrs. Washington and the family
tolerably well, but the fruits of the earth almost en
tirely destroyed by one of the severest droughts (in
this neighborhood,) that has ever been experienced.
The crops pretty generally have been injured in this
State below the mountains, but not to the degree
that mine, and some others in a small circle around
me, have suffered.

The constitution is now before the judgment-seat.
It has, as was expected, its adversaries and support
ers. Which will preponderate is yet to be decided.
The former more than probably will be most active,
as the major part of them will, it is to be feared, be
governed by sinister and self-important motives, to
which every thing in their breasts must yield. The
opposition from another class of them may perhaps,
(if they should be men of reflection, candor, and in
formation,) subside in the solution of the following

of M[ason's] objections in their true point of light, I send it to you. The re-
publication will (if you can get it done) be serviceable at this juncture. His
ipso facto objection does not, I believe require any answer : every mind must
recoil at the idea. And with respect to the navigation act, I am mistaken if
any men, bodies of men, or Countries, will enter into any compact or treaty,
if one of the three is to have a negative control over the other two. But grant
ing that it is an evil, it will infallibly work its own cure. There must be
reciprocity, or no union. Which of the two is preferable, will not become a
question in the mind of any true patriot." — Washington to David Stuart, 17
October, 1787. Wilson's speech is in Ford, Pamphlets on the Constitution, 155.

1 72 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

simple questions, i. Is the constitution, which is
submitted by the convention, preferable to the gov
ernment, (if it can be called one,) under which we
now live ? 2. Is it probable that more confidence
would at the time be placed in another convention,
provided the experiment should be tried, than was
placed in the last one, and is it likely that a better
agreement would take place therein ? What would
be the consequences if these should not happen, or
even from the delay, which must inevitably follow
such an experiment ? Is there not a constitutional
door open for alterations or amendments ? and is it
not likely that real defects will be as readily discov
ered after as before trial ? and will not our successors
be as ready to apply the remedy as ourselves, if occa
sion should require it ? To think otherwise will, in
my judgment, be ascribing more of the amor pair ice,
more wisdom and more virtue to ourselves, than I
think we deserve.

It is highly probable, that the refusal of our Gov
ernor and Colonel Mason to subscribe to the proceed
ings of the convention will have a bad effect in this
State ; for, as you well observe, they must not only
assign reasons for the justification of their own conduct,
but it is highly probable that these reasons will be
clothed in most terrific array for the purpose of alarm
ing.1 Some things are already addressed to the fears
of the people, and will no doubt have their effect.

1 Randolph explained his position in a letter to the Speaker of the House of
Delegates, 10 October, 1787. It was widely circulated in the newspapers, and
printed in pamphlet form. It was reprinted in Ford, Pamphlets on the Con-
stittttion, 359.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 173

As far, however, as the sense of this part of the coun
try has been taken, it is strongly in favor of the pro
posed constitution. Further I cannot speak with
precision. If a powerful opposition is given to it,
the weight thereof will, I apprehend, come from the
south side of James River, and from the western
counties. I am, &c.

TO ALEXANDER HAMILTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 18 October, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

Your favor without date came to my hand by the
last post. It is with unfeigned concern I perceive
that a political dispute has arisen between Governor
Clinton and yourself. For both of you I have the
highest esteem and regard. But, as you say it is in
sinuated by some of your political adversaries, and
may obtain credit, "that you palmed yourself upon
me, and was dismissed from my family," and call upon
me to 'do you justice by a recital of the facts, I do
therefore explicitly declare, that both charges are en
tirely unfounded. With respect to the first, I have
no cause to believe, that you took a single step to
accomplish, or had the most distant idea of receiving
an appointment in my family till you were invited
into it ; and, with respect to the second, that your
quitting it was altogether the effect of your own
choice.

When the situation of this country calls loudly for
vigor and unanimity, it is to be lamented that gentle
men of talents and character should disagree in their

174 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

sentiments for promoting the public weal ; but unfor
tunately this ever has been, and most probably ever
will be, the case in the affairs of mankind.

Having scarcely been from home since my return
from Philadelphia, I can give little information with
respect to the general reception of the new constitu
tion in this State. In Alexandria, however, and some
of the adjacent counties, it was embraced with an en
thusiastic warmth of which I had no conception. I
expect, notwithstanding, violent opposition will be
given to it by some characters of weight and influence
in the State. Mrs. Washington unites with me in
best wishes to Mrs. Hamilton and yourself. I am, &c.

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 22 October, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

When I wrote to you last, I was possessed of very
little information of the sentiments of this State on
the new constitution beyond the circle of Alexandria.
Since, by the last post, I have received a letter from
a member of the assembly in Richmond,1 containing
the following paragraphs.

" I believe such an instance has not happened before since the
revolution, that there should be a House on the first day of the
session, and business immediately taken up. This was not only
the case on Monday, but there was a full House when Mr. Pren-
tiss was called up to the chair as speaker, there being no opposi
tion. Thus the session has commenced peaceably.

1 David Stuart, or Bushrod Washington.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 175

" It gives me much pleasure to inform you, that the sentiments
of the members are infinitely more favorable to the constitution,
than the most zealous advocates for it could have expected.
I have not met with one in all my inquiries (and I have made
them with great diligence) opposed to it, except Mr. Henry, who
I have heard is so, but could only conjecture it from a conversa
tion with him on the subject. Other members, who have also
been active in their inquiries, tell me that they have met with
none opposed to it. It is said, however, that old Mr. Cabell of
Amherst disapproves of it. Mr. Nicholas has declared himself a
warm friend to it. The transmissory note of Congress was be
fore us to day, when Mr. Henry declared, that it transcended our
powers to decide on the constitution, that it must go before a
convention, — as it was insinuated he would aim at preventing
this, much pleasure was discovered at the declaration.

" Thursday next (the 25th) is fixed upon for taking up the
question of calling the convention, and fixing the time of its
meeting. In the mean time five thousand copies are ordered
to be printed, to be dispersed by the members in their respective
counties for the information of the people. I cannot forbear
mentioning, that the Chancellor Pendleton espouses the consti
tution so warmly, as to declare he will give it his aid in a conven
tion if his health will permit. As there are few better judges of
such subjects, this must be deemed a fortunate circumstance."

As the above quotation is the sum of my informa
tion, I shall add nothing more on the subject of the
proposed government at this time.

Mr. C. Pinckney is unwilling, (I perceive by the
enclosures contained in your favor of the I3th,) to
lose any fame that can be acquired by the publication
of his sentiments. If the subject of the navigation
of the Mississippi could have remained as silent,
and glided as gently down the stream of time for a
while, as the waters do that are contained within the

1 76 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

banks, it would, I confess, have comported more with
my ideas of sound policy, than any decision that can
be come to at this day. With sentiments the most
affectionate and friendly, I am, dear Sir, &c.

TO MATHEW CAREY.

MOUNT VERNON, 29 October, 1787.

SIR,

The last post brought me your letter of the 22d.—
your application to me for the loan of ^100 is an
evidence of your unacquaintedness with my inability
to lend money. To be candid — my expenditures are
never behind my income — and this year (occasioned
by the severest drouth that ever was known in this
neighborhood) instead of selling grain which hereto
fore has been my principal source of revenue it is
not ^500 that will purchase enough for the support
of my family. — After this disclosure of my situation
you will be readily persuaded that inclination to serve
without the means of accomplishing it, is of little
avail. — This however is the fact so far as it respects
the point in question.

As you seem anxious that the contents of your
letter should not be known I put it in your own
power to destroy it by returning it under the same
cover with this.

I wish sucess to your Museum, and am, &C.1

1 " I should be glad to know precisely whether I am to expect any and what
part of the ^200 on which you assured me in Philadelphia I might absolutely
rely, and the half of which you informed me in November, should be sent to me

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 177

TO ARCHIBALD JOHNSTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 30 October, 1787.

SIR,

My fixed determination is, that no person whatever
shall hunt upon my grounds or waters. — To grant
leave to one, and refuse another, would not only be
drawing a line of discrimination which would be
offensive, but would subject one to great inconven
ience — for my strict and positive orders to all my
people are if they hear a gun fired upon my Land to
go immediately in pursuit of it. — Permission there
fore to any one would keep them either always in
pursuit — or make them inattentive to my orders
under the supposition of its belonging to a licensed
person by which means I should be obtruded upon
by others who to my cost I find had other objects in
view. Besides, as I have not lost my relish for this
sport when I can find time to indulge myself in it,
and Gentlemen who come to the House are pleased
with it, it is my wish not to have the game within
my jurisdiction disturbed. For these reasons I beg
you will not take my refusal amiss, because I would
give the same to my brother if he lived off my land.

I am, &c.

by your servant in ten days if you could not get the residue. I have put the
sheriff of this county off three times ; if he comes again I must, if I have no
further expectation from you, suffer him to make distress, as I raised nothing
last year for sale, and allotted this money for the payment of my taxes. . . .
In the morning I shall leave home for a meeting of the Directors of the Poto-
mack Co., at the Falls of the Shenandoah, from whence I do not expect to be
returned in less than ten days." — Washington to John Francis Mercer ', II
January, 1788.
178 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

TO ARTHUR YOUNG.

MOUNT VERNON, i November, 1787.
#•****#

Before I undertake to give the information you
request, respecting the arrangements of farms in this
neighborhood, &c., I must observe that there is, per
haps, scarcely any part of America, where farming
has been less attended to than in this State. The
cultivation of tobacco has been almost the sole object
with men of landed property, and consequently a
regular course of crops have never been in view.
The general custom has been, first to raise a crop of
Indian corn (maize) which according to the mode of
cultivation, is a good preparation for wheat ; then a
crop of wheat ; after which the ground is respited
(except from weeds, and every trash that can contrib
ute to its foulness) for about eighteen months ; and
so on, alternately, without any dressing, till the land
is exhausted ; when it is turned out, without being
sown with grass-seeds, or any method taken to restore
it ; and another piece is ruined in the same manner.
No more cattle is raised than can be supported by
lowland meadows, swamps, &c., and the tops and
blades of Indian corn ; as very few persons have
attended to sowing grasses, and connecting cattle
with their crops. The Indian corn is the chief sup
port of the laborers and horses. Our lands, as I
mentioned in my first letter to you, were originally
very good; but use, and abuse, have made them
quite otherwise.

The above is the mode of cultivation which has

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 179

been generally pursued here, but the system of
husbandry which has been found so beneficial in
England, and which must be greatly promoted
by your valuable annals, is now gaining ground.
There are several (among which I may class my
self), who are endeavoring to get into your regular
and systematic course of cropping, as fast as the
nature of the business will admit ; so that I hope
in the course of a few years, we shall make a
more respectable figure as farmers, than we have
hitherto done.

I will, agreeable to your desire, give you the prices
of our products as nearly as I am able ; but you
will readily conceive from the foregoing account,
that they cannot be given with any precision. Wheat,
for the four last years, will average about 45. ster
ling per bushel, of eight gallons. Rye, about 2s.
4d. — Oats, is. 6do — Beans, pease, &c., have not been
sold in any quantities. — Barley is not made here,
from a prevailing opinion that the climate is not
adapted to it ; I however, in opposition to preju
dice, sowed about 50 bushels last spring, and found
that it yielded a proportionate quantity with any
other kind of grain which I sowed ; I might add,
more. Cows may be bought at about 3!. sterling,
per head. Cattle for the slaughter vary from 2^d.
to 4^d. sterling per lb., the former being the cur
rent price in summer ; the latter in the winter or
spring. Sheep at 125. sterling, per head ; and wool
at is. sterling per lb. I am not able to give you the
price of labor, as the land is cultivated here wholly

i8o THE WRITINGS OF [1787

by slaves, and the price of labor in the towns is
fluctuating, and governed altogether by circum

stances.

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 5 November, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

Your favor of the i8th ulto. came duly to hand. —
As no subject is more interesting, and seems so much
to engross the attention of every one as the pro
posed Constitution I shall, (though it is probable
your communications from Richmond are regular and
full with respect to this, and other matters, which

1 ''You give me some reason to hope for the result of your thoughts, or
experiments, on a more eligible system of agriculture. — To receive it would
afford me pleasure. — That the one which is now in general practice (if it can
be called a system) is beyond description ruinous to our lands, need no other
proof of the fact than the gullied and exhausted state of them, which is every
where to be met with — but what change is most likely to restore the land with
such means as is in our power to apply which will at the same time be pro
ductive to the Proprietor, is the question — and an important one — a question
too which admits of no other satisfactory solution than such as is derived from
a course of experiments by intelligent and observant farmers ; who will com
bine things and circumstances together — Theoretical opinions should have no
share in the determination, and what is good and profitable husbandry in one
Country, may not be so in another — Articles which are very saleable in Europe
might find no market in America, and if produced abundantly would answer
no other end than to encumber our Barns or Granaries. Consequently two
things must be engrafted into our plan, 1st Crops which are useful on our
farms, or saleable in our markets — and 2d the intermixing these crops by such
relations and with such dressings as will improve, instead of exhausting our
lands. — To effect these is the great desiderata of Farming, and ought to be the
pursuit of every farmer. — On this ground every experiment is a treasure — and
the authors of them valuable members of Society. — Hence also the Societies
which are formed for the encouragement, and promulgation, of these experi
ments, in other Country's have rendered such essential services to the improved
and improving States of agriculture in the old world and are so worthy of
imitation in the new." — Washington to Charles Carter, 20 January, 1788.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 181

employ the consideration of the Assembly) give you
the extract of a letter from Doct. Stuart, which
follows —

u Yesterday (the 26th of Oct.) according to appointment, the
calling of a Convention of the people was discussed. — Though
no one doubted a pretty general unanimity on this question ulti
mately, yet, it was feared from the avowed opposition of Mr.
Henry and Mr. Harrison, that an attempt would be made, to do
it in a manner that would convey to the people an unfavorable
impression of the opinion of the House with respect to the Con
stitution ; and this was accordingly attempted. — It was however
soon baffled. — The motion was to this effect ; that a Convention
should be called to adopt — reject — or amend — the proposed
Constitution. —

" As this conveyed an idea that the House conceived an amend
ment necessary it was rejected as improper. — It now stands
recommended to them, on (I think) unexceptionable ground, for
their full and free consideration. — My colleague arrived here on
the evening before this question was taken up ; I am apt to think
that the opponents to the Constitution were much disappointed
in their expectations of support from him, as he not only de
clared himself in the fullest manner for a Convention, but also,
that notwithstanding his objections, so federal was he, that he
would adopt it, if nothing better could be obtained. — The time
at which the Convention is to meet, is fixed to the first of June
next. — The variety of sentiments on this subject was almost
infinite ; neither friends or foes agreeing in any one period. —
There is to be no exclusion of persons on acct. of their Offices.1

1 " The new constitution has, as the public prints will have informed you,
been handed to the people of this State by an unanimous vote of the Assembly ;
but it is not to be inferred from hence, that its opponents are silenced. On
the contrary, there are many, and some powerful ones ; some of whom, it is
said, by overshooting the marks, have lessened their weight. Be this as it may,
their assiduity stands unrivalled, whilst the friends to the constitution content
themselves with a bare avowal of their approbation of it. Thus stands the
matter at present in the State. I think nevertheless the voice is for it."-
Washington to Hamilton, 10 November, 1787.

1 82 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

" Notwithstanding this decision the accounts of the prevailing
sentiments without, especially on James river and Westwardly,
are various. — Nothing decisive, I believe, can be drawn — As far
as I can form an opinion however, from different persons, it
should seem as if Men judged of others, by their own affection
or disaffection to the proposed government. — In the Northern
Neck the sentiment I believe, is very generally for it. — I think it
will be found such thro the State."

The Doctor further adds :

" The subject of British debts was taken up the other day
when Mr. Henry, reflected in a very warm declamatory manner,
on the circular letter of Congress, on that subject. — It is a great
and important matter and I hope will be determined as it should
be notwithstanding his opposition."

So far as the sentiments of Maryland, with respect
to the proposed Constitution, have come to my
knowledge, they are strongly in favor of it ; but as
this is the day on which the Assembly of that State
ought to meet, I will say nothing in anticipation of
the opinion of it. Mr. Carroll of Carrolton, and Mr.
Thos. Johnson, are declared friends to it.

With sincere regards and affect.

TO BUSHROD WASHINGTON.
T-. MOUNT VERNON. 10 November. 1787.

DEAR BUSHROD,

In due course of post your letters of the iQth and
26th ultimo came to hand, and I thank you for the
communications therein, — for a continuation in mat-

" With respect to British debts, I would fain hope, let the eloquence or
abilities of any man or set of men be what they may, that the good sense and
justice of this State will never suffer a violation of the treaty, or pass acts of
injustice to individuals. Honesty in States, as well as individuals, will ever be
found the soundest policy." — Washington to Stuart, 5 November, 1787.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 183

ters of importance I shall be obliged to you. That
the Assembly would afford the people an opportunity
of deciding on the proposed constitution, I had
scarcely a doubt. The only question with me was,
whether it would go forth under favorable auspices,
or receive the stamp of disapprobation. The oppo
nents I expected (for it ever has been, that the
adversaries to a measure are more active than its
friends,) would endeavor to stamp it with unfavora
ble impressions, in order to bias the judgment, that
is ultimately to decide on it. This is evidently the
case with the writers in opposition, whose objections
are better calculated to alarm the fears, than to con
vince the judgment, of their readers. They build
their objections upon principles, that do not exist,
which the constitution does not support them in, and
the existence of which has been, by an appeal to the
constitution itself, flatly denied ; and then, as if they
were unanswerable, draw all the dreadful consequences
that are necessary to alarm the apprehensions of the
ignorant or unthinking. It is not the interest of the
major part of those characters to be convinced ; nor
will their local views yield to arguments, which do
not accord with their present or future prospects.

A candid solution of a single question, to which
the plainest understanding is competent, does, in my
opinion, decide the dispute ; namely, Is it best for the
States to unite or not to unite? If there are men,
who prefer the latter, then unquestionably the consti
tution which is offered must, in their estimation, be
wrong from the words, " We the people" to the signa-

1 84 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

ture, inclusively ; but those, who think differently,
and yet object to parts of it, would do well to con
sider, that it does not lie with any one State, or the
minority of the States, to superstruct a constitution
for the whole. The separate interests, as far as it is
practicable, must be consolidated ; and local views
must be attended to, as far as the nature of the case
will admit. Hence it is, that every State has some
objection to the present form, and these objections
are directed to different points. That which is most
pleasing to one is obnoxious to another, and so vice
versa. If then the union of the whole is a desirable
object, the component parts must yield a little in
order to accomplish it. Without the latter, the
former is unattainable ; for again I repeat it, that not
a single State, nor the minority of the States, can
force a constitution on the majority. But, admitting
the power, it will surely be granted, that it cannot be
done without involving scenes of civil commotion, of
a very serious nature.

Let the opponents of the proposed constitution in
this State be asked, and it is a question they certainly
ought to have asked themselves, what line of conduct
they would advise to adopt, if nine other States, of
which I think there is little doubt, should accede to
the constitution. Would they recommend, that it
should stand single ? Will they connect it with
Rhode Island ? Or even with two others checker-
wise, and remain with them, as outcasts from the
society, to shift for themselves ? Or will they return
to their dependence on Great Britain ? Or, lastly,

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 185

have the mortification to come in when they will be
allowed no credit for doing so ?

The warmest friends and the best supporters the
constitution has, do not contend that it is free from
imperfections ; but they found them unavoidable,
and are sensible, if evil is likely to arise therefrom,
the remedy must come hereafter ; for in the present
moment it is not to be obtained ; and, as there is a
constitutional door open for it, I think the people
(for it is with them to judge), can, as they will have
the advantage of experience on their side, decide
with as much propriety on the alterations and amend
ments which are necessary, as ourselves. I do not
think we are more inspired, have more wisdom, or
possess more virtue, than those who will come after us.

The power under the constitution will always be
in the people. It is intrusted for certain defined
purposes, and for a certain limited period, to repre
sentatives of their own choosing ; and, whenever it
is executed contrary to their interest, or not agree
able to their wishes, their servants can and undoubt
edly will be recalled. It is agreed on all hands, that
no government can be well administered without
powers ; yet, the instant these are delegated, al
though those, who are intrusted with the administra
tion, are no more than the creatures of the people,
act as it were but for a day, and are amenable for
every false step they take, they are, from the moment
they receive it, set down as tyrants ; their natures,
they would conceive from this, immediately changed,
and that they can have no other disposition but to op-

T86 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

press. Of these things, in a government constituted
and guarded as ours .is, I have no idea ; and do
firmly believe, that, whilst many ostensible reasons
are assigned to prevent the adoption of it, the real
ones are concealed behind the curtains, because they
are not of a nature to appear in open day. I believe
further, supposing them pure, that as great evils
result from too great jealousy as from the want
of it. We need look, I think, no further for proof
of this, than to the constitution of some, if not all, of
these States. No man is a warmer advocate for
proper restraints and wholesome checks in every de
partment of government, than I am ; but I have
never yet been able to discover the propriety of
placing it absolutely out of the power of men to
render essential services, because a possibility remains
of their doing ill.

If Mr. Ronald can place the finances of this coun
try upon so respectable a footing as he has intimated,
he will deserve much of its thanks. In the attempt,
my best wishes, I have nothing more to offer, will
accompany him. I hope there remains virtue enough
in the Assembly of this State to preserve inviolate
public treaties and private contracts. If these are
infringed, farewell to respectability and safety in the
government.

I have possessed a doubt, but if any had existed in
my breast, reiterated proofs would have convinced
me of the impolicy of all commutable taxes. If we
cannot learn wisdom from experience, it is hard to
say where it is to be found. But why talk of learn-

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 187

ing it. These things are mere jobs, by which few
are enriched at the public expense ; for, whether
premeditation or ignorance is the cause of this de
structive scheme, it ends in oppression.

You have, I find, broke the ice. The only advice
I will offer to you on the occasion (if you have a
mind to command the attention of the House,) is to
speak seldom, but to important subjects, except
such as particularly relate to your constituents ;
and, in the former case, make yourself perfectly
master of the subject. Never exceed a decent
warmth, and submit your sentiments with diffidence.
A dictatorial stile, though it may carry conviction,
is always accompanied with disgust. I am, &c.

TO THOMAS JOHNSON.

o MOUNT VERNON, 22 November, 1787.

The lettter with which you have been pleased to
honor me, dated the i6th inst., came to my hand the
day before yesterday. By to-morrow's Post this
answer will be forwarded to you.

Mr. Rumsey has given you an uncandid account of
his explanation to me of the principle on which his
boat was to be propelled against stream. At the time
he exhibited his model and obtained certificate, I
have no reason to believe that the use of steam was
contemplated by him, sure I am it was not men
tioned ; and equally certain I am, that it would not
apply to the project he then had in view ; the first
communication of which was made to me in Septem-

i88 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

her, 1784 (at the springs in Berkley). The Novr.
following, being in Richmond, I met Mr. Rumsey
there who was at that time applying to the Assembly
for a exclusive Act. He then spoke of the effect of
steam and the conviction he was under of the useful
ness of its application for inland navigation ; but I
did not then conceive, nor have I done so at any
moment since, that it was suggested as a part of his
original plan, but rather as the ebullition of his genius.
It is proper, however, for me to add that some
time after this Mr. Fitch called upon me on his way
to Richmond, and explaining his scheme, wanted a
letter from me, introductory of it to the Assembly of
this State, the giving of which I declined ; and went
on to inform him, that tho' I was bound not to
disclose the principles of Mr. Rumsey's discovery, I
could venture to assure him that the thought of
applying steam for the purpose he mentioned was
not original, but had been mentioned to me by Mr.
Rumsey — this I thought myself obliged to say, that
whichever (if either) of them was the discoverer
might derive the benefit of the invention. To the
best of my recollection of what passed between
Mr. Rumsey and me, the foregoing is an impartial
recital. * * *

TO DAVID STUART.

MOUNT VERNON, 30 November, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

Your favor of the I4th came duly to hand. I am
sorry to find by it, that the opposition gains strength.
1 do not wonder much at this. The adversaries to a

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 189

measure are generally, if not always, more violent
and active than the advocates, and frequently employ
means, which the others do not, to accomplish their
ends.

I have seen no publication yet, that ought in my
judgment to shake the proposed constitution in the
mind of an impartial and candid public. In fine, I
have hardly seen one, that is not addressed to the
passions of the people, and obviously calculated to
alarm their fears. Every attempt to amend the con
stitution at this time is in my opinion idle and vain.
If there are characters, who prefer disunion, or sep
arate confederacies, to the general government, which
is offered to them, their opposition may, for aught I
know, proceed from principle ; but, as nothing,
according to my conception of the matter, is more to
be deprecated than a disunion or these distinct con
federacies, as far as my voice can go it shall be
offered in favor of the latter. That there are some
writers, and others perhaps who may not have
written, that wish to see this union divided into
several confederacies, is pretty evident. As an anti
dote to these opinions, and in order to investigate
the ground of objections to the constitution which is
submitted, the Federalist, under the signature of
PUBLIUS, is written. The numbers, which have been
published, I send you. If there is a printer in Rich
mond, who is really well disposed to support the new
constitution, he would do well to give them a place
in his paper. They are, I think I may venture to
say, written by able men ; and before they are fin
ished will, or I am mistaken, place matters in a true

190 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

point of light. Although I am acquainted with the
writers, who have a hand in this work, I am not at
liberty to mention names, nor would I have it known,
that they are sent by me to you for promulgation.1

You will recollect, that the business of the Potomac
Company is withheld from the Assembly of Mary
land until it is acted upon in this State ; that the
sitting of that Assembly is expected to be short ;
and that our operations may be suspended, if there is
no other recourse to be had than to common law
process to obtain the dividends, which are called for
by the directors and not paid by the subscribers.

Certificate and commutable taxes I hope will be
done away,2 and that the Assembly will not interfere

1 "Pray, if it is not a secret, who is the author or authors of Publius?"
Washington to Knox, 5 February, 1788.

October 3Oth, Hamilton sent to Washington the first number of the Fed
eralist, without any intimation as to the authorship. " For the remaining
numbers of PUBLIUS," wrote Washington in reply, " I shall acknowledge my
self obliged, as I am persuaded the subject will be well handled by the author
of them." November i8th, Madison sent him seven numbers, suggesting that
they be republished in Virginia, and saying that his own degree of connection
with the publication was such as to " afford a restraint of delicacy from inter
esting myself directly in the republication elsewhere. You will recognize one
of the pens concerned in the task. There are three in the whole. A fourth
may possibly bear a part."

- Various methods were devised for raising taxes by receiving substitutes for
specie. The tax for satisfying the requisitions of Congress was allowed to be
paid in part by certificates, or evidences of claims on the government, which
had been given during the war. The different States had borrowed money,
and issued loan-office certificates, which bore interest. Warrants were granted
from time to time for the interest on such certificates. The State of Virginia
had passed a law, authorizing these warrants to be received into the treasury
in payment of certain kinds of taxes. — Hening's Statutes, vol. xii., p. 95.
Tobacco was also received for taxes. — //>., p. 455. And there was a strong
wish, on the part of some, that other articles of produce should be receivable
for the same purpose, leaving it to the State to dispose of such commodities,
and convert them into specie. Taxes thus paid were called commutable.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 191

either with public treaties or private contracts. Bad
indeed must the situation of that country be, when
this is the case. With great pleasure I received the
information respecting the commencement of my
nephew's political course. I hope he will not be so
buoyed by the favorable impression it has made, as
to become a babbler. If the convention was such a
tumultuous and disorderly body as a certain gentle
man has represented, [it was due] in a great meas
ure, to a few dissatisfied characters who would not
submit to the decisions of a majority thereof. '
I am, dear Sir, your most obedient, &c.

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 7 December, 1787.

MY DEAR SIR,

Since my last to you, I have been favored with
your letters of the 28th of October and i8th of
November. With the last came seven numbers of
the Federalist, under the signature of PUBLIUS, for

O

which I thank you. They are forwarded to a gentle
man in Richmond for republication ; the doing of
which in this State will, I am persuaded, have a
good effect, as there are certainly characters, who
are no friends to a general government ; perhaps
I should not go too far was I to add, who have no
great objection to the introduction of anarchy and
confusion.

The solicitude to discover what the several State
legislatures would do with the constitution is now

1 92 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

transferred to the several conventions ; the decisions
of which, being more interesting and conclusive, is
consequently more anxiously expected than the other.
What Pennsylvania and Delaware have done, or will
do, must soon be known. Other conventions to the
northward and eastward of them are treading closely
on their heels ; but what the three southern States
have done, or in what light the new constitution is
viewed by them, I have not been able to learn.
North Carolina, it has been said, u by some accounts
from Richmond," will be governed in a great measure
by the conduct of Virginia. The pride of South
Carolina will not, I conceive, suffer this influence to
work in her councils ; and the disturbances in Georgia
will, or I am mistaken, show the people of it the pro
priety of being united, and the necessity there is for
a general government. If these, with the States east
ward and northward of us, should accede to the federal
government, I think the citizens of this State will
have no cause to bless the opposers of it here, if they
should carry their point. A paragraph in the Balti
more paper has announced a change in the sentiments
of Mr. Jay on this subject, and adds, that, from being
an admirer of the new form, he has become a bitter
enemy to it. This relation, without knowing Mr.
Jay's opinion, I discredit, from a conviction, that he
would consider the matter well before he would pass
any judgment, and having done so would not change
his opinion almost in the same breath. — I am anxious
however to know on what ground this report origi
nates, especially the indelicacy of the expression. It

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 193

is very unlikely, therefore, that a man of his knowl
edge and foresight should turn on both sides of a
question in so short a space.1

It would have given me great pleasure to have
complied with your request in behalf of your foreign
acquaintance. At present I am unable to do it.
The survey of the county between the Eastern and
Western waters is not yet reported by the Commis
sioners — tho' promised to be made very shortly — the
survey being completed. No draught that can convey
an adequate idea of the work on this river, has been
yet taken. Much of the labor except at the great
falls has been bestowed in the bed of the river in a
removal of the rocks and deepening the water at the
great falls — the labor has indeed been great. The
water there (a sufficiency I mean) is taken into a
canal about 200 yards above the cataract, and con
veyed by a level cut (thro' a solid rock in some places
and much stone everywhere) more than a mile to the
lock seats, five in number, by means of which, when
completed the craft will be let into the river below
the falls (which together amount to 76 feet). At the
Seneca falls, six miles above the great falls, a channel
which has been formed by the river when inundated,
is under improvement for the navigation. The same
in part at Shannondoah — At the lower falls where

1 " I thank you for your obliging letter, enclosing a paragraph respecting me
in Mr. Oswald's paper. You have my authority to deny the charge of the sen
timents it imputes to me, and to declare, that in my opinion it is advisable for
the people of America to adopt the constitution proposed by the late conren-
tion. If you should think it expedient to publish this letter, I have no objec
tion to its being done." — Jay to John Vaughan, I December, 1787.
194 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

nothing has yet been done, a level cut and locks are
proposed. These constitute the principal difficulties
and will be the great expense of this undertaking —
the parts of the river between requiring loose stones
only to be removed in order to deepen the water
where it is too shallow in dry season.

P. S. Since writing the foregoing, I have received
a letter from a member " of the Assembly " in Rich
mond, dated the 4th instant, giving the following
information :—

" I am sorry to inform you, that the constitution has lost ground
so considerably, that it is doubted whether it has any longer a
majority in its favor. From a vote, which took place the other
day, this would appear certain, though I cannot think it so deci
sive as the enemies to it consider it. It marks, however, the in
consistency of some of its opponents. At the time the resolutions
calling a convention were entered into, Colonel M. sided with
the friends to the constitution, and opposed any hint being given,
expressive of the sentiments of the House as to amendments.
But, as it was unfortunately omitted at that time to make provi
sion for the subsistence of the convention, it became necessary,
to pass some resolution providing for any expense, which may
attend an attempt to make amendments. As M. had on the former
occasion declared, that it would be improper to make any dis
covery of the sentiments of the House on the subject, and that
we had no right to suggest any thing to a body paramount to us,
his advocating such a resolution was matter of astonishment. It
is true, he declared it was not declaratory of our opinion ; but the
contrary must be very obvious. As I have heard many declare
themselves friends to the constitution since the vote, I do not con
sider it as altogether decisive of the opinion of the House with
respect to it.

" I am informed, both by General Wilkinson, who is just ar
rived here from New Orleans by way of North Carolina, and Mr.
Ross, that North Carolina is almost unanimous for adopting it.

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 195

The latter received a letter from a member of that Assembly
now sitting.

" In a debating society here, which meets once a week, this
subject has been canvassed at two successive meetings, and is to
be finally decided on to-morrow evening. As the whole Assem
bly, almost, has attended on these occasions, their opinion will
then be pretty well ascertained ; and, as the opinion on this occa
sion will have much influence, some of Colonel Innis's friends
have obtained a promise from him to enter the lists.

" The bill respecting British debts has passed our House, but
with such a clause as I think makes it worse than a rejection."

The letter, of which I enclose you a printed copy,
from Colonel R. H. Lee to the Governor, has been
circulated with great industry in manuscript four
weeks before it went to press, and is said to have had
a bad influence.1 The enemies to the constitution
leave no stone unturned to increase the opposition to
it. I am, &c.

TO COLONEL THOMAS LEWIS.

MOUNT VERNON, 25 December, 1787.

SIR,

It is my desire and I am told that it is the wish of
many — and sure I am policy requires it — that the un
cultivated tracts of land on the Great Kanhawa and
Ohio belonging to the Military should be settled.
The difficulty with me respecting mine has been, how
to draw the line of mutual advantage for Landlord and
Tenant, with respect to the terms ; and where to find

1 This letter contained a series of objections to the constitution, as reported
by the convention. It was circulated widely in the newspapers. Lee after
wards wrote a series of letters, over the signature "Federal Farmer," which
had great popularity, many thousands being printed and sold in the States.

196 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

a confidential person on or near the spot who would
act for me as Agent.

Two reasons, hitherto, have restrained me from
making application to you, on this head — first, the
uncertainty I was under of your having become an
actual resident in those parts — and second a doubt
whether it might be agreeable to you to accept this
trust on account of the trouble, and little profit that
would derive from the agency, at least for some time.

The first cause being removed (having understood,
by means of some members in Assembly that you
live at Point Pleasant) I shall take the liberty of
trying you on the second ; under a hope, that more
from the desire of seeing the country settled the
neighborhood strengthened and property thereby se
cured ; and the value of it increased ; than from any
pecuniary considerations at the present moment, you
may be induced to aid me in seating my lands on the
great Kanhawa and on the Ohio between the mouths
of the two Rivers bearing that name.

If you accept the trust this letter shall be your
authority — fully — and amply given and binding upon
me and my heirs for the following purposes.—

First. To place as many Tenants on the several
tracts of Lands (Plats of which with my signature
annexed to them shall accompany this Power) as you
can obtain consistently with your judgment, and
suggestions hereafter mentioned.

Second. That an exemption from the payment of
Rents for the term of three years shall be allowed
them provided certain reasonable improvements such

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 197

as you shall stipulate for, — and which I think (but
leave the matter to you) ought to be comfortable
houses, — Acres of Arable — and — Acres of Meadow
land, and a certain number of frute Trees planted.

Third. That for the fourth year, rents shall be
come due, and shall consist (as I am told the custom
of the Country is) of a third of whatever is raised on
the premises, which rents shall be annually paid there
after to you, or my agent for the time being in that
Country.—

Fourth. That under this tenure they may be as
sured of the places (if they incline to remain, and
will go on to improve them) for the term of — years ;
were these not to exceed ten, it would be more pleas
ing to me than any extension beyond that number ;
but if this limitation will not be acceded to on the
part of the tenant, I must leave it to your discretion
to augment them making the term definite, and not
for lives, which is not only uncertain, but often intro
ductory of disputes to ascertain the termination of
them — Instances of which have happened to me. All
mines and minerals will be reserved for the landlord,
— and where there are valuable streams for water
works, the Rents must bear some proportion to the
advantages which are likely to result from them.—

Fifth. Whether custom authorizes, or justice re
quires that the tenant should pay the land tax of
what he agrees to hold before the rent becomes due ;
or afterwards, in whole, or part, must be governed
by the practice which prevails and consequently is
left to your decision.

198 THE WRITINGS OF [1787

Sixth. I do not conceive it necessary nor should
I incline to go into much, or indeed any expense in
laying the Land off into Lots till it begins to be thick
settled and productive. The first comers will of
course have the first choice — but they and all others
are to be informed that their lotts (be the quantity
little or much) will be bounded by water courses, or
(where this is not the case) by convenient and regu
lar forms. — And as most of my Tracts (as you will
see by the plats) have extensive boundaries on the
rivers running but a little ways back it is my wish, in
deed it naturally follows, that back part of the land
should be considered as the support of that which
will be first settled and cleared on the margins of the
Rivers and a sufficiency of it reserved for that
purpose.

Seventh. For your trouble in negotiating this
business, I am very willing to allow the usual Com
mission for collecting — converting into cash and
transmitting to me, the rents after they shall com
mence and whatever you may think proper to charge
me (in reason) for your trouble till this shall happen,
—I will cheerfully agree to pay.

Whether you accept this trust or not, you will do
me a favor in the communication of your sentiments
on the subject. There are two ways by which letters
will come safe. — Viz — thrown into the Post Office
at Philadelphia or into that at Richmond. — Colo.
Bayard an acquaintance of mine, or any acquaintance
you may have at Fort Pitt, will forward them to the
first place — and the means of doing it to the latter

1787] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 199

you must be a better judge of than myself — If the
letters once get into the Post Office, I shall be sure
of them. — On private conveyances there is no reli
ance — they are tossed about and neglected so as
rarely to reach their intended destination when sent
in this manner.

If you should incline to act under this power your
own good sense and judgment will at once dictate the
propriety, indeed necessity of promulgating it as ex
tensively as you can by Advertisements to those parts
from whence settlers are most likely to be drawn over
and above the opportunities which your situation
gives you of communicating the matter to travellers
by water on the Ohio.

On the other hand, if you do not incline to act I
would thank you for returning me the papers here
with enclosed as it will save me the trouble of making
other copies.

Whether the improvements which I had made on
the Lands (of which you have herewith the draughts)
in the years 1 774 and 5 will be of use to Settlers at this
day, or not, you who are on the spot can best deter
mine — They cost me, or were valued to between
^"1500 and 2000. — If they are useful the exemption
from rent should be shorter — I thought it necessary
to bring the matter into view tho' my expectations
from it are small. I am, &c—

P. S. I have a small tract called the round bottom
containing abt. 600 Acres, which I would also let. — It
lyes on the Ohio, opposite to pipe Creek, and a little
above Capteening.

200 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

TO THOMAS JEFFERSON.

MOUNT VERNON, i January, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

I have received your favor of the i4th of August,
and am sorry that it is not in my power to give any
further information relative to the practicability of
opening a communication between Lake Erie and the
Ohio, than you are already possessed of. I have
made frequent inquiries since the time of your writing
at Annapolis, but could never collect any thing that
was decided or satisfactory. I have again renewed
them, and flatter myself with better prospects.

The accounts generally agree as to its being a flat
country between the waters of Lake Erie and Big
Beaver, but differ very much with respect to the dis
tance between their sources, their navigation, and the
inconveniences which would attend the cutting a canal
between them. From the best information I have
been able to obtain of that country, the sources of
the Muskingum and Cayahoga approach nearer to
each other than Big Beaver ; but a communication
through the Muskingum would be more circuitous
and difficult, having the Ohio in a greater extent to
ascend, unless the latter could be avoided by opening
a communication between James River and the Great
Kanhawa, or between the Little Kanhawa and the
west branch of the Monongahela, which is said to be
very practicable by a short portage. As a testimony
thereof, a road is now opened, or opening, under
the authority and at the expense of the States of
Virginia and Maryland, from the North Branch of

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 201

Potomac, " commencing at the mouth of Savage
River," to Cheat River ; and continued from thence
to the navigable water of the Little Kanhawa, at the
cost of the former.

The distance between Lake Erie and the Ohio
through the Big Beaver is however so much less than
the route through the Muskingum, that it would in
my opinion operate very strongly in favor of opening
a canal between the sources of the nearest water of
the Lake and Big Beaver, although the distance be
tween them should be much greater, and the opera
tion more difficult, than to the Muskingum, as it is
the direct line to the nearest shipping port on the
Atlantic. I shall omit no opportunity of gaining
every information relative to this important subject,
and with pleasure communicate to you whatever may
be worthy of your attention.1

I did myself the honor to forward to you the plan
of government formed by the convention, as soon as
that body rose ; but was not a little disappointed,
and mortified indeed, (as I wished to make the first
offering of it to you,) to find by a letter dated the
9th of November in New York from Commodore
Jones, that it was at that time in his possession.
You have undoubtedly received it, or some other, ere
now, and formed an opinion upon it. The public
attention is at present wholly engrossed by this im
portant subject. The legislatures of those States
(Rhode Island excepted), which have met since the

1 A letter of inquiry to Richard Butler is printed in Sparks, ix., 301 ; and
another to William Irvine, ix. , 326.

202 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

constitution has been formed, have readily assented to
its being submitted to a convention chosen by the
people. Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware,
are the only States whose conventions have as yet
decided upon it. In the former it was adopted by
forty-six to twenty-three, and in the two latter
unanimously.

Connecticut and Massachusetts are to hold their

•

conventions on the first^ and second Tuesdays of
this month ; Maryland in April, Virginia in June ;
and upon the whole it appears, so far as I have had
an opportunity of learning the opinions of the
people in the several States, that it will be received.
There will undoubtedly be more or less opposition to
its being adopted in most of the States, and in none
a more formidable one than in this, as many influen
tial characters here have taken a decided part against
it, among whom are Mr. Henry, Colonel Mason,
Governor Randolph, and Mr. Richard Henry Lee ;
but from every information, which I have been able
to obtain, I think there will be a majority in its
favor, notwithstanding their dissention. In New
York a considerable opposition will also be given.

I am much obliged to you, my dear Sir, for the
account which you gave me of the general state of
affairs in Europe. I am glad to hear, that the
Assemblee des Notables has been productive of good
in France. The abuse of the finances, being dis
closed to the King and the nation, must open their
eyes, and lead to the adoption of such measures as
will prove beneficial to them in future. From the

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 203

public papers it appears, that the parliaments of the
several provinces, and particularly that of Paris, have
acted with great spirit and resolution. Indeed, the
rights of mankind, the privileges of the people, and
the true principles of liberty, seem to have been
more generally discussed and better understood
throughout Europe since the American revolution,
than they were at any former period.

Although the finances of France and England
were such, as led you to suppose at the time you
wrote to me, yet, if we credit the concurrent accounts
from every quarter, there is little doubt but that they
have commenced hostilities before this. Russia and
the Porte have formally begun the contest, and from
appearances, (as given to us,) it is not improbable
but that a general war will be kindled in Europe.
Should this be the case, we shall feel more than ever
the want of an efficient general government to regu
late our commercial concerns, to give us a national
respectability, and to connect the political views and
interests of the several States under one head in such
a manner, as will effectually prevent them from form
ing separate, improper, or indeed any connexion with
the European powers, which can involve them in
their political disputes.1 For our situation is such,
as makes it not only unnecessary, but extremely im-

1 "Whether war or peace will be the issue of the dispute between France
and England, seems as yet undecided. If the former, we shall certainly get
involved, unless there is energy enough in Government to restrain our people
within proper bounds ; and that the power of the present government is
inadequate to accomplish this, I believe none will deny." — Washington to
Knox, 10 January, 1788.

ff tJNIVFKSITT

204 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

prudent, for us to take a part in their quarrels ; and
whenever a contest happens among them, if we
wisely and properly improve the advantages, which
nature has given us, we may be benefited by their
folly, provided we conduct ourselves with circumspec
tion and under proper restrictions ; for I perfectly
agree with you, that an extensive speculation, a
spirit of gambling, or the introduction of any thing,
which will divert our attention from agriculture, must
be extremely prejudicial if not ruinous to us. But I
conceive, under an energetic general government,
such regulations might be made, and such measures
taken, as would render this country the asylum of
pacific and industrious characters from all parts of
Europe, would encourage the cultivation of the
earth by the high price, which its products would
command, and would draw the wealth and wealthy
men of other nations into our bosom, by giving
security to property and liberty to its holders.

I have the honor to be, &c.

TO EDMUND RANDOLPH, GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA.

MOUNT VERNON, 8 January, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

The letter, which you did me the honor of writing
to me on the 27th ultimo, with the enclosure,1 came
duly to hand. I receive them as a fresh instance of
your friendship and attention. For both I thank you.

1 Containing his objections to the new constitution.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 205

The diversity of sentiments upon the important
matter, which has been submitted to the people, was
as much expected as it is regretted by me. The
various passions and motives, by which men are in
fluenced, are concomitants of fallibility, engrafted into
our nature for the purposes of unerring wisdom ;
but, had I entertained a latent hope, (at the time you
moved to have the constitution submitted to a second
convention,) that a more perfect form would be agreed
to, in a word, that any constitution would be adopted
under the impressions and instructions of the mem
bers, the publications, which have taken place since,
would have eradicated every form of it. How do the
sentiments of the influential characters in this State,
who are opposed to the constitution, and have favored
the public with their opinions, quadrate with each
other ? Are they not at variance on some of the
most important points ? If the opponents in the same
State cannot agree in their principles, what prospect
is there of a coalescence with the advocates of the
measure, when the different views and jarring interests
of so wide and extended an empire are to be brought
forward and combated ?

To my judgment it is more clear than ever, that an
attempt to amend the constitution, which is submitted,
would be productive of more heat and greater con
fusion than can well be conceived. There are some
things in the new form, I will readily acknowledge,
which never did, and I am persuaded never will, obtain
my cordial approbation ; but I then did conceive, and
do now most firmly believe, that in the aggregate it is

206 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

the best constitution, that can be obtained at this
epoch, and that this, or a dissolution of the Union,
awaits our choice, and are the only alternatives before
us. Thus believing, I had not, nor have I now, any
hesitation in deciding on which to lean.

I pray your forgiveness for the expression of these
sentiments. In acknowledging the receipt of your
letter on this subject, it was hardly to be avoided,
although I am well-disposed to let the matter rest
entirely on its own merits, and men's minds to their
own workings. With very great esteem and regard
I am, &c.

TO COLONEL FREDERICK WEISSENFELS.

MOUNT VERNON, 10 January, 1788.

SIR :

I have received your letter of the loth of Decem
ber. In answer to that, as well as those which you
wrote to me in June last, I am sorry to inform you
that I cannot, with any propriety, make application to
Congress, had [it] the offices to bestow, or any other
publick body in your behalf, for an appointment ;
because it would be acting directly contrary to a reso
lution which I made, when I quitted the publick
service, not to make application for, or interfere with
appointments of any kind.

It is a matter of regret as well as surprize that you
should apply to me in an affair of this nature, in
preference to those persons among whom you live and
have been more immediately employ'd, and who must
from their long acquaintance with you, have a much

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 207

better knowledge of your merits and sufferings than
I can be supposed to have. If you expect relief from
the Cincinnati, it is to the State Society you must
look for it, or apply to the General-meeting, when
convened, for I cannot, as an individual, transact any
business of this kind relating to the Society. I am, &c.

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 10 January, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I stand indebted to you for your favors of the 2oth
and 26th ultimo, and I believe for that of the i4th
also, and their enclosures. It does not appear to
me, that there is any certain criterion in this State by
which a decided judgment can be formed, as to the
opinion entertained by its citizens with respect to the
new constitution. My belief on this occasion is that
whenever the matter is brought to a final decision,
not only a majority, but a large one, will be found
in its favor. That the opposition should have gained
strength at Richmond, among the members of Assem
bly, is not, if true, to be wondered at, when we con
sider that the great adversaries to the constitution
are all assembled at that place, acting conjointly,
with the promulgated sentiments of Colonel Richard
Henry Lee as auxiliary. It is said, however, and I
believe it may be depended upon, that the latter,
(though he may retain his sentiments,) has with
drawn, or means to withdraw, his opposition ; because,
as he has expressed himself, or as others have done

208 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

it for him, he finds himself in bad company such as with
M[erce]r, Sm[i]th, &c, &c. His brother, Francis L.
Lee, on whose judgment the family place much reli
ance, is decidedly in favor of the new form, under a
conviction, that it is the best that can be obtained,
and because it promises energy, stability, and that
security, which is, or ought to be, the wish of every
good citizen of the Union.

How far the determination of the question before
the debating club, (mentioned to you in a former
letter,) may be considered as auspicious of the final
decision of the convention in this State, I will not
prognosticate ; but in this club the question, it seems,
was determined by a very large majority in favor of
the constitution. But of all arguments, that may be
used at the convention, which is to be held for it, the
most prevailing one I expect will be, that nine States
at least will have acceded to it. And if the unanimity
or majorities in those which follow, are equal to those
which are passed, the force of them will prove irresist
ible. The governor has given his reasons to the
public for withholding his signature ; a copy of them
I send you.

Our Assembly has been long in session, employed
chiefly, as far as I can understand, in rectifying some
of the mistakes of the last, and committing new ones
for emendations at the next ; yet, " Who so wise as
we are ?" We are held in painful suspense in regard
to European matters. War, or peace, seems yet
undecided, although the first is loudly talked of. I
have no regular correspondent in Massachusetts ;

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 209

otherwise, as an occasional matter, I should have
had no objection to the communication of my senti
ments to him, as they are unequivocal and decided.
I am, &c.

P. S. I have this moment been informed, that the
Assembly of North Carolina have postponed the
meeting of the convention of that State until July.
This seems to be calculated evidently for the purpose
of taking the tone from Virginia. 1

TO CHARLES CARTER.

MOUNT VERNON, 12 January, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

I find that an extract from my letter to you is run
ning through all the newspapers, and published in
that of Baltimore with the addition of my name.
Although I have no disinclination to the promul
gation of my sentiments on the proposed constitu
tion, (not having concealed them on any occasion,) yet
I must nevertheless confess, that it gives me pain
to see the hasty and indigested production of a

1 " From the States to the south of it [North Carolina], I have no informa
tion that can be relied on, except that Georgia in appointing a convention have
accompanied the act with powers to alter or amend the Federal Constitution.
But if a weak State, with the Indians on its back and the Spaniards on its
flank, do not see the necessity of a General Government, there must, I think,
be wickedness or insanity in the way. The unanimity and generosity with
which the County of Philadelphia has been offered for the seat of the Fsederal
government by the land holders thereof, gives much weight and merit to the
invitation, and will probably be an inducement to others to follow the example."
— Washington to Samuel Powel, 18 January, 1788. The Georgia convention
assembled at Augusta on Christmas day, and on the 2d of January fully
adopted the new constitution.
2io THE WRITINGS OF [1788

private letter handed to the public, to be animad
verted upon by the adversaries of the new govern
ment.

Could I have supposed, that the contents of a
private letter, (marked with evident haste,) would
have composed a newspaper paragraph, I certainly
should have taken some pains to dress the sentiments
(to whom known is indifferent to me) in less excep
tionable language, and would have assigned some
reasons in support of my opinion, and the charges
against others. I am persuaded your intentions
were good ; but I am not less persuaded, that you
have provided food for strictures and criticisms. Be
this however as it may, it shall pass off unnoticed by
me, as I have no inclination and still less abilities
for scribbling. With very great esteem and regard,
I am, &C.1

1 It appeared afterwards, that a copy of the letter had been taken and sent
to press without Mr. Carter's knowledge. The paragraph referred to was the
following :

" I thank you for your congratulations on my return from the Convention,
and with what you add respecting the Constitution. My decided opinion of
the matter is that there is no alternative between the adoption of it and
anarchy. — If one State, however important it may conceive itself to be, should
suppose, or a minority of the States, that they can dictate a Constitution to
the majority, unless they have the power of administring to good effect,
administring the ultima ratio, they will find themselves deceived. All the
opposition to it that I have yet seen, is, I must confess, addressed more to the
passions than to the reason — and clear I am if another Federal Convention is
attempted, the sentiment of the members will be more discordant or less
conciliatory than the last — in fine — that they will agree upon no general plan.
General government is now suspended by a thread, I might go farther, and
say, it is really at an end ; and what will be the consequence of a fruitless
attempt to amend the one which is offered, before it is tried — or of the delay
from the attempt does not in my judgment need the gift of prophecy to pre
dict. I am not a blind admirer (for I saw the imperfections) of the Constitu-

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 211

TO JONATHAN TRUMBULL.

MOUNT VERNON, 5 February, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I thank you for your obliging favor of the Qth
ulto. which came duly to hand, and congratulate with
you on the adoption of the new Constitution in your
State by so decided a majority and so many respecta
ble Characters. I wish for the same good tidings
from Massachusetts but the accounts from thence
are not so favorable — The decision, it is even said,
is problematical, arising, as I believe Q/ioths of
the opposition does, from local circumstance and
sinister views. The result of the deliberations in
that State will have considerable influence on those

tion to which I have assisted to give birth ; but I am fully persuaded it is the
best that can be obtained at this day, and that it or disunion, is before us. If
the first is our choice, when the defects of it are experienced, a constitutional
door is open for amendments and may be adopted in a peaceable manner
without tumult or disorder." — Washington to Charles Carter, 14 December,
1787.

" You have undoubtedly seen my sentiments upon the Constitution in an
extract of a letter written by me to a Gentleman in Fredericksburg, which I
find has circulated pretty generally through the papers ; — I had not the most
distant idea of its ever appearing before the publick, for altho' I have not the
least wish or desire to conceal my sentiments upon the subject from any person
living, yet, as the letter containing the paragraph alluded to was written
upon several other matters quite foreign to this & intended only for that Gen
tleman's own inspection, I did not attend to the manner of expressing my
ideas, or dress them in the language I should have done, if I had the smallest
suspicion of them ever coming to the public eye through that channel." —
Washington to Lincoln, 31 January, 1788.

" I cannot but think, on the whole, that it may have been of service, not
withstanding the scandalous misinterpretations of it which have been at
tempted. As it has evidently the air of a paragraph to a familiar friend, the
omission of an argumentative support of the opinion given will appear to no
candid reader unnatural or improper." — Madison to Washington, 20 February,
1788.

212 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

which are to follow — especially in that of New York
where I fancy the opposition to the form will be
greatest.1

Altho' an inhabitant of this State, I cannot speak
with decision on the publick sentiment of it with
respect to the proposed Constitution — my private
opinion however of the matter is, that it will certainly
be received, but in this opinion I may be mistaken.—
I have not been ten miles from home since my return
to it from Philadelphia — I see few who do not live
within that circle, except Travellers and strangers
and these form opinions upon too slight ground to
be relied on. The opponents of the Constitution are
indefatigable in fabricating and circulating papers,
reports, &c. to its prejudice ; whilst the friends gener
ally content themselves with the goodness of the
cause and the necessity for its adoption, supposing
it wants no other support.

Mrs. Washington, and others of this family with
whom you are acquainted (among which is Colo.
Humphries) join me in every good wish for you,
Mrs. Trumbull and family ; and with sentiments of
the sincerest regard and friendship, I am, &c.

1 " I am very sorry to find that there is likely to be so powerful an opposi
tion to the adoption of the proposed plan of government with you ; and I am
entirely of your opinion, that the business of the convention should be con
ducted with moderation, candor, and fairness, which are not incompatible
with firmness. Although, as you justly observe, the friends of the new system
may bear down the opposition, yet they would never be able, by precipitate
or violent measures, to soothe and reconcile their minds to the exercise of the
government, which is a matter that ought as much as possible to be kept in
view, and temper their proceedings." — Washington to Lincoln, 31 January,
1788.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 213

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 5 February, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am indebted to you for several of your favors, and
thank you for their enclosure. The rumor of war
between France and England has subsided, and the
poor patriots of Holland, it seems, are left to fight
their own battles or negotiate, in either case with no
great prospect of advantage. They must have been
much deceived, or their conduct has been weak, and
precipitate, and absurd. The former, however, I be
lieve is the truth.

I am sorry to find by yours and other accounts
from Massachusetts, that the decision of its conven
tion, (at the time of their respective dates,) remained
problematical. 1 A rejection of the new form by that
State would invigorate the opposition, not only in

1 " The intelligence from Massachusetts begins to be very ominous to the
constitution. The antifederal party is reinforced by the insurgents, and by
the Province of Maine, which apprehends greater obstacles to her scheme of
a separate government from the new system, than may be otherwise experi
enced. And according to the prospect at the date of the latest letters, there
was very great reason to fear, that the voice of that State would be in the
negative. The operation of such an event on this State may easily be foreseen.
Its legislature is now sitting, and is much divided. A majority of the Assem
bly are said to be friendly to the merits of the constitution. A majority of the
senators actually convened are opposed to a submission of it to the convention.
The arrival of the absent members will render the voice of that branch uncertain
on the point of a convention. The decision of Massachusetts either way will
involve the result in this State. The minority in Pennsylvania is very restless
under their defeat. If they can get an Assembly to their wish, they will
endeavour to undermine what has been done there. If backed by Massa
chusetts, they will probably be emboldened to make some more rash experi
ment. The information from Georgia continues to be favorable. The little
we get from South Carolina is of the same complexion." — Madison to Wash
ington, 20 January, 1788.

214 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

New York, but in all those which are to follow ; at
the same time this would afford materials for the
minority, in such as have actually agreed to it, to
blow the trumpet of discord more loudly. The
acceptance by a bare majority, though preferable to
a rejection, is also to be deprecated. It is scarcely
possible to form any decided opinion of the general
sentiment of the people of this State on this point.
Many have asked me with anxious solicitude if you
did not mean to get into the convention, conceiving it
of indispensable necessity. Colonel Mason, who re
turned but yesterday, I am told has offered himself
for Stafford county, and his friends say he can be
elected not only in that, but in the counties of Prince
William and Fauquier also. The truth of this I
know not. I rarely go from home, and my visitors,
who, for the most part are travellers and strangers,
have not the best means of information.

At the time you suggested for my consideration
the expediency of a communication of my sentiments
to any correspondent I might have in Massachusetts
on the proposed constitution, I did not recollect that
General Lincoln and myself frequently interchanged
letters ; much less did I expect, that a hasty and
indigested extract [from a letter] of which I had
written, intermingled with a variety of other matters,
to Colonel Charles Carter in answer to a letter I had
received from him, on the subject of some experi
ments we had made in farming, wolves, wolf-dogs,
sheep, and the Lord knows what else, was then in the
press, and would bring them to public view by means
of the general circulation I find that extract has had.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 215

Although I never have concealed, and am perfectly
regardless who becomes acquainted with my senti
ments with respect to the proposed constitution, yet
nevertheless, as no pains have been taken to dress the
ideas, nor any reasons assigned in support of opinion,
I feel myself hurt by the publication, and informed
my friend the Colo, thereof. In answer, he has fully
acquitted himself of the intention ; but his zeal in the
cause prompted him to distribute copies, (under a
prohibition, which was disregarded,) that it should
not go to the press. As you have seen the crude,
or rude extract, as you may please to term it, I will
add no more on the subject.

Perceiving that the Federalist, under the signature
of PUBLIUS, is about to be republished, I would
thank you for forwarding to me three or four copies,
one of which to be bound, and inform me of the cost.
Although we have not had many or deep snows, yet
we have since the commencement of it, had a very
severe winter, and if this day with you is as much
keener than we now feel it, as the difference of
latitude ought to make it, you will feel a comfort
able fire no bad antidote against cold fingers and
toes. I am, &c.

TO THE CHEVALIER DE LA LUZERNE.

MOUNT VERNON, 7 February, 1788.

SIR,

The Count de Moustier, your successor in office,
hath forwarded from New York the letter, in which
you did me the honor to bring me acquainted with the
merits of that nobleman. Since it is the misfortune

216 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

of America not to be favored any longer with your
residence, it was necessary, to diminish our regrets,
that so worthy and respectable a character should be
appointed your successor. I shall certainly be happy
in cultivating his acquaintance and friendship. The
citizens, from gratitude as well as from personal con
siderations, will, I am persuaded, treat him with the
greatest respect. Congress, I doubt not, will by every
means in their power desire to make his sojourn in
the United States as agreeable as it possibly can be.

But, Sir, you may rest assured that your abilities
and dispositions to serve this country were so well
understood, and your services so properly appreciated,
that the residence of no public minister will ever be
longer remembered, or his absence more sincerely re
gretted. It will not be forgotten, that you were a
witness to the dangers, the sufferings, the exertions,
and the successes of the United States, from the most
perilous crises to the hour of triumph. The influence
of your agency on the cabinet to produce a coopera
tion, and the prowess of your countrymen cooperating
with ours in the field to secure the liberties of
America, have made such an indelible impression on
the public mind, as will never be effaced. Wherever
you may be, our best wishes will follow you. And
such is our confidence in your disinterested friend
ship, that we are certain you will wish to be useful to
us, in whatever mission you may be honored by your
King. It has been surmised, on I know not what
authority, that there was a probability of your being
employed in the diplomatic corps at the court of Lon-

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON, 217

don. Should this be the case, your zeal may still find
occasions of being serviceable to America, and profit
able to your own country at the same time ; for I con
ceive the commercial interests of the two nations are
in many instances blended, and in opposition to those
of Great Britain. * * *

I feel, Sir, not only for myself, but in behalf of my
country, under great obligations for the affectionate
wishes you have the goodness to make, with respect
to the tranquillity and happiness of America. Sepa
rated as we are by a world of water from other
nations, if we are wise, we shall surely avoid being
drawn into the labyrinth of their politics, and involved
in their destructive wars. * * *

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE.

MOUNT VERNON, 7 February, 1788.

MY DEAR MARQUIS,

You know it always gives me the sincerest pleasure
to hear from you, and therefore I need only say, that
your two kind letters of the Qth and I5th of October,
so replete with personal affection and confidential
intelligence, afforded me inexpressible satisfaction. I
shall myself be happy in forming an acquaintance and
cultivating a friendship with the new minister pleni
potentiary of France, whom you have commended as
a " sensible and honest man." These are qualities
too rare and too precious not to merit one's particular
esteem. You may be persuaded, that he will be well

218 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

received by the Congress of the United States, be
cause they will not only be influenced in their conduct
by his individual merits, but also by their affection
for the nation, of whose sovereign he is the represen
tative. For it is an undoubted fact, that the people
of America entertain a grateful remembrance of past
services, as well as a favorable disposition for com
mercial and friendly connexions with your nation.1

You appear to be, as might be expected from a real
friend to this country, anxiously concerned about its
present political situation. So far as I am able, I
shall be happy in gratifying that friendly solicitude.
As to my sentiments with respect to the merits of
the new constitution, I will disclose them without re
serve, (although by passing through the post-office
they should become known to all the world,) for in
truth I have nothing to conceal on that subject. It
appears to me, then, little short of a miracle, that the
delegates from so many different States (which
States you know are also different from each
other), in their manners, circumstances, and preju
dices, should unite in forming a system of national

1 " The fidelity, honor, and bravery of the troops of your nation, to which I
have been a witness, the enlightened sentiments of patriotism, and the delicate
feelings of friendship, which have actuated great numbers of your compatriots,
with whom I may boast the happiness of being intimately connected, and above
all, that lively interest, which your illustrious monarch and his faithful subjects
took in the success of the American arms, and the confirmation of our inde
pendence, have endeared the national character to me, formed attachments and
left impressions, which no distance, time, or contingency of events, can pos
sibly remove. Though but a private citizen myself, and in a measure secluded
from the world, I am conscious the assertion will be [well] founded, when I
venture to affirm, that such are the feelings and such the affections of the
American people." — Washington to Count de J\Ioustier, 7 February, 1788.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 219

government, so little liable to well-founded objections.
Nor am I yet such an enthusiastic, partial, or undis-
criminating admirer of it, as not to perceive it is tinc
tured with some real (though not radical) defects.
The limits of a letter would not suffer me to go fully
into an examination of them ; nor would the discussion
be entertaining or profitable. I therefore forbear to
touch upon it. With regard to the two great points,
(the pivots upon which the whole machine must
move,) my creed is simply,

i st. That the general government is not invested
with more powers, than are indispensably necessary
to perform the functions of a good government ; and
consequently, that no objection ought to be made
against the quantity of power delegated to it.

2ly. That these powers, (as the appointment of all
rulers will for ever arise from, and at short, stated
intervals recur to, the free suffrage of the people,) are
so distributed among the legislative, executive, and
judicial branches, into which the general government
is arranged, that it can never be in danger of degen
erating into a monarchy, an oligarchy, an aristocracy,
or any other despotic or oppressive form, so long as
there shall remain any virtue in the body of the
people.

I would not be understood, my dear Marquis, to
speak of consequences, which may be produced in
the revolution of ages, by corruption of morals,
profligacy of manners, and listlessness for the pres
ervation of the natural and unalienable rights of
mankind, nor of the successful usurpations, that may

220 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

be established at such an impropitious juncture upon
the ruins of liberty, however providently guarded
and secured ; as these are contingencies against
which no human prudence can effectually provide.
It will at least be a recommendation to the proposed
constitution, that it is provided with more checks
and barriers against the introduction of tyranny, and
those of a nature less liable to be surmounted, than
any government hitherto instituted among mortals
hath possessed. We are not to expect perfection in
this world ; but mankind, in modern times, have
apparently made some progress in the science of
government. Should that, which is now offered to
the people of America, be found on experiment less
perfect than it can be made, a constitutional door is
left open for its amelioration.

Some respectable characters have wished, that the
States, after having pointed out whatever alterations
and amendments may be judged necessary, would
appoint another federal convention to modify it upon
those documents. For myself, I have wondered, that
sensible men should not see the impracticability of
this scheme. The members would go fortified with
such instructions, that nothing but discordant ideas
could prevail. Had I but slightly suspected, at the
time when the late convention was in session, that
another convention would not be likely to agree
upon a better form of government, I should now be
confirmed in the fixed belief that they would not
be able to agree upon any system whatever ; so
many, I may add, such contradictory and in my

i ;88] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 221

opinion unfounded objections have been urged
against the system in contemplation, many of which
would operate equally against every efficient govern
ment that might be proposed. I will only add, as a
further opinion founded on the maturest deliberation,
that there is no alternative, no hope of alteration,
no intermediate resting-place, between the adoption
of this, and a recurrence to an unqualified state of
anarchy, with all its deplorable consequences.

Since I had the pleasure of writing to you last,
no material alteration in the political state of affairs
has taken place to change the prospect of the con
stitution's being adopted by nine States or more.
Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey, and Connecti.
cut, have already done it. It is also said Georgia
has acceded. Massachusetts, which is perhaps
thought to be rather more doubtful that when I last
addressed you, is now in convention.

A spirit of emigration to the western country is
very predominant. Congress have sold, in the year
past, a pretty large quantity of land on the Ohio for
public securities, and thereby diminished the domestic
debt considerably. Many of your military acquain
tances, such as the Generals Parsons, Varnum, and
Putnam, the Colonels Tupper, Sprout, and Sherman,
with many more, propose settling there. From such
beginnings much may be expected.

The storm of war between England and your
nation, it seems, is dissipated. I hope and trust
the political affairs in France are taking a favora
ble turn. If the Turks will suffer themselves to

222 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

be precipitated into a war, they must abide the
consequences. Some politicians speculate on a
triple alliance between the two imperial courts and
Versailles.

It gives me great pleasure to learn, that the pres
ent ministry of France are friendly to America, and
that Mr. Jefferson and yourself have a prospect of
accomplishing measures, which will mutually benefit
and improve the commercial intercourse between the
two nations. Every good wish attend you and
yours. I am, &c.

DEAR SIR,

TO ALEXANDER SPOTSWOOD.

MOUNT VERNON, 13 February, 1788.

I think with you, that the life of a husbandman of
all others is the most delectable. It is honorable, it
is amusing, and, with judicious management, it is
profitable. To see plants rise from the earth and
flourish by the superior skill and bounty of the
laborer fills a contemplative mind with ideas which are
more easy to be conceived than expressed.

I am glad to find, that your first essay to raise In
dian corn in drills has succeeded so much to your
satisfaction ; but I am inclined to think, unless
restoratives were more abundant than they are to be
found on common farms, that six feet by two will be
too oppressive to your land. Experience has proved,
that every soil will sink under the growth of this
plant ; whether from the luxuriancy and exhausting

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 223

quality of it, or the manner of tillage, or from both,
is not very certain ; because instead of two thousand
four hundred and twenty plants, which stand on an
acre at six feet square with two stalks in a hill, (as is
usual in land of middling quality,) you have three
thousand six hundred and thirty at six feet by two,
single stalks. How far the exposing of land to the
rays of the sun in summer is injurious, is a question
yet more difficult to solve than the other. My own
opinion of the matter is that it does ; but this contro
verts the practice of summer fallows, which, (espe
cially in heavy land,) some of the best practical
farmers in England contend for as indispensably
necessary, notwithstanding the doctrine of Mr. Young
and many others, who are opposed to them.

The reason, however, which induced me to give my
corn-rows the wide distance of ten feet, was not be
cause I thought it essential to the growth of that
plant, but because I introduced other plants between
them. And this practice, from the experience of two
years, one the wettest, and the other the driest that
ever was felt on my estate, I am resolved to continue
until the inutility of it, or something more advan
tageous, shall point out the expediency of a change.
But I mean to practise it with variations, fixing on
eight by two feet as the medium or standing distance;
which will give more plants by three hundred to the
acre, than six feet each way with two stalks in a hill
will do.

As all my corn will be thus drilled, so between all I
mean to put in drills also potatoes, carrots (as far as

224 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

my seed will go), and turnips, alternately, that not
one sort more than another may have the advantage
of soil, thereby to ascertain the comparative quantity
and value of each of these plants as food for horses
and stock of every kind. From the trials I have
made, (under the disadvantages already mentioned,)
I am well satisfied, that my crop of corn in this way
will equal the yield of the same fields in the usual
mode of cultivation, and that the quantity of potatoes,
proportionate to the number of rows, will quadruple
the corn. I entertain the same opinion with respect
to carrots ; but, being more unlucky in the latter, I
cannot speak with so much confidence, and still less
can I do it with respect to turnips.

From this husbandry, and statement of what I con
ceive to be facts, any given number of acres will yield
as much corn in the new, as they will in the old way,
and will moreover with little or no extra labor produce
four times as many potatoes or carrots, which adds
considerably to the profit from the field. But here it
may be asked, If the land will sustain these crops, or
rather the potatoes in addition to the corn ? This is
a question my own experience does not enable me to
answer. The received opinion of many practical
farmers in England is, that potatoes and carrots are
ameliorators, not exhausters of the soil, preparing it
well for other crops. But I do not scruple to confess,
that, notwithstanding the profit which appears to
result from the growth of corn and potatoes, or corn
and carrots, or both thus blended, my wish is to
exclude Indian corn altogether from my system of

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 225

cropping ; but we are so habituated to the use of this
grain, and it is so much better for negroes than any
other, that it is not to be discarded ; consequently to
introduce it in the most profitable, or least injurious
manner, ought to be the next consideration with the
farmer.

To do this, some are of opinion that a small spot,
set apart solely for the purpose, and kept highly ma
nured, is the best method. And an instance in proof
is adduced, of a gentleman near Baltimore, who for
many years past from the same ground has not made
less than ten barrels to the acre in drills, six feet
apart, and, (if I recollect rightly,) eighteen inches in
the rows. But query, where the farmer has no other
resource than the manure of his own farm, will not his
other crops be starved by this extra allowance to the
Indian corn ? I am inclined to think it will ; and for
that reason I shall try the intermixture of potatoes,
carrots, and turnips, or either, as from practice shall
be found most profitable, with my corn, which shall
become a component part of some regular and sys
tematic plan best adapted to the nature of my soil.

To societies, which have been formed for the en
couragement of agriculture, is the perfection to which
husbandry is now arrived in England indebted.
Why then does not this country (Virginia I mean)
follow so laudable and beneficial an example ? And
particularly why do not the gentlemen in the vicinity
of Fredericksburg begin this work ? Your lands are
peculiarly well adapted to it. There are more of you

in a small circle than I believe is to be found in the
226 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

same compass almost anywhere ; and you are well
able to afford experiments ; from which, and not from
theory, are individuals to derive useful knowledge,
and the public a benefit. My love, to which Mrs.
Washington's is joined, is presented to Mrs. Spots-
wood and I am, &c.

TO SAMUEL GRIFFIN.

MOUNT VERNON, 20 February, 1788.

I have been duly honored and greatly affected with
the receipt of the resolution of the visitors and gov
ernors of -William and Mary College, appointing me
chancellor of the same, and have to thank you for
your polite attention in the transmission. Not know
ing particularly what duties, or whether any active
services, are immediately expected from the person
holding the office of chancellor, I have been greatly
embarrassed in deciding upon the public answer
proper to be given. It is for that reason I have
chosen to explain in this private communication
my situation and feelings, and to defer an ultimate
decision until I shall have been favored with farther
information on this subject.

My difficulties are briefly these. On the one hand,
nothing in this world could be farther from my heart,
than a want of respect for the worthy gentlemen in
question, or a refusal of the appointment with which
they have honored me, provided its duties are not
incompatible with the mode of life to which I have
entirely addicted myself ; and, on the other hand, I
would not for any consideration disappoint the just

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 227

expectations of the convocation by accepting an office,
whose functions I previously knew, (from my preen-
gagements and occupations,) I should be absolutely
unable to perform.

Although as I observed before, I know not specifi
cally what those functions are, yet, Sir, I have con
ceived that a principal duty required of the chancellor
might be a regular and indispensable visitation once,
or perhaps twice, a year. Should this be expected, I
must decline accepting the office. For, notwithstand
ing I most sincerely and ardently wish to afford what
ever little influence I may possess, in patronizing the
cause of science, I cannot, at my time of life and in my
actual state of retirement, persuade myself to engage
in new and extensive avocations.

Such being the sentiments of a heart unaccustomed
to disguise, I flatter myself the candid manner in
which I have explained them, cannot be displeasing
to the convocation ; and that the intervening delay
between the present, and the moment in which I shall
have the pleasure of receiving such ulterior explana
tions as may enable me to give a definitive answer, will
not prove very detrimental to the collegiate interests.
I am, &C.1

1 Mr. Griffin sent to him an extract from the statute respecting the duties of
the Chancellor, which runs thus: " The Chancellor is to be the Maecenas, or
patron of the college, such a one as by his favor with the King, and by his
interest with all other persons in England, may be enabled to help on all the
college affairs. His advice is to be taken, especially in all such arduous and
momentous affairs, as the college shall have to do in England. If the college
has any petitions at any time to the King, let them be presented by their Chan
cellor. If the college wants a new president, or professor, or master, let the
college senate rely chiefly on his assistance, advice, and recommendation."
Mr. Griffin added, that neither an oath nor personal attendance was necessary.

228 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

TO BENJAMIN LINCOLN.

MOUNT VERNON, 28 February, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have to acknowledge the receipt of your three
letters of the 3d, 6th, and Qth instant. The informa
tion conveyed by the last was extremely pleasing to
me, though I cannot say it was altogether unexpected,
as the tenor of your former letters had, in some meas
ure, prepared me for the event ; but the conduct of
the minority was more satisfactory than could have
been expected.1 The full and fair discussion, which
you gave the subject in your convention, was attended

The Bishop of London had been the last Chancellor. Upon these facts Wash
ington wrote to Mr Griffin, 30 April, 1788:

" Influenced by a heartfelt desire to promote the cause of science in
general, and the prosperity of the College of William and Mary in particular, I
accept the office of chancellor in the same ; and request you will be pleased to
give official notice thereof to the learned body, who have thought proper to honor
me with the appointment. I confide fully in their strenuous endeavors for placing
the system of education on such a basis, as will render it most beneficial to the
State and the republic of letters, as well as to the more extensive interests of
humanity and religion. In return, they will do me the justice to believe, that I
shall not be tardy in giving my cheerful concurrence to such measures, as may
be best calculated for the attainment of those desirable and important objects."

1 The Massachusetts Convention closed its session 6 February, 1788, by
adopting the Constitution. Washington had written to Lincoln on the nth,
before the news of the result had reached him :

"It is unhappy that a matter of such high importance cannot be discussed
with that candor and moderation which would throw light on the subject, and
place its merits in a proper point of view. But in an assembly so large as your
convention must be, and composed of such various and opposite characters, it
is almost impossible but that some things will occur which would rouse the
passions of the most moderate man on earth."

Lincoln had written on the gth :

"Considering the great disorders, which took place in this State the last
winter, and considering the great influence, that the spirit which then reigned
has had since upon all our operations, it may be supposed, that we have got
through this business pretty well ; and, considering also, that when we came
together a very decided majority of the convention were against adopting the

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 229

with the happiest consequences. It afforded com
plete information to all those, who went thither with
dispositions to be informed, and at the same time
gave an opportunity to confute and point out the fal
lacy of those specious arguments, which were offered
in opposition to the proposed government. Nor is
this all. The conciliating behavior of the minority
will strike a damp on the hopes, which opponents in
other States might otherwise have formed from the
smallness of the majority, and must be greatly influ
ential in obtaining a favorable determination in those
States, which have not yet decided upon it.1

constitution. Every exertion will be made to inform the people, and to quiet
their minds. It is very fortunate for us, that the clergy are pretty generally
with us. They have in this State a very great influence over the people, and
they will contribute much to the general peace and happiness."

" The constitution has labored in Massachusetts exceedingly more than was
expected. The opposition has not arisen from a consideration of the merits
or demerits of the thing itself, as a political machine, but from a deadly prin
ciple levelled at the existence of all government whatever. The principle of
insurgency expanded, deriving fresh strength and life from the impunity with
which the rebellion of last year was suffered to escape. It is a singular circum
stance that in Massachusetts the property, the ability, and the virtue of the
State, are almost solely in favor of the constitution. Opposed to it are the late
insurgents, and all those who abetted their designs, constituting four fifths of
the opposition. A few, very few indeed, well-meaning people are joined to
them. The friends of the constitution in that State, without overrating their
own importance, conceive that the decision of Massachusetts would most
probably settle the fate of the proposition. They therefore proceeded most
cautiously and wisely, debated every objection with the most guarded good na
ture and candor, but took no questions on the several paragraphs, and thereby
prevented the establishment of parties. This conduct has been attended with
the most beneficial consequences. It is now no secret, that, on the opening of
the convention, a majority were prejudiced against it." — Knox to Washington,
IO February, 1788.

1 To Knox he wrote on 3 March, 1788, that the decision of Massachusetts
would be " very influential on the equivocal States. . . . Candor and pru
dence, therefore, it is to be hoped will prevail ; and yet I believe there are
some characters among us, who would hazard every thing rather than cease

23o THE WRITINGS OF [1788

These is not perhaps a man in Virginia less quali
fied than I am to say, from his own knowledge and
observation, what will be the fate of the constitution
here ; for I very seldom ride beyond the limits of my
own farms, and am wholly indebted to those gentle
men who visit me for any information of the disposi
tion of the people towards it ; but from all I can
collect, I have not the smallest doubt of its being
accepted.

I thank you, my dear Sir, for the accounts which
you have, from time to time, transmitted me since the
meeting of your convention. Nothing could have
been more grateful or acceptable to me. I am also
obliged by your promise to inform me of any impor
tant matters, that may transpire ; and you know I
shall at all times be happy to hear of your welfare.
Mrs. Washington joins me in compliments to Mrs.
Lincoln and yourself. I am, dear Sir, &c.

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 2 March, 1788.

SIR,

The decision of Massachusetts, notwithstanding its

o

concomitants,1 is a severe stroke to the opponents of
the proposed constitution in this State ; and, with the
favorable decision of those which have gone before it,
and such as are likely to follow after, will have a

their opposition, or leave to the operation of the government the chance of
proving the fallacy of their predictions of it, by which their sagacity and fore
sight might be impeached."

1 The proposed amendments, which Madison thought were " a blemish, but
are in the least offensive form."

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 231

powerful operation on the minds of men, who are not
more influenced by passion, pique, and resentment,
than they are by candor, moderation, and judgment.
Of the former description, however, I am sorry to say
there are too many ; and among them some, who
would hazard every thing rather than fail in their
opposition, or have the sagacity of their prognosti
cations impeached by the issue.

The determination you have come to, will give
much pleasure to your friends.1 From those in your
county you will learn with more certainty, than from
me, the expediency of your attending the election in
it. With some, to have differed in sentiment is to
have passed the Rubicon of their friendship, although
you should go no further ; with others, (for the honor
of humanity,) I hope there is more liberality. But
the consciousness of having discharged that duty,
which we owe to our country, is superior to all other
considerations, and will put these out of the question.

His Most Christian Majesty speaks and acts in a
style not very pleasing to republican ears, or to repub
lican forms ; nor do I think it is altogether so to the
temper of his own subjects at this day. Liberty,
when it begins to take root, is a plant of rapid growth.
The checks he endeavors to give it, however war
ranted by ancient usage, will more than probably
kindle a flame, which may not be easily extinguished
though it may be smothered for a while by the armies
at his command and the nobility in his interest.

1 A determination to allow his friends in Orange County, Virginia, to support
his election as a delegate from that county to the State convention, which was
to decide on the new constitution.

232 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

When a people are oppressed with taxes, and have
a cause to believe that there has been a misapplica
tion of the money, they illy brook the language of
despotism. This, and the mortification, which the
pride of the nation must have undergone with respect
to the affairs of Holland, (if it is fair to judge from
appearances,) may be productive of events, which
prudence forbids one to mention.

To-morrow the elections for delegates to the State
convention begin ; and, as they will tread close upon
the heels of each other, it will make an interesting
and important month. With the most friendly senti
ments and affectionate regard, I am. &c.1

TO SAMUEL HANSON, ESQ.

MOUNT VERNON, 18 March, 1788.

SIR,

Your letter of the i6th Inst. was handed me yes
terday in Alexandria as I was going to dinner — pre-

1 " At the end of the present month we shall be able to form a tolerable judg
ment of what may be its fate here ; as our returns for the delegates to the con
vention will be known at that time, and the characters chosen will be pretty
generally decided in their opinions upon the matter before their delegation, as
that will determine the people in their choice. The general tenor of the infor
mation, which I derive from those gentlemen who call upon me, seems to agree
in the opposition's losing ground, and that nothing is wanting to render the
people so favorably disposed towards it, as to put the decision beyond a doubt,
but a proper representation and information upon the subject. The opponents
are indefatigable in their exertions, while the friends to the constitution seem
to rest the issue upon the goodness of their cause. There will undoubtedly be
a greater weight of abilities against the adoption in this convention than in any
other. We had a right to expect it from the characters, who first declared
against it here ; but, notwithstanding this, my own opinion is, (as it has ever
been,) that it will be received." — Washington to Lincoln, 10 March, 1788.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 233

vious to that I had seen my nephew George Washing
ton, and asked him if he had heard of any suitable
place for himself and Lawrence to board at after
their quarter with Mr. McWhir expired ; he told me
that it was probable a place might be obtained at a
Mrs. Sandford's ; — I desired him to inform himself of
the terms, &c. and let me know them ; as I had not
an opportunity of seeing him again before I left town
to know the result of his enquiries, it is not at this
moment, in my power to give a decided answer to
your offer of taking them again into your family.

Your candid and free communications respecting
the conduct of my Nephews, while with you, meet my
warmest approbation and deserve my best thanks,
and I should think myself inexcusable, if, upon this
occasion, I did not act a part equally open and can
did, by informing you of general allegations which
they have, from time to time, offered on their part,
viz : They having been frequently detained from
school in the morning beyond their proper hour, in
consequence of not having their breakfast seasonably
provided, and sometimes obliged to go to school with
out any. — They have likewise complained of their not
being permitted to dine with company at the House,
and served indifferently in another place afterwards,
and, after being a short time with Mr. McWhir, they
made application for shirts, and upon being asked
what they had done with those which were made for
them not long before, they replied that the manner of
washing them at Mr. Hanson's (in Lye without soap)
had entirely destroyed them.

234 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

This communication, Sir, cannot, I think, be dis
pleasing to a person of your candor. — I do not state
the above as facts but merely as the reports of the
boys, and if they should live with you again it will
undoubtedly have a good effect by shewing them that
their reports will always be made known to you, and
the truth or falsehood of them discovered.

The motive which first induced me to put the Boys
with you, explained upon a former occasion, together
with the advantage of throwing them into company,
will still operate, and incline me to give a preference
to your House upon terms nearly equal in other
respects but I cannot decide upon the matter till I
know the result of George's enquiries, and so soon
as I do, you may depend upon hearing further from
Sir, &c.

TO THE COUNT DE MOUSTIER.

MOUNT VERNON, 26 March, 1788.

SIR,

I have received the letter, which your Excellency
did me the honor of addressing to me by the hand of
Mr. Madison. While I am highly gratified with the
justice you do me in appreciating the friendly senti
ments I entertain for the French nation, I cannot
avoid being equally astonished and mortified in learn
ing, that you have met with any subject of discontent
or inquietude since your arrival in America.1 Be
assured, Sir, as nothing could have been more unex-

1 The French minister had fancied himself neglected in certain points of
etiquette, in which his rank as a public functionary was not recognised in such
a manner as he expected.

1 788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 235

pected, so nothing can now give me greater pleasure,
than to be instrumental in removing, as far as may
be in the power of a private citizen as I am, every
occasion of \ineasiness that may have occurred. I
have even hoped, from the short time of your resi
dence here, and the partial acquaintance you may
have had with the characters of the persons, that a
natural distance in behavior and reserve in address
may have appeared as intentional coldness and neg
lect. I am sensible that the apology itself, though it
should be well founded, would be but an indifferent
one, yet it will be better than none, while it served to
prove, that it is our misfortune not to have the same
cheerfulness in appearance and facility in deportment,
which some nations possess, and this I believe in
a certain degree to be the real fact ; and that such a
reception is sometimes given by individuals, as may
affect a foreigner with very disagreeable sensations,
when not the least shadow of an affront is intended.
As I know the predilections of most of our leading
characters for your nation ; as I had seen the clearest
proofs of affection for your King given by the people
of this country, on the birth of the Dauphin ; as I
had heard before the receipt of your letter, that you
had been received at your public audience by Con
gress with all the marks of attention, which had ever
been bestowed upon a representative of any sovereign
power ; and as I found that your personal character
stood in the fairest point of light ; I must confess I
could not have conceived, that there was one person
in public office in the United states capable of having

236 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

treated with indifference, much less with indignity,
the representative from a court, with which we have
ever been upon the most friendly terms. And confi
dent I am, that it is only necessary for such conduct
to be known to be detested.

But in the mean [time,] so ardently do I wish to
efface any ill impressions, which may have been made
upon your Excellency's mind to the prejudice of the
public by individuals, that I must again repeat, that I
am egregiously deceived if the people of this country
are not in general extremely well effected to France.
The prejudices against that kingdom had been so
riveted by our English connexion and English policy,
that it was some time before our people could get en
tirely the better of them. This, however, was thor
oughly accomplished in the course of the war. And
I may venture to say, that a greater revolution never
took place in the sentiments of our people respecting
another. Now, as none of their former attachments
have been revived for Britain, and as no subject of
uneasiness has turned up with respect to France, any
disgust or enmity to the latter would involve a mystery
beyond my comprehension. For I had always believed,
that some apparent cause, powerful in its nature and
progressive in its operation, must be employed to
produce a change in national sentiments. But no
prejudice has been revived, no jealousy excited (to my
knowledge,) which could have wrought a revolution
unfriendly to your nation. If one or a few persons
in New York have given a different specimen of think
ing and acting, I rely too much upon your candor to

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 237

apprehend, that you will impute it to the American
people at large.

I am happy to learn, that your Excellency is medi
tating to strengthen the commercial ties that connect
the two nations, and that your ideas of effecting it, by
placing the arrangement upon the basis of mutual ad
vantages, coincide exactly with my own. Treaties,
which are not built upon reciprocal benefits, are not
likely to be of long duration. Warmly as I wish to
second your views, it is a subject of regret, that my
little acquaintance with commercial affairs, and my
seclusion from public life, have not put me in a state
of preparation to answer your several questions with
accuracy. I will endeavor to inform myself of the
most interesting particulars, and shall take a pleasure
in communicating the result.

At present I can only remark, that I think the taste
for many articles of French merchandise is rather
increasing. Still there are three circumstances, which
are thought to give the British merchant an advan
tage over all others.

i st. Their extensive credit, which, I confess, I wish
to see abolished.

2d. Their having in one place magazines contain
ing all kinds of articles, that can be required.

3d. Their knowledge of the precise kinds of mer
chandise and fabrics which are wanted.

For my own part I could wish to see the time when
no credit should be given. Attention and experience
in the American trade would enable the French mer
chants, I apprehend, to accommodate our markets in

238 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

other respects. Between this country and England
many causes of irritation exist, and it is not impossi
ble but that the ill policy of the British court may
accelerate the removal of our trade into other chan
nels. I am, &c.

TO HENRY KNOX.

MOUNT VERNON, 30 March, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

Your favor of the loth came duly to hand, and by
Mr. Madison I had the pleasure to hear that you had
recovered from a severe illness. On this event I sin
cerely congratulate you. The conduct of the State
of New Hampshire has baffled all calculation, and has
come extremely malapropos for a favorable decision
on the proposed constitution in this State ; for, be
the real cause of the late adjournment what it may,
the anti-federal party with us do not scruple to pro
nounce, that it was done to await the issue of this
convention before it would decide, and add, that, if
this State should reject it, all those who are to follow
will do the same, and consequently that it cannot
obtain, as there will be only eight States in favor of
the measure.1

1 A majority of the New Hampshire convention was, contrary to the expecta
tions of those who had followed her elections, opposed to the constitution. In
a short time a small majority was in its favor, but the converts were bound by
their instructions, and the Convention adjourned to suffer them to consult their
constituents. Bancroft asserts that the argument having the greatest weight
was that as a small State, it would be prudent for New Hampshire to wait
and see what the other States would do.

"Circumstanced as your convention was, an adjournment was certainly pru
dent, but it happened very malapropos for this State, because the concurrent

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 239

Had it not been for this untoward event, the oppo
sition would have proved entirely unavailing in this
State, notwithstanding the unfair (I might without
much impropriety have made use of a harsher ex
pression) conduct, which has been practised to rouse
the fears and to inflame the minds of the people.
What will be the result now, is not for me to say, as
I have seen but a partial return of the delegates, and
have little or no knowledge of the political sentiments
of many of them. In the northern part of the State
the current of sentiment, (I know,) is generally in
favor of the new form. In the southern part, I am
told, it is the reverse. Whilst in deciding the ques
tion, and here the idea of its becoming an impediment
to its separation from this, operates thoroughly, whilst
pains have not been wanting to inculcate a belief, that
the general government proposed will, without scru
ple or delay, barter away their rights to navigation of
the Mississippi.1

information from that quarter would have justified the expectation of a una
nimity in the convention ; whereas an account so opposite to every former one,
having arrived at the very time when the elections were carrying on here, gave
an opportunity to the opponents of the proposed constitution to hold up to the
people its not having been so generally approved of in other States as they had
been taught to believe, and of consequence prepared them to receive other im
pressions unfriendly to the government and tending to influence their votes in
favor of antifederal characters." — Washington to John Langdon, 2 April 1788.
1 " This, however, I may say, that the northern, or upper Counties are gen
erally friendly to the adoption of the government ; the lower are said to be gen
erally unfriendly, the sentiments of the western parts of the States are not fully
known, but no means have been left untried to prejudice them against the sys
tem, every art that could inflame the passions or touch the interests of men have
been essayed ; — the ignorant have been told that should the proposed govern
ment obtain, their lands would be taken from them and their property disposed
of ; — and all ranks are informed that the prohibition of the Navigation of the

240 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

The postponement in New Hampshire will give
strength and vigor to the opposition in New York,
and possibly render Rhode Island more tardy than
she would otherwise have been, if all the New Eng
land States had adopted the measure. Mrs. Wash
ington joins in every good wish for Mrs Knox, your
self & family, &c. I am, &c.

TO CHARLES LEE.

MOUNT VERNON, 4 April, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

I am very sorry I have not yet been able to dis
charge my account with the James River Company,
for the amount of which you presented me with an
order.

The almost total loss of my crop last year by the
drought, which has obliged me to purchase upwards
of eight hundred barrels of corn, and my other nu
merous and necessary demands for cash, when I find
it impossible to obtain what is due to me by any
means, have caused me more perplexity and given me

Mississippi (their favorite object) will be a certain consequence of the adoption
of the Constitution. But notwithstanding these unfair and unjust representa
tions, I have the fullest confidence in its being received in this State." — Wash
ington to Lincoln, 2 April 1788.

" I have not at any moment, despaired of this State's acceptance of the new
Constitution, since the ratification of Maryland by so large and decided a ma
jority. The fury of the opposition, I believe, is spent, and the grand push was
made at the Elections ; failing of success therein, the hopes of its leaders begin
to flag, and many of them, or I am mistaken, wish the business was to com
mence de novo — in which case a different line of march would be taken up by
some of them." — Washington to Gouverneur Morris, 2 May, 1788.

iy88] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 241

more uneasiness than I ever experienced before from
the want of money. In addition to the disappoint
ments, which I have met with from those who are
indebted to me, I have in my hands a number of
indents and other public securities, which I have
received from time to time as the interest of some
Continental loan-office certificates, which are in my
possession. As I am so little conversant in public
securities of every kind, as not to know the use or
value of them, and hardly the difference of one species
from another, I have kept them by me from year to
year without having an idea that they would depre
ciate, as they were drawn for interest, and never
doubting but they would be received in payment of
taxes at any time, till I have found by the revenue
law of the last session, that only a particular descrip
tion of them will pay the taxes of the year 1 787. The
others pay all arrearages of taxes, and I am informed
are not worth more than two shillings and sixpence
in the pound. The injustice of this measure is too
obvious and too glaring to pass unobserved. It is
taxing the honest man for his punctuality, and reward
ing the tardy or dishonest with the sum of seventeen
shillings and sixpence in every pound which is due
from him for taxes. As you are now in Richmond I take
the liberty of enclosing to you (in a letter from Mr.
Pendleton) a certificate for a negro executed in the
year 1781, amounting to ^69, which I will thank you
to negotiate for me there upon the best terms you can
and pay the proceeds thereof in behalf of what is due
from me to the James River Company. — The princi-
242 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

pal for the negro, and three years interest thereon
(which is all that was allowed) amounted to ,£133,
which was divided into two certificates, one receivable
in the taxes now due, which I retain to discharge
part of my taxes for the year 1787, and the other you
have with this. Upon what principle of justice interest
is allowed on the above certificates from the ist of
Jany, 1785 only my ideas are not sufficiently compre
hensive to understand, and if it should fall in your way
to inquire, should be glad to know ; as also what will
or is likely to be the final result of my holding the
certificates, which have been given to me for interest
of the money I lent the public in the day of its dis
tress. I am well apprized, that these are negotiable
things as above, and when a person is obliged to part
with them, he must, as with other commodities at mar
ket, take what they will fetch ; but the object of my
inquiry is to know what the final end of them will be
if retained in my chest. Strange indeed it seems,
that the public officers should take in the original cer
tificates, issued new by a scale of their own, reducing the
money, as they say, to specie value, give warrants for
interest accordingly, and then, behold ! these specie
warrants are worth two shillings and sixpence in the
pound. To commit them to the flames, or suffer this,
is a matter of indifference to me. There can be no
justice, where there are such practices. You will
pardon me for dwelling so long upon this subject. It
is a matter, which does not concern me alone, but
must affect many others. With great esteem and
regard, I am, &c.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 243

TO JAMES WILSON.

MOUNT VERNON, 4 April, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

You will please to accept of my best thanks for the
copy of the debates of your late convention,1 which
you have been so polite as to send me. That, to
gether with your favor of the nth ultimo, was
handed to me by Mr. Madison. The violent proceed
ings of the enemies of the proposed constitution in
your State are to be regretted, as disturbing the peace
of society ; but in any other point of view they are
not to be regarded, for their unimportance effectually
precludes any fear of their having an extensive or
lasting influence, and their activity holds up to view
the general cast and character of them, which need
only to be seen to be disregarded.

It is impossible to say, with any degree of certainty,
what will be the determination of the convention in
this State upon the proposed plan of government. I
have no opportunity of gaining information respect
ing the matter, but what comes through the medium
of the newspapers, or from those gentlemen who visit
me, as I have hardly been ten miles from my farm
since my return from Philadelphia. Some judgment
may be formed when the members chosen by the sev
eral counties to serve in convention are known ; as
their sentiments will be decided, and their choice de
termined, by their attachment or opposition to the
proposed system. A majority of those names I have

1 The notable volume on Pennsylvania and the Federal Constitution 1787-
88, edited by John Bach McMaster and Fred. D. Stone, gives a full and com
plete picture of this factional contest.

244 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

yet seen are said to be friendly to the constitution ;
but these are from the northern parts of the State,
from whence less opposition was to be expected. It
is, however, certain, that there will be a greater weight
of abilities opposed to it here than in any other State.
I am, &c.

TO THOMAS JOHNSON.

MOUNT VERNON, 20 April, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

As well from report, as from the ideas expressed to
me in your letter in December last, I am led to con
clude, that you are disposed, (circumstanced as our
public affairs are at present,) to ratify the constitu
tion, which has been submitted to the people by the
federal convention ; and, under this impression, I take
the liberty of expressing a single sentiment on the
occasion. It is, that an adjournment, if attempted,
of your convention,1 to a later period than the deci
sion of the question in this State, will be tantamount
to the rejection of the constitution. I have good
reasons for this opinion, and am told it is the blow
which the leading characters of the opposition in the
next State have meditated,* if it shall be found that a
direct attack is not likely to succeed in yours. If this
be true it cannot be too much deprecated and guarded
against. The postponement in New Hampshire, (al
though it made no reference to the convention of this
State, but proceeded altogether from the local cir-

1 The convention in the State of Maryland.

'That is, the next in which a convention shall assemble after that of Mary
land.

I788J GEORGE WASHINGTON. 245

cumstances of its own,) is ascribed by the opposition
here to complaisance towards Virginia, and great use
is made of it. An event similar to this in Maryland
would have the worst tendency imaginable ; for inde
cision there would certainly have considerable influ
ence upon South Carolina, the only other State, which
is to precede Virginia, and submits the question almost
wholly to the determination of the latter. The pride
of the State is already touched upon this string, and
will be raised much higher if there is fresh cause.

The sentiments of Kentucky are not yet known
here. Independent of these, the parties in this State,
from the known or presumed opinions of the members,
are pretty equally balanced. The one in favor of the
constitution preponderates at present ; but a little mat
ter, cast into the opposite scale, may make it heaviest.

If, in suggesting this matter, I have exceeded the
proper limit, I shall yet hope to be excused. I have
but one public wish remaining. It is, that in peace
and retirement I may see this country rescued from
the danger which is pending, and rise into respecta
bility, maugre the intrigues of its public and private
enemies.

I am, with very great esteem and regard, &C.1

1 "Since then I was informed by the Honorable James Mercer, that his
brother, Col. John Mercer, who was at that time (July loth,) in this town
[Fredericksburg], was furnished with documents to prove that Genl. Washing
ton had wrote a letter upon the present Constitution, to Governor Johnson, of
Maryland ; and that Governor Johnson was so much displeased with the officious-
ness of Genl. Washington, as to induce him to take an active part in bringing
about the amendments proposed by a committee of the Convention of Mary
land." — Dr. Brooks to David Stuart. The rumor was, of course, false: but
Washington sent the extract to Governor Johnson and enquired whether it

246 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

TO THE MARQUIS DE CHASTELLUX.

MOUNT VERNON, 25 April, 1788.

MY DEAR MARQUIS,

In reading your very friendly and acceptable letter,
of 2 ist Deer., 1787, which came to hand by the last
mail, I was, as you may well suppose, not less de
lighted than surprised to meet the plain American
words, " my wife." A wife ! Well, my dear Mar
quis, I can hardly refrain from smiling to find you are
caught at last. I saw, by the eulogium you often
made on the happiness of domestic life in America,
that you had swallowed the bait, and that you would
as surely be taken, one day or another, as that you
were a philosopher and a soldier. So your day has
at length come. I am glad of it, with all my heart
and soul. It is quite good enough for you. Now
you are well served for coming to fight in favor of the
American rebels, all the way across the Atlantic
Ocean, by catching that terrible contagion — domestic
felicity — which time, like the small pox or the plague,
a man can have only once in his life : because it com
monly lasts him (at least with us in America — I dont
know how you manage these matters in France) for his
whole life time. And yet after all the maledictions
you so richly merit on the subject, the worst wish
which I can find in my heart to make against Madame
de Chastellux and yourself is, that you may neither of
you ever get the better of this same — domestic feli
city during the entire course of your mortal existence.

was a true statement, or "the document and interpretation of this matter by
Colo. Mercer is the effect of one of those mistakes, which he is so liable to fall
into." — Washington to Johnson, 31 August, 1788.

1 7 88] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 247

If so wonderful an event should have occasioned
me, my dear Marquis, to have written in a strange
style — you will understand me as clearly as if I had
said (what in plain English, is the simple truth) do
me the justice to believe that I take a heartfelt inter
est in whatever concerns your happiness. And in
this view I sincerely congratulate you on your auspi
cious matrimonial connection. I am happy to find
that Madame de Chastellux is so intimately connected
with the Dutchess of Orleans, as I have always un
derstood that this noble lady was an illustrious pat
tern of connubial love, as well as an excellent model
of virtue in general.

While you have been making love, under the ban
ner of Hymen, the great Personages in the North
have been making war, under the inspiration, or rather
under the infatuation of Mars. Now, for my part, I
humbly conceive, you have had much the best and
wisest of the bargain. For certainly it is more con
sonant to all the principles of reason and religion
(natural and revealed) to replenish the earth with
inhabitants, rather than to depopulate it by killing
those already in existence, besides it is time for the
age of knight-errantry and mad-heroism to be at an
end. Your young military men, who want to reap the
harvest of laurels, don't care (I suppose) how many
seeds of war are sown ; but for the sake of humanity
it is devoutly to be wished, that the manly employ
ment of agriculture, and the humanizing benefits of
commerce, would supersede the waste of war and the
rage of conquest ; and the swords might be turned

248 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

into ploughshares, the spears into pruninghooks, and,
as the Scripture expresses it, " the nations learn war

no more."

Now I will give you a little news from this side of
the water, and then finish. As for us, we are plod
ding on in the dull road of peace and politics. We,
who live in these ends of the earth, only hear of the
rumors of war like the roar of distant thunder. It is
to be hoped, that our remote local situation will pre
vent us from being swept into its vortex.

The constitution, which was proposed by the fed
eral convention, has been adopted by the States of
Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylva
nia, Delaware, and Georgia. No State has rejected
it. The convention of Maryland is now sitting, and
will probably adopt it ; as that of South Carolina is
expected to do in May. The other conventions will
assemble early in the summer. Hitherto there has
been much greater unanimity in favor of the proposed
government, than could have reasonably been ex
pected. Should it be adopted, (and I think it will
be,) America will lift up her head again, and in a few
years become respectable among the nations. It is a
flattering and consolatory reflection, that our rising
republics have the good wishes of all the philosophers,
patriots, and virtuous men in all nations ; and that
they look upon them as a kind of asylum for man
kind. God grant that we may not disappoint their
honest expectations by our folly orperverseness. * * *

With sentiments of the purest attachment and es
teem, I have the honor to be, my dear Marquis, &c.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 249

TO JOHN ARMSTRONG.

MOUNT VERNON, 25 April, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

From some cause or other, which I do not know,
your favor of the 2Oth of February did not reach me
till very lately. This must apologize for its not being
sooner acknowledged. Although Colonel Elaine for
got to call upon me for a letter before he left Phila
delphia, yet I wrote a few lines to you previous to my
departure from that place ; whether they ever got to
your hands, you best know.

I well remember the observation you made in
your letter to me of last year, " that my domestic
retirement must surfer an interruption." This took
place, notwithstanding it was utterly repugnant to my
feelings, my interests, and my wishes. I sacrificed
every private consideration, and personal enjoyment,
to the earnest and pressing solicitations of those,
who saw and knew the alarming situation of our
public concerns, and had no other end in view but
to promote the interests of their country ; conceiving,
that under those circumstances, and at so critical a
moment, an absolute refusal to act might on my part
be construed as a total disregard of my country, if
imputed to no worse motives. Although you say
the same motives induce you to think, that another
tour of duty of this kind will fall to my lot, I
cannot but hope, that you will be disappointed ; for
I am so wedded to a state of retirement, and find
the occupations of a rural life so congenial with
my feelings, that to be drawn into public at my ad-

250 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

vanced age would be a sacrifice, that would admit
of no compensation.1

Your remarks on the impressions, which will be
made on the manners and sentiments of the people by
the example of those, who are first called to act under
the proposed government, are very just ; and I have
no doubt but, if the proposed constitution obtains
those persons who are chosen to administer it will
have wisdom enough to discern the influence, which
their example as rulers and legislators may have on
the body of the people, and will have virtue enough
to pursue that line of conduct, which will most con
duce to the happiness of their country. As the first
transactions of a nation, like those of an individual
upon his first entrance into life, make the deepest
impression, and are to form the leading traits in his
character, they will undoubtedly pursue those meas
ures, which will best tend to the restoration of public

1 " Old as I am, I rejoice at the high probability, and therefore near prospect,
of a general adoption of the federal constitution. This hope leads us on to the
use of that system, in which the federal voice of Pennsylvania stands ready to
announce your Excellency the first president of the Union. In this there needs
be little hesitation amongst the citizens, but not so with you. Persuaded as I
am it will cost you much anxious thought, nevertheless, if the call of God is
manifested to you in a plenary or unanimous call of the people, I hope that
will obviate every objection ; if not for the whole term of four years, at least
for half that time, if health admit ; considering, as you will, that we were not
made for ourselves therefore must not live to ourselves. My sole reason for these
early hints is, that by a divine blessing you maybe made instrumental in giving
a wise and useful example to successors, in more things than what maybe merely
essential to the office. I had like to be so imprudent as to mention a few, but
am checked, not by modesty alone, but by former demonstrations, that you will
have in full view all I mean and much more. The more dissipated customs
of the age, prompted by elevation of rank, national dignity, and other inflated
ideas, will but too probably contrast themselves to national economy, real dig
nity and private virtue too." — Armstrong to Washington, 20 February, 1788.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 251

and private faith, and of consequence promote our
national respectability and individual welfare.

That the proposed constitution will admit of amend
ments is acknowledged by its warmest advocates ;
but to make such amendments as may be proposed
by the several States the condition of its adoption
would, in my opinion, amount to a complete rejection
of it ; for, upon examination of the objections, which
are made by the opponents in different States, and the
amendments, which have been proposed, it will be
found, that what would be a favorite object with one
State, is the very thing which is strenuously opposed
by another. The truth is, men are too apt to be
swayed by local prejudices, and those, who are so
fond of amendments, which have the particular in
terest of their own States in view, cannot extend their
ideas to the general welfare of the Union. They do
not consider, that, for every sacrifice which they make,
they receive an ample compensation by the sacrifices,
which are made by other States for their benefit ;
and that those very things, which they give up, operate
to their advantage through the medium of the great
interest.

In addition to these considerations it should be re
membered, that a constitutional door is opened for
such amendments, as shall be thought necessary by
nine States. When I reflect upon these circumstances,
I am surprised to find, that any person, who is ac
quainted with the critical state of our public affairs,
and knows the variety of views, interests, feelings,
and prejudices, which must be consulted in framing a

252 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

general government for these States, and how little
propositions in themselves so opposite to each other
will tend to promote that desirable end, can wish to
make amendments the ultimatum for adopting the
offered system.

I am very glad to find, that the opposition in your
State, however formidable it has been represented, is
generally speaking composed of such characters, as
cannot have an extensive influence. Their strength,
as well as that of those in the same class in other
States, seems to lie in misrepresentation, and a desire
to inflame the passions and to alarm the fears by noisy
declamation, rather than to convince the understand
ing by sound arguments or fair and impartial state
ments. Baffled in their attacks upon the constitution,
they have attempted to vilify and debase the charac
ters, who formed it ; but even here I trust they will
not succeed. Upon the whole, I doubt whether the
opposition to the constitution will not ultimately be
productive of more good than evil. It has called
forth in its defence abilities which would not perhaps
have been otherwise expected that have thrown new
light upon the science of government. It has given
the rights of man a full and fair discussion, and ex
plained them in so clear and forcible a manner, as
cannot fail to make a lasting impression upon those,
who read the best publications on the subject, and
particularly the pieces under the signature of PUB-
LIUS. There will be a greater weight of abilities op
posed to the system in the convention of this State,
than there has been in any other ; but, notwithstand-

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 253

ing the unwearied pains which have been taken, and
the vigorous efforts which will be made in the conven-

o

tion to prevent its adoption, I have not the smallest
doubt but it will obtain here.

I am sorry to hear, that the college in your neigh
borhood1 is in so declining a state as you represent
it, and that it is likely to suffer a further injury by the
loss of Dr. Nisbet, whom you are afraid you shall not
be able to support in a proper manner, on account of
the scarcity of cash, which prevents parents from send
ing their children thither. This is one of the numer
ous evils, which arise from the want of a general
regulating power ; for in a country like this, where
equal liberty is enjoyed, where every man may reap
his own harvest, which by proper attention will afford
him much more than is necessary for his own consump
tion, and where there is so ample a field for every
mercantile and mechanical exertion, if there cannot be
money found to answer the common purposes of edu
cation, not to mention the necessary commercial circu
lation, it is evident that there is something amiss in
the ruling political power, which requires a steady, reg
ulating, and energetic hand to correct and control it.
That money is not to be had, every man's experience
tells him, and the great fall in the price of property is an
unequivocal and melancholy proof of it ; when, if that
property were well secured, faith and justice well pre
served, a stable government well administered, and
confidence restored, the tide of population and wealth
would flow to us from every part of the globe, and,

1 Dickinson College at Carlyle, in Pennsylvania.

254 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

with a due sense of the blessings, make us the happiest
people upon earth. With sentiments of very great
esteem and regard, I am, my dear Sir, &c.

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE.

MOUNT VERNON, 28 April, 1788.
******

I notice with pleasure the additional immunities
and facilities in trade, which France has granted by
the late royal arret to the United States. I Hatter
myself it will have the desired effect in some measure
of augmenting the commercial intercourse. From the
productions and wants of the two countries, their
trade with each other is certainly capable of great
amelioration to be actuated by a spirit of unwise pol
icy. For so surely as ever we shall have an efficient
government established, so surely will that govern
ment impose retaliating restrictions, to a certain de
gree, upon the trade of Britain. At present, or under
our existing form of confederation, it would be idle
to think of making commercial regulations on our
part. One State passes a prohibitory law respecting
some article, another State opens wide the avenue for
its admission. One Assembly makes a system, another
Assembly unmakes it. Virginia, in the very last ses
sion of her legislature, was about to have passed some
of the most extravagant and preposterous edicts on the
subject of trade, that ever stained the leaves of alegisla-
tive code. It is in vain to hope fora remedy of these,
and innumerable other evils, until a general govern
ment shall be adopted.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 255

The conventions of six States only have as yet ac
cepted the new constitution. No one has rejected it.
It is believed that the convention of Maryland, which
is now in session, and that of South Carolina, which
is to assemble on the i2th of May, will certainly adopt
it. It is also since the elections of members of the
convention have taken place in this State, more gen
erally believed, that it will be adopted here, than it
was before those elections were made. There will,
however, be powerful and eloquent speeches on both
sides of the question in the Virginia convention ; but
as Pendleton, Wythe, Blair, Madison, Jones,1 Nicho
las, Innes, and many other of our first characters, will
be advocates for its adoption, you may suppose the
weight of abilities will rest on that side. Henry and
Mason are its great adversaries.2 The governor, if
he approves it at all, will do it feebly.

On the general merits of this proposed constitution,
I wrote to you some time ago my sentiments pretty
freely. That letter had not been received by you,
when you addressed to me the last of yours, which
has come to my hands. I had never supposed that
perfection could be the result of accommodation and
mutual concession. The opinion of Mr. Jefferson and
yourself is certainly a wise one, that the constitution
ought by all means to be accepted by nine States be-

1 Both Dr. W. Jones and Gabriel Jones were reported to be in favor of the
constitution.

3 " The declaration of Henry mentioned in your letter, is a proof to me that
desperate measures will be his game. If report does not more than usually exag
gerate, Mason, also, is ripening fast forgoing every length. His licentiousness
of animadversion, it is said, no longer spares even the moderate opponents of
the Constitution." — Madison t& Randolph, 10 April, 1788.

256 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

fore any attempt should be made to procure amend
ments ; for, if that acceptance shall not previously take
place, men's minds will be so much agitated and
soured, that the danger will be greater than ever of
our becoming a disunited people. Whereas, on the
other hand, with prudence in temper and a spirit of
moderation, every essential alteration may in the pro
cess of time be expected.

You will doubtless have seen, that it was owing to
this conciliatory and patriotic principle, that the con
vention of Massachusetts adopted the constitution in
toto, but recommended a number of specific altera
tions, and quieting explanations as an early, serious,
and unremitting subject of attention. Now, although
it is not to be expected, that every individual in soci
ety will or can be brought to agree upon what is
exactly the best form of government, yet there are
many things in the constitution, which only need to be
explained, in order to prove equally satisfactory to
all parties. For example, there was not a member of
the convention, I believe, who had the least objection
to what is contended for by the advocates for a Bill
of Rights and Trial by Jury. The first, where the
people evidently retained every thing, which they did
not in the express terms give up, was considered nuga
tory, as you will find to have been more fully ex
plained by Mr. Wilson and others ; and, as to the
second, it was only the difficulty of establishing a
mode, which should not interfere with the fixed modes
of any of the States, that induced the convention to
leave it as a matter of future adjustment.

1 788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 257

There are other points in which opinions would be
more likely to vary. As for instance, on the ineligi-
bility of the same person for president, after he should
have served a certain course of years. Guarded so
effectually as the proposed constitution is, in respect
to the prevention of bribery and undue influence in
the choice of president, I confess I differ widely my
self from Mr. Jefferson and you, as to the necessity
or expediency of rotation in that appointment. The
matter was fairly discussed in the convention, and to
my full conviction, though I cannot have time or room
to sum up the argument in this letter. There cannot
in my judgment be the least danger, that the presi
dent will by any practicable intrigue ever be able to
continue himself one moment in office, much less per
petuate himself in it, but in the last stage of corrupted
morals and political depravity ; and even then, there
is as much danger that any other species of domina
tion would prevail. Though, when a people shall
have become incapable of governing themselves, and
fit for a master, it is of little consequence from what
quarter he comes. Under an extended view of this part
of the subject, I can see no propriety in precluding our
selves from the services of any man, who on some
great emergency shall be deemed universally most
capable of serving the public.1

1 To an early applicant for office Washington wrote, 8 June, 1788 :
"Your letter is now before me, and requires that I should say something in
reply on a subject, in which I feel myself more embarrassed, and more awk
wardly situated, than ever I have been before. It is but justice to my own feel
ings to observe that I am conscious I have never been indisposed to do what
ever might be in my power in favor of those, whose misfortunes had been una-
\

258 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

In answer to the observations you make on the
probability of my election to the presidency, knowing
me as you do, I need only say, that it has no enticing
charms and no fascinating allurements for me. How
ever, it might not be decent for me to say I would
refuse to accept, or even to speak much about an ap
pointment, which may never take place ; for, in so
doing, one might possibly incur the application of the
moral resulting from that fable, in which the fox is
represented as inveighing against the sourness of the
grapes, because he could not reach them. All that it
will be necessary to add, my dear Marquis, in order to
show my decided predilections is, that, (at my time of
life and under my circumstances,) the increasing in
firmities of nature and the growing love of retirement
do not permit me to entertain a wish beyond that of
living and dying an honest man on my own farm.

voidably brought upon them without any fault of their own. In this predicament
I was not a little concerned at an application for employment under a govern
ment which does not yet exist, and with the administration of which (in case it
should be adopted and carried into execution) it is much more than possible I
may never be concerned. The chaos of uncertainty in which we are involved,
and the impropriety of my anticipating events, or hazarding opinions, would
scarcely permit me to touch, however slightly, on these delicate topics.

" These circumstances, I observe, had not entirely escaped your attention ;
you will not, therefore, think it hard that I should mention the subject as
peculiarly distressing and perplexing to me. Delicacy forbids, that I should
enlarge as to myself. As to you I will only add, that I know nothing but that
your character stands in the fairest light, and consequently cannot be actuated
by any prejudice against your pretensions.

' ' I beg, Sir, that the candor and freedom which I have used on this occa
sion may not be misinterpreted to give you any unintended and unnecessary
anxiety, or to induce you to believe, that I have taken in ill part the applica
tion, although I thought it to be altogether untimely and improper. On the
contrary you may rely upon my protestation, that I am, in every personal con
sideration, with real esteem and friendship, &c."

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 259

Let those follow the pursuits of ambition and fame,
who have a keener relish for them, or who may have
more years in store for the enjoyment.

Mrs. Washington, while she requests that her best
compliments may be presented to you, joins with me
in soliciting that the same friendly and affectionate
memorial of our constant remembrance and good
wishes may be made acceptable to Madame de Lafay
ette and the little ones. I am, &c.

P. S. May i st. Since writing the foregoing let
ter, I have received authentic accounts that the Con
vention of Maryland has ratified the new Constitution
by a majority of 63 to 1 1.1

TO THE COUNT DE ROCHAMBEAU.

MOUNT VERNON, 28 April, 1788.

MY DEAR COUNT,

I have just received the letter, which you did me
the honor to write to me on the iSth of January ; and
am sorry to learn, that the Count de Grasse, our gal
lant coadjutor in the capture of Cornwallis, is no more.
Yet his death is not, perhaps, so much to be deplored
as his latter days were to be pitied. It seemed as if
an unfortunate and unrelenting destiny pursued him,

1 " A thorn, this in the sides of the leaders of opposition in this State. —
Should South Carolina give us unequivocal opposition of this system, the oppo
sition will become feeble. Yr. eight affirmations without a negative carries
weight of argument, if not of eloquence, along with it which might cause even
the unerring sister to hesitate. — Mr. Chase it is said, made a display of all his
eloquence — Mr. Mercer discharged his whole Artillery of inflammable matter,
and Mr. Martin did something — I know not what — but presume with vehe
mence — yet no comments were made — no, not one. — So the business after a
very short Session, ended, and will if I mistake not render yours less tiresome."
— Washington to Madison, 2 May, 1788.

260 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

to destroy the enjoyment of all earthly comfort. The
disastrous battle of the 12th of April, the loss of the
favor of his King, and the subsequent connexion in
marriage with an unworthy woman, were sufficient to
have made him weary of the burden of life. Your
goodness in endeavoring to sweeten its passage was
truly commendable, however it might have been
marred by his own impetuosity. But his frailties
should now be buried in the grave with him, while his
name will be long deservedly dear to his country, on
account of his successful cooperation in the glorious
campaign of 1781. The Cincinnati in some of the
States have gone into mourning for him.

Although your nation and England have avoided
from prudential motives, going into a war, yet I fancy
their affections have not been much increased by the
affair in Holland. The feeling occasioned to France,
by the interference of Prussia and Britain, may not
pass away altogether without consequences. I wish
indeed the affairs of France to be on a footing, which
would enable her to be the arbiter of peace to the
neighboring nations. The poor Dutch patriots seem,
by some means or other, to have been left sadly in the
lurch, and to be reduced to a most humiliating condi
tion. And as if the two powers, who reinstated the
Stadtholder, had not done enough to set the middle
nations together by the ears, they have embroiled for
sooth all the north of Europe by bringing the Turks
into hostility with the two imperial courts. Should
France join with the latter, or even should she continue
neuter, I can scarcely conceive that the Ottoman,

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 261

will be permitted to hold any of their possessions in
Europe. The torch of hostility being once kindled,
commonly spreads apace ; but it is beyond my pre
science to foretell how far this flame will extend itself,
before it shall be entirely extinguished. * *

TO BENJAMIN LINCOLN.

MOUNT VERNON, 2 May, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have now to acknowledge the receipt of your favor
of the 29th of March, which should have been done
at an earlier period, had any thing transpired in these
parts that was worth communicating.

I can now with pleasure inform you, that the State
of Maryland adopted the proposed constitution last
Monday by a very great majority. This you will un
doubtedly have announced by the public papers before
this letter reaches you ; but that State will not receive
the sole benefit of its adoption ; it will have a very
considerable influence upon the decision in Virginia,
for it has been strongly insisted upon by the oppo
nents in the lower and back counties in this State,
that Maryland would reject it by a large majority.
The result being found so directly opposite to this
assertion will operate very powerfully upon the senti
ments of many, who were before undecided, and will
tend to fix them in favor of the constitution. It will,
if I am not misinformed, have this effect upon many,
who are chosen to the convention, and who have de
pended in a great measure upon the determination of

262 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

Maryland to confirm their opinion. But exclusive of
this influence the most accurate returns of the mem
bers of the convention, with their sentiments so far as
they were known, annexed, gave a decided majority
in favor of the constitution, and the prevailing opinion
is, that it gains advocates daily. I never have, for my
own part, once doubted of its adoption here ; and, if
I have at any time been wavering in my opinion, the
present appearances and concurrent information would
have completely fixed it.1

I am very sorry to find by your letter, that there is
so much of the spirit of insurrection yet remaining in
your State, and that it discovered itself so strongly in
your Assembly ; but I hope the influence of those gen
tlemen, who are friendly to the proposed constitution,
and the conciliatory disposition, which was shown by
many of the minority in your convention, will so far
pervade the States as to prevent that factious spirit
from gaining ground. * * * With sentiments of
the highest esteem and regard, I am, &c.

1 ' ' Since the elections in this State, little doubt is entertained of the adoption
of the proposed constitution with us, (if no mistake has been made with respect
to the sentiments of the Kentucky members.) The opponents to it, I am in
formed, are now also of this opinion. Their grand manoeuvres were exhibited
at the elections, and some of them, if reports be true, were not much to their
credit. Failing in their attempt to exclude the friends to the new government
from the convention, and baffled in their exertions to effect an adjournment
in Maryland, they have become more passive of late. Should South Carolina,
now in session, decide favorably, and the government thereby (nine States
having acceded) get into motion, I can scarcely conceive that any one of the
remainder, or all of them together, were they to convene for the purpose of
deliberation, separated from each other as then they would be in a geographi
cal point of view, would incline to withdraw from the union of the other nine."
— Washington to Jay, 15 May, 1788.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 263

TO GEORGE STEPTOE WASHINGTON.1

MOUNT VERNON, 5 May, 1788.

DEAR GEORGE,

I yesterday received a letter from Mr. Hanson, in
forming me that you slept from home three nights
successively, and one contrary to his express prohibi
tion. Complaints of this nature are extremely painful
to me, as it discovers a degree of impropriety in your
conduct, which at your time of life, your good sense
and discretion ought to point out to you, and lead
you to avoid. Although there is nothing criminal in
your having slept with a companion of good manners
and reputation, as you say you have, yet your absent
ing yourself from your own lodgings under that
pretence may be productive of irregularities and
disagreeable consequences ; and I now insist upon it
in the most pointed terms, that you do not repeat it
without the consent and approbation of Mr. Hanson.

One strong motive for my placing you in your
present lodgings was, that you might, in your conduct
out of school, be guided by Mr. Hanson's advice and
directions, as I confide very much in his discretion,
and think that he would require nothing of you but
what will conduce to your advantage ; and, at the age
to which you have now arrived, you must be capable
of distinguishing between a proper and improper line
of conduct, and be sensible of the advantages or dis
advantages which will result to you through life from
the one or the other.

1 A nephew of General Washington, son of Samuel Washington.

264 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

Your future character and reputation will depend
very much, if not entirely, upon the habits and man
ners, which you contract in the present period of your
life. They will make an impression upon you, which
can never be effaced. You should therefore be ex
tremely cautious how you put yourself into the way
of imbibing those customs, which may tend to corrupt
your manners or vitiate your heart. I do not write to
you in this style from knowing or suspecting that you
are addicted to any vice, but only to guard you against
pursuing a line of conduct, which may imperceptibly
lead on to vicious courses. Mr. Hanson has done
you and Lawrence justice in saying, that your beha
vior since you have been last with him has been unex
ceptionable except in this instance, and one more
which he has not mentioned ; and I hope this is the
last complaint I shall ever hear, while you remain in
your present situation at least, as it will prevent me
from using means to regulate your behavior, which
will be disagreeable to us both. I am your sincere
friend and affectionate uncle.1

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE.
MY DEAR MARQUIS, MouNT VERNON, 28 May, 1788.

I have lately had the pleasure to receive the two
letters by which you introduced to my acquaintance
M. Du Pont and M. Vanderkemp and altho' those

1 Rewrote at the same time to Mr. Hanson as follows. " I am sorry that
the conduct of one of my nephews has been such, as to render a complaint to
me necessary, but I am extremely obliged to you for the communication. George

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 265

gentlemen have not as yet been to visit me, you may
be persuaded that whensoever I shall have the satisfac
tion of receiving them, it will be with all that atten
tion to which their merits and your recommendations
entitle them.

Notwithstanding you are acquainted with Mr. Bar
low in person, and with his works by reputation, I
thought I would just write you a line by him, in order
to recommend him the more particularly to your civil
ities. Mr. Barlow is considered by those who are
good Judges to be a genius of the first magnitude ;
and to be one of those Bards who hold the keys of
the gate by which Patriots, Sages and Heroes are ad
mitted to immortality. Such are your Antient Bards
who are both the priest and door-keepers to the tem
ple of fame. And these, my dear Marquis, are no
vulgar functions. Men of real talents in Arms have
commonly approved themselves patrons of the liberal
arts and friends to the poets, of their own as well
as former times. In some instances by acting recip
rocally, heroes have made poets, and poets heroes.
Alexander the Great is said to have been enraptured
with the Poems of Homer, and to have lamented that
he had not a rival muse to celebrate his actions.
Julius Caesar is well known to have been a man of a
highly cultivated understanding and taste. Augus
tus was the professed and magnificent rewarder of

has now advanced to that time of life, when it is absolutely necessary, that his
conduct should be regulated by some means or other. Coercion would be ex
tremely painful to me ; but, if advice, remonstrance, and gentle methods will
not answer the purpose, others must be taken. Enclosed is a letter to him,
which I have left open for your perusal." — May 5th.

266 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

poetical merit — nor did he lose the return of having
his atcheivments immortalized in song. The Augus
tan Age is proverbial for intellectual refinement and
elegance in composition ; in it the harvest of laurels
and bays was wonderfully mingled together. The age
of your Louis the fourteenth, which produced a mul
titude of great Poets and great Captains, will never be
forgotten ; nor will that of Queen Ann in England,
for the same cause, ever cease to reflect a lustre upon
the kingdom. Although we are yet in our cradle, as a
nation, I think the efforts of the human mind with us
are sufficient to refute (by incontestable facts) the
doctrines of those who have asserted that every thing-
degenerates in America. Perhaps we shall be found
at this moment, not inferior to the rest of the world
in the performances of our poets and painters ; not
withstanding many of the incitements are wanting
which operate powerfully among older nations. For
it is generally understood, that excellence in those
sister Arts has been the result of easy circumstances,
public encouragements and an advanced stage of soci
ety. I observe that the Critics in England, who
speak highly of the American poetical geniuses (and
their praises may be the more relied upon as they
seem to be reluctantly extorted,) are not pleased with
the tribute of applause which is paid to your nation.
It is a reason why they should be the more caressed
by your nation. I hardly know how it is that I am
drawn thus far in observations on a subject so foreign
from those in which we are mostly engaged, farming
and politics, unless because I had little news to tell you.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 267

Since 1 had the pleasure of writing to you by the
last Packet, the Convention of Maryland has ratified
the federal Constitution by a majority of 63 to 1 1
voices. That makes the seventh State which has
adopted it. Next Monday the Convention in Virginia
will assemble — we have still good hopes of its adop
tion here, though by no great plurality of votes.
South Carolina has probably decided favorably before
this time. The plot thickens fast. A few short weeks
will determine the political fate of America for the
present generation, and probably produce no small
influence on the happiness of society through a long
succession of ages to come. Should every thing pro
ceed with harmony and consent according to our
actual wishes and expectations, I will confess to you
sincerely, my dear Marquis, it will be so much beyond
any thing we had a right to imagine or expect
eighteen months ago, that it will demonstrate as
visibly the finger of Providence, as any possible event
in the course of human affairs can ever designate it.
It is impracticable for you or any one who has not
been on the spot, to realise the change in men's minds
and the progress towards rectitude in thinking and
acting which will then have been made.

Adieu, my dear Marquis, I hope your affairs in
France will subside into a prosperous train without
coming to any violent crisis. Continue to cherish
your affectionate feelings for this country and the
same portion of friendship for me, which you are
ever sure of holding in the heart of your most sin
cere, &c.

268 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

TO JAMES MADISON.

MOUNT VERNON, 8 June, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am much obliged by the few lines you wrote to
me on the 4th ; and though it is yet too soon to re
joice, one cannot avoid being pleased at the auspicious
opening of the business of your convention.1 Though
an ulterior opinion of the decision of this State on the
constitution would, at any time previous to the dis
cussion of it in the convention, have been premature,
yet I have never yet despaired of its adoption here.
What I have mostly apprehended is, that the insidious
arts of its opposers to alarm the fears and inflame the
passions of the multitude, may have produced instruc
tions to the delegates, that would shut the door
against argument, and be a bar to reason. If this is
not the case, I have no doubt but that the good sense
of this country will prevail against the local views of
designing characters, and the arrogant opinions of
chagrined and disappointed men.

The decision of Maryland and South Carolina by
so large majorities, and the almost certain adoption
of the proposed constitution by New Hampshire, will
make all, except desperate men, look before they leap

1 " I found, contrary to my expectation, that not only a very full House had
been made on the first clay, but that it had proceeded to the appointment of
the president and other officers. Mr. Pendleton was put into the chair without
opposition. Yesterday little more was done, than settling some forms, and
resolving that no question, general or particular, should be propounded, till the
whole plan should be considered and debated clause by clause. This was moved
by Colonel Mason, and, contrary to his expectations, concurred in by the other
side. To-day the discussions commenced in committee of the whole. The
governor had declared the day of previous amendments passed, and thrown
himself fully into the federal scale. Henry and Mason made a lame figure, and
appeared to take different and awkward grounds. The federalists are a good

1 788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 269

into the dark consequences of rejection. The ratifi
cation by eight States without a negative, by three of
them unanimously, by six against one in another, by
three to one in another, by two to one in two more,
and by all the weight of abilities and property in the
other, is enough, one would think, to produce a cessa
tion of opposition. I do not mean, that this alone is
sufficient to produce conviction in the mind, but I
think it ought to produce some change in the conduct
of any man, who distrusted his infallibility.

Although I have little doubt of your having re
ceived a copy of the enclosed pamphlet, I send it. It
is written with much good sense and moderation. I
conjecture, but upon no certain ground, that Mr. Jay
is the author of it. He sent it to me some time ago,
since which I have received two or three more copies.1

With sincere esteem and affectionate regard, I am
ever yours.

TO JOHN JAY.
DEAR SlR MOUNT VERNON, 8 June, 1788.

By the last mail I had the pleasure to receive your
letter of the 2Qth of May, and have now the satisfac
tion to congratulate you on the adoption of the consti-

deal elated by the existing prospect. I dare not, however, speak with cer
tainty as to the decision. Kentucky had been extremely tainted, is supposed
to be generally adverse, and every kind of address is going on privately to work
on the local interests and prejudices of that and other quarters." — Madison to
Washington, 4 June, 1788.

1 The pamphlet by Jay was " An address to the People of the State of New
York, on the subject of the Constitution." On receiving a copy, Washington
wrote May I5th : " The good sense forcible observations, temper, and moder
ation, with which it is written, cannot fail, I should think, of making a serious
impression, even upon the antifederal mind, where it is not under the influence
of such local views as will yield to no argument no proofs."

270 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

tution by the convention of South Carolina. I am
sorry to learn, there is a probability that the majority
of members in the New York convention will be anti-
federalists. Still I hope, that some event may turn
up before they assemble, which may give a new com
plexion to the business. If this State should, in the
intermediate time, make the ninth that shall have rati
fied the proposed government, it will, I flatter myself
have its due weight. To show that this event is now
more to be expected than heretofore, I will give you
a few particulars, which I have from good authority,
and which you might not perhaps immediately obtain
through any public channel of conveyance.1

On the day appointed for the meeting of the con
vention, a large proportion of the members assembled,
and unanimously placed Mr. Pendleton in the chair.
Having on that and the subsequent day chosen the

1 From Mr. Jay s Letter. — " It gives me pleasure to find, that the probabil
ity of Virginia's adopting the proposed constitution rather increases. Such an
event would undoubtedly disarm the opposition. It appears by recent advices
from Charleston, that we count on South Carolina ; and the New Hampshire
delegates assure me, that their State will come into the measure. There is
much reason to believe, that the majority of the convention of this State will
be composed of antifederal character ; but it is doubtful whether the leaders
will be able to govern the party. Many in the opposition are friends to Union,
and mean well, but their principal leaders are very far from being solicitous
about the fate of the Union. They wish and mean, if possible, to reject the
constitution, with as little debate and as much speed as may be. It is not,
however, certain, that the greater part of their party will be equally decided, or
rather equally desperate. An idea has taken air, that the southern part of the
State will at all events adhere to the Union, and, if necessary to that end, seek
a separation from the northern. This idea has influence on the fears of the
party. I cannot find, that they have as yet so looked forward to contingent
events, or even to those the most probable, as to have united in, or formed,
any system adapted to them." — New York, May 2gth.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 271

rest of their officers, and fixed upon the mode of con
ducting the business, it was moved by some one of
those opposed to the constitution to debate the whole
by paragraphs, without taking any question until the
investigation should be completed. This was as un
expected as acceptable to the federalists, and their
ready acquiescence seems to have somewhat startled
the opposite party, for fear they had committed them
selves.

Mr. Nicholas opened the business by very ably
advocating the system of representation. Mr. Henry
in answer went more vaguely into the discussion of the
constitution, intimating that the federal convention
had exceeded their powers, and that we had been and
might be happy under the old confederation, with a
few alterations. This called up Governor Randolph,
who is reported to have spoken with great pathos in
reply, and who declared, that, since so many of the
States had adopted the proposed constitution, he con
sidered the sense of America to be already taken, and
that he should give his vote in favor of it without in
sisting previously upon amendments. Mr. Mason rose
in opposition, and Mr. Madison reserved himself to ob
viate the objections of Mr. Henry and Colonel Mason
the next day. Thus the matter rested when the last
accounts came away.

Upon the whole, the following inferences seem to
have been drawn ; that Mr. Randolph's declaration will
have considerable effect with those, who had hitherto
been wavering ; that Mr. Henry and Colonel Mason
took different and awkward ground, and by no means

272 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

equalled the public expectation in their speeches ; that
the former has probably receded somewhat from his
violent measures to coalesce with the latter, and that the
leaders of the opposition appear rather chagrined, and
hardly to be decided as to their mode of opposition.

The sanguine friends of the constitution counted
upon a majority of twenty at their first meeting, which
number they imagine will be greatly increased ; while
those equally strong in their wishes, but more tem
perate in their habits of thinking, speak less confi
dently of the greatness of the majority, and express
apprehensions of the arts, that may yet be practised
to excite alarms with the members from the western
district (Kentucky). All, however, agree, that the
beginning has been auspicious as could possibly have
been expected. A few days will now ascertain us of
the result. With sentiments of the highest esteem
and regard, I am, &c.

TO WILLIAM SMITH, AND OTHERS, OF BALTIMORE.

GENTLEMEN, MouNT VERNON> 8 June> ^S8-

Captain Barney has just arrived here in the minia
ture ship called The Federalist, and has done me the
honor to offer that beautiful curiosity as a present to
me on your part. I pray you, Gentlemen, to accept
the warmest expressions of my sensibility for this
specimen of American ingenuity, in which the exacti
tude of the proportions, the neatness of the workman
ship, and the elegance of the decorations, which make
your present fit to be preserved in a cabinet of curi-

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 273

osities, at the same time that they exhibit the skill
and taste of the artists, demonstrate that Americans
are not inferior to any people whatever in the use of
mechanical instruments, and the art of ship-building.

The unanimity of the agricultural State of Mary
land in general, as well as of the commercial town of
Baltimore in particular, expressed in their recent de
cision on the subject of a general government, will
not, (I persuade myself,) be without its due efficacy
on the minds of their neighbors, who, in many in
stances, are intimately connected, not only by the
nature of their produce, but by the ties of blood and
the habits of life. Under these circumstances, I can
not entertain an idea, that the voice of the convention
of* this State, which is now in session, will be dissonant
from that of her nearly allied sister, who is only sepa
rated by the Potomac.

You will permit me, Gentlemen, to indulge my
feelings in reiterating the heart-felt wish, that the
happiness of this country may equal the desires of its
sincerest friends, and that the patriotic town, of which
you are inhabitants, and in the prosperity of which I
have always found myself strongly interested, may not
only continue to increase in the same wonderful man
ner it has formerly done, but that its trade, manufac
tures, and other resources of wealth, may be placed
permanently in a more flourishing situation than they
have hitherto been. I am, with respect, &C.1

1 The citizens of Baltimore had recently celebrated the adoption of the con
stitution in Maryland by various demonstrations of joy. There was a proces
sion, in which the mechanical trades and liberal professions made a brilliant
display under their appropriate banners. Commodore Barney performed a
274 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

TO HENRY KNOX.

MOUNT VBRNON, 17 June, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I received your letter of the 25th of May, just when
I was on the eve of a departure for Fredericksburg
to pay a visit to my mother, from whence I returned
only last evening. The information of the accession
of South Carolina to the new government since your
letter, gives us a new subject of mutual felicitations.
It was to be hoped that this auspicious event would
have considerable influence upon the proceedings of
the convention of Virginia, but I do not find that to
have been the case. Affairs in the convention, for
some time past, have not worn so good an aspect as
we could have wished ; and, indeed, the acceptance of
the constitution has become more doubtful than it was
thought to be at their first meeting.

The purport of the intelligence I received from my
private letters by the last night's mail is, that every

conspicuous part on this occasion. "He had a small boat, fifteen feet in
length, completely rigged and perfectly equipped as a ship, which was called
The Federalist; which, being mounted on four wheels and drawn by the same
number of horses, took its place in the procession. He commanded the ship,
and was honored with a crew of captains, who, at his word and the boatswain's
pipe, went through all the various manoeuvres of making and taking in sail, to
the great delight of the crowded windows, doors, and balconies, by which they
passed. The ship was immediately followed by all the captains, mates, and
seamen at that time in the port of Baltimore. It was paraded through all the
principal streets of FeU's Point and other portions of the city, and finally
anchored on the beautiful and lofty bank of the Basin, which from that occur
rence received, and has ever since borne, the name of Federal Hill." After
the pageant was over, it was resolved to present the ship to General Washing
ton in the name of the merchants and ship-masters of Baltimore. It was
launched, and navigated by Commodore Barney down the Chesapeake Bay to
the mouth of the Potomac, and thence up the river to Mount Vernon. — Life
of Joshua Barney, p. 157. — Sparks.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 275

species of address and artifice has been put in prac
tice by the antifederalists to create jealousies and ex
cite alarms. Much appears to depend upon the final
part which the Kentucky members will take ; into
whose minds apprehensions of unreal dangers, respect
ing the navigation of the Mississippi, and their organ
ization into a separate State, have been industriously
infused.1 Each side seems to think at present, that
it has a small majority. However it shall turn, it will
be very inconsiderable. Though for my own part, I
cannot but imagine, if any decision is had, it will be
in favor of the adoption. My apprehension rather
is, that a strenuous and successful effort may be made
for an adjournment, under an idea of opening a cor
respondence with those who are opposed to the con
stitution in other States. Colonel Oswald has been
at Richmond, it is said, with letters from the anti-
federalists in New York and Pennsylvania to their
coadjutors in this State.

1 Chagrined at the chances that had prevented the erection of Kentucky
into a separate State, and influenced, perhaps, by the vote of the Kentucky
delegates in the Virginia Convention on the new Constitution, Brown was ap
proached by Gardoqui with a hint that the establishment of a separate district,
without maritime designs, would give Spain an excuse for " devising some plan
for adjusting the markets so much needed in some of our possessions." — Gar
doqui to Florida Blanc a, 25 July, 1788. It is certain that Brown interpreted
Gardoqui's offer as a positive promise. " I have been assured by him in the
most explicit terms, that if Kentucky will declare her independence, and em
power some proper person to negotiate with him, that he has authority and will
engage to open the navigation of the Mississippi for the exportation of their
produce on terms of mutual advantage ; but that this privilege can never be
extended to them while part of the United States, by reason of commercial
treaties existing between that Court and other powers of Europe." — Brown to
George Muter, 10 July, 1788. The proposition was submitted only to a few of
Brown's correspondents, and does not appear to have been broached in the
Kentucky Convention of July, 1788.

276 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

The resolution, which came from the antifederal-
ists, much to the astonishment of the other party,
that no question should be taken until the whole
plan should have been discussed paragraph by para
graph, and the remarkable tardiness in their proceed
ings (for the convention has been able as yet only to
get through the second or third section), are thought
by some to have been designed to protract business
until the time when the Assembly is to convene, that
is the 23d instant, in order to have a more colorable
pretext for an adjournment. But, notwithstanding
the resolution, there has been much desultory debat
ing, and the opposers of the constitution are reported
to have gone generally into the merits of the ques
tion. I know not how the matter may be, but a few
days will now determine.

I am sorry to find, not only from your intimations,
but also from many of the returns in the late papers,
that there should be so great a majority against the
constitution in the convention of New York ; and yet
I can hardly conceive, from motives of policy and
prudence, they will reject it absolutely, if either this
State or New Hampshire should make the ninth in
adopting it ; as that measure, which gives efficacy to
the system, must place any State that shall actually
have refused its assent to the new Union in a very
awkward and disagreeable predicament.

By a letter I have just received from a young
gentleman who lives with me, but who is now at
home in New Hampshire,1 I am advised that there is

1 Tobias Lear.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 277

every prospect that the constitution will be adopted
in that State almost immediately upon the meeting
of the convention. I cannot but hope, then, that
the States, which may be disposed to make a secession,
will think often and seriously on the consequences.
Colo. Humphreys who is still here occupied with
literary pursuits, desires to be remembered in terms
of the sincerest friendship to you and yours.

Mrs. Washington and the family offer with me
their best compliments to Mrs. Knox and the little
ones. I am, &c.

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE.

MOUNT VERNON, 18 June, 1788.

MY DEAR MARQUIS,

I like not much the situation of affairs in France.
The bold demands of the parliaments, and the de
cisive tone of the King, show that but little more
irritation would be necessary to blow up the spark of
discontent into a flame, that might not easily be
quenched. If I were to advise, I should say that
great moderation should be used on both sides. Let
it not, my dear Marquis, be considered as a deroga
tion from the good opinion, that I entertain of your
prudence, when I caution you, as an individual de
sirous of signalizing yourself in the cause of your
country and freedom, against running into extremes
and prejudicing your cause. The King, though, I
think from every thing I have been able to learn, he
is really a good-hearted though a warm-spirited man,
if thwarted injudiciously in the execution of preroga-

278 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

tives that belonged to the crown, and in plans which
he conceives calculated to promote the national good,
may disclose qualities he has been little thought to
possess. On the other hand, such a spirit seems to
be awakened in the kingdom, as, if managed with
extreme prudence, may produce a gradual and tacit
revolution much in favor of the subjects, by abolish
ing lettres de cachet, and defining more accurately the
powers of government. It is a wonder to me, there
should be found a single monarch, who does not real
ize that his own glory and felicity must depend on the
prosperity and happiness of his people. How easy is
it for a sovereign to do that, which shall not only im
mortalize his name, but attract the blessings of millions.
In a letter I wrote you a few days ago by Mr. Bar
low, but which might not possibly have reached New
York until after his departure, I mentioned the ac
cession of Maryland to the proposed government, and
gave you the state of politics to that period. Since
which the convention of South Carolina has ratified
the constitution by a great majority. That of this
State has been sitting almost three weeks ; and, so
nicely does it appear to be balanced, that each side
asserts that it has a preponderancy of votes in its
favor. It is probable, therefore, the majority will be
small, let it fall on whichever part it may. I am in
clined to believe it will be in favor of the adoption.
The conventions of New York and New Hampshire
both assemble this week. A large proportion of
members, with the governor at their head, in the
former, are said to be opposed to the government in
contemplation. New Hampshire, it is thought, will

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 279

adopt it without much hesitation or delay. It is a
little strange, that the men of large property in the
south should be more afraid that the constitution will
produce an aristocracy or a monarchy, than the
genuine democratical people of the east. Such are
our actual prospects. The accession of one State
more will complete the number, which, by the consti
tutional provision, will be sufficient in the first instance
to carry the government into effect.

And then, I expect, that many blessings will be
attributed to our new government, which are now
taking their rise from that industry and frugality, into
the practice of which the people have been forced
from necessity. I really believe, that there never was
so much labor and economy to be found before in the
country as at the present moment. If they persist
in the habits they are acquiring, the good effects will
soon be distinguishable. When the people shall find
themselves secure under an energetic government,
when foreign nations shall be disposed to give us
equal advantages in commerce from dread of retalia
tion, when the burdens of war shall be in a manner
done away by the sale of western lands, when the
seeds of happiness which are sown here shall begin
to expand themselves, and when every one, (under his
own vine and fig-tree,) shall begin to taste the fruits
of freedom, then all these blessings (for all these
blessings will come) will be referred to the fostering
influence of the new government. Whereas many
causes will have conspired to produce them. You
see I am not less enthusiastic than I ever have been,
if a belief that peculiar scenes of felicity are reserved

280 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

for this country is to be denominated enthusiasm.
Indeed, I do not. believe, that Providence has done so
much for nothing. It has always been my creed, that
we should not be left as an awful monument to prove,
" that mankind, under the most favorable circum
stances for civil liberty and happiness, are unequal to
the task of governing themselves, and therefore made
for a master."

We have had a backward spring and summer, with
more rain and cloudy weather than almost ever has
been known ; still the appearance of crops in some
parts of the country is favorable, as we may gener
ally expect will be the case, from the difference of soil
and variety of climate in so extensive a region ; inso
much that I hope, some day or another, we shall
become a storehouse and granary for the world. In
addition to our former channels of trade, salted pro
visions, butter, and cheese are exported with profit
from the eastern States to the East Indies. In con
sequence of a contract, large quantities of flour are
lately sent from Baltimore for supplying the garrison
of Gibraltar. I am, &c.

TO RICHARD HENDERSON.1

MOUNT VERNON, 19 June, 1788.

SIR,

Your favor of the 5th instant was lodged at my
house while I was absent on a visit to my mother. I
am now taking the earliest opportunity of noticing its

1 A gentleman, who had forwarded certain queries to General Washington,
which had been sent to him from Scotland by persons proposing to emigrate
to America.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 281

contents, and those of its enclosure. Willing-as I am
to give satisfaction, so far as I am able, to every
reasonable inquiry, (and this is certainly not only so,
but may be highly important and interesting,) I must
however rather deal in general than particular observa
tions ; as I think you will be able, from the length of
your residence in the country, and the extensiveness
of your acquaintance with its affairs, to make the
necessary applications, and add the proper details.
Nor would I choose that my interference in the busi
ness should be transmitted, lest, in a malicious world,
it might be represented that I was officiously using
the arts of seduction to depopulate other countries
for the sake of peopling our own.

In the first place it is a point conceded, that Amer
ica, under an efficient government, will be the most
favorable country of any in the world for persons of
industry and frugality possessed of a moderate capital
to inhabit. It is also believed, that it will not be less
advantageous to the happiness of the lowest class of
people, because of the equal distribution of property,
the great plenty of unoccupied lands, and the facility
of procuring the means of subsistence. The scheme
of purchasing a good tract of freehold estate, and
bringing out a number of able-bodied men, indented
for a certain time, appears to be indisputably a rational
one.

All the interior arrangements of transferring the
property and commencing the establishment, you are
as well acquainted with as I can possibly be. It
might be considered as a point of more difficulty to
decide upon the place, which should be most proper

282 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

for a settlement. Although I believe that emigrants
from other countries to this, who shall be well-dis
posed, and conduct themselves properly, would be
treated with equal friendship and kindness in all parts
of it ; yet, in the old settled States, land is so much
occupied, and the value so much enhanced by the
contiguous cultivation, that the price would, in gen
eral, be an objection. The land in [the] western
country, or that on the Ohio, like all others, has its
advantages and disadvantages. The neighborhood
of the savages, and the difficulty of transportation,
were the great objections. The danger of the first
will soon cease by the strong establishments now
taking place ; the inconveniences of the second will
be, in a great degree, remedied by opening the in
ternal navigation. No colony in America was ever
settled under such favorable auspices, as that which
has just commenced at the Muskingum. Information,
property, and strength, will be its characteristics. I
know many of the settlers personally, and that there
never were men better calculated to promote the
welfare of such a community.

If I was a young man, just preparing to begin the
world, or if advanced in life, and had a family to make
a provision for, I know of no country where I should
rather fix my habitation than in some part of that re
gion, for which the writer of the queries seems to have
a predilection. He might be informed that his name
sake and distant relation, General St. Clair, is not only
in high repute, but that he is governor of all the terri
tory westward of the Ohio, and that there is a gentle
man (to wit, Mr. Joel Barlow) gone from New York

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 283

by the last French packet, who will be in London in
the course of this year, and who is authorized to dis
pose of a very large body of land in that country.
The author of the queries may then be referred to
the " Information for those who would wish to remove
to America" and published in Europe in the year
1784, by the great philosopher Dr. Franklin. Short
as it is, it contains almost every thing, that needs to
be known on the subject of migrating to this country.
You may find that excellent little treatise in " Carey s
American Museum? for September, 1787. It is
worthy of being republished in Scotland, and every
other part of Europe.

As to the European publications respecting the
United States, they are commonly very defective.
The Abbe Raynal is quite erroneous. Guthrie, though
somewhat better informed, is not absolutely correct.
There is now an American Geography preparing for
the press by a Mr. Morse of New Haven in Con
necticut, which, from the pains the author has taken
in travelling through the States, and acquiring infor
mation from the principal characters in each, will
probably be much more exact and useful. Of books
at present existing, Mr. Jefferson's " Notes on Vir
ginia " will give the best idea of this part of the
continent to a foreigner ; and the "American Farm
er s Letters" written by Mr. Crevecceur (commonly
called Mr. St. John), the French consul in New York,
who actually resided twenty years as a farmer in that
State, will afford a great deal of profitable and amusive
information, respecting the private life of the Ameri
cans, as well as the progress of agriculture, manu-

284 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

factures, and arts, in their country. Perhaps the picture
he gives, though founded on fact, is in some instances
embellished with rather too flattering circumstances.
I am, &c.

TO CHARLES CARTER.

MOUNT VERNON, 28 June, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

When Mrs. Washington was at the Church in
Fredericksburg she perceived the Tomb of her
Father, the late John Dandridge, Esqr., to be much
out of Sorts and being desirous to have it done up
again, will you permit me to request the favor of you
to engage a workman to do this, the cost of which I
will remit as soon as you shall signify to me that the
work is accomplished, and inform me of its amount. I
would thank you, my dear Sir, for the ascertainment
of this before hand. I have (not inclining to dispute
Accounts) felt, in too many instances, the expansion
of Tradesmen's consciences when no previous agree
ment has been made, ever to put it in their power to
charge what they please in future. My best wishes,
in which Mrs. Washington joins me, are tendered to
Mrs. Carter. With much truth.

TO CHARLES COTESWORTH PINCKNEY.

MOUNT VERNON, 28 June, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

I had the pleasure to receive, a day or two ago,
your obliging letter of the 24th of last month, in
which you advise me of the ratification of the federal

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 285

constitution by South Carolina. By a more rapid
water conveyance, that good news had some few
days before arrived at Baltimore, so as to have been
very opportunely communicated to the convention of
this State in session at Richmond. It is with great
satisfaction I have it now in my power to inform you,
that, on the 25th instant, the delegates of Virginia
adopted the constitution in totoy by a division of
eighty-nine in favor of it, to seventy-nine against it ;
and that, notwithstanding the majority is so small,
yet, in consequence of some conciliatory conduct and
recommendatory amendments, a happy acquiescence,
it is said, is likely to terminate the business here in
as favorable a manner as could possibly have been
expected.

No sooner had the citizens of Alexandria, (who are
federal to a man,) received the intelligence by the mail
last night, than they determined to devote this day to
festivity. But their exhilaration was greatly increased,
and a much keener zest given to their enjoyment, by
the arrival of an express, two hours before day, with
the news that the convention of New Hampshire had,
on the 2ist instant, acceded to the new confederacy
by a majority of eleven voices, that is to say, fifty-
seven to forty-six.

Thus the citizens of Alexandria, when convened,
constituted the first public company in America,
which had the pleasure of pouring [a] libation to the
prosperity of the ten States, that had actually adopted
the general government. The day itself is memora
ble for more reasons than one. It was recollected,

286 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

that this day is the anniversary of the battles of Sulli
van's Island and Monmouth. I have just returned
from assisting at the entertainment, and mention these
details, unimportant as they are in themselves, the
rather because I think we may rationally indulge the
pleasing hope, that the Union will now be established
upon a durable basis, and that Providence seems
still disposed to favor the members of it with un
equalled opportunities for political happiness.

From the local situation, as well as the other cir
cumstances of North Carolina, I should be truly
astonished if that State should withdraw itself from
the Union. On the contrary, I flatter myself with a
confident expectation, that more salutary counsels will
certainly prevail. At present there is more doubt
how the question will be immediately disposed of in
New York ; for it seems to be understood, that there
is a majority in the convention opposed to the adop
tion of the new federal system. Yet it is hardly to
be supposed, (or rather in my judgment it is irrational
to suppose,) they will reject a government, which,
from an unorganized embryo ready to be stifled with
a breath, has now in the maturity of its birth assumed
a confirmed bodily existence. Or, to drop the meta
phor, the point in debate has at least shifted its ground
from policy to expediency. The decision of ten States
cannot be without its operation. Perhaps the wisest
way in this crisis will be not to attempt to accept or
reject, but to adjourn until the people in some parts
of the State can consider the magnitude of the ques
tion, and of the consequences involved in it, more

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 287

coolly and deliberately. After New York shall have
acted, then only one little State will remain. Suffice
it to say, it is universally believed, that the scales are
ready to drop from the eyes, and the infatuation to be
removed from the heart, of Rhode Island. May this
be the case before that inconsiderate people shall
have filled up the measure of iniquity, before it shall
be too late.

Mrs. Washington and all with us desire their best
compliments may be presented to Mrs. Pinckney and
yourself. Wishing that mine may also be made ac
ceptable to you both, I am, &c.

TO BENJAMIN LINCOLN.

MOUNT VERNON, 29 June, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I beg you will accept my thanks for the communi
cations handed to me in your letter of the 3d instant,
and my congratulations on the increasing good dis
positions of the citizens of your State, of which the
late elections are strongly indicative. No one can
rejoice more than I do at every step the people of
this great country take to preserve the Union, t«
establish good order and government, and to render
the nation happy at home and respectable abroad.
No country upon earth ever had it more in its power
to attain these blessings than United America. Won-
drously strange, then, and much to be regretted
indeed would it be, were we to neglect the means, and
to depart from the road, which Providence has

288 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

pointed us to so plainly. I cannot believe it will
ever come to pass. The great Governor of the uni
verse has led us too long and too far on the road to
happiness and glory, to forsake us in the midst of it.
By folly and improper conduct, proceeding from a
variety of causes, we may now and then get bewil
dered ; but I hope and trust, that there is good sense
and virtue enough left to recover the right path
before we shall be entirely lost.

You will, before this letter can have reached you,
have heard of the ratification of the new government
by this State. The final question without previous
amendments was taken the 25th. Ayes, 89. Noes, 79
—but something recommendatory or declaratory of
the rights, the ultimate decision. This account and
the news of the adoption by New Hampshire arrived
in Alexandria nearly about the same time on Friday
evening, and as you will suppose was cause for great
rejoicing among the inhabitants, who have not I be
lieve an antifederalist among them. Our accounts
from Richmond are, that the debates, through all
the different stages of the business, though animated,
have been conducted with great dignity and temper ;
that the final decision exhibited an awful and solemn
scene ; and that there is every reason to expect a per
fect acquiescence therein by the minority. Not only
the declaration of Mr. Henry, the great leader of it,
who has signified, that, though he can never be recon
ciled to the constitution in its present form, and shall
give it every constitutional opposition in his power,
yet that he will submit to it peaceably, as he thinks

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 289

every good citizen ought to do when it is in exercise,
and that he will, both by precept and example, incul
cate this doctrine to all around him.

There is little doubt entertained here now of the
ratification of the proposed constitution by North
Carolina ; and, however great the opposition to it
may be in New York, the leaders thereof will, I
should conceive, consider well the consequences be
fore they reject it. With respect to Rhode Island,
the power that governs there has so far baffled all
calculation on this question, that no man would choose
to hazard an opinion, lest he might be suspected of
participating in its phrensy.1 You have every good
wish of this family, and the sincere regard of your
affectionate, &c.

TO JOHN JAY.

MOUNT VERNON, 18 July, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

A few days ago I had the pleasure to receive your
letter from Poughkeepsie ; since which I have not
obtained any authentic advices of the proceedings of
your convention. The clue you gave me to penetrate
into the principles and wishes of the four classes of
men among you, who are opposed to the constitu
tion, has opened a large field for reflection and con-

1 " As the infamy of the conduct of Rhode Island outgoes all precedent, so
the influence of her counsels can be of no prejudice. There is no other state
or description of Men but would blush to be involved in a connection with the
paper money junto of that anarchy. God grant that the honest men may
acquire an ascendency before irrevocable ruin shall confound the innocent with
the guilty." — Washington to Trunibull, 20 July, 1788.
2Qo THE WRITINGS OF [1788

jecture. The accession of ten States must operate
forcibly with all the opposition, except the class
which is comprehended in your last description.1
Before this time you will probably have come to
some decision. While we are waiting the result
with the greatest anxiety, our printers are not so
fortunate as to obtain any papers from the eastward.
Mine, which have generally been more regular,
have however frequently been interrupted for some
time past.

It is extremely to be lamented, that a new arrange
ment in the post-office, unfavorable to the circulation
of intelligence, should have taken place at the instant
when the momentous question of a general govern
ment was to come before the people. I have seen no
good apology, not even in Mr. Hazard's publication,
for deviating from the old custom of permitting print
ers to exchange their papers by the mail. That
practice was a great public convenience and gratifica
tion. If the privilege was not from convention an
original right, it had from prescription strong preten
sions for continuance, especially at so interesting a
period. The interruption in that mode of convey
ance has not only given great concern to the friends
of the constitution, who wished the public to be pos-

1 " The leaders in opposition seem to have more extensive views than their
adherents, and, until the latter perceive that circumstance, they will probably
continue combined. The greater number are, I believe, averse to a vote of
rejection. Some would be content with recommendatory amendments ; others
wish for explanatory ones to settle constructions, which they think doubtful ;
others would not be satisfied with less than absolute and previous amendments ;
and I am mistaken if there be not a few, who prefer a separation from the
Union to any national government whatever." — Jnv to Washington.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 291

sessed of every thing, that might be printed on both
sides of the question, but it has afforded its enemies
very plausible pretexts for dealing out their scandals,
and exciting jealousies by inducing a belief, that the
suppression of intelligence, at that critical juncture,
was a wicked trick of policy, contrived by an aristo
cratic junto. Now, if the postmaster-general, with
whose character I am unacquainted, and therefore
would not be understood to form an unfavorable
opinion of his motives, has any candid advisers,
who conceive that he merits the public employ
ment, they ought to counsel him to wipe away the
aspersion he has incautiously brought upon a good
cause. If he is unworthy of the office he holds, it
would be well that the ground of a complaint, ap
parently so general, should be inquired into, and, if
founded, redressed through the medium of a better
appointment.

It is a matter in my judgment of primary impor
tance, that the public mind should be relieved from
inquietude on this subject. I know it is said, that
the irregularity or defect has happened accidentally,
in consequence of the contract for transporting the
mail on horseback, instead of having it carried in
the stages ; but I must confess I could never account,
upon any satisfactory principles, for the inveterate
enmity with which the postmaster-general is asserted
to be actuated against that valuable institution. It
has often been understood by wise politicians and en
lightened patriots, that giving a facility to the means
of travelling for strangers, and of intercourse for

292 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

citizens, was an object of legislative concern, and a
circumstance highly beneficial to any country. In
England, I am told, they consider the mail-coaches
as a great modern improvement in their post-office
regulations. I trust we are not too old, or too proud,
to profit by the experience of others. In this article
the materials are amply within our reach. I am taught
to imagine, that the horses, the vehicles, and the
accommodations in America, with very little encour
agement, might in a short period become as good as
the same articles are to be found in any country of
Europe. And at the same time I am sorry to learn,
that the line of stages is at present interrupted in
some parts of New England, and totally discontinued
at the southward.

I mention these suggestions only as my particular
thoughts on an establishment, which I had conceived
to be of great importance. Your proximity to the
person in question, and connexion with the characters
in power, will enable you to decide better than I can
on the validity of the allegations, and in that case to
weigh the expediency of dropping such hints as may
serve to give satisfaction to the public. With sen
timents of the highest consideration and regard, I
am, &c.

P. S. — Since writing the foregoing I have been
favored with your letter which was begun on the 4th
and continued till the 8th and thank you for the
information therein contained. Your next will I hope
announce the ratification by your State, without pre
vious amendments.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 293

TO NOAH WEBSTER.

MOUNT VERNON, 31 July, 1788.

SIR,

I duly received your letter of the i4th of July, and
can only answer you briefly, and generally from mem
ory ; that a combined operation of the land and naval
forces of France and America, for the year 1781, was
preconcerted the year before : that the point at attack
was not absolutely agreed upon, because it would be
easy for the Count de Grasse in good time before his
departure from the West Indies to give notice by
express at what place he could most conveniently first
touch to receive advices, because it could not be fore
known where the enemy would be most susceptible
of impression, and because we, (having the command
of the water, and with sufficient means of convey
ance,) could transport ourselves to any spot with the
greatest celerity : that it was determined by me,
(nearly twelve months beforehand,) at all hazards
to give out and cause it to be believed by the highest
military as well as civil officers, that New York was
the destined place of attack, for the important pur
pose of inducing the eastern & middle States to make
greater exertions in furnishing specific supplies than
they otherwise would have done, as well as for the
interesting purpose of rendering the enemy less pre
pared elsewhere : that these means, and these alone,
artillery, boats, stores, and provisions were in season
able preparation to move with the utmost rapidity to
any part of the continent ; for the difficulty consisted
more in providing, than knowing how to apply, the

294 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

military apparatus : that before the arrival of the
Count de Grasse, it was the fixed determination
to strike the enemy in the most vulnerable quarter so
as to ensure success with moral certainty, as our
affairs were then in the most ruinous train imagina
ble : that New York was thought to be beyond our
effort, and consequently the only hesitation that
remained was between an attack upon the British
army in Virginia or that in Charleston : and, finally,
that (by the intervention of several communications,)
and some incidents which cannot be detailed in a
letter, and which were altogether unknown to the late
quartermaster-general of the army, who was informed
of nothing but what related to the immediate duties
of his own department,) the hostile post in Virginia,
from being a provisional and strongly expected, be
came the definitive and certain object of the campaign.
I only add, that it never was in contemplation to at
tack New York, unless the garrison should first have
been so far disgarnished to carry on the southern
operations, as to render our success in the siege of
that place as infallible as any future military event
can ever be made. For, I repeat it, and dwell upon
it again and again, some splendid advantage (whether
upon a larger or smaller scale was almost immaterial)
was so essentially necessary to revive the expiring
hopes and languid exertions of the country, at the
crisis in question, that I never would have consented
to embark in any enterprise, wherein, from the most
rational plan and accurate calculations, the favorable
issue should not have appeared as clear to my view

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 295

as a ray of light. The failure of an attempt against
the posts of the enemy could, in no other possible
situation during the war, have been so fatal to our
cause.

That much trouble was taken and finesse used to
misguide and bewilder Sir Henry Clinton in regard
to the real object, by fictitious communications as well
as by making a deceptive provision of ovens, forage,
and boats in his neighborhood, is certain. Nor were
less pains taken to deceive our own army ; for I had
always conceived, when the imposition did not com
pletely take place at home, it could never sufficiently
succeed abroad.

Your desire of obtaining truth is very laudable. I
wish I had more leisure to gratify it, as I am equally
solicitous the undisguised verity should be known.
Many circumstances will unavoidably be misconceived
and misrepresented. Notwithstanding most of the
papers, which may properly be deemed official, are
preserved, yet the knowledge of innumerable things
of a more delicate and secret nature is confined to
the perishable remembrance of some few of the pres
ent generation. I am, with sentiments of esteem
and regard, Sir, &c.

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 3 August, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

Your favors of the 2ist and 27th of last month
came duly to hand. The latter contained the pleas
ing, and I may add (though I could not reconcile it

296 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

to any ideas I entertained of common policy) unex
pected account of the unconditional ratification of the
constitution by the State of New York. That North
Carolina will hesitate long in its choice, I can scarcely
believe ; but what Rhode Island will do is more diffi
cult to say, though not worth a conjecture, as the
conduct of the majority there has hitherto baffled all
calculation.

The place proper for the new Congress to meet at
will unquestionably undergo, if it has not already done
it, much investigation ; but there are certain things,
which are so self-evident in their nature, as to speak
for themselves. This possibly may be one. Where
the true point lies I will not undertake to decide ; but
there can be no hesitation, I think, in pronouncing
that in all societies, if the band or cement is strong
and interesting enough to hold the body together,
the several parts should submit to the inconveniences,
for the benefits which they derive from the conven
iences of the compact.1

1 " Congress have deliberated in part on the arrangements for putting the new
machine into operation, but have concluded on nothing but the times for choos
ing electors, &c. Those, who wish to make New York the place of meeting,
studiously promote delay ; others, who are not swayed by this consideration, do
not urge despatch. They think it would be well to let as many States as pos
sible have an opportunity of deciding on the constitution ; and, what is of
more consequence, they wish to give opportunities, where they can take place,
for as many elections of State legislatures as can precede a reasonable time, for
making the appointments and arrangements referred to them. If there be too
great an interval between the acts of Congress on this subject, and the next
election or next meeting of a State legislature, it may afford a pretext for an
intermediate summoning of the existing members, who are everywhere less
federal than their successors hereafter to be elected will probably be. This is
particularly the case in Maryland, where the antifederal temper of the execu
tive would render an intermediate and extraordinary meeting of the Assembly

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON, 297

We have nothing in these parts worth communica
ting. Towards New York we look for whatever is
interesting till the States begin to act under the new
form, which will be an important epoch in the annals
of this country. With sentiments of sincere friendship
and affection, I am yours, &c.

TO GEORGE STEPTOE WASHINGTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 6 August, 1788.

DEAR GEORGE,

It was with equal pain and surprise, that I was
informed by Colonel Hanson on Monday last of your
unjustifiable behavior in rescuing your brother from
that chastisement, which was due to his improper
conduct ; and which you know, because you have
been told it in explicit language, he was authorized
to administer whensoever he should deserve it. Such

of that State the more likely to be called. On my way through Maryland,
I found such an event to be much feared by the friends, and wished by the ad
versaries, of the constitution. We have no late news from Europe, nor any
thing from North Carolina." — Madison to Washington, 21 July, 1788.

" I am clearly in sentiment with you that the longer the question respecting
the permanent Seat of Congress remains unagitated, the greater certainty there
will be of its fixture in a central spot. — But not having the same means of in
formation and judging that you have ; it would have been a moot point with
me, whether a temporary residence of that body at New York would not have
been a less likely means of keeping it itltimately from the center (being further
removed from it) than if it was to be at Philadelphia ; because, in proportion
as you draw it to the center, you lessen the inconveniences and of course the
solicitude of the Southern and Western extremities ; — and when to these are
super-added the acquaintances and connections which will naturally be formed
— the expenses which more than probably will be incurred for the accommoda
tion of the public Officers — with a long train of et ceteras, it might be found an
arduous task to approach nearer to the Axis thereafter. — These, however, are
first thoughts, and may not go to the true principles of policy which governs in
this case." — Washington to Madison, 18 August, 1788.

298 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

refractory behavior on your part I consider as an
insult equally offered to myself, after the above com
munications ; and I shall continue to view it in that
light, till you have made satisfactory acknowledg
ments to Colonel Hanson for the offence given him.

o

It is as much my wish and intention to see justice
done to you and your brother, as it is to punish either
when it is merited ; but there are proper modes by
which this is to be obtained, and it is to be sought
by a fair and candid representation of facts which can
be supported, and not by vague complaints, diso
bedience, perverseness, or disobliging conduct, which
make enemies without producing the smallest good.
So often and strenuously have I endeavored to incul
cate this advice, and to show you the advantages,
which are to be expected from close application to
your studies, that it is unnecessary to repeat it. If
the admonitions of friendship are lost, other methods
must be tried, which cannot be more disagreeable to
you, than it would be to one, who wishes to avoid it,
who is solicitous to see you and your brother (the
only remaining sons of your father) turn out well, and
who is very desirous of continuing your affectionate
uncle.1

1 " On my return home last night I found my nephew Lawrence here, who
said he was afraid to remain at your house, and offered to show me some bruises
he had received. Being prepared for it, I was going this morning to correct
him ; but he begged so earnestly and promised so faithfully, that there should
be no cause of complaint against him for the future, that I have suspended the
punishment.

" The letter, which I have written to his brother on the subject, is under this
cover, and open for your perusal. He is arrived at that age and size now, as to
be a fitter subject to be reasoned with than to receive corporal punishment ; and
my primary object in placing these boys with you last was, that they, at least

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 299

TO CHARLES PETTIT.

MOUNT VERNON, 16 August, 1788.

SIR,

I have to acknowledge with much sensibility the
receipt of your letter, dated the 5th instant, in which
you offer your congratulations on the prospect of an
established government, whose principles seem calcu
lated to secure the benefits of society to the citizens
of the United States, and in which you also give a
more accurate state of federal politics in Pennsylvania
than I had before received. It affords me unfeigned
satisfaction to find, that the acrimony of parties is
much abated.

Doubtless there are defects in the proposed system,
which may be remedied in a constitutional mode. I
am truly pleased to learn, that those, who have been
considered as its most violent opposers, will not only
acquiesce peaceably, but cooperate in its organization,
and content themselves with asking amendments in
the manner prescribed by the constitution. The great
danger in my view was, that every thing might be
thrown into the last stage of confusion before any
government whatsoever could be established, and that

George, should be treated more on the footing of friendship and as companions,
than as mere schoolboys. This I hoped would draw George's attention to
objects and conversations, that would improve and might contribute in a
degree to wean him from boyish amusements, the influence of which would
extend to Lawrence.

" Necessary and decent clothes they shall have no cause to complain for the
want of ; and if you, Sir, once a month, or oftener, would be so obliging as to
inspect them and let me know what they need, I will take care that they shall
be provided. A line from one of them, lodged at the post, signifying their
desire of sending things to my tailor to repair, will induce the occasional call of
a servant, which may be sent to town on other business." — Washington fc>
Samuel Hanson, 6 August, 1788.

300 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

we should suffer a political shipwreck without the aid
of one friendly star to guide us into port. Every real
patriot must have lamented, that private feuds and
local politics should have unhappily insinuated them
selves into, and in some measure obstructed, the dis
cussion of a great national question. A just opinion,
that the people when rightly informed will decide in
a proper manner, ought certainly to have prevented
all intemperate or precipitate proceedings on a sub
ject of so much magnitude ; nor should a regard to
common decency have suffered the zealots in the
minority to stigmatize the authors of the constitution
as conspirators and traitors. However unfavorably
individuals, blinded by passion and prejudice, might
have thought of the characters who composed the
convention, the election of those characters by the
legislatures of the several States, and the reference
of their proceedings to the free determination of
their constituents, did not carry the appearance of a
private combination to destroy the liberties of their
country. Nor did the outrageous disposition, which
some indulged in traducing and vilifying the mem
bers, seem much calculated to produce concord or
accommodation.

For myself, I expected not to be exempted from
obloquy any more than others. It is the lot of hu
manity. But if the shafts of malice had been aimed
at me in ever so pointed a manner on this occasion,
shielded as I was by a consciousness of having acted
in conformity to what I believed my duty, they would
have fallen blunted from their mark. It is known to

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 301

some of my countrymen, and can be demonstrated to
the conviction of all, that I was in a manner con
strained to attend the general convention, in compli
ance with the earnest and pressing desires of many of
the most respectable characters in different parts of
the continent.

At my age, and in my circumstances, what sinister
object or personal emolument had I to seek after in
this life ? The growing infirmities of age, and the
increasing love of retirement, daily confirm my de
cided predilection for domestic life ; and the great
Searcher of human hearts is my witness, that I have no
wish, which aspires beyond the humble and happy lot
of living and dying a private citizen on my own farm.

Your candor and patriotism in endeavoring to
moderate the jealousies and remove the prejudices,
which a particular class of citizens had conceived
against the new government, are certainly very com
mendable, and must be viewed as such by all true
friends to their country. In this description I shall
fondly hope I have a right to comprehend myself ;
and shall conclude by professing a grateful sense of
your favorable opinion for me. I am, &c.

TO JOHN BEALE BORDLEY.

MOUNT VERNON, 17 August, 1788.

No wheat that has ever yet fallen under my obser
vation exceeds the wheat which some years ago I
cultivated extensively but which, from inattention

3o2 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

during my absence of almost nine years from home,
has got so mixed or degenerated as scarcely to retain
any of its original characteristics properly. But if
the march of the Hessian fly, southerly, cannot be
arrested, and Colo. Morgan's experiments are corrob
orated by others of equal skill and attention, it must
yield to the palm the yellow bearded wheat, which,
alone, it is said, is able to resist the depredations of
that destructive insect. This makes your present of
it to me more valuable. I shall cultivate it with care.

The Cape wheat I have cultivated three years suc
cessively — The frost of the last year almost destroyed
it. — In neither, did it produce a full grain, though a
large one. — I have just harvested a little of two kinds
of wheat sent me by Arthur Young, Esqr., of Eng
land, one of which he says is called the Harrison
wheat, and is in high estimation in that country ; the
other is a large white wheat, to which I do not recol
lect he has given any name. — The seed being in
jured in its passage, came up badly and with difficulty
any of it was preserved from weads, &c. — No con
clusive opinion therefore can be formed of either
from the trial of this year, but if there is any thing
which indicates a superior quality in it next, I will
reserve some of the seed for you.

That the system (if it deserves the appelation of
one) of corn, wheat, hay, has been injurious, and if
continued would prove ruinous, to our Lands, I be
lieve no person who has attended to the ravages which
have been produced by it in our fields is at a loss to
decide ; but with deference let me ask if the substitute

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 303

you propose is the best that can be devised ? Wheat
follows Corn : here are not only two Corn Crops, but
those of the most exhausting nature following each
other without the intervention of a restorative, when
by the approved courses now practiced in England
Grain and (what are called) fallow Crops, succeed
each other alternately. Though I am not strongly
attached to a particular course (being open to convic
tion) yet that which has obtained most in my mind,
and which I have been endeavoring (for it is not easy
to go fully into any system which produces a mate
rial change at once), is the following, which for the
more perfect understanding of it shall have dates to
their respective growths of the Crops. By the usual
mode it is scarcely necessary to observe we have three
fields — viz — one in Corn, one in wheat, and one in
hay. — By my plan, these three fields are divided into
Six. — For instance one of them, say No. i, is planted
with Corn 8 feet by 2 — single stalks ; with Irish Pota
toes, or Carrots, or partly both, between that Corn
planted in this manner, will yield as much to the Acre
as in any other ; that the quantity of Potatoes is at least
quadruple the quantity of Corn, and that Potatoes
do not exhaust the Land, are facts well established in
my mind. — In April 1789 it is sown with Buck wheat
(for manure) which is plowed in before harvest, when
the seed begins to ripen, and there is enough to
seed the ground a second time. In July it is again
plowed in which gives two dressings to the Land at
the expence only of a bushel of B. W: and the plow-
ings which would otherwise be essential for a summer

304 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

fallow. — In August, after the putrefaction and fermen
tation is over, wheat is sown, and in i 790 harvested.
—In 1791 — The best — and earliest kind of Indian
Pease are sown in broad cast, to be mown when gen
erally Ripe. Since the adoption of this course, and
the progress that has been made to carry it into effect,
I have had too much cause to be convinced, that,
Pease, harvested in this manner is a considerable ex
haustion of the soil — I have some thoughts therefore

o

of substituting a medley — of Pease, Buck wheat for
seed, Turnips, Pom-kins, &c., in such parts of the
field as will be useful on the farm, and all of them
preparatives of the ensuing Crop. In 1792 Spring
Barley or Oats ; or equal quantities of each will fol
low with Clover — The latter to be fed with light Stock
after harvest. — In 1793 the Field remains in Clover
for Hay or grazing according to circumstances. In
1794 it comes again into Corn and goes on as before.
It may be remarked here as an objection to this
System — that wheat, in the best farming Counties in
England, follows the Clover hay — is sown on a single
plowing — and has been found profitable from practice.
—My reasons for departing from that mode are — ist
our plowing is not equal to theirs, of course the Clover
is not so well buried, nor the ensuing (wheat) Crop
so free from grass as theirs ; and 2dly, if we sow wheat,
at an early and proper period, we loose a valuable
part of the clover Crop — whereas the ground for Corn
need not be broken till the season for grazing is over
and the Stock in the farm yard. By the tillage too,
which the Corn Crop ougJit to receive, followed by B.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 305

W. twice plowed in, Weeds and grass must be entirely
eradicated.

To contrast the probable yield of this with the old
course, of Corn, wheat and hay — suppose a farm of
300 acres of arable Land.

Old

acres. bush. bush.

100 of Maiz @ 12^ is 1250 @ 3/ ^187. 10. o
100 Wheat @ 6 600 5/ 150. o. o

100 Pasture 337. 10. o

diffe. ;£n6. 5. o

453-

New

Acres. B. Bush.

50 of Maiz at 12^ is 625 @ 3/ £ 93. 15. o

Potatoes between the^)
Corn rows will quad
ruple the Corn but ! ,

}>I250@ I/ 62. 10. O

allowing for seed, (

accidence &c. only

double

50 of wheat @ 9 is 450 @ 5/ 112. 10. o
50 of Barley @ 10 is 500 @ 3/6 87. 10. o
50 of Clover Hay — 25 Tons@5o/ 62. 10. o

50 of Pease @ 4 Bush. 200 @ 3/6 35. o. o
50 of Pasture ^453. 15. o

In the above statement, as much, I conceive, is
allowed to the old, and taken from the new course, as
can be done with Justice. — The Pastures of the latter
will be fine, and improving ; Those of the former are
continually declining, and washing into gullies. — The
hand-machine spoken of by you for sowing Clover

306 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

Seed I have wished to see but have never yet seen
one — but I cannot conceive that by this, or any other
contrivance a bushel of seed can be made to subserve
20 acres of Land, and without a considerable mixture
of other grass seeds, which would in a manner, be
washed in so short a lay as is proposed by either of
our Systems.

I have been informed that you have in possession
one of Winlaw's machines for threshing wheat : Pray
how do you approve of it on trial? Many of these
newly invented things meet the approbation of the
moment but will not stand the test of constant use,
or the usage of common laborers— I have requested
Mr. Young if this machine has supported its reputa
tion — either in his opinion, or the Judgment of those
on whom he can rely, to send me one. I am, &c.

TO THE COUNT UE MOUSTIER.

MOUNT VERNON, 17 August, 1788.

SIR,

In the letter I did myself the honor to address to
your Excellency on the 26th of last March, I inti
mated that as soon as I should have obtained more
particular information concerning the commercial
intercourse between France and the United States, I
would most willingly communicate the result. Ill
prepared as I still am to treat of a subject so compli
cated in its nature, and so extensive in its conse
quences, I will now hazard a few facts and general
observations, without confining myself strictly to your

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 307

questions, to which, however, you may find there will
be a constant allusion.

Respecting the utility or hurtfulness of the tobacco
contract between Mr. Morris and the Farmers-Gen
eral, I have heard so many specious arguments on
one side and the other, that I find myself embarrassed
in making a fair judgment. In ordinary cases I know
that all exclusive privileges and even partial monopo
lies are pernicious. How far in this instance the
contract has been only a transference of the business
from the foreign agents, (English or Scottish,) who
used to conduct it, into other hands, and whether the
same exportations in quantity would have been made
directly to France through more advantageous chan
nels, I cannot pretend to determine. A free compe
tition in the purchase of that article here, as well as
in the sale at the place of market, it seems reasonable
to conclude, would be mutually beneficial to both
nations, however it might be inconvenient to indi
viduals. Though the present contract will soon ex
pire of course, and leave an equal field of speculation
on this side of the Atlantic, 1 have, been taught to
believe, that the Farmers-General will not so readily
give up their share in the monopoly on the other.
So the business must in all probability revert to its
original channel.

In reply to your second, third, and fourth questions,
I would only briefly observe, that we are yet scarcely
sufficiently acquainted with the coarse French wool
lens, and their lowest prices, to determine how far
they can come in rivalship with those of Britain. The

3o8 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

prevailing opinion is in[favor of] the latter ; but I see
no reason why the former, when calculated for the
particular purpose, may not be made equally cheap
and good. As to other articles of importation di
rectly from France, they might consist in superfine
broadcloths, (particularly blue which can be afforded
cheaper and better than from England,) glass, gloves,
ribbons, silks, cambrics, plain lawns, linens, printed
goods, wine, brandy, oil, fruit, and in general every
thing necessary for carrying on the Indian trade ;
from the Islands, sugar and coffee, in addition to the
molasses and rum, which alone are permitted to be
exported to the United States at present. Our prod
uce in return to Europe might comprehend tobacco
(as the staple from this State), and from the States
aggregately wheat, rice, other grain, bread, flour, fish,
fish oil, potashes, pearlashes, skins, furs, peltry, indigo,
madder, different dyeing woods, lumber, naval stores,
iron, coals, and ships ready built ; to the Islands,
lumber, bar iron, coals, live stock, and provisions of
all kinds.

It may be mentioned here as a first principle of
extending the intercourse, and as a theory which will
be found incontestably true in experiment, that, in
proportion as France shall increase the facility of our
making remittances, in the same ratio shall ive in
crease the consumption of her produce and manufac
tures. Common sense and sound policy speak thus
on our part : " We can furnish new materials of great
value, and our ability to do it will augment with our
population every day ; we want no money for them,

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 309

and we desire no credit may be given to us ; we
cannot manufacture fine articles so cheaply as we can
import them, and must, while we continue an agri
cultural people, be supplied from some quarter ; we
offer you the preference, and will take in different
goods to the amount received from us in our staple
commodities."

This doctrine has been already verified, so far as
an opportunity has been afforded to observe the
effect. The use of French brandy in common taverns,
as well as private houses, has been substituted for two
or three years past very much in the room of Jamaica
rum. Probably not less than twenty-four thousand
gallons have been imported into this State in one
year. The consumption of French wines is also much
greater than it has formerly been ; and may, by a
moderate calculation, amount to between one half
and one third of all that is imported. The demand
for both these articles might still be extended with
the means of making remittances. Not much French
salt is made use of for curing provisions in Virginia.
The opinion is, that it is not so clean as that imported
from other parts of Europe. If it was properly puri
fied, it might and certainly would be brought out as
ballast in great quantities, and find a ready market.

About half the exports from Virginia are carried
in American bottoms, the remainder principally in
British bottoms. There are, however, a number of
other foreign vessels employed in the trade.

I know not of any other equivalents, than those to
be derived by France from the extension of her com-

3io THE WRITINGS OF [1788

merce, which we can give for any new favors in your
Islands.1 Under the present rigorous restrictions, it
is thought that trade is unprofitable for us, and will
decay or be disused as soon as other avenues for
receiving our produce shall be gradually opened.
The maritime genius of this country is now steering
our vessels in every ocean ; to the East Indies, the
north-west coasts of America, and the extremities of
the globe. I have the best evidence, that the scale
of commerce, so long against us, is beginning to turn
in our favor, and that, (as a new thing in our new
world,) the amount of exports from one State last
year exceeded that of the imports more than two
hundred and thirty thousand pounds.

What change in systems, and amelioration in the
general complexion of our affairs, are likely to be
produced in consequence of the national government,

1 "I believe I told your Excellency before, I was so little conversant in
commercial matters, that I desired but small stress might be placed upon my
opinions. It may be necessary to repeat this observation as an apology for
what I am about to say on the commerce between this country and the West
India Islands. I have every reason to wish, that this trade might, if possible,
be made reciprocally beneficial. Of that, however, I entertain some doubts ;
for hitherto I have thought it of much less importance to the United States,
than people commonly imagine it to be. My reasons for this opinion were ;
first, because I could not learn upon inquiry, that it turned out much, if any,
to the advantage of those concerned in it ; and, secondly, because all or nearly
all the produce imported from thence (cotton excepted) might be considered as
articles of luxury, the use of which would in a great measure be dispensed
with, if they were not so easily to be obtained. But my greatest reason for
supposing the trade detrimental to us was, that rum, the principal article received
from thence, is in my opinion the bane of morals and the parent of idleness.

"I have been informed, that, before the war, while all the British Islands
were wholly open to our vessels and some of those of other nations partly so,
the trade, (by enabling the adventurers to make a circuitous remittance to
Europe,) was attended with pretty certain, but very small profits ; and that,

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 311

which is on the eve of being established, I will not
undertake to predict. I hope and trust the ties, which
connect this nation with France, will be strengthened
and made durable by it. In the mean time there are
three things, which I flatter myself will counterbal
ance, on the side of the French commerce, the three
advantages, of which I conceive the British merchants
to be possessed. The circumstances to which I allude
are, ist, the increasing prejudices of this country
against a commercial intercourse with England, occa
sioned by provocations and augmented by impositions
on her part ; 2ndly, the facility given in many in
stances by the French government for our making
remittances in the staple commodities of this country ;
and, 3dly, the change of taste in favor of articles pro
duced or manufactured in France, which may indeed
in a great degree be attributed to the affection and

since the war, it has been generally a losing speculation, even in the State
where it has been carried on to the greatest extent, and with more economy in
the outfits and navigation than elsewhere. But it will be asked, whether the
States, which produce horses, &c., for this trade, would not be greatly injured,
in case of its annihilation, for want of a market to dispose of that produce. I
answer, that in my judgment it would be better to alter the mode of farming,
and to raise sheep and black cattle instead of horses. There can be no want
of sufficient demands for wool and beef, nor can I conceive that it would
be a difficult affair to substitute the growth of these, in the room of less useful
articles. Then I could wish to see the direct commerce with France encour
aged to the greatest degree ; and that almost all the foreign spirits, which we
consume, should consist of the wines and brandies made in that country. The
use of those liquors would at least be more innocent to the health and morals
of the people, than the thousands of hogsheads of poisonous rum, which are
annually consumed in the United States ; and upon further reflection it seems
obvious to me, that there are articles enough in France, which are wanted
here, and others in turn produced here, which are wanted in France, to form
the basis of a beneficial, extensive, and durable commerce." — Washington to
Motistier, 15 December, 1788.

3i2 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

gratitude still felt for her generous interposition in
our favor.

I should be truly happy to learn, that this country
and its inhabitants have become agreeable to your
Excellency upon acquaintance. For you may be as
sured, Sir, no one can be more zealous than myself
in promoting a friendly connexion between our na
tions, or in rendering your situation perfectly satisfac
tory, while the United States shall enjoy the benefit
of your residence in them. With the highest con
sideration and respect, I have the honor to be, &C.1

TO BENJAMIN LINCOLN.

MOUNT VERNON, 28 August, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I received with your letter of the gth instant, one
from Mr. Minot, and also his " History of the Insur
rections in Massachusetts." The work seems to be
executed with ingenuity, as well as to be calculated
to place facts in a true point of view, obviate the
prejudices of those, who are unacquainted with the
circumstances, and answer good purposes in respect
to our government in general. I have returned him
my thanks for his present by this conveyance.

The public appears to be anxiously waiting for the
decision of Congress respecting the place for conven
ing the national assembly under the new government,
and the ordinance for its organization. Methinks it is
a great misfortune, that local interests should involve
themselves with federal concerns at this moment.

1 The general terms of this letter were dictated by a wish to say nothing that
would be likely to embarrass Jefferson's negotiations in France.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 313

So far as I am able to learn, federal principles are
gaining ground considerably. The declaration of
some of the most respectable characters in this State
(I mean of those who were opposed to the govern
ment) is now explicit, that they will give the consti
tution a fair chance by affording it all the support in
their power. Even in Pennsylvania, the minority,
who were more violent than in any other place, say
they will only seek for amendments in the mode
pointed out by the constitution itself.

I will, however, just mention by way of caveat,
there are suggestions, that attempts will be made to
procure the election of a number of antifederal char
acters to the first Congress, in order to embarrass the
wheels of government, and produce premature altera
tions in its constitution. How these hints, which
have come through different channels, may be well or
ill-founded, I know not ; but it will be advisable, I
should think, for the federalists to be on their guard,
so far as not to suffer any secref machinations to pre
vail, without taking measures to frustrate them.1 That
many amendments and explanations might and should
take place, I have [no] difficulty in conceding ; but I
will confess my apprehension is, that the New York
circular letter is intended to bring on a general con-

1 In wiiting of these election cabals to James McHenry, 31 July, 1788,
Washington said '

" I think there will be great reason for those who are well affected to the
government to use their utmost exertions, that the worthiest citizens may be
appointed to the two Houses of the first Congress, and, where State elections
take place previous to this choice, that the same principle govern in these also.
For much will doubtless depend on their prudence in conducting business at
the beginning, and reconciling discordant dispositions to a reasonable acqui
escence with candid and honest measures. At the same time it will be a point

314 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

vention at too early a period, and, in short, by refer
ring the subject to the legislatures, to set every thing
afloat again. I wish I may be mistaken in imagining,
that there are persons, who, upon finding they could
not carry their point by an open attack against the
constitution, have some sinister designs to be silently
effected if possible. But I trust in that Providence,
which has saved us in six troubles, yea, in seven, to
rescue us again from any imminent though unseen
dangers. Nothing, however, on our part ought to be
left undone. I conceive it to be of unspeakable
importance, that whatever there be of wisdom, and
prudence, and patriotism on the continent, should be
concentred in the public councils at the first outset.
Our habits of intimacy will render an apology un
necessary — Heaven is my witnesss that an inextin
guishable desire for the felicity of my country may be
prompted is my only motive in making these observa
tions. I am, &c.

TO ALEXANDER HAMILTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 28 August, 1788.

DEAR SIR :

I have had the pleasure to receive your letter dated
the 1 3th, accompanied by one addressed to General
Morgan. I will forward the letter to General Morgan

of no common delicacy to make provision for effecting such explanations and
amendments, as might be really proper and generally satisfactory, without
producing, or at least fostering, such a spirit of innovation as will overturn the
whole system.

"I earnestly pray, that the Omnipotent Being, who hath not deserted the
cause of America in the hour of its extremest hazard, will never yield so fair a
heritage of freedom a prey to anarchy or despotism."

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 315

by the first conveyance, and add my particular wishes,
that he would comply with the request contained in it.
Although I can scarcely imagine how the watch of a
British officer, killed- within their lines, should have
fallen into his hands, who was many miles distant
from the scene of action, yet, if it so happened, I
flatter myself there will be no reluctance or delay in
restoring it to the family.

As the perusal of the political papers under the
signature of PUBLIUS has afforded me great satisfac
tion, I shall certainly consider them as claiming a most
distinguished place in my library. I have read every
performance, which has been printed on one side and
the other of the great question lately agitated (so far
as I have been able to obtain them) ; and, without an
unmeaning compliment, I will say, that I have seen
no other so well calculated, in my judgment, to pro
duce conviction on an unbiassed mind as the pro
duction of your triumvirate. When the transient
circumstances and fugitive performances, which at
tended this crisis, shall have disappeared, that work
will merit the notice of posterity, because in it are
candidly and ably discussed the principles of freedom
and the topics of government, which will be always
interesting to mankind, so long as they shall be
connected in civil society.

The circular letter from your convention I presume
was the equivalent, by which you obtained an acqui
escence in the proposed constitution. Notwithstand
ing I am not very well satisfied with the tendency of
it, yet the federal affairs had proceeded, with few

316 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

exceptions, in so good a train, that I hope the
political machine may be put in motion, without
much effort or hazard of miscarrying.1

On the delicate subject with which you conclude
your letter, I can say nothing, because the event
alluded to may never happen, and because, in case
it should occur, it would be a point of prudence to
defer forming one's ultimate and irrevocable decision,
so long as new data might be afforded for one to act
with the greater wisdom and propriety. I would not
wish to conceal my prevailing sentiment from you ;
for you know me well enough, my good Sir, to be
persuaded, that I am not guilty of affectation when I
tell you, that it is my great and sole desire to live and
die in peace and retirement on my own farm. Were
it even indispensable, a different line of conduct

1 On this topic Mr. Madison wrote : " You will have seen the circular letter
from the convention of this State. It has a pestilent tendency. If an early
general convention cannot be parried, it is seriously to be feared, that the sys
tem, which has resisted so many direct attacks, may be at last successfully
undermined by its enemies. It is now perhaps to be wished, that Rhode Island
may not accede, till this new crisis of danger shall be over. Some think it
would have been better, if New York had held out till the operation of the gov
ernment could have dissipated the fears, which artifice had created, and the
attempts resulting from those fears and artifices." — New York, August nth.
This circular letter was sent by the convention of New York to the legislatures
of the several States, recommending that a new general convention should be
called for the purpose of taking into consideration various amendments to the
constitution. See the letter in the American Museum, vol. iv., p. 158. Al
though the Virginia convention ratified the constitution by a small majority
only, yet it did not follow the example of New York in this particular. The
New York letter was intended to exert an influence on the Virginia conven
tion, but through an accident was not laid before that body. The Assembly
convened soon afterwards, however, and adopted strong resolutions to the same
effect, and sent an application to Congress, and a circular letter to the several
States recommending another general convention. — Wirt's Life of Patrick
Henry, pp.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 317

should be adopted, while you and some others who
are acquainted with my heart would acquit, the world
and posterity might possibly accuse me [of] incon
sistency and ambition. Still I hope I shall always
possess firmness and virtue enough to maintain (what
I consider the most enviable of all titles), the charac
ter of an honest man, as well as prove, what I desire
to be considered in reality, that

I am, with great sincerity and esteem,

Dear Sir, &c.!

TO THOMAS JEFFERSON.

MOUNT VERNON, 31 August, 1788.

SIR,

I was very much gratified a little time ago by the
receipt of your letter dated the 2d of May. You
have my best thanks for the political information
contained in it, as well as for the satisfactory account
of the canal of Languedoc. It gives me great
pleasure to be made acquainted with the particulars
of that stupendous work, though I do not expect to
derive any but speculative advantages from it.

When America will be able to embark in projects
of such pecuniary extent, I know not ; probably not
for very many years to come ; but it will be a good
example, and not without its use, if we can carry our

1 " I take it for granted, Sir, you have concluded to comply with what will,
no doubt, be the general call of your country in relation to the new gov
ernment. You will permit me to say, that it is indispensable you should lend
yourself to its first operations. It is to little purpose to have introduced a
system, if the weightiest influence is not given to its firm establishment in
the outset." — Hamilton to Washington, 13 August, 1788.

318 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

present undertakings happily into effect. Of this we
have now the fairest prospect. Notwithstanding the
real scarcity of money, and the difficulty of collecting
it, the laborers employed by the Potomac Company
have made very great progress in removing the
obstructions at the Shenandoah, Seneca, and Great
Falls ; insomuch that, if this summer had not proved
unusually rainy, and if we could have had a favorable
autumn, the navigation might have been sufficiently
opened (though not completed) for boats to have
passed from Fort Cumberland to within nine miles of
a shipping port, by the first of January next. There
remains now no doubt of the practicability of the
plan, or that, upon the ulterior operations being per
formed, this will become the great avenue into the
western country ; a country which is now settling in
an extraordinarily rapid manner, under uncommonly
favorable circumstances, and which promises to afford
a capacious asylum for the poor and persecuted of the
earth.

I do not pretend to judge how far the flames of
war, which are kindled in the north of Europe, may
be scattered, or how soon they will be extinguished.
The European politics have taken so strange a turn,
and the nations formerly allied have become so curi
ously severed, that there are fewer sure premises for
calculation, than are usually afforded even on the pre
carious and doubtful subject. But it appears probable
to me, that peace will either take place this year, or
hostility be greatly extended in the course of the
next. The want of a hearty cooperation between the

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON, 319

two imperial powers against the Porte, or the failure
of success from any other cause, may accelerate the
first contingency. The irritable state, into which
several of the other potentates seem to have been
drawn, may open the way to the second. Hitherto
the event of the contest has proved different from
the general expectation. If in our speculations we
might count upon discipline, system, and resources,
and certainly these are the articles which generally
give decisive advantages in war, I had thought full
surely the Turks must at least have been driven out
of Europe.

Is it not unaccountable, that the Russians and Ger
mans combined are not able to effect so much as the
former did alone in the late war ? But perhaps these
things are all for the best, and may afford room for
pacification. I am glad our Commodore Paul Jones
has got employment, and heartily wish him success.
His new situation may possibly render his talents and
services more useful to us at some future day. I was
unapprized of the circumstances, which you mention,
that Congress had once in contemplation to give him
promotion. They will doubtless judge now how far
it may be expedient.1

By what we can learn from the late foreign gazettes,
affairs seem to have come nearly to a crisis in France,
and I hope they are beginning to meliorate. Should

1 The Empress of Russia had recently called Paul Jones into her service, to
take part in the war against the Turks, and promised him the rank of rear-
admiral. Mr. Jefferson said, that Congress had it once in contemplation to
confer on him the rank of admiral, which was to date from the time of his
taking the Serapis, and suggested that such a step might still be an act of
policy.

32o THE WRITINGS OF [1787

the contest between the King and the parliaments
result in a well-constituted national assembly, it must
ultimately be a happy event for the kingdom. But I
fear that kingdom will not recover its reputation and
influence with the Dutch for a long time to come.
Combinations appear also to be forming in other
quarters. It is reported by the last European ac
counts, that England has actually entered into a treaty
with Russia, and that the French ambassador at the
court of London has asked to be informed of its
tenor. In whatever manner the nations of Europe
shall endeavor to keep up their prowess in war, and
their balance of power in peace, it will be obviously
our policy to cultivate tranquillity at home and abroad ;
and to extend our agriculture and commerce as far as
possible.

I am much obliged by the information you gave
respecting the credit of different nations among the
Dutch money-holders, and fully accord with you with
regard to the manner in which our own ought to be
used. I am strongly impressed with the expediency
of establishing our national faith beyond imputation,
and of having recourse to loans only on critical occa
sions. Your proposal for transferring the whole
foreign debt to Holland is highly worthy of con
sideration. I feel mortified, that there should have
been any just ground for the clamor of the foreign
officers, who served with us ; but, after having received
a quarter of their whole debt in specie, and their in
terest in the same for some time, they have infinitely
less reason for complaint than our native officers, of

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 321

whom the suffering and neglect have been only
equalled by their patience and patriotism. A great
proportion of the officers and soldiers of the Ameri
can army have been compelled by indigence to part
with their securities for one eighth of the nominal
value ; yet their conduct is very different from what
you represented that of the French officers to have
been.

The merits and defects of the proposed constitution
have been largely and ably discussed. For myself, I
was ready to have embraced any tolerable compro
mise, that was competent to save us from impending
ruin ; and I can say there are scarcely any of the
amendments, which have been suggested, to which I
have much' objection, except that which goes to the
prevention of direct taxation. And that, I presume,
will be more strenuously advocated and insisted upon
hereafter, than any other. I had indulged the expec
tation, that the new government would enable those
entrusted with its administration to do justice to the
public creditors, and retrieve the national character.
But, if no means are to be employed but requisitions,
that expectation was vain, and we may as well recur
to the old confederation. If the system can be put in
operation, without touching much the pockets of the
people, perhaps it may be done ; but, in my judgment,
infinite circumspection and prudence are yet necessary
in the experiment. It is nearly impossible for any
body who has not been on the spot, (from any de
scription) to conceive what the delicacy and danger
of our situation have been. Though the peril is not

322 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

past entirely, thank God the prospect is somewhat
brightening.

You will probably have heard, before the receipt of
this letter, that the general government has been
adopted by eleven States, and that the actual Con
gress have been prevented from issuing their ordi
nance for carrying it into execution, in consequence of
a dispute about the place at which the future Congress
shall meet. It is probable, that Philadelphia or New
York will soon be agreed upon.

I will just touch on the bright side of our national
state, before I conclude ; and we may perhaps rejoice,
that the people have been ripened by misfortune for
the reception of a good government. They are emer
ging from the gulf of dissipation and debt, into which
they had precipitated themselves at the close of the
war. Economy and industry are evidently gaining
ground. Not only agriculture, but even manufactures,
are much more attended to than formerly. Notwith
standing the shackles under which our trade in gen
eral labors, commerce to the East Indies is prosecuted
with considerable success. Salted provisions and other
produce, (particularly from Massachusetts,) have found
an advantageous market there. The voyages are so
much shorter, and the vessels are navigated at so
much less expense, that we may hope to rival and
supply, (at least through the West Indies,) some part
of Europe with commodities from thence. This year
the exports from Massachusetts have amounted to a
great deal more than their imports. I wish this was
the case everywhere. * * *

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 323

TO HENRY LEE, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 22 September, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

Your letter of the i3th instant was of so friendly
and confidential a complexion, as to merit my early
attention and cordial acknowledgments. I am glad
Congress have at last decided upon an ordinance for
carrying the new government into execution. In my
mind the place for the meeting of the new Congress
was not an object of such very important conse
quence ; but I greatly fear, that the question entailed
upon that body, respecting their permanent residence,
will be pregnant with difficulty and danger. God
grant that true patriotism and a spirit of moderation
may exclude a narrow locality, and all ideas unfriendly
to the Union, from every quarter.

Your observations on the solemnity of the crisis,
and its application to myself, bring before me subjects
of the most momentous and interesting nature. In
our endeavors to establish a new general government,
the contest, nationally considered, seems not to have
been so much for glory as existence. It was for a
long time doubtful whether we were to survive as an
independent republic, or decline from our federal
dignity into insignificant and wretched fragments of
an empire. The adoption of the constitution so exten
sively, and with so liberal an acquiescence on the part
of the minorities in general, promised the former ;
until lately the circular letter of New York carried, in
my apprehension, an unfavorable if not an insidious
tendency to a contrary policy. I still hope for the

324 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

best ; but, before you mentioned it, I could not help
fearing it would serve as a standard to which the dis
affected might resort. It is now evidently the part of
all honest men, who are friends to the new constitu
tion, to endeavor to give it a chance to disclose its
merits and defects, by carrying it fairly into effect in
the first instance. For it is to be apprehended, that,
by an attempt to obtain amendments before the ex
periment has been candidly made, ''more is meant
than meets the ear," that an intention is concealed to
accomplish slily what could not have been done
openly, to undo all that has been done.

If the fact so exists, that a kind of combination is
forming to stifle the government in embryo, it is a
happy circumstance that the design has become sus
pected. Preparations should be the sure attendant
upon forewarning. Probably prudence, wisdom, and
patriotism were never more essentially necessary, than
at the present moment ; and so far as it can be done
in an irreproachably direct manner, no effort ought to
be left unessayed to procure the election of the best
possible characters to the new Congress. On their
harmony, deliberation, and decision every thing will
depend. I heartily wish Mr. Madison was in our
Assembly, as I think with you it is of unspeakable
importance Virginia should set out with her federal
measures under right auspices.

The principal topic of your letter is to me a point
of great delicacy indeed, insomuch that I can scarcely
without some impropriety touch upon it. In the first
place, the event to which you allude may never hap-

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 325

pen ; among other reasons, because, if the partiality
of my fellow citizens conceive it to be a means by
which the sinews of the new government would be
strengthened, it will of consequence be obnoxious to
those, who are in opposition to it, many of whom
unquestionably will be placed among the electors.

This consideration alone would supersede the ex
pediency of announcing any definite and irrevocable
resolution. You are among the small number of those,
who know my invincible attachment to domestic life,
and that my sincerest wish is to continue in the enjoy
ment of it solely until my final hour. But the world
would be neither so well instructed, nor so candidly
disposed, as to believe me uninfluenced by sinister
motives, in case any circumstance should render a
deviation from the line of conduct I had prescribed to
myself indispensable.

Should the contingency you suggest take place, and
(for argument's sake alone let me say it) should my
unfeigned reluctance to accept the office be overcome
by a deference for the reasons and opinions of my
friends, might I not, after the declarations I have
made (and Heaven knows they were made in the sin
cerity of my heart), in the judgment of the impartial
world and of posterity, be chargeable with levity and
inconsistency, if not with rashness and ambition ? Nay
farther, would there not even be some apparent
foundation for the two former charges ? Now justice
to myself and tranquillity of conscience require, that
I should act a part, if not above imputation, at least
capable of vindication. Nor will you conceive me to

326 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

be too solicitous for reputation. Though I prize as I
ought the good opinion of my fellow citizens, yet, if I
know myself, I would not seek or retain popularity at
the expense of one social duty or moral virtue.

While doing what my conscience informed me was
right, as it respected my God, my country, and my
self, I could despise all the party clamor and unjust
censure, which must be expected from some, whose
personal enmity might be occasioned by their hostility
to the government. I am conscious, that I fear alone
to give any real occasion for obloquy, and that I do
not dread to meet with unmerited reproach. And
certain I am, whensoever I shall be convinced the
good of my country requires my reputation to be put
in risk, regard for my own fame will not come in
competition with an object of so much magnitude.
If I declined the task, it would lie upon quite another
principle. Notwithstanding my advanced season of
life, my increasing fondness for agricultural amuse
ments, and my growing love of retirement, augment
and confirm my decided predilection for the character
of a private citizen, yet it would be no one of these
motives, nor the hazard to which my former reputa
tion might be exposed, nor the terror of encountering
new fatigues and troubles, that would deter me from
an acceptance ; but a belief, that some other person,
who had less pretence and less inclination to be ex
cused, could execute all the duties full as satisfactorily
as myself. To say more would be indiscreet ; as a
disclosure of a refusal beforehand might incur the
application of the fable in which the fox is represented

1788! GEORGE WASHINGTON. 327

as undervaluing the grapes he could not reach. You
will perceive, my dear Sir, by what is here observed,
(and which you will be pleased to consider in the
light of a confidential communication,) that my incli
nations will dispose and decide me to remain as I am,
unless a clear and insurmountable conviction should
be impressed on my mind, that some very disagreeable
consequences must, in all human probability, result
from the indulgence of my wishes.

If you return by land, I shall expect without failure
the pleasure of your company. I am much indebted
to you for your obliging offer of forwarding such
articles as I might want from New York, though I
shall not have occasion at this moment to avail myself
of your goodness. Mrs. Washington offers her best
compliments to Mrs. Lee, with ardent wishes for the
re-establishment of her health, which, joined with my
own, will conclude me. With great regard and esteem,
I am, &c.

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 23 September, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

* * * Upon mature reflection, I think the reasons
you offer in favor of Philadelphia, as the place for the
first meeting of Congress, are conclusive ; especially
when the farther agitation of the question respecting
its permanent residence is taken into consideration.
But I cannot, however, avoid being satisfied, that the
minority should have acquiesced in any plan, rather

328 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

than have prevented the system from being carried
into effect. The delay had already become the
source of clamors, and might have given advantages
to the anti-federalists. Their expedient will now
probably be an attempt to procure the election of so
many of their own junto under the new government,
as, by the introduction of local and embarrassing dis
putes, to impede or frustrate its operations.

In the mean time it behoves all the advocates of
the constitution, forgetting partial and smaller consid
erations, to combine their exertions for collecting the
wisdom and virtue of the continent to one centre ; in
order that the republic may avail itself of the oppor
tunity for escaping from anarchy, division, and the
other great national calamities that impended. To
be shipwrecked in sight of the port would be the se
verest of all possible aggravations to our misery, and
I assure you I am under painful apprehensions from
the single circumstance of Mr. H.1 having the whole

o o

game to play in the assembly of this State ; and the
effect it may have in others should be counteracted if
possible. I am, &c.

TO ALEXANDER HAMILTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 3 October, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

In acknowledging the receipt of your candid and
kind letter by the last post, little more is incumbent
upon me than to thank you sincerely for the frankness
with which you communicated your sentiments, and

1 Patrick Henry.

1 788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 329

to assure you that the same manly tone of intercourse
will always be more than barely welcome ; indeed it
will be highly acceptable to me. I am particularly
glad in the present instance, that you have dealt thus
freely and like a friend.1

Although I could not help observing, from several
publications and letters, that my name had been
sometimes spoken of, and that it was possible the
contingency which is the subject of your letter might
happen, yet I thought it best to maintain a guarded
silence, and to lack the counsel of my best friends,

1 In reply to General Washington's remarks in his letter of the 28th of Au
gust, respecting the probability of his being elected the first President of the
United States, Colonel Hamilton had written as follows :

" I should be deeply pained, my dear Sir, if your scruples in regard to a cer
tain station should be matured into a resolution to decline it; though I am nei
ther surprised at their existence, nor can I but agree in opinion that the caution
you observe in deferring the ultimate determination is prudent. I have, how
ever, reflected maturely on the subject, and have come to a conclusion (in which
I feel no hesitation), that every public and personal consideration will demand
from you an acquiescence in what will certainly be the unanimous wish of your
country.

" The absolute retreat, which you meditated at the close of the late war, was
natural and proper. Had the government produced by the revolution gone on
in a tolerable train, it would have been most advisable to have persisted in that
retreat. But I am clearly of opinion, that the crisis, which brought you again
into public view, left you no alternative but to comply ; and I am equally clear
in the opinion, that you are by that act pledged to take a part in the execution of
the government. I am not less convinced, that the impression of the neces
sity of your filling the station in question is so universal, that you run no risk
of any uncandid imputation by submitting to it. But, even if this were not
the case, a regard to your own reputation, as well as to the public good, calls
upon you in the strongest manner to run that risk.

" It cannot be considered as a compliment to say, that on your acceptance of
the office of president, the success of the new government in its commence
ment may materially depend. Your agency and influence will be not less im
portant in preserving it from the future attacks of its enemies, than they have been
in recommending it in the first instance to the adoption of the people. Inde
pendent of all considerations drawn from this source, the point of light in which

330 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

(which I certainly hold in the highest estimation,)
rather than to hazard an imputation unfriendly to the
delicacy of my feelings. For, situated as I am, I
could hardly bring the question into the slightest dis
cussion, or ask an opinion even in the most confiden
tial manner, without betraying, in my judgment, some
impropriety of conduct, or without feeling an appre
hension, that a premature display of anxiety might be
construed into a vainglorious desire of pushing myself
into notice as a candidate. Now, if I am not grossly
deceived in myself, I should unfeignedly rejoice in

you stand at home and abroad will make an infinite difference in the respecta
bility with which the government will begin its operations, in the alternative of
your being or not being at the head of it. I forbear to mention considerations
which might have a more personal application. What I have said will suffice
for the inferences I mean to draw.

" First ; in a matter so essential to the well-being of society as the pros
perity of a newly instituted government, a citizen of so much consequence as
yourself to its success has no option but to lend his services if called for. Per
mit me to say, it would be inglorious, in such a situation, not to hazard the glory,
however great, which he might have previously acquired.

" Secondly ; your signature to the proposed system pledges your judgment
for its being such an one as upon the whole was worthy of the public approba
tion. If it should miscarry, (as men commonly decide from success or the want
of it) the blame will in all probability be laid on the system itself. And the
framers of it will have to encounter the disrepute of having brought about a
revolution in government, without substituting any thing that was worthy of
the effort ; they pulled down one Utopia, it will be said, to build up another.
This view of the subject, if I mistake not, my dear Sir, will suggest to your
mind greater hazard to that fame, which must be and ought to be dear to you, in
refusing your future aid to the system, than in affording it. I will only add,
that in my estimate of the matter, that aid is indispensable.

" I have taken the liberty to express these sentiments, and to lay before you
my view of the subject. I doubt not the considerations mentioned have fully
occurred to you, and I trust they will finally produce in your mind the same
result which exists in mine. I flatter myself the frankness with which I have
delivered myself will not be displeasing to you. It has been prompted by
motives which you would not disapprove."

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 331

case the electors, by giving their votes in favor of
some other person, would save me from the dreaded
dilemma of being forced to accept or refuse.

If that may not be, I am in the next place earnestly
desirous of searching out the truth, and of knowing
whether there does not exist a probability that the
government would be just as happily and effectually
carried into execution without my aid as with it. I
am truly solicitous to obtain all the previous informa
tion, which the circumstances will afford, and to de
termine (when the determination can with propriety
be no longer postponed) according to the principles
of right reason, and the dictates of a clear conscience,
without too great a reference to the unforeseen con
sequences, which may affect my person or reputation.
Until that period, I may fairly hold myself open to
conviction, though I allow your sentiments to have
weight in them ; and I shall not pass by your argu
ments without giving them as dispassionate a consid
eration as I can possibly bestow upon them.

In taking a survey of the subject, in whatever point
of light I have been able to place it, I will not sup
press the acknowledgment, my dear Sir, that I have
always felt a kind of gloom upon my mind, as often
as I have been taught to expect I might, and perhaps
must, ere long, be called to make a decision. You
will, I am well assured, believe the assertion, (though
I have little expectation it would gain credit from
those who are less acquainted with me,) that, if I
should receive the appointment, and if I should be
prevailed upon to accept it, the acceptance would be

332 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

attended with more diffidence and reluctance than I
ever experienced before in my life. It would be, how
ever, with a fixed and sole determination of lending
whatever assistance might be in my power to pro
mote the public weal, in hopes that at a convenient
and early period my services might be dispensed with,
and that I might be permitted once more to retire,
to pass an unclouded evening after the stormy day
of life, in the bosom of domestic tranquillity.

But why these anticipations? If the friends to
the constitution conceive that my administering the
government will be a means of its acceleration and
strength, is it not probable that the adversaries of it
may entertain the same ideas, and of course make it
an object of opposition ? That many of this descrip
tion will become electors, I can have no doubt of, any
more than that their opposition will extend to any char
acter, who, (from whatever cause,) would be likely to
thwart their measures. It might be impolitic in them
to make this declaration previous to the election ; but
I shall be out in my conjectures if they do not act
conformably thereto, and from the seeming moder
ation, by which they appear to be actuated at present
is neither more nor less than a finesse to lull and de
ceive. Their plan of opposition is systematized, and a
regular intercourse, I have much reason to believe,
between the leaders of it in the several States is formed
to render it more effectual. With sentiments of sin
cere regard and esteem, I have the honor to be, &C.1

1 These views produced no change in the sentiments of Colonel Hamilton,
in regard to the main topic of discussion. " I feel a conviction," said he in
reply, " that you will finally see your acceptance to be indispensable. It is no

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 333

TO BENJAMIN LINCOLN.

MOUNT VERNON, 26 October, 1788.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have been lately favored with the receipt of your
letters of the 24th and 3Oth of September, with their
enclosures, and thank you sincerely for your free and
friendly communications. As the period is now rap
idly approaching, which must decide the fate of the
new constitution, as to the manner of its being car
ried into execution, and probably as to its usefulness,
it is not wonderful that we should all feel an unusual
degree of anxiety on the occasion. I must acknowl
edge my fears have been greatly alarmed, but still I
am not without hopes. From the good beginning,
that has been made in Pennsylvania, a State from
which much was to be feared, I cannot help forebod
ing well of the others. That is to say, I flatter my
self a majority of them will appoint federal members
to the several branches of the new government. I

compliment to say, that no other man can sufficiently unite the public opinion,
or can give the requisite weight to the office, in the commencement of the
government. These considerations appear to me of themselves decisive. I am
not sure that your refusal would not throw every thing into confusion. I am
sure that it would have the worst effect imaginable. Indeed, as I hinted in
a former letter, I think circumstances leave no option."

Many of General Washington's correspondents touched upon the same sub
ject ; and he was made to understand from all quarters, that he was designated
in the minds of the people as the first chief magistrate under the new constitu
tion. In writing from Connecticut, Colonel Jonathan Trumbull said : " In the
choice of president we have, I believe, no discordant voice. All minds are
agreed, and every heart exults in the pleasing prospect of having their wishes
so nobly gratified in this first great appointment." — October 28th. And Gov
ernor Johnson of Maryland wrote: "We cannot, Sir, do without you, and I
and thousands more can explain to anybody but yourself why we cannot do
without you." — October loth. — Sparks.

334 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

hardly should think that Massachusetts, Connecticut,
New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, South Carolina, and
Georgia would be for attempting premature amend
ments. Some of the rest may also, in all probability,
be apprehensive of throwing our affairs into confusion
by such ill-timed expedients.

There will, however, be no room for the advocates
of the constitution to relax in their exertions ; for, if
they should be lulled into security, appointments of
antifederal men may probably take place, and the
consequences, which you so justly dread, be realized.
Our Assembly is now in session. It is represented
to be rather antifederal, but we have heard nothing
of its doings. Mr. Patrick Henry, Mr. R. H. Lee,
and Mr. Madison are talked of for the senate. Per
haps as much opposition, or, in other words, as great
an effort for early amendments, is to be apprehended
from this State as from any but New York.1 The
constant report is, that North Carolina will soon
accede to the new Union. A new Assembly is just

1 " Our Assembly, (according to different reports,) has proved itself to be, as
was apprehended, very much under the influence of Mr. Henry. The choice
of delegates for the Senate in Congress has fallen upon two gentlemen, who are
considered to be rather opposed to the new constitution, namely, Richard
Henry Lee, and Colonel Gray son. But notwithstanding they have been both
of them solicitous to obtain previous amendments, Colonel Henry Lee told me
lately, that Mr. R. II. Lee had declared to him a few days since, he wished to
see the government fairly carried into execution, and that such alterations only
should be adopted, as might be found necessary from its errors or defects. If
these were not the very words, the observations, I think, were of that import.

" A similar sentiment, I have been credibly informed, has been expressed to
more than one person by Colonel Grayson. But the federalists in the Assem
bly, as I am given to understand, were exceedingly mortified that Mr. Madison
should have lost his election by eight or nine votes. It is now much dreaded
by the same characters, that the State, which is to be divided into districts for

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 335

elected in Maryland, in which it is asserted the num
ber of federalists greatly predominates ; and, that
being the case, we may look for favorable appoint
ments, in spite of the rancor and activity of a few dis
contented and, I may say, apparently unprincipled
men.

I would willingly pass over in silence that part of
your letter in which you mention the persons, who
are candidates for the first two offices in the execu
tive, if I did not fear the omission might seem to
betray a want of confidence. Motives of delicacy
have prevented me hitherto from conversing or writing
on this subject, whenever I could avoid it with de
cency. I may, however, with great sincerity, and I
believe without offending against modesty or propri
ety, say to you, that I most heartily wish the choice to
which you allude may not fall upon me ; and that, if
it should, I must reserve to myself the right of mak
ing up my final decision at the last moment, when it
can be brought into one view, and when the expedi-

the appointment of representatives to Congress, will be so arranged as to place
a large proportion of those, who are called antifederalists, in that station." —
Washington to Lincoln, 14 November, 1788.

"The accounts from Richmond are indeed, very unpropitious to federal
measures. The whole proceedings of the Assembly, it is said, may be summed
up in one word — to wit : that the edicts of Mr. H[enry] are enregistered
with less opposition by the members of that body, than those of the Grand
Monarch are in the Parliament of France. He has only to say, let this be Law,
and it is Law." — Washington to Madison, 17 November, 1788.

On December 2d he wrote to Stuart : " That the Assembly has displayed the
most malignant (and if one may be allowed the expression, the most unwarranta
ble) disposition towards the new government in all its acts respecting it, needs
no other evidence than their public records ; but upon what ground they have
undertaken to assert things which the representatives of the people, chosen for
the express purpose in Convention, have not authorized them to do, lays with

336 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

ency or inexpediency of a refusal can be more judi
ciously determined than at present. But be assured,
my dear Sir, if from any inducement I shall be per
suaded ultimately to accept, it will not be (so far as I
know my own heart) from any of a private or personal
nature. Every personal consideration conspires to
rivet me (if I may use the expression) to retirement.
At my time of life, and under my circumstances,
nothing in this world can ever draw me from it, unless
it be a conviction that the partiality of my countrymen
had made my services absolutely necessary, joined to
a fear that my refusal might induce a belief that I
preferred the conservation of my own reputation and
private ease to the good of my country. After all, if
I should conceive myself in a manner constrained to
accept, I call Heaven to witness, that this very act
would be the greatest sacrifice of my personal feelings
and wishes, that ever I have been called upon to
make. It would be to forego repose and domestic

the wisdom of the majority of that Assembly to explain. Nor will it redound
much to their honor I conceive, if in the ultimate appeal to the people there
should be (as you have intimated) seven out of the ten representatives on the
fcederal side. But excuse me, my dear Sir, when I give it to you as my opinion,
that you are reckoning without your host, as the phrase is, not that there may
be such a proportion through the State who are friends to the adopted consti
tution, but they either do not see the necessity, are too indolent, or too much
engaged in other matters to come forward, or too much disunited among them
selves to act in unison. Whilst those of the other description (or I am much
mistaken) will be formed into one solid phalanx. Need I go out of this district
for proof ? "

And again, to Knox, I January, 1789 :

" I suppose the two gentlemen appointed by this State are looked upon at the
eastward as being included in that class of antifederalists, who wish to cause
such great and premature amendments, as will render the government abor
tive. This idea, I have the best reason to believe, will be found untrue. My
belief is founded upon the unequivocal assertions of Colonel Grayson previous

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 337

enjoyment, for trouble, perhaps for public obloquy ;
for I should consider myself as entering upon an unex
plored field enveloped on every side with clouds and
darkness.

From this embarrassing situation I had naturally
supposed that my declarations at the close of the
war would have saved me ; and that my sincere inten
tions, then publicly made known, would have effectu
ally precluded me for ever afterwards from being
looked upon as a candidate for any office. This
hope, as a last anchor of worldly happiness in old
age, I had still carefully preserved ; until the public
papers, and private letters from my correspondents in
almost every quarter, taught me to apprehend that
I might soon be obliged to answer the question,
whether I would go again into public life or not.

You will see, my dear Sir, from this train of re
flections, that I have lately had enough of my own
perplexities to think of, without adverting much to
the affairs of others. So much have I been otherwise
occupied, and so little agency did I wish to have in

to his election, and those of Mr. Richard Henry Lee posterior to his election. It
is also pretty well ascertained, that, if any considerable proportion of the pains
shall be taken by the federalists, which will be by the antifederalists, a majority
of the representatives from this State to Congress would undoubtedly be com
posed of the former description. At present, however, it appears very uncer
tain whether that will be the case or not ; as several federalists, who might in
all probability be chosen, have, on account of their private affairs, declined
standing as candidates ; insomuch, that it is to be feared, in some instances,
the votes of the advocates for the constitution will be scattered and lost.

" From different channels of information it seemed probable to me, even be
fore the receipt of your letter, that Mr. John Adams would be chosen vice-pres
ident. He will doubtless make a very good one ; and let whoever may occupy
the first seat, I shall be entirely satisfied with that arrangement for filling the
second office."

338 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

electioneering, that I have never entered into a sin
gle discussion with any person, nor, to the best of my
recollection, expressed a single sentiment, orally or in
writing, respecting the appointment of a vice-presi
dent. From the extent and respectability of Massa
chusetts, it might reasonably be expected, that he
would be chosen from that State. But, having taken
it for granted, that the person selected for that im
portant place would be a true federalist, in that case
I was altogether disposed to acquiesce in the prevail
ing sentiments of the electors, without giving any
unbecoming preference, or incurring any unnecessary
ill will. Since it here seems proper to touch a little
more fully upon that point, I will frankly give you
my manner of thinking, and what, under certain cir
cumstances, would be my manner of acting.

For this purpose I must speak again hypothetically
for argument's sake, and say, supposing I should be
appointed to the administration, and supposing I
should accept it, I most solemnly declare, that whoso
ever shall be found to enjoy the confidence of the
States, so far as to be elected vice-president, cannot
be disagreeable to me in that office. And, even if I
had any predilection, I Hatter myself I possess patri
otism enough to sacrifice it at the shrine of my coun
try ; where it will be unavoidably necessary for me
to have made infinitely greater sacrifices, before I can
find myself in the supposed predicament, that is to
say, before I can be connected with others in any
possible political relation. In truth I believe, that I
have no prejudices on the subject, and that it would

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 339

not be in the power of any evil-minded persons, who
wished to disturb the harmony of those concerned in
the government, to infuse them into my mind. For,
to continue the same hypothesis one step farther,
supposing myself to be connected in office with any
gentleman of character, I would most certainly treat
him with perfect sincerity and the greatest candor in
every respect. I would give him my full confidence,
and use my utmost endeavors to cooperate with
him in promoting and rendering permanent the na
tional prosperity. This should be my great, my only
aim, under the fixed and irrevocable resolution of
leaving to other hands the helm of the State, as soon
as my services could possibly with propriety be dis
pensed with.

I have thus, my dear Sir, insensibly been led into
a longer detail than I intended, and have used more
egotism than I could have wished, for which I urge
no other apology, than but my opinion of your friend
ship, discretion, and candor. I am, &c.

TO MATHEW CAREY.

MOUNT VERNON, 27 October, 1788.

SIR,

In reply to yours of the 2oth of this month, I have
to observe, that the fragment of the letter in ques
tion, supposed to be written by me, is spurious, and
that there was a pamphlet containing a great many
letters of the same description published in New
York at the same time. It should farther be observed,

340 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

that this publication was made soon after several
of my letters were really intercepted with the mail,
and that the pretended copies of them not only
blended many truths with many falsehoods, but
were evidently written by some person exceedingly
well acquainted with my domestic and general con
cerns. Advantage was adroitly taken of this knowl
edge to give the greater appearance of probability to
the fiction.

From these circumstances you will perceive, Sir,
how prudently you have acted in making an applica
tion to me previous to your meditated republication.
Otherwise I might have found myself under the ne
cessity of denying that they were genuine, from any
apprehension, that being thus preserved in a manner
under my eye and with my acquiescence, they must
have assumed the seal of veracity in the estimation of
posterity. For, whatever credit some of those letters
might be thought to have done to my literary or
political talents, I certainly cannot choose to avail
myself of the imposition.

With due regard, I am, &c.

TO ARTHUR YOUNG.

MOUNT VKRNON, 4 December, 1788.

SIR,

I have been favored with the receipt of your letter
dated the first day of July ; and have to express my
thanks for the three additional volumes of the annals,
which have also come safely to hand.

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON, 341

The more I am acquainted with agricultural affairs,
the better I am pleased with them ; insomuch that I
can no where find so great satisfaction as in those
innocent and useful pursuits. In indulging these
feelings, I am led to reflect how much more delight
ful to the undebauched mind, is the task of making
improvements on the earth, than all the vain glory
that can be acquired from ravaging it, by the most
uninterrupted career of conquest. The design of this
observation is only to shew how much, as a member
of human society, I feel myself obliged by your labors
to render respectable and advantageous, an employ
ment which is more congenial to the natural disposi
tions of mankind than any other.

I am also much indebted to you, for the inquiries
you were so kind as to make respecting the threshing
machines. Notwithstanding I am pretty well con
vinced from your account, that the new-invented
Scotch machine is of superior merit to Winlaw's ;
yet I think to wait a little longer before I procure
one. In the intermediate time, I am not insensible
to your obliging offers of executing this, or any other
commission for me ; and shall take the liberty to
avail myself of them as occasions may require.

I would willingly have sent you a lock of the wool
of my sheep, agreeably to your desire, but it is all
wrought into cloth, and I must therefore defer it until
after the next shearing. You may expect it by some
future conveyance. A manufacturer from Leeds, who
was lately here, judges it to be of about the same
quality with the English wool in general — though

342 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

there is always a great difference in the fineness of
different parts of the same fleece. I cannot help
thinking that increasing and improving our breed of
sheep, would be one of the most profitable specula
tions we could undertake ; especially in this part of
the continent, where we have so little winter, that
they require either no dry fodder, or next to none ;
and where we are sufficiently distant from the fron
tiers, not to be troubled with wolves or other wild
vermin, which prevent the inhabitants there from
keeping flocks. Though we do not feed our sheep
upon leaves, as you mention they do in some parts of
France, yet we cannot want for pastures enough
suitable for them. I am at a loss, therefore, to
account for the disproportion between their value and
that of black cattle ; as well as for our not augment
ing the number. So persuaded am I of the practica
bility and advantage of it, that I have raised near 200
lambs upon my farm this year. I am glad to find
that you are likely to succeed in propagating the
Spanish breed of sheep in England, and that the
wool does not degenerate ; for the multiplication of
useful animals is a common blessing to mankind. I
have a prospect of introducing into this country a
very excellent race of animals also, by means of the
liberality of the King of Spain. One of the Jacks
which he was pleased to present to me (the other
perished at sea) is about 15 hands high, his body and
limbs very large in proportion to his height ; and the
mules which I have had from him, appear to be ex
tremely well formed for service. I have likewise a

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 343

jack and two jennets from Malta, of a very good size,
which the Marquis de Lafayette sent to me. The
Spanish jack seems calculated to breed for heavy
slow draught ; and the others for the saddle, or lighter
carriages. From these, altogether, I hope to secure
a race of extraordinary goodness, which will stock
the country. Their longevity and cheap keeping
will be circumstances much in their favor. I am
convinced, from the little experiments I have made
with the ordinary mules (which perform as much
labor, with vastly less feeding than horses), that
those of a superior quality will be the best cattle we
can employ for the harness ; and indeed in a few
years, I intend to drive no other in my carriage,
having appropriated for the sole purpose of breeding
them, upwards of twenty of my best mares.

Since I wrote to you formerly, respecting the ob
jection made by my laborers to the weight of the
ploughs, I have had sufficient experience to over
come the ill-founded prejudice, and find them answer
the purpose exceedingly well. I have been laying
out my farm into fields of nearly the same dimen
sions, and assigning crops to each until the year
1795. The building of a brick barn has occupied
much of my attention this summer. It is constructed
according to the plan you had the goodness to send
me ; but with some additions. It is now, I believe,
the largest and most convenient one in this country.
Our seasons in this country (or at least in this part
of it) have been so much in the two opposite ex
tremes of dry and wet, for the two summers past,

344 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

that many of my experiments have failed to give a
satisfactory result, or I would have done myself the
pleasure of transmitting it to you. In the first part
of last summer, the rains prevailed beyond what has
been known in the memory of man ; yet the crops in
most parts of the United States are good. They
were much injured, however, in those places on my
farm where the soil is mixed with clay, and so stiff as
to be liable to retain the moisture. I planted a large
quantity of potatoes, of which only those that were
put in as late as the end of June, have produced tol
erably well. I am, notwithstanding, more and more
convinced of the prodigious usefulness of this root,
and that it is very little, if any thing, of an exhauster.
I have a high opinion also of carrots. The same
unfavorableness of the season has rendered it un
important to give a detail of my experiments this
year in flax, though I had sowed 25 bushels of the
seed. In some spots it has yielded well ; in others
very indifferently, much injured by weeds and
lodgits.

As to what you suggest at the close of your letter,
respecting the publication of extracts from my corre
spondence in your annals, I hardly know what to
say. I certainly highly approve the judicious execu
tion of your well-conceived project of throwing light
on a subject, which may be more conducive than
almost any other to the happiness of mankind. On
the one hand, it seems scarcely generous or proper,
that any farmer, who receives benefit from the facts
contained in such publications, should withhold his

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 345

mite of information from the general stock. On the
other hand, I am afraid it might be imputed to me as
a piece of ostentation, if my name should appear in
the work. And surely it would not be discreet for
me to run the hazard of incurring this imputation,
unless some good might probably result to society,
as some kind of compensation for it. Of this I am
not a judge — I can only say for myself, that I have
endeavored, in a state of tranquil retirement, to keep
myself as much from the eye of the world as I possi
bly could. I have studiously avoided, as much as
was in my power, to give any cause for ill-natured or
impertinent comments on my conduct : and I should
be very unhappy to have anything done on my behalf
(however distant in itself from impropriety), which
should give occasion for one officious tongue to use
my name with indelicacy. For I wish most devoutly
to glide silently and unnoticed through the remainder
of life. This is my heart-felt wish ; and these are
my undisguised feelings. After having submitted
them confidentially to you, I have such a reliance
upon your prudence, as to leave it with you to do
what you think, upon a full consideration of the mat
ter, shall be wisest and best. I am &c.

TO WILLIAM GORDON.
DEAR SiR MOUNT VERNON, 23 December, 1788.

Your letter dated in London the 24th of Septem
ber has been duly forwarded to me by your friend
Mr. Hazard. As I shall be able to notice the con-

346 THE WRITINGS OF [1788

tents but generally and briefly, I request, in the first
place, that you will be pleased to accept my best
thanks for your good wishes for my happiness here
and hereafter. I am pleased to learn, that your
History is at length completed. I conclude by the
spring we may expect to be favored with a sight of
it. Your mention of the several objects, you judge
of national consequence to the United States, is to
be esteemed among the tokens of your kind remem
brance of America, and regard to its interests.

How far I may ever be connected with its
political affairs is altogether a matter of uncertainty
to me. My heartfelt wishes, and, I would fain hope,
the circumstances are opposed to it. I flatter myself
my countrymen are so fully persuaded of my desire
to remain in private life ; that I am not without
hopes and expectations of being left quietly to enjoy
the repose, in which I am at present. Or, in all
events, should it be their wish (as you suppose it will
be) for me to come again on the stage of public
affairs — I certainly will decline it, if the refusal can
be made consistently with what I conceive to be the
dictates of propriety and duty. For the great
Searcher of human hearts knows there is no wish in
mine, beyond that of liberty and dying an honest
man, on my own farm.

I had quite forgotten the private transaction to
which you allude, nor could I recall it to mind with
out much difficulty. If I now recollect rightly, and
I believe I do (though there were several applications
made to me), I am conscious of only having done

1788] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 347

my duty. As no particular credit is due for that,
and as no good but some harm might result from the
publication, the letter, in my judgment, had better
remain in concealment.1

The prospect, that a good general government will
in all human probability be soon established in Amer
ica, affords me more substantial satisfaction than I
have ever before derived from any political event ;
because there is a rational ground for believing, that
not only the happiness of my own countrymen, but
that of mankind in general, will be promoted by it.

As it is really so long since I have had any occa
sion to make use of a cipher or key to communicate
my sentiments to my correspondents, and as it was
so little probable I should ever have any occasion to
express them by such modes in future, I have abso
lutely mislaid or entirely lost yours with others.
Besides, I have not a single idea to communicate to
any person while in Europe, the knowledge of which

1 The singular modesty of this paragraph will be fully understood, if the
reader will recur to the letter alluded to, dated May 22(1, 1782, (Vol. X. p.
21,) in which General Washington replies to a proposition from a high quar
ter in the army to make him KING. Dr. Gordon had seen that letter when on
a visit to Mount Vernon after the war, and in writing the one, to which the
above is an answer, he requested permission to publish it, referring at the same
time only to its contents, and the circumstances attending it, without mention
ing its date. In speaking of the prospect of General Washington's being the
first President of the United States, Dr. Gordon said: "The good of the
country is a law, that you must submit to, when you are called to possess a
power in the most honorable way by all professions and ranks of people,
which, to your everlasting honor when known, you honestly declined with the
truest patriotism when offered in an irregular manner. This is a secret, which
will remain till you are dead, unless I could be certain of not offending through
the publication of your letter, with the suppression of the party to whom it was
addressed." — London, September 24th. — Sparks.

348 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

could give any advantage to those, who should be curi
ous enough, or mean enough, to inspect my letters.

Thus much I thought it might be well to say, in
apology for my not being able to comply with your
request. Indeed, when you consider the domestic
walk of life in which I pass my days, the multiplicity
of private concerns in which I am involved, the nu
merous literary applications from different quarters,
the round of company I have at my house, and the
avocations occasioned by my being at the head of the
Company for clearing the Potomac, you will do me
the justice to suppose, that I can have few topics or
little time for correspondencies of mere friendship,
ceremony, or speculation. This I entreat may be
accepted as the true reason, why I am not able to
write to you very fully, or very regularly. Mrs.
Washington joins with me in compliments to Mrs.
Gordon. I remain, &c.

TO WILLIAM PIERCE.

MOUNT VERNON, i January, 1789.

SIR :

As it would be altogether improper for me to
anticipate any thing on the event which you suppose
may happen ; I only write to let you know that I
have duly received your letter of Novr. ist. I most
sincerely and fervently hope it will be found, that I
shall not be in a situation to have any agency in the
disposal of federal appointments. For you will per
mit me to say, that the choice is as yet very far from

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 349

being certain ; and that should it (contrary to all my
wishes) fall upon me, I shall certainly be disposed to
decline the acceptance, if it may by any means be
done consistently with the dictates of duty.

In this to me unpleasant state of affairs when I
cannot but feel myself disagreeably affected by hav
ing the subject even obliquely forced upon my mind,
-You will be pleased to consider my studied reserve
as not in the least intended to militate against your
pretensions, and as not having any reference, in the
remotest degree, to an office, for which I perceive
there will be several competitors.

Although I have thought it would ill become me
at present to be more explicit with any person on
public matters ; yet in all personal considerations I
take a pleasure in subscribing myself with sentiments
of great respect and esteem, &C.1

1 " It would take up more time, than I could well spare, to notice the ap
plications which have been made to me in consequence of the new government.
In answer to as many as I have been at leisure to acknowledge, I have invari
ably represented the delicacy of my situation, the impropriety of bringing
such things before me, the decided resolution I had formerly made, and the
ardent wishes I still entertain of remaining in a private life. You will not
then expect, that I should commit myself by saying any thing on a subject,
which has never failed to embarrass and distress me beyond measure, when
soever it has been forced upon my consideration." — Washington to Lutterloh,
I January, 1789.

"If it should be my fate to administer the government, I will go into it
free from engagements of every kind and nature whatsoever — making, when
the pretensions of every candidate are brought to view, as far as my judgment
shall direct me, justice and the public good, the sole objects of my pursuits. "-
Washington to Benjamin Fishbourn, 23 December, 1788.

" If I should once more be led into the walks of public life, it is my fixed
determination to enter there, not only unfettered by promises, but even un-
chargeable with creating or feeding the expectation of any man living for my
assistance to office. And sure I am, a gentleman of your candor and judg-

350 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE.

TV-T MOUNT VERNON, 20 January, 1780.

MY DEAR MARQUIS,

By the last post I was favored with the receipt of
your letter dated the 5th of September last. Not
withstanding the distance of its date, it was peculiarly
welcome to me ; for I had not in the mean time
received any satisfactory advices respecting yourself
or your country. By that letter my mind was placed
much more at its ease, on both those subjects, than it
had been for many months.

The last letter, which I had the pleasure of writing
to you, was forwarded by Mr. Gouverneur Morris.
Since his departure from America, nothing very
material has occurred. The minds of men, however,
have not been in a stagnant state. But patriotism,
instead of faction, has generally agitated them. It is
not a matter of wonder, that, in proportion as we
approach to the time fixed for the organization and
operation of the new government, their anxiety
should have been increased, rather than diminished.

ment will approve the resolution ; first, because all offices are to be created by
law, and consequently are as yet uncertain ; 2dly, because the appointment of
officers may possibly be left to the heads of departments, or in many instances
referred to the executives of the respective States ; and, 3dly, because the ear
of the nominator ought to be open to the comments on the merits of each
candidate, and to be governed primarily by the abilities, which are most
peculiarly adapted to the nature and duties of the office which is to be filled.
If, unhappily for me, it should be my lot to have any share in the execution of
the government, it will be under the influence of these sentiments, and the
best knowledge I can obtain of characters, that 1 shall invariably act with
respect to appointments. And with respect to my conduct as a private man,
I do verily believe I never shall interfere in the appointment to any office
whatsoever, beyond a general certificate of facts." — Washington to Samuel
Hanson^ I January, 1789.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 351

The choice of senators, representatives, and elec
tors, which (excepting in that of the last description)
took place at different times in the different States,
has afforded abundant topics for domestic news since
the beginning of autumn. I need not enumerate the
several particulars, as I imagine you see most of
them detailed in the American gazettes. I will con
tent myself with only saying, that the elections have
been hitherto vastly more favorable than we could
have expected, that federal sentiments seem to be
growing with uncommon rapidity, and that this in
creasing unanimity is not less indicative of the good
disposition than the good sense of the Americans.
Did it not savor so much of partiality for my coun
trymen, I might add, that I cannot help flattering
myself, that the new Congress, on account of the
self-created respectability and various talents of its
members, will not be inferior to any Assembly in the
world. From these and some other circumstances I
really entertain greater hopes, that America will not
finally disappoint the expectations of her friends,
than I have at almost any former period. Still, how
ever, in such a fickle state of existence I would not
be too sanguine in indulging myself with the con
templation of scenes of uninterrupted prosperity, lest
some unforeseen mischance or perverseness should
occasion the greater mortification, by blasting the en
joyment in the very bud.

I can say little or nothing new, in consequence of
the repetition of your opinion, on the expediency
there will be for my accepting the office to which

352 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

you refer. Your sentiments, indeed, coincide much
more nearly with those of my other friends, than with
my own feelings. In truth my difficulties increase
and magnify as I draw towards the period, when,
according to the common belief, it will be necessary
for me to give a definitive answer, in one way or
another. Should circumstances render it in a man
ner inevitably necessary to be in the affirmative, be
assured, my dear Sir, I shall assume the task with
the most unfeigned reluctance, and with a real diffi
dence, for which I shall probably receive no credit
from the world. If I know my own heart, nothing
short of a conviction of duty will induce me again to
take an active part in public affairs ; and, in that
case, if I can form a plan for my own conduct, my
endeavors shall be unremittingly exerted, (even at
the hazard of former fame or present popularity,)
to extricate my country from the embarrassments in
which it is entangled through want of credit ; and to
establish a general system of policy, which if pursued
will ensure permanent felicity to the commonwealth.
I think I see a path as clear and as direct as a ray of
light, which leads to the attainment of that object.
Nothing but harmony, honesty, industry, and frugal
ity are necessary to make us a great and happy
people. Happily the present posture of affairs, and
the prevailing disposition of my countrymen, promise
to cooperate in establishing those four great and
essential pillars of public felicity.

What has been considered at the moment as a dis
advantage, will probably turn out for our good.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 353

While our commerce has been considerably curtailed,
for want of that extensive credit formerly given in
Europe, and for default of remittance, the useful arts
have been almost imperceptibly pushed to a consider
able degree of perfection.

Though I would not force the introduction of
manufactures, by extravagant encouragements, and
to the prejudice of agriculture, yet I conceive much
might be done in that way by women, children, and
others, without taking one really necessary hand from
tilling the earth. Certain it is, great savings are
already made in many articles of apparel, furniture,
and consumption. Equally certain it is, that no
diminution in agriculture has taken place, at the time
when greater and more substantial improvements in
manufactures were making, than were ever before
known in America. In Pennsylvania they have at
tended particularly to the fabrication of cotton cloths,
hats, and all articles in leather. In Massachusetts,
they are establishing factories of duck, cordage, glass,
and several other extensive and useful branches. The
number of shoes made in one town, and nails in
another, is incredible. In that State and Connecticut
are also factories of superfine and other broadcloths.
I have been writing to our friend General Knox this
day to procure me homespun broadcloth of the Hart
ford fabric, to make a suit of clothes for myself. I
hope it will not be a great while before it will be un
fashionable for a gentleman to appear in any other
dress. Indeed, we have already been too long sub
ject to British prejudices. I use no porter or cheese
354 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

in my family but such as is made in America. Both
those articles may now be purchased of an excellent
quality.

While you are quarrelling among yourselves in
Europe, while one king is running mad, and others
acting as if they were already so, by cutting the throats
of the subjects of their neighbors, I think you need
not doubt, my dear Marquis, we shall continue in
tranquillity here, and that population will be pro
gressive so long as there shall continue to be so many
easy means for obtaining a subsistence, and so ample
a field for the exertion of talents and industry. All
my family join in compliments to Madame de Lafay
ette and yourself. Adieu.

TO BENJAMIN LINCOLN.

MOUNT VERNON, 31 January, 1789.

MY DEAR SIR,

Your two letters of December 2Oth and January
4th are before me.1 I am much obliged to you for
the intelligence contained in them, because it enabled
me to contradict a report in circulation among the
antifederalists, that your State had made choice of

1 " Last Thursday out- votes were given in for representatives, and for electors
of president and vice-president. Mr. Ames is probably chosen for this dis
trict. He was an active member in our convention, and has always distin
guished himself as an honest, good man. I can hardly guess who will represent
the other districts, except the western one, which I think will be represented
by Mr. Sedgwick. The majority, however, I am confident will be good mem
bers. There were great exertions made for Mr. Samuel Adams. He would
probably have carried the vote, could the people have been persuaded, that he
was in heart a federalist. Our senators are federal indeed, Mr. Strong and Mr.
Dalton." — Lincoln to Washington, 20 December, 1788.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 355

only one representative to Congress, that no more
would probably be appointed, and that every thing
was in very great confusion. Though facts will ulti
mately become known, yet much mischief to the
federal cause may be done by suffering misrepresen
tation to pass unnoticed or unrefuted. Last winter
the antifederalists in Philadelphia published, " that
Connecticut had been surprised into an adoption of
the constitution, while a great majority of the freemen
were opposed to it." Now it is certain, nothing can
fix the stigma of falsehood upon that assertion better
than the late respectable appointments in that State.
Much the same thing has happened in Maryland.
The federal ticket has been carried by a majority of
thousands. In the county that bears my name there
was not a dissenting vote.

By the best information I can obtain, federal senti
ments are spreading perhaps faster than ever in this
commonwealth. It is generally supposed that six if
not seven of the representatives from it to Congress
will be decided friends to the constitution. Monday
next will, however, confirm or contradict this opinion,
it being the day of election throughout the State. I
will only add, that, in Maryland and this State, it is
probable Mr. John Adams will have a considerable
number of the votes of the electors. Some of those
gentlemen will have been advised, that this measure
would be entirely agreeable to me, and that I consid
ered it to be the only certain way to prevent the
election of an antifederalist. With sentiments of the
greatest esteem and regard, I am, &c.

356 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO SAMUEL POWEL.

MOUNT VERNON, 5 February, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

The letters which you did me the honor of writing
to me on the 6th and 26th last month, came duly at
hand ; and their enclosures were safely delivered to
my nephew, Bushrod Washington, who has lately be
come a resident of Alexandria, where and at the
courts in its vicinity he means to establish himself in
the practise of the law. No apology, my dear Sir, on
this or any other occasion, was or will be necessary
for putting any letter you may wish to have safely
conveyed to a friend in these parts, under cover
to me.

All the political manoeuvres which were calculated
to impede, if not to prevent the operation of the
Government, are now brought to a close until the
meeting of the new Congress, and although the issue
of all the elections is not yet known, they are suffi
ciently displayed to authorize a belief that the oppos-
ers of the government have been defeated in almost
every instance. Although the elections in this State
are over, it will be some time from the extent of it
before the representatives to Congress can be finally
announced. From conjecture, however, it is supposed
the majority will be federalists. Some are so sanguine
as to believe that seven out of the ten will be so ; but
this, as I have already said, is altogether conjecture,
and vague conjecture ; for much pains has been
taken, and no art left unessayed, to poison the mind
and alarm the fears of the people into opposition.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 357

On the list of the Electors which has been published
by the Executive authority of the State, there appear
(as far as I am acquainted with the character of the
gentlemen) eight decided friends to the hew consti
tution. Be the cause of the British King's insanity
what it may, his situation (if alive) merits commisera
tion. Better perhaps would it have been for his
nation, though not for ours (under present prospects),
if this event had happened at the time Dr. Franklin,
you say, supposes his Majesty's constitution was first
tinged with the malady under which he is now
laboring.

Mrs. Washington, the Major and Fanny, and
others under this roof, unite in best wishes and
affectionate regards for Mrs. Powel.

TO THOMAS JEFFERSON.

MOUNT VERNON, 13 February, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

Having found that there is a vessel on the point
of sailing from Alexandria for Havre de Grace, I
would not forego so good an opportunity of address
ing a letter to you, although nothing very material
has occurred since the date of my last, which was
transmitted by Mr. Gouverneur Morris. As you will
doubtless have seen in the gazettes the measures
taken by the different States for carrying the new
government into execution, I will not therefore enter
upon any report of news, or discussion of political
topics.

358 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

Exclusive of these things, the greatest and most

o ' o

important objects of internal concern, which at pres
ent occupy the attention of the public mind, are
manufactures and inland navigation. Many success
ful efforts in fabrics of different kinds are every day
made. Those composed of cotton, I think will be of
the most immediate and extensive utility. Mr.
Milne, an English gentleman, who has been many
years introducing those manufactures into France,
and whose father is now carrying them on, (under
the protection of government,) at the royal chateau
of Muette in Passy, has been at my house this week,
and is of opinion that they may be prosecuted in
America to greater advantage than in France or
England. He has been almost two years in Georgia,
stimulating and instructing the planters to the pro
duction of cotton. In that State and South Carolina
it is said that cotton may be made of a most excellent
quality, and in such abundant quantities as to prove
a more profitable species of agriculture than any
other crop. The increase of that raw material, and
the introduction of the late improved machines to
abridge labor, must be of almost infinite consequence
to the prosperity of United America.

A desire of encouraging whatever is useful and
economical seems now generally to prevail. Several
capital artists in different branches have lately arrived
in this country. A factory of glass is established
upon a large scale on Monocacy River near Freder-
icktown in Maryland. I am informed it will this year
produce glass of various kinds nearly to the amount

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 359

of ten thousand pounds' value. This factory will be
essentially benefited by having the navigation of the
Potomac completely opened. But the total benefits
of that navigation will not be confined to narrower
limits than the extent of the whole western territory
of the United States.

You have been made acquainted, my dear Sir, with
my ideas of the practicability, importance, and extent
of that navigation, as they have been occasionally,
though fully expressed, in my several letters to you.
* * * Notwithstanding my constant and utmost
endeavors to obtain precise information respecting
the nearest and best communication between the
Ohio and Lake Erie, I am not yet able to add any
thing more satisfactory to the observations, which I
had the honor to make on that subject in my letter
of the ist of January, 1788; but I have lately re
ceived a correct draft, executed principally from
actual surveys, of the country between the sources of
the Potomac and those navigable waters that fall into
the Ohio. Of this I enclose you such a rough sketch
as my avocations would permit me to make ; my
principal object therein being to show, that the dis
tance between the two waters is shorter, and that the
means of communication are easier, than I had
hitherto represented or imagined. I need not de
scribe what and how extensive the rivers are, which
will be thus in a wonderful manner connected, as
soon as the Potomac shall be rendered entirely pass
able. The passage would have been opened from
Fort Cumberland to the Great Falls (nine miles from

360 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

tide-water) before this time, as I mentioned in my
letter of the 3ist of August last, had it not been for
the unfavorableness of the season. In spite of that
untoward circumstance, I have the pleasure to inform
you that two or three boats have actually arrived at
the last-mentioned place.

I am going on Monday next to visit the works, as
far as the Seneca Falls. Could I have delayed writ
ing this letter until my return from thence, and after
wards availed myself of the same conveyance, I might
have been more particular in my account of the state
of the several works, and especially of the situation
of the land adjoining to the Canal at the Great Falls.
Whensoever the produce of those parts of the coun
try bordering on the sources of the Potomac, and
contiguous to the long rivers (particularly the Shen-
andoah and South Branch) that run into it, shall be
water-borne, down to tide-water for exportation, I
conceive this place must become very valuable.
From the conveniency of the basin a little above the
spot where the locks are to be placed, and from the
inducements which will be superadded by several fine
mill-seats, I cannot entertain a doubt of the establish
ment of a town in that place. Indeed mercantile
people are desirous that the event should take place
as soon as possible. Manufactures of various com
modities, and in iron particularly, will doubtless be
carried on to advantage there. The mill-seats I well
know have long been considered as very valuable
ones. How far buildings erected upon them may be
exposed to injuries from freshets or the breaking up

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 361

of the ice, I am not competent to determine from my
own knowledge ; but the opinion of persons better
acquainted with these matters than I am, is, that they
may be rendered secure. On the commodiousness of
Alexandria for carrying on the fur trade throughout
the whole western country, I treated in a very minute,
and I may say almost voluminous manner, in my
communication to you on the 3<Dth of May, 1787.
Probably Georgetown, and the place which I have
just mentioned, will participate largely and happily in
the great emoluments to be derived from that and
other valuable articles, through the inland navigation
of the upper and western country. I am, dear Sir,
yours, &c.

TO HARRY INNES.

MOUNT VERNON, 2 March, 1789.

SIR,

I have been favored by the receipt of your obliging
letter, dated the i8th of December last, just in time
to send my acknowledgment by a person who is im
mediately returning to Kentucky.1 This circum
stance prevents me from expressing so fully as I

1 " In the latter end of this summer, it was suggested to me, that the British
court had emissaries in Kentucky. From the abhorrence and detestation
which I have to a British connexion, other than that of friends and allies, I
was induced to keep a look-out, and scrutinize the conduct of all strangers.
My observations soon convinced me of the truth of the case. Among others,
Lieutenant-Colonel Connolly (late of Fort Pitt) from Detroit has visited this
district. His conduct has alarmed my fears. He had some confidential con
ferences with influential characters. He touched the key to fomentations,
and offered assistance to enable the inhabitants of the western country to seize
on the city of New Orleans, and secure thereby the navigation of the Missis
sippi. How his machinations are to be counteracted is the great object. I

362 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

might otherwise have done, the sense I have of the
very patriotic sentiments you entertain respecting
the important matter, which is the subject of your
letter. As a friend to United America, I embrace
with extreme satisfaction the proposals you are
pleased to offer of transmitting farther intelligence.
For which purpose I will endeavor to arrange and
send you a cypher by the earliest safe conveyance.
In the mean time, I rely implicitly upon that honor
which you have pledged, and those professions which
you have made ; and sincerely hope, that your
activity and discretion will be successful in develop
ing the machinations of all those, who, by sowing the
seeds of disaffection, may attempt to separate any
portion of the United States from the Union. I
will only add, for myself I have little doubt but that

would be more explicit if the conveyance of my letter were more certain. It
is entrusted to chance ; I must therefore act with caution.

" Relying implicitly on this fact, that whatever tends to disturb the peace of
United America would distress and injure your tranquillity and repose, and
that your aiding hand would not lie withheld when your country's cause
required it, I have ventured to solicit your advice and directions on this inter
esting subject, and would wish to write confidentially to you on this business,
if by your answer I should conceive myself justified in the attempt. Should
this proposed communication meet your approbation, will it not be advisable
to invent a cypher for the preservation of that secrecy, which the magnitude
of the subject requires ? This being arranged, 1 pledge my honor to give you
from time to time a faithful detail of facts." — Innes to Washington, 18 De
cember, 1788.

In October, 1788, John Connolly, who at one time played quite an im
portant part as an agent of Lord Dunmore, a British recruiting agent and a
Tory prisoner, came from Detroit to Kentucky ostensibly to look after some
lands he claimed, but in reality as a messenger from Lord Dorchester to sound
opinion in that region. He claimed to be authorized by Lord Dorchester to
offer British aid to an armed force intended to operate against New Orleans.
Wilkinson to Miro, 12 February, 1789. Tie had conferences with Wilkinson,
Thomas Marshall, George Muter, and Charles Scott, and returning to Detroit,

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 363

a perseverance in temperate measures and good dis
positions will produce such a system of national
policy as shall be mutually advantageous to all parts
of the American republic. I am, Sir, with much
esteem, yours, &c.

TO CAPTAIN RICHARD CONWAY.

MOUNT VERNON, 4 March, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

Never till within these two years have I ever
experienced the want of money. Short crops, and
other causes not entirely within my controul, make me
feel it now very sensibly. To collect money without
the intervention of Suits, (and these are tedious,)
seems impracticable — and Land, which I have offered

gave his employer the impression that a British protectorate might be made
useful to check the efforts of Spain to win over the Kentuckians, and that a
British party could be fostered in the west. Miro had an idea that his com
mercial agreements with Wilkinson had established a Spanish hold that could
not be shaken, and Gardoqui, with his scheme of Morgan's colony and free
port, thought he had for the time smoothed over the irritation that the Ken
tuckians had shown at the iron restrictions that the colonial policy of Spain
had imposed on her trade. France, also, was in possession of a suggestion
that might bear fruit : to secure from Spain the peaceable cession of New
Orleans, and so come between the resentments of the Americans and Spaniards
with a grant of privileges advantageous to all concerned. An end was put to
this intriguing by Washington's election to the presidency.

"Judgment, impartiality, and decision are conspicuous in every transaction
of the President, and from the appointments which he has made, there is
every reason to expect that the different departments will be conducted with
justice and ability. I consider the appointment of Mr. Jefferson (vice Jay) as
a measure favorable to the interests of the Western Country, and calculated to
remove those fears which exist respecting the navigation of the river Missis
sippi. I am fully convinced that we have nothing to fear on that score from
the President. This I speak from a knowledge of his sentiments." — John
Broivn to Harry Innes, 28 September, 1789.

364 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

for sale, will not command Cash at an undervalue, if
at all. Under this statement, I am inclined to do
what I never expected to be driven to, that is, to
borrow money on Interest. Five hundred pounds
would enable me to discharge what I owe in Alexan
dria, &c., and to leave the State (if it shall not be in
my power to remain at home in retirement) without
doing this, would be exceedingly disagreeable to me.
Having thus fully and candidly explained myself,
permit me to ask if it is in your power to supply me
with the above or a smaller Sum. Any security you
may best like I can give, and you may be assured,
that it is no more my inclination than it can be yours,
to let it remain long unpaid. Could I get in one
fourth part of what is due to me on Bonds, or sell
any of the Landed property which I am inclined to
dispose of, I could do it with ease ; but independently
of these, my rents and Crops would soon enable me
to do it, provided I am tolerably successful in the
latter, and have common justice done me in the
former. Your answer will much oblige yours, &C.1

TO BENJAMIN HARRISON.

MOUNT VERNON, 9 March, 1789.

MY DEAR SIR,

My friendship is not in the least lessened by the
difference, which has taken place in our political sen
timents, nor is my regard for you diminished by the

1 The loan was increased by one hundred pounds, to enable Washington to
go to New York.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 365

part you have acted. Men's minds are as variant
as their faces, and, where the motives to their
actions are pure, the operation of the former is no
more to be imputed to them as a crime, than the
appearance of the latter ; for both, being the work
of nature, are equally unavoidable. Liberality and
charity, instead of clamor and misrepresentation
(which latter only serve to foment the passions
without enlightening the understanding), ought to
govern in all disputes about matters of importance.
Whether the former have appeared in some of
the leaders of opposition, the impartial world will
decide.

According to report, your individual endeavors to
prevent inflammatory measures from being adopted,
redound greatly to your credit. The reasons, my
dear Sir, why I have not written to you for a long
time are two ; first, because I found it an insupport
able task to answer the letters, which were written to
me, and, at the same time, to pay that attention to
my private concerns which they required, and there
being lately little besides politics worthy of notice ;
secondly, because I did not incline to appear as a
partisan in the interesting subject, that has agitated
the public mind since the date of my last letter to
you. For it was my sincere wish, that the consti
tution, which had been submitted to the people,
might, after a fair and dispassionate investigation,
stand or fall according to its merits or demerits.
Besides, I found from disagreeable experience, that
almost all the sentiments extracted from me in

366 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

answer to private letters, or communicated orally, by
some means or another found their way into the
public gazettes, as well as some other sentiments
ascribed to me, which never had an existence in my
imagination.

In touching upon the more delicate part of your
letter, (the communication of which fills me with real
concern,) I will deal by you with all that frankness,
which is due to friendship, and which I wish should
be a characteristic feature in my conduct through life.
I will therefore declare to you, that, if it should be
my inevitable fate to administer the government, (for
Heaven knows, that no event can be less desired by
me, and that no earthly consideration short of so
general a call, together with a desire to reconcile
contending parties as far as in me lies, could again
bring me into public life,) I will go to the chair under
no pre-engagement of any kind or nature whatso
ever. But, when in it, I will, to the best of my
judgment, discharge the duties of the office with that
impartiality and zeal for the public good, which ought
never to suffer connections of blood or friendship to
intermingle so as to have the least sway on decisions
of a public nature. I may err, notwithstanding my
most strenuous efforts to execute the difficult trust
with fidelity and unexceptionably ; but my errors
shall be of the head, not of the heart. For all
recommendations for appointments, so far as they
may depend upon or come from me, a due regard
shall be had to the fitness of characters, the preten
sions of different candidates, and, so far as is proper,

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 367

to political considerations. These shall be invariably
my governing motives.1

You will perceive, then, my dear Sir, that I cannot
with propriety say any thing more on the subject,
than that several applications have been made to me
for the office immediately in question without having
received any answer. I wish you had pursued the
policy, which the gentleman who now occupies it has

1 To another application for office from a foreigner, Samuel Vaughan,
he wrote :

" From the moment when the necessity had become more apparent, and a-s
it were inevitable, I anticipated, with a heart filled with distress, the ten
thousand embarrassments, perplexities, and troubles, to which I must again
be exposed in the evening of a life already nearly consumed in public cares.
Among all these anxieties, T will not conceal from you, I anticipated none
greater, than those that were likely to be produced by applications for
appointments to the different offices, which would be created under the
new government. Nor will I conceal, that my apprehensions have already
been but too well justified. Scarcely a day passes, in which applications
of one kind or another do not arrive ; insomuch that, had I not early adopted
some general principles, I should before this time have been wholly occupied
in this business. As it is, I have found the number of answers, which I have
been necessitated to give in my own hand, an almost insupportable burden
to me.

" The points in which all these answers have agreed in substance are, that,
should it be my lot to go again into public office, I would go without being
under any possible engagements of any nature whatsoever ; that, so far as I
knew my own heart, I would not be in the remotest degree influenced, in
making nominations, by motives arising from the ties of family or blood ; and
that, on the other hand, three things, in my opinion, ought principally to be
regarded, namely, the fitness of characters to fill offices, the comparative claims
from the former merits and sufferings in service of the different candidates,
and the distribution of appointments in as equal a proportion as might be to
persons belonging to the different States in the Union. Without precautions
of this kind, I clearly foresaw the endless jealousies, and possibly the fatal
consequences, to which a government, depending altogether on the good will
of the people for its establishment, would certainly be exposed in its early
stages. Besides, I thought, whatever the effect might be in pleasing or dis
pleasing any individuals at the present moment, a due concern for my own
reputation, not less decisively than a sacred regard to the interests of the com-

368 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

done, of obtaining the appointment from the execu
tive of this State. Although that gentleman was an
officer, yet he is quite unknown to me, and therefore
I cannot speak at all upon the ground of comparative
claims of personal merits. I conceive, however, it
will be found no pleasant thing, possibly very much
the reverse, to displace one man under these circum-

munity, required, that I should hold myself absolutely at liberty to act, while
in office, with a sole reference to justice and the public good.

" The limits of a letter would not suffice to describe the difficulties, which
I fear might occur in conferring important offices upon persons, however
meritorious they may really be, who have resided but a little time, and are
consequently but little known, in America. A single disgust, excited in a
particular State, on this account, might perhaps raise a flame of opposition,
that could not easily, if ever, be extinguished. For the fact, I apprehend,
will be found to be, that there will be at least a hundred competitors for every
office of any kind of importance. Indeed, the number of offices will, in our
economical management of the affairs of the republic, be much fewer, as I
conceive, and the pretensions of those who may wish to occupy them much
more forcible, than many well informed men have imagined. At all events,
so much I can with truth declare, that several of the candidates, who have
already come forward, have claims to the public attention and gratitude, which
cannot be set aside without a palpable act of injustice. Some of them are
men of unquestionable talents, who have wasted the flower of their lives in
the civil or military service of their country ; men, who have materially injured
their properties, and excluded themselves from obtaining a subsistence for
their families by the professions they were accustomed to pursue. There are
some, I may add, who have shed their blood, and deserved all that a grateful
country has to bestow. Nor are they, in my judgment, incapable of reflecting
lustre on the most dignified stations.

" I have no conception of a more delicate task, than that which is imposed
by the constitution on the executive. It is the nature of republicans, who are
nearly in a state of equality, to be extremely jealous as to the disposal of all
honorary or lucrative appointments. Perfectly convinced I am, that, if injudi
cious or unpopular measures should be taken by the executive under the new
government, with regard to appointments, the government itself would be in
the utmost danger of being utterly subverted by those measures. So neces
sary is it at this crisis to conciliate the good will of the people, and so impossi
ble is it, in my judgment, to build the edifice of public happiness but upon
their affections. Your good sense and native candor must serve me as an
apology for being thus explicit." — March 21 st.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 369

stances of actual occupancy, merely to make room
for another, however considerable his abilities, or
unimpeached his integrity may appear to the public
eye.1

Mrs. Washington joins me in every good wish for
Mrs. Harrison and your family.

I am, Sir, &c.

TO GEORGE STEPTOE WASHINGTON.

MOUNT VERNON, 23 March, 1789.

DEAR GEORGE,

As it is probable I shall soon be under the neces
sity of quitting this place, and entering once more
into the bustle of publick life, in conformity to the
voice of my Country and the earnest entreaties of my
friends, however contrary it is to my own desires or
inclinations ; I think it incumbent on me as your
Uncle and friend, to give you some advisory hints,
which if properly attended to, will, I conceive, be
found very useful to you in regulating your conduct
and giving you respectability not only at present but
through every period of life. You have now arrived
to that age when you must quit the trifling amuse
ments of a boy, and assume the more dignified man
ners of a man.

At this crisis your conduct will attract the notice
of those who are about you ; and as the first impres-

1 The office wanted was that of naval officer of the District of Portsmouth
and Norfolk. Col. Parker had just resigned it, to take his seat in Congress,
and the Virginia Council had chosen Capt. William Lindsay to succeed him.
370 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

sions are generally the most lasting ; your doings now
may mark the leading traits of your character through
life. It is therefore, absolutely necessary, if you mean
to make any figure upon the stage, that you should
take the first steps right. What these steps are and
what general line is to be pursued to lay the founda
tion of an honorable and happy progress, is the part
of age and experience to point out. This I shall do,
as far as in my power with the utmost chearfulness ;
and, I trust, that your own good sense will shew you
the necessity of following it. The first and great
object with you at present is to acquire, by industry
and application, such knowledge as your situation
enables you to obtain, as will be useful to you in
life. In doing this two other important objects
will be gained besides the acquisition of knowledge
—namely a habit of industry, and a disrelish of that
profusion of money and dissipation of time which are
ever attendant upon idleness. I do not mean by a
close application to your studies that you should
never enter into those amusements which are suited
to your age and station. They may be made to go
hand in hand with each other, and used in their
proper seasons, will ever be found to be a mutual
assistance to each other. But what amusements are
to be taken, and when, is the great matter to be
attended to — your own judgement, with the advice
of your real friends who may have an opportunity of
a personal intercourse with you can point out the
particular manner in which you may best spend your
moments of relaxation, much better than I can at a

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 371

distance. — One thing, however, I would strongly im
press upon you, viz : that when you have leisure, to
go into company ; that it should always be of the
best kind that the place you are in will afford ; by this
means you will be constantly improving your man
ners and cultivating your mind while you are relaxing
from your books ; and good company will always be
found much less expensive than bad. You cannot
offer, as an excuse for not using it, that you cannot
gain admission there, or that you have not a proper
attention paid you in it, this is an apology made only,
by those whose manners are disgusting, or whose
character is exceptionable ; neither of which, I hope
will ever be said of you. I cannot enjoin too strongly
upon you a due observance of economy and frugality :
As you well know yourself, the present state of your
property and finances will not admit of any unneces
sary expense. The article of clothing is now one of
the chief expenses, you will incur ; and in this, I fear,
you are not so economical as you should be. Decency
and cleanliness will always be the first object in the
dress of a judicious and sensible man. A conformity
to the prevailing fashion in a certain degree is neces
sary — but it does not follow from thence that a man
should always get a new coat, or other clothes, upon
every trifling change in the mode, when, perhaps he
has two or three very good ones by him. A person
who is anxious to be a leader of the fashion, or one of
the first to follow it, will certainly appear in the eyes
of judicious men, to have nothing better than a fre
quent c[h]ange of dress to recommend hi to notice.

372 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

I would always wish you to appear sufficiently decent
to entitle you to admission into any company, where
you may be, — but I cannot too strongly enjoin it upon
you — and your own knowledge must convince you of
the truth of it — that you should be as little expensive
in this respect as you properly can — You should
always keep some clothes to wear to church, or on
particular occasions, which should not be worn every
day. This can be done without any additional ex
pense ; for whenever it is necessary to get new clothes,
those which have been kept for particular occasions,
will then come in as every day ones, unless they
should be of a superior quality to the new. What I
have said with respect to clothes will apply perhaps
more pointedly to Lawrence than to you, — and as you
are much older than he is, and more capable of jud
ging of the propriety of what I have here observed, you
must pay attention to him, in this respect, and see that
he does not wear his clothes improperly or extrava
gantly. Much more might be said to you, as a young
man, upon the necessity of paying due attention to
the moral virtues, — but this may, perhaps, more prop
erly be the subject of a future letter when you are
about to enter into the world. If you comply with
the advice herein given, to pay a diligent attention to
your studies, and employ your time of relaxation in
proper company, you will find but few opportunities and
little inclination, while you continue at an Acadimy, to
enter into those scenes of vice and dissipation which
too often present themselves to youth in every place,
and particularly in towns. If you are determined to

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. . 373

neglect your books, and plunge into extravagance and
dissipation nothing that I can now say would prevent
it, — for you must be employed, and if it is not in
pursuit of those things profitable, it must be in pur
suit of those which are - — . As your time of con
tinuing with Mr. Hanson expires the last of this
month and I understand that Doctor Craik has
expressed an inclination to take you and Lawrence to
board with him, I shall know his determination re
specting the matter, — and if it is agreeable to him
and Mrs. Craik to take you I shall be pleased with
it ; for I am certain that nothing will be wanting on
their part to make your situation agreeable and use
ful to you. Should you live with the Doctor, I shall
request him to take you both under his peculiar care
—provide such clothes for you from time to time, as
he shall judge necessary, — and do by you in the same
manner as he would if you were his own children :
which if he will undertake, I am sensible, from knowl
edge which I have of him, and the very amiable
character and disposition of Mrs. Craik, that they will
spare no proper exertions to make your situation
pleasing and profitable to you. Should you or Lawrence
therefore behave in such a manner as to occasion any
complaint being made to me, you may depend upon
losing that place which you now have in my affec
tions, and any future hope you may have from me.
But if, on the contrary, your conduct is such as to
merit my regard you may always depend upon the
warmest attachment and sincere regard of

Your affectionate friend and Uncle.

374 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO JAMES MADISON, IN CONGRESS.

MOUNT VERNON, 30 March, 1789.

MY DEAR SIR,

I have been favored with your letter of the iQth,
by which it appears that a quorum of Congress was
hardly to be expected before the beginning of the next
week. As this delay must be very irksome to the
attending members, and every day's continuance of
it, before the government is in operation, will be more
sensibly felt, I am resolved, that none shall proceed
from me that can well be avoided, after notice of the
election is announced, and therefore I take the liberty
of requesting the favor of you to engage lodgings for
me previous to my arrival.

Mr. Lear, who has lived with me three years as a
private secretary, will accompany or precede me in the
stage ; and Colonel Humphreys I presume will be of
my party. On the subject of lodgings, I will frankly
declare to you, that I mean to go into none but hired
ones. If these cannot be had tolerably convenient
(for I shall not be nice about them), I would take
rooms in the most decent tavern, till a house can be
provided for the more permanent reception of the
President. I have already declined a very polite
and pressing invitation from the Governor to lodge
at his house, till a place could be prepared for me ;
after which, should any other offer of a similar nature
be made, there could be no propriety in my acceptance
of it. As you are fully acquainted with my senti
ments on this head, I shall only add, that, as I mean
to avoid private families on the one hand, so on the

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 375

other I am not anxious to be placed early in a situa
tion for entertaining ; for which reason private lod
gings, till I can feel the way a little, would not only be
more agreeable to my own wishes, but possibly.rnore
consistent with sound policy.1.

As it is my intention to conform to the public de
sire and expectation with respect to the style proper
for the President to live in, it may be well to know
what these are before he enters upon it. After all,
something may perhaps have been decided upon be
fore this will reach you, that may make the request
nugatory. If otherwise, I will only in one word say,
that my wish is to be placed in an independent situa
tion for the purpose I have mentioned. I have the
honor to be, with sentiments of the highest regard,
&c.

TO THOMAS GREENE
THOMAS GREEN, MOUNT VERNON, 31 March, 1789.

I am about to leave my home whether for a length
of time is more than I can tell at present. — But be
this as it may I expect the agreement to which we

1 Both Governor Clinton and John Jay invited Washington to stay with them
on his arrival in New York. To Clinton he replied, 25 March, 1789 :

" I shall make it a point to take hired lodgings or rooms in a tavern until some
house can be provided. Because it would be wrong, in my real judgment, to
impose such a burden on any private family, as must unavoidably be occasioned
by my company ; and because I think it would be generally expected, that, being
supported by the public at large, I should not be burdensome to individuals.
With respect to the other part of your letter, which is expressive of a wish to be
apprized of the time of my approach to the city, I can assure you, with the
utmost sincerity, that no reception can be so congenial to my feelings as a
quiet entry devoid of ceremony, be the manner of it what it may."

- " A Rough and incorrect Draught of a letter." — Note by Washington,

376 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

have subscribed, will be as strictly complied with on
your part as it shall be punctually fulfilled on mine. To
enable you to do this, you would do well to keep two
things always in remembrance — First that all Bar
gains are intended, for the mutual benefit of and are
equally binding on both the Parties, and are either
binding in all their parts or are of no use at all — If
then a man receives for his labor, and he with holds
that labor, or if he trifles away that time for which he
is paid, it is a robbery — and a robbery of the worst
kind, because it is not only a fraud but a dishonorable,
unmanly and a deceitful fraud ; — but it is unnecessary
to dwell on this because there is no Man so ignorant
of the common obligations of Justice, as not to know
it — altho' there are hundreds who do not scruple to
practice it, at the same time that they would think
hard, on the other hand, if they were to be deprived
of their money. The other matter which I advise
you to keep always in remembrance is the good name,
which common policy as well as common honesty,
makes it necessary for every workman who wishes to
pass thro' life with reputation and to secure employ
ment. Having said thus much by way of exhorta
tion I shall inform you in the most serious and
positive terms that I have left strict orders with the
Major my nephew, who is vested with full powers to
transact all my business, that if he should find you
unfaithful to your engagements, either from the love
of liquor, from a disposition to be running about, or
from proneness to idle when at your work — to discard
you immediately, and to remove your family from

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 377

their present abode. The sure means to avoid this
evil is — first to refrain from drink which is the source
of all evil — and the ruin of half the workmen in this
Country — and next to avoid bad company, which is
the bane of good morals, economy and industry.
You have every inducement to do this — Reputation
—the care and support of a growing family — and
society which this family affords within your own
doors, which may not be the case with some of the
idle (to say nothing worse of them) characters who
may lead you into temptation. Were you to look
back, and had the means, either from recollection, or
accounts, to ascertain the cost of the liquor you have
expended it would astonish you — In the manner this
expence is generally incurred, that is by getting a
little now — a little then, the impropriety of it is not
seen, in as much as it passes away without much
thought. But view it in the aggregate you will be
convinced at once, whether any man who depends
upon the labor of his hands, not only for his own
support, but that of an encreasing family, can afford
such a proportion of his wages to that article. But
the expence is not the worst consequence that attends
it, for it naturally leads a man into the company of
those who encourage dissipation and idleness, by
which he is led by degrees to the perpetration of
acts which may terminate in his Ruin. But suppos
ing this not to happen, a disordered frame, and a
body debilitated, renders him unfit (even if his mind
was disposed to discharge the duties of his station
with honor to himself or fidelity to his employer)

378 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

from the execution of it. An aching head and trem
bling limbs, which are the inevitable effects of drink
ing, disincline the hands from work ; hence begins
sloth and that Listlessness, which end in idleness,
but which are no reasons for withholding that labor
for which money is paid.

I have no other inducement for giving you this
advice (in this my hour of hurry) but your own good ;
for the wages and previleges which you have I well
know would obtain for me the best workmen in this
country, without the charges of such a family as
yours ; but as it has been a custom with me through
life to give a preference to those who have long lived
with me, and my wish to see them do well, I have
taken the trouble of writing you this letter. If you
have gratitude, or a mind capable of reflection, it will
make such an impression on it as may be serviceable
to you thro life ; if not, I have my labor for my pains.

Whilst the negro carpenters work at the same spot
where you are, they will be subject to your inspection
and orders — and at other times if it should be found
necessary to put them under yr. care it will be ex
pected that you see that they do their duty. I am, &C.1

1 The patience of Washington was sorely tried by Green, and subsequently
an annual contract appears to have been made between them. The last con
tract was made 2 October, 1793, by which Green and his four negro carpenters
were to receive ,£10 a month and certain articles of food, and Green engaged
never to be away while his people were at work, and he in health, or be ab
sent without permission. " And whereas it too often happens that men (regard
less of their engagements and of course their reputation) when working on
standing wages, are apt to be idle, careless and indifferent to the interest of
their employers, thereby setting the reverse of good examples, it is hereby
clearly understood and expressly agreed to by the said Thomas Green, that he
will be at his business as soon as it is light, and remain thereat until dark,

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 379

TO HENRY KNOX.

MOUNT VERNON, i April, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

The mail of the 3Oth brought me your favor of the
23d, by which, and the regular information you have
had the goodness to transmit to me of the state of
things in New York, I am very much obliged, and
thank you accordingly.

I feel for those members of the new Congress, who
hitherto have given an unavailing attendance at the
theatre of action. For myself the delay may be com
pared to a reprieve ; for in confidence I tell you, (with
the world it would obtain little credit,) that my move
ments to the chair of government will be accompanied
by feelings not unlike those of a culprit, who is going
to the place of his execution ; so unwilling am I, in
the evening of a life nearly consumed in public cares,
to quit a peaceful abode for an ocean of difficulties,
without that competency of political skill, abilities, and
inclination, which are necessary to manage the helm.
I am sensible that I am embarking the voice of the

when he is in health ; and when not employed in laying out, or marking off
work for others, that he will labor as faithfully, and as effectually as any hand
under him ; as well for the purpose of fulfilling this agreement as for the good
example he would set by so doing to those who are under his care, and who are
not so ignorant (knowing this is required of him) as not to relax as he relaxes,
and be idle in proportion as he is idle ; because all of them have discernment
enough to know that no man can, with propriety, or a good conscience, correct
others for a fault he is guilty of himself ; the consequence of which is, that in
dolence and sloth take possession of the whole." — Agreement. In February,
1794, Washington wrote to Pearce, his overseer, that he had become convinced
of Green's unfitness to look after his carpenters, that only the helpless condition
of the family had prevailed to retain him so long, and that a change must
be made. Green, in September, left of his own accord.

380 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

people, and a good name of my own, on this voyage ;
but what returns will be made for them, Heaven alone
can foretell. Integrity and firmness are all I can
promise. These, be the voyage long or short, shall
never forsake me, although I may be deserted by all
men ; for of the consolations, which are to be derived
from these, under any circumstances, the world can
not deprive me. I am &C.1

TO JOHN LANGDON.

MOUNT VERNON, 14 April, 1789.

I had the honor to receive your official communi
cation, by the hand of Mr. Secretary Thomson, about
one o'clock this day. Having concluded to obey the
important and flattering call of my country, and hav
ing been impressed with an idea of the expediency
of my being with Congress at as early a period as
possible, I propose to commence my journey on
Thursday morning, which will be the day after to
morrow. I have the honor to be, with sentiments of
esteem, Sir, &c.-

1 The day appointed for the assembling of Congress was the 4th of March ;
but so tardily did the members come together, that a quorum of both Houses
was not formed until the 6th of April. " The stupor or listlessness, with which
our public measures seem to be pervaded, is to me a matter of deep regret. In
deed it has so strange an appearance, that I cannot but wonder how men, who are
anxious to get into office or who are ever prevailed upon toaccept it, can recon
cile such conduct with their sense of propriety. The delay is inauspicious to
say the least of it, and the world must condemn it." — Washington to A'nojc,
10 April, 1789.

'2 On the 6th of April, when the electoral votes were opened, it appeared that
Washington was unanimously chosen President of the United States. With
marked fitness, Charles Thomson was appointed to notify Washington of the

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 381

INAUGURAL SPEECH TO BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS,
APRIL 3<DTH, 1789.

FELLOW-CITIZENS OF THE SENATE

AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,

Among the vicissitudes incident to life, no event could have
filled me with greater anxieties, than that of which the notifica
tion was transmitted by your order, and received on the i4th day
of the present month. On the one hand, I was summoned by my
country, whose voice 1 can never hear but with veneration and
love, from a retreat which I had chosen with the fondest predi
lection, and, in my flattering hopes, with an immutable decision,
as the asylum of my declining years ; a retreat which was rendered
every day more necessary as well as more dear to me, by the ad
dition of habit to inclination, and of frequent interruptions in my
health to the gradual waste committed on it by time. On the other
hand, the magnitude and difficulty of the trust, to which the voice of
my country called me, being sufficient to awaken in the wisest
and most experienced of her citizens a distrustful scrutiny into
his qualifications, could not but overwhelm with despondence
one, who, inheriting inferior endowments from nature, and
unpractised in the duties of civil administration, ought to be pe
culiarly conscious of his own deficiencies. In this conflict of
emotions, all I dare aver is, that it has been my faithful study to
collect my duty from a just appreciation of every circumstance
by which it might be affected. All I dare hope is, that, if in
executing this task, I have been too much swayed by a grateful
remembrance of former instances, or by an affectionate sensibility

result. On April I4th he reached Mount Vernon and in a few words per
formed the object of his mission. In reply the President-elect said :

" I have been accustomed to pay so much respect to the opinion of my fel
low citizens, that the knowledge of their having given their unanimous suffrages
in my favor scarcely leaves me the alternative for an option. I cannot, I believe,
give a greater evidence of my sensibility to the honor, which they have done
me, than by accepting the appointment.

" I am so much affected by this fresh proof of my country's esteem and con
fidence, that silence can best explain my gratitude. While I realize the ardu
ous nature of the task, which is imposed upon me, and feel my own inability to
perform it, I wish that there may not be reason for regretting the choice ; for,

382 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

to this transcendent proof of the confidence of my fellow-citizens ;
and have thence too little consulted my incapacity as well as
disinclination for the weighty and untried cares before me ; my

indeed, all I can promise is only to accomplish that, which can be done by an
honest zeal."

Recognizing the importance of being in New York at an early day, that
there might be no delay in organizing the new executive, he set out from Mount
Vernon on April i6th, recording in his Diary : " About ten o'clock, I bade
adieu to Mount Vernon, to private life, and to domestic felicity ; and, with a
mind oppressed with more anxious and painful sensations than I have words to
express, set out for New York in company with Mr. Thomson and Colonel
Humphreys, with the best disposition to render service to my country in obedi
ence to its call, but with less hope of answering its expectations." The inci
dents attending his journey to the seat of government and his inauguration are
so fully described in the volume commemorative of the celebration in 1889, as to
make even a summary unnecessary. On the 3Oth of April the oath of office was
administered by the Chancellor of New York, and an address delivered to both
Houses of Congress. Three contemporary records may be quoted. The fol
lowing account is from a manuscript Diary kept by Mr. Lear, who was at that
time the President's secretary :

" April y>th. — The morning was employed in making such arrangements as
were necessary for the ceremonies of the day. At nine o'clock all the churches
in the city were opened, and prayers offered up to the Great Ruler of the uni
verse for the preservation of the President. At twelve the troops of the city
paraded before our door, and, soon after, the committees of Congress and heads
of departments came in their carriages to wait upon the President to the Federal
Hall. At half past twelve the procession moved forward, the troops marching
in front with all the ensigns of military parade. Next came the committees and
heads of departments in their carriages. Next the President in the state coach,
and Colonel Humphreys and myself in the President's own carriage. The
foreign ministers and a long train of citizens brought up the rear.

" About two hundred yards before we reached the hall, we descended from
our carriages, and passed through the troops, who were drawn up on each side,
into the Hall and Senate-chamber, where we found the Vice-President, the
Senate, and House of Representatives assembled. They received the President
in the most respectful manner, and the Vice-President conducted him to a spa
cious and elevated seat at the head of the room. A solemn silence prevailed.
The Vice-President soon arose and informed the President, that all things were
prepared to administer the oath whenever he should see fit to proceed to the
balcony and receive it. He immediately descended from his seat, and ad
vanced through the middle door of the Hall to the balcony. The others passed
through the doors on each side. The oath was administered in public by
Chancellor Livingston ; and, the moment the chancellor proclaimed him Presi-

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 383

error will be palliated by the motives which misled me, and its
consequences be judged by my country with some share of the
partiality in which they originated.

dent of the United States, the air was rent by repeated shouts and huzzas, —
' God bless our Washington ! Long live our beloved President ! ' We again
returned into the Hall, where, being seated as before for a few moments, the
President arose and addressed the two branches of Congress in a speech, which
was heard with eager and marked attention.

"After the President had finished his speech, we proceeded from the Senate-
chamber, on foot to St. Paul's church, in the same order that we had observed
in our carriages, where the bishop read prayers suited to the occasion. We
were then met at the church door by our carriages, and we went home.

" In the evening there was a display of most beautiful fire-works and trans
parent paintings at the Battery. The President, Colonel Humphreys, and
myself went in the beginning of the evening in the carriages to Chancellor
Livingston's and General Knox's, where we had a full view of the fire-works.
We returned home at ten on foot, the throng of people being so great as not to
permit a carriage to pass through it,"

Fisher Ames noted : "I was present in the pew with the President, and
must assure you that, after making all deductions for the delusion of one's fancy
in regard to characters, I still think of him with more veneration than for any
other person. Time has made havoc upon his face. That, and many other
circumstances not to be reasoned about, conspire to keep up the awe which I
brought with me. He addressed the two Houses in the Senate-chamber ; it
was a very touching scene, and quite of a solemn kind. His aspect grave,
almost to sadness ; his modesty, actually shaking ; his voice deep, a little
tremulous, and so low as to call for close attention ; added to the series of
objects presented to the mind, and overwhelming it, produced emotions of the
most affecting kind upon the members. "

Senator McClay gave another account : " This great man was agitated
and embarrassed more than he was by the levelled cannon or pointed musket.
He trembled, and several times could scarce make out to read, though it must
lie supposed he had often read it before. He put part of the fingers of his
left hand into the side of what I think the tailors call the fall of the breeches,
changing the paper into his left [right?] hand. After some time, he then did
the same thing with some of the fingers of his right hand. When he came to
the words 'all the world,' he made a flourish with his right hand, which left
rather an ungainly impression. I, for my part, wished all set ceremony in the
hands of the dancing masters, and that this first of men had read off his
address in the plainest manner without ever taking his eyes from the paper,
for I felt hurt that he was not first in every thing. He was dressed in deep
brown, with metal buttons, with an eagle on them, white stockings, a bag,
and sword."

384 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

Such being the impressions under which I have, in obedience
to the public summons, repaired to the present station, it would
be peculiarly improper to omit, in this first official act, my fervent
supplications to that Almighty Being, who rules over the universe,
who presides in the councils of nations, and whose providential
aids can supply every human defect, that his benediction may
consecrate to the liberties and happiness of the people of the United
States a government instituted by themselves for these essential
purposes, and may enable every instrument employed in its ad
ministration to execute with success the functions allotted to his
charge. In tendering this homage to the great Author of every
public and private good, I assure myself that it expresses your
sentiments not less than my own ; nor those of my fellow-citizens
at large, less than either. No people can be bound to acknowl
edge and adore the invisible hand, which conducts the affairs of
men, more than the people of the United States. Every step, by
which they have advanced to the character of an independent
nation, seems to have been distinguished by some token of provi
dential agency. And, in the important revolution just accom
plished in the system of their united government, the tranquil
deliberations and voluntary consent of so many distinct commu
nities, from which the event has resulted, cannot be compared
with the means by which most governments have been established,
without some return of pious gratitude along with an humble an
ticipation of the future blessings which the past seem to presage.
These reflections, arising out of the present crisis, have forced
themselves too strongly on my mind to be suppressed. You will
join with me, I trust, in thinking that there are none, under the
influence of which the proceedings of a new and free government
can more auspiciously commence.

By the article establishing the executive department, it is made
the duty of the President " to recommend to your consideration
such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient." The
circumstances, under which I now meet you, will acquit me
from entering into that subject farther than to refer you to the
great constitutional charter under which we are assembled ; and
which, in defining your powers, designates the objects to which

789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 385

your attention is to be given. It will be more consistent with
those circumstances, and far more congenial with the feelings
which actuate me, to substitute, in place of a recommendation
of particular measures, the tribute that is due to the talents,
the rectitude, and the patriotism, which adorn the charac
ters selected to devise and adopt them. In these honora
ble qualifications I behold the surest pledges, that as, on one side,
no local prejudices or attachments, no separate views or party
animosities, will misdirect the comprehensive and equal eye,
which ought to watch over this great assemblage of communities
and interests ; so, on another, that the foundations of our national
policy will be laid in the pure and immutable principles of private
morality, and the pre-eminence of a free government be exem
plified by all the attributes, which can win the affections of its
citizens, and command the respect of the world.

I dwell on this prospect with every satisfaction, which an ardent
love for my country can inspire ; since there is no truth more
thoroughly established, than that there exists in the economy and
course of nature an indissoluble union between virtue and happi
ness, between duty and advantage, between the genuine maxims
of an honest and magnanimous policy, and the solid rewards of
public prosperity and felicity ; since we ought to be no less per
suaded that the propitious smiles of Heaven can never be ex
pected on a nation that disregards the eternal rules of order and
right, which Heaven itself has ordained ; and since the preserva
tion of the sacred fire of liberty, and the destiny of the republican
model of government, are justly considered as deeply, perhaps as
finally staked, on the experiment intrusted to the hands of the
American people.

Besides the ordinary objects submitted to your care, it will
remain with your judgment to decide, how far an exercise of the
occasional power delegated by the fifth article of the Constitu
tion is rendered expedient at the present juncture by the nature
of objections which have been urged against the system, or by
the degree of inquietude which has given birth to them. Instead
of undertaking particular recommendations on this subject, in
which I could be guided by no lights derived from official

386 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

opportunities, I shall again give way to my entire confidence in
your discernment and pursuit of the public good ; for I assure
myself, that, whilst you carefully avoid every alteration, which
might endanger the benefits of a united and effective government,
or which ought to await the future lessons of experience ; a
reverence for the characteristic rights of freemen, and a re
gard for the public harmony, will sufficiently influence your
deliberations on the question, how far the former can be more
impregnably fortified, or the latter be safely and advantageously
promoted.

To the preceding observations I have one to add, which
will be most properly addressed to the House of Representatives.
It concerns myself, and will therefore be as brief as possible.
When I was first honored with a call into the service of my coun
try, then on the eve of an arduous struggle for its liberties, the
light in which I contemplated my duty required, that I should
renounce every pecuniary compensation. From this resolution
I have in no instance departed. And being still under the
impressions which produced it, I must decline as inapplicable to
myself any share in the personal emoluments, which may be in
dispensably included in a permanent provision for the executive
department ; and must accordingly pray, that the pecuniary esti
mates for the station in which I am placed may, during my con
tinuance in it, be limited to such actual expenditures as the public
good may be thought to require.

Having thus imparted to you my sentiments, as they have been
awakened by the occasion which brings us together, I shall take
my present leave ; but not without resorting once more to the
benign Parent of the human race, in humble supplication, that,
since he has been pleased to favor the American people with
opportunities for deliberating in perfect tranquillity, and dis
positions for deciding with unparalleled unanimity on a form
of government for the security of their union and the advance
ment of their happiness ; so his divine blessing may be equally
conspicuous in the enlarged views, the temperate consultations,
and the wise measures, on which the success of this government
must depend.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 387

REPLY TO THE ANSWER OF THE SENATE.

GENTLEMEN,

I thank you for your address, in which the most affectionate
sentiments are expressed in the most obliging terms. The coin
cidence of circumstances, which led to this auspicious crisis, the
confidence reposed in me by my fellow-citizens, and the assist
ance I may expect from counsels, which will be dictated by an
enlarged and liberal policy, seem to presage a more prosperous
issue to my administration, than a diffidence of my abilities had
taught me to anticipate. I now feel myself inexpressibly happy
in a belief, that Heaven, which has done so much for our infant
nation, will not withdraw its providential influence before our
political felicity shall have been completed ; and in a conviction
that the Senate will at all times co-operate in every measure which
may tend to promote the welfare of this confederated republic.

Thus supported by a firm trust in the great Arbiter of the uni
verse, aided by the collected wisdom of the Union, and imploring
the divine benediction on our joint exertions in the service of
our country, I readily engage with you in the arduous but pleas
ing task of attempting to make a nation happy.

REPLY TO THE ANSWER OF THE HOUSE OF

REPRESENTATIVES.
GENTLEMEN,

Your very affectionate address produces emotions, which I
know not how to express. I feel, that my past endeavors in
the service of my country are far overpaid by its goodness ; and
I fear much, that my future ones may not fulfil your kind antici
pation. All that I can promise is, that they will be invariably
directed by an honest and an ardent zeal. Of this resource my
heart assures me. For all beyond, I rely on the wisdom and
patriotism of those with whom I am to co-operate, and a contin
uance of the blessings of Heaven on our beloved country.1

1 The form of these speeches was that used by the colonial governors in
addressing the colonial assemblies, but was later set aside in favor of a single

388 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO EDWARD RUTLEDGE.

NEW YORK, 5 May, 1789.

MY DEAR SIR,

I cannot fail of being much pleased with the friendly
part you take in every thing which concerns me ;
and particularly with the just scale on which you
estimate this last great sacrifice, which I consider
myself as having made for the good of my country.
When I had judged, upon the best appreciation I
was able to form of the circumstances which related
to myself, that it was my duty to embark again on
the tempestuous and uncertain ocean of public life, I
gave up all expectations of private happiness in this
world. You know, my dear Sir, I had concentered
all my schemes, all my views, all my wishes, within
the narrow circle of domestic enjoyment. Though I
flatter myself the world will do me the justice to be
lieve, that at any time of life and in my circumstances,
nothing but a conviction of duty could have in
duced me to depart from my resolution of remaining
in retirement ; yet I greatly apprehend that my Coun
trymen will expect too much from me. I fear, if the

message to which no replies by the respective houses of Congress were given.
The President had consulted Madison on the replies :

" Notwithstanding the conviction I am under of the labor which is imposed
upon you by Public Individuals as well as public bodies — yet as you have
begun, so I would wish you to finish, the good work in a short reply to
the Addresses of the House of Representatives (which I now inclose) that there
may be an accordance in this business.

" Thursday 12 o'clock, I have appointed to receive the Addresses. — The
proper plan is with the House to determine. — As the first of every thing, in our
situation which serve to establish a Precedent, it is devoutly wished on my part,
that these precedents may be fixed on true principles." — Washington to Madi
son, 5 May, 1789.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 389

issue of public measures should not correspond with
their sanguine expectations, they will turn the extrav
agant (and I may say undue) praises which they are
heaping upon meat this moment, into equally extrav
agant (though I will fondly hope unmerited) censures.
So much is expected, so many untoward circumstances
may intervene, in such a new and critical situation,
that I feel an insuperable diffidence in my own abili
ties — I feel, in the execution of the duties of my ardu
ous office, how much I shall stand in need of the
countenance and aid of every friend to myself, of
every friend to the Revolution, and of every lover of
good Government. I thank you, my dear Sir, for
your affectionate expressions on this point.

I anticipate that one of the most difficult and deli
cate parts of the duty of my office will be that which
relates to nominations for appointments. I receive
with the more satisfaction the strong testimonials in
behalf of Mr. Hall, because I hope they will tend to
supersede the difficulty in this instance. Though,
from a system which I have prescribed to myself, I
can say nothing decisive on particular appointments ;
yet I maybe allowed to observe in general, that noth
ing could be more agreeable to me than to have one
candidate brought forward for every office with such
clear pretensions as to secure him against competition.1

1 Similar sentiments were expressed in a letter to General Wayne. " My
greatest apprehension at present is, that more will be expected from me, than
I shall be able to perform. All that an honest zeal can dictate for the advance
ment of the interests of our country will, however, be cheerfully and perse-
veringly attempted." — May 4th. And to General Schuyler : " It is only from
the assurances of support, which I have received from the respectable and wor-

390 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

Mrs. W. is not here, but is shortly expected on her
arrival.1 I will offer the Complts. of Mrs. R. &
yourself to her. In the meantime I pray you to be
lieve that I am, with sentiments of the purest esteem
& the highest consideration, &c.

TO JAMES MADISON.

NEW YORK, 12 May, 1789.

MY DEAR SIR,

To draw such a line for the conduct of the Presi
dent as will please everybody, I know is impossible,
but to mark out and follow one, which, by being con
sonant with reason, will meet general approbation,

thy characters in every part of the Union, that I am enabled to overcome the
diffidence, which I have in my own abilities to execute my great and important
trust to the best interest of our country. An honest zeal, and an unremitting
attention to the interests of the United States, are all that I dare promise." —
May gth. And again to Mr. Jones : " The numerous and friendly congratula
tions, which I have received from respectable characters in every part of the
Union, are truly pleasing to me ; not only on account of their discovering a
warm attachment to my person, but because they convey the most flattering
idea of the good dispositions of the people in the several States, and the strong
est assurances of support to the government. It affords me likewise no small
satisfaction to find, that my friends have done justice to the motives, which
again brought me into public life. Under all these circumstances I shall feel a
degree of confidence in discharging the duties of my administration, with which
a consciousness alone of the purity of my intentions could not have inspired me."
— May T4th. To Robert R. Livingston, after stating the principles which he had
adopted for regulating his conduct in regard to appointments, he wrote : " The
delicacy with which your letter was written, and your wishes insinuated, did
not require me to be thus explicit on this head with you ; but the desire which
I have, that those persons whose good opinion I value, should know the prin
ciples on which I mean to act in this business, has led me to this full declaration,
and I trust, that the truly worthy and respectable characters in this country
will do justice to the motives by which I am actuated in all my public transac
tions." — May 3ist.

1 Mrs. Washington did not arrive in New York till May 27th.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 391

may be as practicable as it is desirable. The true
medium I conceive must lie in pursuing such a course,
as will allow him time for all the official duties of his
station. This should be the primary object. The
next, to avoid as much as may be the charge of su
perciliousness, and seclusion from information, by
too much reserve and too great a withdraw of himself
from company on the one hand, and the inconven
iences, as well as a reduction of respectability, from
too free an intercourse and too much familiarity on
the other.

Under these impressions I have submitted the en
closed queries ' for your consideration, and would
thank you for your sentiments thereon, with the
return of the paper. For the remarks which it con
tains, it is necessary that some plan should be adopted
by the President for his mode of living, that the pecu
niary estimates for the department may have an eye
thereto ; and, though secondary, it is a motive for my
bringing the matter before you at this time. I am
your affectionate friend, &c.

QUERIES.

1. Whether a line of conduct, equally distant from an associa
tion with all kinds of company on the one hand, and from a total
seclusion from society on the other, ought to be adopted by him
And in that case, how is it to be done ?

2. What will be the least exceptionable method of bringing
any system, which may be adopted on this subject, before the pub
lic and into use ?

3. Whether, after a little time, one day in every week will not
be sufficient for receiving visits of compliment ?

1 The queries were also sent to Mr. Jay.

392 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

4. Whether it would tend to prompt impertinent applications,
and involve disagreeable consequences, to have it known that the
President will, every morning at eight o'clock, be at leisure to give
audience to persons, who may have business with him ?

5. Whether, when it shall have been understood, that the
President is not to give general entertainments in the manner the
presidents of Congress have formerly done, it will be practicable
to draw such a line of discrimination, in regard to persons, as
that six, eight, or ten official characters, including in rotation the
members of both Houses of Congress, may be invited informally,
or otherwise, to dine with him on the days fixed for receiving
company, without exciting clamors in the rest of the community ?

6. Whether it would be satisfactory to the public for the Pres
ident to make about four great entertainments in a year, on such
great occasions as the anniversary of the Declaration of Indepen
dence, the alliance with France, the peace with Great Britain, the
organization of the general government ; and whether arrange
ments of these two last kinds could be in danger of diverting too
much of the President's time from business, or of producing the
evils, which it was intended to avoid by his living more recluse
than the presidents of Congress have heretofore lived ?

7. Whether there would be any impropriety in the President's
making informal visits ; that is to say, in his calling upon his ac
quaintances or public characters, for the purpose of sociability or
civility ? And what, as to the form of doing it, might evince these
visits to have been made in his private character, so as that they
may not be construed into visits from the President of the United
States ? And in what light would his appearance rarely at tea-
parties be considered ?

8. Whether, during the recess of Congress, it would not be
advantageous to the interests of the Union for the President to
make the tour of the United States, in order to become better
acquainted with their principal characters and internal circum
stances, as well as to be more accessible to numbers of well-in
formed persons, who might give him useful information and advice
on political subjects?

9. If there is a probability, that either of the arrangements
take place, which will eventually cause additional expenses,

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 393

whether it would not be proper that those ideas should come into
contemplation at the time when Congress shall make a permanent
provision for the support of the executive ?

Remarks. On the one side, no augmentation can be effected
in the pecuniary establishment, which shall be made in the first
instance for the support of the executive. On the other, all
moneys destined to that purpose, beyond the actual expenditures,
will be left in the treasury of the United States, or sacredly ap
plied to the promotion of some national objects.

Many things, which appear of little importance in themselves
and at the beginning, may have great and durable consequences
from their having been established at the commencement of a
new general government. It will be much easier to commence
the administration upon a well-adjusted system, built on tenable
grounds, than to correct errors, or alter inconveniences, after they
shall have been confirmed by habit. The President, in all mat
ters of business and etiquette, can have no object but to demean
himself in his public character in such a manner as to maintain
the dignity of his office, without subjecting himself to the imputa
tion of superciliousness or unnecessary reserve. Under these
impressions, he asks for your candid and undisguised opinion.

TO MARY WOOSTER.1

NEW YORK, 21 May, 1789.

MADAM,

I have duly received your affecting letter, dated the
8th day of this month. Sympathizing with you as I
do in the great misfortunes, which have befallen your
family in consequence of ^ the war, my feelings as an
individual would forcibly prompt me to do every thing
in my power to repair those misfortunes. But as a

1 The widow of General Wooster, who died of the wounds he received in an
action with the enemy when the British made an incursion to Danbury in April,
1777-

394 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

public man, acting only with a reference to the public
good, I must be allowed to decide upon all points of
my duty, without consulting my private inclinations
and wishes. I must be permitted, with the best lights
I can obtain, and upon a general view of characters
and circumstances, to nominate such persons alone to
offices, as in my judgment shall be the best qualified
to discharge the functions of the departments to which
they shall be appointed.

Hitherto I have oriven no decisive answers to the

o

applications of any candidates whatsoever. Nor
would it be proper for me, before offices shall be cre
ated, and before I can have a general knowledge of the
competitors for them, to say any thing that might be
construed as intended to encourage or discourage the
hopes, which individuals may have formed of success.1
I only wish, so far as my agency in this business is
concerned, that candidates for offices would save

! In no respect was Washington's anxious care more fully shown than in seek
ing the proper persons for the offices in the new government. " That part of
the President's duty which obliges him to nominate persons for office," he wrote
to Joseph Jones, 14 May, 1789, " is the most delicate, and in many instances
will be, to me, the most unpleasing ; for it may frequently happen that there
will be several applicants for the same office, whose merits and pretensions are
so nearly equal, that it will almost require the aid of supernatural intuition to
fix upon the right. I shall, however, in all events, have the consolation of know
ing that I entered upon my office unconfined by any engagements, and unin
fluenced by any ties ; and that no means in my power will be left untried to
find out, and nominate those character* who will discharge the duties of their
respective offices to the best interests and highest credit of the American Union."
That he was sincere in this wish, there will be abundant evidence afforded in
these volumes ; and that he was successful in his policy is proved by the frequent
reference to his administration as the type of a true and honest civil service.

" Conversing on the subject of these appointments [revenue] lately with the
P., I mentioned two principles which I had the pleasure to hear him approve

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 395

themselves the trouble and consequent expense of
personal attendance. All that / require is the name
and such testimonials with respect to abilities, integ
rity, and fitness, as it may be in the power of the
several applicants to produce. Beyond this, nothing
with me is necessary, or will be of any avail to them
in my decisions. In the mean time I beg you will be
persuaded, Madam, that, let the result be whatsoever
it may, I can have no interest to promote but that
of the public ; and that I remain in all personal
considerations, with the highest respect, your most
obedient servant.

TO COUNT DE MOUSTIER.

[CONFIDENTIAL.]

NEW YORK, 25 May, 1789.

SIR,

What circumstances there may be existing between
our two nations, to which you allude, on account of

of. The first that State officers in similar lines who had behaved well, deserved
preference in the service of the United States ; and 2dly, that having discharged
these duties undivided, now that they become divided, the same officers were
entitled to the best. He assigned some strong reasons in support of both these
ideas." — Richard Hem y Lee to — — , 7 June, 1789.

"You cannot doubt my wishes to see you appointed to any office of honor
or emolument in the new government, to the duties of which you are compe
tent ; but however deserving you may be of the one you have suggested, your
standing at the bar would not justify my nomination of you as attorney to the
federal District Court in preference of some of the oldest and most esteemed
general court lawyers in your own State, who are desirous of this appointment.
My political conduct in nominations, even if I were uninfluenced by principle,
must be exceedingly circumspect and proof against just criticism ; for the eyes
of Argus are upon me, and no slip will pass unnoticed, that can be improved
into a supposed partiality for friends or relations." — Washington to Bushrod
Washington, 27 July, 1789.

396 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

their peculiarity I know not. But, as those nations
are happily connected in the strictest ties of amity,
not less by inclination and interest, than by the solem
nity of a treaty, and as the United States are too
remote from Europe to take any share in the local
politics of that continent, I had concluded, that com
merce was the only subject of negotiations, which
could at present be very interesting to the inhabitants
of the two countries.

In two letters, which I had the pleasure of writing
to you before I returned into public life, I stated (if
I remember rightly, for I have not the copies of the
letters with me), that I was so little acquainted with
commercial affairs, that I should very much distrust
my own judgment, even in the opinions which I might
be obliged to hazard in treating casually of them.
This fact, if there had been no other circumstance
that merited a consideration, would be a conclusive
reason for preventing me individually from entering
^cpon any kind of negotiations on that subject. For
while I find myself incompetent to it, I really believe,
that much reciprocal advantage might be acquired, if
that subject could be candidly and intelligently man
aged. This I should hope, too, might be the case ;
and so far shall I be from throwing any obstacles in
the way, that I shall certainly take a great pleasure
in removing, (so far as lays in my power,) such as may
occur.1

1 Moustier's "commercial ideas are probably neither illiberal nor unfriendly
to this country. The contrary has been supposed." — Madison to Jefferson, 27

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 397

Every one, who has any knowledge of my manner
of acting in public life, will be persuaded that I am
not accustomed to impede the despatch or frustrate
the success of business by a ceremonious attention to
idle forms. Any person of that description will also
be satisfied, that I should not readily consent to lose
one of the most important functions of my office, for
the sake of preserving an imaginary dignity. But
perhaps, if there are rules of proceeding, which have
originated from the wisdom of statesmen, and are
sanctioned by the common consent of nations, it would
not be prudent for a young state to dispense with
them altogether, at least, without some substantial
cause for so doing. I have myself been induced to
think, possibly from the habits of experience, that in
general the best mode of conducting negotiations, the
detail and progress of which might be liable to acci
dental mistakes, or unintentional misrepresentations,
is by writing. This mode, if I was obliged myself to
negotiate with any one, I should still pursue. I have,
however, been taught to believe, that there is in most
polished nations a system established, with regard to
the foreign as well as the other great departments,
which, from the utility, the necessity, and the reason
of the thing, provides, that business should be di
gested and prepared by the heads of those depart
ments.

The impossibility that one man should be able to
perform all the great business of the state, I take to
have been the reason for instituting the great depart
ments, and appointing officers therein, to assist the

398 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

supreme magistrate in discharging the duties of his
trust. And perhaps I may be allowed to say of my
self, that the supreme magistrate of no state can have
a greater variety of important business to perform in
person, than I have at this moment. Very many
things will doubtless occur to you, Sir, as being inci
dent to the office of President in the commencement
of the government, which cannot be done by the in
tervention of a third person. You will give me leave
to say, likewise, that no third person (were there a
disposition for it) shall ever have it in his power to
erect a wall between me and the diplomatic corps, that
is to say, to prevent necessary communications. Nor
has anybody insinuated, that it would be beneath the
dignity of a President of the United States occasion
ally to transact business with a foreign minister. But
in what light the public might view the establishment
of a precedent for negotiating the business of a de
partment, without any agency of the head of the de
partment, who was appointed for that very purpose, I
do not at present pretend to determine ; nor whether a
similar practice in that case must not of right be ex
tended hereafter to all diplomatic characters of the
same rank.

Here you will be pleased to observe, Sir, that I am
writing as General Washington to the Count de Mous-
tier. Happy am I, that my regard for yourself and
your nation is so far from being equivocal, that I have
had several occasions of making it known to you,
both in conversation and writing. And I hope you
will consider this confidential letter as an evidence of

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON, 399

the extreme regret, which I should feel, in being
obliged to decline any propositions, as to the mode of
doing business, from a person who has so many titles
to my esteem as the Count de Moustier.

I will only add, that, under my present impressions,
I cannot persuade myself, that I should be justifiable
in deviating essentially from established forms. With
the highest sentiments of esteem and regard,

I am, Sir, &c.

TO MATHEW CAREY.

NEW YORK, 29 May, 1789.

SIR,

In the course of my whole existence, I never before
have been made the subject of such extraordinary
conduct as that which I have been obliged to suffer
by your sending to me unsealed, through a public
conveyance, my letter of the 226. and yours of the
27th of this month.

After the candid and my heart witnessed for me no
unfriendly part I had always acted towards you, I
hoped for the credit of human nature, at least to have
escaped an intentional insult. I am, &C.1

1 " In addition to what I wrote to you formerly on the subject of a loan, I
now inform you (and desire that this letter which conveys the information may
be destroyed so soon as it is read) that my utmost exertions were ineffectually
used to borrow a sum of money (even at a high interest, and for me on disad
vantageous terms) to comply with contracts of my own before I left Virginia.
Having made this communication it is unnecessary to adduce further proof
of my inability to comply with the request which is contained in your letter of
the i8th instant." — Washington to Carey, 22 May, 1789.

400 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO THE SECRETARY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS.1

NEW YORK, 8 June, 1789.

SIR,

Although in the present unsettled state of the
executive departments, under the government of the
Union, I do not conceive it expedient to call upon
you for information officially, yet I have supposed,
that some informal communications from the office of
foreign affairs might neither be improper or unprof
itable. For finding myself at this moment less occu
pied with the duties of my office, than I shall proba
bly be at almost any time hereafter, I am desirous of
employing myself in obtaining an acquaintance with
the real situation of the several great departments, at
the period of my acceding to the administration of
the general government. For this purpose I wish to
receive in writing such a clear account of the depart
ment, at the head of which you have been for some
years past, as may be sufficient (without overbur
dening or confusing the mind, which has very many

1 The secretaries of the several executive departments under the new govern
ment were not appointed till September. In the meantime the usual business
of the departments was transacted by the officers who had charge of them when
the old government expired. Mr. Jay continued to fill the office of secretary of
foreign affairs, till Mr. Jefferson entered upon its duties in March, 1790. The
name of the department was changed by law to that of the Department of State,
and its head was thenceforward called Secretary of State. General Knox acted
as Secretary of War, till his new appointment to the same post, on the I2th of
September, 1789. The affairs of the treasury were administered by a Board,
consisting of Samuel Osgood, Walter Livingston, and Arthur Lee. These gen
tlemen retained their places till September nth, when Hamilton was appointed
Secretary of the Treasury. The reason why the appointments were so long
delayed was, that the laws instituting the departments, and fixing the salaries
of the officers, were not sooner passed by Congress.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 401

objects to claim its attention at the same instant,) to
impress me with a full, precise, and distinct general
idea of the affairs of the United States, so far as
they are comprehended in, or connected with, that
department.

As I am now at leisure to inspect such papers and
documents, as may be necessary to be acted upon
hereafter, or as may be calculated to give me an in
sight into the business and duties of that department,
I have thought fit to address this notification to you
accordingly. I am, &C.1

TO JAMES McHENRY.

NEW YORK, 3 July, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

I have received your very friendly letter of the 28th
of June, and feel a grateful sense of the interest which
you take in my welfare and happiness, and the kind
solicitude, which you express for the recovery of my
health. I have now the pleasure to inform you, that
my health is restored, but a feebleness still hangs
upon me, and I am yet much incommoded by the in
cision, which was made in a very large and painful
tumor on the protuberance of my thigh. This pre
vents me from walking or sitting. However, the
physicians assure me that it has had a happy effect
in removing my fever, and will tend very much to the
establishment of my general health ; it is in a fair

1 A copy of the same letter was sent to the Secretary of War and to the Board
of the Treasury ; and a similar one to Ebenezer Hazard, Postmaster-General.
402 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

way of healing, and time and patience only are want
ing to remove this evil. I am able to take exercise
in my coach, by having it so contrived as to extend
myself the full length of it.

I thank you, my dear Sir, for the anxiety which you
express, that I should have some person about me,
who is well acquainted with my constitution, and
who has been accustomed to my confidence. The
habits of intimacy and friendship, in which I have
long lived with Dr. Craik, and the opinion I have of
his professional knowledge, would most certainly
point him out as the man of my choice in all cases of
sickness. I am convinced of his sincere attachment
to me, and I should with cheerfulness trust my life in
his hands, but, how far circumstances at present would
justify his quitting his practice in Alexandria and its
vicinity to gratify his inclinations and my wishes, I
am not able to say ; but, could it be made consistent
with his advantage to be near me, I am sure it would
be highly pleasing to me. I must, however, in justice
to Dr. Bard, who has attended me during my late in
disposition, declare, that neither skill nor attention
has been wanting on his part, and, as I could not
have the assistance of my good friend, Dr. Craik, I
think myself fortunate in having fallen into such good
hands.1

1 An anecdote characteristic of Washington is related by Professor McVickar,
in his narrative of Dr. Bard's life, respecting an incident that happened in the
course of his illness. " It was a case of anthrax, so malignant as for several
days to threaten mortification. During this period Dr. Bard never quitted him.
On one occasion, being left alone with him, General Washington, looking stead
fastly in his face, desired his candid opinion as to the probable termination of

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 403

You have my sincere wishes, that your intended
journey to the Sweet Springs may be the means of
restoring the health of your brother, and that it may
be pleasant and healthful to yourself. I am, dear Sir,
with very great esteem, your affectionate, &c.

TO JOHN JAY.

[PRIVATE.]

NEW YORK, 14 July, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

I find myself incompetent to form any decided
opinion upon the paper I received from you the other
day, without having a view of the transactions, which
have been had with the Spanish minister. I wish
also to know whether, if the negotiations are renewed,
it can be made to appear from any thing, which that
gentleman has said, as the result of an advance tow
ards it from him in his official character. Unless this
is the case, and prima facie the reverse, will it not
convey to him and his court an idea, that a change of
sentiment has taken place in the governing powers of
this country ? Will it be expedient and proper (at
this moment) for the President to encourage such an
idea ; at any rate, without previously advising with
the Senate ? With very sincere esteem and regard,

I am, &c.

his disease, adding, with that placid firmness which marked his address, ' Do
not flatter me with vain hopes ; I am not afraid to die, and therefore can bear
the worst.' Dr. Bard's answer, though it expressed hope, acknowledged his
apprehensions. The President replied : ' Whether to-night, or twenty years
hence, makes no difference ; I know that I am in the hands of a good Provi
dence.' " — Life of Dr. Samuel Bard, p. 136.

4o4 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO CHARLES THOMSON.

NEW YORK, 24 July, 1789.

SIR,

I have contemplated your note, wherein, after men
tioning your having served in quality of secretary of
Congress from the first meeting of that body, in i 774,
to the present time, through an eventful period of
almost fifteen years, you announce your wish to retire
to private life ; and I have to regret, that the period of
my coming again into public life should be exactly
that, in which you are about to retire from it.

The present age does so much justice to the un
sullied reputation, with which you have always con
ducted yourself in the execution of the duties of your
office, and posterity will find your name so honorably
connected with the verification of such a multitude
of astonishing facts, that my single suffrage would
add little to the illustration of your merits. Yet I
cannot withhold any just testimonial in favor of so
old, so faithful, and so able a public officer, which
might tend to soothe his mind in the shade of retire
ment. Accept, then, this serious declaration, that
your services have been important, as your patriotism
was distinguished ; and enjoy that best of all rewards,
the consciousness of having done your duty well.

You will be pleased, Sir, to deliver the books,
records, and papers of the late Congress, the great
seal of the federal Union, and the seal of the admi
ralty, to Mr. Roger Alden, the late deputy secretary
of Congress, who is requested to take charge of them

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 405

until farther directions shall be given. I beg you
to be persuaded, that it will always afford me real
pleasure to extend whatever encouragement may be
consistent with my general duties, to such particular
persons as have long been faithful and useful servants
to the community. I finally commend you to the
protection of Heaven, and sincerely wish you may
enjoy every species of felicity. I am, &c.

TO DAVID STUART.

NEW YORK, 26 July, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

In the first moment of my ability to sit in an easy
chair, and that not entirely without pain, I occupy
myself in acknowledging the receipt of your letter of
the 1 4th instant, and thanking you for it.

Although my time (before I was confined) had
been and probably now will be much more engaged,
yet your communications without any reserve will be
exceedingly grateful and pleasing to me. While the
eyes of America, perhaps of the world, are turned to
this government, and many are watching the move
ments of all those, who are concerned in its adminis
tration, I should like to be informed, through so good
a medium, of the public opinion of both men and
measures, and of none more than myself ; not so much
of what may be thought commendable parts, if any, of
my conduct, as of those which are conceived to be
of a different complexion. The man, who means to

406 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

commit no wrong, will never be guilty of enormities ;
consequently he can never be unwilling to learn what
is ascribed to him as foibles. If they are really such,
the knowledge of them in a well-disposed mind will
go half way towards a reform. If they are not errors,
he can explain and justify the motives of his actions.
At a distance from the theatre of action, truth is
not always related without embellishment, and some
times is entirely perverted, from a misconception of the
causes which produce the effects that are the subjects
of censure, i. This leads me to think, that a sys
tem, which I found it indispensably necessary to adopt
upon my first coming to this city, might have under
gone severe strictures, and have had motives very for
eign from those that govern me, assigned as causes
therefor. I mean, returning \\Qvisits ! / 2ly, appointing
certain days to receive them generally, (not to the
exclusion however of visits on any other days under
particular circumstances ;) and, 3ly, at first entertain
ing no company, and afterwards until I was unable to
entertain any at all confining it to official characters. A
few days evinced the necessity of the two first in so
clear a point of view, that, had I not adopted it, I
should have been unable to have attended to any sort
of business, unless I had applied the hours allotted to
rest and refreshment to this purpose ; for by the time
I had done breakfast, and thence till dinner, and
afterwards till bed-time, I could not get relieved from
the ceremony of one visit, before I had to attend to
another. In a word, I had no leisure to read or to

1 He seems to have made visits of ceremony before his inauguration.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON, 407

answer the despatches, that were pouring in upon me
from all quarters.

And with respect to the third matter, I early re
ceived information through very respectable channels,
that the adoption thereof was not less essential, than
that of the other two, if the President was to preserve
the dignity and respect, that was due to the first magis
trate. For that a contrary conduct had involved the
late presidents of Congress in insuperable difficulties,
and the office, (in this respect,) in perfect contempt ; for
the table was considered as a public one, and every
person, who could get introduced, conceived that he
had a right to be invited to it. This, although the
table was always crowded (and with mixed company,
and the President considered in no better light than
as a maitre d? hotel), was in its nature impracticable,
and as many offences given as if no table had been
kept.

The citizens of this place were well knowing to this
fact, and the principal members of Congress in both
Houses were so well convinced of the impropriety
and degrading situation of their President, that
it was the general opinion, that the President of
the United States should neither give or receive in
vitations ; some from a belief, independent of the
circumstances I have mentioned, that this was fun
damentally right in order to acquire respect. But to
this I had two objections, both powerful in my mind ;
first, the novelty of it I knew would be considered as
an ostentatious show of mimicry of sovereignty ; and,
secondly, that so great a seclusion would have stopped

4o8 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

the avenues to useful information from the many, and
make me more dependent on that of the few. But to
hit on a discriminating medium was found more diffi
cult than it appeared to be at first view ; for, if the
citizens at large were begun upon, no line could be
drawn ; all, of decent appearance, would expect to be
invited, and I should have been plunged at once into
the evil I was endeavoring to avoid. Upon the
whole, it was thought best to confine my invitations to
official characters and strangers of distinction. This
line I have hitherto pursued. Whether it may be
found best to adhere to, or depart from it, in some
measure must be the result of experience and infor
mation.

So strongly had the citizens of this place imbibed
an idea of the impropriety of my accepting invitations
to dinner, that I have not received one from any fam
ily (though they are remarkable for hospitality, and
though I have received every civility and attention
possible from them) since I came to the city, except
dining with the governor on the day of my arrival ; so
that, if this should be adduced as an article of im
peachment, there can be at least one good reason ad
duced for my not dining out ; to wit, never having
been asked to do so.

One of the gentlemen, whose name is mentioned
in your letter, though high-toned, has never, I believe,
appeared with more than two horses in his carriage ] ;

1 A report had gone abroad, that the Vice- President never appeared publicly
except with a coach and six horses, which Dr. Stuart said was creating much
excitement in Virginia, and was put forward by the opponents of the constitu
tion as a proof of the monarchical tendency of the government.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 409

but it is to be lamented, that he and some others have
stirred a question, which has given rise to so much
animadversion, and which I confess has given me
much uneasiness, lest it should be supposed by some,
(unacquainted with facts,) that the object they had in
view was not displeasing to me. The truth is, the
question was moved before I arrived, without any
privity or knowledge of it on my part, and urged,
after I was apprized of it, contrary to my opinion ;
for I foresaw and predicted the reception it has met
with, and the use that would be made of it by the
adversaries of the government. Happily the matter
is now done with, I hope never to be revived.1

1 This paragraph relates to a scheme, which had lately been before Congress,
respecting the titles by which the high officers of government should be ad
dressed. " Nothing could equal the ferment and disquietude," said Dr. Stu
art, " occasioned by the proposition respecting titles. As it is believed to have
originated with Mr. Adams and Mr. Lee, they are unpopular to an extreme."
The history of the proceedings on this subject is briefly as follows :

A committee was appointed by the Senate, April 23d, " to consider and re
port what style or titles it will be proper to annex to the offices of President and
Vice-President of the United States." Richard Henry Lee was chairman.
The next day a committee was appointed by the House of Representatives to
confer with the committee of the Senate on the same subject. This joint com
mittee reported, " That it is improper to annex any style or title to the respec
tive styles or titles of office expressed in the constitution." The report was
unanimously adopted by the House, but was not agreed to by the Senate.
The question was then taken in that body, whether the President of the
United States should be addressed by the title of His Excellency, which passed
in the negative, and the subject was referred to another committee, of which
Lee, Ellsworth, and Dr. Johnson were members.

A proposal to the House of Representatives to confer with this second com
mittee brought on a debate, which was conducted with considerable warmth,
and was stopped by the previous question, which set the subject aside, and it
was never again brought forward in that House. The committee of the Senate
reported, however, that it was proper to style the President, His Highness
the President of the United States of America, and Protector of the Liber
ties of the same. In the meantime the House of Representatives had addressed

4io THE WRITINGS OF [1789

The opposition of the Senate to the discrimination
in the tonnage bill was so adverse to my ideas of jus
tice and policy, that I should have suffered it to pass
silently into a law without my signature, had I not
been assured by some members of the Senate, that
they were preparing another bill, which would answer
the purpose more effectually without being liable to

the President, in reply to his inaugural speech, as President of the United States ;
and the Senate, for the purpose of preserving harmony with the other House,
resolved, May I4th, to follow its example in an address about to be made to
the President, and postponed the report of their committee ; agreeing at the
same time in the resolve, that, "From a decent respect for the opinion and
practice of civilized nations, whether under monarchical or republican forms of
government, whose custom is to annex titles of respectability to the office of
their chief magistrate, and that, in intercourse with foreign nations, a due re
spect for the majesty of the people of the United States may not be hazarded
by an appearance of singularity, the Senate have been induced to be of opinion,
that it would be proper to annex a respectable title to the office of the President
of the United States." With this declaration of their opinion the Senate al
lowed the matter to rest, audit was never afterwards revived. Senator McClay
was one of the most active opponents to titles, and has left the fullest record of
the contest on this question.

While the subject was thus solemnly treated by Congress, it caused much
excitement throughout the country. It was discussed in the gazettes, but the
advocates of titles found few supporters. By these it was affirmed, however,
that titles were as harmless as they were necessary, and that the President, as
representing the majesty of the people, might even be styled His Majesty with
out reasonable offence to republican ears. Others said that His Excellency
was not a proper title, because it was applied to officers below him, particularly
in the diplomatic department. In some of the newspapers the President was
called" His HigJmess, the President-General" The Senate was denominated
Most Honorable, and the same epithet was applied to the members of that body.
For instance, it was published, that the Most Honorable Rufus King and the
Most Honorable Philip Schuyler were appointed Senators. And when Mrs.
Washington came to New York, she was accompanied by the "'Lady of the
Most Honorable Robert Morris ." The Representatives, and even the secreta
ries of the executive departments, were favored with no higher title than Hon
orable. In the debates on the subject, Mr. Clymer said that, "as soon as a
man is selected for the public service, his fellow citizens with a liberal hand
showered down titles upon him, either excellency or honorable ; he would ven
ture to affirm there were more Honorable Esquires in the United States than in

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 411

the objections and to the consequences, which they
feared would have attended the discrimination, which
was proposed in the tonnage law. Why they keep
their doors shut, when acting in a legislative capacity,
I am unable to inform you, unless it is because they
think there is too much speaking to the gallery in the
other House, and business thereby retarded.

all the world besides." There appears not to have been a single member of
the House of Representatives in favor of titles. The habit of bestowing them
gradually subsided. It would be ludicrous at the present day to affix the super
lative epithet to a senator's name, and not less so to use the anticlimax Honor
able Esquire, which prevailed during the Revolution. General Washington Avas
scrupulous to give every man his official appellation, but was opposed to all titles
as marks of rank in a republican government. A person sent to him a manu
script treatise on heraldry, the publication of which was suppressed by his advice,
as he thought its tendency would be hostile to the sentiments of the people
and unfavorable to liberty.

" Titles to both the President and Vice-President were formally and unani
mously condemned by a vote of the House of Representatives. This, I hope,
will shew to the friends of Republicanism that our new Government was not
meant to substitute either monarchy or aristocracy, and that the genius of the
people is as yet averse to both." — Madison to Jefferson, 9 May, 1789. " The
address is purged, you will observe, of all titles whatsoever, except the Consti
tutional one. This point had been previously determined by a Report from a
joint committee originated by the Senate, for the purpose of settling what, or
whether any, titles should be annexed to the President and Vice-President.
The Report was unanimously agreed to by the House of Representatives
previous to the address. I am sorry to find that the Senate do not concur in
this principle of dignified simplicity. They have disagreed to the Report of
the joint Committee, and have proposed another consultation on the subject.
The House of Representatives will assuredly adhere to the first determination.
The friends of titles in the other Branch are headed by the Vice-President, who
is seconded with all the force and urgency of natural temper by R. H. L[ee]." —
Madison to Pendleton, 10 May, 1789. The Senate used no title in its answer,
an " imitation that was extorted. . . . The projected title was, his Highness
the President of the United States and protector of their liberties. Had the
project succeeded, it would have subjected the President to a severe dilemma,
and given a deep wound to our infant Government." — Madison to Jefferson, 23
May, 1789. "Honorary titles lead to permanent distinctions and hereditary
establishments, these to monstrous taxes, and both to the ruin of liberty." — Boston
Gazette.

4i2 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

Your letter is the first intimation I ever received of
any defect in the title or of any claim to the land
called Claiborn's. It is hardly to be conceived that
Philip Whitehead Claiborn, who was Brother (and as
you say Executor) to William Claiborn, for the pay
ment of whose debts it was sold, should have joined
in the conveyance of land, to which he himself had a
right by entail. Admit this, and bad motives must
be ascribed to the action ; viz., a knowledge that his
son, if the entail was good, would not be barred by
his conveyance, if no act of Assembly or writ of ad
quod animum had previously docked it. Such a sus
picion I cannot harbor of that Gentleman, because he
possessed an exceeding fair character. To the best
of my recollection there are some papers in the gar
ret at Mount Vernon, which belong to the estate of
Mr. Custis. In making a hasty arrangement of my
own I came across and had them put into a trunk or
box by themselves. From a cursory inspection they
appeared altogether unimportant, or I should have
sent them to you ; and in another trunk in my study
there are papers which relate to my accounts and
transactions with that estate. Possibly (for it is not
very probable,) you may find something in one or the
other of those that may be useful. If in the first, I
wish, if they are deserving of the carriage, that you
would take them home. The others maybe necessary
for my own security, and therefore I would not have
them removed. The decree of King William's Court
will not, I fear avail much, for I do not conceive that
it could extend (if there was an entail in force) be-

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 413

yond the life of William Claiborn if then living, or
that Phil. Claiborn's act could bind his son. Your
trouble in this and the other disputes with Mr. Custis's
estate I perceive will be very great. That your suc
cess may be correspondent I sincerely wish. We shall
be anxious after the decisions to learn the result.

I am mistaken greatly, if I did not in the year 1778
convey both the King William and the King and
Queen lands to Mr. Custis by deeds executed at
Camp before Colonels Harrison, Mead, and many
others as witnesses to prove it in the General Court,
and this in the presence of Mr. Custis. If it was not
received for want of due proof, I am ready to reac-
knowledge the same deed, or a copy of it, for I recol
lect (pretty well) taking the opinion of Col. Harrison
upon the nature of the conveyance — and if my mem
ory has not failed me you will find some mention of
the matter in one of my letters to Mr. Custis which
you called upon me some time ago to authenticate.

Mr. Danclridge gave me an order upon Mr. Brown
(of Kentucky) for /8oo to be applied if received to
the credit of Mr. Custis's Estate but the order was
protested, and Mr. Dandridge had been advertised
thereof.

Nothing would give me more pleasure, than to
serve any of the descendants of General Nelson,
of whose merits, when living, no man could entertain
a higher opinion than I did. At the same time I
must confess, there are few persons of whom I have
no personal knowledge, or good information, that
I would take into my family, where many qualifica-

4i4 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

tions are necessary to fit them for the duty of it ; to
wit, a good address, abilities above mediocrity, secrecy
and prudence, attention and industry, good temper,
and a capacity and disposition to write correctly and
well and to do it obligingly.

Most clerkships will, I presume, either by law or
custom, be left to the appointment of their principals
in office. Little expectation therefore could Mr.
Nelson, or any stranger, have from this source.
This latter consideration, added to the desire I feel
of serving the son of my old friend and acquaintance,
has induced me at all hazards to offer Mr. Thomas
Nelson, his son, a place in my family.

I shall not trouble you with legislative or any
other accounts, which are detailed in the papers, but
that I have sent you the journals of the Senate, as
far as they have been published and handed to me.
If the successor of Mr. Richards would get the
Federal Gazette, published by Fenno, from this city,
it would enable him to collect as much information
of what is passing on the theatre of New York, as he
could extract from all the other papers of the place
(and they are very numerous), were he to go to the
expense of them. My best wishes attend Mrs. Stuart
and all the family ; and I am, dear Sir, your affec
tionate friend and servant.1

1 The first appointment submitted to the Senate by the President was that
of William Short to be in charge of the American legation in Paris, during
the absence of Thomas Jefferson, the minister under the confederation. This
nomination was made on June i6th, and confirmed on the i8th. On August
3d, a long list of appointments in the revenue service was submitted, and the
Senate acted upon them, rejecting but one — the nomination of Benjamin
Fishbourn as naval officer for the port of Savannah. In sending in the name

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 415

TO JAMES MADISON.

NEW YORK, 9 August, 1789.

MY DEAR SIR,

In consequence of the enclosed resolution, I had a
conference with the committee therein named yester
day, when I expressed the sentiments, which you also
have enclosed.

I was assured by the committee, that the only
object the senate had in view was to be informed of
the mode of communication which would be most
agreeable to the President, and that a perfect acqui
escence would be yielded thereto. But I could
plainly perceive, notwithstanding, that oral com
munication was the point they aimed at. Indeed,
one of the gentlemen candidly declared, that a great
object with him, in wishing this, was to effect a viva
voce vote in that body. He added, however, that he
was not without hopes of accomplishing this without.
To this I replied, finding all three were opposed to
the balloting system, that nothing would sooner
induce me to relinquish my mode of nomination by
written messages, than to accomplish this end.
Thus the matter stands for my further consideration.

What do you think I had best do ? I am willing
to pursue that line of conduct, which shall appear to

of Lachlan Mclntosh as his substitute, Washington showed that the rejection
had not a little touched him. " Permit me to submit to your consideration,
whether on occasions, where the propriety of a nomination appears questionable
to you, it would not be expedient to communicate that circumstance to me,
and thereby avail yourselves of the information which led me to make them
and which I would with pleasure lay before you." And he proceeded to gire
his reasons for naming Fishbourn. — Message, 6 August, 1789.

4i 6 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

be most conducive to the public good, without
regard to the indulgence of my inclination, which, I
confess, and for other reasons in addition to those
which are enumerated, although they are secondary,
would not be gratified by personal nominations.1

The period is now arrived, when the seat of the
vacant judge in the western district is to be filled.
Would Colonel Carrington, do you think, be pleased
with this appointment? Or are you acquainted with
any professional character of fitness for the office,
south of New Jersey, that would accept it?'2

I have had some conversation with Mr. Jay

1 A motion had been made in the Senate on the 3d of August proposing
that in place of determining upon a nomination by ballot, as settled by a rule
adopted June i8th, some other mode should be adopted, like a viva voce vote ;
but the motion was lost. On the 5th of August another motion was made,
" That it is the opinion of the Senate, that their advice and consent to the
appointment of officers should be given in the presence of the President."
This motion was postponed to the next day, when it was ordered, " That Mr.
Izard, Mr. King, and Mr. Carroll be a committee to wait on the President of
the United States, and confer with him on the mode of communication proper
to be pursued between him and the Senate in the formation of treaties, and
making appointments to offices." The committee accordingly waited on the
President, and had the conference mentioned in the above letter.

In regard to treaties, a practice was at first begun, which was not pursued.
On the 2ist of August, the following message was sent to the Senate. " The
President of the United States will meet the Senate in the Senate chamber, at
half-past eleven o'clock to-morrow, to advise with them on the terms of the
treaty to be negotiated with the southern Indians." He accordingly took his
seat in the Senate, attended by General Knox, the Secretary of War, for two
days in succession, when the outlines of a treaty proposed by the Secretary
were discussed. But this practice, being found inconvenient, and subject to
various objections, particularly in regard to treaties with foreign powers, was
soon discontinued. — Story's Commentaries, vol. iii., p. 371.

"2 On the i8th the following nominations for the several offices in the Western
Territory were sent to the Senate : for Governor, Arthur St. Clair ; for
Secretary, Winthrop Sergeant ; Judges, Samuel Holden Parsons, John Cleve
Symmes, and William Barton.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 417

respecting his views to office, which I will communi
cate to you at our first interview ; and this, if perfectly
convenient and agreeable to you, may be this after
noon, as I shall be at home, and expect no company.

I am yours affectionately.

SENTIMENTS EXPRESSED "BY THE PRESIDENT TO THE
COMMITTEE FROM THE SENATE, APPOINTED TO CON
FER WITH HIM ON THE MODE OF COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND THE SENATE RESPECT
ING TREATIES AND NOMINATIONS.

August 8th, 1789.

In all matters respecting Treaties, oral communications seem
indispensably necessary ; because in these a variety of matters are
contained, all of which not only require consideration, but some
of them may undergo much discussion ; to do which by written
communications would be tedious without being satisfactory.

Oral communications may be proper, also, for discussing the
propriety of sending representatives to foreign courts, and ascer
taining the grade, or character, in which they are to appear, and
may be so in other cases.

But it may be asked where are these oral communications to
be made ? If in the Senate-chamber, how are the President and
Vice-President to be arranged ? the latter by the constitution
being ex-officio President of the Senate. Would the Vice-Presi
dent be disposed to give up the chair ? If not, ought the Presi
dent of the United States to be placed in an awkward situation
when there ? These are matters, which require previous con
sideration and adjustment for meetings in the Senate-chamber or
elsewhere.

With respect to nominations, my present ideas are, that, as they
point to a single object, unconnected in its nature with any other
object, they had best be made by written messages. In this case
the acts of the President and the acts of the Senate will stand

upon clear, distinct, and responsible ground.
418 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

Independently of this consideration, it could be no pleasing
thing, I conceive, for the President, on the one hand, to be present
and hear the propriety of his nominations questioned, nor for the
Senate, on the other hand, to be under the smallest restraint from
his presence from the fullest and freest inquiry into the character
of the person nominated. The President, in a situation like this,
would be reduced to one of two things ; either to be a silent wit
ness of the decision by ballot, if there are objections to the nomi
nation, or in justification thereof (if he should think it right) to
support it by argument ; neither of which might be agreeable, and
the latter improper ; for, as the President has a right to nominate
without assigning his reasons, so has the Senate a right to dissent
without giving theirs.

SENTIMENTS DELIVERED BY THE PRESIDENT AT A SECOND

CONFERENCE WITH THE COMMITTEE OF THE

SENATE, AUGUST TO, 1789.

The President has the power, by and with the advice and con
sent of the Senate, to make treaties and to appoint officers.

The Senate, when this power is exercised, is evidently a council
only to the President, however its concurrence may be to his acts.
It seems incident to this relation between them, that not only the
time, but \\\Q place and manner of consultation, should be with the
President. It is probable, that the place may vary. The indis
position or inclination of the President may require, that the
Senate should be summoned to the President's house. Whenever
the government shall have buildings of its own, an executive
chamber will no doubt be provided, where the Senate will
generally attend the President. It is not impossible, that the
place may be made to depend in some degree on the nature of
the business. In the appointment to offices, the agency of the
Senate is purely executive, and they may be summoned to the
President. In treaties, the agency is perhaps as much of a
legislative nature, and the business may possibly be referred to
their deliberations in their legislative chamber. The occasion
for this distinction will be lessened if not destroyed, when a
chamber shall be appropriated for the joint business of the Presi
dent and the Senate.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 419

The manner of consultation may also vary. The indisposition
of the President may supersede the mere question of conveniency.
The inclination or ideas of different Presidents may be different.
The opinions, both of President and Senators, as to the proper
manner, may be changed by experience. In some kinds of busi
ness it may be found best for the President to make his proposi
tions orally and in person, in others by a written message. On
some occasions it may be most convenient, that the President
should attend the deliberations and decisions on his propositions ;
on others that he should not ; or that he should not attend the
whole of the time. In other cases, again, as in treaties of a com
plicated nature, it may happen, that he will send his propositions
in writing, and consult the Senate in person after time shall have
been allowed for consideration. Many other varieties may be
suggested as to the mode by practice.

If these remarks be just, it would seem not amiss, that the
Senate should accommodate their rules to the uncertainty of the
particular mode and place, that may be preferred, providing for
the reception of either oral or written propositions, and for giving
their consent and advice in either the presence or absence of the
President, leaving him free to use the mode and place, that may
be found most eligible and accordant with other business, which
may be before him at the time.1

1 " IN SENATE, August 2ist, 1789.

" The committee appointed to wait on the President of the United States,
and confer with him on the mode of communication proper to be pursued
between him and the Senate in the formation of treaties, and making appoint
ments to offices, reported ; which report was agreed to as follows.

"Resolved, That when nominations shall be made in writing by the President
of the United States to the Senate, a future day shall be assigned, unless the
Senate shall direct otherwise, for taking them into consideration ; that when
the President of the United States shall meet the Senate in the Senate-chamber,
the President of the Senate shall have a chair on the floor, be considered as at
the head of the Senate, and his chair shall be assigned to the President of the
United States ; that, when the Senate shall be convened by the President of
the United States at any other place, the President of the Senate and Senators
shall attend at the place appointed. The secretary of the Senate shall also
attend to take the minutes of the Senate ; that all questions shall be put by the
President of the Senate, either in the presence or absence of the President of
the United States, and the Senators shall signify their assent or dissent by an
swering viva voce AY or No."

420 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO JAMES MADISON.

[CONFIDENTIAL.]

[August, 1789.]

The points which at present occur to me, and on
which I wish your aid, are brought to view in the
inclosed statement — I give you the trouble of re
ceiving this evening that you may (if other matter
do not interfere) suffer them to run through your
mind between this and to-morrow afternoon when I
shall expect to see you at the appointed time.
Besides the enclosed

Would it do now that Mr. Barton has declined the
Judge's Seat (Western Territory) to nominate Col,
Carrington for that office? — If not, can you think of
any other that would suit him, of new creation ; by
this I mean, which has not an actual occupant, or
some who, from similarity of Office, may have better
pretensions to it.

Can you bring to mind any fit character for the
vacancy just mentioned (West of New Jersey). As
Virga. has given and may furnish characters for im
portant offices, probably it would be better to exclude
her also on this occasion.

What sort of a character in point of respectability
and fitness for this office has Maj. [George] Turner
late of S. Carolina, now of Philadelphia P1

Have you any knowledge of the character of Mr.
Lawrence — a practicing attorney, and son-in-law to
General St. Clair ?

1 September nth George Turner was nominated, in place of Barton,
declined.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 421

What can I do with A[rthur] L[ee] ? He has ap
plied to be nominated one of the Associate Judges,
but I cannot bring my mind to adopt the request.
The opinion entertained of him by those with whom
I am most conversant, is unpropitious, and yet few
men have received more marks of public favor and
confidence than he has. These contradictions are
embarrassing.

Should the sense of the Senate be taken on the
propriety of sending public characters abroad — say,
to England, Holland, and Portugal ? And of a day
for thanksgiving ?

Would it be well to advise with them before the
adjournment, on the expediency and justice of de
manding a surrender of our Posts ?

Being clearly of opinion that there ought to be a
difference in the Wages of the Members of the two
branches of the Legislature, would it be politic or
prudent in the President, when the Bill comes to
him, to send it back with his reasons for non
concurring ?

TO BENJAMIN LINCOLN.

NEW YORK, n August, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

On the 1 5th of September next there is to be a
treaty held in the State of Georgia, between the
Indians on the Southern frontiers and Commissioners
on the part of Georgia. At this treaty there will be a
numerous and respectable concourse of Indians : two,
and some say three thousand. Their famous Counsel-

422 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

lor, the noted McGillivray, is to be present at it ; and it
is now in agitation, and a bill is before the House of
Representatives for that purpose, to appoint Commis
sioners on the part of the United States to attend at
this treaty, to establish a permanent and lasting peace
between the United States and the Indians on the
Southern & Western frontiers. — It is necessary, in
a matter of such importance to this country, that
these Commissioners should be persons who have
been known in public life, and who are very respecta
ble characters, — and if to these two circumstances
could be added, their being held in high estimation
in the Southern States, without being inhabitants of
any of them, it would be a very desirable thing.—
Under these circumstances, it is my wish that you
should be one of these Commissioners ; — and I have
therefore given you this early intimation of the mat
ter that you might (if it should be determined to
appoint Commissioners, and is agreeable to you, and
can be made to comport with your present office) be
making such arrangements as will enable you to be
at New York and ready to embark for Georgia, on
or before the first day of September ; and with an
expectation of being absent 3 or 4 months.

You will make up your mind on this matter, and
give me an answer by the first post after you receive
this, as you see no time is to be lost, for it is abso
lutely necessary that the Commissioners should be on
the spot the i5th of September to prevent the enor
mous expense which would be incurred by detaining
such a numerous body of Indians for any time. — In

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 423

the meantime you will keep this intimation to your
self, for in the first place it is not certain that Com
missioners will be appointed — And if they should
other circumstances might render a concealment of
this intimation proper.1 I am, my dear Sir, &c.

1 Alexander McGillivray, who controlled the Creek Indians, was the son of a
tory inhabitant of Georgia, and a principal woman of the Creek nation. He
had received an English education, and his ability and ambition were great
and sharpened by a resentment against Georgia, which had confiscated his
estates in the late war. On the signing of peace at Paris, he had proposed a
treaty of alliance and commerce to the Spanish Governor of Pensacola (Arthur
O'Neal or O'Neil), thus virtually seeking the protection of Spain, and even
hinting at a separation of the Western territory, now rapidly being colonized
from the Atlantic States, from the Confederation. — Gayarre, Louisiana under
the Spanish Domination, 158, 159. A treaty was made, and the profits of the
resulting commerce, carried on as a monopoly under Spanish protection, cen
tred in Great Britain, one of the Bahamas being the place of deposit. The
validity of certain treaties of cession made between Georgia and the Creeks
resulted in hostilities, and the Continental Congress (15 July, 1788) notified the
Indians that "should they persist in refusing to enter into a treaty upon
reasonable terms, the arms of the United States shall be called forth for the
protection of that frontier." A condition of war and the unfulfilled threat of
Congress were forced upon the attention of Washington.

In August, 1789, the President took counsel of Congress in the matter, and
Benjamin Lincoln, Cyrus Griffin, and David Humphreys were named Commis
sioners to treat with the southern Indians, the " first great object of their mis
sion " being to effect peace between Georgia and the Creeks. " On your success
materially depends the internal peace of Georgia, and probably its attachment
to the General Government of the United States." Every effort was to be
made to detach McGillivray from his Spanish alliance and make him a warm
friend of the United States. (The full instructions may be found in American
State Papers, Indian Affairs, i., 65.) The mission ended in a total failure so
far as the Creeks were concerned, and the commissioners laid the entire blame
on McGillivray, a pensioner of Spain, who seemed to be influenced by his
private interests. For in August, 1790, when he, with some of the kings and
head men of the Creeks came to New York and entered into negotiations for a
treaty, the trade problems were the most difficult to solve. This trade of the
Creeks, amounting to ^12,000 a year, was entirely in the hands of British
merchants who enjoyed special privileges in Spanish ports. " As the trade of
the Indians is a main mean of their political management, it is therefore
obvious, that the United States cannot possess any security for the performance

424 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO JAMES CRAIK.

NEW YORK, 8 September, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

The letter, with which you favored me on the 24th
ultimo came duly to hand, and for the friendly senti
ments contained in it you have my sincere and hearty
thanks.

My disorder was of long and painful continuance,
and, though now freed from the latter, the wound
given by the incision is not yet closed. Persuaded as
I am, that the case has been treated with skill, and
with as much tenderness as the nature of the com
plaint would admit, yet I confess I often wished for
your inspection of it. During the paroxysm, the
distance rendered this impracticable, and after the
paroxysm had passed, I had no conception of being
confined to a lying posture on one side six weeks,
and that I should feel the remains of it more than
twelve. The part affected is now reduced to the size
of a barley-corn, and by Saturday next, which will
complete the thirteenth week, I expect it will be
skinned over. Upon the whole, I have more reason
to be thankful, that it is no worse, than to repine at
the confinement.

The want of regular exercise, with the cares of
office, will, I have no doubt, hasten my departure for

treaties with the Creeks, while their trade is liable to be interrupted or with
held, at the caprice of two foreign powers. Hence it becomes an object of
real importance to form new channels for the commerce of the Creeks through
the United States." — Washington s Message to the Senate, 4 August, 1790.
Three days later a treaty was sent to the Senate which was intended to close
all controversies with that nation, and would have done so, had it not been for
the efforts of the Spanish authorities to defeat its execution.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 425

that country from whence no traveller returns ; but a
faithful discharge of whatsoever trust I accept, as it
ever has, so it always will be, the primary considera
tion in every transaction of my life, be the conse
quences what they may. Mrs. Washington has, I
think, better health than usual, and the children are
well and in the way of improvement.

I always expected, that the gentleman, whose name
you have mentioned, would mark his opposition to
the new government with consistency. Pricle on the
one hand, and want of manly candor on the other
will not, I am certain, let him acknowledge an error
in his opinions respecting it, though conviction should
flash on his mind as strongly as a ray of light. If
certain characters, which you have also mentioned,
should tread blindfold in his steps, it would be mat
ter of no wonder to me. They are in the habit of
thinking that everything he says and does is right,
and (if capable) they will not judge for themselves.

It gives me pleasure to hear, and I wish you to
express it to them, that my nephews George and
Lawrence Washington are attentive to their studies,
and obedient to your orders and admonition. That
kind of learning, which is to fit them for the most
useful and necessary purposes of life, among which
writing well, arithmetic, and the less abstruse branches
of the mathematics are certainly to be comprehended,
ought to be particularly attended to, and it is my
earnest wish that it should be so.

The gazettes are so full of the occurrences of public,
and indeed a private nature, which happen in this

426 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

place that it is unnecessary, (if I had more leisure
than falls to my lot,) to attempt a repetition. I shall
therefore refer you to them, or to the Alexandria
paper, through which they may, if pains are taken,
be retailed. Mrs. Washington and the rest of the
family join me in every good and friendly wish for
Mrs. Craik, yourself and the rest of your family ; and
with sentiments of sincere regard and friendship, I
am, dear Sir, &c.

TO MRS. BETTY LEWIS.

NEW YORK, 13 September, 1789.

MY DEAR SISTER,

Colonel Ball's1 letter gave me the first account of
my mother's death.2 Since that I have received Mrs.
Carter's letter, written at your request, and previous
to both I was prepared for the event by some advices
of her illness communicated to your son Robert.

Awful and affecting as the death of a parent is,
there is consolation in knowing, that heaven has
spared ours to an age beyond which few attain, and
favored her with the full enjoyment of her mental
faculties, and as much bodily strength as usually falls
to the lot of four score. Under these considerations,
and a hope that she is translated to a happier place,
it is the duty of her relatives to yield due submission
to the decrees of the Creator. When I was last at
Fredericksburg, I took a final leave of my mother,
never expecting to see her more.

1 Burges Ball.

2 Mary Washington died at PVedericksburg, August 25th, 1789, in the
eighty-third year of her age. She had been a widow forty-six years. General
Washington's father died on the I2th of April, 1743.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 427

It will be impossible for me at this distance, and
circumstanced as I am, to give the smallest attention
to the execution of her will ; nor indeed is much re
quired, if, as she directs, no security should be given,
or appraisement made of her estate ; but that the
same should be allotted to the devisees with as little
trouble and delay as may be. How far this is legal,
I know not. Mr. Mercer can, and I have no doubt
would, readily advise you if asked, which I wish you
to do. If the ceremony of inventorying, appraising,
&c. can be dispensed with, all the rest, (as the will
declares that few or no debts are owing,) can be done
with very little trouble. Every person may in that
case immediately receive what is specifically devised.
The negroes who are engaged in the crops and under
an overseer, must remain I conceive on the planta
tion until the crop is finished (which ought to be as
soon as possible), after which the horses, stock of all
sorts, and every species of property not disposed of
by the will, (the debts if any being first paid) must by
law be equally divided into five parts, one of which
you,1 another my brother Charles and a third myself
are entitled to, the other two thirds fall to the share of
the children of our deceased brothers Samuel and John.

Were it not, that the specific legacies, which are
given to me by the will, are meant and ought to be
considered and received as mementos of parental
affection, in the last solemn act of life, I should not
be desirous of receiving or removing them ; but in

1 As Mrs. Washington was possessed of the negroes only during her life, her
husband having disposed of them by will after her death, Mrs. Lewis was not
entitled to any part of them.

428 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

this point of view I set a value on them much beyond
their intrinsic worth.

Whilst it occurs to me, it is necessary it should be
known that there is a fellow belonging to that estate
now at my house, who never stayed elsewhere, for
which reason, and because he has a family I should
be glad to keep him. He must I should conceive be
far short in value of the fifth of the other negroes
which will be to be divided, but I shall be content to
take him as my proportion of them — and, if from a
misconception either of the number or the value of
these negroes it should be found that he is of greater
value than falls to my lot I shall readily allow the
difference, in order that the fellow may be gratified,
as he never would consent to go from me.

Debts, if any are due, should be paid from the sale
of the crops, Plantation utensils, Horses and Stock,
and the sooner an account is taken of the latter and
they can conveniently be disposed of, the better it
will be for two reasons ; first because the Overseer
(if he is not a very honest man) may take advantage
of circumstances, and convert part of these things to
his own use — and secondly because the Season is now
fast approaching when without feeding (which would
lessen the sale of the corn and fodder) the stock will
fall off, and consequently sell to a disadvantage.
Whether my mother has kept any accounts that can
be understood is more than I am able to say — If any
thing is owing to her it should be received — and, if
due from her, paid after due proof thereof is made —
She has had a great deal of money from me at times,

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 429

as can be made appear by my books, and the accounts
of Mr. L. Washington during my absence, — and over
and above this has not only had all that was ever
made from the Plantation, but got her provisions and
every thing else she thought proper from thence. In
short to the best of my recollection I have never in
my life received a copper from the estate — and have
paid many hundred pounds (first and last) to her in
cash — However I want no retribution — I conceived it
to be a duty whenever she asked for money, and I
had it, to furnish her, notwithstanding she got all the
crops or the amount of them and took every thing
she wanted from the plantation for the support of her
family, horses, &c. besides.

As the accounts for or against the estate must not
only from the declaration in the will, but from the
nature of the case be very trifling and confined I
should suppose to the town of Fredericksburg, it
might be proper therefore in that paper to require
in an advertisement all those who have any demands
to bring them in properly attested immediately, and
those who are owing to pay forthwith. The same
advertisement might appoint a day for selling the
stock, and every thing, excepting Negroes, at the
plantation, that is not devised by the will, as it will
be more convenient I should suppose for the heirs to
receive their respective dividends of the money aris
ing from the sales than to be troubled with receiving
a cow, a calf, or such like things after the debts
(which must be the case) have been first paid. It
might be well in fixing the day of sale, to consult

430 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

the Overseer, to know when the business of the
plantation will admit the Cart, Team and Utensils
to be taken from it.

As the number of articles to be sold cannot be
many and will be of small value, I think they had
better be sold for ready money and so advertised, for
though they would fetch more on credit, there would
more than probable be bad debts contracted, and at
any rate delay, if not law suits, before the money
could be collected, and besides if there are debts to
be paid money will be wanted for the purpose, and in
no way can be so readily and properly obtained as by
a ready money sale, and from the crops.

If you think this business will be too troublesome
for you with the aid of your sons — Mr. Carter and
Colonel Ball — who I am persuaded will give each of
us assistance, and you will let me know it, I will de
sire Major George Washington to attend.

As the land at the Little-falls Plantation goes to
Mr. Bushrod Washington he should be apprised in
time of the breaking of it up, otherwise there may
be injury to the houses and fencing if left without
some person to attend to them. Have particular
care taken of her papers, the letters to her, &c.

I should prefer selling the houses and lotts on
which my Mother lived to renting of them, — and
would give a year or two years' credit to the pur
chasers paying interest — and not being acquainted
with the value of lotts in Fredericksburg, I would
leave the price to any three indifferent and impartial
Gentleman to say what they are worth, and that sum
I will take.

i789l GEORGE WASHINGTON. 431

If they cannot be sold and soon I would rent them
from year to year to any orderly Tenant on a mode
rate rent. If they are not disposed of on sale or by
tennanting before the weather gets cool the paling
will, I expect, be soon burnt up.

Give my love to Mrs. Carter, and thank her for the
letter she wrote to me. I would have done this my
self, had I more time for private correspondences.
Mrs. Washington joins in best wishes for her, your
self, and all other friends ; and I am, with the most
sincere regard, your affectionate brother.1

TO BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

NEW YORK, 23 September, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

The affectionate congratulations on the recovery of
my health, and the warm expressions of personal
friendship, which were contained in your letter of the
1 6th instant, claim my gratitude. And the considera
tion, that it was written when you were afflicted with a
painful malady, greatly increases my obligation for it.2

1 The will of Mary Washington and some letters of Washington on the
estate, are printed in my Wills of George Washington and his Immediate Ances
tors, 1891.

2 Dr. Franklin's letter :

" PHILADELPHIA, 16 September, 1789.
" DEAR SIR,

" My malady renders my sitting up to write rather painful to me ; but I
cannot let my son-in-law, Mr. Bache, part for New York, without congratu
lating you by him on the recovery of your health, so precious to us all ; and
on the growing strength of our new government under your administration.
For my own personal ease, I should have died two years ago ; but, though
those years have been spent in excruciating pain, I am pleased that I have
lived them, since they have brought me to see our present situation. I am now
finishing my eighty-fourth year, and probably with it my career in this life ;

432 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

Would to God, my dear Sir, that I could congratu
late you upon the removal of that excruciating pain,
under which you labor, and that your existence might
close with as much ease to yourself, as its continu
ance has been beneficial to our country and useful to
mankind ; or, if the united wishes of a free people,
joined with the earnest prayers of every friend to
science and humanity, could relieve the body from
pains or infirmities, you could claim an exemption on
this score. But this cannot be, and you have within
yourself the only resource to which we can confidently
apply for relief, a philosophic mind.

If to be venerated for benevolence, if to be ad
mired for talents, if to be esteemed for patriotism, if
to be beloved for philanthropy, can gratify the human
mind, you must have the pleasing consolation to know,
that you have not lived in vain. And I flatter myself
that it will not be ranked among the least grateful
occurrences of your life to be assured, that, so long
as I retain my memory, you will be thought on with
respect, veneration, and affection by your sincere
friend.

TO EDMUND RANDOLPH.

NEW YORK, 27 September, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

Impressed with a conviction, that the due adminis
tration of justice is the firmest pillar of good govern
ment, I have considered the first arrangement of the

but in whatever state of existence I am placed hereafter, if I retain any mem
ory of what has passed here, I shall with it retain the esteem, respect, and
affection, with which I have long been, my dear friend, &c."

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 433

judicial department as essential to the happiness of
our country, and to the stability of its political sys
tem. Hence the selection of the fittest characters to
expound the laws, and dispense justice, has been an
invariable object of my anxious concern.1

I mean not to flatter when I say, that considera
tions like these have ruled in the nomination of the
attorney-general of the United States, and that my
private wishes would be highly gratified by your ac
ceptance of the office. I regarded the office as re
quiring those talents to conduct its important duties,
and that disposition to sacrifice to the public good,
which I believe you to possess and entertain. In
both instances I doubt not the event will justify the
conclusion. The appointment I hope will be ac
cepted, and its functions, I am assured, will be well
performed.

Notwithstanding the prevailing disposition to fru
gality, the salary of this office appears to have been
fixed at what it is, from a belief that the station would
confer preeminence on its possessor, and procure for
him a decided preference of professional employment.
As soon as the acts, which are necessary accompani-

1 As early as July loth Washington had talked with Cyrus Griffin, of the
Virginia delegation, on the judiciary and customs appointments in Virginia, and
appeared anxious to know if Edmund Pendleton, George Wythe, Lyons,
or John Blair would prefer a federal to a State appointment. Edmund Ran
dolph was also suggested, but no mention was made of particular offices for
the person to be named. Late in July or early in August, the President wrote
to Madison that he had determined to nominate Mr. Blair and Colonel Pendle
ton as associate and district judges, and Randolph as Attorney-General : " Mr.
Randolph in this character I would prefer to any person I am acquainted with
of not superior abilities, from habits of intimacy with him." Pendleton
declined to serve, and Cyrus Griffin was named in his place.
434 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

ments of the appointment, can be got ready, you will
receive official notice of the latter. This letter is
only to be considered as an early communication
of my sentiment on this occasion, and as a testimony
of the sincere regard and esteem, with which I am, &C.1

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

NEW YORK, 13 October, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

In my first moments of leisure I acknowledge the
receipt of your several favors of the 23d of February,
3 of March and 29 of April.

To thank you for the interesting communications
contained in those letters, and for the pains you have
taken to procure me a watch, is all, or nearly all, I
shall attempt in this letter ; for I could only repeat

1 Randolph's private affairs and his incompleted revision of the laws of the
State, were urged as reasons for delaying an acceptance of the office.

In announcing their appointments to the associate judges of the Supreme
Court, Washington wrote, 30 September, 1789 : " Considering the judicial
system as the chief pillar upon which our national government must rest, I
have thought it my duty to nominate for the high offices in that department,
such men as I conceived would give dignity and lustre to our national
character ; and I flatter myself that the love, which you bear to our country,
and a desire to promote general happiness, will lead you to a ready acceptance
of the enclosed commission, which is accompanied with such laws as have
passed relative to your office." Five days later he inclosed a commission to
John Jay, appointing him Chief Justice, and added : "In nominating you
for the important station, which you now fill, I not only acted in conformity
to my best judgment, but I trust I did a grateful thing to the good citizens of
these United States ; and I have a full confidence, that the love which you bear
to our country, and a desire to promote general happiness, will not suffer you
to hesitate a moment to bring into action the talents, knowledge, and integrity,
which are so necessary to be exercised at the head of that department, which
must be considered as the key-stone of our political fabric."

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 435

things, were I to set about it, which I have reason to
believe have been regularly communicated to you in
detail, at the periods which gave birth to them. It
may not, however, be unpleasing to you to hear in
one word, that the national government is organized,
and, as far as my information goes, to the satisfaction
of all parties ; that opposition to it is either no more,
or hides its head ; that it is hoped and expected it
will take strong root ; and that the non-acceding
States will very soon become members of the Union.
No doubt is entertained of North Carolina ; nor
would there be of Rhode Island, had not the ma
jority of that people bid adieu, long since, to every
principle of honor, common sense, and honesty. A
material change however has taken place, it is said,
at the late election of representatives, and confident
assurances are given, from that circumstance, of bet
ter dispositions in their legislature at its next session,
now about to be held.

The revolution, which has been effected in France
is of so wonderful a nature, that the mind can hardly
realize the fact. If it ends as our last accounts, to
the first of August, predict, that nation will be the
most powerful and happy in Europe ; but I fear,
though it has gone triumphantly through the first
paroxysm, it is not the last it has to encounter before
matters are finally settled. In a word, the revolution
is of too great magnitude to be effected in so short a
space, and with the loss of so little blood. The
mortification of the king, the intrigues of the queen,
and the discontent of the princes and the noblesse,

436 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

will foment divisions, if possible, in the National
Assembly ; and they will unquestionably avail them
selves of every faiix pas in the formation of the
constitution, if they do not give a more open, active
opposition. To these, the licentiousness of the people
on one hand, and sanguinary punishments on the
other, will alarm the best disposed friends to the
measure, and contribute not a little to the overthrow
of their object. Great temperance, firmness, and
foresight are necessary in the movements of that
body. To forbear running from one extreme to
another is no easy matter ; and, should this be the
case, rocks and shelves, not visible at present, may
wreck the vessel.

This letter is an evidence, though of a trifling sort,
that in the commencement of any work one rarely
sees the progress or end of it. I declared to you in
the beginning that I had little to say. I have got
beyond the second page and find I have a good deal
to add ; but that no time or paper may be wasted in
a useless preface I will come to the point.

Will you then, my good Sir, permit me to ask the
favor of you to provide and send to me by the first
Ship, bound to this place, or Philadelphia, mirrors for
a table, with neat and fashionable but not expensive
ornaments for them — such as will do credit to your
taste — The mirrors will of course be in pieces that
they may be adapted to the company, (the size of it I
mean) the aggregate length of them may be ten feet
—the breadth two feet — The frames may be plated
ware, or any thing else more fashionable but not

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 437

more expensive. If I am defective recur to what
you have seen on Mr. Robert Morris's table for my
ideas generally. Whether these things can be had
on better terms and in a better style in Paris than in
London I will not undertake to decide. I recollect
however to have had plated ware from both places,
and those from the latter came cheapest, — but a
single instance is no evidence of a general fact.

Of plated ware may be made I conceive handsome
and useful Coolers for wine at and after dinner.
Those I am in need of viz : eight double ones (for
madeira and claret the wines usually drank at dinner)
each of the apertures to be sufficient to contain a
pint decanter, with an allowance in the depth of it
for ice at bottom so as to raise the neck of the
decanter above the cooler — between the apertures a
handle is to be placed by which these double coolers
may with convenience be removed from one part of
the table to another. For the wine after dinner four
quadruple coolers will be necessary, each aperture of
which to be of the size of a quart decanter or quart
bottle for four sorts of wine — These decanters or
bottles to have ice at bottom, and to be elevated
thereby as above — a central handle here also will be
wanting — Should my description be defective, your
imagination is fertile and on this I shall rely. One
idea however I must impress you with and that is in
whole or part to avoid extravagance. For extrava
gance would not comport with my own inclination,
nor with the example which ought to be set. The
reason why I prefer an aperture for every decanter or

438 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

bottle to coolers that would contain two and four
is that whether full or empty the bottles will always
stand upright and never be at variance with each
other.

The letter enclosed with your draught accompany
ing it will provide the means for payment — The
clumsy manner in which Merchants (or rather their
tradesmen) execute commissions, where taste is re
quired, for persons at a distance must be my apology,
and the best that can be offered by-
Dear Sir, &c.

TO THOMAS JEFFERSON.

NEW YORK, 13 October, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

In the selection of characters to fill the important
offices of government in the United States, I was
naturally led to contemplate the talents and disposi
tion, which I knew you to possess and entertain for
the service of your country ; and, without being able
to consult your inclination, or to derive any knowl
edge of your intentions from your letters, either to
myself or to any other of your friends, I was deter
mined, as well by motives of private regard as a con
viction of public propriety, to nominate you for the
Department of State, which, under its present organi
zation, involves many of the most interesting objects
of the executive authority. But, grateful as your
acceptance of this commission would be to me, I am
at the same time desirous to accommodate your
wishes, and I have therefore forborne to nominate

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 439

your successor at the court of Versailles, until I
should be informed of your determination.

Being on the eve of a journey through the eastern
States, with a view to observe the situation of the
country, and in a hope of perfectly reestablishing my
health, which a series of indispositions has much im
paired, I have deemed it proper to make this com
munication of your appointment, in order that you
might lose no time, should it be your wish to visit
Virginia during the recess of Congress, which will
probably be the most convenient season, both as it
may respect your private concerns and the public
service.

Unwilling as I am to interfere in the direction of

o

your choice of assistants, I shall only take the liberty
of observing to you, that, from warm recommendations
which I have received in behalf of Roger Alden, Es
quire, assistant secretary to the late Congress, I have
placed all the papers thereunto belonging under his
care. Those papers, which more properly appertain
to the office of foreign affairs, are under the superin
tendence of Mr. Jay, who has been so obliging as to
continue his good offices, and they are in the immedi
ate charge of Mr. Remsen. With sentiments of very
great esteem and regard, I have the honor, to be, &C.1

1 Mr. Jefferson arrived at Norfolk on the 23d of November ; and at Epping-
ton in Chesterfield county, on his way to Monticello, received the above letter,
and also another from President Washington on the same subject dated No
vember 3Oth. In his reply he said that his inclinations led him to prefer his
former station in France, to which it had been his intention to return.

" But" he added, " it is not for an individual to choose his post. You are
to marshal us as may be best for the public good ; and it is only in case of its
being indifferent to you, that I would avail myself of the option you have so

440 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

NEW YORK, 13 October, 1789.

SIR,

It being important to both countries, that the
treaty of peace between Great Britain and the United
States should be observed and performed with per
fect and mutual good faith, and that a treaty of com
merce should be concluded by them, on principles of
reciprocal advantage to both, I wish to be ascertained
of the sentiments and intentions of the court of Lon
don on these interesting subjects.

It appears to me most expedient to have these

kindly offered in your letter. If you think it better to transfer me to another
post, my inclination must be no obstacle ; nor shall it be, if there is any desire
to suppress the office I now hold, or to diminish its grade. In either of these
cases be so good as to signify to me by another line your ultimate wish, and I
shall conform to it accordingly. If it should be to remain at New York, my
chief comfort will be to work under your eye, my only shelter the authority of
your name, and the wisdom of measures to be dictated by you and implicitly
executed by me. Whatever you may please to decide, I do not see, that the
matters, which have called me hither, will permit me to shorten the stay I
originally asked ; that is to say, to set out on my journey northward till the
month of March. As early as possible in that month, I shall have the honor of
paying my respects to you in New York." — December I5th.

On this subject Mr. Madison wrote to the President as follows :
" A few days before I was allowed to set out for New York, I took a ride to
Monticello. The answer of Mr. Jefferson to the notification of his appoint
ment will no doubt have explained the state of his mind on the subject. I was
sorry to find him so little biassed in favor of the domestic service allotted to
him, but was glad that his difficulties seemed to result chiefly from what I take
to be an erroneous view of the kind and quantity of business annexed to that,
which constituted the foreign department. He apprehends that it will far
exceed the latter, which has of itself no terrors to him. On the other hand, it
was supposed, and I believe truly, that the domestic part will be very trifling,
and for that reason improper to be made a distinct department. After all, if
the whole business can be executed by any one man, Mr. Jefferson must be
equal to it. All whom I have heard speak on the subject are remarkably
solicitous for his acceptance, and I flatter myself, that they will not in the
event be disappointed." — Georgetown, January 4th, 1790.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 441

inquiries made informally, by a private agent ; and,
understanding that you will soon be in London, I
desire you in that capacity, and on the authority and
credit of this letter, to converse with his Britannic
Majesty's ministers on these joints, namely, whether
there be any and what objections to performing those
articles in the treaty, which remain to be performed
on his part ; and whether they incline to a treaty of
commerce with the United States on any and what
terms.

This communication ought regularly to be made to
you by the Secretary of State ; but, that office not
being at present filled, my desire of avoiding delays
induces me to make it under my own hand. It is my
wish to promote harmony and mutual satisfaction be
tween the two countries ; and it would give me great
pleasure to find that the result of your agency, in the
business now committed to you, will conduce to that
end. I am, Sir, yours, &c.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

NEW YORK, 13 October, 1789.

SIR,

My letter to you, herewith enclosed, will give you
the credence necessary to enable you to do the busi
ness, which it commits to your management, and
which I am persuaded you will readily undertake.

Your inquiries will commence by observing, that,
as the present constitution of government, and of the
courts established in pursuance of it, removes the ob
jections heretofore made to putting the United States

442 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

in possession of their frontier posts, it is natural to
expect from the assurances of his Majesty and the
national good faith, that no unnecessary delays will
take place. Proceed then to press a speedy perform
ance of the treaty respecting that object.

Remind them of the article by which it was agreed,
that negroes belonging to our citizens should not be
carried away, and of the reasonableness of making
compensation for them. Learn with precision, if
possible, what they mean to do on this head.

The commerce between the two countries you well
understand. You are apprized of the sentiments and
feelings of the United States on the present state of
it ; and you doubtless have heard, that, in the late
session of Congress, a very respectable number of
both houses were inclined to a discrimination of
duties unfavorable to Britain, and that it would have
taken place but for conciliatory considerations, and
the probability that the late change in our government
and circumstances would lead to more satisfactory
arrangements.

Request to be informed, therefore, whether they
contemplate a treaty of commerce with the United
States, and on what principles or terms in general.
In treating this subject, let it be strongly impressed
on your mind, that the privilege of carrying our pro
ductions in our vessels to their Islands, and of bring
ing in return the productions of those Islands to our
own ports and markets, is regarded here as of the
highest importance ; and you will be careful not to
countenance any idea of our dispensing with it in a

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 443

treaty. Ascertain, if possible, their views on this
point ; for it would not be expedient to commence
negotiations without previously having good reasons
to expect a satisfactory termination of them.

It may also be well for you to take a proper occa
sion of remarking, that their omitting to send a min
ister here, when the United States sent one to London,
did not make an agreeable impression on this country ;
and request to know what would be their future con
duct on similar occasions.

It is in my opinion very important, that we avoid
errors in our system of policy respecting Great
Britain ; and this can only be done by forming a right
judgment of their disposition and views. Hence you
will perceive how interesting it is, that you obtain the
information in question, and that the business be so
managed, as that it may receive every advantage,
which abilities, address, and delicacy can promise and
afford. I am, Sir, yours, &C.1

1 Morris in his first interview with the Duke of Leeds, on March 29th, out
lined the wishes of the President as given in this letter, and was well received ;
but by September, when Morris returned to France, nothing definite had been
concluded upon any of the subjects in dispute. In June following Colonel
William S. Smith arrived in America, bearing reports of some conversations he
had held with British officials, but they were no more conclusive than Morris'.
— Sparks' Washington, x., 168 ; Madison's Writings, i., 537.

As there was now a recess of Congress, which had been adjourned from the
2gth of September to the ist of January, the President resolved to embrace this
opportunity to make a tour through the Eastern States. He left New York,
accompanied by his secretaries, Mr. Lear and Mr. Jackson, on the I5th of
October. Travelling in his own carriage by the way of New Haven, Hartford,
Worcester, Boston, Salem, and Newburyport, he reached Portsmouth in New
Hampshire on the 3ist, having been attended nearly the whole distance by
military escorts, which were prepared to receive him at different points on the
route. In all the principal towns, also, he was greeted with public addresses,

444 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

TO JOHN HANCOCK.

WESTON, 23 October, 1789.

SIR,

I have this moment received your Excellency's
polite letter of to-day, and have the honor to inform
you, that, in consequence of suggestions made by the
gentlemen from Boston, and the deputy adjutant-
general, (whom I met at Worcester) this morning,
that it would make it more convenient for the troops,
many of whom lived at a distance from the place of
parade, if I should pass through Cambridge at an
earlier hour than I intended, I thought it best to alter
the time of my arrival at that place, which. I had the
pleasure to mention to your Excellency in my letter
of yesterday ; and the alteration, which I had made,
I immediately communicated to you by a letter, which
the gentlemen from Boston were so kind as to take
charge of. But lest any accident should prevent that
letter from getting to your hands, I would here men
tion, that it is my determination to be at Cambridge
to-morrow at ten o'clock, and from thence proceed to
Boston as soon as circumstances will permit, where it
is probable I may arrive by twelve o'clock ; and I will
do myself the honor to accept your Excellency's po
lite invitation of taking an informal dinner with you.
I have the honor to be, &c.1

the ringing of bells, entertainments, and every demonstration of joy from the
whole body of the people. He returned through the country from Portsmouth
to Hartford by a different road from the one he had before taken, and arrived
in New York on the I3th of November. — Sparks, His diary of this journey
has been printed under the editorship of Benson J. Lossing.

1 This visit to Boston occasioned a somewhat amusing exchange of words be
tween the President and Governor Hancock on a point of etiquette. On Octo-

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 445

TO BEVERLEY RANDOLPH, GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA.

NEW YORK, 22 November, 1789.

SIR,

From the original letter, which I forward herewith,
your Excellency will comprehend the nature of a pro
posal for introducing and establishing the woollen
manufactory in the State of Virginia. In the present
stage of population and agriculture, I do not pretend
to determine how far that plan may be practicable
and advisable ; or, in case it should be deemed so,

her 21 st Hancock wrote offering his house for Washington's use during his
visit, and informing him of the measures taken for his reception :

" As governor of the commonwealth I feel it to be my duty to receive your
visit with such tokens of respect, as may answer the expectations of my con
stituents, and may in some measure express the high sentiments of respect they
feel towards you. I have therefore issued orders for proper escorts to attend
you, and Colonel Hall, deputy adjutant-general, will wait upon you at
Worcester, and will inform you of the disposition I have made of the troops at
Cambridge, under the command of General Brooks, and request, that you
would be so obliging as to pass that way to the town, where you will receive
such other tokens of respect from the people, as will serve further to evince
how gratefully they recollect your exertions for their liberties, and their confi
dence in you as President of the United States of America. The gentlemen of
the Council will receive you at Cambridge, and attend you to town."

To this Washington replied from Brookfield, October 22d, outlining his
progress, and adding :

" I am highly sensible of the honor intended me. But could my wish prevail,
I should desire to visit your metropolis without any parade or extraordinary
ceremony. From a wish to avoid giving trouble to private families, I deter
mined, on leaving New York, to decline the honor of any invitation to quarters,
which I might receive while on my journey ; and, with a view to observe this
rule, I had requested a gentleman to engage lodgings for me during my stay at
Boston. I beg your Excellency to be persuaded of the grateful sense, which I
entertain, of the honor you intended to confer on me, and I desire to assure
you of the respectful regard with which I am, &c."

Hancock, regretting that his house could not be accepted, then requested
that Washington should arrive in Boston some hours before he had planned,
and that he and the gentlemen of his suite should dine with hin en famille on
Saturday, at any hour that the circumstances of the day will admit. The
arrangements of the receiving committee allowed the first to be done, and the

446 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

whether any or what public encouragement ought to
be given to facilitate its execution. I have however
no doubt, as to the good policy of increasing the
number of sheep in every State. By a little legisla
tive encouragement the farmers of Connecticut have,
in two years past, added one hundred thousand to
their former stock. In my late tour through the
eastern States I found, that the manufacturers of
woollens (for the manufacture of woollens is carried
on there to very considerable extent and advantage)

President accepted. Not only did some differences between the Governor and
the civic committee occur to delay matters (detailed in a letter of Benjamin
Russell, printed in Sparks' Washington, x., 491), but the Governor insisted
that the President should make the first visit upon him. Learning of this
Washington went direct to the house prepared for him, a boarding-house on
the corner of Tremont and Court streets, kept by Joseph Ingersoll, and, it is
said, sent Major Jackson to the Governor, with a message that if Hancock's
health permitted him to receive company, it would admit of his visiting the
President. In the evening the friends of the Governor induced him to recede
from his position, which led to the following interchange of notes :

GOVERNOR HANCOCK TO PRESIDENT WASHINGTON.

" Sunday, 26 October, half past twelve o'clock.

" The Governor's best respects to the President. If at home, and at leisure,
the Governor will do himself the honor to pay his respects in half an hour.
This would have been done much sooner, had his health in any degree permit
ted. He now hazards every thing, as it respects his health, for the desirable
purpose."

THE PRESIDENT'S REPLY.

" Sunday, 26 October, one o'clock.

" The President of the United States presents his best respects to the Gov
ernor, and has the honor to inform him, that he shall be at home till two o'clock.

" The President needs not express the pleasure it will give him to see the
Governor ; but, at the same time, he most earnestly begs that the Governor will
not hazard his health on the occasion."

Fisher Ames said " The gout came so opportunely last Saturday, that it has
been doubtful whether his [Hancock's] humility would be gratified with the
sight of his superior"

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 447

preferred the wool raised in Virginia for its fineness,
to that raised in more northern parts of the conti
nent. If a greater quantity of wool could be pro
duced, and if the hands, which are often in a manner
idle, could be employed in manufacturing it, a spirit
of industry might be promoted, a great diminution
might be made in the annual expenses of individual
families, and the public would eventually be exceed
ingly benefited.

Under these impressions I have thought proper to
transmit the proposal, and will only add, that, if it
should be judged expedient to submit the subject to
the legislature, or if any private company should
engage in promoting the business, the necessity of
keeping the manufacturer's name concealed would
undoubtedly occur ; as a premature knowledge of it
might not only frustrate the success of the project,
but also subject the person principally concerned to
the most distressing consequences. I have the honor
to be, &c.

TO JAMES McHENRY.
[CONFIDENTIAL.]

NEW YORK, 30 November, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

I have received your letter of the I4th instant, and
in consequence of the suggestions contained therein,
added to other considerations which occurred to me,
I have thought it best to return Judge [Robert Han
son] Harrison his commission, and I sincerely hope,
that upon a further consideration of the subject he

448 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

may be induced to revoke his former determination,
and accept the appointment.1

Mr. [Thomas] Johnson has likewise declined his
appointment of district judge, and I have no informa
tion of Mr. [Richard] Potts the attorney, or Mr.
[Nathaniel] Ramsay the marshal, having accepted
their commissions. Thus circumstanced with respect
to Maryland, I am unwilling to make a new appoint
ment of judge for that district, until I can have an
assurance, or at least a strong presumption, that the
person appointed will accept ; for it is to me an un
pleasant thing to have commissions of such high
importance returned ; and it will, in fact, have a ten
dency to bring the government into discredit.

Mr. [Alexander Contee] Hanson is the person,
whom I now have it in contemplation to bring for
ward as district judge of Maryland, and shall do so,
provided I can obtain an assurance, that such an ap
pointment would be acceptable to him. But as I
cannot take any direct measures to draw from him a
sentiment on this head, I must request, my dear Sir,
that you will be so good as to get for me, if you can,
such information upon the subject as will enable me
to act with confidence in it, and convey the same to
me as soon as possible. I shall leave to your pru
dence and discretion the mode of gaining this knowl
edge. It is a delicate matter, and will not bear any
thing like a direct application, if there is the least
cause to apprehend a refusal. I have observed in the
papers, that Mr. Hanson has been appointed chancel-

1 Washington's letter to Harrison is printed by Sparks, x., 52.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 449

lor of the State since the death of Mr. [John] Rogers.
What the emoluments of this office are, or its tenure,
I know not, therefore can form no opinion how far it
may operate in this matter.

Mr. Johnson's resignation came to hand too late to
admit of a new appointment, and information to be
given of it before the time fixed by the act for hold
ing the first District Court in Maryland. However,
if this had not been the case, I should hardly have
hazarded a new appointment for the reasons before
mentioned, until I had good grounds to believe it
would be accepted.

Should it be found, that the office of district judge
would not be acceptable to Mr. Hanson, Mr. Paca
has been mentioned for that appointment ; and, al
though his sentiments have not been altogether in
favor of the general government, and a little adverse
on the score of paper emissions, I do not know but his
appointment on some other accounts might be a
proper thing. However, this will come more fully
under consideration if Mr. Hanson should not wish
to be brought forward ; and, in that case, I will thank
you to give me information relative to Mr. Paca.1

I On this point Mr. McHenry answered : " I have had a long conversation
with Mr. Paca. I have every reason to say, that he will make every exertion
in his power to execute the trust in the most unexceptionable manner. I
believe, also, that the appointment will be highly gratifying to him, and I
think it may have political good consequences." — Annapolis, December loth.

II Mr. Johnson has, as you supposed, declined the appointment of judge to
the district of Maryland, and I have lately appointed Mr. Paca to fill that
office. Mr. Thomas, whom you recommend for that place, undoubtedly pos
sesses all those qualifications, which you have ascribed to him ; and, so far as
my own knowledge of that gentleman extends, he is justly entitled to the repu
tation which he sustains. But in appointing persons to office, and more espe-
450 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

Mr. Gustavus Scott and Mr. Robert Smith of Balti
more have also been mentioned for the office ; but the
age and inexperience of the latter is in my opinion
an insuperable objection ; for, however good the
qualifications or promising the talents of Mr. Smith
may be, it will be expected that the important offices
of the general government, and more especially those
of the judges, should be filled by men who have been
tried and proved. I thank you, my good Sir, for
your kind wishes for my health and happiness, and
reciprocate them with sincerity. With very great
regard, I am, &c.

TO EDMUND RANDOLPH.

NEW YORK, 30 November, 1789.

DEAR SIR,

Your letter of the 8th of October gave me pleasure,
as I not only entertain hopes, but shall fully expect
from the contents of it, to see you in the office of
attorney-general when the purposes mentioned by you
for the delay are answered.

I shall now mention some matters to you in confi
dence. Mr. Pendleton's declining to accept the ap
pointment of district judge has embarrassed me, and
this embarrassment was not a little increased by the

cially in the judicial department, my views have been much guided to those
characters, who have been conspicuous in their country ; not only from an im
pression of their services, but upon a consideration, that they had been tried,
and that a readier confidence would be placed in them by the public than in
others perhaps of equal merit, who had never been proved. Upon this prin
ciple Mr. Paca certainly stands prior to Mr. Thomas, although the latter may
possess in as high a degree every qualification requisite in a judge." — Washing
ton to William Fitzhugh, 24 December, 1789.

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 451

lateness of the period at which (being on a tour
through the eastern States) I came to the knowledge
of it. When I was about to make the nominations
in the judiciary for the Union, the character and
abilities of Mr. Wythe did not escape me ; and I
accordingly consulted such gentlemen from the State
of Virginia, (then in this city,) as I thought most
likely to have some knowledge of his inclinations.
Their opinion was, that, as he had lately been ap
pointed sole Chancellor, an office to which by incli
nation he was led, and engaged in other avocations,
which engrossed his attention and appeared to afford
him pleasure, he would not exchange the former for
a federal appointment. However, since these ap
pointments have been announced, I have heard that
it has been the wonder of some in Virginia, that Mr.
Wythe should have been overlooked. The cause (if
the epithet applies) I have assigned. And if there
was reason to apprehend a refusal in the first instance,
the non-acceptance of Colonel Pendleton would be
no inducement to him to come forward in the second.
To consult him through the medium of a friend there
was not time, as the third Tuesday in December is
the day appointed for holding the District Court in
the district of Virginia, and to hazard a second
refusal I was on many accounts unwilling to do.
Under these circumstances I have, by the powers of
the constitution, appointed Mr. Cyrus Griffin during
the recess of the Senate.

My reasons for this appointment in preference to
any other, except Mr. Wythe, are, because he has,

452 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

(as I am informed,) been regularly bred to the law,
has been in the court of appeals, has been discon
tinued of the Council in Virginia, (contrary to the
expectation of his friends here at the time, who
thought that his temporary appointment as a nego
tiator with the southern Indians would not bring
him under the disqualifying law of Virginia,) and
thereby thrown entirely out of employment, and
because I had it in my power to ascertain with pre
cision his acceptance. I shall say nothing of his
being a man of amiable character and of competent
abilities, because in these respects some of the pres
ent judges in that State may be his equals ; but to
what I have said may be added, he has no employ
ment now, and needs the emolument of one as much
as any of them.

I will not conceal from you, that two motives have
induced me to give this explanation ; the first, if a
favorable opportunity should present itself, is, that
Mr. Wythe may, in a delicate manner, be informed
of the principles by which I was governed in this
business ; the second, that my inducements to ap
point Mr. Griffin may not, (if the propriety of it
should be questioned,) be altogether unknown. For
having in every appointment endeavored, as far as
my own knowledge of characters extended, or infor
mation could be obtained, to select the fittest and
most acceptable persons, and having reason to
believe that the appointments, which have been
made heretofore, have given very general satis
faction, it would give me pain if Mr. Wythe or any

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 453

of his friends should conceive, that he has been
passed by from improper motives. I have prejudices
against none, nor partialities which shall bias me in
favor of any one. If I err, then, my errors will be
of the head, and not of the heart of, my dear Sir,
your most obedient, &C.1

TO ALEXANDER HAMILTON, SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY.

NEW YORK, 17 December, 1789.

SIR,

As I am uncertain of the condition, and even the
office, in which the papers containing accounts of
our disbursements for subsistence of British prisoners
remain ; and as it is not improbable, that some nego
tiations may (whenever our union under the general
government shall be completed) take place between
the United States and Great Britain, in which an
accurate understanding of those accounts will become
necessary, I have therefore tho't proper to suggest
the expediency of having some immediate attention
paid to them.

Notwithstanding, on as fair a statement of expendi-

1 In reply, Mr. Randolph said: "You may be assured, that Mr. Wythe
neither wished nor expected to be the successor of Mr. Pendleton." — Decem
ber 1 5th. Again : "I found a fortunate moment for a conversation with Mr.
Wythe. He repeated what I wrote to you in answer to your favor of the 3<Dth
ultimo. Indeed he declared himself happy in believing, that he held a place
in your esteem, and that he was confident you had looked towards him with
every partiality, which he could wish. Nay, without going into the detail of
our discourse, I am convinced from his own mouth, that the knowledge of his
present situation is considered by him as the only reason of a seat on the bench
not being tendered to him." — Richmond, December 23d.

454 THE WRITINGS OF [1789

tures as could now be made, much property must
undoubtedly be lost by the United States for want
of vouchers, and by reason of the negligence with
which the business was conducted on our part, yet I
was always impressed with an idea, that, under all
these disadvantageous circumstances, a very consid
erable balance would still be found in our favor.
My present wish is, to have the subject so far
investigated, as that we might not commit ourselves
by bringing forward accounts, which had better con
tinue dormant. Shou'd there be no danger of that
kind, it would then be desirable to have the business
placed in a state, which might enable us to speak
from a general knowledge of facts, and in a proper
tone, in case a demand of the American posts held
by the King of Great Britain should draw pecuniary
subjects into discussion. I believe lists of property,
carried away by the British at the time when they
evacuated the posts they had occupied during the
late war, are lodged in the office of Foreign Affairs.
I am, Sir, &c.

TO JABEZ BOWEN.

NEW YORK, 27 December, 1789.

SIR,

The letters with which you have been pleased to
favor me, dated in October, and the i5th of the pres
ent month, came duly to hand, and are entitled to my
thanks for the communications contained in them. As
it is possible the conduct of Rhode Island, (if perse-

1789] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 455

vered in,) may involve questions in Congress, which
will call for my official decisions, it is not fit that I
should express more than a wish, in reply to your
letter, that the legislature at the coming session would
consider well before it again rejects the proposition
for calling a convention to decide on their accession
to, or rejection of, the present government. The
adoption of it by North Carolina has left them en
tirely alone.1 I am much obliged to you for your
good wishes, and with esteem and regard, I am, Sir,
&c.

1 At the first convention in North Carolina the Constitution was not ratified ;
but at a second convention, held in November, 1789, it was adopted by a ma
jority of more than two to one, the vote being one hundred and ninety-three
in the affirmative, and seventy-five in the negative. The legislature of Rhode
Island, during the session in September, had sent an address to "The Presi
dent, the Senate, and the House of Representatives of the Eleven United States
of America in Congress assembled," in which were contained explanations of
the course pursued by that State in not adopting the Constitution.

The address was on the whole conciliatory, and gave indications that the
tone of opposition was somewhat subsiding in Rhode Island, and would in no
event interrupt the harmony of the Union. After stating the grounds upon
which the objections of Rhode Island had mainly rested, the governor closes
his communication, in behalf of the legislature, as follows : " We feel ourselves
attached by the strongest ties of friendship, kindred, and of interest to our sis
ter States ; and we cannot, without the greatest reluctance, look to any other
quarter for those advantages of commercial intercourse which we conceive to
be more natural and reciprocal between them and us." — Sparks.

Nearly six months later Washington was given an opportunity of acknowl
edging the ratification by Rhode Island of the Constitution :

" Having now attained the desirable object of uniting under one general gov
ernment all those States, which were originally confederated, we have a right
to expect, with the blessing of a divine Providence, that our country will afford
us all those domestic enjoyments, of which a free people only can boast ; and
at the same time secure that respectability abroad, which she is entitled to by
nature and from circumstances. Since the bond of union is now complete, and
we once more consider ourselves as one family, it is much to be hoped, that
reproaches will cease and prejudices be done away ; for we should all remember,
that we are members of that community, upon whose general success depends,

456 THE WRITINGS OF [1790
