THE WRITINGS

GEORGE WASHINGTON

VOL. IV.
OF THIS LETTER-PRESS EDITION
750 COPIES HAVE BEEN PRINTED FOR SALE

No.

^HX ^r^^i^^e^^ix^^^^

October,

THE WRITINGS

OF

GEORGE WASHINGTON

COLLECTED AND EDITED

WORTHINGTON CHAUNCEY FORD

VOL. IV.
NEW YORK & LONDON

G. P. PUTNAM 'S SONS

CIjc Jlinclurboclur Jprwss
cs}

Press of
G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

New York

V*

^

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV.

1776.

PAGE

To Joseph Reed, April 1st ..... i

About to set out for New York — Conduct of General Ward —
Fry's record — Affairs in Carolina — Disposition of the ministry
— Tendency to independence — Putnam to lead the attack on the
British — The Boston loyalists and their pitiful condition — British
vessels at Newport lead to Sullivan's being sent there.

To Brigadier-General Arnold, April 3d ... 7

Reinforcements — Events near Boston — Dissatisfaction of
officers in Canadian army.

To the President of Congress, April 4th ... 9

Payment of militia — Deficiency of arms — British not at
Newport — Powder — Howe's proclamation — Paymaster-General
Warren unable to accompany army to New York — Disadvan
tages — Question of pay of militia.

*To Richard Henry Lee, April 4th . . . . 13

Reinforcements for Canada — Flight of British from Boston.

To Commodore Eseck Hopkins, April I4th . . 15

Gives notice of the sailing of British ships.

To the President of Congress, April I5th ... 17

Arrival in New York — Movement of troops — Forces for
Canada — Cannon wanted.

To Joseph Reed, April 1 5th 20

The question of independence — Divisions and parties.

To the Committee of Safety of New York, April 1 7th, 2 1

Civil authority recognized — Intercourse with the enemy's
ships — Its impolicy and dangers — Necessity of terminating it —
He depends upon the efforts of the committee to effect this.

To the President of Congress, April i8th ... 26

Returns thanks for the approbation of Congress — Troops
commended in general orders — The medal.

vi CONTEATTS OF VOL. IV.

PAGE

To Major-General Schuyler, April igth ... 28

Regiments sent forward — Prospect of further reinforcements
— Policy of engaging the Indians.

To the Committee of Safety of New York, April 2Oth, 32

Raising militia — Look-outs on the heights.

To the President of Congress, April 220! ... 34

Embarkation of regiments for Canada — Great want for arms
— The case of Mr. Baldwin — Exchange of prisoners — Payment
of militia — Service of riflemen about to expire — Livingston and
Trumbull as commissaries.

To the President of Congress, April 23d ... 39

Rank of aids — Nature of their duties — No relaxation of work
and inadequate pay.

To Joseph Reed, April 23d 41

Jealousies in Congress — His camp equipage.

To Samuel Tucker, April 24th ..... 42

Delays in calling out the militia on a sudden emergency —
Rendezvous and signals should be appointed — Suggestions in
the matter.

To the President of Congress, April 25th ... 44

No trials of prizes in Massachusetts — Discouraging the man
ning of the fleet — Distinction in pay between the New York and
the Eastern regiments — Arms — An army strong on paper only —
Troops sent to Canada — Importance of holding New York — His
force smaller than is necessary for that purpose — Defence of
Cape May — Dr. Potts.

To Governor Trumbull, April 26th .... 49

The New York army weakened by detachments for Canada
— Requests measures to be taken for calling out the militia.

To the Committee of Safety of New York, April 2/th, 5 1

Number of militia — Signals — His powers over New York
forces — Money.

To Major-General Ward, April 29th .... 54

Delay in completing the defences of Boston.

To John Augustine Washington, April 29th . . 55

Transfer of army to New York — Affairs in Canada — Defences
at New York — Personal.

To the President of Congress, April 3Oth . . . 57

The address of Rhode Island.

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV. vii

To the President of Congress, May 5th ... 59

Auditing army accounts — Recruiting expenses — Road from
Newbury to Canada — The Canadian army — Necessity of stores
and money — Paymaster — Army returns — Court-martial of Lieu
tenant Grover — Promotions.

To the President of Congress, May 5th ... 64

Pressing need of arms — Plans of the enemy.

To Major-General Ward, May 9th .... 68

Defences of Boston — Condition of Continental vessels — Pris
oners captured on prizes — Sale of prizes.

To Lund Washington, May loth .... 70

Custis' estate to be settled.

To the President of Congress, May nth . . . 74

Spirit of mutiny and desertion due to Ogden matter — Case of
Lieutenant Grover — Vacancies and the issue of commissions —
Burbeck's notions of duty — Appointment of officers to care for
prisoners — Suggests the raising of German troops — Ward's resig
nation — Exchange of prisoners.

To the President of Congress, May I5th ... 80

Intelligence from Canada army — Need of surgeons for that
force.

To Major-General Schuyler, May I7th ... 84

Melancholy situation in Canada.

To Richard Henry Lee, May iSth . . . . 86

Forwards letters from England.

To the President of Congress, May 2Oth ... 88

Departure of Gates for Congress — Will himself follow in a
day or two.

To Major-General Schuyler, May 2ist . . . 90

Insidious arts and schemes of tories — Their charges against
Schuyler — Officers should not be allowed to go to Philadelphia.

To Major-General Putnam, May 2ist • • • 95

Instructions.

To Major-General Schuyler, May 22d ... 98

About to set out for Philadelphia — Army stores sent forward
— Indians — Making a stand at Deschambault.

To Major-General Thomas, May 24th . . . 102

Siege of Quebec raised — Post to be taken down the river.

viii CONTENTS OF VOL. IV.

To Major-General Putnam, May 28th . . . 103

Prize captures — Stores to be forwarded — Employment of the
armed vessels — Committee of Congress.

To John Augustine Washington, May 3ist . . 105

The vote of the Virginia Convention — No hope of concilia
tion — Framing a new government — Affairs at the south — Mrs.
Washington.

To Major-General Putnam, June 3d . . . . 108

Misfortunes in Canada — Gondolas and fire-rafts to be built
at New York.

To Major-General Schuyler, June /th . . .no

Returned from Philadelphia — Melancholy advices from Can
ada — Reinforcing the army in Canada — Engagement of Indians
— Wishes him to go to St. John's — Thomas clown with the
small-pox.

To the President of Congress, June /th . . . 113

Prosecution of defensive works — News from Canada — Build
ing of vessels.

To the President of Congress, June 8th . . . 115

Sir John Johnson — Payment of troops at Boston — Engineers
in the army — Continental expresses — New York troops should
be allowed same pay as those from the East — Arnold's reported
victory — Tents.

To the President of Congress, June 9th . . .119

Wooster's recall — Alarming situation of the army in Canada
— Adjutant- and quartermaster-generals wanted — The affair at
the Cedars — Supplies — Schuyler wishes some mark of the appro
bation of Congress — Allowance to Indians for prisoners.

To Major-General Schuyler, June 9th . . .123

Sir John Johnson — No troops can be spared from the south
— Impositions in matter of supplies — Fortified places on the
communication to Ticonderoga — Removal of prisoners — Defeat
at the Cedars — Prisoners allowed to pass south — Supplies for the
new army — The charges against him.

To the President of Congress, June loth . . . 129

The situation in Canada — Supplies — British expected at the
Hook — Suspected and dangerous persons.

To Lund Washington, June I2th .... 132

A spurious letter.

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV. ix

To Governor Trumbull, June loth .... 138

British hourly expected — Necessity of reinforcements.

To the President of Congress, June I3th . . .139

Schuyler ordered to enter into treaty with the Six Nations —
Sir John Johnson advancing — Prohibiting the export of salted
provisions — A war office again urged — Obstructions and boats
for the river.

To Brigadier-General Sullivan, June I3th . . .141

Death of Thomas — General instructions.

To the President of Congress, June I4th . . 142

Death of Thomas — Clothing — Post at Fort Stanwix and pre
caution to establish communication.

To Major-General Ward, June i6th .... 144

A naval combat — Court of inquiry on Varnum's complaint —
Arms — Capt. Procter — Capture of a transport with Highlanders
— Whitcomb to relieve him in the command.

To Brigadier-General Sullivan, June i6th . . . 147

Want of discipline in army in Canada a cause of its misfortunes
— The securing of posts below commended — Force at Lachine
— Returns — Issue of commissions — Need of harmony among
officers — Warning against the Canadians, who are an ingenious,
artful people, capable of cunning.

To Major-General Schuyler, June i/th . . .152

Supplies of provisions — Bedel's and Butterfield's conduct —
Indians to be engaged — Johnson should be met — The retaining
of Ticonderoga — Nicholson to be instructed — Pay of officers
coming from Canada.

To the President of Congress, June i/th . 156

General Sullivan's letter — Aiming at the command — His
character and qualifications — Congress should act.

To the Committee of Essex County, New Jersey,

June [?] .... .158

Charges of bribery and corruption against army — A call for
proof.

To the Committee of Safety of Pennsylvania, June

i;th .... 158

No engineer can be spared.

To John Parke Custis, June i8th . 160

A spurious letter.

CONTENTS OF VOL.

To the President of Congress, June 2Oth . . . 164

Institution of the war office — Money for Canada — Authorized
to call out militia — Prizes — Works at Kingsbridge.

To Major-General Schuyler, June 2Oth . . . 168

Indians, and the bounty.

To the President of Congress, June 23d . . . 169

British ships driven from Nantasket Road — Alarming situa
tion in Canada.

To Major-General Gates, June 24th . . . . 171

Instructions.

To Major-General Schuyler, June 24th . . .173

Defeat of Thompson and possible consequences — Urges
utmost exertions to secure position — Departure of Gates for
Canada — Supplies — Engagement of Connecticut Indians not
within the intention of Congress — Right to punish capitally.

To Mrs. Washington, June 24th . . . .177

A spurious letter.

To the President of Congress, June 27th . . . 181

Sullivan's retreat — Carpenters for galleys — Tents for Massa
chusetts.

To the President of Congress, June 28th . . . 184

Cost of a ration — Reasons for appointing Mr. Trumbull
commissary of the Flying Camp — Chaplains for the army — Plot
among the disaffected — Hickey to be executed — Tories on Long
Island taking up arms — Arrival of Howe expected.

To Major-General Schuyler, June 28th . . . 190

Retreat of Sullivan — Carpenters — Supplies — Vigorous exer
tions required — Reinforcements for Canada — Prizes.

To the President of Congress, June 29th . . . 194

Bounty to recruits for the army in Canada — No force can be
sent from New York — Arrival of a part of the British fleet.

To the President of Congress, June 3Oth . . . 196

Augmentation of army — Successful retreat of army from
Canada — British prisoners taken in Boston — The enemy's fleet
coming in.

To the President of Congress, July 3d ... 200

Further arrivals of the British fleet — Militia — Plans of the
enemy — Stock to be driven from Staten Island.

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV. xi

To the President of Congress, July 4th . . . 204

Reinforcements coming very slowly — Suggests that the Con
tinental regiments at Boston be ordered to New York — The
Flying Camp — Large number of the disaffected — Employment
of the Indians of the East — Arrival of Wiebert and of Mercer —
The latter in New Jersey — Disputed command between Schuy-
ler and Gates — General officers needed — Commissary affairs in
northern army.

To Brigadier-General William Livingston, July 5th . 211

Militia dismissed — Removal of the disaffected — New levies —
Mercer sent to advise.

To Brigadier-General William Livingston, July 6th . 214

Removal of doubtful persons in Jersey — Mercer to confer
with him.

To Governor Trumbull, July 7th . . . .216

Information from deserters — The troop of horse — Need of
reinforcements — Situation of the northern army.

To Lund Washington, July 8th . . . .219

A spurious letter.

To Major-General Ward, July Qth .... 222

Declaration of Independence — Plans of the enemy — Regi
ments to be detached to the north — Arms taken in transport —
To retire, if agreeable — Directions for the march.

To the President of Congress, July roth . . . 224

Reception of the Declaration — Proclaimed before the army —
The Flying Camp — Supplies — The bounty of ten dollars and its
application — Connecticut militia — Works in Jersey — Intelligence
from deserters.

To the General Court of Massachusetts Bay, July nth, 230

The engagement of Indians.

To Major-General Schuyler, July i ith . . . 233

Disputes in the army — Arrival of Howe — His plans — Bur-
goyne may march from the lakes — Regiments ordered from
Massachusetts — Declaration of Independence.

To the President of Congress, July nth . . . 237

Measures to augment his army — The Connecticut light-horse
— Uneasiness in Connecticut owing to the retreat of the northern
army — Surgeon's mates — Need of auditing office — Unable to
attend to accounts himself — News from the enemy — Small-pox
in Boston.

xii CONTENTS OF VOL. IV.

To the President of Congress, July I2th . . . 242

Movement of the enemy's ships — Powder and lead for the
Flying Camp.

To the Secret Committee of the Convention of the

State of New York, July i3th .... 244

Punishment of persons apprehended for treasonable practices
— Removal of tory prisoners — Issue of passes.

To the President of Congress, July i4th . . . 247

Passage of British ships up the river — Arrival of Sullivan at
Crown Point — A flag of truce from the enemy, bringing a letter
addressed to George Washington, Esq. — Declines to receive it —
Mr. Anderson and his scheme — Intentions of British vessels in
the river — Measures to counteract them.

To Governor Cooke, July 1 5th ..... 253

Orders gondolas to the camp.

To Lund Washington, July I5th .... 254

A spurious letter.

To the President of Congress, July i5th . . . 258

Forwards letters — The treatment of the prisoners after capit
ulating at the Cedars.

To the President of Congress, July I7th . . . 260

Militia — Connecticut light-horse — Situation at the North —
Retreat from Crown Point — Gates and Sullivan — Skirmish at
Haverstraw Bay — Letter sent again from the British and again
refused.

To Lund Washington, July i6th .... 264

A spuriotts letter.

To Major-General Schuyler, July I7th . . . 267

Propriety of giving up Crown Point — Disagreeable accounts
of the army — Scarcity of provisions a surprise — Miscellaneous
matters — Apprehension of deserters.

To the Committee of the City of New York, July iQth, 274

Arrest of suspicious characters — A list sent.

To the President of Congress, July igth . . . 275

The retreat from Crown Point — The march of troops to the
northern army — Proceedings of the New York convention.

To Major-General Gates, July iQth .... 280

The retreat from Crown Point — Lord Howe in the harbor.

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV. xiii

To the President of Congress, July 22d . . . 282

The commissioners from England and their powers — Inter
view with Col. Patterson — Artillerists — Light-horse — Tory plots
at the northward.

To Lund Washington, July 22d .... 288

A spurious letter.

To John Augustine Washington, July 22d . . 291

The military situation — Intelligence.

To John Parke Custis, July 24th .... 295
An exchange of lands — General Lewis — Personal matters.

To the President of Congress, July 25th . . . 297

Increase of aids requested, and reasons.

To General George Clinton, July 26th . . . 299

Fire-rafts and supplies — Military details.

To the President of Congress, July 2/th . . . 301

Movement of the enemy's fleet — Allowance to officers — Ob
structing the channel — The Flying Camp.

To the Board of War, July 2Qth . . 304

List of vacancies — Suggestions — Committee from Congress
suggested — Introduction of Goddard into the army and conse
quences — Mode of promotion.

To Lieutenant-General Howe, July 3Oth . . . 309

General exchange proposed.

To Major-General Schuyler, July 3ist . . . 310

Plots at Albany — Commissary for the northern army —
Engaging the Indians — Return of officers who have broken
their paroles — Supplies — Reasons for quitting Crown Point —
Intelligence.

To the President of Congress, August 2d . . . 315

Troops from Massachusetts — Enemy's force arriving.

To the President of Congress, August 5th . . 317

Exchange of prisoners acceded to — Attack on the enemy's
ships — Act of Portugal — Prizes — Major-generals wanted.

To the President of Congress, August 7th . . 321

Necessity for general officers — Suggestions and consequences
— Mr. Glover and Mr. Bradford — Schuyler's treaty with the
Indians — Money.

To Governor Trumbull, August 7th .... 325

Intelligence from and movements of the enemy — Weakness
of the army — Disgrace of the British in the south.

xiv CONTENTS OF VOL. IV.

To the New York Convention, August 8th . . 327

General Clinton — The new levies and the command.

To the Officers and Soldiers of the Pennsylvania

Association, August 8th 330

Urging a continuance in the service.

To the President of Congress, August 8th . . 331

The Stockbridge Indians — Information from the enemy —
Reported general embarkation — The position of the army —
Intelligence by Mr. Madison.

To the President of Congress, August I2th . . 337

The case of Lieutenant Josiah — Prospects of reinforcements
— Disaffection in New York — Cavalry.

To the New York Convention, August I2th . . 341

Suspected characters removed.

To Major-General Gates, August I4th . . . 343

Sickness in the army — Opinion of officers on the retreat from
Crown Point — Movements of the enemy.

To the New York Convention, August i7th . . 347

Women and children should be removed and their safety and
comfort provided for.

To Lord Howe, August I7th ..... 348

Exchange of prisoners in the navy line — Lieutenant Josiah —
Treatment of prisoners.

To Lord Drummond, August I7th .... 350

The violation of his parole, and well-meant zeal — His mode
of negotiation objected to — The matter referred to Congress.

To Governor Trumbull, August i8th . . 351

Reinforcements — Attempt against the fleet with fire-vessels —
Whole British force now at New York.

To the President of Congress, August 2oth . . 355

Exchange of prisoners — General Carleton's orders — An inde
cent and scurrilous performance — Intelligence of the enemy.

To Major-General Heath, August 22d . . . 360

Directs a force to be ready to move down in case of an attack,

To the New York Convention, August 23d . . 361

Rumored intention to fire the city.

To Major-General Heath, August 23d . . . 362

Landing of the enemy at Gravesend.

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV. xv

To Governor Trumbull, August 24th . . 364

The enemy on Long Island — Their intentions — Suggests that
a force be sent from Connecticut.

To Major-General Putnam, August 25th . . . 366

Instructions.

To the President of Congress, August 26th . . 369

Movements of the enemy — A return of the army impossible —
The papers for the foreign troops — Lord Drummond.

To the President of Congress, August 2Qth . . 371

Engagement on Long Island — Sullivan and Stirling missing.

To the President of Congress, August 3 ist . . 373

Retreat from Long Island — Sullivan's mission.

To Major-General Heath, September ist . . . 377

Garrison at Mount Washington — Intelligence wanted of the
enemy's plans and movements — Need of horses and teams.

To the President of Congress, September 2d . . 378

His situation truly distressing — Desertion of the militia —
Evils of depending on the militia — Bounties of money and land
to secure recruits — Ought New York to stand ?

To Brigadier-General Mercer, September 3d . . 382

Sent into New Jersey.

To Colonel Fisher Gay, September 4th . . . 383

On obedience to general orders.

To the President of Congress, September 6th . . 385

The city to be preserved — Movements of the enemy — Officers
in the hands of the British — Pay of the militia — Troops from
the south.

To Governor Trumbull, September 6th . . . 388

The engagement on Long Island.

To the President of Congress, September 8th . . 390

A council of officers called — Probable intentions of the enemy
— War should be defensive — Importance of New York — Council
decides town not tenable — Various opinions expressed — Diffi
culties of a retreating army — Militia's impulse for going home.

To Governor Trumbull, September 9th . . 398

Defection of the inhabitants of Long Island — The militia — A
naval force approved.

To the President of Congress, September I4th . . 402

Impossible to maintain New York — A new council determines
upon the removal of the army — An attack expected — Pay of
nurses — Removal of the sick.

xvi CONTENTS OF VOL. IV.

To the President of Congress, September i6th . . 406

Movement of the enemy — Cowardice of the troops — A retreat
ordered, with loss of baggage and heavy cannon — Hopes for
success.

To Governor Cooke, September i/th . . . 410

The retreat — The safety of Rhode Island— The expedition
to Rhode Island — Matters to be considered — Need of Intelli
gence — A successful skirmish with the enemy — The abandoning
Newport.

To the President of Congress, September i8th . . 416

No general attack — A skirmish — Death of Major Knowlton
— Camp necessaries urgent.

To the President of Congress, September 2Oth . . 420

Progress of the enemy — The new army to be considered —
Clothes — Militia lacking in every requisite.

To the President of Congress, September 22d . . 424

A severe punishment for plundering, marauding, and burn
ing of houses necessary.

To John Augustine Washington, September 22d . 425

The battle of Long Island — Subsequent movements — De
pendence on militia.

To Lieutenant-General Howe, September 23d . .431

Exchange of generals — That of privates — Treatment of
prisoners.

To Governor Trumbull, September 23d . . . 434

The operations of the enemy — A fire in New York.

To the President of Congress, September 24th . . 438

The eve of a dissolution of the army — Greater encouragement
needed to obtain recruits for the new — Higher pay to officers
and men — The character of the officers — Bounties proposed of
money, land, and clothes — Impolicy of depending on militia —
The nature of temporary troops — The expense attending them
— The selection of surgeons — Many now are great rascals —
Rules for the government of the army — Plundering of private
property — An example in McCumber's case — There must be a
change in the military system.

To Brigadier-General Mercer, September 26th . . 452

Probable movement of the British — To obtain all intelligence
possible.

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV. xvii

To the President of Congress, September 28th . . 454

On Captain Morgan.

To Lund Washington, September 3Oth . . . 456

The conduct of Congress — Militia depended upon and its
results — His own situation — Directions about the house — Ex
change of Mr. Herbert.

To the President of Congress, October 2d . . 461

British raising recruits and obtaining provisions on Long
Island — An expedition across the Sound proposed — Disaffection
in Westchester and Dutchess Counties — Recruits — Information
from deserters.

To the President of Congress, October 4th . . 466

The Committee from Congress — The army on the eve of its
political dissolution — Pay of officers and men — Bounties and
clothes — Pay and character of officers — No time for experiments
— Difficulties of completing the new arrangement — Error in
method of selecting officers.

To Patrick Henry, October 5th .. . 471

The retreat summarized — Army dispirited — A little advantage
gained — Dependence upon militia — Need of a permanent estab
lishment — Indians — Defence of the Virginia waters — Officers
for the new army.

To the President of Congress, October 5th . . 476

Exchange of prisoners — The prisoners taken at the Cedars —
Washington blamed for not performing the agreement concern
ing them — Recommends a performance — Promotions — Proposed
corps of engineers — Putnam and Stadler — Ships for sinking in
the channel — Right of succession.

To the President of Congress, October 7th . . 482

Release of Dechambault — Penet — The French gentlemen.

To the President of Congress, October 8th . . 485

Expense of States for prisoners — Should mechanics be ex
changed ? — The new army — Return of Lord Stirling — In
telligence — The decision in McCumber's case — Passage of ships
up the river — Probable designs.

To Major-General Heath, October 9th . . . 489

Nomination of officers.

To Governor Trumbull, October 9th .... 490

Suggestions for promotions — Choice of paymasters — The
new army — Commissaries — Officers taken by the enemy on
Long Island — Obstructions in the river.

xviii CONTENTS OF VOL. IV.

To Governor Trumbull, October 1 5th . . . 496

Plots and conspiracies — Intentions of the enemy — Defence of
the passes on the Hudson.

To Mrs. Philips, October 22d 501

Permission to retain stock.

To Major-General Schuyler, October 22d . . . 502

Destruction of Arnold's fleet — Ticonderoga and the British —
An opinion, not an order.

THE WRITINGS OF

GEORGE WASHINGTON.

TO JOSEPH REED.

CAMBRIDGE, i April, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

By the express which I sent to Philadelphia a few
days ago, I wrote you a few hasty lines ; I have little
time to do more now, as I am hurried in despatching
one brigade after another for New York, and pre
paring for my own departure by pointing out the
duties of those that remain behind me.

Nothing of importance has occurred in these parts,
since my last, unless it be the resignations of Generals
Ward and Fry, and the reassumption of the former,
or retraction, on account as he says, of its being dis
agreeable to some of the officers. Who those officers
are, I have not heard ; I have not enquired. When
the application to Congress and notice of it to me
came to hand, I was disarmed of interposition, be
cause it was put upon the footing of duty, or con
science, the General being persuaded that his health
would not allow him to take that share of duty that
his office required.

The officers to whom the resignation is disagreea
ble, have been able, no doubt, to convince him of his
mistake, and that his health will admit him to be alert

2 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

and active. I shall leave him till he can determine
yea or nay, to command in this quarter. General
Fry, that wonderful man, has made a most wonderful
hand of it. His appointment took place the iith
January ; he desired ten days ago, that his resignation
might take place the nth April. He has drawn
three hundred and seventy-five dollars, never done
one day's duty, scarce been three times out of his
house, discovered that he was too old and too infirm
for a moving camp, but remembers that he has been
young, active and very capable of doing what is now
out of his power to accomplish ; and therefore has
left Congress to find out another man capable of
making, if possible, a more brilliant figure than he
has done ; add to these the departure of Generals
Lee and Thomas, taking some little account of
S[pencer] and H[owe ?], and then form an opinion of
the G[enera]ls of this army, their councils, &C.1

Your letter of the 15th ultimo contained a very
unfavorable account of the Carolinas, but I am glad
to find by the subsequent one of the 23d, that the
prospect brightens, and that Mr. Martin's first at
tempt, (through those universal instruments of tyranny,
the Scotch,) hath met with its deserved success.2 The

1 " Thomas, I presume you know, is made a Major General, and ordered to
Canada, where old Wooster was throwing every thing into confusion, and a
superior officer was necessary to keep the peace. I do not much like their thus
taking away the men in whom you can most trust ; but your camp is considered
a school, and I fear the service will require all their separated attention and
ability." — Reed to Washington, 15 March, 1776.

'-' Martin had represented that a force of three or four thousand loyal men
could be raised in the Carolinas, and sent his agent Alexander Maclean into the
back country authorizing some of the inhabitants, chiefly Scotch, to form an

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON.

old proverb, of the first blow being half the battle,
cannot better apply than in these instances, the spirits
of the vanquished being depressed in proportion as
the victors get elated.

I am glad to find my camp equipage in such for
wardness ; I shall expect to meet it, and I hope you,
at New York, for which place I am preparing to set
out on Thursday or Friday next.

The accounts brought by Mr. Temple,1 of the favora
ble disposition in the Ministry to accommodate matters,
does not correspond with their speeches in Parliament ;
—how then does he account for their inconsistency ? If
the commissioners do not come over with full and
ample powers to treat with Congress, I sincerely wish
they may never put their feet on American ground,
as it must be self-evident, (in the other case,) that
they come over with insidious intentions ; to distract,
divide, and create as much confusion as possible ;
how then can any man, let his passion for reconcilia
tion be never so strong, be so blinded and misled, as
to embrace a measure evidently designed for his
destruction ? No man does, no man can, wish the
restoration of peace more fervently than I do, but I
hope, whenever made, it will be upon such terms, as
will reflect honor upon the councils and wisdom of

" army" to be under the command of Donald Macdonald. At the appointed
time in February, a force far inferior in numbers to what had been promised,
assembled at Cross Creek (now Fayetteville), and marching towards Wilmington
was met and defeated with great loss on the 27th of February at Moore's Creek,
by a body of Carolinians under Richard Caswell. Sec Correspondence of George
III. with Lord North, i., 276.

1 Robert Temple. See Jones, History of New York during the Revolutionary
War, i., Sq.

THE WRITINGS OF [1776

America. With you, I think a change in the Ameri
can representation necessary ; frequent appeals to the
people can be attended with no bad, but may have
very salutary effects. My countrymen I know, from
their form of government, and steady attachment
heretofore to royalty, will come reluctantly into the
idea of independence, but time and persecution bring
many wonderful things to pass ; and by private let
ters, which I have lately received from Virginia, I
find " Common Sense " is working a powerful change
there in the minds of many men.1

The four thousand men destined for Boston on the
5th, if the ministerialists had attempted our works on

1 Colonel Reed had written, March 3d : — " Notwithstanding the act of Par
liament for seizing our property, and a thousand other proofs of a bitter and
irreconcilable spirit, there is a strange reluctance in the minds of many to cut
the knot, which ties us to Great Britain, particularly in this colony and to the
southward. Though no man of understanding expects any good from the com
missioners, yet they are for waiting to hear their proposals, before they declare
off. However, yesterday I was informed, that letters had been sent to France, to
know what encouragement we might expect from that quarter. Our coast is
yet clear ; it is a golden opportunity to make provision for the war, which I
hope will not be lost." Again, March I5th : — " We every moment expect to
hear of these gentry's arrival ; they are, if possible, to treat with the Assem
blies, but if that cannot be obtained, then with Congress. A little time will
show what we are to expect from this new project. For my part I can see
nothing to be hoped from it ; but it has laid fast hold of some here, and made
its impressions on the Congress. It is said the Virginians are so alarmed with
the idea of independence, that they have sent Mr. Braxton on purpose to turn
the vote of that colony, if any question on that subject should come before
Congress. To tell you the truth, my dear Sir, I am infinitely more afraid of
these commissioners, than of their generals and armies. If their propositions
are plausible, and behavior artful, I am apprehensive they will divide us.
There is so much suspicion in Congress, and so much party on this subject, that
very little more fuel is required to kindle the flame. It is high time for the
colonies to begin a gradual change of delegates. Private pique, prejudice, and
suspicion will make their way into the breasts of even good men sitting long in
such a council as ours ; and whenever that is the case, their deliberations will
be disturbed, and the public interest of course will suffer."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 5

Dorchester, or the lines at Roxbury, were to have
been headed by Old Put. But he would have had
pretty easy work of it, as his motions were to have
been regulated by signals, and those signals from
appearances. He was not to have made the attempt,
unless the town had been drained, or very considera
bly weakened of its force.

I believe I mentioned in my last to you, that all
those who took upon themselves the style and title
(in Boston) of government's men, have shipped them
selves off in the same hurry, but under greater disad
vantages than the king's (I think it idle to keep up
the distinction of ministerial) troops have done, being
obliged in a manner to man their own vessels ; seamen
not being to be had for the king's transports, and
submit to all the hardships that can be conceived.
One or two of them have committed what it would
have been happy for mankind if more of them had
done, long ago ; the act of suicide. By all accounts
a more miserable set of beings does not exist than
these ; taught to believe that the power of Great
Britain was almost omnipotent, and if it was not,
that foreign aid was at hand, they were higher and
more insulting in their opposition than the regulars
themselves. When the order issued therefore for
embarking the troops in Boston, no electric shock, no
sudden flash of lightning, in a word, not even the last
trump, could have struck them with greater conster
nation ; they were at their wit's end and conscious of
their black ingratitude, chose to commit themselves
in the manner before described, to the mercy of the

6 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

winds and waves in a tempestuous season, rather than
meet their offended countrymen, and with this decla
ration I am told they have done it, that if they could
have thought that the most abject submission would
have procured peace for them, they would have hum
bled themselves in the dust, and kissed the rod that
should be held out for chastisement.

Unhappy wretches ! Deluded mortals ! Would it
not be good policy to grant a generous amnesty, and
conquer these people by a generous forgiveness ? I
am, with Mrs. Washington's compliments joined with
my own to Mrs. Reed, dear sir, &c. '

1 The corporation of Harvard College conferred honorary degrees on Wash
ington, the diploma reading as follows :

Senatzis Academics Cantabrigiensis in Novanglia omnibus hi Chris to h'ideli-
/>us ad qi4os literce presentes pervenerint} Sa Intern in Domino sempiternam.

gradiis

tuti fuerint, nt viri Scientia, sapientia, et vi flute insignes qni de re literarici
et de Republica optime mernerunt, Honoribus hisce laureatis remunerarentur.
Maxime decet nt honore tali afficiatur vir illustrissimus GEORGIUS
WASHINGTON, Armiger, Imperatorprceclarus, citjus Scientia et Amor Patria
nndiqne patent ; qni propter eximias Virtutes, tain civiles qiiain militares,
priinum, a Civibus sins legatns elect us, in Congressu celeberrimo Americano
de Liberia te ad extrem periclitata et dt salute publico fideliter ex peritissimi cou-
siiliut ; deinde postulante P atria, sedem in Virginia amoenissimain et A\-s
proprias perlubenter reliquit, ut per o nines Castrorum Labores et Ptricula,
inilla mercede accepta, Nov. Angliam ab Armis Britannornm iniqnis et cru
de lib us liberaret, et Colonias cceteras ttteretttr ; et qui, sub auspiciis Divinis max-
itne spectandis, ab nrbe Bosttonia per nndecim menses clansa munita, et
plusquam septem milliuni militum Prcesidio formata, naves et Capias Hostium
in fugani precipitem et pro bosam deturbavit ; adeo ut Gives, phiri mis diiritiis
ct Scevitiis oppressi, tandem salvi lietentur, villa; vicincc quiescunt, atque sedi-
bus suis Academia nostra restituatur.

Sciatis igitur quod nos Prases et Socii Collegii Harvadini in Cantabrigia
Nov. Anglorum (consentientibtis honorandis admodum et reverendis Aca
demic? nostrcs inspectoribus,} Dominum supradictum, sommo honore dignum,
GEORGIUM WASHINGTON, Doctorem utriusque Juris, turn nature et

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 7

P. S. I have this instant received an express from
Governor Cooke, informing me that a man of war is
just arrived in the harbor at New Port, and that
twenty-seven sail of vessels (supposed to be part of
the fleet from Boston) are within Seconet Point. I
have ordered General Sullivan's brigade, which
marched from hence on Friday afternoon, to file off
immediately for Providence, and General Greene's,
which was to begin its march to-clay, to repair imme
diately to that place.1 G. W.

TO BRIGADIER-GENERAL ARNOLD, IN CANADA.

CAMBKIDUK, 3 April, 1776.

SIR,

Your favor of the 27th of February is come to
hand. I much fear you will be much disappointed

Gentium, tiini civilis, statuimus et creavimus, eique siniul dedinius et concessi-
mus, omnia Jura Privilegia et Honor es ad istum Graduni Pertinentia.

In citjus Rei Testimonium HOS coinmuni Sigillo Universitatis kisce Literis
affixo Chrographia opposuiimts, Die Tertio Aprilis, Anno salutis millesimo
Septuigentesimo Septuagesimo sexto.

1 " General Greene will march with his brigade this day for Providence, and if
1 find that the enemy are at Rhode Island, I will soon join him. Governor Cooke
will forward this to you, and will inform you whether this alarm is well founded
or not ; if it is, you must repair to Providence with the troops under your com
mand ; if it is not, you will proceed on your march to New York." Washing
ton to General Sullivan, I April, 1776. " An express arrived here this morning
with a letter from Governor Cooke. . . . In consequence of this important
intelligence I immediately despatched an express after General Sullivan, who
is on his march to Norwich with six regiments and ordered him to file off to
Providence if it should be so desired by Governor Cooke to whom I have wrote
on the subject. General Greene was to have marched this morning with five
more regiments by way of Providence. I have ordered him to hasten his
march and hope to collect a force there sufficient to prevent the enemy from
effecting their purpose. Washington to the President of Congress, i April, 1776-

8 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

in the number of troops you expected in that month,
as the lakes were impassable. Major General Thomas
will, long before you receive this, have informed you
[of] the success of our operations here. The enemy
have quitted this harbor last week. We have no cer
tain accounts of their destination. It is generally be
lieved they are gone to Halifax. If true, it is proba
ble they will attempt to penetrate Canada on the
opening of the St. Lawrence. I hope before that
happens you will be in full possession of Quebec, and
have its avenues well secured, upon which depends
the fate of this campaign in these parts. I have de
spatched two companies of Colonel Knox's regiment
of artillery to you hence, two mortars, &c. as you will
see at the foot hereof. If any thing else is wanting
that cannot be had in Canada, and in my power to
send, they shall be forwarded with all possible expedi
tion, upon my being informed thereof. The chief part
of the troops are marched from hence towards New
York. I will set off to-morrow. If the enemy will
not find us full employment and it is necessary, you
may expect a detachment from thence to your assist
ance. I am very sorry that the gentlemen from New
York and other officers should think themselves neg
lected in the new arrangement. It is true that I
reserved places in this army for those officers, who
went from hence under your command. The Con
gress have since informed me, that they would be
provided for in the army raised for Canada. I was
not acquainted with the gentlemen, who complain, nor
with their circumstances. There is little doubt, but

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 9

their merits will be rewarded in due time.1 I am very
sensible of the many difficulties you have had to en
counter. Your conduct under them does you great
honor. As General Thomas will take the burthen
off your shoulders, I hope you will soon gather
strength sufficient to assist in finishing the important
work, which you have with so much glory to your
self and service to your country hitherto conducted.
As I am informed, that there is a furnace some
where near you, where shells and shot of any size
can be cast, I would recommend to General Thomas
to have what quantity of each, that may be wanting,
immediately prepared. The roads are so very bad,
that it is impossible to send you any great number of
these necessary articles from hence. I have appointed
Captain Lamb, who is a prisoner at Quebec, to be
second major in the regiment of artillery, commanded
by Colonel Henry Knox. The gentlemen of this
family return you their compliments, and my best
wishes attend General Thomas. I remain, Sir,
yours, &c.

TO THE PRESIDENT OK CONGRESS.

CAMBRIDGE, 4 April, 1776.

SIR,

I was honored with your favors of the 2ist and
25th ulto. on the 2d. instant, the former by Mr.
Hanson, &c. the latter by Fessenden. I heartily

1 The regiments sent to Canada from New York had never been included in
the army under the immediate command of Washington, and for this reason
they were not taken into the new arrangement. The officers complained of
this neglect, particularly as Colonel Enos, and those with him, who deserted
the expedition to Canada and returned home, had been promoted.

io THE WRITINGS OF [1776

wish the money had arrived sooner that the militia
might have been paid as soon as their time of service
expired. The disappointment has given them great
uneasiness, and they are gone home much dissatisfied,
nor have I been without severe complaints from
the other troops on the same account. When I get
to New York I hope a sufficient sum will be there
ready to pay every claim.1

It is not in my power to make report of the de
ficiency of arms, in compliance with the direction of
Congress, at this time, as some of the regiments are
at and most of the others on their march to New
York ; nor do I know that it would answer any good
purpose, if it were, having made repeated application
to the several assemblies and conventions upon the
subject, and constantly received for answer, that they
could afford no relief.

When I arrive at New York I shall in pursuance
of the order of Congress detach four battalions to

o

Canada, if the situation of affairs will admit of it, and
shall be extremely happy if they and the troops
already there can effect the important end of their
going.

In my letter of the ist inst. and per post, I enclosed
you a copy of a letter from Governor Cooke advising
me of the arrival of a ship of war, &c., at and near
the harbor of Newport. I have now the pleasure to
inform you that the report was entirely premature

1 " I have no hopes of procuring the hard money I gave you expectations of;
the possessors of it arc not of late accustomed to a paper currency, and keep
their gold and silver close." Washington to General Schuyler, 3 April, 1776.
The Continental bills would not, of course, circulate in Canada.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. n

and without any foundation. You have a copy of
his letter of the ist inst. to this effect. I wish the
alarm had never been given. It occasioned General
Sullivan and his brigade to make an unnecessary and
inconvenient diversion from their route.

Enclosed is a copy of an account presented by the
Honorable General Court of powder furnished the
Continental Army by this Colony. From the account
it appears that part of it was supplied before the
army was under my command, and, therefore I know
nothing of it ; but have not the smallest doubt of
the justice of the charge. I shall leave about two
hundred barrels of this article with Major General
Ward, out of which Congress will direct him to make
a return, if they think proper, and also repayment of
what may have been furnished by the other govern
ments.

A proclamation of General Howe's, issued a few
days before his departure from town, having fallen
into my hands, I have enclosed you a copy, which may
probably have been the occasion of large quantities
of goods being carried away, and the removal of
many persons, which otherwise would not have
happened.1

Colonel Warren, paymaster-general, rinding the
army likely to be removed from hence, informed me
the other day, that the situation of his affairs and en-

1 The following is an extract from the proclamation : — "As linen and woollen
goods are articles much wanted by the rebels, and would aid and assist them in
their rebellion, the Commander-in-chief expects, that all good subjects will
use their utmost endeavours to have all such articles conveyed from this place.
Provision was likewise made for receiving them on board a vessel.

12 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

gagements in the business of the colony are such, as
to prevent him personally attending the army ; and
offered, in case it should be required, to resign. This
was rather embarrassing. To me it appears indis
pensably necessary that the paymaster-general, with
his books, should be at or near head-quarters. In
deed it is usual for the head of every department in
the army, however dispersed that army may be, to
be with the commanding general, keeping deputies
in the smaller departments. On the other hand,
Colonel Warren's merit and attachment to the cause
are such, that I could do nothing less than desire, (as
some money must be left for the pay and contingent
charges of the army which will remain here,) that he
would wait here till Congress shall be pleased to give
their sentiments upon the matter,1 sending in the
meantime some person in whom he could confide
with the money, (but little of which there will be
to carry, tho' great the demands, as nine of the regi
ments which have marched to New York have only
received ^500 each towards their pay for the months
of February and March, and others not one farthing).
I hope therefore this matter will be considered by Con
gress and the result transmitted me as soon as done.

I would also mention to Congress, that the militia
regiments, which were last called upon, in making up
their abstracts, charged pay, the officers from the
time they received orders to raise companies, and the
privates from the time they respectively engaged to

1 Colonel Warren resigned the office of paymaster-general ; and Colonel
Palfrey was appointed as his successor on the 27th of April.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 13

come, or were called upon, though they did not
march for a considerable time after, some not within
three, four, to twenty days, and during all which they
remained at home about their own private affairs, with
out doing any thing else than preparing for the march,
as they say by way of plea. This appeared to me
so exceedingly unreasonable, and so contrary to jus
tice, that the public should pay for a longer time than
from the day of their march to that of their return,
that I ordered the abstracts to be made out accord
ingly, and refused to give warrants on any other
terms. They say that the enlisting orders, which
went out from their governments, give them the pay
they claim. The fact may be, that something in these
may seem to authorize it ; but I must submit it to
Congress, and wish for their decision, whether the
Continent must pay it.1 I am, &c.
P. S. I shall set off to-day.2

TO RICHARD HENRY LEE.

CAMRRIIH;K, 4 April, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

Your favor of the 26th ult. came to my hands last
night, by the post ; but as I am upon the point of
setting out for New York, (by the way of Providence
and Norwich,) I can do little more than acknowledge
the receipt of it, and thank you for the proceedings

" Resolved ', That the pay of the officers and soldiers of the militia, lately
called to Cambridge, commence on the day of their march, ami cease on that
of their return." — Journals of Congress, 4 May, 1/76.

<J Read in Congress April I5th. Referred to Wythe, Harrison, and S. Adams.

i4 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

and ordinances of the Virginia Convention, which
came safely to hand.

At present, the lakes are in an impassable state,
neither being clear of ice, nor covered with such as
will admit of transportation ; at present also, our
troops are at different stages, on their march from
hence to New York ; nor is it possible for me, till I
get there, as the Congress have annexed conditions
to my sending the four battalions to Canada, to tell
whether they can be spared or not, as I am unac
quainted with the number of men, or strength of the
works at that place. No time shall be lost in for
warding three battalions if there is a possibility of
doing it with safety ; as no person can be more sen
sible of the importance of securing Canada than I
am. A letter of the 27th ult. from General Schuy-
ler, informs me that there are many men now stopped
at Albany, on account of the state the ice is in on
the lakes. I thank you for your friendly congratula
tions on the retreat of the king's troops from Bos
ton. It was really a flight ; their embarkation was
so precipitate ; their loading so confused, (after mak
ing greater havoc of the king's stores than Dunbar
did upon Braddock's defeat, which made so much
noise,) that it took them eleven days to fit their
transports, adjust the loads of them, and take in
water from the islands in Nantasket Road after they
had fallen down there. The coast is now clear of
them, except the Renown, (a 50 gun ship,) and one
or two frigates, which remain here for the protection
of such transports as shall be bound to this port. I

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 15

pray you to make my best wishes acceptable to the
good doctor, his lady, and family, &c., and believe
me to be, as I really am, &C.1

TO COMMODORE ESECK HOPKINS. '

NEW YORK, 14 April, 1776.

SIR,

I have just received information that the Naiitihis
sloop of war is arrived here from Newport, said to be

1 " I received yours of the gth instant, and could wish that it was in my
power, consistently with the duty I owe my country, to grant you the relief you
desire. I have made repeated applications to General Howe for an exchange
of prisoners, but he has not thought proper to return me any answer. It has
been in his power to set you at liberty ; and if you are still continued a pris
oner, the blame must lie entirely upon him.

" The situation of your family is indeed distressing ; but such is the event of
war ; it is far from being singular. The brave Colonel Allen, an officer of
rank, has been torn from his dearest connexions, sent to England in irons, and
is now confined to the most servile drudgery on board one of the King's ships.
Your treatment, Sir, and that of the other officers taken in arms against the lib
erties of America, has been very different ; for the truth of this I appeal to
your own feelings. Whenever it is in my power to release you by a mutual
exchange, I shall do it with the greatest pleasure." — Washington to Capt.
Sajiniel McKay, Neiv Haven ^ u April, 1776. McKay was a prisoner in
Hartford.

-Commodore Hopkins arrived in New London from a cruise on the 8th of
April. He had made a descent upon New Providence Island, and brought
away Montfort Brown, governor of the island, Thomas Erwin, a member of
the council, and Mr. Bavage, secretary, and a half-pay officer, and also seventy
prisoners ; besides a quantity of ordnance and military stores taken from Fort
Nassau and Fort Montague. Among them were eighty-eight cannon, from
nine to thirty-six pounders, fifteen mortars, more than five thousand shells,
eleven thousand round shot, twenty-four casks of powder, and other articles of
less importance.

The conduct of Commodore Hopkins in this cruise was disapproved by Con
gress. His orders were to annoy the enemy's ships on the coast of the southern
states, and he was called before Congress to give his reasons for not complying
with them after his descent upon New Providence Island, instead of returning
with his fleet to New London.

The President of Congress wrote to Washington on the I4th of June : —

16 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

sent express from thence for the Asia, Phcenix, and
Savage, and that they are intended for New London
in order to block up your squadron in that harbor. I
thought it my duty to give you notice of this by ex
press, that you might take your measures accordingly.1
The Phoenix, Savage, and Nautilus sailed this morn
ing. The Asia still remains in the harbor. I should
be much obliged to you, if you would forward the can
non and stores I left a list with you for, as soon as
possible ; and as the men-of-war are now out, I should
be extremely glad if you would keep a good look out
to see that the coast is clear, before any more of the
Continental troops embark from New London. I am,
very respectfully, Sir, your most obedient servant."

" The shameful inactivity of our fleet for some time past ; the frequent neglect
or disobedience of orders in Commodore Hopkins ; the numberless complaints
exhibited to the marine committee against him, and also against Captains Snl-
tonstall and Whipple, have induced the Congress, in consequence of a repre
sentation from the marine committee, to order them to repair immediately to
this city to answer for their conduct. T have accordingly written to them to set
out, on the receipt of my letters, and to repair hither by land as fast as possi
ble. T hope soon to have our ships on a more respectable footing. No efforts
of mine shall be wanting to accomplish so desirable an event."

After due inquiry, deliberation, and debate, Congress voted, that the reasons
offered by the Commodore were not satisfactory, and that he deserved the cen
sure of that house, which censure was accordingly inflicted. Journals, Augiist,
\%th, i&h, 1776. His achievement ir taking the governor of a small island
prisoner, and dismantling two forts feebly defended, did not comport with the
dignity, which Congress had attached to the enterprise, nor the expectations
they had formed in fitting out the first Continental fleet, at much expense, and
in the face of many difficulties. Sparks.

1 On the 25th, Washington wrote to Admiral Hopkins that the apprehension
of a blockade was groundless, as the vessels had returned. " I find that they
make a practice of stretching off from and soon returning to this port. This
convinces me that they are in expectation of a fleet, and I am preparing for
their reception."

~ " The General compliments the Officers who have successively commanded
at this Post, and returns his Thanks to them, and to all the officers, and soldiers,

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 17

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NKW YORK, 15 April, 1770.

SIR,

I am now to inform you, that on the 4th instant I
set out from Cambridge, and arrived here on Satur
day last. I came through Providence, Norwich, and
New London, in order to see and expedite the em
barkation of the troops. The third brigade, under
the command of General Greene, was at New London
when I left it, where there was a sufficient number of
transports to embark them ; and most probably they
would have arrived here before thisi had it not been
for a severe storm, which happened the night they

under their Command for the many Works of Defence, which have been so ex-
peditiously erected, and doubts not but the same Spirit of Zeal for the service,
will continue to animate their future conduct.

" All persons infected with the Small-Pox are to be immediately removed to a
secure place, to be provided by the Qr. Mr. Genernl, who will consult the Magis
trates of the City thereupon. A proper guard, to be composed of men, who
have had that Disorder, to be fixed at this hospital, to prevent any intercourse
but such as the manager shall license.

" As the General is unacquainted at present, with the various Orders, for the
good Government of the Troops here, or the reasons which induced the giving of
them ; He directs, that those, and all General Orders be duly attended to and
obeyed until countermanded by himself.

"The General flatters himself, that he shall hear no Complaints from the
Citizens, of abuse, or ill-treatment, in any respect whatsoever ; but that every
Officer and Soldier of every Rank and Denomination, will pride themselves (as
Men contending in the glorious Cause of Liberty ought to do) in an orderly,
decent and regular deportment." — Orderly Book, 14 April, 1776.

" As the Army at this place is lately strongly reinforced, and more of the
Continental establish'd Regiments hourly expected, it is no longer necessary to
detain any of the Militia ; therefore Col. Martin, with 4 Companies of Militia
from Sussex County, in New Jersey, arc dismissed with the General's thanks
for the spirit with which they stepp'd forward in the service of their Country on
this occasion, and for their good Behaviour and Service since they joined the
Army." — Orderly Book, 15 April, 1776.

i8 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

sailed, which dispersed them, and, I fear, has done
them some injury.

General Spencer, with the last brigade, marched
from Roxbury the day I left Cambridge, and would
be at New London, ready to embark in the return
transports, which brought General Sullivan's division
to this place. The whole of the troops may be
reasonably expected here in the course of this week.
The badness of the roads, and difficulty of procuring
teams for bringing the stores and baggage, have
greatly prolonged their arrival at this place.

I have not had time, since I came, to look fully
about me ; but find many works of defence begun,
and some finished. The troops are much dispersed,
some on Long Island, others on Staten Island, &c.

I have ordered four battalions from hence to
Canada, and am taking measures to have them for
warded to Albany by water, with all possible expedi
tion. This will greatly expedite their arrival, and
ease the men of much fatigue. I have written Gen
eral Schuyler of their coming, that he may have
necessary measures taken to hurry their march to
General Thomas.1

I am informed by General Putnam that the militia,

" I cannot but express my concern at the great deficiency of the regiments
destined for Canada, but as I am sensible of the necessity of having a respecta
ble body of troops in that country, I am now preparing to send you four of the
strongest regiments in the service, and you may rely upon it, no time shall be lost
in getting them forward as fast as possible. They will amount to about 2000
rank and file, and will go to Albany by water." Washington to Major General
Thomas, 15 April, 1776. On March 25th, the Continental Congress ordered
Washington to detach four battalions into Canada, from the army under his
command, " as soon as he shall be of opinion that the safety of New York and
the eastern service will permit." 'Journals.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 19

that were called in for the support of this town, in
case the ministerial army had arrived before our
troops, are all discharged, it being unnecessary to
keep them longer.

All the ships of war, besides the Asia, moved out
of this harbor on Saturday, and the Asia yesterday ;
some of which are now below the Narrows, and the
rest gone to sea.

Your favor of the roth instant by Major Sherburne,
directed to General Putnam or the commanding offi
cer here, came to hand on Saturday evening, with
three boxes of money, which I shall deliver to the.
paymaster as soon as he arrives, and transmit you his
receipt for the same.

Having received information from hence before my
departure from Cambridge, that thirty pieces of heavy
cannon were wanting, and essentially necessary for
the defence of this place, in addition to those already
here, I took the liberty of applying to Admiral Hop
kins, whom I saw at New London, for that number,
with the mortars and stores he brought from Provi
dence Island, a list of which he had transmitted you.
He told me, that, as many were wanting for the
defence of Providence River and the harbor at New
London, it was uncertain whether I could have all I
wanted ; but that he would send me all that could be
spared.1 I have not been able to get a return of the
troops since I came. As soon as I do it, I will send
it to you. I am, Sir, &c.J

1 Journals of Congress, 19 April, 1776.

• Read in Congress, April l8th. Referred to Read, Clinton, and Braxton.

20 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO JOSEPH REED.

NEW YORK, 15 April, 1776.

MY DEAR SIR,

Your favor of the I3th was this instant put into
my hands, scarce time enough to acknowledge the
receipt of it (by this Post,) and to thank you for your
great care and attention in providing my Camp
Equipage. Whatever the list you sent may fall
short of your intention of providing, can be got here ;
and may be delayed ; as the want or not of them,
will depend upon circumstances.

I am exceedingly concerned to hear of the divisions
and parties, which prevail with you, and in the south
ern colonies, on the score of independence. These
are the shelves we have to avoid, or our bark will
split and tumble to pieces. Here lies our great dan
ger, and I almost tremble when I think of this rock.
Nothing but disunion can hurt our cause. This will
ruin it, if great prudence, temper, and moderation is
not mixed in our counsels, and made the governing
principles of the contending parties.1 When, my

1 A proposition to reform the provincial government had been introduced in
the Convention of South Carolina on the roth of February, and Gadsden in
submitting it had spoken for the independence of America. The contest was
long and bitter, as the faction opposed to independence was numerous and ably
led ; and it was not until the end of March that opposition was overcome, and
a constitution adopted. To this result the act of Parliament authorizing the
capture of American vessels largely contributed. The first legislature chosen
under the new constitution leaned towards measures of reconciliation.

" I have ever thought, and am still of opinion, that no terms of accommoda
tion will be offered by the British ministry, but such as cannot be accepted by
America. We have nothing, my dear Sir, to depend upon but the protection
of a kind Providence, and unanimity among ourselves. I am impressed with
the deepest gratitude for the high honor intended me by Congress. Whatever
device may be determined upon by the respectable committee they have chosen

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 21

good Sir, will you be with me ? I fear I shall have a
difficult card to play in this Government [New York],
and could wish for your assistance and advice to man
age it. I have not time to add more, except that
with great sincerity and truth I am, dear Sir, your
most obedient and affectionate humble servant.

P. S. Mrs. Washington, &c., came the Hartford
Road, and not yet arrived — detain'd by the illness
(on the Road) of poor Mr. Custis, who is now better
and coming on.1

TO THE COMMITTEE OE SAFETY OK NEW YORK.

HEAD-QUARTERS, 17 April, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

There is nothing that could add more to my happi
ness, than to go hand in hand with the civil authority
of this, or any other government, to which it may be
my lot to be ordered ; and, if in the prosecution of
such measures as shall appear to me to have a mani
fest tendency to promote the interest of the great
American cause, I shall encounter the local conven-

for that purpose will be highly agreeable tome." Washington to John Adams,
15 April, 1776. The last sentence alludes to a medal proposed to be struck by
Congress to commemorate the evacuation of Boston. See p. 26.

1 " If the British Troops which evacuated Boston, or any part of them, are
destined for this place, their arrival may be very soon expected. — The Engin
eers and Overseers of the works are therefore to use every possible dispatch in
compleating them — To this end the Engineers are to apply to the Adjutant
General, for as many Men as can usefully be employed, and he will give orders
accordingly.

"Col. Prescot's Regiment is to encamp on Governor's Island, as .-,0011 as the
weather clears, they are to give every Assistance in their power, to facilitate the
works erecting thereon. The Qr. Mr. General will furnish Straw for the Tents
and Firewood.

" As some inconveniences have to the Citizens of this place, by having the

22 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

ience of individuals, or even of a whole colony, I beg
it may be believed, that I shall do it with reluctance
and pain ; but, in the present important contest, the
least of two evils must be preferred.

That a continuance of the intercourse, which has
hitherto subsisted between the inhabitants of this
colony and the enemy on board their ships of war,
is injurious to the common cause, requires no extra
ordinary abilities to prove. A moment's reflection
not only evinces this truth, but points out the glaring
absurdity of such a procedure. We are to consider
ourselves either in a state of peace or of war with
Great Britain. If the former, why are our ports shut
up, our trade destroyed, our property seized, our
towns burnt, and our worthy and valuable citizens

Countersign demanded of them, so early as Nine o'clock — The General orders
that Taptoo-beating be delayed for the future 'til Ten, flattering himself (as
there is no distinguishing Citizens from Soldiers, nor no other possible method
of keeping the latter to their quarters, and of consequence, from rioting and dis
orderly behaviour) that it will be found less Inconvenient to the Inhabitants (to
say nothing of the security which is to be derived from it) to give the Counter
sign at that hour, than submit to the greater Inconveniences which may arise
out of the neglect of it. After this Hour, it is strictly enjoined upon the officers
to see that their Rolls are called and that the Men are in quarters." — Orderly
Book, 1 6 April, 1776.

'' The General being informed that many of the Houses taken up for barracks,
are much abused by the Soldiers, which is a Grievance that might be prevented,
by the Officers paying a proper attention to their duty, and more carefully ob
serving the Conduct, and Behavior of their men — The Barrack Master is there
fore order' d to place a proper proportion of Officers in the same Houses with
the Soldiers, who are to be answerable for any mischief done, to prevent any
wood being cut upon the Floors, or any Water, or Filth thrown out of the
Windows ; as all Damages wantonly committed must be paid for, out of the
pay of the Men quartered in the House where such Damage is done. — The
Offenders must also expect to suffer a severe corporal punishment for any breach
of these orders. The Officers are moreover expressly order'd to see, that the
Men's Barracks are kept clean and the General again urges the necessity of the
same Cleanliness being observed in the persons of the soldiers." — Orderly Book,
17 April, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON.

led into captivity, and suffering the most cruel hard
ships ? If the latter, my imagination is not fertile
enough to suggest a reason in support of the inter
course.

In the weak and defenceless state, in which this
city was some time ago, political prudence might jus
tify the correspondence, that subsisted between the
country and the enemy's ships of war ; but, as the
largest part of the Continental troops is now here ;
as many strong works are erected and erecting for
the defence of the city and harbor, those motives no
longer exist, but are absorbed in others of a more
important nature. To tell you, Gentlemen, that the
advantages of an intercourse of this kind are alto-

o

gether on the side of the enemy, whilst we derive not
the smallest benefit from it, would be telling what
must be obvious to every one. It is, indeed, so
glaring, that even the enemy themselves must despise
us for suffering it to be continued ; for, besides their
obtaining supplies of every kind, by which they are
enabled to continue in your harbors, it also opens a
regular channel of intelligence, by which they are,
from time to time, made acquainted with the number
and extent of our works, our strength, and all our
movements ; by which they are enabled to regulate
their own plans, to our great disadvantage and injury.
For the truth of this, I could produce instances ; but,
as it may be the subject of future discussion, I decline
it at present. It would, Gentlemen, be taking up too
much of your time, to use further arguments in proof
of the necessity of putting an immediate and total
stop to all further correspondence with the enemy.

24 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

It is my incumbent duty to effect this, convinced as I
am of the disadvantages resulting from it ; and it
cannot be thought strange or hard, that, under such
conviction, I should be anxious to remove an evil,
which may contribute, not a little, to the ruin of the
great cause we are engaged in, and may, in its effects,
prove highly detrimental to this colony in particular.
In effecting the salutary purposes above mentioned,
I could wish for the concurrence and support of your
honorable body. It certainly adds great weight to
the measures adopted, when the civil authority coop
erates with the military to carry them into execution.
It would also redound much to the honor of the gov
ernment, and of your Committee in particular ; for
the world is apt to judge from appearances ; ' and,

1 Tn August when a collision threatened between the provincials and the loy
alists and British, Governor Tryon met the provincial Congress and urged them
not to carry matters to extremities, proposing that no further attempts on the
king's stores should be made, that the guns taken from the battery should
remain on the Common, and that fresh provisions should be supplied to the
vessels. " I was heard with temper and attention. The city has remained
quiet since, and fresh provisions are tu be delivered on the governor's Island
for the Asia." Still he admitted the " determined spirit of resistance " that per
vaded the Colonies, and that " the Americans from politicians are now becoming
soldiers." Governor Tryon to the Earl of Dartmouth, 5 September, 1775. This
arrangement so far as provisioning the king's vessels appears lo have continued,
" some very short capricious intervals excepted," until Washington's arrival at
New York.

The Committee acceded fully to his requisition, and the day following passed
a resolution prohibiting all persons from holding any intercourse with the King's
vessels in the harbor, on penalty of being dealt with in the severest manner
as enemies to the rights and liberties of the United Colonies.

"Whereas, an intercourse and correspondence with the ships of war, and
other vessels belonging to, and in the service of the king of Great Britain, is
highly detrimental to the rights and liberties of the said colonies. And
whereas, the Committee of Safety of the Colony of New York, taking the same
under their consideration, on the i8th inst. did resolve and order, ' That no
inhabitant of said Colony on any pretence, or for any purpose whatsoever, either

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 25

while such a correspondence exists, the reputation of
the whole colony will suffer in the eyes of their
American brethren.

It is therefore, Gentlemen, that I have taken the
liberty to address you on this important subject, re
lying on your zeal and attachment to the cause of
American liberty, for your assistance in putting a stop
to this evil, and that you will cooperate with me in
such measures as shall be effectual, either to prevent
any future correspondence with the enemy, or in
bringing to condign punishment such persons, as may
be hardy and wicked enough to carry it on, otherwise
than by a prescribed mode, if any case can possibly
arise to require it. I have the honor to be, with the
utmost respect, Gentlemen, &c.

in person or in writing, should directly or indirectly presume to have, or main
tain any fntercour.se whatsoever, with any ship belonging to, or em ployed in
the service of the said king, or with any of his officers or ministers, or with any
person or persons onboard the same, on pain of being dealt with in the severest
manner.' Notwithstanding which, there is reason to believe that sundry base
and wicked persons, preferring their own present private emolument to their
country's weal, have continued to carry on the same, particularly some who
under pretence of coming to the market of this city by water, have put them
selves, their vessels and effects in the way of the said ships of war, for the
purposes of giving intelligence and furnishing them with supplies of provision,
and have been taken. To the end that such evil and pernicious practices may
be remedied and prevented in future, I hereby publish and declare, that if any
person or persons shall hereafter presume to have, hold, or to continue to carry-
on such intercourse, or any kind of correspondence whatsoever, or furnish and
supply the said ships of war, and other vessels in such service with provisions and
necessaries of any kind, that he or the)-, so offending, will be deemed and con
sidered as an enemy or enemies to the rights of the said colonies, and if appre
hended will be treated accordingly.

" And 1 do hereby will and require all officers and soldiers in the army under
my command, and most earnestly entreat all persons well attached to the
interest of the said colonies, to vise their utmost care and diligence for prevent
ing the same, and apprehending and securing all persons who shall be guilty
thereof." General Washington s Proclamation, 29 April, 1776.

26 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.1

NEW YORK, 18 April, 1776.

SIR,

Permit me, through you, to convey to the honora
ble Congress the sentiments of gratitude I feel for the
high honor they have done me in the public mark of

1 When the Congress received intelligence of the evacuation of Boston, they
resolved, " That the thanks of this Congress, in their own name, and in the
name of the thirteen United Colonies, whom they represent, be presented to
his Excellency General Washington, and the officers and soldiers under his
command, for their wise and spirited conduct at the siege and acquisition of
Boston ; and that a medal be struck in commemoration of this great event, and
presented to his Excellency ; and that a committee of three be appointed to
prepare a letter of thanks, and a proper device for the medal." The committee
were John Adams, John Jay, and Stephen Hopkins.

" It gives me the most sensible pleasure to convey to you, by order of Con
gress, the only tribute which a free people will ever consent to pay, the tribute
of thanks and gratitude to their friends and benefactors. The disinterested and
patriotic principles, which led you to the field, have also led you to glory ; and
it affords no little consolation to your countrymen to reflect, that, as a peculiar
greatness of mind induced you to decline any compensation for serving them,
except the pleasure of promoting their happiness, they may without your per
mission bestow upon you the largest share of their affections and esteem.

' ' Those pages in the annals of America will record your title to a conspicuous
place in the temple of fame, which shall inform posterity, that, under your
direction, an undisciplined band of husbandmen in the course of a few months
became soldiers ; and that the desolation meditated against the country by
a brave army of veterans, commanded by the most experienced generals, but
employed by bad men in the worst of causes, was, by the fortitude of your
troops, and the address of their officers, next to the kind interposition of Provi
dence, confined for near a year within such narrow limits, as scarcely to admit
more room than was necessary for the encampments and fortifications they
lately abandoned. Accept, therefore, Sir, the thanks of the United Colonies,
unanimously declared by their delegates to be due to you, and the brave officers
and troops under your command ; and be pleased to communicate to them this
distinguished mark of the approbation of their country. The Congress have
ordered a golden medal, adapted to the occasion, to be struck, and when
finished to be presented to you.

" I have the honor to be, with every sentiment of esteem, Sir, your most
obedient and very humble servant." Hancock to Washington, 2 April, 1776.

A private letter from Mr. Adams, written at the same time, will show the
lively interest and the agency, which he took in the affair : —

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 27

approbation contained in your favor of the 2d instant,
which came to hand last night. I beg- you to assure
them, that it will ever be my highest ambition to
approve myself a faithful servant of the public ; and
that to be in any degree instrumental in procuring to

" I congratulate you, as well as all the friends of mankind, on the reduction
of Boston ; an event, which appeared to me of so great and decisive import
ance, that, the next morning after the arrival of the news, I did myself
the honor to move for the thanks of Congress to your Excellency, and that a
medal of gold should be struck in commemoration of it. Congress have been
pleased to appoint me, with two other gentlemen, to prepare a device. I should
be very happy to have your Excellency's sentiments concerning a proper one."

The medal, which was struck in Paris, contains on the obverse a head of
Washington in profile, exhibiting an excellent likeness, and around it the
inscription :

GEORGIO WASHINGTON SVPREMO DVCI EXEKCITVVM AD-
SERTORI LIBERTATIS COMITIA AMERICANA.

On the reverse is the town of Boston in the distance, with a fleet in view
under sail. Washington and his officers are on horseback in the foreground, and
he is pointing to the ships as they depart from the harbor. The inscription is

HOSTIBVS PRIMO FVGATIS BOSTONIVM RECVPERATVM XVII
MARTII MDCCLXXVI.

This gold medal became the property of George Steptoe Washington, a son of
Samuel Washington, who was the elder brother of the General. From him it
passed to his eldest son, Dr. Samuel Walter Washington, and on his death to
his widow, who gave it to her only son George Lafayette Washington. During
the civil war it was buried in the cellar of a house at Harper's Ferry, where Mr.
Washington resided, and in 1876 was purchased from his widow by a few citi
zens of Boston and presented to the city, to be preserved in the Boston Public
Library.

" The Honorable the Continental Congress have been pleased to direct the
Thanks of the United Colonies to be presented to the Officers, and Soldiers of
their Army ; who with unremitted Courage, and Perseverance, surmounted
every Effort of the enemy, and every Obstacle of that severe Climate, in per
sisting for eleven Months, in the Blockade, and Siege of Boston, and finally
forcing their enemies to make a shameful and precipitate Retreat, from that
once devoted town.

" This honorable Mark of the approbation of the Congress, would have been
inserted sooner in the General-Orders had not their Express gone to the East
ward, while the Army was upon the march and arriv'd only last evening from
Boston." Orderly Book, 1 8 April, 1776.

28 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

my American brethren a restitution of their just rights
and privileges, will constitute my chief happiness.

Agreeable to your request, I have communicated,
in general orders, to the officers and soldiers under
my command, the thanks of Congress for their good
behavior in the service ; and I am happy in having
such an opportunity of doing justice to their merit.
They were indeed, at first, "a band of undisciplined
husbandmen" ; but it is, (under God,) to their bravery
and attention to their duty, that I am indebted for
that success, which has procured me the only reward
I wish to receive, the affection and esteem of my
countrymen.

The medal, intended to be presented to me by your
honorable body, I shall carefully preserve as a memo
rial of their regard. I beg leave to return you, Sir,
my warmest thanks for the polite manner in which
you have been pleased to express their sentiments of
my conduct ; and am, with sincere esteem and respect,
Sir, your and their most obedient and most humble
servant.

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NFAV YORK, 19 April, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

Yours of the i2th instant from Fort George was
delivered me (with the enclosures) yesterday by ex
press. I agree with you, that the intelligence is very
alarming and requires the strictest attention.1 The

1 When General Wooster left Montreal for Quebec, March 27th, the com
mand of the former place devolved on Colonel Hazen, who wrote to General
Schuyler, on the 1st of April, as follows : —

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 29

four regiments ordered from hence are now embark
ing, and I hope will soon be with you. I need not
urge the necessity of forwarding them from Albany
with all possible despatch. You will have with the
troops five hundred barrels of provisions. The com-

" You are not unacquainted with the friendly disposition of the Canadians,
when General Montgomery first penetrated into the country ; the ready assist
ance which they gave on all occasions, by men, carnages, or provisions, was
most remarkable. Even when he was before Quebec, many parishes offered
their services in the reduction of that fortress, which were at that time thought
unnecessary. But his most unfortunate fate, added to other incidents, has
caused such a change in their disposition, that we no longer look upon them as
friends, but on the contrary waiting an opportunity to join our enemies. That
no observations of my own may remain obscure, I beg leave to observe, that I
think the clergy, or guardians of the souls and conductors of the bodies of these
enthusiasts, have been neglected, perhaps in some instances ill-used. Be that
as it will, they are unanimous, though privately, against our cause, and I have
too much reason to fear many of them, with other people of some consequence,
have carried on a correspondence the whole winter with General Carleton in
Quebec, and are now plotting our destruction. The peasantry in general have
been ill-used. They have, in some instances, been dragooned with the point
of the bayonet to supply wood for the garrison at a lower rate than the current
price. P'or carriages and many other articles furnished, certificates have been
given not legible, without signature, the one half of consequence rejected by
the quartermaster-general. It is true, payment has been promised from time
to time ; yet they look upon such promises as vague, their labor and property
lost, and the Congress or United Colonies bankrupt. And in a more material
point, they have not seen sufficient force in the country to protect them. These
matters furnish very strong arguments to be made use of by our enemies. With
respect to the better sort of people, both French and English, seven eighths
are Tories, who would wish to see our throats cut, and perhaps would readily
assist in doing it.

" You may remember, Sir, in a conversation with you at Albany, I urged
the necessity of sending immediately to Canada able generals, a respectable
army, a Committee of Congress, a suitable supply of hard cash, and a printer.
Indeed, I had before represented those measures in person to Congress, at
least to the Committee of Congress, and we have since been flattered from
time to time that we should have one or all of these essentials." — MS. Letter.

"All Persons serving in the Continental Army without Commissions from
Congress, are desired to give in their names and Employments in writing, that
the propriety of their appointments, and the nature of their duty may be
judged of." — Orderly Book, 19 April, 1776.

3o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

missary-general expects every moment a large quan
tity from Connecticut, and what can be spared of it
shall be sent to you in the same bottoms, without
delay. What General Lee contracted for is not yet
delivered. His sudden and unexpected departure to
the southward left the contractors at a loss where to
deliver the provisions, and apply for the pay. The
commissary-general has since renewed the contract,
and ordered them to send provisions here.

I have ordered a return to be made of the state
of our magazine, and if the powder you request can
possibly be spared, you shall have it.

I have wrote to Congress to know whether they
would incline to send you a further reinforcement of
men ; but we are yet in a very uncertain situation,
not knowing where the enemy may bend their force,
and constant applications [are made] from all quar
ters of the seacoast for a supply of men and ammu
nition. The recruits, that have been raised here, are
totally unfurnished with arms, and, what is still
worse, we do not know where to procure them.1

1 " For my own part I have done my utmost to forward the four regiments
ordered by Congress, but a variety of incidents have hitherto conspired to pre
vent their embarkation. The men had scarcely recovered themselves from the
fatigues of their march from Boston, and are quite unprovided with neces
saries. The colonels of the regiments though repeatedly called upon for that
purpose had neglected making out the abstracts for their pay. All obstacles,
however, are now removed, and I hope to begin the embarkation this day.
Indeed it would have been best in my opinion to have sent the regiments
raised in this Province and New Jersey upon the service, had not the peculiar
circumstances under which they were raised prevented it. By the terms of
their enlistment they are to serve during the war and at five dollars per month,
on condition (as I am informed) that they shall not be sent out of these prov
inces. Besides they are very ill provided with arms, some companies not having
any. It must be a great burthen upon the Continent to keep such a number
of useless men in pay, and yet if they should be dismissed and an unex-

i776j GEORGE WASHINGTON. 31

You, who know the temper and disposition of the
savages, will, I doubt not, think with me, that it will
be impossible to keep them in a state of neutrality.
I have urged upon Congress the necessity of enga
ging them on our side, to prevent their taking an
active part against us, which would be a most fatal
stroke under our present circumstances.1 The com-

pected supply of arms should arrive, it may be found very difficult to replace
them." — Washington to the President of Congress, 19 April, 1776.

1 Colonel Hazen had written from Montreal to General Schuyler : — " The
savages hereabouts are cool ; they keep aloof from us ; we are to expect little
or no friendship from them, and indeed little or no precaution has been taken
for that purpose. It is expected by some, that numbers will come from the
interior country, and fall on our frontiers early in the spring. The Canadians
taking up arms so early against us is of the most important consequence. We
have ourselves brought about by mismanagement, what Governor Carleton
himself could never effect."

" You will please to notice what Colonel Hazen says of the disposition of
the Indians. In my opinion, it will be impossible to keep them in a state of
neutrality. They must, and, no doubt, soon will take an active part either for
or against us ; and I submit it to the consideration of Congress, whether it
would not be best immediately to engage them on our side, and to use our
utmost endeavors to prevent their minds being poisoned by ministerial emis
saries, which will ever be the case, while a King's garrison is suffered to
remain in their country. Would it not therefore be advisable to send a suffi
cient force from the back counties of Pennsylvania, to take possession of the
garrisons of Niagara and Detroit? This, I think, might easily be effected, and
would answer the most salutary purposes. The Seneca Indians, who have
hitherto appeared friendly to us, might be usefully employed in this business.

" I am in hopes most of the difficulties mentioned in Colonel Hazen's letter
will be obviated by the appearance of the respectable committee of Congress in
Canada, and the forces that have been and will be sent there. The security of
that country is of the utmost importance to us. This cannot be done so
effectually by conquest, as by taking strong hold of the affections and confi
dence of the inhabitants. It is to be lamented, that any conduct of the Con
tinental troops should tend to alienate their affections from us. The honorable
Congress will be able to judge from the papers sent them by General Schuyler,
and the information they may receive of the designs of the enemy, whether it
is expedient to send a further reinforcement to Canada. If such should be
their determination, I stand ready to execute their orders.'' — Washington to
the President of Congress, 19 April. 1776. See Journals of Congress, 23
and 29 April, 1776.

32 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

motions among the Canadians are really alarming. I
am afraid proper measures have not been taken to
conciliate their affections ; but rather that they have
been insulted and injured, than which nothing could
have a greater tendency to ruin our cause in that
country. For human nature is such, that it will
adhere to the side from whence the best treatment
is received. I therefore conjure you, Sir, to recom
mend to the officers and soldiers in the strongest
terms to treat all the inhabitants, Canadians, Eng
lish, and savages, with tenderness and respect, pay
ing them punctually for what they receive, or giving
them such certificates as will enable them to receive
their pay.

As you are perfectly well acquainted with the
country and its inhabitants in and about Albany, I
think it would be best for you to remain there, at
least until the troops and all their supplies are for
warded from thence to Canada. Besides the four regi
ments ordered for that service, I shall send a com
pany of riflemen, a company of artificers, and two
engineers. I beg you will continue to furnish me
with intelligence of every interesting occurrence, and
believe me, most affectionately, your obedient hum
ble servant.

TO THE NEW YORK COMMITTEE OF SAFETY.

20 April, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

I thank you for the polite and ready attention
you paid to my requisition of the 1 7th Instant.
When the Civil & Military Powers Co-operate, and

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 33

afford mutual Aid to each other there can be little
doubt of things going well — I have now to request
the favor of your information in what manner and in
what time a Body of 2000 or 2500 Militia might be
collected from this Colony for actual Service upon
any Sudden Emergency.

Although we may not, and I trust in God shall
not have occasion for their Aid — common prudence
does nevertheless dictate the Expediency of a pre
concerted Plan for calling them in, that in Case of
necessity they may be drawn together in proper
Corps without tumult or disorder, and at the same
time with the utmost expedition — This will not be the
Case if men are not regularly embodied and notified
that they are to step forth at a moments warning.

The Idea that strikes me as the properest to be
pursued at present, is, to establish out of the Con
tinental Forces, good lookouts on the Heights and
Head Lands at the Entrance of the Harbor, who,
upon the appearance of a Fleet shall make such sig
nals as being answered from place to place shall
convey the earliest intelligence to Head Quarters of
the strength and approach of the Enemy — These
signals for greater Certain ty to be followed by Ex
presses, and then, in Case anything formidable should
appear for the Committee of Safety, if sitting, if not
those to whom the power shall be delegated, upon
application from the Commanding officer of the
Continental Forces to order in two or more Battallions
as the Exigency of the Case may require, or for
greater dispatch such Militia or part of them as

34 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

shall be allotted to this Service by the Committee
might be assembled (if in the Town or Vicinity) by
Signals to be agreed on.

A mode of proceeding of a similar kind concerted
with Jersey would bring in a reinforcement speedily
and without those irregularities and unnecessary Ex-
pences which but too frequently attend the move
ment of Militia.

Thus Gentlemen, I have express'd my Sentiment
to you upon the occasion — Your prudence will sug
gest to you the necessity of adopting these, or other
methods of a like nature, and your wisdom will
point out the most effectual and expeditious manner
of carrying them into Execution. — 1 therefore sub
mit them to your Consideration and am with great
respect, &c.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 22 April, 1776.

SIR,

I was this day honored with the receipt of your
favor of the 2Oth instant.

I have now the pleasure to acquaint you, that the
four regiments designed for Canada embarked yes
terday with a fair wind for Albany, under the com
mand of Colonels Greaton, Patterson, Bond, and
Poor ; besides which there was a company of rifle
men, a company of artificers, and two engineers, the
whole commanded by Brigadier-General Thompson.

I have repeatedly mentioned to the honorable Con
gress the distressful situation we are in for want of

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 35

arms. With much pains and difficulty I got most of
the regiments from the eastward tolerably well fur
nished ; but I find the [New | York regiments very
badly provided. Colonel Ritzema's has scarcely any ;
and yet these men, being enlisted during the war, and
at five dollars per month, ought not, (in my judg
ment), to be discharged ; as we find it almost as diffi
cult to get men as arms. This is a matter of some
importance, which I should be glad to receive the
particular opinion of Congress upon.1 Mr. Baldwin
is one of the assistant-engineers ordered to Canada.
He is indeed a very useful man in his department,
but he declined the service on account of his pay,
which he says is inadequate to his support. In order
to induce him to continue, I promised to represent
his case to Congress ; and would recommend an in
crease of his pay, and that he should have the rank
of lieutenant-colonel, of which he is very deserving.
I beg leave therefore to recommend him to the Con
gress, and that they would make provision for him
accordingly.3

A few days ago, application was made to me by
the Committee of Safety for this colony for an ex
change of prisoners. For the particulars I beg leave
to refer you to their letter, a copy of which you have,
enclosed. As there is a standing order of Congress,
that no sailors or soldiers shall be exchanged for citi
zens, I did not incline to comply with the request

1 Congress resolved, that no troops should he disbanded for want of arms.
Journals, 26 April, 1776.

2 This recommendation was successful, and Mr. Baldwin was allowed the pay
and rank of lieutenant-colonel on the Continental establishment.

36 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

without the particular direction of Congress ; but I
have been since informed, that the prisoners, men
tioned in the Committee's letter as citizens, are really
seamen taken from private vessels, but not in arms.
How far this may alter the case, or how far the rea
sons which induced the Congress to pass the resolve
abovementioned may still exist, must be left to their
determination.

The militia, who, on my application, were ordered
to this place to keep possession, until I should arrive
with the Continental forces, were obliged to return
home without their pay, as there was not then money
sufficient in the treasury for that purpose, and to an
swer the exigencies of the army. This occasioned
great uneasiness among them, and may be attended
with very bad consequences, in case we should have
occasion for their service on any future emergency.
I therefore beg the Congress would make provision
for their pay, and point out particularly whether it is
to be done by the commander of the Continental
forces, or by the Provincial Assemblies or Conven
tions from whence they are sent.

As the time for which the riflemen enlisted will ex
pire on the ist of July next, and as the loss of such a
valuable and brave body of men will be of great in
jury to the service, I would submit it to the considera
tion of Congress, whether it would not be best to
adopt some method to induce them to continue.
They are indeed a very useful corps ; but I need not
mention this, as their importance is already well
known to the Congress. It is necessary they should

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 37

pay an early attention to this matter, as we know from
past experience that men are very slow in re-enlisting.1
When I had the honor of seeing Admiral Hopkins
at New London, he represented to me the weak state
of his fleet, occasioned by sickness and the damage
he received in his engagement with the enemy 2 ; and
requested I would spare him two hundred men to
assist him in a design he had formed of attacking
Wallace. This I readily consented to ; and the men
are to be returned as soon as the service is performed.
I wish it was in my power at present to furnish Gen
eral Lee with the companies of artillery he desires.3
I have already sent two companies to Quebec ; and I
have not yet been able to procure a return of those
that are here. I expect Colonel Knox every moment,
and shall then be able to determine whether any can
be spared from hence.4 Blankets we are in great want
of ourselves ; and it was with great difficulty a few
could be procured for the riflemen, that were ordered
for Canada.

1 The companies of riflemen, raised in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia,
by order of Congress, were, by the terms of their enlistment, to serve one year,
unless sooner discharged. Congress authorized and directed the officers of these
companies, and of independent rifle companies, to re-enlist the men, and enlist
recruits, for two years' service, liable to be sooner discharged upon receiving a
month's pay in advance.

>J " The Nautilus, Capt. Collins, came in here the nth inst., and brings an
account from Captain Wallace's squadron at Rhode Island, that on the 6th.
inst. an engagement happened between the Glasgow and the five ships of the
Continental fleet." Governor Tryon to Lord George Germaine, 15 April, 177°-
The engagement occurred off Block Island, and the Americans were repulsed.

M Lee had asked Congress for a company of artillery, and Congress referred
his request to Washington.

4 At the request of the Governor of Rhode Island, Colonel Knox had gone to
Newport for the purpose of giving advice respecting the erection of works of
defence at that place.

38 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I enclose you Mr. Winthrop's receipt for two hun
dred thousand dollars brought some time ago from
Philadelphia by Major Sherburne, which you will
please to deliver to the Continental treasurers.

On my arrival here I found that Mr. Livingston
had been appointed by the Provincial Congress a
Commissary to furnish the Continental troops sta
tioned in this city, with provisions. I suppose this
was done because there was no Continental Com
missary then on the spot. Mr. Livingston still claims
a right of furnishing all the troops but those lately
arrived from Cambridge. Mr. Trumbull is now here,

O

and as I consider him as the principal in that office I
should be glad to know whether any part of the Con
tinental troops is to be furnished by any other than
the Commissary General. I must needs say that to
me it appears very inconsistent, and must create great
confusion in the accounts as well as in the contracts.
I intended to have laid before Congress the amount
of the rations as supplied by Colonel Trumbull and
Mr. Livingston, and called upon those gentlemen to
furnish me with a separate estimate for that purpose.
Col. Trumbull has given me his, by which it appears
he supplies the troops at 8^/ per ration. I have not
yet received any from Mr. Livingston but am in
formed his contract is at \®\d. The difference is
immense as it will amount to no less than two hun
dred pounds per day for 20,000 men. It is indeed to
be considered that Mr. Livingston's contract is in
cluding every other charge, and that to Mr. Trumbull's
must be added store hire, clerks, and every other

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 39

contingent expense, but even then it will not amount
to so much as Mr. Livingston's by a penny per ration
which in the gross will be something very consider
able. I thought it my duty, without prejudice or
partiality to state the matter fairly to Congress that
they might take such order upon it as to them shall
seem necessary. I cannot however in justice to Mr.
Trumbull help adding that he has been indefatigable
in supplying the army, and I believe from his connec
tions in New England, is able to do it on as good
terms as any person in America.

The several matters contained in the foregoing
I must beg the early attention of Congress to, and
that I may be favored with an answer as soon as
possible.1

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 23 April, 1776.

SIR,

In a letter, which I had the honor to receive from
Congress some considerable time ago, they were
pleased to ask what rank aids-de-camp bore in the
army ; from whence I concluded, that they had ad
verted to the extraordinary trouble and confinement
of those gentlemen, with a view to make them an
adequate allowance. But nothing being since done
or said of the matter, I take the liberty, unsolicited
by, and unknown to my aids-de-camp, to inform your
honorable body, that their pay is not by any means
equal to their trouble and confinement.

1 Read in Congress, April 25th. Referred to R. H. Lee, J. Adams, and Hewes.

40 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

No person wishes more to save money to the pub
lic, than I do ; and no person has aimed more at it.
But there are some cases in which parsimony may be
ill-placed ; and this I take to be one. Aids-de-camp
are persons in whom entire confidence must be placed ;
it requires men of abilities to execute the duties with
propriety and despatch, where there is such a multi
plicity of business, as must attend the Commander-
in-chief of such an army as ours ; and persuaded I
am, that nothing but the zeal of those gentlemen,
who live with me and act in this capacity, for the
great American cause, and personal attachment to
me, have induced them to undergo the trouble and
confinement they have experienced, since they have
become members of my family.

I give in to no kind of amusements myself; and
consequently those about me can have none, but are
confined from morning till eve, hearing and answering
the applications and letters of one and another,
which will now, 1 expect, receive a considerable addi
tion, as the business of the northern and eastern
departments, (if I continue here,) must, I suppose,
pass through my hands. If these gentlemen had the
same relaxation from duty as other officers have in
their common routine, there would not be so much in
it. But, to have the rnincl always upon the stretch,
scarce ever unbent, and no hours for recreation,
makes a material odds. Knowing this, and at the
same time how inadequate the pay is, I can scarce
find inclination to impose the necessary duties of
their office upon them. To what I have here said,
this further remark may be made, and it is a matter

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 41

of no small concernment to me, and, in its conse
quences, to the public, and that is, that, while the
duty is hard and the pay small, it is not to be
wondered at, if there should be found a promptness
in them to seek preferment, or in me to do justice to
them by facilitating their views ; by which means I
must lose their aid, when they have it most in their
power to assist me. Influenced by these motives, I
have taken the liberty of laying the matter fully and
with all due deference before your honorable body,
not doubting its meeting with a patient hearing.1 I
am, &c.2

'I'D JOSEPH REED.

NEW YORK, 23 April, 1776.

MY DEAR SIR.

I have been favored with several of your Letters
since I came to this place, some of them indeed
after getting pretty well advanced on the Road
towards Boston — My extreame hurry with one kind
of business and engagement or another, leaves me
little more than time to express my concern for your
Indisposition and the interposition of other obstacles
to prevent me from receiving that aid from you
which I have been wishing for & hourly expecting.

Your Letter of the i8th descriptive of the jealous
ies and uneasinesses which exist among the Members
of Congress is really alarming — if the House is
divided, the fabrick must fall, and a few Individuals

1 The pay of an aid-de-camp to the Commander-in-chief was at first fixed at
thirty-three dollars a month. In consequence of this letter, it was raised to
forty dollars. The rank was that of lieutenant-colonel. The aids-de-camp of
major-generals ranked as majors.

2 Read April 25th. Referred to R. H. Lee, J. Adams, and Henry.

42 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

perish in the Ruins. — For the occurrences of this
place I shall beg leave to refer you to Mr. Palfrey,
who at the particular request of Mr. Hancock comes
to Philadelphia.

The sooner my Camp Equipage is sent to this
place the better, that it may be ready for any Service
I may be sent, or find necessary to go upon — If you
could hire Horses to bring the Waggon &c. to this
place and could conveniently and readily, sell those
two you bought I would now rather wish it as the
use for them is uncertain, and the expense of keeping
(Provender being both scarce and dear) great — to
which may be added that I have not the same occa
sion now as when I first required them, having taken
four of the Troop Horses, which were found in Bos
ton and which answered the purpose exceeding well
from Cambridge here to fit out my Baggage Wag
gons. I do not mean however by what I have said
that you should with hold the Horses if you cannot
immediately & readily dispose of them without loss.

Inclosed is a letter to Mr. Hancock for payment
for the whole. I am with sincere esteem and regard
Dr. Sir, &c.

TO SAMUEL TUCKER.1

NEW YORK, 24 April, 1776.

SIR,

The Readiness shewn by the Committee of Safety
for the Province of New Jersey to succor this Place
with their Militia on a late occasion when they where

1 The letter was addressed to Mr. Tucker as " President of the Congress of
New Jersey or the Chairman of the Committee of Safety of that Province."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 43

at my Request called upon by Brigadier General,
the Earl of Stirling, and the Alacrity with which I
am Informed the Militia then stepped forward in
Defence of their Country, are sufficient Proofs of
the Important Service the province of New Jersey is
capable of rendering in Support of the Great cause
of American Liberty, especially if the Millitia of that
Province be put under such regulations, as will
enable them to give their aid at the very time it may
be wanted and without the least Delay possible.
What renders such a regulation the more Necessary
is that in the present Situation of Affairs, it is more
than probable that the approach of the Enemy will
be sudden and without our having lono; Notice of

o o

their being on the Coast. Late Experience has
taught us that under the present Regulation it will
take at least a fortnight (after the necessity of the
requisition is seen) to assemble and embody any
considerable Detachment of the Militia, whereof it
seems absolutely necessary that there be a resolution
of your Congress or Committee of Safety for alloting
a particular number of your Millitia to March on the
first Notice of the Approach of the Enemy ; the
Detachment from each Regiment should be fixed
upon, who should March to Certain Places of
Rendezvous on the first Alarm by regulated signals.
A Regulation of such Signals was lately made by
Lord Stirling for the Highlands of Neversinks and
Staten Island a copy of which with some Alteration
I now send you, and which I think are very proper for
the purpose — the two last of which should be Repeated

44 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

at a number of Eminences in your Province — And
if on the Signal of the Appearance of a large Fleet
the Detachments of your Militia were ordered to
Rendezvous at Brunswick, Amboy, Woodbridge,
Raway, Elizabeth Town, Newark, and Bergen, they
might be ready in a day or two to March to such
Place either in your Province or in this, as would be
found to stand most in need of their Assistance.
And in order to avoid the Inconveniences which may
arise from the Absence of your Provincial Generals
from that Part of the Country where the troops
may assemble, it will be necessary that the Colonels
and Commanding Officers of every Corps or Detach
ment be Directed Strictly to obey the Orders they
may Receive from the Continental General to whom
that Department may be allotted. I am, &c.'

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 25 April, 1776.

SIR,

I have not yet heard, that there has been any trial
of the prizes carried into Massachusetts Bay. This
procrastination is attended with very bad conse-

1 " A clean, well-dress'd orderly .Sergeant, from each Brigade, to attend in the
General's Guard Room, near Head Quarters, from six in the morning until they
are dismissed in the evening ; they are to bring their Provisions with them, and
to be relieved every morning." — Orderly Book, 24 April, 1776.

" Complaints having been made to the General of Injuries done to the Farm
ers in their Crops and Fields, by the Soldiers passing over, and trampling upon
the young Growth, in a wanton and disorderly manner — he expressly orders the
officers commanding either upon duty, or in quarters in the Country, to take
especial Care to put a stop to such practices, and endeavour to convince their
Men that we come to protect ; not to injure the property of any man." — Orderly
Book, 25 April, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 45

quences. Some of the vessels I had fitted out are now
laid up, the crews being dissatisfied that they cannot
get their prize-money. I have tired the Congress
upon this subject ; but the importance of it makes
me again mention, that, if a summary way of proceed
ing is not resolved on, it will be impossible to get our
vessels manned. I must also mention to you, Sir,
that Captain Manly and his crew are desirous to know
when they may expect their part of the value of the
ordnance stores taken last fall. They are anxious to
know what the amount may be. As the inventory of
that cargo is in the hands of Congress, I would hum
bly submit it to them, whether a valuation thereof
should not be made, and the captors' dividend be
remitted to them as soon as possible. It will give
them spirit, and encourage them to be alert in look
ing out for other prizes.

Several officers belonging to the regiments raised
in these middle colonies inform me, that their men,
(notwithstanding their agreement,) begin to murmur
at the distinction of pay made between them and the
regiments from the eastward. I should be glad that
the Congress would attend to this in time, lest it may
get to such a pitch as will make it difficult to sup
press. They argue that they perform the same duty,
undergo the same fatigue, and receive five dollars,
when the eastern regiments receive six dollars and
two thirds per month.1 For my own part, I wish

1 Congress had directed that if any of the troops of New Jersey and Pennsyl
vania, raised at five dollars a month, should be sent to Canada, their pay should
be six and two thirds dollars a month, from the time they begin their march .
Journals of Congress, 23 April, 1776.

46 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

they were all upon the same footing ; for, if the Brit
ish army will not face this way, it will be necessary
to detach a great part of our troops. In that case, I
should, for many reasons, be sorry there should be
any distinctions of regiments, that are all in pay of
the United Colonies. The deficiency of arms (in the
New York regiments especially) is very great. If I
am rightly informed there are scarce as many in
Colonel Ritzema's regiment as will arm one company.
Can the Congress remedy this evil ? If they can,
there should not be lost a moment in effecting it, as
our strength at present is, in reality on paper only.
Should we think of discharging those men who are
without arms, the remedy would be worse than the
disease, for by vigorous exertions I hope arms may
be procured, and I well know that the raising men is
extremely difficult, especially to be engaged during
the continuance of the war, which is the footing on
which Col. Ritzema's regiment is engaged.

April 261/1.— \ had wrote thus far before I was hon
ored with your favor of the 23d instant. In obedience
to the order therein contained, I have directed six reo-i-

o

ments more for Canada, which will embark as soon as
vessels and other necessaries can be provided.1 These
regiments will be commanded by General Sullivan.
I shall give him instructions to join the forces in that
country under General Thomas as soon as possible.
With respect to sending more troops to that country,
I am really at a loss what to advise, as it is impossi-

1 Journals of Congress, 23 April, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 47

ble at present to know the designs of the enemy.1
Should they send the whole force under General
Howe up the river St. Lawrence, to relieve Quebec
and recover Canada, the troops gone and now going
will be insufficient to stop their progress ; and should
they think proper to send that or an equal force this
way from Great Britain, for the purpose of possessing
this city and securing the navigation of Hudson's
River, the troops left here will not be sufficient to
oppose them ; and yet, for any thing we know, I
think it not improbable they may attempt both ; both
being of the greatest importance to them, if they have
men.

I could wish, indeed, that the army in Canada
should be more powerfully reinforced ; at the same
time I am conscious, that the trusting of this impor
tant post, (which is now become the grand magazine
of America,) to the handful of men remaining here
is running too great a risk. The securing of this
post and Hudson's River is to us also of so great
importance, that I cannot at present advise the send
ing any more troops from hence ; on the contrary,
the general officers now here, whom I thought it my
duty to consult, think it absolutely necessary to in
crease the army at this place with at least ten thou
sand men, especially when it is considered, that, from
this place only, the army in Canada must draw its
supplies of ammunition, provisions, and, most proba
bly, of men ; and that all reinforcements can be sent

1 Congress had requested the opinion of General Washington, whether it was
necessary to send more troops to Canada, and whether he could with safety
spare them from the army at New York.

48 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

from hence much easier than from any other place.
By the enclosed return, you will see the state of the
army here, and that the number of effective men is
far short of what the Congress must have expected.1
I have found it necessary to order Colonel Day
ton's regiment from New Jersey to march as one
of the six to Canada ; wherefore I must reccommend
it to Congress to order two companies of one of the
regiments still in Pennsylvania to march to Cape
May, which can be done much sooner 2 ; for, had this
destination of that regiment not taken place, it would
have been very inconvenient to detach two companies
from it to that place, as the march would, (according
to Lord Stirling's and other accounts,) have been at
least two hundred miles from Amboy, and they must
have passed within twenty miles of Philadelphia, there
being no practicable road along the seacoast of New
Jersey for their baggage to have passed. Doctor
Potts who is bearer hereof, was, I understand, ap
pointed director of the hospital for the Middle Colo
nies, but the army being removed with the general
hospital from the eastward, does in course supercede
him. He is inclined to go to Canada, where he may
be very useful, if a person is not already appointed
for that department. I would humbly beg leave to
ask the Congress, whether in all these appointments

1 By the adjutant-general's return on the 28th of April, the number of troops
present and fit for duty under General Washington's command was 8, 101. In
cluding those who were sick, absent on furlough, and oncomm and, the whole
army at New York amounted to 10,235.

- On April iyth, Congress had ordered two companies of Colonel Dayton's
regiment to proceed to Cape May and remain there till further orders.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 49

it would not be best to have but one chief, to whom
all the others should be subordinate.1

TO GOVERNOR TRUMRULL.

NFAV YORK, 26 April, 1776.

SIR,

When you did me the honor of a visit at Norwich,
on my way to this place, I communicated to you the
recommendation I had received from Congress for
sending four battalions from hence to reinforce our
troops in Canada. I now beg leave to inform you,
that, in compliance therewith, on Saturday and Sun
day last, I detached four regiments thence, under the
command of Brigadier-General Thompson ; and, by
an express received last night, I am ordered by Con
gress, in addition to those already gone, to send six
more immediately.2 Our regiments being incomplete
and much wanting in numbers, I need not add, that
the army here felt a sensible diminution by this de
tachment ; and, when the second is gone, it will be
weak indeed, considering the importance of this place,
and the many extensive posts, which must be guarded
for its defence ; and added to this, almost the whole
of our valuable ordnance, stores, and magazines will
be deposited here. For these reasons, it appears to

1 Read in Congress, April 29th. Referred to Harrison, Rutledge, Goldsbor-
ough, Paine, and Rodney.

"This detachment will he under the command of General Sullivan, and
consists of two of the Eastern regiments, Reed's and Stark's, and of four of
these Provinces. The two first will embark to-day, the others will be pushed
forward as fast as possible." Washington to Genera/ Sc/iuy/er, 29 April, 1776.

5o THE IV R STINGS OF [1776

me expedient, that some mode should be adopted,
without loss of time, by this, your, and the Jersey
government, for throwing in immediate succors, upon
the appearance of the enemy, or any case of emer
gency. I have wrote to the Congress of New Jersey
upon the subject, praying them to form such regula
tions respecting their militia, (they being the only
resource we have,) that assistance may be had on the
earliest notice of an approach by the enemy, for pre
venting the fatal and alarming consequences, which
might result from the common, tedious, and slow
methods generally used for obtaining their aid ; And
would take the liberty of mentioning, that, if the
same should be done by you and your honorable
Council, respecting your militia, or such part of them
as are nearest to this place, the most salutary ends
might result therefrom.

The benefits flowing from a timely succor being
too obvious for repetition, I shall propose with all
possible deference, for your consideration, whether it
would not be advisable to have some select corps of
men appointed, under proper officers, in the western
parts of your government, to repair to this place on
the earliest notice from the general, or officer com
manding here, of the appearance of an enemy. If it
should be thought necessary upon an emergency, in
the first instance to resort to you, and for all the
ordinary forms to be gone through, before any suc
cors can be ordered in, it is to be feared, that the
relief would be too late to answer any good purposes.
This, however, I shall submit to you, in full confi-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 51

dence of your most ready assistance on every occa
sion, and that such measures, as appear to you most
likely to advance the public good, in this and every
other instance, will be most cheerfully adopted. I
am, Sir, with great esteem, &c.

TO THE COMMITTEE OF SAFETY OF NEW YORK.

NF.W YOKK, 27 April, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

In answer to your favor of the 25th delivered to
me yesterday I shall beg leave to inform you, that it
was my design to have included the Militia of this
City in the 2000 or 2500 Men which I thought might
be wanted upon an emergency, but whether common
prudence may not dictate the expediency of extend
ing your views to a greater number in case of neces
sity is submitted to the wisdom of your Board—

The Signals which I intended should convey the
first notice of the approach of an Enemy's fleet you
will find in the inclosed paper, but if you will please
to appoint a Committee of your body I will desire the
Brigadiers Sullivan, Greene and Lord Sterling to meet
them & adopt a better if a better can be thought of.
New Jersey is already advertized of these signals.

If the four Battalions which were directed to be
raised under the Command of the Colonels McDou-
gall, Clinton, Ritzema and Wynkoop, are placed
under the immediate care of the Committee of Safety
for this Colony by Congress, I should be glad to
know how far it is conceived that my powers over

52 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

them extend, or whether I have any at all. Sure I
am that they cannot be subjected to the direction of
both, and I shall have no small reluctance in asuming
an authority I am not vested with powers to execute,
nor will my Solicitude (further than as a well-wisher
to the Cause) on account of arms for, and returns of
these Regiments continue, if they are not considered
as within the line of my Command. It becomes
therefore my indispensable duty to be ascertained of
this matter and to know whether these Regiments
cannot be ordered out of the Colony — for Instance,
to New Jersey if necessity should require it.1

It would give me singular pleasure to advance you
the sum asked for, but the low state of our Cash and
heavy demands upon the paymaster render it alto
gether impracticable at this time. The Quarter

1 " The riotous Behavior of some Soldiers of the Continental Army, yesterday,
and the Evening before, has rilled the General with much regret, and concern ;
and lays him under the disagreeable necessity of declaring that if the like be
havior should be practiced again, the Authors will be brought to the severest
punishment if taken ; or treated as a common Enemy if they dare to resist ;
Men are not to carve out Remedies for themselves — If they are injured in any
respect, there are legal Modes to obtain relief ; and just Complaints will always
be attended to, and redressed. It should be the pride of a Soldier, to conduct
himself, in such a manner as to obtain the Applause, and not the reproach of a
people, he is sent to defend ; and it should be the business, as it is the duty of
an Officer to inculcate and enforce this doctrine." — Orderly Book, 27 April, 1776.

" The Commanding Officers of Regiments, and Corps, are to be careful, that
the Men, are made perfectly well acquainted with all Orders, that issue for the
Government of the Army, and are not to be less diligent, in enforcing Obedi
ence thereto. Yesterday a number of Colonel Irvine's Regiment, were found
in different places, firing their Pieces, and wasting their Ammunition, under
pretence of not knowing they were acting contrary to orders.

" The Articles of war are to be read, at least once a week, to every Company
in the Army, that neither Men, nor Officers may plead Ignorance against any
of the Rules, and Regulations therein contained. — Orderly Book, 28 April,
1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 53

Master and Commissary are both wanting money
and cannot be supplied, nor can Genl. Ward get
what he has sent for, to pay the five Regiments to
the Eastward till a fresh Supply arrives, of which
Congress is informed. Genl. Heath since my arrival
here, has obtained a Warrant upon the Pay-Master
for Money to replace the Sum which your Committee
kindly lent him, and to the best of my recollection
Genl. Thompson told me that he also meant to do
the same, these matters shall be enquired into. I
am &C.1

1 " I perceive by the tenor of your favor of yesterday, that my letter of the
27th has given umbrage, which I am sorry for, as it was not most distantly in
my ideas to give any.

" Three things led me to suspect, that the New York battalions were not upon
the same establishment of the other Continental troops ; current report, an im
plied exception in the order for detaching six more battalions to Canada, and
that part of your letter signifying that four of these battalions were to be raised
under your immediate direction ; which intimation, coming in corroboration of
the two first reasons, (for I never had any information of this matter from Con
gress,) led me to believe, that you intended it as a gentle hint, that I was not
to consider them in the same light as I did the others. It was not to be won
dered at, therefore, that I should wish to know the extent of my authority over
them, that my conduct might be regulated thereby, or that I should not be so
solicitous in arming regiments, raised for local purposes, as those for the
general service, when the latter are also greatly deficient in this essential point.
These were the ideas, that filled my mind at the time of writing. If the extreme
hurry, occasioned by a variety of business, which is continually pressing upon
me, clouded the meaning I wished to convey, I can only add, that it never was,
and I hope never will be, my intention to give unprovoked offence. Of this
your Committee may be once for all assured, that it is my earnest wish to co
operate with them in every measure, which can conduce to the general good,
and that if I should at any time differ from them in the means, I shall feel my
share of the concern ; being with respect." — Washington to New York Com
mittee of Safety, 30 April, 1776.

The Committee replied : — " We are sorry to find there was a possibility of
misunderstanding the passage in our letter respecting the four battalions raising
in this colony. Be assured, Sir, that we never considered them as under our
direction, except so far as concerned the forming and equipping of them ; and if

54 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO MAJOR-GENERAL WARD.

NEW YORK, 29th April, 1776.

SIR,

It is with great concern I learn, from every hand,
that your works for the defence of Boston and the
Harbour, go on exceeding slow. I must entreat
you therefore to push Colo. Gridley on to a diligent
and faithful discharge of his duty in this particular—
We cannot possibly tell where the Enemy will pitch
their Tents next — if Boston is left open, and un
guarded, it may be a temptation to go there ; but at
any rate, no time should be lost in putting the Town
in the best posture of defense the nature of the case
will admit of.

I shall be glad, in your next, to receive a particular
acct. of what has been done towards Fortifying the
Harbor. Four Regiments to wit, Poor's, Patterson's,
Seaton's, and Bond's are already off for Canada.
Reed's and Stark's will Imbark this day for Albany
on their Road to the same place, and four others will
follow in a day or two. I am Sir, &C.1

you will be pleased to refer yourself to our last letter, the distinction taken
therein between the four battalions and Van Schaick's regiment will convince
you, that we meant nothing more than in obedience to Congress to have the
completing of them for the command of the Continental General ; nor do we
esteem them so pointedly under our direction in this respect, as to exclude your
solicitude as Commander-in-chief to have them speedily completed and armed ;
a solicitude highly becoming your station, and which, instead of affording the
least ground for umbrage, serves to heighten the opinion, which your former
conduct has invariably taught us to entertain of your vigilant attention to the
important duties of your office, and of your zeal for the defence and security of
the rights of this much injured country."

1 From collection of Alfred P. Dix of N. V.

" It gives me much Concern, to hear from every one that comes from Boston,
that those works that were laid out for its defence, are in little more forward-

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 55

TO JOHN AUGUSTINE WASHINGTON.

NK\V YORK, 29 April, 1776.

DEAR BROTHER,

Since my arrival at this place, I have been favored
with two or three of your letters, and thank you for
your kind and frequent remembrance of me. If I
should not write to you as often as you do to me,
you must attribute it to its true cause, and that is, the
hurry and multiplicity of business in which I am con
stantly engaged, from the time I rise out of my bed
till I go into it again. I wrote to you a pretty full
account, just before I left Cambridge, of the move
ments of the two armies, and now refer you to it.
Since that time, I have brought the whole army,
which I had in the New England governments (five
regiments excepted, and left behind for the defence of
Boston and the stores we have there), to this place ;
and eight days ago detached four regiments for Can-
ness, than they were when I left that town. Who am I to blame for this shame
ful neglect, hut you Sir, who was to have them executed. It is not an agreeable
task to be under the necessity of putting any Gentleman in mind of his duty,
but it is what I owe to the public. I expect and desire Sir, that you will exert
yourself in Completing the works, with all posible dispatch, and do not lay me
under the disagreeable necessity of writing to you again upon this subject."
— Washington to Colonel Gridley, 28 April, 1776.

" As Captain Van Dyck, commanding the Grenadier Company of the City of
New York, has, by Letter, acquainted Lord Stirling, that the Circular Battery
to the North West of this City, is now compleat : and the General being in
formed that the said Grenadier Company, did on the first Alarm of danger from
the Enemy, voluntarily undertake to erect the said Battery, and have them
selves, in a most masterly, and neat manner, finished the same ; The General,
justly admiring such an Example of Spirit, and Perseverance, and highly es
teeming a Body of Men possessed of the noblest Virtues of good citi/ens, desires
his Thanks to be thus publicly given to the Company of Grenadiers, for this
Instance of their ready Compliance with his wishes." — Orderly Book, 29 April,
1776.

56 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

ada ; and am now embarking six more for the same
place, as there are reasons to believe, that a push will
be made there this campaign, and things in that
country not being in a very promising way, either
with respect to the Canadians or Indians. These
detachments have weakened us very considerably in
this important post, where, I am sorry to add, there
are too many inimical persons. But as our affairs in
Canada can derive no support, except what is sent to
them, and the militia may be called in here, it was
thought best to strengthen that quarter at the expense
of this ; but I am afraid we are rather too late in
doing it. From the eastern army, (under my imme
diate command,) it was impossible to do it sooner.

We have already gone great lengths in fortifying
this city and the Hudson River. A fortnight more
will put us in a very respectable posture of defence.
The works we have already constructed, and which
they found we were about to erect, have put the
King's ships to flight ; for, instead of lying within
pistol-shot of the wharves, and their sentries convers
ing with ours, ^whilst they received every necessary
that the country afforded,) they have now gone down
to the Hook, near thirty miles from this place, the
last harbor they can get to, and I have prevailed
upon the Committee of Safety to forbid every kind
of intercourse between the inhabitants of this colony
and the enemy. This I was resolved upon effecting ;
but I thought it best to bring it about through that
channel, as I now can pursue my own measures in
support of their resolves.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 57

Mrs. Washington is still here, and talks of taking
the smallpox ; but I doubt her resolution. Mr. and
Mrs. Custis will set out in a few days for Maryland.
I did not write to you by the 'Squire, because his
departure, in the first place, was sudden ; in the next,
I had but little to say. I am very sorry to hear, that
my sister was indisposed when you last wrote. I hope
she is now recovered of it, and that your family are
well. That they may continue so, and that our once
happy country may escape the depredations and
calamities attending on war, is the fervent prayer of,
dear Sir, your most affectionate brother.

Mrs. Washington, Mr. and Mrs. Custis join in love
to my sister and the rest of the family.'

TO THE PRESIDENT OK CONGRESS.

NKW YORK, 30 April, 1776.

Sir,

I mean, through you, to do myself the honor of
laying before Congress a copy of an address trans
mitted to them some time ago by the Assembly of
Rhode Island, which Governor Cooke favored me

1 " All Officers, non-commissioned Officers, and Soldiers, are strictly com
manded upon no pretence whatever, to carry any thing out of their Barracks,
or the Houses they at present occupy, that belongs to such Barracks, or Houses ;
neither are they to injure the Buildings within, or without. All Damages
wantonly done to the Houses, where the Troops are quartered, to be paid for
by the Troops quarter'd in them. The Commanding Officers of Companies to
deliver to Col. Brewer, Barrack Master, a List of the Names of those quartered
in each House ; His own Naine at the head of the List ; and the Regiment
to which he belongs. Immediately upon the Troops encamping, the Qr. Mr.
General, and Barrack Master, to examine the condition the Houses are left in,
and secure them in the best manner, and make their report to the General. "-
Orderly Book, 30 April, 1776.

58 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

with in the month of January, at the same time re
questing me to interest myself in procuring a body of
forces on the Continental establishment, for the de
fence of that colony. I doubt not but the address
and subject of it have had the attention and consid
eration of Congress before now. But if they have
not decided upon the matter, I would beg leave to
mention, that I have made inquiry into the situation
and condition of the colony, and find it to be as stated
in the address ; and, with all deference to the opinion
of Congress, conceive it highly necessary and expe
dient, that they should adopt some measures for
relieving their distress, and granting the aid prayed
for. The importance of it [Rhode Island] in the
chain of union, its extensive seacoast, affording har
bors for our shipping and vessels, at the same time
exposing and subjecting the inhabitants to the rav
ages and depredations of our enemies, the zeal and
attachment which it has shown, and which still actuate
it towards the common cause, their incapacity to pay
a sufficient number of men for its defence, should
they be able to furnish them after so many engaged
in other services ; these, and many other reasons,
which are too obvious to be mentioned, plead power
fully for the notice and attention of Congress, and
seem to me to claim their support.

Having thus stated the matter to Congress, for
their consideration, agreeable to my promise to Gov
ernor Cooke when I had the honor of seeing him on
my way hither, I shall leave it with them, not doubt
ing but they will duly weigh its importance, and give

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 59

such assistance as they may think reasonable and
just. What they chiefly wish for is, that the troops
they have raised may be taken into Continental pay,
and commanding officers to be appointed by Congress. '
I have the honor, &c.-

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 5 May, 1776.

SIR,

I am honored with your favor of the 30 Ulto. and
observe what Congress have done respecting the set
tlement of the pay masters accounts — This seems ex
pedient as he is out of office and I am certain will be
attended with but little, if any difficulty, nothing more
being necessary thereto, than to compare the War
rants with his debits and the receipts he has given
with his credits.' I wish every other settlement as
easy, and that a Committee was appointed to examine
and audit the accounts on which the Warrants are
founded, particularly those of the Quarter Master and
Commissary Generals — they are long and of high
amount, consisting of a variety of charges, and of
course more intricate and will require time and an
extraordinary degree of attention to adjust and liqui
date in a proper manner. — Upon this subject I did

1 Congress assented to this request, and resolved on the nth of May, that the
two battalions, directed to be raised by the Rhode Island Assembly, should be
taken into Continental pay.

* Read May 2nd. Referred to the Committee on the Eastern Department.

3 He was directed to hand in his vouchers and papers to the Superintendents
of the Treasury.

60 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

myself the honor to write you a considerable time
ago.1

Having had several complaints from the officers in
the Eastern Regiments, who have been and are en
gaged in recruiting, about the expense attending it,
and for which they have never been allowed any
thing, tho the officers in their Governments have, as
I am informed, I shall be glad to know whether the
allowance of IDS. granted to the Officers for every
man inlisted by the Resolve of Congress in -
is general and Indiscriminate, or confined to the
Middle districts : If general, must I have retrospect
to the time of the Resolve, and pay for the Inter
mediate services, or only for future Inlistments ? 3

In a Letter I wrote Congress the 25th of Decem
ber, I inclosed one I had received from Jacob Bayley,
Esqr. about opening a Road from Newbury to Can
ada4 ; I received another on the 15 Ulto., and from
his account of the intelligence of others I have no
doubt of the practicability of the measure, and am
well informed that the distance will be considerably
shortened ; in so much that our Troops going to
Canada from any part of the New England Govern
ments Eastward of Connecticut River, or returning
from thence Home, will perform their march in five
or Six clays less than by going or returning any way

1 Congress referred him to its resolutions of I April, 1776, instituting treasury
officers.

" Journals of Congress, 17 January, and 6 February, 17/6.

3 Congress decided that the resolution of 17 January, 1776, was general in its
operation, and directed the General to make that allowance for all the troops
inlisted since that date. Journals of Congress, 10 May, 1776.

4 Vol. III., p. 297.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 61

now used. Add to this, that the Road may be car-
ried to Missisque River, as it is said, from whence
the water carriage to St. Johns is good, except forty
odd miles or so far to the Northward as to keep clear
of the Lakes altogether and which will afford an easy
pass to and from Canada at all Seasons, the benefits
resulting from this Route will be so great and Im
portant that I have advanced Colo. Bayley Two
Hundred and fifty pounds to begin with, and directed
him to execute his plan. No doubt It will require a
more considerable advance to accomplish it, but the
whole will be soon sunk — The Expence saved by
shortning Six days pay and provisions for the men
returning to the Eastern Governments at the expira
tion of this Campaign, will be almost, if not more
than equal to the charge of opening it ; if not, as in
all probability there will be often a necessity for de
tachments of our Troops from those Governments, to
go and return, it will soon be repaid.1

By a letter from Genl. Schuyler of the 27 ulto. I
find Genl. Thompson and his Brigade had arrived at
Albany. Genl. Sullivan with the last except three or
four companies of Colo. Wayne's Regiment not yet
come, is embarked and gone, and probably will be
soon there. I am apprehensive from General Schuy-
ler's account, they will not proceed from thence with
the expedition wished owing to a difficulty in getting
Teams and provender for the Cattle necessary to
carry their Baggage, and a scarcity of Batteaus for

1 Congress approved, and directed Washington to prosecute the plan. Jour
nals, 10 May, 1776.

62 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

transporting so great a number, tho he is using the
utmost Industry and diligence to procure 'em. Should
they be retarded for any considerable time, it will be
exceedingly unfortunate, as we are much weakened
here by their going, and our Army in Canada not
strengthened. I have sent with the last Brigade,
Sixty Barrels of Powder and other Stores and In
trenching Tools, a supply being wanted ; also the
Chain for a Boom at the Narrows of Richlieu, and
the three Boxes of money brought me by Mr. Han
son, and have wrote Genl. Schuyler to have the
Boom fixed as soon as possible. The Commissary
too has forwarded about Eight Hundred Barrels of
pork and is in expectation of a further Quantity from
Connecticut which will go on without stopping here.
As the Magazine from whence the Northern and
Eastern Armies will occasionally receive supplies of
powder, will probably be kept here, and our stock is
low and inconsiderable being much reduced by the
Sixty Barrells sent to Canada, I shall be glad to have
a Quantity immediately forwarded. Our Stores
should be great, for if the Enemy make an attack
upon the Town or attempt to goe up the North
River, the expenditure will be considerable. Money
too is much wanted. The Regiments that are paid
have only received to the first of April. By a letter
from Genl. Ward, I find his Chest is just exhausted,
the money left with him for the payment of the Five
Regiments at Boston and Beverly, being almost ex
pended by large drafts in favor of the Commissary
and Quarter Master, and in fitting out the Armed

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 63

Vessels. I would here ask a question, to wit, whether
as Mr. Warren's Commission is superseded by Mr.
Palfrey's appointment, it will not be necessary to fix
upon some person to pay the Troops at those places,
or are the payments to goe thro' his Hands ? He
does not incline to do any thing in the affair without
the direction of Congress.

I have inclosed you a Return of the last Brigade
departed and also of the forces remaining here, and
as it is a matter of much importance to know the
whole of our strength from time to time, and to see
it at one view for regulating our movements with
propriety, I wish it were a direction from Congress
to the Commanding Officers in the different Districts
to make Monthly returns to the Commander in Chief
of the Continental Army, of the State of the Troops
in their departments and also of the Military Stores.
Such direction will probably make 'em more attentive
than they otherwise would be — I could not get a
Return of the army in Canada, all last year.1

I beg leave to lay before Congress a copy of the
proceedings of a Court Martial upon Lieutent. Grover
of the 2d Regiment, and of his defence, which I
should not have troubled them with, had I not con
ceived, the Court's sentence upon the facts stated in
the proceedings, of a singular nature, the small fine
imposed by no means adequate to the enormity of
his offence, and to be of a dangerous and pernicious
Tendency. For these reasons I thought it my duty
to lay the proceedings before them in order to their

1 Congress passed a resolution to this effect, 10 May, 1776.

64 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

forming such a Judgement upon the Facts, as they
shall conceive right and Just, and advancive of the
public good.1 At the same time I would mention that
I think it of material consequence that Congress
should make a Resolve taking away the supposed
right of succession in the Military line from one Rank
to another, which is claimed by many, upon the hap
pening of Vacancies, and upon which principle this
offence seems to have originated in a great measure
and this ordinary Judgement to be founded ; declaring
that no succession or promotion can take place in
case of vacancies, without a Continental commission
giving and authorizing it. It is of much importance
to check and entirely suppress this opinion and claim
become too prevalent already, and which have an
obvious tendency to introduce mutiny and disorder.
Or if they conceive the claim good and that it should
take place, that they will declare it so, that the point
may be known and settled in future." I have &c.3

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 5 May, 1776.

SIR,

I have so often, and so fully communicated my
want of Arms to Congress that I should not have
given them the trouble of receiving another Letter

1 See note on p. 75.

'* " Resolved, That this Congress has hitherto exercised, and ought to retain the
power of promoting the officers in the continental service according to their
merit ; and that no promotion or succession shall take place upon any vacancy
without the authority of a continental commission." Journals, 16 May, 1776.

3 Read May 7th. Referred to "[. Adams, Hraxton, and Duane.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 65

upon this subject, at this time, but for the particular
application of Col. Wayne of Pennsylvania, who has
pointed out a method by which he thinks they may
be obtained.

In the hands of the Committee of Safety at Phila
delphia, there are, According to Col. Wayne's account
not less than two or three thousand stand of Arms
for Provisional use, from hence he thinks a number
might be borrowed by Congress, provided they are
replaced with Continental Arms as they are brought
into the magazine in that City. At a crisis so im
portant as this such a loan might be attended with
signal advantages, while the defenceless state of the
Regiments if no relief can be had, may be productive
of fatal Consequences.

To give Congress some idea of our Situation with
respect to arms (and justice to my own Character re
quires that it should be known to them, altho the
world at large will form their opinion of our Strength
from numbers, without attention to Circumstances)
it may not be amiss to inclose a Copy of a Return
which I received a few days ago from the Troops in
the Highlands, and a.dd that by a report from Colo.
Ritzema's Regiment of the 2Qth ult. there appeared
to be only 9 7 Firelocks and seven Bayonets belonging
thereto, and that all the Regiments from the East
ward are deficient from Twenty to Fifty of the
former.

Four of those Companies at the Fortifications in
the Highlands belong to Colo. Clinton's Regiment,
but in what condition the residue are, on account of

66 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

arms and how Colo. Wynkoop's men are provided, I
cannot undertake to say, but am told most miserably;
as Colo. Dayton's (of New Jersey) and Colo. Wayne's
(of Pennsylvania) also are. This, Sir, is a true, tho'
Melancholy description of our Situation. The pro
priety therefore of keeping Arms, in Store when Men
in actual pay are wanting of them, and who it is pre
sumed will, as they ought, bear the heat and burthen
of the day, is submitted with all due deference to the
Superior judgement of others.

I cannot, by all the enquiries I have been able to
make, learn, what number of Arms have been taken
from the Tories — where they lay — or how they are to
be got at. The Committee of Safety for this Colony
have assured me that no exertions of theirs shall be
wanting to procure Arms, but our sufferings in the
meanwhile may prove fatal, as men without are
in a manner useless. I have therefore thought of
employing an Agent, whose sole business it shall be
to ride through the middle and interior parts of these
Governments for the purpose of buying up such Arms
as the Inhabitants may incline to sell, and are fit for
use.

The designs of the enemy are too much behind the
curtain, for me to form any accurate opinion of their
Plan of operations for the summer's Campaign ; we
are left to wander therefore in the field of Conjecture,
and as no place (all its consequences considered)

1 The conclusion of Congress was very inadequate, for it merely desired
Washington to employ an agent, and said nothing of the reported stores in
Philadelphia. The secret committee was ordered to send to camp the muskets
that were at Newport. Journals of Congress, 14 May, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 67

seemed of more importance in the execution of their
grand Plan than possessing themselves of Hudson's
River I thought it advisable to remove, with the Con
tinental Army to this City so soon as the troops
evacuated Boston, but if Congress from their knowl
edge, information, or believe, think it best for the
General good of the Service that I should go to the
Northward, or elsewhere, they are convinced I hope
that they have nothing more to do than signify their
commands. With great respect, &c.'

1 Read May 8th. Referred to S. Adams, Wythe, Rodney, R. H. Lee, and
Whipple.

" The Officers commanding the Guards, in and near the encampment, are to
be particularly attentive to prevent any waste, or depredation, being committed
upon the Fields, Fences, Trees, or Buildings about the camp. Turf is not to
be permitted to be cut, unless by the express orders of the Chief Engineer, and
any non-commissioned Officer, or Soldier, who is detected cutting any of the
Trees, or Shrubs, or destroying any of the Fences near the camp, will be con
fined and tried for disobedience of orders. The Quarter Master General will
supply a certain Quanity of boards for flooring for the tents of every Regiment,
which are upon no account to be converted to any other use." — Orderly Book,
5th May 1776.

" The Colonels, and commanding officers of Regiments are again reminded
of the propriety of immediately providing their men with cloathing and neces
saries, that they may be ready to march, or embark, upon the shortest notice. The
General wishes to impress this strongly upon the minds of the Colonels ; be
cause no excuse will be taken to delay their departure the moment that it becomes
necessary. It is recommended to those Corps which are not already supplied
with Uniforms, to provide hunting shirts for their men." — Orderly Book, 6th
May, 1776.

"At a Quarter after Seven this Eveg I received by Express a letter from
Thos. Gushing, Esq., Chairman of a Committee of the Honb. Genl. Court
covering one from the Committee of Salem. Copies of which I do myself ye
honor to transmit to Congress, that they may Judge of the Intelligence con
tained therein, and direct such measures to be taken upon the occasion as they
may think proper and necessary. I wou'd observe that supposing Capn Lee's
account to be true in part, there must be a mistake either as to the number of
Troops, or the Ships. If there are no more ships than what are mentioned, It
is certain there cannot be so many Troops — of this however Congress can judge-
as well as myself and I submit it to them whether upon the whole circumstances

68 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO MAJOR-GENERAL WARD, AT BOSTON.

NEW YORK, 9 May, 1776.

SIR,

Your letters of the 27 & 28 ulto. came in course to
Hand. I am glad that you have given your attention
to the works, which I doubt not are by this time com-
pleat. It will give me pleasure to hear they are, for
should these accounts of Hessians and Hanoverian
Troops coming over prove true it is possible the
Enemy may make some attempts to Regain a Foot-

and the uncertainty of their destination, if they were met with at all, they
choose that any forces shall be detached from hence, as they will see from the
returns transmitted yesterday, the number of men here is but very small and
inconsiderable, and which is much to be regretted, no small part of them with
out arms. Perhaps by dividing and subdividing our Force too much, we shall
have no one post sufficiently guarded. I shall wait their direction, and what
ever their order is, will comply with it as soon as possible.

" P. S. — I had by the Express a Letter from Genl. Ward, containg an
Acct similar to that from the Salem Committee & by way of Captn Lee.
Should the Commissioners arrive, How are they to be received and treated ? I
wish the direction of Congress upon the subject by return of the Bearer." —
Washington to the President of Congress, 7 May, 1776.

" The account having come thro different hands I hope is exaggerated ; it
appears inconsistent and impossible in part. Certainly there is a mistake
either as to the number of troops or the ships ; there must be more of the latter
or fewer of the former. 60 Vessels could not bring 12,000 men, unless they are
much larger than usual, besides provisions and stores. And should such a fleet
and Armament be coming, do I think it altogether probable, that an account of
their destination and views would be so distinctly and accurately given to the
Master who informed Captain Lee ; I should rather suppose, that they would
wish to take us by surprize. For these reasons, and as their destination may be
elsewhere, and as the Army here is greatly weakened and reduced by ten of the
strongest Regiments being ordered to Quebec, I could not think myself author
ized to detach any reinforcement from hence without the direction of Congress,
lest by dividing the Army into small parties we should have no place secure and
guarded ; — Assuring you at the same time, I shall be always ready and happy
to give you every assistance in my power against our common Enemies when
it can be done consistently with the public good." — Washington to Thomas
C^lsh^ngJ 9 May, 1776.

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 69

ing in your province. I have Represented to Con
gress the want you was in for Cash to which I have
not yet received a Answer. When I do you shall be
Inform'd thereof. The account you give of the
Vessells at Beverly being unfit for Service surprize's
me prodigiously. I was taught to believe very Dif
ferently of the Ship Jenny, by Commodore Manly and
Captain Bartlett, who you mention to have given you
their oppinion of them. The Brigantine from Antigua
was also thought very fit to arm. Doctr. Brown's
accounts are more Immediately in the Director Gen'l
of the Hospital Department; when he arrives here I
shall give them to him for his Inspection. Mr. Single-
tany's account is Easily settled, as he has the Com
missary's Receipt for the Arms ; if the account of the
cost of the arms was more particular, it would be
more regular & Satisfactory. A Letter is just come
to my hands from Winthrop Sargent, Esqr. agent for
the Navy at Gloucester. He says there are some
women and children, whom he is obliged to Mantain
at the Continental Expense ; also a Number of men
taken in some of the last prizes. You will please
to Examine into their Situation ; if Prisoners of war,
they should be sent into some Inland place and con-
find ; if Tories, the General Court are the proper
persons to take cognizance of them ; I see by the
publick prints that the prizes at Beverly are to be
sold the 20th Instant, as by the Obstructions put on
Commerce in General there may appear but few
purchasers for the vessel so of course they may be sold
vastly under their Value. I think you had best have

THE WRITINGS OF [1776

some persons in whom you can Confide, present at
the sale with Power to purchase the large ship and
the Brig from Antigua, if he finds them going very
much under their Value. It is not above two or three
years since the ship cost ,£3,000 Sterling, she is to
be sure something worse for wear, & I believe is not
Remarkably well formed at present, as she has been
pillaged for the use of our Armed Vessells which
must make a Considerable Abatement of her Value.
The Brigantine is I suppose in the same predicament.
But a good Judge will easily know the Value. Wm.
Watson Esqr. of Plymouth Advises that the prizes
Norfolk and Happy Return, are Condemned, and
Desires I would appoint a Day for sale of them and
their Cargoes. This you will please to do — letting
them be Advertised in the papers at least a fortnight
before the sale. I have had no advice from Congress

o

relative to your resignation. I shall write them this
day to know what officer they may think proper to
the command in your state. When I receive their
answer, you shall be informed. I am, &c.

TO LUND WASHINGTON, MOUNT VERNON.

NEW YORK, 10 May, 1776.

DEAR LUND,

As I am not able to form any idea of the time of
my return, and as it is very reasonable and just, that
Mr. Custis should be possessed of his estate, although
it is not in my power, (circumstanced as I am at
present), to liquidate the accounts and make a final

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 71

settlement with him, I have wrote to the clerk of the
Secretary's office for authentic copies of the last
accounts, which I exhibited against him and the estate
of his deceased sister. With these (for I have directed
them to be sent to you) and the bundle of bonds, which
you will find among my papers, I would have Mr. Custis
and you repair to Colonel Mason and get him, as a
common friend to us both, as a gentleman well ac
quainted with business, and very capable of drawing
up a proper memorandum of the transaction, to
deliver him his own bonds, which, if my memory fails
me not, and no changes have happened, are in one
parcel and endorsed ; and at the same time deliver
him as many bonds out of the other parcel, endorsed
Miss Custis's bonds, as will pay him his moiety of
her fortune and the balance, which will appear due to
him from me, at my last settlement with the General
Court. How the account will then stand between us,
I cannot with precision say, but I believe the balance
will be rather in my favor than his.

In my last settlement of the estate of Miss Custis
(which you will have sent to you, I expect, by Mr.
Everard), every bond, mortgage, &c., were fully
accounted for, and will be the best ground to found
the dividend (between Mr. Custis and myself) upon
lest any of the bonds or mortgages should be mis
placed, or in the office.

Mr. Mercer's bonds I have promised to take into
my part ; and, as there are wheat and other accounts
opened between that estate and me, I should be glad
to have them allotted accordingly. In like manner,

72 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I promised to take Mr. Robert Adams's debt upon
myself, and believe the last mortgage from him was
taken in my own name. As to the others, I do not
care how they are divided, nor was I anxious about
these, further than that it served to comply with their
desires, founded (I believe) on an opinion, that I
should not press them for the money.

The bank stock must, I presume, be equally di
vided between us, Long before I left Virginia, I
directed it to be sold, writing to Messrs. Gary and
Company, who had always received the dividends, to
negotiate the matter ; in consequence, they sent me
a power of attorney, and a great deal of formal stuff
for Mrs. Washington and myself to execute before
the governor. This we did, literally as required, and
transmitted ; since which, the directors of the bank
have prescribed another mode, and I have had for
warded to me another set of papers, to be executed
also before the governor, which it has never been in my
power to do, as they arrived but a little while before
I set out for the Congress last spring. Thus the
matter stands, as far as I know, with respect to the
money in the funds.

There is another matter, which I think justice to
myself requires to be mentioned, and that is, with
respect to the sterling balance, which it will appear I
was owing to Mr. Custis upon the last settlement. It
was then, and ever since has been, my intention to
assign to him as many bonds, carrying interest, as
would discharge this balance ; but my attendance
upon Congress in the fall of 1774, and spring of

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 73

1775, put it out of my power to attend the General
Court at their sessions ; consequently no order could
be taken, or account rendered, of this matter ; and
now, by the rise of exchange, if I were to turn current
money bonds into sterling, I should be a considerable
sufferer, when I had not, nor could have, any interest
in delaying of it ; and that it was so delayed was
owing to the reasons abovementioned, it being a prac
tice to let out his money upon interest as soon as it
came to my hands.

The many matters, which hang heavy upon my
hands at present, do not allow me time to add more,
but oblige me to request, as I have not written fully
to Colonel Mason on this subject, that you will show
him, and if necessary let him have this letter. I am,
very sincerely, &c.J

1 " The uncertainty of my return, and the justice of surrendering to Mr. Custis
the bonds, which I have taken for the moneys raised from his estate, and lent
out upon interest, as also his moiety of his deceased sister's fortune, (consisting
altogether of bonds, &c.) oblige me to have recourse to a friend to see this mat
ter done, and a proper memorandum of the transaction made. I could think of
no one, in whose friendship, care, and abilities I could so much confide, to do
Mr. Custis and me this favor, as yourself ; and, therefore, I take the liberty of
soliciting your aid.

" In order that you may be enabled to do this with ease and propriety, I have
written to the clerk of the Secretary's office for attested copies of my last settled
accounts with the General Court in behalf of Mr. Custis, and the estate of his
deceased sister ; with which and the bonds, I have desired him and Mr. Wash
ington to wait upon you for the purpose above mentioned.

" The amount of the balance due, upon my last settled accounts, to Mr.
Custis, I would also have assigned him out of my moiety of his sister's bonds ;
and, if there is no weight in what I have said in my letter to Mr. Lund Wash
ington, concerning the rise of exchange, and which, to avoid repetition, as I am
a good deal hurried, I have desired him to show you, I desire it may meet with
no notice, as I want nothing but what is consistent with the strictest justice,
honor, and even generosity ; although I have never charged him or his sister,
from the day of my connexion with them to this hour, one farthing for all the

74 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, n May, 1776.

SIR,

I am now to acknowledge the receipt of your
favors of the 4 and 7 Instt. with their several inclo-
sures, and am exceedingly glad that before the
Resolution respecting Lt. Colo. Ogden came to hand,
I had ordered him to join his Regiment, and had
quelled a disagreeable spirit both of mutiny and
desertion which had taken place and seemed to be
rising to a great degree in consequence of it — In
order to effect it, I had the Regiment paraded, and
ordering two more at the same time under arms, con
vinced them of their error and ill conduct, and ob
tained a promise for their good behavior in future.
To such of them as had absconded, I gave pardons
on their assurances to return to their duty again.

In my Letter of the 5 Instt which I had the honor
of addressing you, I mentioned to Congress the
refractory and mutinous conduct of Lieut. Grover of

trouble I have had in managing their estates, nor for any expense they have
been to me, notwithstanding some hundreds of pounds would not reimburse the
moneys I have actually paid in attending the public meetings in Williamsburg
to collect their debts, and transact these several matters appertaining to the
respective estates.

"A variety of occurrences, and my anxiety to put this place as speedily as
possible into a posture of defence, will not, at this time, admit of my adding
more, than that I am, with unfeigned regard, &c." — Washington to George
Mason, 10 May 1776.

"Joseph Child of the New York Train of Artillery tried at a late General
Court Martial whereof Col. Huntington was President — 'for defrauding
Christopher Stetson of a dollar, also for drinking Damnation to all Whigs and
Sons of Liberty, and for profane cursing and swearing ' — The Court finding the
prisoner guilty of profane cursing and swearing, and speaking contemptuously
of the American Army, do sentence him to be drum'd out of the Army." —
Orderly Book, 10 May, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 75

the 2<d. Regiment and laid before them a copy of the
proceedings of a Court Martial upon him and of his
defence, with a view that such measures might be
adopted as they should think adequate to his crime.1
I will now beg leave to inform them, that since then
he has appeared sensible of his misconduct, and
having made a written acknowledgement of his
offence and begged pardon for it, as by the inclosed
copy will appear, I thought it best to release him
from his confinement and have ordered him to join
his Regiment, which I hope will meet their approba
tion, and render any determination as to him un-

1 "Lieut. G rover, of the 2cl Regiment (commanded by Col. James Reed,)
having been tried by a General Court Martial, for ' insulting Capt. Wilkinson,
disobeying his orders and abusive language ' was found guilty of the charge,
and yet mulct'd of half a month's pay only— a punishment so exceedingly clis-
proportioned to the offence, that the General resolved to lay the whole pro
ceeding before the Congress, and know whether they inclined to continue an
officer in their service who had mis behaved in so capital a point ; but Lieut.
Grover appearing to be thoroughly convinced of the error of his conduct, and
having promised strict obedience to the orders of his Captain, and other supe
rior officers, for the time to come, the General (before any determination of
Congress could be had upon the matter) ordered him to be released, and to join
his regiment ; but has it now in command from Congress, to signify to the
Army, that no promotion upon vacancies, shall take place merely by succession,
without their authority, insomuch as they have reserved and will exercise the
power, of giving Commissions to persons of merit, regardless of any claim by
succession. Of this all officers are desired to take notice, as it may serve on
the one hand to prevent the dissatisfaction which have but too frequently
arisen, from an idea, that all promotions should be confined to regiments, and
go in regular succession, and because on the other hand, it opens a large field
for the rewarding of merit, which ought, and is hoped will be, a powerful ex
citement to the brave -and active, to signalize themselves in the noble cause
they are engaged in.

" This determination of Congress, the Adjutant General is to communicate to
the officers commanding in different departments, that it may be published to
the different Regiments and Corps, under their respective commands." — Orderly
Book, 18 May, 1776.

7 6 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

necessary ; observing, at the same time that I have
endeavored, and I flatter myself not ineffectually, to
support their authority and a due subordination in the
army. I have found it of importance and highly ex
pedient to yield many points in fact, without seeming
to have done it, and this to avoid bringing on a too
frequent discussion of matters which in a political
view ought to be kept a little behind the curtain, and
not be made too much the subjects of disquisition.
Time only can eradicate and overcome customs and
prejudices of long standing — they must be got the
better of by slow and gradual advances.

I would here take occasion to suggest to Congress,
(not wishing or meaning of myself to assume the
smallest degree of power in any instance,) the pro
priety and necessity of having their sentiments re
specting the filling up the vacancies and issuing
commissions to officers, especially to those under the
rank of field-officers. Had I literally complied with
the directions given upon this subject, when I first
engaged in the service, and which I conceived to be
superseded by a subsequent 'resolve for forming the
army upon the present establishment, I must have
employed one clerk for no other business than issuing
warrants of appointment, and giving information to
Congress for their confirmation or refusal. It being
evident from the necessity of the thing, that there
will be frequent changes and vacancies in office, from
death and a variety of other causes, I now submit it
to them, and pray their direction, whether I am to
pursue that mode, and all the ceremonies attending

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 77

it, or to be at liberty to fill up and grant commissions
at once to such, as may be fit and proper persons to
succeed.

When I came from Cambridge, I left instructions
with Colo. Knox of the Artillery Regiment for the
regulation of his conduct, and among other things
directed him immediately to send forward to this
place Lt. Colo. Burbeck, who notwithstanding he re
ceived orders for that purpose has refused to come,—
considering himself as he says in his answer to Colo.
Knox, his Letter, (copies of which I have inclosed)
bound in point of generosity to stay in the service of
the province, tho I am told by Col. Knox that some
of the members of the General Court on hearing of

o

the matter informed him, that they did not consider
him as engaged to them, and that he had no just pre
text for his refusal. I thought it right to lay this mat
ter before Congress, and submit it to them, whether
Colo. Burbeck, who will or will not serve the Continent,
or go to this or that place as it may suit his convenience
and square with his pretended notions of generousity,
shou'd be longer continued in office.1

Before I have done, with the utmost deference and
respect, I would beg leave to remind Congress of my
former letters and applications, respecting the appoint
ment of proper persons to superintend and take direc
tion of such prisoners, as have already fallen and will
fall into our hands in the course of the war, being fully
convinced, that, if there were persons appointed for, &

1 "Resolved, that lieutenant-colonel Burbeck be dismissed from the Conti
nental Service." — Journals of Congress, 25 May, 1776.

7 8 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

who would take the whole management of them under
their care, that the continent would save a consider
able sum of money by it, and the prisoners be better
treated and provided with real necessaries, than what
they now are ; and shall take the liberty to add, that
it appears to me a matter of much importance, and
worthy of consideration, that particular and proper
places of security should be fixed on and established
in the interior parts of the different governments for
their reception.

Such establishments are agreeable to the practice
and usage of the English and other nations, and are
founded on principles of necessity and public utility.
The advantages, which will arise from 'em, are
obvious and many. I shall mention only two or
three. They will tend much to prevent escapes,
which are difficult to effect, when the public is once
advertised, that the prisoners are restrained to a few
stated and well-known places, and not permitted to
goe from thence ; and the more ingenious among
them from disseminating and spreading their artful
and pernicious intrigues and opinions throughout the
country, which would influence the weaker and waver
ing part of mankind, and meet with but too favorable
a hearing. Further, it will be less in their power to
join and assist our enemies in cases of invasions, and
will give us an opportunity always to know, from
the returns of those appointed to superintend them,
what number we have in possession, the force suffi
cient to check and suppress their hostile views in
times of emergency, and the expenses necessary for
their maintenance & support. Many other reasons

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 79

might be adduced to prove the necessity and ex
pediency of the measure. I shall only subjoin one
more, and then have done on the subject, which is,
that many of the towns, where prisoners have been
already sent, not having convenience for or the means
of keeping them, complain that they are burdensome ;
and have become careless, inattentive, and altogether
indifferent whether they escape or not ; and those of
'em that are restricted to a closer confinement, the
limits of jail, neglected, and not treated with that care
and regard, which Congress wish.1

I have not received further intelligence of the Ger
man troops2 since my letter of the 7th instant, covering
Mr. Cushing's despatches : but, lest the account of
their coming should be true, may it not be advisable
and good policy to raise some companies of our Ger
mans to send among them when they arrive, for excit
ing a spirit of disaffection and desertion ? If a few
sensible and trusty fellows could get with them, I
should think they would have great weight and influ
ence with the common soldiery, who certainly have
no enmity towards us, having received no injury nor
cause of quarrel from us. The measure having oc
curred, and appearing to me expedient, I thought it
prudent to mention it for the consideration of Con
gress. Having received a letter from General Ward,
advising that Congress have accepted his resignation,
and praying to be relieved, and it being necessary
that a general officer should be sent to take the com-

1 See Journals of Congress, 21 May, 1776.

• German troops said to be coming from Europe to reinforce the British army
in America. Intelligence to this effect had been communicated by M \. dishing.

8o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

mand of the troops at Boston, especially if the army
should arrive, which is talked of, and which some
consider as a probable event, I must beg leave to
recommend to Congress the appointment of some
brigadier-generals, not having more here, (nor so
many at this time) than are essential to the govern
ment, and conducting the forces and works, that are
carrying on. Generals Sullivan and Thompson being
ordered to Canada, I cannot spare one more general
officer from hence without injuring the service greatly,
and leaving the army here without a sufficient num
ber.1 Having frequent application from the Com
mittee of Safety and others, about an exchange of
prisoners, and not having authority to pursue any
mode in this instance, than that marked out by a
resolve of Congress some considerable time ago, I
hope they will pardon me when I wish them to take
under consideration such parts of my letter of the
22d ultimo, as relate to this subject and for their
determination upon it. I shall then have it in my
power to give explicit and satisfactory answers to
those who shall apply.2

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 15 May, 1776.

SIR,

Since my last of the 1 1 Instt. which I had the
honor to address you, nothing of moment or import-

1 Congress resolved, in compliance with the above request, on the I4th of
May, that General Washington should order a major-general to take command
in the eastern department, and also send a brigadier on that service.

- Read May I4th. Referred to Livingston, Jefferson, and J. Adams.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 81

ance has occurred, and the principal design of this is
to communicate to Congress the intelligence I re
ceived last night from General Schuyler by a letter
of the loth respecting the progress of our Troops in
getting towards Canada — not doubting of their im
patience and anxiety to hear of it, and of every thing
relating to the Expedition — for their more particular
information & satisfaction, I have done myself the
pleasure to extract the substance of his Letter on
this Head, which is as follows :

'' That Genl. Thompson with the last of his Brigade in the
morning of Tuesday sennight embarked at Fort George and
in the Evening of the next day Genl. Sullivan arrived at Albany.
That he had ordered an Additional number of Carpenters to
assist in building Boats, who finishing Eight every day, would
have no complete by the 2ist, before which he was fearfull the
last of Genl. Sullivan's Brigade could not embark. That they
would carry 30 men each besides the Baggage, Ammunition and
Intrenching Tools. That he has given most pointed orders to
restrain the licentiousness of the Troops, which was disgraceful
and very injurious, in those gone on heretofore, in abusing the
Inhabitants and Batteau men and that he had ordered Captain
Romans from Canada for Trial at Albany, there being sundry
complaints lodged against him. He also informs that the 60
Barrells of powder had arrived and would be forwarded that day ;
that the ist Regiment of Genl. Sullivan's Brigade marched that
morning, and that the Intrenching Tools and about 600 Barrells
of Pork were also gone on ; that he cannot possibly send more
than half of the 300,000 Dollars into Canada being greatly in
debt on the public Account, and the Creditors exceedingly clam
orous and importunate for payment, which sum he hopes will
be sufficient till the Canadians agree to take our paper Currency
to which they are much averse, and of which he is exceedingly
doubtfull ; That he had got the Chain and would forward it that
day to Genl. Arnold with orders to fix it at the Rapids of Rich-

82 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

lieu. He adds that he had reviewed Genl. Sullivan's Brigade in
presence of about 260 Indians who were greatly pleased with the
order and regularity of the Troops and surprized at the number
which the Tories had industriously propagated consisted only of
3 Companies and that they were kept always walking the Streets
to Induce 'em to believe their number was much greater than it
really was." '

I have inclosed a Copy of General Schuyler's In
structions to Jas. Price Esqr Deputy Commy Genl
for the regulation of his conduct in that department
which I received last night & which Genl. Schuyler
requested me to forward you ; I also beg leave to lay
before Congress a Copy of a Letter from Saml.
Stringer director of one of the Hospitals, purporting
an application for an increase of surgeons, mates
&c. — an estimate of which is also inclosed and submit
it to them what number must be sent from hence, or
got elsewhere. It is highly probable that many more
will be wanted in Canada, than what are already
there, on account of the late augmentation of the
Army, but I thought it most advisable to make his
requisition known to Congress and to take their order

1 " The letter from the Commissioners, which you were kind enough to leave
open for my perusal, describes matters and the situation of our affairs in Can
ada in so striking a light, that nothing less than the most wise and vigorous
exertions of Congress and the army there, can promise success to our schemes
and plans in that quarter. What might have been effected last year without
much difficulty, has become an arduous and important work. However, I hope
all things will yet goe well. I am exceedingly glad that so large a number of
Indians was present at the review of General Sullivan's brigade ; They probably,
from the appearance of so many armed men, somewhat Instructed in discipline,
may have received favorable some impressions of our Strength sufficient to
counter-operate all the Ingenious and Insidious arts of Toryism. — When those
arrive, which you mention, I shall take proper notice of them, and have neces
sary provisions made for their entertainment." — Washington to General Schuy
ler, 16 May, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 83

and direction upon it. As to the Medicines, I shall
speak to Doctor Morgan (not yet arrived) as soon as
he comes and order him to forward such as may be
necessary and can be possibly spared.1

' Read May i6th. Referred to Wm. Livingston, Jefferson, and J. Adams.

Three Commissioners, Franklin, Chase, and Carroll, were appointed by Con
gress, February I5th, to repair to Canada. By their instructions they were to
use all suitable means to induce the Canadians to join the other colonies in the
contest against England ; to promise them the same privileges of an indepen
dent government, and the same protection, that were enjoyed by each of the
other colonies ; to convince them, that they were equally interested in the
common cause, and would profit equally by the advantages of success ; and to
assure them that free toleration should be allowed in religion, that the terms of
union should be similar to those binding together the other colonies, and that,
in case they should join the union, these colonies would protect them against all
enemies. The Commissioners were also empowered to establish a printing-press,
to settle differences between the inhabitants and the troops, to reform abuses in
the army, to establish regulations for preserving peace and good order, and, in
effecting these objects, to suspend any civil or military officer, till the pleasure
of the Congress should be known. Armed with these extensive powers, the
Commissioners arrived at Montreal on the 2gth of April. They were accompa
nied by the Reverend John Carroll, a Catholic clergyman, afterwards arch
bishop of Baltimore, whose influence with the people it was thought would be
useful, on account of his religious principles and character. But they found the
state of affairs in Canada by no means such, as to encourage any just hope of
success to their mission. Negligence, mismanagement, and a combination of
unlucky incidents, had produced a confusion and disorder, that it was now too
late to remedy. The Commissioners used every effort in their power, but to
little effect. Ill health caused Dr. Franklin to return in a few days. His two
associates remained till after the American forces had retreated to Sorel, and
were preparing to evacuate Canada.

" The Continental Congress having ordered Friday the lyth instant to be
observed as a day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer, humbly to supplicate the
mercy of Almighty God, that it would please him to pardon all our manifold
sins and transgressions, and to prosper the arms of the United Colonies, and
finally establish the peace and freedom of America upon a solid and lasting
foundation ; the General commands all officers and soldiers to pay strict obedi
ence to the orders of the Continental Congress ; that, by their unfeigned and
pious observance of their religious duties, they may incline the Lord and giver
of victory to prosper our arms." — Orderly Book, 15 May, 1776.

"Your favor of the I4th, with an account of the apprehending of Sundry
Tories by order of your Committee, and the taking of others by Capt. Harden,

84 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NEW YORK, 17 May, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I this morning Received your favor of the 1 3 Instant
with its Enclosures, Conveying Intelligence of the
Melancholy situation of our affairs in Canada,1 and
am not without my fears, I confess, that the prospect
we had of possessing that Country, of so much im
portance in the present controversy, is almost over,
or at least that it will be effected with much more
difficulty and effusion of blood, than were necessary,
had our exertions been timely applied. — However we
must not despair. A manly and spirited opposition
only can ensure success, and prevent the Enemy
from improving the advantage they have obtained.—
I have forwarded the Letters to Congress ; and their
answer to you and the Honorable Commissioners I
will transmit to you, as soon as they come to hand.—

is now before me. Your Zeal and activity upon this occasion is truly commend
able, and with great pleasure I will lend any aid in my power, that shall be
thought within the line of my department, to root out or Secure such abominable
pests of Society. But as you have neither pointed out the names or places of
abode of the persons alluded to by your Informants on Long Island, I must
beg the favor of a more explicit description from you ; and, in the mean while,
will set on foot a proper inquiry into this matter, of some gentlemen here
acquainted with the Island, & concert some Plan for defeating the designs,
which you think are in agitation. I shall add no more at present, than that I
am, &c. — Washington to the Committee of Suffolk, 16 May, 1776.

" Robert Hanson Harrison, Esq., is appointed Secretary to the Commander
in Chief, in the room of Joseph Reed Esq., whose private concerns will not per
mit him to continue in that office.

" For the future, there is to be no expence of ammunition at the Interment
of any officer, or soldier, of the Continental Army, unless expressly ordered by
the Commander in Chief." — Orderly Book, 1 6 May, 1776.

1 Giving an account of a reinforcement of the enemy at Quebec, and the re
treat of the American forces from that place with great precipitation, and loss
of cannon, firearms, and powder ; and intimating the probability that they
would be obliged to abandon Canada.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 85

I am fully sensible, that this unfortunate event has
greatly deranged your schemes, & will involve you
in difficulties to be obviated only by your Zeal &
assiduity which I am well satisfied will not be wanting
in this or any other instance where the good of your
Country requires them.

Notwithstanding the most diligent pains, but a
small part of the Nails you wrote for is yet Collected,
nor will there be a possibility of getting half the
quantity, the Quarter Master expects that they will
be here to day, when they will be instantly forwarded
with the five Tons of lead—

I am, Sir, with sentiments of much esteem and re
gard, your most obedient humble servant.1

" I have this moment received by express from General Schuyleran account
of the melancholy prospect and reverse of our affairs in Canada ; and presum
ing, that the letters which accompany this will give Congress full information
upon the subject, I shall only add, that General Schuyler, in pursuance of orders
from the honorable Commissioners, has directed Brigadier-General Sullivan
to halt his brigade, as a further reinforcement, on account of the scarcity of
provisions, would not relieve, but contribute greatly to distress our troops
already in Canada. Before he received these orders, all the brigade except
Dayton's and Wayne's regiments had left Albany ; but I suppose he will be able
to stop their march." — Washington to the President of Congress, 17 May, 1776.
"As I have no doubt of the Willingness of the militia of this City to join in
its defence against the attempts of the Enemies of America, it is highly neces
sary in order to avoid Confusion in the time of any alarm that the Posts of the
Several Regiments of Militia be fixed on in conjunction with those of the Con
tinental Army, and that they be allotted to the Brigades most convenient to
their several Situations. And as I am now arranging that part of the Business
of the army, it will, I presume, be proper that directions be given to the Com
manding Officers of the Several Corps to take the Stations that I shall Assign,
by the orders they may in time of Danger receive from me or the Brigadier
Generals of the Continental Army. The like measure will be equally necessary
with regard to the Militia of Kings County and part of Queens County, on
Long Island, and also the Militia of Staten Island ; and I am persuaded that
the mention of a Matter so obviously Necessary will be sufficient to induce the
Congress of this province to give such directions as are proper on this Occasion."
— Washington to the Convention of New York, 17 May, 1776.

86 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO RICHARD HENRY LEE.

XE\V YORK, 18 May, 1776.

MY DEAR SIR,

In great haste I write you a few lines to cover the
enclosed ; J they came in the manner you see them,
and as explained in Captain Langdon's letter to me.
I hesitated some time in determining whether I could,

1 George Merchant, one of Arnold's men captured at Quebec and sent a pris
oner to England, had made his escape and returned to America with letters
" concealed in the waistband of his breeches." The letters were from Arthur
Lee and were addressed to " Lieutenant Governor Golden," as a blind. They
are printed in a garbled state in Sparks, Diplomatic Correspondence of tJic
American Revolution, i., 380 et seq.

" I do myself the honor to transmit to you the enclosed letters and papers, 1
received this morning in the state they now are, and which contain sundry mat
ters of intelligence of the most interesting nature. As the consideration of
them may lead to important consequences, and the adoption of several measures
in the military line, I have thought it advisable for General Gates to attend
Congress, he will follow to-morrow, and satisfy & explain to them some points
they may wish to be informed in the course of their deliberations, not having an
opportunity at this time to submit my thoughts to them upon these interesting
accounts." — Washington to the President of Congress, 18 May, 1776.

" The General has the pleasure to inform the recruiting officers of the regi
ments that came from the eastward (no allowance having been heretofore made
them) that upon a representation of their case, Congress have been pleased to
allow a Dollar and one third of a Dollar, for each good, and able bodied man,
that shall be recruited, for the purpose of completing the several regiments, as
a compensation for their trouble, and expence ; and that the same allowance
will be made those officers, who have heretofore inlisted men, upon the ne\\
establishment, excluding all Boys, and such men as were inlisted in Camp out
of the old regiments.

" The several Officers, which have been employed in this service, are to settle
this matter, under these exceptions, with their several Colonels, or commanding
officers ; and to give in rolls of the men's names, by them respectively inlisted.

"The utmost care and exactness is recommended to the Officers claiming
this allowance, as proof will be required, agreeable to the above directions."
—Orderly Book, 18 May, 1776.

" The Brigadier Generals are desired to make their respective Brigades, per
fectly acquainted with the alarm posts, which have been reported to the
Commander in Chief : But in case of an Alarm, the respective regiments are to
draw up, opposite to their encampments, or quarters, until they receive orders

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 87

with propriety, select them from the rest, considering
in what manner they came to my hands ; but as there
are some things in each which may serve to irritate,
I concluded it best to send not only the one directed
to you, but the other also, (to Doctor Franklin) un
der cover to you, as you may communicate and secrete
such parts as you like. I have no time to add the

to repair to the alarm posts above referred to. The following Signals are to
give the alarm, to all the Troops (as well regulars as Militia) and the Inhabitants
of the city ; (viz). In the day time two Cannon to be fired from the rampart at
Fort George, and a Flag hoisted from the Top of General Washington's Head
quarters : In the night time, two Cannon lired as above from Fort George, and
two lighted Lantherns hoisted from the top of Head Quarters aforesaid.

" The Colonels and officers commanding Corps, are immediately to have their
men compleated with twenty-four rounds of powder and ball properly, and
compleatly, made up into Cartridges, six rounds of which each man is to have
in his pouch, or cartridge box, for ordinary duty ; the remaining eighteen are to
be wrapped up tight, in a Cloth, or coarse Paper, and mark'd with the name of
the soldier to whom they belong, and carefully packed into an empty powder
barrel. The Captain's or Officers commanding Companies, are to see that this
is done, and to take into his own possession, the barrel with the cartridges
so packed, and to have them delivered to the men, as occasion may require ;
And whatsoever Soldier shall be found wasting or embezzling his ammunition,
shall not only be made to pay for it, but be punished for so base and shameful a
neglect, and disobedience of Orders.

" Notwithstanding the care and pains that has been taken to provide good arms
for the troops, on examination they are found to be in the most shocking situa
tion. The Colonels or commanding Officers of the regiments, are requested to
get the arms belonging to their regiments, put in good order as soon as possible,
the work to be executed at the Continental Armoury, or elsewhere, so as
to have them repaired in the most expeditious manner — Every man to be
furnished with a good Bayonet. But all that have had Bayonets heretofore, and
have lost them to pay for the new ones. Wherever a Soldier is known to have
injured his gun, on purpose, or suffered it to be injured by negligence, to be
chargeable with repairs. An account to be rendered of the expence of those
repairs, after deducting what each Individual ought to pay. A warrant will be
given the commanding Officer of the regiments for the discharge of the same.

" All repairs that are done to the arms hereafter, except unavoidable accidents,
to be paid by the men, and stopt out of their wages by the commanding officer
of the regiment. An Account to be rendered to him, by the Captains, or
commanding Officers of companies." — Orderly Book, 19 May, 1776.

88 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

necessity of vigorous exertions ; they are too obvious
to need any stimulus from me. Adieu, my dear Sir.
P. S. Upon second thought, knowing that Doctor
Franklin is in Canada, I send you a copy only of a
letter to him, (which I take to be from Doctor Lee)
and the original to the Doctor.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 20 May, 1776.

SIR,

Your favor of the i6th, with several resolutions of
Congress therein enclosed, I had not the honor to
receive till last night. Before the receipt, I did not
think myself at liberty to wait on Congress, although
I wished to do it ; and therefore the more readily
consented to General Gates's attendance, as I knew
there were many matters, which could be better ex
plained in a personal interview, than in whole volumes
of letters. He accordingly set out for Philadelphia
yesterday morning, and must have been too far
advanced on his journey (as he proposed expedition)
to be overtaken.1

1 " This will be delivered you by General Gates, who sets out to-day for Con
gress agreeable to my letter of yesterday. I have committed to him the heads
of sundry matters to lay before Congress for their consideration, which, from
the interesting intelligence contained in my last, appear to me of the utmost
importance, and to demand their most early and serious attention. Sensible
that I have omitted to set down many things necessary, and which probably,
when deliberating, they will wish to be acquainted with ; and not conceiving
myself at liberty to depart my post, though to attend them, without their pre
vious approbation ; [ have requested General Gates to subjoin such hints of his
own, as he may apprehend material. His military experience, and intimate
acquaintance with the situation of our affairs, will enable him to give Congress
the fullest satisfaction about the measures necessary to be adopted at this alarm-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 89

I shall, if I can settle some matters, which are in
agitation with the Provincial Congress here, follow
to-morrow or next day ; and, therefore, with every
sentiment of regard, attachment, and gratitude to
Congress for their kind attention to the means, which
they think may be conducive to my health, and with
particular thanks to you for the politeness of your in
vitation to your house,1 I conclude, dear Sir, your
most obedient, &c.2

ing crisis ; and, with his zeal and attachment to the cause of America, have a
claim to their notice and favors. When Congress shall have come to a deter
mination on the subject of this letter, and such parts of my former letters as
have not been determined on, you will be pleased to honor me with the result."
— Washington to the President of Congress, 19 May, 1776. Gates had been ap
pointed a Major General on May 16. He arrived in Philadelphia on the 21 st.

1 After urging General Washington's speedy attendance on Congress, to con
sult upon such measures as were necessary for carrying on the ensuing campaign.
President Hancock added : "I request the favor, that you will please to honor
me with your and your lady's company at my house, where 1 have a bed at your
service, and where every endeavor on my part and Mrs. Hancock's will be ex
erted to make your abode agreeable. I reside in an airy, open part of the city,
in Arch Street, corner of Fourth Street. If this should be agreeable to you, it
will afford me much pleasure." Upon receiving Washington's reply of the 2oth,
Hancock again wrote on the 2ist : " Your favor of the 2Oth instant I received
this morning, and cannot help expressing the very great pleasure it would afford
both Mrs. Hancock and myself to have the happiness of accommodating you
during your stay in this city. As the house I live in is large and roomy, it will
he entirely in your power to live in that manner you should wish. Mrs. Wash
ington may be as retired as she pleases while under the inoculation, and Mrs.
Hancock will esteem it an honor to have Mrs. Washington inoculated in her
house : and as I am informed Mr. Randolph has not any lady about his house to
take the necessary care of Mrs. Washington, I flatter myself she will be as well
attended in my family. In short, sir, I must take the freedom to repeat my wish
that you would be pleased to condescend to dwell under my roof." The invi
tation was not accepted.

- Read May 2ist.

" The Sentries at all the Batteries, where Cannon are placed, are to he in
creased to the number the Brigadier finds necessary ; and they are all to be
doubled at night ; They are not to suffer any person whatever (excepting the
rounds, or Officer of the Guard) to go into the Batteries at night ; nor is any

90 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NEW YORK, 21 May, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I have Enclosed for your perusal Copies of two In
formations, and a letter I received on Saturday last
from the Committee of King's district by the hands
of a Martin Bebee, who says he is their clerk and was
sent express. From these you will readily discover
the diabolical and Insidious Arts and Schemes carrying
on by the Tories, and friends of government, to raise
distrust, dissensions, and divisions among us. Having
the utmost confidence in your Integrity, and the most
incontestable proof of your great attachmt to our

person whatever, but the Generals or Field Officers of the Army, and officers
and men of the Artillery, who have real business there, to be permitted even in
the day time, to go on the platforms in the batteries ; or to approach the Can
non, or to meddle with the Rammers, Spunges or any of the Artillery Stores
placed there. The Officers of every Guard, are to see that their men are par
ticularly alert in executing this order.

" No person whatever, belonging to the Army is to be innoculated for the
Small pox — those who have already undergone that operation, or who may be
seized with the Symptoms of that disorder, are immediately to be removed to
the Hospital provided for that purpose on Montresor's Island. Any disobedi
ence to this order, will be most severely punished ; as it is at present of the
utmost importance that the spreading of that distemper, in the Army and City,
should be prevented." — Orderly Book, 20 May, 1776.

" Doctor Foster appearing before the Committee says, that information was
given to General Putnam, that several persons had been inoculated, at the house
of one Fisher, in Stone Street, contrary to a resolve of the Provincial Congress
of this Colony, he the examinant (agreeable to Genl Putnam's order) immedi
ately went to the house of the above mentioned Fisher, where he discovered Lt.
Colonel Moulton, Capt. Parks, Doctor Hart, and Lieut. Brown had been in
oculated by Doctor Azor Betts.

" Doctor Azor Betts being sent for, appeared before the Committee, allowed
the charge against him, and offer'd in his vindication — that he had been repeat
edly applied to by the officers of the Continental Army to inoculate them, that
he refused, but being overpersuaded he at last inoculated the persons above
mentioned." — Orderly Book, 26th May, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 91

common Country and Its Interest, I could not but
look upon the charge agt. you with an eye of disbe
lief, and sentiments of detestation and abhorrence ;
nor should I have troubled you with the matter, had
I not been Informed, that Copies were sent to different
Committees and to Govr Trumbull, which I conceived
would get abroad, and that you, should you find that
I had been furnished with them, would consider my
suppressing 'em as an Evidence of my belief, or at best
of my doubts of the charges.

The confidence and assurance I have of the Injus
tice and Infamy of the charges agt. the Convention
obliged me also to lay the matter before them ; lest
my not doing it should be construed a distrust by
them of their Zeal, and promote the views of the
Tories ; who, to excite disorder and confusion, judge
it essential to Involve those in high departments in a
share of the plot, which is not unlikely to be true in
some parts, believing that our Internal Enemies have
many projects in contemplation for to subvert our
liberties.1 Before I conclude, I wou'd mention, that

1 When the army retreated from Canada, and left all the upper parts of the
Lake open to the ravages of the enemy, the inhabitants were greatly alarmed
for their own safety, and, in the midst of their murmurs of despair, they were
ready to throw all the blame upon the commander of the northern department.
Committees of towns and districts assembled, and passed resolves, expressing
distrust of General Schuyler, and insinuating weighty charges against his
motives and conduct. Resolves of this kind were forwarded to Washington,
and to the New York Provincial Congress. To a committee of the Provincial
Congress, who had been the organ for communicating these charges to him,
Schuyler wrote : —

" I am much obliged to you for having taken prudent measures to prevent
the evils, that might be occasioned by the scandalous and false reports propa
gated to prejudice your respectable body and myself with the public. We must
bear with the caprice, jealousy, and envy of our misguided friends, and pity

92 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

some Officers called upon me a few days agoe, having
your permit to goe to Pennsylvania and settle some
affairs there. This License, when there is really

them. Our Tory enemies we must watch with care and circumspection, and
convince our countrymen by our actions, that we are true sons of liberty. I
have some reason to apprehend, that the Tories are not the only ones, that
have been assiduous in propagating this story. In the district you mention are
some persons, who applied for offices, which neither the Committee nor I could
confer. This disappointment chagrins them, and I believe they have occa
sioned the report. I am much obliged to Mr. Trumbull for the step he has
taken. It is something singular, that at the very time I was sending troops to
apprehend Tories, to whom I am so obnoxious that they would not hesitate to
assassinate me, the country below should be arming against me as a Tory."

On the very day that Washington sent to General Schuyler the papers con
taining the charges against him, Schuyler wrote from Fort George : " Bennet
informs me that a report prevails in the western parts of Connecticut that I was
to head some of the regiments raised in this Colony, join the Tories, and fall
upon the country ; that the people were ordered to collect on the occasion ; and
that affidavits to support this report had been taken and sent to your Excel
lency. I hope the scoundrels may be secured and held up to public contempt.
Ungrateful villains ! to attempt to destroy a man's reputation who, having
lighted the candle at both ends, is rapidly bringing on old age, by fatigues that
nothing but a wish to he instrumental in procuring liberty to my country would
make me undergo." And again on the 28th of May : —

" Your Excellency's letter of the 2ist instant, enclosing a copy of the infa
mous libel transmitted to you by the Committee of King's district, I received last
night. Whilst this was only report, I treated it with contempt, without taking
any notice of it ; but it is now a duty, which I owe myself and my country, to
detect the scoundrels ; and the only means of doing this is by requesting, that
an immediate inquiry may be made into the matter, when I trust it will appear,
that it was more a scheme calculated to ruin me, than to disunite and create
jealousies in the friends to America. Your Excellency will therefore please to
order a court of inquiry the soonest possible ; for 1 cannot sit easy under such
an infamous imputation, since, on this extensive continent, numbers of the most
respectable characters may not know what your Excellency and Congress do of
my principles and exertions in the common cause. It is peculiarly hard, that
at the very time that assassins and incendiaries are employed to take away my
life and destroy my property, as being an active friend to my country ; at the
very time when I had taken measures and given orders, some of which are ac
tually executed, to secure the Tories and to send them down to your Excellency,
a set of pretended Whigs (for such they are that have propagated these diabolical
tales) should proclaim me through all America a traitor to my country."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 93

business, is certainly countenanced by Humanity and
Generosity, but, nevertheless, it shou'd not be In
dulged, and I hope will not be granted in future, as

" May 31 st. — I am informed by persons of good credit, that about one hun
dred persons, living on what are commonly called the New Hampshire Grants,
have had a design to seize me as a Tory, and perhaps still have. There never
was a man so infamously scandalized and ill-treated as I am, and I hope Con
gress will publicly do me that justice, which I thank your Excellency for having
done me in your letter of the 2 1st, if that respectable body is convinced (of
which I make no doubt) of my /,eal and attachment to the cause of my injured
country. I am, dear Sir, ever most sincerely, your Excellency's most obedient
humble servant. "

The following communication is interesting chiefiy as it exhibits in a con
densed form the charges of the people against General Schuyler :

" Address of the Committees of Safety and Inspection for several Towns in
the County of Berkshire, Massachusetts Bay, bordering on the Colony of
New York, and with the Approbation of King's District in said Colony.
" MAY IT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY,

" We beg leave to lay before your Excellency the distresses of our minds
with all humility. Fear of injuring our common cause by writing as well as
^peaking, on the one hand, or by silence on the other, has filled us with pecul
iar concern. The purport of this epistle is so delicate, that we write with fear
and trembling, lest, when we mean to serve our country, we do it an irreparable
injury. Purity of intention will not always secure us against wrong steps. We
beg leave to assure your Excellency, that it is our hearty intention to support you
in the defence of America against the tyranny and usurpation of Great Britain to
the last extremity, and, if that is the pleasure of the Continental Congress, to the
building up of a distinct republic or American empire. But what has filled our
minds with a peculiar sense of danger to the common cause are the following tilings,
which we take to be facts, though we may be deceived as to some of them.

" That General Schuyler has had the superintending oversight of our Cana
dian army ; that, after the defeat of December 3ist, 1775, at Quebec, in an
attempt to take it by storm, recruits were forwarded in the slowest and most
dilatory manner ; that our army before the walls of Quebec, during a long and
tedious winter, underwent every kind of hardship, and their spirits were broken
by being neglected ; that about the 4th of May so inconsiderable was the army,
so miserably provided with provisions and ammunition, in a word, so greatly
neglected, that it was obliged precipitately to raise the siege, and disgracefully
to retreat, so as not only to leave those five hundred valiant sons of America
taken within the walls of Quebec to the mercy of our enemies, but an additional
number of sick to be disposed of at their pleasure ; that General Schuyler some
time last winter went on an expedition to subdue the internal enemies of this

94 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

it gives them an opportunity of getting Intelligence
of all our Operations, of forming opinions of our
strength, the places proper for attack, and settling a
channel of Correspondence with the disaffected by
which our Enemies may and will be furnished with

country, collected in arms against the country at Johnstown, and after the sup
pression of the said rebellion, the ringleader, Sir John Johnson, was not so
much as put under moderate confinement ; that the said Sir John Johnson has
since collected a number of said enemies, as we suppose, and joined some of
the King's forces in the upper forts, and raised a number of Canadians and
Indians, and come down upon Colonel Bedel's regiment stationed at the Cedars,
and taken them to a man, not less than about five hundred in number, many
of whom were shot and others tomahawked in cool blood by the insatiable
savages, after they were made prisoners ; this we have from men of credibility,
who were made prisoners at the same time, but found means to get away, the
Colonel of said regiment being necessarily absent at the time of said fight ; that
our army has long been in a most deplorable situation in Canada as to provi
sions and intrenching tools, arid we view them as in danger of being driven
wholly out of those territories, which event we have too much reason to fear
will decide the fate of New England, and be of the most dangerous conse
quence to all the United Colonies ; that the minds of many officers, soldiers,
and others are greatly dissatisfied with the conduct of General Schuyler, and
have great fears respecting his fidelity to his country, though they may be
wholly without foundation, and we find a great backwardness in men to enlist
in this expedition on this account.

" God forbid that we should harbor ungrounded jealousies of the deliverers,
and, in a sense, saviours of our country, or wilfully shut our eyes against the
greatest dangers. We beg leave to assure your Excellency, that we consider
all the United Colonies but as one, and observe no other distinctions, than
those of friends and enemies to their country. We indulge no private disgust
or resentment ; we are of no faction or party. We wish not to injure the
reputation and glory of General Schuyler, were it in our power ; we sincerely
hope his name may be handed down with immortal honor to the latest posterity,
as one of the great pillars of the American cause. We must not conclude, with
out assuring your Excellency of the utmost confidence placed in you by persons
of all ranks and conditions, within the sphere of our knowledge. We can
cheerfully rest in your wisdom under the direction of Him, who ruleth overall,
for directing the military operations in general through this great continent, in
conformity with the advice of the Continental Congress. We heartily pray for
success to your arms and salvation to America ; and that your disinterested
services may meet with a glorious reward. By order of the Committee."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 95

full accounts of our designs and every thing that can
promote their service and Injure ours. — There is but
little reason to believe, nay we are certain they will
not conduct themselves upon principles of the strict
est honor for the favors done 'em, but will, when in
their power, exercise every matter, that can operate to
our prejudice. I am, Sir, &c.

TO MAJOR-GENERAL PUTNAM.1
INSTRUCTIONS.

The Congress having been pleased to signify a desire that I
should repair to Philadelphia, in order to advise and consult with
them on the present posture of affairs, and as I am on the point
of setting out accordingly I have to desire that you will cause the
different works now in agitation to be carried on with the utmost
expedition. To this end I have written to the Provincial Con
gress of this Colony for tools, and have hopes of obtaining them.
Apply, therefore accordingly, taking an exact account of what
you receive.

The works upon Long-Island should be completed as expe-
ditiously as possible ; so should those in and about this town and
upon Governor's Island. If new works can be carried on without
detriment to the old, (for want of tools,) I would have that in
tended at Paulus Hook set about immediately, as I conceive it to
be of importance. In like manner I would have that at the
Narrows begun, provided Colonel Knox, after his arrangement
of the artillery, should find there are any fit pieces of cannon
to be spared for it ; otherwise, as I have no longer any depend
ence upon cannon from Admiral Hopkins, it would be useless.

The barriers of those streets leading from the water are not to
be meddled with, and where they have been pulled down are to
be repaired, and nearer the water, if more advantageous.

1 As the oldest major-general in the army at New York, General Putnam
was left in command during Washington's absence at the call of Congress.

96 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

As it does not appear to me improbable that the enemy may
attempt to run past our batteries in and about the town, and land
between them and the woody grounds above Mr. Scott's, I would
have you employ as many men as you can in throwing up flushes
at proper places and distances within that space, in order to give
opposition in landing ; but if there are not tools enough to carry-
on the other more essential works and these at the same instant,
you are not to neglect the first, but esteem this as a secondary
consideration only.

Delay not a moment's time to have the signals fixed for the
purpose of communicating an alarm upon the first appearance of
the enemy. Let them be placed in such a manner, and at such
distances, as to be easily discovered, day or night. If this was
continued upon the Long Island shore for some distance, good
consequences might result from it, as nothing can be attended
with more signal advantages than having timely notice of the
enemy's approach, whilst nothing can add more to the disgrace
of an officer than to be surprised ; for this reason I have to beg
that the same vigilance and precaution may be used as if the
enemy were actually within sight, as a brisk wind and flowing
tide will soon produce them when they are once on the coast.
The officers and men, therefore, should be constantly at their
quarters, the guards alert, and every thing in readiness for im
mediate action.

As I have great reasons to fear that the fortifications in the
Highlands are in a bad situation, and the garrisons, on account
of arms, worse, I would have you send Brigadier Lord Stirling,
with Colonel Putnam, (and Colonel Knox if he can be spared)
up there to see, report, and direct such alterations as shall be
judged necessary for putting them into a fit and proper posture
of defence.

Open any letters which may come directed to me upon publick
service whilst I am absent ; and if any very interesting advices
should be contained therein, either from the eastward or north
ward, forward them to Philadelphia, after regulating your conduct
thereby.

I must again beg that your particular attention be turned to
our powder magazines, to see that that valuable article is properly

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 97

placed and secured. I also beg that no time or means be
neglected to make as many cartridges as possible.

I have reason to believe, that the Provincial Congress of this
colony have in contemplation a scheme for seizing the principal
Tories and disaffected persons on Long Island, in this city, and
the country round about ; and that, to carry the scheme into exe
cution, they will have recourse to the military power for assist
ance. If this should be the case, you are hereby required during
my absence to afford every aid, which the said Congress or their
Secret Committee shall apply for. I need not recommend secrecy
to you, as the success, you must be assured, will depend abso
lutely upon precaution, and the despatch with which the measure,
when once adopted, shall be executed.

General Greene will, though not in person perhaps, have a
principal share in ordering the detachments from his brigade on
Long Island ; of course he will be a proper person to be let into the
whole plan. I would, therefore, when application is made by
Congress, have you and him concert measures with such gentle
men, as that body shall please to appoint, and order the execu
tion with as much secrecy and despatch as possible, and at the
same time with the utmost decency and good order. Given under
my hand at Head-Quarters, in the city of New York, this 2ist
day of May, 1776.'

1 The machinations of disaffected persons, or Tories, as they began univer
sally to be called, in the lower counties of New York, had for some time excited
serious apprehensions, as to their effects on the army, and particularly when the
British forces should arrive on the coast. Governor Tryon was at the head of
this party, and by his talents, his former popularity in the province, and his
emissaries among the people, he was maturing designs, which it was found
necessary to take speedy and efficient measures to counteract. The Provincial
Congress had appointed a secret committee of their number to confer with Gen
eral Washington, from time to time, on all such matters as required the cooper
ation of the civil and military powers for the common safety. The subject of
the Tories had occupied their deliberations, and it was agreed that a strong and
decided course ought immediately to be pursued in regard to them. General
Washington had promised military aid for carrying into effect any resolves,
which might be adopted to attain this object. The following is an extract from
the proceedings of the Congress on the igth of May :

98 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.
DEAR SlR, AMBOY, 22 May, 1776.

Congress having been pleased to request my at
tendance at Philadelphia, to advise with them on the
situation of our affairs, and of such measures as may
be necessary to adopt for this campaign, I had got
thus far on my journey, when I called to view the

" Mr. Morris, from the committee who conferred with General Washington,
informed the Congress, that sundry matters of great importance had come be
fore the committee and the General ; that the General wished for the advice
and assistance of this Congress to carry into execution his own powers, if not
also the assistance of the powers of this Congress ; that the matters conferred on
are of such importance, that, in order to preserve secrecy, it is necessary that
each particular member be sworn not to reveal to any person out of the Con
gress the matters to be mentioned, or the subjects of this day's debate. The
President then put the question, whether every member is willing to take an
oath of secrecy, and the same was unanimously agreed to.

"Ordered, that Mr. Scott and Mr. Morris wait on General Washington and
inform him that the Congress have taken an oath of secrecy, and the nature
thereof, and receive of him such papers as may be necessary to communicate to
this Congress.

" Messrs. Scott and Morris returned from General Washington, and delivered
to the President such papers as they had received of the General. They re
ported that a scheme of a junction is forming between the disaffected in Connec
ticut and on Long Island, in order to join the ministerial army, and oppress the
friends of liberty in these colonies."

After further consideration the Congress passed a series of resolutions, setting
forth the unjustifiable acts of disaffected persons, the dangers threatened by
them to the liberties of the country, and the necessity of seizing and securing
all such, as manifested hostile intentions, and an open resistance to the newly
established civil authority. The committee appointed to execute these resolves,
of whom Gouverneur Morris was chairman, were instructed to proceed with
vigilance and firmness, to employ the militia where occasion required, and if
necessary to solicit additional force from General Washington. The names of
several persons, residing in King's, Queen's, New York, Richmond, and West-
chester counties, had been reported to the Congress, concerning whom the com
mittee were required to collect evidence, and examine them in person, as well
as to send out agents to search for others who were concealed or unknown.
The committee were directed to commit to safe custody such persons, as they
should think proper, and to send them for this purpose into the neighboring
colonies, where the infection of their influence could not be diffused. A sim
ilar course of proceeding was recommended to the county committees. Several

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 99

ground, and such places on Staten Island contiguous
to it, as may be proper for works of defence, when
your favor of the i6th instant, with its several enclos
ures, came to hand. I am exceedingly concerned for
the distress of our troops in Canada, and, as I in
formed you heretofore, have been very importunate
with the commissary to forward all the provisions in

Tories from New York were, in consequence of these resolves and others of a
similar character, confined in the prisons of Connecticut. Af.S. Journal of tin-
New York Provincial Congress, May igth, 22d.

" That no confusion may ensue when the Troops are called into action, the
General has order'd that all the posts and of the lines, redoubts, and batteries,
be so fixed and regulated as every officer, and soldier, may know his place &
duty, which will be explained to them by the Brigadiers General, according to
the orders of yesterday. And further to confirm the order, and discipline of the
Guards of the Army ; the General orders, that the officers and men, who are to
mount guard do parade by half past Six o'Clock, where they are by their Ad
jutants, in the presence of a Field Officer, to be reviewed, and their Arms, and
Ammunition, to be examined, according to the orders of the igth instant, which
last mentioned Officers are to see that their ammunition and accoutrements are
complete, and the men dressed in a soldierlike manner. The Adjutants are
then to march them to the parade of the brigade, and to deliver them over to
the Major of their respective brigade, who is very minutely to inspect and see,
that the Guards are compleat, in the particulars above-mentioned. The Bri
gade Majors are then to march them to the Grand parade on the Common, in
the Artillery Park, and from thence the several out guards are to be relieved. —
On the Grand parade the Brigadiers, with the Field Officers of the day, will
attend to see the Guards paraded, and march'd to their several destinations.
The Brigade Major of the day is also to attend on the Grand parade, and make
up the Guards, before he repairs to Head Quarters, for the purpose of reporting
the same and to receive any Orders from the Commander in Chief, to the Brig
adier General of the day, and to the other Brigadiers of the line. The Brigadier
General of the day, will give his orders on the parade, to the Field Officers of
the day, at what time he would have them go the visiting and grand rounds.
At Reveille beating, which is to be at the dawn of day, all the Guards are to be-
under Arms, at their proper posts, and visited by the Field officers of the pic-
quet (who are all esteemed Field officers of the day) who are to see that the
Guards are properly placed, and that every thing is in good order for defence,
in case of an Attack. The Brigadier General will on the parade, assign to each
Field Officer, of the day, the posts he is to visit for this purpose.

"The Artillery Guard, is to parade at the same time and place, — the Ma-
trosses and Gunners necessary to be constant at each battery, are with their

ioo THE WRITINGS OF [1776

his power ; in consequence of which he has sent a
good deal on, and I shall again repeat my orders and
enjoin him to continue his supplies as largely and ex-
peditiously as possible.

I wrote you on the i7th Inst. and am hopefull the
27 & -\ Casks of Nails, which were all that could be
got, with the 5 tons of lead then sent will have
reached you or got to Albany, from whence they will
be forwarded, and in a Letter to Genl. Putnam have

proper implements to march off from the Grand parade, at the head of the
Guards, to be stationed at the respective batteries.

" The Field Officer who goes the Grand Rounds, is to visit the Camp Guards,
as well as the Guards stationed in the town, and at the batteries. The other
two Field Officers of the day are to do the like, at such hours of the night as
will be assigned them by the Brigadier of the day.

" By the present demand for Flints, by some of the Troops, the General has
reason to apprehend, that due care has not been taken of those lately delivered
to the Soldiers, who have had no occasion to make an extraordinary use of them
— and it is well known that a good Flint well screw'd in, will stand the firing
of sixty rounds after which it may still be repaired — 'tis therefore presumed,
that the men have either lost their Flints through negligence, or abused them
by that worst of practices, snapping their pieces continually, which not only
spoils their Lock, softens the Hammer, and destroys the Flint, but frequently
causes the death of many a man, by the Gun being unknowingly loaded.

" The Officers are therefore required to pay a very strict attention to this
particular, and have their Men's Flints, examined when they review their am
munition ; for men being surprized with bad flints in their Guns, may be at
tended with fatal consequences. The Officers are also desired to be careful,
that when their men turn out to exercise their Flints be taken out ; and a
wooden Snapper screw'd into their gun, until their exercise be over ; when the
Flint is again to be well screw'd in and their arms immediately put in proper
fighting order, after which, no man is on any account to snap his piece.

" One Flint pr. Man will be delivered to the Troops, and 'tis expected more
care will be taken of them, than has been done heretofore.

" The Sentries in Fort George, and on the Battery, are to keep a sharp look
out towards the Narrows, Staten Island, Red hook, &c. to observe if any sig
nals are given from thence, and acquaint the officer of the guard immediately
therewith.

" The Officers and Men are strictly enjoined to keep close to their quarters
— No excuse will be admitted from either, for a neglect of it, and the rolls are
frequently to be called over." — Orderly Book, 2ist May, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON.
directed him to examine our stock of the latter, and
to furnish you with a further quantity if it can be
spared. At Philadelphia I will try to get a supply.
I have also directed him to send you Two Tons more
of Powder and such Intrenching Tools as can be pos
sibly spared or procured from the Convention, in con
sequence of an Application I made two or three days
since. We are deficient in those, not having- a suf
ficiency to carry on the works for the defence of New
York with the expedition I wish, or the exigency of
the times demands.

In respect to Cannon, shot, and Guns for the ves-
sells in the Lake I have requested him to consult
with Col. Knox and with the Convention about sail
Cloth, &c. ; and if any of them can be spared or pro
cured, that they be immediately sent you.

Our situation respecting the Indians is delicate and
embarrassing. They are attached to Johnson, who
is our enemy. Policy and prudence on the one hand
suggest the necessity of seizing him and every friend
of governmt ; on the other, if he is apprehended,
there will be danger of incurring their resentment. I
hope the Committee will conduct the matter in the
least exceptionable manner, and in that way that
shall most advance the public good.

I observe by the minutes of a council of war, by
General Thomas's letter, and that of Messrs. Carroll
and Chase to Dr. Franklin, that our troops cannot
make a stand at Deschambault, as I had hoped. I
wish it were practicable ; for most certainly the lower
down the river we can maintain our post, the more
important will the advantages resulting from it be.

102 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Considering- all the country below us as lost, and that
there may be some prospect of gaining that above,
from whence we might draw supplies in some degree,
and have the friendship and assistance of the inhabi
tants, — it is certain we should make a stand as low
down as we can, so as not to have a retreat cut off in
case of necessity, or an opportunity of receiving pro
visions. But unacquainted as I am with the country,
I cannot undertake to say where it should be. Not
doubting and hoping that every thing for the best will
be done, I am, Sir, &c.r

TO MAJOR-GENERAL THOMAS, IN CANADA.

PHILADELPHIA, 24 May, 1776.

SIR,

I received your favor of the 8th instant with its en
closures, confirming the melancholy intelligence I had
before heard, of your having been obliged to raise the
siege of Quebec, and to make a precipitate retreat
with the loss of the cannon in the batteaux, and in
terception of the powder going from General Schuy-
ler. This unfortunate affair has given a sad shock to

1 Washington arrived in Philadelphia on Thursday afternoon, 23 May, 1776,
about two o'clock.

" The following are the names of the different Batteries, in and about this
City — The Battery at the South port of the Town, the Grand Battery — The
one immediately above it, Fort George — The one on the left of the Grand Bat
tery, Whitehall Battery — That behind his Excellency General Washington's
Head Quarters, the Oyster Battery. The circular Battery near the Brew house
on the North River, The Grenadier Battery — That on the left of the Grenadier's
Battery The Jersey Battery ; — The one on Bayard's Hill, Bayard s Hill Redoubt ;
The one on the hill where General Spencer's Brigade is encamped Spencer1 s
Redoubt ; below this Hill, on a Wharf, is a Fascine Battery, called Waterbury's
Battery. — On the hill directly above it, is a Redoubt, near the Jews' burying
Ground by the name of Badlams Redoubt."1 — Orderly Book 22 May 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 103

our schemes in that quarter, and blasted the hope we
entertained of reducing that fortress and the whole of
Canada to our possession.

From your representation, things must have been
found in great disorder, and such as to have made a
retreat almost inevitable ; but, nevertheless, it is hoped
you will be able to make a good stand yet, and by that
means secure a large or all the upper part of the
country. That being a matter of the utmost im
portance in the present contest, it is my wish and that
of Congress, that you take an advantageous post as
far down the river as possible, so as not to preclude
you from a retreat, if it should be ever necessary, or
from getting proper supplies of provision. The lower
down you can maintain a stand, the more advanta
geous will it be, as all the country above will most
probably take part with us, from which we may draw
some assistance and support, considering all below as
entirely within the power of the enemy and of course
in their favor. This misfortune must be repaired, if
possible, by our more vigorous exertions ; and trust
ing that nothing will be wanting on your part or in
your power to advance our country's cause. I am, &c.

TO MAJOR-GENERAL PUTNAM.

PHILADELPHIA, 28 May, 1776.

SIR,

I received yours of the 24th Inst. with its several
inclosures, and the Letter and Invoice from Genl
Ward giving Intelligence of the fortunate capture
made by our Armed Vessells, on which event you
have my Congratulations.

io4 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I have wrote Genl. Ward as you will see by the in
closed Letter, which having- read you will seal and
send by post, to send forward to New York Colo.
Putnam's demand & also such Articles as Colo Knox
may apply for out of the Cargoe taken. — In like man
ner I have desired him to send me as soon as possible
part of the powder and eight hundred of the Carbines
which will greatly assist in making- up the deficiency
in this instance.

As to the plan for employing the Armed Vessells
I have no Objection to its being adopted, provided it
will not frustrate the main design for which they were
fitted out. That I would by no means have injured,
as it is a matter of much importance to prevent a Cor
respondence between the disaffected and the Enemy,
and the latter from getting supplies of provision, but
if this end can be answered, and the other advantages
in the plan mentioned, it is certainly an Eligible one.

The great variety of business, in which Congress are
engaged, has prevented our settling what I was re
quested to attend for, though we have made several
attempts, and a committee has been appointed for the
purpose day after day ; nor can I say with precision
when I shall be at liberty to return. I must therefore
pray your attention and vigilance to every necessary
work ; and further, if you should receive, before I
come, certain advices, and such as you can rely on, of
the enemy's being on the coast, or approaching New
York, that you inform me by express as early as pos
sible. I do not wish an alarm to be given me without
foundation ; but, as soon as you are certified of their

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 105

coming, that it be instantly communicated to me, and
orders given the express who comes, to bespeak, at the
different necessary stages on the road, as many horses
as may be proper for facilitating my return, and that
of the gentlemen with me, with the greatest expedi
tion. I am, Sir, yours, &c.

P. S. I advise you'l speak to the several Colonls.
& Hurry them to get their Colors done.1

TO JOHN AUGUSTINE WASHINGTON.

PHILADELPHIA, 31 May, 1776.

DEAR BROTHER,

Since my arrival at this place, where I came at the
request of Congress to settle some matters relative to
the ensuing campaign, I have received your letter of
the 1 8th from Williamsburg, and think I stand in
debted to you for another, which came to hand some
time ap'o in New York.

o

I am very glad to find that the Virginia Convention
have passed so noble a vote, and with so much unan-

1 "Joseph Lent of Col. McDougall's Regiment and Capt. Hogh's Company,
tried at the above Court Martial for ' Disobedience of Orders, and striking his
commanding Officer, Ensign Young when in the execution of his duty ' is found
guilty of Disobedience of orders and sentenced to be confined five days on bread
and water in the Provost Dungeon.

" The General is not a little suprised at the sentence of the Court, on the
prisoner Joseph Lent, and thinks the punishment so inadequate to the crime,
that he disapproves of the sentence. The General hopes this hint will make
future General Court Martials more particular and severe on the heinous crime,
of a Soldier's striking, or attempting to strike his officer, or disobey his com
mands." — Orderly Book, 29 May, 1776.

" Gen'l Washington has wrote to Gen'l Putnam desiring him in the most press
ing terms, to give positive orders to all the Colonels to have Colors immediately
completed for their respective regiments." — Orderly Book, 31 May, 177°-

To6 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

imity.1 Things have come to that pass now, as to
convince us, that we have nothing more to expect
from the justice of Great Britain ; also, that she is
capable of the most delusive arts ; for I am satisfied,
that no commissioners ever were designed, except
Hessians and other foreigners ; and that the idea was
only to deceive and throw us off our guard. The first
has been too effectually accomplished, as many mem
bers of Congress, in short, the representation of whole
provinces, are still feeding themselves upon the dainty
food of reconciliation ; and, though they will not
allow, that the expectation of it has any influence
upon their judgment, (with respect to their prepara
tions for defence,) it is but too obvious, that it has an
operation upon every part of their conduct, and is a
clog to their proceedings. It is not in the nature of
things to be otherwise ; for no man, that entertains a
hope of seeing this dispute speedily and equitably-
adjusted by commissioners, will go to the same ex
pense and run the same hazards to prepare for the
worst event, as he who believes that he must conquer,
or submit to unconditional terms, and its concom
itants, such as confiscation, hanging, &c., &c.

1 On Wednesday, May 15, the Virginia Convention, consisting of one hun
dred and twelve members resolved unanimously to instruct their delegates in
the Continental Congress to propose " to that respectable body to declare
the Colonies free and independent States, absolved from all allegiance to, or
dependence upon, the Crown or Parliament of Great Britain," pledging their
support to such a declaration, and "to whatever measures may be thought
proper and necessary by the Congress for forming foreign alliances, and a con
federation of the colonies, at such time, and in the manner, as to them shall
seem best : Provided, that the power of forming government for, and the regu
lation of the internal concerns of each colony, be left to the respective colonial
legislatures."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 107

To form a new government requires infinite care
and unbounded attention ; for if the foundation is
badly laid, the superstructure must be bad. Too
much time, therefore, cannot be bestowed in weigh
ing and digesting matters well. We have, no doubt,
some good 'parts in our present constitution ; many
bad ones we know we have. Wherefore, no time can
be misspent that is employed in separating the wheat
from the tares. My fear is, that you will all get tired
and homesick ; the consequence of which will be, that
you will patch up some kind of a constitution as
defective as the present. This should be avoided.
Every man should consider, that he is lending his aid
to frame a constitution, which is to render millions
happy or miserable, and that a matter of such moment
cannot be the work of a day.

I am in hopes to hear some good accounts from
North Carolina. If Clinton has only part of his force
there, and not strongly entrenched, I should think
that General Lee will be able to give a very good
account of those at Cape Fear. Surely administra
tion must intend more than five thousand men for
the southern district, otherwise they must have a very
contemptible opinion of those colonies, or have great
expectations from the Indians, slaves, and Tories.
We expect a very bloody summer of it at New York
and Canada, as it is there I expect the grand efforts
of the enemy will be aimed ; and I am sorry to say,
that we are not either in men or arms prepared for it.
However, it is to be hoped, that, if our cause is just,
as I do most religiously believe it to be, the same

io8 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Providence, which has in many instances appeared
for us, will still go on to afford its aid.

Your Convention is acting very wisely in removing
the disaffected, stores, &c., from the counties of
Princess Anne and Norfolk ; and are much to be
commended for their attention to the manufacture of
salt, saltpetre, powder, &c. No time nor expense
should be spared to accomplish these things.

Mrs. Washington is now under inoculation in this
city ; and will, I expect, have the smallpox favorably.
This is the thirteenth day, and she has very few
pustules. She would have written to my sister, but
thought it prudent not to do so, notwithstanding
there could be but little danger in conveying the
infection in this manner. She joins me in love to
you, her, and all the little ones. I am, with every
sentiment of regard, dear Sir, your most affectionate
brother.

TO MAJOR-GENERAL PUTNAM.

PHILADELPHIA, 3 June, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I received your favor by yesterday evening's ex
press, with the several letters and intelligence from
General Schuyler, and am much concerned for the
further misfortunes, that have attended our arms in
Canada. I have laid the whole before Congress,
who had before resolved to send a considerable aug
mentation to our army there ; and doubt not that
General Schuyler may receive assistance from the

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 109

militias, most convenient to him, for securing the
different passes and communications, till they can be.
As to sending a reinforcement from New York,
neither policy nor prudence will justify it, as we
have the strongest reasons to believe the clay not
far distant, when a large armament will arrive and
vigorously attempt an impression there ; to oppose
which the forces we have will not be more than equal,
if sufficient.

Congress have determined on building sundry gon
dolas and fire-rafts, to prevent the men-of-war and
enemy's ships from coming into the New York Bay
or Narrows. I must therefore request, that you make
inquiries after carpenters, and procure all you can,
with materials necessary for building them, that they
may goe on with all possible expedition, as soon as
the person arrives from hence, whom I have em
ployed to superintend the work. He will be there
in a day or two. I am, dear Sir, &c.'

1 On the 3d, Hancock conveyed to Washington the thanks of Congress for
the " unremitted attention you have paid to your important trust ; and in par
ticular, for the assistance they have derived from your military knowledge and
experience in adopting the best plans for the defence of the United Colonies.
. . Having, therefore, fully accomplished the views of Congress in re
questing your attendance in this city, I am commanded to inform you that they
submit to your choice the time of returning to head quarters, well knowing you
will repair thither when ever the exigency of affairs shall render your presence
there necessary."

On May 23d Congress appointed a committee of five to confer with Wash
ington, Gates, and Mifrlin on "the most speedy and effectual means for sup
porting the American cause in Canada." The members were Harrison, R. H.
Lee, J. Adams, Wilson, and Rutledge — all but one being from the Colonies
south of New York. Washington was ordered to attend on the 24th, and on
the same day a report from the committee, drawn up by Harrison, was laid
before Congress, and in part adopted. ( Journals, May 24th.) One of the

no THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NEW YORK, 7 June, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I have not time to answer your two last favors mi
nutely, but only to acknowledge the receipt of them,

New York delegates, R. R. Livingston, was added to the committee, and on
the next day, probably finding the inquiry taking a wider scope, a much
larger committee was appointed, composed of Harrison, R. H. Lee, J. Adams,
Wilson, R. R. Livingston, Whipple, Sherman, Hopkins, W. Livingston, Read,
Tilghman, Hewes, Middleton, and Hall. The subject was now no longer con
fined to Canada and the northern frontier, but included "a plan of military
operations for the ensuing compaign." The first report, prepared by Rutledge,
was considered on the same day, and in part agreed to : " Resolved, that it is of
the highest importance that post be taken at Dechambeau and that the same be
fortified ; that works be likewise erected on the islands in the river St. Law
rence, at the mouth of the river Sorel, as well to keep open the communica
tion between St. Johns as to prevent the enemies passing to the upper country,
should the forces of the United Colonies be compelled to retreat from Decham
beau. That it is highly expedient to engage the Indians in the service of the
United Colonies." (MS. Joitrnals.} On the 2gth a "further" report was
presented by the committee (probably on the suggestion of Lee) and it was
resolved "that an animated address be published to impress the minds of the
people with the necessity of now stepping forward to save their country, their
freedom and property," and Jefferson, Wythe, S. Adams, and Rutledge were
chosen to prepare such an address. (MS. Jo^^r rials.} The printed Journals
give all that was accomplished on the 3Oth, but the full report had in the
meantime been prepared in the conference committee, and digested by Jeffer
son from rough memorandas in the MSS. of R. H. Lee, Harrison, Rutledge
and a number of others, together with about six reports upon letters from
Washington and Schuyler that had been some weeks before Congress. Jeffer
son's digest covers four closely written folio pages, and each paragraph is
lettered apparently with the initial letter of the person who proposed that par
ticular paragraph, thus, G stands for Gates, S, Schuyler, W, Washington, and
C, probably Committee or Congress. Washington suggested fifteen paragraphs
— quite one half of the whole ; but as most of the paragraphs were afterwards
embodied in resolutions of Congress, I do not give them here. There are two
pages of questions and answers in the MS. of Richard Henry Lee, but they
appear to have been addressed to the committee and not to Washington.

This digested report was brought into Congress on the 3Oth, and was con
sidered on the following days, only a part of the resolves being printed in the
Journals.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. IIT

being just returned from Philadelphia, and the post
about to depart this morning. The situation of our
affairs in Canada is truly alarming, and I greatly fear,
from the intelligence transmitted from thence by
Captain Wilkinson to General Greene,1 that ere this
we have sustained further and greater misfortunes,
than what happened when you wrote. I have en
closed you a copy of his letter, by which you will see
I have too much ground for my concern ; and I sin
cerely wish the next letters from the northward may
not contain melancholy advices of General Arnold's
defeat, and the loss of Montreal. The most vigorous
exertions will be necessary to retrieve our circum
stances there, and I am hopefull you will strain every
nerve for that purpose. Unless it can be now done,
Canada will be lost for ever ; the fatal consequences
of which every one must feel.

I have enclosed to you a copy of a resolve of Con
gress for reinforcing the army in Canada, and keeping
up the communication with that province.2 I hope the
several colonies will immediately furnish their quotas
of men, which, or as many of them as may be neces
sary, I should imagine had better be employed at the
communications, and all the enlisted soldiers sent
forward to Canada. You have, also, another resolu
tion for employing and engaging a number of Indians
in the service,3 though Congress have not particular-

1 See this letter in Wilkinson's Memoirs, vol. i., p. 43.

'•* It was resolved, June 1st, that six thousand militia should be employed from
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Connecticut, and New York, to reinforce the
army in Canada.

' Congress had voted the raising of two thousand Indians for the Canada

ii2 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

ized the mode for raising and engaging 'em. I would
have you, and the Commissioners appointed for In
dian affairs, pursue such measures for the purpose, as
to you may seem best for securing their friendship
and service. If a smaller number than two thousand
will do, I would not advise more to be embodied
than may be necessary.

If your presence or direction at St. John's, or any
post in Canada, could be of service and tend to put
our affairs in a better channel than they now are, I
would wish you to goe, as General Thomas is down
with the smallpox ; but I do not mean to direct or
request you to do it, if you think by remaining where
you are, or not going, will be of more public advan
tage, or that the cause will be injured by doing it.
You will be governed by such measures, as appear to
you best, and the circumstances of our affairs under
your management, and those in Canada with which
you must be much better acquainted than I am, or
can possibly be, at this distance. It is probable your

service. In reply, General Schuyler very naturally inquired where they were
to be found, and added, that, instead of raising this number for the American
cause, he thought that if they could be prevented from joining the enemy it was
more than could be expected. The Indians had but one maxim in their alliances
with the whites, which was to adhere to the strongest side, where they were paid
the most liberally, and ran the least risk. Congress had small means, and were
parsimonious from necessity. They were moreover averse at first to employing
this kind of aid, and sought only to keep the savages in a peaceful neutrality.
As this was not possible, from the fierce and warlike nature of these sons of
the forest, and as the enemy has no scruples on the subject, it was deemed
necessary by Congress to seek their assistance. No moment, however, could
have been more unpropitious for such an attempt, than the present, when
the declining state of affairs in Canada held out feeble encouragements to
a people, who acted upon the principle and with the ultimate aim of the
savages.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 113

presence may be necessary & wanted at the negotia
tion with the Indians, which will be one cause to
prevent your going.1

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 7 June, 1776.

SIR,

I do myself the honor to inform Congress, that I
arrived here yesterday afternoon about one o'clock,
and found all in a state of peace and quiet. I had
not time to view the works carrying on, and those
ordered to be begun when I went away ; but have
reason to believe, from the report of such of the
general and other officers I had the pleasure to see,
that they have been prosecuted and forwarded with
all possible diligence and despatch.2 I am much con-

1 General Schuyler soon afterwards went to the German Flats, where he met
a large number of Indians from the western parts of New York, with whom a
treaty was formed.

General Sullivan arrived at St. Johns on May 3ist. Writing to Congress on
the following day, he said : " No one thing is right ; every thing is in the
utmost confusion, and almost every one frightened at, they know what.
. I am surprised that an army should live in continual fear of and even
retreat before an enemy which no person among them has seen. ... I
am extremely sorry to inform you that from the officers whose business it was to
give Congress the true state of matters Congress has not, I believe, received any
thing like it. This I conclude from the repeated letters sent to Gen'l Washing
ton giving the most favorable accounts and promising a speedy reduction of
Quebec, when there was not even a probability of it, and the army with which
this was to be done had dwindled into a mob without even the form of order or
regularity. The consequence of which we have experienced by the infamous
retreat from Quebec, and the still more scandalous surrender of the post at the
Cedars. "

- From a letter of Jedediah Huntington to Governor Trumbull, dated the 6th,
it is learned that the " army is as well prepared to meet the enemy (for its num
bers) as ever it has been since its commencement — better discipline, more am
munition and good arms ; although as to the latter article, there is too great a

ii4 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

cerned for the situation of our affairs in Canada, and
am fearful, ere this, it is much worse than was first
reported at Philadelphia. The intelligence from
thence in a letter from Captn. Wilkinson of the 2d
Regt. to Genl. Greene is truly alarming. It not
only confirms the account of Colonel Bedel's and
Major Sherburne's defeat, but seems to forebode
General Arnold's, with the loss of Montreal. I have
enclosed a copy of the letter, which will but too well
show that there is foundation for my apprehensions.
On Wednesday evening I received an express from
General Schuyler, with sundry papers respecting Sir
John Johnson, which I have not time to copy, as the
post is just going off, but will do myself the honor of
transmitting you as soon as I possibly can.1 Before

deficiency. ... I count large to put down the number of our men fit for
action here at five hundred each regiment, which amounts to nine thousand five
hundred. Indeed I do not think we could turn out eight thousand well armed.
. . . The inhabitants promise us three thousand of City Militia ; but we do
not believe we shall see half so many."

1 Sir John Johnson resided at Johnstown, in Tryon county, about forty miles
northwest of Albany, and possessed large patrimonial estates in that neighbor
hood. Adhering to the royal cause, and having many of the Indians in his in
fluence, as well as two or three hundred Highlanders, who were his tenants, an
eye was kept upon his conduct. In January he had given his parole, that he
would take no part against the colonies. See Remembrancer ^ vol. iii., p. 45.
But General Schuyler received such intelligence as convinced him, that Sir John
was secretly instigating the Indians, by which he had virtually broken his parole,
and was likely to produce much mischief on the frontiers. To prevent such a
calamity, he thought it advisable to secure Sir John, and quell the rising spirit
of hostility, which he was fomenting among the inhabitants and Indians in that
quarter. Colonel Dayton, with a part of his regiment then on its way to
Canada, was despatched to prosecute this enterprise. But Sir John, getting
notice of the preparations, and suspecting the object, made his escape to the
westward, and sought security with the Indians, and a small British force on
the lakes. Sir John's papers were examined by Colonel Dayton, in compliance
with his orders, and Lady Johnson was removed to Albany, where she was re-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 115

I left Philadelphia, I employed a person to superin
tend the building of the gondolas, which Congress
had resolved on for this place. He is arrived, and
all things seem to be in a proper channel for facili
tating the work ; but when they are done, we shall
be in much want of guns, having never received any
of those taken by Commodore Hopkins. Be pleased
to mention me to Congress with the utmost respect,
and I am, Sir, with every sentiment of regard and
esteem, your and their most obedient servant.

P. S. I this minute received vour favor of the ^

j »j

Inst. I am in need of Commissions and beg Con
gress to point out precisely the line I am to pursue
in filling 'em up. This I mentioned in my Letter
of the 1 1 Ulto. ... I am much pleased at the
fortunate captures and the generous conduct of the
owners and masters for the tender of the money to
Congress.1

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NF.W YORK, S June, 1776.

SIR,

In my letter of yesterday, which I had the honor
of addressing you and which was designed to have

tained as a kind of hostage for the peaceable conduct of her husband. She-
wrote to General Washington, complaining of this detention and asking his in
terference for her release ; but he left the matter with General Schuyler and the
Albany Committee. Colonel Dayton was stationed for several weeks at Johns
town, with the troops under his command. Sir John Johnson returned not
again ; in the January following he found his way to New York, then in pos
session of the British army. He was a son of Sir William Johnson, so well
known in the history of the last Erench war.
1 Read June loth.

n6 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

come by the post, but was prevented by his departure
before the usual time, I mentioned my having received
by express a letter and sundry papers from General
Schuyler, respecting Sir John Johnson, copies of
which I herewith transmit to you for your inspection
and perusal. They will show you what measures
were planned and attempted for apprehending him,
and securing the Scotch Highlanders in Tryon
county.

Having heard that the troops at Boston are ex
tremely uneasy and almost mutinous for want of pay
(several months of which being now due) I must
take the liberty to repeat a question contained in my
Letter of the 5 Ulto. " what mode is to be pursued
respecting it, whether is money to be sent from
hence by the paymaster General, or some person
subordinate to him to be appointed there for that
purpose ? I expected some direction would have
been given in this instance long ere this, from what
was contained in yours accompanying, or about the
time of the last remittance. I presume it has been
omitted by reason of the multiplicity of important
business before Congress.1

In perusing the several resolves you honored me
with when at Philadelphia and since my return, I

1 Duane had told Palfrey, the Paymaster General, that Boston was consid
ered within his department, and that his accounts were to be audited in Phila
delphia ; but Congress does not appear to have made any formal announce
ment of the mode of payment. On the yth Washington advised Major-Genera]
Ward to borrow the necessary money from the General Court, if the soldiers
were turbulent and very importunate for their pay. On the 1 2th Congress
elected Ebenezer Hancock deputy paymaster general for the eastern depart
ment, and sent him 150,000 dollars. He was a brother of John Hancock.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 117

find one allowing a chief engineer for the army in a
separate department. The service requiring many
of them, I wish Congress, if they know any persons
skilled in this business, would appoint them. Gen
eral Schuyler has frequently applied, and suggested
the necessity of having some in Canada. I myself
know of none. I also find there is a resolve of the
3d of June for taking Indians into service, which, if
literally construed, confines them to that in Canada.
Is that the meaning of Congress, or that the Com
mander-in-chief may order their service to any place
he may think necessary ?

In respect to the establishing expresses between
the several Continental posts, who is to do it. — the
Resolve does not say. Is it expected by Congress
that I should ? whoever the work is assigned to,
I think should execute it with the utmost dispatch.
The late imperfect and contradictory accounts re
specting our defeat at the Cedars strongly point out
the necessity there is for it — No intelligence has yet
come from any officer in command there, and most
probably for want of a proper channel to convey it,
tho' this misfortune happened so long agoe.r

When I had the honor of being in Congress, if I
mistake not, I heard a resolve read, or was told of
one, allowing the New York Troops the same pay

1 Colonel Bedel, of New Hampshire, had been sent by Arnold to hold a
narrow pass known as the Cedars, about forty-five miles above Montreal. An
English force appearing, Bedel went to Montreal for reinforcements, and Butter-
field, whom he had left in charge, surrendered on May iijth, almost without a
show of fighting. Some reinforcements from Arnold, under the command of
Major Henry Sherburne, were met and routed.

u8 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

of others in the Continental service. This, if any
such, I do not find, and if there is not such a one, I
shall be under some embarrassment how to pay the
Militia to be provided by this Province. The Re
solve providing them says, they are to be paid while
in service as other Troops are. But if those In-
listed heretofore in this province, are to receive
according to the first establishment, it is a matter of

o

doubt what the Militia are to have.'

Before this comes to hand, a Hand-Bill containing
an account of a victory gained by General Arnold,
over the party that had defeated Colo. Bedel and
Major Sherburne will most probably have reached
you. I have inquired into the authenticity of this
fortunate report and have found there is no de-
pendance to be put in it, nor do I believe it deserves
of the least credit. I shall be happy not to hear the
reverse.2 I have &c.

P. S. If Congress have come to any Resolution
about an Allowance to Induce men to reinlist you will

1 "•Resolved, That the pay of the Continental troops, in the middle depart
ment, be henceforth the same as that of the troops in the eastern." Journals,
10 June, 1776. The pay of the Eastern forces being higher than that allowed
those of New York, it was found that many from New York were enlisting in
the regiments of New England. The Congress of New York, upon receiving
a requisition from the Continental Congress, for more troops, sent Gouverneur
Morris to Philadelphia to determine, if possible, this " odious discrimination.''
with the above result.

•Arnold had marched against the British wit li the object of regaining by
force the 470 Americans captured in the two engagements at the Cedars ; but
the British officer asserted that a massacre must ensue upon such an attempt,
and Arnold was forced to be content with obtaining the Americans (save four
officers, retained as hostages) on the condition of returning an equal number of
British prisoners. This agreement was set aside by Congress. Journals, 10
July, 1776. This report was drawn up by Jefferson,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 119

please to favor me with it, as the Time the Rille
Regirnt. is engaged for is just expired.

As the Militia will be coming in and they will be
in much need of covering please to have all the
Tents and Cloth proper for making 'em that can be
procured forwarded as soon as possible.1

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 9 June, 1776.

SIR,

I was honored Yesterday with your Favor of the
7th, with its Inclosures. When Doctor Potts arrives
I shall order him to Canada or Lake George, as may
appear most proper it is certainly necessary that he
or Doctor Stringer should go to the former.

The resolve respecting General Wooster's recall, I
will immediately transmit to him, with directions to
repair hither without delay.2 The situation of our

1 Read on the loth ; referred to the committee appointed on the 6th, viz. :
Sherman, Wythe, Sergeant, F. Lee, and Gwinnet.

3 The President of Congress had written two days before ; " The enclosed
letter from the Commissioners in Canada, I am commanded by Congress to
transmit to you. The contents of it are alarming. Our army in that quarter
is almost ruined for want of discipline and every thing else necessary to consti
tute an army, or keep troops together. The Congress, in this situation of our
affairs, have resolved that General Wooster be recalled from Canada. I am
therefore to request you will immediately order him to repair to head-quarters
at New York."

It is hardly possible to conceive a more deplorable picture, than that drawn
by the Commissioners in their letter to Congress, dated at Montreal, May 27th.
" You will have a faint idea of our situation," say they, " if you figure to your
self an army broken and disheartened, half of it under inoculation and other
diseases, soldiers without pay, without discipline, and altogether reduced to live
from hand to mouth, depending on the scanty and precarious supplies of a few
half-starved cattle, and trifling quantities of flour, which have hitherto been

120 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

affairs in Canada, as reported by the honorable Com
missioners, is truly alarming ; and I am sorry, that
my opinion of the ill consequences resulting from the
short enlistment of the army should be but too well
confirmed by the experience they have had of the
want of discipline and order in our soldiery there.
This induces me again to wish Congress to determine
on a liberal allowance, to engage the troops already
in service to re-enlist for a longer period, or during
the continuance of the war ; nor can I forbear ex
pressing my opinion of the propriety of keeping the
military chest always supplied with money, as evils of
the most interesting nature are often produced for
want of a regular payment of troops. The neglect
makes them impatient and uneasy. I am much sur-

picked up in different parts of the country. General Thomas is now at Cham-
blee under the smallpox. Being taken with that disorder he left the camp at
Sorel, and wrote to General Wooster to come and take the command. When
the interest of our country and the safety of your army are at stake, we think
it a very improper time to conceal our sentiments, either with respect to persons
or things. General Wooster is, in our opinion, totally unfit to command your
army, and conduct the war. We have hitherto prevailed on him to remain in
Montreal. His stay in this colony is unnecessary, and even prejudicial to our
affairs. We would therefore advise his recall." — MS. Letter.

General Wooster requested from Congress an inquiry into his conduct, as
commander of the forces in Canada. The subject was referred to a committee,
who, after a full examination, reported it as their opinion, that nothing censur
able or blameworthy appeared against him. Journals, August iyth. He re
signed his commission in the Continental army, and \vas appointed first major-
general of the Connecticut militia.

"It is strongly recommended to the officers of the different regiments, t<>
practice the Salute with the Fusee, and to fall upon a method of being uniform
therein ; so as that all may acquire one and the same mode : and the General
desires, that when the line is turned out at any encampment, all the officers
keep their arms advanced, and salute only by taking off their hats, until they
have obtained a more correct method of saluting with their arms." — Orderly
Book, 9 June, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 121

prised at the scarcity of provisions there, particularly
of flour ; as, from several accounts I had received
'from thence, I was led to expect that considerable
supplies of that article could be procured there. That
our misfortunes may not become greater, I have wrote
to the commissary to forward more provisions, in
addition to those already sent.

An adjutant and quartermaster general are indis
pensably necessary, with assistants. The money
saved the continent by their non-appointment will be
but small and trifling, when put in competition with
the loss for want of them. Colonel Fleming, who
acted in the former capacity under General Mont
gomery is now here ; but his indisposition is such as
to render him unfit at this time for the post ; it is an
important one, and requires vigor and activity to dis
charge the duties of it. He will be of much service

o

to Colonel Reed, the business of whose office will
increase considerably by the augmentation of the
army. It will be necessary, too, that the commissa
ries in Canada, and the deputy quartermaster-gen
erals, should have several assistants and clerks ; nor
do I think a precise number can be fixed on, as a
variety of circumstances may and must occur to ren
der the number, essential for doing the business in
those departments, greater or less at different times.
It will be better, I apprehend, to leave it indefinite?
and with power to the commanding officer to allow
such as may be wanted.

I am still in the dark, how the unfortunate affair
ended at the Cedars, or on what terms the surrender

122 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

was made, as the last letter from the Commissioners
has reference to a former, and mentions an agreement
entered into, which I have not seen ; but I know of
it more than I could wish.

I have received from Providence in consequence of
Mr. Morris's Order as Chairman of the secret com
mittee of Congress 234 Musquets in part of the 244
directed to be sent — the inclosed Copy of a Letter
from Mr. Brown will account for the Deficiency.

I shall be much obliged by your ordering a Quan
tity of Lead and Flints to be immediately forwarded.
Our Demands for both are and will be very pressing
—there are also wanted some particular and necessary
Medicines to compleat our Hospital Chests, of which
I will get Dr. Morgan to furnish the Congress with a
List, when he writes or waits on them about some
other Matters necessary to be fixed in his Department.

As General Wooster in all Probability will be here
in a little Time in Compliance with the Resolve of
Congress and my Order transmitted him, I wish to
know what I am to do with him when he comes —

Genl. Schuyler, in his Letter of the 3ist Ulto. of
which I transmitted you a Copy Yesterday, mentions
that sundry Persons had a Design to seize him as a
Tory and probably still have, and wishes Congress to
give him some public Mark of their Approbation, if
they are convinced of his Zeal and Attachment to the
Cause of his Country — whether he intended that I
should communicate his Desire to them or not ; I am
not certain ; but supposing that he did, I must beg
Leave to request that you lay the Paragraph before

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 123

them that they may do in the Instance of his Requisi
tion, whatever they may judge necessary. I have &c.
P. S. If Congress have agreed to the Report of
the Committee for allowing the Indians 50^ for every
Prisoner they shall take at Niagara &c. it is material
I should be informed of it — this will be a favorable
Opportunity for them to embrace to gain Possession
of Detroit and the other Posts whilst the Enemy are
engaged towards Montreal, &c.'

TO GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NEW YORK, 9 June, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I am now to acknowledge the Receipt of your sev
eral Favors of the 2ist 24th 26th & 26th 27 28 &

1 Read II June, 1776. General Lee suggested that every effort be made to get
possession of Detroit and Niagai'a, but Congress decided to attempt only Detroit.

" IN PROVINCIAL CONGRESS, NEW YORK, June 8, 1776.

" Resolved, that the thanks of the Congress be presented to his Excellency
General Washington, for the important services he has rendered to the United
Colonies, and for the attention he has paid to the interest and civil authority of
this colony ; and that he be assured of the readiness of this Congress, to afford
him all the aid in their power to enable him to execute the important trust re
posed in him.

" Ordered, that the President wait upon General Washington, and communi
cate the said resolution to him.

" June 9. The President informed the Congress that, pursuant to the order
of yesterday he waited upon his Excellency General Washington, and com
municated to him the resolve therein mentioned ; that his Excellency was
pleased to return the following answer, and requested the President to com
municate the same to Congress :

" ' Gentlemen: I am extremely obliged for the high sense you entertain of
my services, and for your promises of every possible assistance in the discharge
of my important duty.

'You may rest assured, that my attention to the happiness of this Colony
shall not be wanting, nor my regard to the civil authority remitted, while I am
honored with the command I now hold.' " — Virginia Gazette, 13 July, 177°-

i24 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

3ist Ulto. with the several Papers enclosed — the
Whole of them except the last, I communicated to
Congress when at Philadelphia ; that I did not get
till on my return, but have since transmitted them a
copy of it and of the papers respecting Sir J. J[ohn-
son].

In Regard to a further remittance to Canada, the
Commissioners have wrote Congress fully on the Sub
ject, and I presume they will forward such a Supply
of Money immediately as they think necessary.

As there is but too much probability that Sir J. J.
may attempt to ravage the frontier counties and to
excite the disaffected to take arms against us, I think
it will be advisable that Colonel Dayton should re
main as you request, as long as you apprehend a
Necessity for it.

It is not in my power to spare any more men from
hence, either for the communication, or to assist in
repairing Ticonderoga— The detachments already
gone t > Canada have weakened the force necessary
for the defence of this place, considering its Import
ance, more perhaps than policy will justify— Be
that as it may, the reinforcements which Congress
have resolved to send to Canada for keeping open
the communication between that country and these
Colonies as you will see by the copy inclosed in my
letter of the 7th would supersede the necessity of
men going from this camp provided they could be
spared. I should suppose that Vanschaick's and Wyn-
koop's regiments exclusive of any other men would
nearly suffice for the purposes mentioned in your

GEORGE WASHINGTON. 125

several letters, or that very few men more in addition
to them certainly would, — if they were compleat and
properly employed ; but I am informed by a letter
from General Sullivan of the i8th Ulto., dated at
Albany, that those regiments were not to be found
on the strictest enquiry he could make ; that Colo.
Vanschaick, who was there, never furnished a single
man for guard or any other duty after he got there,
and that Lieutenant Colo. Courtland, of Wynkoop's
Regiment, when he applied for pay for two compa
nies said to be in Tryon County to keep the Tories
in order, informed him they had neither arms nor
ammunition ; that in some Companies there was not
a man present fit for duty, and that in others there
were not more than eleven and in some less. He
also complains of the great waste of pork by the
Waggoners drawing out the brine to lighten the car
riage — and in his letter two days before charges the
batteau men and the Waggon Master with indolence,
and a strange neglect of duty— I well know, my
dear Sir, that the multiplicity of matters you are en
gaged in will necessarily put in the power of these
who are not influenced by principles of honesty and
justice to practise many impositions ; but I must beg
you will turn your attention as much as possible to
these things, and reform such abuses as have already
happened or prevent them in future.

I am very doubtful whether the flour you seem to
think may be had in Canada, can be got. The Com
missioners' letters as late as the 28th Ulto. seem to
preclude every such hope.

126 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I esteem it a matter of importance not only to
fortify and secure Ticonderoga but every other post
on the communication, and that you should garrison
them with men under judicious and spirited officers
to be fixed there who might be called to account for
misconduct, which is difficult to do where they are
shifting and changing continually, and who would
esteem it their indispensible duty to carry on and
maintain the Works against any surprizes or attacks
that may be attempted— I have wrote to Congress
to appoint Engineers, if they can fix upon proper
Persons for the office. If you know of any, you had
better employ them. I am confident Congress will
allow them the usual Pay.

When I came from Philadelphia I left the Indians
there and doubt not but Congress will use their En
deavors to prevent them returning for some time. I
shewed them what you said upon the Subject.

I have spoken to the O. M. about proper Person
to Superintend the Building of gondolas ; but he
knows of none. There is a man who came to direct
the building of some here ; and if any of the Car
penters shall be deemed qualified after seeing the
model, I will send you one. I have wrote to Phila
delphia for a supply of flints which shall be forwarded
you as soon as possible and will give direction that
you be furnished with a quantity of necessary med
icines—

With respect to St. Luc Lacorne, Major Campbell
and the other prisoners at Esopus, I think it will be
prudent for you to remove them or such of them as

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 127

you apprehend dangerous to some other secure place ;
and they should be under a suitable and trusty guard.

Your continuing to build batteaus appear a neces
sary measure, as a sufficient number should be had to
transport our troops going to Canada or coming from
thence, if they should ever be under the disagreeable
necessity of evacuating the possession they now have
to the enemy — an event I sincerely wish not to hap
pen but which from the melancholy complexion of
things in that quarter, I conceive possible.

I have been much surprized at not receiving a more
perfect and explicit account of the defeat of Colo.
Bedel and his party at the Cedars. I should have
thought some of the officers in command there would
undoubtedly have transmitted it immediately ; but as
they have not, it is probable I should have long
remained in doubt as to the event, had not the Com
missioners called on me to-day, nor should I consider
my not having a return of the army stores &c in
Canada, a matter of less wonder, had I not been
accustomed to the neglect. If it is not become too
inveterate, I wish it could be got the better of — It is
certainly of much importance and necessary to be
known frequently.

Since mine of the 2ist & yours of the 3ist Ulto.
Captns Swann and Dundee with three privates have
been here, having a permit to go to Philadelphia.
They came down the North River from Albany (I
believe) to this place where I make no doubt they rec
onnoitre all our works, and in their passage there at
the Highlands. This Indulgence I conceive of such

128 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Infinite prejudice to our cause for the reasons I have
assigned and many more that may be added, that
I hope it will be never granted again.

I wish you to notify the Several Committees in the
neighborhood of Albany, having the care of prison
ers, of the injurious consequences which must neces
sary result from such a license, to prevent their
allowing it to any on future applications.

As Congress have resolved on a large augmenta
tion to the army in Canada, as you will see by the
copy of their vote transmitted in my last, it seems
material that you should advise with the Commissary
in that department and Mr. Trumbull there and
concert a plan for their subsistence. If they cannot
be supplied plentifully with provisions, their going
will be of more injury than benefit, and encrease the
distress of the whole.

In your favor of the 28th, you are desirous that a
Court of Inquiry should be ordered respecting the
charges contained in the Informations I enclosed you
in mine of the 2ist. If you conceive it necessary, I
will do it with pleasure, if you will point out the mode
to be pursued to me, the matters objected to you,
appear so uncertain, vague and incredible, that there
is nothing to found the proceedings on, were there
the most distant necessity for the scrutiny — By reason
of a paragraph in your letter of the 3ist I mentioned
the matter to Congress, to whom I had the honor of
writing this day, and when at Philadelphia communi
cated it to some of them, on their reading your first
letter in which mention was made of the subject. In

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 129

doing this and giving you the Information I had
received, I consider myself as having only discharged
the duties of justice and of friendship.

I am sorry for the attack you have had of the
Ague, and wishing you a perfect Recovery, I am &c.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.1

\K\V YORK, 10 June, 1776.

SIR,

Since I did myself the honor of writing to you
yesterday, I have had the satisfaction of seeing, (and
for a few minutes conversing with), Mr. Chase and Mr.
Carroll, from Canada. Their account of our troops
and the situation of affairs in that department, cannot
possibly surprise you more than it has done me. But
I need not touch upon the subject, which you will be
so well informed of from the fountain-head ; nor
should I have given you the trouble of a letter by
this day's post, but for the distraction, which seems
to prevail in the commissary's department, (as well as
others in that quarter) ; the necessity of having it
under one general direction ; and the dissatisfaction
of Colonel Trumbull, at the allowance made him by
Congress (as an equivalent for his trouble). With
respect to this particular matter, I can only say, that
I think he is a man well cut out for the business, and
that, where a shilling is saved in the pay, a pound
may be lost by mismanagement in the office ; and that
his resignation at this time, (I mean this campaign,)

1 Read in Congress June nth.

130 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

may possibly be attended with fatal consequences. I
therefore humbly submit to Congress the propriety
of handsomely rewarding those gentlemen, who hold
such very important, troublesome, and hazardous
offices, as commissary and quartermaster.1

In speaking to the former about the supplies
necessary for the troops to be raised, he informed
me, that the quantity of salt provisions, which was
shipping from hence, might render his attempts to do
it precarious ; in consequence of which I desired him
to lay the matter before the Convention of this
colony, which he will do this day, but in the mean
while desired Congress might be informed of the
matter, which I cannot better do than in his own
words enclosed, and submit the consideration of it to
the wisdom of that honorable body. To Congress I
also submit the propriety of keeping the two Con
tinental battalions, under the command of Colonels
Shae and McGaw, at Philadelphia, when there is the
greatest probability of a speedy attack upon this
place from the King's troops. The encouragements
given by Governor Tryon to the disaffected, which
are circulated, no one can well tell how ; the move
ments of these kind of people, which are more easy to
perceive than describe ; the confident report, which is
said to have come immediately from Governor Tryon,
and brought by a frigate from Halifax, that the troops
at that place were embarking for this ; added to a thou
sand incidental circumstances, trivial in themselves, but

1 Trumbull wished for a commission on his purchases ; but Congress raised
his pay to 150 dollars a month. Journals, 17 June, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 131

strong from comparison ; leaves not a doubt upon my
mind, that troops are hourly expected at the Hook.1

I had no doubt when I left this city for Phila
delphia, but that some measures would have been
taken to secure the suspected and dangerous persons
of this government before now, and left orders for
the military to give every aid to the civil power. But
the subject is delicate, and nothing is done in it. We
may therefore have internal as well as external ene
mies to contend with. I have the honor to be, &c.2

1 General Hmvc \vrole from Halifax to Lord George Germaine, on the 7th of
June, informing him, that the admiral had given orders to the cruisers off the
northern coast to direct all the troops from Europe to proceed to New York,
from whence they might be ordered to their respective destinations for the cam
paign ; and he added, that he should himself precede the fleet in a frigate to
New York, where he might consult Governor Tryon, gain information, and be
prepared to concert measures for further operations. The plan was to make a
landing upon Long Island, in order to secure the passage of the shipping into
the harbor, which could only be effected by the possession of a commanding
height near Brooklyn, which Howe had been given to understand, had been
fortified. On the arrival of Clinton the "rebels" were to be forced from the
island of New York. In case of such an event, it might be anticipated, that
there would be some difficulty between General Carleton and General Howe,
as to the command, since the former was older in rank ; but General Howe as
sured the minister, that no such difficulty would arise, that he should yield the
precedency to General Carleton when their forces were united, suggesting that
the armies might be encamped separately, each general retaining command
over his own division in whatever related to its internal management, subject to
a single head in what pertained to the whole, as in the case of allied armies. —
MS. Letter. Tryon was circulating a printed fly sheet, offering a bounty of
land to all who should enlist in his Majesty's service.

" " On Monday afternoon [May 27], Gen. Washington, the Members of Con
gress, Gen. Gates and Mifflin, reviewed the four battalions, the rifle battalion,
the light horse, and three artillery companies of the city militia, amounting to
near 2500 men, when they went through their manceuvers to general satisfac
tion. At the same time two battalions of the Continental troops were reviewed
by the General. The Indians, who are come to town on business with the
Congress, attended the General in reviewing the militia, &c." — Boston Gazette,
10 June, 1776.

132 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

FORGED LETTER.1

TO LUND WASHINGTON.

NEW YORK, 12 June, 1776.
DEAR LUND,

Though I wrote to you but a very few days ago, and have nothing new of
much moment to communicate, I cannot deny myself the comfort of unburthen-
ing my mind to you, whenever I have a little leisure, amid the thousand anxie
ties and disquietudes that almost distract me. I know the goodness of your
heart, and that you will attend to me with indulgence and sympathy, though it
be not in your power any otherwise to afford me relief. There cannot, in the
nature of things, be a situation so truly irksome to an ingenuous mind, as the
being perpetually obliged to act a part foreign to our true feelings ; yet this,
alas ! as you know, is, and must be, my lot. I wear a countenance dressed in
the calm serenity of perfect confidence, whilst my heart is corroded with infinite

1 After much hesitation I have concluded to print in this collection the so-
called " forged" letters of Washington, first issued in ijj'j-jS. I have been
not a little surprised to have had my attention many times seriously called to
these forgeries, and to find how often they are referred to as genuine matter, in
spite of the recorded denials of Washington, and of his intimates who were
cognizant of his having repudiated them. In a letter to Timothy Pickering, 3
March, 1797, Washington in detail points out the forged letters, and in another
to the historian William Gordon, 13 October, 1797, he reverts to them and his
disavowal of their authorship. The purpose of the letters is apparent on their
face, and it is said they were " industriously distributed " by the British when
they first appeared ; but they produced little effect. In the Du Simitiere col
lection in Philadelphia is a single folio leaf, on which is printed " an inter
cepted original letter from General Washington to his Lady in the year 1776."
This leaf was issued in 1777, but the matter had been derived from an English
source ; for in the same year a London printer (J. Bew) had printed " Letters
from General Washington, to several of his Friends in the year 1/76. In
which are set forth a fairer and fuller view of American Politics, than ever yet
transpired, or the Public could be made acquainted with through any other
Channel." The editor of that volume claimed to have received the letters from
a friend " serving in a loyal corps under Brigadier-General De Lancey of New
York." This friend gave the following explanation of the manner in which he
had become possessed of them : " Among the prisoners at Fort Lee, I espied a
mulatto fellow, whom I thought I recollected, and who confirmed my conjec
tures by gazing very earnestly at me. I asked him, if he knew me. At first,
he was unwilling to own it ; but, when he was about to be carried off, think
ing, I suppose, that I might perhaps, be of some service to him, he came and
told me, that he was Billv. find the old servant of Genera] Washington, lit

1776 1 GEORGE WASHINGTON. 133

apprehensions, and 1 have no bosom friend near me, to whom 1 dare lay ilopen.
Tell me, Lund, for you have long been privy to my most secret thoughts, —
trusting to thy native candor, I have never hesitated to lay my heart bare and
open to thy inspection ; tell me then, am I, do you think, more subject to fears
than other men ? For 1 will not conceal it from you, that, at this moment, I
feel myself a very coward. Do not mistake me ; I thank my tiod, I have never
yet known what it was to fear for any personal danger that might befal me. I
am not afraid to die, why should 1 ? I am afraid only to die with infamy and
disgrace. Anil, if 1 am afraid so to die, need I tell you that I am ten thousand
limes more afraid to live, like Lucifer, a fallen angel. Xo, Lund, that were
too much ; betide what will, 1 cannot, and 1 will not survive either my misfor
tunes, or my disgraces. Heaven, that knows how trulv 1 love my country ; and
that 1 embarked in this arduous enterprize on the purest motives. But we have
overshot our mark ; we have grasped at things beyond our reach : it is impos
sible we should succeeil ; and I cannot with truth, say that I am sorry for it ;

had been left there on account of an indisposition which prevented his attend
ing his master. I asked him a great many questions, as you may suppose ;
but found very little satisfaction in his answers. At last, however, he told me
that he had a small portmanteau of his master's ; of which, when he found that
he must be put into confinement, he intreated my care. It contained only a
few stockings and shirts ; and I could see nothing worth my care, except an
almanack, in which he had kept a journal, or diary of his proceedings since his
first coming to New York : there were also two letters from his lady, one from
Mr. Custis, and some pretty long ones from a Mr. Lund Washington. And in
the same bundle with them, the first draughts, or foul copies, of answers to
them. I read these with avidity ; and being highly entertained with them, have
shewn them to several of my friends, who all agree with me, that he is a very
different character from what they had supposed him. [ never knew a man so
much to be pitied. If I remember right, you have seen, and have some knowl
edge of him ; but it is impossible you could form so just an estimate as these
letters will give you. They contain also, as you will find, a deal of informa
tion, not to be had anywhere else : I assure myself, therefore, you will thank
me for the trouble I have taken in copying them for your perusal."

The publication was not received very enthusiastically in England. The
Monthly Review merely said : " We cannot look upon these letters as genuine ;
but we must pronounce them well written : they would do great honor to Gen
eral Washington, could his claim to them be indisputably established." The
Critical Review expressed the same doubt of their reliability. " It is difficult
to determine their authenticity from any intrinsic evidence. They contain no
facts of a private nature, and they discover not only sentiment, but a correct
ness of composition." The letters were reprinted in America in 1778, but the
volume has no publisher, or place of publication ; but Mr. Hildeburn in his

i34 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

because I am far from being sure that we deserve to succeed. That the British
Ministry had meditated schemes fatal to the liberties of America ; and that, if
we had not opposed their first efforts to impose taxes upon us, without our con
sent, we might have bid adieu to every idea of constitutional security hereafter,
I have not a doubt. Nay, I am so thoroughly persuaded of the unworthiness
of their designs, and of the duty of every honest American to oppose thein, that,
dissatislied as I am with my situation, were it to do over again, I would rather
be even as I am, than tamely crouch, whilst chains were fastening round my
neck. For there is not, in my estimation, so vile a thing upon earth as a hu
man being who, having once enjoyed liberty, can patiently bear to see it taken
from him. I would, and 1 will die ten thousand deaths, rather than be this
thing myself. On these principles, and these only, I first took up arms ; but
my misfortune, and the true source of all my uneasiness is, that though in good
policy, as well as honor, these ought to be the principles of every American, I
have long ago discovered they are not. And on this account alone, that I dread
our defeat. Our want of skill, our want of ammunition, in short, our want of

Issues of the Press in Pennsylvania attributes it to Philadelphia. In 1796 these
and other letters were printed in New York by some who were politically op
posed to Washington, and it was the appearance of this volume that called out
his letter to Pickering. The title of the volume is " Epistles, domestic, confi
dential and official from General Washington." Not a word of doubt of their
authenticity is contained in the preface.

As to the author of these forged letters, we have the important evidence, giving
Washington's suspicions, contained in a letter from Col. Tench Tilghman, then
in the military family of Washington, and well known to possess his confidence:
" The letters published under General Washington's signature are not genu
ine. They are intended for the purposes you mention, tie suspects Jack
Randolph for the author, as the letters contain a knowledge of his family affairs
that none but a Virginian could be acquainted with. The sentiments are noble,
and such as the General himself often expresses. I have heard him declare a
thousand times, and he does it every day in the most public company, that in
dependence was farthest of any thing from his thoughts, and that he never
entertained the idea until he plainly saw that absolute conquest was the aim,
and unconditional submission the terms which Great Britain meant to grant."
Tench Tilghman to James Tilglinian, Valley forge, 24 April, 1778. And as
further proof may be cited a MS. note on the Philadelphia leaflet, in the hand
writing of Du Simitiere : " Spurious: wrote in London by a Mr. Randolph of
Virginia." This " Jack Randolph " was no less a person than John Randolph,
the last royal attorney general of Virginia, and long the ablest lawyer in the
colony. He went to England in 1775.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 135

everything which an army ought to have, are all, no doubt, exceedingly against
us ; but, they are all nothing to our want of virtue. —

Unused to the many arts and devices, by which designing men carry their
points, I unwillingly listened to my own apprehensions, when early in the first
Congress, I thought I saw a tendency to measures which I never could approve
of. I reasoned myself, however, out of my fears, with no ordinary reproach on
my own meanness, in having given way to suspicions, which could not be true,
unless we had men amongst ourselves more flagitious than even those we were
opposing. At length, however, when a continental army came to be voted for,
my fears returned with redoubled force ; for then, for the first time, 1 clearly
saw our aims reached farther than we cared to avow. It was carried with an
unanimity that really astonished me ; because I knew many who voted for
it, were us averse to the independency of America, as I was. And they even
ridiculed me for my apprehensions on that account ; and indeed, when they
suggested that Great Britain, seeing us apparently determined to risque every
thing rather than that they should tax us, would never think of engaging in a
civil war with us, which must necessarily cost her more than even America
could repay her, I could not but hope, that 1 was mistaken ; and that our mili
tary preparations might be a good political movement. In one thing, however,
we all agreed, that, as the forces were chiefly to be raised in New-England, it
would be extremely rash and imprudent in the southern delegates to leave them
in the possession of so formidable a power without any check. 1 need not tell
you, that it was this consideration which, if I am to be credited, sorely against
my will, determined me to accept of the command of this army. We set out
with bad omens ; I was mistrustful of them in every thing ; and they were
taught to look upon me with jealousy.

'Phis soon manifested itself in forming them to any thing like decent disci
pline. But I have, long ago, pestered you more than enough with complaints
on this head. I knew not, however, certainly, that I had been appointed to
this high station only to be disgraced and ruined, till about the middle and latter
end of last February.

NVhen, contrary to my wishes, I found it absolutely necessary that we should
come to open hostilities against our fellow subjects in the ministerial army ;
doubtless, common prudence required that when we did attempt it, we should,
if possible, do it speedily and effectually. And having all the reason in the
world to believe that large armies would be sent against us early in the summer.
1 resolved, cost what it would, to cut off those already here, which would have

136 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

given us such infinite advantages over any future reinforcements that might be
sent. And this 1 believe was easily in our power : but as I have already told
you, nothing is to be done with our New England allies, unless they are let into
all your secrets. I could not advance a step without communicating my inten
tions to the gentlemen in the civil department ; a thing ever ruinous in war.
It soon got wind, as I had foreseen ; and it appeared that the general of the
enemy was apprized of my design. Still, however I persevered in my purposes;
which in spite of all his care and caution, I was confident must succeed, and
reduce him to the utmost extremity. But (as every military man must know)
so capital a blow was not to be struck without the loss both of many men, and
much property !

For my design was, if they would noi surrender by an honorable capitula
tion to burn the town about their ears, and so ru.->h in, and cut them off in their
attempts to escape to the ships. And this, with our superiority of numbers, we
certainly could have effected ; though, no doubt it would have been a bloody
business, if they had not surrendered as I think they would. But when, as I
was obliged, I laid this before the Council and Representatives, they not only
found a thousand objections to it, but absolutely restrained me ; and I could not
have got a man that would have gone on what they called so desperate a
scheme. Hence was I under a necessity of proceeding in the poor, slow, and
un-soldier-like manner, which not only gave them an opportunity to escape, but
has taught them to despise us. There is no forming an idea of the importance
of such a stroke at that juncture. If any thing upon earth could have made
America independent and glorious, that was the golden opportunity. I confess
to you, I had worked my imagination up to such a pitch of high expectation,
that my disappointment has dispirited me in a manner I never can recover.
For, from that moment, 1 have despaired of our ever doing any thing truly
great. Any little gleams of success, or fairer prospects we have since had,
serve but to make our inferiority the more conspicuous. For what incidents can
fall out to aggrandize us, who can be made great only by great and spirited
efforts, when we have shewn that we wanted both the understanding and the
virtue to purchase to ourselves immortal glory on better and cheaper terms than
ever we can hope hereafter to have it ? But the worst remains yet to be told.
Some of those very men who were the most forward to thwart me in this
measure, had discovered a different way of thinking on other occasions, and I
am persuaded that were the question put to them now, as to this city, and the
southern regiments, I should not hear a dissentious voice. But, let me spare you.

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 137

After all this, you will again, 1 doubt not, as you often have, ask me why 1
continue in a situation so disagreeable to me ? I wish you had forborne this
question, the truth being, that 1 neither am able, nor very willing to answer it.
My resolution to hold it out as long as I can, is dictated by my feelings, which
I neither can describe to you, nor wholly justify on paper, but which, however,
I find it impossible for me to disregard. — The eyes of all America, perhaps, of
Europe, of the world are fixed on me. It has been our policy, (and, at the time,
I thought it well founded) to hold out false lights to the world. There are not
a hundred men in America that know our situation ; three-fourths of the
Congress itself are ignorant of it ; — yourself excepted, there lives not a man at
all acquainted with my peculiar circumstances. The world looks upon us as in
possession of an army al] animated with the pure flame of liberty and de
termined to die rather than not be free. It is in possession of proofs, that it is
so, under my own hand : I have always so spoken of it, and I still do. But,
you know how remote, in my judgment, all this is from the truth, though 1 am
not sure that there is another man in the army, besides myself, that thinks so.
I should guess, however, that there are many. Hut, tied up as my own mouth
is, it is little to be wondered at that theirs are so too, at least to me.

Thus, circumstanced, can you point out a way in which it is possible for me
to resign, just now as it were, on the eve of action, without imputation of cow
ardice ? There is no such way. Besides, diffident and desponding as 1 am, how
do 1 know, that it is not so with those we have to oppose? they certainly have
reason. The events of war depend on a thousand minutue without the ken of
a mere by-stander. I know not that the commander of the armies of the low
countries, could his heart have been read as you do mine, had not the same
fears, and the same causes for them that I have. You learn not this from the
history ; nor was it to be expected you should. Yet, he succeeded at last. And,
who knows, what an over-ruling providence, who often brings about the greatest
revolutions by the most unlikely means, may intend for America? If it be the
will of God, that America should be independent of Great Britain, and that this
be the season for it, even I and these hopeful men around may not be thought
unworthy instruments in his hands. And, should we succeed, we are heroes,
and immortalized beyond even those of former times. Whereas, disgrace only,
and intolerable infamy await our retreat. In this persuasion, I resolve to goon,
contented, with the glorious King William, to save my country, or die in the
last ditch. I am, my dear Lund, your Faithful Friend and Servant.

1 38 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO GOVERNOR TRUMBULL.

NEW YORK. lojune, 1776.

SIR,

Before this, I expect you have received the resolve
of Congress for augmenting our army here and in
Canada, with their requisition for the quota of men
to be furnished by vour colony.1 I must beg!" leave

J * * O

to add, that, from the intelligence I have just re
ceived, and a variety of circumstances combining to
confirm it, General Howe, with the fleet from Hali
fax, or some other armament, is hourly expected at
the Hook, with designs doubtless to make an im
pression here, and possess themselves of this colony,
of the last importance to us in the present contro
versy. Our works are extensive and many, and the
troops here but few for their defence, being greatly
reduced by the regiments detached on the Canada
expedition.

In this critical conjuncture of affairs, the experience
I have had of your zeal and readiness to assist the
common cause, induces me to request the most speedy
and early succor, that can be obtained from your
colony, and that the militia may be forwarded, one
battalion after another, as fast as they can possibly be
raised, without waiting to make up the whole comple
ment to be furnished for this place, before any of
them march. I would advise, that they come prop-

1 Congress had resolved on the 3d of June to reinforce the army at New-
York by thirteeen thousand eight hundred militia, to be drawn from Massa
chusetts, Connecticut, New York, and New Jersey ; and to establish a flying
camp in the middle colonies, to consist of ten thousand militia from Penn
sylvania, Delaware, and Maryland. These troops were called new levies.

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 139

erly provided with field and other officers, and that
the person appointed by the colony to command the
whole be here a day or two before them, to receive
his orders, and to be in readiness to take the command
on their arrival. It will be proper, too, that notice
be sent a day or two before their coming, that pro
vision may be made for furnishing and disposing of
them in proper places. I have wrote a similar letter
to the Jersey Convention, praying aid from them. I
am, Sir, &c.'

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 13 June, 1776.

SIR,

I have the honor of transmitting to Congress a let
ter, which came by express last night from General
Schuyler, enclosing the copy of a letter to him from
Colonel Kirkland. I have likewise enclosed the copy
of one directed to General Putnam, or the command
ing officer at New York. The representations con
tained in these letters have induced me, without
waiting the determination of Congress, to direct
General Schuyler immediately to commence a treaty

1 " Immediately upon receipt of this order, you are to repair to Long Island,
and take upon you the command of the companies belonging to your regiment,
posted toward the east end thereof, for the defence of the inhabitants, pro
tection of the stock, &c. To effect these ends, you are to use every means in
your power, as it is of great importance to prevent the enemy from obtaining
supplies of fresh provisions and other necessaries. You are also to prevent, as
far as in your power lies, every kind of correspondence and intercourse be
tween the inhabitants and the enemy, seizing upon, and carrying before the
Committees of Safety for trial, all those who shall be detected in such infamous
practices." — Washington's Instructions to Afajor /V/Vr Scliuvler 10 June,
1776.

140 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

with the Six Nations, and to engage them in our
interest, upon the best terms he and his colleagues in
commission can procure ; and I trust the urgency of
the occasion will justify my proceeding to the Con
gress. The necessity for decision and despatch in all
our measures, in my opinion, becomes every day more
and more apparent. The express, Mr. Bennet, was
overtaken at Albany by General Schuyler, who had
received intelligence at Fort George, that a consider
able body of Mohawk Indians were coming clown the
Mohawk River under the conduct of Sir John John
son. The general's extreme hurry would not allow
him to write ; but it seems his intention is to collect
at Albany a sufficient force to oppose Sir John. I
have given him my opinion, that Colonel Dayton's
regiment should be employed in that service, and to
secure the post where Fort Stanwix formerly stood.

In consequence of an information, that several
merchants were exporting salted pork and beef from
this place, I requested the commissary to make appli
cation to the Provincial Congress for a restraint to be
laid on the exportation of those articles, as I appre
hended, not only that the enemy might receive sup
plies by the capture of our vessels, but that our people
might shortly experience a scarcity. The Provincial
Congress have accordingly made a resolution (a copy
of which is enclosed) to stop the exportation for four
teen days. They expect Congress will in the mean
time frame some general regulations on this head.
They are unwilling, they say, to subject their con
stituents to partial restraints.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 141

I once mentioned to Congress, that I thought a
war-office extremely necessary, and they seemed in
clined to institute one for our army ; but the affair
seems to have been since dropped. Give me leave
again to insist on the utility and importance of such
an establishment. The more I reflect upon the sub
ject, the more I am convinced of its necessity, and
that affairs can never be properly conducted without
it.

T'is with pleasure that I receive the resolve en
closed in your favor of the i ith instant. One consid
erable ground of dissatisfaction in the army is thereby
removed. I have employed persons in building the
gondolas and rafts, which the Congress thought
necessary for the defence of this place, and, in conjunc
tion with the Provincial Congress, I have determined
to sink chevaux de frise one of which is already begun.
I am, &c.

TO BRIGADIER-GENERAL SULLIVAN, IN CANADA.

NEW YORK, 13 June, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

Having received intelligence of the unfortunate
death of General Thomas, occasioned by the smallpox
he had taken, the command of the army in Canada
devolves on you. I am therefore to request your
most strenuous exertions to retrieve our circumstances
in that quarter from the melancholy situation, they
are now in, and for performing the arduous task of
bringing order out of confusion. I confess there is
more room for enterprise and activity, than I could

142 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

wish ; but then you will remember, that you and your
colleagues will be entitled to the grateful thanks of
your country, in proportion to the services you
render.

Being extremely hurried in sending despatches to
Congress and General Schuyler, I have not time to
write to you so fully as I could wish ; and therefore
shall only add my request, that you from time to time
make me regular returns of the strength of the army,
military stores, and every material occurrence, & wish
ing you and your Brothers, under the direction of a
gracious Providence, to lead your army to conquest
and victory, I am, dear Sir, your most obedient
servant.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 14 June, 1776.

SIR,

I herewith transmit to you copies of a letter from
General Schuyler, and its several enclosures, which I
have received since I had the honor of addressing
you yesterday. From these you will learn that Gen
eral Thomas died the 2d instant ' ; and the apprehen
sions of our frontier friends in this colony, that our
savage foes are meditating an attack against them.

I must beg leave to refer you to a paragraph in the
Copy of General Schuyler's Letter to General Put
nam or the Commanding Officer here, Inclosed in
mine of the i3th where he requests a supply of cloth-

1 He died of the smallpox, having taken the disorder without inoculation at
Sorel. During his illness, General Thompson was at the head of the army.
On the 4th of June, General Sullivan arrived at Sorel, and took the command.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 143

ing to be sent for the Army in Canada. As there is
but little or no probability of getting it here, I shall
be glad to know whether there will be any chance of
procuring it in Philadelphia, and if it should be sent
thro' the hands of the Qr. Master here, to what ac
count it is to be charged.

I was last Evening favored with yours of the nth
Inst. and hope the Two Battallions which Congress
have ordered from Philadelphia to the defence of this
place, will come provided with Arms ; if they do not,
they will be of no service, as there are more Troops
here already than are armed.

From Genl. Schuyler's Letter he has in view the tak
ing post where Fort Stanwix formerly stood. I wrote
him I thought it prudent previous to that, to secure
a post lower down about the Falls below the German
Flatts, lest the Savages should possess themselves of
the Country, and prevent supplies of men and pro
visions that may be necessary to send there in future,
he says he is in want of Cannon and ammunition, but
has expressed himself so ambiguously that I am at a
loss to know whether he meant what he has said, as
an application or not, this being the only Intelligence
on the subject and the first mention of his want. I
have desired him to explain the matter and in his
future requisitions for necessaries to be more certain
and explicit as to quantity and quality. In the mean
time I shall send him some Intrenching Tools and
inquire whether there are any Cannon that can be
spared from hence. I am, &c.'

1 Read 15 June. Referred to the Committee of War and Ordnance.

i44 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO MAJOR-GENERAL WARD.

NEW YORK, 16 June, 1776.

SIR,

I am now to acknowledge the receipt of your
favors of the 2;th Ulto. & of the 3d & 6th Instt. and
in answer to the ist think you was right in your
direction to Mr. Barttoll about Brigantine Hannah as
Mr. Morris had wrote for one.

The two schooners, considering their force and
number of men, certainly behaved extremely well in
repelling the attack, made by such a number of boats ;
and it is only to be lamented that the affair was
attended with the death of Captain Mugford. He
seemed to deserve a better fate/

The determination of the Court of Inquiry upon
Colo. Varnum's complaint transmitted in that of the
3d, is very different from what he expected or I im
agined it would be from his state of the case. —

o

Whether it is right or wrong, it is not in my power
to so determine, as the Evidence which was before
them is not Inserted in the proceedings, which ought
to have been, as I at this distance can have no other
means to warrant me, either in confirming or reject
ing the Sentence. I cannot but add that it seems
extraordinary to me and exceedingly strange, that
Capn. Lane should have been at so much trouble and
expence to get the men without having a right to

' The poor captain has since lost his life in a desperate engagement with
thirteen boats from the men-of-war, which attacked and attempted to board
him ; but by a most brave resistance they sunk four of the boats and fought so
warmly with their spears and small arms as to oblige them to quit him, though
he had but twenty-seven men, and they five times his number." — Abigail
Adams to Joint Adams, 27 May, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 145

'em — For which reason, to discountenance a practice
extremly pernicious in its nature, of one officer try
ing to take away and seduce the men of another, and
on account of the imperfection in the proceedings in
not stating the matter fully & the whole evidence ;
the Complaint should be reheard and every thing
appertaining to it, the manner of Inlistment &c. par
ticularly specified for me to found my Judgement on.1

The arms &c. which you sent to Norwich as men
tioned in the Invoice contained in that of the 6th
are not Arrived - The number of Carbines is only half
of what Genl. Putnam wrote for, as I have been In
formed, and it is less by three hundred than I directed
to be sent in my Letter from Philadelphia, of the 28
Ulto. This I suppose had not come to hand when
you wrote, as you have not acknowledged the receipt
of it.

I have inclosed two Letters for Majr. Small and
Chs. Procter Esqr. supposed to be at Halifax, which
being wrote with a design to procure the enlargement
of Capt. Procter a prisoner on board the Mercury
Man of War, or Induce them to intercede for a more

1 On May I3th Washington had called General Ward's attention to a complaint
made by Colonel Varnum in which it was charged that Ward had refused to
order fifteen or sixteen men enlisted for Varnum's regiment to join that regi
ment, and had allowed them to be re-enlisted in Colonel Phinny's regiment,
giving as a reason that Varnum's had gone to New York. " If the facts are as
set forth therein," Washington wrote, "he must be redressed; for if such
practices as he complains of are given the least countenance to, it \vill have the
worst of consequences, by encouraging soldiers to shift from one regiment to
another, and throw the whole army into confusion." The petition of Varnum
has been lost, but it implicated a Lieutenant Merril, of Phinny's regiment, for
enlisting men who had before been enlisted in another regiment. A court of
inquiry was held, and Merril was declared to be not guilty of the charge laid
against him, nor in any way culpable in the matter.

146 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

humane Treatment to be shewn him, I request you
to forward by the first opportunity by way of Nova
Scotia.

I am this moment favored with yours of the
9 Inst. advising me of the capture, made by our armed
vessels, of one of the transports with a company of
Highlanders on board, and I flatter myself, if our
vessels keep a good look out, as the whole fleet are
bound for Boston, which sailed with her, that more of
them will fall into our hands. This is a further proof
that Governmt. expected Genl. Howe was still in
Boston.

I am extremely sorry that your health is more and
more impaired, and, having heard by a letter from Col.
Hancock, that Mr. Whitcomb, Colonel Whitcomb's
brother, is appointed a brigadier-general, I shall order
him to relieve you as soon as I am informed, that he
accepts his commission ; and if he does, you may
immediately call him to your assistance, before I am
certified of his acceptance. This will ease you of
some trouble, till I can regulate a few matters of im
portance here, which I hope to do in a little time.
I am, Sir, your most obedient servant.1

" You are to repair to Fort Montgomery, and take upon you the command of
the posts in the Highlands. . . . Use every possible diligence in forward
ing the works at Forts Montgomery and Constitution, agreeable to late direc
tions given to Mr. Bedlow, who will furnish you with the same : as it is pro
posed by the Provincial Congress of New York to recall their Commissioners
from those posts, and leave the care of them altogether to the commanding
officer of the Continental forces, and his order.

"As these are or may become posts of infinite importance, especially the
lower one, I cannot sufficiently impress upon you the necessity of putting them
into a fit posture of defence, without delay. "— Washington's Instructions to
Colonel James Clinton, 14 June, 1776.

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 147

TO BRIGADIER-GENERAL SULLIVAN.

NEW YORK, 16 June, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I was favored with yours of the 5th and 6th instant
by express yesterday evening from General Schuyler ;
and am exceedingly happy on account of the agreea
ble and interesting intelligence it contains. Before it
came to hand, I almost dreaded to hear from Canada,
as my advices seemed to promise nothing favorable,
but rather our further misfortunes. But I am now
hopefull that our affairs, from the confused, distracted,
and almost forlorn state, in which you found them,
will emerge and assume an aspect of order and
success.1 I am convinced that many of our misfor
tunes are to be attributed to a want of discipline, and
a proper regard to the conduct of the soldiery.
Hence it was, and from our feeble efforts to protect
the Canadians, that they had almost joined and taken
part against us. As you are fully apprized of this,
and conceive them well disposed towards us, with
confidence I trust, you will take every step in your
power to conciliate and secure their friendship. If
this can be effected, & of which you seem to have no
doubt, I see no objection to our indulging a hope that
this country, of such importance in the present con
troversy, may yet be added to and complete our union.
I confess this interesting work is now more diffi
cult, than it would have been heretofore, had matters

'Considering the actual state of things in Canada, General Sullivan's letters
were very extraordinary. In his description of affairs, they bore the most flat
tering aspect ; yet twelve days afterwards the whole American army was driven
out of the province, which nil the officers on the spot, except General Sullivan,
had foreseen and predicted.

148 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

been properly conducted ; but yet, I flatter myself it
may be accomplished by a wise, prudent, and ani
mated behavior in the officers and men engaged in
it ; especially if assisted by the friendly disposition of
the inhabitants. I think every mark of friendship and
favor should be shown them, to encourage their zeal
and attachment to our cause, and from which if they
once heartily embark we shall derive innumerable
benefits.

Your conduct in pushing and securing posts low
down the country is certainly judicious, and of the
utmost advantage. The farther down we can take and

o

maintain posts, the greater will our possession of the
country be ; observing at the same time the necessity
of having a safe retreat left, if you should be obliged
to abandon them by a superior force. I am hopefull
and shall anxiously wait to hear of General Thomp
son's making a successful attack upon the party in
trenching at the Three Rivers. Their defeat will be
of the most essential service. It will chagrin them
and disconcert their schemes on the one hand, and
animate our men and give life to our Canadian friends
on the other, and efface from their minds the unfavor
able impressions, our late conduct has made.

It will be of material consequence, in your advances
down the country, to secure the several important
posts as you goe ; at which, you may in case you
should be obliged to decline the main object you have
in view, make a vigorous and successful stand in your
retreat. I concur with you in thinking it not of ma
terial moment to keep a very large number of men at

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 149

Lachine or the upper posts. There should be no
more than will be necessary to repel such attacks and
attempts, as may be made by the savages, and the
regular troops above you ; allowing for such a num
ber of disaffected Canadians as may join them. But
then there should be a sufficient number for that pur
pose, as our further misfortunes there might be of
the most injurious consequence. If they can be
maintained, the disaffected above will dwindle away,
and the insurrection promise nothing disastrous.

It is impossible for me at this distance, and not
acquainted with the situation of affairs as well as you,
who are on the spot, to give any particular direction
for your conduct and operations. I therefore have
only to request, that you with your officers will in
every instance pursue such measures, as the exigency
of our affairs may seem to require, and as to you
shall appear most likely to advance and promote the
interest and happiness of your country. The return
which you mention to have inclosed, was not in your
Letter ; you probably thro hurry forgot to put it in,
or Genl. Schuyler may have omitted it when in his
hands. I wrote you on the 13 Inst on this Subject
and must again enjoin a particular attention to this
part of your duty, it being of the utmost importance
to be frequently certified of our whole strength and
Stores. — In compliance with your request I shall
transmit a Copy of your letter to Congress by tomor
row's post. It will give them sensible pleasure and
such as they had no good reason to expect, at least
so soon.

1 5o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I have inclosed you an Extract of a Letter from
Genl. Ward, from the capture mentioned in it there
is no reason to expect the other transports that sailed
with her are not far off the coast.1

In regard to your giving Commissions, it is a meas
ure that I can neither approve or disapprove, having
no authority to act in this instance myself — The pro
priety of it, must depend upon the powers and prac
tice of your predecessors in command — If they had
none, it will be judged of most probably by the good
or bad consequences it may produce — Congress from
your Letter will see you have exercised such a power,
and when they write you, will either confirm or refuse
it in all probability.2

1 Capture of a transport with a company of Highlanders on board.

a " I do myself the honor to transmit to Congress a Copy of a letter covering
Copies of other Letters which 1 received yesterday from General Sullivan.

" The Intelligence communicated by him is pleasing and Interesting and
such as may afford the Greatest Satisfaction, if the Conduct the Canadians-
have discovered since his arrival among them is ingenuous and sincere. His
account is contradicted by Genl Arnold's letter to Genl Schuyler of which
a Copy is also transmitted.

"General Sullivan mentions his having given commissions to some of the
Canadians as a measure founded in necessity and Requests my approbation of
it, but not considering myself impowered to say anything upon the subject it
may not be improper for Congress to give him their oppinion in this Instance.
1 have Inclosed Copies of Genl Schuyler's Letters received at the same time —
they contained Accounts Respecting the Indians variant from what were
reported by Mr. Kirkland but amounting to the same thing the probability of
the savages Attacking our Frontiers." — Washington to the President of
Congress, 16 June, 1776.

"Great and crying Complaints being made against the Armorers, not only
for their Idleness, but the deceitful manner in which their work is executed —
The General does in implicit terms assure them if any further Complaints of
either should be exhibited, he will punish them in the most exemplary manner,
of this the Superintendent of that branch of business is desired to make them
fully acquainted." — Orderly Book, 16 June, 1776,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 151

Lest you should conceive that I do not think La-
chine or the Cedars posts of importance, and whose
defence are not very material, I must then add, that
I esteem them of much consequence but only mean
that more men need not be employed than what will
be equal to any probable attack that may be made
against them.

I would observe before 1 have done that it is my
most earnest request, that harmony, a good under
standing, and a free communication of sentiments
may prevail and be preserved between the general
and field-officers, particularly the former. Nothing-
can produce greater benefits than this, nor tend more
to promote your military operations ; whereas history
and observation sufficiently evince (they abound with
numberless examples) the fatal consequences, which
have ever resulted from distrust, jealousy, and disa
greement among officers of these ranks. Wishing
therefore your counsels and efforts to be founded in
a happy union, and to meet the smiles of a kind
Providence, I am, dear Sir, &c.

P. S. Knowing your great zeal for the cause of
your country, and desire to render her every possible
service, I must caution you not to put too much to
the hazard in your exertions to establish her rights,
and to receive with a proper degree of caution the
professions the Canadians may make. They have
the character of an ingenious, artful people, and very
capable of finesse and cunning. Therefore my advice
is, that you put not too much in their power ; but
seem to trust them, rather than do it too far. I

152 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

would also have you to keep all your posts, as you
goe, well secured, to guard against any treacherous
conduct.

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NEW YORK, 17 June, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I last night received by Mr. Bennet your favor of
the 8 Inst. addressed to Genl Putnam, or the Offi
cer commanding here, covering one for Congress
with a copy of Col. Kirkland's to you — both of which
I shall immediately forward to Philadelphia.

In consequence of your former Letters the Com
missary has been directed to continue Supplies of
Provisions, I shall repeat the direction and doubt
not of his exertions in this Instance— If its arrival
at Albany ceased for a time, it might be owing to
the accounts received that a good deal, particularly
flour might be had in Canada. I will speak to him
about the expenditure of pork here, and request that
no more be used than he may find necessary, that
there may be a large quantity for the Canada de
partment.' I will also speak to the Quarter Master
General to provide and forward all the clothing he

1 " I am informed that a Number of Persons on Long Island (by Character
not the most friendly to the Cause of the United Colonies) have in their Hands
considerable Quantities of Pork and other Provisions which they refuse to part
with for Continental Bills. — they may have other reasons for their conduct still
more detrimental and therefore I must beg the Interposition of your Congress
in this Matter so as to prevent the Evils which are much to be apprehended —
The Commmissary General will purchase all their Provisions at good Prices,
and give them Continental Bills in Pay — Gold and Silver he has none — The
Provisions are wanted for the Army, and those who are Well Wishers to the
Cause, and live in exposed Situations will undoubtedly be glad to dispose of

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 153

can get as soon as possible.- — As to Intrenching Tools,
they are extremely scarce and what we have far too
few, for the works carrying & proper to be carried on
for the defence of this place — However I will try to
furnish you with a few more, and wish your endeav
ors to purchase what you can from the country
people — Many of them perhaps will part with a
Spade or Pick Ax and some with both, and tho' many
may not be collected in that way, what are, will be
of great Service.

If the accounts of Colonel Bedel's and Major But-
terfield's conduct be true, they have certainly acted
a part deserving the most exemplary notice. I
hope you will take proper measures, and have good
courts appointed to bring them, and every other
officer, that has been or shall be guilty of malconduct,
to trial, that they may be punished according to
their offences. Our misfortunes at the Cedars were
occasioned, as it is said, entirely by their base and
cowardly behavior, and cannot be ascribed to any
other cause.1

In my letter of the 7th, which will have reached
you ere this, I enclosed a resolve of Congress for
engaging the Indians, not more than two thousand,

them. — the Disadvantages which may result to the Public by leaving them in
the Hands of Men of a different Complexion are too obvious to need animad
version. —

" I have your Report respecting the Obstruction of the Navigation of the Hud
son's River under Consideration and [am] pursuing Measures to carry it into
Execution with all possible Despatch." — Washington to the New York Con
gress, 13 June, 1776.

1 "Col. Bedel and Major Butterfield (for their bad conduct) are cashiered,
and rendered incapable of bearing a commission in the army of the United
States." — Extract from a letter from Ticonderoga, 3 August, 1776.

i54 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

in our service. This will indicate to you their opin
ion ; and knowing their sentiments fully upon this
head, I cannot but advise, that you forthwith hold a
conference with the Six Nations, and any others, you
with your brother commissioners may think neces
sary ; and form with them an alliance on such terms
and conditions, as shall seem most likely to secure
their interest and friendship, without waiting the fur
ther direction of Congress.1

The situation of our affairs will not suffer the delay,
and I am persuaded your conduct, and the speech you
intend to deliver the Sachems, will meet their appro
bation and thanks. I think that part of it, which
mentions the time and place of our taking post, might
be omitted ; but this I leave to you. I shall inform
Congress of what I have wrote you on this subject,
and of the verbal intelligence you sent me by Bennet
from Albany, where you overtook him, respecting the
Indians coming down the Mohawk River under Sir
John Johnson, and of your preparing to resist them.
I sincerely wish you success, and that their first incur
sions and attempts against us may be attended with
their entire defeat. It will be necessary to employ
Colonel Dayton and his regiment in this service, and
in securing a post where Fort Stanwix formerly stood,
which I esteem of much importance ; but I submit it

1 The Indians were to be engaged in the service of the colonies, to a number
not to exceed 2000. (MS. Journals.) To encourage the Indians General Wash
ington was authorized to offer them a reward of one hundred dollars for every
commisioned officer, and thirty dollars for every private soldier of the king's
troops, taken in the Indian country or on the frontier. (MS. Journals,
June I7th.)

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 155

to you, who are much better acquainted with that
country than I am, whether, previous to that, it will
not be necessary and essential, that a post be estab
lished lower down somewhere about the falls below
the German Flatts, to secure our communication with
that garrison. Should this not be done, will it not
be in the power of the savages to come between that
and our frontiers, and intercept all supplies of men
and provisions going thither ?

I observe you esteem the ground opposite to Ticon-
deroga to be more advantageous for a post against
the enemy. Messrs. Chase and Carroll had told me
the same. I should think, therefore, that the place
most capable of defence, and having the greatest ad
vantages, should be improved, and necessary works
thrown up, with the utmost despatch. But will not
both be best ? Cannot Ticonderoga be kept, and
this improved and maintained at the same time ? I
must submit this to you and refer you to my Letter
of the Qth upon the subject of fortifying all the posts
and about the Engineers. If you know of any per
sons, who can be of service in that way, do employ
them. I know of none myself, or have I one whom
I can possibly spare.

I have been applied to by Colo Nicholson who
says he was appointed by Congress to the Com
mand of a Regiment to be raised out of 2 Bat-
tallions of York Troops that were in Canada last
year, for instructions for that purpose. As this con
cerns the department more immediately under your
direction and with which you must be much better

156 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

acqd than I am, I did not think it right to give him
any direction about it, but if the fact is so, advise that
you will give him such orders, that the views of Con
gress may be carried into execution as you judge
necessary.1 In like manner I have had several appli
cations from officers coming from the Canada de
partment for pay that became due them, which did
not conceive myself at liberty to comply with being
ignorant of their appointments or service and as they
will perhaps apply to you for certificates to lay
before me, I wish you to be very explicit as to the
time of their being in office and from which their pay
is due.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 17 June, 1776.

SIR,

The enclosed came to my hands as a private letter
from General Sullivan. As a private letter I lay it
before Congress.2 The tendency (for it requires no
explanation) will account for the contrast between it
and the letter of General Arnold. That the former
is aiming at the command in Canada is obvious.
Whether he merits it or not, is a matter to be con
sidered ; and that it may be considered with propri
ety, I think it my duty to observe, as of my own
knowledge, that he is active, spirited, and zealously
attached to the cause. That he does not want abili-

1 John Nicholson's petition may be found in Force, American Archives,
Fourth Series, vi., 823.

- The letter referred to is that dated 7 June, 1776, printed in Force, Ameri
can Archives, Fourth Series, vi., 938. Compare letter of 5 June, on page 921
of the same volume,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 157

ties, many members of Congress as well as myself,
can testify ; but he has his wants, and he has his
foibles. The latter are manifested in a little tincture
of vanity, and in an over desire of being popular,
which now and then leads him into embarrassments.
His wants are common to us all— the want of expe
rience to move upon a large scale ; for the limited
and contracted knowledge, which any of us have in
military matters, stands in very little stead, and is
greatly overbalanced by sound judgment, and some
knowledge of men and books, especially when accompa
nied by an enterprising genius, which, I must do Gen
eral Sullivan the justice to say, I think he possesses.
But, as the security of Canada is of the last im
portance to the well-being of these colonies, I should
like to know the sentiments of Congress respecting
the nomination of any officer to that command. The
character I have drawn of General Sullivan is just,
according to my ideas of him, Congress will, be
pleased therefore, to determine upon the propriety of
continuing him in Canada, or sending another, as
they shall see fit. Whether General Sullivan knew of
the promotion of General Gates (at the time of his
writing,) and that he had quitted the department he
left him in, when he marched his brigade hence to
Canada, I cannot undertake to say ; nor can I de
termine whether his wish to be recalled would be
changed by it, if he did. I shall add no more than
my respectful compliments to Congress, and that I
have the honor to be, with every sentiment of regard
and esteem, Sir, &c.T

1 Read June iSth. Private.

158 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE COMMITTEE OF ESSEX COUNTY, NEW JERSEY.

GENTLEMEN, CNo Date-]

The absolute necessity of preventing all corre
spondence between the Inhabitants of this County
and our Enemies, obliges me to [use] every Degree
of Intelligence that lead to the Channel of such Inter
course — Doctor William Burnet of New Ark1 can
inform you of certain Informations and Charges
against Part of the Army under my Command,
as if they were liable to Bribery and Corruption
in permitting Persons to go from Staten Island
to the Men-of-War at or near Sandy Hook ; and
as the Person from whom he has received the Intel
ligence resides at New Ark within the District
of your Commitee, I must request it as a Mat
ter of great Importance that your Committee will
as soon as possible call on David Ogden Esqr. to
declare who the Person was, who informed him, that
he had engaged the Guard of the Rifle-Men at Staten
Island to carry him on Board the Men-of-War with
all the Circumstances within his Knowledge and also
that you do call on the Person whom he points out
to be his Informant to declare every Circumstance
within his Knowledge relative to the Matter.

TO THE COMMITTEE OF SAFETY OF PENNSYLVANIA.

GENTLEMEN, NEW YORK> T? June' l^6-

I was this Evening honored with yours of the 15
Instt., and it is with no small degree of pain, that I
am under the necessity of informing you, that it is

1 Chairman of the Committee of Essex County.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 159

out of my power at this time to comply with the re
quest made by your honorable body.1 The many im
portant works carrying on for the defence of this
place, against which there is the highest probability
of an attack being made in a little time, will not allow
me to spare from hence any person having the least
skill in the business as an engineer, nor have I but
one on whose judgment I should wish to depend in
laying out any work of the least consequence. Con
gress well know my wants in this instance, and sev
eral of my late letters to 'em have pressed the ap
pointment of gentlemen qualified for the business.

Added to this on account of the deficiency, I have
not been able to secure or improve two posts in the
Highlands, esteemed of the utmost importance to
prevent the enemy passing up the North River, and
getting into the interior parts of this colony, should
our attempts to stop them here prove ineffectual. But
I beg you to be assured, Sir, and to Inform the Com
mittee as soon as it is in my power, I shall with
infinite pleasure direct a person to attend them for
two or three days, if the service will not admit of
a longer absence, in order to trace out such works
and plans for carrying them on, as shall appear
necessary ; and wishing you to ascribe my non-
compliance to want of ability, and not inclination to
comply with your request, I have the honor, &c.

1 Congress had authorized the Committee of Safety in Philadelphia to erect a
redoubt at Billingsport, and throw obstructions across the Delaware at that
place, for the purpose of opposing the progress of the enemy's ships up the
river, and had agreed that the same should be constructed at the Continental
expense. The Committee had requested the Commander-in-chief to send them
an engineer to plan and superintend these works.

i6o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

FORGED LETTER.

TO JOHN PARKE CUSTIS.

18 June, 1776.
MY VERY DEAR JACK,

You have exceedingly obliged me by your letter which I received by yester
day's post. It discovers an attention to the great affairs now carrying on, and
an information concerning them, which I own to you, I had not given you credit
for. Your youth and inexperience pleaded your excuse ; and though you gave
me no opportunity to praise you for any active exertions, I paid you no ordinary
compliments, in my own mind, for your modesty in forbearing to meddle with
things which it was no reproach to you to confess, were out of your reach. Con
sidering your rank, fortune and education, whenever it is proper for you to come
forward on the theatre, it must not be any underpart that you act. You are,
therefore, certainly in the right to decline taking any part at all, till you are fit
for a first and leading character. And you have my full and perfect approba
tion of your resolution to persist in your purpose, for the present, not to accept
of any rank, civil or military. I see your anxiety, lest the present opportunity
for signalizing your just love for your country should, by your unnecessary cau
tion, be suffered to slip by you, unimproved. Your ardor is commendable ; and
far be it from me to discourage in you a spirit I so much love. But, whilst you
retain these honorable principles, there is little danger of your wanting oppor
tunities to call them forth into action. The momentous enterprize in which
your country is engaged, is not to be accomplished in this or that year. If, in
no longer a period than the siege of Troy, we bring all our mighty schemes to
bear, it will be the greatest work that ever was perfected in so little a time.*
You have set your heart, you tell me on a military employment. This is the
usual bent of young men ; and, as it was my own, it will be with an ill grace,
that I reprehend it in you. But, with the experience that I have had of it, 1
should be wanting in that love and esteem I owe you, should I hesitate to tell
you that, as your father, there is not a profession you could have chosen in
which I should not more cordially have concurred with you. Yet, I love arms ;
I am married to my sword, as well as to your amiable mother ; and herein is
my witness, that I am in earnest when I say death alone shall divorce me from
either. I am not so blindly devoted, however, to my profession, as not to see
by how frail a tenure I hold the little reputation I have in it. As a statesman,
as a senator, it is in the general, sufficient that you mean well, that you are
careful to qualify yourself to form a right judgment of the true interests of your

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 16 T

country, and that, with the honest impartiality of a free man, you have still ex
erted, your best endeavors to promote those interests. But, with a soldier,
success alone is merit ; and there is nothing that can atone for the want of it.
The world is a worse judge of military matters than any other. It would
astonish you, to find, on a minute comparison, how very little difference there
was in the skill and spirit which guided Braddock and Wolfe in the last actions
of their lives. But, how different has been their fate ! — I think, I am .not with
out some talents for the line of life which has fallen to my lot. But, opposed as
I must be by men, probably, of infinitely superior skill, and encompassed more
over with such hosts of other difficulties and discouragements as I am, it is not
mine to command success, and when either my contemporaries, or future his
torians, shall sit in judgment on my conduct, if, haply, ill-fortune should over
take me, seeing our miscarriages only, and having neither curiosity nor ability
to investigate the thousand causes which led to them, am I not too well war
ranted in concluding, that they will be attributed to mismanagement ? Have I
not then reason to wish that your choice had fallen on the quieter but not less
important calling of a private, gentleman ; in which as a senator, you might have
given proof of your abilities, in a way, in which fortune would not have had so
great a share ? But notwithstanding all this, and if after all, you be irrevo
cably determined to try your fortune in the field, and you can gain your mother's
and your wife's consent, I here give it you under my hand, that you shall not
want mine. Most certainly there cannot be a more honorable employment :
and if, (which Heaven avert) Fortune should declare against you, my consola
tion will be, that I can assure myself, you will deserve to be successful. J will
on the opening of the next campaign, procure you an appointment to the com
mand of a regiment, either here, or in the southern wing. And if my opinion
may have any weight with you, you will for many reasons, prefer the being
stationed in some of the southern states. There is no fear of its being an
inactive station. I have little expectation that this year will close with aught
considerably decisive on either side : and if our enemies be able to hold out
another campaign, it is most likely their policy will be, by means of their naval
superiority, to carry on a kind of an incursive war, by making unexpected descents
in different and distant places. Meanwhile, permit me to press you to persevere
in your attention to military matters. The manual exercise, which you were so
justly diligent to learn, whilst! was with you, is but the A. B. C. of your profession.
Neither will you profit so much as you might reasonably expect, from the
study of those authors, who have written professedly on the art of war. This

1 62 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

is like the learning the game of Whist by reading Hoyle. I have been witness
to the mischievious effects of it. A man, book-learned only, does very well in
the still scenes of marchings and encampments. But when, in the various
bustles of actual war, a cause arises, as must often be the case, not described in
his books, he is utterly at a loss. I would not, however, have you to under
stand me as if I meant to discourage your reading these books at all ; so far
from it, I would have you read them very often, and make yourself acquainted
with the subject, as much as you can in theory. My caution meant only
to guard you against placing too much reliance on them. Their best commen
tators, next to your own experience, will be, the historians of Greece and Rome ;
which it is your happiness to be able to read in the originals. But, the main
and most essential qualification is an high sense of honor, an elevation of sen
timent and a certain dignified stile of behavior that distinguishes, or should
distinguish, a soldier from every other man. It is a shame indeed, if he who
undertakes to command others, has not first learned to command himself : I
will not endure any thing mean or sordid either in your principles, or your man
ners ; having determined, if it were left with me, to be as strict and rigorous in
these particulars, as were the knights of old, when a candidate was to be invest
ed with the orders of chivalry. T cannot dissociate the ideas between a soldier
and a gentleman ; and however common it may be to give that last appellation
to persons of every character, it yet conveys to me an idea of worth I want words
to express. I am not solicitous to pay you compliments, even by implication ;
but, I may certainly be permitted to say, that if I had not known you to be a
gentlemen, you never should have had my consent to your becoming a soldier.

Your observations on this important contest are just and accurate, and dis
cover a reach of thought, and a penetration beyond what I had expected of you.
What you say on the subject of independency is perfectly judicious, and, no
doubt, highly worthy of all our most serious consideration. Vet, I have a pre
sentiment, that it will take place, and speedily. Open and unreserved as my
conduct towards you has ever been, I have no reluctance to confess to you, that
the measure is diametrically opposite to my judgment ; for I have not yet
despaired of an honorable reconciliation ; and whilst I can entertain but
an hope of that, both interest and inclination lead me to prefer it to every thing
else upon earth. Human affairs are oddly ordered : To obtain what you most
wish for, you must often make use of means you the least approve of.

As in bargaining, to obtain a fair and equal price, you must frequently ask
more than you wish to take. I do not really wish for independence. I hope

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 163

there are few who do ; but, I have never heard the reasonings of those, who
have proved that, if we did not declare for it we should fail to obtain the con
stitutional subordination to which we are entitled, fairly refuted. I would not
have you, therefore, hastily conclude that if, in this struggle, we fall short
of every thing we have claimed ; we are worsted ; perhaps, the very worst thing
that could befal us, is that we should gain all. I do assure you that, in my
opinion, the next misfortune to that of being thrust from our just rank in Un
order of freemen, would be the giving us up, and leaving us to ourselves. But,
this Great Britain will never do, voluntarily ; for, if even she docs, whatever
may become of us, from that moment she may date the commencement of her
own downfall.

1 am exceedingly happy in the becoming moderation which you observe and
•endeavor to introduce towards the unhappy men whose political creeds differ
from ours. But for this blot in her scutcheon, thrown on her by two many of
her rash and unworthy advocates, by a contrary conduct, this effort of America
would have done her honor, even though she had failed. I am shocked at the
instances of intolerance I daily hear of, and have no power to prevent. But,
like the other evils of war, it is a calamity that unavoidably grows out of such
a convulsion ; and one might as well hope to stem the fury of a torrent, as to
give laws to an outraged people. Tt is, however, the duty of every true friend
to liberty, by every gentle and conciliatory means in his power to restrain
it. And, T am happy to find this sentiment daily becoming more general
amongst us. All things considered, I cannot but think, it not a little to our
honor that things have not been carried to still a greater heighth in this way.

Remember me affectionately to Nelly, and tell her, that though 1 should In
most happy to see her, 1 may not hope for that happiness speedily ; as the din
of arms, I imagine, would be but unpleasing entertainment to her ; and I have
little prospect of any leisure, at least before we go into winter quarters. T hope
Mr. Calvert, and all the family are well ; I beg to be remembered to them, I
will write to your mother in a few days. You are very good in leaving her
alone as little as may be. Continue to write to me frequently, freely, and fully ;
the hearing of my dearest friends and family's welfare being the only true hap
piness I have any chance to enjoy amidst the perpetual hurry in which T live.

1 am my dear Jack, Your very affectionate Friend and Father,

GEO. WASHINGTON.'

1 New York, June 24, 1776. Last Tuesday an elegant entertainment was
given by our Provincial Congress, to his Excellency General Washington, and

1 64 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 20 June, 1776.

SIR,

I am now to acknowledge the receipt of your favors
of the 1 4th and i8th instant, and the interesting re
solves contained in them, with which I have been
honored. The several matters recommended to my
attention shall be particularly regarded, and the
directions of Congress and your requests complied
with in every instance, as far as in my power.

The instituting a war-office is certainly an event of
great importance, and, in all probability, will be
recorded as such in the historic page. The benefits

his suite, the General and Staff Officers, and the commanding officers of the
different regiments in and near this city, when the following toasts were drank :
i. The Congress. — 2. The American army. — 3. The American fleet.
— 4. The colony of New York. — 5. The protesting Lords. — 6. The
President of South Carolina. — 7. Mr. Burke. — 8. Dr. Price. — 9. The
friends of America in both houses of Parliament. — 10. The patriotic citizens
of London. — n. The Whigs throughout the British Empire. — 12. The
friends to the rights of mankind in every part of the earth. — 13. Freedom to
those who have virtue to defend it. — 14. May the strength of the British con
stitution expel the poison of corruption. — 15. May placemen and pensioners
never find seats in American Senate. — 16. May justice and mutual confidence
perpetuate the union of the colonies. — 17. May the industry of Americans be
equal to the natural resources of their country. — 18. May the ruins of the
British Empire crush those who undermined its pillars. — 19. May no injuries
erase from our bosoms the sentiments of humanity. — 20. May liberty bestow
laurels on her virtuous sons. — 21. May the crowns of tyrants be crowns
of thorns. — 22. May the fair genius of England cease to prostitute herself to
the slaves of Americans. — 23. May the generous sons of St. Patrick expel all
the venemous reptiles of Britain. — 24. May the clear stream of liberty mix
with the waters of Tweed. — 25. The memory of the virtuous Hampden. —
26. The immortal memory of William the Third, — 27. The memory of the
victorious George the Second. — 28. The memory of the late noble Lord
Howe. — 29, The memory of the patriotic Warren. — 30. The memory of
the brave Montgomery. — 31. Civil and religious liberty to all mankind
Virginia Gazrtfr, 13 July. 1776.

r776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 165

derived from it, I Hatter myself, will be considerable,
though the plan upon which it is first formed may not
be entirely perfect. This, like other great works, in
its first edition, may not be free from error ; time
will discover its defects, and experience suggest the
remedy, and such further improvements as may be
necessary ; but it was right to give it a beginning, in
my opinion.1 The recommendation of the Conven
tion of New York for restraining and punishing dis
affected persons, I am hopefull will be attended with
salutary consequences ; and the prohibition against
exporting provisions appears to have been a measure
founded in sound policy, lest proper supplies should
be wanted, wherewith to subsist our armies. I have
transmitted General Schuyler the resolves about the
Indians, and the others on which he is to act ; and
have requested his strict attention and exertions
in order to their being carried into execution with all
possible despatch.

I note your request respecting Mr. Hancock — he
shall have such directions as may be necessary for

1 The Board of War and Ordnance consisted of five members, with a secre
tary and the necessary clerks. It was the duty of this Board to obtain and
preserve an alphabetical register of all the officers in the Continental army, with
their rank and the dates of their commissions ; to keep exact accounts of the
artillery, arms, ammunition, and warlike stores, and to have the same under
their particular charge ; to provide for the forwarding of all despatches and
moneys transmitted by Congress on the public service; "to superintend the
raising, fitting out, and despatching all such land forces, as should be ordered
for the service of the United Colonies ; to have the care and direction of all the
prisoners of war, according to the orders and regulations of Congress " ; and to
keep a careful record of all their letters and transactions.

The persons chosen for the first Board of War were John Adams, Sherman,
Harrison, Wilson, and Edward Rutledge. The secretary was Richard Peters.
— Journals of Congress, June I2th, I3th. See note, vol. III., 358,

i66 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

conducting his office and are happy he will have so
early a remittance for paying the Troops in his
Department.

The Silver and paper money designed for Canada
will be highly serviceable and I hope will be the
means of re-establishing our credit there in some
degree with the Canadians and also encourage our
men too, who have complained in this Instance.
When it arrives, I will send it forward under a
proper guard.

I have communicated to Major- General Gates the
resolve of Congress for him to repair to Canada, and
directed him to view Point-au-fer,1 that a fortress may
be erected if he shall judge it necessary. He is pre
paring for his command, and in a few days will take
his departure for it. I would fain hope his arrival
there will give our affairs a complexion different from
what they have worn for a long time past, and that
many essential benefits will result from it. The kind
attention Congress have shown to afford the Com
mander-in-chief here every assistance, by resolving
that recommendatory letters be written to the Con
ventions of New Jersey, New York, and Assembly of
Connecticut, to authorize him to call in the militia in
case of exigency, claims my thankful acknowledg
ments ; and, I trust, if carried into execution, will
produce many advantages in case it may be expedient
at any time to call in early reinforcements. The de
lays incident to the ordinary mode may frequently

1 A point of land on the western shore of Lake Champlain, between Isle nux
Noix and Isle la Motte.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 167

render their aid too late, and prove exceedingly in
jurious.

I this evening received Intelligence of the iQth
Inst. from Capt. Pond of the armed Sloop Schuyler
of his having taken about 50 miles from this on
the South side of Long Island, a Ship and a Sloop
bound to Sandy Hook — The ship from Glasgow with
a Company of the 42 Regimt had been taken by one
of Commodore Hopkins's fleet who took the Soldiers
out and ordered her to Rhode Island — after which
it was retaken by the Cerberus and put under the
Convoy of the Sloop — As Captain Pond Informs,
there were Five Commissd. officers, Two Ladies, &
four privates on board — they are not yet arrived at
Head Quarters — Inclosed is an invoice of what they
have on board.

General Wooster having expressed an inclination
and wish to wait on Congress, I have given him per
mission, not having any occasion for him here. He
set out this morning. I have been up to view the
grounds about Kingsbridge, and find them to admit
of several places well calculated for defence ; and,
esteeming it a pass of the utmost importance, have
ordered works to be laid out, and shall direct part of
the two battalions from Pennsylvania to set about the
execution immediately, and will add to their numbers
several of the militia, when they come in, to expe
dite them with all possible despatch.1 Their conse-

1 These works were of great importance in keeping open a communication
with the country. They embraced the fort on an eminence near Hudson's
River, called Fort Washington, the redoubts at Jeffrey's Point, and on the hills
north and east of Fort Washington, breastworks at Kingsbridge, and Fort In-

168 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

quence as they will keep open the communication
with the country requires the most speedy completion
of them. I am, &c.1

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NEW YORK, 20 June, 1776.

Dear Sir,

I herewith transmit to you sundry resolves of Con
gress, respecting the Indians, the fortifying Fort
Stanwix, and for rendering more easy and commo
dious our passes into Canada. As the resolves are
of an interesting and important nature, I must re
quest your particular attention to them, and most
active exertions for accomplishing and carrying the
whole into execution with all possible despatch.

I am hopeful the bounty, which Congress have
agreed to allow, as you will perceive by the last re
solve, will prove a powerful inducement to engage
the Indians in our service, and their endeavors to
make prisoners of all the King's troops they possi
bly can.2 You will use every method, you shall judge
necessary, to conciliate their favor ; and to this end
you are authorized to promise them a punctual pay
ment of the allowance, Congress have determined on

dependence on the north side of Haerlem Creek near its junction with the
Hudson.

1 Read June 24th. Referred to the Board of \\'ar and Ordnance.

- This resolve authorized General Washington to employ such Indians, as he
>hould take into the service, in any place where he should think they would be
most useful, and to offer them a reward of one hundred dollars for ever}' com
missioned officer, and thirty dollars for every private soldier of the King'-:
troops, that they should capture in the Indian country, or on the frontiers of the
colonies.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 169.

for such officers and privates belonging to the King's
army, as they may captivate and deliver to us.

Jitne 2ijr/. — I have this moment received your
favors of the i5th and i yth, and, the post being
about to depart, have not time to answer them fully.
I shall only add, that Lady Johnson may remain at
Albany, till further directions. 1 am, &c.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 23 June, 1776.

SIR,

I herewith transmit you an extract of a letter from
General Ward, which came to hand by last night's
post, containing the agreeable intelligence of their
having obliged the King's ships to leave Nantasket
Road, and of two transports more being taken by
our armed vessels, with two hundred and ten High
land troops on board.1

I sincerely wish the like success had attended our
arms in another quarter ; but it has not. In Canada,

1 Several British armed ships had kept possession of Nautasket Road, from
the time Boston was evacuated. On the I3th of Tune> in the evening, General
Ward ordered five hundred men, and a detachment of the train of artillery
with a thirteen-inch mortar, two eighteen-pounders, and some small cannon,
under the command of Colonel Whitcomb, to take post on Long Island, and
annoy the British ships. The necessary works were thrown up in the night,
and the next morning the cannon and mortar opened a fire, and soon drove
the vessels oul of the harbor. The fleet consisted of thirteen in number,
the Renown, of fifty guns, several smaller ships of war, and transports with
Highland troops on board. They blew up the light-house as they went off,
and put to sea.

Genera] Ward wrote : '' The Colonel taken in the transports is Lieutenant-
Colonel Campbell, commander of one of General Frazer's battalions of High
landers ; he is a member of Parliament, and a gentleman of fortune.'

iyo THE WRITINGS OF [1776

the situation of our affairs is truly alarming. The en
closed copies of Generals Schuyler's, Sullivan's, and
Arnold's letters will inform you, that General Thomp
son has met with a repulse at Three Rivers, and is
now a prisoner in the hands of General Burgoyne,
who, these accounts say, is arrived with a considerable
army.1 Nor do they seem to promise an end to our
misfortunes here ; it is greatly to be feared, that the
next advices from thence will be, that our shattered,
divided, and broken army, as you will see by the
return, have been obliged to abandon the country,
and retreat, to avoid a greater calamity, that of being
cut off or becoming prisoners. I will be done upon
the subject, and leave you to draw such conclusions
as you conceive, from the state of facts, are most
likely to result ; only adding my apprehensions, that
one of the latter events, either that they are cut off,
or become prisoners, has already happened, if they
did not retreat while they had an opportunity.

1 Two days after General Sullivan's arrival at Sorel, he sent General Thomp
son, at the head of three regiments, to meet and attack the enemy at Three
Rivers. By an unlucky series of accidents, his party was assailed and beaten,
and himself and other officers were taken prisoners.

Mutual Complaints have been by the Armorers and Soldiers, respecting the
repairing of Arms. The Officers of the several regiments are earnestly called
upon to examine their men and turn out all those who can work to any advan
tage in the Armorer's Shop, though they should not be complete workmen and
to prevent further uneasiness, the several Captains are to inspect the arms of
their Companies, and either themselves, or by some persons for whom they
will be answerable, have the defective Arms sent to the Armorer's where the
Master Workman will give a receipt for them — the same officer in like manner
attending to the return of the arms, and to make a report if the Armorers'
fail in their work — The Honor and Safety of the Army depends so much upon
a strict attention to the state of the arms, that the General hopes no pains will
be spared upon this head." — Orderly Book, 23 June, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 171

General Schuyler and General Arnold seem to think
it extremely probable ; and if it has taken place, it
will not be easy to describe all the fatal consequences
that may flow from it. At least our utmost exertions
will be necessary, to prevent the advantages they
have gained from being turned to our greater mis
fortunes. General Gates will certainly set out to
morrow, and would have gone before now, had he not
expected to receive some particular instructions from
Congress, which Colonel Braxton said he imagined
would be given and transmitted here.

Enclosed is a copy of a letter from General Arnold,
respecting some of the Indian tribes, to General
Schuyler, and of a talk had at Albany with thirteen of
the Oneidas. They seemed then to entertain a
friendly disposition towards us, which I wish may not
be changed by the misfortunes we have sustained in
Canada. I have the honor to be &c.'

TO MAJOR-GENERAL GATES.

INSTRUCTIONS.
SIR,

The honorable Continental Congress, reposing the greatest
confidence in your wisdom and experience, have directed me to
appoint you to the very important command of the troops of the
United Colonies in Canada, with power to appoint a deputy
adjutant-general, a deputy quartermaster-general, a deputy mus-
termaster-general, and such other officers as you shall find
necessary for the good of the service. You are also empowered
to fill up all vacancies in the army in Canada, and notify the
same to Congress for their approbation.

1 Read June 251)1,

1 72 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

You are also authorized, until the first of October next, to sus
pend any officers and fill up all vacancies, transmitting to the
honorable Congress such order and suspension, giving your
reasons therefor, and specifying the particular charge made
against such officer. You are directed, previous to your depart
ure, to consult with the commissary -general, and concert with
him the most effectual measures for continuing proper supplies of
provisions for that department. You are in like manner to con
sult with Colonel Knox about the artillery, which may be wanted,
and what may probably be procured there ; and whether any brass
or iron field-pieces can be spared from hence for that service.

Upon your arrival in Albany, you will consult with general
Schuyler, in regard to the present state of provisions and stores,
and fix upon some certain means of forwarding the regular sup
plies in future from that place. At the same time endeavor to
learn whether supplies heretofore sent have not reached that
department, and by what means such failures have happened
that a proper remedy may be provided. From General Schuyler
you will also receive such advice and information, respecting the
operations of the campaign, as may be useful and necessary.
You are to direct all the general officers, deputy quartermaster-
general, local commissaries, paymaster in Canada, and all other
persons there, or on the communication, without delay to render
their accounts and settle them. No general officer on such
settlement is to receive pay as colonel of a regiment, nor any
field-officer as captain of a company.

Upon your taking the command of the troops, you will give
particular orders, agreeably to a rule of Congress, that no officer
shall suttle or sell to the soldiers, on penalty of being fined one
month's pay, and being dismissed the service with infamy ; that
all sales of arms, clothing, ammunition, and accoutrements, made
by soldiers, are to be deemed void ; and that the baggage of offi
cers and soldiers is hereafter to be regulated conformably to the
rules of the British army.

By a like resolve no troops in Canada are to be disbanded
there, but all soldiers in that country ordered to be disbanded,
or, their times of enlistment being expired, refusing to re-enlist,
shall be sent under proper officers to Ticonderoga, or such other

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 173

posts on the lakes, as you shall direct, where they are to be mus
tered, and the arms, accoutrements, blankets, and utensils, which
they may have belonging to the public, shall be delivered up and
deposited in the public store. You will, as soon as possible,
make as accurate a return as you can procure of the troops,
artillery, arms, ammunition, provisions, and stores, which you
find in Canada, or upon the communication with Albany, distin
guishing where stationed, and in what magazines ; and, if pos
sible, transmit such a return to the honorable Continental Con
gress, and to me, once a fortnight.

The distance of the scene, and the frequent changes, which
have happened in the state of our affairs in Canada, do not allow
me to be more particular in my instructions. The command is
important, the service difficult but honorable, and I most de
voutly pray, that Providence may crown our arms with abundant
success. Given under my hand at Head-Quarters, New York,
June 24th, 1776.'

TO MAJOR-GENERA L SCHUVLKK.

NF.W YORK, 24 June, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

On the 20 Inst. I received your two favors of the
1 5th & 1 7th by Bennet, and yesterday evening that
of the 19 continued to the 2Oth, with Genl. Sullivan's

1 General Washington had been directed by Congress, on the lyth of June,
to send General Gates into Canada to take command of all the forces in that
province. He enjoyed a high popularity in Congress at this time. Richard
Henry Lee, writing to Washington, June I3th, says : "It is more than prob
able, that Congress will order our friend Gates to Canada. His great ability
and virtue will be absolutely necessary to restore things there, and his recom
mendations will always be readily complied with. You will find, that great
powers are given to the commander in that distant department. The system
for Canada, since the arrival of the Commissioners here, will, I hope, be of
essential service to our officers. All good men pray most heartily for your
health happiness, and success, and none more than your affectionate friend."

Adams wished to have Gates in command in the East, but the death of
Thomas rendered it necessary to appoint him to the northern army.

174 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Letter and return, and the several Copies you In
closed. The accounts transmitted by General Sulli
van are truly alarming, and I confess I am not
without apprehension lest the next advices should be,
that the unfortunate defeat and taking of General
Thompson have been succeeded by an event still
more unfortunate, the destruction of a large part
if not the whole of our army in that quarter. The
weak, divided, and disheartened state, in which
General Sullivan represents it to be, does not seem to
promise any thing much more favorable, and is what
General Arnold appears to be suspicious of. From
the whole of the accounts, supposing the facts all true,
there was nothing left to prevent their ruin, but
a retreat.1 That, I hope, has been made, as the only
means of saving themselves, and rendering their
country the least service.

By reason of the succession of ills, that has
attended us there of late, and this last one, I fear we
must give up all hopes of possessing that country, of
such importance in the present controversy, and that
our views and utmost exertions must be turned to
prevent the incursions of the enemy into our colonies.
To this end, I must pray your strictest attention, and
request that you will use all the means in your power
to fortify and secure every post and place of import
ance on the communication. You are as much
impressed with the necessity of the measure, as any
man can be ; and with confidence I trust, that nothing

1 Arnold's letter to Sullivan is printed in Force, American Archives, Fourth
Series, vi., 796.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 175

you can do will be wanting to effect it. If the troops
have retreated, they will in a little time, I am hope-
full, complete such works on the passes, as to bid
defiance to the most vigorous efforts of the enemy to
penetrate our country ; especially when you are
assisted by the militia, who most probably are on
their march ere now. Had this unfortunate defeat
not happened, the militia were designed, not only to
reinforce the army in Canada, but to keep up the
communication with that province, as you will see by
recurring to the resolve directing them to be em
ployed.1

1 Mr. Hawley pressed this subject in his letters of 2ist and 27th of June :

" The most important matters are soon to be decided by arms. Unhappy it
is for the Massachusetts, and I fear for the whole continent, that at this season
we have a numerous assembly. More than one half the House are new members.
Their decisions are most afflictingly slow, when every thing calls for the utmost
ardor and despatch. The Lord have mercy upon us ! This colony, T imagine,
will raise the men required by Congress, before snow falls, but in no season for
the relief of either New York or Canada. Pray, Sir, consider what there is to be
done. It is my clear opinion, that there will not a single company move in
this colony for either of those places these three weeks. 1 know, Sir, it will
vex you ; but you will not be alone in the vexation. My soul at times is
ready to die within me, at others my blood to press out at the pores of my body.
But what shall be the expedients ? T never was good at them. If I may say
it, I am astonished at the policy of Congress, in ordering more regiments here,
instead of ordering those, which are here, to parts where they are infinitely more
needed ; but my opinion is little worth. Such as it is, I have given it."

" For God's sake, if it is possible, let all Ward's people be instantly ordered to
Canada, or to some place where they are more needed than here. Pray, Sir,
consider that they are officered, armed, and equipped, in all respects. Every
thing is to be done for the militia. Our people will fight here pro arts et focis ;
but very few of them, believe me, will be got to Canada this year. I pray your
Excellency's pardon for my troublesome repetition of this matter to you. I am
here, and see the true state and posture of affairs. No place on the continent
I conceive is more secure than Boston."

" The riotous behavior of some soldiers of the Continental army, yesterday
and the evening before, has filled the General with much regret and concern ;
and lays him under the disagreeable necessity of declaring, that if the like be-

176 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Major-General Gates, whom Congress had ap
pointed to command after General Thomas's death,
will set out to-morrow and take with him one hundred
Barrells of powder out of which the supplies neces
sary for the different posts must be drawn.

I have also directed Col. Knox to send up the
Cannon you wrote for, if they can be possibly spared
from hence, with some artillerists, &c, a proper
quantity of Ball and other necessaries for them, and
will in every instance afford you all the assistance I
can. At the same time I wish if there are any Can
non at Ticonderoga, or other necessaries there or
elsewhere, that you may want and which can be
spared for any other post or purpose, that you would
get them in preference to any here, as the number we
have is not more [than] sufficient for the extensive
and important works necessary to be maintained for
the defence of this place.

In respect to the proceedings of the Commissioners
for raising two companies of the Mohekans or and
Connecticut Indians, they appear to me not to answer
the views of Congress, as I presume they live within
the Government of Connecticut and are to be consid
ered in the same light with its Inhabitants ; and that
their design was extended to those who were not

haviour should be practised again, the authors will be brought to the severest
punishment, if taken, or treated as a common enemy if they dare to resist.
Men are not to carve out remedies for themselves. If they are injured in any
respect, there are legal modes to obtain relief, and just complaints will always
he attended to and redressed. It should be the pride of a soldier to conduct
himself in such a manner, as to obtain the applause and not the reproach of a
people he is sent to defend ; and it should be the business as it is the duty of
an officer to inculcate and enforce this doctrine/'

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 177

livers among us, and were of Hostile character or
doubtfull friendship. But in this I may be mistaken
and there may be a necessity of engaging those you
have to secure their Interest.

As to your doubts about the Officer Commanding in
Canada, his right to punish capitally, I should suppose
that necessity, independent of any thing else, would
Justify the exercise of such an authority ; but Con
gress having determined, that the Commanding officer
there should inflict exemplary punishmt on those
who violate the military regulations established by
them has put the matter out of question and I appre
hend every Commander there has such power and of
right may and should exercise it.

As Colonel Parsons has requested you to send
down the person, who is supposed to have murdered
his brother, I have no objection to your doing it,
if you judge necessary. He, from what I have been
told, designs to apply to Congress for instituting
some mode of trial for the offence.

I am, dear Sir, your most obedient servant.

FORGED LETTER.

TO MRS. WASHINGTON.

24 June, 1776.
MY DEAREST LIFE AND LOVE,

You have hurt me, I know not how much, by the insinuation in your last,
that my letters to you have lately been less frequent, because I have felt less
concern for you. The suspicion is most unjust ; — may I not add, it is most un
kind ? Have we lived, now almost a score of years, in the closest and dearest
conjugal intimacy to so little purpose, that, on an appearance only of inatten
tion to you, and which you might have accounted for in a thousand ways more

178 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

natural and more probable, you should pitch upon that single motive which
alone is injurious to me ? I have not, I own, wrote so often to you as I wished
and as I ought. But think of my situation, and then ask your heart, if I be
without excuse. We are not my dearest, in circumstances the most favorable
to our happiness : but let us not, I beseech you, idly make them worse, by in
dulging suspicions and apprehensions which minds in distress are but apt to
give way to. I never was, as you have often told me, even in my better and
more disengaged days, so attentive to the little punctilios of friendship, as, it
may be, became me : but my heart tells me, there never was a moment in my
life, since I first knew you, in which it did not cleave and cling to you with the
warmest affection ; and it must cease to beat, ere it can cease to wish for your
happiness, above any thing on earth.

I congratulate you most cordially on the fair prospect of recovery of your
amiable daughter-in-law ; nor can I wonder, that this second loss of a little one
should affect you, I fear the fatigues of the journey, and the perpetual agita
tions of a camp, were too much for her. They are, however, both young and
healthy ; so that there can be little doubt of their soon repairing the loss.

And now will my dearest love permit me, a little more earnestly than I have
ever yet done, to press you to consent to that so necessary, so safe and so easy,
though so dreadful a thing — The being innoculated. It was always advisable ;
but at this juncture it seems to be almost absolutely necessary.

I am far from sure, that, that restless madman, our quondam Governor, from
the mere lust of doing mischief, will not soon betake himself to the carrying on
a predatory war in our rivers. And as Potomack will certainly be thought
most favorable for his purposes, as affording him scope to keep without the
reach of annoyance. I have little reason, to flatter myself that it would not be
particularly pleasing to him, to vent his spite at my house. Let him ; it would
affect me only as it might affect you ; and, for this reason, among others, I
wish you out of his reach. Yet I think I would not have you quit your house,
professedly, from an apprehension of a visit from him. An appearance of
fearfulness and timidity, even in a woman of my family, might have a bad
effect ; but, I must be something more or less than man, not to wish you out of
the way of a danger, which to say the least, must be disagreeable to you, and
could do good to no one. All this makes for your going to Philadelphia, a
place of perfect security ; and it would almost be worth while to be innocu
lated, if it were only for the fair pretence it furnishes you with of quitting Virginia,
at a time when I could not but be exceedingly uneasy at your remaining in it.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 179

But I flatter myself, any further argument will be unnecessary, when I shall
add, as I now do, that till you have had the smallpox, anxiously as else I should
wish for it, I never can think of consenting to your passing the winter here in
quarters with me.

I would have Lund Washington immediately remove all the unmarried and
suspicious of the slaves to the quarters in Frederick. The Harvesting must be
got in by hirelings. Let him not keep any large stock of grain trod out, espe
cially at the mill, or within the reach of water carriage ; in particular, let as
little as may be, be left at Clifton's quarters. It will not be too late, even in
the first week of July, to sow the additional supply of hemp and flax-seed, which
Mr. Mifflin has procured for me in Philadelphia ; and which I hope will be
with you before this letter. For obvious reasons, you will not sow it on the
island, nor by the water side. But I hope you will have a good account of your
crop on the Ohio. If Bridgey continues refractory and riotous, though I know
you can ill spare him, let him by all means be sent off, as I hope Jack Custis's
boy Joe already is, for his sauciness at Cambridge.

My attention is this moment called off to the discovery, or pretended discov
ery, of a plot. It is impossible, as yet, to develope the mystery in which it
either is, or is supposed to be involved. Thus much only I can find out with
certainty, that it will be a fine field for a war of lies on both sides. No doubt
it will make a good deal of noise in the country ; and there are who think it
useful to have the minds of the people kept constantly on the fret by rumors
of this sort. For my part, I who am said to be the object principally aimed at
in it, find myself perfectly at my ease ; and I have mentioned it to you only
from an apprehension that, hearing it from others and not from me, you might
imagine that I was in the midst of danger that I knew not of.

The perpetual solicitude of your poor heart about me, is certainly highly
flattering to me ; yet I should be happy to be able to quiet your fears. Why
do you complain of my reserve ? Or, how could you imagine that I distrusted
either your prudence or your fidelity ? I have the highest opinion of them both.
But why should I teaze you with tedious details of schemes and views which
are perpetually varying ? and which therefore might not improbably mislead,
where I meant to inform you ? Suffice it that I say, what I have often before
told you, that, as far as I have the control of them, all our preparations of war,
aim only at peace. Neither do I, at this moment, see the least likelihood of
there being any considerable military operations this season ; and, if not in this
season certainly in no other. It is impossible to suppose, that, in the leisure,

i8o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

and quiet of winter quarters, men will not have virtue to listen to the dictates
of plain common sense and sober reason. The only true interest of both sides
is reconciliation ; nor can there be a point in the world clearer, than that both
sides must be losers by war, in a manner which even peace will not compensate
for. We must, at last, agree and be friends ; for we cannot live without them,
and they will not without us : and a byestander might well be puzzled to find
out, why as good terms cannot be given and taken now, as when we shall have
well nigh ruined each other by the mutual madness of cutting one another's
throats. For all these reasons, which cannot but be as obvious to the English
commissioners, and ours, as they are to me, I am at a loss to imagine how any
thing can arise to obstruct a negotiation, and, of consequence, a pacification.
You, who know my heart, know that there is not a wish nearer to it than this
is ; but I am prepared for every event, one only excepted — I mean a dishonor
able peace. Rather than that, let me, though with the loss of every thing else
I hold dear, continue this horrid trade, and by the most unlikely means, be the
unworthy instrument of preserving political security and happiness to them, as
well as to ourselves. — Pity this cannot be accomplished without fixing on me
that sad name, Rebel. I love my king ; you know I do : a soldier, a good man
cannot but love him. How peculiarly hard then is our fortune to be deemed
traitors to so good a king ! But I am not without hopes, that even he will yet
see cause to do me justice ; posterity I am sure will. Mean while I comfort
myself with the reflection that this has been the fate of the best and bravest
men, even of the Barons who obtained Magna Charta, whilst the dispute was
pending. This, however, anxiously as I wish for it, it is not mine to com
mand ; I see my duty ; that of standing up for the liberties of my country ;
and whatever difficulties and discouragements lie in my way, I dare not shrink
from it ; and I rely on that Being, who has not left to us the choice of duties,
that, whilst I conscientiously discharge mine, I shall not finally lose my reward.
If I really am not a bad man, I shall not long be so set down.

Assure yourself, I will pay all possible attention to your recommendations.
But happy as I am in an opportunity of obliging you, even in the smallest
things, take it not amiss, that I use the freedom with you to whisper in your
ear, to be sparing of them. You know how I am circumstanced : hardly the
promotion of a subaltern is left me. And, free and independent as I am, I re
solve to remain so. I owe the Congress no obligations for any personal favors
done to myself ; nor will I run in debt to them for favors to others. Besides,
I am mortified to have to ask of them, what, in sound policy (if other motives

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 181

had been wanting) they ought to have granted to me, unasked. I cannot de
scribe to you the inconveniences this army suffers for want of this consequence
being given to ils commander in chief. But, as these might be increased, were
my peculiar situation in this respect generally known, I forbear ; only enjoining
you a cautious silence on this head. — In a regular army, our Virginia young
men, would certainly, in general, make the best officers ; but I regret that they
have not now put it in my power justly to pay them this compliment. They
dislike their northern allies ; and this dislike is the source of infinite mischiefs
and vexations to me. In the many disputes and quarrels of this sort which we
have had, one thing has particularly struck me. My countrymen are not infe
rior in understanding ; and are certainly superior in that distinguished spirit and
high sense of honor which should form the character of an officer. Yet, some
how or other, it forever happens, that in every altercation, they are proved to
be in the wrong ; and they expect of me attentions and partialities which it is
not in my power to shew them.

Let me rely that your answer to this will he dated in Philadelphia. If I am
not very busily engaged, (which I hope may not be the case,) perhaps I may
find ways and means to pay you a visit of a day or two ; but this I rather hint
as what I wish, than what I dare bid you expect. If you still think the frag
ments of the set of greys I bought of Lord Botetourt unequal to the journey, let
Lund Washington sell them, singly, or otherwise as he can, to the best advan
tage, and purchase a new set of bays. I could, as you desire, get them here,
and perhaps on better terms ; but, I have a notion, whether well or ill founded
I know not, that they never answer well in Virginia. I beg to be affectionately
remembered to all our friends and relations ; and that you will continue to be
lieve me to be Your most faithful and tender Husband.'

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 27 June, 1776.

SIR,

I this morning received, by express, letters from
Generals Schuyler and Arnold, with a copy of one

1 "The letter said to be the General's, is partly genuine and partly spurious.
Those who metamorphosed the intercepted original committed an error in point
of time, for Mrs. Washington was with the General in New York at the date
of it." — John Laurens to his father, 23 January, 1778.

182 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

from General Sullivan to the former, and also of
others to General Sullivan ; of all which I do myself
the honor to transmit to you copies. They will give
you a further account of the melancholy situation of
our affairs in Canada, and show that there is nothing
left to save our army there but evacuating the country.

I am hopeful General Sullivan would retreat from
the Isle-aux-Noix, without waiting for previous orders
for that purpose ; as, from Generals Schuyler's and
Arnold's letters, it is much to be feared, by remaining
there any considerable time, his retreat would be cut
off, or at best be a matter of extreme difficulty. I
would observe to Congress, that it is not in my power
to send any carpenters from hence to build the gon
dolas and galleys, General Arnold mentions, without
taking them from a work equally necessary, if not
more so, here of the same kind ; and submit it to
them whether it may not be advisable as it is of great
importance to us to have a number of those vessels
on the lake, to prevent the enemy passing, to with
draw the carpenters for the present from the frigates
building up the North River, and detach them imme
diately, with all that can be got at Philadelphia, for
that purpose and carrying on those here.

I have the pleasure to inform you of another cap
ture, made by our armed vessels, of a transport on
the i Qth instant, with a company of Highland grena
diers on board. The enclosed extract of a letter from
General Ward, by last night's post, contains the par
ticulars ; to which I beg leave to refer you.

I have been honored with your favors of the 2ist

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 183

and 25 Inst. in due order with their important en
closures, to which I shall particularly attend. I have
transmitted to General Schuyler a copy of the resolve
of Congress respecting the Mohickan and Stockbridge
Indians, and directed him to put an immediate stop
to the raising the two companies.1

The Quarter Master General has been called upon
for stopping the tents designed for Massachusetts
bay, and ordered to forward them immediately — he
means to write to Congress upon the subject and
hopes his conduct will not appear to deserve their
reprehension, of this they will judge from his rela
tion of the matter.

Being extremely desirous to forward the intelli
gence from Canada to Congress, well knowing their
anxiety about our Affairs there, I must defer writing
upon some other matters I want to lay before them,
till the next opportunity, which 1 hope will be to
morrow, when I will inform them fully upon the sub
ject of Rations having desired the Commissary Gen
eral to furnish me with some things necessary in that
instance. I have, &c.2

1 " Although the commissioners have undoubtedly mistaken the intention of
Congress, yet the terms, in which the resolve is conceived, viz : ' That the
General be empowered to employ in Canada a number of Indians not exceeding
two thousand,' may at first view seem to confine their employment to the limits
of that Province, and to give a latitude of construction as to the place in which
they are to be raised. And in this sense they must have been understood by
General Schuyler and the other Commissioners. I am, however, to request,
you will give orders to have a stop put to raising the Mohickan and Stockbridge
Indians as soon as possible." — Hancock to Washington, 25 June, 1776.

2 Read July ist, and referred to the Board of War.

" Upon information that Major Rogers was travelling through the country
under suspicious circumstances, I thought it necessary to have him secured. I

1 84 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 28 June, 1776.

SIR,

In compliance with the request of Congress, con
tained in your favor of the 25 Inst : and my promise
of yesterday, I do myself the honor to inform you

therefore sent after him. He was taken at South Amboy, and brought up to
New York. Upon examination, he informed me that he came from New
Hampshire, the country of his usual abode, where he had left his family ; and
pretended he was destined to Philadelphia on business with Congress.

" As by his own confession he had crossed Hudson's River at New Windsor,
and was taken so far out of his proper and direct route to Philadelphia, this
consideration, added to the length of time he had taken to perform his jour
ney, his being found in so suspicious a place as Amboy, his unnecessary stay
there on pretence of getting some baggage from New York, and an expecta
tion of receiving money from a person here, of bad character, and in no cir
cumstances to furnish him out of his own stock, the Major's reputation, and his
being an half-pay officer, have increased my jealousies about him. The busi
ness, which he informs me he has with Congress, is a secret off er of his services,
to the end that, in case it should be rejected, he might have his way left open
to an employment in the East Indies, to which he is assigned ; and in that
case he flatters himself he will obtain leave of Congress to go to Great Britain.

" As he had been put upon his parole by Congress, I thought it would be
improper to stay his progress to Philadelphia, should he be in fact destined
thither. I therefore send him forward, but, (to prevent imposition,) under the
care of an officer, with letters found upon him, which, from their tenor, seem
calculated to recommend him to Congress. I submit it to their consideration,
whether it would not be dangerous to accept the offer of his services." — Wash
ington to the President of Congress, 27 June, 1776. A council of officers held
on the 27th came to the conclusion that the Major was " under all the circum
stances not to be sufficiently relied on."

Congress directed, July 6th, that Major Rogers should be sent to New
Hampshire, to be disposed of as the government of that province should judge
best. He soon afterwards went over to the British, accepted a commission as
colonel, and raised the famous Queen's Rangers, afterwards commanded by
Simcoe.

" Several persons having been detained by Sentries, notwithstanding their
having given the Countersign at night ; and others in the day time on the
wharves on a pretence of their not having passed — The General forbids
such practices, and any Soldier convicted of them in future will be punished.
Officers of guards to be careful in posting their Sentries, to make them ac
quainted with this order. — Orderly Book, 27 June, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 185

that the Cost of a ration according to the Commis
sary General's estimate from the ist of July to the
ist of December will be from 8d to 81 York cur
rency.

Having discharged the obligation I was under in
this Instance and finding that many applications have
been made for victualling the Flying Camp, I would
with all possible deference wish Congress to consider
the matter well before they come to any determina
tion upon it. Who the Gentlemen are that have
made offers upon this occasion I know not, conse
quently my Objections to their appointment cannot,
proceed from personal dislike, nor have I it in view
to serve Mr. Trumbull, the Commissary General, by
wishing him to have the direction of the whole sup
plies for his emolument, because whatever rations are
taken from him, save him the trouble of supplying
Provisions to the amount, without diminishing his
pay, that being fixed and certain ; but what Influences
me, is a regard to the public good. I am morally
certain if the Business is taken out of Mr. Trumbulls
hands and put into anothers, that it may, and will in
all probability be attended with great and many In
conveniences.

It is likely, during the continuance of the War be
tween us and Great Britain, that the Army here or
part of it, and the Troops composing the Flying
Camp will be frequently joined and under the neces
sity of affording each other mutual aid. If this event
is probable, and most certainly it is, the same confu
sion and disorder will result from having two Com-

1 86 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

missaries or one Commissary and one Contractor in
the same Army, in the same department, as did
between Mr. Trumbull and Mr. Livingston on the
coming of the former to New York.

I cannot discriminate the two cases, and not fore
seeing that any good consequences will flow from the
measure but that many bad ones will, such as clash
ing of Interests — a contention for stores, Carriages
and many other causes that might be mentioned if
hurry of Business would permit, I confess I cannot
perceive the propriety of appointing a different person
or any but the Commissary. I would also add, that
few Armies, if any, have been better supplied than
the Troops under Mr. Trumbull's care in this in
stance which I should suppose ought to have consid
erable weight, especially as we have strong reasons to
believe that a large share of the misfortunes our Arms
have sustained in Canada, sprang from a want of
proper and necessary supplies of provisions.

Mr. Trumbull too I am informed, has already made
provision in New Jersey for the Flying Camp which
will be stationed there, and employed proper persons
in that Colony to transact the business incident to his
department, in obedience to my orders and his full
confidence that it was to come under his management.
My great desire to see the Affairs of this important
post on which so much depends, go on in an easy
smooth and uninterrupted course has led me to say
thus much upon the subject, and will I hope, if I am
unhappy enough to differ in opinion with Congress,
plead my excuse for the liberty I have taken.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 187

I would also beg leave to mention to Congress the
necessity there is of some new regulations being
entered into, respecting the Chaplains of this Army,
they will remember that applications were made to
increase their pay which was conceived too low for
their support, and that it was proposed, if it could
not be done for the whole, that the number should be
lessened, and one be appointed to Two Regiments
with an additional allowance. This latter expedient
was adopted and while the Army continued altogether
at one encampment answered well, or at least did not
produce many Inconveniences. But, the Army now
being differently circumstanced from what it then was,
—part here, — part at Boston — and a third part de
tached to Canada, has Induced much confusion and
disorder in this Instance ; nor do I know how it is
possible to remedy the evil but by affixing one to
each Regiment with salaries competent to their sup
port no shifting no change from one Regiment to
another can answer the purpose and in many cases it
would never be done, the Regiments should consent ;
as where details are composed of unequal numbers or
ordered from different posts. Many more I nconvenien-
ces might be pointed out, but these it is presumed will
sufficiently shew the defect of the present establish
ment, and the propriety of an alteration. — What that
alteration shall be Congress will please to determine.

Congress, I doubt not, will have heard of the plot,
that was forming among many disaffected persons in
this city and government for aiding the King's troops
upon their arrival. No regular plan seems to have

i88 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

been digested ; but several persons have been en
listed, and sworn to join them. The matter, I am
in hopes, by a timely discovery, will be suppressed
and put a stop to. Many citizens and others, among
whom is the mayor, are now in confinement. The
matter has been traced up to Governor Tryon ; and
the mayor appears to have been a principal agent or
go-between him and the persons concerned in it.
The plot had been communicated to some of the
army, and part of my guard engaged in it. Thomas
Hickey, one of them, has been tried, and, by the
unanimous opinion of a court-martial, is sentenced to
die, having enlisted himself, and engaged others. The
sentence, by the advice of the whole council of gen
eral officers, will be put in execution to-day at eleven
o'clock. The others are not tried. I am hopeful this
example will produce many salutary consequences,
and deter others from entering into the like traitorous
practices/

1 " After Orders. Thomas Hickey belonging to the General's Guard having
been convicted by General Court Martial whereof Col. Parsons was President
of the crimes of ' Sedition and mutiny, and also of holding a treacherous
correspondence with the enemy, for the most horrid and detestable purposes,'
is sentenced to suffer death. The General approves the sentence, and orders
that he be hanged tomorrow at Eleven o'clock. —

" All the officers and men off duty belonging to Gen'l Heath's, Spencer's,
Lord Sterling's and Gen'l Scott's Brigades, to be under Arms, on their respec
tive parades, at Ten o'clock to morrow morning, to march from thence to the
Ground between Gen'l Spencer's and Lord Sterling's encampments to attend
the execution of the above sentence.

"The Provost Marshal immediately to make the necessary preparations,
and to attend on that duty tomorrow —

" Each of the Brigade Majors to furnish the Provost Marshal with twenty
men, from each Brigade, with good arms and bayonets, as a guard on the
prisoner to and at the place of execution." — Orderly Book, 27 June, 1776.

"The unhappy Fate of Thomas Hickey, executed this day for Mutiny,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 189

The enclosed copy of a resolve of the Provincial
Congress will show, that some of the disaffected on
Long Island have taken up arms. I have, agreeably
to their request, sent a party after them, but have
not as yet been able to apprehend them, having con
cealed themselves in different woods and morasses.
General Gates set out on Tuesday with a fine wind,
which has been fair ever since, and would soon arrive
at Albany. I this moment received a letter from
Lieutenant Davison, of the Schuyler armed sloop, a
copy of which I have enclosed ; to which I beg leave
to refer you for the intelligence communicated by
him.1 I could wish General Howe and his armament

Sedition and Treachery ; the General hopes will be a warning to every Sol
dier, in the Army, to avoid those crimes and all others, so disgraceful to the
character of a Soldier, and pernicious to his country, whose pay he receives
and Bread he eats. — And in order to avoid those Crimes, the most certain
method is to keep out of temptation of them, and particularly to avoid lewd
Women, who, by the dying Confession of this poor Criminal, first led him
into practices which ended in an untimely and ignominous Death." — Orderly
Book, 28 June, 1776.

The history of this "conspiracy" is told in Minutes of a Conspiracy against
the Liberties of America, Philadelphia, 1865. This is a reprint of a pamphlet
printed in London in 1776.

1 Lieutenant Davison gave intelligence, that he had taken four prizes, and
that one of the prisoners said a fleet of one hundred and thirty sail left Halifax
for Sandy Hook on the gth of July, General Howe himself being on board.
When the prisoners arrived at head-quarters, they confirmed this report, stat
ing that they had been on board the Greyhound, one of the vessels of the fleet,
and seen General Howe.

General Howe arrived on the 25th, and the main body of his fleet on the
2gth, the troops being immediately disembarked on Staten Island. Tryon was
one of the first to call on the General, and the two concluded that it would be
an easy matter to reduce that part of America to subjection. Reed noticed
that the " spirit of the people begins to flag, or the approach of danger dis-
spirits them." To his wife, 30 June, 1776. Mrs. Washington was sent away,
and preparations made to receive the enemy. Delay, only, was desired, that
the raw militia that was coming to the camp might be replaced by the expected
new levies.

i9o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

not to arrive yet, as not more than a thousand militia
have yet come in, and our whole force, including the
troops at all the detached posts, and on board the
armed vessels, which are comprehended in our re
turns, is but small and inconsiderable, when com
pared with the extensive lines they are to defend,
and, most probably, the army that he brings. I have
no farther intelligence about him, than what the
Lieutenant mentions ; but it is extremely probable
his accounts and conjectures are true. I have the
honor to be, &c.

P. S. I have Inclosed a Gen'l Return — & It may
be certainly depended on that Gen'l Howe & fleet
have sailed from Halifax-
Some of the men on board the prizes ment'd in
the Lt's Letter were on board the Greyhound & saw
Gen'l Howe.1

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NEW YORK, 28 June, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

Your favor of the 25th and its Inclosures with
Gen'l Arnold's of the same date I received by yester
day morning's Express — that of the 24th came by to
day's Post. I am sorry General Sullivan in the
Situation our affairs were in should have stopped at
the Isle-aux-Noix, until he could obtain orders for
retreating further, thereby hazarding his army with
out a prospect of success, and rendering his retreat
liable to an interception, or at least difficult, in case

1 Read July ist.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 191

the enemy were in a condition to pursue their vic
tory. For these reasons I cannot but approve your
directions, and I hope they have arrived in time, if
he had not before left the Isle-aux-Noix, by the ad
vice of his council of war, and joint intercession of
his officers. My letter of the 24th would show you,
had it been received, that from his representation of
matters I thought a retreat the only means left for the
security of his army, and doing the least essential
service to their country. If he gets off, I shall be
happy that our loss was so inconsiderable in num
bers, though I regret much the captivity of General
Thompson.

I have wrote Congress about Carpenters on Gen
eral Arnold's letter, and having none to spare from
hence, have pointed out the necessity of their send
ing some from Philadelphia if not there, withdrawing
for the present those employed up the North River,
deeming it a Matter of Infinite Importance to have
a considerable number of Gundaloes on the Lakes to
prevent the Enemy passing.

I have directed the Quarter Master General to pro
cure and forward you the Anchors and Cables, Mill
saws and files if to be had. I have also requested
Colo. Knox to examine whether some more field
pieces cannot be sent up, and I design to order a fur
ther Quantity of Powder to be forwarded you, to
Answer two purposes, One, that you may have proper
supplies for the several Posts and every contingency
—the other because I do not wish to keep a larger
stock here than may be necessary, least any unfor-

192 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

tunate event should cast up, and we be deprived of
more than we are yet able to loose.

I would have you make ready every thing neces
sary for taking post at Fort Stanwix ; and, when you
are prepared, to use your utmost industry for erect
ing and completing the work. Our most vigorous
exertions will be required in every instance. I am
convinced our enemies will strain their every nerve
against us this campaign, and try to injure us wher
ever we may be unprovided. It will be extremely
proper to forward on the militia for reinforcing the
several garrisons on the communication, and secur
ing the different passes. I wish they were not so
slow in repairing to the places of rendezvous ; but I
would fain apprehend they will be in time to prevent
any attempts our enemies may have in view. I am
extremely sorry for your indisposition, and that you
should be so harrassed by the ague and fever ; and
wishing you a perfect recovery from it and a speedy
one, I am, dear Sir, &c.

P. S. Congress by a Letter I received from the
President last night have resolved up on four Thou
sand men more to augment the Army in the Northern
department and recommended the colonies of New
Hampshire immediately to send one Regimt. of mili
tia — Massachusetts two and Connecticut one — they
have also resolved on a bounty of Ten Dollars for
every Soldier that will Inlist for three years and re
quested the Several Governments who are to furnish
militias to do it with all possible expedition.1

1 In communicating this intelligence, President Hancock wrote June 26th ; —

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 193

Our Armed Vessels at the Eastward have taken
some valuable prizes, — and also three more Trans
ports, safely brought in with about 320 or 30 High
land Troops well accoutred. Captain Nedel, one of
Commodore Hopkin's fleet took two also with about
150 more — he put all the prisoners on board one of
the prizes we fear she is retaken — the arms he took
into his own Vessell — the other prize was retaken
and again taken by another of our Vessels — Yester
day I received a letter from Lt. Davison of the Schuy-
ler Armd Sloop advisg that she with another of our
Cruizers, had retaken 4 prizes, which had been taken
by the Grey Hound Man of War — the prisoners on
board the prizes Informed the Lt. that Genl. Howe
was on board the Grey Hound and sailed from Halli-
fax the 9 Inst with 132 Transports — that they saw a
Vessel the Evening before standing towards the
Hook which they imagined was the Grey Hound,
there is reason to conclude he is now there — The
Militia ordered for the defence of this place come on
slowly — not more than a thousand yet arrived — our
force by no means so strong as It should be — It is

" It is scarcely necessary to mention the motives on which Congress acted, or to
explain the propriety of the measure. The arrival of General Burgoyne with a
large reinforcement, the known character of that officer for action and enterprise,
the defeat of General Thompson with the troops under his command, and his
being made prisoner, are so many circumstances, that point out the absolute
necessity of being more expeditious in our preparations for the defence of that
Province [Canada], and of increasing our force there. In this light I have rep
resented the matter to the Convention of New Hampshire, and the Assemblies
of Massachusetts Bay and Connecticut, to whom I have wrote by this express
in the most pressing language, urging them to send forward their Militia. As
an additional encouragement, the Congress have resolved that a bounty of ten
dollars be given to every soldier who shall enlist for three years."

i94 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

said and I believe with authority that 20 Tons of
powder and 2000 Sterlgs worth of goods have got
into Providence.1

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 29 June, 1776.

SIR,

I was last night honored with your favour of 26th
Inst. and agreable to your request shall pay proper
attention to the Resolves It inclosed.

I observe the augmentation Congress have resolved
to make to the forces destined for the Northern de
partment and the bounty to be allowed such Soldiers
as will Inlist for three years. I hope many good con-

1 " Officers are without delay to inspect the State of the Ammunition which
the men have and get their Arms in good order for service and strongly to in
culcate upon all Sentries especially upon night duty the greatest vigilance and
attention. The soldiers on their part to be very attentive, and obedient to
these orders, as a carelessness and neglect may be of the most fatal consequence.

" No Persons to be permitted to inspect the works without leave in writing.

" The General requests the Colonels of the several Regiments, not to depend
wholly upon their officers, in complying with the above order, respecting the
arms and ammunitton of the soldiers, but to pay particular attention to the
matter themselves it being at this juncture of the greatest importance.

" After Orders. It is not from any distrust of the vigilance, or spirit of the
inferior officers (as he has the greatest confidence in them) that the General
recommends to the Colonels, an attention to the arms and ammunition of their
respective regiments, but that every officer from the highest to the lowest when
the hour of attack seems fast approaching, may exert himself in this necessary
duty, and it is particularly recommended from the Brigadiers Generals to the
Ensigns to give it the utmost attention." — Orderly Book, 28 June, 1776.

" The General expects that all Soldiers, who are entrusted with the defence of
any work, will behave with great coolness and bravery and will be particularly
careful not to throw away their fire, — he recommends to them to load for their
first fire, with one musket ball and four or eight buck shot, according to the
size and strength of their pieces, if the enemy is received with such a fire, at not
more than twenty or thirty yards distance, he has no doubt of their being re
pulsed." — Orderly Book, 29 June, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 195

sequences will result from these measures, and that
from the latter a considerable number of men may be
induced to engage in the service.

I should esteem myself extremely happy to afford
the least assistance to the Canada department in com
pliance with the desire of Congress and your requisi
tion, were it in my power, but it is not. The Return
which I transmitted yesterday will but too well con
vince Congress of my Incapacity in this instance, and
point out to them, that the force I now have is trifling,
considering the many, and important posts that are
necessary and must be supported if possible. But
few militia have yet come in ; the whole being about
Twelve hundred Including the Two Battalions of this
City and One Company from the Jerseys. I wish
the delay may not be attended with disagreable cir
cumstances, and their aid may not come too late, or
when It may not be wanted. I have wrote, I have
done everything I could, to call them in, but they
have not come, tho I am told that they are generally
willing.

The accounts communicated yesterday through
Lieutenant Davison's letter are partly confirmed, and,
I dare say, will turn out to be true on the whole.
For two or three days past, three or four ships have
been dropping in ; and I just now received an express
from an officer appointed to keep a look-out on Stat-
en Island, that forty-five arrived at the Hook to-day ;
some say more ; and I suppose the whole fleet will
be in, within a day or two. I am hopeful, before
they are prepared to attack, that I shall get some

196 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

reinforcements. Be that as it may, I shall attempt
to make the best disposition I can of our troops, in
order to give them a proper reception, and to pre
vent the ruin and destruction they are meditating
against us.

As soon as the Express arrived last night, I sent
the Letters for the Northern Colonies to the Qr.
Master General with orders to forward them immedi
ately.

When Monsieur Wiebert comes, (I have not seen
him yet), I shall employ him as Congress have di
rected. — The terms upon which he offers his service,
seem to promise something from him.1 I wish he
may Answer, and be skilled in the business he says
he is acquainted with.2

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 30 June, 1776.

SIR,

I had the pleasure of receiving your favor of the
29th early this morning, with which you have been
pleased to honor me, together with the resolves for a
further augmentation of our army. The battalion of
Germans, which Congress have ordered to be raised,

1 Antoine Felix Wiebert, a French engineer, who came " with such ample
recommendation of his skill, that the Congress are desirous of having him
placed in a situation where he may have it in his power to shew it." Hancock
to Washington, I July, 1776. His service appears to have been short, as Gen
eral Putnam wrote, 12 December, 1776, of his " being confined in the Provost
guard in New York because he refused to enter into the service of the Enemy."
In November, 1779, Commodore John Paul Jones appointed a Colonel Wiebert,
" in the service of the United States," governor of the sick, wounded, and pris
oners in the island in the Texel, J Read Julv 1st.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 197

will be a corps of much service ; and I am hopefull
that such persons will be appointed officers, as will
complete their enlistments with all possible expedi
tion. I shall communicate to Colonel Stephenson
and one of his field-officers what you have requested,
and direct them to repair immediately to Philadelphia.
It is an unlucky circumstance, that the term of enlist
ment of these three companies, and of the rifle bat
talion, should expire at this time when a hot campaign
is, in all probability, about to commence.1

Canada, it is certain, would have been an important
acquisition, and well worth the expenses incurred in
the pursuit of it. But as we could not reduce it to
our possession, the retreat of our army with so little
loss, under such a variety of distresses, must be es
teemed a most fortunate event. It is true, the
accounts we have received do not fully authorize us
to say, that we have sustained no loss ; but they hold
forth a probable ground for such conclusion. I am
anxious to hear it confirmed."

1 Congress resolved, that four companies of Germans should be raised in
Pennsylvania, and four companies in Maryland. They also resolved, that six
companies of riflemen should he enlisted, four of them in Virginia, and two
in Maryland, to serve for three years, and be formed into a regiment with three
companies already raised in New York. Captain Stephenson was appointed
colonel of this regiment.

'-' President Hancock had written :— " The loss of Canada is undoubtedly on
some accounts to be viewed in the light of a misfortune. The Continent has
been put to a great expense endeavouring to get possession of it. That our
army should make so prudent a retreat, as to he able to save their baggage,
cannon, ammunition, and sick from falling into the hands of the enemy, is a
circumstance, that will afford a partial consolation, and reflect honor upon the
officers, who conducted it. Considering the superior force of the British troops,
and a retreat unavoidable, every thing has been done, which in such a situation
could be expected. In short, Sir, T am extremely glad, that our army is likely
to get safe out of Canada."

198 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I have the honor of transmitting to you an extract
of a letter received last night from General Ward.
If the scheme the privateers had in view, and the
measures he had planned, have been carried into exe
cution, the Highland corps will be tolerably well
disposed of ; but I fear the fortunate event has not
taken place. In General Ward's letter was enclosed
one from Lieutenant-Colonel Campbell, who was
made prisoner with the Highland troops. I have
transmitted you a copy. This will give you a full
and exact account of the number of prisoners on
board the four transports ; and will prove, beyond a
possibility of doubt, that the evacuation of Boston by
the British troops was a matter neither known or ex
pected when he received his orders. Indeed, so many
facts had concurred before to settle the matter, that
no additional proofs were necessary.

When I had the honor of addressing you yesterday,
I had only been informed of the arrival of Forty five
of the fleet in the Morning, since that I have received
authentic Intelligence from Sundry persons, among
them, from Genl Greene, that One hundred and Ten
Sail came in before night that were counted, and that
more were seen about dusk in the offing. I have no
doubt but the whole that sailed from Hallifax are now
at the Hook.1

1 " Since Colonel Reed left this place, I have received certain information
from the Hook, that about forty of the enemy's fleet have arrived there, and
others are now in sight, and that there cannot be a doubt, but the whole fleet
will be in this day and to-morrow. I beg not a moment's time may be lost, in
sending forward such parts of the militia, as Colonel Reed shall mention. We
are so very weak at this post, that I must beg you to order the three companies,
which I mentioned in my last for Staten Island, immediately to this city. If

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 199

Just as I was about to conclude my Letter, I re
ceived one from a Gentn.1 upon the Subject of calling
the Five Regiments from Boston to the defence of
Canada, or New York, and to have Militia raised in
their lieu. I have sent you a copy and shall only
observe that I know the author well, his handwriting
is quite familiar to me — he is a member of the
General Court, very sensible, of great Influence, and
a warm and zealous friend to the cause of America,
the expedient proposed by him is submitted to Con
gress. I have, &c.2

Colo. Heard is the commanding officer, I must request you will lay my several
letters, written to you, before him without delay." — Was)iin^ton to Brigadier-
General Livingston, 29 June, 1776.

'Joseph Hawley. A quotation from the letter is given on p. 175, and the
whole letter may be found in Sparks, Correspondence of the Revolution,
i., 229.

'' Read in Congress, 2 July.

The New Jersey Convention had declared Governor Franklin to be an en
emy to his country, and a person that might prove dangerous, and had decided
that he should be confined in such place and manner, as the Continental Con
gress should direct. On considering his case, the Congress ordered him to be
sent under guard to Governor Trumbull, in Connecticut, who was desired to
admit him to his parole, and if he should refuse to give it, the Governor was
requested to treat him agreeably to the resolutions of Congress respecting other
prisoners.

" I received your favor by Mr. Treat, and cannot but consider the officer of
Mr. Franklin's guard extremely blamable for his conduct. It is certainly his
indispensable duty to conduct Mr. Franklin to the place the Convention
have ordered, without delay. The circumstances you represent, his letter to
his lady, and the whole complexion of the case, afford a strong presumption,
nay, much more, full evidence, that he means to escape if possible. lie says
in his letter, that, ' during his respite, the time between his writing and getting
an answer from Congress, something may turn up to make his removal
improper, and, at any rate, to gain time will be of advantage.'

" I have wrote to the captain of his guard upon the subject ; and, as Mr.
Franklin has evidenced a most unfriendly disposition to our cause, as the colony
Convention have ordered him to Connecticut, for refusing to comply with such
terms as they deemed necessary and proper for him to enter into, to procure his

200 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, July the 3d, 1776.

SIR,

Since I had the honor of addressing you and on the
same day several ships more arrived within the Hook
making the number that came in then, 1 10, and there
remains no doubt of the whole of the Fleet from Hal-
lifax being now here. Yesterday Evening 50 of 'em

liberty as he does not propose to sign the parole, which they formed, but has
proposed several alterations, I am of opinion your committee should interfere in
the matter, and give immediate orders to the officer of the guard to proceed
with him, in execution of the duty wherewith he is charged. And, further, that
if you apprehend there is the least danger of his being rescued, or of the guard
appointed to escort him being remiss in their duty, that your Committee should
appoint a strong escort for the purpose, and direct them to assist in performing
the views of the Convention, and to conduct him securely to the place fixed
upon to receive him. I have enclosed the letter for the officer of the guard,
which, having read, you will seal and transmit him.

" P. S. — I am of opinion If Mr. Franklin should consent to give the Parole
required by Convention that the officer has no power it unless he has been
instructed by them to do it — & should not delay proceeding with him if that
propsitn. was made much more on Acct. of what has been — the Letter he
designed for Mrs. Franklin should be taken care of It may be of service. "
— Washington to Committee of Essex, 30 June, 1776.

" I understand that the Convention of New Jersey did resolve that Governor
Franklin was an enemy to the liberties of America, and that he should be con
ducted under a safeguard into Connecticut, and for that purpose he was com
mitted to your charge. I have this morning received information, that you have
halted with him at Hackensack. I would enjoin it upon you to set off imme
diately, and carry the resolve of Convention into execution. Delays are
dangerous, and should any accident happen, you never could answer your
neglect to our much injured country.

" I would, therefore, again repeat to you, that it is my advice, immediately
on receipt of this, to set forward on your journey with Governor Franklin, and
make all possible despatch for the place you are ordered to. Governor
Franklin once had his choice, and chose Connecticut, and 't is not for you to
hesitate on frivolous pretences, but to do your utmost to execute the orders you
have received in every particular." — Washington to Captain of Governor
Franklin? s guard, 30 June, 1776.

" The Brigadiers are to order the officers and men belonging to their several

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 201

came into the Bay and anchored on the Staten
Island side.1 Their views I cannot precisely de
termine but am extremely apprehensive as a part of
'em only came, that they mean to surround the
Island and secure the whole stock upon it. I had
consulted with a Committee of the Provincial Con
gress on the subject, and a person was appointed to
superintend the business and to drive the stock off.
I also wrote to Brigadier General Heard and directed

Brigades (not on duty) to inarch from their respective regimental parade to
their alarm posts at least once every day that they may become well acquainted
therewith, they are to march by such routes, as are least exposed to a fire from
the shipping, and it is expected that all officers from the highest to the lowest,
will make themselves well acquainted with the ground that they may at any
time be able to make advantage of it.

" Upon the signal for the enemies' approach, or upon any alarm, all fatigue
parties are immediately to repair to their respective Corps, with their arms,
ammunition and accoutrements ready for instant action, the working parties in
no other instance are to be interrupted, the finishing of our Lines of defence
and other works expeditiously, is a matter of so much consequence that the
General is persuaded from the known zeal of the troops, that officers and men
will stand in no need of arguments to stimulate them upon common exertion
upon the occasion, his anxiety for the Honor of the American Arms, and the
noble cause we are engaged in, not a distrust in the officers care, induces him
once more, and while time will allow it, to recommend a thorough Inspection
in the men's arms and ammunition, to see that every Soldier is completed to
Twenty four Rounds, and has a good Flint well fixed into the lock. In short to
he well prepared for an engagement is, under God (whose divine Aid it be
hoves us to suplicate) more than one half the battle." — Orderly Book, June
30, 1776.

1 " I had determined to disembark the army at Gravesend bay in Long Island,
and with this intention the ileet moved up the bay on the 1st instant in the even
ing, in order to land the troops at the break of day next morning ; but being
more particularly informed during the night of a strong post upon a ridge ot
craggy heights covered with wood that lay in the route the army must have
taken, only two miles distant from the enemy's works, and seven from Graves-
end ... I declined the undertaking." — General Howe to Lord George Germaine ,
7 July, 1776. The landing was made on the ()th, on Staten Island, but not
until the I2th of August did the last division of the fleet, bearing the Hessian
auxiliaries, enter the harbor.

202 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

him to the measure lest it might be neglected, but
am fearfull it has not been effected.

Our reinforcements of militia are but small yet—
their amount I can not ascertain, having not been
able to procure a return. However I trust, if the
Enemy make an Attack they will meet with a re
pulse, as I have the pleasure to inform you, that an
agreeable spirit & willingness for Action seem to
animate and pervade the whole of our Troops.1

As it is difficult to determine what Objects the

'" The time is now near at hand which must probably determine, whether
Americans are to be Freemen, or Slaves, whether they are to have any property
they can call their own, whether their Houses, and Farms, are to be pillaged
and destroyed, and they consigned to a state of wretchedness from which no
human efforts will probably deliver them. The fate of unknown millions will
now depend, under God, on the Courage and Conduct of this Army. Our
cruel and unrelenting Enemy leaves us no choice but a brave resistance, or the
most Abject Submission ; this is all we can expect — We have therefore to re
solve to conquer or die. Our own Country's Honor, All call upon us for a
vigorous and manly exertion, and if we now shamefully fail, we shall become
infamous to the whole world — Let us therefore rely upon the goodness of the
cause, and the Aid of the supreme Being, in whose hands Victory is, to animate
and encourage us to great and noble Actions — The Eyes of All our Country
men are now upon us, and we shall have their blessings, and praises, if hap
pily we are the instruments of saving them from the Tyranny meditated
against them. Let us therefore animate and encourage each other, and then
the whole world, that a Freeman contending for Liberty on his own ground is
superior to any slavish Mercenary on earth.

" The General recommends to the officers great coolness in time of action,
and to the soldiers a strict attention and obedience, with a becoming firmness
and spirit.

" Any officer, or soldier, or any particular Corps, distinguishing themselves
by any acts of bravery, and courage, will assuredly meet with notice and re
wards, and on the other hand, those who behave ill, will as certainly be ex
posed and punished — The General being resolved, as well for the Honor and
Safety of the Country, as Army to shew no favor to such as refuse, or neglect
their duty, at so important a crisis.

" Evening Orders. — 'Tis the General's desire that the men lay upon their
Arms in their tents and quarters, ready to turn out at a moments warning, as
there is the greatest likelihood of it." — Orderly Book, 2 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 203

Enemy may have in contemplation, and whether they
may not detach some part of their force to Amboy
and to ravage that part of the Country, if not to ex
tend their views farther, I submit it to Congress
whether it may not be expedient for 'em to repeat
and press home their requests to the different Govern
ments that are to provide men for the flying Camp,
to furnish their Quotas with all possible dispatch.
It is a matter of great Importance and will be of
serious consequence to the Camp established in case
the Enemy should be able to possess themselves of
this River, and cut off the supplies of Troops that
might be necessary on certain Emergencies to be sent
from hence.

I must entreat your Attention to an application I
made some time agoe for Flints we are extremely
deficient in this necessary article and shall be greatly
distressed if we cannot obtain a supply— ' Of Lead
we have a sufficient quantity for the whole Campaign,
taken off the Houses here.

Esteeming it of infinite Importance to prevent the
Enemy from getting fresh provisions and Horses
for their Waggons, Artillery, &c., I gave orders to
a party of our men on Staten Island and writing
Genl. Heard to drive the stock off without waiting
for the Assistance or direction of the Committee
there, lest their slow mode of transacting business
might produce too much delay and have sent this
morning to know what they have done. — I am this
minute Informed by a Gentleman that the Committee

^Journals, 4 July, 1776.

204 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

of Elizabeth Town, sent their Company of Light
Horse on Monday to effect it and that some of their
Militia was to give their aid yesterday. He adds he
was credibly told last night by part of the Militia
coming to this place that yesterday Evening they
saw a good many Stock driving off the Island and
crossing to the Jerseys — If the business is not
executed 'ere now, it will be impossible to do it.

I have the Honor &c.T

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 4 July, 1776.

SIR,

When I had the honor to address you on the 30
Ulto. I transmitted a Copy of a Letter I had received
from a Gentleman, a member of the Honorable the
General Court of Massachusetts bay, suggesting the
improbability of succors coming from thence in any
seasonable time for the defence of this place, or to
reinforce our Troops engaged in the Canada expedi-

1 Read July 4th.

" This will be handed you by Col. Stevenson whom 1 have ordered with the
Captains of the Two Rifle Companies from Maryland to wait on Congress.
They will point out such measures as they conceive most likely to advance the
raising of the New Rifle Battallion, and the persons they think worthy of pro
motion that have served in the three Companies here agreeable to the Inclosed
List. I am not acquainted with them myself, but from their report and
recommendation, which I doubt not to be just, and that If Congress will please
to enquire of them, they will mention other proper persons, for Officers.

" Only about forty of the three old Companies have reinlisted, which I shall
form into one for the present and place under an officer or two, till a further
and com pleat Arrangement is made of the whole Battallion." — Washington to
the President of Congress, 4 July, 1776. Read July 8th. Referred to Board of
War.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 205

tion — I am sorry to inform you that from a variety
of Intelligence his apprehensions appear to be just
and to be fully confirmed. Nor have I reason to
expect but that the supplies from the other two Gov-
ernmts, Connecticut and New Hampshire, will be
extremely slow and greatly deficient in number — As
it now seems beyond question and clear to demon
stration that the Enemy mean to direct their opera
tions and bend their most vigorous Efforts against
this Colony and will attempt to unite their two
Armies, that under Genl Burgoyne and the one ar
rived here, I cannot but think the expedient proposed
by that Gentleman is exceedingly just, and that the
Continental Regiments now in the Massachusetts
Bay, should be immediately called from thence and
be employed where there is the strongest reason to
believe their aid will be indispensably necessary.

The expediency of the measures I shall Submit to
the Consideration of Congress and will only observe
as my Opinion that there is not the most distant
prospect of an attempt being made where they now
are by the Enemy, and if there should, that the Mili
tia that can be assembled upon the shortest notice
will be more than equal to repel it. — they are well
armed, resolute and determined, and will Instantly
oppose any Invasion that may be made in their own
province.

I shall also take the liberty again to request Con
gress to Interest themselves in having the Militia raised
and forwarded with all possible expedition as fast as
any considerable number of 'em can be collected that

206 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

are to compose the flying Camp. — This I mentioned
in my Letter of Yesterday but thought proper to
repeat it, being more and more convinced of the
necessity. The Camp will be in the neighborhood
of Amboy and I shall be glad [if] the Conventions
or Committees of Safety of those Governments from
whence they come, may be desired to give me pre
vious notice of their Marching that I may form some
plan and direct provision to be made for their recep
tion.

The disaffection of the People at that place and
others not far off, is exceedingly great, and unless it
is checked and overawed, it may become more gen
eral and be very alarming. The arrival of the Enemy
will encourage it. They or at least a part of 'em are
already landed on Staten Island which is quite con
tiguous and about 4000 were marching about Yester
day, as I have been advised and are leaving no Arts
unessayed to gain the Inhabitants to their side, who
seem but too favorably disposed. — It is not unlikely
that in a little time they may attempt to cross to the
Jersey side, and induce many to join 'em, either from
motives of Interest or fear, unless there is a force to
oppose 'em.1

As we are fully convinced that the Ministerial
Army we shall have to oppose this campaign will be

1 " The enemy's fleet is now come up within twelve miles of us ; and yester
day a large body of men, with Cortlandt Skinner at their head, landed on
Staten Island, and dividing themselves into three bodies, traversed the whole
Island, with a view of collecting stock and vegetables. The villainy and treach
ery of many of the inhabitants will give them some supplies ; for though the
General took every method to get off the stock, (force excepted,) they contrived
by some means or other to evade it." — Reed to his wife, 4 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 207

great and numerous and well know that the utmost
Industry will be used as it already has been, to excite
the savages and every body of people to Arms against
us whom they can Influence, it certainly behoves us
to strain every nerve to counteract their designs : — I
would therefore submit it to Congress whether, es
pecially as our scheme for employing the Western
Indians does not seem to be attended with any great
prospect of success from General Schtiyler's accounts,
it may not be advisable to take measures to engage
those of the Eastward, the St. Johns' Nova Scotia,
Penobscot &c, in our favor. I have been told that
several might be got, perhaps five or six hundred or
more, readily to join us if they can. I should imma-
gine it ought to be done. It will prevent our Enemies
from securing their friendship, and further they will
be of infinite service in annoying and harrassing them
should they ever attempt to penetrate the country.
Congress will be pleased to consider the measure and
if they determine to adopt it, I conceive it will be
necessary to authorize and request the General Court
of the Massachusetts bay to carry it into execution,
their situation and advantages will enable them to
negotiate a Treaty and an Alliance better than it can
be done by any persons else/

" The Board of War brought in a report, which was taken into considera
tion, where upon, Resolved, That General Washington be vested with discre
tionary power to call to his assistance at New York such of the Continental
regiments in the Massachusetts Bay as have not already received orders to
march to Ticonderoga, and that the General Court of that State be requested to
supply their places with militia, if they think it expedient.

" That General Washington have permission to call forth and engage in the
service of the United States so many Indians of the St. Johns, Nova Scotia and

208 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I have been honored with your two favors of the
ist Instt. and agreable to the wishes of Congress shall
put Monsieur Wiebert in the best place I can to
prove his abilities in the Art he professes. I shall
send him up immediately to the works erecting
towards Kings Bridge under the direction of General
Mifflin, whom I shall request to employ him.

I have this moment received a letter from General
Greene, an extract from which I have enclosed. The
intelligence it contains is of the most important nature,
and evinces the necessity of the most spirited and
vigorous exertions on our part. The expectation of
the fleet under Admiral Howe is certainly the reason
the army already come has not begun its hostile oper
ations. When that arrives we may look for the most
interesting events, and such as, in all probability, will
have considerable weight in the present contest. It
behoves us to be prepared in the best manner ; and I
submit it again to Congress, whether the accounts
given by their prisoners do not show the propriety of
calling the several Continental regiments from the
Massachusetts government, raising the Flying Camp
with all possible despatch, and engaging the eastern
Indians.

July 5^.— -General Mercer arrived here on Tues
day, and, the next morning, was ordered to Paulus
Hook to make some arrangements of the militia as

Penobscot tribes, as he shall judge necessary, and that he be desired to write to
the General Court of the Massachusetts Bay, requesting their aid in this
business and informing them that Congress will reimburse such expences
as maybe necessarily incurred in consequence of the foregoing resolutions."
—Journals, 8 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 209

they came in, and the best disposition he could to pre
vent the enemy's crossing from Staten Island if they
should have any such views. The distressed situation
of the inhabitants of Elisabethtown and Newark has
since induced me, upon their application, to give up
all the militia from the Jerseys, except those engaged
for six months. I am hopeful they will be able to
repel any incursions, that may be attempted. Gen
erals Mercer and Livingston are concerting plans for
that purpose. By a letter from the latter last night,
I am informed the enemy are throwing up small
works at all the passes on the north side of Staten
Island, which it is probable they mean to secure.

None of the Connecticut militia is yet arrived; so
that the reinforcement we have received is very incon
siderable. A letter from General Schuyler, with sun
dry enclosures, of which No. i, 2, & 3 are exact
copies, this moment came to hand, and will no doubt
claim, as it ought to do, the immediate attention of
Congress. The evils, which must inevitably follow a
disputed command, are too obvious and alarming to
admit a moment's delay in your decision thereupon x ;
and, although I do not presume to advise in a matter

1 A difference had arisen between General Schuyler and General Gates as
to the command of the army, Schuyler claiming the chief control when the
army was on this side of Canada, that Congress could not put him under the
command of a younger officer, "nor oblige him to be a suicide and stab his
own honor : that he frankly confessed General Gates's superior military
qualifications ; that he would always advise with him, and his other brother
generals, and that if he was superceded, it would give him great pleasure to
be superceded by a gentleman of General Gates's character and reputation."
Congress took the position of Schuyler and recommended the two generals
" to carry on the military operations with harmony and in such manner as shall
best promote the public service." Journals, 8 July, 1776.

2io THE WRITINGS OF [1776

now of this delicacy, yet as it appears evident, that the
northern army has retreated to Crown Point, and
mean to act upon the defensive only, I cannot help
giving it as my opinion, that one of the major-generals
in that quarter would be more usefully employed
here, or in the Flying Camp, than there ; for it be
comes my duty to observe, if another experienced
officer is taken from hence in order to command the
Flying Camp, that your grand army will be entirely
stripped of generals, who have seen service, being in
a manner already destitute of such.1 My distress on
this account, the appointment of General Whitcomb
to the eastern regiments,2 a conviction in my own
breast that no troops will be sent to Boston, and the
certainty of a number coming to this place, occasioned
my postponing, from time to time, the sending of any
general officer from hence to the eastward heretofore ;
and now I shall wait the sentiments of Congress
relative to the five regiments in Massachusetts Bay,
before I do any thing in this matter.

The Commissary Genl. has been with me this

1 By the original organization of the Flying Camp, it was to consist of ten
thousand men, and to be put under the command of such Continental officer,
as General Washington should direct. These men were to be obtained at the
Continental expense from the militia in Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Mary
land, and engaged till the 1st of December following, unless sooner discharged
by Congress. They were now assembling at Amboy, under the command of
General Mercer. The New Jersey militia, commanded by General Livingston,
were distinct from those of the Flying Camp, being called out expressly for the
defence of that province. Congress afterwards augmented the Flying Camp
with four battalions of militia from Pennsylvania, and three from New Jersey.
Journals, June 3d and July igth.

2 " General Whitcomb returned his commission, desiring to be excused on
account of age and a diffidence of not being able to answer the expectations of
Congress."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 211

morning concerning the other matter contained in
Genl. Schuyler's Letter respecting the business of
that departure.

He has I believe in order to remove difficulties, re
called Mr. Avery but seems to think it necessary in
that case that Mr. Livingston should be left to him
self as he cannot be responsible for persons not of his
own appointment — this matter should also be clearly
defined by Congress. — I have already given my
Opinion of the necessity of these in matters being
under one Genl. direction in so full & clear a manner,
that I shall not take up the time of Congress to re
peat it in this place.1

TO BRIGADIER-GENERAL WILLIAM LIVINGSTON.2

HEAD QUARTERS, 5 July, 1776.

SIR :

Your Favor of the 4th came safely to hand — the
Situation of New Jersey is such, and the apprehen
sions of the Inhabitants so justly excited that I have
concluded to discharge the Militia from this Place,
except those from Morris County, whose internal
situation is such as to leave them nothing to fear
from the Enemy. These I have posted in Bergen in

1 Read July 6th. Regarding the difference between Avery and Livingston,
see Schuyler to Washington, i July, 1776, in Sparks, Correspondence of the
Revolution, i., 247.

- Commander of the New Jersey militia, and at this time stationed at
Elizabethtown. He had previously been a member of the Continental Congress,
and afterwards distinguished himself as the vigilant, able, and patriotic
governor of New Jersey, during the most trying period of the revolutionary
contest. The Memoir of his life, written by Mr. Sedgwick, is a just and
valuable tribute to his memory, as a lover of his country, and a faithful friend
to its liberties.

212 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Order to prevent any Communication and to give the
Enemy Obstruction, in case they should attempt to
land in that Quarter which, with the Assistance of the
Continental Troops posted there, I hope they will be
able effectually to do.

The Remainder of the Militia I have dismissed as
I have reason to believe the Enemy is waiting for the
European Fleet, and will not make a general attack
untill it arrives, — but we have not yet one Man from
Connecticut. You will observe I have dismissed the
Militia from hence, but have not discharged them, as
I am of Opinion a Part of them may be usefully em
ployed in the immediate defence of the Province. In
this view they fall properly under your Command,
and I would suggest to you the propriety of station
ing them in proper Places along the shore opposite
to Staten Island, so as to relieve the inhabitants from
the apprehensions they are under of being plundered,
as well as preventing any communication with the
Enemy. There are a Number of People in Amboy
who will undoubtedly open a correspondence with
them immediately, and endeavor to excite disaffec
tion, thro' the Province, now they feel themselves
under some kind of Protection. If it is practicable
in the present situation of things, I am of Opinion
those Officers of Government and the notoriously
disaffected, there should be removed with all Ex
pedition to less dangerous Places ; that the cattle and
Sheep and Horses on the shores contiguous to Staten
Island should be immediately drove back ; the Ferries
carefully attended to, and all Boats watched that pass

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 213

or attempt so to do. The number of Men necessary
for these services you will be able to ascertain better
than I can, but in such Emergency it is better to
exceed than fall short. As to Provision for the Men,
I presume while the Militia are employed in the im
mediate Defence of the Province the Expence at
least in the first Instance will fall upon the Colony.
How far the Continent will reimburse the Province I
cannot determine ; but the necessity of some supplies
being collected is so evident that I make no doubt
the Convention will immediately go into it. In the
mean time I should think no person could run any
Risque in doing what is immediately necessary under
your appointment.

I have been the more induced to dismiss the
Militia that the new Levies (or 6 months men) may
be forwarded as soon as possible, and I must request
your exertions for this purpose, as it is my intention
to have them here without a moments delay. Since
this Letter was begun, another of your favors came
to my hands, informing me that the Enemy have
thrown up two small Breast works on the Cause way
from the Point.

You also request some experienced Officers to be
sent over, which I would gladly comply with, if in
my Power, but I have few of that character, and
those are so necessarily engaged here that for the
present I must refer you to General Mercer, whose
Judgment and Experience may be depended on. I
have wrote him that I should endeavor to send over
an Engineer as soon as possible. From all Accounts

214 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

we receive I cannot think they have any serious in
tentions at present beyond making themselves mas
ters of Staten Island, guarding against any Attack
from us, and collecting what stock they can. But at
the same time it is highly prudent for you to be in
the best posture of Defence you can. I am, &c.

TO BRIGADIER-GENERAL WILLIAM LIVINGSTON.

HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 6 July, 5 o'clock P.M., 1776.

SIR,

Your favor of this date, enclosing Major Duyckinck's
letter, was this moment received. The known dis
affection of the people of Amboy, and the treachery
of those of Staten Island, who, after the fairest pro
fessions, have shown themselves our most inveterate
enemies, induced me to give directions, that all persons
of known enmity or doubtful character should be
removed from places, where they might enter into a
correspondence with the enemy, and aid them in their
schemes. In this end, General Heard had directions
to apprehend such persons, as from their conduct
have shown themselves inimical, or whose situations,
connexions, or offices gave just cause of suspicion.

I have no knowledge of the persons apprehended ;
but suppose General Heard had good reason for tak
ing hold of them. However, if there are any, whom,
from your personal knowledge and opinion, you think
may be permitted to return, I have no objection, and
sending the others to Provincial Congress for their
disposal. But, as to the former, I would suggest to

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 215

you, that my tenderness has been often abused, and I
have had reason to repent the indulgence shown to
them. I would show them all possible humanity and
kindness, consistent with our own safety ; but matters
are now too far advanced to sacrifice any thing to
punctilios. I have given direction to forward you a
Supply of Ammunition but must beg you to inculcate
the utmost frugality & care of it as we have no super
fluity. This supply of Cartridges, some loose powder,
& Lead — If you have any occasion for Ammunition
for Field pieces which the latter will not supply, I
will endeavor to assist you, but I would wish you to
make no more drafts than are absolutely necessary.

General Mercer has just set off for Jersey. In his
experience and judgment you may repose great con
fidence. He will proceed to Amboy after conferring
with you. You will please to keep me constantly
informed of the proceedings of the enemy, and be
assured of every assistance and attention. I am, &C.1

1 General Howe's head-quarters were now at Staten Island. In a letter to
Lord George Germaine, dated July 7th, he wrote : — " I met with Governor
Tryon on board of a ship at the Hook, and many gentlemen fast friends to
government attending him, from whom I have had the fullest information of
the state of the rebels, who are numerous and very advantageously posted, with
strong intrenchments, both upon Long Island and that of New York, with
more than one hundred pieces of cannon for the defence of the town towards
the sea, and to obstruct, the passage of the fleet up the North River, besides a
considerable field train of artillery.

' ' I have the satisfaction to inform your Lordship, that there is great reason
to expect a numerous body of the inhabitants to join the army from the
provinces of New York, the Jerseys, and Connecticut, who in this time of
universal apprehension only wait for opportunities to give proofs of their
loyalty and zeal for government. Sixty men came over a few days ago with a
few arms from the neighborhood of Shrewsbury in Jersey, who are all de
sirous to serve ; and I understand there are five hundred more in that quarter
ready to follow their example. This disposition among the people makes me

2i6 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO GOVERNOR TRUMBULL.

NEW YORK, 7 July, 1776.

SIR,

I have been honored with your favors of the 3d
and 4th Instant and return you my sincere thanks for
your kind intention to afford me every Assistance in
your power at this Truly Critical and Alarming period
-The situation of our Affairs calls aloud for the most
Vigorous Exertions and nothing else will be sufficient
to avert the Impending blow. From four prisoners
taken the other day we are Informed that Genl
Howe has already about ten Thousand men, being
joined by the Regiment from the West Indies and
some of the Highland Troops in his passage hither,
that he is in daily Expectation of the Arrival of Ad
miral Howe and that nothing would be attempted
till he came, having come from Halifax in Conse
quence of Advices received a few days before from
England, that the Admiral was ready to sail with a
fleet of one Hundred and fifty Ships with a large
Reinforcement to Join him here These Armies
when United you will readily Conceive will be Ex-
treamly Formidable and such as will Require a large
and Numerous one on our part to oppose them — But
yet I have been under the Necessity of Informing
Col. Silliman that it will be impossible to subsist the
Horse of the three Regiments ordered — and if it
could be done the Expence would be enormous, and

impatient for the arrival of Lord Howe, concluding the powers with which he
is furnished will have the best effect at this critical time ; but I am still of the
opinion, that peace will not be restored in America until the rebel army is
defeated."— MS, Letter.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 217

what I do not apprehend I have authority to Assent
to. At the same time knowing the Important advan
tages that may result from their Aid, I have entreated
his Exertions to prevail on the Men to come them
selves — I hope on the one hand they will see the
propriety of my objecting to their Horses and on the
other the Necessity there is of coming themselves.1

1 " I wrote Colonel Silliman acquainting him it was my desire the men might
come on, provided they could leave or send back their horses, which letter did
not go forward as soon as I intended. Major Starr this morning waited on
informing me of his arrival with fifty of the troop, and that the rest were on
their march. I have ordered him to find some pasture for his horse this day,
and immediately ride forward and acquaint you that there is not more forage
on hand or to be had than is absolutely necessary for the use of our working
and artillery horses, and that it is my desire your men may be halted some way
in the rear of this place, and their horses sent back ; otherwise the men can
only be a moth and a check to the service, as they cannot act as horsemen in
case of action, or if they could, forage could not be found to support them. I
think it absolutely necessary the men should be here till the new levies all
arrive ; but for the above reasons shall be necessitated to order their return
unless they can be persuaded to come on without their horses. I would not be
supposed by this to discourage the troops of horse from being in constant read
iness in the different States, as I am fully persuaded they will be much more
useful than the militia to throw in succors to a place on an emergency. I am
pleased to see with what cheerfulness and alacrity the troops from your Prov
ince step forward to the assistance of their countrymen whenever called, and
doubt not it will continue." Washington to Col. Thomas Seymour, 8 July, 1776.

" Colonel Seymour arrived yesterday with a few of his men, when I ac
quainted him, that it would be impossible for me to have his horses remain
here. Forage is not to be procured ; and, if it could be, it would only be at a
great expense, without a single advantage arising from it. The men are abso
lutely necessary, till the arrival of the new levies. Colonel Seymour is to pro
pose the matter to them this morning, and return me an answer. We have
intelligence, which may be relied on, of Lord Howe's being on his passage for
this place, with a large fleet and about fifteen thousand men, and he is hourly
expected. By several deserters from Staten Island and the ships of war, whose
accounts all agree, General Howe proposes no attempt on us, till the arrival of
this reinforcement, when, it is said, with a part of his army, he will make a
descent on the Jersey side, while the fleet and the other part of the army in
conjunction will attack this city. To oppose this force, in which the ministry
put so much confidence, I think it necessary to exert every nerve, that, by de-

218 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

My anxiety leads me to request a continuance of
your Good offices in forwarding the Battalions Or
dered with all possible Dispatch. The Interest of
America is now in the Ballance and it behoves all
attached to her Sacred Cause and the Rights of Hu
manity to hold forth their Utmost and most speedy
Aid. I am convinced nothing will be wanting in
your power to Effect.

The Situation of the Northern Army is certainly
Distressing but no Relief can be afforded by me—
This I am persuaded you will Readily agree to. I
should suppose, if proper precautions are taken, the
small pox may be prevented from spreading — this
was done at Cambridge and I trust will be contrived
by Generals Schuyler and Gates, who are well Ap
prized of fatal Consequences that may Attend its
infecting the whole Army1 — but a small part of the
forces here have had it and were it not the case-
neither policy or prudence would allow me to send
any more from hence that have seen the least of
service — too many have been already Detached ; to
part with more would be to put all to the Hazard—

The Retreat of the Army from Canada I doubt
not will Occasion a General Alarm to the Frontier
Inhabitants, and our Enemies without question will

f eating their views this campaign, we may be enabled to meet them with double
advantage the next. Should they think proper to pursue their unwarrantable
measures, I hope the good people of your colony or state, will be ready on all
occasions to fly to our assistance, if needed. I have a confidence in them, and
doubt not they will be ready and willing." Washington to Governor Trum-
bull, 9 July, 1776. See Hinman Connecticut in the Revolution, 364.

1 " This distemper strikes a greater dread on our men who have not had it
than the British troops." — Governor Trumbull to Washington, 6 July, 177°-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 219

use every means they can Suggest to Excite the Sav
ages against them. But I would feign hope their
Incursions will be prevented and Repelled without
much Difficulty. The first Opportunity I have I will
Transmit a Copy of your Letter to Congress upon
this subject and Request their attention to it. I am,
Sir.1

FORGED LETTER.

TO MR. LUND WASHINGTON.

NEW YORK, July the 8, 1776.
DEAR LUND,

We are still going on with all imaginable briskness and success with our
works, which, I think are already impregnable. It would really astonish you
to see the progress we have made. I do not believe that all history can fur
nish a precedent of so much being done in so little a time, or in so masterly a
manner, where you had so little right to look for consummate skill. If in
every thing else, we could but come up to our exertions in these fortifications,
I should hardly know how to doubt the judgment of those who think that we
may bid defiance to the world. But, I know not how it is, I am diffident of
every thing. Whilst almost every body else seem to have persuaded them
selves that we have nothing to fear, I alone torment myself with thinking that
every thing is against us. Even from these very works which have inspired us
with such confidence, I anticipate only misfortune and disgrace. By this time
the die is cast, and America is authoritatively declared free and independent \
and unless we can be contented to appear ridiculous in the eyes of all the

1 " As the enemy may make an attack early in the morning, when there may not
be time for the Soldiers to fill their canteens, the General directs that they be
filled every evening. The officers to take care that it is not neglected, as it is
a matter of much consequence at this season.

" Some persons having barbarously wounded and mained some Cattle, belong
ing to Leonard Lispenard Esq. on Friday last, the General hopes no soldier in
the Army is concerned in so base and scandalous an action, but if it should
appear otherwise such person may depend on the severest punishment ; any
person who can give any information in the matter will be well rewarded."
— Orderly Book, 7 July, 1776.

220 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

world, we must resolve to support this declaration by a suitable conduct ; we
must fight our way to freedom and independencey ; for in no other way, shall
we be permitted to obtain it, farther than words.

A war, therefore, and a most serious one, is now inevitable. Next to good
finances, which it is not my promise to provide for, a good army is, doubtless,
a main requisite to the carrying on a successful war. And a good army, is by
no means secured, as some seem to reckon by securing a large number of men.
We want soldiers, and between these, and raw, undisciplined men, there is a
wide difference.

The question then is, how are these raw and undisciplined men to be formed
into good soldiers ? And I am free to give it as my opinion, that so far from
contributing to this, will strong holds, fortified posts, and deep intrenchments
be found, that they will have a direct contrary effect. To be a soldier, is to
be inured to, and familiar with danger ; to dare to look your enemy in the
face, unsheltered and exposed to their fire, and even when repulsed, to rally
again with undiminished spirit. The Indian maxim is, that it is equally your
duty to take care of yourself and to annoy your enemy. To a general, this
may not be an unusual caution ; but I will venture to assert, that whenever a
private sentinel allows himself to act on this principle, the odds are, that, in
the moment of trial, in his exceeding solicitude not to forget the former, the
latter will be but little attended to. Now, what I ask, are all these mighty
ditches and breast-works, but so many lessons and admonitions to our men of
what prodigious importance it is to take care of themselves ? It would be
almost worth our while to be defeated, if it were only to train us to stand fire,
and to bear a reverse of fortune with a decent magnanimity. If it had not
been for this ill-judged humor of fighting from behind a screen, the igih of
April, and 27th of June last year, might have been the happiest days America
ever saw. All these things have I, again and again, represented to my mas
ters ; I am ashamed to say, to how little purpose. They return me answers and
instructions, which, though I cannot refute, have not yet convinced what I
would call the feelings of my own mind.

This day week, the enemy's fleet was first descried off Sandy Hook. They
have been employed since then, in debarking their troops on Staten Island,
where they are cantoned, as far as I can judge, in a very uncompact and
unguarded manner ; I cannot exactly ascertain their number, but I have reason
to believe, that they fall short of seven thousand. It is more extraordinary
still, that I am not able to inform you of the exact number of forces under my

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 221

own command : I fancy, however, we might bring into the field, at this place,
double their number at a minute's warning ; and with this superiority of
numbers, making all possible allowances for our other disadvantages, one
would hope we might be able to give a good account of them. You, who are
sanguine in the extreme, and all impatience, will eagerly ask, why we suffered
them to land unmolested, and to remain so ever since. What excellent expe
ditions your fire-side generals can instantly plan and execute ! But you forget
that they are posted on an island, and that we have no way of coming at them
unless they would lend us their ships and boats, which I have not presumed to
ask of them. Aware, however, of the importance of falling on them, whilst
there is a chance of doing it with success, and e'er they become a match for us,
by reinforcements, which they daily expect, I have formed a scheme, which at
least, is plausible, and promises fair to be successful. I have submitted it to
Congress, and every moment expect their answer ; and if they will but support
me with alacrity, and in good earnest, my next, I trust will not be so despond
ing. I expect to be all ready to put my plan in execution on Tuesday, or
at farthest, on Wednesday night ; so that probably, at the very moment you are
reading this, we may be engaged in a very different service. You will,
no doubt, be impatient to hear from me as soon as may be after Wednesday,
and I will not disappoint you. Meanwhile I shall not need to tell you, that end
how it will, all that I freely chatter to you is to remain a profound secret
to every body else.

Doctor, now Brigadier-General Mercer, is here, and is a great comfort tome.
Like myself, he wants experience ; but he is very shrewd and sensible, and
though a Scotsman, is remarkable humane and liberal. I have communicated
the whole of my design to him, alone ; and am not ashamed to own, that I have
received much assistance from him. I know not how it may turn out ; but
though neither he nor I are very apt to be sanguine, we have both confessed to
be so on this occasion. Animated, however, as I feel myself with the near
prospect of at length doing something, not unworthy the high rank to which I
am raised, I own to you, I take a serious pleasure in it, only as it flatters
me with the hope of thereby obtaining a speedier and happier peace. Let us,
since war must be our lot, distinguish ourselves as freemen should, in fields of
blood, still remembering, however, that we fight not for conquest, but for
liberty.

I am with the truest Esteem, Dear Lund, your faithful Friend and Servant,

G. W.

222 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO MAJOR-GENERAL WARD.

NEW YORK, g July, 1776.

SIR,

The enclosed Declaration will show you, that Con
gress at length, impelled by necessity, have dissolved
the connexion between the American Colonies and
Great Britain, and declared them Free and Indepen
dent States ; and in compliance with their order I am
to request, you will cause this Declaration to be im
mediately proclaimed at the head of the Continental
regiments in the Massachusetts Bay. It being evi
dent, from a variety of concurring circumstances, that
the British armies mean to direct their most vigorous

o

operations this campaign against the State of New
York, to penetrate into it by way of the lakes and
the North River, and to unite their attacks, the im
portance of it has induced Congress to take further
measures, for baffling their designs, and rendering it
more secure.

You will see by the resolves now transmitted, that
the northern army is to be augmented by part of the
troops, under your command ; and I do desire, that
you will immediately detach for that purpose three
of the fullest regiments forthwith to march to Ticon-
deroga, or such other place as the said army may be
at, and put themselves under the order and directions
of the general officer commanding the same.

You will also perceive, that Congress have resolved,
that the arms taken in the Scotch transports should
be sent here. The President informs me, he has
wrote to the agents respecting 'em ; but as I presume
they are in your possession, or in some of the stores

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 223

by your order, you will have the whole of them
forwarded with all possible despatch, in the usual
route and with necessary directions. Congress have
made some alteration in the establishment of chap
lains, and advanced their pay, as they have that of
the regimental surgeons ; as you will see by their
proceedings, copies of which in their instances are
also transmitted.1

You will be particularly attentive to hastening the
march of the three regiments, and give proper orders
for their route, and to the commissary and quarter
masters, that every thing necessary for the same may
be immediately provided. Their aid is much wanted,
and may be of the utmost importance. When they
have marched, you will be pleased to put the remain
ing regiments under the command of the oldest
colonel, with such instructions as you may judge
necessary, and then retire, if it shall be agreeable to
you, for the recovery of your health, as I cannot
possibly request you longer to continue ; and, wishing
you a speedy restoration of it, I am, Sir, &c.2

1 " The Honr Continental Congress having been pleased to allow a Chaplain
to each Regiment, with the pay of Thirty-three Dollars and one third per
month — The Colonels or Commanding Officers of each regiment are directed
to procure Chaplains accordingly ; persons of good Character and exemplary
lives — To see that all inferior officers and soldiers pay them a suitable respect
and attend carefully upon religious exercises. The blessing and protection of
Heaven are at all times necessary but especially so in time of public distress and
danger — The General hopes and trusts, that every Officer, and Man, will en
deavour so to live, and act, as becomes a Christian Soldier defending the dear
est Rights and Liberties of his country." — Orderly Book, 9 July, 1776.

a By General Ward's return, dated the 1st of July, the troops under his com
mand at Boston amounted to 2,526 effective men, being five regiments com
manded by Colonels Whitcomb, Glover, Sargent, Phinny, and Hutchinson.
There was also a company of artillery.

224 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

P. S. I would have you consult with proper per
sons and some of the members of the General Court,
respecting the route of the three regiments to be de
tached to the northern army.

And if they shall be of opinion that they may
probably arrive from thence for Albany, I should
think that would be more preferable for Two reasons
—First it will ease the Troops of much fatigue and
2, they might if there was a necessity for it, afford
succor how they passed. I do not mean to give any
direction in the matter, nor do I wish this mode to
be adopted, unless there appears a probability of
their arriving where they are Intended to be sent by
Congress as early as if they pursued their march by
Land and across the Country.1

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 10 July, 1776.

SIR,

I am now to acknowledge the receipt of your two
favors of the 4th and 6th instant, which came duly to
hand, with their important enclosures.

1 " To prevent the enemy from obtaining fresh provisions is a matter highly
necessary to be attended to. I am informed, that there are great quantities in
the neighborhood of New London, namely, at Fisher's, Block, Plumb, and
Elizabeth Islands, and Martha's Vineyard. These are accessible to ships of
force, and no doubt they will soon be on a plundering voyage. I could wish
your attention to this matter, that the stock may all be removed quite out of
reach of the enemy. The east end of Long Island, I am told, is not less ex
posed than the others. I think effectual steps will be taken in regard to that,
as I have had a conference with the Convention of this province, and an order
has gone out for driving all the stock from the sea-coasts. In the conference
of a full board of general officers yesterday, it was recommended, that I should

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 225

I perceive that Congress have been employed in
deliberating on measures of the most interesting
nature. It is certain, that it is not with us to deter
mine in many instances what consequences will flow
from our counsels ; but yet it behoves us to adopt
such, as, under the smiles of a gracious and all-kind
Providence, will be most likely to promote our hap
piness. I trust the late decisive part they have taken
is calculated for that end, and will secure us that
freedom and those privileges, which have been and
are refused us, contrary to the voice of nature and
the British constitution. Agreeably to the request
of Congress, I caused the Declaration to be pro
claimed before all the army under my immediate
command; and have the pleasure to inform them,
that the measure seemed to have their most hearty
assent ; the expressions and behavior, both of offi
cers and men, testifying their warmest approbation
of it. I have transmitted a copy to General Ward at
Boston, requesting him to have it proclaimed to the
Continental troops in that department.1

apply to you for the three row-galleys, being now at New London, or in the
river, together with as many heavy cannon as you can possibly spare. They
will be much wanted here ; and, if you find it consistent, I would beg you to
forward them on as soon as possible." — Washington to Governor Trumbull,
9 July, 1776.

1 On communicating the Declaration of Independence to General Washing
ton, the President of Congress wrote as follows :—

" The Congress, for some time past, have had their attention occupied by
one of the most interesting and important subjects, that could possibly come
before them, or any other assembly of men. Although it is not possible to
foresee the consequences of human actions, yet it is nevertheless a duty we owe
ourselves and posterity in all our public counsels, to decide in the best manner
we are able, and to leave the event to that Being, who controls all things, to
bring about his own determinations. Impressed with this sentiment, and at

226 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

It is with great pleasure, that I hear the militia
from Maryland, the Delaware government, and Penn
sylvania, will be in motion every day to form the
Flying Camp. It is of great importance, and should
be accomplished with all possible despatch. The
readiness and alacrity, with which the Committee of
Safety of Pennsylvania and the other conferees, have
acted, in order to forward the associated militia of

the same time fully convinced, that our affairs may take a more favorable turn,
the Congress have judged it necessary to dissolve the connexion between Great
Britain and the American Colonies, and to declare them free and independent
states ; as you will perceive by the enclosed Declaration, which I am directed
to transmit to you, and to request you will have it proclaimed at the head of
the army, in the way you shall think most proper."

"The Honr: the Continental Congress, impelled by the dictates of duty,
policy and necessity, having been pleased to dissolve the Connection which
subsisted between this Country and Great Britain, and to declare the United
Colonies of North America free and independent STATES: The several
brigades are to be drawn up this evening on their respective Parades, at six
o'clock, when the declaration of Congress, shewing the grounds & reasons of
this Measure, is to be read with an audible voice.

" The General hopes this important Event will serve as a fresh incentive to
every officer and soldier, to act with Fidelity and Courage, as knowing that
now the peace and safety of his Country, depends (under God) solely on the
success of our Arms : And that he is now in the service of a State, possessed
of sufficient power to reward his merit, and advance him to the highest Honors
of a free Country.

" The Brigade Majors are to receive, at the Adjutant Generals Office, sev
eral of the Declarations to be delivered to the Brigadiers General, and the
Colonels of regiment." — Orderly Book, 9 July, 1776.

" July 10. — Last night the statue of George 3d. was tumbled down and be
headed, the troops having long had an inclination to do so, thought the time of
publishing a declaration of independence a favorable opportunity, for which
they received a check in this day's orders." — Samuel B. Webb.

" Though the General doubts not the persons who pulled down and mutilated
the statute in the Broadway last night were actuated by zeal in the public cause,
yet it has so much the appearance of a riot and want of order in the army, that
he disapproves the manner, and directs that in future these things shall be
avoided by the soldiery, and left to be executed by the proper authority.'
— Orderly Book, 10 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 227

that state to the Jerseys for service, till the men
to compose the Flying Camp arrive, strongly evi
dence their regard to the common cause, and that
nothing on their part will be wanting to support it. I
hope, and I doubt not, that the associated militia,
impressed with the expediency of the measure, will
immediately carry it into execution, and furnish in
this instance a proof of the continuance of that zeal,
which has so eminently marked their conduct. I
have directed the commissary to make necessary pro
vision for their reception, who will also supply the
army for the Flying Camp with rations. A proper
officer will be appointed to command it.1

In pursuance of the power given me by Congress,
and the advice of my general officers, I have wrote to
General Ward, and desired him forthwith to detach
three of the fullest regiments from the Massachusetts
Bay to join the northern army, esteeming it a matter
of the greatest importance to have a sufficient force
there to prevent the enemy passing the lake, and
making an impression in that quarter.

The Gondolas and Gallies will be of great service
and I am hopefull the Carpenters you have sent from
Philadelphia and that will go from the Eastward on

1 General Washington had been authorized by Congress to appoint an officer
to command the Flying Camp. Journals, 3 July, 1776.

" To the unhappy confusions that have prevailed in this Colony, must prin
cipally be ascribed the delays that have hitherto attended that salutary measure
[Flying Camp]. However, I flatter myself things will now take a different
turn, as the contest to keep possession of power is now at an end, and a new
mode of government, equal to the emergencies of our affairs will be adopted,
agreeable to the recommendation of Congress to the United Colonies." — Han
cock to Washington, 4 July, 1776.

228 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

your application, will be able to build a sufficient
number in time to answer every exigency.1

I have requested Governor Cooke if the Duck
mentioned in Mr. Green's Letter is proper for Tents,
to have it made up as early as possible and forwarded
here. I have also desired him to send the Flints and
small arms, as I have Genl Ward those of the latter
that were taken out of the Scotch Transports, our
deficiency in these necessary articles being still
great.

Observing that Congress have particularly Men
tioned a bounty of Ten Dollars to be paid to men of
some Corps directed to be raised in two or three
Instances since their Resolve of the 26 of June, allows
such bounty, I have been led to doubt how that Resolve
is to be construed, whether it is a general regulation
and extends to all men that will engage for three years ;
for instance the Soldiers of the present Army if they
will Inlist for that time.2 If it is and extends to
them, it will be necessary to forward a large sum of
money many perhaps would engage. I also observe
by the Resolve of the 25th June for raising four
Regiments of Militia in the Eastern Governments to
augment the Troops in the Northern department that
the assemblies of those Governments are empowered
to appoint paymasters to the said Regiments ; this
appears to me a regulation of great use and I could
wish that it was made General, and one allowed to

1 On the $th, Congress had asked Governor Cooke to send fifty ship carpen
ters to Albany. Journals. On the 6th, fifty from Philadelphia under the lead
of Captain Cardrop started for camp.

9 Journals of Congress, 16 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 229

every Regiment in the service, many advantages
would result from it.

The Connecticut militia begin to come in ; but from
every account the battalions will be very incomplete,
owing, they say, to the busy season of the year.
That government, lest any inconvenience might
result from their militia not being here in time,
ordered three regiments of their light-horse to my
assistance, part of which have arrived. But, not
having the means to support them (and, if it could
be done, the expense would be enormous), I have
thanked the gentlemen for their zeal, and the attach
ment they have manifested upon this occasion, and
informed them, that I cannot consent to their keeping
their horses, at the same time wishing them to stay
themselves. I am told that they or part of them
mean to clo so.

Genl. Mercer is now in the Jerseys for the purpose
of receiving and ordering the Militia coming for the
Flying Camp, and I have sent over our Chief Engi
neer to view the Ground within the neighborhood of
Amboy and to lay out some necessary works for the
Encampment, and such as may be proper at the dif
ferent passes in Bergen Neck and other place on the
Jersey shore, opposite Staten Island, to prevent the
Enemy making impressions and committing depreda
tions on the property of the Inhabitants.

The Intelligence we have from a few deserters that
have come over to us, and from others, is, that Genl.
Howe has between nine and Ten thousand men who
are chiefly landed on the Island, posted in different

23o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

parts and securing the several communications from
the Jerseys with small works and Intrenchments to
prevent our people from paying 'em a visit. That the
Islanders have all Joined them, seem well disposed to
favor their cause, and have agreed to take up arms in
their behalf. They look for Admiral Howe's arrival
every day with his fleet and a large reinforcement ;
are in high spirits, and talk confidently of success and
carrying all before 'em when he comes. I trust thro
divine favor and our own exertions they will be dis
appointed in their views, and at all events any advan
tages they may gain will cost them very dear. If our
Troops will behave well, which I hope will be the
case, having every thing to contend for that Freemen
hold dear, they will have to wade thro much blood
and slaughter before they can carry any part of our
Works, if they carry 'em at all, and at best be in
possession of a melancholy and mournfull victory.
May the sacredness of our cause Inspire our Soldiery
with sentiments of Heroism, and lead 'em to the per
formance of the noblest exploits with this wish.
I have &C.1

TO THE GENERAL COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS BAY.
HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, n July, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

At a crisis like the present, when our enemies are
prosecuting a war with unexampled severity, when
they have called upon foreign mercenaries, and have
excited slaves and savages to arms against us, a re-

1 Read in Congress July nth.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 231

gard to our own security and happiness calls upon us
to adopt every possible expedient to avert the blow,
and prevent the meditated ruin. Impressed with
this sentiment, and impelled by necessity, the Con
gress have been pleased to empower me, as you will
perceive by the enclosed copy of their resolve, which
I have the honor of transmitting you, to call to our
aid so many of the St. John's, Nova Scotia, and
Penobscot Indians, as I might judge necessary. At
the same time they have desired, that I should re
quest the assistance of your honorable body in carry
ing their views into execution, and to assure you,
that whatever expenses you may necessarily incur in
doing it, and as incident to it, they will reimburse.
Esteeming their service of such importance, par
ticularly if the enemy should attempt an impression
into the interior parts of the country, I must entreat
your kind offices upon this occasion, and your friendly
exertions immediately to engage, on the best terms
you can, five or six hundred men of these tribes, and
have them marched with all possible expedition to
join the army here.

Having professed a strong inclination to take part
with us in the present contest, it is probable they
may be engaged for less pay and on better terms,
than the Continental troops ; but, if they cannot,
they must be allowed it. The term of their enlist
ment should be for two or three years, unless sooner
discharged (the right of which should be reserved
us), if they will engage for so long a time ; if not, for
such time as they will agree, and provided it is not too

232 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

short ; and it must be part of the treaty, and enjoined
upon them, to bring every man his firelock, if it can
be possibly effected. As the services they may ren
der will probably depend on their early and timely
arrival, it is unnecessary to suggest to you the neces
sity of the utmost despatch in the matter. I well
know the execution of the work will be attended with
some trouble and inconvenience ; but a consideration
of the benefits, that may arise from employing them,
and your zeal for the common cause, I am persuaded,
will surmount every obstacle, and apologize for my
requisition ; especially as it comes recommended and
supported by authority of Congress. Since I had the
Honor of Addressing you on ye Qth Inst. I have
reed, a resolve from Congress for calling ye other
small Contl. Regts. from the Massachusetts Bay to
join the Army here, a copy of which I have enclosed,
& by the advice of my Genl. Officers have wrote
Genl. Ward to detach them immediately, the ac
counts that we have all agreeing that Lord Howe is
every day expected with 150 Transports with 15,000
men at least in addition to those already here.1
I have the honor to be, &c.

1 " Since writing to you on the gth instant, I have been honored with a letter
from Congress, enclosing a resolve, a copy of which is transmitted herewith,
empowering me to call to the assistance of the army here the other two regi
ments of Continental troops, now in the Massachusetts government, and not
ordered in my last to be detached to join the northern army. I am now to
request, by advice of my general officers, that you will give immediate orders
not only to them, but to the three destined for the northward, to repair with all
possible despatch to Norwich, where they will embark ; it being the opinion of
all the officers, that it will be better for the whole, as well the three intended
for the northward, as those to reinforce the troops here, to take this route in
preference to any other. It may turn out the most expeditious, and it is cer
tain the men will be eased from the fatigues of a long and disagreeable march,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 233

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCIIUYLER.

NEW YORK, n July, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I received your favors of the ist and 2cl instant,
and agreeable to your request transmitted Congress
a copy of the former and of its several enclosures.
The important subjects referred to 'em have met with
their attention, and the letter accompanying this will
inform you and General Gates of the result of their
deliberations. I hope that harmony and a good
agreement will subsist between you, as the most
likely means to advance the interest of the cause, you
both wish to promote. They have determined the
matter between Mr. Trumbull and Mr. Livingston,
and decided the right of supplying the northern
army, and appointing persons for that purpose, to be
in the former.1

at this hot and uncomfortable season.1 It will be necessary, that you should
write to Mr. Huntington at Norwich to prepare as many vessels as will bring
the whole of them. To the quartermaster and commissary you will give
proper orders, that they may provide, in each of their departments, such sup
plies of necessaries for the route as may be wanted." — Washington to General
Ward, II July, 1776.

1 " What will become of our affairs in Canada, or rather in this Province in
the Northern Department ? Our General has more trouble and concern with
that Department than his own, and yet after every step taken and supply sent,
we are told of great necessities and wants arising from incredible waste. If
Mr. Schuyler is so good a quarter-master and commissary, why is there such in
credible waste ? In short, my dear Sir, if some speedy and decisive measure is
not taken in this matter, in my opinion that army will waste and disperse, leav
ing the enemy an easy passage into the heart of these Colonies." — Reed to Robert
Morris, 18 July, 1776. " Such scenes of mismanagement, misconduct, and ill
success as have been exhibited in that quarter, ever since the loss of the brave
Montgomery, have no parallel." — Morris to Reed, 20 July, 1776.

1 The order, in regard to the route of the regiment destined to the northward, was after
wards countermanded, in consequence of two British vessels sailing up Hudson's River,
thereby cutting off the water communication between New York and Albany. The regiments
were forwarded to New York by way of Norwich, and the two others marched to Ticonderoga
by land from Boston.

234 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I gave orders immediately on Receipt of your
favor for the several Articles you wrote for to be
sent you If they could be had — Ball or Buck Shot
could not be spared from hence, arid I directed a
Quantity of lead to be sent you out of which you
must attempt to have them made.

I have not heard any thing of the money mentioned
By Mr. Duane — I imagine it has not been sent. If
any Accident had befallen It, the Matter would have
been known 'ere now—

Since my last, General Howe's fleet from Halifax
has arrived, in number about one hundred and thirty
sail. His army is between nine and ten thousand,
being joined by some of the regiments from the
West Indies, and having fallen in with part of the
Highland troops in his passage. He has landed his
men on Staten Island, which they mean to secure,
and is in daily expectation of the arrival of Lord
Howe, with one hundred and fifty ships, with a large
and powerful reinforcement. This we have from four
prisoners, which fell into our hands, and some desert
ers that an advice Packett arrived at Halifax before
they left it, informing that he was ready to Sail
when they came from England to join General
Howe here, in Consequence of which he came with
the present armament. They add that nothing will
be attempted till his arrival. Their intelligence I
have no doubt is well founded ; indeed the enemy's
having done nothing yet affords proof beyond ques
tion, that they are waiting for more troops. We are
strengthening ourselves as much as possible, and

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 235

deem their staying out so long a fortunate circum
stance, as it not only gives us an opportunity of ad
vancing our works, but of getting some relief from
the neighbouring provinces. From every appear
ance, they mean to make a most vigorous push to
subdue us this campaign ; and for this purpose to
possess themselves of this colony, if possible, as a
step leading to it. Our utmost exertions must be
used, and I trust, through the favor of divine Provi
dence, they will be disappointed in their views. As
having a large Number of Gundolas & Gallies on
the lakes will be of Great Importance, Mr. Hancock
Informs me in his letter of the 6th Instant that fifty
Carpenters were gone from Philadelphia in Order to
Build them, & that he had wrote to Govr. Cooke to
engage & forward the same Compliment. I am ad
vised by Govr Trumbull in a letter Just Received,
that he has procured Two Companies of Twenty
five Each who were about to set out. When they
arrive they will be able I am in hopes to turn Several
of the Stocks in a little time -

It being evident that an attempt will be made by
General Burgoyne to penetrate and make an impres
sion into the colonies by way of the lakes, unless
there is a sufficient force to oppose him, I have exer
cised a discretionary power, with which I was hon
ored by Congress, and ordered three of the fullest
Continental regiments, that were stationed in the
Massachusetts government, to march immediately on
receiving my orders to join the northern army. I
have directed them to come to Norwich, and there

236 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

embark for Albany, hoping they will arrive as expe-
ditiously in this way, and with much less fatigue, than
if they had pursued their route by land altogether at
this hot uncomfortable season. These, with such
militia as may be furnished from the several colonies
required to provide them, and the troops that were
under General Sullivan in Canada, I flatter myself
will be able and more than equal to repel any inva
sion, that may be attempted from that quarter. It
will be some time before their aid can be had, having
never had the authority of Congress to order 'em
until within this week.

You will perceive by the enclosed Declaration, that
Congress of late have been deliberating on matters of
the utmost importance. Impelled by necessity, and
a repetition of injuries no longer sufferable, without
the most distant prospect of relief, they have asserted
the claims of the colonies to the rights of humanity,
absolved them from all allegiance to the British
crown, and declared them Free and Independent
States. In obedience to their order, the same
must be proclaimed throughout the northern army.

I am, dear Sir, &c.

A prisoner taken yesterday belonging to the 10
Regiment, informs that Admiral Howe is hourly
expected — he adds that a vessel has arrived from
his fleet. — T

1 " As the weather is very warm, there will be the greatest danger of the
Troops growing unhealthy, unless both officers and men are attentive to clean
liness, in their persons and quarters. The officers are required to visit the men
frequently in their quarters to impress on them the necessity of frequently
changing their linnen, cleaning their persons, and wherever it can be avoided
not to cook their victuals in the same room where they sleep — If any of the

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 237

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, n July, 1776.

SIR :

I was honored with your favor of the 8th Instant
by yesterday morning's post with the several Re
solves to which you referred my attention. — I shall
duly regard them, and attempt their execution as far
as I am able.

By virtue of the discretionary power that Congress
were pleased to vest me with, and by advice of such
of my General Officers as I have had an opportunity
of consulting, I have ordered the Two remaining
Continental Regiments in the Massachusetts bay to
march immediately for the defence of this place, in
full confidence that nothing hostile will be attempted
against that State in the present Campaign.

I have wrote to the General Court of Massachu
setts bay, and transmitted a copy of the resolve for
employing the Eastern Indians ; entreating their
good offices in this Instance, and their exertions to
have them forthwith engaged and marched to join
this Army. I have desired Five or Six hundred of
them to be Inlisted for two or three years, if they
will consent to it, subject to an earlier discharge if
it shall be thought necessary and upon the same

officers apprehend themselves crowded in their quarters they are to represent it
to the Barrack Master who is ordered to accommodate them in such a manner
as to be most conducive to health and convenience. The good of the service,
the comfort of the men, and the merit of the officers will be so much advanced
by keeping the troops as neat and clean as possible, that the General hopes
that there will be an emulation upon this head ; and as a Scrutiny will soon
be made, those who shall be found negligent will be punished, and the deserv
ing rewarded." — Orderly Book, n July, 1776.

238 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Terms of the Continental Troops, if better cannot be
had, tho' I am hopefull they may.

In my letter of yesterday, I mentioned the arrival
of part of the Connecticut light-horse to assist in the
defence of this place, and my objection to their horses
being kept. Four or five hundred of them are now
come in ; and, in justice to their zeal and laudable
attachment to the cause of their country, I am to in
form you, they have consented to stay as long as
occasion may require, though they should be at the
expense of maintaining their horses themselves. They
have pastured them out about the neighborhood of
Kingsbridge, being unwilling to send them away, at
the rate of half a dollar per week each, meaning to
leave it entirely with Congress either to allow or re
fuse it, as they shall judge proper. I promised to
make this representation, and thought it my duty ;
and will only observe, the motives which induced
them at first to set out were good and praiseworthy,
and were to afford the most speedy and early succor,
which they apprehended would be wanted before the
militia arrived. Their services may be extremely
important, being most of them, if not all, men of rep
utation and of property.

The subject of the enclosed copy of a letter from
Governor Trumbull I beg leave to submit to the con
sideration of Congress. They will perceive from his
representation the disquieting apprehensions, that
have seized on the minds of the people since the re
treat of the northern army, and how exposed the nor
thern frontiers of New York and New Hampshire are

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 239

to the ravages and incursions of the Indians. How
far it may be expedient to raise the battalion he con
ceives necessary to prevent the calamities and dis
tresses he points out, they will determine, upon what
he has said, and the necessity that may appear to
them for the measure.1

What I have done being only meant to lay the
matter before them in compliance with his wishes. I
have also Inclosed a memorial from the Surgeons
mates setting forth the Inadequacy of their payments
—their services and maintenance and praying that it
may be encreased. I shall observe that they have a
long time since complained in this Instance and that
some additional allowance may not be unnecessary.

As I am truly sensible the time of Congress is much
taken up with a variety of important matters, it is
with unwillingness and pain I ever repeat a request
after having once made it, or take the liberty of en
forcing any opinion of mine after it is once given ;
but, as the establishing of some office for auditing
accounts is a matter of exceeding importance to the
public interest, I would beg leave once more to call

1 " The retreat of the northern army and its present situation," said Gover
nor Trumbull in the letter referred to, "have spread a general alarm. The
prevalence of the smallpox among the troops is every way unhappy. Our peo
ple in general have not had that distemper. Fear of the infection operates
strongly to prevent soldiers from engaging in the service. The retreat of the
army from Canada exposes the northern frontiers of New York and New Hamp
shire to the ravages of the Indians, who will doubtless be spirited up to fall
upon them. Some of the settlements on Onion River, I am informed, are
breaking up and removing, and the whole are filled with the most disquieting
apprehensions. I could wish, that your Excellency might think proper to recom
mend to the Continental Congress to order a battalion to be raised and stationed
there for the defence of those settlements."

24o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

the attention of Congress to an appointment compe
tent to the purposes. Two motives induce me to
urge the matter : first, a conviction of the utility of
the measure ; secondly, that I may stand exculpated
if hereafter it should appear, that money has been
improperly expended, and necessaries for the army
obtained upon unreasonable terms.

For me, whose time is employed from the hour of
my rising till I retire to bed again, to go into an ex
amination of the accounts of such an army as this,
with any degree of precision and exactness, without
neglecting other matters of equal importance, is
utterly impracticable. All that I have been able to
do and that, in fact, was doing nothing was, when the
commissary, and quartermaster, and director-general
of the hospital (for it is to these the great advances
are made) applied for warrants, to make them at
times produce a general account of their expendi
tures. But this answers no valuable purpose. It is
the minutise that must be gone into, the propriety of
each charge examined, the vouchers looked into ; and,
with respect to the commissary-general, his victualling
returns and expenditures of provisions should be com
pared with his purchases ; otherwise a person in this
department, if he was inclined to be knavish, might
purchase large quantities with the public money, and
sell one half of it again for private emolument, and
yet his accounts upon paper would appear fair, and
be supported with vouchers for every charge.

I do not urge this matter from a suspicion of any
unfair practices in either of the departments before

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 241

mentioned ; and sorry should I be if this construction
was put upon it, having a high opinion of the honor
and integrity of these gentlemen. But there should
nevertheless be some control, as well upon their dis
cretion as honesty ; to which may be added, that
accounts become perplexed and confused by long
standing, and the errors therein not so discoverable
as if they underwent an early revision and examina
tion. I am well apprized, that a treasury office of
accounts has been resolved upon, and an auditor-
general for settling all public accounts ; but, with all
deference and submission to the opinion of Congress,
these institutions are not calculated to prevent the
inconveniences I have mentioned ; nor can they be
competent to the purposes, circumstanced as they are.1
We have intelligence from a deserter that came to
us, that on Wednesday morning the Asia, Chatham
and Greyhound men-of-War weighed Anchor and it
was said, intended to pass up the North river above
the City to prevent the communication with the Jer
seys. They did not attempt it, nor does he know
what prevented them.2 A prisoner belonging to the

1 Three commissioners were appointed to proceed to New York and audit
the accounts of the army, and the same number for the army in the northern
department.

2 General Howe consulted with the Admiral, July 7th, on the expediency of
sending a naval force up the North River, with the view of obstructing the
supplies, which came down the river to New York. The Admiral did not at
first approve the plan, but at length assented to it, and the Phoenix of forty
guns, and Rose of twenty, were despatched on this service, with three tenders.
On the 6th of August, General Howe informed Lord George Germaine of this
movement, and said that no direct intelligence had then been received from
these vessels, although by private means it was ascertained, that they had not
received the least damage, and were in safety near the upper end of Tappan
Sea.

242 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

roth Regimt. taken yesterday, informs that they
hourly expect Admiral Howe and his Fleet, he adds
that a Vessel has arrived from them, and the prevail
ing opinion is that an Attack will be made immedi
ately on their arrival.

By a letter from Genl. Ward I am informed, that
the small-pox has broke out at Boston and Infected
some of the Troops — I have wrote him to place the
Invalids under an Officer to remain till they are well,
and to use every possible precaution to prevent the
Troops coming from thence bringing the Infection.

The distresses and calamities we have already suf
fered by this disorder in one part of our army, I hope
will excite his utmost care that they may not be In
creased. I have, &c.J

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 12 July, 1776
half past 8, p. m.

Sir,

The design of this is to inform Congress that
about half after three o'clock this evening, two of
the enemy's ships of war, one of forty and the
other of twenty guns, with three tenders, weighed
anchor in the bay opposite to Staten Island, and,
availing themselves of a brisk and favorable breeze,
with a flowing tide, ran past our batteries up the North
River, without receiving any certain damage that I
could perceive, notwithstanding a heavy and incessant
cannonade was kept up from our several batteries

1 Read in Congress, Sunday, July I4th.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 243

here, as well as from that at Paulus Hook. They,
on their part, returned and continued the fire as they
ran by. I despatched an express to Brigadier-General
MifHin, at our encampment towards the upper end of
the island, but I have not heard whether they have
got by or received any damage.1 The account trans
mitted by this morning's post, respecting the arrival
of one of the fleet, seems to be confirmed. Several
ships have come in to-day ; among them one this
evening with a St. George's flag at her foretop-mast
head, which we conclude to be Admiral Howe, from
the circumstance of the flag, and the several and

1 " Two ships of force with their tenders have sailed up Hudson's River. I
am apprehensive, that they design to seize the passes in the Highlands by land,
which I am informed may be done by a small body of men. I must therefore
request you instantly to desire General Ten Broeck to march down as great a
force as he can collect to secure them, particularly the post where the road runs
over Anthony's Nose.1 Send off an express directly, if you please, to the west
parts of Connecticut, desiring them to collect all their force at the same point,
since I have the strongest reason to believe it will be absolutely necessary, if it
were only to prevent an insurrection of your own Tories." — Washington to
Brigadier-General George Clinton, 12 July, 1776.

Clinton commanded the New York militia on Hudson's River, and had
already anticipated the orders of the Commander-in-chief, by calling out three
regiments of militia, as soon as the signals had been given, that the enemy's
ships were ascending the river. One regiment he stationed at Fort Constitu
tion opposite West Point, another at Fort Montgomery, to which he repaired in
person, and the third at Newburg, ready to be called down to the forts below,
if occasion should require. He had likewise directed several sloops and boats
to be assembled at Fort Constitution, with the design of drawing a chain of
them across the narrowest part of the river, prepared to be set on fire if the
enemy's vessels should attempt to break through. Colonel Wooclhull com
manded a regiment of militia under him at Fort Montgomery ; and his brother,
James Clinton, a colonel in the Continental army, had been stationed for several
weeks at Fort Constitution, superintending the construction of the military
works in the Highlands. No fortifications had as yet been erected at West
Point. Clinton to Washington, 15 July, 1776. Sparks, Correspondence of the
devolution, i., 260.

1 A mountain in the Highlands, opposite to Fort Montgomery.

244 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

general salutes that were paid. It is probable they
will all arrive in a day or two, and immediately begin
their operations.

As it will be extremely necessary that the flying
Camp should be well provided with powder and Ball
and it may be impracticable to send supplies from
hence on account of our hurry and engagements,
besides the communication may be uncertain, I must
beg the attention of Congress to this matter, and re
quest that they will forward with all possible expedi
tion such a Quantity of Musket powder and Lead, if
Balls of different sizes cannot be had, as will be
sufficient for the Militia to compose that Camp. By
an Express this minute arrived from Genl. Mifflin the
Ships have passed his works. I am, &c.T

TO THE SECRET COMMITTEE OF THE CONVENTION OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK.2

HEAD-QUARTERS, 13 July, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

A multiplicity of engagements, and a continual
pressure of other concerns, has prevented our pro
ceeding in the case of the soldiers confined for sedi-

1 Read in Congress, Sunday, July I4th.

Upon the I2th Washington submitted to his general officers a plan for making
a general attack on the enemy's quarters on Staten Island, but it was unani
mously agreed that such a step was not advisable. To alarm the enemy and
"encourage our own troops, who seem generally desirous something should be
done," he proposed a " partisan party." It was resolved " that Major Knowlton
who is stationed at Bergen and has reconnoitred the island do confer with
General Mercer thereon, and if they upon consideration shall deem such a
surprise practicable and that the retreat of the men can be secured, the General
be advised to prosecute it. That this enterprise be accompanied with a
cannonade upon the fleet from Bergen point if the distance will admit."

2 This committee was appointed expressly with reference to the Tories, or dis-

i77<5j GEORGE WASHINGTON. 245

tious and treasonable practices ; but, as soon as time
will admit, a proper attention will be paid to it. In
the mean time, I beg leave to suggest the propriety
of the authority of the province taking some steps,
with regard to those persons confined by them for the
same offences. They certainly are to be deemed the
principals, and justice to the inferior agents, while the
others pass unnoticed, I observe, only excites compas
sion and censure. I am very sensible, it is a case full
of difficulty and perplexity, and well deserving your
most serious deliberation ; nor do I entertain a doubt,
but the result will be such, as will conduce to the
public good. I have, some time ago, mentioned to
the body of which you are a committee, the necessity
of falling upon some measures to remove from the
city and its environs persons of known disaffection
and enmity to the cause of America. The safety of
the army, the success of every enterprise, and the
security of all, depend so much on adopting the most
speedy and effectual steps for the purpose, that I beg
leave again to repeat it ; and do most earnestly en
treat you to adopt some plan for this purpose, or give
me your assistance so to do as to remove those dis
quieting and discouraging apprehensions, which per
vade the whole army on this subject. A suspicion,
that there are many ministerial agents among us,
would justly alarm soldiers of more experience and
discipline than ours ; and I foresee very dangerous

affected persons. It was now sitting in the city of New York, although the
Convention was at White Plains. The title of Provincial Congress was changed,
on the gth of July, to that of the Convention of the Representatives of the State
of New York, immediately after the Declaration of Independence had been ac
ceded to by that body. — MS. Journal, July gth.

246 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

consequences, in many respects, if a remedy to the
evil is not soon and efficaciously applied.

The removal of the tory prisoners, confined in the
gaol of this city, is a matter to which I would solicit
your attention. In every view, it appears dangerous
and improper. In case of an attack and alarm, there
can be no doubt what part they would take, and none
can tell what influence they might have. You will,
Gentlemen, do me the justice to believe, that nothing
but the importance and necessity of the case could in
duce me thus to urge these matters, in which you
have also an immediate and common interest.1 The
gentlemen appointed to give passes to persons leav
ing the city, I am informed, decline acting. Great
inconvenience will ensue to the citizens, if this busi
ness should be committed to the officers of the army,
who, from their ignorance of the inhabitants, as well
as other reasons, are wholly improper for the manage
ment of it. I should be glad, if your committee will
take this matter also into their consideration. I am,
Gentlemen, with great respect and regard, your most
obedient humble servant.2

1 This representation had its effect. Thirteen Tory prisoners, including the
persons most obnoxious for their principles and conduct, were speedily removed
by order of the Convention to the jail at Litchfield in Connecticut. The crimes
alleged against them were those of notorious disaffection to the rights and liber
ties of the American States, counterfeiting the currency of the states, corres
ponding with the enemy, or engaging in treasonable conspiracies. The mayor
of the city of New York was one of the number, but the President of the Con
vention wrote to the Committee of Litchfield, that though the evidence against
him was such as rendered his confinement necessary till he should be tried, yet
his offences were not of so heinous a nature as those of the other conspirators,
and such indulgence was recommended in his behalf as should be consistent
with his safe keeping. MS. Journal of the New York Convention, July igth.

* " The General was sorry to observe yesterday that many of the officers and a

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 247

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 14 July, 1776.

SIR,

My last of friclay evening which I had the honor of
addressing you, advised that Two of the Enemies
Ships of War and Three Tenders had run above our
Batteries here, and the Works at the upper end of
the Island. I am now to Inform you, that yesterday
forenoon receiving Intelligence from Genl Mifflin
that they had past the Taupan Sea and were -try
ing to proceed higher up, by advice of R. R. Living
ston Esqr and other Gentn, I despatched expresses to
Genl. Clinton of Ulster and the Committee for safety
for Dutchess County, to take measures for securing
the passes in the Highlands, lest they might have
designs of seizing them and have a force concealed
for the purpose. I wrote the Evening before to the

number of men instead of attending to their duty at the Beat of the Drum, con
tinued along the banks of the North river, gazing at the Ships ; such unsoldierly
Conduct must grieve every good officer, and give the enemy a mean opinion of
the Army, as nothing shews the brave and good soldier more than in case of
alarms, cooly and calmly repairing to his post, and there waiting his orders ;
whereas a weak curiosity at such a time makes a man look mean and contemp
tible." — Orderly Book, 13 July, 1776.

" At a period so critical as the present, when our unnatural enemies are in
full view, and hourly expected to strike a blow, which may be supposed in a great
measure to decide the fate of America, I must confess that I am not a little sur
prised to find an officer of your rank in the army soliciting leave to resign his
commission, more especially considering the predicament you are now in. I
should rather hope, that, as you are so conscious of your innocence, you would
urge an inquiry into your conduct, to convince the world, that the complaints
exhibited against you are totally groundless ; and that the malice of your worst
enemies cannot do the least injury to your reputation, which to a soldier ought
ever to be dearer than life. I do not know how far I can with propriety coun
termand the order for the court of inquiry, as it is already given out in general
orders ; however, I will think of it, and give you my answer to-morrow."
— Washington to Colonel Ritzema, 14 July, 1776.

248 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

commanding Officer of the Two Garrison's there to be
vigilant and prepared against any Attempts they or
any disaffected persons might make against them and
to forward expresses all the way to Albany, that pro
vision and other Vessels might be secured and pre
vented falling into their hands. The Information
given Genl. Mifflin was rather premature as to their
having gone past the Sea. A Letter from the Com
mittee of Orange County which came to hand this
morning says they were there yesterday and that a
Regiment of their Militia was under Arms to prevent
their landing and making an Incursion. The messen
ger who brought it, and to whom it refers for particu
lars, adds, that a party of them in two or three boats
had approached the shore but were forced back, by
our people firing at them. Since the manoeuvre of fri-
day there have been no other movements in the Fleet.

General Sullivan, in a letter of the 2d instant,
informs me of his arrival with the army at Crown
Point, where he is fortifying and throwing up works.
He adds, that he has secured all the stores except
three cannon left at Chamblee, which in part is
made up by taking a fine twelve-pounder out of
the Lake. The army is sickly, many with the small
pox ; and he is apprehensive the militia, ordered to
join them, will not escape the infection. An officer,
he had sent to reconnoitre, had reported that he saw
at St. John's about a hundred and fifty tents, twenty
at St. Roy's, and fifteen at Chamblee ; and works at
the first were busily carrying on.

I have Inclosed a General return of the Army here

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 249

which will shew the whole of our strength. All the
detached posts are Inclosed.

A Letter from the Eastward by last nights post to
Mr. Hazard, post master in this city, advises " That
Two ships had been taken & carried into Cape Ann.
One from Antigua consigned to Genl Howe with
439 puncheons of Rum — The other a Jamaica man
with 400 Hogsheads of Sugar, 200 puncheons of
Rum, 39 Bales of Cotton, pimento, Fustick, &c
&c. Each mounted 2 Guns, Six pounders.

About three o'clock this afternoon I was informed,
that a flag from Lord Howe was coming up, and
waited with two of our whale-boats until directions
should be given. I immediately convened such of
the general officers as were not upon other duty, who
agreed in opinion, that I ought not to receive any
letter directed to me as a private gentleman ; but if
otherwise, and the officer desired to come up to
deliver the letter himself, as was suggested, he should
come under a safe-conduct. Upon this, I directed
Colonel Reed to go down and manage the affair
under the above general instruction. On his return
he informed me, after the common civilities, the offi
cer acquainted him, that he had a letter from Lord
Howe to Mr. Washington, which he showed under a
superscription, " To George Washington, Esq." Colo
nel Reed replied, there was no such person in the
army, and that a letter intended for the General
could not be received under such a direction. The
officer expressed great concern, said it was a letter
rather of a civil than military nature, that Lord

250 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Howe regretted he had not arrived sooner, that he
(Lord Howe) had great powers. The anxiety to
have the letter received was very evident, though the
officer disclaimed all knowledge of its contents. How
ever, Colonel Reed's instructions being positive, they
parted. After they had got some distance, the officer
with the flag again put about, and asked under what
direction Mr. Washington chose to be addressed ; T
to which Colonel Reed answered, his station was well
known, and that certainly they could be at no loss
how to direct to him. The officer said they knew it,
and lamented it ; and again repeated his wish, that
the letter could be received. Colonel Reed told him
a proper direction would obviate all difficulties, and
that this was no new matter, the subject having been
fully discussed in the course of the last year, of which
Lord Howe could not be ignorant ; upon which they
parted.

I would not upon any occasion sacrifice essentials
to punctilio ; but in this instance, the opinion of
others concurring with my own, I deemed it a duty
to my country and my appointment, to insist upon
that respect, which, in any other than a public view,
I would willingly have waived. Nor do I doubt, but,
from the supposed nature of the message, and the
anxiety expressed, they will either repeat their flag,
or fall upon some mode to communicate the import
and consequence of it.2

1 " He [Lieutenant Brown of the Eagle] then asked me under what title
General, — but catching himself, Mr. Washington chose to be addressed." — Reed
to Pettit, 15 July, 1776.

- On considering this subject, Congress passed the following resolution : —
" That General Washington, in refusing to receive a letter said to be sent from

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 251

I have been duly honored with your two Letters,
that of the loth by Mr. Anderson, and the i ith with
its Inclosures. I have directed the Quarter Master
to provide him with every thing he wants to carry
his Scheme into execution. It is an Important one,
and I wish it success, but I am doubtfull that it will
be better in Theory than practice.1

The passage of the ships of war and tenders up the
river is a matter of great importance, and has excited
much conjecture and speculation. To me two things
have occurred, as leading them to. this proceeding ; first,
a design to seize on the narrow passes on both sides of
the river, giving almost the only land communication
with Albany, and of consequence with our northern
army, for which purpose they might have troops con
cealed on board, which they deemed competent of
themselves, as the defiles are narrow ; or that they
would be joined by many disaffected persons in that
quarter. Others have added a probability of their
having a large quantity of arms on board, to be in
readiness to put into the hands of the Tories imme
diately on the arrival of the fleet, or rather at the

Lord Howe, and addressed to ' George Washington, Esq.' acted with a dignity
becoming his station ; and, therefore, this Congress do highly approve the
same, and do direct, that no letter or message be received, on any occasion
whatsoever from the enemy, by the Commander-in-chief, or others, the com
manders of the American army, but such as shall be directed to them in the
characters they respectively sustain." — Journals of Congress, 17 July, 1776-

1 Ephriam Anderson proposed to destroy the British fleet at New York.
" The Congress are willing to give him an opportunity of trying the experi
ment, and have therefore thought proper to refer him to you." Hancock to
Washington, 10 Jnly, 1776. Anderson had made an attempt of this kind at
Quebec, but the enemy received intelligence of it, and stretching a cable across
the mouth of the harbor, rendered entrance impossible. lie was adjutant to
the second Jersey battalion.

252 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

time they intend to make their attack. The second
is, to cut off entirely all intercourse between this
place and Albany by water, and the upper country,
and to prevent supplies of every kind from going and
coming.

These matters are truly alarming, and of such
importance, that I have wrote to the Provincial Con
gress of New York, and recommended to their
serious consideration the adoption of every possible
expedient to guard against the two first ; and have
suggested the propriety of their employing the
militia, or some part of them, in the counties in which
these defiles are, to keep the enemy from possessing
them, till further provision can be made ; and to write
to the several leading persons on our side in that
quarter, to be attentive to all the movements of the
ships and the disaffected, in order to discover and
frustrate whatever pernicious schemes they have in
view.1

In respect to the second conjecture of my own,
and which seems to be generally adopted, I have the
pleasure to inform Congress, that, if their design is
to keep the armies from provision, the commissary
has told me upon inquiry, that he has forwarded
supplies to Albany (now there and above it) sufficient

1 The ships passed all the batteries without receiving any apparent injury.
The decks were guarded with ramparts of sand-bags, which protected the men
from small shot ; and the motion of the vessels was so rapid, that they remained
but a very short time within the range of the heavy guns. They ascended to the
broad part of the river, called Haverstraw Bay, and anchored so far from shore
on either side, as to be out of danger. Their boats were daily sent out to take
soundings. When they occasionally attempted to land, they were beaten back
by the militia, who watched them narrowly on both sides of the river.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 253

for ten thousand men for four months ; that he
has a sufficiency here for twenty thousand men for
three months, and an abundant quantity secured in
different parts of the Jerseys for the Flying Camp,
besides having about four thousand barrels of flour in
some neighboring part of Connecticut. Upon this
head, there is but little occasion for any apprehen
sions, at least for a considerable time.

I have the honor to be, &c.

P. S. I have sent orders to the commandg officer
of the Pennsylvania militia to march to Amboy, as
their rernaing at Trenton can be of no service.1

TO GOVERNOR COOKE.

HEAD QUARTERS, NEW YORK, isth July, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

Since my last Two of the Enemies Ships, one of
Forty the other twenty Guns, taking advantage of a
Strong Wind and Tide pass'd us notwithstanding a
warm fire from all our Batteries, they now lie in
Taapen Sea, between Twenty and thirty Miles up
Hudsons River, where no Batteries from Shore can
molest them. Their Views no doubt are to cut off all
Communication between this and Albany by Water,
which they effectually will do. — If the Gundaloes Row
Gallies &c. from Providence and Connecticut were
here I should think of making their Station uncom
fortable. If possible I must request they may be sent
on, as soon as conveniently may be, I have wrote Gov-

1 Read July i6th. Referred to the Board of War.

254 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

ernor Trumbull requesting the same of him. 'Tis not
unreasonable to suppose these ships have a number
of Small Arms on Board which are intended to put
into the hands of the disaffected on the North River,
and in the back parts of this Province when a favor
able opportunity may offer for their making use of
them against Us. I am sorry to say their numbers by
the best information I can get, are great.

We have one large Row Galley compleate, and
another which will be ready by the time those arrive
from Providence and Connecticut, the whole when
collected will be sufficient to Attack the two ships up
the River, — if no material alteration between this
time and their arrival. The channel they now lie in is
so narrow they cannot work their Guns to Advantage
—Lord Howe arrived on Fryday last — his fleet can
not be far of. I have the honor, &c.

FORGED LETTER.

TO LUND WASHINGTON.

NEW YORK, 15 July, 1776.
DEAR LUND,

Last Friday, the British fleet was seen off Staten-Island ; they have since
been employed, uninterrupted by us, in debarking their men, stores, &c. And
as they must now, I should imagine, be pretty nearly as strong as they expect
to be this campaign, no doubt we shall soon hear of their motions, I have rea
son to believe, their first essay will not be on this, but on Long-Island ; where
injudiciously I think, we also are, or soon shall be in force, Yet, if we do but
act our parts as becomes us, be the issue as it may, we shall at least give them
no pleasing earnest of what they have to expect in the course of the War. But
there is no relying on any plan that is to be executed by raw men.

You have heard much of the powers with which commissioners were to be
invested for the purpose of settling this dispute. Like most other things be-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 255

longing to it, these too have made a much greater figure in talk, than they do in
fact. There are but two commissioners, the two Howes ; and their powers are
extremely vague and undefined. It is a pity, methinks, that Congress had not
had better information on this subject ; if they had, it is to be presumed, they
would not have precipitated the declaration of independency, so as to preclude
all possibility of negotiation. I may venture to whisper in your ear, that this
excepted, I firmly believe, that America might have carried every other point :
and, certainly, there was a time when this would have been deemed a conquest
beyond the warmest wishes of the warmest American. Whether in the present
posture of affairs, it still be so, is another question : I can answer only for my
self, that I would not even ask so much. Different men will judge differently
with respect to this conduct, on the part of Great Britain ; I own I am bewil
dered and puzzled to account for it. After such an astonishing expence as they
have been at, and with such fair prospects as they have before them of being
soon in a capacity to prescribe their own terms, it certainly is extraordinary to
find them condescending to be friends with us, on conditions as mortifying and
degrading to them, as they are flattering to us. I can account for it but in one
way ; I really ascribe it to their magnanimity. It must be an unpleasant con
test to the nation : I say the nation ; for however expedient it may be for us to
have it called a ministerial war, no man who knows anything of the English
government, can imagine, that the ministry, could have moved a step in it, if it
had not been the sense of the nation. It must, too be a most fruitless, and un
profitable war ; since every advantage they can gain, must in fact be a loss, as
being gained over themselves. No wonder, therefore, they have been slow and
backward to enter into it ; no wonder they would be glad to be well rid of it,
on almost any terms. I have ever been of this opinion, and it was this persua
sion alone that reconciled me to the measure of taking up arms. I see, how
ever, the world around me viewing it in a different light : every concession
that is made to us, they attribute to timidity only, and despondency. I own
appearances make for this conjecture ; and no doubt Congress will give it its
sanction.

I have not adopted this opinion, that we might have peace with Great Britain
on terms which would once, have been thought most honorable, on slight
grounds. Yesterday, a letter was brought to me, making overtures for a nego
tiation, from Lord Howe. I had expected it ; and had my instructions. It
was addressed to me, as I had foreseen as in a private character only. On the
ground of independency if we chose to maintain it this was not a mere matter

256 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

of punctilio ; it was the critical moment of trial, whether we would assert, or
recede from our pretentions. Never did men sit in debate on a question of
higher magnitude : and, when they had once determined to declare their coun
try free, I see not why they might not support this their declaration, by this as
well as other means. A contrary conduct would certainly have indicated some
want of firmness. Yet I confess to you, I felt aukward upon the occasion,
the Punctilio seemed, and it could not but seem, to be my own ; and as such-
it looked, methought, as though I were proud of my titles. Put yourself in my
place ; and see me, longing as you know I do most earnestly for peace, yet
turning my back on a gentleman, whom I had reason to consider as the harbin
ger of it, only because he asked for Mr. and not, General Washington. How
often it is my lot to find it my indispensible duty to act a part contrary to both
my own sentiments and inclinations. But, if I mistake not, it is in such
instances only, that, properly speaking, we manifest our fortitude and mag
nanimity.

I shall astonish you, .when I inform you, that this first rebuff abated not the
ardor of the noble commissioner. His deputy paid us a second visit, and
vouchsafed to honor me with the appellation of General. What name will
you give to this condescention ? I own it hurt me ; and has well nigh led me
into a train of thinking very different from all my former opinions. The gen
tleman who brought the message, is a Colonel Patterson, Adjutant-General,
and a sensible well informed man. He requested to speak to me alone ; and I
was glad he did. After the first salutations, he told me the purport of the letter
which had been refused ; and his errand now was to ask me to point out the
most eligible means of opening a negociation, for the purpose of accommodat
ing the unhappy dispute. I replied that I knew of but one way, and that was
by application to Congress. He said, the King's Commissioners would have
no objection to treating with the members who composed the Congress, pro
vided only that they came with legal authority from the regular legislatures of
their respective countries. I answered, they, doubtless would come with such
authority ; as, indeed, they could come with no other. I evidently saw his
drift in the exception, as he did mine : and so put a stop to all possibility of
mistake ; he declared it impossible for his masters ever to acknowledge the
Congress, as such, a legal, and constitutional body of men, and as it seemed to
be rather a punctilio of pride, than of any real importance, he hoped it might
be waved. I stared : How, Sir, have you not already acknowledged the pow
ers of Congress, by acknowledging the honorable rank I hold, and which I

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 257

hold from them, and them only ? That said he, was the concession merely of
politeness ; and made for the purpose only of getting access to me ; and he was
persuaded, I was too sensible a man to lay any stress on so mere a trifle, I
thanked him for his compliment, but assured him, that I meant to lay the most
serious stress on it. If he really had that opinion of my understanding which
he was pleased then to express, he must have supposed, that though a trifle in
itself, it ceased to be so after I had made a point of it.

Words could not have told him more strongly that our resolutions were to
assert and maintain our independency. And if the Commissioners of the King
of Great Britain found themselves either unable or unwilling to give up this, as
a preliminary article, they, and he must pardon me for saying, that I could but
think them very idly employed in soliciting an interview with me. On this he
prepared to take his leave, first adding, with a degree of sharpness and anima
tion, that I own affected me. Sir, said he, you are pleased to be cavalier with
me : I consider you as a well-meaning — I wish I could say, well-informed
man ; yet, I am mistaken, if your head, as well as your heart, would not, at
this moment, dictate a very different language. There may be heroism, for
ought I know, in desperately resolving to go all lengths with the men with
whom you have connected yourself ; but it is madness : and you may be thank
ful if posterity gives no worse name to a man who has no judgment of his own.
Wrong, Sir, your judgment no longer. We certainly stooped as low as the
proudest wrong-head among you could ask us ; but, if you really think as you
seem to effect to do, that we have made these overtures either from meanness,
from a distrust of our cause, or our ability to make good our just claims you are
out in all your reckoning. That the mean and narrow minded leaders of your
councils may disseminate such opinions, in your unhappy country, I can easily
suppose ; but remember Sir, you, and your party, owe some account to the
world ? and when the world shall come to know your infatuated insolence in
this instance before us, as know it they must, think how you will excuse your
selves ? I replied with no less warmth, nor I trust, dignity. I was, indeed,
stung : for after once having owned me as a General, you must confess there
was something singularly contemptuous in presuming thus to school me. A
few personal civilities put an end to the conference.

I have transmitted a faithful account of it to Congress ; but as I can hardly
suppose, they will judge it expedient to make it public, I thought I owed to
you, not wholly to disappoint your curiosity. You will not, therefore, need me to
caution you to be secret, as well on this as on other things, which I write to you.

258 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

One thing more I must not omit to mention to you. In my conference with
Colonel Patterson, I thought I could discover that it was intended I should be
impressed with a persuasion that the Commissioners thought not unfavorably
of our pretensions, as urged in the beginning of the dispute. This is to be
accounted for. They are Whigs ; and if I am rightly informed, the General
owes his seat in Parliament to the interests of the dissenters. But why approve
of our first pretensions only ? Surely if we were then right, we are not now
wrong ; I mean as to what we have a right to, by the principles of the consti
tution ; the expediency of our measures is now out of question. I cannot dis
sociate the ideas between our having a right of resistance in the case of taxation,
and the same right in the case of legislating for us. You know I am no deep
casuist in political speculations, but having happily been brought up in revolu
tion principles, I thought I trod surely when I traced the footsteps of those
venerable men. Wonderful ! These too are the principles of our opponents ;
so that all our misfortune and fault is the having put in practice the very tenets
which they profess to embrace.

But I shall exhaust your patience ; which I should not do, foreseeing as I do,
that I shall, hereafter, have occasion to put it to the trial.
I am with the truest regard,

Dear Lund, Yours, &c, G. W.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 15 July, 1776.

SIR,

This will be handed to you by Mr. Griffin,1 who
has also taken upon him the charge and delivery of
two packets containing sundry letters, which were
sent to Amboy yesterday by a flag, and forwarded to
me to-day by General Mercer. The letter addressed
to Governor Franklin came open to my hands.2

1 On the igth Congress elected Samuel Griffin to be deputy adjutant general
for the flying camp.

- These papers contained Lord Howe's declaration of the appointment of
himself and his brother as commissioners from the King for granting free and
general pardons, and a letter to Governor Franklin requesting him to give
publicity to the said declaration in New Jersey.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 259

I was this morning honored with yours of the I3th
instant, with its important and necessary enclosures ;
and, in obedience to the commands of Congress, I
have transmitted to General Howe the resolves in
tended for him. Those for General Burgoyne I
enclosed and sent to General Schuyler, with direc
tions immediately to forward to him.

The inhuman treatment of the whole, and murder
of part, of our people, after their surrender and
capitulation, was certainly a flagrant violation of that
faith, which ought to be held sacred by all civilized
nations, and founded in the most savage barbarity.
It highly deserved the severest reprobation ; and I
trust the spirited measures Congress have adopted
upon the occasion will prevent the like in future ;
but if they should not, and the claims of humanity
are disregarded, justice and policy will require re
course to be had to the law of retaliation, however
abhorrent and disagreeable to our natures in cases of
torture and capital punishments. I have, &C.1

1 This has reference to the resolutions of Congress regarding the agreement
made by Arnold with Forster. In transmitting them to Washington, Han
cock wrote, July I3th : — "Should the United States of America give their
sanction to the Jesuitical and villainous distinction which Captain Forster
adopts to justify his conduct, there would be no end to butchering our
prisoners. They have, therefore, very properely reprobated it ; and, in the
genuine spirit of freedom resolved, that such cruelty as shall be inflicted on
prisoners in their possession, by savages or foreigners taken into pay by the
King of Great Britain, shall be considered as done by his orders, and recourse
be immediately had to retaliation. It is to be hoped their determination will
have the desired effect, and that for the future, such barbarous scenes will never
be acted under the eye and approbation of a British officer ; for there is the
greatest reason to believe, that Captain Forster engaged the Indians to join
him, on the express condition of giving up to them all such prisoners as might
fall into his hands. His subsequent conduct, indeed, renders this conjecture
more than probable."

260 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 17 July, 1776.

SIR,

I was this morning honored with yours of the i5th
Instt. with sundry resolves. I perceive the measures
Congress have taken to expedite the raising of the
Flying Camp and providing it with articles of the
greatest use. You will see by a post script to my
Letter of the I4th I had wrote to the Commanding
Officer of the Pensylvania Militia, ordering them to
be marched from Trenton to Amboy, as their remain
ing there could not answer the least public good.
For having consulted with sundry Gentn I was In
formed, if the Enemy mean to direct their views
towards Pensylvania or penetrate the Jerseys, their
Route will be from near Amboy and either by way of

" Enclosed you will receive a letter from Congress, which came to hand this
morning, with a copy of some resolves, to which you will give your attention,
as their execution will be under your direction. I have also enclosed a letter
for General Burgoyne, which I request you to seal and forward to him, as soon
as you have perused the important and necessary resolves it contains. The
spirited measures, which Congress have entered into, I am hopefull will make
the British troops more regardful that the faith, which ought to be preserved
inviolate between nations, and the rights of humanity, may not be infracted in
future.

" Admiral Howe arrived on Friday last, and we hourly expect his fleet. The
same day, just before he came in, two ships of war, one of forty and the other
of twenty guns, and three tenders, passed our batteries without any certain
damage that I could perceive, though an incessant fire was kept up. They
availed themselves of a brisk and favorable wind and tide. Our last intelligence
is, that they are in Tappan Bay. You may readily conjecture a variety of bad
purposes intended by this manoeuvre. " — Washington to Schuyhr^ 15 July, 1776.

" The hurry of business often preventing particular invitation being given to
officers to dine with the General ; He presents his compliments to the Brigadiers
and Field Officers of the day, and requests while the Camp continues settled in
the City, they will favor him with their company to dinner, without a further or
special invitation." — Orderly Book, 16 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 261

Brunswic or Bound Brook. The lower road from
South Amboy being thro' a Woody sandy country.
Besides they will then be able to throw in succor
here, & to receive it from hence in cases of emergency.

The Connecticut light-horse, mentioned in my let
ter of the i ith, notwithstanding their then promise to
continue here for the defence of this place, are now
discharged, and about to return home, having per
emptorily refused all kind of fatigue duty, or even to
mount guard, claiming an exemption as troopers.
Though their assistance is much needed, and might
be of essential service in case of an attack, yet I
judged it advisable, on their application and claim of
such indulgences, to discharge them ; as granting
them would set an example to others, and might pro
duce many ill consequences.

The number of men Included in the last return by
this, is lessend about 500.

I last night received a Letter from Genl Schuyler
with several Inclosures, Copies of which I have here
with transmitted. They will give Congress every In
formation I have respecting our Northern Army, and
the situation of our affairs in that Quarter to which I
beg leave to refer their attention. I cannot but
express surprize at the scarcity of provisions which
Genl Schuyler mentions, after what the Commissary
assured me & which formed a part of my Letter of the
1 4th he still assures of the same. This is a distress
ing circumstance as every article of provision and
every thing necessary for that Department can have
no other now than a Land conveyance, the Water

262 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

communication from hence to Albany being entirely
cut off. Congress will please to consider the Inclo-
sure No. 6 about raising Six Companies out of the
Inhabitants about the Lakes to prevent the Incur
sions of the Indians. The Genl Officers in their
Minutes of Council have determined it a matter of
much Importance, and their attention to the price of
Goods furnished the soldiery may be extremely nec
essary, they have complained much upon this head.

The retreat from Crown Point seems to be con
sidered in opposite views by the general and field
officers. The former, I am satisfied, have weighed
the matter well ; and yet the reasons assigned by the
latter against it appear strong and forcible. I hope
whatever is done will be for the best.

I was apprehensive the appointment of General
Gates over General Sullivan would give the latter dis
gust. His letter, which I transmitted to Congress,
seemed to warrant the suspicion. He is not arrived
yet ; when he does, I shall try to settle the affair with
him and prevail on him to continue, as I think his
resignation will take from the service a useful and
good officer.1

1 General Gates was at first appointed adjutant-general with the rank of
brigadier. At the same time General Sullivan was appointed brigadier in the
line of the army, which seems to have been considered a superior rank ; and
Gates had recently been promoted over Sullivan to the rank of major-general.
The latter wrote on the subject from Crown Point to General Schuyler as fol
lows : — " I ever was desirous, that some officer superior in rank should relieve
me from this disagreeable command, and should with pleasure have remained in
the army and served under him ; but, Congress having thought proper to super
sede me by appointing General Gates, who had not, by the rank they were
pleased formerly to confer upon us, the same pretensions as myself, I can con
strue this in no other light, than to suppose Congress were apprehensive that I
was not equal to the trust they were pleased to repose in me. If this be the case,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 263

By a letter from the Committee of Orange County
received this morning the Men-of-War & Tenders
were yesterday at Haverstraw Bay about Forty miles
above this. A number of men in four Barges from
the Tenders attempted to land with a view they sup
pose, of taking some sheep & Cattle that had been
previously removed. A small number of Militia that
was collected, obliged 'em to retreat without their
doing any damage with their Cannon, they were
sounding the Water up towards the Highlands, by
which it is probable they will attempt to pass with
part of the Fleet if possible.

Yesterday evening a flag came from General Howe
with a letter addressed to " George Washington, Esq.,
&c., &c.j &c" It was not received, on the same
principle that the one from Lord Howe was re
fused.2 I have the honor to be, &C.1

I am bound in justice to my country to relinquish a command to which I am not
equal. If this was not the foundation, and they had not such an opinion of me,
surely my honor calls upon me to leave the service, after a person is put over
me without any impeachment of my conduct." — MS. Letter, July 6th. Gen
eral Sullivan went to Philadelphia, and tendered to the Congress his resignation ;
but after the reasons for promoting General Gates were explained to him by the
President, he asked leave to withdraw his application to resign, which was
granted, and he continued in the army.

1 Read July i8th, and referred to the Board of War.

2 ' ' New York, July i8th. On Sunday afternoon a barge from the fleet appeared
in our bay, with a white flag, which was there met by the General's barge with
several gentlemen of the army on board. The flag was sent from Lord Howe,
with a letter to his Excellency General Washington. But as the letter was im
properly directed it was not received, though much solicited by the officer, who
we hear said it contained nothing of a hostile nature — that Lord Howe came
over possessed of unlimited power, and was much concerned he had not arrived
a few days sooner, which would have effected a reconciliation &c. However,
it seems his unlimited power did not extend even to the necessary preliminaries
of a negociation — an acknowledgment of the right of the persons to whom he
came, to treat with him.

" Indeed the idea of coming over to propose a plan of reconciliation, is in every

264 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

FORGED LETTER.
TO LUND WASHINGTON.

NEW YORK, i6th July, 1776.
DEAR LUND,

How cruelly are all my hopes in one sad moment blasted and destroyed ! I
am positively ordered to wait for the enemy in our lines ; and lest I should be
mad enough not to obey their mandates, not a single tittle of any thing I had

view absurd and rediculous, for as the Colonies never invaded the rights of
Britain, but only defended their own, there was no occasion at all for negocia-
tion. The moment Great-Britain receded from her unjust claims, the war was
at an end.

" The only proposition, therefore, of a negociation, was a proof that Great
Britain persisted in her encroachments on the rights of the Colonies, and was in
itself an act of a hostile nature.

" On Tuesday another flag from the fleet appeared, and was met as before,
when a letter was again offered, but for the same reason as the former, rejected."
— New England Chronicle, 25 July, 1776.

" On Friday a third flag from the fleet appeared, which we hear brought only
an open letter directed to Miss Margaret Moncrieffe.

" Saturday afternoon our people discovered a fourth flag of truce, whereupon
the Mechanics barge was sent to meet it, and conducted the officer (said to be
Adjutant General of the forces under the command of Lord Howe) to the dwell
ing of Col. Knox, in this city, where his Excellency Gen. Washington, attended
by his body guards, waited his arrival, which was a little past one o'clock : The
interview was short, and the particulars are as yet not made known ; we can
therefore only say, that at parting much courtesy was seen to pass between the
gentlemen who bore the flag, and those of the Continental forces, who had the
honor to be present." — Penn. Ledger, July 27, 1776.

General Howe gave the following account of this matter in a letter to Lord
George Germaine, dated August 6th : —

" The Commander-in-chief of the rebel forces sent me the enclosed letter and
narrative of some past transactions in Canada, which I thought proper to answer
in general terms, directing to ''George Washington, Esq., &<:., &>c., &c.' as
the most unexceptionable mode of address. The officer sent to receive the flag
would not receive my letter, as it did not express his General's titles. In conse
quence of which I sent Lieutenant-Colonel Paterson, adjutant-general, a few
days afterwards to remonstrate upon this, and other circumstances relative to
the usage of General Prescott, and several officers in the enemy's possession, and
to mention an exchange of prisoners. This interview was more polite than in
teresting. However, it induced me to change my superscription for the attain
ment of an end so desirable ; and in this view I flatter myself it will not be
disapproved,"

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 265

asked for, is granted. Thus has a second opportunity of rendering my country
an essential service, in the way of my profession, been unwisely, and in the
most mortifying manner denied me. I profess, I hardly know how to bear it :
having to regret not only, that two opportunities, such as may never again
occur, have been suffered to pass by us unimproved, but that none can happen,
we can improve. Managed as matters are, we neither are, nor ever shall be,
a military people ; and yet, in the train in which things are now put, unless we
are, it were idiotism to hope for either freedom or independence.

I remember well, in a conversation I once had with a friend, now, most
unjustly as unwisely, driven from his friends and his home, on the subject of
monarchies and republics, he objected to the unavoidable slowness and dilatori-
ness of the executive power in the latter. Aiming to answer him in his own
way, I replied that, if popular councils were slow, they yet were sure, and that
in the multitude of counsellors there is safety. His answer was prophetical. If
ever (he said) we of these countries should rashly put these things to the proof
it would be found, that, however true this adage might be in the cabinet, it was
not so in the field. Convinced, by melancholy experience, that this is the case,
and, that without some different system, we shall but expose ourselves to con
tempt and ruin, I resolve this evening honestly & openly to say so to the Con
gress. I will go farther, and add, that if they cannot in fact, as well as in
appearance, trust me with the uncontrouled command of their army, I will no
longer be their puppet. Why should I ? it being now morally certain that by
going on as we have hitherto done, I can neither bring honor nor profit to
them ; and yet am sure to lose all the little of either which I have or might
have, possessed.

I want words to express to you what I have felt, and still do feel on this dis
appointment of all my hopes : I had allowed myself to build too much on my
scheme ; and I seem to be in the situation of one who should be allowed to
rise, on purpose only to be thrown down. The enemy, in the midst of all our
blusterings, must despise us ; and did not shame or some better principle re
strain them, I should be but little surprized to find General Howe, even with
his present little handful attacking us ; yes, attacking us in our entrenchments
— What shall I do ? to retreat is to entail on myself the curses of every public
man in my country ; and to go on is certain ruin and disgrace. Were the
world to know only my true history on this trying occasion, I persuade myself,
all the candid and considerate in it would acquit me of blame. But this the
world can know only by my resolving to tell a tale, which, considering the rank

266 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I now hold in it, must involve my country in such internal broils and quarrels,
as must be fatal to the glorious cause in which we have embarked. And this, I
trust, I shall have the virtue never to do, be my private wrongs and sufferings
ever so great.

I have finished my letter to the Congress, to whom I have, at length, spoken
in a more peremptory tone, than, I fancy, they have been used to. It was
absolutely necessary ; and I should ill deserve their confidence, if through any
mistaken complaisance or diffidence, I hesitated to point out to them the
mischievous consequences of their interference. I have also insisted on precise
instructions in what manner I am to conduct myself towards the British
commissioners, if peradventure, as is possible, their overtures should be made
through me. Their answer will have a great influence on all my future meas
ures ; as I shall then know, (and surely it is time I should) on what ground I
stand. The very decided and adventurous measure, which Congress itself has
just taken is big with the most important consequences, not only to the com
munity at large, but to every man in it. The temper and judgment which they
shall now manifest, on their first avowed assumption of the reins of govern
ment, will be indicative of what we may hereafter expect. Hoping for the
best, I yet will watch them most carefully.

'Tis all fearful expectation ! Every man I see seems to be employed in pre
paring himself for the momentous rencontre, which every man persuades him
self must shortly come on. There is an ostensible eagerness and impetuosity
amongst us, I could willingly have excused : I should have been better pleased
with that steady composure which distinguishes veterans. One thing is in our
favor, the passions of our soldiery are seldom suffered to subside ; being con
stantly agitated by some strange rumor or other. Happen what will, it can
hardly be more extraordinary, than some one or other is perpetually presaging.
And, we have already performed such feats of valor whilst we have no ene
mies to engage but such as our own imaginations manufacture for us, that I
cannot but hope we shall do well, merely because no one ever seems to enter
tain a suspicion that we shall not. I can as yet give no guess, where or when
they will approach us : I conclude, however, that they will hardly stir, till they
are joined by all the men they expect. Desponding as I am, I wish they were
arrived, and that, at this moment they were in a condition to attack us : They
may gain by procrastination, but we are sure to lose.

I wrote to Mrs. Washington, lately, and shall again in a week or two, if I
do not hear of her, ere that in Philadelphia. It has surprized me, that after

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 267

what I wrote she should hesitate. I beg of you, if she be still fearful, to sec
ond my persuasions by every means in your power. Exposed as she must be
to so many interviews with people in the army, all of whom are in the way of
the small-pox, I have the most dreadful apprehensions on her account. I know
not well how the notion came into my head, but it is certain, I have, for several
days, persuaded myself that she is already inoculated, and that out of tender
ness and delicacy, she forbears to inform me of it, till she can also inform me
she is out of danger.

I note sundiy particulars in your letter, to which I am not solicitous to give
you answers. Why, when you have so often asked me in vain, will you press
me for Congress-secrets ? Whatever your or my private sentiments or wishes
may be, it is sufficient for us that we know the highest authority in our country
has declared it free and independent. All that is left for us to do is, so far as
we can, to support this declaration, without too curiously enquiring into either
its wisdom or its justice. I firmly believe, that the advocates for this measure,
meant well ; and I pay them but an ordinary compliment in thinking that they
were fitter to determine on a point of this sort, than either you or I are. At
any rate, the world must allow it to be a spirited measure ; and all I have to
wish for is, that we may support it with a suitable spirit.

I am, my Dear Lund,

Yours most affectionately,

G. W.

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NEW YORK, 17 July, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

Yesterday evening I was favored with your of the
1 2th Instt. with its Several Inclosures.

As to the propriety or impropriety of giving up
Crown Point, and vacating that post, it is impossible
for me to determine. My ignorance of the country,
my unacquaintance with its situation, and a variety
of circumstances, will not permit me to pronounce
any certain opinion upon the subject, or to declare
whether it might or could not be maintained against

268 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

the enemy. I doubt not, that the measure was duly
weighed by the general officers in council, and seemed
to them best calculated to secure the colonies and
prevent the enemy from penetrating into them.
However, I cannot but observe, — though I do not
mean to encourage in the smallest degree, or to give
the least sanction to inferior officers, to set up their
opinions against the proceedings and councils of
their superiors, knowing the dangerous tendency of
such a practice, — that the reasons assigned by the
officers in their remonstrance appear to me forcible
and of great weight. They coincide with my own
ideas. I have ever understood Crown Point to be
an important post, and, from its situation, of the
utmost consequence to us, especially if we mean to
keep the superiority and mastery of the Lake. If it
is abandoned by us, it is natural to suppose the
enemy will possess it. If they do, and my judg
ment does not mislead me, any vessels or galleys we
employ upon the Lake will certainly be in their rear,
and it will not be in our power to bring them down
to Ticonderoga, or the post opposite to it, or from
thence to have the least communication with them,
or the means of granting them succors or supplies
of any kind. Perhaps it is intended to employ the
galleys only on the communication between the two
posts, that of Crown Point and the one now to be
established. How far they would there answer our
views I cannot tell. As I said before, I have not a
sufficient knowledge of the several posts, or the
neighboring country, to form an accurate judgment

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 269

upon the matter, and of consequence do not design
any thing I have said by way of direction, trusting
that whatever is best to advance the interest of the
important struggle we are engaged in will be done.1

I am extremely sorry to have such unfavorable
accounts of the condition of the army. Sickness of
itself is sufficiently bad ; but when discord and dis
order are added, greater misfortunes cannot befall it,
except that of a defeat. While they prevail there
is but little Hopes of Things succeeding well. I
must entreat your attention to these matters, and your
exertions to introduce more discipline, and to do away
the unhappy pernicious distinctions and jealousies
between the troops of different governments. En
join this upon the officers, and let them inculcate, and
press home to the soldiery, the necessity of order and
harmony among them, who are embarked in one
common cause, and mutually contending for all that
freemen hold dear. I am persuaded, if the officers
will but exert themselves, that these animosities and
disorders will in a great measure subside ; and noth
ing being more essential to the service, than that it

1 In a council of officers, consisting of Schuyler, Gates, Sullivan, Arnold,
and Woedtke, convened at Crown Point, July 7th, it was resolved, that the
post was not tenable, and that the army should retire to the strong ground op
posite Ticonderoga, afterwards called Mount Independence. A remonstrance
against this decision was drawn up, and signed by twenty-one of the inferior
officers, at the head of whom were Colonels Stark, Poor, and Maxwell.

The Baron de Woedtke, mentioned above, had been for many years an offi
cer in the army of the King of Prussia, and had risen to the rank of major.
Coming to Philadelphia with strong letters of recommendation to Dr. Frank
lin from persons of eminence in Paris, he was appointed by Congress a
brigadier-general on the i6th of March, and ordered to Canada. He died at
Lake George, about three weeks after the above council was held at Crown
Point, and was buried with the honors due to his rank.

2yo THE WRITINGS OF [1776

should, I am hopefull nothing on their part will be
wanting" to effect it.1

The scarcity of provision which you mention, sur
prises me much. I had hoped, that an ample and
competent supply, for a considerable time, was now
in Store, nor can I but believe, the most lavish & ex
travagant Waste has been made of it. Not longer
than three or four Days ago, & just after the two
Men of War & Tenders passed by, as mentioned in
my last, the situation of the northern Army in Re
spect to this article, occurred to my Mind, & induced
an Inquiry after the Commissary about it, being
certain the Water communication with Albany would
be entirely cut off, & was happy to find from him,
that the supplies he had forwarded with such a Pro
portion of Fresh Meat as could be procured, would
be fully sufficient for 10,000 Men for four Months.
This I informed Congress of, as a most fortunate
Event. To be told now, that there is none, or next
to none, is so contrary to what I expected that I am
filled with Wonder and Astonishment. I have in
formed the Commissary of it, who is equally sur
prised, & must request, as our Navigation is so
circumstanced that you will direct those whose
Business it is, to use every possible Means, to provide
such supplies as may be necessary, & that proper
attention be paid to the Expenditure, or it will be
impossible ever to subsist that Army.

1 Schuyler had written : " The most descriptive pen cannot describe the
condition of our army. Sickness, disorder, and discord reign triumphant —
the latter occasioned by our illiberal and destructive jealousy which unhappily
subsists between the troops raised in different colonies." See Journals of
Congress, 19 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 271

As to intrenching Tools, I have from Time to
Time forwarded all that can possibly be spared.

I have directed the Quarter Master, to send such
Things contained in your List, as can be had & may
be transported by Land. The greatest Part it would
be difficult to procure & if they could be had, it
would be attended with immense Trouble & Expence
to forward them. I must, therefore, entreat your
utmost Diligence and Inquiry to get them, & not
only them but every necessary you want wherever
they may be had. The Water Intercourse being now
at an End, but few supplies can be expected from
hence, & I make not the least Doubt, if active proper
Persons are employed, in many Instances you will be
able to obtain such Articles as you stand in Need of.
I am under the necessity of doing so here, and by much
Pains and Industry have procured many Necessaries.

As for the Articles wanted for the Gondolas, I
should suppose many of them may be purchased of
the Proprietors of Crafts about Albany, & of Per
sons who have vessels there, by allowing them a good
Price. The Communication by Water being now
stop'd they cannot employ them, & I presume may
be prevailed on to part with most of their Tackle for
a good Consideration.

I transmitted Congress a copy of your Letter and
of its several Inclosures, & recommended to their
particular attention, the Resolution No. 6, for raising
six companies to guard the Frontiers, & the high
Price of Goods furnished the soldiery, & that some
Measures might be taken thereon.

There is a Resolve of Congress against officers

272 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

holding double Commissions, & of long standing,
none are allowed it except Adjutants & Quarter
Masters. They generally are, also first or second
Lieutenants. In this Army there is no Instance of
double offices, but in the cases I mention.

The Carpenters from Philadelphia, unfortunately
had not Time to cret their Tools &c. on Board a

o

Craft here before the Men-of-War got up. They set
out by Land next Day, and I suppose will be at
Albany in the course of this Week, as also two Com
panies from Connecticut.

I have enquired of Mr. Hughes, & find that the
six Anchors & Cables were on Board Capn. Peter
Post's Vessel belonging to Esopus ; who, upon the
first appearance of the Fleet coming above the Nar
rows, went off without taking the necessaries brought
by Captain Douw. Mr. Hughes says, Captain Douw
who brought you the Lead, had Orders to get them.

I have inclosed you a List of the naval articles the
Qr. Master expects to obtain & send from hence,
which will evince the Necessity of your Exertions to
get the Rest elsewhere. Many of the articles, I
should suppose may be made at Albany & within the
neighborhood of it.

I am in hopes, in consequence of your application,
the different governments will take some steps for
apprehending deserters. It is a growing evil, and I
wish it may be remedied. From the northern army
they have been extremely numerous, and they should
most certainly be returned if they can be found. How
far the mode suggested by you may answer, the event

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 273

will show ; but I am doubtful whether many will re
turn of themselves.

I fancy a Part of your Letter was omitted to be
sent. When you come to speak of Deserters, what
I have on the subject begins a new sheet and seems
to suppose something preceding about them. After
requesting Mr. Hughes to be spoke to about the
Anchors, &c., the next page begins "unanimously
agreed that I should write &c."

You will perceive by the enclosed Resolve, Congress
mean to raise the Garrison for Presque Isle, &c., in
the counties of Westmoreland & Bedford in Pennsyl
vania. I am, Sir, &c.

July i8th, 10 o'clock, ante Meridien.

P. S. I have this minute spoke to Mr. Trumbull
again about Provisions, & pressed his most vigorous
Exertions ; I believe he is determined to leave nothing
undone on his Part, & has already sent off some
Persons upon the Business, of which I suppose he
will inform you or Mr. Livingston.1

1 "Although the General is very sensible that the great fatigue duty of this Army
(which he is highly pleased to see the officers and men go through with so
much cheerfulness and zeal) does not allow much time for manceuv'ring and
exercising the troops ; yet it is a matter of so much consequence to have them
as well practised as time and circumstances will admit ; that he earnestly recom
mends it to the Brigadiers, Colonels or commanding officers of Regiments to
take time for that purpose, and particularly to have the men instructed and
practise, the Evolutions, Manceuv'ring and as much of the Manual Exercise, as
respects loading, and firing, not only with quickness but calmness.

" Two Guns fired from Cobble-hill on Long Island, are to be the signal that
the enemy have landed on that Island.

"Complaints having frequently been made, that the Sentries, especially
those along the river fire wantonly at boats and persons passing, Officers of
Guards are to be careful upon this head, and acquaint the Sentries that they are
not to fire upon boats coming to the town ; and that they are not to molest or
interrupt the Ferry-Boats." — Orderly Book, 18 July, 1776.

274 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE COMMITTEE OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK.1
HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 19 July, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

I enclose you a copy of a resolution of the Con
vention of the State of New York, dated the i6th
instant, recommending it to all the general and sub
committees, to apprehend and secure all those persons,
whose going at large at this critical time, they may
deem dangerous to the safety of the State. As this
city is hourly threatened with an attack from a power
ful enemy, and as there is too much reason to appre
hend from their vicinity to this city, and from the
number of suspicious characters still in it, that they
may receive intelligence, which may counteract all
my operations for its defence, I strongly recommend
it to you, to remove, for some time, all equivocal and
suspicious characters. This appears to me to be the
spirit of the resolution of the Provincial Convention ;
and the propriety of it is founded on the law of self-
preservation, and confirmed by the practice of all
nations in a state of war.

1 The Convention was now sitting at White Plains. The following resolution
was passed on the I5th, and transmitted to General Washington : " Resolved
unanimously, that it is the opinion of this Convention, that, if his Excellency
General Washington should think it expedient for the preservation of this State,
and the general interest of America, to abandon the city of New York and with
draw the troops to the north side of Kingsbridge, this Congress will cheerfully
cooperate with him in every measure, that may be necessary for that purpose."
In acknowledging it he wrote, July lyth : "Your letter of the I5th instant,
covering the resolution of the same date, was duly received, which I beg leave
to say was noble, and does honor to your respectable body. It likewise adds
a farther proof of your determination to afford me all possible assistance, in
discharging the important duties of my office. It is impossible to say what
may be necessary, but I shall conduct myself as the exigences of the case may
require, and I doubt not your cheerful aid and assistance will be rendered when
ever called for."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 275

I esteem it my duty to add my recommendation to
that of the Convention, that if, through an ill-timed
lenity, my attempts to secure this province should be
baffled, the blame of it may not be imputed to my
want of vigilance. I have enclosed a list of persons
represented as dangerous. As I can only speak from
information, I must rely upon your taking proper steps
with them ; unless, from your better knowledge, you
determine them to be of different characters from
that represented. I am, Gentlemen, &C.1

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 19 July, 1776.

SIR,

I have been duly honored with your favors of the
1 6th & 1 7th with the several Resolves they con
tained, to the execution of which so far as shall be
in my power, I will pay proper attention.

1 Great vigilance was used in taking up disaffected persons, and such as gave
indications of going over to the enemy. General Greene, who was stationed
on Long Island, gave the following humorous account of an adventure of this
sort under his command : "I have examined the prisoners, and find them to be
a poor parcel of ignorant, cowardly fellows. Two are tailors, and the other
two common laborers. They candidly confess, that they set off with an inten
tion of going to Staten Island ; not with any intention of joining the enemy,
but only to get out of the way of fighting here. There has been a draft amongst
the militia to fill the new levies, and it was rumored that these persons were
drawn. It was also reported, that they were to go to the northern army, and
that almost all that went there either died or were killed. The prospect was
so shocking to them, and to their grandmothers and aunts, that I believe they
were persuaded to run away. Never did I see fellows more frightened. They
wept like children, and appeared exceeding sorrowful. I beg your Excellency's
direction how to dispose of them. They do not appear to be acquainted with
one public matter. They have been toryish ; I fancy not from principle, but
from its being the prevailing sentiment in the county."

276 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

In my Letter of the i7th I transmitted you a Copy
of one from Genl Schuyler and of its several Inclo-
sures. I confess the determination of the Council of
General Officers on the 7th to retreat from Crown
Point surprized me much, and the more I consider it
the more striking does the impropriety appear. The
reasons assigned against it by the Field Officers in
their remonstrance, coincide greatly with my own
Ideas, and those of the other General Officers I have
had an opportunity of consulting with, and seem
to be of considerable weight, — I may add con
clusive. I am not so fully acquainted with the
Geography of that country and the situation of the
different posts as to pronounce a peremptory Judge
ment upon the matter, but if my ideas are right, the
possession of Crown Point is essential to give us the
superiority and mastery upon the Lake. That the
Enemy will possess it as soon as abandoned by us,
there can be no doubt, and if they do, whatever Gal-
lies or force we keep on the Lake, will be unques
tionably in their rear. How they are to be supported
there, or what succor can be drawn from 'em there,
is beyond my comprehension. Perhaps it is only
meant, that they shall be employed on the communi
cation between that and Ticonderoga. If this is the
case, I fear the views of Congress will not be
answered, nor the salutary effects be derived from
them that were Intended. I have mentioned my sur
prize to General Schuyler, and would by the advice
of the Generals here have directed, that that post
should be maintained, had it not been for two causes ;

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 277

An apprehension that the Works have been destroyed,
and that if the Army should be ordered from Ticon-
deroga or the post opposite to it, where I presume
they are, to repossess it, they would have neither
one place or another secure and in a defensible state.
The other, lest it might encrease the Jealousy and
diversity in Opinions which seem already too preva
lent in that Army, and establish a precedent for the
Inferior Officers to set up their Judgements when
ever they would, in opposition to those of their
superiors — a matter of great delicacy, and that might
lead to fatal consequences, if countenanced ; tho' in
the present instance I could wish their reasoning has
prevailed. If the Army has not removed, what I
have said to General Schuyler may perhaps bring on
a reconsideration of the matter and it may not be
too late to take measures for maintaining that post
but of this I have no hope.

In consequence of the resolve of Congress for
three of the Eastern Regiments to reinforce the
Northern Army I wrote General Ward and, by ad
vice of my General Officers, directed them to march
to Norwich and there to embark for Albany, con
ceiving that two valuable purposes might result
therefrom : — First, that they would sooner Join the
Army by pursuing this Route and be saved from dis
tress and fatigue that must attend every long March
thro' the country at this hot uncomfortable season ;
and secondly, that they might give succor here in case
the Enemy should make an Attack about the Time
of their passing : But the Enemy having now with

278 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

their Ships of War and Tenders cut off the water
communication from hence to Albany, I have wrote
this day and directed them to proceed by Land across
the Country. If Congress disapprove the route, or
wish to give any orders about them, you will please
to certifye me, thereof, that I may take measures
accordingly.1

Enclosed I have the honor to transmit you copies
of a letter and sundry resolutions, which I received
yesterday from the Convention of this State.2 By
them you will perceive they have been acting upon
matters of great importance, and are exerting them
selves in the most vigorous manner to defeat the
wicked designs of the enemy, and such disaffected
persons as may incline to assist and facilitate their
views. In compliance with their request, and on
account of the scarcity of money for carrying their
salutary views into execution, I have agreed to lend
them, out of the small stock now in hand (not more
than sixty thousand dollars), twenty thousand dol
lars, as a part of what they want ; which they promise
speedily to replace. Had there been money sufficient

l' ' ' Resolved, That General Washington be informed that Congress have
such an entire confidence in his judgment, that they will give him no particu
lar directions about the disposition of the troops, but desire that he will dis
pose of those at New York, the flying camp, and Ticonderoga, as to him shall
seem most conducive to the public good." — Journals, 23 July, 1776.

a Resolutions for calling out one fourth part of the militia of the counties of
Westchester, Dutchess, Ulster, and Orange, for the defence of the State ; to be
engaged till the last day of December, and each man to receive a bounty of
twenty dollars, and Continental pay and subsistence. They were to be
stationed in the Highlands, and in the vicinity below, to guard the defiles and
prevent incursions of the enemy from Hudson's River. General Washington
was requested to appoint a commander of these levies. He appointed General
George Clinton.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 279

for paying the whole of our troops and not more, 1
could not have done it. But as it was otherwise, and
by no means proper to pay a part and not the whole,
I could not foresee any inconveniences that would
attend the loan ; on the contrary, that it might con
tribute in some degree to forward their schemes. I

o

hope my conduct in this instance will not be disap
proved.

I enclosed Governor Trumbull a copy of their
letter, and of their several resolves by Colonel
Broome and Mr. Duer, two members of the Conven
tion, who are gfoinof to wait on him ; but did not

o o

think myself at liberty to urge or request his interest
in forming the camp of six thousand men, as the
levies, directed by Congress to be furnished the 3d of
June for the defence of this place by that govern
ment, are but little more than one third come in. At
the same time, the proposition I think a good one, if
it could be carried into execution. In case the enemy
should attempt to effect a landing above Kingsbridge,
and to cut off the communication between this city
and the country, an army to hang on their rear would
distress them exceedingly.

I have the honor to be, &C.1

P. S. The enclosed paper should have been sent
before but was omitted thro' hurry.

P. S. After I had closed my Letter I received one
from Genl Ward, a copy of which is herewith Trans
mitted. I have wrote him to forward the Two Regi-
mts. now at Boston by the most direct road to

1 Read July 2oth. Referred to Board of War.

2 So THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Ticonderoga, as soon as they are well, with the
utmost expedition, & consider their having had the
small pox as a fortunate circumstance — When the
three arrive which have marched for Norwich, I shall
immediately send one of 'em on, if Congress shall
judge it expedient, of which you will please to
Inform me.1

TO MAJOR-GENERAL GATES, TICONDEROGA.

NEW YORK, 19 July, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I expected ere this to have heard from you ; and I
will open the correspondence by expressing my
exceeding great concern, on account of the determi
nation of your board of general officers to retreat
from Crown Point to Ticonderoga, assigning, con
trary to the opinion of all your field-officers, for
reason, that the former place is not tenable with your
present force, or the force expected.

My concern arises from information, and a firm
belief, that your relinquishing Crown Point is in its
consequence a relinquishment of the Lakes, and
all the advantages to be derived therefrom ; for it
does not admit of a doubt, that the enemy will, if
possible, possess themselves of that pass (which is a
key to all these colonies), the moment you leave it,
and thereby confine your vessels to the narrow part
of the Lake in front of that post ; or, by having them

1 " Resolved, that General Washington be impowered to order the regiment
lately raised in Connecticut under the command of Col. Ward, wheresoever he
shall think the service requires it." — Journals of Congress, 29 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 281

in the rear of it, cut off all kind of supplies from and all
intercourse between your camp and them, securing- by
this means a free and uninterrupted passage into the
three New England governments for invasion thereof.

Nothing but a belief, that you have actually
removed the army from Crown Point to Ticonderoga,
and demolished the works at the former, and the fear
of creating dissensions, and encouraging a spirit of
remonstrating against the conduct of superior officers
by inferiors, has prevented me, by advice of general
officers, from directing the post at Crown Point to be
held, till Congress should decide upon the propriety
of its evacuation. As the case stands, I can give no
order in the matter, lest between two opinions neither
of the places are put into such a posture of defence, as
to resist an advancing enemy. I must however express
my sorrow at the resolution of your council, and wish
that it had never happened, as every body who
speaks of it also does, and that the measure could
yet be changed with propriety.

We have the enemy full in view ; but their opera
tions are to be suspended, till the reinforcement
(hourly expected) arrives, when I suppose there will
soon be pretty warm work. Lord Howe is arrived.
He and the General, his brother, are appointed com
missioners to dispense pardons to repenting sinners.
My compliments to the gentlemen with you of my
acquaintance. I am, dear Sir, &C.1

1 In reply to this letter, after stating the reasons for evacuating Crown Point,
General Gates added ; "It would be to the last degree improper to order re
inforcements to Crown Point, or even hither, until obliged by the most pressing
emergency ; as that would only be heaping one hospital upon another. Those

282 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 22 July, 1776.

SIR,

Your favors of the i8th & iQth with which you
have been pleased to honor me have been duly re
ceived with the Several Resolves alluded to.

troops, when they arrive, are all ordered to halt at Skenesborough. Every
thing about this army is infected with the pestilence ; the clothes, the blankets,
the air, and the ground they walk upon. To put this evil from us, a general
hospital is established at Fort George, where there are now between two and
three thousand sick, and where every infected person is immediately sent. But
this care and caution have not effectually destroyed the disease here ; it is not
withstanding continually breaking out.

" Our little fleet already built is equipping under the direction of General
Arnold with all the industry, which his activity and good example can inspire.
As fast as they are fitted, they are sent to Crown Point, where the sixth battalion
of the Pennsylvanians, commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Hartley, is posted.
Three hundred men and officers have been drafted from the corps here to man
the vessels ; one half seamen, the other to act as marines. As soon as all the
vessels and gondolas are equipped, General Arnold has offered to go to Crown
Point and take the command of them. This is exceedingly pleasing to me, as
he has a perfect knowledge of maritime affairs, and is, besides, a most deserving
and gallant officer. The command of the water is of the last importance, for
should the enemy ever get a naval force superior to ours upon the Lake, the
command thereof is theirs, let who will possess Crown Point. As to their pene
trating the eastern governments, they may attempt that by Onion River, which
empties itself into Missisque Bay, sixty miles below Crown Point." — MS. Let
ter, Ticonderoga, July 2gth.

In the same letter General Gates took occasion to reflect in a manner some
what extraordinary upon the opinions of the general officers in Washington's
army. " I must now take the liberty," he writes, " to animadvert a little upon
the unprecedented behaviour of the members of your council to their compeers
in this department. They, Sir, having very ample supplies at hand, make no
allowance for the misfortunes and wants of this army, nor for the delay and
difficulty that attend the procuring of every thing here. Had we a healthy
army, four times the number of the enemy, our magazines full, our artillery
complete, stores of every kind in profuse abundance, with vast and populous
towns and country close at hand to supply our wants, your Excellency would
hear no complaints from this army ; and the members of your council, our
brethren and compeers, would have as little reason then, as they have now, to
censure the conduct of those, who are in nothing inferior to themselves."

General Gates had written, July i6th, that since the beginning of May the

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 283

When the letter and declaration, from Lord Howe
to Mr. Franklin and the other late governors, come
to be published, I should suppose the warmest advo
cates for dependence on the British crown must be
silent, and be convinced beyond all possibility of
doubt, that all that has been said about the Commis
sioners was illusory, and calculated expressly to cle-

loss sustained in the northern army from the enemy, and by death and desertion,
amounted to more than five thousand men, and that three thousand were then
sick.

" The General has great pleasure in communicating to the officers, and
soldiers of this Army, the Signal success of the American Arms under General
Lee at South Carolina. The enemy having attempted to land at the same time,
that a most furious Cannonade for twelve hours was made upon the Fortifica
tions near Charlestown : Both Fleet and Army have been repulsed with great
loss by a small number of gallant troops just raised. The enemy have had one
hundred and seventy-two men killed and wounded, among whom were several
officers ; Two capital Ships much damaged, one Frigate of Twenty-eight Guns
being entirely lost being abandoned and blown up by the Crew, and others so
hurt that they will want great repair before they will be fit for service ; And all
with a loss on our part of ten killed and twenty-two wounded. The Firmness,
Courage and Bravery of our Troops, has crown'd them with immediate Honor.
The dying Heroes conjured their Brethren never to abandon the Standard of
Liberty, and even those who had lost their limbs continued at their posts.
Their Gallantry and spirit extorted applause from their enemies, who dejected
and defeated have retired to their former station, out of the reach of our troops.

" This glorious example of our Troops, under the like circumstance with us,
The General hopes will animate every officer, and soldier, to imitate and even
out do them, when the enemy shall make the same attempt on us ; with such a
bright example before us of what can be done by brave and spirited men fight
ing in defence of their country, we shall be loaded with a double share of Shame
and Infamy, if we do not acquit ourselves with Courage, or a determined Reso
lution to conquer or die : With this hope and Confidence, and that this Army
will have its equal share of honour, and Success ; the General most earnestly
exhorts every officer and soldier to pay the utmost attention to his Arms, and
health ; to have the former in the best order for action, and by cleanliness and
care to preserve the latter ; to be exact in their discipline, obedient to their
Superiors and vigilant on duty : With such preparation and a suitable Spirit
there can be no doubt that by the Blessing of Heaven we shall repel our cruel
Invaders, preserve our Country and gain the greatest Honor." — Orderly Book,
21 July, 1776.

284 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

ceive and put off their guard, not only the good
people of our own country, but those of the English
nation, that were averse to the proceedings of the
King and ministry. Hence we see the cause why a
specification of their powers was not given to the
mayor and city of London, on their address requesting
it. That would have been dangerous, because it
would then [have] been manifest, that the line of
conduct they were to pursue would be totally variant
from that they had industriously propagated, and
amused the public with. The uniting the civil and
military offices in the same persons, too, must be
conclusive to every thinking one, that there is to be
but little negotiation of the civil kind.

I have enclosed, for the satisfaction of Congress,
the substance of what passed between myself and
Lieutenant-Colonel Patterson, adjutant-general, at an
interview had yesterday in consequence of a request
from General Howe the day before ; to which I beg
leave to refer them for particulars.1

1 PHILADELPHIA, July 27, 1776.

The following is an exact state of what passed at the interview between his
Excellency General WASHINGTON and Colonel PATTERSON, Adjutant General
of the army under General Howe, July 20, 1776.

After usual compliments, in which, as well as through the whole conversation,
Colonel Patterson addressed General Washington by the title of Excellency,
Col. Patterson entered upon the business by saying, that General Howe much
regretted the difficulties which had arisen respecting the address of the letters
to General Washington ; that it was deemed consistent with propriety, and
founded upon precedents of the like nature by Ambassadors and Plenipoten
tiaries where disputes or difficulties of rank had arisen ; that General Washing
ton might recollect he had, last summer, addressed a letter to General Howe,
To the Hon. William Howe, Esq.; that Lord Howe and General Howe did
not mean to derogate from the respective rank of General Washington ; that
they held his person and character in the highest esteem ; that the direction,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 285

Colonel Knox of the train having often mentioned
to me the necessity of having a much more numerous
body of artillerists, than what there now is, in case

with the addition of &c, &c. &c. implied everything that ought to follow. He
then produced a letter which he did not directly offer to General Washington,
but observed that it was the same letter which had been sent, and laid it on the
table, with a superscription to George Washington, &c. &c. &c. The General
declined the letter, and said, that a letter directed to a person in a public char
acter, should have some description or indication of it, otherwise it would ap
pear a mere private letter ; that it was true the &c. &c. &c. implied everything,
and they also implied anything ; that the letter to General Howe alluded to,
was an answer to one received under a like address from him, which the officer
on duty having taken, he did not think proper to return, but answered in the
same mode of address ; that he should absolutely decline any letter directed to
him as a private person, when it related to his public station. Colonel Patter
son then said, that General Howe would not urge his delicacy further, and re
peated his assertions, that no failure of respect was intended. He then said he
would endeavor, as well as he could, to recollect General Howe's sentiments on
the letter and resolves of Congress, sent him a few days before, respecting the
treatment of our prisoners in Canada. " That the affairs of Canada were in
another department, not subject to the control of General Howe, but that he
and Lord Howe utterly disapproved of every infringement of the rights of hu
manity." Colonel Patterson then took a paper out of his pocket ; and, after
looking it over, said he had expressed nearly the words. General Washington
then said that he had also forwarded a copy of the resolves to General Bui-
goyne. To which Colonel Patterson replied he did not doubt a proper attention
would be paid to them, and that he (General Washington) was sensible that
cruelty was not the characteristic of the British nation. Colonel Patterson then
proceeded to say he had it in charge to mention the case of General Prescott,
who, they were informed was treated with such rigor, that, under his age and
infirmities, fatal consequences might be apprehended.

General Washington replied that General Prescott's treatment had not fallen
under his notice ; that all persons under his particular direction, he had treated
with kindness, and made their situation as easy and comfortable as possible ;
that he did not know where General Prescott was, but believed his treatment
very different from their information. General Washington then mentioned
the case of Colonel Allen, and the officers who had been confined in Boston
gaol. As to the first, Colonel Patterson answered that General Howe had no
knowledge of it but by information from General Washington, and that the
Canada department was not under his direction or control ; that as to the other
prisoners at Boston, whenever the state of the army at Boston admitted it, they
were treated with humanity and even indulgence ; that he asserted this upon
his honor, and should be happy in an opportunity to prove it.

286 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

the present contest should continue longer, and know
ing the deficiency in this instance, and their extreme
usefulness, I desired him to commit his ideas upon

General Washington then observed, that the conduct of several of the officers
would well have warranted a different treatment from what they had received ;
some having refused to give any parole, and others having broke it when given,
by escaping or endeavoring so to do. Colonel Patterson answered, that as to
the first, they misunderstood the matter very much, and seemed to have mis
took the line of propriety exceedingly ; and as to the latter, General Howe
utterly disapproved and condemned their conduct.

That if a remonstrance was made, such violations of good faith would be
severely punished ; but that he hoped General Washington was too just to draw
public inferences from the misbehavior of some private individuals ; that bad
men were to be found in every class and society ; that such behavior was con
sidered as a dishonor to the British army. Col. Patterson then proceeded to say,
that the goodness and benevolence of the King had induced him to appoint
Lord Howe and General Howe his commissioners, to accommodate this un
happy dispute, that they had great powers, and would derive the greatest pleas
ure from effecting an accommodation ; and that he (Colonel Patterson) wished
to have this visit considered as making the first advances to this desirable
object. General Washington replied, he was not vested with any powers on
this subject by those from whom he derived his authority and power. But
from what had appeared or transpired on this head, Lord Howe and General
Howe were only to grant pardons ; that those who had committed no fault
wanted no pardon, that we were only defending what we deemed our indisput
able right. Colonel Patterson said that would open a very wide field for argu
ment. He then expressed his apprehensions that an adherence to forms was
likely to obstruct business of the greatest moment and concern.

He then observed that a proposal had been formerly made of exchanging Gov
ernor Skene for Mr. Lovell ; that he now had authority to accede to that pro
posal. General Washington replied, that the proposition had been made by the
direction of Congress, and having been then rejected, he could not now renew
the business, or give any answer, till he had previously communicated it to them.

Colonel Patterson behaved with the greatest attention and politeness during
the whole business, expressed strong acknowledgements that the usual cere
mony of blinding his eyes had been dispensed with. At the breaking up of the
conference, General Washington strongly invited him to partake of a small col
lation provided for him, which he politely declined, alledging his late breakfast,
and an impatience to return to General Howe, though he had not executed his
commission so amply as he wished. Finding he did not propose staying, he
was introduced to the general officers, after which he took his leave, and was
safely conducted to his own boat, which waited for him about, four miles dis
tant from the city. Made public by order of Congress.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 287

the subject to writing, in order that I might transmit
them to Congress for their consideration. Agreeably
to my request, he has done it ; and the propriety of
his plan is now submitted for their decision. It is
certain, that we have no more at this time than are
sufficient for the several extensive posts we now have,
including the drafts which he speaks of, and which,
I presume, not only from what he has informed me,
but from the nature of the thing, can never be quali
fied to render the same service, as if they were regu
larly appointed and formed into a corps for that par
ticular purpose.

I beg leave to remind Congress, that some time
ago I laid before them the proposals of some persons
here for forming a company of light-horse ; and of the
President's answer, a little time after, intimating that
the plan seemed to be approved of. As those, who
wanted to make up the troop, are frequently pressing
me for an answer, I could wish to be favored with the
decision of Congress upon the subject.

By a letter from General Schuyler, of the i4th in
stant, dated at Albany, he informs me, that, the day
before, some desperate designs of the Tories in that
quarter had been discovered, the particulars of which
he could not divulge, being under an oath of secrecy ;
however, that such measures had been taken, as to
promise a prevention of the intended mischief ; and
that four of the conspirators, among them a ring
leader, were apprehended about one o'clock that
morning, not far from the town. What the plot was,
or who were concerned in it, is a matter I am igno-

288 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

rant of as yet. With my best regards to Congress,
I have the honor to be your and their most obedient
servant.

P. S. Congress will please to observe what was
proposed respecting the exchange of Mr. Lovell, and
signify their pleasure in your next. The last week's
return is also Inclosed.1

FORGED LETTER.

TO LUND WASHINGTON.

NEW YORK, July 22, 1776.

I wish I could say I thoroughly approved of all the new regulations in the
new institution of government in my native state. It could, however, hardly
have been expected that a reformation so capital and comprehensive should be
perfect at first ; the wonder is, it is not still more exceptionable. My heart
glows with unusual warmth when I advert, as I often do, to that pure and dis
interested ardor which must have animated the bulk of my countrymen
throughout the whole of this controversy. There may be exceptions amongst
us, and no doubt, there are ; but it is not fair to infer this from our uncommon
impetuosity and violence. This one would wish restrained, but, by no means
extirpated ; for is it not the effect of a highly agitated spirit ; the mere effer
vescence of good principles thrown into a state of strong fermentation ? And,
surely, even, precipitency is preferable to the spirit-breaking cautions of chill
despondency. Yet I am no advocate, in general, either for rash measures, or
rash men ; but at such a conjuncture as this, men had need to be stimulated by
some more active principle than cool and sober reason. They must be enthu
siasts, or they will continue to be slaves.

1 Read July 230!.

" It being represented to the General that many Regiments would at this Sea
son chuse to lessen their Rations of Meat, and supply it with Vegetables, if
they could be permitted ; His concern for the Health of the troops and desire
to gratify them in every reasonable request, induces him to direct, that the Colo
nels of such Regiments, as choose to adopt this plan, signify it to the Commis
sary General, and in two days afterwards the Quarter Master of such Regiment,
be allowed to draw one quarter part of the usual Rations in Money, to be laid
out in Vegetables for his Regiment." — Orderly Book, 22 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 289

I give this in answer to my friend Mr. Carter's objections to the first proce
dures of the new government. No doubt, Henry is, in many respects, the
unfittest man in the State for Governor of Virginia. He has no property, no
learning, but little good sense, and still less virtue or public spirit ; but he is
the idol of the people ; and as it is by their means only that you can hope to
effect the grand schemes which you have meditated you must humor them,
and indulge them with their rattle. They will soon tire of him ; and the op
portunity must then be watched gently to lead them to a better choice ; for
they may be led, though they cannot be driven. And though it be alas ! but
too true, that they often mistake their real interests, I am of opinion they never
mistake them long. Sooner or later, they will judge and act from their settled
feelings, and these I take it are generally founded in their settled interests.
When great enterprises are to be performed, we may well dispense with some
errors in judgment ; when without that, we have, in its stead, that which per
haps we could not have with it ; I mean, that undisciplined ardor which is
infinitely better adapted to our purposes.

There cannot be a more striking instance that the judgment of the people
may, in general, be safely trusted, in the long run, than is to be met with in
Virginia. Very few countries have to boast of more men of respectable under
standings ; I know of none that can produce a family, all of them distinguished
as clever men, like our Lees. They are all of them the very men one would
wish for to take the lead of a willing multitude ; for they are certainly men of
shining talents, and their talents are of that particular kind which usually ren
der men popular. No men are more so, than the men in question once were.
It is obvious, this is no longer the case ; and the reason must be that they are
no longer worthy of it with all their cleverness, they are selfish in the extreme.
The people, at length, found this out ; or, no doubt, R. H. Lee would have
now been governor, the grand object of all his aims.

You would be mortified to hear the criticisms which are common here
on Henry's inauguration speech. It is, indeed, a poor and pitiful perform
ance ; and yet I can believe that set off by his smooth and oily delivery,
it would appear clever when he spoke it. Why did he not ask Mr. Page
to prepare it for him ? There is not a man in America more capable. The
Counsellors of State are certainly irreproachable, and will do honor to those
who appointed them. I am particularly pleased with the success of my honest
brother-in-law Bat Dandridge ; and the pleasure is not lessened by the assu
rance he makes me, that my letters were serviceable to him, there being but

2 9o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

few men whom I love more than I do him. As you are soon to go down the
country, you will see him ; and therefore spare me the trouble of writing
particularly to him. My friends must now be be so indulgent to me, as to
wave the matter of compliment : I think myself happy, whenever I can write,
as I should on urgent business. You know how ticklish my situation is ; little
as one would think there is to be envied in it, I yet am envied. And though,
in all good reason, their fears should take a direct contrary course, there
are who are for ever suggesting suspicions and jealousies of the army and its
commander. My own heart assures me I mean them no ill : however if I
really have the influence and ascendency which they suppose, I will for their
sakes as well as my own, hereafter maintain it at some little cost. A thousand
considerations determine me to strain every nerve to prevent the army's being
under any other controul whilst I live. Let a persuasion of the necessity of
this, if occasion should arise, be seasonably urged in my native state ; and in
the mean while, let some more than ordinary pains be taken to make me
popular. Their own honor and interest are both concerned in my being so.
Shew this to Mr. Dandridge ; and, as you both can enter into my meaning,
even from the most distant hints, I can rest satisfied that you will do every
thing I wish you.

We have lately had a general review ; and I have much pleasure in inform
ing you, that we made a better appearance, and went through our exercises
more like soldiers than I had expected. The Southern states are rash and
blamable in the judgment they generally form of their brethren of the four
New England states ; I do assure you, with all my partiality for my own
countrymen, and prejudices against them, I cannot but consider them as the
flower of the American Army. They are a strong, vigorous, and hardy people,
inured to labor and toil ; which our people seldom are. And though our
hot and eager spirits may, perhaps, suit better in a sudden and desperate
enterprise ; yet in the way in which wars are now carried on, you must look
for permanent advantages only from that patient and persevering temper,
which is the result of a life of labor. The New Englanders are cool, considerate,
and sensible ; whilst we are all fire and fury: like their climate, they maintain
an equal temperature, where as we cannot shine, but we burn. They have a
uniformity and stability of character, to which the people of no other states
have any pretension ; hence they must, and will always preserve their influence
in this great Empire. Were it not for the drawbacks and the disadvantages,
which the influence of their popular opinions, on the subject of government,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 291

have over their army, they soon might, and probably would, give law to it.
If General Putnam had the talents of Mr. S. Adams, or Mr. Adams had his,
perhaps, even at this moment, this had not been matter of conjecture. But
Putnam is a plain, blunt, undesigning old fellow, whose views reach no further
than the duties of his profession, he is, indeed, very ignorant ; yet, I find him
a useful officer ; and chiefly because he neither plagues me nor others, with
wrangling claims of privileges. I owe him too no small acknowledgments, for
the fairness of his accounts. I could open to you some strange scenes in this
way. Some people seem to have gotten such a habit of cheating government,
that, though sufficiently conscientious in other respects, they really are far less
scrupulous in their manner of charging than, I think, becomes them. — But, as
I have often told you, General Mercer is the man, on whom these states must
rest their hopes. The character that one of his countrymen gave to the Pre
tender, fits him exactly ; " He is the most cautious man I ever saw, not to be
a coward ; and the bravest not to be rash." In my judgment, he is not
inferior to General Lee, in military knowledge ; and in almost every thing
else, he is, infinitely, his superior. Yet the overbearing virtues of this last
named gentleman are useful to us, especially at our setting out : we wanted
not the sober and slow deductions of argument and reason ; and Lee, like the
author of Common Sense, has talents perfectly formed to dazzle and confound.
I thank you for your care in making the remittances you mention to Messrs.
Carey & Co. I sincerely wish they may arrive safe ; as I certainly owe it to them,
to take every step in my power to make them easy. There is a pleasure in
doing as one ought, in little as well as great affairs ; but, in my present cir
cumstances, I should often want this pleasure, were it not for your affectionate
assiduity, and truly friendly attention. God bless you, my dear friend, for
every instance of your care and concern for me.

I am, &c —

G. W.

TO JOHN AUGUSTINE WASHINGTON.

NEW YORK, 22 July, 1776.

DEAR BROTHER,

Whether you wrote to me or I to you last, I can
not undertake to say ; but as it is some time since a
Letter has passed between us, and as I expect every

29 2 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

hour to be engaged in too busy a Scene to allow time
for writing private Letters, I will take an opportunity
by this day's post to address to you a few lines,
giving a brief acct. of the situation of affairs in this
Quarter.

To begin, then, we have a powerful Fleet within
full view of us, distant about eight miles. We have
General Howe's present army, consisting, by good
report, of abt eight or nine thousand men upon
Staten Island, covered by their Ships. We have
Lord Howe just arrived, (that is about 10 days ago)
and we have ships now popping In, which we suppose
but do not know, to be part of the Fleet with the ex
pected Reinforcements. When this arrives, if the
Report of Deserters, Prisoners, and Tories are to be
depended upon, the Enemy's numbers will amount at
least to twenty-five thousand men ; ours to about
fifteen thousand. More, indeed, are expected, but
there is no certainty of their arrival, as Harvest and
a thousand other excuses are urged for the Reasons
of delay. What kind of opposition we shall be able
to make, time only can show. I can only say, that
the men appear to be in good spirits, and, if they
will stand by me, the place shall not be carried
without some loss, notwithstanding we are not yet in
such a posture of defence as I could wish.

Two ships, to wit : the Phoenix of forty-four Guns,
and Rose of twenty, run by our Batteries on the
1 2th, exhibiting a proof of what I had long most
religiously believed ; and that is, that a Vessel, with
a brisk wind and strong tide, cannot, unless by a

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 293

chance shott, be stopped by a Battery, without you
could place some obstruction in the Water to impede
her motion within reach of your Guns.1 We do not
know that these ships received any capital Injury.
In their Rigging- they were somewhat damaged, and
several shot went through their Hulls ; but few if
any Lives were lost. They now, with three Tenders,
which accompanied them, lye up the North or
Hudson's River, abt. forty miles above this place,
and have totally cut off all communication, by water,
between this city and Albany, and between this army
and ours upon the Lakes. They may have had other
motives inducing them to run up the River, such
as supplying the Tories with arms, etc., etc., but such
a vigilant watch has hitherto been kept upon them,
that I fancy they have succeeded but indifferently in
those respects, notwithstanding this country abounds
in disaffected Persons of the most diabolical disposi
tions and Intentions, as you may have perceived
by the several publications in the gazettes, relative to
their designs of destroying this army by treachery
and Bribery, which was providentially discovered.

1 On July 2ist (Sunday) Duer of the Provincial Congress consulted with
Washington at White Plains concerning obstructions to be placed in the
Hudson river opposite to Mount Washington. The General expressed himself
"extremely anxious" about this, and "measures are daily used for executing
that purpose." " // 'we succeed" wrote Duer, doubtless echoing Washington's
opinion, li the Designs of the enemy in this campaign are effectually baffled —
if we fail, we cannot be in a more lamentable situation than we are now."
The intention was to sink a chevaux-de-frise, and two ships, about seventy feet
apart, with heavy logs between. The work was not seriously begun until late
in September, and before it was completed its efficacy to prevent the enemy's
vessels from passing was tested, and proved to be of no account. The obstruc
tions were removed by the British after they had obtained possession of Fort
Washington. Ruttenber, Obstructions in the Iftidson River, 33-57.

294 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

It is the general report of Deserters and Prisoners,
and a prevailing opinion here, that no attempt will be
made by Genl Howe, till his reinforcement arrives,
which, as I said before, is hourly expected. Our
situation at present, both in regard to men and other
matters, is such as not to make it advisable to
attempt any thing against them, surrounded as they
are by water and covered with Ships, least a miscar
riage should be productive of unhappy and fatal con
sequences. It is provoking, nevertheless, to have
them so near, without being able in their weakness
[to give] them any disturbance. [Their ships] that
passed us are also saf[ely moored] in a broad part of
the river, out [of reach] of shott from either shore.1

1 Original mutilated, the words in brackets being supplied by Sparks.

" The orders Mr. Trumbull has given to the officers of their cruizers to stop
provision vessels seem to be necessary. We have too much reason to believe that
some have gone voluntarily to the enemy and that there are many persons who
would contrive to furnish them with large supplies ; and however upright the in
tentions of others may be, it will be a matter of the utmost difficulty if not an
impossibility for any to escape falling into their hands now, as every part of the
coast it is probable will swarm with their ships of war and tenders. ... It
appears absolutely necessary that the exportation of provisions should be
stopped. Our army is large and otherwise may want. Nor can individuals be
injured by it, as they have a ready money market for everything they have to
dispose of in that way." — Washington to Congress, 23 July, 1776.

" If it [the embargo] should be attended with inconvenience to individuals,
yet necessity and public utility ought to be first considered and outweigh every
thing else ; but it cannot. There is nothing but what they can readily dispose
of for the use of the army and for ready cash, so that every ground of objection
must be nugatory." — Washington to Governor Trumbull, 24 July, 1776.

" I received your favor of yesterday and in Answer thereto I am to inform
you, at the same Time that I commend the good Intentions which you pro
fess induced your Countrymen to leave their Families and Homes, that I have
done the only thing in my Power to favor their Views.

"On their first Arrival & Introduction to me I gave them a Letter to the
Continental Congress to whom it was necessary to make known their wishes &
from whom any appointments they expect must come, — This I am persuaded

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 295

TO JOHN PARKE CUSTIS.

NEW YORK, 24 July, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I wrote to you two or three posts ago, since which
your letter of the tenth instant is come to hand.
With respect to the proposed exchange of lands with
Colonel Thomas Moore, I have not a competent
knowledge of either tract to give an opinion with any
degree of precision ; but from the situation of Moore's
land, and its contiguity to a large part of your estate,
and where you will probably make your residence, I
should, were I in your place, be very fond of the ex-

you are sensible of, & would wish you to communicate to them. — Their Preten
sions will be duly considered, & if supported by proper Credentials I make no
Doubt but Suitable Regard will be had to their Merits.

" Your and their good Sense will readily suggest the Propriety & Expediency
of their furnishing some Testimonial and recommendation previous to any Ap
pointment. These would have been proper at any Time but the late Instance
of Treachery & Ingratitude in Monsr. — — in deserting and taking the Com
mand of a Party of the Enemy in Canada, after he had been promoted to office
in the service of the United Colonies, makes them indispensably necessary.
Tho' I do not entertain the least Suspicion of the Honor and Integrity of the
Gentlemen of whom you write, or mean to insinuate that a Conduct like
Monsr. would frequently happen.

"I might further add that the unacquaintance of our Soldiers with any
Language but their own, makes them rather unwilling & impatient under the
Command of Foreigners, unless they are men of high reputation. Nor will
they consent thereto but on that Account, & where they possess great Military
Knowledge. It therefore follows that any appointments these Gentlemen may
obtain, will not be attended with any good Purposes or Satisfaction to them
selves unless they are to a Corps of their own People, or those who understand
their Language.' — Washington to Baron De Calbiac, 23 July, 1776.

" It is with great astonishment and surprise the General hears that Soldiers
inlist from one Corps to another, and frequently receive a bounty ; and that
some officers have knowingly received such men ; so glaring a fraud upon the
public, and injury to the service, will be punished in the most exemplary manner;
And the General most earnestly requests and expects of every good officer, who
loves his Country, not only to oppose such practices, but to make the offenders
known that they may be brought to justice. — Orderly Book, 23 July, 1776.

296 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

change ; especially, as the land you hold in Hanover
is but a small tract, and totally detached from the rest
of your estate. What local advantages it may have
I know not. These ought to be inquired into, be
cause a valuable mill seat often gives great value to
a poor piece of land (as I understand that of yours in
Hanover is). I have no doubt myself, but that mid
dling land under a man's own eye, is more profitable
than rich land at a distance, for which reason I should,
were I in your place, be for drawing as many of my
slaves to the lands in King William and King and
Queen as could work on them to advantage, and I
should also be for adding to those tracts if it could
be done upon reasonable terms.

I am very sorry to hear by your account that Gen
eral Lewis stands so unfavorably with his officers. I
always had a good opinion of him, and should have
hoped that he had been possessed of too much good
sence to maltreat his officers, and thereby render
himself obnoxious to them.

We have a powerful fleet in full view of us, — at the
watering-place of Staten Island. General Howe and
his army are landed thereon, and it is thought will
make no attempt upon this city till his re-enforce
ments, which are hourly expected, arrive.1 When
this happens it is to be presumed that there will be
some pretty warm work. Give my love to Nelly,
and compliments to Mr. Calvert and family, and

1 " The ships mentioned in my letter of the 2ist. to have been in the Offing,
got in that day, and are supposed to be part of the Scotch fleet, having landed
some Highlanders yesterday." — Washington to the President of Congress, 23
July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 297

to others who may inquire after, dear Sir, your
affectionate.

Mrs. Washington is now at Philadelphia, & has
thoughts of returning to Virginia, as there is little or
no prospect of her being with me any part of this
summer. I beg of you to present my Love to my
Sister and the children, and compliments to any in
quiring friends, and to do me the justice to believe,
that I am, &c.L

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 25 July, 1776.

SIR,

Disagreeable as it is to me, and unpleasing as it
may be to Congress, to multiply officers, I find my
self under the unavoidable necessity of asking an in
crease of my aids-de-camp. The augmentation of my
command, the increase of my correspondence, the
orders to give, the instructions to draw, cut out more
business than I am able to execute in time with pro
priety. The business of so many different depart
ments centring with me, and by me to be handed on
to Congress for their information, added to the inter-

1 "The General being sensible of the difficulty and expence of providing Cloaths,
of almost any kind for the Troops, feels an unwillingness to recommend, much
more to order, any kind of Uniform. But as it is absolutely necessary that men
should have cloaths, and appear decent and tight, he earnestly encourages
them use of Hunting Shirts, with long Breeches made of the same Cloth, Gaiter
fashion about the Legs, to all those yet unprovided. No Dress can be had
cheaper, nor more convenient, as the wearer may be cool in warm weather, and
warm in cool weather, by putting on undercloaths, which will not change the
outward Dress, Winter or Summer. Besides which, it is a dress which is justly
supposed to carry no small terror to the enemy, who think every such persons a
complete marksman.' — Orderly Book, 24 July, 1776.

298 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

course I am obliged to keep up with the adjacent
states, and incidental occurrences, all of which require
confidential and not hack writers to execute, renders
it impossible, in the present state of things, for my
family to discharge the several duties expected of
me, with that precision and despatch that I could wish.
What will it be, then, when we come into a more active
scene, and I am called upon from twenty different
places perhaps at the same instant ?

Congress will do me the justice to believe, I hope,
that it is not my inclination or wish to run the Con
tinent into any unnecessary expense ; and those who
better know me will not suspect, that show and
parade can have any influence on my mind in this
instance. A conviction of the necessity of it, for the
regular discharge of the trust reposed in me, is the
governing motive for the application,1 and as such is
submitted to Congress by &c., &c.,2

1 General Greene expressed very happily the waste of energy demanded of the
higher officers in routine matters : "I am so confined, writing passes, &c., that
it is impossible for me to attend to the duties of the day, which in many in
stances prejudices the service. Such a confined situation leaves one no oppor
tunity of viewing things for themselves. It is recommended, by one of the
greatest generals of the age, not only to issue orders, but to see to the execution;
for the army being composed of men of indolence, if the commander is not
attentive to every individual in the different departments, the machine becomes
dislocated, and the progress of business retarded.

"The science or art of war requires a freedom of thought, and leisure to
reflect upon the various incidents that daily occur, which cannot be had where
the whole of one's time is engrossed in clerical employments. The time devoted
to this employment is not the only injury I feel ; but it confines my thoughts as
well as engrosses my time. It is like a merchandise of small wares." — Greene
to Washington, 25 July, 1776.

2 Read in Congress July 2gth.

"It is with inexpressible concern, the General sees Soldiers righting in the
Cause of Liberty and their Country, committing crimes, most destructive to the

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 299

TO GENERAL GEORGE CLINTON.

HEAD QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 26 July, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

Yours of the 23d Instant is duly Received and am
pleased with your timely notice of your Situation
Strength, movements, &c., &c., and think time is not
to be lost or expence regarded in getting yourselves
in the best posture of Defence not knowing how soon
the Enemy may attempt to pass you.

The Fire Rafts you mention are not of the best
construction but probably are the best that can be
procured with the dispatch necessary — Cables and
Anchors I should suppose might easily be procured
from the vessels which used to be plying up and down
the River — and are now lying Idle ; — Salt Petre from
the Manufactures in the Country, as neither are to be
had in this place, — the necessity of the Case will
fully Justify your taking the former wherever to be
found, and the safety of the people I should imagine
would induce them to assist you to the latter all in
their power.

I have sent up Lieut Machin J to lay out and over-
Army, and which in all the Armies are punished with Death. What a shame
and reproach will it be if soldiers fighting to enslave us, for two pence, or three
pence a day, should be more regular, watchful and sober, than men who are
contending for everything that is dear and valuable in life." — Orderly Book,
25 July, 1776.

1 Thomas Machin was an English engineer who had been employed by
Brindley in constructing the canal of the Duke of Bridgewater, and had come
to America in 1772 to examine a copper mine in New Jersey. Taking part
with the colonists, he was wounded at Bunker Hill, and later commissioned in
Col. Knox's regiment of artillery, and laid out the fortifications around Boston
for its protection. He remained in service during the war, doing good work
on the Hudson, in the expedition against the Onondagas and in Sullivan's

3oo THE WRITINGS OF [1776

see such Works as shall be tho't necessary by the
Officers there, and from your representation of the
Hill, which overlooks the Fort, I think it ought to
be taken possession of Immediately. — You who are on
the spot must be a better judge than I possibly can,
must leave it with you to erect such Works as you,
with Col. Clinton and the Engineer may think Neces
sary, — a proper Abstract or pay Roll should be made
out, of the Wages due the Artificers, examined and
certified by you or your Bro. when it may be sent
here and the Money drawn. — Your method of fixing
fires, with advanced Guards, if they are vigilant must
answer the purpose you intend — Your dismissing all
the New Englandmen to 300 is a step I approve of,
—I hope you may continue to prevent the Enemy
from obtaining any supplies or Intelligence and from
committing any Ravages on the distress'd Peasentry
on and about the Shores, — while you are able to keep
them in this Situation below the Forts they can do
little Damage — by every conveyance I shall like to
hear of your Situation and the Enemies manceuvers.

I am Sir wishing you success—

P. S. Since the above the Q. M. Genl. Informs me
you may be supplied with Turpentine here, and thinks
can get Salt Petre enough for the present Emergency.1

expedition to the Genesee Valley, and at Yorktown. Simms, History of
Schoharie County.

" Complaints have been made that some of the Soldiers ill treat the Country
People, who come to Market ; The General most positively forbids such be
havior, and hopes the officers will exert themselves to prevent it : Good policy
as well as justice, demands that they should have all possible encouragement,
as the health of the Soldiers much depends upon supplies of Vegetables. Those
who have been guilty of such practices, will do well to consider what will be

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 301

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 27 July, 1776.

SIR,

I was yesterday morning honored, with your favor
of the 24th Instt. with Its several Inclosures, to which
I shall pay the strictest attention. The confidence
Congress are pleased to repose in my Judgement de
mands my warmest acknowledgements and they may
rest assured It shall be invariably employed so far as
It shall be in my power, to promote their views and
the public weal.

I have Inclosed a Letter received from Major
French two days ago, also one from him to his Lady.
Congress will perceive thereby what he says and
thinks about his parole, and will be pleased to trans
mit me by the earliest Opportunity the result of their
opinion and such orders as they may think necessary
to be taken upon It. The Letter for Mrs. French
they will please to return me ; it was only forwarded
to shew his views more explicitly than what that for
me does.

Since my last nothing material has occurred—
Yesterday Evening report was made that Eight ships
were seen in the offing standing towards the Hook.
The men of War & Tenders still are up the River,
they have never attempted to pass the Highland
fortifications and a day or two ago quitted their Sta
tion, and fell clown the River Eight or Ten Miles—

our Situation, at this Season, if we drive off the Country people, and break up
the Market ; The healthy will soon be sick, and the sick must perish for want
of necessaries : No favor will be shown to any offenders hereafter." — Orderly
Book, 26 July, 1776.

302 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

The vigilance and activity of the Militia opposite
where they were, have prevented their Landing and
doing much Injury.

I would wish to know whether the Allowance given
to officers the i7th of January of One and a third
Dollars for every man they Inlist, Congress mean to
extend to the officers who Inlist for the New Army
for three Years : — At first it may appear wrong or
rather exorbitant, supposing that many will be re
cruited out of the Regiments now in service and
under them ; but the allowance will be of great use,
as It will Interest the officers and call forth their ex
ertions which otherwise would be faint and languid.1
Indeed I am fearfull from the Inquiries I have made
that their utmost exertions will not be attended with
but little success. It is objected that the bounty of
Ten Dollars is too low and argued that If the States
furnishing men for five or Six months allow consider
ably more, why should that be accepted and when
the Form of Inlistment is to be for three years. I
heartily wish a bounty in Land had been or could be
given as was proposed some time agoe. I think It
would be attended with salutary consequences.

In consequence of my application to Governor
Trumbull, he has sent me two row-galleys ; and I
expect another from him. None from Governor
Cooke are yet come ; nor have I heard from him on
the subject. One is complete here. The fire-ships

1 "Resolved, that the resolution of the I7th of January last allowing to offi
cers one dollar and one third of a dollar for every man they inlist be extended
to officers who inlist for the new army for three years.' — Journals of Congress,
30 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 303

are going on under Mr. Anderson's direction, but
rather slowly ; and I am preparing some obstructions
to the channel nearly opposite the works at the upper
end of this island. When all things are ready I intend
to try, if it shall seem practicable, to destroy the
ships and tenders above, and to employ the galleys,
if they can be of advantage. The militia for the
Flying Camp come in but slowly. By a return from
General Mercer yesterday, they are but little more
than three thousand. If they were in, or can be
there shortly, and the situation of the enemy remains
the same, I would make some effort to annoy them,
keeping our posts here well guarded, and not putting
too much to hazard, or in any manner to risk. I
have the honor, &c.r

1 Read in Congress July 29th.

" In my letter of the 27th, I informed Congress of my views and wishes to
attempt something against the troops on Staten Island. I am now to acquaint
them, that, by the advice of General Mercer and other officers at Amboy, it will
be impracticable to do anything upon a large scale, for want of craft, as the
enemy have entire command of the water all round the island. I have desired
Genera] Mercer to have nine or ten flat-bottomed boats built at Newark Bay
and Elizabethtown, with a design principally to keep up the communication
across Hackinsac and Passaic Rivers, which I deem a matter of great import
ance, and extremely necessary to be attended to." — Washington to the President
of Congress, 29 July, 1776.

Several plans were suggested for attacking the enemy on Staten Island. A
Council of War decided, that a general attack was inexpedient, but that an
attempt might be made by a party from the Jersey shore nearest to the island.
The intrepid Major Knowlton, who was stationed at Bergen, was directed to
confer with General Mercer on the subject. They determined to make the ex
periment on the night of the i8th of July, and everything was got in readiness.
Major Knowlton was to head a party of Continental troops, and be supported
by others from the Flying Camp under General Mercer, who was to take a part
in the enterprise. They marched early in the evening to the point of embarka
tion, but the weather became so tempestuous, and the waves so high, that it
was impossible to cross the river in time to effect the object. Another scheme

304 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE BOARD OF WAR.

NEW YORK, 29 July, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

At length I have been able to comply with the
first part of a resolution of Congress, of the 27th
ulto., relative to a return of the vacancies in the
several regiments, composing that part of the army
under my immediate command. I thought to have
made this return much sooner, but the dispersed
situation of our troops, the constant duty they are
upon, the difficulty of getting returns when this is
the case, especially when those returns are to under
go several corrections, and the variety of important
occurrences, which have intervened of late to draw
attention from this matter, will I hope be admitted
as an excuse, and the delay not ascribed to any dis
inclination in me to comply with the order ; as I shall
while I have the honor to remain in the service of
the United States, obey to the utmost of my power,
and to the best of my abilities, all orders of Congress
with a scrupulous exactness.

With respect to the latter part of the afore
mentioned resolution of the 27th of June, I have to
observe that I have handed in the names of such
persons as the Field officers of the several Regi
ments & their Brigadiers, have pointed out as proper

was projected for an attack from the same quarter, with a body of three thousand
nine hundred men, but boats could not be collected sufficient to transport half
that number across the water.

" Your favor of the 24th I received on Saturday evening, and agreeable to
your request shall expunge the preamble to the resolution subjecting the prop
erty of subjects to the British crown to forfeiture and confiscation." — Washing
ton to Congress, 29 July, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 305

persons to fill these vacancies. I have neither added
to, or diminished ought from their choice, unless the
following Special Information which I conceived
my indispensible duty to give should occasion any
alterations.

For the 2Oth Regiment then, late Arnold's, there
are two competitors, to wit : Col. Durkee, the present
Lieut. Colonel, who has had charge of the Regiment
ever since the first establishment of it, and Lieut.
Colonel Tyler of Parson's Regiment.

The pretensions of both, and a State of the case, I
have subjoined to the list of vacancies given in by
General Spencer. As I have also done in the case of
Col. Learned, to another list exhibited by General
Heath. If Learned returns to the Regiment the

o

vacancies stand right ; If he should not, I presume
the Regiment will be given to the Lieut. Colonel
William Shepperd who stands next to Tyler in Rank
and not second to him in reputation, this change
would in its consequences occasion several moves.
There is a third matter in which I must be more par
ticular, as it is unnoticed else where, and, that is, the
Lieut. Colonel of Wylly's Regiment. Rufus Putnam
acts here as a Chief Engineer, by which means the
Regiment is totally deprived of his services, and to
remove him from that department, the Public would
sustain a capital injury, for altho' he is not a man of
scientific knowledge, he is indefatigable in business
and possesses more practicable knowledge in the Art
of Engineering than any other we have in this Camp
or Army. I would humbly submit it therefore to

306 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Congress, whether it might not be best to give him
(Putnam) the appointment of Engineer with the pay
of Sixty Dollars per month ; less than which I do not
suppose he would accept ; as I have been obliged in
order to encourage him to push the business forward
in this our extreme hurry, to give him reasons to
believe that his Lieutenant Colonel's pay would be
made equal to this sum.

If this appointment should take place then, it
makes a vacancy in Wyllys's Regiment which I
understand he is desirous of having filled by Major
Henly an Active and spirited officer, now a Brigade
Major to General Heath.

I am sorry to take up so much of your time, as the
recital of particular cases, and some others, requires,
but there is no avoiding it, unless Congress will be
pleased to appoint one or more persons, in whom
they can confide, to visit this part of this army once
a month, inspect into it, and fill up the vacancies,
as shall appear proper to them upon the spot. This
cannot be attended with any great trouble, nor much
expense, as it is only in the part of the army under
my immediate direction, that such regulations would
be necessary ; the officers commanding in other de
partments having this power, I believe, already given
them.1

1 To this paragraph the President of Congress replied August 2d : — " I am
particularly instructed by Congress to answer that part of your letter, directed
to the Board of War, which relates to the filling up vacancies in the army. The
Congress are concerned to find, that an opinion is entertained, that greater
confidence has been placed in, and larger powers given to, other commanders
in that respect, than to yourself. They have in no instance, except in the late
appointment of General Gates to the command in Canada, parted with the

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 307

I have the honor to enclose a list of the officers of
the regiments at this place, and long ago directed the
like return to be made from the northern and eastern
troops, which I hope is complied with. I also make
return of the artillery according to Colonel Knox's
report, and of the ordnance stores &c, agreeably to
the commissary's return.

I come now to acknowledge the receipt of your
favor of the 2oth Instant, with several Inclosures
relative to a proposal of Mr. Goddard and beg leave
to give it as my opinion, that the Introduction of that
Gentleman into the Army as Lieut. Colonel would
be attended with endless confusion. I have spoke
to Colo Parsons who is a very worthy man upon this
subject. I have done more — I have shewn him the
memorial ; in answer to which he says, that in the
conversation had between him and Mr. Goddard the
latter was told, that unless Lieut. Colonel Tyler
was provided for, Major Prentice advanced to a
Lieut. Colonelcy in some other Regiment, and his
eldest Captain (Chapman) not deprived of his expec
tation of the Majority, his coming in there would
give uneasiness, but nevertheless if it was the pleas
ure of Congress, to make the appointment, he would

power of filling up vacancies. The great confusion and many disorders preva
lent in that army, and its distance, induced Congress to lodge such a power in
that general for the limited space of three months, and only during his contin
uance in Canada. Should Congress ever empower its generals to fill up the
vacancies in the army, they know of no one in whom they would so soon repose
a trust of such importance as in yourself ; for future generals may make a bad
use of it. The danger of the precedent, not any suspicion of their present
Commander-in-chief, prompts them to retain a power, that, by you, Sir, might
be exercised with the. greatest public advantage."

3o8 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

do every thing in his power to make it palatible. If
all these contingencies were to take place before Mr.
Goddard could get into a Regiment he had been
paving the way to, what prospect can there be of his
getting into any other without spreading Jealousy as
he goes ?

With respect to the regiment of artificers, I have
only to observe, that the forming them into one corps
at the time I did, when immediate action was expected,
was only intended as a temporary expedient to draw
that useful body of near six hundred men into the
field, under one head and without confusion. The
appointment of officers, therefore, in this instance,
was merely nominal, and unattended with expense.

The mode of promotion, whether in a Continental,
colonial, or regimental line, being a matter of some
consideration and delicacy to determine, I thought it
expedient to know the sentiments of the general offi
cers upon the consequences of each, before I offered
my own to your board ; and have the honor to inform
you, that it is their unanimous opinion, as it is also
mine, from observations on the temper and local
attachments of each corps to the members thereof,
that regimental promotions would be much the most
pleasing ; but this it is thought had better appear in
practice, than come announced as a resolution, and
that there ought to be exceptions in favor of extra
ordinary merit on the one hand, and demerit on the
other ; the first to be rewarded out of the common
course of promotion, whilst the other might stand,
and sustain no injury. It is a very difficult matter to

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 309

step out of the regimental line now, without giving
much inquietude to the corps in which it happens.
Was it then to be declared, as the resolution of Con
gress, that all promotions should go in this way
without some strong qualifying clauses, it would be
almost impossible to do it without creating a mutiny.
This is the sense of my officers ; as also, that the
promotions by succession are not meant to extend to
non-commissioned officers, further than circumstances
of good behavior may direct.

As the Lists of Vacancies are returned in conse
quence of an order of Congress, and would I doubt
not be referred to your Board, I have sent no Dupli
cates, nor have I wrote to Congress on the subject,
but that I may [not] appear inattentive to their com
mands, I must request the favor of having this Letter
or the substance of it laid before them. I have the
honor, &c.

TO LIEUTENANT-GENERAL HOWE.

HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 30 July, 1776.

SIR,

Lieutenant-Colonel Patterson, adjutant-general of
the army under your command, at the interview be
tween us, having proposed an exchange of Mr. Lovell
for Governor Skene, I am authorized to inform you,
that the Congress have not only approved of this
proposition, but, judging that a general exchange of
prisoners will be attended with mutual convenience
and pleasure to both parties, have empowered their
commanders in each department to negotiate one, in

3io THE WRITINGS OF [1776

the following manner ; — " Continental officers for
those of equal rank either in the land or sea service,
soldier for soldier, sailor for sailor, and citizen for
citizen." They have also particularly mentioned the
exchange of Colonel Ethan Allen for any officer of
the same or inferior rank.

You will be pleased to signify the time and place
for that of Mr. Lovell and Governor Skene, that I
may give direction for the latter to be ready, who is
now at Hartford, about one hundred and twenty
miles from hence ; also to favor me with your senti
ments, as well on the proposition respecting Colonel
Allen, as on the subject of a general exchange. I
have the honor to be, with due respect, Sir, your
most obedient servant.1

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

NEW YORK, 31 July, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

Your favors of the i4th, i7th, 2oth & 24th have
been duly received & I am extremely happy to find,
that you have discovered and apprehended some of
the ringleaders of a dangerous plot, you say was
forming in the neighborhood of Albany ; nor do I
hear with less pleasure of the harmony and good

1 " The Quarter-Master General is to provide Canteens, as soon as possible, and
to have the water in the several works, in casks examined, that there may be a
fresh supply if necessary. It is represented to the General, that the pump
water, in the City, is very unhealthy ; the Troops are therefore cautioned against
the use of it ; and the Quarter Master and Commissary Generals, are to consult
together, and fix upon some mode of supply of fresh water, for the troops in
the City." — Orderly Book, 30 July, 1776,

1776! GEORGE WASHINGTON. 311

agreement between you and General Gates, knowing
how essential they are to the service.

Agreeable to your Request I communicated to Mr.
Trumbull that part of your Letter respecting Mr.
Livingston's & your Apprehensions of his resigning
in Case any Person should be appointed to act, inde
pendently of him in the Business he usually managed.
Upon this occasion I must observe, that as Mr.
Trumbull has the supreme Direction given him by
Congress, of supplying the Northern Army, & is the
Person that is accountable if it is not done in a proper
Manner, his Appointments should, & must be re
garded, or Things in this Instance will never proceed
in a regular Channel, and fatal Consequences will
otherwise ensue. Mr. Trumbull, I believe, has wrote
Mr. Livingston on the subject, & I imagine has men
tioned in what Manner he would have him to act &
also given necessary Instructions to his Deputies.

It gives me great satisfaction to hear, that taking
post at Fort Stanwix has not given umbrage to the
Indians ; and, also, that those, that were at Phila
delphia and this place, have returned with such
favorable ideas of our strength and resources to their
several nations. From this circumstance I am hope
ful that you will be able to engage them in our in
terest, and, with the assistance of the reward allowed
by Congress, to excite their efforts to make prisoners
of our enemies. I would have you press the matter
strongly in both instances, and though you should
not succeed, I flatter myself that you will secure their
neutrality. That will be an important point to gain.

3i2 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

I conceive it will not be only proper, but absolutely
necessary, to request General Howe to deliver the
officers, who, regardless of their paroles, have escaped
from Pennsylvania ; and all others, that have acted
in the same manner ; pointing out the impropriety of
such conduct, and the difficulty it lays us under as to
the line of treatment to be observed to others. In a
conversation with the adjutant-general of the King's
army, I touched upon this subject, and he assured me,
all complaints of this nature would be strictly attended
to by General Howe, and those who gave rise to
them be handled with severity. Lord Howe, too, I
am confidently informed, has expressed his great
disapprobation of such behavior, and said that those
who were guilty of it should be severely noticed, if
they came into his hands. Every thinking and
sensible person must see the impropriety of it, and
the consequences that must attend it. I should
suppose the requisition will claim General Burgoyne's
attention and be readily complied with.

The swivels you mention cannot be had ; but if
the Experiments of a Person who has undertaken to
cast some three Pounders, should succeed ; perhaps
after some Time you may be furnished in part with a
Quantity of these. Colo. Knox seems to think they
will be far superior to swivels. The Man supposes,
after he begins, he will be able to compleat twenty
every week.

Neither are there any Hand Granadoes ; We have
a large number of 4^ Inch Shells, which might be a
good substitute. But I do not know how Things of

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 313

this Sort can be forwarded to you, as the Water
Communication with Albany is entirely cut off. The
Difficulty will be great if not almost insuperable.

I observe your reasons for quitting Crown Point,
and preferring Ticonderoga. My knowledge of the
importance of the former was not properly my own ;
it arose from the information I had from gentlemen
and persons, who were, or said they were, well
acquainted with it, and the situation of the country
about it. Being founded on that, I cannot say any
thing myself on the subject. Your representation of
it most certainly lessens its consequence in a capital
degree. However, I am fearful the observation of
the field-officers, " that the New England govern
ments will be thereby exposed to the incursions of
our cruel and savage enemies," will be but too well
verified. If that post could not have been main
tained, this evil with others greater must have
happened.

In Respect to the Privilege you have given the
Officers who held double Commissions, to retain
which they choose I cannot object. If the Authority
giving them was the same, & such as was exercised
usually & approved, I see no Cause for it, & suppose
the Officers have that Right.

As to Lieut. Colo. Buell's Case, I cannot give any
direction about it, not having Authority to appoint
Officers generally.

It is not in my Power to spare you any money
from hence. Our Chest is all but empty. Congress
would be informed by your Letters of your situation,

3i4 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

doubtless. I mentioned it in mine and have suggested
as I often have, the Expediency, nay the Necessity
of keeping regular supplies.

All the eastward accounts say, that three or four
captures have been made lately ; among them a pro
vision vessel from Ireland, which of herself came into
Boston harbor. In the southern department we
have been still more lucky. Sir Peter Parker and his
fleet got a severe drubbing in an attack made upon
our works on Sullivan's Island, just by Charleston, in
South Carolina ; a part of their troops at the same
time, attempting to land, were repulsed. The papers
I presume have reached you announcing this fort
unate event, where you will see the particulars as
transmitted by General Lee to Congress. I am, Sir,
your most obedient servant.1

1 " It is with astonishment and concern, the General finds that precaution used
to prevent the Countersign being made known to any not entitled to it, is de
feated by the ignorance or misconduct of those to whom it is intrusted. In
order that none may plead ignorance hereafter, the officers and Soldiers are to
know, that the following rule is established. The Adjutant General at Six P. M.
will deliver the Parole and Countersign ; to the Majors of Brigade, and Adjutant
of Artillery, they at Retreat Beating, and not before, are to deliver them to the
Adjutants of their respective Brigades : The Adjutants are to deliver them to
the Field Officers of their respective Brigades, if required, then to the officer of
the advanced Guards, then to the officer of every other guard, in and about the
City or Camp ; and the General flatters himself, that when the importance and
necessity of secrecy upon this head, 't is considered every officer and soldier will
pride himself in his fidelity, prudence and discipline." — Orderly Book, 31 July,
1776.

"It is with great concern, the General understands that Jealousies &c., are
arisen among the troops from the different Provinces, of reflections frequently
thrown out, which can only tend to irritate each other, and injure the noble
cause in which we are engaged, and which we ought to support with one hand,
and one heart. The General most earnestly entreats the officers and soldiers
to consider the consequences ; that they can no way assist our cruel enemies
more effectually, than making division among ourselves. That the Honor and

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 315

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 2 August, 1776.

SIR,

Your favor of the 3oth Ulto. with Its several Inclo-
sures I was honored with by Wednesday's post.

Congress having been pleased to leave with me the
direction of Colonel Ward's regiment, I have wrote to
Governor Trumbull, and requested him to order their
march to this place, being fully satisfied that the enemy
mean to make their grand push in this quarter, and
that the good of the service requires every aid here
that can be obtained. I have also wrote Colonel
Elmore, and directed him to repair hither with his
regiment. When it comes I shall fill up commissions
for such officers, as appear with their respective com
panies. Colonel Holman with a regiment from the
Massachusetts state is arrived. Colonel Carey from
thence is also here, waiting the arrival of his regi
ment, which he hourly expects. He adds, when he
left New London he heard that the third regiment
from the Massachusetts was almost ready, and would
soon be in motion.

Success of the Army, and the safety of our bleeding Country, depends upon
Harmony and good agreement with each other. That the Provinces are all
united to oppose the common enemy, and all distinctions sunk in the name of
an American ; to make this honorable and preserve the Liberty of our Country,
ought to be our only emulation, and he will be the best Soldier, and the best
Patriot, who contributes most to this glorious work, whatever his Station,
or from whatever part of the Continent, he may come. Let all Distinctions of
Nations, Countries, and Provinces therefore, be lost in the generous contest,
who shall behave with the most Courage against the enemy, and the most kind
ness and good humor to each other. If there are any officers, or soldiers, so
lost to virtue, and a love of their Country, as to continue in such practices after
this order, the General assures them, and is directed by Congress, to declare to
the whole Army, that such persons shall be severely punished and dismissed the
service with disgrace." — Orderly Book, I August, 1776.

3i6 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

The enemy's force is daily augmenting, and becom
ing stronger by new arrivals. Yesterday, General
Greene reports, that about forty sail, including tend
ers, came into the Hook. What they are, or what
those have brought that have lately got in, I remain
uninformed. However, I think it probable they are
a part of Admiral Howe's fleet with the Hessian
troops. It is time to look for 'em.1 I have the
honor to be, &c.

P. S. I am extremely sorry to inform Congress,
our troops are very sickly.2

1 The above vessels proved to be from the south. General Clinton and Lord
Cornwallis arrived from Carolina on the ist of August. General Clinton's ad
venture in that quarter, it would seem, was not very gratifying to his superiors.
Lord George Germaine wrote to him, August 24th : — " I had reason to flatter
myself, that, the season being far advanced, you would not make any attempt
at the southward, whereby there could be a possibility of your being prevented
from proceeding with your army in due time to the northward to join General
Howe, who has long impatiently expected your arrival. I was therefore ex
tremely disappointed and mortified to learn by your letter of July 8th, that you
were still in the south, and that the fleet had received a severe check at Sulli
van's Island." — MS. Letter. General Lee arrived in Charleston on the 4th of
June, and took command of the American forces in the southern department.
The gallant action at the Fort on Sullivan's Island was fought June 28th, under
Colonel Moultrie, by whose name the Fort was afterwards called.

2 Read in Congress August 5th.

" Notwithstanding the great abuses of regimental Hospitals last year, the
General has, out of Indulgence and kindness to the Troops, who seem to like
them, permitted them to be again opened, with a full persuasion that the regi
mental Surgeons will fully conform to the Rules and Orders, which have been
made, and particularly that they act with the strictest Honor, and Candor in
their draughts upon the several Stores, and accounting with the Director Gen
eral of the Hospital, when required ; making him regular reports of the sick,
and applying what they receive to the patients only. The Colonels and Field
Officers of the several Regiments would do well to visit their Regimental Hos
pitals frequently, and see these regulations observed ; and in all cases, except
slight, or putrid disorder, have the sick removed to the General Hospital, near
the Brigade ; or the General must, in justice to the public break them up again."
— Orderly Book, 2 August, 1776.

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 317

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 5 August, 1776.

SIR,

I was honored with your favor of the 3ist ulto. on
Friday with its several Inclosures, and return you my
thanks for the agreeable Intelligence you were
pleased to communicate of the arrival of one of our
ships with such valuable Articles as Arms and Am
munition, also of the capture made by a privateer.

The mode for the exchange of prisoners, resolved
on by Congress, is acceded to by General Howe, so
far as it comes within his command.1 A copy of my
letter and his answer upon the subject I have the

" That the Troops may have an opportunity of attending public worship, as
well as take some rest, after the great fatigue they have gone through, the Gen
eral in future, excuses them from fatigue duty on Sunday (except at the Ship
Yards, or special occasions,) until further orders. The General is sorry to be
informed that the foolish and wicked practice of profane cursing and swearing
(a Vice heretofore little known in an American Army,) is growing into fashion ;
he hopes the officers will by example as well as influence endeavor to check it,
and that both they and the men will reflect, that we can have little hopes of the
Blessing of Heaven on our Arms if we insult it by our impiety and folly ;
added to this it is a vice so mean and low, without any temptation, that every
man of sense and character, detests and despises it." — Orderly Book, 3
August, 1776.

1 Journals of Congress, 22 July, 1776.

" I have the pleasure to inform you, that there is a prospect of an early ex
change of the prisoners taken in the Yankee Hero privateer. As Mr. Tracy
negotiated this matter, and had an interview with Lord Howe on board the
Eagle man-of-war, I must refer you to him for particulars. Congress author
ized me to comply with General Howe's request of giving Governor Skene for
Mr. Lovell ; and I have written informing General Howe thereof, and expect
soon to have Mr. Lovell sent to some part of the continent.

" Assure the members of your honorable body, that it gives me particular
pleasure, that I have it in my power to relieve one of their citizens from a long
and tedious imprisonment, and I shall esteem myself happy in complying with
any request they may make, consistent with the important duties of my office."
— Washington to the President of the Massachusetts Council, 2 August, 1776.

318 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

honor to enclose you ; to which I beg leave to refer
Congress.

The enclosed copy of a letter from Colonel Tup-
per, who had the general command of the galleys
here, will inform Congress of the engagement be
tween them and the ships of war up the North River
on Saturday evening, and of the damage we sustained.
What injury was done to the ships, I cannot ascer
tain. It is said they were hulled several times by our
shot. All accounts agree, that our officers and men,
during the whole of the affair, behaved with great
spirit and bravery. The damage done to the galleys
shows beyond question, that they had a warm time of
it. The ships still remain up the river ; and, before
any thing further can be attempted against them,
should it be thought advisable, the galleys must be
repaired. I have also transmitted Congress a copy
of a letter I received by Saturday's post from Gov
ernor Cooke, to which I refer them for the intelligence
it contains. The seizure of our vessels by the Portu
guese is, I fear, an event too true. Their dependence
upon the British crown for aid against the Spaniards
must force them to comply with every thing required
of them. I wish the Morris may get safe in with her
cargo. As to the ships which Captain Buchlin saw
on the 25th ultimo, they are probably arrived, for
yesterday twenty-five sail came into the Hook.

By a letter from General Ward of the 29 Ulto.
he informs me that two of our Armed Vessels the
clay before had brought into Marblehead a Ship
bound from Hallifax to Staten Island. She had in

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 319

about 1509^ cost of British Goods, besides a good
many belonging to Tories. A Hallifax paper found
on board her I have inclosed, as also an account sent
me by Mr. Hazard, transmitted him by some of his
Friends, as given by the Tories taken in her. Their
Intelligence I dare say is true respecting the arrival
of part of the Hessian Troops. Genl. Ward in his
Letter mentions the day this prize was taken, Capn.
Burke in another of our Armed Vessels had an En
gagement with a Ship and a Schooner which he
thought were Transports, and would have taken
them, had it not been for an unlucky accident in
having his Quarter deck blown up. Two of his men
were killed and several more wounded. The hulks
and three chevaux-de-frise, that have been preparing
to obstruct the channel, have got up to the place
they are intended for, and will be sunk as soon as
possible.1 I have transmitted Congress a Genl. Re-

1 The mode of constucting the chcvaux-de-frise was a contrivance of General
Putnam's, as appears by a letter from him to General Gates, dated July 26th :
" The enemy's fleet now lies in the bay very safe, close under Staten Island.
Their troops possess no land here but the Island. Is it not very strange, that
those invincible troops, who were to destroy and lay waste all this country with
their fleets and army, are so fond of islands and peninsulas, and dare not put
their feet on the main ? But I hope, by the blessing of God and good friends,
we shall pay them a visit on their island. For that end, we are preparing four
teen fire-ships to go into their fleet, some of which are ready charged and fitted
to sail, and I hope soon to have them all fixed. We are preparing chcvaux-dc-
frisi', at which we make great despatch by the help of ships, which are to be
sunk ; a scheme of mine, which you may be assured is very simple, a plan of
which I send you. The two ships' sterns lie towards each other, about seventy
feet apart. Three large logs, which reach from ship to ship, are fastened to
them. The two ships and logs stop the river two hundred and eighty feet.
The ships are to be sunk, and, when hauled down on one side, the picks will be
raised to a proper height, and they must inevitably stop the river if the enemy
will let us sink them." — MS. Letter.

32o THE WRITINGS OF [1776

turn of the Army in & about this place on the 3d
Inst. by which they will perceive the amount of our
force.

Before I conclude I would beg leave to remind
Congress of the necessity there is of having some
major-generals appointed for this army, the duties of
which are great, extensive, and impossible to be dis
charged as they ought, and the good of the service
requires, without a competent number of officers of
this rank. I mean to write more fully upon the sub
ject ; and, as things are drawing fast to an issue, and
it is necessary to make every proper disposition and
arrangement that we possibly can, I pray that this
matter may be taken into consideration, and claim
their early attention. I well know what has pre
vented appointments of this sort for some time past ;
but the situation of our affairs will not justify longer
delays in this instance. By the first opportunity I
shall take the liberty of giving you my sentiments
more at large upon the propriety & necessity of the
measure. I have &C.1

1 Read in Congress August 6th.

"Brigadier General [John Morin] Scott, having informed the General, that
some dissatisfaction had arisen in his Brigade, on account of the 1st Battalion
who had received some assurances from the Committee of the Convention, of
this State, that they should not be removed out of Town, unless the Army
moved generally ; the General at the same time being of opinion that, from
their knowledge of the City, they can be more serviceable, than any other equal
number of men who are strangers, orders, that on Wednesday, General Scott's
Brigade move into the City, and General Fellows with his Brigade, take their
places. He also directs that no officers, or soldiers of General Fellows' Brigade,
take up their quarters in the dwelling Houses, in or near their encampment ex
cept they are placed there by the Quarter Master General.

" The General cannot dismiss this matter without assuring the ist Battalion,
of General Scott's Brigade, that he will have the grounds of their claim, particu-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 321

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 7 August, 1776.

SIR,

In my letter of the 5th, which I had the honor
of addressing you I begged leave to recall the atten
tion of Congress to the absolute necessity there is for
appointing more general officers, promising at the
same time, by the first opportunity, to give my senti
ments more at large upon the subject. Confident I
am, that the postponing this measure has not pro
ceeded from motives of frugality, otherwise I should
take the liberty of attempting to prove, that we put
too much to the hazard by such a saving. I am but
too well apprized of the difficulties that occur in the
choice. They are, I acknowledge, great ; but at the
same time it must be allowed, that they are of such a
nature as to present themselves whenever the sub
ject is thought of. Time, on the one hand, does
not remove them ; on the other, delay may be pro
ductive of fatal consequences. This army, though

larly inquired into, of the Provincial Congress of the State of New York ; as
well because they may rest assured that at the same time, public faith is pre
served with them, he expects and will require, that they observe their engage
ment with the public." — Orderly Book, 5 August, 1776.

" Notwithstanding the orders issued, and the interest the Troops have in it ;
Complaints are made of the bad behavior of the Troops to people, at market ;
taking and destroying their things. The General declares for the last time, that
he will punish such offenders most severely ; and in order that they may be de
tected, an officer from each of the guards, nearest to those markets, where the
Country People is, to attend from sunrise till twelve o'clock ; and he is strictly
enjoined to prevent any abuses of this kind ; to seize any offender and send him
immediately to the Guard-house, reporting him also at Head-Quarters. The
Officers of Guards in future will be answerable if there are any more Complaints,
unless they apprehend the offender — A copy of this order to be put up in every
Guard House in the City." — Orderly Book, 6 August, 1776.

322 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

far short as yet of the numbers intended by Con
gress, is by much too unwieldy for the command of
any one man, without several major-generals to assist.
For it is to be observed, that a brigadier-general at
the head of his brigade is no more than a colonel
at the head of a regiment, except that he acts upon a
larger scale. Officers of more general command are
at all times wanted for the good order and govern
ment of an army, especially when the army is com
posed chiefly of raw troops ; but in an action they
are indispensably necessary. At present there is but
one major-general for this whole department and the
Flying Camp ; whereas, at this place alone, less than
three cannot discharge the duties with that regularity
they ought to be.

If these major-generals are appointed, as undoubt
edly they will, out of the present brigadiers, you will
want for this place three brigadiers at least. The
northern department will require one, if not two, (as
General Thompson is a prisoner, and the Baron
Woedtke reported to be dead or in a state not much
better,) there being at present only one brigadier-
general, Arnold, in all that department. For the
eastern governments there ought to be one, or a
major-general, to superintend the regiments there, and
to prevent impositions that might otherwise be prac
tised. These make the number wanted to be six or
seven ; and who are to be appointed, Congress can
best judge. To make brigadiers of the oldest colo
nels would be the least exceptionable way ; but it is
much to be questioned whether by that mode the

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON.

ablest men would be appointed to office. And I
would observe, though the rank of the colonels of the
eastern governments was settled at Cambridge last
year, it only respected themselves, and is still open
as to officers of other governments. To pick a colo
nel here and a colonel there through the army, ac
cording to the opinion entertained of their abilities,
would no doubt be the means of making a better

o

choice, and nominating the fittest persons ; but then
the senior officers would get disgusted, and, more
than probable, with their connexions, quit the service.
That might prove fatal at this time. To appoint
gentlemen as brigadiers, that have not served in this
army, in this part of it at least, would not wound any
one in particular, but hurt the whole equally, and
must be considered in a very discouraging light by
every officer of merit. View the matter, therefore, in
any point of light you will, there are inconveniences
on the one hand, and difficulties on the other, which
ought to be avoided. Would they be remedied by
appointing the oldest colonels from each state ? If
this mode should be thought expedient, the enclosed
list gives the names of the colonels from New Hamp
shire to Pennsylvania inclusive, specifying those who
rank first, as I am told, in the several colony lists.'

I have transmitted the copy of a Letter from Mr.
John Glover setting forth the nature and Grounds of
a dispute between him and a Mr. [John] Bradford
respecting their agency. Not conceiving myself
authorized nor having the smallest Inclination to In-

1 The list is not with the letter.

324 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

terfere in any degree in the matter, it is referred to
Congress who will determine and give direction upon
it in such manner as they shall judge best. I will
only observe that Mr. Glover was recommended to
me as a proper person for an agent when we first
fitted out armed vessels and was accordingly appointed
one, and so far as I know discharged his office with
fidelity and Industry.

I received Yesterday Evening a Letter from Genl.
Schuyler containing Lt. McMichel's report who had
been sent a Scout to Oswego. A copy of the Re
port I have inclosed for the information of Congress,
lest Genl. Schuyler should have omitted it in his
Letter which accompanies this. He was at the Ger
man Flatts when he wrote, which was the 2d Instt.,
and the Treaty with the Indians not begun, nor had
the whole expected there arrived ; but of these things
he will have advised you more fully I make no
doubt.

The paymaster informs me he received a supply
of money yesterday. It came very seasonably, for
the applications and clamors of the Troops had be
come Incessant and distressing beyond measure.
There is now Two months' pay. due 'em. I have
the honor, &C.1

1 Read in Congress August 8th.

Immediately after receiving this letter, Congress appointed Heath, Spencer,
Sullivan, and Greene major-generals ; and James Reed, Nixon, St. Clair, Mc-
Dougall, Parsons, and James Clinton brigadier-generals. See Journals of Con
gress, August gth.

" I am to acknowledge the receipt of your favor, intimating your expectations
of a release on the I2th of this month. I have considered your parole, advised
with those whose knowledge and experience give weight to their opinions, and

1776] l GEORGE WASHINGTON. 325

TO GOVERNOR TRUMBULL.

HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 7 August, 1776.

SIR,

By two deserters this clay, we have the following
intelligence, namely, that General Clinton and Lord
Cornwallis, with the whole southern army, have
arrived and landed on Staten Island from South
Carolina, in number about three or four thousand ;
that the fleet, which came in a few clays since, are the
Hessians and Scotch Highlanders, part of twelve
thousand, who were left off Newfoundland ; in the
whole making about thirty thousand men ; and that,
it is said by the officers of the navy and army, they
are to attack New York and Long Island, &c., in the
course of a week. The uncommon movements of the
fleet this day, together with the above intelligence,
convince us, that, in all human probability, there can
but a very few days pass, before a general engage
ment takes place.1 When I consider the weakness of

otherwise endeavored to inform myself how far your construction of it is
founded upon justice, reason, or usage. I do not find it warranted by either.
My duty, therefore, obliges me to overrule your claim as a matter of right. As
a matter of favor, indulgence is not in my power, even if your general line of
conduct as a prisoner had been unexceptionable. I have therefore wrote to the
Committee of Hartford, and sent them a copy of this letter, and I hope you
will, without difficulty, conform to the regulations already made with respect to
prisoners by the general Congress.

" It is probable a general exchange of prisoners will soon take place. It will
then be a pleasing part of my duty to facilitate your return to your friends and
connexions, as, I assure you, it is now a painful one to disappoint you in an
expectation, which you seem to have formed in a full persuasion of being
right, and in which, on mature deliberation, I am so unhappy as totally to
differ from you." — Washington to Major Christopher French, 7 August, 1776.

1 " They [the deserters] further add that when they left Carolina one trans
port got on shore, so that they were not able to give her relief, upon which she
surrendered with 5 companies of Highlanders to General Lee, who after taking

326 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

our army by sickness, the great extent of ground we
have to defend, and the amazing slowness with which
the levies come forward, I think it absolutely neces
sary that the neighboring militia should be immedi
ately sent to our assistance ; and, agreeably to your
letter of the 6th of July, I have ordered the colonels
with their regiments to march, with all convenient
speed, to this place.

The disgrace of the British arms at the southward,
and the season being far advanced, will make them
exert every nerve against us in this quarter. To
trust altogether in the justice of our cause, without
our own utmost exertions, would be tempting Provi
dence ; and, that you may judge of our situation, I
give you the present state of our army.1 By this, you
will see, we are to oppose an army of thirty thousand
experienced veterans, with about one third the num
ber of raw troops, and these scattered some fifteen
miles apart. This will be handed you by Mr. Root.
To him I must refer you for further particulars ; and
have the pleasure to be your Honor's most obedient
servant.2

everything valuable out of her, burnt her ; that the admiral turned General
Clinton out of his ship after the engagement with a great deal of abuse ; great
differences between the principal naval and military gentlemen. That the
ships left in Carolina are now in such a weakly distressed condition they would
fall an easy prey.

" The ships are changing their position, and the men of war forming into a
line, but I still think they will wait the arrival of the remaining Hessians before
any general attack will be made." — Washington to the President of Congress,
7 August, 1776.

1 Present fit for duty, 10,514 ; sick present, 3,039 ; sick absent, 629 ; on
command, 2,946 ; on furlough, 97 ; total, 17,225. This return was made on
the third, and included troops in New York, Governor's and Long Islands, and
at Paulus Hook.

2 Governor Trumbull replied with his usual promptness and spirit : — " Im-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 327

TO THE NEW YORK CONVENTION.

NK\V YORK, 8 August, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

I have been favored with your letter of the 6th in
stant, and am happy to find the nomination I made
of General Clinton, in consequence of your request
to appoint an officer to the command of the levies on
both sides Hudson's River, has met the approbation
of your honorable body. His acquaintance with the
country, abilities, and zeal for the cause, are the
motives that induced me to make choice of him.

mediately upon receipt of your letter I summoned my Council of Safety, and
ordered nine regiments of our militia in addition to the five western regiments,
fourteen in the whole, to march without loss of time and join you, under the
command of Oliver Wolcott, colonel of a regiment, as their brigadier-general,
who is appointed and commissioned to that office. I have likewise proposed,
that companies of volunteers, consisting of able-bodied men not in the militia,
should associate and march to your assistance, under officers they should choose,
and I have promised them the same wages and allowance of provisions, that the
Continental army receives. Colonel Ward's regiment is on its march to join
you. I am far from trusting merely in the justice of our cause. T consider
that as a just ground to hope for the smiles of Heaven on our exertions, which
ought to be the greatest in our power. These fourteen regiments, sent on the
present emergency, consist of substantial farmers, whose business requires their
return, when the necessity of their further stay in the army is over ; and I
doubt not your attention thereto, and that you will dismiss them in whole, or in
part, as soon as you think it safe and convenient."

" As many soldiers discharge their pieces under pretence of Ignorance of
General Orders, and others having leave to do so from their officers, because
they cannot draw the charge : the General directs, that the Colonel of the
Regiment, or commanding officer, cause a daily inspection to be made of the
state of the Arms : and when any are found loaded which cannot be drawn,
they are to cause such men to assemble on the Regimental Parade, or some
other convenient place, but at the same time viz : Retreat Beating, and then
discharge those pieces. No alarm will then be given, and the officers will see
there is no unnecessary firing it is the duty of the Colonel, and the reputation
of his regiment so much depends upon the good order of the arms, that the
General hopes he, as well as every other officer, and the men, will pay a special
attention to it." — Orderly Book, 7 August, 1776.

328 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

However, I am led to conclude, from that part of
your letter, which desires me to transmit him his ap-
ment, with the resolution subjecting the levies on
both sides of the river to his command, that your
honorable body entertain ideas of the matter some
what different from what I do, or ever did.

When I was honored with your letter, of the i6th
ulto. with the resolves of the Convention upon this
subject, the state of the army under my command
would not allow me to send a general officer in the
Continental service to command the levies you then
proposed to raise, supposing I had been authorized
to do it ; but considering myself without power in
this instance, and the levies altogether of a provincial
nature, to be raised by you and subject to your di
rection, I esteemed the nomination of a general offi
cer over them, entrusted to my choice, a matter of
favor and compliment, and as such I gratefully fill it.
I am persuaded, that I expressed myself in this man
ner to the gentlemen, who were pleased to attend me
upon the occasion, and that they had the same ideas.
Under the influence of this opinion, all I expected
was, that an appointment would be made in con
formity to my nomination, if there was no objection
to the gentleman I proposed, conceiving then, as I do
now, that, if he was approved by the Convention, he
was their officer, and derived his appointment and
authority from them. In this light I presume Gen
eral Clinton must be viewed, and his powers over the
levies you allude to flow from you. Least accident
may have mislaid the letter I wrote you on the sub-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 329

ject, I have enclosed an extract of it so far as it had
relation to it. It is not in my power to send an ex
perienced officer at this time to the post you mention.
I trust that Colonel Clinton T will be equal to the
command of both the Highland fortifications. They
are under his direction at present.

In respect to the two Commissaries, I thought the
matter had been fixed — but as it is not, I have re
quested Mr. Trumbull, who has the charge of this, to
wait upon and agree with the Convention, on proper
persons to conduct the business and in such a way
that their purchases and his may not clash ; to
him therefore, I beg leave to refer you upon this
subject.

I am extremely obliged by the order for the Tele
scope, I have obtained it and will try to employ it
for the valuable purposes you designed it.

I shall pay proper attention to your members and
persons employed in their service and give it in Gen
eral orders that they be permitted to pass our Guards
without Interruption.

Before I conclude, I cannot but express my fears,
lest the Enemy's army so largely augmented should
possess themselves of the whole Stock on Long
Island ; When the further reinforcement arrives,
which they hourly expect, they may do it, without a
possibility on our part of preventing them.

I wish the Convention may not see cause to regret
that they were not removed.

1 Colonel James Clinton, who was in the Continental service, and was pro
moted to the rank of brigadier the day after this letter was written.

330 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE OFFICERS AND SOLDIERS OF THE PENNSYLVANIA
ASSOCIATION.1

HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 8 August, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

I had fully resolved to have paid you a visit in
New Jersey, if the movements of the enemy, and
some intelligence indicating- an early attack, had not
induced me to suspend it. Allow me, therefore, to
address you in this mode, as fellow citizens and fel
low soldiers engaged in the same glorious cause ; to
represent to you, that the fate of our country de
pends, in all human probability, on the exertion of a
few weeks ; that it is of the utmost importance to
keep up a respectable force for that time, and there
can be no doubt, that success will crown our efforts,
if we firmly and resolutely determine to conquer or
to die. I have placed so much confidence in the
spirit and zeal of the Associated Troops of Pennsyl
vania, that I cannot persuade myself an impatience
to return home, or a less honorable motive will de
feat my well-grounded expectation, that they will do
their country essential service, at this critical time,
when the powers of despotism are all combined
against it, and ready to strike their most decisive
stroke.

If I could allow myself to doubt your spirit and
perseverance, I should represent the ruinous conse
quences of your leaving the service, by setting before

1 Militia from Pennsylvania, who volunteered to serve till the Flying Camp
could be collected. They were now stationed near Elizabethtown, and had
become dissatisfied with the service. Many were daily returning home without
orders.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 331

you the discouragement it would give the army, the
confusion and shame of our friends, and the still more
galling triumph of our enemies. But as I have no
such doubts, I shall only thank you for the spirit and
ardor you have shown, in so readily marching to
meet the enemy, and I am most confident you will
crown it by a glorious perseverance. The honor and
safety of our bleeding country, and every other motive
that can influence the brave and heroic patriot, call
loudly upon us, to acquit ourselves with spirit. In
short, we must now determine to be enslaved or free.
If we make freedom our choice, we must obtain it by
the blessing of Heaven on our united and vigorous
efforts.

I salute you, Gentlemen, most affectionately, and
beg leave to remind you, that liberty, honor, and
safety are all at stake ; and I trust Providence will
smile upon our efforts, and establish us once more,
the inhabitants of a free and happy country. I am,
Gentlemen, your most humble servant.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NKW YORK, 8 August, 1776.

SIR,

By yesterday morning's post I was honored with
your favor of the 2d Instant, with sundry Resolutions
of Congress to which I shall pay strict attention. As
the proposition for employing the Stockbridge In
dians has been approved, I have wrote Mr. Edwards,
one of the Commissioners, and who lives among

332 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

them, requesting him to engage them or such as are
willing to enter the service. I have directed him to
Indulge them with liberty to Join this, or the North
ern Army, or both as their inclination may lead.1 I
wish the salutary consequences may result from the
regulation respecting seamen taken that Congress
have in view. From the nature of this kind of peo
ple, and the privileges granted on their entering into
our service, I should suppose many of them would do
it. We want them much.

I yesterday transmitted the Intelligence I received
from the Deserters from the Solebay Man-of-War.
The Inclosed Copy of a Letter by last-night's Post
from the Honble. Mr. Bowdoin, with the Informa
tion of a Captain Kennedy lately taken corroborating
their accounts respecting the Hessian Troops. In
deed his report makes the fleet and Armament to be
employed against us, greater than what we have
heard they would be ; However, there remains no
doubt of their being both large and formidable, and
such as will require our most vigorous exertions to
oppose them. Persuaded of this, and knowing how
much Inferior our Numbers are and will be to theirs,
when the whole of their troops arrive — of the Im-

1 " Having represented to Congress the expediency of employing the Stock-
bridge Indians as they are desirous of it, they have authorized me to do it as you
will see by the enclosed copy of their resolution passed the 2d. inst. If Mr.
Edwards is at the treaty you are now holding shew him the resolve and please
to inform him that it is my request he should adopt the most expeditious mode
of raising them, giving such of them that choose it, liberty to join the northern,
and those that prefer coming here, leave to do it in case they incline to divide.
If they do not the whole may go to which of the armies they please." — IVashing-
ton to Schuylcr, 7 August, 1776. See Journals of Congress ', 2 August, 177°-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 333

portant consequences that may and will flow from
the appeal that will soon be made, I have wrote to
Connecticut and New Jersey for all the succor they
can afford, and also to the Convention of this State.
What I may receive, and in what time the event
must determine. But I would feign hope, the situa
tion, the exigency of our Affairs, will call forth the
most strenuous efforts and early assistance of those,
who are friends to the cause. I confess there is too
much occasion for their exertions. I confidently
Trust they will not be withheld.

I have enclosed a copy of a letter from Mr. Bow-
doin, respecting the eastern Indians. Congress will
thereby perceive, that they profess themselves to be
well attached to our interest, and the summary of the
measures taken to engage them in our service. I
have the treaty at large between the honorable Coun
cil of the Massachusetts, on behalf of the United
States, with the delegates of the St. John's and Mic-
mac tribes. The probability of a copy's being sent
already, and its great length, prevent one coming
herewith. If Congress have not had it forwarded
'em, I will send a copy by the first opportunity, after
notice that it has not been received.

August tyth. — By a report received from General
Greene last night, at sunset and a little after about a
hundred boats were seen bringing troops from Staten
Island to the ships, three of which had fallen clown
towards the Narrows, having taken in soldiers from
thirty of the boats. He adds, that, by the best
observations of several officers, there appeared to be

334 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

a general embarkation. I have wrote to General
Mercer for two thousand men from the Flying Camp.
Colonel Smallwood's battalion, as part of them, I ex
pect this forenoon ; but where the rest are to come
from, I know not, as, by the General's last return,
not more than three or four hundred of the new levies
had p;ot in.

o

In my letter of the 5th I inclosed a Genl. Return
of the Army under my immediate command, but I
immagine the following state will give Congress a
more perfect Idea, tho' not a more agreeable one,
of our situation. For the Several posts on New
York, Long and Governor's Islands and Paulus Hook
we have fit for duty 10,514, sick present 3039 — sick
absent 629 — On Command 2946 ; on Furlow 97—
Total 17,225. In addition to those we are only cer
tain of Colo. Smallwood's Battallion in case of an
immediate Attack. — Our posts too are much divided,
having waters between many of them, and some dis
tant from others Fifteen miles. These circumstances
sufficiently distressing of themselves, are much aggra
vated by the sickness that prevails thro' the Army—
Every day, more or less are taken down so that the
proportion of men that may come in, cannot be con
sidered as a real and serviceable augmentation in the
whole. These things are melancholy, but they are
never the less true. I hope for better. Under every
disadvantage my utmost exertions shall be employed
to bring about the great end we have in view, and so
far as I can judge from the professions and apparent
disposition of my Troops, I shall have their support.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 335

The superiority of the Enemy and the expected at
tack, do not seem to have depressed their spirits.
Those considerations lead me to think that tho'
the appeal may not terminate so happily in our
favor as I could wish, yet they will not succeed in
their views without considerable loss. Any advan
tage they may get, I trust will cost them dear.

By the Reverend Mr. Madison and a Mr. Johnson,
two gentlemen of Virginia, who came from Staten
Island yesterday, and where they arrived the day
before in the packet with Colonel Guy Johnson, I
am informed that nothing material had taken place in
England when they left it ; that there had been a
change in the French ministry, which many people
thought foreboded a war ; that it seemed to be be
lieved by many, that Congress would attempt to buy
off the foreign troops, and that it might be effected
without great difficulty. Their accounts from Staten
Island nearly corresponded with what we had before.
They say that every preparation is making for an
attack ; that the force now upon the island is about
fifteen thousand ; that they appear very impatient for
the arrival of the foreign troops, but a very small part
having got in. Whether they would attempt any
thing before they come, they are uncertain ; but they
are sure they will as soon as they arrive, if not before.
They say, from what they could collect from the con
versation of officers, &c., they mean to hem us in by
getting above us and cutting off all communication
with the country. That this is their plan seems to be
corroborated and confirmed by the circumstances of

336 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

some ships of war going out at different times within
a few days past, and other vessels. It is probable
that a part are to go round and come up the Sound.
Mr. Madison says Lord Howe's powers were not
known when he left England ; that General Conway
moved, before his departure, that they might be laid
before the Commons, and had his motion rejected by
a large majority. I have the honor to be, &C.1

1 Read I2th. Referred to the Board of War.

" Passes signed by the President of the Convention, of New York, are to be
deemed authentic, and noticed, as such by officers attending at the ferries.

" As the movements of the enemy, and intelligence by Deserters, give the ut
most reason to believe, that the great struggle in which we are contending for
every thing dear to us, and our posterity, is near at hand, — The General most
earnestly recommends, the closest attention to the State of the mens' arms am
munition and flints ; — that if we should be suddenly called to action, nothing
of this kind may be to provide, and he does most anxiously exhort, both officers,
and soldiers, not to be out of their quarters or encampments, especially early in
the morning or upon the tide of flood.

" A Flag in the daytime or a light at night in the Fort or Bayard's Hill, with
three guns from the same place fired quick, but distinct, is to be considered as
a signal for the Troops to repair to their Alarm posts, and prepare for action,
and that the alarm may be more effectually given, the Drums are immediately
to beat to Arms, upon the signal being given from Bayard's Hill. This order
is not to be considered as countermanding the firing two guns at Fort George
as formerly ordered ; that is also to be done upon an alarm, but the Flag will
not be hoisted at the old Head Quarters in the Broadway." — Orderly Book, 8
August, 1776.

" The General exhorts every man, both officer and soldier, to be prepared for
action, to have his arms in the best order, not to wander from his encampment
or quarters, to remember what their Country expects of them, what a few brave
men have lately done in South Carolina against a powerful Fleet & Army ; to
acquit themselves like men, and the blessing of heaven on so just a cause, we
cannot doubt of success." — Orderly Book, 9 August, 1776.

" Necessity obliges me to trouble your Honor with some more suspected
persons, whose characters are such, as to make it unsafe for them to remain at
their usual places of abode on Long Island ; and there is no retreat in this
province, where they may not do some mischief, or be less secure than our
safety requires. As they are apprehended on suspicion, arising from a general
line of conduct unfriendly to the American cause, T have given them reason to

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 337

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 12 August, 1776.

SIR,

I have been duly honored with your favors of the
8th and loth instant, with their several inclosures.
I shall pay attention to the resolution respecting
Lieutenant Josiah, and attempt to relieve him from
his rigorous usage.1 Your letters to such of the gen
tlemen as were here have been delivered. The rest
will be sent by the first opportunity. Since my last,
of the 8th and gth, the enemy have made no move
ments of consequence. They remain nearly in the
same state ; nor have we any further intelligence of

expect from you every indulgence, which your good judgment will permit you
to allow them, consistent with the public safety. There are few of them, who
will not defray their own expenses ; and those few, their companions of better
circumstances will assist, if convenience will admit of their being together in
the same place, which will be a saving to the public. If there are any quite
destitute, I presume they must be put on the footing with other prisoners in like
circumstances. They express a very earnest desire to be permitted to choose
their own lodgings and accommodations, to which I see no objection. But as
I have referred them entirely to you, I do not choose to enter into any engage
ment, on this or any other point ; only adding generally, that I could wish they
might enjoy every accommodation and indulgence, having respect to their rank
and education, which may be deemed consistent with safety. And they are
given to understand, that your humanity and politeness will most effectually
prevent their being liable to any unnecessary hardships." — Washington to
Governor Trumbiill, II August, 1776.

" The practice of Sentries sitting down while on their post is so unsoldierly,
that the General is ashamed to see it prevail so much in the army. — At night
especially, it is of the most dangerous consequence, as it occasions a Sentinel's
sleeping on his post, when otherwise he would be watchful. — The General re
quests the officers, especially those of guards and visiting rounds, to caution
the soldiers against it, and have all conveniences for that purpose removed.
Officers and soldiers will be very careful in case of damp weather, to have their
arms kept dry and fit for action." — Orderly Book, n August, 1776.

1 Journals of Congress , 7 August, 1776. Josiah was first lieutenant under
Captain Riddle.

338 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

their designs. They have not been yet joined by
the remainder of the fleet with the Hessian troops.
Colonel Smallwood and his battalion got in on Fri
day ; and Colonel Miles is also here, with two bat
talions more of Pennsylvania riflemen.

The Convention of this State have been exerting
themselves to call forth a portion of their militia to
an encampment forming above Kingsbridge, to re
main in service for the space of one month after
their arrival ; and also half of those in King and
Queen's counties, to reinforce the troops on Long
Island till the ist of September, unless sooner dis
charged. General Morris too is to take post with his
brigade on the Sound and Hudson's river for ten
days, to annoy the enemy in case they attempt to
land ; and others of their militia are directed to be
in readiness, in case their aid should be required.1
Upon the whole, from the information I have from
the Convention, the militia ordered are now in mo-

1 The Convention ordered, " that each man, who shall not have arms, shall
bring with him a shovel, spade, pickaxe, or a scythe straightened and fixed on
a pole." One fifth part of the militia from Albany county were also ordered
to be drafted, and marched immediately to the encampment north of Kings-
bridge : and it was " unanimously resolved, that, whenever the whole of the
militia of any country should be ordered to march, they should bring with
them all the disarmed and disaffected male inhabitants, from sixteen to fifty-
five years of age, who should serve as fatigue-men to the respective regiments."
— MS. Journal of tlie Convention, August loth. On the same day, having
learned that the inhabitants of King's county, Long Island, did not intend to
oppose the enemy, the Convention appointed a committee to go into that coun
try, and, if they found them in this temper, to disarm and secure the disaf
fected persons, remove or destroy the stock of grain, and, if they should judge
it necessary, to lay the whole country waste. They were authorized to call on
General Greene, who commanded in that quarter, for such assistance from the
Continental troops as they should want.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 339

tion, or will be so in a little time, and will amount to
about three thousand or more. From Connecticut I
am not certain what succors are coming. By one or
two gentlemen, who have come from thence, I am
told some of the militia were assembling, and, from
the intelligence they had, would march this week.
By a letter from Governor Trumbull of the 5th I
am advised, that the troops from that State, destined
for the northern army, had marched for Skenesbor-
ough. General Ward too, by a letter of the 4th,
informs me that the two regiments would march from

o

Boston last week, having been cleansed and gener-

o o

ally recovered from the smallpox. I have also coun
termanded my orders to Colonel Elmore, and directed
him to join the northern army, having heard, after
my orders to Connecticut for his marching hither,
that he and most of his regiment were at Albany or
within its vicinity. General Ward mentions, that
the Council of the Massachusetts State will have in
from two to three thousand of their militia to defend
their lines and different posts, in lieu of the regi
ments ordered from thence agreeably to the resolu
tion of Congress.

The enclosed copy of a resolve of this State,
passed the zoth instant, will discover the apprehension
they are under of the defection of the inhabitants of
King's county from the common cause, and of the
measures they have taken thereupon. I have directed
General Greene to give the Committee such assist
ance as he can, and they may require, in the execu
tion of their commission ; though at the same time I

340 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

wish the information the Convention have received
upon the subject may prove groundless. I would beg
leave to mention to Congress, that, in a letter I re
ceived from General Lee, he mentions the valuable
consequences that would result from a number of
cavalry being employed in the southern department.
Without them, to use his own expressions, he can
answer for nothing ; with one thousand, he would
ensure the safety of those States. I should have
done myself the honor of submitting this matter to
Congress before, at his particular request, had it not
escaped my mind. From his acquaintance with that
country, and the nature of the grounds, I doubt not
he has weighed the matter well, and presume he has
fully represented the advantages, that would arise
from the establishment of such a corps. All I mean
is, in compliance with his requisition, to mention the
matter, that such consideration may be had upon it,
if not already determined, that it may be deserving
of.1 ... I am, &c.2

1 " An order is this moment passed for calling General Lee from the south
ward." — Hancock to Washington, 8 August, 1776.

- Read in Congress, August I4th.

" This will be handed to you by Col. Campbell from the Northern army, whom
the inclosed letter and proceedings of a General court martial will shew to have
been in arrest and tried for sundry matters charged against him. As the court
martial was by order of the commander in that department, the facts committed
there, the trial there, I am much at a loss to know why the proceedings were re
ferred to me to approve or disapprove. As my interfering in the matter would
carry much impropriety with it, and shew a want of regard to the rules and
practice in such instances, and as Colo. Campbell is going to Philadelphia, I
have submitted the whole of the proceedings to the consideration of Congress,
for their decision upon the case, perfectly convinced that such determination
will be had therein as will be right and just." — Washington to the President of
Congress, 12 August, 1776.

1 776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 341

TO THE NEW YORK CONVENTION.

I iKAU-Qb'ARTKRS, NEW YORK, 12 August, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

As the time is certainly near at hand, and may be
hourly expected, which is to decide the fate of this
city and the issue of this campaign, I thought it highly
improper, that persons of suspected character should
remain in places, where their opportunities of doing
mischief were much greater, than in the enemy's
camp. I therefore have caused a number of them to
be apprehended and removed to some distance ; there
to remain until this crisis is passed. Having formerly
mentioned this subject to your honorable body, I
would not again trouble them in a business, which
former connexions, obligations, and interests must
make very unpleasant, and which, I apprehend, must
have been in danger of failing in the execution, unless

O t=>

clone with all possible secrecy and despatch. I post
poned this most disagreeable duty until the last mo
ment ; but the claims of the army upon me, and an
application from a number of well affected inhabi
tants, concurring with my own opinion, obliged me
to enter upon it while time and circumstances would
admit. I have ordered a very strict attention to be
paid to the necessities of the gentlemen apprehended,
and to their comfortable accommodation in every
respect, both here and at the places of their destina
tion. I have also written to the Committee of
Queen's county, that this step is not to be considered
as making their property liable to any injury or ap
propriation, unless they should receive directions

342 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

from your honorable body, to whom I have referred
them on this subject ; being resolved in all cases,
where the most absolute necessity does not require
it, to confine myself wholly to that line, which shall
exclude every idea interfering with the authority of
the State.

Some of these gentlemen have expressed doubts,
and raised difficulties, from engagements they lay
under to your honorable body, or to some commit
tees. They do not appear to me to deserve much
attention, as they cannot, with any propriety, be
charged with a breach of any parole under their
present circumstances ; but I beg leave to submit
to your consideration the propriety of removing
the pretence. I am, Gentlemen, with great respect
and regard, &C.1

1 In his instructions to the Committee of Queen's county he said : — " The pub
lic exigencies having required my apprehending a number of suspected persons
in your county, and sending them into another colony for a short time, they have
expressed some apprehensions that in their absence their property may be ex
posed to injury, and their families deprived of the support they would otherwise
derive from it. I therefore beg leave to acquaint you, that a temporary restraint
of their persons is all, that is intended by the present measure, and that it would
give me much pain, if it should be construed to extend to any depredation of
property ; that matter resting entirely with the jurisdiction of the civil authority
of the province."

At the same time he gave notice to the Convention of New Jersey, that many
suspected persons from different parts of that province were removing to the
neighborhood of Monmouth, evidently with the design of being near and aiding
the enemy, and requested the Convention to take immediate and effectual meas-
sures to secure such persons, and prevent them from doing the mischief they
contemplated.

" As there is reason to believe, that but little time will elapse before the
enemy make their attack, I have thought it advisable to remove all the papers
in my hands, respecting the affairs of the States, from this place. I hope the
event will show the precaution was unnecessary ; but yet prudence required that
it should be done, lest by any accident they might fall into their hands. They

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 343

TO MAJOR-GENERAL GATES.

\K\\ VOKK, 14 August, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

I yesterday morning received your letter by Bennet,
the express, and am extremely sorry to find, that the
army is still in a sickly and melancholy state. The
precaution taken to halt the reinforcements at Skenes-

are all contained in a large box, nailed up, and commuted to the care of Lieu
tenant-Colonel Reed, brother of the adjutant-general, to be delivered to Con
gress, in whose custody I would beg leave to deposit them until our affairs shall
be so circumstanced as to admit of their return. The enemv, since my letter of
yesterday, have received a further augmentation of thirty-six ships to their fleet,
making the whole that have arrived since yesterday morning ninety-six.

" P. S. I would observe that 1 have sent oil the box private!}" that it might
raise no disagreeable Ideas & have enjoined Colo. Reed to secrecy." — Washing
ton to the P resilient of Congress, 13 August, 1776.

" The Enemy's whole enforcement is now arrived, so that an attack must ami
will soon be made ; the General therefore again repeats his earnest request, that
every officer and soldier will have his arms and Ammunition in good order, keep
within their quarters and encampment, as much as possible ; be ready for action
at a moment's call ; and when called to it remember that Liberty, Property, Life
and Honor, are all at stake ; that upon their courage and conduct rest the hopes
of their bleeding and insulted Country ; that their Wives, Children, and Pa
rents, expect safety from them only, and that we have every reason to expect,
Heaven will crown with success, so just a cause. The enemy will endeavor to
intimidate by shew and appearance, but remember how they have been re
pulsed, on various occasions, by a few brave Americans ; Their cause is bad,
their men are conscious of it, and if opposed with firmness and coolness, at
their first onset, with our advantage of Works, and knowledge of the Ground,
Victory is most assuredly ours. Every good soldier will be silent and attentive,
wait for orders and reserve his fire, 'til he is sure of doing execution. The offi
cers to be particularly careful of this. The Colonels, or commanding officers of
Regiments are to see their supernumerary officers so posted as to keep the men
to their duty ; and it may not be amiss for the troops to know, that if any in
famous Rascal, in time of action shall attempt to skulk, hide himself or retreat
from the enemy without orders of his commanding officer, he will instantly be
shot down as an example of Cowardice. On the other hand the General sol
emnly promises, that he will reward those who shall distinguish themselves, by
brave and noble actions ; and he desires every officer to be attentive to this par
ticular, that such men may be afterwards suitably noticed." — Orderly fiook, 13
August, 1776.

344 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

borough, which are destined for your succor, is cer
tainly prudent. They should not be exposed or made
liable to the calamities already too prevailing, unless
in cases of extreme necessity. Dr. Stringer has been
here, with Dr. Morgan, and is now at Philadelphia. I
trust he will obtain some necessary supplies of medi
cines, which will enable him, under the smiles of
Providence, to relieve your distresses in some degree.
By a letter from General Ward, two regiments,
Whitcomb's and Phinny's, were to march to your aid
last week. They have happily had the small-pox,
and will not be subject to the fatal consequences at
tending that disorder. I am glad to hear, that the
vessels for the Lakes are going on with such industry.
Maintaining the superiority over the water is certainly
of infinite importance. I trust neither courage nor
activity will be wanting in these, to whom the busi
ness is committed. If assigned to General Arnold,
none will doubt of his exertions.

In answer to those parts of your letter, which so
highly resent the conduct of the general officers here,
I would observe, Sir, that you are under a mistake,
when you suppose a council of officers had sat upon
those, who composed the board at Crown Point.
When intelligence was first brought, that the post
was evacuated, it spread a general alarm, and occa
sioned much anxiety, to all who heard it, as it was
almost universally believed, that it was a post of the
last importance, and the only one to give us, in con
junction with our naval force, a superiority over the
Lake, and for preventing the enemy's penetrating
into this and the eastern governments. As this mat-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 345

ter was occasionally mentioned, the general officers,
some from their own knowledge, and others from the
opinion they had formed, expressed themselves to
that effect, as did all I heard speak upon the subject.
Added to this, the remonstrance of the officers, trans
mitted by General Schuyler at the same time the
account was brought, did not contribute a little to
authorize the opinion which was generally enter
tained. They surely seemed to have some reasons
in their support, though it was not meant to give the
least encouragement or sanction to proceedings of
such a nature. Upon the whole, no event that I
have been informed of for a long time, produced a
more general chagrin and consternation. But yet
there was no council called upon the occasion, nor
court of inquiry, nor court-martial, as has been sug
gested by some. I will not take up more time upon
the subject, nor make it a matter of further discus
sion, not doubting but those, who determined that
the post ought to be abandoned, conceived it would
promote the interest of the great cause we are
engaged in, the others have differed from them. By
the by, I wish your description perfectly corresponded
with the real circumstances of this army. You will
have heard before this comes to hand, most probably
of the arrival of Clinton and his army from the south
ward. They are now at Staten Island, as are the
whole or the greatest part of the Hessian and foreign
troops. Since Monday, ninety-six ships came in,
which we are informed is the last division of Howe's
fleet, which touched at Halifax, and by a deserter are
not to land their troops. We are in daily expecta-

346 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

tion, that they will make their attack, all their move
ments, and the advices we have, indicating- that they
are on the point of it. I am, dear Sir, &c.T

1 " I take the liberty of mentioning that Colo. Varnum of Rhode Island has
been with me this morning to resign his commission, conceiving himself to be
greatly injured in not having been noticed in the late arrangement and promotion
of General officers. 1 remonstrated against the impropriety of the measure at this
time and he has consented to stay till affairs wear a different aspect than what
they do at present." — Washington to the President o / Congress, 14 August, 1776.

"In case of alarm the men are immediately to repair to their usual parade,
where the roll is to be called, and then march, join in Battalion and march to
their respective a la rip posts — Absentees will be considered as Cowards, and
treated as such.

" The General flatters himself, that every man's mind and arms, are now
prepared for the glorious contest upon which so much depends. The time is
too precious nor does the General think it necessary to spend it in exhorting his
brave Countrymen and fellow Soldiers to behave like men, fighting for every
thing that can be dear to Freemen — We must resolve to conquer or die ; with
this resolution, and the blessing of Heaven, Victory and Success, certainly will
attend us: There will then be a glorious issue to this Campaign, and the Gen
eral will reward his brave Fellow Soldiers with every Indulgence in his power."
— Orderly Book, 14 August, 1776.

" As the situation of the two armies must engage the attention of Congress,
and lead them to expect that each returning day will produce some important
events, this is meant to inform them, that nothing of moment has yet cast up.
In the evening of yesterday there were great movements among their boats and
from the number that appeared to be passing and repassing about the narrows,
we were induced to believe they intended to land a part of their force upon
Long Island, but having no report from General Greene, I presume they have
not clone it." — Washington to the President of Congress, 15 August, 1776.

" I beg leave to inform you that since I had the pleasure of addressing you
yesterday, nothing interesting between the two armies has happened. Things
remain nearly in the same situation as they were.

" It is with peculiar regret and concern that I have an opportunity of men
tioning to Congress the sickly condition of our troops. In some regiments
there are not any of the field officers capable of doing duty. In others, the
duty extremely difficult for want of a sufficient number. I have been obliged
to nominate some 'till Congress transmit the appointments of those they wish
to succeed to the several vacancies, occasioned by the late promotions. This
being a matter of some consequence I presume will have their early attention,
and that they will fill up the several vacancies also mentioned in the list I had
the honor of transmitting some few days ago to the Board of War." — Washing
ton to the President of Congress, 16 August, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 347

TO THE NEW YORK CONVENTION.

HKAD-QUARTKKS, NEW YORK, 17 August, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

When I consider, that the city of New York will
in all human probability very soon be the scene of a
bloody conflict, I cannot but view the great numbers
of women, children, and infirm persons remaining in
it, with the most melancholy concern. When the
men-of-war passed up the river, the shrieks and cries
of these poor creatures running every way with their
children, were truly distressing, and I fear they will
have an unhappy effect on the ears and minds of our
young and inexperienced soldiery. Can no method
be devised for their removal ? Many doubtless are
of ability to remove themselves, but there are others
in a different situation. Some provision for them
afterwards would also be a necessary consideration.
It would relieve me from great anxiety, if your hon
orable body would immediately deliberate upon it,
and form and execute some plan for their removal
and relief ; in which I will cooperate and assist to the
utmost of my power. In the mean time, I have
thought it proper to recommend to persons, of the
above description, to convey themselves without delay
to some place of safety, with their most valuable
effects.1 I have the honor to be, &C.1

1 A committee \\ras appointed by the Convention conformably to this sugges
tion, and empowered to remove such persons as they should think proper, and
to afford the necessary assistance and support to those in indigent circum
stances. A proclamation was likewise issued by the Commander-in-chief,
recommending this removal to the inhabitants, and requiring officers and sol
diers of the army to afford their aid. The Convention likewise requested the

348 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE LORD HOWE.

HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 17 August, 1776.

MY LORD,

Being authorized by Congress, as their command
ers in every department are, to negotiate an exchange
of prisoners', and presuming, as well from the nature
of your Lordship's command, as the information that
General Howe has been pleased to honor me with,
that the exchange in the naval line will be subject to
your Lordship's directions, I beg leave to propose the
following mode of exchange for your Lordship's con
sideration, namely, " Officers for those of equal rank,
and sailors for sailors." If this proposal should be
agreeable to your Lordship, I am charged in a par
ticular manner to exchange any officer belonging to
the British navy in our hands, and of equal rank, for

general committee of New York to give their assistance in effecting the removal
in the most humane and expeditious manner possible.

" In my Letter of yesterday I forgot to mention the Arrival of Lord Dun-
more here. By the examination of a Captn. Hunter who escaped from the
Enemy and came to Amboy on the I4th transmitted me by Genl. Roberdeau, I
am certainly Informed his Lordship arrived on the I3th. The Examination
does not say any thing about the Ships he brought with him. It only extends
to his Force which it mentions to be weak.

" I before now expected the Enemy would have made their attack — nor can
I account for their deferring it, unless the Intelligence given by Captn. Hunter
and another person, who escaped about the same time, is the cause, to wit-
that they are waiting the arrival of another division of the Hessian Troops
which they say is still out. Whether that is the reason of the delay I cannot
undertake to determine, but I should suppose things will not long remain in
their present state.

" I am just now advised by Mr. Aires who came from Philadelphia to build
the Row Gallies, That Two of our Fire Vessels attempted last night to burn
the Enemies Ships & Tenders up the River — he says that they burnt one Ten
der, and one of them boarded the Phenix and was grapled with her for near
Ten Minutes, but she cleared herself — We lost both of the vessels. His account
is not so particular, as I could wish, however, I am certain the attempt has not
Succeeded to our wishes — In a little time it is probable the Matter will be more
minutely reported." — Washington to the President of Congress, 17 August, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 349

Lieutenant Josiah, who was lately made prisoner in a
ship retaken by the Cerberus frigate. The reason,
my Lord, of my being charged to propose the exchange
of Lieutenant Josiah, in preference to that of any other
officer, is, that authentic intelligence has been received,
that, regardless of his rank as an officer, he has not only
been subjected to the duties of a common seaman, but
has experienced many other marks of indignity.

As a different line of conduct, my Lord, has ever
been observed towards the officers of your navy, who
have fallen into our hands, it becomes not only a
matter of right, but of duty, to mention this to your
Lordship, to the end that an inquiry may be made
into the case above referred to. From your Lord
ship's character for humanity, I am led to presume,
that the hardships imposed on Lieutenant Josiah are
without either your knowledge or concurrence, and
therefore most readily hope, that, upon this repre
sentation, your Lordship will enjoin all officers under
your command to pay such regard to the treatment
of those, who may fall into their hands, as their dif
ferent ranks and situations require, and such as your
Lordship would wish to see continued by us to those,
who are already in our power, or who may hereafter,
by the chance of war, be subjected to it. I have
the honor to be, my Lord, with great respect, your
Lordship's most obedient servant.1

1 In his reply, dated August igth, Lord Howe, concurring in the proposition
for an exchange of prisoners, added : " Principles and conduct form the true
distinctions of rank amongst men ; yet, without competent habit in the manners
of the world, they are liable to meet with unmerited disregard. But insults and
indignities to persons of whatever rank, who are become parties in these unhappy
disputes, cannot be justified, and are, T persuade myself, as much disapproved
of bv everv officer under mv command, as they can never cease to be by me."

350 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO LORD DRUMMOND.1

NEW YORK, 17 August, 1776.

MY LORD,

I have your Lordship's favor of this day, accom
panied by papers on subjects of the greatest moment,
and deserving the most deliberate consideration. I
can allow much of your Lordship's well-meant zeal
on such an occasion, but I fear it has transported you
beyond that attention to your parole, which compre
hends the character of a man of strict honor. How
your Lordship can reconcile your past or present
conduct with your engagement, so as to satisfy your
own mind, I must submit to your own feelings ; but I
find myself under the disagreeable necessity of ob
jecting to the mode of negotiation proposed, while
your Lordship's conduct appears so exceptionable.
I shall, by express, forward to Congress your Lord
ship's letter and the papers which accompanied it.
The result will be communicated as soon as possible.
I am sorry to have detained your Lordship so long,
but the unavoidable necessity must be my apology.
I am, my Lord, &c.2

1 For various particulars respecting Lord Drummond, see vol. TIL, p. 420.

2" They will observe my answer to Lord Drummond, who I am pretty confident
has not attended to the Terms of his parole, but has violated it in several In
stances. It is with the rest of the papers, but if my Memory serves me he was
not to hold any correspondence directly or indirectly with those in arms against
us, or to go into any port or harbor in America where the Enemy themselves
were or had a Fleet or to go on board their Ships.

" The late conduct of Lord Drummond is as extraordinary as his motives
are dark and mysterious. To judge the most favorably of his intentions, it
would seem, that an overweening vanity has betrayed him into a criminal
breach of honor. But whether his views were upright, or intended only to mis
lead and deceive, cannot at present be a matter of any importance. In the
mean time, I have the pleasure to acquaint you, that Congress highly approve

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 351

TO GOVERNOR TRUMBULL.

NEW YORK, 18 August, 1776.

SIR,

I have been duly honored with your favor of the
1 3th instant; and, at the same time that I think you
and your honorable Council of Safety highly deserv
ing of the thanks of the States, for the measures you
have adopted in order to give the most early and
speedy succor to this army, give me leave to return
you mine in a particular manner. When the whole

the manner in which you have checked the officious and intemperate zeal of his
Lordship. Whether his designs were hostile or friendly, he equally merited the
reproof you gave him, and I hope for the future he will be convinced, that it is
highly imprudent to attract the attention of the public to a character, which
will only pass without censure when it passes without notice.

" The Congress, having considered the matter thoroughly, are of opinion to
decline taking any public or further notice of his Lordship, or his letters, and
particularly as you have so fully expressed their sentiments on the subject in
your letter to him. — Hancock to Washington, 24 August, 1776.

Thus ended Lord Drummond's proposals to act the part of a negotiator.
He attempted to vindicate himself from the charge of having broken his parole,
and to explain his conduct, but without success. The facts in the case were
too obvious and indisputable to be extenuated by any testimony he produced,
or by the mere assertion of honorable motives. When General Lee was a
prisoner in New York the summer following, he became acquainted with Lord
Drummond, and was prevailed upon by him to solicit from Washington a re-
examination of the affair, stating that his Lordship felt wounded at the treat
ment he had received, and expressing a conviction of his innocence. Washing
ton replied with his usual firmness, that he had thoroughly investigated the
subject at the time, that he had no disposition to injure Lord Drummond, that
the impression left on his mind was deep and decided, and that no circum
stances had since come to light, which tended to alter his opinion. Sparks.

" T do myself the honor to transmit the enclosed letter from Major French,
and at the same time to inform you, that his exchange for Major Meigs, whose
parole I am advised you have, will meet my approbation. I would take the
liberty also to propose an exchange of any captain you may choose for Captain
Dearborn, whose parole I have heard was delivered to you with Major Meigs's.
Give me leave to assure you, Sir, that I feel myself greatly obliged by the polite
conclusion of your letter of the 1st instant, and have a high sense of the honor
and satisfaction I should have received from your personal acquaintance. The

352 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

of the reinforcements arrive, I flatter myself we shall
be competent to every exigency, and, with the smiles
of Providence upon our arms and vigorous exertions,
we shall baffle the designs of our inveterate foes,
formidable as they are. Our situation was truly
alarming a little while since ; but, by the kind inter
position and aid of our friends, it is now much better.
You may rest assured, Sir, that due consideration
shall be had to the several militia regiments that have
come, and are marching to our assistance, and that

different state of the colonies from what it was last war, and which has deprived
me of that happiness, cannot be regretted by any one more, Sir, than by your
most obedient humble servant." — Washington to Lieutenant General Hoive,
17 August, 1776.

" The General being informed, to his great surprise, that a report prevails
and is industriously spread far and wide, that Lord Howe has made proposi
tions of peace, calculated by designing persons probably to lull us into a fatal
security ; his duty obliges him to declare, that no such offer has been made by
Lord Howe, but, on the contrary, from the best intelligence he can procure,
the army may expect an attack, as soon as the wind and tide shall prove favora
ble. He hopes, therefore, that every man's mind and arms will be prepared
for action, and, when called to it, show our enemies and the whole world, that
freemen contending on their own land are superior to any mercenaries on
earth." — Orderly Book, August 2Oth.

" The Resolution they have entered into respecting the Foreign Troops, I
am persuaded would produce Salutary Effects, if it can be properly circulated
among them. I fear it will be a matter of difficulty — However, I will take
every Measure that shall appear probable to facilitate the End. . . .

" I am exceedingly at a loss to know the motives and causes Inducing a pro
ceeding of such a nature at this Time and Avhy Lord Howe has not attempted
some plan of negotiation before, as he seems so desirous of it. If I may be
allowed to conjecture and guess at the cause, it may be that part of the Hes
sians have not arrived as mentioned in the examination transmitted Yesterday ;
or that Genl. Burgoyne has not made such progress as was expected, to form a
junction of their Two Armies ; or, what 1 think equally probable, they mean
to procrastinate their operations for some Time, Trusting that the Militias
which have come to our Succor, will soon become tired and return home, as is
but too usual with them. Congress will make their observations upon these
several Matters and favor me with the Result as soon as they have done." —
Washington to the President of Congress, 1 8 August, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 353

they shall be dismissed as soon as circumstances will
admit of it. I trust, so long as there is occasion for
their services, that the same spirit and commendable
zeal, which induced them to come, will induce their
continuance. I sincerely wish it were in my power
to ascertain the particular period when they would be
needed, that they may not be detained one unneces
sary moment from their homes and common pursuits.
But, as this cannot be done, as the approaching con
test and trial between the two armies will, most un
questionably, produce events of the utmost importance
to the States, as the issue, if favorable, will put us on
such a footing, as to bid defiance to the utmost malice
of the British nation, and those in alliance with her,
I have not a doubt but they will most readily consent
to stay, and cheerfully undergo every present and
temporary inconvenience, so long as they are neces
sary.

I am happy Captain Van Buren has succeeded so
well in the business he was upon, it being of great
consequence for us to fit out and maintain our vessels
on the Lakes.1 On the night of the i6th, two of our
fire-vessels attempted to burn the ships of war up the
river. One of them boarded the Phoenix of forty-
four guns, and was grappled with her for some min
utes, but unluckily she cleared herself. The only
damage the enemy sustained was the destruction of
one tender. It is agreed on all hands, that our peo
ple, engaged in this affair, behaved with great resolti-

1 Captain Van Buren had been sent clown to Connecticut and Rhode Island
to obtain sail-cloth, cordage, and other articles for the flotilla on Lake ("ham-
plain.

354 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

tion and intrepidity. One of the captains, Thomas,
it is to be feared, perished in the attempt or in mak
ing his escape by swimming, as he has not been heard
of. His bravery entitled him to a better fate.
Though this enterprise did not succeed to our wishes,
I incline to think it alarmed the enemy greatly ; for
this morning the Phoenix and Rose, with their two
remaining tenders, taking advantage, of a brisk and
prosperous gale, with a favorable tide, quitted their
stations, and have returned and joined the rest of the
fleet. As they passed our several batteries, they were
fired upon, but without any damage that I could per
ceive.1 The whole of the British forces in America,
except those employed in Canada, are now here, Clin
ton's arrival bein^ followed the last week by that of

o J

Lord Duntnore, who now forms a part of the army
we are to oppose. His coming has added but little
to their strength. I have the honor to be, &c.2

1 It appeared afterwards, that the ships sustained a good deal of injury in
passing the upper batteries, near Fort Washington and the Haerlem River.
General Heath was on the spot, and reported, that the Phoenix was three times
hulled by the shot from Mount Washington, and one of the tenders once ; and
that the Rose was hulled once by a shot from Burdett's Ferry on the opposite
side of the river. Riflemen were posted along the banks of the river, but the
men on board were kept so close, that it was not known that any damage was
done by the rifles. Grape-shot were fired from the vessels as they passed, but
without injury except to a tent. The Phoenix and Rose had been five weeks in
the river, and, by the aid of their tenders and small boats, soundings had been
taken in every part as far up as the entrance of the Highlands. The tender,
which had been burnt by one of the fire-ships, was towed on shore the next
day, although under the lire of the enemy's cannon. This was effected by a
lieutenant and two men, in a manner that reflected great credit upon their enter
prise and courage. A six-pound cannon, three smaller ones, and ten swivels
were taken out of the tender.

'* " As nothing contributes so much to the good order and government of
troops, as an exactness in discipline, and a strict observance of orders ; and as

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 355

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NF.W YORK, 20 August, 1776.

SIR,

I was yesterday morning favored with yours of the
1 7th, accompanied by several resolutions of Congress,
and commissions for officers appointed to the late va
cancies in this army. I wrote some days ago to Gen
eral Schuyler, to propose to Generals Carleton and
Burgoyne an exchange of prisoners, in consequence
of a former resolve of Congress authorizing their
commanders in each department to negotiate one.
That of Major Meigs for Major French, and Captain
Dearborn for any officer of equal rank, I submitted to
General Howe's consideration, by letter on the 1 7th,
understanding their paroles had been sent to him by
General Carleton ; but have not yet received his
answer upon the subject.

In respect to the exchange of prisoners in Canada,

the Army is now arranged into different divisions, those divisions formed into
brigades, and brigades composed of regiments ; the General hopes and expects
that the several duties of the Army, will go on with regularity, cheerfulness and
alacrity ; As one means of accomplishing this, he desires, that no regiment, brig
ade, or division, will interfere with the duties of another, but walk in their own
proper line ; the Colonels taking care not to contravene the orders of their
Brigadiers ; the Brigadiers of their Major Generals ; and that the whole, pay
due attention to the General Orders, which can only be set aside, or be dis
pensed with by orders of equal dignity.

" The Army under such a regulation will soon become respectable in itself,
and formidable to the foe — It is an incumbent duty upon every officer of every
rank, to be alert and attentive, in the discharge of the several duties annexed to
his office ; his honor, his own personal safety, and for ought he knows, the sal
vation of his Country, and its dearest privileges, may depend upon his exertions.
Particular causes may, and doubtless will happen, to render it necessary (for the
good of the service) that a change of officers &c — should be made from one
brigade to another ; but whenever there appears cause for this, it will lie noti
fied by general or special orders —

356 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

if a proposition on that head has not been already
made, and I believe it has not, the enclosed copy of
General Carleton's orders (transmitted to me under
seal by Major Bigelow, who was sent with a flag to
General Burgoyne from Ticonderoga, with the pro
ceedings of Congress on the breach of capitulation at
the Cedars, and the inhuman treatment of our people
afterwards) will show it is unnecessary, as he has de
termined to send them to their own provinces, there
to remain as prisoners ; interdicting at the same time
all kinds of intercourse between us and his army, ex
cept such as may be for the purpose of imploring the
King's mercy. The assassination, which he mentions,
of Brigadier-General Gordon, is a fact entirely new to

" The General cannot quit the subject, as this may possibly be the last oppor
tunity, previous to an attack, without advising the private men, and exhorting
the troops in general, to be profoundly silent, and strictly obedient to Orders,
before they come to, and also while they are in action, as nothing can contrib
ute more to their Success, 'than a cool and deliberate behavior, nor nothing add
more to the discouragement of the enemy, than to find new troops calm and
determined in their manner. The General has no doubt but that every good
Soldier, and all the officers, are sufficiently impressed with the necessity of ex
amining the state and condition of their arms, but his own anxiety on this head
impels him to remind them of it after every spell of wet weather, least \ve
should at any time be caught with arms unfit for immediate use.

" The Regiments of Militia from Connecticut are to be formed into a Brigade
under the command of Brigadier General Wolcott, who is hourly expected, and
in the mean time to be under the command of Col. Hinman, the eldest
Colonel of the militia.

" Though the Fire Ships which went up the North River last Friday Even
ing, were not so successful as to destroy either of the Men of \Yar, yet the Gen
eral thanks the officers and men for the spirit and resolution which they shewed
in grappling the Vessels before they quitted the Fire Ships ; And as a reward
of their merit, presents each of those who stayed last, and were somewhat
burnt ; Fifty Dollars, and Forty to each of the others ; and had the enterprize
succeeded, so as to have destroyed either of the ships of war, the General could
have been generous in proportion to the service." — Orderly Book, 18 August,
1776.

i7;6| GRORGK WASHINGTON. 357

me, and what I never heard of before. I shall not
trouble Congress with my strictures upon this inde
cent, illiberal and scurrilous performance, so highly
unbecoming the character of a soldier and gentleman,
only observing that its design is somewhat artful, and
that each boat-man with Major Bigelowwas furnished
with a copy. I have also transmitted Congress a
copy of the Major's journal, to which I beg leave to
refer them for the intelligence reported by him on his
return from the truce.1

1 The events attending the capitulation at the Cedars, and the agreement for
the exchange of prisoners entered into by Arnold, were of so extraordinary and
irritating a nature, in regard to the conduct of the enemy, that Congress, at the
same time they confirmed Arnold's stipulation, resolved, " that, previous to the
delivery of the prisoners to be returned on our part, the British commanders in
Canada be required to deliver into our hands the authors, abettors, and per
petrators of the horrid murder committed on the prisoners, to suffer such pun
ishment as their crime deserves ; and also to make indemnification for the
plunder at the Cedars, taken contrary to the faith of the capitulation ; and
that, until such delivery and indemnification be made, the said prisoners be not
delivered." Journals, July loth. This was in effect a refusal to confirm the
treaty, and was so considered by the commanding officers in Canada. The re
port of the committee of Congress on this subject, and the resolves respecting
the treaty, were forwarded to General Burgoyne. The despatch was sent under
the charge of Major Bigelow from Ticonderoga. He proceeded down the lake
to Lsle-aux-Noix, which was then a British outpost, where he was detained, and
the despatch was forwarded to General Burgoyne then at St. John's. Major
Bigelow stayed ten days at Tsle-aux-Noix, where lie and his party were treated
very civilly by Captain Craig, the commander of that post, and by the other
officers. At length the messenger came back from St. John's, with a letter
directed to " George Washington, Esquire" which was handed to Major
Bigelow, and with which he returned immediately up the Lake to Ticonderoga,
being escorted on his way as far as Gilleland's by a boat with two British officers
and nine Canadians.

This letter General Gates sent off by express to General Washington. When
opened it was found to be a mere envelope, enclosing a paper purporting to be a
military order issued by General Carleton at Chamblee, on the yth of August,
without signature or address, and unaccompanied by any remarks. The con
tents of this paper were of so singular a character, and comported >o little with

358 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

By a Letter from Genl Greene yesterday Evening
he informed me, he had received an Express from
Hog Island Inlet advising that 5 of the Enemy's
small vessells had appeared at the mouth of the
Creek with some Troops on board — also that he had
heard Two pettiaugers were off Oister Bay, the
whole supposed to be after live stock and to prevent
their getting it, he had detached a party of Horse &
Two Hundred & Twenty men, among 'em Twenty
Rifle men. I have not received further intelligence
upon the subject.

I am also advised by the examination of a Captain
Britton (master of a vessel that had been taken),

the spirit and temper of a high-minded officer, that they might well have ex
cited a strong suspicion as to their being genuine, had not the despatch been
formally entrusted to Major Bigelow as coming from General Burgoyne, or
General Carleton, who was Commander-in-chief. The order prohibits all in
tercourse " with rebels, traitors, rioters, disturbers of the public peace, plun
derers, robbers, assassins, or murderers," and adds, that " should emissaries
from such lawless men again presume to approach the army, whether under the
name of flag-of-truce men, or ambassadors, except when they come to implore
the King's mercy, their persons shall be immediately seized and committed to
close confinement, and proceeded against as the law directs." After a good
deal more in the same style of rodomontade, the order concludes by directing
" all the prisoners from the rebellious provinces, who choose to return home, to
hold themselves in readiness to embark at a short notice, and that the commis
sary should visit the transports destined for them, and see that wholesome pro
visions and necessary clothing, with all possible conveniences for their passage,
be prepared ; and that the prisoners were to look on their respective provinces
as their prisons, there to remain till further enlarged, or summoned to appear
before the Commander-in-chief in Canada." With no other explanation, than
the order itself, it is now impossible to decide what degree of credit ought to be
ascribed to it. From the tenor of Washington's letter above, and from the
circumstance of his transmitting the paper to Congress, it is obvious, that he
considered it genuine. General Schuyler and General Gates were of the same
opinion. It is remarkable, that a copy of the same paper was put into the
hands of each of Major Bigelow's men, when he left Isle-aux-Noix, If the

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 359

transmitted to me by General Mercer, that the general
report among the enemy's troops, was, when he came
off, that they were to attack Long Island, and to
secure our works there if possible, at the same. time
that another part of their army was to land above this
city. This information is corroborated by many
other accounts, and is probably true ; nor will it be
possible to prevent their landing on the Island, as its
great extent affords a variety of places favorable for
that purpose, and the whole of our works on it are
at the end opposite to the city. However, we shall
attempt to harass them as much as possible, which
will be all that we can do. I have the honor, &C.1

order actually proceeded from General Carleton, it must be allowed to indicate
few of those elevated traits, which we should expect to find connected with that
generous humanity, so conspicuous in his character on other occasions.

General Gordon of the British army had been wantonly and barbarously shot
on the 24th of July, by an American scout, near St. John's. A lieutenant and
four men from Ticonderoga, who were on a scout within the enemy's lines, con
cealed themselves near the road leading from St. John's to Laprairie. While
they were in that concealment, General Gordon passed alone on horseback, and
in full uniform. The lieutenant deliberately fired at him, and shot him through
the body. The wound was mortal, but the General was able to ride to St.
John's, where he soon expired. This act of atrocity kindled the indignation of
the British officers, and, occurring, but two or three days before the despatch
from Congress arrived, it may have had a principal influence in dictating the
paper called General Carleton's order, so little consistent with the dignity and
self-respect, which every gentleman, and especially an officer in high rank,
must desire to possess. — Sparks.

1 Read August 22nd. Referred to the Board of War.

" The officers who have lately come into Camp, are also informed that it has
been found necessary amidst such frequent changes of Troops, to introduce
some distinctions by which their several ranks may be known — viz. : Field Offi
cers wear a pink or red Cockade — Captains white or buff — Subalterns green —
The General flatters himself every gentleman will conform to a regulation
which he has found essentially necessary to prevent mistakes and confusion." —
Orderly Book 20 August, 1776.

360 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO MAJOR-GENERAL HEATH.

NEW YORK, 22 August, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

As the enemy must pass this place before they can
attempt the posts above, and as your troops there are
now augmented, I would have you pick out a body
of about eight hundred, or a thousand, light, active
men, and good marksmen (including the light infan
try and riflemen), ready to move this way upon the
appearance of the shipping coming up, or upon the
commencement of the Cannonade of any of our
works. By the time these troops get into the flat
grounds of Haerlem, they will be able (especially if
you send a horseman or two on before, for intelli
gence, which will be proper) to determine whether
the ships intend higher up than this neighborhood,
and regulate themselves accordingly.

There is a road out of the Haerlem flat lands that
leads up to the hills and continues down the North
River by Bloomingdale, Delancey's, &c., which road
I would have them march, as they will keep the river
in Sight, and pass a tolerable landing-place for troops
in the neighborhood of Bloomingdale. This detach
ment should bring a couple of light field-pieces.

I think two, or even four, pieces of cannon might
be spared from Fort Washington to the post over
the bridge ; — but query, whether it might not do to
run them from thence when occasion shall seem to
require it, as that post never can be attacked without
sufficient notice to do this. Colonel Knox will have
four carriages ready for that place, immediately, if

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 361

we have not other employment upon hand, which
General Putnam, who is this instant come in seems
to think we assuredly Shall, this day, as there is a
considerable embarkation on board of the enemy's
boats. I shall therefore only add that you should
delay no time in forming your detachment for our
aid, or your own defence, as circumstances may re
quire. Yours &c, in haste.

TO THE NEW YORK CONVENTION.

HEAD-QUARTERS, NKW YORK, 23 August, 1776.

GENTLEMEN,

I am favored with yours of the 22d, acquainting
me with a report now circulating, " that if the Ameri
can army should be obliged to retreat from this city,
any individual may set it on fire." I can assure you,
Gentlemen, that this report is not founded upon the
least authority from me ; on the contrary, I am so
sensible of the value of such a city, and the conse
quences of its destruction to many worthy citizens
and their families, that nothing but the last necessity,
and that such as should justify me to the whole
world, would induce me to give orders for that pur
pose. The unwillingness shown by many families to
remove, notwithstanding your and my recommenda
tions, may perhaps have led some persons to propa
gate the report, with honest and innocent intentions ;
but as your letter first informed me of it, I cannot
pretend to say by whom, or for what purpose, it has
been done. As my views, with regard to the re-

362 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

moval of the women and children, have happily coin
cided with your sentiments, and a committee appointed
to carry them into execution, I submit it to your
judgment, whether it would not be proper for the
Committee to meet immediately in this city, and give
notice of their attendance on this business. There
are many, who anxiously wish to remove, but have
not the means. I am, with much respect and regard,
Gentlemen, yours, &c.

TO MAJOR-GENERAL HEATH.

HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 23 August, 1776.

SIR,

Yesterday morning the enemy landed at Gravesend
Bay, upon Long Island, from the best information I
can obtain to the number of about eight thousand.
Colonel Hand retreated before them, burning as he
came along several parcels of wheat, and such other
matter as he judged would fall into the enemy's
hands. Our first accounts were, that they intended,
by a forced march, to surprise General Sullivan's
(who commands during the illness of General Greene)
lines ; whereupon I immediately reinforced that post
with six regiments. But they halted last night at
Flatbush.1 If they should attack General Sullivan

1 "The General would be obliged to any officer, to recommend to him a
careful, sober person who understands taking care of Horses and waiting occa
sionally. Such person being a soldier will have his pay continued, and receive
additional wages of twenty Shillings pr. month. He must be neat in his person,
and to be depended on for his honesty and sobriety.

" The Enemy have now landed on Long Island, and the hour is fast ap
proaching, on which the Honor and Success of this Army, and the Safety of
our Bleeding Country depend. Remember, officers and soldiers, that you are

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 363

this day, and should show no disposition to attack
me likewise, at the making of the next flood, I shall
send such further reinforcements to Long Island as
I may judge expedient, not choosing to weaken this
post too much, before I am certain that the enemy
are not making a feint upon Long Island to draw our
force to that quarter, when their real design may per
haps be upon this.1 I am, &c.

Freemen, fighting for the blessings of Liberty, that Slavery will be your portion,
and that of your posterity, if you do not acquit yourselves like men. Remem
ber how your Courage and Spirit have been dispised and traduced by your cruel
invaders ; though they have found by dear experience, at Boston, Charlestown,
and other places, what a few brave men, contending in their own land, and in
the best of causes can do, against base hirelings and mercenaries. — Be cool, but
determined, do not fire at a distance, but wait for orders from your officers. It
is the General's express orders, that if any man attempts to skulk, lay down or
retreat without orders, he be instantly shot down as an example, he hopes no
such Scoundrel be found in this Army, but on the contrary, every one for him
self, resolving to conquer or die, and trusting to the smiles of Heaven upon so
just a cause, will behave with Bravery and Resolution. Those who are distin
guished for their Gallantry and good Conduct may depend upon being honorably
noticed, and suitably rewarded. And if this Army will but emulate, and imi
tate their brave Countrymen, in other parts of America, he has no doubt they
will by a glorious Victory, save their Country, and acquire to themselves immor
tal Honor." — Orderly Book, 23 August, 1776.

1 " I have no doubt but a little time will produce some important events. I
hope they will be happy. The reinforcement detached yesterday went off in
high spirits ; and T have the pleasure to inform you, that the whole of the army,
that are effective and capable of duty, discover the same, and great cheerfulness.
I have been obliged to appoint Major-General Sullivan to the command on the
Island, owing to General Greene's indisposition ; he has been extremely ill for
several days, and still continues bad." — Washington to the President of Congress,
23 August, 1776.

Washington crossed over to Long Island on the 23d., and saw occasion for
making further reinforcements. " I have sent over four more regiments, with
boats, to be ready to reinforce the troops under General Sullivan, or to return
to this place if the remainder of the fleet at the watering place should push up
to the city, which hitherto (I mean since the landing upon Long Island,) they
have not had in their power to do, on account of the wind, which has either
been ahead, or too small, when the tide has served." — Washington to the
President of Congress, 24 August, 17/6.

364 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

P. S. The flood tide will begin to make about
eleven o'clock, at which time, if the detachment or
dered yesterday were to move to the high and open
grounds about Mr. Delancey's and Bloomingdale,
they would be ready to come forward, or turn back,
as occasion should require ; it would give them a little
exercise, and show them wherein they are wanting in
any matter.

TO GOVERNOR T RUM HULL.

NKVV YORK, 24 August, 1776.

SIR,

On Thursday last the enemy landed a body of
troops, supposed to amount (from the best accounts
I have been able to obtain ) to eight or nine thousand
men, at Gravesend Bay on Long Island, ten miles dis
tance from our works on the Island, and immediately
marched through the open lands to Flatbush, where
they are now encamped. They are distant about
three miles from our lines, and have woods and
broken grounds to pass (which we have lined) before
they can get to them. Some skirmishing has hap
pened between their advanced parties and ours, in
which we have always gained an advantage.1 What
the real designs of the enemy are, I am not yet able

1 " Yesterday there was some skirmishing between a detachment of them, and
a party from our troops. Their detachments were obliged to give ground, and
were pursued as far as where they had a post at a Judge Lefferts'. His house
and outhouses served as quarters for them, and were burned by our people.
We sustained no loss in this affair, that I have heard of, except having two men
slightly wounded. Our people say the enemy met with more." — Washington to
Schuyler, 24 August, 17/6.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 365

to determine. My opinion of the matter is, that they
mean to attack our works on the Island and this city
at the same time, and that the troops at Flatbush are
waiting in those plains till the wind and tide (which
have not yet served together) will favor the move
ment of the shipping to this place : Others think they
will bend their principal force against our lines on the
Island, which, if carried, will greatly facilitate their
designs upon this city. This also being very prob
able, I have thrown what force I can over, without
leaving myself too much exposed here ; for our whole
number (if the intelligence we get from deserters,
&c., be true) falls short of that of the enemy ; conse
quently the defence of our own works, and the ap
proaches to them, is all we can aim at. This, then,
in a manner, leaves the whole Island in possession of
the enemy, and of course of the supplies it is capable
of affording them. Under these circumstances would
it be practicable for your government to throw a body
of one thousand or more men across the sound, to
harass the enemy in their rear or upon their flanks ?
This would annoy them exceedingly, at the same time
that a valuable end, to wit, that of preventing their
parties securing the stocks of cattle, &c., would be
answered by it ; the cattle to be removed or killed.
The knowledge I have of the extraordinary exertions
of your State upon all occasions, does not permit me
to require this, not knowing how far it is practicable ;
I only offer it, therefore as a matter for your consider
ation, and of great public utility, if it can be accom
plished.

366 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

The enemy, if my intelligence from Staten Island
be true, are at this time rather distressed on account
of provisions ; if then, we can deprive them of what
this Island affords, much good will follow from it.

The foreigners are yet upon Staten Island x ; the
British troops are upon Long Island, and on ship
board. I remain &c.2

TO MAJOR-GENERAL PUTNAM.3
INSTRUCTIONS.

It was with no small degree of concern, I perceived yesterday
a scattering, unmeaning, and wasteful fire from our people at the
enemy — a kind of fire that tended to disgrace our own men as
soldiers, and to render our defence contemptible in the eyes of
the enemy. No one good consequence can attend such irregu
larities, but several bad ones will inevitably follow from them.
Had it not been for this unsoldierlike and disorderly practice, we
have the greatest reason imaginable to believe, that numbers of
deserters would have left the enemy's army last year ; but fear
prevented them from approaching our lines then, and must for ever
continue to operate in like manner, whilst every soldier conceives
himself at liberty to fire when and at what he pleases. This is

1 This was an error, as a part of the Germans, — Col. Donop's corps of chas
seurs and Hessian grenadiers — were landed on the 22d. Lieutenant General
De Heister, with two brigades of Hessians, joined the army on Long Island on
the 25th.

2 " The passage of the East River being obstructed, in such a manner, with
Chevaux-de-Fri/es &c. as to render it dangerous for any Vessels to pass, the
Sentinels along the river, contiguous to where the obstructions are placed, are
to hail and prevent any Vessels attempting to pass, otherwise than between the
Albany Pier ; and a Mast in the river, which appears above water, nearly op
posite. — Orderly Book, 24 August, 1776.

3 Putnam had just been sent over to take the general command on Long
Island. Sullivan had the immediate command of all the troops not within the
lines at Brooklyn.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 367

not the only nor the greatest evil resulting from the practice ; for,
as we do not know the hour of the enemy's approach to our lines,
but have every reason to apprehend that it will be sudden and
violent whenever attempted, we shall have our men so scattered,
and more than probable without ammunition, that the conse
quences must prove fatal to us ; besides this, there will be no
possibility of distinguishing between a real and a false alarm.

I must therefore, Sir, in earnest terms desire you to call the
colonels and commanding officers of corps without loss of time
before you ; and let them afterwards do the same by their respec
tive officers, and charge them, in express and positive terms, to
stop these irregularities, as they value the good of the service,
their own honor, and the safety of the army, which, under God,
depends wholly upon the good order and government that is ob
served in it. At the same time, I would have you form proper
lines of defence around your encampment and works on the most
advantageous ground. Your guards, which compose this defence,
are to be particularly instructed in their duty, and a brigadier of
the day is to remain constantly upon the lines, that he may be
upon the spot to command, and see that orders are executed.
Field-officers should also be appointed to go the rounds, and re
port the situation of the guards ; and no person should be allowed
to pass beyond the guards, without special order in writing.

By restraining the loose, disorderly, and unsoldierlike firing
before mentioned, I do not mean to discourage partisans and
scouting parties ; on the contrary I wish to see a spirit of that
sort prevailing, under proper regulations, and officers, either
commissioned or non-commissioned, as cases require, to be di
rected by yourself or licensed by the brigadier of the day upon
the spot, to be sent upon this service. Such skirmishing as may
be effected in this manner will be agreeable to the rules of pro
priety, and may be attended with salutary effects, inasmuch as it
will inure the troops to fatigue and danger, will harass the enemy,
and may make prisoners and prevent their parties from getting
the horses and cattle from the interior parts of the Island, which
are objects of infinite importance to us, especially the two last.
All the men not upon duty are to be compelled to remain in or
near their respective camps, or quarters, that they may turn out

368 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

at a moment's warning ; nothing being more probable, than that
the enemy will allow little time enough to prepare for the attack.
The officers also are to exert themselves to the utmost to prevent
every kind of abuse to private property, and to bring every of
fender to the punishment he deserves. Shameful it is to find,
that those men, who have come hither in defence of the rights of
mankind, should turn invaders of it by destroying the substance
of their friends. The burning of houses where the apparent
good of the service is not promoted by it, and the pillaging of
them, at all times and upon all occasions, are to be discounte
nanced and punished with the utmost severity. In short, it is to
be hoped, that men who have property of their own, and a regard
for the rights of others, will shudder at the thought of rendering
any man's situation, in whose protection he has come, more in
sufferable than his open and avowed enemy would make it ; when
by duty and every rule of humanity they ought to aid, and not
oppress, the distressed in their habitations. The distinction be
tween a well regulated army and a mob, is the good order and
discipline of the first, and the licentious and disorderly be
havior of the latter. Men, therefore, who are not employed as
mere hirelings, but have stepped forth in defence of every thing,
that is dear and valuable not only to themselves but to posterity,
should take uncommon pains to conduct themselves with the
greatest propriety and good order, as their honor and reputation
call loudly upon them to do it.

The wood next to Red Hook should be well attended to. Put
some of the most disorderly riflemen into it. The militia are the
most indifferent troops, those I mean which are least tutored and
have seen least service, and will do for the interior works, whilst
your best men should at all hazards prevent the enemy's passing
the wood, and approaching your works. The woods should be
secured by abatis where necessary, to make the enemy's approach
as difficult as possible. Traps and ambuscades should be laid
for their parties, if you find they are sent out after cattle, £c.

Given under my hand, at Head Quarters, this 25th day of
August, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 369

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 26 August, 1776.

SIR,

I have been duly honored with your favors of the
2Oth and 24th, and am happy to find my answer to
Lord Drummond has met the approbation of Congress.
Whatever his views were, most certainly his conduct
respecting his parole is highly reprehensible. Since
my letter of the 24th almost the whole of the enemy's
fleet have fallen down to the Narrows ; and, from
this circumstance, and the striking of their tents and
their several encampments on Staten Island from
time to time previous to the departure of the ships
from thence, we are led to think they mean to land
the main body of their army on Long Island, and to
make their grand push there. I have ordered over
considerable reinforcements to our troops there, and
shall continue to send more as circumstances may
require. There has been a little skirmishing and ir
regular firing kept up between their and our advanced
guards, in which Colonel Martin of the Jersey levies
has received a wound in his breast, which, it is appre
hended, will prove mortal ; a private has had his leg
broken by a cannon-ball, and another has received a
shot in the groin from their musketry. This is all the
damage they have yet done us ; what they have sus
tained is not known.

The shifting and changing, which the regiments
have undergone of late, have prevented their making
proper returns, and of course put it out of my power
to transmit a general one of the army. However, I

370 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

believe our strength is much the same as it was when
the last was made, with the addition of nine militia
regiments from the State of Connecticut, averaging
about three hundred and fifty men each. These are
nine of the fourteen Regiments mentioned in my Let
ter of i Qth. Our people still continue to be very
sickly. The papers designed for the foreign troops
have been put into several channels, in order that
they might be conveyed to 'em ; and from the in
formation I had yesterday, I have reason to believe
many have fallen into their hands.1 I have enclosed
a copy of Lord Drummond's second letter in answer
to mine, which I received since I transmitted his first,
and which I have thought it necessary to lay before
Congress, that they may possess the whole of the
correspondence between us, and see how far he has
exculpated himself from the charge alleged against

1 As the Hessians and other foreign troops were mercenaries, hired to fight in
a cause in which they could feel no personal interest, the Congress thought it
expedient to endeavor to entice them away from the service, and induce them
to settle in the United States. For this purpose a resolution, drawn by Wilson,
Jefferson and Stockton, was passed, promising to all such as would leave the
British army a free exercise of their religion, and investing them with all the
rights, privileges, and immunities of natives, and moreover engaging to every
such person fifty acres of unappropriated land, to be held by him and his heirs
in absolute property. This resolution, and other papers explaining the nature
of the war, and of the part taken in it by the foreign troops, were ordered to
be translated into German and circulated among them. Journals, August I4th.
With this intent they were forwarded to General Washington. Concern having
been expressed that no distinction had been made between officers and privates,
by another resolution, Congress held out to foreign officers, who should leave
the British army and become citizens of the United States, the encouragement
of a bounty in land ; to a colonel one thousand acres, to a lieutenant-colonel
eight hundred, and so on according to the rank of the subordinate officers.
Journals, August 2yth.

Dr. Franklin was one of the committee for carrying these resolutions into

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 371

him — The Log Book he mentions to have sent Colo.
Moylan proves nothing in his favor. That shews he
had been at Bermuda and from thence to some other
Island, and on his passage from which to this place
the Vessel he was in was boarded by a pilot who
brought her into the Hook, where he found the Brit
ish Fleet, which his Lordship avers he did not expect
were there, having understood their destination was
to the southward.1

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

LONG ISLAND, 29 August, half past four, A.M., 1776.

SIR,

I was last night honored with your favor, of the
27th accompanied by sundry resolutions of Congress.
Those respecting the officers, &c that may be
wounded in the service of the States, are founded

effect, and a letter from him to General Gates will explain the method adopted
for the purpose. " The Congress being advised," he writes, " that there was a
probability that the Hessians might be induced to quit the British service by
offers of land, they came to two resolves for this purpose, which, being trans
lated into German and printed, are to be sent to Staten Island to be distributed
if practicable among that people. Some of them have tobacco marks on the
back, that so tobacco being put up in them in small quantities, as the tobac
conists use, and suffered to fall into the hands of these people, they may di
vide the papers as plunder, before their officers could come to the knowledge of
the contents and prevent their being read by the men. That was the first resolve.
A second has since been made for the officers themselves. I am desired to send
some of both sorts to you, that, if you find it practicable, you may convey them
among the Germans, who may come against you." 28 August, 1776.

The first resolution was sent to Washington, who dictated it to one Zedtwitz,
a lieutenant colonel in the Continental army to be translated into " Hy ger-
man." Zedtwitz three days later wrote to Tryon, giving the contents of the
resolution, and offering his services as a spy ; but his letter was intercepted, and
he was cashiered. It was doubtless his translation that was distributed.

1 Read in Congress August 28th.

372 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

much in justice, and I should hope may be produc
tive of many salutary consequences. As to the en
couragement to the Hessian officers, I wish it may
have the desired effect. Perhaps it might have been
better, had the offer been sooner made. Before this,
you will probably have received a letter from Mr.
Harrison, of the 27th, advising you of the engage
ment between a detachment of our men and the
enemy on that day.1 I am sorry to inform Congress,
that I have not yet heard either of General Sullivan
or Lord Stirling, who were among the missing after
the engagement ; nor can I ascertain our loss. I am
hopeful, part of our men will yet get in ; several did
yesterday morning. That of the enemy is also un
certain ; the accounts are various. I incline to think
they suffered a good deal. Some deserters say five
hundred were killed and wounded.

There was some skirmishing the greater part of
yesterday, between parties from the enemy and our
people ; in the evening it was pretty smart, The
event I have not yet learned. The weather of late
has been extremely wet. Yesterday it rained se
verely the whole afternoon, which distressed our peo
ple much, not having a sufficiency of tents to cover
them, and what we have not got over yet. I am in
hopes they will all be got to-day, and that they will
be more comfortably provided for, though the great
scarcity of these articles distresses us beyond measure,
not having any thing like a sufficient number to pro-

1 Printed in Sparks' edition, iv., 513. The history of this battle is fully
treated in Field, Battle of Long Island.

i776l GEORGE WASHINGTON.
tect our people from the inclemency of the weather ;
which has occasioned much sickness, and the men to
be almost broke clown.1 I have the honor to be, &c.'

To THE I'RESIDKNT OF CONGRFSS.

NK\V YORK, 31 August, 1776.

SIR,

Inclination as well as duty would have induced me
to give Congress the earliest information of my re-

1 In addition to the forces on the Island at the time of the action, General
Mirrlin had come down from Fort Washingon with Slice's, Magaw's, and
Glover's regiments, amounting to about thirteen hundred men, who had passed
over to Brooklyn on the 28th, without tents.

- Read in Congress August 3oth.

" Your favor of this date is just come to hand. Circumstanced as this army
was, in respect to situation and strength, &c it was the unanimous advice of a
council of general officers to give up Long Island, and not, by dividing our
force, be unable to resist the enemy in any one point of attack. This reason,
added to some others, particularly the fear of having our communication cut
off from the main, of which there seemed to be no small probability, and the
extreme fatigue our troops were laid under, in guarding such extensive lines
without proper shelter from the weather, induced the above resolution. It is
the most difficult thing in the world, Sir, to know in what manner to conduct
one's self with respect to the militia. If you do not begin, many days before
they are wanted, to raise them, you cannot have them in time ; if you do, they
get tired and return, besides being under but very little order or government
whilst in service. However, if the enemy have a design of serving us at this
place, as we apprehend they meant to do on Long Island, it might not be im
proper to have a body in readiness to prevent or retard a landing of them on
the east of Haerlem River, if need be. In haste, and not a little fatigued, I
am." — WasJiington to the President of the New York Convention, 30 August,
1776. The reasons given by the Committee of Safety for not calling out
the militia in the counties near New York are given in Force, American
Archives, Fifth Series, ii., 660, 661.

" The constant tiring in the Camp, notwithstanding repeated orders to the
contrary, is very scandalous, and seldom a day passes, but some persons are
shot by their friends. Once more therefore the General entreats the officers to
prevent it, and calls upon the Soldiers to forbear this practise. Pieces that
cannot be drawn, are to be discharged in a Volley, at Retreat Beating and not
otherwise, and then by command of the officer." — Orderly Book, 30 August, 1 776.

374 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

moval, and that of the troops, from Long Island
and its dependencies, to this city the night before
last ; but the extreme fatigue, which myself and fam
ily have undergone, as much from the weather since,
as the engagement on the 27th, rendered me and
them entirely unfit to take pen in hand. Since Mon
day, scarce any of us have been out of the lines till
our passage across the East River was effected yes
terday morning ; and, for forty-eight hours preceding
that, I had hardly been off my horse, and never
closed my eyes ; so that I was quite unfit to write or
dictate till this morning.

Our retreat was made without any loss of men or
ammunition, and in better order than I expected
from troops in the situation ours were. We brought
off all our cannon and stores, except a few heavy
pieces, which, in the condition the earth was, by a
long continued rain, we found upon trial impracti
cable ; the wheels of the carriages sinking up to the
hobs rendered it impossible for our whole force to
drag them. We left but little provisions on the
island, except some cattle, which had been driven
within our lines, and which after many attempts to
force across the water, we found it impossible to
effect, circumstanced as we were. I have enclosed
a copy of the council of war held previous to the re
treat, to which I beg leave to refer Congress for the
reasons, or many of them, that led to the adoption
of that measure.1 Yesterday evening and last night,

1 At a council of war held 2gth August, it was unanimously agreed to remove
the army to New York, for the following reasons : — -

1776] GKORGR WASHINGTON. 375

a party of our men were employed in bringing our
stores, cannon, and tents, from Governor's Island,
which they nearly completed. Some of the heavy
cannon remain there still, but I expect they will be
got away to-day.

In the engagement on the 27th, Generals Sullivan
and Stirling were made prisoners. The former has

1st. Because our advanced party had met with a defeat, & the road was
lost, where we expected to make a principal stand.

2nd. The great loss sustained in the Death or Captivity of several valuable
Officers and their Battalions, or a large part of them, has occasioned great
confusion and discouragement among the Troops.

3rd. The Heavy rains which fell two days and nights with but Little Inter
mission have injured the Arms and spoiled a great part of the Ammunition,
and the Soldiery being without Cover and obliged to lay in the Lines, now
worn out, and It was to be feared would not be retained in them by any order.

4th. From the Time the Enemy moved from Flatbush, several large ships
had attempted to get up as supposed into the East River to cut off our Com
munication by which the whole Army would have been destroyed. But the
wind being N. E. could not effect It.

5th. Upon consulting with persons of knowledge of the Harbor, they were
of opinion that small ships might come between Long Island and Governors
Island where there are no obstructions and which would cut off the communi
cation effectually, and who were also of opinion the Hulks sunk, between
Governor's Island, and the City of New York, were no sufficient security for
obstructing that passage.

6th. Tho our Lines were fortified with some strong Redoubts, yet a great part
of them were weak being only abbattied with Bush, and affording no strong
cover, so that there was reason to apprehend they could be forced, which would
have put our Troops in confusion, and having no retreat, they must have been
cut to pieces, or made prisoners.

7th. The divided state of the Troops rendered our defence very precarious,
and the duty of defending long and extensive lines, at so many different places,
without proper conveniences and cover so very fatiguing, that the troops have
become dispirited by their Incessant duty and watching.

8th. Because the Enemy has sent several ships of war into the sound, to a
place called flushing bay, and from the information received, that a part of
their troops, were moving across long island, that way, there was reason to
apprehend, they meant to pass over land, and form an incampment above
King's bridge in order to cut off, and prevent all communication between our
army and the country beyond them or to get in our rear.

376 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

been permitted, on his parole, to return for a little
time. From my Lord Stirling I had a letter by
General Sullivan, a copy of which I have the honor
to transmit, that contains his information of the en
gagement with his brigade. It is not so full and cer
tain as I could wish ; he was hurried most probably,
as his letter was unfinished ; nor have I been yet
able to obtain an exact account of our loss ; we sup
pose it from seven hundred to a thousand killed and
taken.1 General Sullivan says Lord Howe is ex
tremely desirous of seeing some of the members of
Congress ; for which purpose he was allowed to come
out, and to communicate to them what has passed
between him and his lordship. I have consented to
his going to Philadelphia, as I do not mean, or con
ceive it right, to withhold or prevent him from giving
such information as he possesses in this instance. I
am much hurried and engaged in arranging and mak
ing new dispositions of our forces ; the movements
of the enemy requiring them to be immediately had ;
and therefore I have only time to add, that I am,
with my best regards to Congress, &c.2

1 According to General Howe's return of the American prisoners taken on
Long Island, the whole number amounted to one thousand and seventy-six.
This list includes General Woodhull, and the militia under him, probably
about two hundred, who were not in the action, but were taken afterwards at
Jamaica. The British loss, as stated by General Howe, was ninety-four killed
and missing, and two hundred and eighty-three wounded. In nearly all the
accounts of the action, Woodhull has been erroneously written Udell.

• Read in Congress September 2nd.

" Both officers and soldiers are informed that the Retreat from Long Island
was made by the unanimous advice of all the General officers, not from any
doubts of the Spirit of the troops, but because they found the troops very much
fatigued with hard duty and divided into many detachments, while the Enemy
had their main body on the Island, and capable of receiving assistance from the

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 377

TO MAJOR-GENERAL HEATH.

NKVV YORK, i September, 1770.

SIR,

I received your favor of this date, and intend this
evening to go to Haerlem and see whether the situa
tion of things will admit of the several detachments
and dispositions you mention, so that every place
necessary to be maintained should have measures
taken for their defence. I should suppose that
Hutchinson's regiment, and the three hundred men

o

you say are at Mount Washington, will do to gar
rison it for the present, and will be equal to any force
that will be brought against it, if they keep a good
look-out and do not suffer a surprise. This you must
strongly press upon them to guard against.—

As it is of great consequence to gain intelligence
of the enemy's designs, and of their intended opera
tions, I cannot but recommend your attention to this
subject, and that you will Concert some measures
with General Clinton for establishing a Channel of

Shipping. In these circumstances it was thought unsafe to transport the whole
of an Army on an Island, or to engage them with a part, and therefore unequal
numbers ; whereas now, one whole Army is collected together, without water
intervening, while the Enemy can receive little assistance from their ships ;
their Army is and must be divided into many bodies, and fatigued with keeping
up a communication with their ships ; whereas ours is connected and can act
together ; they must effect a landing, under so many disadvantages, that if offi
cers and soldiers are vigilant, and alert, to prevent surprise, and add spirit
when they approach, there is no doubt of our success.

' The General hopes the several officers, both superior and inferior, will now
exert, themselves, and gloriously determine to conquer, or die — From the jus
tice of our cause — the situation of the harbor, and the bravery of her sons,
America can only expect success. Now is the time for every man to exert him
self, and make our Country glorious, or it will become contemptable." — Orderly
Book, 31 August, 1776.

378 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

information. I apprehend that his general acquaint
ance with most of the people in the colony will give
him an opportunity of fixing upon suitable persons,
and in whom a confidence may be reposed, to embark
in this business, and who, from their connections on
the island and the assistance of their friends there,
might obtain frequent accounts that would be useful
and of great advantage. Perhaps some might be got
who are really Tories, for a reasonable reward, to
undertake it. Those who are friends would be pre
ferable, if they could manage it as well. I will not
add more upon the subject, but heartily wish you and
General Clinton could fall upon some mode to carry
into execution a Scheme of this Sort.

We are in extreme want here of a number of
horses and teams to transport baggage &c., from
place to place, and therefore have enclosed a war
rant authorizing you, or any substituted by you to
impress them. If they can be procured immediately
by hiring, it would be better ; but if not, I beg you
will take the most early means to send them down
by impressing them. They must be had at all
events.

If there is a possibility of procuring boats for the
Haerlem River, it shall be done. I am, Sir.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 2 September, 1776.

SIR,

As my intelligence of late has been rather unfavor
able, and would be received with anxiety and concern,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 379

peculiarly happy should I esteem myself, were it in
my power at this time to transmit such information
to Congress, as would be more pleasing and agree
able to their wishes ; but, unfortunately for me, un
fortunately for them, it is not. Our situation is truly
distressing. The check our detachment sustained on
the 27th ultimo has dispirited too great a proportion
of our troops, and filled their minds with apprehen
sion and despair. The militia, instead of calling
forth their utmost efforts to a brave and manly oppo
sition in order to repair our losses, are dismayed, in
tractable, and impatient to return. Great numbers
of them have gone off ; in some instances, almost by
whole regiments, by half ones, and by companies at a
time. This circumstance, of itself, independent of
others, when fronted by a well-appointed enemy
superior in number to our whole collected force,
would be sufficiently disagreeable ; but, when their
example has infected another part of the army, when
their want of discipline, and refusal of almost every
kind of restraint and government, have produced a
like conduct but too common to the whole, and an
entire disregard of that order and subordination

o

necessary to the well-doing of an army, and which
had been inculcated before, as well as the nature of
our military establishment would admit of, — our con
dition is still more alarming ; and, with the deepest
concern, I am obliged to confess my want of confi
dence in the generality of the troops.

All these circumstances fully confirm the opinion I
ever entertained, and which I more than once in my

380 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

letters took the liberty of mentioning to Congress,
that no dependence could be put in a militia, or other
troops than those enlisted and embodied for a longer
period than our regulations heretofore have pre
scribed. I am persuaded, and as fully convinced as I
am of any one fact that has happened, that our liber
ties must of necessity be greatly hazarded, if not en
tirely lost, if their defence is left to any but a perma
nent standing army ; I mean, one to exist during the
war. Nor would the expense, incident to the support
of such a body of troops, as would be competent to
almost every exigency, far exceed that, which is daily
incurred by calling in succor, and new enlistments,
which, when effected, are not attended with any good
consequences. Men, who have been free and subject
to no control, cannot be reduced to order in an
instant ; and the privileges and exemptions, they
claim and will have, influence the conduct of others ;
and the aid derived from them is nearly counter
balanced by the disorder, irregularity, and confusion
they occasion.

I cannot find that the bounty of ten dollars is likely
to produce the desired effect. When men can get
double that sum to engage for a month or two in the
militia, and that militia frequently called out, it is
hardly to be expected. The addition of land might
have a considerable influence on a permanent enlist
ment.1 Our number of men at present fit for duty is
under twenty thousand ; they were so by the last
returns and best accounts I could get after the engage-

1 Journals of Congress, 26 August ; 16 September ; 8 October, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 381

ment on Long Island ; since which, numbers have
deserted. I have ordered General Mercer to send
the men intended for the Flying Camp to this place,
about a thousand in number, and to try with the
militia, if practicable, to make a diversion upon
Staten Island. Till of late, I had no doubt in my
own mind of defending this place ; nor should I have

O JT

yet, if the men would do their duty ; but this I
despair of. It is painful, and extremely grating to
me, to give such unfavorable accounts ; but it would
be criminal to conceal the truth at so critical a junc
ture. Every power I possess shall be exerted to serve
the cause ; and my first wish is, that, whatever may
be the event, the Congress will do me the justice to
think so.

If we should be obliged to abandon the town,
ought it to stand as winter-quarters for the enemy ?
They would derive great conveniences from it on
the one hand ; and much property would be destroyed
on the other. It is an important question, but will
admit of but little time for deliberation. At present,
I dare say the enemy mean to preserve it, if they
can. If Congress, therefore, should resolve upon
the destruction of it, the resolution should be a pro
found secret, as the knowledge of it will make a
change in their plans.1 I have &c.

' Prompt action was taken on this letter ; for it was received by Congress on
the 3d, at once considered in committee of the whole Congress, and resolutions
framed and adopted for reinforcing Washington by three battalions from Vir
ginia, two from North Carolina, one from Rhode Island ; while the states
north of Virginia were urged to send all the aid in their power to the army at
New York. It was also resolved, that General Washington be acquainted,
that Congress would have special care taken, in case he should find it neces-

382 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO BRIGADIER-GENERAL MERCER.

NEW YORK, 3 September, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

From the present complexion of our affairs, it ap
pears to me, of the utmost importance and that the
most salutary consequences may result from our having
a strong encampment at the post on the Jersey side of
the North River, opposite to Mount Washington, on
this island. I therefore think it advisable, and highly
necessary, that you detach such a force from Amboy
and its dependencies under the command of an officer
of note, authority, and influence, with a skilful engi
neer to lay out such additional works, as may be
judged essential and proper, and the situation of the
ground will admit of. They should be begun and
carried on with all possible diligence and despatch.

It will be necessary, that a considerable quantity of
provision should be collected for the maintenance and
support of the camp ; and for this purpose I wish
you to have proper measures adopted to procure it,
and have it deposited there and at places of security
not far distant. As the Continental officers now at
this post will take rank and the command, probably,
of any one you may send, unless he should be a gen
eral officer, I think and wish, if you have one that
possibly can be spared, and in whose judgment, ac
tivity, and fortitude you can rely, that he may be
appointed to the command, rather than an officer
of inferior rank. I am, &c.T

sary to quit New York, that no damage be done to the said city by his troops
on their leaving it ; the Congress having no doubt of their being able to recover
the same, though the enemy should for a time obtain possession of it."

1 "Some instance of infamous Cowardice, and some of scandalous plunder,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 383

TO COLONEL FISHER GAY.

NF.W YORK, 4 September, 1776.

SIR,

Whether you do not get the General Orders with
that regularity which is to be wished, or whether
(which is hard to suppose) you do not attend to them,
I will not undertake to determine ; but it is a melan
choly truth that returns essentially necessary for the
commanding officer to govern himself by, and which

and Riot, having lately appeared, the General is resolved, to bring the offend
ers to exemplary punishment, the notion which seems too much to prevail, of
laying hold of property, not under immediate care, or guard, is utterly destruc
tive of all Honesty, or good Order, and will prove the ruin of any Army,
when it prevails. It is therefore hoped the Officers will exert themselves to
put a stop to it on all future occasions. If they do not, e'er long Death will
be the portion of some of the offenders.

" The General hopes the justice of the cause in which they are engaged,
the necessity and importance of defending this Country, preserving its Liber
ties, and warding off the destruction, meditated against it, will inspire every
man with Firmness, and Resolution, in time of action, which is now approach
ing — Ever remembering that upon the blessing of Heaven, and the bravery of
the men, our Country only can be saved." — Orderly Book, 3 September, 1776.

" Our affairs have not undergone a change for the better, nor assumed a more
agreeable aspect than heretofore. The militia under various pretences are
daily diminishing ; and in a little time, I am persuaded, their number will be
very inconsiderable. On Monday night a forty-gun ship passed up the Sound
between Governor's and Long Island, and anchored in Turtle Bay. In her
passage she received a discharge of cannon from our batteries, but without any
damage ; and, having a favorable wind and tide, soon got out of their reach.
Yesterday morning I despatched Major Crane of the artillery, with two
twelve-pounders and a howitzer, to annoy her, who, hulling her several times,
forced her from that station, and to take shelter behind an island, where she
still continues. There are several other ships of war in the Sound, with a
good many transports or store-ships, which came round Long Island, so that
that communication is entirely cut off. The Admiral, with the main body of
the fleet, is close in with Governor's Island. Judging it expedient to guard
against every contingency, as far as our peculiar situation will admit, and that
we may have resources left if obliged to abandon this place, I have sent away
and am removing above Kingsbridge, all our stores that are unnecessary, and
that will not be immediately wanted." — Washington to Congress, 4 September,
1776.

384 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

might be made in an hour after they are called for,
where care and order are observed, are obtained with
so much difficulty. Nor can I help regretting, that
not only regular returns, but that orders, in instances
equally important, should be so little attended to. I
therefore address myself to you in this manner, re
questing in express and peremptory terms, that you
do without delay make out and return to the Adju
tant General's office immediately an exact state of the
regiment or corps under your command, and that the
like return be given in every Saturday, at orderly
time, without fail.

I also desire, in terms equally express, that you do
not suffer the men of your corps to straggle from their
quarters, or be absent from camp without leave,
and even then but a few at a time. Your own repu
tation, the safety of the army, and the good of the
cause, depend, under God, upon our vigilance and
readiness to oppose a crafty and enterprising enemy,
who are always upon the watch to take advantages.
To prevent straggling, let your rolls be called over
three times a day, and the delinquents punished.1 I
have one thing more to urge, and that is, that every
attempt of the men to plunder houses, orchards, gar-

" It is with amazement and concern, the General finds, that the men of every
regiment, are suffered to be constantly rambling about, and at such distances
from their respective quarters, and encampments, as not to be able, to oppose
the enemy in any sudden approach. Me, therefore, not only commands, but
most earnestly exhorts the Colonels, and Commanding Officers of Corps, as
they value their own reputation, the safety of the Army, and the good of the
cause, to put an immediate and effectual stop, to such an unsoldierlike and
dangerous practice ; as one step towards the accomplishment of which, he
orders and directs, that all those who shall be absent without leave be immedi
ately punished." — Orderly Book, 4 September. 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 385

dens, &c., be discouraged, not only for the preserva
tion of property and sake of good order, but for the
prevention of those fatal consequences which usually
follow such diabolical practices. In short, Sir, at a
time when every thing is at stake, it behoves every
man to exert himself. It will not do for the com
manding officer of a regiment to content himself with

o o

barely giving orders ; he should see (at least know)
they are executed. He should call his men out fre
quently, and endeavor to impress them with a just
sense of their duty, and how much depends upon
subordination and discipline.

Let me, therefore, not only command, but exhort
you and your officers, as you regard your reputation,
your country, and the sacred cause of freedom in
which you are engaged, to manly and vigorous exer
tions at this time, each striving to excel the other in
the respective duties of his department. I trust it is
unnecessary for me to add further, and that these and
all other articles of your duty you will execute with a
spirit and punctuality becoming your station. I am,
&c.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 6 September, 1776.

SIR,

I was last night honored with your favor of the 3d,
with sundry resolutions of Congress ; and perceiving
it to be their opinion and determination, that no clam-
age shall be done to the city in case we are obliged
to abandon it, I shall take every measure in my power

386 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

to prevent it. Since my letter of the 4th, nothing
very material has occurred, unless it is that the fleet
seem to be drawing more together, and all getting
close in with Governor's Island. Their designs we
cannot learn ; nor have we been able to procure the
least information of late, of any of their plans or
intended operations.

As the enemy's movements are very different from
what we expected, and, from their large encampments
a considerable distance up the Sound, there is reason
to believe they intend to make a landing above or be
low Kingsbridge, and thereby to hem in our army,
and cut off the communication with the country, I
mean to call a council of general officers to-day or
to-morrow, and endeavor to digest and fix upon some
regular and certain system of conduct to be pursued
in order to baffle their efforts and counteract their
schemes ; and also to determine on the expediency of
evacuating or attempting to maintain the city and the
several posts on this island. The result of their
opinion and deliberations I shall advise Congress by
the earliest opportunity, which will be by express,
having it not in my power to communicate any intel
ligence by post, as the office is removed to so great a
distance, and entirely out of the way.1

I have enclosed a list of the officers, who are prison
ers, and from whom letters have been received by a
flag. We know there are others not included in the
list. General Sullivan having informed me, that
General Howe was willing that an exchange of him

1 The post-office had been removed up the Hudson River to Dobbs Ferry.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 387

for General Prescott should take place, it will be
proper to send General Prescott immediately, that it
may be effected.

As the militia regiments in all probability will be
impatient to return, and become pressing for their
pay, I shall be glad of the direction of Congress,
whether they are to receive it here or from the Con
ventions or Assemblies of the respective States to
which they belong. On the one hand, the settlement
of their abstracts will be attended with trouble and
difficulty ; on the other, they will go away much bet
ter satisfied, and be more ready to give their aid in
future, if they are paid before their departure. Before
I conclude, I must take the liberty of mentioning to
Congress the great distress we are in for want of
money. Two months' pay (and more to some bat
talions) is now due to the troops here, without any
thing in the military chest to satisfy it. This occa
sions much dissatisfaction, and almost a general
uneasiness. Not a day passes without complaints,
and the most importunate and urgent demands, on
this head. As it may injure the service greatly, and
the want of a regular supply of cash produce conse
quences of the most fatal tendency, I entreat the at
tention of Congress to this subject, and that we may
be provided as soon as can be with a sum equal to
every present claim.

I have wrote to General Howe, proposing an ex
change of General McDonald for Lord Stirling,1 and

1 General Donald McDonald had been captured by Colonel Caswell, the day
after the action of Moore's Creek Bridge, in North Carolina, February 2yth.

388 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

shall be extremely happy to obtain it, as well as that
of General Prescott, being greatly in want of them,
and under the necessity of appointing, pro tempore,
some of the colonels to command brigades.

I have the honor to be, &c.

P. S. As two regiments from N. Carolina and 3
regiments more from Virginia are ordered here, if
they could embark at Norfolk, &c., and come up the
Bay with security, it would expedite their arrival, and
prevent the men from a long fatiguing march. This,
however, should not be attempted if the enemy have
Vessels in the Bay, and which might probably inter
cept 'em.1

TO GOVERNOR T RUM BULL.

NEW YORK, 6 September, 1776.

SIR,

I have been honored with your favor of the 3ist
ultimo, and am extremely obliged by the measures
you are taking, in consequence of my recommendatory
letter. The exertions of Connecticut upon this, as
well as upon every other occasion, do great honor,
and I hope will be attended with successful and happy
consequences. In respect to the mode of conduct to
be pursued by the troops, that go over to the island,
I cannot lay down any certain rule ; it must be formed
and governed by circumstances, and the direction of
those who command them.

I should have done myself the honor of transmit
ting to you an account of the engagement between a

1 Read in Congress September qth. Referred to the Board of War.

1 776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 389

detachment of our troops and the enemy on Long
Island on the 27th, and of our retreat from thence,
before now, had it not been for the multiplicity of
business I have been involved in ever since ; and,
being still engaged, I cannot enter upon a minute and
particular detail of the affair. I shall only add, there
fore, that we lost, in killed, wounded, and prisoners,
from seven hundred to one thousand men. Among
the prisoners are General Sullivan and Lord Stirling.
The enclosed list will show you the names of many
of the officers that are prisoners.1 The action was
chiefly with the troops from Jersey, Pennsylvania, the
Lower Counties, and Maryland, and Colonel Hun-
tington's regiment. They suffered greatly, being
attacked and overpowered by numbers of the enemy
greatly superior to them. The enemy's loss we have
not been able to ascertain ; but we have reason to
believe it was considerable, as the engagement was
warm, and conducted with great resolution and brav
ery on the part of our troops. During the engage
ment, a deep column of the enemy descended from
the woods, and attempted an impression upon our

1 "In the former [battle of Long Island] we lost about eight hundred men,
more than three fourths of which were taken prisoners. This misfortune hap
pened, in great measure, by two detachments of our people who were posted in
two roads leading through a wood, in order to intercept the enemy in their
march, suffering a surprise, and making a precipitate retreat, which enabled
the enemy to lead a great part of their force against the troops commanded by
Lord Stirling, which formed a third detachment, who behaved with great
bravery and resolution, charging the enemy and maintaining their posts from
about seven or eight o'clock in the morning till two in the afternoon, when
they were obliged to attempt a retreat, being surrounded and overpowered by
numbers on all sides, and in which many of them were taken," — Washington
to the Massachusetts Assembly, 19 September, 1776.

390 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

lines, but retreated immediately on the discharge of
a cannon and part of the musketry from the line
nearest to them. As the main body of the enemy
had encamped not far from our lines, and I had
reason to believe, that they intended to force us from
them by regular approaches, which the nature of the
ground favored extremely, and at the same time
meant, by the ships of war, to cut off the communica
tion between the city and island, and by that means
keep our men divided and unable to oppose them
anywhere ; by the advice of the general officers, on
the night of the 2Qth, I withdrew our troops from
thence, without any loss of men and but little
baggage.1 I am, &c.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 8 September, 1776.

SIR,

Since I had the honor of addressing you on the
6th Inst. I have called a council of the general officers,
in order to take a full and comprehensive view of our
situation, and thereupon form such a plan of future
defence as may be immediately pursued, and subject
to no other alteration, than a change of operations on
the enemy's side may occasion. Before the landing
of the enemy in Long Island, the point of attack
could not be known, nor any satisfactory judgment
formed of their intentions. It might be on Long

1 In describing this event a few days afterwards, General Greene wrote : — " I
was sick when the army retreated from Long Island, which was the best effected
retreat I ever read or heard of, considering the difficulties."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 39i

Island, on Bergen, or directly on the city. This
made it necessary to be prepared for each, and
has occasioned an expense of labor, which now seems
useless, and is regretted by those, who form a judg
ment from after-knowledge. But I trust, that men of
discernment will think differently, and see that by
such works and preparations we have not only delayed
the operations of the campaign, till it is too late to
effect any capital incursion into the country, but have
drawn the enemy's forces to one point, and obliged
them to decline their plan, so as to enable us to form
our defence on some certainty.

It is now extremely obvious from all intelligence
from their movements, and every other circumstance,
that, having landed their whole army on Long
Island, except about four thousand on Staten Island,
they mean to enclose us on the island of New York,
by taking post in our rear while the shipping effectu
ally protects the front ; and thus, either by cutting off
our communication with the country, oblige us to
fight them on their own terms, or surrender at dis
cretion, or by a brilliant stroke endeavor to cut this
army in pieces, and secure the collection of arms and
stores, which they well know we shall not be able
soon to replace. Having therefore their system un
folded to us, it became an important consideration
how it could be most successfully opposed. On every
side there is a choice of difficulties ; and every meas
ure on our part, however painful the reflection is from
experience, is to be formed with some apprehension,
that all our troops will not do their duty. In deliber-

392 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

ating on this great question, it was impossible to for
get, that history, our own experience, the advice of
our ablest friends in Europe, the fears of the enemy,
and even the declarations of Congress, demonstrate,
that on our side the war should be defensive (it has
even been called a war of posts), that we should on
all occasions avoid a general action, nor put any thing
to risk, unless compelled by a necessity into which
we ought never to be drawn.

The arguments on which such a system was
founded were deemed unanswerable ; and experience
has given her sanction. With these views, and being
full)'' persuaded, that it would be presumption to draw
out our young troops into open ground against their
superiors both in number and discipline, I have
never spared the spade and pickaxe. I confess I
have not found that readiness to defend even strong
posts at all hazards, which is necessary to derive the
greatest benefits from them. The honor of making
a brave defence does not seem to be a sufficient stim
ulus, when success is very doubtful, and the falling
into the enemy's hands probable ; but, I doubt not,
this will be gradually attained. We are now in a
strong post, but not an impregnable one, nay,
acknowledged by every man of judgment to be
untenable, unless the enemy will make the attack
upon lines, when they can avoid it, and their move
ments indicate that they mean to do so.

To draw the whole army together in order to
arrange the defence proportionate to the extent of
lines and works, would leave the country open for an

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 393

approach, and put the fate of this army and its stores
on the hazard of making a successful defence in the
city, or the issue of an engagement out of it. On the
other hand, to abandon a city, which has been by
some deemed defensible, and on whose works much
labor has been bestowed, has a tendency to dispirit
the troops, and enfeeble our cause. It has also been
considered as the key to the northern country. But
as to that, I am fully of opinion, that by the estab
lishing of strong posts at Mount Washington on the
upper part of this island, and on the Jersey side
opposite to it, with the assistance of the obstructions
already made, and which may be improved, in the
water, that not only the navigation of Hudson's
River, but an easier and better communication may
be more effectually secured between the northern and
southern states. This, I believe, every one acquainted
with the situation of the country will readily agree
to ; and it will appear evident to those who have an
opportunity of recurring to good maps. These and
many other consequences, which will be involved in
the determination of our next measure, have given
our minds full employ, and led every one to form a
judgment as the various objects presented themselves
to his view.

The post at Kingsbridge is naturally strong, and is
pretty well fortified ; the heights about it are com
manding, and might soon be made more so. These
are important objects, and I have attended to them
accordingly. I have also removed from the city all
the stores and ammunition, except what was abso-

394 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

lutely necessary for its defence, and made every other
disposition that did not essentially interfere with that
object, carefully keeping in view, until it should be
absolutely determined on full consideration, how far
the city was to be defended at all events. In resolv
ing points of such importance, many circumstances
peculiar to our own army also occur. Being only
provided for a summer's campaign, their clothes,
shoes, and blankets will soon be unfit for the change
of weather, which we every clay feel. At present we
have not tents for more than two-thirds, many of
them old and worn out ; but, if we had a plentiful sup
ply, the season will not admit of continuing in them
long. The case of our sick is also worthy of much
consideration, Their number, by the returns, forms
at least one-fourth of the army. Policy and humanity
require that they should be made as comfortable as
possible.

With these and many other circumstances before
them, the whole council of general officers met yes
terday in order to adopt some general line of conduct
to be pursued at this important crisis. I intended to
have procured their separate opinions on each point,
but time would not admit. I was therefore obliged
to collect their sense more generally, than I could
have wished. All agreed that the town would not be
tenable, if the enemy resolved to bombard and can
nonade it ; but the difficulty attending a removal
operated so strongly, that a course was taken between
abandoning it totally and concentring our whole
strength for its defence ; nor were some a little

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 395

influenced in their opinion, to whom the determina
tion of Congress was known, against an evacuation
totally, as they were led to suspect Congress wished
it to be maintained at every hazard.1 It was con
cluded to arrange the army under three divisions ;
five thousand to remain for the defence of the city ;
nine thousand at Kingsbridge and its dependencies,
as well to possess and secure those posts, as to be
ready to attack the enemy, who are moving eastward
on Long Island, if they should attempt to land on
this side ; the remainder to occupy the intermediate
space, and support either ; that the sick should be
immediately removed to Orangetown, and barracks
be prepared at Kingsbridge with all expedition to
cover the troops.

There were some general officers, in whose judg
ment and opinion much confidence is to be reposed,
that were for a total and immediate removal from
the city, urging the great danger of one part of the
army being cut off, before the other can support it,
the extremities being at least sixteen miles apart ;
that our army, when collected, is inferior to the
enemy ; that they can move with their whole force
to any point of attack, and consequently must suc
ceed by weight of numbers, if they have only a part
to oppose them ; that, by removing from hence, we
deprive the enemy of the advantage of their ships,
which will make at least one half of the force to

1 Congress explained that it was by no means the sense of their resolve of the
3d, that "the army, or any part of it, should remain in that city a moment
longer than he shall think it proper for the public service that troops be con
tinued there." Journals of Congress, 10 September, 1776,

396 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

attack the town ; that we should keep the enemy at
bay, put nothing to hazard, but at all events keep
the army together, which may be recruited another
year ; that the unspent stores will also be preserved ;
and, in this case, the heavy artillery can also be
secured. But they were overruled by a majority,
who thought for the present a part of our force might
be kept here, and attempt to maintain the city a little
longer.1

I am sensible a retreating army is encircled with
difficulties ; that declining an engagement subjects a
general to reproach ; and that the common cause
may be affected by the discouragement it may throw
over the minds of many. Nor am I insensible of the
contrary effects, if a brilliant stroke could be made
with any probability of success, especially after our
loss upon Long Island. But, when the fate of
America may be at stake on the issue, when the
wisdom of cooler moments and experienced men
have decided, that we should protract the war if
possible, I cannot think it safe or wise to adopt a
different system, when the season for action draws so
near to a close. That the enemy mean to winter in
New York, there can be no doubt ; that, with such
an armament, they can drive us out, is equally clear.

1 General Greene strenuously urged an immediate evacuation of the city.
Two days before the council of war assembled, he wrote to General Washington
a letter, giving it as his opinion " that a general and speedy retreat is abso
lutely necessary, and that the honor and interest of America require it." This
letter is printed in Force, American Archives^ Fifth Series, ii., 182, and ex
tracts from it in Sparks' Washington, iv., 85, 86. John Jay was also of opinion
that the entire region of New York should be laid desolate. Reed, Life of
Reed, i., 235, note.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 397

The Congress having resolved, that it should not be
destroyed, nothing seems to remain, but to determine
the time of their taking possession. It is our inter
est and wish to prolong it as much as possible, pro
vided the delay does not affect our future measures.

The militia of Connecticut is reduced from six
thousand to less than two thousand, and in .a few
days will be merely nominal. The arrival of some
Maryland troops from the Flying Camp has in a
great degree supplied the loss of men ; but the am
munition they have carried away will be a loss sensi
bly felt. The impulse for going home was so
irresistible, that it answered no purpose to oppose it.
Though I would not discharge them, I have been
obliged to acquiesce ; and it affords one more melan
choly proof, how delusive such dependences are.

Inclosed I have the honor to transmit a general
return, the first that I have been able to procure for
some time. Also, a report of Captain Newell from
our Works at Horn's Hook or Hell Gate. Their
situation is extremely low, and the Sound so very
narrow, that the Enemy have 'em much within their
command. I have, &c.

P. S. The inclosed information this minute came
to hand. I am in hopes we shall henceforth get
regular intelligence of the Enemies movements.1

1 Read in Congress September loth.

Ames Reed, Corporal in Capt. Vanderver's Company, Regiment late Col.
Johnson's tried by the same Court Martial, and convicted of "speaking disre
spectfully and villifying the Commander-in-chief, " — sentenced to " receive
Thirty-nine Lashes, at different days successively, thirteen each day, and re
duced to the ranks." Orderly Book, 8 September, 1776.

To General Heath Washington wrote directing that all the roads leading

398 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO GOVERNOR TRUMBULL.

HEAD-QUARTERS, NEW YORK, 9 September, 1776.

SIR,

I have the honor of your favor of the 5th inst,
and am sorry to say, that, from the best information
we have been able to obtain, the people on Long
Island have, since our evacuation, gone generally
over to the enemy, and made such concessions as
have been required ; some through compulsion, I
suppose, but more from inclination. As a diversion
upon the Island has been impracticable under these
circumstances, I think you have done well in assisting
the removal of the persons and effects of our friends

from King's Bridge down to points on which it was supposed the enemy might
land, should be broken up and destroyed in such a manner as to be utterly im
passable. On Mercer and James Clinton he urged the necessity of pressing
forward the works of defence in their charge ; while he was, at the same time,
directing the movements of reinforcements for his own troops and the posts at
the Highlands, the removal of the sick to Orange Town, and the removal of all
the bells in the churches and public edifices of New York to Newark, to be
used in the manufacture of cannon. Force, American Archives, Fifth Series,
ii., 239, 240, 241. The removal of the bells was seized upon by Tryon as con
clusive evidence that Washington was privy to the attempt to fire the city on
the 2ist.

" Since my letter of the 8th nothing material has occurred, except that the
enemy have possessed themselves of Montresor's Island, and landed a consider
able number of troops upon it. This Island lies in the mouth of the Harlem
river, which runs out of the Sound into the North River, and will give the
Enemy an easy opportunity of landing, either on the low grounds of Morrisania,
if their views are to seize and possess the passes above Kings bridge ; or, on
the plains of Harlem, if they design to intercept and cut off the communication
between our several posts. I am making every disposition and arrangement
that the divided state of our troops will admit of and which appear most likely
and the best calculated to oppose their attacks, for I presume there will be
several. How the Event will be, God only knows ; but you may be assured
that nothing in my power, circumstanced as I am, shall be wanting to effect a
favorable and happy issue." — Washington to the President of Congress, u Sep
tember, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 399

from thence. I observe with great pleasure, that you
have ordered the remaining regiments of the militia,
that can be spared from the immediate defence of the
sea-coast, to march toward New York with all expe
dition. I cannot sufficiently express my thanks, not
only for your constant and ready compliance with
every request of mine, but for your own strenuous
exertions and prudent forecast, in ordering matters
so, that your force has generally been collected and
put in motion as soon as it has been demanded.

With respect to the militia, both horse and foot, I
am of opinion that they will render us more service by
rendezvousing at different places along the Sound, in
West Chester county and thereabouts, than by com
ing directly to this city. It will not only give the
enemy, who are extending their encampments up the
island, an idea of our force along the coast, but if
they should attempt a landing above Kingsbridge,
they will be in readiness to join our force about that
place ; the horse particularly, whose rapid motion en
ables them to be in a short time at any point of
attack. Besides, the difficulty of procuring forage
upon this island, for any number of horses, is an ob
jection to their being stationed here. I fear, that
the militia, by leaving their homes so suddenly, and
in a manner unprepared for a long absence, have sus
tained some injury. To this cause I must impute,
in a great measure, their impatience to return, and
the diminution of their numbers at this time, to about
two thousand. Their want of discipline, the indul
gences they claim and have been allowed, their un-

400 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

willingness, I may add, refusal to submit to that
regularity and order essential to every army infecting
the rest of our troops more or less, have been of
pernicious tendency, and occasioned a good deal of
confusion and disorder. But, Sir, these things are
not peculiar to those from any one State ; they are
common to all militia, and what must be generally
expected ; for men, who have been free and never
subject to restraint, or any kind of control, cannot be
taught the necessity, nor be brought to see the
expediency, of strict discipline in a day.

I highly approve of your plan and proposition for
raising such a naval force, as will be sufficient to clear
the Sound of the enemy's ships of war. If Commodore
Hopkins will join you, I should suppose it not only
practicable, but a matter of certainty ; and if it can
be effected, many valuable and salutary consequences
must result from it. As to drafting seamen from the
Continental regiments, it cannot be done ; as their
numbers have been reduced so low already, by taking
men from them for the galleys, boats, and other pur
poses, that some of them have hardly any thing left
but the name ; besides, I must depend chiefly upon
them for a successful opposition to the enemy. If it
can be done out of the militia, I shall not have the
least objection, and heartily wish the enterprise,
whenever attempted, may be attended with all possi
ble success. Secrecy and despatch will be most likely
to give it a happy issue. The enemy's ships can re
ceive no reinforcements, but such as go round Long
Island. Our works at Hell Gate preventing their

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 401

sending ships that way, they are sensible of their
importance, and yesterday opened two three-gun
batteries to effect their destruction, but as yet have
not materially damaged them, and they must be
maintained if possible. I have the honor to be, &c.
P. S. The more the militia and horse keep on the
Sound, towards Kingsbridge, the better, as they will
be ready to oppose any landing of the enemy, and
also to receive orders for reinforcing any posts on
this side in case of necessity.1

1 General Sullivan, taken prisoner at the battle of Long Island, was to be ex
changed for General Prescott, and Howe deemed him a convenient messenger
by whom he might make advances to the rebellious colonists. This determina
tion must have been reached soon after the retreat of Washington from Long
Island, for on August 3oth, Sullivan had a conversation with Washington which
removed "the only doubt of the propriety" of his going to Philadelphia, and
on the 2cl he delivered a verbal message to Congress from Lord Howe which
was reduced to writing and submitted on the following day. The purport of
this message was that while Lord Howe could not treat with Congress as such,
yet he was very desirous of having a conference with some of the members, as
private gentlemen, before whom he could lay the full powers he and his brother
possessed to compromise the dispute between Great Britain and America upon
terms advantageous to both. Journals of Congress, 3d September, 1776.
Adams held that as thus expressed Sullivan had omitted an essential promise
contained in the verbal message, that Lord Howe had said "he would set the
act of Parliament wholly aside, and that Parliament had no right to tax America,
or meddle with her internal policy " — certainly a most remarkable offer, if
made, considering the powers expressed in the commission under which the
Howes were acting, and repudiated by his Lordship when Rutledge mentioned
it. The suggestion made by Lord Howe met with more favor than opposition
in Congress. John Adams, and his party or followers, opposed it, regarding
it as a snare, a bubble, an insidious manoeuvre, calculated only to decoy and
deceive, and expressed surprise that Sullivan should have consented to act on
such a mission. But the majority in Congress favored the appointment of a
committee to attend Howe as representatives of the free and independent
States of America, to know whether he had any authority to treat with persons
authorized by Congress for that purpose, in behalf of America, and what that
authority is, and to hear such propositions as he shall make respecting the same.
Journals, 5 September. In its favor was urged that it would cause a delay of
military operations, it would throw the odium of continuing the war on the

402 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

NEW YORK, 14 September, 1776.

SIR,

I have been duly honored with your favor of the
loth, with the resolution of Congress, which accom
panied it, and thank them for the confidence they
repose in my judgment respecting the evacuation of
the city. I could wish to maintain it, because I know
it to be of importance ; but I am fully convinced that
it cannot be done, and that an attempt for that pur
pose, if persevered in, might and most certainly would
be attended with consequences the most fatal and
alarming in their nature. Sensible of this, several of
the general officers, since the determination of the

British, and would silence the Tories ; and these considerations induced even
the Virginia delegates to cast their votes in its favor. At the same time Wash
ington was to be instructed that no proposals for peace ought to be attended to,
unless made in writing and addressed to the representatives of the States in
Congress. Sullivan was sent back to Howe with these resolutions, and Frank
lin, Edward Rutledge, and John Adams deputed to meet the Howes. They
had an interview on Staten Island on the nth, and the result may be
found in their report printed in the Journals of Congress, 17 September, 1776,
and in John Adams' Works, iii., 75-80, ix., 446. Nothing was accomplished
by the embassy save a little delay, and some political influence favorable to the
war in Pennsylvania ( Tilghnian to Morris, March, 1777). Even Adams ad
mitted it would do "no disservice to us." Washington did not approve of the
mode of negotiation ; " but as General Sullivan was sent out upon the business,
and with a message to Congress, I could not conceive myself at liberty to inter
fere in the matter, as he was in the character of a prisoner, and totally subject
to their power and direction." Washington to the President of Congress, II
September, 1776.

In Lord Howe's letter to Lord George Germaine, dated September 2Oth,
giving an account of this interview, he says : " The three gentlemen were
very explicit in their opinions, that the associated colonies would not accede to
any peace or alliance, but as free and independent States ; and they endeavored
to prove, that Great Britain would derive more extensive and more durable ad
vantages from such an alliance, than from the connexion it was the object of
the commission to restore." Almon's Parliamentary Register, vol. viii., p. 250.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 403

council mentioned in my last, petitioned that a second
council might be called to reconsider the propositions,
which had been before them upon the subject. Ac
cordingly I called one on the i2th, when a large
majority not only determined a removal of the army
prudent, but absolutely necessary, declaring they
were entirely convinced from a full and minute inquiry
into our situation, that it was extremely perilous ;
and, from every movement of the enemy, and the
intelligence received, their plan of operations was to
get in our rear, and, by cutting off the communica
tion with the main, oblige us to force a passage
through them on the terms they wish, or to become
prisoner in some short time for want of necessary
supplies of provision.1

We are now taking every method in our power to
remove the stores, in which we find almost insuper-

1 The proceedings of the council of war of the 7th are summarized in Wash
ington's letter to Congress of the following day. On the eleventh Major
General Greene, and Brigadiers Mifflin, Nixon, Beall, Parsons, Wadsworth,
and Scott, asked that the decision of that council might be reconsidered. A
new conference was held on the I2th, and when the question of reconsidering
the determination of the former council was put, there were ten in the affirma
tive and three in the negative. Those dissenting were Generals Spencer, Clin
ton, and Heath. The opinion of General Mercer, in the first instance at least,
agreed with that of those officers. Being unable to attend the council of war,
he expressed the following sentiments in a letter to General Washington :
" My ideas of the operations of this campaign are to prevent the enemy from
executing their plan of a junction between the armies of Howe and Burgoyne,
on which the expectations of the King and ministry are fixed. We should keep
New York if possible, as the acquiring of that city would give eclat to the arms
of Britain, afford the soldiers good quarters, and furnish a safe harbor for the
fleet."

It was of this council that General McDougall afterwards said (7 January,
1782) in respect to the retreat from New York, that " none were opposed to it,
but a foo /, a knave, and an obstinate^ honest man."

4o4 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

able difficulties.1 They are so great and so numerous,
that I fear we shall not effect the whole before we
meet with some interruption. I fully expected that
an attack somewhere would have been made last
night. In that I was disappointed ; and happy shall
I be, if my apprehensions of one to-night, or in a day
or two, are not confirmed by the event. If it is de
ferred a little while longer, I flatter myself all will be
got away, and our force be more concentred, and of
course more likely to resist them with success. Yes
terday afternoon four ships of war, two of forty and
two of twenty-eight guns, went up the East River,
passing between Governor's and Long Island, and
anchored about a mile above the city, opposite Mr.
Stuyvesant's, where the Rose man-of-war was lying
before. The design of their going, not being cer
tainly known, gives rise to various conjectures, some
supposing they are to cover the landing of a party of
the enemy above the city, others that they are to as
sist in destroying our battery at Horn's Hook, that
they may have a free and uninterrupted navigation in
the Sound. It is an object of great importance to
them, and what they are industriously trying to effect
by a pretty constant cannonade and bombardment.
Before I conclude I would beg leave to mention to

1 In his letter to Congress of the 8th Washington had stated that several of
the Council of War were for holding the town, conceiving it practicable for
some time. But on the nth he wrote : " Many of them now, upon seeing our
divided state, have altered their opinion, and allow the expediency and neces
sity of concentring our whole force, or drawing it more together. Convinced
of the propriety of this measure, I am ordering our stores away, except such as
may be absolutely necessary to keep as long as any troops remain ; that, if an
evacuation of the city becomes inevitable, which certainly must be the case,
there may be as little to remove as possible."

776] GEORGIA WASHINGTON. 405

Congress, that the pay now allowed to nurses for
their attendance on the sick is by no means adequate
to their services ; the consequence of which is, that
they are extremely difficult to procure, indeed they
are not to be got, and we are under the necessity of
substituting in their place a number of men from the
respective regiments whose service by that means is
entirely lost in the proper line of their duty and but
little benefit rendered to the sick.

The officers I have talked with upon the subject,
all agree that they should be allowed a dollar per
week, and that for less they cannot be had.

Our sick are extremely numerous, and we find
their removal attended with the greatest difficulty.
It is a matter that employs much of our time and
care ; and what makes it more distressing is the want
of proper and convenient places for their reception.
I fear their sufferings will be great and many. How
ever, nothing on my part, that humanity or policy
can require, shall be wanting to make them comfort
able, so far as the state of things will admit. I have
the honor to be, &c.T

1 Read in Congress, September i6th.

"It is so critical a period, and so interesting to every true lover of his
Country, that the General hopes that every officer, and soldier will now exert
himself to the utmost. It is no time for ease or indulgence. The Arms of the
Men, the Condition of the Sick, care to prevent imposition in order to prevent
danger and duty ; — Vigilance of Sentries and Guards, are all now requisite.
We have once found the bad consequences of a surprise ; let the utmost care be
used to prevent another ; for this purpose the General directs that none be put
out as Sentries at night, but pick'd men ; that they be visited every half hour,
and every motion of the enemy narrowly watched." — Orderly Book, 14 Septem
ber, 1776.

A good picture of Washington's business in this juncture is given in Colonel
Babcock's letter to Governor Cooke, 21 September, 1776. Force, American
Archives, Fifth Series, ii., 442.

4o6 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEAD-QUARTERS, AT COLONEL MORRIS'S HOUSE,
16 September, 1776.'

SIR,

On Saturday about sunset, six more of the enemy's
ships, one or two of which were men-of-war, passed
between Governor's Island and Red Hook, and went
up the East River to the station taken by those men
tioned in my last. In half an hour I received two
expresses, one from Colonel Sargent at Horn's Hook
(Hell Gate), giving an account that the enemy, to the
amount of three or four thousand, had marched to
the river, and were embarked for Barn or Montresor's
Island, where numbers of them were then encamped ;
the other from General Mifflin, that uncommon and
formidable movements were discovered among the
enemy ; which being confirmed by the scouts I had
sent out, I proceeded to Haerlem, where it was sup
posed, or at Morrisania opposite to it, the principal
attempt to land would be made. However, nothing
remarkable happened that night ; but in the morning
they began their operations. Three ships of war
came up the North River as high as Bloomingdale,
which put a total stop to the removal, by water, of
any more of our provision ; and about eleven o'clock

1 Colonel Morris's house, at which General Washington's head-quarters
were now established, and at which they continued till the army retreated from
New York Island, was on high and commanding ground, called the Heights of
Haerlem, about three miles north of the village of that name, and a mile and a
half south of Fort Washington. At this place the island is a little more than a
mile wide between Hudson's River on the west, and Haerlem River on the
east. The lines of the army, in a double row, extended quite across from one
river to the other over a rocky and broken surface, and were strongly fortified
with breastworks, intrenchments, and abatis.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 407

those in the East River be^an a most severe and

o

heavy cannonade, to scour the grounds, and cover
the landing of their troops between Turtle Bay and
the city, where breastworks had been thrown up to
oppose them.1

As soon as I heard the firing, I rode with all possi
ble despatch towards the place of landing, when, to
my great surprise and mortification, I found the
troops that had been posted in the lines retreating
with the utmost precipitation, and those ordered to
support them (Parsons's and Fellows's brigades) flying
in ever direction, and in the greatest confusion, not
withstanding the exertions of their generals to form
them. I used every means in my power to rally and
get them into some order ; but my attempts were
fruitless and ineffectual ; and on an appearance of a
small party of the enemy, not more than sixty or
seventy, their disorder increased, and they ran away
in the greatest confusion, without firing a single
shot.2

1 " I had gone the night before to the Main Body of the Army, which was
posted on the Heights and Plains of Harlem, apprending from many uncom
mon and great movements among the Enemy, that they meant to make an
attack there that night, or to land on the East side of Harlem River." — WasJi-
ington to Governor Cooke, 17 September, 1776.

2 The conduct of General Washington on this occasion has been described, as
not being marked by his usual self-command. In writing from Haerlem
Heights to a friend, General Greene said : — " We made a miserable, disorderly
retreat from New York, owing to the disorderly conduct of the militia, who ran
at the appearance of the enemy's advanced guard. Fellows's and Parsons's
brigades ran away from about fifty men, and left his Excellency on the ground
within eighty yards of the enemy, so vexed at the infamous conduct of the
troops, that he sought death rather than life." — Letter, September I7th. Dr.
Gordon relates the incident nearly in the same way, though a little enlarged,
and, as he was in camp soon afterwards, he probably derived his information
from a correct source. " The General's attempts to stop the troops were fruit-

4o8 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Finding that no confidence was to be placed in
these brigades, and apprehending that another party
of the enemy might pass over to Haerlem Plains and
cut off the retreat to this place, I sent orders to
secure the heights in the best manner with the troops
that were stationed on and near them ; which being-
done, the retreat was effected with but little or no loss
of men, though of a considerable part of our baggage,
occasioned by this disgraceful and dastardly conduct.1

less, though he drew his sword and threatened to run them through, cocked and
snapped his pistols. On the appearance of a small party of the enemy, not
more than sixty or seventy, their disorder was increased, and they ran off with
out firing a single shot, and left the General in a hazardous situation, so that
his attendants to extricate him out of it, caught the bridle of his horse, and
gave him a different direction." — Gordon's History, vol. ii., p. 327.

" On the 1 5th instant in the morning, the ships of war passed up the
North River as far as Bloomingdale, to draw the enemy's attention to that side ;
and the first division of troops, consisting of the light infantry, the British
reserve, the Hessian grenadiers and chasseurs, . . . embarked at the head
of New-town Creek, and landed about noon upon New York island, three miles
from the town at a place called Kipp's bay, under the fire of five ships. . . .
The rebels had troops in their works round Kipp's bay, but their attention
being engaged in expectation of the King's troops landing at Stuyvesant's cove,
Keren's Hook, and at Harlem, which they had reason to conclude, Kipp's Bay
became only a secondary object of their care. The fire of the shipping being
so well directed, and so incessant, the enemy could not remain in their works,
and the descent was made without the least opposition." — General Ho^ve to
Lord George Germaine, 21 September, 1776. The Americans had thrown up
breastworks at this place of landing, which makes the panic the more disgraceful.

The incident appeared in London much magnified : " Accounts are received,
that Gen. Washington had written to the Provincial Congress that three regi
ments belonging to Massachusetts Bay had left the army in a body, upon the
landing of the King's troops in Kipp's Bay ; and that he had been obliged to
send six of the southern regiments after them, who fired upon them repeatedly,
and killed several, before they could bring them back to their duty." — London
Chronicle, 9 November, 1776.

1 I forgot to mention that Mr. Washington shortly after the landing on N/2\v
York island, narrowly escaped being made prisoner. He left Mr. Apthorpe's
house, at Bloomingdale, a few minutes only before the British light infantry
entered it." — Letter from Areiv York, 27 September, 1776. London Chronicle,
19 November, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 409

Most of our heavy cannon, and a part of our stores
and provisions, which we were about removing, were
unavoidably left in the city, though every means, after
it had been determined in council to evacuate the
post, had been used to prevent it. We are now en
camped with the main body of the army on the
Heights of Haerlem, where I should hope the enemy
would meet with a defeat in case of an attack, if the
generality of our troops would behave with tolerable
bravery. But experience, to my extreme affliction,
has convinced me that this is rather to be wished for
than expected. However, I trust that there are many
who will act like men, and show themselves worthy
of the blessings of freedom. I have sent out some
reconnoitring parties to gain intelligence, if possible,
of the disposition of the enemy, and shall inform
Congress of every material event by the earliest
opportunity. I have the honor to be, &c.

SIR, The above Letter is merely a copy of a rough one
sketched out by his Excellency this morning, and who intended
to sign it ; but having rode out and his return or where to find
him uncertain, I have sent it away without and have the honor,
&c., ROBERT H. HARRISON. l

1 Read in Congress, September I7th.

"The Arrangement for this night: — General Clinton to form next to the
North River, and extend to the left ; Gen. Scott's Brigade next to Gen.
Clinton's ; Lt. Col. Layer of Colonel Griffith's Regiment, with the three Com
panies intended for a reinforcement to-day, to form upon the left of Scott's
Brigade ; Genl. Nixon's, Col. Serjeant's division, Col. Weedon's, and Major
Price's Regiment, are to retire to their quarters and refresh themselves, but to
hold themselves in readiness to turn out a minute's warning ; Genl. McDougall
to establish proper guards against his Brigade, upon the heights, and every
Regiment posted upon the Heights, from Morris's house to Genl. McDougall's
Camp, to furnish proper guards to prevent a Surprise ; not less than twenty
men from each regimment. Genl. Putnam commands upon the right flank to
night ; Genl. Spencer from McDougall's Brigade up to Morris's house. Should

4io THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO GOVERNOR COOKE.

HEAD-QUARTERS, COLONEL MORRIS'S HOUSE,
17 September, 1776.

SIR,

I received the honor of your favor of the 6th inst.
by Messrs. Collins, Babcock, and Stanton, and should
have acknowledged it before now, had I not been
prevented by the peculiar situation of our affairs. I
communicated my sentiments to those gentlemen
upon the subject of your letter, and the several
propositions that were before us, who, I doubt not,
will make a full and due report of the same to you
and your honorable Assembly. However, I shall
take the liberty of adding, that the divided state of our
army, which, when collected in one body, is inferior
to that of the enemy, and that their having landed
almost the whole of their force on Long Island, and
formed a plan of cutting off all communication be
tween that and the city of New York, which we had
but too good reason to believe practicable and easy
to effect with their ships of war, made it necessary,
and prudent to withdraw our troops from the former,
that our chance of resistance and opposition might be
more probable and likely to be attended with a happy
issue.

I feel myself much concerned on account of your
apprehensions for the town of Newport and the
Island of Rhode Island, and should esteem myself
peculiarly happy, were it in my power to afford
means for their security and that of the State in gen-

the Enemy attempt to force the pass to-night, Genl. Putnam is to apply to
Genl. Spencer for a reinforcement." — Orderly Book, 16 September, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 411

eral, or to point out such measures, as would be
effectual for that purpose. But circumstanced as I
am, it is not possible for me to grant any assistance ;
nor can I with propriety undertake to prescribe the
mode, which will best promote their defence. This
must depend on such a variety of circumstances, that
I should suppose you and the Assembly, who are in
the State, will be much more competent to the task,
than I or any person out of it can be ; and therefore
I can only recommend, that you will pursue such
steps as you, in your judgment, shall think most
conducive to that end ; observing that it appears to
me a matter of extreme difficulty, if practicable, to
prevent the enemy's ships from doing damage to
every island accessible to them, unless the passes
between them and the main are so narrow, as to
oblige them to come very near such batteries, as may
be erected for their annoyance, on commanding
ground.

I cannot sufficiently express my thanks for the
readiness you and your Assembly manifested in
ordering troops, &c., to Long Island, on hearing of
my request to Governor Trumbull upon that subject.
At the time that I made it, I conceived the plan of
much importance, and that many valuable and salu
tary consequences might have resulted from it ; but
as things have undergone a material change since, it
may not be improper to consider and be satisfied of
some facts, which ought to be clearly known previous
to any attempt to carry it into execution and on
which success of it will greatly depend ; such, as an

4i2 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

intire conviction of the friendly • disposition of the
Island ; the number that would join the troops that
might be sent over ; the length's they would go ; the
support they would and can give, and whether a
retreat from thence could be safely effected in case it
should be necessary. These matters and others
which a more minute consideration of the Plan will
present to your view, should be well weighed and
digested, and which I thought it my duty to men
tion ; especially as the scheme had originated with
me. My anxiety and concern for the inhabitants of
the East end of Long Island, who have been repre
sented always as friendly and well attached to the
cause of the States, prompt me to wish them every
assistance ; but if the efforts you could make in con
junction with Governor Trumbull would not promise
almost a certainty of success, perhaps they might
tend to aggravate their misfortunes. The Committee
stated sundry propositions respecting this Expedi
tion, such as, if any thing was attempted, where a
stand should be made ? This must be left to the dis
cretion of those who command, nor can I spare an
officer for that purpose nor recommend one. What
number of Men should be sent and what proportion
from the Massachusetts ?

The number necessary will depend upon the force
they will have to oppose and the assistance they
would derive from the islanders ; The proportion
from the Massachusetts on the Will of the Legisla
ture, or voluntary engagement of the people, in the
service. What artillery they should have ? I am of

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 413

opinion the artillery would be subject to loss without
any great advantage resulting from it. They also
asked whether any frigates should be sent, &c. ? As
the Enemy have now the free and intire command of
the Sound, and many Ships-of-War in it, they will be
much more liable to be taken, than they would have
been some time ago, and when it was proposed by
Governor Trumbull to make an attempt upon the
Ships above Hell-Gate. In this instance, however, I
do not conceive myself at liberty to say any thing per
emptory one way or the other, having no power over
the frigates.

I am sensible of the force of your observation that
the Common Cause might be benefitted by the sev
eral States receiving early and authentic intelligence
of every material occurrence. Permit me at the
same time to assure you, that I often regret my in
capacity in this instance, and that the neglect does
not arise from want of inclination, or thro' inatten
tion ; but from the variety of important matters that
are always pressing upon and which daily surround
me. Before I conclude, I shall take this opportunity
to inform you, that having received certain informa
tion that the Enemy's plan was to pass from Long
Island, and land in the country and for which they
are making every possible disposition ; a Council of
General Officers determined last week, on a removal
of the Army from the city, in order to prevent the
fatal consequences which must inevitably ensue, if
they could have executed their scheme, resolving at
the same time, that every appearance of defence

4i4 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

should be kept up, till our Sick, Ordnance and Stores
could be removed. This was set about with the
greatest industry and, as to the Sick, was compleatly
effected. But on Sunday Morning (i3th) before we
had accomplished the removal of all our Cannon,
provision and Baggage, they sent three Ships of War
up the North River, whereby the Water carriage was
totally stopped.

I am now Encamped on the Heights above men
tioned which are so well calculated for defence, that
I should hope, if the Enemy make an attack and our
men will behave with tolerable Resolution, they
must meet with a repulse, if not a total defeat. They
advanced in sight yesterday in several large bodies,
but attempted nothing of a general nature ; tho' in
the fore noon there were some smart skirmishes
between some of their parties and detachments sent
out by me ; in which I have the pleasure to inform
you our men behaved with bravery and intrepidity,
putting them to flight when in open ground and
forcing them from posts they had seized, two or
three times. From some of wounded men which
fell into our hands, the appearance of blood in every
place where they made their stand and on the fences
as they passed, we have reason to believe they had a
good many killed and wounded ; tho' they did not
leave many on the ground: In number, our loss was
very inconsiderable, but in the fall of Lieut. Colo.
Knowlton, I consider it as great, being a brave and
good officer and it may be increased by the Death of
Major Leitch, of the Virginia Regiment, who un-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 415

fortunately received three balls thro' his side. — Hav
ing given you a summary account of the Situation
of our affairs, and in such manner as circumstances
will admit of, I have only to add that I have the
honor &c.

P. S. The Committee have expressed their ap
prehensions of being obliged to abandon the Island
of Rhode Island and Newport, and requested my
opinion. At present I can see no cause for it, and
the propriety of the measure must depend upon cir
cumstances ; but I should suppose they ought to be
very pressing and the necessity great, before they
ought to be given up, — most certainly no imaginary
ills or necessity should lead to such a measure. At
this time the danger can only be Ideal, and if the
Enemy persevere in their plans, and our men behave
as they should do, I am persuaded they will not have
an opportunity to employ their attention elsewhere
this Campaign.1

1 "The General most heartily thanks the troops, commanded yesterday, by
Major Leitch, who first advanced upon the enemy, and the others who so resolutely
supported them, — The behavior of yesterday was such a contrast, to that of
some troops the day before, as must shew what maybe done, where Officers and
Soldiers will exert themselves — Once more therefore, the General calls upon
Officers and men, to act up to the noble cause, in which they are engaged, and
to support the Honor and Liberties of their Country.

" The gallant and brave Col. Knowlton, who would have been an Honor to
any Country, having fallen yesterday while gloriously fighting, Capt. Brown is
to take the Command of the party lately led by Col. Knowlton — Officers and
men are to obey him accordingly.

" The loss of the enemy yesterday would undoubtedly have been much
greater, if the Orders of the Commander in Chief had not in some instances
been contradicted by inferior officers, who however well they may mean, ought
not to presume to direct — It is therefore ordered, that no officer, commanding
a party, and having received orders from the Commander in Chief, depart from
them without Counter Orders from the same Authority ; And as many may

416 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEAD-QUARTERS, AT COL. MORRIS'S HOUSE,
18 September, 1776.

SIR,

As my letter of the i6th contained intelligence of
an important nature, and such as might lead Con
gress to expect that the evacuation of New York and
retreat to the Heights of Haerlem, in the manner
they were made, would be succeeded by some other
interesting event, I beg leave to inform them, that as
yet nothing has been attempted upon a large and
general plan of attack. About the time of the post's
departure with my letter, the enemy appeared in sev
eral large bodies upon the plains, about two and a
half miles from hence. I rode down to our advanced
posts, to put matters in a proper situation, if they
should attempt to come on. When I arrived there
I heard a firing, which, I was informed, was between
a party of our rangers under the command of Lieu
tenant-Colonel Knowlton, and an advanced party of
the enemy. Our men came in and told me, that the
body of the enemy, who kept themselves concealed,
consisted of about three hundred, as near as they
could guess. I immediately ordered three companies
of Colonel Weedon's regiment from Virginia, under
the command of Major Leitch, and Colonel Knowlton
with his rangers composed of volunteers from different
New-England regiments, to try to get in their rear,

otherwise err through ignorance, the Army is now acquainted that the General's
Orders are delivered by the Adjutant General, or one of his Aid's-de-Camp, Mr.
Tilghman or Col. Moylan, the Quarter Master General." — Orderly Book, 17
September, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 417

while a disposition was making as if to attack them in
front, and thereby draw their whole attention that
way.

This took effect as I wished on the part of the
enemy. On the appearance of our party in front,
they immediately ran down the hill, took possession
of some fences and bushes, and a smart firing began,
but at too great a distance to do much execution on
either side. The parties under Colonel Knowlton
and Major Leitch unluckily began their attack too
soon, as it was rather in flank than in rear. In a lit
tle time Major Leitch was brought off wounded,
having received three balls through his side ; and, in
a short time after, Colonel Knowlton got a wound,
which proved mortal. The men however persevered,
and continued the engagement with the greatest reso
lution. Finding that they wanted a support, I ad
vanced part of Colonel Griffith's and Colonel Richard
son's Maryland regiments, with some detachments
from the eastern regiments, who were nearest the
place of action. These troops charged the enemy
with great intrepidity, and drove them from the wood
into the plain, and were pushing them from thence,
having silenced their fire in a great measure, when I
judged it prudent to order a retreat, fearing the
enemy, as I have since found was really the case, were
sending a large body to support their party.

Major Leitch I am in hopes will recover ; but
Colonel Knowlton's fall is much to be regretted, as
that of a brave and good officer. We had about
forty wounded ; the number of slain is not yet ascer-

4iS THE WRITINGS OF [1776

tained ; but it is very inconsiderable. By a sergeant,
who deserted from the enemy and came in this morn
ing, I find that their party was greater than I
imagined. It consisted of the second battalion of
light infantry, a battalion of the Royal Highlanders,
and three companies of Hessian riflemen, under the
command of Brigadier-General Leslie. The deserter
reports, that their loss in wounded and missing was
eighty-nine, and eight killed. In the latter, his ac
count is too small, as our people discovered and
buried double that number. This affair I am in
hopes will be attended with many salutary conse
quences, as it seems to have greatly inspirited the
whole of our troops.1 The sergeant further adds,
that a considerable body of men are now encamped
from the East to the North Rivers, between the
seventh and eighth mile stones, under the command
of General Clinton. General Howe, he believes, has
his quarters at Mr. Apthorp's house. I have, &c.2

1 " This little advantage has inspirited our troops prodigiously ; they find
that it only requires resolution and good officers to make an enemy (that they
stood in too much dread of) give way." — Washington to Schuyler, 20 Septem
ber, 1776.

'-' " On the i6th, in the morning, a large party of the enemy having passed
under cover of the woods, near to the advanced posts of the army by way of
Vandewater's Height, the 2d and 3d battalions of light infantry, supported by
the 42d regiment, pushed forward and drove them back to their intrenchments,
from whence the enemy observing they were not in force attacked them with
near 3,000 men, which occasioned the march of the reserve with two field
pieces, a battalion of Hessian grenadiers, and the company of chasseurs, to pre
vent the corps engaged from being surrounded who repulsed the enemy with
considerable loss, and obliged them to retire within their works. . . . We
had eight officers wounded, most of them slightly, fourteen men killed, and
about seventy wounded." — General Hoive to Lord George Gerinaine, 21 Septem
ber, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 419

P. S. I should have wrote Congress by Express
before now had I not expected the post every minute
which I flatter myself will be a sufficient apology, for
my delaying it.

The late losses we have sustained in our Baggage
and Camp necessaries have added much to our dis
tress, which was very great before. I must therefore
take the liberty of requesting Congress to have for
warded as soon as possible such a supply of Tents,
Blankets, Kettles, and other articles as can be col
lected. We cannot be overstocked.1

1 Read in Congress September 2oth.

" Commanding officers of regiments, are charged in the strictest manner, to
prevent all plundering, and to seize all Soldiers carrying Plunder, whether be
longing to the same regiment or not, or on whatever pretence it is taken ; and
the General positively commands, that such plunderer be immediately carried to
the next Brigadier or commanding officer of a regiment, who is instantly to
have the offender whipped on the spot." — Orderly JBook, 18 September, 1776.

" The Companies from Maryland, under the command of Major Price, are
to join Col. Smallwood's Battalion and Genl. McDougall's Brigade ; and it is
expected that the commanding officer of every Corps will, together with all the
officers therein, exert themselves in seeing good Order and Discipline observed.
They are to consider that it is the duty of a good officer to see, or at least to
know that Orders are executed, and not to content themselves with being the
mere Vehicles thro' which they are conveyed to the men. — We are now arrived
at an important Crisis, which calls loudly for the Zeal and Activity of the best
of officers. — We see, We know that the Enemy are exerting every Nerve, not
only by force of Arms, but the practices of every Art to accomplish their pur
poses, and that among other pieces of policy, which is also founded on Justice,
we find them exceedingly careful, to restrain every kind of abuse of private
Property, whilst the abandoned and profligate part of our own Army, counte
nanced by a few Officers, who are lost to every Sense of Honor and Virtue, as
well as their Country's good, are by Rapine and Plunder, spreading Ruin and
Terror wherever they go, thereby making themselves infinitely more to be
dreaded, than the common Enemy they are come to oppose : At the same time
that it exposes Men who are strolling about after plunder to be surprised and
taken. The General therefore hopes it will be unnecessary, on any future
Occasion, for him to repeat the Orders of yesterday, with respect to this matter,
as he is determined to shew no favor, to officer, or soldier, who shall offend

420 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.
HEAD-QUARTERS, HEIGHTS OF HARLEM, 20 September, 1776.

SIR,

I have been honored with your favor of the i6th
with its inclosures to prevent the injury and abuses
which would arise from the Militia and other troops
carrying away Ammunition and Continental prop
erty. I have published the substance of the Resolves
upon the subject in General Orders.

Since my letter of yesterday nothing of import
ance has cast up. The Enemy are forming a large
and extensive Encampment in the plains mentioned
in my last and are busily employed in transporting
their cannon and Stores from Long Island. As they
advance them this way, we may reasonably expect
their operations will not long be deferred. * * *
Genls. Howe1 and Erskine's proclamations shew

herein ; but punish without exception, every person who shall be found guilty
of this most abominable practice, which if continued, must prove the destruc
tion bf any Army on earth." — Orderly Book, 19 September, 1776.

"It is probable in a little time, the enemy will attempt to force us from
hence, as we are informed they are bringing many of their heavy cannon towards
the Heights, and the works we have thrown up. They have also Eight or nine
Ships of War in the North River, which it is said are to cannonade our right
flank when they open their batteries against our front. Every disposition is
making on our part for defence, and Congress may be assured that I shall do
every thing in my power to maintain the post so long as it shall appear practi
cable and Conducive to the General good." — Washington to the President of
Congress, 19 September, 1776.

" I received yesterday the enclosed declaration by a gentleman from Eliza-
bethtown, who told me many copies were found in the possession of the soldiers
from Canada that were landed there a day or two ago by General Howe's per
mission. I shall not comment upon it. It seems to be founded on the plan
that has been artfully pursued for some time past. " — Washington to Congress,
27 September, 1776.

This " declaration," dated September igth, recited the disavowal of Congress
of " every purpose of reconciliation not consonant with their extravagant and

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 421

the measures that have been pursued to force &
seduce the Inhabitants of Long Island from their
allegiance to the States and to assist in their destruc
tion.

As the period will soon arrive, when the troops
composing the present army (a few exceptecl) will be
disbanded according to the tenor of their enlistments,
and the most fatal consequences may ensue, if a suit
able and timely provision is not made in this instance,
I take the liberty of suggesting to Congress not
only the expediency, but the absolute necessity there
is, that their earliest attention should be had to this
subject. In respect to the time that troops should
be engaged for, I have frequently given my senti
ments ; nor have I omitted to express my opinion of

inadmissible claim of Independence," and continued : " The King being most
graciously pleased to direct a revision of such of his royal instructions to his
governors as may be construed to lay an improper restraint on the freedom of
legislation in any of his Colonies, and to concur in the revisal of all acts by
which his Majesty's subjects there may think themselves aggrieved, it is recom
mended to the inhabitants at large to reflect seriously upon their present condi
tion and expectations, and to judge for themselves whether it be more incon
sistent with their honor and happiness to offer up their lives as a sacrifice to the
unjust and precarious cause in which they are engaged, or return to their alle
giance, accept the blessings of peace, and to be secured in a free enjoyment of
their liberties and properties, upon the principles of the constitution." This
declaration occasioned not a little surprise in Parliament among the opposition
to government. Cavendish characterized it as "a most extraordinary declara
tion, which, if genuine, required the attention and consideration of this
House"; that Parliament had limited the power of the commissioners to
granting pardons and receiving submissions ; yet they were found reducing
Parliament to a cipher and promising that the king will concur in the revision of
all acts by which his American subjects are aggrieved. Fox also complained
that the penner of the declaration had virtually, and, he would add, audaciously
engaged for the sentiments of Parliament. " In America all was peace, con
ciliation and parental tenderness ; in England, nothing but subjugation, uncon
ditional submission, and a war of conquest."

422 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

the difficulties that will attend raising them, nor of
the impracticability of effecting it, without the allow
ance of a large and extraordinary bounty. It is a
melancholy and painful consideration to those, who
are concerned in the work, and have the command,
to be forming armies constantly, and to be left by
troops just when they begin to deserve the name, or
perhaps at a moment when an important blow is
expected. This, I am well informed, will be the case
at Ticonderoga with part of the troops there, unless
some system is immediately come into by which they
can be induced to stay.

Genl. Schuyler tells me in a Letter received yester
day that De.Haas, Maxwell's and Wines' Regimts.
stand engaged only till the beginning of next month,
and that the men, he is fearfull, will not remain
longer than the time of their inlistments.

I would also beg leave to mention to Congress,
that the season is fast approaching when Cloaths of
every kind will be wanted for the Army. Their dis
tress is already great and will be encreased as the
weather becomes more severe.

Our situation is now bad, but is much better than
the militia that are coming to join us from the States
of Massachusetts Bay and Connecticut in conse
quence of the requisition of Congress. They, I am
informed, have not a single Tent nor a necessary of
any kind, nor can I conceive how it will be possible
to support them. These circumstances are extremely
alarming, and oblige me to wish Congress to have
all the Tents, Cloathing of every kind, and Camp

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 423

necessaries provided and forwarded, that are to be
procured. These Eastern reinforcements have not a
single necessary, not a pan or a kettle, in which we
are now greatly deficient. It is with reluctance that
I trouble Congress with these matters but to whom
can I resort for relief unless to them ? The neces
sity therefore, which urges the application, will ex
cuse it, I am persuaded.

I have not been able to transmit Congress a Gen
eral Return of the Army this week, owing to the
peculiar situation of our affairs, and the great shift
ing and changing among the troops. As soon as I
can procure one a copy shall be forwarded to Con
gress. I have &c.

P. S. Sept. 2ist, 1776. Things with us remain
in the situation they were yesterday.1

1 " The General hopes that Soldiers fighting in such a cause, as ours, will not
be discouraged by any difficulties that may offer, and informs them that the
grounds he now possesses, are to be defended at all events. Any officer or
soldier therefore, who (upon the approach or attack of the Enemy's forces by
land or water) presumes to turn his back and flee, shall be instantly shot down,
and all good officers are hereby authorized and required to see this done, that
the brave and gallant part of the Army may not fall a sacrifice, to the base and
cowardly part, or share their disgrace in a cowardly or unmanly Retreat. The
Heights we are now upon may be defended against double the force we have
to contend with ; and the whole Continent expects it of us ; but that we may
assist the natural strength of the ground, as much as possible and make our
Posts more secure, the General most earnestly recommends it to the Command
ing Officers of every Brigade, and Regiment, to turn out every man they have
off duty, for fatigue, and apply to Col. Putnam for tools, and directions how
and where to work ; This measure is also earnestly recommended to the men, as
it will tend greatly to their own security and ease, as the guards will be lessened
in proportion, as the grounds get strengthened." — Orderly Book, 20 Sept., 177°-

" It is earnestly recommended to all Brigadiers, and commanding officers of
Corps, to see or know that the orders relative to their respective Brigades, &c.
are complied with ; and they as well as commanding Officers of Regiments, &c.
are requested to attend particularly to the State of the Men's health, that those

424 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

CAMP NEAR KINGSBRIDGE, 22 September, 1776.

SIR,

I had flattered myself that the Congress would be
fore this Time have forwarded the Amended Articles
for the Government of the Army. But as they have
not I think it my indispensable Duty to lay before

that are really sick, may be supplied in the best manner, our situation and cir
cumstances will admit of, whilst such as feign themselves sick, merely to get
excused from duty, meet with no kind of countenance or favor, as it only
tends to throw the burden upon the spirited and willing men, who disdain such
scandalous practices ; the General would remind all officers of the indispensi-
ble necessity there is of each of them, exerting himself in the Department he
acts ; and that where this is the case, of the advantages resulting from it, as an
Army, let it be ever so large, then moves like Clock Work ; whereas without
it, it is no better than an ungovernable Machine, that seems only to perplex
and distract those who attempt to conduct it." — Orderly Book, 21 September,
1776.

Some wild stories were current in London when the movements of the Con
necticut troops after the battle of Long Island were known, based upon some
letters from the British army. The London Chronicle (October i2-i5th) related
how three persons passing from New York to Long Island informed the Brit
ish general that Washington had ordered three battalions of New York pro
vincials to leave the city, to be replaced by an equal number of Connecticut
troops ; " but the former, assured that the Connecticutians would burn and
destroy all the houses, peremptorily refused to give up their city, declaring that
no cause or exigence whatsoever, should induce them to intrust the defence of
it to any other than her own inhabitants ; — this spirited and stubborn resolu
tion prevailed over the orders of their commander, and the New Yorkers con
tinue snugly in possession of the place." In the next issue of this sheet there
was a circumstantial account of a " most dreadful fray" in the town of New
York between the New Yorkers and the Pennsylvanians and New Englanders,
the last wishing to set fire to the town and retreat ; that the New Yorkers
had won, and in consequence the forces from New England and Pennsylvania
had "withdrawn themselves." Then rumor said that Howe sent to Washing
ton " not to burn New York," but received for answer, that " he would keep
New York as long as it was tenable, and when he could defend it no longer,
he should certainly burn it and retire, so as to cut off all supplies." The
climax was reached on the 22d, when it was " strongly " reported the British
took possession of the town on September loth, and General Washington was
taken prisoner."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 425

them the Necessity, the absolute Necessity of forming
an Article against plundering, marauding and burning
of Houses. Such a Spirit has gone forth in our
Army that neither publick or private Property is
secure — Every Hour brings the most distressing
complaints of the Ravages of our own Troops who
are become infinitely more formidable to the poor
Farmers and Inhabitants than the common Enemy.
Horses are taken out off the Continental Teams ; the
Baggage of Officers and the Hospital Stores, even
the Quarters of General Officers are not exempt from
Rapine.

Some severe and exemplary Punishment to be in
flicted in a summary Way must be immediately
administered, or the Army will be totally ruined. I
must beg the immediate Attention of Congress to
this Matter as of the utmost Importance to our Ex
istence as an Army. I am, &c.

TO JOHN AUGUSTINE WASHINGTON.

HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM, 22 September, 1776.

DEAR BROTHER,

My extream hurry for some time past has rendered
it utterly impossible for me to pay that attention to
the letters of my friends, which inclination and natural
affection always inclines me to. I have no doubt,
therefore, of meeting with their excuse, tho' with
respect to yourself I have had no Letter from you
since the date of my last saving the one of Septr.
the i st. With respect to the attack and Retreat from

426 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Long Island, the public Papers would furnish you
with accounts nearly true, I shall only add, that in
the former we lost about eight hundred men, more
than three fourths of which were taken prisoners.
This misfortune happened in a great measure by Two
detachments of our People, who were Posted in two
Roads leading thro' a wood, in order to intercept the
Enemy in their march, suffering a Surprise, and
making a precipitate Retreat, which enabled the
Enemy to lead a great part of their force against the
Troops commanded by Lord Stirling, who formed a
third detachment, who behaved with great bravery
and resolution.

As to the Retreat from the Island, under the cir
cumstances we then were, it became absolutely neces
sary, and was effected without loss of men, and with
but very little baggage. A few heavy cannon were
left, not being movable on account of the Ground
being soft and miry, Thro' the heavy and incessant
rains which had fallen. The Enemy's loss in killed
we could never ascertain, but have many reasons to
believe, that it was pretty considerable, and exceeded
ours a good deal. Our Retreat from thence, as I
said before, was absolutely necessary, the Enemy
having landed the main body of their army to attack
us in Front, while their ships of war were to cut off
all communication with the city, from whence resources
of men and provisions were to be drawn.

Having made this Retreat, not long after we dis
covered, by the movements of the Enemy and the
information we received from Deserters and others,
that they declined attacking our Lines in the city,

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 427

and were forming a plan to get in our Rear with their
Land army, by crossing the Sound above us, and
thereby to cut off all Intercourse with the country and
every necessary supply. The ships of war were to
cooperate, possess the North River, and prevent suc
cours from the Jerseys, &c. This Plan appearing
probable, and but too practicable in its execution, it
became necessary to guard agt. the fatal consequences,
that must follow, if the scheme were effected ; for
which purpose I caused a removal of a part of our
troops and stores from the city ; and a council of
general officers determined, that it must be entirely
abandoned, as we had, with an army weaker than
theirs, a line of sixteen or eighteen miles to defend,
to keep open our communication with the country,
besides the defence of the city. We held up, how
ever, every show of defence, till our Sick and all our
stores could be brought away. The evacuation
being resolved upon, every exertion in our power
was made to baffle their designs and effect our own.
The sick were numerous, amounting to more than
the fourth part of our whole army, and an object of
great Importance. Happily we got them away; but,
before we could bring off all our stores, on Sunday
morning six or seven ships of war, which had gone
up the East River some few days before, began a
most severe and heavy cannonade, to scour the
grounds and effect a landing of their Troops. Three
Ships of War also ran up the North River that
morning above the city, to prevent our Boats and
small craft from carrying away our Baggage, &c.
I had gone the Evening before to the main body of

428 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

our army, which was Posted about these Heights and
the Plains of Haerlem, where it seemed probable,
from the movements and disposition of the Enemy,
they meant to Land and make an attack the next
morning. However the Event did not happen. Im
mediately on hearing the cannonade, I rode with all
possible expedition towards the place of Landing, and
where Breastworks had been thrown up to secure our
men; and found the Troops, that had been posted there,
to my great surprise and mortification, and those or
dered to their support, (consisting of Eight Regi
ments) notwithstanding the exertions of their Generals
to form them, running away in the most shameful and
disgraceful manner. I used every possible effort to
rally them, but to no purpose ; and, on the appear
ance of a small part of the Enemy, (not more than
sixty or seventy,) they ran off without firing a Single
Gun. Many of our heavy cannon would inevitably
have fallen into the Enemy's hands, as they landed so
soon ; but this scandalous conduct occasioned a loss
of many Tents, Baggage, and Camp-equipage, which
would have been easily secured, had they made the
least opposition.

The Retreat was made with the loss of a few men
only. We Encamped, and still are, on the Heights
of Haerlem, which are well suited for Defence against
their approaches. On Monday morning, they ad
vanced in sight in several large bodies, but attempted
nothing of a general nature, tho' there were smart
skirmishes between their advanced parties and some
Detachments from our lines, which I sent out. In

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 429

these our Troops behaved well, putting the enemy to
flight in open Ground, and forcing them from Posts
they had seized two or three times. A sergeant, who
deserted from them, says they had, as he was told,
eighty-nine wounded and missing, besides slain ; but
other accounts make the wounded much greater.
Our loss in killed and wounded was about sixty ; but
the greatest loss we sustained was in the death of
Lieutenant-Colonel Knowlton, a brave and gallant
officer. Major Leitch of Weedon's Regiment had
three balls though his side, and behaved exceedingly
well. He is in a fair way of recovery. Nothing
material has happened since this. The Enemy, it is
said, are bringing up their heavy cannon, so that we
are to expect another attack soon, both by Land and
Water, as we are upon the Hudson, (or North River)
at the place where we have attempted to stop the
navigation by sinking obstructions in the river and
erecting Batteries.

The Dependence, which the Congress have placed
upon the militia, has already greatly injured, and I
fear will totally ruin our cause. Being subject to no
controul themselves, they introduce disorder among
the troops, whom you have attempted to discipline,
while the change in their living brings on sickness ;
this makes them Impatient to get home, which spreads
universally, and introduces abominable desertions.
In short, it is not in the power of words to describe
the task I have to act. Fifty thousand pounds should
not induce me again to undergo what I have done.
Our numbers, by sickness, desertion, &c., are greatly

430 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

reduced.1 I have been trying these four or five days
to get a return, but have not yet succeeded. I am
sure, however, we have not more than twelve or four
teen thousand men fit for duty, whilst the enemy,
who, it is said, are very healthy, cannot have less than
near twenty-five thousand. With sincere love to my
sister and the family, and compliments to any inquir
ing friends, I am, &c.2

1 " The thirteen militia regiments from Connecticut being reduced to a little
more than 700 men, rank and file, fit for duty, I have thought proper to dis
charge the whole to save the States the immense charge that would arise for
officers' pay. There are, too, many militia that have just come in and on their
way from that State, none of which are provided with a tent or a single camp
utensil. This distresses me beyond measure." — Washington to the President
of Congress, 24 September, 1776.

2 "On Friday night, about eleven or twelve o'clock, a fire broke out in the
city of New York, near the new, or St. Paul's church, as it is said, which con
tinued to burn pretty rapidly till after sunrise the next morning. I have not
been informed how the accident happened, nor received any certain account of
the damage. Report says many of the houses between the Broadway and the
river were consumed." — Washington to the President of Congress, 23 Septem
ber, 1776.

There is no evidence whatever that any responsible officer or public body was
concerned in this attempt to fire the city, and it was probably started to cover
a loot of the houses. At the time, it was charged that some of the New Eng
land men were principally concerned, a survival of that sentiment expressed in
the note on page 424 ; but direct evidence is also wanting in this opinion. An
English officer wrote on the 22d : "It was set on fire towards the North River,
in a part of the town where the laboring people lived, as also where the English
protestant churches were, as well as the college." Some persons, caught in the
act of firing buildings, were shot on the spot. Burke, in Parliament, described
the finding in a cellar in New York, a woman " with her visage besmeared and
smutted over, with every mark of rage, despair, resolution, and the most ex
alted patriotism, buried in combustibles, in order to fire New York, and perish
in its ashes." Parliamentary Register, 1776,60.

" The fire originated at or near Whitehall, soon extended to the Exchange,
took its course up the west side of Broad Street, as far as Verlattenberg Hill,
consuming all the blocks from the Whitehall up. The flames extended across
the Broadway from the house of Mr. David Johnson to Beaver Lane, or Fischer's
Alley, on the west, and carried all before it, a few buildings excepted, to the

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 431

TO LIEUTENANT-GENERAL HOWE.

HEAD-QUARTERS, HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM,
23 September, 1776.

SIR,

I yesterday evening received the favor of your
letter of the 2ist, by your aid-de-camp Captain Mon-
tresor, in consequence of which, I this morning
despatched an express to Elizabethtown, with orders
that Major-General Prescott should be permitted to
return in the boat, that carried General Sullivan over
to that place. I most readily concur in the proposi
tion, which you are pleased to make for the exchange
of Brigadier-General Lord Stirling for Governor
Montfort Brown, and have sent for him accordingly.
I should hope, that Lord Stirling will be immediately
set at liberty, on my promise that Governor Brown
shall be sent to you as soon as he arrives. I had no

house at the corner of Barclay Street, wherein the late Mr. Adam Vandenberg
lived, sweeping the cross streets in the way. . . . The cause of the fire is not
known. We imagine about a 6th part of the whole city is destroyed."
Pennsylvania Journal, 20 October, 1776.

In describing this catastrophe, the British Commander wrote to Lord George
Germaine, on the 23d, that the town was set on fire in several places, with
matches and combustibles, that had been prepared with great art and ingenuity.
He added, — " Many were detected in the fact, and some killed upon the spot
by the enraged troops in garrison ; and had it not been for the exertions of
Major-General Robertson, the officers under his command in town, and the
brigade of guards detached from the camp, the whole must infallibly have been
consumed, as the night was extremely windy. The destruction is computed to
be about one quarter of the town."

Washington makes no mention of Nathan Hale, the " martyr spy of the Rev
olution," who was hung in New York by the British on the morning of 22 Sep
tember, 1776. Col. Knowlton was requested by the General to find a man will
ing and capable to penetrate the enemy's lines, and obtain information of their
plans, and Hale, a captain of his troop, volunteered. He had succeeded so far
as to be on his return to the American camp, when he was arrested on sus
picion, identified by a tory relative, and after an examination, hung as a spy.

432 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

doubt but Mr. McDonald's title would have been
acknowledged, having understood, that he received
his commission from the hands of Governor Martin ;
nor can I consent to rank him as major, till I have
proper authority from Congress, to whom I shall
state the matter upon your representation.1

Agreeably to your request, I shall transmit to
Lieutenant-Colonel Campbell a copy of the list of
officers of the forty-second and seventy-first regi
ments, taken by us last spring, that it may be recti
fied in the instances in which it may be wrong, and
will then place opposite to their names the officers I
would wish in return for them. The exchange of
privates I shall take the earliest opportunity in my
power to carry into execution ; but their being greatly
dispersed through the New England governments, in
order to their better accommodation, will prevent it
for some time. Having the fullest confidence in
your assurance, that Mr. Lovell will be released
when he arrives from Halifax, I have written for
Governor Skene to come to head-quarters, that he
may proceed immediately to you.

As to the exchange of prisoners settled between
Captain Foster and General Arnold, I beg leave to
inform you, that it was a transaction in which I had
not the smallest concern, nor have I authority to give
directions in any degree respecting the matter. The
information you have received concerning the ill-

1 The British commander declined exchanging McDonald for a brigadier, on
the ground that he had commissioned him as major ; but Congress decided
that, as he had been commissioned a brigadier by Governor Martin of North
Carolina, he should not be exchanged for an officer of lower rank.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 433

treatment of your officers, I would fain hope, is not
generally well founded.1 The letters from them,
which have passed through my hands, hold forth a
different language. In particular instances, it is true,
there are some, who have been restricted to a closer
confinement and severer treatment than they other
wise would have been, for breaking or refusing to
give their paroles ; such, I am confident, will not be
countenanced by your Excellency ; and I am per
suaded that by a closer investigation of the enquiry
you will discover, that there have been no other per
sons whatever, who have experienced the smallest
harshness from us. I shall, however, obtain all the
information on the subject in my power, that every
ground of complaint, if any exists, may be entirely
removed ; it being my most earnest wish, that, during
this unhappy contest, there be every exercise of
humanity which the nature of the case will possibly
admit.2

1 General Howe had written : — " It is with much concern, that I cannot close
this letter without representing the ill-treatment, which I am too well informed
the King's officers now suffer in common gaols throughout the provinces of
New England. I apply to your feelings alone for redress, having no idea of
committing myself by an act of retaliation upon those in my power."

2 " The number of prisoners according to these returns is greater than we ex
pected. However, I am inclined to believe, that, among those in the list from
Long Island, are several militia of General Woodhull's party, who were never
arranged in this army. As to those taken on the I5th, they greatly exceed the
number that I supposed fell into their hands in the retreat from the city. At
the time that I transmitted an account of that affair, I had not obtained returns,
and took the matter upon the officers' reports. They are difficult to get with
certainty at any time. In the skirmish of Monday se'nnight, they could have
taken but very few.

"Before I conclude, I shall take occasion to mention, that those returns
made with such precision, and the difficulty that will attend the proposed ex
change on account of the dispersed and scattered state of the prisoners in our

434 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Your aid-de-camp delivered to me the ball you
mention, which was the first of the kind I ever saw
or heard of. You may depend the contrivance is
highly abhorred by me, and every measure shall be
taken to prevent so wicked and infamous a practice
being adopted in this army. I have the honor to be,

&C.1

TO GOVERNOR TRUMBULL.

HEAD-QUARTERS, HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM,
23 September, 1776.

SIR,

•jf -x- -;:- •& •» -x-

I must beg your excuse, for not having wrote you
of late upon the situation of our affairs, and such
events as have occurred in the military line. I shall
only add, that the important concerns, which have
commanded my closest attention, have been the

hands, will clearly evince the necessity of appointing commissaries and proper
persons to superintend & conduct in such instances. This I took the liberty of
urging more than once, as well on account of the propriety of the measure, and
the saving, that would have resulted from it, as that the prisoners might be
treated with humanity, and have their wants particularly attended to." — Wash
ington to the President of Congress, 25 September, 1776.

The number of prisoners returned by General Howe, as taken on the I5th
and i6th of September, was three hundred and fifty-four officers and privates.

1 Respecting this ball, General Howe had spoken as follows in his letter.
" My aid-de-camp will present to you a ball cut and fixed to the end of a nail,
taken from a number of the same kind, found in the encampment quitted by
your troops on the 15th instant. I do not make any comment upon such un
warrantable and malicious practices, being well assured that the contrivance has
not come to your knowledge."

By the following extract from a letter written to Lord George Germaine by
General Howe, dated September 25th, it would appear, that he was not very
sanguine, as to the success of the campaign. "The enemy is too strongly
posted," he writes, " to be attacked in front, and innumerable difficulties are in
our way of turning him on either side, though his army is much dispirited from

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 435

cause, and, I am fully persuaded, will furnish me
with a sufficient apology. Of the evacuation of the
city of New York on Sunday sen'night, and the re
treat to this place, you will have heard before now,
and of the manner in which it was conducted. I am
certain, a minute relation of them would only increase
the uneasiness, which would naturally arise upon
hearing the events ; and, therefore, as I have not
time, I shall not enter upon it.

The Enemy by their movements having unfolded
their plan of Operations and discovered that they
declined making a direct attack upon the Town, and
that their designs were to land in our rear and cut
off all intercourse with the Country ; at the same time
to prevent any Communication with the Jersey and
States South of the North River, by means of their
Ships of War ; it became necessary to adopt such

the late success of his Majesty's arms ; yet have I not the smallest prospect of
finishing the combat this campaign, not until the rebels see preparations in the
spring, that may preclude all thoughts of further resistance. To this end I
vv.ould propose eight or ten line-of-battle ships to be with us in February, with
a number of supernumerary seamen for manning boats, having fully experienced
the want of them in every movement we have made. We must also have re
cruits from Europe, not finding the Americans disposed to serve with arms,
notwithstanding the hopes held out to me upon my arrival in this port. "

The General here alludes to a letter, which he had written to Lord George
Germaine July yth, soon after his arrival at Staten Island, in which he said : — " I
met with Governor Tryon on board of a ship at the Hook, and many gentlemen
fast friends to government attending him, from whom I have had the fullest
information of the state of the rebels" ; and added, "There is great reason to
expect a numerous body of the inhabitants to join the army from the provinces
of New York, the Jerseys, and Connecticut, who, in this time of universal op
pression, only wait for opportunities to give proofs of their loyalty and zeal for
government." In these anticipations, after two months' experience, General
Howe found himself deceived, and he advised the minister to prepare for send
ing out European reinforcements for the next campaign.

436 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

measures, as seemed best calculated to baffle their
schemes and promote the common Interests. To
these ends, a Council of Officers determined the
evacuation of the city absolutely necessary, and I
have only to wish, that it had been made in a way
more honorable and with less loss of Baggage ; which
might have been the case, had the Troops that re
mained there for the defence of the Lines, not be
taken themselves to a most precipitate and disgrace
ful flight, contrary to the exertions of their General
Officers and every effort in my Power to prevent and
form them. Having gone from hence, as soon as
the Ships began their Cannonade, and whither I had
come the night before to the main Body of our Army,
in expectation of an Attack that night or the next
morning ; as the parade of the Enemy, and the un
usual stir amongst them strongly indicated one. The
next morning, several large Columns of them ap
peared on the Plains, at the distance of about two
miles and a half below us, and some smart skirmishes
ensued between their advanced parties composed of
the 2d Battalion of Infantry, a Regiment of Royal
Highlanders, and three Companies of the Hessian
Chasseurs or Rifle men, and the detachments which I
sent out to oppose them. Upon this occasion, our
men behaved with great spirit and Intrepidity, put
ting the Enemy to flight and forcing them from their
Posts two or three times. Our people buried Six
teen or Eighteen of their dead, as they say ; and a
sergeant who has since deserted reports, they had
Eighty nine missing and wounded. Our Loss in

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 437

number is inconsiderable but must be considered as
great, in the fall of Lieut. Colo. Knowlton of your
State who commanded a party of Rangers, composed
of Volunteers from the several New England Reoq-

o o

merits, and who was a brave and good officer. Every
honor was paid to his merit in his Interment, that
the situation of things would admit of.

The enemy have formed a large encampment in
the plains, or rather heights, below us, extending
across as it were from the East to the North River ;
but have attempted nothing as yet of a general
nature. We are making every disposition in em
power for defence, and I should hope, from the
ground we are on, if they make an attack, and our
men behave with tolerable resolution and firmness,
that they will meet with a repulse, or at least, any
advantage they gain will be attended with sorrow and
a considerable loss. Major Leitch, who led on a
detachment of the Virginia regiment in the affair of
Monday, received three balls through one side ; he
still retains his spirits, and seems as if he would re
cover.1 On Friday night, about eleven or twelve
o'clock, afire broke out in the city of New York, which,
burning rapidly till after sunrise next morning, de
stroyed a great number of houses. By what means it
happened we do not know ; but the gentleman, who
brought the letter from General Howe last night, and
who was one of his aide-de-camps informed Colonel
Reed, that several of our countrymen had been
punished with various deaths on account of it, some

1 He soon grew worse, and died of his wounds on the 1st of October.

438 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

by hanging, others by burning &c ; alleging, that
they were apprehended when committing the fact. I
am, &c.

P. S. I would choose that Governors Brown &
Skene should be stopt when they come within Ten or
twelve miles and detained until one of the escort
can inform me of their coming and receive my direc
tions respecting them.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.1

COLO. MORRIS'S, ON THE HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM,
24 September, 1776.

SIR,

From the hours allotted to sleep, I will borrow a
few moments to convey my thoughts on sundry im
portant matters to Congress. I shall offer them with

1 In his journey to Staten Island John Adams noted the straggling and
loitering soldiers on the road and in the public houses, and conceived " but a
poor opinion of the discipline of our forces, and excited as much indignation as
anxiety." Upon his return to Congress, at his instance, and through the
Board of War, a resolution for enforcing and perfecting discipline in the army
was adopted. " That the Commander in Chief of the forces of these States in
the several departments, be directed to give positive orders to the brigadier-gen
erals and colonels, and all other officers in their several armies, that the troops
under their command may every day be called together and trained in arms, in
order that officers and men may be perfected in the manual exercise and
manoeuvers, and inured to the most exemplary discipline, and that all officers
be assured that the Congress will consider activity and success in introducing
discipline into the army, among the best recommendations for promotion."
Journals of Congress, 19 September, 1776. This officious resolution must have
reached Washington before the 22d, and was the cause of the letter of the 24th,
which was written by his own hand, and shows no sign of resentment at
the criticism thus levelled against him by Adams and the Congress. The
extreme difficulties to be overcome in obtaining even the semblance of disci
pline in such an army as Congress gave to Washington, are described in the
letters of Reed, now Adjutant-General, who soon after sent in his resignation.
John Sloss Hobart saw Washington on the evening of the 24th, and spoke of
him as "much indisposed,"

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON.
the sincerity, which ought to characterize a man of
candor, and with the freedom, which may be used in
giving useful information without incurring the im
putation of presumption.

We are now, as it were, upon the eve of another
dissolution of our army.1 The remembrance of the
difficulties, which happened upon that occasion last
year, and the consequences, which might have fol
lowed the change if proper advantages had been
taken by the enemy, added to a knowledge of the
present temper and situation of the troops, reflect but
a very gloomy prospect in the appearances of things
now, and satisfy me beyond the possibility of doubt,
that, unless some speedy and effectual measures are
adopted by Congress, our cause will be lost. It is in
vain to expect, that any more than a trifling part of
this army will again engage in the service on the
encouragement offered by Congress. When men find
that their townsmen and companions are receiving
twenty, thirty, and more dollars for a few months'
service, which is truly the case, it cannot be expected,
without using compulsion ; and to force them into
the service would answer no valuable purpose.

1 The term of service for almost the whole army was to expire at or before the
end of the year.

Samuel Adams passed through New York on the I4th, and found " the
General and his family in health and spirits ; indeed, every officer and soldier
appears to be determined. ... I see now, more than ever I did, the
importance of Congress attending immediately to enlistments for the next
campaign. It would be a pity to lose your old soldiers. I am of opinion that
a more generous bounty should be given, — twenty dollars and one hundred
acres of land for three years at least. But enough of this." — Samuel Adams to
John Adams, 16 August, 1776.

440 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

When men are irritated, and their passions inflamed,
they fly hastily and cheerfully to arms ; but, after the
first emotions are over, to expect among such people
as compose the bulk of an army, that they are influ
enced by any other principles than those of interest, is
to look for what never did, and I fear never will
happen ; the Congress will deceive themselves, there
fore, if they expect it. A soldier, reasoned with
upon the goodness of the cause he is engaged in,
and the inestimable rights he is contending for, hears
you with patience, and acknowledges the truth of your
observations, but adds that it is of no more import
ance to him than to others. The officer makes you
the same reply, with this further remark, that his pay
will not support him, and he cannot ruin himself and
family to serve his country, when every member of
the community is equally interested, and benefitted
by his labors. The few, therefore, who act upon
principles of disinterestedness, comparatively speak
ing, are no more than a drop in the ocean.

It becomes evident to me then, that, as this con
test is not likely to be the work of a day, as the war
must be carried on systematically, and to do it you
must have good officers, there are in my judgment
no other possible means to obtain them but by
establishing your army upon a permanent footing,
and giving your officers good pay. This will induce
gentlemen and men of character to engage ; and, till
the bulk of your officers is composed of such persons
as are actuated by principles of honor and a spirit of
enterprise, you have little to expect from them.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 441

They ought to have such allowances, as will enable
them to live like and support the character of gentle
men, and not be driven by a scanty pittance to the
low and dirty arts, which many of them practise, to
filch from the public more than the difference of pay
would amount to, upon an ample allowance. Be
sides, something is due to the man, who puts his life
in your hands, hazards his health, and forsakes the
sweets of domestic enjoyment. Why a captain in
the Continental service should receive no more than
five shillings currency per day for performing the
same duties, that an officer of the same rank in the
British service receives ten shillings for, I never
could conceive ; especially when the latter is pro
vided with every necessary he requires upon the best
terms, and the former can scarce procure them at
any rate. There is nothing that gives a man conse
quence and renders him fit for command, like a sup
port that renders him independent of every body but
the state he serves.1

With respect to the men, nothing but a good
bounty can obtain them upon a permanent establish
ment ; and for no shorter time, than the continuance
of the war, ought they to be engaged ; as facts incon-

1 " We want nothing but good officers to constitute as good an army as ever
marched into the field. Our men are much better than the officers." — General
Greene, 3 October, 1776. " The success of the cause, the defeat of the enemy,
the honor of the state, and the reputation of the army, altogether depends
upon the establishing of a good core, or corps of officers. My little experience
has fully convinced me that without more attention is paid by the different states
in the appointment of the officers, the troops never will answer their expecta
tions. . . . There has been, it must be confessed, some shameful conduct
in this army this campaign, in a great measure owing to the bad conduct of the
officers." — General Greene to Governor Cooke, II October, 1776-

442 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

testably prove, that the difficulty and cost of enlist
ments increase with time. When the army was first
raised at Cambridge, I am persuaded the men might
have been got, without a bounty, for the war. After
this, they began to see that the contest was not likely
to end so speedily as was imagined, and to feel their
consequence by remarking, that, to get in their
militia in the course of the last year, many towns
were induced to give them a bounty. Foreseeing the
evils resulting from this, and the destructive conse
quences, which unavoidably would follow short en
listments, I took the liberty in a long letter written
by myself (date not now recollected as my Letter
Book is not here J) to recommend the enlistments for
and during- the war, assigning such reasons for it as

o o o

experience has since convinced me were well founded.
At that time, twenty dollars would, I am persuaded,
have engaged the men for this term. But it will not
do to look back ; and, if the present opportunity is
slipped, I am persuaded that twelve months more will
increase our difficulties fourfold. I shall therefore
take the freedom of giving it as my opinion, that a
good bounty should be immediately offered, aided by
the proffer of at least a hundred or a hundred and
fifty acres of land, and a suit of clothes and blanket
to each non-comissioned officer and soldier ; as I
have good authority for saying, that, however high
the men's pay may appear, it is barely sufficient, in
the present scarcity and dearness of all kinds of
goods, to keep them in clothes, much less afford
support to their families.

'Vol. III.,io6.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 443

If this encouragement then is given to the men,
and such pay allowed the officers as will induce
gentlemen of character and liberal sentiments to en
gage, and proper care and precaution are used in the
nomination, (having more regard to the characters of
persons, than to the number of men they can enlist,)
we should in a little time have an army able to cope
with any that can be opposed to it, as there are excel
lent materials to form one out of. But while the only
merit an officer possesses is his ability to raise men,
while those men consider and treat him as an equal,
and, in the character of an officer, regard him no
more than a broomstick, being mixed together as
one common herd, no order nor discipline can pre
vail ; nor will the officer ever meet with that respect,
which is essentially necessary to due subordination.1

To place any dependence upon militia is assuredly
resting upon a broken staff. Men just dragged from
the tender scenes of domestic life, unaccustomed to
the din of arms, totally unacquainted with every kind
of military skill, (which being followed by want of
confidence in themselves, when opposed to troops
regularly trained, disciplined, and appointed, superior
in knowledge and superior in arms,) makes them
timid and ready to fly from their own shadows.
Besides the sudden change in their manner of living,

1 " To attempt to introduce discipline and subordination into a new army
must always be a work of much difficulty, but where the principles of democracy
so universally prevail, where so great an equality and so thorough a levelling
spirit predominates, either no discipline can be established, or he who attempts
it must become odious and detestable, a position which no one will choose. It
is impossible for any one to have an idea of the complete equality which exists
between the officers and men who compose the greater part of our troops."
— Reed to his wife, n October, 1776.

444 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

(particularly in the lodging,) brings on sickness in
many, impatience in all, and such an unconquerable
desire of returning to their respective homes, that it
not only produces shameful and scandalous desertions
among themselves, but infuses the like spirit in
others. Again, men accustomed to unbounded free
dom and no control cannot brooke the restraint,
which is indispensably necessary to the good order
and government of an army ; without which, licen
tiousness and every kind of disorder triumphantly
reign. To bring men to a proper degree of subordi
nation is not the work of a day, a month, or even a
year ; and, unhappily for us and the cause we are
engaged in, the little discipline I have been laboring to
establish in the army under my immediate command
is in a manner done away, by having such a mixture
of troops, as have been called together within these
few months.

Relaxed and as unfit as our rules and regulations
of war are for the government of an army, the militia
(those properly so called, for of these we have two
sorts, the six-months' men, and those sent in as a
temporary aid) do not think themselves subject to
them, and therefore take liberties, which the soldier
is punished for. This creates jealousy ; jealousy
begets dissatisfaction ; and these by degrees ripen
into mutiny, keeping the whole army in a confused
and disordered state, rendering the time of those,
who wish to see regularity and good order prevail,
more unhappy than words can describe. Besides
this, such repeated changes take place, that all

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 445

arrangement is set at nought, and the constant
fluctuation of things deranges every plan as fast as
adopted.

These, Sir, Congress may be assured, are but a
small part of the inconveniences, which might be
enumerated, and attributed to militia ; but there is
one, that merits particular attention, and that is the
expense. Certain I am, that it would be cheaper to
keep fifty or a hundred thousand in constant pay,
than to depend upon half the number and supply the
other half occasionally by militia. The time the
latter are in pay before and after they are in camp,
assembling and marching, the waste of ammunition,
the consumption of stores, which, in spite of every
resolution or requisition of Congress, they must be
furnished with, or sent home, added to other inci
dental expenses consequent upon their coming and
conduct in camp, surpasses all idea, and destroys
every kind of regularity and economy, which you
could establish among fixed and settled troops, and
will, in my opinion, prove, if the scheme is adhered
to, the ruin of our cause.

The jealousy of a standing army, and the evils to
be apprehended from one, are remote, and, in my
judgment, situated and circumstanced as we are, not
at all to be dreaded ; but the consequence of wanting
one, according to my ideas formed from the present
view of things, is certain and inevitable ruin. For,
if I was called upon to declare upon oath, whether
the militia have been most serviceable or hurtful
upon the whole, I should subscribe to the latter. I

446 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

do not mean by this, however, to arraign the conduct
of Congress ; in so doing I should equally condemn
my own measures, if I did not my judgment ; but ex
perience, which is the best criterion to work by, so
fully, clearly, and decisively reprobates the practice of
trusting to militia, that no man, who regards order,
regularity, and economy, or who has any regard for
his own honor, character, or peace of mind, will risk
them upon this issue/

No less attention should be paid to the choice of
surgeons, than of other officers of the army. They
should undergo a regular examination, and, if not
appointed by the director-general and surgeons of
the hospital, they ought to be subordiate to and gov
erned by his directions. The regimental surgeons I

1 General Greene was more outspoken in his opinion of where the blame
should rest : " The policy of Congress has been the most absurd and ridicu
lous imaginable, pouring in militia-men who come and go every month. A
military force established upon such principles defeats itself. . . . The Con
gress goes upon a penurious plan. The present pay of the officers will not
support them, and it is generally determined by the best officers to quit the
service, unless a more adequate provision is made for their support. The
present establishment is not thought reputable. The Congress has never
furnished the men voted by near one half, certainly by above a third. Had we
numbers we need not have retreated from Long Island or New York. . . .
We must have an army to meet the enemy everywhere, to act offensively as
well as defensively. Our soldiers are as good as ever were ; and were the offi
cers half as good as the men, they would beat any army on the globe of equal
numbers." — 28 September, 1776.

In a letter to General Gates, dated October I4th, General Lee expressed his
opinion of Congress and of the army in a laconic but characteristic manner.
" I write this scrawl," he says, "in a hurry. Colonel Wood will describe the
position of our army, which, in my own breast, I do not approve. Inter nos
Congress seem to stumble at every step. I have been very free in delivering my
opinion to them. General Washington is much to blame in not menacing
them \vith resignation, unless they refrain from unhinging the army by their
absurd interference."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 447

am speaking of, many of whom are very great rascals,
countenancing the men in sham complaints to exempt
them from duty, and often receiving bribes to certify
indispositions, with a view to procure discharges or
furloughs ; but, independent of these practices, while
they are considered as unconnected with the general
hospital, there will be nothing but continual com
plaints of each other ; the director of the hospital
charging them with enormity in their drafts for the
sick, and they him with the same for denying
such things as are necessary. In short, there is a
constant bickering among them, which tends greatly
to the injury of the sick, and will always subsist till
the regimental surgeons are made to look up to the
director-general of the hospital as a superior.
Whether this is the case in regular armies or not, I
cannot undertake to say ; but certain I am, there is a
necessity for it in this, or the sick will suffer. The
regimental surgeons are aiming, I am persuaded, to
break up the general hospital, and have, in number
less instances, drawn for medicines and stores in the
most profuse and extravagant manner for private
purposes.1

Another matter highly worthy of attention is, that
other rules and regulations may be adopted for the
government of the army, than those now in existence ;

1 A resolution was passed by Congress, on receiving this letter, requesting the
several States to appoint skilful surgeons and physicians to examine the
surgeons and surgeons' mates, who offered themselves to serve in the army or
navy, and declaring that no commission should be issued to any, who should
not produce a certificate from such examiners, that they were qualified for the
duties of their office. Journals^ 30 September, 1776.

448 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

otherwise the army, but for the name, might as well
be disbanded. For the most atrocious offences, one
or two instances only excepted, a man receives no
more than thirty-nine lashes ; and these, perhaps,
through the collusion of the officer, who is to see it
inflicted, are given in such a manner as to become
rather a matter of sport than punishment ; but, when
inflicted as they ought, many hardened fellows, who
have been the subjects, have declared that, for a
bottle of rum, they would undergo a second opera
tion. It is evident, therefore, that this punishment is
inadequate to many crimes it is assigned to. As a
proof of it, thirty or forty soldiers will desert at a
time, and of late a practice prevails (as you will see
by my letter of the 22d) of the most alarming nature
and which will, if it cannot be checked, prove fatal
both to the country and army ; I mean the infamous
practice of plundering. For, under the idea of Tory
property, or property that may fall into the hands of
the enemy, no man is secure in his effects, and
scarcely in his person. In order to get at them, we
have several instances of people being frightened out
of their houses, under pretence of those houses being
ordered to be burnt, and this is clone with a view of
seizing the goods ; nay, in order that the villany may
be more effectually concealed, some houses have
actually been burnt, to cover the theft. I have, with
some others, used my utmost endeavors to stop this
horrid practice ; but under the present lust after
plunder, and want of laws to punish offenders, I
might almost as well attempt to remove Mount Atlas.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON.
I have ordered instant corporal punishment upon
every man, who passes our lines, or is seen with
plunder, that the offenders might be punished for
disobedience of orders ; and enclose to you the pro
ceedings of a court-martial held upon an officer
[Ensign Matthew McCumber] who, with a party of
men, had robbed a house a little beyond our lines of
a number of valuable goods, among which (to show
that nothing escapes) were four large pier looking-
glasses, women's clothes, and other articles, which,
one would think, could be of no earthly use to him.
He was met by a major of brigade, [Box] who
ordered him to return the goods, as taken contrary
to general orders, which he not only peremptorily re
fused to do, but drew up his party, and swore he
would defend them at the hazard of his life ; on
which I ordered him to be arrested and tried for
plundering, disobedience of orders, and mutiny. For
the result, I refer to the proceedings of the court,
whose judgment appeared so exceedingly extraordi
nary,1 that I ordered a reconsideration of the matter,
upon which, and with the assistance of a fresh evi
dence, they made a shift to cashier him. I adduce
this instance, to give some idea to Congress of the
current sentiments and general run of the officers,
which compose the present army ; and to show how

1 The court decided that the prisoner was " not guilty of plundering or of
robbery, nor of mutiny, but that he is guilty of offering violence to and disobey
ing Major Box, his superior officer." He was sentenced to ask pardon of Major
Box, and to be severely reprimanded at the head of his regiment. Washington
had added " Note. It is to be observed that the men who were to share the
plunder became the evidences for the prisoner."

450 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

exceedingly necessary it is to be careful in the choice
of the new set, even if it should take double the time
to complete the levies.1

An army formed of good officers moves like clock
work ; but there is no situation upon earth less envia
ble, nor more distressing, than that person's, who is at
the head of troops which are regardless of order and
discipline, and who are unprovided with almost every
necessary. In a word, the difficulties, which have for
ever surrounded me since I have been in the service,
and kept my mind constantly upon the stretch, the
wounds, which my feelings as an officer have received
by a thousand things, which have happened contrary
to my expectation and wishes ; the effect of my own
conduct, and present appearance of things, so little
pleasing to myself, as to render it a matter of no
surprise to me if I should stand capitally censured by
Congress ; added to a consciousness of my inability
to govern an army composed of such discordant parts,
and under such a variety of intricate and perplexing
circumstances ; — induces not only a belief, but a
thorough conviction in my mind, that it will be im-

" The General thanks, the Colonels and commanding Officers of Regiments,
for their care in examining the Tents and knapsacks, of the Soldiers after
plunder, he directs that what has been found, be sent to the house on the Road
below Head Quarters, and that Regimental Courts Martial immediately sit, to
try every one who cannot prove that he came honestly by what is found in his
possession — The offenders to be punished as soon as the sentence is approved
by the Colonel or Commanding Officer — As a little wholesome severity may
put a stop to such ruinous practices in future, the General hopes a very strict
Inquiry will be made, and no Favor shown. The General does not admit of
any pretence for plundering ; whether it is Tory property taken beyond the
lines, or not, it is equally a breach of Orders, and to be punished in the Officer
who gives orders, or the Soldier who goes without." — Orderly Book, 24 Septem
ber, 1776.

1 776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 451

possible, unless there is a thorough change in our
military system, for me to conduct matters in such a
manner as to give satisfaction to the public, which is
all the recompense I aim at, or ever wished for.

Before I conclude, I must apologize for the liber
ties taken in this letter, and for the blots and scratch-
ings therein, not having time to give it more
correctly. With truth I can add, that, with every
sentiment of respect and esteem, I am yours and the
Congress's most obedient, &c.1

1 Read in Congress 27 September, 1776, and referred to a committee of five :
Wythe, Hopkinson, Rutledge, J. Adams, and .Stone.

Washington's letter found Congress considering the condition of the army, for
on the very day on which that letter was written the Board of War was directed
to " prepare and bring in a plan of military operations for the next campaign."
The Sullivan incident appears to have intervened to delay the presentation of a
report, and it was not submitted until the gth. The debate was long and
bitter, as the report was the subject of almost daily consideration, and little of
importance was determined until the i6th. The States were directed to
furnish their respective quotas of eighty eight battalions "^to serve during the
present war " ; as an encouragement to enlist a bounty of twenty dollars was
offered to each non-commissioned officer and private so enlisting, and liberal
grants of lands promised all officers and soldiers who should continue in service
until the close of the war, viz.: to a colonel, 500 acres ; to a lieutenant-colonel,
450 ; to a major, 400 ; to a captain, 300 ; to a lieutenant, 200 ; to an ensign,
150 ; and to a non-commissioned officer or private, 100. The appointment of
all officers, except general officers, was to be made by the States, (but the com
missions were to be issued by Congress) and the States were also to furnish
arms, clothing and every necessary for its quota of troops. (Journals, 16
September, 1776.) These provisions for raising a new army were not completed
until the 2Oth, when they were directed to be published witli the new articles
of war. It does not appear that Washington was informed of this important
debate, or was consulted in any way. On the 24th, Hancock transmitted the
results, " which, I am persuaded, will afford you pleasure, as the only means
left to defend our country in its present critical situation." Hancock to Wash
ington, 24 September, 1776. In making them known to the States, Hancock
used the arguments advanced by Washington in his letters urging the adoption
of a better system, often in his very words.

With these resolutions were forwarded the new articles of war. Washington
had long been impressing on Congress the necessity of revising the old rules,

452 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO BRIGADIER-GENERAL MERCER.

HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM, 26 September, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

If the troops at this post can be prevailed upon to
defend it as they should do, it must cost General
Howe a great many men to carry it, if he succeeds at all.
If this should happen to be his opinion, there is scarce
a doubt that he will turn his thoughts another way,
as inactivity is not to be expected from him. Whither
his operations may be directed is uncertain ; perhaps
an irruption into the Jerseys. Possibly he may bend
his course towards Philadelphia, (for I conceive that
two thousand men, with the assistance of their ship
ping, will effectually preserve New York against our
whole strength,) or, what in my judgment is exceed
ingly probable, knowing that the troops are drawn

and late in July, the Judge Advocate of the army — William Tudor — was sent to
Philadelphia to confer with Congress on the subject. (Reed to the President of
Congress, 25 July, 1776.) Tudor was in Philadelphia until the loth, engaged
on this business, but there is no entry on the Journals of the submission
to Congress of the new articles, the first definite mention being that on August
I3th, when the consideration of them was begun. John Adams and Thomas
Jefferson were appointed by Congress to confer with Tudor, and drew up the
report, substantially adopting the British articles of war, totidcin vcrbis. Ac
cording to Adams, they met with so great opposition on the floor, " that to this
day [1807] I scarcely know how it was possible that these articles could have
been carried." Works, Hi., 84. The articles are printed in Journals of
Congress, 20 September, 1776.

On the 2oth a committee of three — Sherman, Gerry, and Lewis — was
appointed to repair to camp, "to enquire into the state of the army, and the
best means of supplying their wants." They arrived in camp on the 24th and
were in conference with the general officers on the 26th and 27th, and on the latter
day Mr. Gerry wrote from Kingsbridge to General Gates, then at Ticonderoga :
— " I have desired General Washington to furnish the Committee with a list of
such officers in the army here, as he is desirous of having again engaged in the
service, specifying the States to which they belong ; and the General thinks

1776] GRORGR WASHINGTON. 453

off from the southern colonies, he may detach a
part of the army to the southward for a winter's
campaign, as was recommended to him last fall by
Lord Dunmore.

In either of these cases, it behoves us to keep the
best look-out, and to obtain the earliest intelligence
possible of the enemy's motions ; and, as it is now
the current opinion, that the shipping are greatly
thinned, I earnestly recommend to you the necessity
of having sensible and judicious persons in different
places to observe the movements of the shipping,
among others at the Neversinks ; for if they should
send out a fleet without our giving notice of it to
Congress, we shall be thought exceedingly remiss.
In short, I entreat you to exert your best endeavors
to obtain all the useful intelligence you possibly can
of the enemy's motions by sea and land. In doing

it will be necessary to obtain the same from the northern army. The use,
which we intend to make of this, is to send it by a member of Congress to the
Assembly of each respective State, who is to be ordered to impress the necessity
of appointing gentlemen of education to military offices, as a measure absolutely
essential for saving the country ; and to urge the Assemblies to apportion the
men on the towns, and raise them by recruiting or drafting, that they may be
in readiness for reinforcing or forming the army by the 1st of December."—
ATS. Letter. The committee reported to Congress on October 3d, and it is very
probable that the resolution adopted on the 8th, recommending the States
to send committees to repair to their respective regiments to inlist men and
name officers for the new army, was the first direct result of the report. Further
proceedings were had on the Qth, and then all trace of this matter is lost.
Owing to the complaints against the Quartermaster general's department, the
committee thought best to recommend that Colonel Moylan should give place
to General Mifflin.

In the interim a change was made in the composition of the Board of War.
Benjamin Harrison, whom Washington had corresponded with freely, was
dropped from the Virginia delegation, and the vacancy thus made in the Board
was filled by Francis Lightfoot Lee. Journals of Congress, n September,
1776.

454 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

this, money may be required, and do not spare it.
Communicate every thing of importance to me with
despatch ; and be assured, that I am, &c.:

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM, 28 September, 1776.

SIR,

Being about to cross the North River this morning,
in order to view the post opposite, and the grounds
between that and Paulus Hook, I shall not add much
more than that I have been honored with your
favor of the 24th and its several enclosures, and that
since my letter of yesterday, no important event has
taken place.2

As Colonel Hugh Stephenson, of the rifle regiment
lately ordered to be raised, is dead, according to the
information I have received, I would beg leave to
recommend to the particular notice of Congress
Captain Daniel Morgan, just returned among the
prisoners from Canada, as a fit and proper person to
succeed to the vacancy occasioned by his death. The

" On the 23d Gen. Howe left this garrison 4,000 strong under the command
of Gen. Robinson, and made a feint as if he intended attacking the rebels at
King's Bridge with the main body of the army ; previous measures had been
taken to embark two squadrons, which was so privately done, that even the
troops who were immediately engaged knew not their destination till they were
landed at Perth Amboy, which they took without opposition, together with
500 prisoners." — Letter from New York, 26 September, 1776.

" The army have, for these last two days, been under orders to hold them
selves in readiness to march, but whither no one knows ; some think it is to
King's Bridge, while others think it is intended to cross the North River, and
proceed through the Jerseys towards Philadelphia." — Do., 28 September, 1776.

• General Greene was now in command on the Jersey side of the North River.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 455

present field-officers of the regiment cannot claim any
right in preference to him, because he ranked above
them, and as a captain, when he first entered the
service. His conduct as an officer, on the expedi
tion with General Arnold last fall, his intrepid be
havior in the assault upon Quebec, when the brave
Montgomery fell, the inflexible attachment he pro
fessed to our cause during his imprisonment, and
which he perseveres in, added to these, his residence
in the place Colonel Stephenson came from, and his
interest and influence in the same circle, and with
such men as are to compose such a regiment, — all, in
my opinion, entitle him to the favor of Congress, and
lead me to believe, that in his promotion the States
will gain a good valuable officer for the sort of troops
he is particularly recommended to command. Should
Congress be pleased to appoint Captain Morgan in
the instance I have mentioned, I would still beg
leave to suggest the propriety and necessity of keep
ing the matter close, and not suffering it to transpire,
until he is exonerated from the parole he is under.
His acceptance of a commission under his present
circumstances mitjht be construed a violation of his

o

engagement ; and if not, the difficulty attending his
exchange might be increased. The enemy, perhaps,
would consider him as a field-officer, of which we have
but very few in our hands, and none, that I recol
lect, of that rank.1 I am, &c.2

1 Congress gave Morgan a colonel's commission, but it was not until early in
1777 that he was exchanged and could avail himself of his promotion, Ik-
joined the army at Morristown late in March.

2 Read in Congress September 30, 1776.

456 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO LUND WASHINGTON.1

COL. MORRIS'S, ON THE HEIGHTS OF HARLEM,
30 September, 1776.

DEAR LUND,

Your letter of the i8th, which is the only one
received and unanswered, now lies before me. The
amazement which you seem to be in at the unaccount
able measures which have been adopted by -
would be a good deal increased if I had time to un
fold the whole system of their management since this
time twelve months. I do not know how to account
for the unfortunate steps which have been taken but
from that fatal idea of conciliation which prevailed so
long — fatal, I call it, because from my soul I wish it
may prove so, though my fears lead me to think there
is too much danger of it. This time last year I
pointed out the evil consequences of short enlist
ments, the expenses of militia, and the little depend-

1 This letter has not a little puzzled me. It was contributed to the National
Intelligencer in October, 1862 by Mr. Cassius F. Lee, Jr., of Alexandria, Va.,
but in an incomplete form. From that newspaper it was reprinted by the
Historical Magazine, in January, 1863, and a small part in the Southern Maga
zine, xiv., 320. Scharf in his History of Maryland, ii., 249, takes the version
given by the Southern Magazine, claiming to "print in full, as it [this letter]
has not yet found its way into history," and in a note prints a letter purporting
to be written by Washington to Lund Washington, from the "Camp at Cam
bridge, August 2Oth, 1775." The first paragraph of this latter letter might
have been taken from a genuine document, as the opinions expressed are not
very different from those Washington wrote to Richard Henry Lee, 29 August,
1775, printed in III., 96 ; but what follows is taken from the letter of 30 Sep
tember, 1776. It is difficult to conceive how this combination could have been
made, as the version of Mr. Lee was accessible to Mr. Scharf, even if the
matter had not excited some suspicion of error. An inquiry addressed to Mr.
Lee confirmed the authenticity of his version, though he admitted that he had
not followed the originals so accurately as he would, were they to be again in
his hands at the present day.

- The word Congress is omitted in the MS.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 457

ence that was to be placed in them. I assured [Con
gress] that the longer they delayed raising a standing
army, the more difficult and chargeable would they
find it to get one, and that, at the same time that the
militia would answer no valuable purpose, the fre
quent calling them in would be attended with an
expense, that they could have no conception of.1
Whether, as I have said before, the unfortunate hope
of reconciliation was the cause, or the fear of a stand
ing army prevailed, I will not undertake to say ; but
the policy was to engage men for twelve months
only. The consequence of which, you have had
great bodies of militia in pay that never were in
camp ; you have had immense quantities of provisions
drawn by men that never rendered you one hour's
service (at least usefully), and this in the most pro
fuse and wasteful way. Your stores have been
expended, and every kind of military [discipline ?]
destroyed by them ; your numbers fluctuating, uncer
tain, and forever far short of report — at no one time,
I believe, equal to twenty thousand men fit for duty.
At present our numbers fit for duty (by this day's
report) amount to 14,759, besides 3,427 on command,
and the enemy within stone's throw of us. It is true
a body of militia are again ordered out, but they
come without any conveniences and soon return. I

'After this sentence, the Southern Magazine gives the following: "What
does Dr. Craik say to the behavior of his countrymen and townspeople?
Remember me kindly to him, and tell him that 1 should be very glad to see
him here, if there was any thing worth his acceptance, but the Massachusetts
people suffer nothing to go by them that they can lay hands upon." With that,
the letter is supposed to end, but it is more probable that these sentences be
long to the letter of 20 August, 1775.

458 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

discharged a regiment the other day that had in it
fourteen rank and file fit for duty only, and several
that had less than fifty. In short, such is my situa
tion that if I were to wish the bitterest curse to an
enemy on this side of the grave, I should put him in
my stead with my feelings ; and yet I do not know
what plan of conduct to pursue. I see the impossi
bility of serving with reputation, or doing any essen
tial service to the cause by continuing in command,
and yet I am told that if I quit the command
inevitable ruin will follow from the distraction
that will ensue. In confidence I tell you that I
never was in such an unhappy, divided state since I
was born. To lose all comfort and happiness on the
one hand, whilst I am fully persuaded that under such
a system of management as has been adopted, I cannot
have the least chance for reputation, nor those allow
ances made which the nature of the case requires ;
and to be told, on the other, that if I leave the service
all will be lost, is, at the same time that I am bereft
of every peaceful moment, distressing to a degree.
But I will be done with the subject, with the precau
tion to you that it is not a fit one to be publicly
known or discussed. If I fall, it may not be amiss
that these circumstances be known, and declaration
made in credit to the justice of my character. And
if the men will stand by me (which by the by I
despair of), I am resolved not to be forced from this
ground while I have life ; and a few days will deter
mine the point, if the enemy should not change their
plan of operations ; for they certainly will not — I am

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 459

sure they ought not — to waste the season that is now
fast advancing, and must be precious to them. I
thought to have given you a more explicit account of
my situation, expectation, and feelings, but I have
not time. I am weaned to death all day with a
variety of perplexing circumstances — disturbed at the
conduct of the militia, whose behavior and want of
discipline has done great injury to the other troops,
who never had officers, except in a few instances,
worth the bread they eat. My time, in short, is so
much engrossed that I have not leisure for corre
sponding, unless it is on mere matters of public
business.

I therefore in answer to your last Letter of the
i8th shall say

With respect to the chimney, I would not have
you for the sake of a little work spoil the look of
the fireplaces, tho' that in the parlor must, I should
think, stand as it does ; not so much on account of
the wainscotting, which I think must be altered (on
account of the door leading into the new building,)
as on account of the chimney piece and the manner
of its fronting into the room. The chimney in the
room above ought, if it could be so contrived, to be
an angle chimney as the others are : but I would not
have this attempted at the expence of pulling down
the partition. — -The chimney in the new room should
be exactly in the middle of it — the doors and every
thing else to be exactly answerable and uniform — in
short I would have the whole executed in a masterly
manner.

460 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

You ought surely to have a window in the gable
end of the new cellar (either under the Venitian
window, or one on each side of it).

Let Mr. Herbert know that I shall be very happy
in getting his brother exchanged as soon as possible,
but as the enemy have more of our officers than we
of theirs, and some of ours have been long confined
(and claim ye right of being first exchanged,) I do
not know how far it may be in my power at this
time, to comply with his desires.

Remember me to all our neighbors and friends,
particularly to Colo. Mason, to whom I would write
if I had time to do it fully and satisfactorily. With
out this, I think the correspondence on my part
would be unavailing—

I am with truth and sincerity,

Dr Lund yr affect'e friend.1

1 " Having considered the inclosed Memorial which you Avere pleased to
transmit for my advice thereon, I beg leave to inform you, that in my opinion,
the service will be most advanced in general cases, by directing promotions in
a Regimental Line. However I should think this had better be practised than
Resolved on, always exercising a right of promotion on account of extraor
dinary Merit, or preventing a succession to office Avhere It is wanting and the
person claiming unfit for it." — Washington to the Board of IVar, 30 Septem
ber, I//6.

"It is absolutely necessary, that the measures of the enemy should be
effectually counteracted in this instance, or, in a little time, they Avill levy no
inconsiderable army of our own people. The influence of their money and
their artifices has already passed the Sound, and several persons have been
detected of late, Avho have enlisted to serve under their banner and the par
ticular command of Major Rogers. Being in haste, and having the fullest
confidence, that your favors will not be wanting in this instance, I have only
time to add, that I have the honor to be, &." — Washington to Governor Truni-
tntll, 30 September, 1776.

" The General also thinks it proper to acquaint the officers and soldiers, who
have stayed and faithfully attended to their duty, that he has wrote to the re-

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 461

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM, 2 October, 1776.

SIR,

I do myself the honor of transmitting to you the
enclosed letter from Lieutenant-Colonel Livingston,
with sundry copies of General Delancey's orders,
which discover the measures the enemy are pursuing
on Long Island for raising recruits and obtaining
supplies of provisions. In consequence of the intel
ligence they contain, and authentic advices through
other channels respecting these matters, I have sent
Brigadier-General George Clinton to meet General

spective States, to order back all officers and soldiers, who have absented them
selves with or without leave ; and that he will take the most effectual measures
for the purpose.

" From the movements of the Enemy, and other corroborating Circumstances,
to say nothing of the advanced season, and the necessity which must induce
them to bring on a decisive Engagement ; the General has abundant reason to
believe, that an Attack may be hourly expected. — He exhorts every command
ing officer therefore of Corps, to pay particular attention to the state of the
Arms and Ammunition of their men ; that nothing may be amiss whenever we
are called upon, however sudden it may happen — At the same time he once
more recommends, to every officer and soldier, the importance of the cause they
are engaged in, and the necessity there is of their behaving like men, who are
contending for every thing that freemen should value — He assures the whole,
that it is his first determination to defend, the Posts we now hold, to the last
extremity ; and nothing but unpararelled Cowardice can occasion the loss of
them, as we are superior in number, and have a better cause to contend in,
than the enemy have — He further declares, that any spirited behavior, in Offi
cers, or Soldiers, shall meet with its reward, at the same time that Misbehavior
and Cowardice, shall find exemplary punishment.

" Every Brigadier, or Officer commanding Brigade, is hereby enjoined and
ordered, to select some good officers to be in the rear of their Battalions, and
these Officers are positively ordered to shoot any Officer, or Soldier, who shall
presume to quit his Ranks, or retreat, unless the Retreat is ordered by proper
Authority, and to prevent the confusion which is occasioned by every person's
undertaking to give, or carry Orders, none are to be looked upon as valid, that
are not delivered in the manner mentioned in the Orders of the lyth Ultimo."
— Orderly Rook, I October, 1776.

462 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Lincoln, who has got as far as Fairfield with part of
the troops lately ordered by the Massachusetts As
sembly, to concert with him and others an expedition
across the Sound with these troops, three companies
under Colonel Livingston,1 and such further aid as
Governor Trumbull can afford, in order to prevent if
possible their effecting these important objects, and
to assist the inhabitants in the removal of their stock,
grain, &c., or in destroying them, that the enemy may
not derive any advantage or benefit from them.2

1 Before the battle of the 27th of August, Colonel Henry B. Livingston had
been sent with a detachment of troops to the east end of Long Island, with
others to protect the well-affected inhabitants in that quarter, and prevent the
enemy from landing and driving off the cattle. But after the success of the
British arms near Brooklyn, parties of the enemy inarched to the interior of
the Island, the people generally submitted to their authority, some from in
clination, others from fear ; and Colonel Livingston was obliged to retreat
with his remaining forces across the Sound to Connecticut. It was thought
advisable to make a descent upon the Island with a larger force ; but Generals
Clinton and Lincoln, not finding that a body of men could be collected suffi
cient to warrant the enterprise upon a large scale, joined the main army in a
few days without having attempted it. The project was not immediately
abandoned, however, and Governor Trumbull concerted a plan with Colonel
Livingston, which promised favorably at first, but was finally given up as im
practicable, on account of a deficiency both of men and of water-craft to
transport them across the Sound.

In one of his letters to Colonel Livingston on this subject, Governor Trum
bull wrote : — " I have received intelligence, which I believe may be depended
on, that Major Rogers, now employed by General Howe, and who you know
was a famous partisan, or ranger, in the last war, is collecting a battalion of
Tories on Long Island and from the main, many of whom have joined him at
Huntington, and that he proposes soon to make a sudden attack in the night
on Norwalk, to take the Continental stores, and lay waste the town. I hope
we shall be able to frustrate his designs. I have no need to apprize you of the
art of this Rogers. He has been a famous scouter, or woods-hunter, skilled
in waylaying, ambuscade, and sudden attack. I dare say you will guard against
being surprised by him or any other party." — MS. Letter, October I3th.

- Oliver Delancey had received from General Howe the appointment of brig
adier-general in the British army, with authority to raise a brigade of loyalists

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 463

The recruiting scheme they are prosecuting with
uncommon industry ; nor is it confined to Long Island
alone. Having just now received a letter from the
Committee of Westchester county, advising that there
are several companies of men in that and Duchess
county preparing to go off and join the King's army,
I have given directions to our guard-boats and the
sentries at our works at Mount Washington to keep
a strict lookout, in case they attempt to come clown
the North River ; also to General Heath at Kings-
bridge, that the utmost vigilance may be observed by
the regiments and troops stationed above there and
down towards the East River, that they may inter
cept them, should they take that route with a view of
crossing to Long Island. I will use every precaution
in my power to prevent these parricides from accom
plishing their designs; but I have but little hope of
success, as it will be no difficult matter for them to
procure a passage over some part or other of the
Sound.

I have been applied to lately by Colo. Weedon of
Virginia for permission to recruit the deficiency of
men in his Regiments out of the troops composing

on Long Island. General Delancey issued at Jamaica a notice of his appoint
ment, on the 5th of September, offering as an encouragement to those who
would enlist, that they should be paid and subsisted in the same manner as
British soldiers, and promising a captain's commission, and the power of ap
pointing a lieutenant and ensign, to any person properly recommended, who
should raise a company of seventy men. He added, that he hoped the people
would cheerfully come forward in the service, as he should otherwise be obliged
to fill up the companies by drafts. Thus no alternative was left, and as the
inhabitants of Long Island were entirely in the power of the British, after the
battle of the 27th of August, General Delancey found it no difficult task to
obtain men for his brigade.

464 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

the flying Camp, informing me at the same time that
some of those from Maryland had offered to engage ;
Colo. Hand of the Rifle Batallion made a similar
application to-day. If the inlistments could be made,
they would have this good consequence, the securing
of so many in the service; However as the measure
might occasion some uneasiness in their own Corps,
and be considered as a Hardship by the States to
which they belong, and the means of their furnishing
more than the quota exacted from them in the gen
eral arrangement, and would make it more difficult
for 'em to compleat their own Levies, I did not con
sider myself at liberty to authorize it without submit
ting the propriety of it to the consideration of Con
gress and obtaining their opinion whether It should
be allowed or not. * * *

By a Letter just received from the Committee of
Safety of the State of New Hampshire, I find a
Thousand of their Militia were about to march on
the 24th Ulto. to reinforce this army in consequence
of the requisition of Congress. Previous to their
march Genl. Ward writes me, he was obliged to fur
nish them with 500 Ibs of powder and 1000 Ibs of
musket Ball, and I have little reason to expect that
they are better provided with other Articles, than
they were with ammunition ; in such case they will
only add to our present distress which is already far
too great & become disgusted with the service tho'
the time they are engaged for is only till the first of
Decemr. — This will injure their inlisting for a longer
Term, if not wholly prevent it.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 465

From three Deserters who came from the Galatea
Man of War about five clays ago, we are informed,
that several Transports had sailed before they left
her for England as it was generally reported, in order
to return with a supply of provisions of which they
say there is a want. Genl Mercer in a letter informed
me, that Genl Thompson said he had heard they were
going to dismiss about a Hundred of the Ships from
the service. — I am also advised by a Letter, from
Mr. Derby at Boston of the 26th Ulto. that the day
before, a Transport had been taken and sent into
Piscatawa by a privateer in her passage from N.
York to the West Indies — she sailed with five more
under the convoy of a Man of War in order to bring
from thence the Troops that are there to join Genl
Howe — they were all victualled for four months.
From this intelligence it would seem, as if they did
not apprehend anything to be meditating against
them by the Court of France.

Octr. the 3d. I have nothing in particular to com
municate respecting our situation, it being much the
same as when I wrote last. We had an alarm this
morning a little before Four o'Clock from some of

o

our Out Sentries, who reported that a large body of
the Enemy was advancing towards our Lines. — This
put us in motion. However it turned out entirely
premature — or at least we saw nothing of them.1

1 Read in Congress, 4 October, 1776.

466 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM, 4 October, 1776.

SIR,

Before I knew of the late resolutions of Congress,
which you did me the honor to enclose in your letter
of the 24th, and before I was favored with the visit
of your Committee, I took the liberty of giving you
my sentiments on several points, which seemed to be
of importance. I have no doubt, that the Commit
tee will make such a report of the state and condition
of the army, as will induce Congress to believe, that
nothing but the most vigorous exertions can put
matters upon such a footing, as to give this conti
nent a fair prospect of success. Give me leave to
say, Sir, (I say it with due deference and respect, and
my knowledge of the facts, added to the importance
of the cause, and the stake I hold in it, must justify
the freedom,) that your affairs are in a more unprom
ising way than you seem to apprehend.

Your army, as I mentioned in my last, is upon the
eve of its political dissolution. True it is, you have
voted a larger one in lieu of it ; but the season is
late ; and there is a material difference between
voting of battalions and raising of men. In the latter,
there are more difficulties than Congress are aware
of ; which makes it my duty, as I have been informed
of the prevailing sentiment of this army, to inform
them, that, unless the pay of the officers, especially
that of the field-officers, is raised, the chief part of
those that are worth retaining will leave the service
at the expiration of the present term, as the soldiers

776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 467

will also, if some greater encouragement is not
offered them, than twenty dollars and one hundred
acres of land. Nothing less, in my opinion, than a
suit of clothes annually given to each non-commis
sioned officer and soldier, in addition to the pay and
bounty, will avail ; and I question whether that will
do, as the enemy, from the information of one John
Marsh, who, with six others, was taken by our guards,
are giving ten pounds bounty for recruits, and have
got a battalion under Major Rogers nearly completed
upon Long Island.

Nor will less pay, according to my judgment, than
I have taken the liberty of mentioning in the en
closed estimate, retain such officers as we could wish
to have continued. The difference per month in
each battalion will amount to better than a hundred
pounds. To this may be added the pay of the staff-
officers ; for it is presumable they will also require an
augmentation ; but bein-g few in number, the sum will
not be greatly increased by them, and consequently
is a matter of no oreat moment. But it is a matter

o

of no small importance to make the several offices
desirable. When the pay and establishment of an
officer once become objects of interested attention,
the sloth, negligence, and even disobedience of
orders, which at this time but too generally prevail,
will be purged off. But while the service is viewed
with indifference, while the officer conceives that he is
rather conferring than receiving an obligation, there
will be a total relaxation of all order and discipline,
and every thing will move heavily on, to the great

468 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

detriment of the service, and inexpressible trouble
and vexation of the general. The critical situation of
our affairs at this time will justify my saying, that no
time is to be lost in making fruitless experiments.
An unavailing trial of a month to get an army upon
the terms proposed may render it impracticable to do
it at all, and prove fatal to our cause ; as I am not
sure whether any rubs in the way of our enlistments,
or unfavorable turn in our affairs, may not prove the
means of the enemy's recruiting men faster than we
do. To this may be added the inextricable difficulty
of forming one corps out of another, and arranging
matters with any degree of order, in the face of an
enemy, who are watching for advantages.

At Cambridge, last year, where the officers, and
more than a sufficiency of them, were all upon the
spot, we found it a work of such extreme difficulty to
know their sentiments, each having some terms to
propose, that I once despaired of getting the arrange
ments completed ; and I do suppose, that at least a
hundred alterations took place before matters were
finally adjusted. What must it be then, under the
present regulation, where the officers are to negotiate
this matter with the State he comes from, distant
perhaps two or three hundred miles, some of whom,
without leave or license from me, set out to make
personal application, the moment the resolve got to
their hands ? What kind of officers these are, I leave
Congress to judge. If an officer of reputation, for
none other should be applied to, is asked to stay,
what answer can he give, but, in the first place, that

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 469

he does not know whether it is at his option to do so,
no provision being made in the resolution of Con
gress, even commendatory of this measure ; conse
quently, that it rests with the State he comes from,
surrounded perhaps with a variety of applications,
and influenced probably by local attachments, to de
termine whether he can be provided for or not. In
the next place, if he is an officer of merit, and knows
that the State he comes from is to furnish more bat
talions than it at present has in the service, he will
scarcely, after two years' faithful services, think of
continuing in the rank he now bears, when new crea
tions are to be made, and men appointed to office
(no ways superior in merit, and ignorant perhaps of
service,) over his head. A Committee sent to the
army from each State may upon the spot fix things,
with a degree of propriety and certainty ; and it is
the only method I can see of bringing matters to a
decision, with respect to the officers of the army.
But what can be clone in the mean while towards the
arrangement in the country, I know not. In the one
case you run the hazard of losing your officers ; in
the other, of encountering delay, unless some method
could be devised of forwarding both at the same

o

instant.

Upon the present plan, I plainly foresee an inter
vention of time between the old and the new armies,
which must be filled up with militia, if to be had,
with whom no man, who has any regard for his own
reputation, can undertake to be answerable for con
sequences. I shall also be mistaken in my conjee-

470 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

tures, if we do not lose the most valuable officers in
this army, under the present mode of appointing
them ; consequently, if we have an army at all, it
will be composed of materials not only entirely raw,
but, if uncommon pains are not taken, entirely unfit ;
and I see such a distrust and jealousy of military
power, that the Commander-in-chief has not an op
portunity, even by recommendation, to give the least
assurances of reward for the most essential services.
In a word, such a cloud of perplexing circumstances
appears before me, without one flattering hope, that
I am thoroughly convinced, that unless the most
vigorous and decisive exertions are immediately
adopted to remedy these evils, the certain and abso
lute loss of our liberties will be the inevitable conse
quence ; as one unhappy stroke will throw a powerful
weight into the scale against us, enabling General
Howe to recruit his army as fast as we shall ours ;
numbers being disposed, and many actually doing
so already. Some of the most probable remedies,
and such as experience has brought to my more inti
mate knowledge, I have taken the liberty to point
out ; the rest I beg leave to submit to the considera
tion of Congress.

I ask pardon for taking up so much of their time
with my opinions. But I should betray the trust,
which they and my country have reposed in me,
were I to be silent upon a matter so extremely inter
esting.

With the most perfect esteem, I have the honor to
be, &c.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 471

TO PATRICK HENRY, GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA.

HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM, 5 October, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

Your obliging favor of the 2Oth ultimo came duly
to hand, and demands my best acknowledgments. I
congratulate you, Sir, most cordially, upon your ap
pointment to the government, and, with no less sin
cerity, on your late recovery. Your correspondence
will confer honor and satisfaction ; and, whenever it
is in my power, I shall write to you with pleasure.
Our retreat from Long Island, under our peculiar
circumstances, became an act of prudence and neces
sity, and the evacuation of New York was a conse
quence resulting from the other. Indeed, after we
discovered that the enemy, instead of making an
attack upon the city, were endeavouring, by means of
their ships and superior land force, either to intercept
our retreat, by getting in our rear, or else by landing
their forces between our divisions at Kincrsbrid^e and

o o

those in the town, to separate the one from the other,
it became a matter of the last importance to alter the
disposition of the army.

These measures, however, although of the most
evident utility, have been productive of some incon
veniences, the troops having become in some measure
dispirited by these successive retreats, which, I pre
sume, has also been the case among several of our
friends in the country. In order to recover that
military ardor, which is of the utmost moment to an
army, almost immediately on my arrival at this place
I formed a design of cutting off some of the enemy's

472 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

light troops, who, encouraged by their successes, had
advanced to the extremity of the high ground op
posite to our present encampment. To effect this
salutary purpose, Colonel Knowlton and Major
Leitch were detached with parties of riflemen and
rangers to get in their rear, while a disposition was
made as if to attack them in front. By some un
happy mistake, the fire was commenced from that
quarter, rather on their flank than in their rear ; by
which means, though the enemy were defeated and
pushed off the ground, yet they had an opportunity
of retreating to their main body. This piece of suc
cess, though it tended greatly to inspire our troops
with confidence, has been in some measure embit
tered by the loss of those two brave officers, who are
dead of the wounds they received in the action.
Since this skirmish, excepting the affair at Mon-
tresor's Island, where Major Henly, another of our
best officers, was slain, there has been nothing of any
material consequence.1 Indeed, the advantage ob-

1 Major Thomas Henly was aid-de-camp to General Heath. He volunteered
to join a party under Lieutenant-Colonel Jackson, who, on the 22d of Septem
ber, with two hundred and forty men in flat-boats, made a descent upon Mon-
tresor's Island, of which the British had taken possession. The troops in one
boat only effected a landing, and these were driven back with the loss of four
teen men killed, wounded, and missing. Henly behaved with great courage,
but was shot just as he was entering the boat, and instantly expired. The fol
lowing honorable tribute is contained in the Orderly Book, September 24th : —
"Major Henly, whose activity and attention to duty, courage, and every other
quality, which can distinguish a brave and gallant soldier, must endear him to
every lover of his country, having fallen in a late skirmish on Montresor's
Island, while bravely leading a party, his remains will be interred this after
noon at five o'clock, below the hill where the redoubt is thrown up on the
road." This was the burial-place of Colonel Knowlton, and Henly was laid by
his side. — Sparks.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 473

tainecl over the enemy's light troops might have been
improved perhaps to a considerable extent, had we
been in a proper situation to make use of this favor
able crisis ; but a want of confidence in the generality
of the troops has prevented me from availing myself
of that, and almost every other opportunity, which
has presented itself.

I own my fears, that this must ever be the case,
when our dependence is placed on men, enlisted for
a few months, commanded by such officers as party
or accident may have furnished ; and on militia, who,
as soon as they are fairly fixed in the camp, are im
patient to return to their own homes ; and who, from
an utter disregard of all discipline and restraint
among themselves, are but too apt to infuse the like
spirit into others. The evils of short enlistments and
of employing militia to oppose regular and well ap
pointed troops, I strongly urged to Congress before
the last army was engaged. Indeed, my own situa
tion at Cambridge, about the close of the last cam
paign, furnished the most striking example of the
fatal tendency of such measures. I then clearly fore
saw, that such an armament, as we had good reason
to expect would be sent against us, could be opposed
only by troops enlisted during the war, and where
every action would add to their experience and im
provement, and of whom, if they were unsuccessful
in the beginning, a reasonable hope might be enter
tained, that in time they would become as well
acquainted with their business as their enemies. This
method, I am convinced, would have been attended

474 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

with every good consequence ; for, besides the militia
being altogether unfit for the service, when called
into the field, they are much more expensive than
any other kind of troops ; and the war could have
been conducted on more moderate terms, by estab
lishing a permanent body of forces, who were equal
to every contingency, than by calling in the militia
on imminent and pressing occasions.

I would not wish to influence your judgment with
respect to militia, in the management of Indian affairs,
as I am fully persuaded that the inhabitants of the
frontier counties in your colony are, from inclination
as well as ability, peculiarly adapted to that kind of
warfare. At the same time, I should think it would
be highly advisable, in case you should conceive your
selves to be in danger from any detachment of the
British army, or from their marines, not to depend on
any troops, but such as are well officered and enlisted
during the war.

I make no doubt, but your State have turned their
views towards forming some obstacles against the ene
my's ships and tenders, who may go up your rivers in
quest of provisions, or for the purpose of destroying
your towns. If they have depended on batteries to
prevent them, without any other obstructions, a trial
of the matter has taught us to believe, that it will be
altogether ineffectual ; as, when under sail, with wind
and tide in their favor, any damage they may receive
from a battery will be of very little consequence. At
the same time, I must observe, that this kind of
opposition is exceedingly proper for the defence of a

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 475

town, or in any case, where it is necessary that the
ships should come to anchor before the batteries, for
the purpose of silencing them. In the first instance,
I would strongly recommend row-galleys, which, if
officered with brave and determined men, and con
ducted with prudence, would, in my opinion, be
productive of the greatest advantage, and be the most
likely means, in your situation, of securing your
towns and houses, on the navigable waters, from any
impression from the shipping. ,

I imagine, before this, Congress have made you
acquainted with their resolutions for raising the new
army, and that your colony is to furnish fifteen bat
talions to be enlisted during the war. As this will
occasion the choosing a number of new officers, I

o

would, in the most urgent manner, recommend the
utmost care and circumspection in your appointments.
I do not suppose that there are many experienced
gentlemen now left with you, as, from what I have
understood, those who have served in the last war
are chiefly promoted. However, I am satisfied that
the military spirit runs so high in your colony, and
the number of applicants will be so considerable, that
a very proper choice may be made. Indeed, the
army's being put upon such a permanent footing will
be a strong inducement for them to step forth on the
present interesting occasion. One circumstance, in
this important business, ought to be cautiously
guarded against, and that is, the soldiers and officers
being too nearly on a level. Discipline and subordi
nation add life and vigor to military movements.

476 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

The person commanded yields but a reluctant
obedience to those, who he conceives are unde
servedly made his superiors. The degrees of rank
are frequently transferred from civil life into the de
partments of the army. The true criterion to judge
by, when past services do not enter into the compe
tition, is, to consider whether the candidate for office
has a just pretension to the character of a gentleman,
a proper sense of honor, and some reputation to lose.
Perhaps, Sir, you may be surprised at my pressing
this advice so strongly as I have done in this letter ;
but I have felt the inconveniences resulting from a
contrary principle in so sensible a manner, and this
army has been so greatly enfeebled by a different line
of conduct, that I hope you will readily excuse me. I
am, Sir, with sincere regard, your affectionate humble
servant.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEAD QUARTERS, HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM,
5 October, 1776.

SIR,

I was last night honored with your favor of the 26.
with sundry Resolutions of Congress. The officers
that concurred in the Acquittal of Ensign Macumber
shall be called upon, to assign their reasons for their
first judgment which shall be sent as soon as they are
collected.

In respect to the exchange of prisoners, I fear it
will be a work of great difficulty, owing to their dis
persed and scattered situation throughout the States.
In order to effect it, I have written to the eastern

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 477

governments to have them collected, and to transmit
me an account of their number, distinguishing the
names and ranks of the field and commissioned offi
cers, and the corps they belong to. I have also written
to Governor Livingston of the Jerseys upon the sub
ject, and must take the liberty of requesting Congress
to give directions, that a similar return may be made
of those in Pennsylvania and Maryland, and for their
being brought to Brunswick, that they may be ready
to be exchanged for an equal number of those of the
same rank. I observe, by the resolve of the 26th
ultimo, that the exchange is particularly directed to
be made of the officers and soldiers taken on Long
Island. But should not that follow the exchange of
those officers and men, who have lately returned from
Quebec, whose imprisonment has been much longer,
whose service has not been less severe, and who, in
many instances, conducted with great intrepidity ? I
have had many applications since their arrival, by
which they claim a kind of preference as far as their
number and the circumstances of their rank will
allow, and which I thought it my duty to mention,
that I may obtain some direction upon the subject.1

You will observe by a paragraph of a letter re
ceived yesterday from General Howe, a copy of
which you have at length, that the non-performance
of the agreement between Captain Forster and Gen
eral Arnold, by which the latter stipulated for the

1 It was decided by Congress, that, in the exchange of prisoners, the officers
returned from Canada should have the preference to those captured on Long
Island and New York Island.

478 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

return of an equal number of officers and prisoners in
our hands for those delivered to him, is considered in
an unfavorable light and entirely imputed to me, as
having the chief command of the armies of the States,
and a controlling power over General Arnold.1 The
pointed manner in which General Howe is pleased to
express himself could not personally affect me, sup
posing there had been no good grounds for the treaty
not being ratified, having been nothing more than an
instrument of conveying to him the resolutions formed
upon the subject ; yet, as there were but too just
reasons, his censure could have no weight, was it not
directed against me. However, I would beg leave to
observe, that, from the letters from the hostages ;
from what has been reported by others respecting
Captain Forster's having used his endeavors to re
strain the savages from exercising their wonted

o o

barbarities, though in some instances they did ; his
purchasing some of the prisoners for a considerable
premium ; but, above all, from the delicate nature of
such treaties, and because the non-observance of them
must damp the spirits of the officers who make them,
and add affliction to the misfortunes of those, whom
necessity and the nature of the case force into cap
tivity to give them a sanction by a long and irksome
confinement, — for these reasons and many more that

1 " The particular manner in which you rest upon me, by your letter of the
4th instant, a performance of the agreement between General Arnold and Cap
tain Forster, was entirely unexpected, as I enclosed to you some time ago the
resolutions of Congress upon the subject, by which you would perceive that
they, to whom I am amenable, had taken upon themselves the consideration of
the matter." — Washington to General Howe, 6 October, 1776.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 479

will readily occur, that I could wish Congress to
reconsider the matter, and to carry it into execution.
I am sensible the wrong was originally in their em
ploying savages, and that whatever cruelties were
committed by them should be esteemed their own
acts ; yet, perhaps, in point of policy, it may not be
improper to overlook these infractions on their part,
and to pursue that mode, which will be the most
likely to render the hardships incident to war most
tolerable, and the greatest benefits to the State. I
have ventured to say thus much upon the subject
from a regard to the service, and because such gen
tlemen of the army as I have heard mention it seem
to wish the treaty had been ratified rather than dis
allowed.1

Enclosed is a List of Vacancies in the Third Regi
ment of Virginia Troops, in part occasioned by the
death of Major Leitch, who died of his wounds on

1 General Howe had written : — " With relation to the non-performance of
your part of the agreement between Captain Forster and General Arnold, that
general being immediately under your command, from your situation made
known to me under your own subscription, it rests with you to see it fulfilled,
agreeably to the plighted faith of the General, which, no doubt, to save his
honor, he has a right to expect, or that you will return the prisoners given up
by Captain Forster. Meanwhile I trust, from the declaration in your letter,
that you will not allow of any delay in the exchange of the officers and soldiers
in your possession belonging to his Majesty's troops. Brigadier-General
Woodhull was yesterday reported to have died of his wounds."

A letter from a "gentleman" at Montreal, dated 18 August, 1776, stated
that when Captain Forster had taken the American party prisoners, his provi
sions proved insufficient for such a number, and he was obliged to put his own
men and the Indians with him on half allowance. This made the Indians dis
contented, and they insisted upon putting their prisoners to death, but were
prevailed upon by Captain Forster, after the " utmost entreaty," to spare them
to be sent to the colonies to be exchanged. General Burgoyne allowed the
hostages to write to their friends.

480 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

Tuesday morning and of the Gentlemen who stand
next in Regimental order and who are recommended
to succeed to 'em ; — you will observe that Captn.
John Fitzgerald is said to be appointed to the duty
of Major ; this I have done in Orders, being the
eldest Captain in the Regiment, and I believe an
officer of unexceptionable merit and as it was highly
necessary at this time to have the Corps as well and
fully officered as possible ; There, is also a vacancy in
the 1 2th Continental Battallion by the promotion of
Lieut. Clark to a majority in the Flying Camp, to
which Colo. Hand has recommended William Patten,
to succeed as you will perceive by his Letter enclosed.
I have taken the liberty to transmit a plan for es
tablishing a Corps of Engineers, artificers, &c.,
sketched out by Col. Putnam, and which is proposed
for the consideration of Congress. How far they
may incline to adopt it or whether they may chuse
to proceed upon such an extensive scale they will be
pleased to determine. However I conceive it, a
matter well worthy of their consideration, being con
vinced from exterience and from the reason sug
gested by Colo. Putnam, who has acted with great
diligence and reputation in this business, that some
establishment of the sort is highly necessary and will
be productive of the most beneficial consequences.—
If the proposition is approved by Congress, I am
informed by good authority, that there is a Gentle
man in Virginia in the Colony service, John Stadler,
Esq., a native of Germany, whose abilities in this
way are by no means inconsiderable — I am told he

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 481

was an Engineer in the Army under Genl. Stanwix
and is reported to be of skill and ingenuity in the
profession. — In this capacity I do not know him
myself, but I am intimately acquainted with him in
his private character as a man of understanding and
of good behaviour. I would submit his merits to the
enquiry of Congress, and if he shall answer the re
port I have had of him, I make no doubt but he will
be suitably provided for.

The Convention of this State, have lately seized
and had appraised Two new ships valued at 6229^
2s curry which they have sent down for the purpose
of sinking and obstructing the Channel opposite
Mount Washington. The price being high and
opinions various as to the necessity of the measure,
some conceiving the obstruction nearly sufficient
already, and others that they would render it secure,
I would wish to have the direction of Congress upon
the subject by the earliest Opportunity, thinking my
self that if the Enemy should attempt to come up
that they should be used sooner than to hazard their
passing. I must be governed by circumstances, yet
hope for their sentiments before any thing is neces
sary to be done.

Sundry disputes having arisen of late between Offi
cers of different Regiments and of the same Rank
respecting the right of succession to such vacancies
as happen from death or other causes, some suggest
ing that it should be in a Colonial line and governed
by the priority of their Commissions, others that it
should be Regimentally, and there being an Instance

482 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

now before me between the Officers of the Virginia
Regiments, occasioned by the death of Major Leitch,
it has become absolutely necessary that Congress
should determine the mode by which promotions are
to be regulated, whether Colonially & by priority of
Commissions, or Regimentally, reserving a right out
of the General rule they adopt, to reward for partic
ular merit, or of withholding from office such as may
not be worthy to succeed. I have only proposed Two
modes for their consideration, being satisfied that
promotions thro' the line as they are called can never
take place without producing discord, jealousy, dis
trust and the most fatal consequences. In some of
my Letters upon the subject of promotions and one
which I had the Honor of addressing the Board of
War on the 3Oth Ult., I advised that the mode should
be rather practised than resolved on, but I am fully
convinced now of the necessity there is of settling it
in one of the two ways I have taken the liberty to
point out and under the restrictions I have mentioned,
or the disputes and applications will be endless and
attended with great inconvenience. I have &c.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM, 7 October, 1776.

SIR,

I do myself the honor of transmitting to you a copy
of a letter from the Comte d'Ernery, governor-gen
eral of the French part of St. Domingo, which I re
ceived yesterday, and also my answer, which I have

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 483

enclosed and left open for the consideration of Con
gress, wishing that it may be sealed, if they approve
of the Sieur Dechambault's releasement, which I think
may be attended with many valuable consequences.
If Congress concur in sentiment with me, they will
be pleased to give direction for his passage by the
first opportunity to the French islands ; if they do
not, I shall be obliged by your returning my letter.1

I have also the pleasure of enclosing a copy of a
letter from Monsieur Penet, which came to hand last
night, and which contains intelligence of an agreeable
and interesting nature, for which I beg leave to refer
you to the copy. The polite manner in which Mon
sieur Penet has requested to be one of my aids-de
camp demands my acknowledgments. As the ap
pointment will not be attended with any expense, and
will show a proper regard for his complaisance and
the attachment he is pleased to express for the service
of the American States, I shall take the liberty of
complying with his requisition, and transmit to him a
brevet commission, provided the same shall be agree-

1 " I yesterday had the honor of receiving your favor of the 4th of August, and
I take the earliest opportunity of testifying the pleasure I have in complying
with your request, by immediately ordering the release of Monsieur Decham-
bault. He shall be accommodated with a passage in the first vessel, that sails
from Philadelphia to the French colonies in the West Indies. Had it not been
for your interposition, Monsieur Dechambault must have remained in prison
till released by a cartel ; but I could not hesitate to comply with a request made
by a nobleman, who, by his public countenance of our cause, has rendered such
essential services to the thirteen United Independent States of America, whose
armies I have the honor to command." — Washington to the Comte D* Emery
(St. Domingo), 7 October, 1776.

Congress approved General Washington's letter, and voted the release of
Dechambault.

484 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

able to Congress. Their sentiments upon this sub
ject you will be kind enough to favor me with by the
first opportunity. The enclosed letter for the Sieur
Dechambault, you will please to forward to him (if
he is to be enlarged) after closing it.

Before I conclude I must take the liberty to ob
serve, that I am under no small difficulties on account
of the French gentlemen that are here, in conse
quence of the commissions they have received, having
no means to employ them, or to afford them an op
portunity of rendering that service they themselves
wish to give, or which perhaps is expected by the
public. Their want of our language is an objection
to their being joined to any of the regiments here at
this time, were there vacancies, and not other ob
stacles. These considerations induce me to wish, that
Congress would adopt and point out some particular
mode to be observed respecting them. What it
should be, they will be best able to determine. But
to me it appears, that their being here now can be
attended with no valuable consequences, and that, as
the power of appointing officers for the new army is
vested in the several States, it will be necessary for
Congress to direct them to be provided for in the
regiments to be raised, according to the ranks they
would wish them to bear, for I am convinced they
will never be taken in, let their merit be what it may ;
or to form them into a distinct corps, which may be
increased in time. They seem to be genteel, sensible
men ; and I have no doubt of their making good of
ficers, as soon as they can learn so much of our

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 485

language as to make themselves well understood ;
but, unless Congress interfere with their particular
direction to the States, they will never be incorpo
rated into any of the regiments to be raised ; and,
unless they are, they will be entirely at a loss, and in
the most irksome situation, for something to do, as
they now are.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

HEAD QUARTERS, HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM,
8 October, 1776.

SIR,

Since I had the honor of writing you yesterday I
have been favored with a Letter from the Honble
Council of Massachusetts bay, covering one from
Richard Derby, Esq., a copy of which is herewith
transmitted, as it contains intelligence of an import
ant and interesting character. As an exchange of
prisoners is about to take place, I am induced, from
a question stated in a letter I received from Governor
Trumbull this morning, to ask the opinion of Con
gress, in what manner the States that have had the
care of them are to be reimbursed the expenses in
curred on their account. My want of information in
this instance, or whether any account is to be sent in
with the prisoners, would not allow me to give him
an answer, as nothing that I recollect has ever been
said upon the subject. He also mentions another
matter, namely, whether such privates as are mechan
ics, and others who may desire to remain with us,

1 Read in Congress October nth.

486 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

should be obliged to return.1 In respect to the lat
ter, I conceive there can be no doubt of our being
under a necessity of returning the whole, a proposi
tion having been made on our part for a general
exchange, and that agreed to ; besides, the balance
of prisoners is greatly against us ; and I am informed
it was particularly stipulated by General Montgomery,
that all those that were taken in Canada should be
exchanged whenever a cartel was settled for the pur
pose. Under these circumstances, I should suppose
the several committees having the care of them should
be instructed to make the most exact returns of the
whole, however willing a part should be to continue
with us. At the same time I should think it not
improper to inform them of the reasons leading to
the measure, and that they should be invited to escape
afterwards, which, in all probability, they may effect
without much difficulty if they are attached to us,
extending their influence to many more, and bringing
them away also.

The situation of our Affairs and the present estab
lishment of the Army, requiring our most vigorous
exertions to engage a New One, I presume it will be
possible with money to pay the bounty lately resolved
on to such men as will inlist. Prompt pay perhaps
may have a happy effect and induce the continuance of
some who are here, but without it I am certain that
nothing can be done, nor have we time to lose in
making the Experiment. But then it may be asked,

1 The Board of War reported : " That all prisoners captured by the army of
the United States, whether mechanics or not, be included in the exchange to
be made between General Washington and the enemy" ; but Congress " post
poned " the consideration.

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 487

who is to recruit or who can consider themselves as
Officers for that purpose till the Conventions of the
different States have made the appointments.

Yesterday afternoon the exchange between Lord
Stirling and Governor Brown was carried into execu
tion, and his Lordship is now here. He confirms the
intelligence mentioned by Captain Souther, about the
transports he met, by the arrival of the Daphne man-
of-war (a twenty-gun ship) a few days ago, with twelve
ships under her convoy, having light-horse on board.
They sailed with about twenty in each, and lost about
eighty in their passage, besides those in the vessel
taken by Captain Souther. He further adds, that he
had heard it acknowledged more than once, that, in
the action of the i6th ultimo, the enemy had a hun
dred men killed, about sixty Highlanders, of the
forty-second regiment, and forty of the light infantry.
This confession, coming from themselves, we may
reasonably conclude, did not exaggerate the number.

In pursuance of the Resolve which you were
pleased to transmit me, I called upon the Members
who concurred in the acquittal of McCumber to as
sign their reasons. Inclosed you have their answer,
by which you will perceive the direction has given
them great uneasiness, and from the information I
have received, it has become a matter of much more
general concern than could have been expected, in so
much that I will take the liberty to advise that it may
rest where it is, having heard that most of the Offi
cers have become party to it, and consider that the
Resolve materially affects the whole.

October gt/i. — About eight o'clock this morning-

488 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

two ships, of forty-four guns each, supposed to be
the Roebuck and Phcenix, and a frigate of twenty
guns, with three or four tenders, got under way from
about Bloomingdale where they had been lying some
time, and stood with an easy southerly breeze towards
our chevaux-de-frise, which we hoped would have in
tercepted their passage while our batteries played
upon them ; but, to our surprise and mortification,
they ran through without the least difficulty, and
without receiving any apparent damage from our
forts, though they kept up a heavy fire from both
sides of the river. Their destination or views can
not be known with certainty ; but most probably they
are sent to stop the navigation, and cut off the sup
plies of boards, &c., which we should have received,
and of which we are in great need. They are stand
ing up, and I have despatched an express to the
Convention of this State, that notice may be immedi
ately communicated to General Clinton at the High
land fortifications, to put him on his guard in case
they should have any designs against them, and that
precautions may be taken to prevent the craft belong
ing to the river from falling into their hands.
I have the honor to be, &C.1

" The Commanding Officer of the Rangers having represented, that Soldiers
are continually straggling down to Harlem, and other Places, frequently with
out Arms — and that when he has apprehended, and sent them to their regiments,
no farther notice has been taken of them ; as this is a plain breach of General
Orders, the General hopes there is some mistake in the Matter ; however to
prevent it in future he now orders that no officer or soldier (Rangers excepted)
go on any pretence beyond the lines, without leave from himself, a Major
General, the Brigadier of the day, or the Adjutant General, in writing ; unless
either of those officers are with them in person. And in order to distinguish

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 489

TO MAJOR-GENERAL HEATH.

KlNGSBRIDGE, liAERLEM HEIGHTS,

9 October, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

You letter of yesterday is before me, with the list
enclosed ; but this is doing the matter by halves
only, and the delay must inevitably defeat the end,
as it is impossible, from the nature of things that the
different governments can withold the nomination of
officers much longer. I therefore entreat you to
delay not a moment's time in summoning the officers
(under sanction from me) to consider of this matter,
that the lists may be forwarded. The Committee of
Congress directed this. General Lincoln earnestly
recommended it. Governor Trumbull has requested
it in precise terms. In short, the good of the service
and our duty, render it necessary let it be received in
never so unfavorable a light, (which, by the by I do
not conceive to be the case) by the States they are
sent to. I think you would do well to consult the
field officers with respect to the Captains, &c. I
beseech you once more to delay no time. And I
beseech you to exhort the officers you consult to lay
aside all local prejudices and attachments in their
choice. The Salvation of their country, and all we
are contending for, depends (under Providence)

the Rangers, they are to wear something white round their arms. If any such
straggler is found hereafter, he is to be sent to the quarter-guard of the
regiment, tried by a Regimental Court Martial, and receive ten Lashes
immediately.

"The General, to prevent any plea of ignorance, again repeats his order
against all Kinds of Gaming, as destructive and pernicious to the service. He
hopes the officers will set no examples of this kind, and that they will punish it
among the men." — Orderly Book, 8 October, 1776.

490 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

upon a good choice of officers to make this army
formidable to the enemy and serviceable to the
cause we are endeavoring to support. Men who
have endeavored to support the character of officers,
and who have not placed themselves upon a level with
the common soldiery, are fit to be preferred. Officers
of the latter class will never — in short, they cannot—
conduct matters with propriety ; but I need not
point out the qualifications necessary to constitute a
good officer : Your own observations and good judg
ment will readily point out who are, and who are not
fit for the new appointment. I would have you con
fine yourself to the Massachusetts Bay officers. * * *

TO GOVERNOR TRUMBULL.

HEADQUARTERS, HARLEM HEIGHTS,
9 October, 1776.

SIR,

Agreeable to your request, and the promise con
tained in my letter of yesterday, I beg leave to trans
mit you the enclosed list, comprehending the names
of such gentlemen as are recommended by the gen
eral officers from your State as proper persons to be
promoted in the regiments you are about to raise,
with the ranks which they conceive they ought to
bear. Sensible that the very existence, that the well
doing of every army, depends upon good officers, I
urged, I pressed, the gentlemen to whom the busi
ness was confided, and whose situation has given
them an opportunity of being better acquainted
through the different ranks than I am, to pay their

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 491

most serious attention to the matter, and to return
such, and only such, as will, in their estimation, by
their fidelity, attachment, and good conduct, promote
the great end we have in view — the establishment of
our rights and the happiness of our country, by that
mode which sacl necessity has compelled us to pursue.
This, I hope they have done ; they have taken no
notice of any officer in the Northern army, or of
those of the Seventeenth Regiment (Huntington's)
who were taken on Long Island, whose imprisonment
I should suppose, if they have merit, should be no
objection to their having promotion ; nor do they
mean by the list they have given in, to preclude
others of greater merit than those they have men
tioned, if they are to be found.

Congress, by a late resolution, have allowed a pay
master to each regiment ; in the appointment of
which I would recommend that particular care be
had to the choosing men intimately acquainted with,
and well versed in accounts, and who will be able to
keep them in a fair and distinct manner ; as they will
have not only to receive the regiment's pay, but to
keep accounts of every transaction incident to them
—such as respect their clothes, &c. In some appoint
ments lately made by the field officers, to whom I
submitted the matter, they nominated men who could
not write their names legibly.

As our present army is upon the eve of their disso
lution, it behooves us to exert every nerve to enlist
immediately for the new one. Without, I am con
vinced, we shall have none to oppose the enemy ; and

492 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

who will have it in their power to spread havoc and
devastation wheresoever they will. I would therefore
submit it to your consideration, whether it may not
be proper, as soon as you have made choice of your
officers, and which I think should be effected as early
as possible, to appoint a committee, with power to
repair to this place and make such arrangements as
may be necessary with respect to those who are now
in the service, in order that they may begin to recruit
out of the present corps without any loss of time.

I perceive the Generals in the list they have made,
have set down the Commissary for a regiment. In
this I think they have done exceedingly right, and
that it is nothing more than a reward justly due his
merits, in case he should quit his present department.
However, I hope the apprehensions whi^h have given
rise to this step will never become realities, and that
he will continue in his office, and upon such terms
as may be agreeable to him ; but lest he should
decline, the provision they have made is extremely
proper.

I this minute saw General Spencer, who informed
me that they had never taken the officers prisoners
on Long Island into consideration, in making out
their arrangements, not knowing whether they could
be noticed in their present situation. I have made
out a list of them ; and as I have before observed, if
they are men of merit, their imprisonment most cer
tainly should not operate to their prejudice, if it can
be avoided. If a principle of that sort was adopted,
it would give the greatest discouragement, and have

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 493

a direct tendency to suppress every brave and manly

enterprise which might be attended with captivity.
* * -x- •& * -x-

On yesterday morning, three ships of war (two
of forty-four and the other of twenty guns), with two
or three tenders, passed up the North River, without
meeting any interruption from the chevaux-de-frise, or
receiving any material damage from our batteries,
tho they kept a heavy fire at them from both sides of
the river. Their views most probably are, to cut off
all supplies of boards, &c., which might come down
the river, and of which we shall have great need.

I have given directions to proceed as fast as possi
ble in carrying on the obstructions, and I would fain
hope, if they allow us a little more time, that they
will be so far completed as to render the passage
dangerous, it not altogether insecure. I have the
honor, &C.1

1 " I shall, therefore, beg leave to add only, that, as the well-doing, nay, the
very existence of every army, to any profitable purposes, depends upon it, too
much regard cannot be had to the choosing of men of merit, and such as are
not only under the influence of a warm attachment to their country, but who
also possess sentiments and principles of the strictest honor. Men of this
character are fit for office, and will use their best endeavors to introduce that
discipline and subordination, which are essential to good order, and inspire
that confidence in the men, which alone can give success to the interesting and
important contest in which we are engaged. I would also beg leave to subjoin,
that it appears to me absolutely necessary, that this business should have your
earliest attention, that those, who are nominated, may employ their interest
and influence to recruit men out of your corps, who are now here, and without
loss of time.

" In respect to the officers, that were in the Canada expedition, their be
havior and merit, and the severities they have experienced, entitle them to a
particular notice in my opinion. However, as they are under their paroles, I
would recommend that vacancies should be reserved for such as you think fit
to promote, not wishing them to accept commissions immediately, nor to do the
least act, which may be interpreted as a violation of their engagement. Their

494 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

P. S. In respect to the appointment of officers, I
would beg leave to add, that the merit of the officers
who went through the Canada expedition with Gen
eral Arnold, should, in my opinion, be particularly

releasement, I hope, will be soon obtained, as I think them entitled to the first
exchange, and this I have mentioned to Congress. I flatter myself, that the
freedom I have taken in the instances above, will have the indulgence and par
don of your State, when I assure you, that the list, you will receive, is not in
tended to exclude gentlemen of greater merit, nor transmitted with other views,
than to assist you, and promote the general good ; and, also, that the measure
has been recommended by a Committee of Congress, who were pleased to
honor me with a visit." — Washington to Governor Cooke, 12 October, 1776.

" The General positively forbids covering the bottoms of tents with earth, as
in a few days that Situation must render them totally unfit for service — The
Commanding Officer of each Corps, will take care to see that this Order is
strictly complied with in his own Encampment. In order that the regiments
may get out of tents as soon as possible, the Brigadiers may apply to the Qr. M.
General for boards, and under his direction, employ the spare time of their
men in building barracks, or hutts, fit for Winter use — these hutts, or barracks,
are to be built with regularity. The Works of defense are not to be retarded
by these buildings ; they are to be advanced by the men off duty, if tools are
to be had for them to work." — Orderly Book, 9 October, 1776.

" If the weather is favorable to Morrow Morning the General purposes to
visit the troops at their Alarm-posts. Commanding Officers of regiments, and
others, are desired to make themselves well acquainted with their Alarm Posts,
and the best ways to them ; and also with the Ground in General, upon which
they may be called to act, so as to avail themselves of every advantage. If
Officers do not acquire this knowledge, they will Miss the best opportunity of
distinguishing themselves, and serving their Country." — Orderly Book, 10
October, 1776.

" Two Sachems of the Caughnuagas, with Mr. Deane, the interpreter, have
been with me, and spent three or four days. I showed them every civility in
my power, and presented them with such necessaries as our barren stores afford
and they were pleased to take. I also had them shown all our works upon this
island, which I had manned to give 'em an idea of our force, and to do away
with the false notions they might have imbibed, from the tales that have been
propagated among 'em. They seemed to think we were amazingly strong, and
said they had seen enough without going to our posts in Jersey or to the other
side of Harlem river. They took their departure yesterday morning, and I
hope with no unfavorable impressions." — Washington to General Sck^^yler, IO
October, 1776.

" As there is an absolute necessity for the business of the Army to be carried

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 495

noticed. They are now upon their parole, and can
not act ; but should not suitable provision be made
for them against their releasement, which I should
suppose ought to be among the first ?

on with regularity, and to do this, that the Officers of each department should
have the regulation and direction of Matters, appertaining to their respective
Offices, in Order that they may become amenable to the public, or the Com
mander in Chief, when called upon ; — it is hereby directed by the General, that
no Horse, or Waggon, shall be taken by any officer, of whatever Rank, with
out an Order from Head Quarters, the Qr. M. General, or Waggon Master
General. But where either are wanted for regimental uses, the application shall
go from the Commanding Officer of the Regiment, in writing to the Q. M. Gl.
or W. M. Gl. — who will issue his orders therefor ; and if wanted for the
dispatch of public business the application to be made by the Engineer in writ
ing — all Teams belonging to the public, or in their pay, are to be delivered to the
Quarter Master General, registered, and under his direction. — The Quarter
Master General is to take especial care of all Grain and Hay, belonging to the
Public, and see that none of it is delivered, but by his order: and as these
Articles are scarce, it is ordered, that all Officers, whose duty does not oblige
them to be on horseback, dispose of the Horses, or send them out of Camp,
immediately, as provender cannot be spared for them on any pretence.

" No Boards are to be taken for the use of any Brigade, or Regiment, with
out orders, nor delivered but by order of the Quarter Master General, who
is to make as equal a distribution among the Regiments as may be, and see
they are put to the best use possible, and with as little waste, as there may be
difficulty in getting them." — Orderly Book, n October, 1776.

" The General expressly orders, that the Men have four days provisions ready
dressed, at all times, for \vhich purpose the Commissaries, or the Deputies, are
to keep the Butchers constantly killing, till such supply is had, and one man
from every Mess is to be keep cooking. The commanding Officers of regi
ments, and others, are most earnestly requested to see this order carried into
immediate execution.

"As the Enemy seems now to be endeavoring to strike some stroke, before
the close of the Campaign, the General most earnestly conjures, both officers
and men, if they have any Love for their Country, and Concern for its Liberties ;
regard to the safety of their Parents, Wives, Children and Countrymen, that
they will act with Bravery, and Spirit, becoming the Cause in which they are
engaged ; And to encourage, and animate them so to do, there is every Advan
tage of Ground and Situation, so that if we do not conquer, it must be our
own faults — How much better will it be to die honorable, fighting in the field,
than to return home covered with shame and disgrace ; even if the cruelty of
the Enemy should allow you to return ? A brave and gallant behavior for a

496 THE WRITT^ JS OF [1776

TO GOVERNOR TRUMBULL.

HEIGHTS OF HAERLEM, 15 October, 1776.

SIR,

I was last night favored with your Letter of the 6th
Inst. with the return of Prisoners in your state for
which I thank you. It is properly made out. Every
day's intelligence from the Convention of this State
mentions plots and conspiracies, which are in agita-

few days, and patience under some little hardships, may save our country, and
enable us to go into Winter Quarters with safety and honor." — Orderly Book,

13 October, 1776.

" It being necessary since the late movement of the enemy to form some
plan, the General proposes a meeting of the General Officers this day, at
twelve o'clock, at or near King's Bridge. He desires you would give those in
your division notice of it, with as little stir as possible, and by the return of the
messenger let him know where you would have them meet, as we are strangers
to a suitable place." — Reed to General Heath, 13 October, 1776.

" The Brigades which will then remain on the Island, will be in two Divi
sions ; the first composed of Heard's, Beall's and Weedon's, to be under the
Command of Major Genl. Putnam — The second consisting of Lord Stirling's,
Wadsworth's, and Fellows's, to be under the Command of Major-General
Spencer.

" Genl. Putnam will attend particularly to all the works, and necessary places
of defence, from the Line which was intended to be run across from Head
Quarters, inclusively up to, and including the Works upon, the Island, above
that place, as far as hath usually been considered as belonging to this division
of the Army — He will also attend particularly to the Works about Mount Wash
ington, and to the obstructions in the River, which should be increased as fast
as possible.

" Genl. Spencer is to take charge of all the Works from Head Quarters to our
front lines, to the South ; and attend particularly to all weak places ; seeing
they are secured as well as time, and circumstances will permit. But as there
may be more fatigue men wanted in one division than the other, they are each
to furnish for such Works as the Chief Engineer shall direct ; seeing that the
duty fall equally upon the officers and men of each division." — Orderly Book,

14 October, 1776.

On this day Washington accompanied by the General officers, went into East
and Westchester to reconnoitre the various passes and grounds. General Lee
was ordered to the command of that part of the army, now the largest, lying
above King's Bridge, but was requested not to exercise the command for a day
or two, until he could make himself acquainted with the post, its circumstances,
and arrangement of duty. Heath's Memoirs.

1776] GEOR^r^ WASHINGTON. 497

tion among the disaffected.1 The enclosed copy of a
letter, which I received yesterday from Robert R.
Livingston, one of the members, and who is also
of the Continental Congress, will show you his ideas
of the situation of affairs in this government, and
their apprehensions of insurrections. The observa
tions he has been pleased to favor me with, through
the whole of his letter, seem to me to be too well
founded.2 The movements of the enemy, their hav-

1 Mr. Harrison wrote to the President of Congress on the I4th, the General
having gone to view the passes above King's Bridge : —

"Every day's intelligence from the Convention of this State, holds forth
discoveries of new plots, and of new conspiracies. Some of the Members
seem to Apprehend, that Misunderstandings are upon the Eve of breaking out,
and have suggested the necessity of seizing and securing the passes thro the
Highlands, lest the disaffected should do it. Their preservation being a
matter of the greatest importance, his Excellency, notwithstanding the situation
we are in with respect to Troops, has detached Colo. Tash with his Regiment,
lately from New Hampshire, in addition to the Militia mentioned in his
last, with directions to receive orders from the Convention as to the Station
and post he is to occupy.

" There are now in our possession Several persons, inhabitants of this State,
who had engaged to join the Enemy, and who were interrupted in going to
them ; there are also two, who confess they have been with them and that they
had actually engaged in their service ; but finding the Terms, (the bounty, pay,
&c.) not so advantageous as they expected from the information they had
received, they were induced to return. As the Affairs of this Government are
in a precarious situation, and such as the Convention themselves seem to think,
forbid their interposition, farther than taking measures to apprehend them, his
Excellency would wish to obtain the sentiments of Congress and their direction,
upon a Subject so extremely critical and delicate, and which in the consider
ation of it, involves many important consequences."

^ " The enclosed copy of a letter received last night from the Convention of
this State will show you the apprehensions they are under, on account of the dis
affected among them. I have ordered up a part of the militia from Massachu
setts under General Lincoln, to prevent, if possible, the consequences, which
they suggest may happen, and which there is reason to believe the conspirators
have in contemplation. I am persuaded, that they are upon the eve of breaking
out, and that they will leave nothing unessayed, that will distress us and favor
the designs of the enemy, as soon as their schemes are ripe for it." — Washing
ton to the President of Congress, 12 October, 1776.

498 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

ing sent up some of their ships in the North River,
their landing a large proportion if not the main body
of their army on Frog's Point, (or rather Island as it
is surrounded by water every Flood tide,) nine miles
above this on the sound — r added to these the infor-

1 " The grounds from Frog's Point are strong and defensible, being full of
stone fences, both along the road and across the adjacent fields, which will ren
der it difficult for artillery, or indeed a large body of foot to advance in any
regular order, except through the main road. Our men, who are posted on the
passes, seemed to be in good spirits when I left them last night." — Washington
to the President of Congress, 13 October, 1776.

" October 17th. I am directed by his Excellency to acquaint you, that we are
again obliged to change our disposition to counteract the operations of the
Enemy declining an attack upon our front, they have drawn the Main body of
their Army to Frogs point with a design of hemming us in, and drawing a line
in our rear. To prevent the consequences which would but too probably follow
the execution of their Scheme, the General Officers determined yesterday that
our forces must be taken from hence, and extended towards East & West Ches
ter so as to out flank them. Genl. Lee who arrived on Monday, has strongly
urged the absolute necessity of the measure. It is proposed to leave a Garrison
at Fort Washington, and to Maintain it if possible, in order to preserve the com
munication with the Jerseys. They are landing their Artillery and wagons
upon the point, and there are now several boats passing up the Sound full
of them."

From the Proceedings of the Council of War, October \bth. — " After much
consideration and debate, the following question was put, ' Whether, it having
appeared, that the obstructions in the North River have proved insufficient,
and that the enemy's whole force is in our rear at Frog's Point, it is now deemed
possible in our present situation to prevent the enemy from cutting off the com
munication with the country, and compelling us to fight them at all disadvan
tages, or surrender prisoners at discretion ? ' Agreed, with but one dissenting
voice, namely, General Clinton, that it is not possible to prevent the communi
cation from being cut off, and that one of the consequences mentioned in the
question must certainly follow. Agreed, that Fort Washington be retained as
long as possible."

This last decision appears to have been partly in consequence of a resolve of
Congress, passed five days before, desiring General Washington, " by every art,
and at whatever expense, to obstruct effectually the navigation of the river be
tween Fort Washington and Mount Constitution, as well to prevent the regress
of the enemy's frigates lately gone up, as to hinder them from receiving
succour."

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 499

mation of deserters, — all afford a strong presump
tion, nay, almost a certainty, that they are pursuing
their original plan of getting in our rear and cutting
off all our supplies. Our situation here is not exactly
the same as it was at New York. It is rather better.
However, as we are obliged to divide our force and
guard every probable place of attack as well as we
can, as most of our stores are here and about Kings-
bridge, and the preservation of the communication
with the States on the other side of Hudson's River,
is a matter of great importance, it will not be possi
ble for me to detach any more assistance, than what
I have already done, for the purpose of securing the
passes in the Highlands. I have sent Colonel Tash,
lately from New Hampshire, with his regiment upon
the business ; and as it is of the utmost consequence
to possess those passes, and to hold them free and
open, I would beg leave to submit to your consid
eration, whether you can spare any aid upon this
interesting occasion. I know your exertions already
are great ; I know you have a large number of men
engaged in the service, in this and the northern
army ; and nothing could have induced me to men
tion this matter to you, were it not for the alarming
and melancholy consequences, which would result
from the enemy's possessing themselves of those
communications. The regiment I have ordered up
is to receive directions from the Convention, as to
the posts they are to occupy, supposing them to be
much better acquainted with the places, where they
should be stationed, than I am. If it is in your

500 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

power to afford any assistance, in this Instance you
will be pleased to give such instructions to those, you
send, as you shall judge necessary. I am just de
spatching an engineer to the Convention to throw up
some small works. I have sent two regiments of the
Massachusetts militia up the river, to watch the
motions of the ships, and to oppose any landing
of men, that they may attempt. I am also extend
ing every part of my force, that I possibly can, tow
ards East and West Chester, to oppose the enemy
and prevent their effecting their plan, if it shall be
practicable, but our numbers being far inferior to the
demands for men I cannot answer for what may
happen, the most in my power shall be done. I
am, &c.T

1 " The Brigades are now to be formed into Divisions (those on York Island
as Mentioned in Yesterday's Orders) Nixon's, McDougall's, and that com
manded by Col. Glover, to compose one, under the Command of Major Genl.
Lee — Parson's, Scott's and Clinton's another, under the Command of Major
Genl. Heath — Salstonstall's, Sergeant's and Hand's, another, under the Com
mand of Major General Sullivan ; and the Massachusetts Militia another, under
the Command of Major Genl. Lincoln.

" The General in most pressing terms exhorts all Officers commanding divi
sions, brigades, and regiments, &c. — to have their Officers, and the Men, under
their respective Commands, properly informed of what is expected from them;
that no confusion may arise in case we should be suddenly called to Action,
which there is no kind of doubt, is near at hand, and he hopes, and flatters
himself, that the only contention will be, who shall render the most acceptable
service to his Country, and his Posterity. The General also desires, that the
Officers will be particularly attentive to the Men's Arms and Ammunition, that
there may be no deficiency, or application for Cartridges, when we are called
into the field." — Orderly Book, 15 October, 1776.

At half past one on the afternoon of the 2oth, Harrison wrote :

" The enemy are pursuing with great Industry their plan of penetrating the
country from the Sound, and of forming a Line in our Rear. They are now
extended from Frog's Point to New Rochelle, from whence it is generally con
jectured they mean to take their Route by way of the White Plains, and from
thence to draw a Line to the North River — We on our part, have drawn our

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 501

TO MRS. PHILIPS OF PHILIPSBORO.

HEAD QUARTERS AT MR. VALENTINE'S,
22 October, 1776.

MADAM,

The misfortunes of War, and the unhappy circum
stances frequently attendant thereon to Individuals
are more to be lamented than avoided, but it is the
duty of every one, to alleviate these as much as pos
sible ; Far be it from me then, to add to the dis
tresses of a Lady, who I am but too sensible, must
already have suffered much uneasiness, if not incon
venience on account of Colonel Philip's absence.

No special order has gone forth from me, for re
moval of the stock of the Inhabitants; but from the
nature of the case, and in consequence of some reso
lutions, of the Convention of this State, the measure
has been adopted : However, as I am satisfied it is

whole force, except the Regiments intended to Garrison Fort Washington,
from the Island of New York, and have possessed ourselves of the Heights,
passes and advantageous grounds between New Rochelle, where the Van of
their Army now lies, and the North River. They will in all probability at
tempt to effect their purpose by moving higher up, if they do, our forces will
move accordingly, it being a principal object to prevent their out flanking us.
On Friday one of their advanced parties near East Chester fell in with part of
Colo. Glover's Brigade and a smart and close Skirmish ensued, in which I have
the pleasure to inform you our men behaved with great coolness and Intrepidity
and drove the Enemy back to their main body."

" The hurried situation of the General for the two last days, having pre
vented him from paying that attention to Col. Glover, and the Officers and
Soldiers who were with him in the skirmish on Friday last, that their Merit
and good behavior deserved — He flatters himself that his thanks, tho' delayed,
will nevertheless be acceptable to them, as they are offered with great sincerity
and cordiality — At the same time he hopes, that every other part of the Army
will do their duty, with equal duty and zeal when ever called upon ; and that
neither dangers, difficulties, or hardships will discourage Soldiers, engaged in
the Cause of Liberty, and contending for all that Free men hold dear and val
uable." — Orderly Book, 21 October, 1776,

502 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

not meant to deprive Families of their necessary sup
port, I shall not withhold my consent to your retain
ing such parts of your stock as may be essential to
this purpose ; relying on your assurances and promise
that no more will be detained ; With great Respect,
I am, Madam, &c.

TO MAJOR-GENERAL SCHUYLER.

HEAD-QUARTERS, VALENTINE'S HILL,
22 October, 1776.

DEAR SIR,

From my remote situation, and my ignorance of
the country in which the army under your command
to the northward is to act, it is impossible for me to
give my peremptory orders, or scarcely my opinion, as
to the direction of matters in your quarter. I am
confident your own good sense, zeal and activity will
suggest to you the most probable means of making
amends for the heavy loss we have sustained by the
destruction of General Arnold's fleet upon Lake
Champlain ; but my experience of the many evils
attending the calling in of a body of raw militia
obliges me to give you my sentiments upon that
head, and to tell you, that I fear they will render you
more disservice than any real good. From their
want of every camp necessary, when they join a regu
lar army, they commit an intolerable waste of stores,
which once put into their hands can scarcely be re
gained, and are so much dead loss to the public ; and
for want of regularity in their drafts of ammunition,
provision, and other necessaries, they consume much

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 503

more than it is convenient to spare from a garrison
even near a source of supplies, much less from one at
such a distance, that it requires every exertion to
keep up the magazines in the best of times.

I have been informed, that Ticonderoga, properly
garrisoned and supplied with provision and ammuni
tion, is almost impregnable, even at a season of the
year when an army can lie before it with the greatest
conveniency. If so, instead of calling up a number
of useless hands and mouths, for such I deem the
militia generally, I would advise the collecting of as
much provision as can possibly be got together,
which, if sufficient for nine thousand effective men, of
which number your army consisted by General Ar
nold's letter, I should imagine you could keep Bur-
goyne and Carleton at bay, till the rigor of the
season would oblige them to raise the siege, not only
from want of conveniences to keep the field, but from
the fear that the freezing of the Lake would make
their return impracticable in case of accident. I
would recommend the removal of carriages and draft-

o

cattle of all kinds from the country adjacent, that, if
they should attempt to slip by Ticonderoga, by any
other route, and come down upon the settlements,
the plan should be rendered abortive for want of the
means of conveyance for their baggage and stores. I
am unacquainted with the extent of your works, and
consequently ignorant of the number of men neces
sary to man them. If your present numbers should
be insufficient for that purpose, I would then by all
means advise your making up the deficiency out of

5o4 THE WRITINGS OF [1776

the best regulated militia that can be got. Some
might likewise be useful in bringing up supplies, and
fill the places of men, who would render more service
with arms in their hands. You will always be kind
enough to bear in mind, that I am giving my opinion,
not issuing my orders. The vexation I have experi
enced from the humors and intolerable caprice of
militia, at a critical time, makes me feel sensibly for
the officer who is to depend on them in the day of
trial.1 Upon the whole, I beg you may not be influ-

1 " Upon the due regulation and management of the Waggons, the health and
safety of the Army entirely depends, and it will be impossible for the Quarter-
Master-General to have any regularity, if officers of the Army undertake to
seize Waggons, and compel them to go where they please. The General
therefore absolutely forbids any officer, or Soldier, taking a Waggon by his own
Authority, and more especially stopping them, when sent on other services, as
it is easy to see that the greatest confusion must in that case ensue — When
teams are wanted application must be made to the Quarter-Master-General or
his Deputy, and every Brigade, or Regiment, must wait till the service adjusts
their having them in that channel. The commanding officers of regiments are
also required to appoint some spirited, resolute officer, to attend the loading of
the Waggons, and prevent their being filled with lumber and improper articles.
Tents, and the proper Baggage of the Regiment are only to be put into the
Waggons ; all others must be left behind ; and the General calls upon the Gen
eral officers, and the Commanding officers of regiments, to set an example to the
Soldiers." — Orderly Book, 26 October, 1776.

" The General observing that the Army seems unacquainted with the Enemy's
Horse ; and that when any parties meet with them, they do not oppose them
with the same Alacrity which they show in other cases ; thinks it necessary to
inform the officers and soldiers, that in such a broken country, full of stone
walls, there is no Enemy more to be despised, as they cannot leave the road, so
that any party attacking them may be always sure of doing it to advantage, by
taking post in the woods by the roads or along the stone walls, where they will
not venture to follow them ; and as an encouragement to any brave parties, who
will endeavor to surprise some of them, the General offers 100 Dollars for every
Trooper, with his Horse and Accoutrements, which shall be brought in and so
in proportion for any part, to be divided according to the rank and pay of the
party." — Orderly Book, 27 October, 1776.

" The communication between this and the grand division of the army is in

1776] GEORGE WASHINGTON. 505

enced by any thing I have thrown out. You have
had experience of the temper of the people, who will
probably march to your assistance, and therefore
know whether they differ in character from those,
who have reinforced the army under my command.
In full confidence that you will do what seems best
to your judgment, I submit the matter entirely to
you, esteeming myself happy if any hints of mine
should be serviceable to you. I am, &c.

great measure cut off ; therefore it will be some time before you have any
account from his Excellency General Washington." — Greene to the President of
Congress, 28 October, 1776.

"The General positively forbids any person going down to the lines, and
firing upon the enemy, without an Order from a General Officer — proper
scouting parties are to be kept out by each Major General, for intelligence.

" The General in a ride he took yesterday, to reconoitre the Grounds about
this way, was surprised and shocked to find both officers and soldiers, straggling
all over the Country under one idle pretence or other, when they cannot tell the
hour or minute the Camp may be attacked, and their services indispensably
necessary. He once more positively orders that neither Officer or Soldier,
shall stir out of Camp without leave, the first from the Brigadier, under whom
he serves, and the latter from the Commanding Officer of the Corps they
belong to.

"The Provost Marshal is to take up all stragglers, and it is enjoined upon
all officers to seize every man, who fires his gun without leave, and to have him
tied up immediately and receive 20 lashes.

"It is with astonishment the General hears, that some officers have taken
Horses, between the Enemy's Camp and ours, and sent them into the Country
for their private use : Can it be possible that persons bearing Commissions,
and fighting in such a cause can degrade themselves into Plunderers of horses?
He hopes every officer will set his face against it, in future ; and does insist
that the Colonels and Commanding Officers of Regiments, immediately enquire
into the matter and report to him, who have been guilty of these practices, and
that they take an account of the Horses in their respective Encampments, and
send to the Quartermaster-General, all that are not in some public service." —
Orderly Book, 3ist October, 1776.

END OF VOL. IV.

^^J^p^^MBB^^^—

RETURN TO the circulation desk of any
University of California Library

or to the
NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY

Bldg 400, Richmond Field Station
University of California
Richmond, CA 94804-4698

*****

bcoKs

prior to due date

• '

DUE AS STAMPED BELOW

JUH^U996

U.C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY