Illustrations Map of Pennsylvania endpapers Lancaster and York, Pennsylvania, where Congress convened when the British moved into Philadelphia in September 1777 and contin ued to meet through June 1778, are visible on this southeast quarter of a map of Pennsylvania by Robert Sayer and John Bennett, “ex hibiting not only the improved parts of that Province, but also its extensive frontiers: Laid down from actual surveys and chiefly from the late map of W. Scull published in 1770; and humbly inscribed to the Honourable Thomas Penn and Richard Penn, Esquires, true and absolute proprietaries & Governors of the Province of Pennsyl vania and the territories thereunto belonging” (London, 1775). Geography and Map Division, Library of Congress. Philip Livingston 108 The fifth son of Philip, the second lord of Livingston Manor, Liv ingston was born in Albany into one of the largest and most influen tial families in America. Active in the prerevolutionary movement in New York, he was elected to the Continental Congress in 1774, which he attended with considerable regularity the next four years. His experience as a New York merchant made him a valuable mem ber of the Secret Committee and its successor, the Committee of Commerce. And he was often engaged in the work of the Marine Committee and of ad hoc committees appointed to manage commis sary and supply problems. Although he was a signer of the Decla ration of Independence, he had gone home in April 1776, returning only in early July and thus playing a minor role in the final move ment for independence. Some historians assumed that he did not participate in the final debate on the declaration because his name does not appear on a July 2 New York delegate letter signed by five of his colleagues. But since John Witherspoon reported from Philadelphia on July 3 that he had just conversed with Livingston, the evidence on this point is ambiguous. In 1777 Livingston left Philadelphia a month before the British drove Congress to York in September, and he did not rejoin his colleagues until early May 1778. Within a few days he became ill, and he died at York on June 12 at the age of 62, whereupon Congress resolved that the delegates would “continue in mourning for the space of one month.” He was buried there the same evening. xxiii
