xxiv Illustrations Attributed to Abraham Delanoy. Courtesy of the Taconic State Park. Commission, Staatsburg, New York. William Henry Drayton 117 A wealthy, English-educated, South Carolina, lawyer-planter, Drayton was appointed to the province’s royal council in 1771 and only slowly emerged as a leader of the American Revolution. Not until his dismissal from the council for his 1774 publication of A Letter of Freeman of South Carolina to the Deputies of North- America attacking the royal prerogative did he become a popular figure in his native province. He was subsequently elected to several of the revolutionary bodies that assumed political control of South Carolina and in 1776 became the first chief justice of the state. Disqualified from a seat in the state assembly because of his judicial post, Drayton was nevertheless elected to Congress early in 1778, and he assumed his seat in March while that body was still at York. He was a signer of the Articles of Confederation, an ardent supporter of the French alliance, and the author of a number of published at tacks on the British commissioners who arrived in America in June 1778 to disseminate the North Ministry’s new peace proposals. An able and energetic delegate, Drayton was also a frequent critic of his colleague President Henry Laurens, and consequently the two domi nant members of the South Carolina delegation often worked at cross purposes. Communication between the two men remained so strained that when Drayton contracted typhus the following year, Laurens remained unaware of the condition of his colleague for nearly three weeks. Drayton died of that illness in September 1779 at the age of 37. Although the personal papers Drayton had with him in Philadelphia were destroyed upon his death, he was saved from obscurity in part because of the efforts of his son John, who in 1821 published a collection of documents related to his father’s career un der the title Memoirs of the American Revolution. From Pierre Eugene Du Simitiere, Portraits des Generaux, Minis- tres, et Magistrats que se sont rendu celebres dans la revolution des treize Etats-Unis de I’Amerique de Septentrional (Paris, 1781). Gouverneur Morris 203 Morris was born at the manor of Morrisania, N.Y., the son of Lewis Morris, second lord of the manor, and Sarah Gouverneur. Al though he was a conservative member of the landed aristocracy of Westchester County, he plunged into radical politics once war began at Lexington and was elected to the principal congresses and con ventions that directed the revolutionary movement in New York during 1775-76. When only 24 years old, he had a hand in framing New York’s new constitution, with his close associates John Jay and
