June 1, 1778 7 other, and, previous to any overtures of the Court of Petersburgh the Commissioners at the Court of Versailles be directed to consult with that Court upon the propriety of making such Overtures; and govern themselves accordingly. That whatever Treaties may be entered into in consequence of these Instructions shall be in Terms of the most perfect equality & Reciprocity, and no way repugnant to the Treaty of Paris of the 6th of February last. Wrltl y b y J am es Lovell and annotated by Henry Laurens. r This report is undoubtedly the work of the “joint committee” created on Smhh m m r add “ 1On ° f WiHmm Henry Drayton, William Duer, and James Smith to the Committee for Foretgn Affairs. This committee was appointed to re port on the instructions to the commissioners in Europe,” and it brought in this report during the afternoon of the same day. The issue was debated that day and again on June 2, but without a final result. The questions of expanded diplomat ic relations, commercial treaties, and the appointment of new commissioners had been before Congress since mid-April and continued to be a major area of dis agreement in Congress throughout 1778. See JCC, 10:372, 411 414 11-473 505 546-47, 559, 563. See also Henry Laurens to John Rutledge, jLne 3; and Tames Lovell to Benjamin Franklin, June 20, 1778. J 2 The asterisks here and below indicate points in the document where Henrv Laurens wrote above the line either “Agd” or “Ay,” apparently to indicate that agreement had been reached on these passages during debate in Congress on the committee report. ° 3 Words in brackets here and below were inserted between the lines of Lovell’s draft committee report by Laurens. * uL 1 * 1 ? 8 P ° int ‘ n the MS Henry Laurens placed an "A” above the line to which he keyed the following note he penned at the bottom of this document: "if necessary, otherwise to conclude a Treaty with the Court of Lisbon, at Madrid or e sewhere as the case may require with any person properly authorized for that purpose by the Court of Lisbon. Ag.” Henry Laurens to John Houstoun Honorable Sir, 1st June 1778 1 had the honor of writing to you on the 14th Ulto. 1 by Messenger Sharp & of presenting to Congress on the 25th your Honor’s dispatches of the 20th March which had reached me the preceeding Evening. These were referred to a select Committee, upon whose Report the Inclosed Act of Congress of the 29th is founded, to which I beg leave to refer as containing all the Commands I have re ceived. 2 The Enemy within the circumjacent lines of Philadelphia have for a fortnight past shewn strong marks of a design to evacuate that City, the embarkation of their Cannon & Baggage, their Horses & forage & the flight of many hundreds called Tories who flock into our Camp 8c into Lancaster & York in order to make their peace are evidences of such an intention, nevertheless I have doubts, 8c will not
