8 June 1, 1778 beleive Mr. Clinton going, until he shall be fairly gone. If he can get rid of all the Citizens he will have fewer mouths to consume provi sion now become very scarce within his narrow confines. Philadel phia will become a complete Garrison subject altogether to Articles of War & his general Orders. There will be less danger from spies & fewer critics upon his general conduct—8c if further, he can so far amuse us as to retard intended reinforcements for Valley forge until he shall be Strengthened by such as he himself expects. The debark ation of Cannon & Baggage will be an easy work 8c he will applaud himself upon the success of his Stratagem. I am happy in finding General Washington acts as if he had also his doubts, although in the last Letter received from him he writes— “The Enemy are Still (28th May) in Philadelphia but the intelli gence from thence is so clear & so Strong, it is as certain as any event can be, that is contingent, that they mean to abandon it. Against the various measures they are pursuing which point to an evacuation I can learn but of a Single circumstance opposed. They are working at their Redoubts with great industry, but this fact tho’ certainly true cannot be of Sufficient weight to raise a doubt upon the subject & must be considered as merely calculated to deceive us 8c mask their designs, we cannot by the most diligent searches discover whether their movement will be by Land or Sea.” In this State of uncertainty the General has detached General Maxwell with a large detachment to join General Dickinson in Jer sey with orders to annoy the Enemy if a March through that State Shall be attempted, & has called in General Smallwood from Wil mington 8c I am well assured the utmost vigilance is observed in Camp. Twenty Six days have passed over Since General Howe or General Clinton or both have propagated the Report of the intend ed evacuation. If the object requiring their removal is important, they have certainly lingered away time in a manner apparently in consistent with an important demand, but I will not be further troublesome with conjectures—a few days more will produce demon stration. The bustle & shew in New York is nearly similer to this in Philadelphia. There they have about 2060 British, 1250 Hessians & 2893 American Levies, & 100 Anspachers-this account may be relied on—& tis thought they mean to ascend North River by Land or Sea. If these from Philadelphia should join, the whole will be Strong, but I hope not too Strong to be Burgoyned. I should ob serve the computed number in Philadelphia is 8 to 9 Thousand greatly diminished lately by death 8c Desertion. The papers which you will receive Sir within this inclosure will convey some intelli gence, the Letter from the Reverend Mr. Kirkland 3 gives a pleasing prospect of peace with the Six Nations, we are endeavoring to culti vate their present disposition into friendship by every proper means. I have the honor to be 8cca.
