June 1, 1778 11 2 For the various resolves pertaining to South Carolina passed by Congress on May 29, see JCC, 11:551-53. Discussions of the provenance of these resolves can be found in the editorial notes to Laurens’ May 14 and 17 letters to Lowndes and in his May 18, 1778, letter to William Moultrie. Laurens also enclosed a copy of one of these resolves—requesting an account of Continental stores in South Car olina—with a brief covering letter he wrote this day to Abraham Livingston, Con tinental agent in Charleston. PCC, item 13, 1:349. 3 See Laurens to John Houstoun, this date, note 2. 4 Laurens inserted an asterisk at this point to key his reference to “the former Resolve” in the next-to-last paragraph of this letter. The “former Instruction" mentioned by Laurens was a June 18, 1776, resolve whereby Congress decreed that not more than one-third of the Continental troops raised in South Carolina could be removed from there “without the express order of Congress or the con sent of the president of that colony.” JCC, 5:462-63. 5 Francis Dana was the author of the May 25 resolve affirming the primacy of Continental commanders over state officials in the conduct of military operations that Laurens is discussing here. See JCC, ll:554n.l. Henry Laurens to William Moultrie Dear General, 1st June 1778 I beg leave to refer to my last under the 18th May by Messenger Sharp. The Committee to whom were referred the Letters from President Lowndes &: your Self having made their Report Congress thereupon formed an Act on the 29th Inst, a Copy of which you will receive within the present Inclosure for your information and government. 1 General Clinton makes great shew of an intention to evacuate the City of Philadelphia & for aught I know he may be Sincere, but he has been so very long abou't the business, as to Strengthen the jeal ousies which I had entertained from his earliest pretence. If there be an absolute necessity for his going to New York, any part of the West Indies, Ireland or England, his dilatoriness is inconsistent with the necessity. If he can so far alarm all the Tory Citizens as to get rid of them either by sending them to England & by suffering Thousands to fly to Camp & into different parts of this State he will have fewer mouths to feed, the whole City will become a Garrison governed by articles of War & his general orders—he will be less exposed to dan ger from Spies, & less harrassed by Complaints & applications from Cits, in plain Coats & broad Hats. If he can by all his parade of de parture, prevail upon us to believe him so far as to relax our en deavours to reinforce Valley forge until the reinforcements which he expects shall arrive, his Stratagem will have succeeded. ’Tis certain that within a few days past he has been hard at work on the Re doubts—no manifest proof of a design to quit them. All therefore is conjecture—it is most consistent with Safety to believe he is attempt ing to deceive & to act accordingly. If he goes, he will at least give us
