12 June 1, 1778 Credit for good Generalship, for he is informed of every Step we take. If he stay’s he will find no encouragement to attempt us by Surprise. I have the honor to be LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Brigdr. General Moultrie, Charles Town.” 1 For further information on General Moultrie’s dispute with Pres. Rawlins Lowndes of South Carolina over the accountability of a Continental deputy pay master to state authority, see ]CC, 11:552-53; and Laurens to Lowndes, May 17, and to Moultrie, May 18, 1778. Robert Morris to Lux & Bowley Gentn. Manheim June 1st. 1778 Please to deliver to the order of Jona Potts Esqr Dy Director Gen eral of the Conti Hospitals Two Hogsheads marked VMC [sir] EC, No. 25 &: 26 Contg Salt Petre and which were Imported in the Schooner Rambler, Capt Jona Buffington, from Martinico, being Shipped by Wm Bingham Eqr to your address subject to my orders, 1 & your complyance will much oblige, sirs, Your Obedt hble servant, Robt Morris. RC (Mrs. Lawrence M.C. Smith, Germantown, Pa., 1976). Addressed: “To Messrs. Lux & Bowley, Merchts., Baltimore.” 1 Another document related to Morris’ activities in procuring medicines for the Continental service at this time is in the William A. Smith Collection, NN. It con sists of an “Invoice of Medicines Sold Doctr. Wm Shippen for use of the States of America,” dated April 5, 1778, on the verso of which Morris penned the following receipt dated Manheim, June 1, 1778. “Then Received of Jona Potts Esqr. Dy Director Genl, his draft of this date on Jos. Shippen junr Esqr. Secy & paymaster of the Genl Hospital for Twenty thousand four hundred & twenty four Dollars which when pd. is in full of the within bill of Medicines Reed by order & for Acct of Messrs. Lux & Bowley of Baltimore, Robt. Morris.” Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, York Town It June 1778 I believe my last Letter to you was by Brown, since which nothing Material has occurred. The Enemy are Undoubtedly preparing to leave Philedelphia and probably will do so within a Week. Whether G Britain will yeild the American Contest or rather than do so will engage in a War with France is yet unknown. If she has not already She must immediately take a decided Part in this Affair. I find that I shall not Return home so soon as I expected when I wrote some of my last Letters. Mr. Ellsworth has lately wrote Me a Letter that in case Mr. Adams shall not come forward he will do so
