16 June 3, 1778 with to be delivered. I hope to set out for Philada. in the morning & am Dr sir, Yours &c, RM. RC (NjP). Samuel Adams to Baron Steuben Sir, York Town June 3d 1778 I very gratefully acknowledge the Receipt of your Favor of the 28th of May by Mr Ternant, as well as another which was deliverd to me in Boston. It affords me great Satisfaction to find that Congress, sensible of your Merit, have put it in your Power to do eminent Service to our Country in the Army, and that your Services are so acceptable there. 1 This is the Fulfillment of my earnest Wishes when I had the Pleasure of conversing with you in Boston. May Heaven prosper you. Mr. Ternants Haste prevents my adding more than that I am with very cordial Esteem, Your affectionate very humble servt, Sami Adams RC (NN). Addressed by Elbridge Gerry: "Major General Baron de Steuben, at Head Quarters, Valley Forge, favd. per Monsr. Ternant.” 1 Steuben had been appointed a major general and inspector general of the Continental Anny on May 5, 1778. JCC, 11:465. Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Huntington Sir 1 York Town 3rd June 1778 Through the Smiles of Divine providence public affairs Seem to have taken a Surprising turn in favour of these United States. It Seems almost beyond a doubt from repeated Accounts the En emy are about to leave Philadelphia. We expect every hour to hear the City is evacuated, but their rout or destination is unknown. The Tories are in great distress, Some in despair are taking passage to fly their Incensed Country, others coming out of the City & taking the Oaths to the Government here. We yesterday receivd advice by a Vessel arrivd at Baltimore in Sixteen days from Martinico that war was declared between France and England, but this I give you as Ship news that wants Conferma- tion; however this may be, it is certain the favourable Sentiments of France, Spain & Other European powers with regard to these United States have Involved our Enemies in the greatest perplexity & Con fusion. The State of our Currency Seems now the greatest difficulty with
