22 June 4, 1778 tions” from the Board of War pertaining to the inspector general’s department and recommended him to Congress’ “peculiar Consideration,’’ is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. Ternant, who was serving under Steuben as sub-inspector of infan try without rank, was commissioned a lieutenant colonel in the Continental Army on September 25, 1778, and ordered to serve as “inspector to the troops” in South Carolina and Georgia. JCC, 12:952. Henry Laurens to George Washington Si r - York Town 4th June 1778. Since my last under the 31st May, I have had the honor of pre senting Your Excellency’s sundry favours of the 21st, 28th, 28th & 31st Ulto. & 1st Inst. 1 These are dispersed in the hands of Com mittees and at present I have only to forward to Your Excellency, the undermentioned Papers. 1. Establishment of the American Army by Acts of Congress of the 28th [27th] & 29 May & 1st [2d] June—about 200 Copies in two Bundles. 2 Your Excellency will be pleased to make the necessary distribution in the Army at Valley forge. 2. about 500 Copies of the Oath of Abjuration &c. 3 If Your Excel lency shall find it necessary to call for more of these, be pleased to give me an early intimation, in order to set the press to work. Copies of the Establishment of the Army, I mean to transmit to morrow to General Gates, General Sullivan & General Heath, & have already sent a few to the President of South Carolina, to Gen eral Howe & General Moultrie. I have requested the president to or der Copies in both Gazettes at Charles Town & I presume all the Printers in the several states will adopt them to fill up a part of their respective Publications. If any further step shall appear to be necessary I request Your Excellency will be pleased to direct me. I intend to morrow to send Copies to Maryland, Virginia & North Carolina & in due course to each of the United States, these, tho’ in the line of my Duty may appear to be works of supererogation, since Your Excellency as Commander in Chief will I presume give them all the circulation that is necessary, & also that a Mode must still be adopted for carrying the arrangement into Execution. In the mean time these will serve at least for general information, & being with out special direction from Congress I have done what appears to be inoffensive. I have the honour to be, With the highest Esteem 8c Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient 8c humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress
