24 June 4, 1778 the Business on a large scale, he has been spoke to in my behalf by Major Clark, and is willing to be enlarged on furlow to make a tryal. I will not trouble your Excellency by enlarging on these hints. Major Clark will proffer Encouragements if you should think proper, to issue your orders for obtaining these useful Artificers, without whom the prospect however flattering of a great internal resource of lead must fail. 1 To prevent the Evacuation of the fron tier of Bedford County and for the general defence against Indian incursions I have built with Logs at the Mine in Sinking Spring Val ley at the foot of Tushes Mountain, a Fort, Cabbin fashion, 50 yds. square with a Bastion at each Corner. The Fort consists of 48 Cab bins about twelve feet square exclusive of the Bastions. I left Major Robt. Clugage a discreet Officer in Command with about seventy men chiefly Militia, with a few Continental Troops raised to serve until the 1st Deer. next. I most sincerely congratulate your Excel lency on the happy prospect of publick Affairs and am with un feigned regard, Your Excellencys most obedient & very huml. Ser, Daniel Roberdeau RC (DLC). 1 Washington's June 15 response, reporting that Sergeant Harris had been di rected to join Roberdeau and that an inquiry was being conducted to locate two other experienced smelters, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 12:65-66. For additional information on Roberdeau’s activities in developing a lead mine in western Pennsylvania, see Roberdeau to George Bryan, May 30, 1778, note; and Darwin H. Stapleton, “General Daniel Roberdeau and the Lead Mine Expedition, 1778-1779,” Pennsylvania History 38 (October 1971): 361-71. Samuel Huntington to Jabez Huntington Sir York Town 5th June 1778 As I have no Important Intelligence to Communicate more than is contained in my Letter to the Governor, & what you will other- ways obtain, I do my self the pleasure to give you the following An- necdote. It Seems a Cowardly Tory of large Landed Estate in York County had fled to the enemy in Philadelphia the winter past, & when he discovered the movements of the enemy shiping their Stores, bag gage &c of late; Indicating their departure he applied to their Gen eral to know what He should do, the General replied he was busy & sent him to an under Officer. The Tory with anxiety asked the Of ficer what he should do as he perceived they were going away. The officer told him He must do as they did when in difficulty make the best shift he could. The Tory Still dissatisfied told him all this was come upon him for being loyal & faithfull to the King & queried what shall I do, I expected protection. The officer replied go seek a
