June 5, 1778 25 passage on board some vessel 8cc. The Tory with vehement anxiety queried but what the Devil shall I do with my Estate, The Officer re plied, Damn you! why did you not Stay at home & fight to defend it with your Country 8c so dismissd his applicant. Thus the Story goes; said to be reported by one who heard the Conversation, but I forbear to mention the Tories name at present. I am Sir with Esteem, your humble servant, Sami Huntington RC (CSmH). Henry Laurens to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, 5th June 1778 Yesterday I presented your favor of the 1st Inst, to Congress, thence it was committed to the Board of War 8c not yet Reported upon, 1 I have therefore no Commands from the House 8c you will be so good as to receive this as private which I mean to convey you the Sentiments of Gentlemen who are your friends. I know you must be anxious for an answer, this is the best I can at present return. The moment Congress shall have determined on the Subject of your ap plication you shall be properly informed. I have the honour to be LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Quartermaster General Nathanael Greene’s June 1 letter to Laurens—in which he requested a set of the regulations pertaining to his department and asked if he was authorized to supply Continental officers at public expense with valises and portmanteaus to store the excess baggage they had been ordered by Washington to leave behind at Valley Forge or to replace horses and riding equipment lost in the line of duty—is in PCC, item 192, fols. 5-7; and Greene, Papers (Showman), 2:420-22. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Dear Sir, 5th June 1778 1 I have before me Your Excellency’s favor of the 1st 2 which reached me late last Night 8c at the Same time one for General Con way which I delivered to him. Your Excellency put rather a hard task on me by desiring me Speak to Congress on behalf of General Conway after referring to Your Excellency’s Sentiments of that Gentleman; nevertheless I had determined in the most proper 8c becoming manner to have presented the Marquis delafayette’s message in his favor, had not the General himself put it out of my power.
