June 5, 1778 31 three parliamentary acts of reconciliation, and Trumbull’s May 25 reply, in which the British official’s request was emphatically denied. Ibid., fol. 398. For a discus sion of an earlier exchange of correspondence between Trumbull and Tryon on the same issue, see Connecticut Delegates to Trumbull, May 18, 1778, note 3. 2 Laurens also transmitted a copy of this act with a brief covering letter he wrote this day to Commissary General Jeremiah Wadsworth, who was then in Connecticut trying to purchase beef for the army. John F. Reed Collection, King of Prussia, Pa.; and PCC, item 13, 1:352. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir. York Town 5 June 1778. I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency under yesterdays date with a P.S. of this Morning by Saxton. A Report on Your Excellency’s Letter of the 1st Inst, relative to measures necessary to be taken in Philadelphia in case the Enemy shall abandon that City had been considered in part yesterday & I had entertained hopes the whole would have been determined this Morning, but other business having interfered & occasioned delay I judge it necessary to transmit the inclosed Resolve, which, if it is ever to have operation, I apprehend cannot reach Your Excellency too soon. 1 I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress [P.S.] Your Excellency’s favor of the 4th together with divers dispatches from Sr. H. Clinton & Lord Howe &c. came to hand late this Evening now 10 oClock, shall be laid before Congress to mor row. 2 RC (DLC). 1 See ]CC, 11:571; and Laurens to John Rutledge, June 3, 1778, note 10. 2 See William Henry Drayton’s Draft Letter to Lord Howe, June 6, 1778. Thomas McKean to William A. Atlee Dear Sir, 1 York-Town. June 5th. 1778. Upon receipt of your favour of the 26th Ulto. I applied to some of the members of the Board of war respecting the Instructions they had given to General Pulaski for inlisting Prisoners of war, and was told they had given such, and had wrote to you about it; this made me think it unnecessary to write to you, but upon examining the Acts of Congress on this head I found the Board were wrong, and that no prisoners of war can be inlisted in that Legion, or in any
