32 June 5, 1778 other Corps. Congress decided accordingly yesterday, of which you will be informed by the President. 2 Tho’ we have a surplus of pri vates of the Enemy at present after exchanging our own, yet they have Citizens and may make more prisoners; besides from my knowledge of the human heart I am convinced that if these prison ers of war were to come to a close & hot engagement with the en emy, the lear of the latter in case of their being made prisoners would induce them to seek safety in flight. Your favour of yesterday is come to hand, and my opinion, respect ing the propriety of admitting the persons proclaimed traitors by Council, is as follows. The Proclamation amounts to no more than a charge of treason, the not surrendering by the day prescribed is full conviction, and the Act of Assembly pronounces the judgment (if I may use the phraze) or attaints the party. 3 Now if the Evidence amounts to no more than common fame, or public notoriety, that the party named in the proclamation had left his usual place of abode and gone into the city of Philadelphia, without some proof of an Overt-Act, such as bearing arms, or annexing his person to the troops of the Enemy as a pioneer, labourer or soldier, of furnishing them with provisions, or intelligence &c and he surrenders himself within the time limited in the proclamation, I should think he ought to be bailed. The Justices of the Supream Court, in Term time, or any one of them, in the vacation, have a discretionary power to bail in all cases whatsoever, even for murder or treason; but the general rule is, if it stands indifferent or doubtful in the opinion of the Judge, whether the party is innocent or guilty, he ought to be bailed; if the evidence of guilt preponderates it should be done with caution; if it is clear the party should be committed and no Bail taken, unless for the cause of sickness, or an infectious disease prevailing & spreading in the Goal &c. Agreeable to this opinion I have admitted James Bracken of this county (whose name is inserted in one of the proclamations) to Bail, and shall in all other cases conduct accordingly; but I am not satisfied that a Justice of the peace can take bail in these cases, I think he must either send the party to a Judge of the Supreme court for examination or com mit him. After a sufficient time has elapsed for discriminating, the Sta[te may?] no doubt grant a general Pardon, excepting your cruel fel lows & some men of property, whose estates really ought to be confiscated, tho’ their lives are spared. Parricides should at least give some evidence of repentance before they are forgiven, and they deserve the punishment of suspence at any rate. The application and interest that will be made by the relatives & friends of the cul prits for mercy will create respect to the Rulers, and their granting it on every reasonable occasion will reconcile &: endear men to the
