June 5, 1778 33 Government: besides Pardoning is a God-like power, and a God-like virtue. I am, dear Sir, with my best respects to Mrs. Atlee, Your most obedient humble servant, Tho M;Kean RC (DLC). Addressed: “The Honoble William Augustus Atlee Esquire At Lan caster.” 1 William A. Atlee (1735—93), a prominent leader of the revolutionary move ment in Lancaster, Pa., during 1774-76, had been a deputy commissary of prison ers since his appointment by Elias Boudinot in August 1777. By virtue of his appointment as assistant judge of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in April 1777, he was also a judicial colleague of Chief Justice McKean. Pa. Archives, 2d ser. 3:687. 2 The Board of War also instructed Deputy Commissary of Prisoners Atlee on this issue this day. "Your letter to Congress of the 2d instant,” Col. Timothy Pickering wrote, “has been referred to the board, with the sense of Congress inti mated at the same time, that prisoners of war should not be inlisted into any corps in the service of the United States. The licence given Genl. Pulaski to inlist prisoners, is to be considered as recalled. The licence was founded on a supposed intention of Congress to permit the inlistment of prisoners into that particular corps. Prisoners were in fact included in the resolve (as originally drawn up) as well as deserters; and tho’ the former were finally struck out; yet the information given to the board led them to the determination mentioned in their former let ter to you on the subject.” Peter Force Collection, DLC. For a discussion of this issue, see Henry Laurens to Atlee, May 29, 1778, note 2. 3 The Pennsylvania Council’s May 8 proclamation is in Pa. Council Minutes, 11:483-85. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, York Town 5 June 1778 My last to you was of the 1st instant which you probably will re ceive from the Post Office Hartford. Nothing Material has occurred since then. We do not hear that the Enemy have left Philadelpa, but they undoubtedly will do so in a Very few Days if they have not al ready done it. The most of their Ships it is said are gone down to N Castle. A most dreadfull Anxiety excercises the Philadelphian Torys. The capital ones go off with the Enemy. Others less guilty determin to trust to the Clemency of their Country. Steps are taken to Obviate some Mischief which might be apprehended upon the first Evacu ation of the City—so that I hope the Disorders which might be oth erwise expected, will be prevented. It is supposed the Enemy will in the first Instance go to N York—from thence it is not improbable Many will go to the West Indies. Indeed I should not think it Very Strange if the whole should leave the Continent in a short Time, for if G Britain enters into a War with France the Forces which she has here will be wanted to Defend her own Dominions. If she shall chuse to Avoid this War and shall admit our Independence, which I
