June 7, 1778 43 send by him a £100 in large bills chiefly; every thing here is in conceivably dear; altho’ I have kept no horses here my allowance will hardly make me whole; indeed I believe it will not. Sam must bring with him 3 horses. Chase I expect will be up by that time, & I shall write to him by this post to come that I may return. RC (MdHi). 1 Carroll enclosed letters from Lord Howe to Washington, May 27; from Henry Clinton to Washington, May 30 and June 3; and from Washington to Clinton, May 30, and to President Laurens, June 4, 1778. See Carroll Papers, MdHi; and William Henry Drayton’s Draft Letter to Lord Howe, June 6, 1778, note 1. 2 Carroll’s conjectures on this point were in error, for Sir Henry Clinton was indeed one of the peace commissioners and he retained his command until 1782. 3 For Congress’ response to the arrival of Le Fier Roderique carrying a large shipment from Beaumarchais, see Committee of Congress Report, June 10, 1778. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 7th June 1778. I wrote to you the 5th & the same Evening late your favor of the 4th came to hand. Casting my Eye on my Copy Book just now I was startled at the dates prefixed there to Copies of Letters which I writ yesterday to the Commander in Chief, to Lord Howe & to Sir Henry Clinton all, May, instead of June. If the originals have carried the same blunder, I shall be much ashamed. ’Tis impossible to de velop the secret from my Copyists memory because admitting the first error to have been mine, if his senses had been awake he would have pointed to the error immediately. If the Letter to the General is misdated I shall conclude both the others are. You asked me some time ago why I did not employ a Secretary, I’ll tell you I don’t know where to get a good one—& I can’t bear any other. James 1 can Copy extremely well when he is attentive, but his constitution is not the strongest, he sometimes flags & some times nods. I do not wonder at it—but I do, how I hold it out. I have a sort of Secretary, a genteel decent Young Man but I get very little from him, 2 he has been spoiled in another office & has acquired habits which are to me very disagreeable. Congress meet twice a day, the consequence of which is delay of business there and intolerable confinement to the President. The Idea of the Enemy’s intended abandonment of Philadelphia, pervades every mind, 8c I am very certain our Cause suffers greatly from the general belief of an event being at hand, which we ought to think depends wholly on our own exertions 8c to act accordingly. Thirteen days have elapsed since the Enemy’s draught of three days provision 8c Canteens filled with Rum—Women 8c children em barked, Hospital utensils 8c Boxes of Arms shiped, notice given to the Police 8c honest Mr. Coombes’s intelligence. I should think none
