44 June 7, 1778 but women & Children will rely upon any thing they [say] or trust to any thing they do—yet there is such confidence in their flimsey as surances. I was going on to write you a long Letter but an opportu nity instantly presenting & being anxious to acquaint his Excellency the General with a recent act of humanity on the part the Enemy in the moment of treating with us I shall confine myself to the follow ing extract from General Sullivan’s Letter 26 May, just received. 3 The Chief Justice regrets we had not this intelligence before the Letters to Lord Howe & General Clinton were sent. “I beg leave to inform Congress that on the Night of the 24 Inst about 600 British & Hessian Troops at R Id embarked on board two Ships of War, two Tenders 8c about 30 flat bottoms, passed up the River & landed before day between Warren & Papasquash point, at daylight marched in two bodies for Warren 8c the head of Kukemull River where were about 70 flat bottom boats & one of the State Gal- lies, they burned all the Boats, 12 escaped & set fire to the Galley, this was afterward extinguished with much hurt to the Gaily—then set fire to the meeting house at Warren & to seven dwelling Houses & retreated toward Bristol where the Ships had fallen down with the flat Bottoms to receive them. They burned in Bristol 22 Houses among which was Govr Bradford’s in their Tour every species of Cruelty was displayed, 20 of the Inhabitants were taken & carried off—almost every House was plundered without distinction between friend & foes. Some Women who had been long noted as their faith ful friends were compelled by the Bayonet to stand while they were robbed of their Buckles, Rings, handkerchiefs 8cc &c. I received intel ligence of the Landing about 8 oClock, the Country was immedy. alarmed, the Troops put in motion & lest an attempt might be in tended upon this place or the Western Shore some part of the Mili tia were called in to guard them. The rest were Marched toward the Enemy, all the Massachusetts ordered to meet 8c oppose them, they assembled with great alacrity 8c marched with much expedition. Colo. Barton ordered to Muster what force he could on the Road to assist Colo. Crary’s Regiment stationed at Bristol 8c had [got] into the Enemy’s Rear. The Colo, with Crary’s Regiment 8c such force as he had collected in all near 200, attacked their Retreat 8c I believe did them much injury—the Gallant Colonel dangerously wounded in the action. I arrived on the ground 1^ past 11 oClock. The Troops from this place 8c a large body of Militia were about 2 Miles in the Rear, many of them had marched near 20 Miles in less than four hours. When I arrived the Enemys Rear had embarked 8c gone near an hour. I know nothing of their loss—we had 2 or 3 killed, several wounded 8c 5 taken.” The Chief Justice charges me not to conclude without presenting his Compliments. Adieu, H L
