June 8, 1778 49 quarrel between the supporters of Deane and those of Arthur and William Lee had only begun to rumble through Congress. The serious nature of this coming storm can be seen in a letter written this day in Virginia by Benjamin Harrison, a former member of Congress, to Robert Morris, who with Harrison was a par tisan supporter and business associate of Deane’s. Concerning the Lee brothers, Harrison wrote: "You, who know them not, can form but an imperfect idea of those on that side of the water by what you have seen on this, they being much more designing, vindictive, and overbearing. Perhaps you may think this impos sible, but be assured it is a fact, and that they are no more fit for the characters they bear than any man that can be thought on; however they are fixed, and I suppose America must suffer them for a season longer, as the cabal is at present too powerful to afford us the least prospect of their removal.” Wharton, Diplo matic Correspondence, 2:607-8. r> That is, Samuel Adams. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson Sir, 8th June 1778 York Your letter of the 2d instant was put into our hands this morning by Col. Smith, and referred to the board of war. 1 We sincerely wish the State of our cloathing at or near the army may be Such as to Suf fer that Board to give the order in the extent you desire. Col. Smith will receive their answer tomorrow. We hope, and have the strongest reason to believe, our army will never again be exposed to the same inconveniences 8c distress they have hitherto suffered from the want of cloathing. We understand 8 or ten thousand suits are in the 50 gun Ship lately arrived in Virginia, and still larger supplies have ar rived at the Eastward. By all accounts from Camp & Philadelphia the Enemy appear to be on the eve of evacuating that city: it is conjectured they will march thro’ the Jersies to South Amboy, where it is said a number of boats are in readiness to carry them over to Staten Island. War between Prussia 8c Austria respecting the division of the late Elector of Bavaria’s territories by the latest accounts from Europe is much to be apprehended: and Mr. Francy informed us that war was certainly declared between Russia 8c the Porte. The French court had detained all English vessels in their ports in a consequence of a refusal by the Court of London to deliver up an American vessel captured on the coast of France by an English Pri vateer. We inclose you copies of letters from Ld. Howe’s 8c Sir Henry Clinton’s letters to Gen. Washington 8c to Congress and our answer. 2 These may be printed if you think proper, and we beg the favor of you to lay them before the Assembly. We are with great respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. hunble Servants, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton Geo. Plater
