50 June 8, 1778 RC (MdAA). Written by Carroll and signed by Carroll and Plater. 1 For the Maryland Council’s June 2 letter to its delegates requesting clothing for the state’s troops, see Md. Archives, 21:120—21; PCC, item 70, fols. 255-58, and JCC, 11:578. 2 These are copies of the same letters that Carroll sent to his father the pre ceding day. See Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr., June 7, 1778, note 1. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene $j r> Pensylvania York Town June 8th, 1778 Mr. Marchant arrived at this Town the sixth Instant. 1 The Situa tion of Mr. Ellery’s Family necessitates his Return in a few Days. Confederation, it is expected, will soon be taken up; 2 and if Congress should determine that, immediately upon the Completion of that Business, no State can be represented without two Members, the State we have the Honor to represent may not have that Share in the Common Counsells of the States, which Our Interests and Cir cumstances require. Solicitous this may not be the Case we hope One of Our Colleagues will soon give his attendance. We lament the Waste and Destruction made upon Our State by that more than Sav age Barbarity peculiar to Britons; But we are utterly at a Loss to ac count for that cruel Desertion of Our Sister States, which has thus laid Our State bare to the Insults and Ravages of Our Enemies. This is a Subject we feel most pungently, and shall not fail to endeavour to excite in Congress a common Feeling with us, that if possible some Steps may be taken for our Relief. It is expected the Enemy will very soon leave Philadelphia, but for what Quarters is uncertain. We hope the New-England States will hold Themselves in watchful Readiness. The Enemy ought to be expected in every Quarter, that so let them come where they will, They may meet with a proper Reception. A large Ship from France of Upwards fifty Guns is arrived to the Southward, with large Sup plies for Our Army. We inclose Your Excellency the last York Paper, and Are most respectfully, Your Excellency’s most obedient and humble Servts. William Ellery Hy. Marchant RC (R-Ar). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant and Ellery. 1 According to the journals, Marchant took his seat in Congress on Monday, June 8. JCC, 11:575. 2 Congress finally resumed consideration of the Articles of Confederation on June 20. JCC, 11:625, 628.
