June 9, 1778 53 this testimony of the Esteem of Your fellow Citizens & to wish you a happy administration. Within the present Inclosure will be found the undermentioned Acts of Congress. 1 .. . 27th May for Establishment of the American Army. 2 ... 4 June for suspending or repealing Acts of Assembly for regulating prices of goods. 3 ... 6 June for allowing subsistence in lieu of Rations to the Militia. 4 ... 8 June for laying a general Embargo on certain articles of Provision, 2 the absolute necessity for this measure is so extremely apparent as leaves no room to doubt of its being carried into imme diate execution & strictly observed. I have the honor to be, With very great Respect, Sir, Your Excel- lencys Obedient humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (R-Ar). Addressed: “His Excellency William Green Esquire, Governor o£ Rhode Island & Providence Plantations.” 1 See JCC, 11:537. 2 Laurens also transmitted copies of these four “Acts this day to the Massa chusetts Council, and to Vice President George Bryan of Pennsylvania he sent three of the four. See PCC, item 13, 1:357-58; and Revolutionary Letters, M-Ar. At the same time, he also sent Massachusetts a May 30 resolve on the main tenance of the Convention Army, and instead of the June 4 resolve on price regu lation he forwarded to Pennsylvania a June 4 resolve on an Indian conference at Fort Pitt and a June 8 resolve on the defense of Northumberland County. See JCC, 11:556, 568, 576-77. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son very early 9th June [1778] Late last night your favor of the 7th obliged me very much, write on & make me as well acquainted with movements of all kinds as you can. Inclosed you will find the Resolution required. 1 My duty to the Marquis. I have delivered his Letters to Mr. Cambray, Mr. Lee &ca—will do as far as in my power all he desires & commands & will have the honor of paying my respects to him to morrow. I dont much like my old friends interviews with an old ac quaintance 2 whom he had so lately seen. I wish I could see you for half an hour. I pray God protect you. LB (ScHi). . 1 Although John Laurens’ June 7 letter has not been found, it should be noted that in his June 9 letter to his father he asked for Congress’ May 21 resolves on negotiations for a prisoner exchange between Generals Howe and Washington. See JCC, 11:520-21; and Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 178-81.
