June 9, 1778 57 I wish you and yours Health & every Happiness, being your affec tionate, humble Servant, James Lovell RC (NHi). 1 On June 8, Congress had ordered an embargo on provisions, to be in effect from June 10 to November 15, 1778, unless Congress revoked it sooner, JCC, 11:578. 2 Congress approved the draft of a circular letter on state levies on June 10. JCC, 11:583. 3 Gates’ undated letter to the earl of Thanet, appealing to Britain to recognize American independence, was printed in the April 29, 1778, issue of the Pennsyl vania Evening Post, which also contained a report of the duke of Richmond’s un successful effort to have the House of Lords take this proposal into consideration. Thomas McKean to Nathanael Greene Sir, York-Town June 9th. 1778. I just now received your favour of the 3d instant, and am not a little surprized that the Sheriff of Northampton county should have permitted Colo. Robert L. Hooper, after he was arrested by virtue of my Precept, to wait upon you until he had appeared before me. 1 You say, Sir, “Colo. Hooper waited upon me to communicate his situation, & to know if the circumstances of the army would admit of his absence, but as the army is just upon the wing, and part of it will in all probability march through his district, I could not with out great necessity consent to his being absent, as there is no other person that can give the necessary aid upon this occasion.” I do not think, Sir, that the absence, sickness or even death of Mr. Hooper could be attended with such a consequence, that no other person could be found who could give the necessary aid upon this occasion; but what attracts my attention most is your observation, that you cannot without great necessity consent to his being absent. As to that, Sir, I shall not ask your consent, nor that of any person in or out of the army, whether my Precept shall be obeyed or not in Pennsylvania. The warrant for the arresting Mr. Hooper being special, no other magistrate can take cognizance thereof but myself. The mode you propose of giving bail cannot be adopted for many reasons. I should be very sorry to find, that the execution of criminal law should impede the operations of the army in any instance, but should be more so to find the latter impede the former. I am, Sir, with great respect, Your most obedient humble servant, M:K. FC (PHi). 1 Gen. Nathanael Greene’s June 3 letter to McKean, which had been directed to the latter in his capacity as chief justice of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court,
