64 June 10, 1778 up at present and that it would be more prudent to wait the Arrival of Mr. Deane or at least of Mr. Carmichael who being more ac quainted with those Affairs may throw Light upon them useful to Congress or those whom they may employ to investigate it. Your Committee are the more inclined to this from the Consideration 1. That the Continent being (upon every Principle) already much indebted to Monsr. Beau Marchais should the present Cargoe appear to be the Property of these States a proper Deduction from his Account may hereafter be made. & 2. That the Contracts entered into with his Agent Monsr. Franci will be amply sufficient for that Purpose should the Debt of these States not be so great as is above supposed. 2 Wherefore your Committee are of Opinion that without entering into an Inquiry where there is not sufficient Evidence to attain to any fixed Conclusion it will be proper to consider the Cargoe of the Ship Le Fier Roderique as the Property of the said Monsr. Beau Marchais. And to purchase from his Agents such Articles as may be necessary for the Use of these States. In order to determine what Price may be given for such Articles your Committee beg Leave to observe that the Returns of the said Cargoe being to be made in Tobacco it will be necessary to estimate the same accordingly. That the Average Price of this Article formerly was about four Dollars per Ct. and at present about twelve, being three times the former Price. That if upon £100 Stg. in Com modities £100 be allowed for Charges, Freight, Insurance or Risque and Profit then calculating Dollars as high as five Shillings Sterling will be 800 Dollars which formerly would have purchased 20,000 lbs of Tobacco and that Tobacco will now sell for 2,400 Dollars Where fore there should be allowed from this State 2,400 Dollars for every £100 Stg. of Commodities. On the other Hand if he be allowed £300 Stg. per Ct. on the outward and the same on the homeward bound Voyage amounting to 900 Stg. or 20,000 Livres being the Price of 10,000 lbs of Tobacco in France then Tobacco being here estimated at 12 DD the same would amount to 1200 Dollars on every £100 Stg. But further as it is the Interest of these States to state the Price of Tobacco low it may be proper to contract for it to be delivered at the Rate of 10 Dollars per Ct. in which Case the amount according to the above Calculations would be 1000 and 2000 DD per £100 Stg. Wherefore taking a Medium of 1500 may on the whole appear proper to limit the Price not to exceed the Rate 1500 D. or £450 Vir ginia Currency per 100 Stg. to be paid in Tobacco at a Price not less than 10 Dollars or £5 of the same Currency. Your Committee further observe that in order to avoid all Com petition between Purchasers it will be proper that as the Governour of Virginia is in Treaty for the Cargoe to apply to him to purchase
