June 10, 1778 65 for the united States such of the Articles as may be necessary for them under the Restrictions above mentioned. And your Committee beg Leave further to observe that the said Monsr. Beau Marchais having by his Agent offered to Congress a Contract in the Alternative either to pay in France for the Goods he shall transmit with all Costs and Charges, Freight, Insurance, Inter est, Commissions &ca. or that he shall transmit the same at his Risque to be paid for in America at the current Price. And Congress having chosen the former have thereby in the Opinion of your Com mittee exposed themselves to great Fraud and also to the Loss of the Goods which will not probably be transported with such Care when at the Risque of these united States as when on the Account of the Individual shipping them. Besides as it is probable that Goods will become much plentier by an open Commerce with France they will probably come much cheaper purchased here than in Europe. Wherefore they conceive it would be proper to alter the Contract with Monsr. Franci if he shall incline thereto. All the above dis agreed. 3 The Committee &c Report the following Resolutions 4 Whereas by the Letter 5 of Monsr. Beaumarchais it appears that® the Cargoe of the Ship Le Fier Rodrique is to be offered to Congress to be by them purchased or such Part thereof as they may think proper in Preference of all others: And whereas his Excellency Pat rick Henry Esq Governor of Virginia is in treaty therefor with Monsr. Chevallie the Consignee of the said Cargoe 7 Resolved that Govr. Henry be requested to purchase [for] the united States the Articles contained in the List hereto annexed being part of the Cargo of the French Ship Lefier Roderique 8 as cheap as he can not exceeding the Price following towit £450 Virginia Money for every £100 Stg. to be paid in Tobacco at ten Dollars per Ct. And that a Letter be written to his Excellency explaining the Principles of such Limitation. Agd. 9 Resolved that the Commercial Committee be directed to confer with Monsr. Franci and if he shall incline thereto to alter the Cont[rac]t made with him on the Part of Monsr. Beau Marchais and these S[tates] so far as to adopt the Offer of the said Monsr. Beaumarchais to transport the Articles oft ordered by Congress to the Continent at his own Risque to be paid for here at the Price of such Articles when they shall arrive. List of Articles Boulets ronde de divers Calibres ) o{ different Sizes 33, 44, 10, 14, o. ) Bas de Soie assortie de Laine 1 Mens Silk and Woollen Stock- aussi assortis ( ings
