June 10, 1778 67 4:91-94. The report Morris drafted on behalf of the committee was taken up in Congress on June 10, at which time the delegates approved a considerably abbre viated version of it, which merely requested Gov. Patrick Henry of Virginia to purchase certain parts of the cargo of Le Fier Roderique at a price proposed by Morris in his report. See JCC, 11:576, 584. It seems virtually certain that Congress rejected or postponed consideration of the rest of Morris’ report because of a re luctance to become further entangled at this time in the vexing question of whether it was obligated to pay for the military supplies Beaumarchais had shipped to the United States. 2 See JCC, 10:316-18. 3 Last four words added by Laurens. ■* Laurens added these words in place of Morris’ original statement: “Your Committee on the whole Matter submit the following Resolutions.” 5 Laurens inserted the last two words in place of "the Orders.” ® Last three words added by Laurens. 7 Laurens wrote "PPd [postponed]’’ between the lines above “Cargoe.” 8 Last eleven words added by Laurens. 9 Word written by Laurens. See also Laurens to Patrick Henry, June 13, 1778. Henry Laurens to the States Sir 10 June 1778 1 Authentic intelligence received by Congress from many quarters leave it no longer doubtful in what manner the Enemy mean to con duct their plan of Conciliation. Under delusive appearances of pacific Acts and Peace-making Commissioners, already their Military Reinforcements begin to arrive, and already they have commenced the Campaign in many places with Acts of cruelty and devastation. Indian irruptions and burning houses, in the moment of dis persing propositions for Peace, evince the insidious designs of the Enemy and demonstrate the necessity of wisdom in Council; of strength and vigour in the field. The former may be employed to distress the Enemy greatly, by withholding from them the provisions of America, and the latter by quickly collecting powerful Armies to take advantage of their present weakness. 2 The present moment unimproved may be productive of most per nicious consequences, and the public safety demands strong and united efforts. Experience hath shewn that the Marine force of our Enemies en ables them to secure, for the support of their Armies, almost the whole of our exported provisions, and therefore Congress, impressed with the necessity of preventing the supplies derived to our foes from this source, and desirous of supplying the Armies of the United States, have, upon mature deliberation, laid an Embargo on provi sions of all kinds, and they earnestly request the vigorous exercise of the powers of your State to carry into effectual execution this most necessary measure.
