68 June 10, 1778 The urgent necessity for the provisions with which your State is to furnish the Army, induces Congress to press upon you, Sir, immedi ate and constant attention to this important business, and the present absence of the Enemy’s ships from the Bay of Chesapeak may be improved by seizing the opportunity of water conveyance to the Head of Elk. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Endorsed: “Circular to the several States in Union in cluding Delaware all forw[ar]d[e]d.” It is significant that this letter appears in Laurens’ presidential letterbook immediately after his June 14 letter to John Sullivan, for which see note 3 below. 1 This letter is based upon a draft that reflects the work of two committees of Congress. The first, which was appointed on June 3 to consider a May 27 letter from Commissary General Jeremiah Wadsworth dealing with his difficulties in procuring beef, submitted reports calling for the suspension or repeal of state laws regulating prices and for the imposition of a six-month embargo on provi sions that were approved by Congress on June 4 and 8 respectively. See JCC, 11:563, 569-70, 572, 578-79; and Laurens to William Livingston, June 5, 1778, note 2. Although Congress resolved on the eighth that “it be earnestly recom mended to the respective states, to take the most effective measures for carrying. . . [the embargo] into immediate execution,” the task of embodying this recommendation in a circular letter to the states fell to another committee, which was appointed the following day to consider a June 3 letter from Gen. Horatio Gates, recently reappointed to the northern military department. It was this sec ond committee that drafted the present circular letter, which won congressional approval this day, and that addressed itself not only to Gates’ concerns but also to the first committee’s call for an embargo. See JCC, 11:579, 582-84; and PCC, item 154, 1:374-406. 2 At this point in the LB, Laurens inexplicably omitted a paragraph which, upon instruction from Congress, he was supposed to send to every state except North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia: “In duty, therefore, to their con stituents, Congress earnestly call upon you, sir, and your State, to adopt the most effectual and vigorous measures for speedily reinforcing the continental army with your quota of troops.” JCC, 11:583. An examination of some of the RC’s of this letter reveals that Laurens was in consistent in carrying out this order. For example, he left this paragraph out of the letter he sent to Pres. Caesar Rodney of Delaware but put it in the one he sent to Gov. Richard Caswell of North Carolina. See American Manuscripts, MH-H; and N.C. State Records, 13:156-58. This paragraph also does not appear in the copy of this letter in Laurens’ private letterbook. Laurens Papers, ScHi. 3 Although Laurens was instructed to include the foregoing paragraph only in the letters he sent to the governors of Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina, he inadvertently left it out of his letter to North Carolina, an oversight he corrected on June 14 when he wrote a brief covering letter to Governor Caswell enclosing a copy of the omitted paragraph. PCC, item 13, 1:367. As the document note makes clear, the marginal note that Laurens wrote next to this paragraph in his presidential letterbook-“this Paragraph to the Governors of Maryland, Vir ginia & North Carolina’’—could not have been written before June 14.
