June 11, 1778 75 Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 11th June 1778. Late last Night I was honored with Your Excellency’s favor of the 9th accompanied by Sir Henry Clinton’s application for a passport for Doctor Ferguson & Your Excellency’s reply—these I presented to Congress this Morning, & ’tis probable I shall receive from the House the necessary Commands to morrow. In the mean time I am ordered to transmit to Your Excellency an Act of Congress of the present date, directing an enquiry to be made into the conduct of the late Quarter Master general & other Officers in that department, which will be found within the present Inclosure. 1 I have the honor to be, With the greatest Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (DLC). 1 The original motion on this issue offered in Congress this day called upon Washington to investigate the conduct of former quartermaster general Thomas Mifflin and his subordinates and provided that “if it shall appear that the ex traordinary deficiencies thereof, and the consequent distresses of the army, were chargeable to the misconduct of the said quarter master general or any of the said officers that a court martial be forthwith held on the delinquents.” Congress rejected the motion in this form by a vote of seven states to three with one di vided, but then approved a slightly amended version of it, omitting the word forthwith, without a roll call vote. See JCC, 11:591-92. Congress’ call for this inquiry nevertheless produced meager results, for Wash ington was too busy to conduct the investigation called for, and Congress refused to accede to Mifflin's request that it conduct one of its own. Consequently, Mifflin resigned from the army in August 1778 and began a newspaper campaign designed to force Congress to set up a special committee of inquiry. Although Mifflin's appeals to public opinion eventually led Congress on January 23, 1779, to renew its request to Washington to investigate the former quartermaster general, Washington demurred on the grounds that Mifflin was no longer a member of the army, and there the matter ended. For an account of this episode which con cludes that Mifflin was guilty of no irregularities during his two terms as quarter master general, from August 1775 to June 1776 and from September 1776 to November 1777, see Kenneth R. Rossman, Thomas Mifflin and the Politics of the American Revolution (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1952), chap. 12.
