80 June 12, 1778 by this conveyance under the 9 and 10 Inst. This is devoted to ac company News Papers printed and M. S. and certain Scraps below. My application to business for a few days past has been extremely intense, I dare not detain the present Messenger an hour, from these considerations I rely upon your Excellency’s indulgence—and I must also rely upon the Chief Justice for giving to the Public in So. Car olina the present current interresting intelligence more copiously than my time and avocations will allow me to attempt. We have advice from Mr. Bingham Esquire agent at Martinico that many, I think he says, all American Prisoners had been dis charged from confinement in the English Islands—many of them had arrived at Martinico. If I were to measure the humanity of the English Governments by the practices of British Commanders and Officers here, the conclusion would infallibly be, that scarcity of pro vision had produced this extraordinary mark of Clemency. The Indians Northward and Westward have taken their Lesson from the Savages at Philadelphia, New-York & R Island. In the very Act of negociating for Peace they are burning, murdering and Scalp ing. Congress yesterday voted 932,74314 Dollars for raising about 3000 men for carrying the war into the Indian Country—the proper Officers in the Northern department to be appointed by General Gates. General McIntosh will command at Fort Pitt and against De troit if we proceed. An Enquiry is ordered by Congress into the conduct of Major General Mifflin and the Officers in his late department of Quarter Master General. There was a violent opposition of near four hours. ’Tis amazing to me, who am persuaded as a Man of honor, the Gen eral must wish for an investigation in order to satisfy the public who at present clamor exceedingly upon the subjects of neglect, mis-ap- plication, peculation 8cc. An enquiry will remove every groundless imputation. The last authentic advices from Philada. are of the 9th Current. The Enemy continued their preparations for removal, at that time they pretended they were to cross Delaware, march down the Eastern shore and embark at some convenient place below, now to me this appears Childish. Why hazard the crossing a river, the fa tigue of a long march in the heat of Summer, the desertions which will infallibly happen, when all might be avoided by an easy and safe embarkation at the City and march in one tide 60-and if fa voured by wind 160 miles—yet people swallow this and tenfold more gross propositions. Indulging a belief of their intention to leave us wholly has much injured our recruiting service. I have the honor to be LB (ScHi). 1 See Laurens to Washington, June 11, 1778, note.
