82 June 12, 1778 Congress as late as the morning of June 13, but it seems likely that the resolve was penned during the debate on the 12th. 2 On the verso of the scrap of paper on which Lee drafted this resolve are two notes written by Henry Laurens and Charles Thomson. Their content and ap pearance suggest that the president and secretary of Congress exchanged these notes while debate on the passport request was in progress on June 12. At the top of the document Laurens penned the query: "If Doctr. Ferguson comes here will it not follow that some conference will be had & what is the conclusion?” To which Thomson replied: “I suppose he will bring a letter sealed and if sealed he should be confined to his room & an answer to the letter sent by him or by a special messenger of Congress but no conference ought or can with pro priety be held with him. “Tho from curiosity I fancy conferences will be held with him by the members possibly not to any great purpose on our side.” Francis Lewis to John Langdon Dear Sir York Town 12 June 1778 Don Juan d Miralles a Spanish Gentleman of fortune who lately arrived at Chs. Town So. Carolina from the Havanna, had at Chs. Town procured a ship laden with near 1200 Casks of Rice to be pur chased for him and sent for Cadiz. 1 Don Miralles is now in this Town & yesterday receiv’d a letter from his Agent at Chs. Town advisg that his ship was taken by a British ship of War, retaken by a privateer belonging to one of the Eastern States on this Continent. The ship is called the Nuestra Senora Del Carmen, Don Francisco Pruna Masr., sail’d from Cha. Town 27th March last, she had a Spanish Register, and cleared as from the Havanna directly for Cadiz, for a covering, in case she was examined by a British armed Vessell. As it is probable this Vessell may be brought into some of the Eastern Ports, if within your district, I must desire you would enter a claim in behalf of said Don Juan D Miralles to both Vessell & Cargo, geting the salvage adjusted agreeable to the resolves of Congress. The expences shall be thankfully repaid you by, Sir, your very Huml Servt, Fra. Lewis RC (PHi). Endorsed: “Given to me by Mrs Elwyn daughter of Governor Lang don . . . R Gilmore, 1829.” 1 Don Juan de Miralles, a Cuban landowner fluent in English and French, was an agent of the Spanish government who had been appointed in December 1777 by Diego Jose Navarro, the governor general of Cuba, and directed to proceed to the seat of Congress in the guise of a merchant so that he could there gather in telligence on “the present state of the war, the principal advantages gained by each party and the respective forces, the inclination of both or either to continue the war or to abandon it, and any design prejudicial to Spain and her American possessions which they may attempt.” Navarro’s December 17, 1777, instructions to Miralles are in Papeles Procedentes de Cuba, Legajo 1290, Archivo General de
