June 12, 1778 83 Indias, Seville. It should be noted that Navarro launched Miralles’ mission on instructions from Josd de GAlvez, the minister of the Indies in Madrid. See Gdlvez to Navarro, August 26, 1777, ibid. For a detailed account of Miralles’ career as a Spanish agent in York and Philadelphia, see Herminio Portell-Vild, Los "Otros Extranjeros" en La Revolution Norteamericana (Miami, Fla.: Edi- ciones Universal, 1978), pp. 57-92. It is worth noting that Miralles was already acquainted with a few members of Congress before his arrival in York on June 9, though only two of them are men tioned by name in his correspondence with his superiors. The first was John Ma thews, with whom Miralles had become acquainted during his stay in Charleston, S.C., from January to April; and the second was Francis Lewis, whom he had met in Edenton, N.C., in May while Lewis was transacting business for the Marine Committee in that state. Miralles' subsequent reports to Navarro and Gdlvez contain considerable in formation for the study of Congress and the relations of delegates with foreign agents. In his May 13, 1778, letter to Navarro, for example, written from Edenton, N.C., where he arrived on May 10, Miralles explained his introduction to Lewis as follows. “The very day I arrived in this city I had an opportunity to speak to the Honourable Francis Lewis, one of the members of Congress who is commis sioned by it to make certain contracts having to do with supplying the American Army. He has been very courteous to me and has introduced me to the leading citizens of the city [Edenton] . . . and he has offered to accompany me to the site of the Congress, where he is going to take his seat. I have become acquainted with more than six members of the Congress and I hope they will make possible my friendship with all the others, which will make my life in the provinces more pleasant.” And he recounted another meeting with Lewis in his May 16 dispatch to Na varro. "As soon as notice of the treaty [of alliance with France] was received in this city [Edenton] the Municipal Council planned a great banquet for all cit izens on the following day, which was yesterday. To it were invited the French men most conspicuous here, employees of the merchant ships of their nation come to trade here. I was invited also and they seated me on the right hand of the master of ceremonies, the Honourable Francis Lewis. It is impossible to exag gerate the universal pleasure which this news has given the inhabitants of this city, who hope that our Court will join in the treaty. After dinner there followed thirteen toasts, each one followed by thirteen cannon shots. The sixth was for the health of Louis XVI, the Most Christian King of France, and the seventh for our Catholic Monarch Sire, Don Carlos III. It did not escape notice that they had placed in the middle those worthy sovereigns with whom they should have be gun.” Writing from Baltimore on June 6 to Jos6 de GMvez, Miralles also explained an interesting conversation he had had, while passing through Williamsburg, with Gov. Patrick Henry, “who overwhelmed me with the most courteous expressions.” “They all hope for war between Spain and England,” Miralles reported, "and I believe that news of it would cause as much pleasure as did the alliance of France with these united provinces. "The Governor told me of having received on the 26th of last month a report that a party of men from Virginia authorized by him and another party of Amer icans sent by the Congress had gone down the Ohio river to the Mississippi and had captured the settlements and forts which the English had in Nachitoches and in the Illinois and had seized a 20-gun ship and other ships loaded with indigo worth 4,000 pounds sterling. Governor Henry suggested to me the ease with which the province of Mississippi or Movila, and Panzacola, which France and Spain ceded to England, could be captured by sending the Americans who are in Nachitoches and others as well if it seemed necessary down to join the garrison of Nueva Orleans, whose Governor could command the expedition. He said that the
