June 14, 1778 Samuel Adams E Gerry Fra Dana James Lovell 91 RC (M-Ar). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Adams, Dana, and Gerry. 1 Earlier this day Congress had directed the delegates from New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut to write to their respective states urging them to raise troops for the planned Rhode Island expedition commanded by Gen. John Sullivan. See JCC, 11:605; and Henry Laurens to John Sullivan, June 14, 1778. Henry Laurens to George Johnstone Dear Sir, York-Town June 14. 1778. 1 Yesterday I was honoured with your favour of the 10th, 2 and thank you for the transmission of those from my dear and worthy friends Mr. Oswald and Mr. Manning. 3 Had Doctor Ferguson been the bearer of these papers, I should have shewn that Gentleman ev ery degree of respect and attention, that times and circumstances ad mit of. It is, Sir, for Great-Britain to determine whether her Commission ers shall return unheard by the Representatives of these United States, or revive a friendship with the Citizens at large, and remain among us as long as they please. You are undoubtedly acquainted with the only terms upon which Congress can treat for accomplishing this good end; terms from which, although writing in a private character, I may venture to as sert, with great assurance, they never will recede, even admitting the continuance of hostile attempts, and that, from the rage of war, the good people of these States shall be driven to commence a treaty westward of yonder Mountains. And permit me to add, Sir, as my humble opinion, the true interest of Great Britain, in the present advance of the Contest, will be found in confirming our Indepen dence. Congress in no hour have been haughty, but to suppose that their minds are less firm in the present, than they were, when, destitute of all foreign aid, even without expectation of an alliance, when, upon a day of general public fasting and humiliation, in their House of Worship and in the presence of God, they Resolved, “to hold no conference or Treaty with any Commissioners on the part of Great Britain, unless they shall, as preliminary thereto, either withdraw their Fleets and Armies, or, in positive and express terms, ac knowledge the Independence of these States,” would be irrational. 4 At a proper time. Sir, I shall think myself highly honoured, by a personal attention, and by contributing to render every part of these States agreeable to you; but until the basis of mutual confidence shall be established, I believe, Sir, neither former private friendship,
