92 June 14, 1778 nor any other consideration, can influence Congress to consent that even Governor Johnstone, a Gentleman who has been so deservedly esteemed in America, shall see the Country. I have but one voice, and that shall be against it. But let me intreat you, my Dear Sir, do not hence conclude that I am deficient in affection to my old Friends, through whose kindness I have obtained the honour of the present correspondence, or that I am not with very great personal respect and esteem, Sir, Your most obedient and most humble ser vant, Henry Laurens Reprinted from Pennsylvania Gazette, June 20, 1778. Addressed: “The Hon. George Johnstone, Esq; Philadelphia." Laurens sent a copy of this letter to Wash ington on June 18 that is virtually identical to the text printed here. See Laurens to Washington, June 18, 1778. 1 Laurens originally planned to send a private reply to Johnstone’s June 10 let ter, but because corresponding with the enemy was treasonable under Pennsyl vania law and considered impolitic by many delegates, he decided instead to allow William Henry Drayton to arrange for publication of his letter in the Pennsylvania Gazette. See Laurens to John Laurens, and Thomas McKean to Ceasar Rodney, June 17, 1778. 2 Johnstone’s June 10 letter to Laurens, which was also printed in the June 20 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette, reads as follows. “I beg to transfer to my friend Dr. Ferguson, the private civilities which my friends Mr. Manning and Mr. Oswald request in my behalf. He is a man of the utmost probity, and of the highest esteem in the Republic of Letters. “If you should follow the example of Britain in the hour of her insolence, and send us back without a hearing, I shall hope, from private friendship, that I may be permitted to see the country, and the worthy characters she has exhibited to the world, upon making the request in any way you may point out.” 3 William Manning’s April 11 and Richard Oswald's April 12, 1778, letters to Laurens are in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. Manning, was a London banker and the father-in-law of John Laurens; Oswald, an old acquaintance of Laurens’, was a Scottish merchant living in London who later served as one of the British nego tiators of the Treaty of Paris. See David D. Wallace, The Life of Henry Laurens (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1915), pp. 50, 126, 464-65. 4 For the April 22, 1778, resolve quoted here by Laurens, see JCC, 10:379. Henry Laurens to John Sullivan Sir 14 June [1778] I have been honoured with your several favors of the 26th and 31st May which were duly presented to Congress, the commands which I have received thereon are contained in the inclosed Resolve of the 13th to which I beg leave to refer. 1 I have sent to the Delegates of the three States mentioned in the Resolve to hasten their dispatches, and have not to add, but assur ances of being, With great Regard & Esteem &c. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 General Sullivan’s May 26 and 31 letters to Laurens, which were read in
