June 15, 1778 103 nen 8cc. As soon as he arrives will forward my dear Girl what he brings. The British Army would certainly have left Philad. if the Commissioners had not arrived as they did & the prevailing Opinion is that they will go yet—at present it seems a dead Calm. The Com missioners have announced their Arrival to Congress in Form but no Answer is yet received tho hourly expected. We flatter ourselves when the Answer comes they will go off & commence Operations in some other Part of the Country. I have such an Acct, from our Friend in Town as makes me hope this will be the Case. She has sent me a Message desiring me not to leave the Neighbourhood & to come in as soon as possible. None of the Vessels are yet returned but they get the Provisions from Hand to Mouth by Boats. Sam cannot be heard of. I fear he is pressed, but you will judge whether Hannah should know it. I think rather not. I am very impatient to see you & the dear Children, their diverting Prattle 8c Company makes them every Day more dear. I was very near buying a Poney for Joe the other Day but had Resolution enough to get over the Temptation; I do not know whether I should do as well if it fell in my Way again. Kiss them all for me Sc endeavour to keep up your Spirits. I would not have you a dull, moping, dejected Wife for the World. As we have our Joys 8c Pleasures, my dear Creature we must not expect them unmixed with some Trouble 8c Sorrow. It is not the lot of hu man Nature nor the Portion Providence assigns its Creatures. Let us therefore be resigned Sc endeavour to be chearful as it conduces to our own Happiness 8c promotes that of those about us. I repeat again that I long to see you 8c shall rejoice to hear from you as often as you find Time 8c Oppy. 8c am my dear Love with un abated Affection, most sincerely yours, J Reed P.S. Since writing the above our Commissy. of Prisoners has come from Germantown 8c says Mr. Loring assured him they should leave Philad this Week, that he had embark’d such Prisoners as were not to be exchanged 8c would send out those that where [were], which he has done this Day. Many other Circumstances concur to make this credible. Their Route will be thro the Jersey but what Parts we can only yet conjecture. The Answer from Congress is momently ex pected. Ld. Carlisle with his Girl has taken Possession of the Front Part of Mr Powel’s House much to Mrs. Powels Mortification I dare say. Once more my Love Adieu. RC (NHi).
