104 June 16, 1778 Francis Dana’s Notes [June 16? 1778] 1 The great point may be to draw us into a conference. For this purpose they offer to negotiate upon many matters be yond their powers under the Act of Parliamt. They guard these extra propositions by asking things they cannot imagine we shall grant. Our refusal therefore brings the real matters of negotiation within the Act. But should they accede to those extra propositions, Parliamt. might & wou’d reject them. The King has, or he has not a right to treat with us beyond the limits of the Act. If he has not, every proposition intimated as a ground of treaty without the Act is insidious. If he has, then they may be supposed to be instructed to accede to our claim of independance provided they find peace can be no oth- erways effected. This they may think necessary if they are informed of the substance of our treaty of Alliance. Is it not wiser for Britain to acknowledge our Independance now, than to refuse it and thereby expose the few colonies she holds in America to be added to the Union. If so we ought to conduct as if she was prepared to do it. The King I think may treat with us by virtue of his prerogative, as Independant States. For are we not in fact such? Hath not our Independance been acknowledged by France? Did she not ground her connection with us upon our having been in full possession of Independance ever since July 1776? Have we not reason to expect other Nations will follow the exam ple of France? MS (NN). In the hand of Francis Dana. 1 These undated notes, and a similar set in the hand of Charles Thomson printed below under this same date, contain the substance of debates over Congress’ response to the British peace commissioners’ June 9 letter, which was debated on June 13, 15, and 16. For a discussion on the circumstances that led to these debates, see Samuel Adams to James Warren, June 13, 1778, note 3. The committee appointed on June 16 to prepare Congress’ response to the commissioners included William Henry Drayton, Richard Henry Lee, Gouverneur Morris, John Witherspoon, and Samuel Adams, in the last of whose collection of personal papers these notes are now located. Dana’s notes may have been prepared for a speech he delivered at this time or may simply reflect sentiments he passed on to Adams for the committee’s consideration. The fact that Secretary Thomson’s notes on the same subject printed below are also located in Adams’ papers strongly supports the assumption that Adams made use of both documents in his work on the committee, whose draft letter for the commissioners was re-
