106 June 16, 1778 the documents of Francis Dana, Charles Thomson, and John Witherspoon printed under this date. 2 At this point in the draft the following passage is set off by diagonal marks: “and have Considered it with a coolness that that having.’’ Both James Ballagh and Edmund Burnett incorporated a part of this passage into their differing ver sions of Lee’s draft, but neither seems to reflect Lee’s intent. The appearance of the MS and the sense of the sentence suggest that Lee simply intended to delete these words. See Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:414-15; and Burnett, Letters, 3:296-97. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir York in Pennsylva. 16 June 1778 I thank you for your favor of the 5th which I received yesterday. 1 It is the only satisfactory account I have received of the proceedings of our Assembly. The enemy have made many insidious attempts upon us lately, not in the military way, they seem tired of that, but in the way of negotiation. Their first, was by industriously circulat ing the bills of pacification as they call them, before they had passed into Acts, in order to prevent our closing with France. These bills received a comment from Congress on the 22d. of April, which no doubt you have seen. The inclosed paper will shew you the second attempt from Lord Howe and Gen. Clinton, with the answer of Congress. The third movement happened very lately, when Clinton desired a passport from Gen. Washington for Dr. Ferguson to come to Congress with a letter from the newly arrived Commissioners Lord Carlyle, Wm. Eden esqr. and Governor Johnston. The General refused the passport until Congress should give leave. The letter from Clinton was transmitted here, but the impatience of the Com missioners did not suffer them to wait for an answer. Thro the medium of the General, leaving their Secretary Dr. Ferguson be hind, the packet arrived containing a letter from the Commissioners with a copy of their Commission. Their letter is a combination of fraud, falsehood, insidious offers, and abuse of France, Concluding with a denial of Independence. The sine qua non being withheld, you may judge what will be the fate of the rest. An answer has not yet been sent. In due time you will have both the letter and its an swer. I dont know whether to call Governor Johnston an Apostate or not. He has been in opposition to the Ministry and has spoken some speeches in our favor, but I believe he has never been a friend to American Independence. However, there seems no doubt but that he has on this occasion touched Ministerial gold. The others are no torious Ministerialists. It is amazing how the Court of London does mix pride, meanness, cunning, and folly, with Gasconade, and timid ity. In short the strangest composition is there formed that ever dis graced and injured Mankind. The King of Prussia has declared in terms explicit, that he would follow France in acknowledging our
