June 16, 1778 107 Independence and his hobby horse is, to become a maritime power. Yet he seems, by his movements disposed to quarrel with the Em peror about the divisions of the Bavarian dominions, the Elector being dead without Heir of his body, the next Heir who is the Elec tor Palatine must loose his right between the two great Spoilers. We have been long amused with accounts of the enemy abandoning Philadelphia. I believe they will do so when they can stay no longer, but not until then. They have certainly removed all their heavy Cannon, Baggage &c. And fearing a French war every Moment, they keep in readiness to depart. We did lately shatter extremely a 20 gun ship belonging to the enemy in the North river, and sent her away to York, in no condition for service. I observe by our last delegation, that my enemies have been again at work, however, they shall not gain their point of withdrawing me from the public Councils. 2 I am dear Sir your affectionate friend and obedient Servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:200-201. 1 Jefferson’s June 5 letter to Lee is in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:194. 2 The Virginia House of Delegates had not included Richard Henry Lee's name on the list of nominees it selected on May 28 to be considered in the an nual balloting for delegates to Congress. The senate added his name to the list, but in the house balloting the following day, Lee ranked sixth among the seven delegates appointed. Journal of the House of Delegates of the Commonwealth of Virginia, 1777-81 (Richmond, 1827), May 1778, pp. 23-27. Governor Henry expressed his concern over the outcome of this election in his June 18 letter to Lee. “I felt for you on seeing the Order in which the balloting placed the Delegates in Congress,” Henry explained. "It is an Effort of that ran corous Malice that has so long followed you thro the arduous Path of Duty in which you have invariably travel'd since America resolved to repel her Op pressors.” Lee Papers, PPAmP. In a more accusing tone, Francis Lightfoot Lee of fered the following comments in his June 25 letter to his brother. “The junto, by their Lyes & intrigues have so far carried their point, as to throw some little discredit upon us; but have missed their great aim, of removing obstructions to their jobbing schemes. I think you are perfectly right in not gratifying them, by resenting the ill treatment of the Assembly. The Esqr. says, Mr. Harvie, who got to Wmsburg after the election, was much affronted, & made those who had been taken in, by certain gentry, perfectly asshamed of themselves. I suppose they wou’d now willingly return you thanks, to make up with you; tho they will again be taken in by the same wretches.” Lee Family Papers, ViU. Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton York Town 16th June 1778 I am very sorry to inform your Excellency of the Death of our Friend and my very worthy Colleague Mr. Livingston. He was from the Moment almost of his Arrival here confined to his Room and on Friday last at 4 oClock in the Morning paid the last Debt to Nature. 1 I have before me a Report on the Vermont Business. 2 I do
