114 June 17, 1778 out vessels to go under convoy with Le Fier Roderique. Lewis probably gave this letter to Francy without specifying an addressee and Francy most likely showed it to Carter Braxton, Benjamin Harrison, Jr., and John Norton, as well as other Continental agents he contacted in Virginia. See Beaumarchais, Correspondance (Morton and Spinelli), 4:123, 142n.l2. 2 The following note appears after the French translation of this letter and ends abruptly at mid-page. “N.B. As this order has been delivered to me after they have been informed of the sale of the cargo of the Fier Rodrique, it is clear that this tobacco has been granted to me in order to be used for the discharge of Congress’s debt to you for your other shipments; thus despite the urgent representations of the honest agency of Passy, and the at least not very prudent conduct of Mr. Chevallie, I have succeeded in getting what everyone seems to wish to contest you for. This would be a very good situation to turn to good ac count in case of new difficulties, but from now on I hope that I will not have great obstacles to overcome considering the contract I have made and besides my claims are supported by Mr. Deane & Carmichael; the only obstacle that I will overcome with great difficulty will be my procuring . . . .” Ellipsis in Tr. For Francy’s continuing “difficulties” in completing the transactions Beaumarchais hoped to carry out with Congress, see Henry Laurens to Francy, July 26, 1778, note 1. William Henry Drayton’s Notes for a Speech in Congress [June 17? 1778]’ It is with the highest pleasure I think I have occasion to flatter myself that the view we on Saturday took of our foreign affairs, was such a view as may [have] enabled this House to distinguish objects at that distance with precision & to form their judgments in prudence & wisdom. Our foreign affairs have long been enveloped in impenetrable darkness: but the rays of light now beam in our politi cal firmament, & reveal the objects to our sight. I trust we will not shut our eyes. We are Sir placed in the watch tower of America. We are stationed on this height, that we may seeing [see] the American affairs, interists in one grand & extensive view. We are placed high in The Imperial car of America that we may guide it with skil, lash on the sluggard, curb in the impetuous, & unharness & discharge the unruly draught. Oh Mr. President] that we were wise, that we would but take notice of the precipice along which we are now driv ing. Oft Sir have we unknowingly in the night & in the day with our eyes wilfully shut rowled upon the extreem verge of this dreadful height—an invisible hand restrained our passing it. May I be permit ted to say we have long enough trifled with Providence, trifled with our generous constituents & indulged our private feelings? I will take the liberty to say Sir, it is our indispensable duty so to en deavour to conduct ourselves as may be most likely to conduce to the happiness of the People who seated us here, committing them selves to our impartiality, care & conduct.
