June 17, 1778 115 Sir, I know not how to account for it, but so it has happened, that it has accidentally general been my lot in every public Assembly or Council in which I have been placed, to move such subjects as draw upon the mover the displeasure of bodies of Men or of individuals. And I have done so, not I trust because actuated by a morose in clination, but because I thought it the duty of my Station. I have not stept into public life, I did not come into Congress to acquire friends but determinately & boldly to discharge the duty of a Citizen. Conscious that it is my duty to speak plainly & act decis[iv]ely I yet feel pain when in doing so any person feels distress or uneasiness. I am sensible sir, the subject I am agitating will unavoidably cause uneasiness in this House. The ties of blood like electrical conductors will convey & communicate the effects of a blow it is my duty to strike. I participate in the feelings which must arise upon this occa sion: I lament the cause, I regret the consequence. But Sir, in this place I look upon every Member as connected only with the public, and unconnected with individuals abroad, especially with persons in public office, otherwise freedom of debate must be destroyed, & the public good must yield to private connections. I flatter myself there fore, that nothing I shall say will be construed as ment to give pain to any Mem[ber] I disavow any such unmanly design. MS (PPL). In the hand of William Henry Drayton. 1 On June 16 Congress had appointed a committee consisting of William Henry Drayton, Samuel Adams, and Richard Henry Lee “to prepare a resolution for preventing any correspondence with the enemy.” This action was deemed neces sary to counteract the efforts of the Carlisle commissioners to promote support for their mission by distributing private letters in favor of reconciliation from themselves and from various English correspondents to friends and relatives in the United States, both in and out of Congress. Acting with dispatch, the com mittee submitted a report this day, which was written by Drayton and approved by Congress, calling upon state governments to prevent the delivery of letters from England “addressed to individuals of these United States . . . through the conveyance of the enemy.” See ]CC, 11:608, 616. At the same time. President Laurens reported to Washington, “there was an extraordinary Motion on our floor for calling upon Members to lay before Congress such Letters as they had received from the Commissioners or other persons, meaning persons in Great Britain on Political subjects,” which Congress did not approve largely as a result of Laurens’ opposition. See Laurens to Washington, June 18, 1778. Although Laurens did not identify the delegate who offered this unsuccessful motion, there is reason to believe that Drayton was the one in question and that he prepared these notes to serve as the basis for a speech in Congress on this issue. To begin with, such a motion would have been a logical extension of Drayton’s report on curbing correspondence with the enemy. Furthermore, his admission in these notes that “the subject I am agitating will unavoidably cause uneasiness in this House” and his statement that “I look upon every Member as connected only with the public, and unconnected with individuals abroad,” both fit in well with the proposal to require the delegates to submit to Congress all letters they had received from the commissioners and from England dealing with public affairs. Finally, Drayton’s mention of “the view we on Saturday took of our foreign af fairs” could be a reference to the June 13 debate in Congress on the commission-
