120 June 17, 1778 confidence and hope; experience will make her ever suspicious of the intentions of Britain: Hence, being in possession of powers, only short of independent, she will always be prepared to assert her rights, especially having in mind her naked condition at the sudden commencement of the present war. In such a formidable situation, design, accident, suspicion, or the breath of displeasure on either side, must, in a few years, break the cobweb by which you offer to hold her under the dominion of Britain. And is the acquiring do minion to be held by such a tie worth another campaign! Can it be worth the pursuit of a man of common honesty and common sense! But supposing your offers to be, what they are not, of sterling value to America: How inadequate are your powers to the purpose of accommodation! The great Lord Abingdon puts this matter in the clearest point of view. In his most elegant protest on this subject, he says, “Although the Commissioners and the Congress be agreed, such agreement is of no effect till confirmed by Parliament; which is giv ing such advantage to Parliament, by knowing what Congress will do, and is of such disadvantage to Congress, by not knowing what Parliament will confirm, that the very inequality of the conditions will put a stop to accommodation.” 5 If America enters into terms with you, see what might be the consequence—Your Excellencies must allow, that it is our duty to avoid them. We have made a solemn treaty with France—the object is, the es tablishment of our Independence. If we treat with you upon the footing of Dependence, we at once break our faith with France, for ever lose all credit with foreign nations, and are, ipso facto, cut off even from the hope of foreign succour. In this situation you will ab solutely hold us at mercy. Your King, Ministers and Parliament may refuse to ratify your engagements, for they have the power to do so. Governor Johnstone has long and ably pleaded the cause of Amer ica. Is he now come to our shore to invite us to surrender to the jus tice and mercy of our most unjust and vengeful enemies, who have for a long course of years treated us with the basest deceptions, and calumniated us throughout Europe: Enemies, who have starved to death our countrymen taken prisoners, loading them while alive and in their power with every insult. Enemies who gave stretch to their savage allies, 8 to murder our old and unarmed farmers, and their helpless women and children: Enemies who have plundered our country, burned our towns, and armed son against father, servant against master, and brother against brother, in order to subject us: Enemies who have moved even Hell itself to accomplish their pur pose of blood, ruin and tyranny: Enemies utterly abandoned to cor ruption, destitute of public virtue, deaf to the voice of justice, and dead to the feelings of humanity; Can it possibly be expected that such enemies, after the expence of so many millions; the loss of so much of their own blood; the disgraces their arms have sustained;
