June 18, 1778 131 no objection to your reading Mr. Oswalds in which there is some covert meaning and very interresting-to the Marquis de la Fay- ette (but I do not wish it to go further)—beg him ten millions of pardons that I do nothing more at this time than transmit several Letters which have just come to my hands for him. Adieu. LB (ScHi). Henry Laurens to William Livingston Dear sir > 18th June 1778 I beleive all, I know most of them, meaning the papers accompa nying this, are to be published, but the first of important Intelli gence is of somewhat more value than even the first fruit of Cucumbers. 1 Therefore I do myself the honor of the present trans mission. It would be an affront to hint, the public, I mean Congress, ought not in publication, to be forestalled. I wrote to your Excel lency yesterday by Camp & sent Copy of Congress’s answer to Lord Carlisle & Company. I wish I had time &: good occasions for re peating every day the assurances of being with sincere Respect & Es teem, Your Excelly’s obliged & Obedt. Servant &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens sent Governor Livingston a collection of documents pertaining to the Carlisle commissioners that was printed soon after in the June 20 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. Henry Laurens to George Washington Dear s ir York Town 18th June 1778. It has not been in my power with any convenience to make an earlier acknowledgement of Your Excellency’s favor of the 11th. There were Letters in the Commissioners Packet only for Congress & particular Members then present in the House, one for Mr. E. Rutledge unsealed & several also unsealed were brought as being taken from the Express—the utmost caution is necessary in the present conjuncture of our affairs & therefore had any suspicious directions turned up, such should have passed under the Eye of Congress. The Idea of opening other people’s Letter’s is exceedingly abhorrent to me, but I think Congress have a power over Letters equal at least to that which necessity obliges them sometimes to exer cise over persons; but Governor Johnson is too well hackney’d in the ways of Men to trust his deep schemes within our reach.
