June 18, 1778 133 James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General June 18th 1778 I have but few Words to write in answer to your Letter of the 13th received last Evening. 1 The Express having delivered the Letters under his Charge for Genl. Green to the Genl, himself, and Col. Malcomb having re ceived Instructions from the Board of War, I hope every Thing will speedily be on a good Footing in your Department. No Peace can take Place in Consequence of any Powers we have seen of the King’s Commissioners. Saturday’s Paper will contain the whole of what has hitherto passed. I can only say, they do not allow Independence; Therefore they might have tarried at Home. They call on God to witness that future Carnage will not be chargeable against Britain, if we refuse to listen to the Terms now offered: So that upon the Appearance of evacuating Philada. you are to expect the Enemy will be restless at York Island; but such Or ders are given as will counteract hostile Efforts. I have this Morning reed, a Letter of the 8th from Boston in which I am told “our Rein forcements are now beyond my Expectations. Many good Men are gone & going.’’ I am much pleased with Col. Malcomb; and I hope you will be greatly relieved by the Service of so good an Officer. And I cannot but intreat that you would continue to count a Post of Danger a Post of the most Honour. Your Affectionate humb. Serv. James Lovell RC (NHi). 1 General Gates’ June 13 letter asking Lovell to support Udny Hay’s reappoint ment as deputy quartermaster general in the northern department is in the Gates Papers, NHi. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen j une 18th 1778 This will be handed you by Captain Peter Landais whom Congress has appointed to take Command of the new frigate Al liance. 1 We desire you will put that vessel under his care and use your utmost endeavours to have her Speedily fitted and manned for the sea. We have desired Captain Landais to proceed as far as Ports mouth in New Hampshire to give his advice as to the Construction of the 56 Gun ship now building there, he will afterwards return and attend the fitting 8c manning of the frigate which he is to command, and in which we doubt not you will find him very assidious. You will please to pay him the balance of his wages at the Rate of Sixty
