136 June 19, 1778 would be rejected here. Their Injuries have been so great & so often repeated that they could not expect our return to their domination, & therefore in my Judgement their Views in carrying the Proposals of Treaty so far, were directed to the Reconciling their own Peo ple, & to give a colouring to their own Conduct in the Eyes of the Powers of Europe. Whatever may have been their Motives for persevering to Treat on such narrow Ground knowing as they did the Temper of America, the sudden abruption of all hopes of ac commodation will immediately bring on some Determinations of considerable Moment respecting the operations of their Army. If they evacuate Philadelphia, and all their Movements & Preparations concur to shew they shortly intend it, their march will be directed to New York & thence up the North River. Friday Evening the 19th. A letter from the General informs Congress that Capt. M’clean had taken Possession of Philadelphia, after the main Body had gone over to the Jersies, by the way of Coopers Ferry & three thousand had imbarked and proceeded down the River. 2 I hope we shall not expose ourselves to any danger from their Stratagems. I am anxious to know how the Commissioners re ceived our final answer to their inadmissible propositions. These with the answers are inclosed. I wish to be informed how the People in Virginia stand affected as to the rejection of any Treaty or Com munication, on the Subject of the late Acts of Parliament bearing the specious Title of Conciliation. If they could be prevailed on to make a vigorous Effort to raise a formidable army capable of resist ing the augmenting powers of the Enemy, upon the principle of Self interestedness, & actual venality, as I do not expect it of them from Patriotism, they might the sooner go to the gratification of their Passionate fondness for Wealth, and the extension of that Com merce, the very Idea of which occupys every Faculty of their Souls. Nothing has occurred since writing the foregoing, respecting the Enemys motions either by Sea or Land & the inclosed Paper contains an exact State of our politicks, so that I have nothing more to add than that I am most truly yr. affect. Friend, John Banister My dear Mrs Bland 3 How is it that our correspondence is laid aside? Is it because a Person breathing this thick atmosphere, and inhabiting a Beotian Land, cannot produce a Sentiment that can claim the attention of a Lady of delicacy & Refinement? Perhaps there may be some thing in this Region unfavourable to the Flights of Fancy, Sc worse to the finer feelings of the Heart. The latter I am sensibly alive to notwith standing it is not here, that Philantophy &: the friendly attachments are often to be met with. Yet even here I have made some Con nections that are delightful, and serve to fill up that vacancy which the absence from those I hold in the highest estimation hath occa-
