138 June 19, 1778 the rest of the army was preparing to follow with all possible expedi tion. I desire my love to Molly & the little ones & Mrs. DarnalL I would answer little Poll’s letter, but really have my hands too full. Please to present my compliments to your visitants. Wishing you health and a long enjoyment of it, I am, yr. affec tionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. 20th June. I send you by Sam a packet from Joshua Johnson which Mr. Carmichael delivered to me. It contains newspapers, and I presume a letter, which I have not read, or even opened. As the perusal of the London newspapers, altho’ of an old date, may afford you some entertainment, I send the packet by Sam. If the Enemy go to N. York, it is my opinion they will acknowledge the Indepen dance of these States in 6 months time, and enter into a treaty of friendship & Commerce with us. I found my opinion on their not having declared war agt. France so late as the 28th April, when the Commissioners left England. Their finances are exhausted, they can not procure Mercenaries from any Powers in Europe, their own People seem to be averse to the war; in such a juncture &: situation of the affairs it would be madness to involve themselves in a war with the whole house of Bourbon, &: carry on the present unjust & impolitic war agt. us. RC (MdHi). 1 One of the earliest reports of the British evacuation of Philadelphia was the following letter written by Robert Morris to Capt. Alexander Clough under the place and date line “Philada. June 18th. 1778.” “I have been in this place since one oClock,” Morris explained, “and am sorry some of our troops were not here at an earlyer hour as they wou’d probably have Captured many British officers, indeed we are now told that several officers & Refugees are at this moment hid in the City with intent to make their escape this Evening which might be prevented if proper Guards were posted for the purpose. There are also Sundry Public Works, such as the Bridge over Schuylkill, the Public Stables, a Wood Yard with a Considerable quantity of Wood, Forage Yard &c all of which will be destroyed. Plundered & Pilfered by the lower order of Inhabitants, unless Guards are Set over them for preservation. I know that His Excy Genl Washington did not in tend that Troops shou’d indiscriminately enter the City, but that a particular Corps destined for this Service shou’d enter it to take care of Public Stores, preserve Peace & good order and for such other purposes as the Commanding Of ficer shou’d find necessary & proper. The Enemies Retreat has been so sudden, that the Corps intended for this Service have not yet arrived & possibly may not this Night. Under this Idea Colo. Boudinot prevailed on Capt Dandridge & Capt McClean to Enter the City, they have been usefull but their Numbers are not sufficient. I am of opinion Your appearance here with Your whole Force, also Capt McCleans wou’d Answer the valuable ends I have mentioned, of preserving Peace, Preventing Plunder, taking Prisoners &c untill the other Corps arrives and I hope you will find yourself at liberty to comply with the Wishes of the Whigs now in this City, who probably may stand in need of^your protection & who are ready to assist & support you in this business. You can if needfull produce this letter to His Excellency Genl Washington & I am confident it will have proper weight with him.” Washington Papers, DLC.
