June 19, 1778 139 Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Dear sir, York Town 19th June 1778 By Colo. Malcolm yesterday I had the honor of writing you a few lines while that active Spirit sat jogging my Elbow for dispatch. 1 The contents of the several Papers which will accompany this will appear in print some time to morrow, 2 these will probably be two or three days in front, I think Sir you are intitled to some of the first fruits of all important Public intelligence & therefore I had directed the inclosed Copies to be taken for your use. The correspondence between Govr. Johnstone & my self 3 was not intended for the Public eye but a certain Itch for knowing it both in & out of Doors combined with private considerations respecting my self which you will understand Sir, without explication prevailed on me to send it abroad in the very shape, meaning my answer, in which first impulses had formed it immediately after reading that Gentleman’s Address. I am with great Esteen & Regard, Dear sir, Your obedient & Most humble servant, Henry Laurens [P.S.] Next Week will produce you curious applications to Members of Congress &c. I have an Instance before me in which a great Man concludes, “lose not the feelings of Christians in the resentment of Men and as you have nobly fought now act more nobly and forgive us.” 4 One part of the Mission is to grant Pardons. Sing tantarara All Mad. 5 RC (NHi). 1 Laurens’ last extant letter to Gates is dated June 17, 1778. 2 Laurens is referring to documents pertaining to the Carlisle commissioners that were published in the Pennsylvania Gazette on June 20. 3 See Laurens to George Johnstone, June 14, 1778. 4 The quotation is from a letter to Joseph Reed from his brother-in-law Den nis De Berdt, for which see Reed to De Berdt, July 19, 1778, note 1. 5 Laurens also noted in his presidential letterbook that this day he "Inclosed to [Gates] in my private letter of this date an Act of Congress of the 17th for pre venting illicit Correspondence between the Enemy & the Inhabitants of these States.’’ See PCC, item 13, 1:372; and ]CC, 11:616. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Dear Sir 19 June [1778] I am honored by your favor of the 12. 1 Before this can reach Your Excellency you will have seen the correspondence between those great Personages at Philada. and some in my humble opinion not in ferior at York Town. In a leisure hour I shall have the honor of learning your Excellencies sentiments. Govr. Johnstone will know
