140 June 19, 1778 that although I mean and endeavour to be courteous to all Mankind nature has given me understanding enough to distinguish between Freind and Enemies, true politeness and fulsome flattery. If I live to be acquainted personally with that Ciceronian Hero I think 1 shall notwithstanding all his subtilety and command of Muscles draw a Bluff upon him by recapitulating his present attempts. Mr. Carmichael had a Letter for your Excellency which I presume he has sent forward. I don’t know whether he has any French Pa pers, but if he has the dates must be old, for he has been long ar rived. Congress have done nothing yet respecting Monsr. Tousard 2 and Colo. Armand, 3 I believe the business lies in the Board of War and will enquire about it. I never heard before of Chevr. De Fayolles or it has escaped my Memory, possibly he may appear under a different appellation which I have observed frequently in the Addresses to French Gentlemen. 4 I delivered the Papers concerning the West In dies to Congress who seemed by expressions to be properly impressed with a sense of your Excellency’s Zeal and good will for our Cause, but the late Treaty is a bar to an attempt at this time. 5 I have the honor to be &c. LB (ScHi). 1 Lafayette’s June 12 letter to Laurens is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:74-76. 2 Anne-Louis, chevalier de Tousard, whose promotion from captain to major Lafayette had solicited in several recent letters to Laurens, was made a brevet lieutenant colonel by Congress on October 27, 1778, in consequence of his "Gal lantry ... in the late Action on Rhode Island.’’ See ibid., pp. 61, 71, 76; and ]CC, 12:1068. 3 For a discussion of Armand-Charles Tuffin, marquis de La Rouerie’s plan to raise an independent corps, see Laurens to Lafayette, May 11, 1778, note 4. 4 In reality Laurens had already discussed the case of chevalier de Fayolles in his May 11, 1778, letter to Lafayette. 5 For a discussion of Lafayette’s proposed Franco-American expedition against the British West Indies, see Laurens to Lafayette, May 29, 1778, note 3. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen J une 19th 1778 We have been favoured with yours of the 25th ultimo, 2d & 8th Current which we have considered & as we wrote to you fully by Captain Barry 1 and other late conveyances we shall now only reply to such parts of your Letters as have not been determined on. So soon as will be convenient we wish to be furnished with the Ac counts of your transactions. We agree that you shall appoint a Naval Paymaster for your Department and hope you will be able to get some proper person for that purpose. It is an office of much impor-
