June 19, 1778 141 tance and should be filled by a man of integrity and capacity who will keep Regular and fair Books of accounts with all persons be longing to the Vessels of war within your department and pay them their wages as it may become due taking care always to keep a months pay in hand from the seamen until their time of entering is expired. Congress has not yet fixed a Salary for the Paymaster—when they do we presume it will be adequate to the importance of the Of fice. Before this you will know that we have appointed Captain Barry to the Raleigh & as he is an active good officer, we have strong hopes she will shortly be manned. Exclusive of the Vessels you have provided to carry dispatches to France, the sloop Providence will also be wanted for that purpose, and we request you will get her ready as soon as in your power. The Committee for foreign affairs will send off their dispatches to go by her in a day or two. 2 We have only to repeat our former request that you will use your utmost endeavours to get our Vessels fitted for Sea and sent out to gether as Speedily as possible. We hope the news of the Bostons safe arrival in France may be true and congratulate you on the Enemys having been obliged to evacuate Philadelphia. We are Gentlemen, Your very Hble servants P.S. We have received a Petition signed by Stephen Hill, Simon Gross, Joseph Adams, Adam Thaxter, Esek Hopkins & John Deamon. Should they not be wanted in their stations on board any of the Continental Vessels, we have agreed that they shall be at liberty to make a voyage in Private service their pay to cease during that time, which you will-please to inform them. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, May 30, 1778. 2 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin, June 20, 1778. Marine Committee to William Smith Sir J une 19th, 1778 In a letter from the Eastern Navy Board dated the 2nd instant they write to us—“that they have already sent forward to Sinpuxent three schooners which if they arrive safe will take more flour and Iron than is already provided, and shall soon get another which will be sufficient to bring the whole quantity proposed, you will therefore please to order the remainder to be ready.” It is the opinion of this committee that if there is not already at Sinepuxent a sufficient quantity of Flour and Iron (which we suppose is the case) to load these Vessels that shall be sent out for that purpose by the Navy
