June 20, 1778 143 circumstances and movements of the armies in consequence, I expect you will receive before this reaches you, and I believe we shall soon take leave of this dirty place and remove Congress to some place where we may be better accomodated. I make no doubt you have heard of the arrival of his Britannic Majesty’s Commissioners, and of their letters being sent to Congress; I now enclose you a paper which will inform you of all the transactions of Congress relative to that affair which will I hope give full satisfaction to every honest American. I have the pleasure to inform you that every member of Congress was firm and steady, never to make peace, but, on the principles of absolute Independence. I am sorry that the answer was deferred some days on account of the zeal of some members for sealing the let ters up and sending the letters back without reading, in consequence of some harsh expressions against the King of France; however it was overruled as you will see and a more proper method in my opin ion taken. What will be their next steps, time only can discover. In the packet to Congress were inclosed a great number of letters to the separate members, Some from Governour Johnstone to such of the members as he was acquanted with, and others from other persons in England who had any acquaintance with them. The enclosed from Robert Trail 2 came directed to you as a Delegate of Congress which was opened and I now enclose it to you. As to Marine affairs, Congress are very sensible some very essential alterations are necessary and seem determined to attend to it, as soon as the Confederation and some other very important matters are finished. I wish I could inform you that I thought it would soon happen, but the multitude of business that is daily crowding upon us, and the time it sometimes takes to determine on some not very important matters makes me fear it will not take place so soon as I could wish. Besides the want of men in Congress acquainted suffi ciently with Marine affairs is another great difficulty and causes that Committee to be filled with some persons like myself, unacquainted with the business they are ordered to superintend. “I heartily wish (with you) to see the American Navy respectable, and hope it will be put wholly into the hands of men whose private business does not militate with the public”; 3 but I cannot be fully of your opinion that it would be for the public service to put an entire stop to privateering, as I think experience has Shewn that privateers have done more towards distressing the trade of our enemies and furnishing these States with necessaries, than continental ships of the same force, and that is in my opinion the greatest advantage we can at present expect from our Navy; for at this early period we cannot expect to have a Navy sufficient to cope with the British. However I am quite convinced that it might with proper management be in a
