June 20, 1778 149 Henry Laurens to William Livingston Sir 20th June [1778] Since mine of the 9th and 10th Instant, I have had the honor of receiving and presenting to Congress Your Excellencies favors of the 4th, 11th and 15th Instant. 1 Commissions for Vessels shall be transmitted to Your Excellency when the Marine Committee shall have made certain amendments judged to be necessary and I can obtain an impression from the Printer. Your Excellency will be pleased to receive inclosed an Act of Congress of the 17 th Instant for cutting off all correspondence be tween the Enemy and private persons Inhabitants of these States, to which I take the liberty of adding four Copies of this day’s Gazette containing very important Intelligence. I Am with great Regard &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Governor Livingston’s June 11 letter to Laurens, in which he described his inability to comply with “the many applications for Commissions for privateers and Letters of marque” he was receiving, is in PCC, item 68, fol. 379. His June 4 and 15 letters are not in PCC or the Laurens Papers, ScHi. Henry Laurens to William Malcom Sir. York Town 20th June 1778 It is with pleasure I transmit the Inclosed Act of Congress of the 19th for enabling you to hold your Rank in the Army; & your Regi ment so long as it shall be kept up 1 —to this I add half a dozen Cop ies of this days Gazette containing the intelligence of which you had gained but a partial knowledge when you left York. I am with great Regard, Sir, Your obedient & most humble ser vant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 Col. William Malcom of New York, commander of one of the sixteen addi tional Continental regiments, was appointed deputy adjutant general in the northern military department by Congress on June 2. JCC, 11:560. Shortly before this, Malcom, who was then serving as acting adjutant general of this department at the request of Gov. George Clinton and others, had written to William Duer stating that he would continue in this office only if he could retain his military rank and command. Malcom’s May 27 letters was referred on June 6 to the com mittee of arrangement, which advised Congress to approve the resolve on rank enclosed by Laurens with this letter. See JCC, 11:575, 625; and PCC, item 78, 15:347.
