154 June 20, 1778 All but a few Delegates have powers, and those that have not, come from Small States, that will undoubtedly fall in. Our next business is Finance, and this is a momentous point indeed. Every state exclaims, we are overflown with our emissions of Money, yet all seem to be go ing on in the same beaten Track, and will I fear until invincible Necessity shall force a change. I wish to bring you, and my brother Dr Lee to be well acquainted. Republican Spirits who have so suc cessfully labored for the liberty of their Country, and whose sole ob ject is the security of public happiness, must esteem each other. The Continental Army is now on a much more respectable footing, both for numbers & discipline, and supplies of every kind, than it has been since the War began. It will give me singular pleasure to hear of your happiness at all times. I am dear Sir most sincerely and affectionately yours, Richard Henry Lee [P.S.] Cannot Monsr. Beaumarchais demand against us be fully and fairly explained? There is mistery in this business that demands to be thoroughly developed. 1 Be so kind as to contrive the letters for my brothers safely to them. 2 R.H.L. RC (MHi). 1 For Lee’s earlier comments on Caron de Beaumarchais’ commercial “de mands” on Congress, see Lee to John Adams, May 13, 1778. On Beaumarchais’ ac counts, see Committee of Commerce to the Commissioners at Paris, May 16; and Committee of Congress Report, June 10, 1778. No June 1778 letters from Richard Henry Lee to either Arthur or William Lee have been found. Gouverneur Morris to the Carlisle Commissioners [June 20, 1778] 1 To the Earl of CARLISLE, Lord Viscount HOWE, Sir WILLIAM HOWE (or, in his absence, Sir HENRY CLINTON), WILLIAM EDEN, and GEORGE JOHNSTONE. Trusty and well-beloved servants of your sacred master, in whom he is well pleased. As you are sent to America for the express purpose of treating with anybody and anything, you will pardon an address from one who disdains to flatter those whom he loves. Should you therefore deign to read this address, your chaste ears will not be offended with the language of adulation, a language you despise. I have seen your most elegant and most excellent letter “to his Ex cellency Henry Laurens, the President, and other Members of the Congress.’’ 2 As that body have thought your propositions unworthy their particular regard, it may be some satisfaction to your curiosity,
