164 June 20, 1778 ings, which on Our Part we doubt not will be satisfactory to every American Whig. Confederation was this Day taken up by Congress, and we are in Hopes of soon seeing it completed: For this is the Grand Corner Stone. We are with great Respect to the Honorable the Genl. Assembly, Their, and Your Excellencys most obedient and very humble Servants, William Ellery Hy. Marchant John Collins RC (R-Ar). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant, Collins, and Ellery. 1 The Rhode Island Council of War’s June 11 letter to the Rhode Island dele gates, which dealt mainly with the state’s expenditures on Continental account, is in PCC, item 64, fols. 406-8, and William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Con tinental Congress 1765-1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 185-86. Although Staples dated this letter June 10, the RC is clearly dated the 11th. 2 See Rhode Island Delegates to Greene, June 8, 1778. 3 For the actions Congress subsequently took on the issues discussed in this paragraph, see Rhode Island Delegates to Greene, June 27, 1778. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, York Town 20t June 1778 You have 1 presume reed, several Letters from Me within a month, the Date of my last I do not Remember; Oliver’s Letter of the 6t is reed, and I was happy to find by it that the Family was well. I am intirely Satisfied, as to his Acco. of the particular Subject which he mentions. You will probably hear before you shall receive this that the Enemy left Philadelphia the Morning of the 17c 1 They passed over to the Jersy Side and it is said Went down to Billing sport where they have probably shipped. This last Circumstance is not fully ascertained. It is supposed that the Troops are destined for N York. Genl. Washington has moved after them. Genl. Arnold will as long as it is Necessary Command at Philadelpa. I Enclose to you the Proceedings of the Commissioners and the Answer of Congress. This Answer as it was most unanimously given, will douptless close the Correspondence unless G Britain will accede to the Terms which it proposes. As the Commissioners are using ev ery means to make some Impression upon the Americans, their Con duct will be carefully Watched, altho I am fully of Opinion that every Art of theirs will be totally ineffectual. No Man except he is a most hardened Tory will hesitate a Moment wheither he shall ad here to the Independency of this Country, An Independency which G Britain must and will finally acknowledge. Mr. Hosmere I hear is on his Way to Congress. But I do not hear
