June 20, 1778 165 wheither any other Delegate is with him. I expect to Return soon- certain Matters of an Important Nature are now in Consideration which I should be much Satisfied to see determined before I leave Congress. 2 I hope they will be so within about the Course of a Week, after which Congress will undoubtedly adjourn to Philadel phia, thro which I shall probably Return home. I hope I shall See you in about a Month. By the Blessing of God I injoy Health. May I be thankfull to that God who bestows this and every other Blessing upon me. Put your Trust in the most High whose Providence in the late Event of the Enemys leaving Philadelpha. has been most signal. After having been almost nine months in the Possession of that City, they have now left it, without Compullssion and in Apparent Terror. God will establish us in Peace and safety. My kindest Love to my Children and Freinds. Mr. Thomas Sheldon goes out of this Town this morn ing but as he does not expect to Return home in less Time than a Forthnight, I shall probably send you this by Mr. Kellogg of Colches ter. who will perhaps Return thro Litchfield. I am Affectionately Yours, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 1 That is, June 18. 2 Titus Hosmer took his seat in Congress on June 23, but it was not until July 7 that his colleagues Samuel Huntington and Oliver Wolcott requested leave to return to Connecticut. They apparently left Philadelphia on the 10th, the day af ter Andrew Adams joined the Connecticut delegation in Congress. See JCC, 11:632, 673, 676; and Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., July 9, 1778. Oliver Wolcott to George Wyllys Sir, York Town 20 June 1778 Before you will receive this you will doubtless be informed that the Enemy evacuated Philadelphia the morning of the 17t. They passed over to the Jersy Side, and it is said they have turned down to Billingsport, where it is supposed they will ship themselves. The Route which the Enemy have taken is not fully ascertained. Their Destination in the first Instance is supposed to be N York. As I well know Sir, you wish to be informed what overtures the British Com missioners have made, and the Determinations of Congress in Re gard to them, I do myself therefore the Pleasure to Enclose them to you. As no comments of mine respecting this Transaction can Assist your own Reflections, I shall therefore only observe, that I am in the fullest Manner perswaded that every Veiw of the Enemy to bring about a Pacification short of Acknowledging the Independence of these States will be found totally delusive. And if a Folly of a Very
