June 22, 1778 171 John Laurens where, if your time will permit, I beg you will run your Eye over them. I think to make the latter a subject in next Gazette, if it reaches me in time, and to add an Answer which I had also written immediately after reading it, but which my Freind can not now expect to have in any other way. 1 He will, from the tenor of his own Letter know the reply to be intended for him, although both will appear without names. I have something of another nature to communicate, but am ashamed to keep Col. Petit waiting. I must therefore defer to an other opportunity and conclude the present by assuring you that I am, With great regard &c. LB (ScHi). 1 No text of Laurens’ intended reply to Richard Oswald has been found. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Dear Sir, York the 21st June 1778 I have taken the liberty to desire two Boxes the property of Monsr. Loyeaut^ a French Gentleman now in Virginia to be left in your care by a Waggon that carries them to Baltimore. 1 As Monsr. Loyeaut6 is a Gentleman of great worth, I wish to serve him by ev ery means in my power and therefore I have directed his Baggage to such safe care as yours. Monsr. Loyeaut^ will in due time inform you what he would have done with these Boxes. The enemy have at last abandoned Philadelphia, and that City is now in possession of the American Troops. Gen. Washington is gone in quest of the en emy to the Jerseys. I expect Congress will adjourn to Philadelphia 8 or 10 days. My compliments to your Lady, your brother & his Lady. I am dear Sir your most obedient, humble servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (ViHi). 1 Anne Philippe de Loyautd had recently resigned as inspector general of Vir- ginia artillery. See Lee to Thomas Jefferson, May 11, 1778, note 3. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen York Town June 22. 1778 The bearer Mr Taylor has instructions to proceed to France im mediately. This Gentleman having been a long time Confidentially employed by Mr Hancock while President of Congress, we think it
