172 June 22, 1778 proper that the delivery of one of the Packets sent to your care yes terday for our Commissioners in France should be intrusted to him. 1 It is not however meant that you should Suffer any delay in the Sailing of the Vessels in which you intended our dispatches F and G should be forwarded. It is only meant that you should give Mr Taylor the offer of delivering one of them personally at Paris, in preference to other persons mentioned conditionally to you when the Packets were sent. We are Gentlemen &c, Signed, James Lovell, for the Committee for Foreign Affairs FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). 1 Although the committee’s June 21 letter to the Eastern Navy Board has not been found, its receipt was acknowledged in the board’s July 6 letter to the com mittee. PCC, item 37, fol. 117. Samuel Holten’s Diary [June 22, 1778] 22. I took my seat in Congress, and it is a very August Assembly. I wrote to Mr. Hall of Boston & to Miss Holten. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 Not found. Henry Laurens to John Houstoun Honorable Sir, 22d June [1778] I had the honor of writing to you the 9th & 10th Inst. 1 by Messen ger Wilkinson through Charles Town & on the 14th Inst, of receiv ing your Honour’s Letter of the 16th April. Congress were so ardently engaged in business respecting the British Commission at Philadelphia at the time your Honor’s Letter reached & for a few days after as deprived me of opportunity to present it before the 19th. It was then, with General Howe’s Letters & one from the Hon orable Mr. Speaker Committed to a Select Committee, from whom no Report is yet come up & possibly in our present crowd of business may not be made. 2 I am persuaded it will not be taken under con sideration, for Several days, Congress Seem determined to suffer no other matter to come before them if possible to avoid it until they shall have Ratified Confederation. In these circumstances I have judged it proper to return your Messenger, whose expences are in this place intolerable, & I expect to have an opportunity of writing by Colo. Marbury full as early as I shall receive commands, if it shall happen otherwise an Express Messenger shall be dispatched.
