June 22, 1778 173 Your Honor will be pleased to receive within the present In closure an Act of Congress of the 17th Inst, for preventing all corre spondence between the Enemy & private persons of the good people of these States, to which I take the liberty of adding four Copies of the Pennsylvania Gazette of the 20th containing the Commissioners Address to Congress, their Commission, the Answer of Congress 8cca &ca & also an hand Bill Supplement, with the Duke of Richmond’s remarkable Speech of the 5 th March in the House of Lords. 3 I have this Instant a Letter from General Washington dated 20th in the Evening. 4 He had then advanced within 10 Miles of Coriels ferry. General Lee with Six Brigades was to arrive at the ferry that Evening. The Enemy had advanced as far as Eyres Town & were re pairing the Bridge which we had nearly destroyed for retarding their March, a pretty brisk firing had passed between the Enemy & part of Maxwell’s Brigade in which a Deserter who had just come in says the former lost several Men. 8 General Dickinson writes the Jersey Militia had taken up the Alarm 8c were in good Spirits, the obstructed Roads & Bridges or rather want of Bridges will render the Enemy’s passage difficult. 6 General Washingtons whole Army will soon be up with them, be tween these 8c the Militia ’tis probable Sir Henry Clinton must run the Gantlet, & I hope will not escape without Several lashes. How ever this may happen, his whole conduct Still wears the aspect of Stratagem, he had certainly two days to March ahead of our Com mander in Chief, he had made no further progress than 15 Miles 8c General Washington had travelled 40 at least. I have likewise just received a Letter from Majr. General Gates Peeks Kill 17th June. 7 The Militia 8c draughts were coming in very fast 8c he "thanks Heaven for the precious time the Enemy had so foolishly lost.” The General adds “I think all preparations for an In dian War will be unnecessary other than those I have already placed in the hands of Brigadier General Stark, I wish this Country to steer clear of that Hornets Nest the Six Nations 8c their Allies, the Sav ages from my Country are enough to deal with at one time. Thus far things in this quarter look well. I hope the prospect in the Sothern States are not more unfavorable. I am in possession of a Letter written by a Gentleman of Charac ter in London dated 10th April introducing Govr. Johnston 8c I be lieve under the Eye of the British Ministry in which among many humiliating concessions these remarkable terms appear. “Your paper Money shall not only be funded 8c Secured but if desired we will lend you two or three Million—lose not the feelings of Christians in the resentments of Men, as you have fought Nobly now act more nobly 8c forgive us”—“and the Door was shut. People are thronging towards Philadelphia were General Arnold Commands by order of General Washington. When we know the En-
