June 22, 1778 175 has broke up the roads, and destroyed the bridges, and, at the head of some reg ulars and the Jersey militia, begins to skirmish with the enemy, who are about fifteen miles from Philadelphia, on their way to Amboy. They quitted the city on Friday last.” Although neither the writers nor the recipients of these letters have been iden tified, Thomas Adams, John Banister, and Richard Henry Lee were the Virginia delegates in York at this time. The only known copy of this issue of the Gazette is located among the inter cepted ship’s papers in High Court of Admiralty 32, box 357, no. 35, P.R.O. It has been supplied through the courtesy of the Virginia Colonial Records Project and Dr. Brent Tarter of the Virginia State Library. 6 Laurens is referring to a paraphrase of Gen. Philemon Dickinson’s June 19 letter to Washington in Washington’s own June 20 letter to Laurens cited above. 7 General Gates’ June 17 letter to Laurens was read in Congress on June 23. See JCC, 11:632; and PCC, item 154, 1:418-20. 8 The South Carolina delegates offered twenty-one amendments to the Articles of Confederation on June 25, all of which were promptly rejected. JCC, 11:652-56. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Assembly Gentlemen, York Monday P.M. 22d June 1778 The Instructions of the House of Delegates of the 18th instant 1 we this morning received in a letter from Mr. Chase, and laid them before Congress; whereupon at our earnest desire, it was resolved to take into immediate consideration the amendments proposed by our State to the Confederation, altho’ Congress had previously deter mined to take up the amendments offered by the several States in the order in which the States are ranged in the Confederacy, begin ning first with New Hampshire, and so on. This evening the 3 amendments offered by Maryland were de bated and 11 States out of the 12 present, rejected the amendments to the 4th and 8th Articles, so that our State only voted for them. The fate of the most important amendment is not yet decided, the question being put off by adjournment till tomorrow morning, when it will probably be rejected by a majority of eight States out of twelve. A Confederation at this critical juncture appears to Congress of such momentous consequence, that I am satisfied a great majority are resolved to reject the amendments from every State, not so much from an opinion that all the amendments are improper, as from the conviction, that if any should be adopted, no Confederation will take place, at least for some months, perhaps, years; and in that case, many apprehend none will ever be entered into by all of the present united States; the distractions probably consequent on such an event, and the many dangers and evils, which may arise from partial Confederacies (which you may more easily point to yourselves than we can express) have determined some States to accept the present
