176 June 22, 1778 Confederation altho’ founded on principles not altogether consist ent, in their opinion, with justice and sound policy. For if any amendments should be adopted, it will then be necessary to send the Confederation back to those States, whose Legislatures have empow ered their Delegates to sign and ratify it in its present form; for in stance, to New Hampshire, New York, Virginia and North Carolina, the Delegates of which States are positively instructed to ratify the Confederation, as it now stands, and some of them are directed to admit of no alterations, even litterary ones, such as would not affect the true spirit & meaning of any article, but only serve to elucidate that meaning and spirit by removing all ambiguity, and doubt. In debating our second amendment, vizt to the 8th article, it was admitted on all sides to be the true meaning & intention of that ar ticle, that all lands, not only those already granted to, or surveyed for any person, but all lands hereafter to be granted to, or surveyed for any person, should be subjected to valuation, and considered as a part of the whole wealth of the State in which they lie. It was con tended by several members that the meaning of the 8th article is clearly expressed, but confessed by some to be dark and ambiguous, who nevertheless voted against the amendment, for the reasons we have already assigned. The amendment to the 4th Article was considered by every State, Maryland excepted, as unimportant; the Article not being liable, in the opinion of any other State to the objection made and conse quences apprehended by Maryland. 2 23d P.M. Our third amendment has just been rejected by a Majority of one State; 3 the division was as follows. Against the Amendt. N. Hampshire Massachusets Connecticut N York divided N Carolina absent South Carolina Georgia Virginia For the Amendment Rhode Island Jersey Pennsylvania Delaware Maryland Inclosed you have a copy of Gen. Washington’s letter received this morning. We are with great respect, Gent, yr. most obdt. huml. Ser vants, Geo Plater Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. We write in great haste to be in time for the post, you will therefore be pleased to excuse all interlineations, erasures, & blots.
