June 24, 1778 187 MS (MDaAr). 1 After previous experiments with sessions twice daily, Congress had resolved on May 30, 1778, “That for the space of one month, commencing on Monday next, Congress meet at ten o’clock and sit till one, and on the same day, except on Wednesdays and Saturdays, meet at three and adjourn at six o’clock p.m.” June 24 was a Wednesday. See JCC, 11:558, 640-42. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir York the 24th of June 1778 I should long since have answered your favor of the 25th of May had it been worth while for any thing I had to communicate, 1 to in terrupt your attention from the important affairs with which you are surrounded. It is indeed more from motives of complaisance than any thing else that I now write. But I cannot help congratulating you Sir on the enemies abandoning Philadelphia, because, let their motives be what they may, this step evidently proves their prospect of conquest here is vanished. I fancy Gen Clintons future operations depend much upon the Chapter of Accidents. A French war being avoided, efforts will continue to be exerted for sometime against us, but a foreign war must of necessity carry this Army to secure the now defenceless Islands of G.B. in the W.I. A war with France, in the better days of England, would instantly have followed the Message of Marquis de Noailles, 2 but the mean & wicked deter mination to enslave America, removes all thoughts of every thing but the accomplishment of their favorite object. The British Kings message to his Parliament, altho it shews mortified pride, and strong sense of insult, yet it clearly marks indicision, and doubt about the propriety of resenting the affront. We see by a publication of the en emy in the Newport paper that there is a great probability of Spain having acknowledged the Independence of these States, & joined in our Alliance. The Ambassadors of Spain & of G.B. were on the point of returning each to his respective Country. Of this event tak ing place, I had no doubt, so soon as the plate fleet should have reached old Spain. Should G.B. be engaged in war with the Bour bon family it [wi/Z] furnish us an opportunity of pushing the former quite off this Northern Continent, which will secure to us peace for a Century, instead of war in 7 years which the British pos session of Canada, N. Sco. & the Floridas will inevitably produce. You have no doubt heard Sir that our last Assembly have voted 2000 Infantry to join the Army & a sum of money to foward Gen. Nelsons Cavalry. 3 The latter may soon be expected at Head Quarters. I am with sincere esteem dear Sir your most affct. & obedient servant, R.H. Lee
