194 June 27, 1778 diery. The City however was in a much better state than I expected to have found it. At Chester heard the glorious news of the defeat of Genl Clinton at Monmouth.” William Ellery Diary, PMHB 11 (1887): 476-77. "July 2nd 1778. Set out from York Town for Philadelphia, rode to Susquehan- nah 111/2 miles, Crossed, Dined at Boyds, then 11 miles to Lancaster wid. Rankin to Lodge. [July] 3d, rainy, rode 7 miles to Willsons to breakfast then 10 miles to Hopkins the Bunch of Grapes, then 10 miles to the Sign of the Waggon to Lodge, very rainy. [July] 4th, rode 6 miles to the Ship tavern to Breakfast then 13 miles to the Paoli then 15 miles to the Sign of the Black horse then 6 miles to Phila delphia.” Josiah Bartlett Diary, Nh. Titus Hosmer to Thomas Mumford Dear sir York Town June 26th [i.e. 27]. 1778 1 Immediately upon my arrival here, which was last Monday, I made it my first Care to attend to the Business you had charged me with. Mr. Holkers Advertisement in the enclosed News papers will direct you where to apply for your Money; 2 he had laid his Creden tials before Congress & requested them to take measures for ascer taining the Owners of the privateers and other persons interested in the prizes & their several proportions of Interest in Order to his drawing on France in their favour, a Comittee reported a Resolve 3 referring it to the Executive Powers of Massachusetts Bay to enquire after & Certify who were Owners &c, Congress upon Consideration did not adopt the Resolve, because it was a Matter that did not concern the public Interest, & might open a Door to endless applica tions. Congress is adjourned to Philadelphia to meet there next Thurs day, whither it is probable Mr. Holker will likewise transfer himself; it will be proper to be furnished with clear & Authentic Evidence who are Owners & proprietors of this Donation, whoever applies to him, & with full powers to act for those they represent. The News papers contain most of the news that can be sent you from Congress, I can only add that the Articles of Confederation are settled and will probably be ratified at Philadelphia next Saturday (the anniversary of our Independance) by such Delegates who are impowered to ratify them, which are all except New Jersey, Mary land, Georgia & the Delaware Counties, and it is hoped and expect ed that all or some of them will by that Time receive their Powers for that purpose. The Armies are in New Jersey, the British proceeds slowly, seems embarrassed & is lessened fast by numerous Desertions, Mr. Peters of the Board of war, who came in from Philadelphia this Evening re ports that by their Accounts there upwards of one Thousand have deserted since they left Philadelphia, Genl. Washingtons Army is at
