June 27, 1778 195 and near Princeton, I cannot tell you precisely where the Enemy Are, we may expect great Events to take place in a few Days, may they be fortunate & happy for the united states. I expect the Connecticut News from You, you will please to direct to me at Philadelphia for which Place I shall leave this on Monday next. Please to make my Compliments acceptable to your Good Lady &: Family, & believe me to be, with the highest Esteem, Your Friend & humble servant, Titus Hosmer RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1973). 1 References in the text to specific proceedings of Congress indicate that this letter could not have been written before June 27, for it was on that day that Congress considered the report of the committee on Jean Holker’s papers, agreed to adjourn to Philadelphia, and postponed signing the Articles of Confederation. JCC, 11:661-62. 2 Holker’s “Advertisement" has not been found, but a paraphrased extract of Jacques Leray de Chaumont’s February 28 letter to Holker is printed in the June 20, 1778, issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. Chaumont had announced that the king of France had ordered a gratuity to be paid to the owners of two American privateers equal to the value of two prizes they had sent to Nantes in August 1777 but which had been returned to their British owners because of their false entry as Dutch vessels. Chaumont’s letter to Holker, which authorized him to pay 400,000 livres to the American privateer owners, had been carried to the United States by Simeon Deane, along with the February 18 letter from the commission ers at Paris notifying Congress of the gratuity. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 1:503. For further information on this subject, see Simeon Deane’s letters to Holker of May 16 and 30, and Holker’s June 19, 1778, letter to Chaumont in the Jean Holker Papers, DLC. It was not until October 1778 that Holker paid the authorized agents of the American owners in Boston. The October 17 order of the Massachusetts Council, recognizing Joseph Foster as agent for the owners of the privateer brigantine General Mercer, Capt. James Babson, called the Hancock while in France, and John Grennell and Adam Babcock as owners and agents for the other owners of the Fanny, Capt. John Kendrick, called the Boston while in France; and the Oc tober 28 notice of the agents, acknowledging receipt of 400,000 livres from Holker, are printed in the November 9, 1778, issue of the Independent Ledger, and the American Advertiser. Thomas Mumford is listed as one of seven owners of the Connecticut privateer brigantine Fanny in a December 17, 1776, memorial to the Massachusetts Council, which sought exemption from the embargo and permission to sail from Dart mouth, Mass. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:503. 3 See Committee of Congress Report, this date. Henry Laurens to William Greene sir York Town 27th June 1778 I beg leave to refer to my late address to Your Excellency under the 20th Inst, by Messenger Dodd. 1 Your Excellency will be pleased to receive under the present Cover an Act of Congress of the 25th for the better defending & pro-
