202 June-July?, 1778 Remember me to all friends and particularly, Remember my Love to all my Children and my sincere affection to your self; yours, Josiah Bartlett RC (NhHi). 1 Bartlett remained in York until July 2, when John Wentworth’s health ap peared to improve. But illness kept Wentworth in York until early August, and although he then went to Philadelphia, he apparently did not attend Congress before leaving for New Hampshire on August 21, 1778. See Bartlett’s letters to Mary Bartlett, July 6, to Meshech Weare, July 20 and September 8, and to William Whipple, August 18, 1778. Gouverneur Morris’ Proposals on Fiscal and Administrative Reform To the Congress. [June-July? 1778] 1 In the present Situation of our Affairs it must be evident to every Observer that America must be victorious if she can prosecute the War since it is impracticable for Great Britain to pursue it much longer. Now America can prosecute the War so long as she can keep an Army in the Field, but to keep an Army it is necessary to have Men to clothe, arm, Feed & pay them. To all these Purposes Money is the great Thing needful. A Paper Circulation may depreci ate to such a Degree as no longer to answer the Purposes of Money. And this hath been the Case in a great Measure from the Want of Attention, Management and Method. To look thro the Causes of our Misfortunes may lead to the Cure. The Want of Men arises from sundry Sources. 1st. the short Enlistments at the Commencement of the War. 21y. the Advance in the Price of Labor & Commodities. 3dly. the enormous Bounties given by several of the States. 4thly. the great Sums paid for Substitutes in the frequent Calls of the Militia. 5thly. from the Want of Discipline by which Means Soldiers not only desert in great Numbers but no Attention being paid to their Man ner of Living by their Officers they loose their Cloaths become sickly & finally die or are rendered unfit for Service. 6thly. from the Want of Cloathing, Blankets and the like & lastly from the Defects of the Hospitals by which many die & the Sufferings of those who survive prevent ReEnlistments. The Money also hath depreciated from several Causes as 1st. From the very Nature of it it was a Matter of very great Doubt among many whether it would not finally sink in the Hands of the Possessor hence the Aspect of our Affairs hath a manifest Influence upon its Credit. 21y. From the many different Kinds of Paper Money Counterfeits became easy and therefore Men were less inclined to re ceive it. 3dly. The great Wages given to our Soldiery, The frequent
