204 June-July?, 1778 Calls of Militia and after that every other Cause which hath caused great Emissions tends by the Quantity of the Money to lower it’s Value. 4thly. The great Prices given for Commodities the natural Produce of the Country by the Servants of the Public from the Want of due Arrangement in the several Departments. 5thly. The Want of Oeconomy & Frauds in those Departments. 6thly. All those Laws which were framed to regulate Prices from that of Gold & Silver down to every other Article the necessary Consequence of which was to exclude such things or at least the greater Part of them from Commerce and therefore to raise the Price of the Remainder from the Scarcity, from the Plenty of Paper Money & from the Risque of breaking the Law. 7thly. From the Depreciation once begun arose a Depreciation consequent upon it distinct from other Causes since from thence the Possessors of Commodities would ask more than what would otherwise have been the Market Price foreseeing that tho’ that Price might be the just Value at the Time of Sale it must soon become less, others also from this Depreciation would be led to engross and moneyed Men continually receiving their Debts in nom inal Money of decreasing Value would be led to realize (or purchase any thing not perishable such as Land, Gold, Silver, Iron & the like) all which was taken out of the Circle of Commerce. 8thly. No Taxes having been laid and the Authority of the Governments in many In stances shaken it became doubtful with many whether even any At tempt would be made to redeem any Part of it and therefore, 9thly. When the Continent offerd to loan their own Money there being no visible Funds to pay the Interest Men were disinclined to trust them. In order to restore the Value of Money it becomes necessary to lessen the Quantity & Kinds to provide Ways and Means to procure Funds for carrying on the War and to use Oeconomy in the Expen ditures. (1) To lessen the Quantity & Kinds of Money I would propose that every State should instantly by Law cry down their own Emissions and redeem them with Continental Loan Office Certificates and be duly charged by the Continent with the Interest of such Certificates. (2) If Credit can be procured in Europe (of which more presently) to absorp a considerable Quantity of the Paper by selling Bills of Exchange. (3) To gain a Credit to our Funds in Order to procure Loans and here 1st. The Payment of the Bills drawn for the Interest of the Debt will have a considerable Influence but it is necessary to extend that Influence into foreign Countries & gain Credit there, for which Pur pose I propose 21y. That the States should each pass an Act restricting their ‘"■’"ral Limits within a certain Line to be drawn for that Purpose
