June-July?, 1778 205 and declaring that the Residue shall appertain to the Congress of the united States in Consequence of which Cession the States which really Part with Territory to receive a Compensation by the Abate ment of some Part of their future Quota of the Continental Debt. From this Land I would set off a well sized State for our own Sol diers, for Deserters from the Enemy and for such Gratuities as Congress or their public Ministers may chuse to make from a proper Distribution of which Land the Men of great Influence in Europe may be brought to favor our Cause. The Remainder should be di vided into other large Districts by Natural Boundaries and be called by separate Name which should denominate our Funds and suppos ing these names to be A,B & C any Man in Europe who put into the Fund A should be entitled at any Time to so much Land in that Country as could be purchased there at that Time for his Debt by which Means we should be able to give Security for the Principal of our Debt which no Nation in Europe can do. 3dly. It should be an Additional Article in the Confederation that an Acknowledgement of 2i/£ per Cent should be paid on the Value of all Commodities imported into America from any Port not within one of the united States and that this Acknowledgement and also ev ery other Duty for the Regulation of Trade or otherwise laid should be paid to the Continent as a sinking Fund for the Principle & Inter est of Debts by them contracted during the War. This Acknowlege- ment alone would produce from the American Commerce in 1772 £125.000 Stg. equal to 1,250,000 Dollars of our present Money at least and if we add 250,000 for what would arise from other neces sary Duties over and above the Cost of collecting the Whole this would make 1,500,000 Dollars which would be the Interest of a Debt of 25,000,000 Dollars at six per Cent. The Post Office also properly regulated would in Time produce a very considerable Remedy with out Burthening the Community it being rightly observed that this is the most agreable Tax ever invented. But as these would yield little or nothing at present I would propose 4thly. that a Capitation Tax of one Dollar upon every Inhabitant be paid as a sinking Fund at present and that this be faithfully and honestly applied notwithstanding any Exigency to pay the Interest & Part of the Principle or where the Interest is payable in Europe there the Principle of the public Debts at the same time taking Care that the Debt of highest Interest be paid first. (4) In Order to raise the Value of the Money which is always a sav ing to the public it will be proper. 1st. To take off all Restrictions upon the Sale of every Commodity Gold and Silver not expected. 2dly. As soon as a State of the public Debts can be made out after adopting the other Plans proposed to publish such State and thereby undeceive the Public who think it much greater than it really is.
