June-July?, 1778 209 there should always be in the Army a Forage Yard and Rations of Forage delivd. with Accuracy as also at the several Magazines and Receipts taken without which the Expenditures should not be al lowed. At present any of the Depy. Qur. Mrs. may purchase on the Conti. Acct. & sell on his own Acct, without being detected. 2. The Commissaries Department upon which but too much is to be said. Generally I will venture to affirm that every Step is capitally defective. Let me be indulged in a small Detail. A who is a Commis sary of Purchases buys 100 Cattle whose Average Weight is in Beef 400, Hide & Tallow 100, in the whole 50,000 wt. for these he gives Certificates at 25 per Ct. Advance upon the Market Price supposing that to be 1 / then his Certificates are at the Rate of 14 and to color it the Cattle estimated and marked accordingly to weigh on an Aver age 600. 50,000 wt. @ 1 / is £2,500 to which add 14 or £625, the Price Charged is £3,125, the Difference he pockets by purchasing the Certificates at a Discount by the Intervention of a third Person. These Cattle are driven at the Public Expense during all Seasons favorable or unfavorable to the Camp. When they get there they con sume Forage for which the Army is always in great Distress, grow lean, some of them die, some when killed returned unfit for Use, some sent out of Camp into the Country to be fattened, of the Beef, some putrifies almost all the Tallow is lost, a great Part of the Hides lost, many of them much damaged, the Heads are thrown away, the Entrails & Filth serve to generate putrid Diseases, the Horns are lost, the Feet from which Oil to curry all the Hides might be extracted are also thrown into the general Mass of Corruption, finally the Beef itself in the Hot Weather renders the troops liable to Diseases of a bilious Kind. I say Nothing of the purchases of Spirits, of Vinegar, of Bread, of Pease &ca. &ca. The Remedy I would here propose is 1st. To contract within par ticular Districts of Country with Individuals for the Cattle of that District as thus to be delivered at some Place on the Banks of the Rivers Susquehannah, Delaware or Hudsons (where it is to be presumed the Enemy could not penetrate) at a certain Time from so many thousand to so many thousand Wt. of Beef, the Beef to be weighed as thus, the four Quarters, the Hide & the rough Tallow at so much per Pound. At these Places should be the public works necessary and Magazines of Salt, Nitre, Allum, Pot or Pearl Ashes, Barrills &ca. &ca. The Cattle should be here killed the Beef cut into Mess Pieces of 41b. each and 50 Pieces put in a Barrill with a proper Proportion of Salt, Nitre (or Pot Ashes) & Allum to preserve it. The Hides taken proper Care of. The Tallow made into Candles & Soap. The oil extracted from the Feet. The Tripe taken Care of and the Heads made into portable Soap. It is worthy of Observation that those who contract with the Crown in Ireland clear nothing but the Horns & Hoofs by their Bargain. It may be said that the Transporta-
