June-July?, 1778 211 some wherefore suppose the whole Regt. abt. 10 Days in the Year during which time they draw Provisions elsewhere is 5000 @ % 1,000 For setling back Rations they give (due Bills) wherefore the whole Quantum being issued &: due Bills given to such as do not draw the whole say 20 Daily for 250 Days. 5,000 @ % LOOP Public Frauds. 7,000 The Account then stands thus Perquisites 3,300 Priv. Frauds 5,400 Public do. 7,000 15,700. Peculation on 500 daily, or 157 on 5 Suppose 100,000 Rat. daily issued is three Million Dollars. If to this be added the Frauds in purchasing, Losses from Mismanagemt. &ca. which may be fairly stated at two Millions more this will be five Mil lions, or 50 Dollars on each Ration supposing them worth 14 each to the Public then for a Year it is 120. Now if as the Case is at least 3 Rat. be delivered out on the Continent for every soldier actually in Service then each Soldier must be estimated at 360 Dollars per An num to feed him from which is peculated & wasted in different Ways to the Amount of 150 Dollars, on the whole it will appear that at least 5 times as much is paid as is necessary. But to remedy this. 1. I observe that for this Purpose as well as many others, it is abso lutely necessary to procure Muster Masters and Adjutant Generals well acquainted with their Business and possessing Industry and strict Integrity. These Officers are the great Checks of an Army par ticularly the former who should at every Muster make Return to the Genl. & to the Board of War noting in the same all Differences be tween the Musters and the Returns. 2. The Officers of every Rank except Genl Officers should be con fined to the drawing of but one Ration which if not drawn should not be paid for and a Subsistence Money equal to their present Ra tions should be allowed in Lieu of what they are now entitled to Under this Head also we may comprehend another Abuse Sc the Remedy. No Officer should be allowed to keep a Soldier as his Ser vant but should be allowed the Sum of 8 Dollars per Mo. to pay & subsist his own Servant. 3. No Ration should be allowed to the sick but the same ought to be specifically drawn for by the Surgeon who in his sick Return should also return the Provisions drawn for to the End that the Or ders if improper may be corrected by his Superiors and such Orders should be copied by the Clerk of the flying Hospital weekly & trans mitted to the Commissary General. From this Regulation also the
