212 June-July?, 1778 frequent Absence of Surgeons from their Regts, would be prevented a thing much to be lamented at present. 4. No Rations should be drawn unless for those present fit for Duty and where officers on Command & Detachments not joined &ca. draw Provisions either of Commys. or Inhabitants, they should be charged with the same and obliged to pay therefor unless within a Month Copies of their Receipts are by them filed with the Commis sary Genl, or his Deputy or Agent, this being the only Means of checking the Waste occasioned by Detachments. 5. The present Pernicious Practice of serving out Rations to Arti ficers in Places where they can find Subsistence should be stopped since among many other Evils which arise from it the Infinity of Commissaries is by no Means the least. 6. The Quarter Masters in drawing Provisions should be obliged to make duplicate Returns of their respective Regts. & of the No. of Rations drawn and duplicate Receipts of the specific Articles & one Copy of each should be filed with the Adjutant Genl, who should weekly annex to the same a Copy of the Weekly Return of such re spective Regt. & send the same to the Corny. Genl, who should be al lowed proper Clerks of the Check to examine and check the same. 7. When any Spirits shall be delivered out below the Standard the Qur. Master should be obliged to make up in Quantity the Defect of Quality. 3dly. of the Hospital Department I will venture to affirm generally that it is replete with Abuses of the greatest Consequence. 1st. In the very great Number of Persons employd in it which partly arises from the Number of Departments into which it is di vided. 21y. In the Ignorance of many of its Members owing to the Promo tion of improper Persons to higher office originally than they had Right to expect & Sly. In the Want of Method and Arrangement throughout or rather in the pernicious Systems adapted. As this Business is not that to which I am most adequate, so on the other Hand I will venture to say that from Inquiry & Attention I have put myself in a Situation not to be quite ignorant of it. By the last Returns prior to which a great Number were discharged it appears there were in Pay of the Cont. 1 Director Genl., 3 Deputy Directors Gen., 2 Assistant Deputy Directors Genl., 3 Phisicians Genl., 3 Surgeons General, 3 Phisicians & Surgeons Genl., 3 Apothe caries General, 30 senior Surgeons, 36 Junior Surgeons, 56 Surgeons Mates and seven Apothecaries Mates over and above all the Regi mental Surgeons & Mates & over and above what may be in the Southern Departt. Here it is worthy of Remark that from 1st Jany. to the 1st May all the Sick of our Army were Attended by 1 Senr. & 2 Junr. Surgeons as also 3000 Patients innoculated. To remedy the
