June-July?, 1778 213 Evils in this Business, I would propose to institute a Medical Board to consist of a chief Director Genl., Inspector Genl. & chief Phisi- cian & Surgeon. These three should examine all medical Men Candi dates for Office & give Certificates according to their talents. Moreover the Chief Director should mark out the several Places for erecting Hospitals, who should attend at them and the like. The In spector Genl, should visit 8c examine the Hospitals from Time to Time & the Conduct of those whose Business it might be to take Care of them & the like, and the Chief Phisician & Surgeon should receive regular transcripts of the Diseases & Wounds with the Prescriptions & Operations & examine the same. Under these Gentle men should be one Purveyor and three Assistants, one Commissary & such Deputies as Occasion might require, 4 Surgeons 8c Phisicians, 8 Senior Surgeons, 16 Junior Surgeons 8c 32 Mates, 1 Apothecary, 2 As sistants 8c as many Mates as Circumstances might require. These with occasional Detachments from the Regtl. Surgeons in Times of great Sickness would be amply sufficient for an Army of fifty thousand Men if one-fifth were constantly in Hospital besides Accidents. By this also Men of Science might be got into the Service, a thing which would save the Lives of many brave Soldiers. 3 4. The Cloathier Genls Department will require considerable At tention but for this Purpose it will be proper to appoint a special Committee to examine into this Matter 8c report some Method of putting Cloathing into the Hands of the Regt. Paymasters with the Prices to be charged the troops. Finally as to every Department. It should be an unalterable Decree that whenever any Person in the public Service either in the Quarter Masters, Commissaries or Medical Departments shall be guilty of trading or of following any other private occupation such Person should be discharged 8: forfeit all the Pay 8c Appointments of his Office. And to all this let it be added that exact Discipline in an Army is essential to Oeconomy 8c without it no possible Arrangments can be effectual. G.M. MS (NNC). In the hand of Gouverneur Morris. A 12-page transcript of the last two-thirds of this document, in the hand of James Custer, is in the William Gil more Simms Collection of Laurens Papers, item 30, deposited at MHi. 1 There are few clues in this draft address to Congress for establishing pre cisely when Morris penned it. “The present Situation of our Affairs” to which he refers in his opening statement, for example, must remain a matter of conjecture. In the most thorough analysis of the document yet undertaken by a student of Morris’ congressional career, Mary-Jo Kline concluded simply that it was com posed during the period June-August 1778. Morris’ reference in it to medical de partment returns of May 1 indicates that it could not have been composed before those reached Congress, which might have been several weeks after May 1. And he probably completed it before the end of July, when he was appointed to a committee on the treasury that submitted a report drafted by him which con tained several features and details adumbrated in the present document.
