218 July 2, 1778 Samuel Holten’s Diary [July 2-3, 1778] July 2. Attended in Congress, & Congress adjourned to 10 oClock tomorrow morning. 1 3. Attended in Congress, & Congress adjourned to 10 o’Clock to morrow morning; This has been a very rainey day; no News material. MS (MDaAr). 1 Failing to secure a quorum until July 7, Secretary Thomson recorded the fol lowing statement in the journals when he resumed his minutes that day: “Ac cording to adjournment, the president and a number of members met at the State House in Philadelphia on Thursday the 2d, and adjourned from day to day, to the present.” JCC, 11:671. Samuel Adams to Samuel P. Savage My dear Sir Philade July 3d 1778 Yesterday I arrivd in this City and to day I have the Pleasure of receiving your Letters of the 10th & 18th of June, the last of which inclosd the News Papers of that Day. I observe a Paragraph under the Head of Paris the 15th of April, mentioning the Arrival of Mr Adams a few days before. I hope it is true; but I wonder that no No tice was taken of it in a Letter from Portsmouth of the 22d of the same Month, which mentions the sailing of the Commissioners from St Helens on the 21st and this was taken from a London Paper of the 25th ten days after the announcing of his Arrival in Paris. 1 Capt Courter brought us nothing new from France. You have commonly had News from Europe earlier than we, though not so authentically. Your Papers give us brilliant Accounts from that Quarter. “Spain has this day avowd her Acknowledgement and Support of the Inde pendence of America”—“It is expected that Holland will be the next Power to recognize the Independence of America” &c &c. These Things we expected to hear of before this Time. They are the Ef fects of Instructions given to the Agents of Congress so long ago as while they were at Baltimore in Deer. 76, 2 and at a Time when the Enemy were striding through the Jerseys. Our Affairs were then at a low Ebb indeed; but Nil desperandum was the Motto of the true Patriots of America. Heaven has since done great Things for us, for which, I fear, we are not so thankful as we ought to be. Our Army has gaind considerable Advantages over the Enemy since they left this City. The Particulars are not yet come to Hand. You will doubtless have them before I shall be able to inform you of them. I now begin to promise my self the Pleasure of seeing the Liberties of
