July 3, 1778 219 our Country establishd on a solid Foundation. It will then be my most earnest Wish to be releasd from all publick Cares, and sit down with my Family and a little Circle of faithful Friends in the Cottage of Obscurity. There we will give Thanks to the God of Heaven for the great Things he has done for America, and fervently pray that she may be virtuous, without which she cannot long enjoy the Blessings of Freedom. I am greatly concernd for my dear native Town, lest after having stood foremost in the Cause of Religion & Liberty she should lose her Glory. We may say inter Nos, Her Principles 8c Manners have had great Influence in securing the Liberties of America. But has she not exchangd her manly Virtue, for Levity 8c Luxury and a Train of ridiculous Vices which will speedily sink her in Contempt. I am affraid the Cry of too many is, Queerenda Pecunia primum est!—“Get Money, Money still, And then let Virtue follow if she will!” The inordinate Love of Gain, will make a shameful Alter ation in the Character of those who have heretofore sacrificed every Enjoyment to the Love of their Country. He is the best Patriot who Stems the Torrent of Vice, because that is the most destructive En emy of his Country. Adieu my Friend. S A [P.S.] My Friendly Regards to Mrs Savage, Mr Scollay 8cc 8cc. The inclosd Letters from General Washington have been receivd 8c publishd since writing the foregoing. 3 RC (MHi). 1 The news of John Adams’ arrival at Paris, which was taken from a captured London newspaper, had been reprinted in the June 18 Independent Chronicle at Boston. 2 See these Letters, 5:629-35, 695-97. 3 Adams is referring to General Washington’s letters to President Laurens describing the battle of Monmouth, which were printed in the July 6 supplement of the Pennsylvania Packet. See Henry Laurens to Washington, July 7, 1778, note 1. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Dear Madam July 3d. 1778 I have this Afternoon received your Favour of June 12th and at the same Time a Gazette from Boston, of later Date, in which I find a pleasing Entry in Regard to Mr. Adams’s Arrival in France. It is so likely to be true from the blundering Manner of it that I venture to congratulate you upon it. Mr. Thaxter is not yet arrived here, 1 but is expected hourly. He will heartily participate in the Joy of your Family. Disgrace pursues the Army of our Enemies in their Passage from this City. The particulars are not yet come to Hand of the Battle at
