220 July 3, 1778 Montmouth; but we know it has been very fatal to the best of the British Troops. I shall communicate the partial Account this Day to Mr. Adams, and acquaint him with the Health of his dearest Friend and her little ones. Nothing can exceed the Filthiness of the Houses which have been occupied by the Enemy here; but, externally, the central Part of the City does not appear much abused. The northern Liberties as they were called are gone intirely, and Southwark has been much in jured. The Schuylkill appears from five miles Distance; so totally have the Woods and Orchards been destroyed. I think you need not apprehend a Visit from the shattered Army now at Sandy Hook. The Desertion which prevails must shortly ruin it. When the foreign Troops were sent for to support the broken Grenadiers and Light Infantry of the British Divisions, it was an swered that many of the Officers were willing to obey but none of the Soldiers. I am continually Yr. affectionate humble Servant, James Lovell RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:55. 1 That is, Philadelphia. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson Dear sir . Philada. July 4th. 1778 I Received your favor by Capt. Jarrold, with one from Mr. Wal lace. I have with pleasure rendered him every Service in my Power. He goes off this Morning with the Certificate of Mr Deane, Mr Car michael, and the Depositions of the prize Master & Mr. George Digges, which sufficiently prove the Pass granted by our Commission ers. Your Letter by Mr. Randall was delivered. We advised him not to purchase any Quantity of Rum, as all articles especially West India are falling. We will attend to the Shirting. I do not believe our Army will want Cloathing this Year. It appears by the Returns of the Cloathier General, that We now have sufficient for 22,000 Men. I was yesterday favoured with your Letter of last Fryday. No Ap plication has been made to Congress for Leave to export to Bur- muda, nor do I believe it will be granted. The Virginia Delegates discredit the assertion that their State has granted Leave. 1 We have no News from Europe, except that the King of Prussia and the Emperor are going to War with each 250,000 fine Troops. No Intelligence from Rhode Island. I wish You Health & Happiness and am. Dear Sir, Your Affec tionate, obedt. Servt. Sami. Chase
