222 July 4, 1778 Streets attended by a crowd of the vulgar. What a strange vicissitude in human affairsi These, but a few years since, colonies of Britain, are now free, sover eign and independent States, and now celebrate the anniversary of their Indepen dence in the very city where but a day or two before Genl Howe exhibited his ridiculous Champhaitrel” Henrietta C. Ellery, ed„ “Diary of the Hon. William Ellery, of Rhode Island, June 28-July 23, 1778,"PMHB 11 (1887): 477-78. And the following account of this celebration by Congress of the fourth was printed in the July 6 supplement to the Pennsylvania Packet. Saturday the fourth of July, the glorious Anniversary of the Independence of America was celebrated by the Honorable the Congress with a grand festival at the City Tavern in this metropolis. The principal civil and military officers and strangers in town were present at it by invitation. After dinner the following Toasts were given by the Honorable the President of Congress: “1. The United States of America. 2. The Protector of the Rights of Mankind. 3. The Friendly European Powers 4. The happy era of the Independence of America. 5. The Commander in Chief of the American Forces. 6. The American Arms by land and sea. 7. The Glorious 19th of April, 1775. 8. The Glorious 26th of December, 1776. 9. The Glorious 16th of October, 1777. 10. The 28th of June, twice Glorious, 1776-1778. 11. May the Arts and Sciences flourish in America. 12. May the People continue Free forever. 13. May the Union of the American States be perpetual.” William Henry Drayton to William Alexander My Lord. Philadelphia July 5. 1778 While I present my thanks for your favour of the 30 ultimo, I snatch the opportunity to present my personal thanks for your dis tinguished services on the 28th, 1 services glorious to yourself, & truly important to the United States. The Hero Stirling has done much, very much to raise the resources of the States to Sterling value. Your Lordships name & actions are in every mouth & ear: they will give employment to the pen of the historian. My Lord, you have far advanced in the road of Fame: it is a dangerous defile: you have my most affectionate wishes, that you may pass it with glory & safety. I need not tell your Lordship, how happy you make me by honouring me with your correspondence. As I flatter myself you will continue it, I beg leave to tell you how you may make it more agree able to me. It will be made so, by being more particular respecting your own proceedings. I am My Lord with the greatest respect, Your Lordships most obliged & humble Sert. Wm. Hy. Drayton RC (NN). 1 A reference to Alexander s conduct of the artillery at the battle of Mon mouth.
