July 7, 1778 235 ratify. Mr. Heyward & myself are of a different Opinion, & think we are Authorised, notwithstanding One or even two States were to re fuse, nor do I apprehend that inconsistency will arise in the Confed eration, from the Defection of one or two States, which these three Gentlemen seem to imagine. 1 However they mean, I believe, to write their sentiments on the subject, either to the Presidt. or to you, to be laid before the Assembly. 2 1 do not think it necessary for Hey ward & myself to write on the subject, in our public Characters, as we think we are authorised to sign it, but as three are necessary to a final Ratification we must wait for your decision. This I am clear in, from what I have seen, 8c known, since I have been in Congress, that if we are to have no Confederation untill the Legislatures of the thirteen States agree to one, that we shall never have one, 8c if we have not one, we shall be literally a rope of sand, 8c I shall tremble for the consequences that will follow, at the end of this War. France I have good reason to think would never have entered into the Treaties, she has done with us, had she known we were not Confed erated, 8c when the present misunderstanding comes to be spread abroad, I am afraid it will give such an Alarm that those powers, who have lately shewn so good a Disposition to an Alliance with us, will immediately fall back, 8c stand aloof, untill they can see on what footing our jaring interests are to stand. But suppose they were ever so well inclined who are they to enter into an Alliance with? It can’t be with the United States. Nor can I conceive they will ever do it with such a body as Congress at present is, bound together by no other Law, than that of the bare necessity of the present situation of our affairs, 8c lyabel to fall to pieces, from the Ambition or caprice of one or two States, but the Alarm will operate still more strongly still when it is known, that we have attempted to confederate 8c can’t. All Europe for some time past, have looked upon us, as in a State of Confederacy. But the greatest danger in my Opinion yet remains. Is not the Sovereign will & pleasure of Congress at this time the law of this Continent? Some men may deny it, 8c will, but a late Act of theirs (I mean the case of the Embargo) proves it beyond a doubt. 3 If they can do this, they can do anything else. Are they bound by any Law? Have they any line marked out for their Rule of conduct? No they have not. And it’s my sincere belief that some men wish it to continue so. As an individual I have very strong objections to the Confederation, exclusive of what were pointed out by our State, 4 but still, I would rather have this, than none. I think it is beyond a doubt that in the course of the next six months, Great Britain would have offered us our own terms, for peace she must have. But when they come to know that we have begun to split, Why it’s just the very thing they have all along been endeavouring to effect. Divide 8c Conquer, has been their favourite maxim. This will to be sure en courage her to risque another Campaign, it will certainly be their
