240 July 8, 1778 receive from Congress. 2 To detain Major Putnam in these circum stances I think would be improper: I have for this reason recom mended his return, and I beg Sir, you will accept this assurance that I will not delay the necessary applications on your Business, and that I am with the highest Esteem & Regard &c. Sir &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "Major General Putnam, Hartford in Con necticut.” 1 General Israel Putnam’s June 30 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 159, fols. 135-36. In it Putnam asked to be apprised of the result of the investigation of a court of inquiry into the loss of Forts Clinton and Montgomery, which had been captured by the British in October 1777 while he was in command of the High lands. Laurens must have written the present letter before the delegates met this day because according to the journals the reading of Putnam’s letter was Congress’ first order of business on the eighth. JCC, 11:673. 2 After considering the report of the court of inquiry on the loss of Forts Clin ton and Montgomery, Congress resolved on August 17 that “those posts were lost, not from any fault, misconduct, or negligence, of the commanding officers, but solely through the want of an adequate force under their command to maintain and defend them.” JCC, 11:743, 803-4. Gen. Alexander McDougall, Putnam’s suc cessor as commander of the Highlands, was one of the officers whom Washington had appointed to conduct this inquiry. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir Philadelphia 8th July 1778 I beg leave to refer to a private Letter of yesterday by Gray, in which I acknowledged the receipt of Your Excellency’s Letters to Congress of the 28th & 29th Ulto. & 1st Inst. I should have added the 21st Ulto. which came to hand the 2d Inst. 1 With some difficulty a Congress was collected yesterday, Your Ex cellency’s Letters were immediately taken under consideration & the House unanimously Resolved a Vote of thanks for Your Excel lency’s approved conduct from the time when the Army left Valley forge Camp to the conclusion of the Battle of Monmouth a Certified Copy of which I have the honor & particular happiness of transmit ting within the present Cover. 2 I have likewise the pleasure of conveying an Act of the same date for thanking the Gallant Officers & Men under Your Excellency’s Command who by their conduct & valor distinguished themselves in that Battle. 3 I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (DLC). 1 Washington’s June 21 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 152, 6:127-28, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 12:98-99.
