July 9, 1778 241 2 See JCC, 11:673. 3 Ibid. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My Dear Betsy Philada July 9 1778 Mr McLean the Bearer of this Letter arrive! in this City yesterday, and tells me he saw you on the Day he left Boston, and that you were then in Health. He now returns in so great Haste as to afford me Time only to let you know that I still enjoy that inestimable Blessing. I now write at the Table in Congress, having just put my Hand to the Confederation with my Colleagues & the Delegates of seven other States. North Carolina and Georgia whose Members are absent have acceded to the Confederation. 1 Mr H has just ob- taind the Leave of Absence and is going home on Account of his ill State of Health & the Circumstances of his Family. He tells me his Wife is dangerou Adieu my dear, S A RC (NN). 1 See JCC, 11:677, and Henry Laurens to Certain States, July 10, 1778. 2 Congress granted John Hancock a leave of absence on this date. JCC, 11:677. It is doubtful that Adams’ explanation of the reasons for Hancock’s return home, which took place less than a month after he arrived in Pennsylvania, is an accu rate one. In his July 1, 1778, letter to his wife, Hancock wrote that his plans for remaining in Philadelphia hinged on the ratification of the confederation, when “a new Congress will bring on the Conclusion of my Plan,” but he did not ex plain the nature of his plan and his surviving letters to her for this brief period suggest that he was simply unwilling to settle into the drudgery of representing his state now that he was no longer president of Congress. For an examination of Hancock’s abbreviated stay in Congress at this time, see William Fowler, The Baron of Beacon Hill; a Biography of John Hancock (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1980), pp. 230-32. On July 11 Hancock was appointed to the official welcoming committee for the newly arrived French ambassador, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, and thus he did not leave Philadelphia until July 15. JCC, 11:685; and James Lovell to Samuel P. Sav age, July 14, 1778. Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love, Philadelphia July 9 1778 It is so hot that I cannot sleep, so I must spend a few Minutes in letting you hear from me. This City is enough to kill a Horse, and if I had not been highly favoured in obtaining most excellent Lodg ings, I should have been overcome with the Heat. We have reed, ad vice to day from France of a fleet being on our Coast consisting of sly ill. 2
