242 July 9, 1778 12 French Ships of the Line, Six Frigates and two Xebeques, all un der the Command of the Admiral Count de Estang, with an Ambas sador &c &c. An English fleet has followed them, so that we daily expect to hear of some bloody work. The Indians have struck on this Frontier and entirely cut off the Wyoming Settlement. It is said 200 Inhabitants were scalped. May a holy God deliver us from this barberous Enemy. Enclosed you have the publication of the Day. 1 My Love to all as if mentioned. Kiss my Susan and excuse this Scrawl and believe me with cool reflection & Sincerity, Your most affectionate, Boudinot [P.S.] Shoes three Pounds a pair—Linnen 30 to 50/ per yard—wine £600 per Pipe. RC (NjP). 1 This day’s issue of the Pennsylvania Packet contained, among other items, William Henry Drayton’s June 17 letter to the Carlisle commissioners and John Adams’ and Benjamin Franklin’s May 18 letter to various American officials con taining news of d’Estaing’s fleet. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia July 9th. 1778 We have now the Pleasure to inform You that the Articles of Confederation are ratified by nine States, to wit the four New En gland States, New York, Pennsilvania, Virginia, North & South Car olina, and the Ingrossed Copy with a proper form of Ratification is signed by the Delegates of said States except those of North Carolina which were not present. The remaining four states are called upon to impower their Delegates to ratify. Georgia it is supposed will not hesitate; Maryland, Delaware & New Jersey had their Objections, but it is hoped and expected they will not prevail to prevent their uniting with the confederated States in ratifying the Articles. There were many Amendments proposed from the States, but none were adopted; it seemed to be the Opinion of Congress that an immediate Confederation was of greater Moment to the Interest of the States, than any present Alteration of the Articles to accomodate the Opinion of particular States on the Amendments proposed. Yesterday an Express arrived from Boston with Dispatches from France, which advise that the Count D’Etaing an Admiral of France sailed from Toulon with a Squadron of French Men of War consist ing of twelve sail of the Line, Six Frigates and three Chebecs bound for Delaware or Chesapeak Bays on board of which is Monsieur Girard, Minister plenipotentiary from the Court of France to the
