July 9, 1778 245 American Independence, 5 and the whole Nation in great distrac tion. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to George Clinton, June 20, 1778, note 3. 2 See Elias Boudinot to Alexander Hamilton, July 8, 1778, note 2. 3 See JCC, 11:675-76. 4 What follows is an accurate paraphrase of John Laurens’ July 7 letter to his father. Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 204-5. 5 For the debate in parliament on Thomas Powys’ April 10 motion that the Carlisle commissioners “be authorised to declare the Americans absolutely and for ever independent,” see Parliamentary History, 19:1080-88. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, Philadelphia 9th July 1778 I beg leave to refer you to my last of the 26th Ulto. by the hand of Colo. Armand. Your favors of the 19th & 30th June have been duly presented to Congress & the Inclosed Act of the 7th Inst, will shew you that your conduct respecting Major General Philips has received the ap probation of the House. Your correspondence with that Officer is published by order, as you will see in the paper which will accom pany this. 1 That part of your Letter of the 19th relative to Gold which you have received for supplies to the Troops of the Convention is com mitted to the Treasury, that Board is not yet fixed in an Office in this City, & therefore a Report cannot be expected for some days, the moment I receive Commands, I shall put them in motion towards you, 2 in the mean time I have only to repeat what I have often said with equal truth &: pleasure that I am with great Esteem & Respect, sir, Your obedient 8e humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). 1 General Heath’s June 19 letter to Laurens and accompanying enclosures, which are in PCC, item 157, fols. 283-304, dealt with the case of Lt. Richard Browne, a member of the Convention Army at Boston who had been shot to death by an American sentry on June 17 "for not stoping when repeatedly chal lenged as he was riding out of the lines with two Women." The day after this in cident Heath informed Gen. William Phillips, the ranking officer of the Convention Army, that Browne’s death would be thoroughly investigated, but Phillips infuriated Heath by replying that Browne had been murdered and by ridiculing the notion that the British could expect justice from "rebels.” In retali ation, Heath ordered Phillips’ movements to be confined strictly and demanded that he sign a new parole promising to remain on his good behavior. When Phil lips refused to accept this parole, arguing that it violated the Saratoga Conven-
