246 July 9, 1778 tion, Heath had referred the matter to Congress, which on July 7 expressed its approval of his treatment of the British general. JCC, 11:672. In regard to Heath’s June 30 letter to Laurens, which forwarded to Congress some recently received dispatches from France, see Elias Boudinot to Alexander Hamilton, July 8, 1778, note 2. 2 No report by the Board of Treasury has been found on Heath’s inquiry about whether he should send Congress the gold that would be left over after he paid for supplies for the Convention Army. Henry Laurens to Patrick Henry Sir 9th July [1778] My last to your Excellency was dated at York 27th Ulto. and con veyed by the hand of Major Talbot. Within the present cover Your Excellency will receive a printed Copy of a Letter from the Commissioners at Paris of the 18th May, the original I had the honor of receiving and presenting Yesterday to Congress. • Congress have directed me to request Your Excellency to take the most effectual Measures in case of the arrival of a British squadron in the bay of Chesapeak for intimating to any French fleet which may appear on the coast the number, force and station of the En- emy, and for supplying with good Pilots any French ship or fleet, whose Commander may be disposed to come within the bay. 1 Monsr. Girard, Plenipotentiary from the Court of Versailles to these United States is expected hourly, having embarked in the fleet which sailed from France the middle of April. 2 I am with very great Regard &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See JCC, 11:675-76. 2 Laurens wrote virtually the same letter this day to Gov. Thomas Johnson of Maryland. Red Books, MdAA. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Dear Madam July 9th. 1778 I heartily congratulate you upon the indubitable Proofs of our Friends 1 Arrival in France. You might imagine that the Congress had received some important Intelligence in the large Packets sent lately from Boston, if I did not acquaint you that they were chiefly for Monsr. Girard who is not yet arrived. A French Fleet having sailed for America, an English One being ready to follow, and a sec ond French One to pursue that, if there is to be a War between the two Nations, it will probably commence in our Seas.
