248 July 10, 1778 formation which you will not find any where else, the old Coat & Breeches, which you left here, have made their Escape from the British Army and are safe at Mrs Cheesemans. Would you have them sent to you? The Confederation has at length got thro’ Congress. A Multitude of Amendments, Alterations and Additions were proposed from Dif ferent States, which have taken up much Time to Consider. After long Debates, all are rejected. It seems to be the Opinion of Congress that a speedy Confederation was of more Importance than to endeavour further to accommodate the Articles to the Opinion & Views of particular States. It was ratified in form by nine states yes terday, the Delegates of the remaining four, to wit, New Jersey, Del aware, Maryland & Georgia, are expected soon to have powers sent them, when it will be compleated. I have only to add my Compliments to Mrs Law, & my best wishes for your Happiness. I am Dr Sir, with great Respect, your most obed & most humble servt, Titus Hosmer Tr (CtHi). Titus Hosmer to Thomas Mumford Dear sir Philadelphia July 10th 1778 Tho I wrote you so lately 1 I cannot forbear availing myself of this Opportunity to give you the Important News we have just received. An Express arrived from France via Boston yesterday 2 with Dispatches for Congress. By these we learn that Admiral Count D’Etaing sailed from Toulon the 15th of April last with a squadron of Twelve sail of the Line, Six Frigates & three Chebecs bound for Delaware or Chesapeak Bay, that an English Squadron of Eleven Sail of the Line left St. Hellens the 24th of April in pursuit of them, and that 17 Sail of the Line lay in the road of Brest ready to put to Sea and Intercept the English Squadron. Yesterday we had Intelligence from Maryland that Count D’Etaing’s Squadron arrived off Chinicoteague in that State three Days ago, & immediately took pilots on board & bore away for Sandy Hook, that he had four Thousand Land Troops on board, who are to act in Conjunction with our Army, while the fleet blocks up the Port and Intercepts Supplies. Our further Advice is that War was de clared at Paris against England the 19th day of May (but of this I have yet some scruples)—That Monsr. Girard is on board the Count D’Etaings fleet, he comes in Character of Minister & plenipotentiary from the Court of France to the united States, and is accompanied
