July 10, 1778 249 by our old Friend Mr. Silas Dean, they may be expected every Day in this City. Thus you see a Grand scene is opening which, if we have Wisdom to Act our part Well, will probably terminate in the compleat Es tablishment of our Independence, Liberty & Happiness. I hope the Inhabitants of Connecticut, if called 8c needed, will exert themselves by one Vigorous push to drive this Consuming Army of Locusts from our Coasts, this Once done there is reason to hope the war will only Thunder on our Coast, and that we may be free from these Bloody, cruel, Inhuman Inmates in our Quarters. The Articles of Confederation were ratified in Form Yesterday by the Delegates of nine states. The remaining four, Viz. New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland 8c Georgia, are waiting for their full powers which are soon expected when that very Important Business will be compleated. My Heart bleeds for Wyoming. The Tories and Indians under Colo. Butler, the British Superintendant of Indian Affairs fell upon it the Third Instant, and have ravaged it with more than Indian Cruelty 8c Barbarity. Our Accounts are yet indistinct, we have Rea son to fear the whole settlemt. is desolated. We hope soon, if any of the miserable Inhabitants have escaped the Carnage, to have a more full 8c particular Account. 3 July 11. Mr. Dean is expected here this night. We had Letters from him to Day 8c from Count D’Etaing. 4 The fleet have taken the Rose Frigate, an Eighteen Gun Ship 8c chased the Roebuck on Shore, five or six Mercht. Ships are said to be in this River coming up here. The Express is going out, accept the cordial Wishes for your Happiness of dear sir, your affectionate, Titus Hosmer RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1973). 1 See Hosmer to Mumford, July 6, 1778. 2 The Boston express arrived on July 8: The “Intelligence from Maryland” mentioned below was received on the morning of the 10th. 3 For further information on John Butler’s raid, see Elias Boudinot to Alexan der Hamilton, July 8, 1778, note 3. 4 Comte d’Estaing’s July 8 letter to President Laurens, announcing the arrival of the French fleet, and Silas Deane’s July 10 letter to Laurens, requesting that pilots be sent to meet d’Estaing at Sandy Hook, were read in Congress on July 11. JCC, 11:683-84. Comte d’Estaing’s letter with translation is in PCC, item 164, fols. 542-49; a transcript of Deane’s letter is in PCC, item 103, fols. 109-10. Both let ters are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:640-43.
