252 July 10, 1778 time that you will learn from the contents the firmness of the good People of this Country. I have the Honor to assure you, Sir, if it shall be necessary after referring to the papers last mentioned that Congress will be ready to render you every service in their power for facilitating your Excel lency’s operations against our common Enemy. I have the Honor to be, With the highest Esteem and Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most Humble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Laurens noted in his presidential letterbook that he sent the original of this letter to d’Estaing by Anthony Dougherty and a dupli cate by Charles Freeman. 1 Samuel Holten noted in his diary for this date: "Attended in Congress, a man came to this city this day & informs that a France Fleet is of[f] Maryland.” MDaAr. The man in question was Blair McClenachan. 2 Not found, but see also Laurens to Washington, this date. 3 For a discussion of the checkered history of cooperation between the United States and d’Estaing’s expeditionary force in 1778, see William C. Stinchcombe, The American Revolution and the French Alliance (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1969), chap. 4. 4 See ]CC, 10:374-80, 11:574-75, 615. Henry Laurens to Henry Fisher Sir 10th July [1778] The Bearer hereof will deliver a Packet directed to His Excellency Count d’Estaing, Vice Admiral and Commander of a squadron of French ships of War. If it be practicable to send the Packet on board the fleet from Lewistown I request you in the name of Congress to do it without loss of time and the expences which may arise from this service shall be paid upon sight of your Account. If the Admiral shall have passed to the Northward of the Capes, and be out of reach from your station; be pleased to return the Packet by this bearer to. Sir, Your Obedient & Most Humble Servt. 1 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "Henry Fisher Esquire, Lewistown.” Sent "by Anthony Dougherty at half past 10 at night.” 1 This day Laurens also wrote the following letter to Richard Westcott "at the Forks of little Egg Harbour”: “The Bearer hereof will also deliver to you a Packet directed to His Excellency Count d’Estaing, Commander of a French fleet of ships of War which were a few days ago at Chincoteague, and said to be bound for Delaware or Sandy Hook. If the fleet shall be accessible I request you in the name of Congress to send the Packet at all expence to the Admiral, otherwise be pleased to return it by the same hand which will deliver it to you.” PCC, item 13, 2:26. Sent “by Charles Freeman at 1/2 past 10 at night."
