258 July 10, 1778 which you have treated this Matter while you supposed me the Au thor of the whole Publication. The Terms of your Letter to say nothing of the Publication seem to me to be such a Deviation not only from the Line of Frindship but even of Civility which I might have expected from you as can only be excused by the Embarass- ments & Anxiety of your Situation. But while I truly regret the Oc casion I cannot discern the Prudence or Wisdom of diminishing the Number of your Frinds at such a Time—& especially those who have Seats in Congress where alone you can expect to have those “enor mous Injuries’’ redress’d of which you complain. The Additions & Corrections I made to the Acct, received from Gov. Livingston by the Printer were made in such Haste that I did not pay so much At tention to the Performance as 1 have since done; but now upon a careful Perusal {I find my Opinion confirmed by that of every Gentleman & I have spoke to several that) I am totally at a loss to discover where there is the least disrespectful Mention of you or a Fact related from which a censorious Enemy could have extracted an unfavourable Idea of your Conduct. I am very sure so far as my Pen was concerned nothing of that kind was intended, but the re verse. Tho not a Soldier by Profession I have seen enough of Armies to caution me against forming hasty Judgments of Men or Actions from mere Report. Tho I heard much therefor on that Day I sus pended my Opinion & if you will again read the Paper with Atten tion which I cannot think you yet have done I am sure you will see a favourable Construction put on every Part of your Conduct. When compared with the official Account since published by Congress it must appear even to yourself to contain Matters of Praise 8c Ap probation. It says that you did attack 8c drove the Enemy for some Time 8c at last only retired toward the main Army on Account of the Enemy’s great Superiority of Force. It made your Numbers short I believe of the Reality but therefore more favourable to your Con duct. What does the Acct, sanctified by publick Authority say, that you brot 5000 instead of 1500 Men, that you retreated without mak ing any Opposition except by a small Party under Col. Butler which was successful 8c in short that your Conduct was Matter of Surprize 8c Mortification to the Commander in Chief. It is admirable to every person I have conversed with first 8c will be so to the whole world. In what Circumstance the first Publication was unfavourable to you 8c secondly, Why you should attempt to destroy the Veracity of That Account 8c thereby fully establish the Credit of one which so much wound your Feelings so sensibly. Upon the whole tho I cannot ad mit that the Epithet you have applied to it as invidious, dishonest 8c false are by any Means proper 8c as you have only made a general Charge without pointing out wherein it is false 8c dishonest I cannot tell how much of this unhandsome Language I am to take to myself or whether any. But this I can 8c shall say that the Additions 8c Alter-
