July 10, 1778 259 ations I made were strictly true & founded chiefly upon my own Ob servation & you will excuse me for differing entirely with you in supposing I could possibly know nothing of the principal Part of the Action as that I believe will be allowed to have been after I met you [. . .] from which Time till the Close of the Affair I was either with the General at his Desire or reconnoitering in Front but chiefly the former where all Intelligence came & from whence the Move ments were directed. I am at a loss to know what Individuals you mean whom you censure as directing & giving Opinions without Au thority. If you had any Reference to Gen. Cadwallader & myself I shall not hesitate to say the Charge is unwarrantable as we gave no Directions nor did we on any Occasion offer an Opinion but when requested by the Commander in Chief. As Gentlemen of the Coun try we had a Right to attend the Army as Volunteers 8c as Frinds to the General to Attend him at his Desire without being liable to Cen sure for either. That I entertained a very high opinion of your tal ents 8c Abilities in common with my Countrymen 8c that they were displayed much to the Advantage of this Country 8c your own Honour during our Retreat from Kingsbridge to Peeks Kiln in 1776 are sentiments which I have on every Occasion expressed & that in the Affair of Fort Washington Genl W. manifested an Indecision of Mind which if unamended would shade the brighter Parts of his Character are Facts equally true: but I can easily conceive that more Experience 8c happier Arrangements may have given him greater Confidence in his Troops as well as in his own Judgment. From long Acquaintance 8c (close Observation I think him to [. . .] clearly of Opinion) FC (NHi). 1 Reed wrote this letter the day after he received a copy of the July 8 issue of Isaac Collins' New-Jersey Gazette, “the News Paper from Trenton containing your Note to the Printer” mentioned by Reed in the first sentence below. Reed had moved his family to Flemington, N.J., twenty miles north of Trenton, in April, and had joined them there for a brief stay after the battle of Monmouth before he returned to Philadelphia, where he resumed his seat in Congress on July 15. See Roche, Joseph Reed, pp. 128-30; and JCC, 11:688. 2 The July 1 issue of the New-Jersey Gazette contained a lengthy report on the battle of Monmouth which Lee assumed Reed had written and which he denounced as “a most invidious, dishonest, and false relation” in a letter to the printer that Collins published in the Gazette’s July 8 issue. For a discussion of Lee’s response to this report and his relations with Reed and various delegates to Congress at this time, see John R. Alden, General Charles Lee, Traitor or Patri- otl (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1951), pp. 243-49.
