260 July 11, 1778 Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare Hond. Sir Philadelphia July 11th 1778 This is Just to inform you that a French Squadron of 12 ships of the Line & 4 frigates under the Command of vice admiral Count De Estang is arrived off the Capes of Delaware & finding the Brittish Fleet & army had Escaped from this City Sailed last Thursday Morn ing for New York, with orders to Cooperate with us for the Destruc tion of the Brittish fleet & army in America. They have taken the Rose Frigate, Sunk a 30 Gun Ship, taken several prizes & run aground & taken the Roebuck in the Capes of Delaware. Monsier Girard Ambassador & Plenipotintiary from the Court of France Came in the fleet, has sent to Congress to notify his arrival and He is expected in this City tomorrow, Mr. Deane is with him. An Officer from the admiral is now here to procure fresh Provisions (for which they will pay the Hard money). There are so many Landmen & mar ines on Board that they Can land four Thousand Troops on occa sion. In order if Possible to put an End to the Brittish Fleet & army before the arrival of Succors the Congress have authorised Genl. Washington to call on any or all the States he may think proper from New Jersey to New Hampshire Inclusive for the assistance of militia & voluntiers. If he should Call on our State I hope they will Exert themselves to the utmost & at once put a final End to the Power & hopes of our Enemies in America. 1 Mr Wentworth had a fever at York Town, was pretty bad. I tar ried with him 4 days after the Congress adjourned, left him better Thursday the 2nd Instant, have not heard from him since. Hope he will be here the begining of the week. I am Sir with great Respect, your most obedient Servant, Josiah Bartlett [P.S.] I would not have you consider this as a publick letter as I write in the greatest haste as tis 10 at night 8c the Express Setting off cannot correct much less copy it. 2 J-B. RC (MHi). 1 See JCC, 11:683-85; and Henry Laurens to Washington, this date. 2 This day Bartlett also wrote the following brief note to his wife: “I have time only Just to inform you that I am in health, for news must refer you to Mr. Thurstons letter [not found] which I Send open that you may See it. Have Reed 3 letters from you Since I Came here, wrote you answers by the post the 7th In stant to which I Refer you.” Watt Collection, NhHi.
