July 11, 1778 261 Samuel Holten’s Diary [July 11, 1778] 11. This day was the first time that I took any part in the de bates in Congress. 1 We have certain Accts, of the Arrival of a France Fleet of[f] the Delaware, 12 ships of the line & 4 Frigats. MS (MDaAr). 1 No other information has been found to determine the nature of Holten’s participation. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 11th July 1778. I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to the contents of a Letter which I had the honor of writing to you last Evening by Barry. The present Cover will convey to Your Excellency two Acts of Congress of this date 1. Empowering Your Excellency to call in the Aid of such Militia as shall appear to be necessary from the four Eastern States, from New York & New Jersey for carrying on operations in concert with Count d’Estaing. 2. Intimating the desire of Congress that Your Excellency Co-op erate with Vice Admiral Count d’Estaing in the Execution of such offensive operations against the Enemy as shall appear to be neces sary. 1 Congress have directed me to propose for Your Excellencys con sideration an attack by Vice Admiral Count d’Estaing upon the British Ships of War & Transports in the harbor of Rhode Island, by which possession of a safe Port may be gained & the retreat of the British forces on that Island be cut off, as an alternative to a haz ardous or ineligible attempt upon the British Squadron within Sandy Hook. I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble servant. Henry Laurens, President of Congress. [P.S.] Sometime ago I informed Your Excellency that Congress had adopted the Stile of “North America” to these States—this day that Resolution was reconsidered & reduced to the former mode of “America.” 2 Congress Resolved on the 9th Instant that the Committee ap pointed to arrange the Army do repair without delay to Head Quar ters for that purpose as Your Excellency will perceive by the Inclosed Certified Order. 3
