262 July 11, 1778 RC (DLC). 1 See JCC, 11:684. 2 See JCC, 11:683; and Laurens to Horatio Gates, May 19, 1778, note 1. 3 See JCC, 11:676. Henry Marchant to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia July 11. 1778 glorious news. I have but a few Moments before the Express goes off, to inform You—That a French Fleet is arrived on this Coast commanded by the Count De.Stang, 1 Ship of 90 Guns, 4 Do. of 80 Do., 2 of 74 and 5 of 64 and four Frigates. Congress this Day reed, a Letter from the adml. dated Delaware Bay. The French Ambassador Monsr. Gerard & Mr. Deane in a Frigate are now coming up the River. The adml. also forwarded Us a Letter directed to Congress from the King of France & signed by His Majesty addressing us in the most respectful and tender Manner. 1 The French Fleet have sailed for, and before this are at Sandy Hook, to attack the British Fleet. Genl. Washington is pushing forward in order to cooperate with the Admiral. Another British Fleet is however hourly expected—So that it’s pos sible How’s Fleet may refuse to give Battle, & should the other British Fleet come on the Coast, The Count De. Stang may put into Newport Harbour. Congress have hinted this to Genl. Washington to be improved upon, so that Measures may be taken to call in a Force sufficient to opperate agt. the British Forces on the Island, but this upon a Supposition that the Count De.Stang should think proper to push for Newport Harbour. I give you a hint of this, That Genl. Sullivan and the Force he has may be preparing for such a possible Event, and that our Millitia may be called upon, not merely as in Course of Duty, but as Volunteers, upon so glorious an Occa sion to stand ready to step forward if called upon which I have not a Doubt they will to a Man, to rid Themselves at once by an easy Effort under the Blessing of Heaven, of the vilest Banditty that were ever suffered to curse the Earth. 1 have the Honor to be your most humble Servt. Hy. Marchant P.S. The Rose Frigate formerly commanded by Wallace was taken by One of the French Frigates upon Their arrival off Chesepeak Bay. The Roebuck of 44 guns at the Mouth of Delaware was drove on the Maryland Shore. Her Crew cut her Masts & fled a Shore where they must fall into Our Hands, &: the Ship as she is one of the finest in the British Navy will be a fine Acquisition. The Frigate coming up the River, has two Prizes with her, They sunk a British Privateer of 26 Guns, just as they made Land. H.M.
