July 11, 1778 263 You’l Excuse a Scrawl for the Love of the Matter. RC (R-Ar). 1 Louis XVI’s March 23 letter to Congress, announcing Conrad Alexandre Gerard’s appointment as minister plenipotentiary to the United States, is in PCC, item 111, fols. 4-5, and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:521. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen Philada July 11th 1778 Your Several Letters lately received have not been considered be cause of the obstructions created by a removal of Congress from York Town to this place where as yet the committee have not been able to get themselves properly fixed for business. The sense enter tained of the increasing importance of your Department will secure a close attention to it from this Committee and every care shall be taken to furnish you with the money requisite for the proper Accom plishment of the ends proposed by your appointment. The immedi ate design of this Letter is to inform you of the arrival on the Coast near the Capes of Delaware of a French squadron consisting of 12 ships of the Line and four frigates under the command of the Count D Estaing Vice Admiral of France who is proceeding immediately to Newyork there to act in conjunction with the Army of the united states for destroying the fleet & army of the common enemy in that Harbour. Congress being determined to give every possible aid to the execution of so salutary a purpose has directed us to order all the Continental frigates and armed Vessels within your Department to be immediately made ready for Sea and dispatched one after an other as soon as each can be prepared, to join the Squadron of France and to act in such manner as the Count D Estaing shall judge most proper for distressing and destroying the enemys force upon the Coast of North America. 1 Congress trust to the bravery and good disposition of the American seamen that they will on this great occasion step forth with alacrity and exert themselves in supporting our freinds who have come so far to assist us to vanquish an enemy too long triumphant upon the Sea. The expence attending this business no doubt will be considerable, altho we are well assured your (Economical wisdom will lead you to abridge it as far as may be possible. We shall without delay forward you as large A Sum of Money as can now be spared, and in the mean time desire you will on the credit of the States push the business forward with all pos sible vigor. 2 We are to observe to you that the French fleet is more than fully manned, so that some small aid in way of seamen may be expected, and we mention this that you may not wait for the most compleat
