270 July 13, 1778 gardens and orchards destroyed—Mr Dickenson’s and Mr Morris’ fine seats all demolished—in short I could hardly find the great roads that used to pass that way. The enemy built a strong abattee with the fruit and other trees from the Delaware to Skuylkill and at about 40 or 50 rods distance along the abattue a quadrangular fort for cannon and a number of redoubts for small arms; the same on the several eminences along the Skuylkill against the City. Mr Wentworth was taken Sick the 21st ulto, with a fever and a bilious vomiting and purging which lasted him near ten days and hindered me from leaving York Town till the 2d inst. when I left him better—have not heard from him since—hope to see him here in a few days. The confederation was Signed last week by the delegates of the New England States, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia and South Carolina; North Carolina have sent their ratification of it, but had no delegates in Congress to sign it. This day a delegate is arrived from Georgia 3 who says he is authorised to sign it in behalf of that State. New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland have objected to it and not authorized their delegates as yet to sign it. Congress have wrote to them and I have reason to think they will accede to it. In forming a plan of Govt, for our State, I hope particular care will be taken to form a proper Executive Body to see the Laws car ried into execution; our present plan is more deficient in that, than in any thing else. When I came to Congress the President asked me if our Govr. had rec’d any letters from him for eight months past, and seemed very uneasy that he had rec’d no answers to his letters; I excused the matter as well as I could—but really Sir, is it to be ex pected that our very worthy president (who by the way is only paid by the day as other members, a small sum not sufficient to half maintain himself) should be at the trouble to receive, file, copy and answer from time to time all such public letters without any com pensation; to do it properly he ought to be allowed a Clerk for the purpose and receive something handsome for his own time. No State in the Union is without some such executive officer or body and I am persuaded no State can long exist with any tolerable degree of order and dignity without it. Some supreme executive power must be somewhere lodged separate from the Legislature, no matter by what name it is called, whether Governor, President of the Council, or Executive Council; but such a power there must be to act, when the Legislature is separate and cannot act, otherwise there is at such times a partial dissolution of the Govt. Beside the impropriety and danger many States think there is in the Leglislative and Executive being lodged in the same body. Such a sort of Executive as the Gov ernor of Connecticut is possessed of, I should think would answer the purpose very well. The occasion of my writing the above is owing to a paragraph of
