212. July 13, 1778 Nathaniel Scudder to John Hart My Dear Sir, Freehold July 13th. 1778 I do myself the Honor to address you upon an affair to me of the most serious and alarming Importance. The Honorable Council and Assembly of this State have not thought proper to invest their Dele gates with Power to ratify and sign the Confederation; and it is obvi ous that unless every of the thirteen States shall acceed to it, we remain an unconfederated People. These States have actually en tered into a Treaty with the Court of Versailles as a Confederated People and Monsieur Girard their ambassador Plenipotentiary to Congress is now on our Coast with a powerfull Fleet of Ships, which have taken Pilots on Board for Delaware. He probably may be landed by this Time, and will at all Events be in Philadelphia in a few Days. How must he be astonished & confounded? and what may be the fatal Consequences to America, when he discovers (which he will immediately do) that we are ipso facto unconfederated, and consequently, what our Enemies have called us, “a Rope of Sand”? Will he not have just Cause to resent the Deception? and may not insidious Britain, knowing the same, take Advantage of our Disunion? For my own Part I am of Opinion She will never desist from her nefarious Designs, nor ever consider her Attempts upon our Liberties fruitless and vain, untill she knows the golden knot is actually tied. I left Congress last Wednesday Evening. The Affair of Confederation was to be taken up next Day. The Magna Charta of America was amply engrossed and prepared for signing. Ten States had actually authorised their Delegates to ratify; a Delegate from an eleventh (vizt. Georgia) declared he was so fully possessed of the Sense of his Constituents, that he should not hesitate to subscribe it. 1 New-Jersey and Maryland only stood out. 2 Mr. Chase, one of the Delegates from that State, told me the Day I left Philadelphia, that he imagined the Determination of Maryland would depend much upon that of New-Jersey, and thought if our State should acceed, theirs would also—he therefore concluded to go immediately down and try what could be done. I at the same Time assured him I would write you on the Subject on my Return. I ought to inform you, Sir, that the Objections stated by New-Jersey were read and considered by Congress, and after being entered at large on their Minutes, a Question was taken, whether Congress at that Time judged it expedient to take up the said Objections so as to admit any Emendations in the Plan of Confederation, or not? and it passed in the Negative. 3 In Consequence of which they remain both upon the Journal and Files to be taken up and considered at any future Time when they may be called for. I expect my Colleagues will soon address you on this Subject. I
