July 13, 1778 273 left Doctr. Witherspoon, Doctr. Elmer & Mr. Boudinot at Philadel phia, whither I expect to return in a few Days. I should have been much more uneasy, when I was last at Prince ton, and should have taken more Pains to convince the Members of the Necessity of granting the Powers of Ratification to their Dele gates, had I not been encouraged to expect, that the Legislature would not rise without doing it; at the same Time supposing the Reason, why they were witheld at that Juncture, to be, that their Objections might have the greater Weight with Congress. Indeed I all along expected Doctr. Witherspoon would have brought on such Powers with him, especially as I hoped the Honorable Houses would be clearly of Opinion, that it were better to confederate under all the Disadvantages they apprehended, than that the general Union should be broken or even greatly endangered. I know not Whether I ought to say any Thing respecting the Ob jections themselves; some of them are perhaps not very essential. The Obtaining an Admission of several of them would doubtless be of great local Advantage to this State; but every State must expect to be Subjected to considerable local Disadvantages in a general Con federation. Indeed upon the whole I am fully [of] Opinion, that no Plan can or will ever be adopted more equal, or less generally injuri ous to the confederating States than the present. I also declare it as my Opinion that if the general Business of Emendation were to be fairly taken up in Congress to morrow, several Alterations would be made exceedingly disadvantageous to the smaller circumscribed States, and which perhaps might more than counterbalance the ob taining what we apply for. As to the grand and capital Objection re specting the Lands &c. 4 I will only observe, that in Case we never obtain an original Quota of them, we shall only loose a Share in the prime Sales of them, which will probably be very low, while we shall inevitably reap a permanent and encreasing Benefit from the rapid & enormous growth of the larger States; for surely in Proportion to their Extent and Population their Quota of the public Expence. & Debt will be encreased, while ours will be proportionably dimin ished. What avails it therefore to us, whether five Pounds of our na tional Debt be paid by the Accession of a Subject to this State, or whether our Quota be really lessined five Pounds by the Settlement of a Person in the State of Virginia at the Distance of a thousand Miles from the Atlantic? For my own Part I think we shall have greatly the Advantage of these enormous unwieldy Governments; nor do I judge it unlikely they will soon find it necessary to sue for the curtailing their own extravagant Jurisdiction. In the Settlement of our Soldiery & the foreign Deserters at the Expiration of the War, we shall incur considerable Disadvantage; however as the larger States will doubtless rejoice to have their Frontiers immediately enlarged, and will vie with each other in
