274 July 13, 1778 Courting so great an Accession of Inhabitants, there will probably be no greater Expence than barely that of locating the Lands, our Quota of which cannot be any very considerable Sum. I congratulate you on the signal Success of our Arms in this Neighbourhood on the 28th of June. Great Plunder and Devastation have been committed among my Friends in this Quarter, but through the distinguishing Goodness of Providence my Family & Property escaped, & that almost in a miraculous Manner. I wish you to take the above Representation into your serious Consideration, and, if with me you shall judge it a Matter of suffi cient Importance, that the Legislature may be as speedily as possible convened to deliberate and determine thereon. 5 I am Dear Sir with great Esteem Your most Obedt. Hble Servt. Nath. Scudder RC (Nj). Addressed: “Honorable John Hart Esqr., Speaker of the Assembly of the State of New Jersey.” 1 Edward Langworthy was the Georgia delegate in question, though it is not clear when he made this remark. 2 Delaware had also not yet authorized her delegates to ratify the Articles of Confederation. JCC, 11:677. 3 For New Jersey’s objections to the Articles of Confederation and Congress’ June 25 decision not to consider them, see JCC, 11:648-51. New Jersey insisted that the Articles of Confederation should vest Congress with authority over crown lands to facilitate the payment of the expenses of the war “and for other such public and general purposes.” See JCC, 11:650. 3 On November 20, 1778, the New Jersey legislature authorized the state’s dele gates to ratify the Articles of Confederation, which they accordingly did six days later. See JCC, 11:1161-64. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear sir Philade July 14 1778 I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your favors of the 26th & 28th of June. 1 I have long been apprehensive, you know, that false Ideas of Politeness would injure the Minds of our Countrymen and prove destructive to Morals and Liberty. But I own, I did not expect that the most ridiculous Folley would have taken so early and large a Stride as it appears to have done in the Instance you mention. 2 It cannot in my opinion be supported by any Principles of Truth & Propriety and discovers a Degree of Servility shocking to sober Hu manity. And yet a Conduct so void of common Sense will find Advo cates among many who never had and never can have a Spark of that Republican Feeling which you have always possessd. These People are formd to be Asses & Slaves; Let them remain so. But surely they ought not to be advanced to Places of Influence, to spread by their Examples, the Principles of Servility and Slavery
