278 July 14, 1778 James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir - July 14th. 1778. Your Satyrveimic favor of the 30 of June came yesterday to hand. I enviously thank you for it; for you write like a man happy by the side of a charming woman, and whom nothing can vex. I will now only say you ought to be here at this period as a balance to the days of vexation you have formerly known in the service of your country in this rotten hearted State. Though our own Navy has dwindled Sadly, we now hold up our heads upon the strength of our allies by sea. The Count d’Estang is plenipotentiary for co-operation with General Washington and has proceeded immediately to Sandy Hook. The Languedoc is a very swift sailor, and though called a 90, has up wards of 100 carriage guns and 1200 men. The enemy have many ships, but their fifties half manned will not be able to stand an en gagement with double manned 74’s & 64’s of the French. Mr. Han cock sets out for Town to morrow and will probably gain Some intelligence in his rout which being published in the Gazettes at his arrival will reach you and discover interesting events of the joint op erations of France and America. Nine States have Signed the Confederation and there is no doubt but Georgia, Delaware and Jersey will soon sign. Maryland will take airs and plague us, but upon our determination to confederate anew, 12 will do as She has always done before—come in without grace. J. P. Jones has behaved to your liking—his conduct alone will make England keep her ships at home. My love to your friends, J.L. Tr (DLC). Henry Marchant to John Carter ^* r ’ 1 Philadelphia July 14th. 1778. Your agreable Favour of the 2d Instant, I reed, yesterday. As Congress was designed by its Institution to be a true Representation of the Minds of its Constituents; So that Body finds itself happy when Acts and Resolutions of material Consequence, merit the Uni versal Approbation. The Scene brightens, grows more and more interesting, and calls for new and fresh Exertions of Senatorial Wisdom. We advance into the Circle and Standing of mighty Nations-Adepts in all the Pollicy of Peace and War. May Heaven protect Our Youth and prove the Friend, Protector and Councellor of America!
