July 15, 1778 281 bers of that State will sign when they arrive which is expected in a few Days. Congress has written a Letter to the States of Georgia, Maryland, Delaware & Jersey pressing them to authorize their Dele gates to joyn in this most necessary Transaction. 2 I believe there will [be] no Difficulty except with Maryland, & she will finally accede. The Articles have undergone no Alterations. The French Minister arrivd in this City on Lords Day, and the day following, last Monday, the Delegates of Massachusetts Bay paid him their Compliments in Town. I know not that those of any other State have observd this Ceremony. It appeard to us highly proper. We were receivd with Politeness and heard some handsome Things said of the State we have the Honor to represent. The Minister plenipotentiary deliverd to Congress a Letter from his Sovereign expressd in the strongest Terms of Affection & Friend ship. I can at present add no more than to inform you, that your Nephew, the son of my old Friend James Otis Esq, came into this City a few Days ago with the Intention of purchasing some Neces saries, but being destitute of Cash his Friends were under a Necessity of supplying him with the Sum of twenty pounds Lawful Money for the Repayment of which I have taken his written Request to his Grandfather, agreably to his own Proposal. I have indorsd the order and inclosd it in this Letter. I know not whether this will altogether meet with Approbation. I was the rather inclind to interrest my self for this young Gentleman, because I have been satisfactorily informd that he has behavd well in his military Character. I gave my best Advice respecting his Morals. When you receive the Money you will please to repay to Mr. Hancock fourteen Dollars and thirteen & two thirds to Mr Dana, (both which Gentlemen will be at Boston shortly) and the Remainder to Mrs A., upon Notice of which I will account with two other Gentlemen concernd, Mr Holten & Col Pick ering. 3 I remain Your very affectionate, S A [P.S.] Mr Dana desires his particular Respects to you. RC (MHi). 1 That is, John Hancock. 2 See Henry Laurens to Certain States, July 10, 1778. 3 The younger Janies Otis was also the subject of a special entry in the diary of Samuel Holten: “July 14, 1778. I let the Hon. Samuel Adams, Esqr. have £4, of which he is to pay unto James Otis (a minr) being my part of what the Dele gates of our State have agreed to advance to sd minr., and Mr. Adams is to write to his friends and procure the money, & acct with me for the same.” MDaAr.
