282 July 15, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir 15th July [1778] I confirm and beg leave to refer to the preceding duplicate of a letter which I had the honor of writing to you the 23d June by way of Maryland. I could now if circumstances permitted fill two or three pages with important Intelligence and nothing would give me more pleasure than devoting an hour or two to your service or amusement, but I am limited. I was not allowed to write a single line to any body by Mr. Archibald Brown who left me the 9th Instant, and I believe waited on the road a day in expectation of Letters from me. At present I must be brief and refer you for particulars where you can find them in papers which will be wrapped up with this, and to our friend Mr. Lowndes, to whom I shall send other papers and write a little more copiously. You will learn also almost every thing from the Chief Justices communications, he devotes all his leisure minutes to collecting and transmitting news, and I help him upon all occa sions with materials. He is a perfect Miser in gathering but very liberal in diffusing and by his means Carolina will be fully informed, the great end will therefore be answered and I must avail myself of the advantage of so good a Colleague. If I have any objection to his conduct ’tis that he will not frame public Letters to be subscribed by all the Delegates which ought to be done, but here he is a Miser again, why should I write, says he, for A.B.C. From one and another you must therefore expect to collect all that is fit and necessary to offer. You will have such free access to the Papers in the hands of His Excellency as will save you the trouble of reading here, what passes away like a shadow, news only begets appetite for more and never satisfies. When you are told that Monsr. or Le Sr. Gerard is arrived, you will be anxious to learn the reception he has met, and the im portant concerns he is charged with—That Monsr. le Count d’Estaing had passed Barnagat and had anchored off Sandy Hook, there will be a chasm, and a painful one too on your mind until you hear whether he has Burgoyned the British Fleet and Army at New York or caught a Tartar. Informing you that I have transmitted orders to General Washing ton to co-operate with the French Vice Admiral to dispose of the Army under General Gates at North River, and to call in the aid of the Militia from the six northern and eastern States 1 —the wonder will be, whether General Pigot surrendered his garrison at Rhode Is land, or made his escape, or maintained his ground? When I tell you that hitherto Congress have only talked of a Table but seem to evade all Measures for covering one, either with an House or Vi ands, 2 that I am forced every day to entertain Delegates, Strangers
