288 July 15, 1778 arrest, what the sentence will be is not known, however he has made it a quarrel with Genl Washington & of course you know he must fail. I shall write you by every opportunity. I am with due respect, Your Excellency’s most obt. hble Servt. John Penn P.S. Some matters of very great Importance will soon come on, it is the wish of the Southern States that No. Carolina should vote as I am confident it was not the design of the General Assembly to alter our old mode of one Delegate’s representing the State, I hope your Excellency will send a Commn. for that purpose, however the Clerks may have expressed the resolution of the Assembly, or we shall have nothing to do or say this year. Inclosed is a news paper. J.P. RC (NcU). 1 The somewhat ambiguously worded May 22, 1778, credentials of the North Carolina delegates are in JCC, 11:695. In response to Penn’s plea for clarification of them, Governor Caswell wrote to him on August 13 and enclosed a new com mission raising the number of North Carolina delegates from three to five and authorizing any two of them to cast the state’s vote in Congress. N.C. State Records, 13:207-8, 467-68. Long before these documents reached Philadelphia, however, Penn began to cast North Carolina’s vote after Congress decided, on July 24, that “any one of the delegates of North Carolina is empowered, when only one is present, to give the vote of that state.” JCC, 11:715, 718. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Caesar Rodney Sir Philadelphia July 15th. 1778 I am informed that a party of the militia of your State has destroyed all my buildings on Bombayhook; & it is said to have been done by your orders on an idea of its being necessary for the public service. 1 In this case I would not presume to suppose you judged wrong, & my uniform opinion has been that private interests must give way to the public necessities. But as I have also been informed that it was a voluntary sacrifice on the mere inconsideration of the persons who made it; 8c some suggestions have been intimated that personal & interested motives had some influence with the party, I beg the favor of your Excellency to indulge me with information of the orders under which the militia acted, if they had any. The loss of the buildings, of the current rents, 8c of considerable arrearages which must take place is considerable, & not merited by a person who has sacrificed already so much of his interest, 8c his whole time for several years to the service of his country. I beg your Excellencys pardon for giving you this trouble; and shall only add that if you, or the government of your state have di rected the measure, I shall have the fullest confidence in its having been proper 8c necessary.
