290 July 16, 1778 nated the war yet prolonges & extends its calamities. America wishes to sheathe the sword & stop the further effusion of blood. The King of G. B. pretends to have sent commissioners to restore peace; 5 but such a peace as would benefit these United States is not in their hearts-at least they have not acceded to any condition preparitory to that end, which Congress has proposed. Hence it is with pity & concern Congress view the necessity of continuing the war & they are determined by every means in their power to fulfill those eventual engagements formed between France & these United States which from the hostile measures 8c designes of the common enemy have compleatly acquired positive 8c permanent force 8c operation. The arrival of the Naval force so wisely sent by His Most Chris tian Majesty to cooperate with the arms of these States under God promise the speedy establishment of that Peace which is the object of the Alliance between the two Nations. The common enemy deaf to the voice of reason, are to be roused to a sense of justice only by the din of Arms. We trust that our combined efforts will secure the Independence of N. America in a peace promoting the true interests of France, America, Europe 8c Mankind. Nor do we doubt but that those who administer the powers of government within these United States will in all things labour to confirm 8c cement that Union with the Subjects of France, the beneficial Effects of which have been al ready so sensibly felt. Informed of your past conduct in the affairs of these States, it is with the most cordial pleasure Congress receive you Sir, as His M. C. M. Minister Plenipotentiary, 8c they are perfectly satisfied that you will endeavour to obey your instructions in such a manner as will in title you to the confidence 8c friendship of the Representatives of the United States of America. MS (PPL). In the hand of William Henry Drayton. 1 The provenance of this document is obscure. On July 16 Gerard submitted to Congress a copy of the speech he intended “to deliver at his public audience, which was referred to a committee consisting of Richard Henry Lee, Gouverneur Morris, and John Witherspoon. This committee, on July 25, reported a draft re ply to Gerard’s speech, but their effort was found inadequate and Congress in stead referred the matter to a second committee consisting of Joseph Reed, Francis Dana, and Witherspoon. The following day, July 30, Congress approved “a new draught” submitted by this committee, which was used by President Laurens on August 6 during Gerard’s public reception in Congress. See JCC, 11:695, 722, 726, 730, 733, 753-57. William Henry Drayton’s draft reply to Gerard is a longer version of the one President Laurens used on August 6-and therein lies the mystery. For Drayton was not a member of either of the committees appointed to draft a reply to the French envoy, and there is no evidence in other surviving papers of the delegates that he took part in this process. Yet a careful comparison of Drayton’s draft re ply with the one approved by Congress clearly shows that the latter borrows heavily from the former. In the absence of positive evidence, one can only conjee - ure that either President Laurens, a fellow South Carolinian, or a member of
