July 16, 1778 291 one of the aforementioned committees solicited Drayton’s ideas on a proper re sponse to Gerard. In any event, it seems that Drayton prepared this manuscript sometime between the appointment of the first drafting committee on July 16 and the approval of the second draft on July 30. 2 Drayton originally wrote “That lust of domination which has drawn so much blood, & prolonged & aggravated the miseries of mankind is to be lamented de plored: we” and then altered it to read as above. 3 After this sentence Drayton first wrote and then deleted: “The blood that has been shed lies upon the heads of those who.” « At this point Drayton first wrote and then deleted: “and but relying on the justice of her cause, altho’ reduced to the last extremity she never relaxed in her exertions in defence of her rights.” 5 At this point Drayton first wrote and then deleted: “they have applied to Congress upon this subject.” Samuel Holten’s Diary July 16 [1778] Attended in Congress; I was invited to dine at the city Tavern with Monsr. Gerard, but declined on account of my health. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 Holten had also commented on his health in his diary entry for the 15th. “Attended in Congress, am some better as to my health. I sent a Packet of Let ters by Mr Hancock to Mrs. Holten.” Gouverneur Morris’ Notes on George Johnstone’s Letter to Francis Dana [July 16, 1778] 1 Dear Sir, Private. Philadelphia June 10th 1778. It gives me great pleasure to find your name among the list of Congress, because I am persuaded from personal knowledge of me and my family and connections you can entertain no jealousy that I would engage in the execution of any commission that was inamica- ble to the rights and privileges of America or the general libertys of mankind. While on the other hand your character must be so well known that no man will suspect you will yield any point that is con trary to the real interest of your country and therefore it will be presumed we will loose no opportunity from false punctilio of meet ing to discuss our differences fairly, and that if we do agree, it will be on the most liberal, and therefore the most lasting terms of union. There are three facts I wish to assure you of. First that Doc tor Franklin on the 29th of March last in discussing the several arti cles we wish to make the basis of our treaty was perfectly satisfied they were beneficial to North America and such as he should accept.
