July 18, 1778 297 delay to draw the line between the independence you offered and the enlarged independence you offer? You ought to do this; we are plain men, and cannot divide that, which from the nature of it we think indivisible. As to the other alternative of withdrawing your fleets and armies, you openly and at once refuse “to begin with this measure.” Here we understand each other clearly, and this point is settled at once. This proceeding on your part is conspicuous, because it is singular; and as it deserves, so it receives my commendation. Your reasons, in support of your decision, are of no consequence to Congress: I be lieve they neither asked, expected or wished for them. It was their business to demand; their reasons remained with themselves; it was your business to grant or refuse. It was known you would not grant the demand if you could possible avoid it; and it was not doubted but that your ingenuity would furnish you with reasons for your re fusal. However, as Congress have nothing to do with the principles of your conduct, I will dismiss them without any further observation upon them. “In making your declarations, you do not wait for the decision of any military events;” but “shall abide by the declarations you now make in every possible situation of your affairs.” I admire the mag nanimity of your sentiments; they are worthy an old Roman, or modern American; you will be pleased to pardon me if I add, they are not a la mode d’Anglaise; and also, not to be offended at this phrase of expression: For as all America is intent upon learning the elegant language of our ally of France, in order to improve our friendly correspondence, so such phrases naturally slip from our tongues and pens. The air of America seems to have produced a sud den effect upon your Excellencies; indeed, all animals feel the effect of a change of climate. The rulers in England, as they are in a very different climate from that which you now enjoy, so they are in a habit of thinking and acting very different from yours. They regu late their demands, refusals and concessions, according to the “situa tion of their affairs;” you declare you will not. As this is a striking contrast, perhaps it may be disputed; and as I know your Excellen cies are able disputants at the point of the tongue, pen and sword, I think it is but prudent to place the subject out of all dispute; I shall endeavour to do this, by drawing it up in the following manner: In the years 1774 and 1775, when America was destitute of arms, your King and Ministers were deaf to her supplications for redress of grievances. In the years 1776 and 1777, when America had but a raw soldiery, and scarce the appearance of a regular army, your king and Parlia ment having 45,865 and 48,616 effective regular forces, amply sup plied in every respect, besides 22,337 seamen assaulting these United States on all sides, your rulers breathed nothing but unconditional
