298 July 18, 1778 submission on our part. On the ninth of March, Lord Camden de clared in your House of Lords, that this high tone continued so late as the 16th day of February last, and that it was suddenly altered on the 17th, when your rulers resolved, to use his Lordships expression, “to bend their knees before America.” The alteration of the situa tion of their affairs, was the occasion of this sudden change. At this point of time, by the returns from America, it appeared that the British army had by death, desertion and otherwise, lost 19,581 men; that 5336 men had been taken prisoners, that the sick amounted to 4639; and that the navy had lost 4314 seamen. 3 Capital as these losses were, yet the men in power breathed unconditional submis sion, till finding that a treaty between France and America had been signed on the 6th of February, and feeling the mortal blow to their tyranny, on the 17th of February Lord North and his coadjutors, goaded by the situation of their affairs, bent their knees before America, upon the bills which your Excellencies presented to Congress in the form of acts of Parliament. It is thus plain to a demonstration, that your rulers are deaf, demand or concede, ac cording to the situation of their affairs; and notwithstanding your heroics, you must concede, for you are but instruments in their hands. On the 28th of June last, you sunk beneath the arm of Amer ica; 4 France now confines your haughty flag to the port of New- York, and threatens you with destruction. But you would have the treaties entered into by Congress commu nicated to you, both for your own consideration and that of the con stituents of Congress, who you say are to judge between them and you. Your Excellencies are then inclined to appeal from Congress to their constituents? How little are you acquainted with the disposi tion of the people of America! Sir Henry Clinton has seen a similar appeal by Lord and General Howe in their proclamation dated the 19th of September, 1776; our affairs were then in the most ruinous situation; and are you yet to learn that the appeal was rejected! Can you gravely expect that your appeal will now be sustained, now that our affairs are not only en bon train, but that we have every moral assurance of decisive victory, and success! Are we not masters of the field, which we never before have been? Are we not in pursuit of your forces? Has not your grand army retired to Islands for safety? Are you not at war with the House of Bourbon? Does not the House of Bourbon prosecute the war in conjunction with the United States? The fleet of France at this moment holds you blocked up at New York, and daily seizes your ships in sight of your flags displayed in vain parade. Your inferior army is full reduced by draughts to the defense of your capital in Europe; a proof that you will receive no more land reinforcement. You are upon the brink of perdition, and yet you pretend to hold dominion over us, and to reason us into an independent dependence—a jargon of words—a very chaos of ideas.
