July 18, 1778 299 Your Excellencies have been so long in the school of deception, and seem so fond of the art, that for want of other subjects to practice upon, you are resolved to deceive yourselves. If this contributes to mitigate the uneasiness of your present situation, continue to enjoy the artifice a little longer, I cannot but pity your distress. You think yourselves intitled to a full communication of the pow ers by which Congress conceive themselves authorized to make treaties with foreign powers, and you add, you do not find promul gated any act or resolution of the Assemblies of particular States, conferring this power on them. Whatever you may think upon this point, I believe I may venture to assure you, Congress do not conceive themselves answerable to you on the subject. They know their own powers, they know they are answerable to their constitu ents for the due exercise of them. However, I will endeavour to sat isfy you substantially in this point, and to do it the more agreeably, I will state a fact and use your own stile of argument. On the sixth of May, Congress announced to the United States, that they had ratified treaties of alliance and commerce with France: This is the 18th of July, and have your Excellencies heard that any one of the United States has “promulgated” any censure upon Congress for such ratification? As, because you do not find promul gated any act or resolution of the Assemblies of particular States conferring this power on them, you infer, they have no such power: is it not more reasonable, that as two months and an half have passed since Congress announced their act to their constituents, and you do not find promulgated any act or resolution of the Assemblies of particular States censuring Congress for this exercise of power, therefore you ought to infer, that the constituents of Congress think they did not exceed their authority? Politicians should never say more at any time than is necessary. You produce a negative argu ment, and an answer in the same manner is quite sufficient. Having thus far touched the subject of your Excellencies letter, I take the liberty of addressing myself in particular to his Excellency Governor Johnstone, and that in presence of his colleagues. I have no ambi tion to have a tete a tete with the Governor. A letter has been laid before Congress, signed Geo. Johnstone, dated Philadelphia, June 10, 1778, directed to the Honorable Fran cis Dana, Esq; 5 and among other things the writer says, “there are three facts I wish to assure you of.” First, “That Doctor Franklin on the 29th of March last, in discuss ing the several articles we wish to make the basis of our treaty, was perfectly satisfied they were beneficial to North America, and such as she should expect.” Decisively to destroy this position, I have only to state two or three points. The Honorable Silas Deane has informed me, that a secret negoci-
