July 18, 1778 307 LB (ScHi). 1 See JCC, 11:692-94; and Laurens to Lafayette, July 10, 1778, note 1. 2 See Laurens to Lafayette, June 19, 1778, note 2. 3 Laurens is undoubtedly referring to Lafayette’s July 14 letter, for which see "Lafayette-Laurens Letters,” SCHGM 9 (1908): 61. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Dear Sir 18th July [1778] I take particular pleasure in laying before Your Excellency a sec ond production from the Bed of British Commissioners which Your Excellency will find within Copy of a Letter addressed to Congress dated New York 11th Instant and signed by four of that honorable group of Itinerants. Upon a very cursory view of the performance I pronounced it ex ceedingly childish and a little insolent. The opinion of Congress will be seen in a transcript of their Act upon this occasion, which will be also inclosed. I think I can guess what Your Excellency’s opinion will be. You see Sir, it is to be published, and therefore it is wholly at Your Excellency’s disposal. 1 When Congress were on the point of adjourning, Your Excellen- cys’ Letter of the 17th was brought in to me, and I immediately presented it to the House, but I received no order, therefore I speak to it only private. Your Excellency’s opinion respecting common Lands will have my simple voice, provided we agree in the necessary preliminary Lines. 2 The Inclosed Courier de L’Europe 3 was sent to my Lodge, intend ed as I have learned for Doctor Witherspoon who had promised to say Grace for me at Dinner today, but went suddenly out of town. I have a right to convey it to the Dr. through the best Channel, this will Answer two good purposes. Believe me Sir, I continue with the most perfect Esteem and Re gard, Your Excellencys’ &c. LB (ScHi). 1 See William Henry Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners, this date, note 1. 2 In his July 17 letter to Laurens, Governor Livingston promised that he would submit to the New Jersey legislature Laurens’ July 10 circular letter urg ing prompt ratification of the Articles of Confederation, and added “but I sin cerely hope that this State will never ratify it, till Congress is explicit in doing us that Justice respecting the common Lands, which I think no man of common Sense, or the least acquainted with human Nature would trust to the future de liberations of any Body of Men (I speak it with the highest respect for that as sembly which I verily believe to be the most illustrious upon earth) a considerable part of which must necessarily be gainers by a contrary deter mination.” PCC, item 68, fols. 391-93. See also Nathaniel Scudder to John Hart, •July 13, 1778. 3 Courier de VEurope, a French language newspaper which Samuel Swinton had been publishing in London since June 1776.
