308 July 18, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Rutledge DearSir 18th July [1778] The Respect and Esteem I bear for you will not allow me to suffer a good opportunity to pass without some demonstration. I had in tended by the present to have filled a sheet of Intelligence addressed immediately to yourself. I am in possession of sufficient matter, but time, precious time, has flown from me and left but a moment to in timate that I have particularly requested His Excellency the Presi dent to communicate to you the whole of my transmissions to him. The arrival of a French squadron and a French Minister Plenipo tentiary have added much to the labours of Congress in general, and not a little to those of one who had been before sufficiently loaded. You will readily under these circumstances excuse, Dear Sir, Your Obliged and Respectful Humble Servant. LB (ScHi). Henry Laurens to George Washington Dear Sir. Philadelphia 18 July 1778 Yesterday I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency a public Letter by James Martin, & also of presenting to Congress Your Ex cellency s favor of the 14th which the House received with satisfac tion. Permit me Sir, to recommend to Your Excellency’s protection two Packets from the Sieur Gerard to Count d'Estaing, which will accom pany this, I have assured Monsr. Gerard that it is altogether unnec essary to urge Your Excellency to give these dispatches the quickest safe passage to the Vice Admiral. Prizes are finding the way into Delaware, one laden with Rum, Limes &c. intended for the Enemy’s refreshment embraced one of our Wharves the Evening before last & I learn a Rich Ship is on her way up. I have this moment Received a second Letter from the British Commissioners. If I dared to venture an opinion from a very cursory reading of the performance, it would be that this is more puerile than any thing I have seen from the other side, since the commence ment of our present dispute, with a little dash of insolence, as un necessary as it will be unavailing. If the Marquis de Vienne will indulge me till I return from Congress Your Excellency will find a Copy of that Letter within this. At present as he is on the Wing I must send to obtain his permission & in order to be quite ready in case he shall refuse to wait, conclude this with respected assurances
