310 July 18, 1778 unto duly authorized did on the [6th] Day of February 1778 enter into Treaties of Commerce and Alliance with his most Christian Majesty thereby further asserting and being admitted to their Sta tion among Sovereign Powers-And therefore that the said united States are entitled to and in possession of all the Dignities and Privi leges which appertain to such Powers by the Laws of Nature and Nations. Resolved that it is the indispensible Duty of Congress to claim and maintain the Dignities and Privileges aforesaid in their fullest Lati tude & Comprehension. Resolved that no Person can {have Authority or) be authorized or admitted to treat with or make Propositions to any Prince or State on Behalf of the King or Kingdom of Great Britain unless by Pow ers derived from the said King in the Manner and Form customary and acknowledged among Nations. Resolved that neither 2 of the Commissioners abovementioned ap pears to be duly impowered either as an Ambassador, Minister Pleni potentiary Resident or otherwise to represent the King of Great Britain to these united States. 3 Wherefore Resolved that Congress can by no Means hold any Treaty with or answer any Propositions which may be made by the said Commis sioners or either of them. MS (ScHi). In the hand of Gouverneur Morris and endorsed by Henry Laurens: ‘ Mr. Morris’s Motion for ansr to Commissrs.” 1 Although the provenance of these resolves cannot be established with cer tainty, it is probable that Morris wrote them in response to the Carlisle commis sioners’ July 11 letter, which Congress read this day and refused to answer. See JCC, 11:701-2; and William Henry Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners, this date, note 1. In any event, they bear directly upon a request in that letter for “a full Communication of the Powers by which you [Congress] conceive yourselves Authorized to make Treaties with Foreign Nations”—an issue the commissioners did not raise in any of their other letters or manifestos to Congress. Peter Force Collection, DLC. The resolves’ location among President Laurens’ private papers may indicate that Morris submitted them to Congress this day but that the dele gates chose to ignore them because they had no desire to explain their treaty making authority to the commissioners, deciding instead that a summary refusal to answer their letter was the best course to follow. Despite the fact that the brief entry on this issue in the journals gives the impression that Congress de cided not to reply to the July 11 letter almost immediately after reading it, the delegates may in fact have discussed this matter at length before reaching a deci sion. Secretary Thomson commonly omitted recording motions in the official record that failed of adoption. 2 Morris must have meant none because all of the communications from the Carlisle commission to Congress were signed by at least three commissioners. 3 This statement is a bit puzzling. George Ill’s commission to the Carlisle com missioners, dated April 13 and read in Congress on June 16, 1778, specifically au thorized them to act in his behalf, though it did add that any settlement reached with the United States had to be ratified by Parliament. See JCC, 11:605-6, 610. The text of the royal commission that was actually sent to Congress is in the Pe ter Force Collection, DLC.
