July 19, 1778 311 Joseph Reed to Dennis De Berdt Dear Dennis Philad. July 19, 1778 The Inspection which this Letter may probably undergo will re strain me from answering fully yours received by Gov. Johnstone. 1 The Sentiments it contain’d are in my Opinion not unworthy your Character as a Friend to America or a Patriot of Brittain, but as the Passions of Men on both Sides the Atlantick are highly fermented, I have only made such Use of it as a prudential Regard to all Circum stances would require. The Object of it both at the Time of writing & ever since has been unattainable. America will endure the Extrem ity of human Woe before she will ever submit to the Sovereignty of that Power which has so oppressed, insulted 8c distress’d her. My Opinion is with my Countrymen fully upon this Point 8c therefore I cannot give the Commissioners the smallest Encouragement. To a Heart so open, candid, 8c generous as yours I do not wonder that the Professions of great Men apply with greater Efficacy than they ought. The Voice of Peace is soothing to a humane Mind, but a Peace which does not at least promise permanent Tranquillity by being founded on mutual Interest or reciprocal Affection has noth ing which can attract the Wishes of a wise Man. We may possibly forgive you the Injuries we have received but it is not in your Power to forgive us. You must be sensible that you have given us Cause of such lasting Enmity that you neither can nor ought to trust us. But I am entering upon a Subject which I had determined to avoid. As I have not nor shall see Governor Johnstone in his publick Character I shall only say that his Attachment to our Cause had very much en deared to this Country 8c I should feel a real Concern if he should be found to be one in the long List of Apostates from Virtue 8c publick Honour which have blackned the English History for 50 Years past. If any Thing could sanctify the insidious Manuoevre the Agency in it of such Characters would do it, but we are got far beyond the Influ ence of private Characters. Measures not Men are attended to 8c if the whole Knot of illustrious Characters who have so ably contended for our Rights 8c those of Mankind had landed on this Shore with the same Terms they would have met with the same inauspicious Reception. I had answered very shortly Govr. Johnstones Letter be fore some Transactions were disclosed which give too much Reason to suspect he has deviated from that Line of Integrity which adorns a publick Character. The Touch of Corruption has been tried under his Auspices, 8c to the eternal Honour of my Country as well as Reproach to the Seducer without the least Success. You know the Correspondence I held with Ld. Dartmouth before these unhappy Contests 8c with what honest Sincerity I warn’d him of the Conse quences of those fatal Measures. I have not lost all Affection for En gland nor Feeling for my Friends in it. I would therefore urge them
