320 July 20, 1778 Last Saturday we rec’d another letter from the British Commis sioners dated at New York the 11th inst: they seem much dissatisfied with our answer to their former letter, dispute our authority to make treaties, demand to know the nature of the treaties we have entered into, intimate that we are not the representatives of the people and threaten to submit to the people at large to judge be tween the Congress and them. The Congress resolved that as the Commissioners had not complied with the terms we had laid down in our answer to their last, no answer ought to be given to this and ordered it to be published. If it comes out before the post goes out, I will try to send it for your perusal. Sundry letters rec’d by private members from the Commissioners are ordered to be printed, which will I think convince the world (if it is not already convinced) of the meaness and depravity of the Commissioners. They have not only in a polite manner in some of their letters hinted at bribes to be given to bring their purposes to pass, but have actually (by means of a woman in this City) offered ten thousand guineas to one of the members of Congress and any office he should choose, for his as sistance in carrying their plan of reconciliation into effect. Probably similar offers have been made other persons who may not yet have informed of it. As the Commissioners are now to apply to the people at large, since they find they have nothing to hope for from Congress, proba bly the leading men in the different States may have an offer of some of their gold; So you had best prepare yourself for the attack. The French fleet have taken a number of British vessels and are sending the prisoners by land to this city and the French Minister has requested Congress to provide for them which cost he will pay. I am Sir, your friend and humble servant, Josiah Bartlett Tr (DLC). Board of War Lease Philadelphia July 20, 1778. It is agreed this day between Messrs. Wm. Duer, Timothy Picker ing, and Richard Peters, members of the Board of War empowered by a Resolution of Congress 1 to engage a House for Monsr. Gerard the French Minister, on the one part, and Mr. John Dickinson on the other part, in the following Manner—Mr. Dickinson leases his House & Lott on the North side of Chestnutt street and adjoining Sixth Street, to Messrs. Duer, Pickering and Peters for one year from the Date, paying to him five hundred pounds, for the Rent, and they
