328 July 21, 1778 The first is, that you keep them here by way of precaution against your ancient enemies. Really, my Lord, I was at a loss for some time to comprehend the force of this reasoning, or how a body of men in this country and a large fleet could protect you against an invasion from France. And I am even now perhaps mistaken, when I suppose your sea and land forces have been kept here to draw the attention of your enemies to this quarter, and leave their coast exposed, that so you may have an opportunity of invading France. If this was the object, it hath had the desired effect. Your armies are doubtless as sembled in readiness for the descent, which, considering the un provided state of that country, cannot but prove successful; and therefore I congratulate your lordship on the fair prospect you enjoy of seeing your Sovereign make his triumphant entry through the gates of Paris. Your second reason for staying here is to protect the Tories. Pray, my lord, ease your mind upon that subject. Let them take care of themselves. The little ones may be pardoned whenever they apply. The great ones have joined you from conscientious or from inter ested motives. The first in having done what they thought right will find sufficient comfort. The last deserve none. I offer you this conso lation, my lord, because we both know that you cannot protect the tories, and because there is every reason to believe that you cannot protect yourselves. You have, it seems, determined your judgment by what you conceive to be the interest of your country, and you propose to abide by your declarations in every possible situation. I rather imag ine that you are determined by your instructions; but if otherwise, surely, my lord, you are not to learn that circumstances may materi ally alter the interest of your country and your conceptions of it. The decision of some military events which you did not wait for, would put you in a situation to speak to Congress in much more de cent terms than those contained in your last letter. But you want to know, my lord, what treaties we have entered into. In pity to your nerves Congress have kept this knowledge. It will make the boldest among you tremble. As we are not about to negociate at present, there is no need of the communication. How ever, to satisfy your curiosity as far as an individual can, I pray you to recollect, that the Marquis de Noailles told you his Court, when they formed an alliance with America, had taken eventual mea sures. 3 You cannot but know that a French fleet is now hovering on the coast near you—draw your own conclusions, my lord. It is a most diverting circumstance to hear you ask Congress what power they have to treat, after offering to enter into treaty with them, and being refused. But I shall be glad to know by what au thority you call on them for this discovery. The Count de Vergennes had a right to it, but the Earl of Carlisle certainly has not. Let me
