July 21, 1778 329 add, my lord, that in making the request there is a degree of asperity not suited to your situation. When you were in the arms of victory we pardoned an insolence which had become habitual to your na tion. We shall revere it if preserved when you are reduced to the lowest pitch of wretchedness. But in the present moment, when you certainly cannot terrify, and have not suffered so as to deserve pity, such language is quite improper. And it forces from me certain facts which I am sorry to mention, as they shew your masters to be wicked beyond all example. When they found that an alliance was actually on the carpet be tween his Most Christian Majesty and these States, they offered to cede a part of the East-Indies, to give equal privileges in the African trade, and to divide the fisheries, provided they might be at liberty to ravage America. And when that would not do, they told the French Ministry that it was absurd to treat with Congress; that they were faithless; nay, that the bargain was actually struck for the pur chase of America, and money, to the amount of half a million, sent over to pay the price. These, my lord, are facts—facts which will hang up to eternal infamy the names of your rulers. 4 The French, my lord, laughed at the meanness and falshood of these declarations. But they suffered themselves to appear to be deceived. They permit ted you to flounder on in the ocean of your follies and your crimes. You and your brethren, I find, are directed to play the same game here; to call our allies faithless; to tell an hundred incoherent fic tions about our treaties, the substance of which you confess your selves at this moment ignorant of. And what is the very complication of absurdity, you pretend to tell Congress the manner in which the negociations were carried on, when Mr. Deane, the principal negoci- ator, on their part, is on the spot to give information. For shame. For shame. It is for these reasons that Congress treat you with such utter contempt. There is but one way left to sink you still lower, and, thank God you have found it out. You are about to publish! Oh my lord! my lord! you are indeed in a mighty pitiful condition. You have tried fleets and armies, and proclamations, and now you threaten us with news-papers. 5 Go on, exhaust all your artillery, But know, that those who have withstood your flattery and refused your bribes, despise your menaces—Farewell. When you come with better principles, and on a better errand, we shall be glad to meet you: Till that mo ment, I am your Lordship’s most obedient And most humble ser vant, An American. 6 MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet and Daily Advertiser, July 21, 1778. 1 Morris is referring to the Carlisle commissioners’ July 11 letter to Congress, for which see William Henry Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners, July 18, 1778, note 1.
