330 July 21, 1778 2 See Henry Laurens to the Carlisle Commissioners, June 17, 1778—a letter Morris himself drafted. 3 See Henry Laurens to George Clinton, May II, 1778, note 3. 4 Sometime near the end of 1777, according to a statement made by the French foreign minister Vergennes to the Spanish ambassador in Paris, count d’Aranda, Great Britain offered to grant France, if French ports were closed to American shipping. Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, and a liberal share of the Newfoundland fisheries. Edward S. Corwin, French Policy and the American Alliance of 1778 (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1916), p. 6n.ll. This seems to have been the only basis for Morris’ otherwise unsubstantiated description of British over tures to France prior to the conclusion of the French alliance with the United States. For a brief account of other British efforts to prevent French assistance to the United States, see Samuel F. Bemis, The Diplomacy of the American Revolu tion (New York: D. Appleton-Century Co., 1935), p. 20n.ll. 5 "As we have Communicated our Powers to you,’’ the Carlisle commissioners had written to Congress on July 11, "and mean to proceed without reserve in this business we will not suppose that any objection can arise on your part to our Communicating to the Public so much of your Correspondence as may be neces sary to explain our own proceedings.” Peter Force Collection, DLC. 8 For a discussion of the newspaper letters Morris wrote to the Carlisle com missioners using the pseudonym “An American,” see Morris to the Carlisle Com missioners, June 20, 1778, note 1. New York Delegates to George Clinton 31r ’ Philadelphia 21st July 1778. Just before we left York Town (in Conjunction with our Col league Mr. Lewis) we moved for, and obtained from the Congress, an advance of 100,000 Dollars for the Use of the State, and for which they are to be accountable. 1 The Reasons were as follows: We found, by various Intelligence laid before Congress, that the Savages were about making an Irruption upon our Frontiers, & from the probable Evacuation of Philadelphia, it was not unlikely that the British General would again pursue his favorite Object of Hudson’s River. In this Situation of Affairs, it appeared to us that money might be wanting in our Treasury, which we had Reason to believe was not very full; and, further, we were informed that our militia re mained unpaid for Services formerly done, and, therefore, might not turn out with their usual Alacrity. These Things were laid before Congress, and they, (surprized at the moderation of a Demand which we venture to say from any other State in similar Circumstances would have been at least three Times as great), instantly made the Grant: The adjournment to Philadelphia, the Change of political Circumstances by the Battle of Monmouth, and arrival of the French Squadron (on both of which Incidents we heartily congratu late your Excellency) and the want of a safe Opportunity, have delayed the sending forward of the money. We have further to observe to your Excellency, that the Com-
