July 21, 1778 335 good Lodgings even at 30 Dollars per Week, the few Boarding Houses being extremely crowded. I pay Rent for this House if un- ocupied & as a Number of Persons are continually calling on Business of various Kinds I must have some Persons to give Answers. You when you come or any of the Family in the mean Time will have a House to come to. In short tho it may be somewhat more expensive it will be attended with Conveniences. Mr. Pettit is soon expected in Town who will also want such a Home. Numa had done nothing with your Memorandum but I have since taken it in Hand—tho Prices are yet very extravagant but for your Comfort they are falling. I wish to have my Books got down as Oppy. offer & for that Pur pose would have you write to Mr. Forman that whenever he sends empty Waggons towds Trenton he would direct them to call upon you when you can occasionally forward the Books & such Articles as you do not want to Trenton where the Shallops can take them up. I am in some Expectation of going to Camp to finish the Business which the moving of the Army interupted. If so I shall see you pretty soon. If not I fancy the Month will come round, but whether present or absent I am my dear Hetty’s faithful & affect. J. Reed P.S. I wonder Mr. Lowry does not come down. It is absolutely neces sary & that the Things at Quaker Town be got down as soon as pos sible. He knows what I mean. I have an Oppy. of getting you a tolerable Assortment of Queens Ware—if you chuse it & will send me a List of Particulars will endeavour to please you. Let me hear from you frequently. Kiss the Children for me. I shall not forget them. 4 RC (NHi). 1 For the efforts made by Congress on July 9 and 16 to examine all correspon dence “of a public nature” recently received by delegates from British subjects, see JCC, 11:678, 694; Gouverneur Morris’ Notes on George Johnstone’s Letter to Francis Dana, July 16; and Joseph Reed to Dennis De Berdt, July 19, 1778, note 1. 2 For Reed’s “Disclosure of Govr. Johnstones Transactions,” see William Henry Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners, July 18, 1778, note 8. 3 Reed had written the following brief letter to Sarah Yard on July 19. "Mr. Reed begs the favor of Mrs. Yard to take up any letters of a private nature she may find for him in New York, and if she meets with any difficulty in that or any part of her own business, Mr. Reed will presume so much upon the po liteness of Gov. Johnstone as to request his favor to her as Mr. R.’s friend. Should she wait on Gov. Johnstone in this, or any other occasion, Mr R. begs her to present him respectfully to that gentleman, and acquaint him that Mr R. received his letter and did himself the honour of answering it from General Washington’s head-quarters, at the Valley Forge the latter end of last month. Mr. R. wishes her a good journey, and a safe return with all possible success in her business.” Reed Papers, NHi. 4 Reed wrote to Esther again the following day, but reported only the follow ing public news. “Our News besides what you have in the Paper herewith is that
