July 24, 1778 345 say, if general Lee had done his part at the battle of Monmouth, Sir Henry Clinton would have been reduced to circumstances little, if any thing, better than those which Burgoyne experienced last year. The General’s trial before a Court Martial is not yet ended. While I was at York Town I lived in a stile much below that of my Overseers. All the room I had for my Office and lodging, was not near so large as the Hall at Mount Tacitus, more than once I have been obliged to dine upon bread and cheese and a glass of Grog— here I fare much better, but in both places I have found hard work enough and at so enormous an expence as would astonish you to hear of—but thank God there begins to be a ground for hoping we shall obtain an honorable Peace before another year expires—this however is not to be relied on, we ought therefore to persevere in ev ery endeavour to oppose and repel the Enemy. The cruelties of the English, exercised upon our People who were their Prisoners is not to be parallel’d in History of Civilized Nations —nor indeed are they exceeded by the practices of the barbarous Indian Allies of our Enemies. The Indians have scalped and butcher’d and burnt many of our inhabitants—these means were cruel and severe but death soon ended all pain. The English have starved our People, suffer’d them to lose their limbs by frost and to linger out a miserable life for many days and weeks, have refused to let us cloath and feed them they have compelled our friends to drink unwholsome water when good water was in plenty wasting before their Eyes, they have smother’d them in Prison Ships, killing every night five, six, and more, have kick’d, beat and abused, have loaded Officers with Irons and a thousand other savage Acts they have been guilty of—some times murdered the Masters of families, burned all the houses, goods and provisions and left poor helpless Women and infant Children exposed to the rigor of frost, snow and rain without food or cover ing. A volume might be filled with Accounts of their barbarities—in several instances of which even General Howe and General Clinton have been directly concern’d. But thank God their hands are now bound up, they are confined within their Lines at New York—from whence deserters come into our Camp 6, 8, 10 of a day, lately a Cor net of Horse and a Captain of their new Troops deserted and came over to General Washington. If time permitted I would give you fur ther information, but I have many other Letters to write by this con veyance. I must therefore close this, assuring you I continue Your friend And Humble Servt. [P.S.] With respect to yr. wages, whatever Mr. Zahn does shall meet my approbation. LB (ScHi).
