348 July 24, 1778 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “The Honorable Jonathan Trumbull Esqr., Connecticut.” Endorsed: “Delivered Monsr. Girard by M[oses] Y[oung].” 1 There is no mention of this matter in the journals. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen July 24th 1778 We have received your sundry Letters of the 12th, 24th & 29th ul timo and of the 4th, 7th & 8th Current to which we shall now reply in their order. To yours of the 12th ultimo. Our letter to you of the 11th instant will convey our Instructions for every possible endeavour being exerted in preparing for Sea the continental Vessels of war in your department and for sending them out one after another to join the squadron of France under the command of vice Admiral the Count D Estaing; therefore we hope before this will reach, that you will have despatched the Warren and that others will shortly follow. We enclose herewith a Set of Signals received from the French Ad miral, copys of which you will deliver to our Commanders enjoining great secrecy and in case of necessity that they destroy them. 1 We ap prove of your having purchased A Schooner for bringing round the flour and Iron from Sinepuxent. In a Letter from William Smith Esqr our Agent in Maryland of the 18th instant is the following Par agraph. “I am sorry to inform you there is the greatest reason to be lieve Captain Whippy of the Schooner Loyalty is Captured by the enemy in his outward bound passage from Sinepuxent—he had on board upwards of 900 Barrels flour and a quantity of barr Iron, and I am informed he was so imprudent as to go to sea when three of the enemies Cruizers were in sight—they were seen in chase of him, and as he is so dull a sailor, there is very small hopes of his having escaped. 2 The Swan, Captain Stiles, arrived from Boston at Sinepux ent about the 23d ultimo, her Cargo of flour and Iron was all ready and doubt not she is despatched before this.” Should the Schooner be taken it will be a disapointment and we think Captain Whippys conduct will be highly reprehensible. To yours of the 24th ultimo. The estimate of Monies wanted in your Department hath been laid before Congress who have granted the full amount. 3 We therefore send you five hundred & Twenty four thousand by the Bearer according to his Receipt enclosed—this large sum we hope will be fully adequate to all your wants, and enable you to prosecute with vigour the business of your Department, we have no doubt but that you will render the expenditure thereof as beneficial to the public as possible. To yours of the 29th ultimo. We are much pleased to hear of Cap tain Summers Success and the arrival of his Prizes. To prevent delay and inconvenience hereafter as was the Case with regard to the
