July 24, 1778 349 Brigantine Resistance being without a Commander, we empower you to appoint to any Vessel under 20 Guns any Captain that may be unemployed in your department. 4 We shall lay before Congress the Sentences of the Courts Martial relative to Captains Manly and McNeill. 5 The Account you give of the Hamdens Stores has determined us to Countermand the orders we formerly gave to build a hull Accomodated to them, therefore we desire you may drop that plan. When a proper opportunity shall present and you may think Mr. Pecks Talents in the construction of Ships will be useful to the Public, you will please to give us notice. We shall overlook Captain Waters mistake and consider his appoint ment the first opporty.® We enclose herewith an order of the Board of War to their Agents in the Eastern States to furnish you with Blankets, Duck, Oznabrigs, Coarse Linnen, Stockings and Coarse Cloths, lead, Copper &c. which they may have in their possession, and you may want for fitting out the ships of war in your Depart ment. As most of these articles are essentially necessary for the Army and will be much wanted in the Winter we request you will be spar ing of them as possible. To yours of the 4th instant. We inclose herein a Resolve of Congress of the 15th November 1776 respecting the Bounty allowed for Men and Guns taken from the enemy at sea. It is the opinion of this Committee that Men of War and Privateers are the only Vessels that comes within the meaning of this Resolve, therefore on all Ves sels coming within this discription the Bounty is to be paid but none other. We have ordered the Navy Board here to make a return of the British Seamen that are Prisoners within their district, when they do we shall attend to your proposal of Exchanging them for ours at Halifax and will write you. For the present we desire you will engage Pilots for our Ships of War on the best terms you can. We wish to know your reasons for having Pilots established in the Navy—we apprehend they are founded on some local custom with you with which we are unacquainted. You will also inform us what pay and share of Prize Money should be allowed to Pilots. We never have allowed any Commission to any of our Captains for disbursing Money, and would by no means have that Custom introduced. As we do not think proper that the Public should be concerned with indi viduals in Vessels of War we cannot accept of Mr. Ginons proposals. To yours of the 7th instant. We do not approve of going into the custom of allowing travelling expences to the officers of the Navy, but on account of the particular circumstances attending Lieutenant Leeds of the Brig Resistance we make him a gratuity of the amount of his account viz £56.17.9 which you will please to pay. To yours of the 8th instant. As you think the ship Queen of France will do for a Cruizing Ship we desire she may be equipped accordingly and the Command of her given to Captain Joseph
