July 26, 1778 351 7 Henry Johnson, who arrived with the French fleet, had applied to Congress on July 13 regarding an inquiry into his conduct. JCC, 11:687. On the loss of the Lexington in September 1777, see William J. Morgan, Captains to the Northward, pp. 109-10. Joseph Reed to George Bryan Sir Saturday Morning [July 25, 1778] At the Hour you was pleased to appoint yesterday to attend your Board I was pre-engaged on the Committee of the Frontier Business which on the breaking up of Congress I mentioned to a Member of Council who promised to make it known so as to save the Council the Trouble of Meeting. As there is seldom more than one Member from this State in Congress I could wish that a future Appointment may be out of Congress Hours as this was. 1 And I will endeavour to attend it punctually. I am very respectfully, Sir, Your most Obed. & very Hbble Servt, Jos. Reed RC (NHi). Addressed: “The Honorable George Bryan Esqr., Vice Preside. &c.” Endorsed: “1778 July 25th from Honble Joseph Reed." 1 The demands on Reed’s time had increased on July 15 when he was named to the Pennsylvania Executive Council in a special election held to fill the va cancy created by the death of the former president, Thomas Wharton, Jr. Ac cording to the council’s minutes he managed to attend its proceedings at least four times during the period July 21-25 despite his explanation on the 21st that he would be obliged to neglect his work on the council because of the press of his congressional assignments. This letter provides proof that Reed did indeed ex perience difficulties in meeting the obligations of his two offices, but his situation changed a few days later when it was discovered that under the Pennsylvania constitution his election to the council was invalid, because no delegate to Congress could be chosen to that office. See Pa. Council Minutes, 11:535-40; and Roche, Joseph Reed, p. 147. Reed's prominence in Philadelphia affairs is also attested to by the fact that his name headed the list of 185 citizens who signed an antiloyalist declaration pub lished in the July 25 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. The subscribers to this declaration asserted their determination to combat the efforts of “sundry persons, notoriously disaffected . . . [who] have endeavoured to suppress all evidence and discovery of the oppression of the friends of America, and other misdoings before and during the enemy’s possession of this city, by intimidating and dis couraging the good people of this state from appearing against them.” Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love Philadelphia July 26t 1778 I have just been made exceedingly happy by the Reciept of your Packett of the 15 Inst, enclosing Mr. Pintards &c. I have wrote you 8 or 10 lately but this is only the second I have reed. I know not of
