July 26, 1778 353 RC (NjP). 1 The wife of Rev. Alexander McWhorter, pastor of the Presbyterian church in Newark, N.J., had recently been seriously injured when struck by lightning. William B. Sprague, Annals of the American Pulpit; or Commemorative Notices of Distinguished American Clergymen . . ., 9 vols. (New York: Robert Carter & Brothers, 1857-68), 3:209-10. Henry Laurens to Theveneau de Francy Dear Sir 26th July [1778] I thank you for your favor of the 15th, 1 particularly for those Po lite and kind marks of your friendship for me which you are pleased to express, and shall endeavour to merit the continuance of your Es teem. The favorable Events which you allude to make a proper im pression upon my mind. I view them as Harbingers to an honorable Peace, and the Universal acknowledgment of American Indepen dence, but a Man who has paid some attention for fifty years to the continual fluctuation of Human Affairs, feels not those raptures from the appearances of good Fortune which had been wont to seize his Heart between the Stages of 20 and 40—perhaps a moderate degree of anxiety for permanizing present advantages may appear to younger Men an alloy of Happiness. I feel as if led by it into the true Sphere. Many days have past over since I heard any thing from the Fleet or from His Excellency General Washington. Count d’Estaing has been making Prizes in great numbers and of great value in sight of the Enemys squadron safely anchor’d behind Sandy Hook extream- ly chagrined at finding his own Ships drew too much Water to admit his coming nearer to them. The Newspaper which I shall here inclose will further inform you. I can add nothing on this head but that Mr. Gerard and myself conjecture the Admiral is gone to Rhode Island. The choice of le Sieur Gerard for the Minister Plenipotentiary displays the Wisdom of His Most Christian Majesty’s Councils. I will venture to say in one word France does not contain a Man better fitted for the People among whom he is to reside, with whom he is to Negociate, than is this Gentleman, nor have I a lower opinion of the Competency of Monsr. Girards’ Abilities for Nego tiating nor of his Integrity. The Letter which you sent to the Commercial Committee was de liver’d to me by that Board and immediately presented to Congress. 2 The House order’d it to be returned to the Committee, and that they should after full consideration make a special Report. This happened yesterday Morning, Congress did not rise ’till near four o’clock P.M., this is Sunday, consequently the Report cannot be
