July 27, 1778 357 LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens had received news of these events in a July 6 letter from President Rawlins Lowndes of South Carolina, a transcript of which is in the Laurens Pa pers, ScHi. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada. July 27 1778 Capt Manly has obliged me with your favor of the 5th. 1 He and McNeil are here with different Views. The one to obtain another Ship, and the other to get the Sentence of a Court Martial reversd. Perhaps both may be disappointed. I have receivd a Number of Let ters by both. To yours I shall pay a particular Regard, because I am well satisfied you never suffer Prejudices to divert your Attention from the great Object—the publick good. “Manly is a blunt, honest and 1 believe brave Officer.’’ I observe your caution, and am pleasd with it; for I think it is a fresh Proof of your Integrity. Manlys Brav ery is an Article of your Belief. His Bluntness & Honesty are Matters of Certainty. I have not yet lookd into the Papers; but I recollect to have heard, when they were read, the Want of Experience imputed to him, and some thing that had the Appearance of blaming him for not giving any Signals for the Direction of the Ships under his Com mand. This it must be ownd, strongly implys a Want of Discretion. Does the Character of a blunt &: honest officer intitle him to the Command of a capital Ship if he is deficient in Point of Experience & Discretion? Especially if he has had the Misfortune of losing one already. “McNeils Address is insinuating—His Assurance great—He will tell you fine Storys” &c. I should think he had taken his lessons out of Hutchinsons political Book, if I had not Reason to believe that he used to despise him most heartily. When I advert to a Letter from another of my Friends, I find him “open & sincere” “His Tem per naturally warm, which he has sometimes indulgd in speaking his Mind freely of Persons in office.” This you know has always been deemd an unpardonable Sin, and I am affraid it always will be. To be sure it always will be so deemd by that Kind of Men in office, who meet with none to hinder them from persisting in the most egre gious and expensive Blunders, but the open, sincere & warm Friends of the Country. We all know, says my Correspondent, his Zeal & Suf ferings for our glorious Cause.” Such a Character, I must confess, commands my Friendship; but it has no Consideration in the present Appeal. Has he had a fair Trial? I pay a proper regard to the Decisions of Courts Martial, and shall not give my Voice for al tering them, but when Error, Partiality or Injustice shall appear plainly to my own Satisfaction. 2 Our Navy Officers must not expect to pick & chuse for themselves.
