358 July 27, 1778 They ought to be content with such Appointments as are given to them. Indeed Appointments should be made with more Judgment than I think they can be by any Set of Men at three or four hundred Miles Distance. For this Reason I movd that they not be made by the Navy Board, which obtaind in a certain Degree, as you will see by a Letter from the Marine Committee. 3 Had this been the Case before, Olney would have remaind in the Resistance, and Bush must have waited for another. If the Queen of France is a better Vessel, it will turn out not to the Disadvantage of Olney. While we have more Captains in Commission than we have ships to give them, there must be Disappointments, Envys, and Suspicions (oftentimes unreasonable) of each other. This is the Make of Man and we may as well think of stopping the Tide as altering it. “The Appointment of Cap Landais affords an ample Subject for the observations of Speculatists, & the Resentment of Navy officers.” I think he is, as you observe, an ingenious & well behavd Man; and if he is an able 8c experiencd officer, as we are assured he is by those who ought to give us the best Information, it is a Pity that two very good Lieu tenants should leave the ship & the service on that Account. I hope others may be found to fill their places. “It is an opinion that I was Landais chief Patron.” This is a mistaken Opinion. You discover yourself on this occasion, as you are disposd to do at all Times, Par tial in my Favor. If I was in any Degree instrumental in the Promo tion of Landais, it was because I really thought him a considerable Acquisition 8c that he would be eminently useful to our Navy. And I am apt to believe it would have been thought a judicious Appoint ment, if there had not been a fanciful Predilection in favor of an other. Even the Name of the Ship may have given Disgust to some Men. 4 I hope when Manly is provided with such a Ship as will please him, the Difficulties or obstructions in the Way of getting the Alliance manned will be removed. I am sure your Exertions will not be wanting to forward the Service. July 29. Yesterday I sent you a fresh News paper by the Post which I intended as an Apology for not writing to you. I kept this Letter open, knowing that Mr Dod the Express was to set off soon, and de signing to say a few things in Addition to what I just hinted to you in my last. But I must defer it till another opportunity. I shall be obligd to you if you will give my Respects to Mr Storey 8c tell him that his Petition with a Number of others was put into the Hands of Mr Lovel when Mr H[ancock] left this City. We will take the first oppty to present it, and endeavor to get his Wishes answerd. 5 Adieu my Friend. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Warren’s July 5 letter to Adams, in which he discussed the qualifications of
