July 27, 1778 359 several Continental Navy captains, particularly those of John Manley and Hector McNeill, is in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:30-31. 2 Manley’s July 27 letter to Congress asking for a new command was referred to the Marine Committee on July 28, but Congress took no further action on the request and Manley eventually turned to privateering. JCC, 11:724; and William J. Morgan, Captains to the Northward: The New England Captains in the Con tinental Navy (Barre, Mass.: Barre Publishing Co., 1959), p. 147. For McNeill’s petition requesting that the sentence dismissing him from the service be set aside, see Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, July 24, 1778, note 5. 3 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, July 24, and Adams to Warren, July 20, 1778. 4 On the appointment of Pierre Landais to command the Alliance, see Adams to Warren, June 1 and 19; and Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, June 18, 1778. 5 The petition of William Story, clerk of the Eastern Navy Board, asking for a raise in salary was read in Congress on July 31. On August 4 Congress accepted the Marine Committee’s report that no raise in salary be made but that Story be given $500 for “extra services and expenses.’’ JCC, 11:735, 747. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear Philadelphia July 27th 1778 I have Just Received your letter of the 10th Inst, which has greatly Relieved my mind from the uneasiness I felt in not hearing a word from you Since yours of the 20th of last month, and am still much at a loss what should be the reason of my not receiving any letter from you the two last posts, as I Reed, letters from Exeter & Portsmouth by both of them, nor Do I Know what letters you have Reed, from me, as you have not informed me. Wish you would be more particular what letters you Receive; I am thankful to hear Rhoda is better, & the rest of the family well. May the Supreme Ruler Continue your health and make us truly thankful for all his favors. I am Glad to hear there is a Good prospect of a plentiful harvest; Here haying 8c English harvest has been over sometime. The weather, the latter part of June & forepart of this month, was Ex ceeding Hot, it has since been more Comfortable & Continues so at this time. The French Fleet is gone to Rhode Island & I Expect you will hear of their opperations sooner than I shall, as you are much nearer. There has nothing very remarkable happened here since I wrote you last, shall inclose some papers for your perusal. I am by the favor of Providence in good health, so is Charles Chace, Mr. Wentworth had an Ill turn after I left him at York Town Sc is not arrived here yet. I shall Endeavor to write to you every week & hope our letters will not be obstructed as they have been. Remember me to all Enquiring friends. Give my sincere Regards to Mr Thayer 8c inform him I Reed his letter of the 9th Inst, and will write to him as
