360 July 27, 1778 soon as I have Leisure & any thing worth Communicating to him. 1 Let him see the newspapers if he Desire it. Yours &c, Josiah Bartlett RC (NhHi). 1 Rev. Elihu Thayer’s July 9 letter to Bartlett is in the Bartlett Papers Micro film, NhHi. No letters from Bartlett to Thayer for 1778 have been found. Josiah Bartlett to William Whipple My Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 27th 1778. Your’s of the 12th instant is just rec’d and am glad to hear that our conduct to the British Commissioners has given general satisfac tion. 1 By their last letter they seem to threaten us with an appeal to the people at large; I hope and believe they will gain no great ad vantage by that measure. I am fully sensible of the force of your arguments against pri vateering and if some proper methods were taken to restrain it to proper bounds, I make no doubt the public would be much benefit- ted by such restrictions; but (for want of a competent knowledge of those affairs I make no doubt) I am not quite satisfied that a total prohibition would be serviceable. The Congress have some time since determined as soon as possible to take up the Marine affairs and make some very essential alterations in it and also the affair of our money which seems to be going to confusion by the enormous rise of every thing, but when it will be done God knows. The almost innumerable letters and business that daily crowd upon Congress for want of regular Boards, properly appointed and filled, and the time it takes in such large Assemblies, to transact business, keeps us for ever behind-hand in our affairs and I am sorry to say that sometimes matters of very small importance waste a good deal of precious time, by the long and repeated speeches and chicanery of gentlemen who will not wholly throw off the lawyer even in Congress. Till we get into better regulations as to our Marine Affairs, I am persuaded no class of men are so much wanted in Congress as men acquainted with that business, for though Navy Boards are es tablished, yet there is a constant appeal to the Marine Committee of Congress, who I am sure are at this time inadequate to the business. I hope our State will have wisdom enough to appoint you to relieve me here in the fall and that you will have virtue enough still to forego your own private interest for the public good and will accept of their appointment and without flattery. I really think you would be very serviceable to the public here, especially in the Marine De partment. If I knew you would not attend Congress I should be glad
