July 27, 1778 361 you might be appointed one of the Navy Board at Boston, for I am sure that Board does not attend sufficiently to the business. Mons. Girard has not yet had the ceremony of an audience but be lieve it will take place some day this week; the ceremonials are agreed on by Congress and the House clearly cleansed and fitted up. The Minister seems urgent to have it as soon as may be. The French fleet are gone to Rhode Island and you will hear of their operations sooner than we. The Admiral seems very desirous of doing something to effect and was greatly mortified when he found there was not water sufficient for his large ships to go up to New York. I have nothing to write you in the new’s way—have sent you a paper or two by which you will see what is stirring here. Please to inform Col Langdon I rec’d a letter for Mr Wentworth, which by the superscription I believe came from him and shall keep it till Mr. Wentworth arrives here which I hope will be the latter end of this & beginning of next week. Remember me to Col Langdon, Mr King, Mr Gain’s, Col Went worth and all friends and believe me to be your sincere friend, J. Bartlett [P.S.] As this is erased, blotted and huddled together in a shameful manner please to destroy it as soon as read for I have not time to write it over. Tr (DLC). 1 Whipple’s July 12 letter is in Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 195-97. Richard Henry Lee to Francis Lightfoot Lee My dear Brother, Phila. July 27th 1778 Your letter of the 12th came only to hand this day by Post, amaz ing delay, but I have spoken to the Post Master on this business un til I am tired. It astonishes me that neither you or my other friends receive my letters, altho I write so many. To you I have not missed above one post since we parted & then I wrote by Mr. Armstead. I trust that before this gets to hand you will have received my letters in which I have given you a full account of the transactions in the Jersies, of the arrival k progress of the French Squadron, & of the coming of a Plenipotentiary from the Court of France to Congress. The Squadron is gone to Rhode Island to make a sweep there as the large Ships of this fleet cannot find water enough to enter the Har bour of N. York wherein the English Ships keep themselves close. I understand that measures will be taken to prevent egress from York or succours getting in. It is this day confidently reported that 27 sail of the provision fleet from Cork have fallen into the hands of Count
