July 27, 1778 363 James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 27th 1778 Your favor of the 13th came this day to hand. I will not go into an examination of Dr & Cr in correspondence, but I give you warn ing that I am about turning bankrupt. I find it to be totally impos sible to do my duty to the public and at the same time pursue as I have done the fulfilment of private epistolary devoirs. New scenes of parade and interruption attend the multiplied foreign business. A multitude of circumstances connected with the books of our Com mittee 1 are now to be eclaircised by those who have most attended to those books for months past. Mutual jealousies having prevailed, as you know, the time is come for mutual explanations. This makes work for me in particular, as having been uniformly connected with foreign applications and much also with foreign correspondence. I cannot find Gazettes for all my friends, and therefore must refer you to the Boston Papers or to Dunlap’s which is doubtless sent to your printer weekly. General! Read 2 will probably be at the head of this Govt which will thence acquire strength and permanence. Mary land, Delaware and Jersey have not yet signed the confederation. Count d’Estaing is gone for Rhode Island not finding water enough at the Narrows of New York. I hope Sullivan will do credit to him self and New Hampshire by cooperating with the Count. The Minister Plenipotentiary from France will have his public au dience in a day or two of which more hereafter from your’s affec tionately, j.L. 28th. With the Mumps or something of the kind I am out of the way of Gazettes, this morning at my lodgings, but am told there is noth ing material in print. Tr (DLC). 1 That is, the Committee for Foreign Affairs. 2 Joseph Reed. Joseph Reed to Jeremiah Wadsworth Dear Sir Philada. July 27th. 1778 I perswade myself you will excuse the Freedom I take on this Oc casion as it arises solely from the Interest I take in the Reputation of your Office & the Share I had in getting you into it. In a late Ap plication for Money laid before Congress there were some Ex pressions of Discontent which seemed to give Offence to some of our Members who think a great deal of & feel a great deal for the Dig nity of Congress. 1 As you have accepted the Office there appears to
