364 July 27, 1778 me not only a Propriety in the.Thing itself, but that it is your Inter est to stand as fair as possible with them. You will have Accounts to settle with them in future; Allowances perhaps to ask & possibly fu ture Favours to request. The Effect of condescending Language even upon the Minds of wise Men is wonderful & has done more for some Men in certain Places than all their real Merit. Congress seems so perfectly satisfied with your Conduct that there is not the least Murmur from any Quarter, and as great 8c decisive Events have happened since which will certainly realize 8c substanti ate your Acquirements I cannot but believe you must consider the Department in a more desirable point of View than when you first accepted it. I am with much Esteem, D Sir, Your Friend 8c Obed. Hbble Servt. Jos. Reed RC (PHi). Addressed: "Jeremiah Wadsworth Esqr., Commissary Genl, of the Continental Army.’’ 1 No "Application” from Wadsworth fitting this description has been found in the PCC. John Banister to Theveneau de Francy 28 July 1778 I have very carefully examined everything that was reported about your case (according to your letter to the committee and the one that you privately wrote to me). 1 I have thus taken note of only the articles of your contract on which your complaint rests, and I have presented it to Congress, which not wishing to decide without having the report of the committee, transmits to us your letter and my observations. I hope that this report will be made in two days. Congress is busy at this moment with matters so serious that it is im possible to interrupt them, but understand that I will seize the first moment to resolve your case. I know how important it is to you not to delay for one moment the ship you say will be ready to set sail. I am well informed about every obligation that America has to Mr. de B[eaumarchais] not only through the particulars that you have given me, but also through a private conversation that I have had with Mr. Deane on this subject and my opinion is that Congress cannot make too great an effort to recognize the outstanding services that he has rendered us and to promptly pay off the debt that it owes him. The ships which you mention in your letter to the committee were consigned 15 and 18 months ago; as they were entrusted to Mr. Ross, who accordingly made advances to Congress, it is not possible to change their consignment, but our report will be that the first
