July 28, 1778 365 ships that are dispatched must be directed to Mr. Beaumarchais, and if the Virginia, which you say is to be sent to our agents and is loaded with 355 hogsheads of tobacco, is in condition to set sail, we will direct that it must be delivered to Mr. de B[eaumarchais]. 2 I have just formed a trade partnership with Mr. Deane and a few other delegates, who are prepared to raise as much capital as we shall have need of and who besides have a great deal of influence in their own state. We wish to have join us a powerful firm in France, which according to what Mr. Deane tells us will have such an inter est in becoming acquainted with us that there is no doubt it will ac cept without hesitation the proposition that he will make to it. I will go myself to France next November, but I want to see you be fore, having many things to tell you on the subject. 3 Tr (MH-H). This extract of John Banister’s July 28 letter to Francy is taken from a nine-page document, written in French, that was transcribed for Jared Sparks. The original manuscript was undoubtedly written by Francy as a report to his employer Caron de Beaumarchais. It bears the heading “Extrait de plu- sieurs lettres de differents membres du congress” and consists of two letters from Henry Laurens to Francy of July 26 and 28, 1778, and single letters of July 28 from John Banister and from Robert Morris. The two letters from President Laurens are also available in his letterbooks at ScHi and have been printed in this volume from that source. The letters from Banister and Morris printed un der this date are our translations of Sparks’ transcript of Francy’s report. Francy’s notes to and parenthetical comments on these two letters have also been trans lated and footnoted to the documents where they appear in the “Extrait.” Francy’s extract of Banister’s letter bears the following heading: "du 28 Juillet par la poste, du Col. Bannister membre du comite de commerce.” 1 For Francy’s “case,” see Henry Laurens to Francy, July 26, 1778, note 1. 2 The following note appears in parentheses at this point in the document. “Not doubting that the order of Congress was consistent with the committee re port, as regards this vessel, I requested that Mr. Duval go to the James River where he is, in order to visit it. His report is that the vessel cannot be ready to sail before 2 or 3 months at the soonest having to unload all its cargo and be re paired. If however it is worth the trouble I will be observant in case they dispatch it that it not be sent to others and I will take the greatest care to make inquiries about expeditions that are to be made.” For “the committee report, as regards this vessel” (the Virginia), see JCC, 11:740. 3 The following note appears in parentheses at the end of this document. “This Col Bannister is a very valuable and honest man whom I have always had great reason to praise in all my transactions. If I knew your intentions for the fu ture I would perhaps be able to interest you in this partnership, but I throw that out as you are in a great commercial transaction, the results of a great po litical concern, I do not know if you wish to begin others or form any concerted action for the furthering of your transactions. I will hand over some letters to Col. Bannister in order to bid him to consult you before any other.” For another reference to a partnership formed by Banister with Silas Deane and five or six delegates—which was apparently designed to conduct trade with L’Orient—see Francy’s July 22, 1778, letter to Beaumarchais in Beaumarchais, Correspondance (Morton and Spinelli), 4:154. For Francy’s correspondence with Beaumarchais at this time focusing on the transactions he was arranging at Philadelphia and Williamsburg in consequence of the contract he had negotiated with the Committee of Commerce on April 16, 1778, see ibid., pp. 131-224.
