366 July 28, 1778 Henry Laurens to Theveneau de Francy Dear Sir 28th July [1778] As your Servant affected to be in a very great hurry to return, I had prepared Letters for him on Sunday Morning which I should have been glad to have been exempted from, but he contrived mat ters so as not to begin his journey ’till very late Yesterday. Soon after he was gone, the two Letters which you will receive under this cover came to hand from Mr. Gardner from Portsmouth. 1 The Commercial Committee have not yet reported, nor do I ex pect they will before Thursday. 2 Do not be uneasy Sir, I am per suaded Congress will act upon the whole with justice & propriety in your case, the task of accounting for impediments is too painful for me and it is not necessary. The Newspaper inclosed will give you the current Intelligence. Believe me to be, With great Respect &c. 3 LB (ScHi). 1 On July 27 Laurens had written a brief letter to William Gardner of Ports mouth, N.H., thanking him for forwarding letters from France to Francy. PCC, item 13, 2:35. Although this was a private letter, it was entered by mistake in Laurens’ presidential letterbook. 2 See Laurens to Francy, July 26, 1778, note 1. 3 Francy's report to Beaumarchais on his dealings with Congress at this time contains the following brief July 28 letter from Laurens on the same subject, which he had apparently written earlier this day. "I am writing you two lines in order to set your mind at ease and to give you notice that the committee report has not yet been done as I had anticipated in my last letter of the 26th. You know how much I am an enemy of tardiness, thus do not fear any from me, but I can respond to everyone as soon as this report is done, which I hope will be Thursday, and as soon as the Congress will have de termined something I will inform you of the matter.” Sparks Collection, MH-H. Henry Laurens to William Smith DearSir 28th July [1778] I had the pleasure of writing to you a public Letter, in which was intimated, that agreeable to your request Congress had accepted your resignation of your seat at the Navy Board. 1 It is time that I should cancel the Account which I stand indebted to you, for this purpose you will find inclosed one hundred and sev enty seven dollars, which you will be pleased to pass to my Credit. General Washington joined by General Gates is now with a very respectible Army at White Plains. Count d’Estaing finding it imprac ticable to enter with his large ships Sandy Hook, sailed the 21st In stant for Rhode Island. His Excellency the Commander in Chief has made large Detachments to reinforce General Sullivan, who will soon have upwards of five thousand Men. In the mean time it is said
