July 28, 1778 367 the object in view, General Pigott and his Garrison, are withdrawn and safely arrived at New York. 2 Be it so, we shall know where to find them. The Evacuation of Philada. and Rhode Island, the Battle of Monmouth, and the arrival of a French fleet will operate more powerfully to ends of Peace upon the minds of our Enemies than Governor Johnstone’s profer’d Gold wrought upon Congress. The Indians Westward and Northward are exceedingly trou blesome. We are beginning to be very serious with them. I have been told of a new, neat, light English carriage for sale at Baltimore in the hands of a Mr. Hopkins or Hopkinson, and I am in great want of one—Bringhurst of Germantown who had built one for me having refused to deliver it at the price agreed for without any better reason than that of a higher offer in these times from somebody else. I request you Sir to do me the favour to enquire for this carriage, inform me of particulars of the fashion, colour, lining &c &c and the Gentlemans lowest price in a Bill of Exchange, or in paper Dollars. Have you received a further supply of good Wines and Brandy and at what prices? be so kind as to inform me, which will oblige, Dear Sir, Your Respectful & Obed. Servt. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “William Smith Esqr., Baltimore.” 1 Laurens had written a brief letter to Smith on July 24 transmitting a copy of Congress' July 22 resolve accepting his resignation from the Middle Department Navy Board. PCC, item 13, 2:34; and JCC, 11:710. Smith’s July 17 letter of resig nation is in PCC, item 78, 20:225-27. 2 This report about the British evacuation of Rhode Island was false. Robert Morris to Theveneau de Francy [July 28, 1778] I have received your private 'letter and the one that you wrote to the committee: 1 both dated the 15 instant. Allow me to tell you that the style is a little too ardent, the complaints that you make re garding the orders that I gave for the consignment of two vessels to Mr. Ross are not founded, because these orders were given not only before the existence of your contract, but even before your arrival on the continent. The Congress owes a great deal to this same Mr. Ross who some time ago received notice that these vessels which you mention were dispatched to him, as soon as the bay was free and their destination cannot be changed, but have faith that we are all very prepared to carry out the obligations that we have made with you so as to pay back what the Republic owes to Mr. de B[eaumarchais], and as for me to prove to you how much I am dis posed towards it I have proposed to the committee to send the vessel
