July 31, 1778 379 tained a Brevet to rank Major—what title had he to this promo tion? 8 Were I to draw the Gentleman into comparison with Major Gibbs and many other worthy Officers, I should answer, none. But he has only a Brevet. Your excellency is appriz’d of the restrictions on that kind of Commission by an Act of Congress of the 30th of April 9 and I trust the good sense of my Countrymen will lead them to reflect and distinguish properly, and to make some allowances. Your Excellency will discover in one or more of the extracts the strong desire of French Gentlemen for printed Commissions. I dont know what peculiar advantage they might have had in view but in opposition to them and even to some attempts here, I have always confin’d myself to the mode of a simple Certificate in pursuance of the Resolve of Congress referr’d to in each case. In the first conversation I had the honor of holding with Monsr. Girard with a view of learning what reception those French Gentle men had met, who had return’d some 8 or 9 months ago, murmur ing and dissatisfied to France; I took occasion to signify my concern for the disappointment which some of them had suffer’d, and in honor of Congress made brief recitals of Commissions granted to many French Officers now in the Army, observing that it had been impossible to gratify the wishes of every one for promotion. Mr. Girard reply’d His Court had seen with pain so many Frenchmen applying for permission to resort to the American Army, and that very few had receiv’d encouragements; the Court were sensible that crowds of foreigners pressing for Commissions would tend to embar rass Congress, that since his arrival at Philada. he had been solicited in many instances for recommendations, every one of which he had refused to listen to and added I might rest satisfied, Congress would never be troubled with Petitions under his auspices. In this sensible declaration methinks I discern sound Policy, be that as it may it will in some measure relieve Congress. I most earnestly wish our noble friend the Marquis could be persuaded to adopt the determination of Monsr. Girard. Very soon after I shall have the pleasure of conversing with Baron Stiiben, his pursuits -in the journey to Court will be known to me. 10 I shall be equally explicit on my part and your Excellency shall be as candidly informed, if it shall appear to be necessary. On Thursday the sixth of August Congress will receive Monsr. Girard in his public character. Your Excellency will find within the copies of the intended Address of the Minister and Answer of the Representatives of the thirteen United States of America. 11 Speaking as a Citizen I cannot forbear disclosing to you Sir, that there is a re luctance in my Mind to acknowledgments of obligation or of gener osity where benefits have been, to say the least, reciprocal—this opinion has not been formed since I read the Address and Answer,
