July 31, 1778 381 it See ]CC, 11:754-57. 12 Laurens is undoubtedly referring to a handbill advocating British recognition of American independence that was written by Israel Mauduit and published in London in March 1778. See Paul L. Ford, A Hand Bill Advocating American In dependence, Inspired by the English Ministry, and Written and Published at London in Alarch 1778 (Brooklyn: Historical Printing Club, 1890), passim. See also Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson, October 5, 1778, note 2. Joseph Reed to the Printer of the Pennsylvania Packet Mr. Printer, Philadelphia, July 31, 1778. The confidence we ought to repose in public authority, and the re spect due to it, should prevent our forming hasty judgments, or pass ing unguarded censures upon its measures. A writer in yesterday’s paper influenced, I have no doubt, by very laudable motives, thinks the Executive Council inexcusably negligent, in passing silently over a late attempt to corrupt a Delegate of their State. 1 Justice to those vigilant and upright Magistrates requires it to be known, that they have deliberated upon it with attention and decided with wisdom. No person conversant with law can suppose the attempt direct trea son by any statute or act of Assembly, now in force; and would any lover of his country, or friend to mankind, wish to see the doctrine of constructive treason, that engine of tyranny and iniquity, intro duced into governments founded in freedom, and reforming the best systems in Europe? I hope not. Besides, Mr. Printer, a very slight at tention to the transaction will shew, with what guarded nicety it was managed; how cloathed with circumstances of fairness, and made de pendent only on its being reconcileable to principles of conscience and virtue. Every one will have his private opinion of the intent, but a court of justice must judge of the whole—can presume noth ing, and must make a strict construction of penal laws. Hence we see how difficult it is even in Britain, that hot bed of venality and cor ruption, to detect and punish offences of this nature, notwithstand ing the many salutary laws for that purpose. Ineffectual exertions of power weaken and disgrace government—the wise Magistrate will ever avoid them, nor aim his blow without at least a moral certainty of hitting his mark. Upon these principles, and others equally weighty, the Council resolved to leave Governor Johnstone to the in famy attending detected baseness, and both he and his instruments the consciousness of having well deserved it—A line of conduct which they did not adopt with due consideration, and which I am bold to say is justified by many respectable opinions in this city. A Signer of the Association.
