August 6, 1778 395 ships at Boston, 2 which we expect they will do, and that you will thereby be enabled to send out the Vessels very Shortly. We have directed the Paymaster of this department to send you a State of Lieutenant Morans Account. Mr. Trevet was at York Town when Congress were there, but went off without making any applica tion. We have already sent you by Mr. Dodd 200,000 Dollars, and wish we could now send you the remainder of the Warrant granted by Congress for your department. 3 The Treasury hath not yet got money sufficient for that purpose, but in a few days we expect to get the balance which shall be immediately sent forward together with the Money for Mr. Bradfords Bill. We are with regard Gentlemen, Your Hble Servants P.S. You will in future send forward the proceedings at large of all Courts Martial-at present those relative to Captains Manly and McNeill are wanted; please to Send by the first opportunity. 4 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book) 1 See JCC, 11:747. 2 In this August 4 letter the committee requested the Massachusetts Council to aid the Navy Board with the powers of Government in Manning the Continental ships of war that are at Boston, which have been ordered out to join the French Fleet under the command of Vice Admiral the Count D’Estaing.” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:278. The RC of this letter, which was signed by chairman Richard Henry Lee, is in Revolutionary Letters, M-Ar. 3 On this July 16 warrant, see Marine Committee to the Eastern Naw Board July 24, 1778, note 3. 7 4 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, July 24, 1778, note 5. Committee of Congress to the Pennsylvania Council A f . Aug. 6th, 1778. Messrs Richard H. Lee and Samuel Adams, a Committee of Congress, present their respectfull Compts to the Hon. the Vice President & Council of the State of Pennsylvania, and beg the favor of them to order a sufficient number of Peace Officers to prevent any Interruption of the Minister of France, in his Passage to and from the Congress Chamber, this day. 1 MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:677. 1 On this day Congress held an elaborate reception for Conrad Alexandre Gerard at the State House in Philadelphia. Congress’ account of the proceedings was published in the Pennsylvania Packet, August 11, 1778. For translations of Gerard’s reports to the comte de Vergennes on the day's events, see Gerard, Dispatches (Baisnee and Meng), 57:92-96.
