400 August 7, 1778 South Carolina at this time, see Carl J. Vipperman, The Rise of Rawlins Lowndes, 1721-1800 (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1978), pp. 205-13. « For additional information on William Galvan, see Laurens to John Laurens, August 29, 1778. 7 In the letters to Laurens cited above, Gervais had explained that Congress’ June 8 embargo on the export of certain provisions was highly unpopular in South Carolina because it had caused a sharp decline in the price of rice. See also JCC, 7:578-79; and Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes, August 5, 1778. 8 Congress had accepted Christopher Gadsden’s resignation from the Continental Army on October 2, 1777, after reading an August 28 letter from Gen. Robert Howe, the commander of the southern military department, explaining that Gadsden was resigning because of a jurisdictional conflict with him. Drayton, who had supported Gadsden in the South Carolina Assembly during his dispute with Howe, raised the issue of Gadsden’s resignation at this time after receiving a July 4 letter from Gadsden rebutting Howe’s account of the events leading up to his decision to resign and criticizing the “conduct of the then Carolina Delegates’ when Congress accepted his resignation. See JCC, 8:757; and Christopher Gadsden, The Writings of Christopher Gadsden, ed. Richard Walsh (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1966), pp. 134-44. Interestingly enough, Gadsden did not single out Laurens directly or by implication in his letter to Drayton, a transcript of which, endorsed "Copy of a Letter from General Gadsden to his Friend in Congress,” is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 9 Although Burnett, Letters, 3:361, prints the foregoing paragraph as a post script to Laurens’ August 5-7 letter to Rawlins Lowndes, it is actually part of the present letter, as the following statement by Laurens in his September 6 letter to Gervais clearly indicates: “I expect to hear from you such Answer as General Gadsden should have given.” Laurens also returned to this subject in his Septem ber 10 letter to Gervais. Burnett was misled into assigning this paragraph to the letter to Lowndes as a result of a clerical error by Laurens’ secretary Moses Young. Young entered part of the letter to Lowndes on pp. 241^5 of the letterbook, part on p. 240, and the rest on pp. 249-51, entering the letter to Gervais on pp. 247-48 and 252-53. In the process of copying the latter, however, Young stopped with the complimen tary close on p. 252 and then prepared to transcribe another letter, first inserting two lines across the page wherein to write the name and address of the recipient. At this point he realized he had forgotten to copy the postscript of the letter to Gervais and therefore wrote the first paragraph of it between these lines and the second underneath them. Burnett erroneously assumed that the line separating the first and the second paragraphs on p. 252 meant that the second was a con tinuation of Laurens’ letter to Lowndes, which ended on p. 251, a mistake made also by the transcriber of the copy of the letter to Lowndes that is in unit 16 of the microfilm edition of the Laurens Papers, ScHi. Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes [August 7, 1778] It is now the 7th of August: what is written above is the product of four or five attempts in Minutes stolen from the hard service of the last three days. The Messenger has been and is detained for my Letters only, I must therefore hasten to conclude. We have heard nothing late from General Washington or from
