406 August 8, 1778 tentiary had engaged me to attend him to the Valley Forge, and po litely put it off till Tuesday that I might see you this Evening. many Thanks to address to you as well as many additional Obligations for the several Letters reed this Day by Mr Skinner & Mr Webb—How shall I repay you-it can only be by loving you with a still more ardent affection if possible. On Thursday we gave the Sieur Girard his Publick Audience. The Ceremony as follows. Our President was Seated in a Mahogany armed Chair on a Platform raisd about two feet with a large Table coverd with Green Cloth & the Secretary along side of him. The Members were all seated round within the Bar, and a large Armed Chair in the middle opposite to the President for the Plempo. At twelve oClock-our State Coach & Six waited on the Minister at his Quarters. He was proceeded by his own Chariott & two with his Secretaries. The Minister was attended by two Members who introduced him thro’ the Crowd & seated him in the Chair. He then sent to the President (by his Secretary) the Letter from the King of France to Congress, which was opened & read aloud first in trench & then in English. It was then anounced to the House by the waiting Member, that the Stranger introduced was the Minister Plenipotentiary from his most Christian Majesty, upon which the Minister arose & bowed to the President & then to the House, and H ° ”, Se nsin ff returned the Compliment. The Minister then addressed the Congress, and was answered by the President—On which the Bowing again took Place and the whole Concluded * A publick Dinner succeeded at which was a Band of Musick and the firing of Cannon. The whole was plain, grand & decent. The Minis ter was much pleased as well as the Audience. Enclosed is a return for some Land which I wish Elisha to go & see & let me know the Value of it-any surveyor there can inform him where it lies. You do not tell me how Mrs. Caldwell is, pray let me know it My love to them all, I wrote to Mr. Caldwell lately.2 The Cloathier says he will try to get him Cash whenever he comes. It is past Midnight & I am tired so cannot be particular, only you may dispose of some of the old Money, Pennsylvania if possible. Love to my dear Susan & all Friends. Am with great Love & Affec tion, Your faithfull, Boudinot RC (NjP). Speech tO and President Laurens’ reply, see ICC IK/53—57. 1 J 2 Not found.
