August 9, 1778 409 James Lovell to John Lamb Augst. 8th 1778. ^r. Hancock having left Philada. before the arrival of your Letter of July 6th, which was delivered to me from the Post Office the 4t Instant, I have sent you the Resolve passed on the 30th of April relative to the officer concerning whom you wrote to Mr. H I apprehend this is what the General Orders refer to. You will let me know whether it is in my Way to do you any other Pleasure than by inclosing your Letter to Mr. H having already mentioned to him that I should do so. Your humb Servt. James Lovell 1 John Lamb (1735-1800), colonel of the Second Continental Am lery and1 . former New York wine merchant, had written to John Hancock complaining that Gen Horatio Gates had appointed Maj. Ebenezer Stevens-Lamb s junior in rank-as commander of the artillery in the northern and middle departments, su- Lovell .J Aprt, » Major Stevens to the rank of lieutenant colonel by brevet. JCC, 10.410. For a full er explanation of the dispute, the satisfactory settlement for Lamb, and relevant correspondence, see Isaac Q. Leake, Memoir of the Life and Times of John Lamb (Albany: Joel Munsell, 1857), pp. 199-210. SA a great Share. Adieu my Friend. Samuel Adams to James Warren,, , • Philada. Augt 9. 78 My dear sir . T ° As Mr Dana purposes to set off early tomorrow Morning I am un willing to omit writing a Letter to you to be delivered by him. 1 part with him with great Reluctance, because I esteem him a very valuable Member of Congress. It is a Consolation to me that he as a Seat in the General Assembly, where I am satisfied he wil e greatly instrumental in promoting the Reputation and true Interest of our Country. I sincerely regret that you have not a Seat there, nevertheless I hope you will not withdraw your Influence, which though not a Member, you may employ for the publick good. There are vet remaining some of the old Patriots who have long struggled with you against the publick Enemies. You will derive to yourself great Delight by a Recapitulation of past Scenes, in a Circle of such Friends, and by ioyning with them in further Efforts, you may make your self still more serviceble to our great Cause. I know you are en- gagd in an important Continental Department and your Hands are full of Business; but I hope you will find time to continue and fur ther to cultivate an Intimacy with the leading Men of that State m the Government of which, I will venture to say, you must again have
