410 August 9, 1778 RC (MHi). 1 Francis Dana apparently did not leave Philadelphia until after August 11, when he is recorded in the journals as voting in Congress. JCC, 11:774. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear Philadelphia August 9th 1778 This will go by Express inclosed in a letter to Colo. Langdon, 1 just to let you Know I am well: Charles Chace has had a very bad turn of the Camp Distemper; I am in hopes he is rather better, as he Could not be taken Care of where I board & the Gentlemen who board here were not willing he Should Remain Sick in the House, I have procured a place for him at a Distant part of the Town where he is taken good Care of, and I visit him Morning & Evening, his fe ver Continues but his Bloody flux is abated. I hope & believe he will Recover. Mr. Wentworth is arrived here, but in so bad a State of health that he Does not attend Congress. If he Does not get better Soon I Suppose he will Set out for Home. 2 Last Thursday the minister Plenipotentiary of France had his Public audience of Congress: The Speches made by him & the answer of Congress, with the King of France s Letter of Credentials to Congress will be printed tomorrow 3 and I will try to Send them by the Post on Tuesday. The next news of importance is Expected from Rhode Island and I Suppose you will hear what is Done there before you Receive this letter. We have nothing very material here at present. I am &c, Josiah Bartlett [P.S.] Remember my Love to all my Children. RC (NhHi). 1 Not found. 2 In a brief August II letter to Mary, Bartlett added little to this assessment of the condition of Charles Chace and John Wentworth. “I have not Reed, any let ters from Newhampshire by yesterdays post. Charles Chace Remains Sick,” he ex plained, “his fever Continues. The Dysentery is abated. He begins now to have some hopes he shall see Kingstown again. Mr Wentworth is here but not able to attend Congress; by the favor of Providence I am well notwithstanding the un wholesome, Disagreable, Sultry weather we have here at this Season. Watt Collec tion, NhHi. d ° CUmentS were P ub,ished in the Pennsylvania Packet, August 10,
