412 August 10, 1778 some Reinforcements of Ships tho other very late Accts, we have had from persons who have been in New York say that no Rein forcements have arrived, how the truth is remains uncertain. That you will know before this reaches you. Cornelious Sweers who is now in Goal has since you left this City wrote a Leter to the president in which he confesses some part of the Charge against him. He says that he has altered some Accts &c: that he purchased a Number of Arms and returnd. them into the Stores at a greater price than he gave and that Col. Flowers was equally concerned with him in this and every fraud he may have been guilty off in that Department: he refers to some papers which he says will tend to evince the Matter (those papers I have not seen). In Consiquence of this Col. Flowers is now under an arrest by Order of Congress. How it will appear upon examination I cant pretend to say. A Comtee. is appointed to take Sweers’s Examination upon Oath in the Matter: a Measure this I dont very well approve off; for should Col. Flowers be acquited perhaps Sweers may avail himself by haveing given his Deposition. This was objected but it was carried notwithstanding. 1 Nothing is yet done in Regard to our Currency. The Report from the Treasury Board upon that Subject yet lies on the Table. A special Comtee. have been appointed upon the Matter of Arrainging the Treasury who are ready to report. 2 The want of that Report has been assignd. as a Reason for Delaying the other matter. I hope in Consience it will be soon taken up as I think every other Matter is comparatively [but tithing] 3 Mint, Annis &c until that is done. The Cloather Generals’ Department is in a most wretched Situation: as are our Commercial Affairs and indeed some others by the best In telligence I can obtain. But of these things I need not inform you. Mr. Sherman is appointed immediately to repair to the Army for the purpose (with others) of compleating the arraingmt. This will make it necessary for Mr. Elsworth to Come forward. Please to make my Compliments acceptable to Mrs. Wolcot &c. I am with sincerest Esteam and Regard your Obedt huml Servt. Andw Adams RC (CtHi). 1 For further information on the disposition of the charges against Benjamin Flower and Cornelius Sweers, see Henry Laurens to Benedict Arnold, August 5, 1778, note. 2 For the work of reorganizing the treasury office, which resulted in allocating various functions to separate offices of comptroller, auditor, treasurer, and two chambers of accounts on September 26, see Wolcott to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., May 18, 1778, note 3. 3 Although the manuscript is marred at this point, Adams was doubtless para phrasing Jesus’ condemnation of the Pharisees for tithing “mint, and anise, and cummin,” while omitting "the weightier matters of the law,” recorded in Mat thew 23:23.
