414 August 10, 1778 Henry Laurens to Thomas Nelson sir 10th Augt. [1778] I have the honor of presenting to you within the present inclosure a Resolve of Congress of the 8th Instant recommending for reasons intimated in that Act the return of the Volunteer cavalry lately from Virginia under Your command, and, expressing the thanks of Congress to yourself Sir, and to the rest of the Officers and Gentle men of that Corps for their brave, generous, and patriotic efforts. 1 I feel a very sensible pleasure, Sir, in the discharge of this public duty, and a peculiar satisfaction in the opportunity of subscribing to a Gentleman of your distinguished Character in these States. The high Respect and Esteem with which I have the honor of being, Sir, Your Most Obedient & Most Hbl. Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “General Nelson, Philadelphia, by M[oses] 1 Congress decided that as a result of the British withdrawal to New York there was no need for Nelson’s volunteer cavalry corps to join Washington’s army. JCC, 11:766. The “Resolve ... of the 8th Instant” and an August 11 letter of thanks from Nelson were printed by order of Congress in the August 15 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. JCC, 11:777. Henry Laurens to Baron Steuben Dear Baron. Chestnut Street, 10 Augt. 1778. You have done me the honor of intimating more than once your sentiments respecting certain necessary attentions to a River defence. Will you be so good my Dear Baron, when you can spare half an hour for this purpose to communicate your Ideas, including if you please your advice, in writing to Your much obliged & Obedient humble Servant, 1 Henry Laurens. Not written as President of Congress. [P.S.] Can you without inconvenience stop at my House one minute to morrow Morning on your way to that of the Minister Plenipoten tiary? RC (NHi). 1 Instead of formulating a detailed plan for the defense of the Delaware, as Laurens requested, Steuben, who was in Philadelphia at this time, wrote the president a brief letter on August 27 urging him to submit this important issue to Congress. Laurens Papers, ScHi.
