416 August 10, 1778 RC (DLC). 1 See Henry Laurens to Patrick Henry, July 24, 1778, note 3. 2 On August 17 Lee also wrote a brief letter to ‘‘Reverend Bartholemew Booth, To the care of Richard Potts Esquire at Frederick Town in Maryland,” inquiring on what terms Booth would consent to undertake the education of his two nephews, recently placed in his charge because of the death of his brother Thomas Lee. Gift Collection, MdAA. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir August 10th 1778. Your favor of July 24th is now before me, but the banter of it is not rightly founded, for the superscription told where I was on the 6th of July as plainly as you may know by the present where I am; and I assure you I am not now under the fatigue of a frolic, though by the enclosed Advertiser you may see we have been at it again. Our letters from the Count d’Estaing and General Sullivan are quite encouraging; but a report prevails that Lord Howe being rein forced is in pursuit of the French Squadron. I hope however that the latter will be well in the harbor of Newport before the former reaches the Island. I do not wish to have any engagement without a considerable superiority on the side of our Allies. The encouragement which is given by the Count d’Estaing to Pri vateers, I should think was sufficient to make them ply in the track of his fleet. You did not appear, by your letter, to know what he had declared, which is, that prizes taken in sight of his squadron shall be long entirely to the captors. 1 I am quite chagrined that we have not a force of ships ready to join the Count immediately—4 or 5 days are of immense importance, nay the fate of Rhode Island may depend upon 24 hour’s preparation on our part. The French fleet begins to grow sickly, to want the refreshment of an encampment for a few weeks. I notice your remarks upon the Navy Board but you know times and seasons are to be watched here and I do not find that your ideas would thrive at this period, if I was to strive to cultivate them. I will not miss any right occasion I assure you. Mr D has had no formal conversation with C ss 2 but I expect something of the kind soon—but it is a difficult matter to communicate any thing to you on that head without being minute and exposing myself to disagreeable chances of the fate of my letters. The French have not a proper na val force in the West Indies to enable the General of Martinique to begin operations in that quarter agreeable to instructions sent to him from Europe. I suppose you would choose to reduce Halifax be fore you undertake the English West India Islands. Good night, Dear Sir, J.L. Tr (DLC).
