August 11, 1778 417 1 See JCC, 11:691. 2 Lovell’s reference to Silas Deane’s “connection” with Congress was in antici pation of the hearing that actually began on August 15. JCC, 11:799. Tr (DLC). 2 Sherman and John Banister were added to the Committee of Arrangement th 3 Joseph Trumbull, former commissary general of the Continental Army, had died on July 23 after a long illness. DAB. Andrew Adams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. sir> (private) Philadelphia 11th. Augt 1778 The unexpected Death of the late amiable and I think much in jured Commissary Genl, (on which I do most sincerely condole your Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. gj r Philadelphia Augst. 10th. 1778. I hope Your Excellency will not impute my omitting to write so long a time to neglect of duty—the true reason was I have had noth ing important to write. We have no late account from foreign parts, nor has anything remarkable occurred here. Congress has been em ployed about the ordinary affairs of the Continent. The Minister Plenipotentiary from the Court of France had a public audience last Thursday—the manner of it is contained in the enclosed paper. The operations of War being at the Eastward Your Excellency has earlier intelligence of them than we have here—our affairs wear a prosper ous aspect except the currency—I expected it would have been at tended to by Congress long before now-but a multiplicity of other affairs have prevented it. I am appointed one of a Committee to re pair (to?) 1 the Camp, and assist in the new arrangement of the army The Indians and more barbarous Tories have desolated our Settle ments at Westmoreland. Congress sent two Regiments of Continental troops with some Militia to repel the enemy. The account given in a Poughkeepsie paper is said to be much beyond the truth. Expect to go the Army this week, and from thence intend to go home before I return to this place. I heartily condole with Your Excellency (on?) the death of your Son the late Commissary General. His great public services deserve a grateful remembrance. 3 I am with great Esteem, Your Excellency’s Obedient humble Ser vant. Roger Sherman.
