420 August 11, 1778 so, because a well bred Man will carefully avoid counter acting the vulgar Prejudices & injuring the Feelings of the People where he may happen to be. I congratulate you on the present happy Appearance of our pub lick Affairs & heartily joyn with you in praying that Heaven may still prosper them. I shall take it as a favor if you will deliver the inclosd Manuscript without suffering a Copy to be taken, to Mrs. A. I told her I should send it to her as being not an unfit Subject of female Inspection & Criticism. I am, your affectionate, A RC (MHi). 1 In his July 29 letter to Adams, Savage had made the following inquiry concerning John Hancock: "Pray my Friend what occasioned the very sudden Re turn of Mr. H. He arrivd quite unexpected. Various are the Conjectures for the true Cause; his Friends say the Airs of Philadelphia doth not sute him.” Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Samuel Adams to Peter Thacher My Dear Sir 1 Philad Augt 11 —78 I am quite ashamd that I have not yet acknowledgd the two let ters which I have had the Pleasure of receiving from you since I left Boston; you will excuse me when I tell you, I have many Letters, which are daily accumulating, unanswerd, and very little Leisure. This by the Way, must convince you how unfit a Person I am even if I were otherwise qualified, to undertake the important Task you re quire of me in your last. 2 While f am giving you the true Reason of my Silence, I hope it will not prevent your writing to me by every opportunity. Herein you will lay me under great obligations. By the late Publications, you have seen, and doubtless have made your own Comments on the epistolary Correspondence between the British Commissioners & Congress. The short Resolution on their last Letter, has put an end to it. Last Week the Minister from France had an Audience in Congress. The Manner of conducting this Ceremony, together with a Letter from his most Christian Majesty and the Speeches of the Minister and the President are pub- lishd in the inclosd News Paper. I have had several opportunitys of seeing him at his own House, and a few days ago, he made a Visit to the Delegates of the Massachusetts who live together. He is easy and polite in his Manners and converses freely without much Ceremo ny. 3 Nothing can equal the barefaced Falshood of the Quakers & To ries in this City, unless perhaps their Folly, in giving out that M. Gerard does not come in the Character of a publick Minister, but
