August 11, 1778 421 only to obtain Pay for the Stores we have receivd from that Country. These Quakers are in general a sly artful People, not altogether des titute, as I conceive, of worldly Views in their religious Profession. They carefully educate their Children in their own contracted Opinions and Manners, and I dare say they have in their Heads as perfect a System of Uniformity of Worship in their Way, and are busily employd about spiritual Domination as ever Laud himself was, but having upon professed Principle renouncd the Use of the carnal Weapon, they cannot consistently practice the too common Method made Use of in former times, of dragooning Men into sound Beliefe. One might submit to their own inward Feelings, whether they do not now & then secretly wish for fire from Heaven in sup port of their Cause, in order to bring them upon a footing with those whose Consciences dictate the kindling fires on Earth for the pious Purpose of convincing Gainsayers, and who keep the Sword in their Hands to enforce it. He who in the Spirit of the Apostle professes to wish Peace to all those who love the Lord Jesus Christ in Sincerity, must discover an unmortified Pride & a Want of Chris tian Charity to destroy the peace of others who profess to have that sincere Affection to the Common Master, because they differ from him in Matters of mere opinion—But the Post is just going. I must therefore conclude with assuring you that I am affectionately, Yours, FC (NN). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 Peter Thacher (1752-1802), a Malden, Mass., minister, who had delivered several fiery patriotic sermons on public occasions and later served as a delegate to the 1780 Massachusetts constitutional convention. "Memoirs of Rev. Dr. Thacher,” Massachusetts Historical Society, Collections, 1st ser. vol. 8 (1802): 277-84. 2 Thacher’s “last” letter to Adams has not been found; only his May 19 letter to Adams is in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. 3 At this point Adams wrote and then crossed out the following sentences: “Under an Apprehension that our connection with France might lead us to par take in her wars, which might be grounded on Views of Ambition and Conquest, I took occasion to hint to him that the sole object of America was independence. He frankly said that whenever Great Britain should acknowledge our Indepen dence, there would be an End of Dispute between her and us, and it would not be the Inclination as it was not the Interest of France to continue the War.” The “apprehension” Adams voiced here was also shared by Richard Henry Lee, who preserved among his papers the following notes on Gerard’s response to this issue. Lee doubtless wrote these at about this same time, after availing himself of an opportunity for questioning the French Minister on possible consequences of the Franco-American treaties. The notes appear on the verso of a sheet on which Lee had outlined the thirteen articles of the treaty of alliance. “That the Treaty of Alliance has not effect until War or rupture, which are made Synonimous. Therefore no Guarantee, nor obligation to carry on the war. The former more desirable than the latter ineligible. Because the Object of War clearly pointed out in 2d. 3d. & 8 Articles, which being obtained, the war in rea son ceases. “All words of Monsr. Gerard.” Lee Family Papers, ViU.
