422 August 11, 1778 John Banister to St. George Tucker Dear Tucker Philadelphia August 11th. 1778 Your letter upon the planetary System was ingenious, and possessed eminently what is not generally reckoned a Perfection on writing, Obscurity. Yet so much was I interested in the Subject that the Obscure became clear, & all was unfolded to my mental eye. It is a strange Planet whose Influence some People live under. It attracts but is not attracted. I wish in your deep Researches & persevereing attention you could find out a Remedy for this Phenomenon. You are versed in the doctrine of mutual attraction, but in the in stance here alluded to I am 8c I fear must remain a Stranger to this vivifying Principle. I wish on a certain occasion a certain Luminary could add to the splendor that I know will brighten the Banks of the old Appomattox. I am determined to be there. How much are you to be envied! In a fair way to possess the very object your Soul holds the most dear. Can any Prospect of the future more elevate the Mind? I do not expect to see you under the etherial Seale of spirits this Seven years. Tomorrow I go to Camp, at the White Plains, on business delegated by Congress. 1 This will be a pleasing Jaunt after a long confinement in this hot Place; And yet I really do not dislike Philadelphia. There is such a variety of Company es pecially of the fair “Sex” that it is with all its inconveniences sup portable. It may be indured, But I long more than ever Swiss did to revisit my native Land; and rejoin my amiable Connections. What astonishing Events have crouded together in our favour within a few Weeks. In the Spring every department of the Army was distressed, our Success doubtful, the Enemy near us with a powerful 8c well ap pointed Army. Our’s small, naked, unprovided, in no good expectation that things would be better. The alliance with France not expected, the Con tinental Money Daily Sinking in value from a bad opinion generally entertained of the Event, and other Causes naturally producing that Effect. The Army liable to attack 8c yet incapable of Motion for the want of Waggons, Horses, 8cc. and thro a total derangement in the Q. Masters Department. In this extremity this Office was filled by a new appointment, 8c the business entrusted to other Hands. The Army which had been in iminent danger several times of starving was now by the appointment of a new Commissary put in to a way of being supplied. These measures Taken the Month of April elapsed, 8c May ushered in the joyful account of the treaty of alliance with France. This gave Life 8c animation to every thing. The Army recruited.
