August 11, 1778 423 Supplies became certain instead of being precarious. Discipline began to prevail, 8e the Month of May had not expired before the attack of our Army in its Camp would have been madness, tho but a few Weeks before such an attempt might have been made with a full as surance of Success. But Providence saved us here again. I think we should be grateful, for I am clear in his interposition. How do you like the doctrine my Friend? The next favourable Event was the Enemy’s determination to evacuate this City. The good Effect of this Resolution expanded it self ’thro all Order of Men & Produced an amazing change in the Minds of the wavering & undetermined. To this succeeded our Victory at Monmouth, & then the arrival of the Fleet under the command of the Count D’Estaing. This force is now employed against Rhode Island in conjunction with a formidable Body of Land Forces. If this attempt proves Suc cessful I think the Remainder of the Conflict will be easy to us. Mr. Bolling waits for this. Adieu therefore yr. affect. J Banister [P.S.] If you see my fair 2 remember to tell her softly that I wish her every happiness. RC (ViW). 1 Although Banister states that he expected to set out for Washington’s head quarters on August 12, having been appointed to the Committee of Arrangement on the 10th, he probably did not leave Philadelphia until the weekend, for he is recorded in the journals as having cast his vote on a number of issues on Satur day, August 15. JCC, 11:769, 794-800. 2 Probably Anne Blair, regarding whom see Banister to Tucker, April 23, 1778, note 1. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir. Philada. Augst. 11. 1778. Your Letter to Congress was delivered, and is referred to the Ma rine Committee. 1 It will be difficult & a Work of Time to procure the different Resolves of Congress relative to Captures. I have seen only one of the Marine Board, The only Instance he knows of is, that Capt. Hawker says he struck to the united States. As to the Ju risdiction, it unquestionably belongs to our Court of admiralty. 2 I am almost sure the Effects are a prize to the Individuals. There is a Resolve on this Subject, bound in a Pamphlet, which is at my House. Jerry can give it to you. I will attend to the other Parts of your Letter. For News I beg Leave to refer You to my Letter of yes terday to Colo. Lloyd.
