August 11, 1778 429 Carolina, Captain Pyne 1000 Dollars, Lieutenant Martin 940 Dol lars, for which sums your Excellency will find his several acknowl edgements within this cover. In my last letter I suggested some apprehensions of receiving shortly a ratification of the Convention of Saratoga. Last night a pa per pretended to be a Ratification signed by four of the British Com missioners and usher’d by a Letter of the 7th from Mr. Ferguson their Secretary was sent to me by General Maxwell, the General had received it as he writes by a Flag which had come by an indirect and prohibited road. 1 The whole affair it is to be presumed, is calculated for insulting Congress by a retort on their late resolution that “no Answer be given to the Commissioners letter of the 11th” published by Charles Thomson, Secretary of Congress. 2 In this view it appears trifling with serious matters, admitting their character to come within that description—and in what other light can it be viewed— the Commissioners knew that Congress had resolved that the em barkation of the troops of the Convention should be suspended “till a distinct and explicit Ratification of the Convention of Saratoga shall be properly notified by the Court of Great Britain to Congress.” And those gentlemen have ground for believing that Congress will not hastily depart from important Resolutions. Pos sibly they may now pretend that their powers from their Court are tantamount—admitting this they ought to have been “distinct and explicit.” What the determination of Congress will be after I shall have presented this paper is uncertain, in the mean time my fears are, that the motion and Resolve which I have so anxiously wish’d will not be effected, or, not with that grace and perspicuity which would have been produced by a deliberate consideration antecedally to the receipt of this outrer illegitimate Remonstrance & requisite. Yester day I again repeated to the Chief Justice, “you will by this unac countable procrastination slip an opportunity of doing justice and honor to your Country.” Among other papers which will accompany this Your Excellency Will receive Copy of the Remonstrance and the Secretary’s letter; these Papers contain nothing like a distinct explicit Ratification properly notified by the Court of Great Britain to Congress, and therefore I estimate the correspondence and the mode, a calculated Insult; and were I to direct, probably it is best I should not, I wou’d immediately return the whole, accompanied by a few proper lines from Charles Thomson to Adam Ferguson—Nothing has happen’d during the present Contest so embarrassing to the Court of Great Britain as the Resolve of Congress on the suspension. 3 A conformity With the terms will amount to an acknowledgment of our capacity to treat as a Nation—any thing below this will be to retain her claim upon us as Subjects in Rebellion, with whom faith is not to be held
