August 12, 1778 437 gotten or neglected by the real Whigs in the interiour Country. I am sure I never shall. I must say that our Abilities did not equal our Wishes. The Continental Army has so exhausted all our military Stores, & we have had so little Time to recruit them that when we made the necessary Inquiries we found we could neither arm nor equip Men in Time to give any effectual Assistance by personal Service. The city which you know was formerly our Magazine was as you may suppose utterly destitute & from the Dispersion of our Arti ficers the Repairs could not be made on the broken Arms of which we had some in Store: Under all these Circumstances we did the best we could in calling off Broadheads Troops then on March to Fort Pitt, recalling Col. Hartley then on March to the Grand Army-or dering such of Pulasky’s Horse as could be had to go up to coun tenance & encourage the unhappy Fugitives. And I must do the Gentlemen in Authority here the Justice to say that both in their importunate Applications to Congress 8c their own Exertions they discovered all that Anxiety & Concern which so unhappy a Circum stance must create in a feeling Mind. We got Congress to consent to Col Hartleys remaining on the Frontier till the Harvest could be got in & the Minds of the People quieted. But we are all clearly of Opin ion with you that a defensive System against Indians is vain & inef fectual. That the War must be carried into their own Country & nothing short of severe Chastisement for their Perfidy 8c Cruelty will give Security to our Frontiers. Under this Idea two Expeditions are now actually on Foot, one against the Wiandots 8c others under the Protection of Detroit &: the other against the Senecas & Cayugas, from Albany 8c Mohawk River. Our Colonel Butler with a Penn- sylva. Regiment is upon the latter with Troops from New York 8c some friendly Indians-both Expeditions are in great forwardness 8c I trust will afford you more real Security than 20 Regiments posted on the Frontiers. These Expeditions were on foot before the late Ir ruption 8c the Route fixed or I should have thought a Passage to the Senecas 8c Cayugas more favourable from the Waters of the Susque- hannah. As you have had great Opportunities of knowledge in these Subjects I shall be much obliged to you to give me your Sentiments upon them as Time 8c Oppy. admit and you may depend upon my making such Use of them as I hope will conduce to the Happiness 8c Honour of the State as well as the safety 8c Comfort of the worthy Inhabitants of the back Counties in whose Behalf from the Spirit 8c Zeal which they have discovered in the common Cause I feel myself deeply interested. Write freely I beseech you 8c tell us in what Way we can render you most Service, I trust you will not find us back ward or ungrateful. I am much obliged to you, my dear Sir, for the favourable Senti ments you express of me. The Approbation 8c Esteem of Gentlemen whose Courage 8c Integrity have stood the Proof of Danger 8c Adver-
