438 August 12, 1778 sity does more Honour than the time serving Adulation of a whole Nation of timid skulking Neutrals or half converted Tories, I hope I shall act so as to deserve it. The County of Philadelphia did me the Honour to chuse me to fill up the late Presidents Chair in Council but being then a Delegate in Congress the Election was not valid. I hope some Person of more Experience, Ability & Fortune may be found before another Election, as my Attention to the publick has so drawn off my Regard to my private Affairs that they suffer exceed ingly: & the Opportunities of making proper Provision for my Family are so great that I cannot neglect them without doing Injus tice to those whom I am bound by every Tie of Duty & Tenderness to consider. I suppose it is hardly in your Power to leave Home at this Junc ture, otherwise I should express a strong Wish to see you as soon as possible upon several Accounts. It is an important Crisis in this State & true Whigs should attend to it. My best Wishes attend you & if I can be of Service to you in any Shape, command freely my dear General, Your sincere Friend & Hbble Servt. j os. Reed RC (PHi). 1 Apparently Brig. Gen. James Potter, who since his resumption of command over the Pennsylvania militia in May 1778 had been serving on the state’s fron tiers in response to pleas from Pennsylvanians for protection against the Indians. Although little of his correspondence survives, two letters he had recently written to the Pennsylvania Council from Penn's Valley and Sunbury, Pa., covering several of the topics discussed here by Reed, are in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:665-66 729. Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love, Philadelphia Augt 13 1778 Being again confined by a return of my fever & Ague, attended with (I believe) the Rheumatism in my Breast, I have a little lei sure to converse with the dear object of my warmest Affections & Es teem, altho I do not write without Pain. I am applying the Bark in such Quantities that I hope to be out again tomorrow, God willing. I left our Friends at Princeton well, altho’ your Brother, the two Girls & one of the Servants had been very unwell, your Brother rather dangerous. Oh! how was I mortified at a disappointment my Judgment approved of, and perhaps would not have been pleased had you ventured your Health in pursuit of so trifling an Object. If my Health should not be restored in a few days, I shall not be easy without visiting my beloved Cottage, where all my Earthly Treasure is almost buried. Perhaps if I could forget it more than I do, it would add to my present Pleasure. I know that the things of this
