August 13, 1778 439 Life, are generally unsatisfactory & illusory and the Enjoyment dis appoints us at the best, but notwithstanding as I verily believe that thro’ the indulgent Mercy & Kindness of a holy God, as little of that disappointment has fell to my share, as to any one Person in the World, I cannot conquer my desire of risquing the Event—I have tried almost every Station in Life, and if you judge from the com mon Sentiments of Mankind, you might imagine that I am now in the highest, being actually in my Representative Capacity, on a par with the greatest Monarchs of the Earth—but if you could see my Heart, you would discover less exultation there, than when I con sidered myself, the humble Peasant of Baskenridge, in the enjoyment of domestic Happiness with a beloved family (perhaps as high as human Nature will allow) as unenvied as undisturbed. I can say my present Situation has greatly humbled me, and I am truly convinced that all the envied Greatness & dignity of Offices 8c Titles is Sound & nothing else. My desire is to be usefull, and as my gracious God has in his all wise Providence been pleased to favour me beyond the common Lott of the Children of Men, and that not only in the best of Women for my Companion thro’ Life, but in a beloved Daughter, Family, Friends and every other earthly blessing, with the means & hopes of eternal Life, so I would endeavour at the Risque of every earthly comfort & Enjoyment, to do his will under every circumstance of Life. This my dearest & best beloved, is my consolation & only satis factory reason, for the loss of your inestimable Company, and those sweet & delicate Enjoyments of a domestic nature, which cannot be replaced by all the Grandeur, Parade 8c Noise that this world affords. My ambition is satisfied, and when it pleases him whose I am, and ever wish to be, a return to my original obscurity will be ac knowledged with gratitude 8c Praise. I am but of little Consequence here, and can add but a trifle on the great Scale of publick Move ment. I wish to retire 8c shall take the first favourable Oppertunity. I have nothing new to tell you, except what is contained in the en closed. I have had a visit from the French Minister 8: have dined 8c breakfasted with him. If well enough I go to morrow with him to the Valley Forge. My kind Love to all Friends-Kiss my Susan 8c remember me to the Family. Am with all the ardor of the sincerest Affection 8c Es teem, Your grateful, Boudinot [P.S.] Mrs. Franklin remembers Love 8cc RC (NjP).
