440 August 13, 1778 Samuel Holten’s Diary [August 13, 1778] 13. The following Gentlemen dined with the Delegates of Massa. Bay, at their invitation (vizt) Monsr. Gerard Minisr. Plenipotenti ary from his most Christian Majesty, his Nephew, and Secrey. 1 The President of Congress, Honl. Silas Dane Esqr., Honl. R. H. Lee Esqr., Honl. Genl. Read, Genl. Putnam, Genl. Arnold, Baron Stuben & his aid; We dined at 4 o’Clock, and had a grand elegant diner, & I think it was conducted with good decorum, we drank coffee before we rose from Table. MS (MDaAr). 1 Pierre Prothais Meyer was the nephew and chief secretary of Gerard. After Gerard’s 1779 return to France, Meyer served as a secretary to Ambassador La Luzerne and as a political adviser to the comte de Rochambeau before returning to France in December 1780. For further information on Meyer’s activities, see John J. Meng, “Secretary of Legation Meyer,” Records of the American Catholic Historical Society of Philadelphia 46 (March 1935): 22-48. Henry Laurens to the Eastern Navy Board 13th August [1778] I had the honor of presenting to Congress the 10th Inst, your fa vor of the 28th Ulto. whence it was committed to the Marine Com mittee. 1 My present business is to transmit with this, twenty four Commissions for Vessels of War, together with proper instructions & bonds. 2 I am with great Respect, Gentlemen &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “The Honorable The Commissioners of the Navy Board, Eastn. Dept., by Messenger from Monsieur Girard.” I The Eastern Navy Board’s July 28 letter to the Committee for Foreign Af fairs, reporting that it had sent to France “the remaining packages you Intrusted to our care” but had not yet had an opportunity to forward the “Letters for Martinico, ’ is in PCC, item 37, fol. 119. See also Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Eastern Navy Board, June 22, 1778. - Laurens also transmitted “Thirteen Commissions for Vessels of War with In structions & Bonds” with a brief covering letter he wrote this day to Gov. William Greene of Rhode Island. Red Series, R-Ar.
