August 15, 1778 447 bour, & Count d’Estaign’s fleet had sailed in quest of them. We had heavy showers in the morng. MS (MDaAr). Henry Laurens to Thomas Mifflin Sir 15th August [1778] By permission of Congress I inform you that no Orders are given in consequence of your Letters of the 10th and 12th. 1 I am thus par ticular because I wish you to believe Sir, that had I received any or der, the duty I owe to the House, as well as the respect I bear to you would have prompted an immediate intimation. I have the honor to be, Sir, Your Most Obedt. Hbl. Servt. [P.S.] 5 o’clock the minute I am releas’d from Congress LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Major General Mifflin, Chestnut Street.” 1 Gen. Thomas Mifflin’s August 10 and 11-not August 12-letters to Laurens, insisting that Congress appoint a committee to investigate his conduct as quarter master general and that it settle his quartermaster accounts as soon as possible, are in PCC, item 161, 1:41-44. Laurens wrote the present letter in reply to one of this date from Mifflin demanding to know why his two earlier letters had elicited no response from Congress. Mifflin had all four of these letters printed in the Au gust 20 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet, together with an August 17 letter he wrote to Laurens denouncing Congress’ failure to conduct the investigation he had requested and announcing his resignation from the Continental Army. Al though the RC of Mifflin’s second letter to Laurens is clearly dated August 11, the text that appeared in the Packet was dated August 12. See also Laurens to Washington, June 11, 1778, note. Richard Henry Lee’s Notes on Silas Deane’s Testimony [August 15-21? 1778] 1 This a general resolution. Letters shewn & insinuations made. Did you or the Committee desire a settlement of Accounts? Mr. D. to settle his accotts with Commissioners. He was frequently called on to settle. Gave a list of partial expenditures—Ves[se]l in Hol[lan]d—Arms. Mr. D. left his papers. Was he to leave his Vouchers—with an enemy. Said one Getn. shd. be Comr. at France and every other place. Redescribe the Test of truth.
