448 August 15, 1778 Approve of the Treaty & now Criminate the Minister for a part of it. Did not lend his confidence. Worm out answers to his own Condemna[tio]n. Gentn. wanted to entrap me—my papers absent. MS (ViU). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 Although a month elapsed after his arrival in America before Congress in vited him to testify on the "general state” of foreign affairs and on Congress’ “commercial transactions in Europe,” Silas Deane finally appeared in Congress on August 15, 17, and 21 to give an account of his conduct in France since 1776. Op posed by many delegates and intruded at an inconvenient time, the Deane hear ings immediately provoked dissension within Congress and opened an era of sustained factional conflict previously unknown. Although the purpose of these notes can only be conjectured, they appear to have been made by Lee during the course of one of Deane’s three August appearances before Congress. They are written on the verso of a brief "Memorandum of sums received & paid out on ac count of the United States from January 1777 to April 1778” which Lee endorsed "Mr. Deanes Account of the expenditure of the pub. money, Aug. 1778”; and they are concerned with a number of topics that were probably discussed in the course of Deane’s testimony. See JCC, 11:787, 799, 802, 813, 826; Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee, September 16, note 3; and Gouverneur Morris’ Proposed Resolve on William Carmichael, September 18, 1778. For a discussion of the scope of the factional conflict in Congress that was occasioned by Deane’s return to America at this time, see Jack N. Rakove, The Beginnings of National Politics: An Interpretive History of the Continental Congress (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1979), pp. 246-74. And for an assessment of Deane’s public career in the context of his conduct of family and business affairs before the war, which con cluded that his activities and responses during the Deane-Lee controversy “were prefigured and influenced, if not determined, by the events of his earlier life,” see Kalman Goldstein, "Silas Deane: Preparation for Rascality,” Historian 43 (No vember 1980): 75-97. Titus Hosmer to Oliver Ellsworth Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia Augt. 16th. 1778. You are pleased to say on the Subject of our Paper Credit ‘‘What is like to be done, or can be in this Emergency you know a Thou sand Times better than I.” Admitting this to be just, I find you know a Thousand Times less than Nothing about it for I assure I know just Nothing, and am therefore qualified to keep the secret & will tell you Nothing about it; one word more, I think by what I can dis cover that I know just as well what will be or can be done as Congress in General which constitutes the true Reason why Nothing is yet done upon the Subject—we are soon to consider it, and if I can come at any knowledge I will most chearfully tell You, but there are gigantick Difficulties on every Hand, and I can only wish they may he surmounted. As I hope you are determined and preparing to come here as soon
