456 August 16, 1778 Idea of a Connection between him and some Persons also I am confi dent you do from your Soul despise and abhor. In Consequence I waited of him. I told him candidly that I suspected him to be charged with Matter which was to militate much in favor of Mr. Lee, That Mr. Lee had in a Letter which would then shortly be come public traduced him. I had forgot to tell you that the Letter was to Mr. Carmichael who (being accused before Congress by Mr. Lee) shewed it in his own Defence to a Committee of which I was a Member. And I stated the Ridicule which far from being instrumen tal in forwarding the Views of a Man who had said of him that he was a Vilain. He was as you may well suppose much obliged by this Instance of my Friendship and so far all was Right. So far I had saved him out of bad Hands. As the Devil would have it I was appointed one Member of a Committee to superintend an Entertainment given by the Congress to Monsr. Girard. Unfortunately the line which by the general sense of the Members of Congress had been drawn for Invi tations excluded him. He was offended. He made Inquiries into the Reasons. You may readily imagine what some Folks would say on the Occasion. He inquired of me in a Stile which really put it out of my Power to give him satisfactory Answers. It is a Pity for his own sake that he appeared to feel the Omission. To you the Reasons need not be assigned. I fear he is now in the Possession of those Gentlemen. 1 would dilate upon the Consequences but the idea is painful to me and cannot be pleasant to you. I have only to add on this Chapter that I will save him if I can even from himself. The Mischief is he is now in such Dudgeon that any Advances from me would produce the direct contrary Effect from what they ought. Adieu my Friend. Remember me to our Friends. To your Wife par ticularly. Write to me oftener. In all cases believe me, most sincerely yours, Gouvr. Morris RC (NNC). 1 Sir James Jay, John’s older brother, had recently returned to America after a six teen-year stay in England in the course of which he had been knighted by the king for his fundraising efforts on behalf of Kings College. DAB. The letter from Arthur Lee to William Carmichael criticizing Sir James, to which Morris refers, is not in PCC or the microfilm edition of the Lee Family Papers. In an April 14, 1778, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, as well as in other letters to certain delegates, Arthur Lee charged that William Carmichael had propagated reports of dissension among the American commissioners at Paris, that he had intercepted Lee’s mail, and that his political beliefs were suspect. See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:550-52; and James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, December 18, 1777, and to John Adams, February 10, 1778. Carmi chael, who had recently returned to America after serving as a sort of unofficial secretary to the American commissioners, replied to these charges in an August 6 letter to a committee of Congress that is not mentioned in the journals or located in PCC but is printed in Papers in Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, ed. Ed ward D. Ingraham (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six Society, 1855), pp.
