458 August 16, 1778 mingle with them. And at .all Events we ought to be thankful that while Rocks & Precipices were all round me, Providence has so or dered Matters that I have not only not fallen but possess a greater Share of publick Confidence than I ever did. But every Event of this kind lessens my Attachment to publick Life 8c enhances the Pleasures of domestick. There no Doubt nor Suspicions enter—your Love 8c Tenderness 8c the Prattle of our dear little ones affords Pleasures without any Alloy of Scruple or distrust 8c I look forward with in finite Pleasure to the Time when I can enjoy them with less Interup- tion. I hope Cyrus will have a good Place—he sent to desire he might see me 8c I sent him Word to come 8c stay here while he staid in Town which I expected he would have done as his Master seemed pleased with it but he did not come. When I came to Town I found at Mrs. Yards a Boy belonging to Mrs. Badger hired to Mrs. Yard. I got her to engage him for me which she did—but when I came to speak to his Mistress I found she wanted to sell, not to hire him—As Cyrus was now gone I was therefore obliged to purchase him several Persons offering to take him at her Price but the Boy had set his Heart upon living with Genl. Reed. I have accordingly got him 8c hope you will like him—He has been brought up to House Work 8c his Mistress assures me he is healthy, good tempered, sober 8c honest. Mrs. Yard also spoke well of him. I shall get him up to you as soon as possible as Idleness of which he has enough here will do him no Good. I shall endeavour to purchase the Calico for you as the Re turns from New York are uncertain. I send you by this Oppy. a Cask containing 4 Pieces of Linnen, a Piece of Cambrick—the Ticking 8c Table Cloths—A Pine Apple 8c a few Limes. The latter I have kept waiting an Oppy. till they are almost spoilt, but my dear Girl in this Care must take the Will for the Deed. You must spare one of the Pieces of Linnen at least to Mrs. Pettit 8c I have given Polly also some Expectations of Assistance—Perhaps your Mamma may also by this Time have her Wants. I have now been moved above a Week 8c am so much pleased with the House that I flatter myself you will be happier in it than in any we have had in this Country. The Rooms are large 8c commodious—Kitchen convenient 8c Yard 8cc. very pleasant, in short it is what I think you will like. I have got one of the parlours painted 8c the other now looks so shabby that I have serious Thoughts of getting that done also—tho the Walls being to be done will make it cost four Times as much as the other, 8c That was dear enough of all Conscience. Among other Conveniences there is a Spire 8c a Smoak House—nor do we find the Kitchen smoak as Hannah represented. Monday Morn. I endeavoured to change your Stockings but the Man had no Cotton ones that would fit you—He has thread but as
