August 17, 1778 461 MS not found; reprinted from the South Carolina and American General Gazette, September 10, 1778, where it is headed: “Extract of a Letter from a Member of Congress, August 16.” 1 Although the author and recipient of this extract have not been identified, William Henry Drayton, Thomas Heyward, Henry Laurens, and John Mathews were the South Carolina delegates in Philadelphia at this time. Andrew Adams to Samuel Lyman Dr. Sir Philadelphia: 17th August 1778 I have this Day the happiness of receiving your Favr. of the 14th ulto. trust you have before this reed, a Line from me. 1 I have as you observed taken a Seat in Congress, and mixd among the great States-Men of America, among whose shining Tal ents you may well imagine my feable Genious is lost in obscurity. Dont think this remark fishing for a Compliment, I barr every thing of that kind: you speak of gratifying my Curiosity Sc Ambition: as to the former it is both gratifyed and disapointed, in regard to the lat ter I can with utmost Sincerity say I have none in this way. I am happy to hear that Mrs. Adams keeps up her Spirits in my Absence. I fealt much on her Account; my own health I think is quite restored. You Reason perfectly Just in my Oppinion in regard to our Currency: so far as I can Judge there is not the least Idea in Congress to let the Money die: as to one particular Member we had some Conversation about I beleave Nothing is further from his thoughts, he is extreamly urgent to have something effectual done to appretiate the Currency; this indeed seams to be the full deter mination of Congress & accordingly three Days in each Week (ex cept some necessary Business such as attending to the publick Letter &c) are now set apart to attend to our Finances: this subject is very extensive and will take up much time. The Money in my Oppinion can & must be appretiated. Tis of Infinite Importance, but this must not be done suddenly, as that would greatly injure the poor & Virtuous part of the Community and throw a prodigious advantage into the hands of the present Money holders, a great part of whom are some of the greatest Rascals that ever disgraced humanity & deserve infinitly greater punishment than is in the power of any state to inflict. All the News we have here comes from the eastward which you know before it reaches us: I dont know that I can better gratify your Curiosity at present than by giving a general account of the Proceed ings of Congress: according to order we should meet at Nine and ad journ at two: but in fact we Meet about ten & sit till three, four and five before we adjourn: this you will say is very inconvenient but leaves us much leasure; but you will consider that much of the
