464 August 17, 1778 Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love, 16. Philadelphia August 17th 1778 I had been diverting myself with a revisal of all your very kind & affectionate favours with which I have been honored since my residence here. Great is the Enjoyment & Satisfaction my fond Heart feels on the recapitulation of those tender 8c endearing Sentiments 8c Expressions that fall with so good a Grace from the Pen of my lovely Wife. I have been just made happy by the rect of your additional fa vour of the 12t Inst, which is just like yourself, and filled me with those gratefull, pleasing Sensations that humanize the otherwise fer verous Mind of Man. Will my dearest Love accept my warmest acknowledgments of her goodness, and supply my want of capacity, by suggesting to her self every thing tender 8c loving from her beloved Husband. I have not the least doubt of the propriety of your not meeting me at Princeton, altho’ I cannot say but I felt a little disappointed having raised my Expectation rather too high. I wrote you twice or three Times since the 30 July which is the last you acknowledge the rect. of—for the future pray Number all your Letters, as I shall do, by which means you will know if any Mis carry. We have advice that Lord Howe’s fleet went to Rhode Island—ar rived there this day a Week—that Count de Estaing immediately went out to attack them. They fled 8c he pursued. On Tuesday after noon they were left at Sea just drawing in line of Battle. They have burned five of their frigates at Rhode Island and it is said a number of Transports. Genl Sullivan has landed on the North part the Is land and is only waiting for the return of the French Squadron. I have been much afflicted with the pain in my Breast, but not as formerly. I was greatly threatened with a Swelling under my Arm, but I believe it will go off 8c with it the Pain in my Breast. The soreness wears away fast. Your Letters by the Post come the safest of any. I found my Sulkey without Harness, 8c broke in the Shafts. The workman asks me only £50—to repair it. I will make another assignation with you as soon as I am clear that I shall not have liberty to pay you a Visit before Fall—do not be out of the way, in Case I should succeed. If my Health does not mend I shall certainly take liberty myself. Kiss my Susan, I am sorry she has not got my Letter however I’ll try to supply its place. Love to sister 8c all Friends, Family 8cc. Am with all that Love, esteem 8c Sincerety that you could wish, or desire, My dearest Wife, Your most Aff, E Boudinot
