468 August 17, 1778 cation for one of my Friends. I trust that whenever I am called to account for my public Conduct whatever may have been my Want of Ability it will never be said that I have preferred private Con nections to the general Weal. I shall have the Satisfaction to feel that I have spent Time, Health and Money and risqued Life and Reputation freely and disinterestedly. Whether usefully or not it is for others to determine. A Variety of those little Incidents which postpone great Affairs es pecially in a Body so constituted as the Congress together with a Want of that Providence and Arrangement of Business which I have labored to inculcate and establish ever since I have been here have produced the Evil you complain of in your Loan Offices. It is now in a Train for speedy Redress. 2 The Vermont Business doth indeed press and daily with addi tional Weight. Let our Situation be considered. The Attention of the Members of Congress to this Affair must be intreated not forced. At present three Days in the Week, are set apart for the Treasury and Finances, two more for the Consideration of foreign Affairs, add to this that Congress is also an executive Body. I do not mean to apologize. I know I shall be charged by my Enemies. Let not my Friends pretend to excuse. If the State have not a Confidence that their Delegates are willing and able to serve them it is Time they were recalled. Justice will shall be done to us. I am sorry to add that the unavoidable Delays render it almost Injustice. You tell me that I must be with you at the opening of the Session but you do not let me know when the Session is. Let me paint my Situation. I am on a Committee to arrange the Treasury & Fi nances. I am of the medical Committee and have to prepare the Ar rangements of that Department. I have the same Thing to go thro with Relation to the Commissary’s, Quarter Master’s & Clothier Gen eral’s Departments. 3 I am to prepare a Manifesto on the Cruelties of the British. 4 I have drawn and expect to draw almost if not all the Publications of Congress of any Importance. These are leading Things but the every Day Minutia are infinite. From Sunday Morn ing to Saturday Night I have no Exercise unless to walk from where I now sit about fifty Yards to Congress and to return. My Constitu tion sinks under this and the Heat of this pestiferous Climate. Duer talks daily of going hence. We have nobody else here so that if I quit the State will be unrepresented. 5 Can I come to you? If there be a Practicability of it with any Kind of Consistency I will take half a dozen Shirts and ride Post to meet you. Oh that a Heart so dis posed as mine is to social Delights should be worn and torn to Pieces with public Anxieties. I am distressed infinitely distressed at the Idea that a full, entire, perfect Cordiality should not take Place among those I love. When ever ye are together my Spirit shall be with ye. And let me intreat
