August 17, 1778 469 that you will not wrong my Friendship by the smallest Dispute with each other. Remember our joint Labors in the public Cause. We have labored jointly upon the purest best Principles, for Heaven’s Sake let not the Effects be lost by Divisions which will give to those who have personal Views an Opportunity of effecting the Ruin of our State. I cannot dwell on this Subject. I would that you could both of you see my Heart and feel how much I should suffer at the least coldness between you. I shall make every Inquiry about the Gentleman you mention that you could wish. If I understand your Letter I am led to hope that the Result of it may be as favorable as possible. Whatever it be you shall know candidly & truly. Return most Cordially the Greetings you sent me. I do most ear nestly wish to see my Claremont Friends. To lounge, to idle, to dissi pate the Moments and the Clouds, to live, to smile, to be happy. May you and all of you be so supremely. Adieu. I am with Sincerity, your Friend, Gouv Morris P.S. This goes by my Friend Colo. Bannister of Virginia to Camp, see him if you can. RC (NHi). 1 Livingston’s July 27 letter explaining the hardships experienced by the family of deputy paymaster William Bedlow, to which Morris is here responding, is in the Robert R. Livingston Papers, NHi. On August 26 Congress approved a $35 per month raise in pay for Captain Bedlow. JCC, 11:839. 2 Morris is undoubtedly referring to his plan for the reorganization of the Board of Treasury, which also dealt with Continental loan offices. It was submit ted to Congress on August 13. JCC, 11:779-86. 3 Morris made some interesting comments on the way he transacted committee business in a letter he wrote years later to a correspondent who had requested permission to consult his papers for the revolutionary era: “I have no notes or memorandums of what passed during the war. I led then the most laborious life, which can be imagined. This you will readily suppose to have been the case, when I was engaged with my departed friend, Robert Morris, in the office of fi nance. But what you will not so readily suppose is, that I was still more harassed while a member of Congress. Not to mention the attendance from eleven to four in the House, which was common to all, and the appointment to special commit tees, of which I had a full share, I was at the same time chairman, and of course did the business, of three standing committees, viz. on the commissary’s, quarter master’s, and medical departments. You must not imagine, that the members of these committees took any charge or burden of the affairs. Necessity, preserving the democratical forms, assumed the monarchical substance of business. The chairman received and answered all letters and other applications, took every step which he deemed essential, prepared reports, gave orders, and the like, and merely took the members of a committee into a chamber, and for the form’s sake made the needful communications, and received their approbation, which was given of course. I was moreover obliged to labor occasionally in my profession, as my wages were insufficient for my support. I would not trouble you with this ab stract of my situation, if it did not appear necessary to show you why I kept no notes of my services, and why I am perhaps the most ignorant man alive of what concerns them.” Jared Sparks, The Life of Gouverneur Morris, 3 vols. (Boston:
