August 18, 1778 473 When I first received it, my Determination was to proceed to the State of New York within a few Days—but the Foreign affairs becom ing interesting from the arrival of the French Minister; and the Necessity of getting a Decision of Congress upon the Conduct of the State of Vermont, 2 and their late Proscription growing every day more Urgent—I have been induced to stay since Mr. Lewis arrival from Baltimore—in hopes of finishing a Business which in my Judg ment strikes at our very Existence as a State. I have endeavoured in vain to get several trusty Persons to take the Charge of this money in order to deliver it to you for the Purpose of its being paid into the Treasury of our State—but one or two out of that Number, who might with some Inconvenience to themselves have carried at least Part of it did not chuse to run the Risque. I have endeavor’d to pre vail on Mr. Dennig to become the Bearer of it but on finding dis- agreable to him have been obliged to desist from my Request. As I have pass’d a Receipt in my own Name of this money, I am not willing to hazard it with a Person at my own Risque, Unless I should find a very trustworthy Character, who will consent to take the Trouble. I have, therefore, to request that your Excellency will be pleas’d to direct some Person, who may be depended upon, and who may be coming to Philadelphia, to call upon me for the money; and in case I should not be there to call on his Return to New York at Baskinridge in New Jersey, where I purpose staying some Days on my Return on a Visit to Lord Stirling’s Family. 3 Mr. Dennig being in a hurry to Set out, I am obliged to conclude myself with great Re spect, & Esteem Your Excellency’s Obed’t H’ble serv’t, Wm. Duer. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 3:660-61. 1 See New York Delegates to Clinton, July 21, 1778. 2 Ibid. 3 Duer married Gen. William Alexander’s daughter Catherine in 1779. DAB. Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes [August 18, 1778] It is now the 18th. Captain Pyne and Captain Martin having de clared themselves quite ready I would not attempt to detain them. They began their journey this Morning. I understand they are to halt at Baltimore a day and an half on business of their own—there I hope to overtake them, otherwise this will go by the common Post and not arrive so early as I could wish. Mr. Deane late one of our Commissioners at the Court of Ver sailles, has already been two Mornings engaged before Congress re porting from Notes and Memory his own transactions seperately as
