474 August 18, 1778 well as conjunctly with his Colleagues and the state of our Affairs at different periods at that and other Courts in Europe, how many Mornings more the whole Narrative will consume is extreamly un certain; hitherto he has been very little impeded by questions, when these Commence the progress will be slow—above two hours were em ployed some days ago in debate upon a motion that Mr. Deane should report to Congress in writing and the motion lost 1 —very much loss of time I foresee will be the consequence; in this debate I clearly discovered that my fellow labourers had as absolutely taken sides as it can be supposed Gentlemen are capable of in a pure un bias’d Assembly. Were I to say as ever Attornies had taken at a Bar I might be charged in the modern term with aberation, nevertheless I have taken the liberty to recommend the fillet and scales of Justice to one of my worthy Colleagues 2 who appears strongly attached to one of the parties, no doubt from conviction that that side is right adding the reply which I had made to Mr. D. after he had related to me in private conversation his state of the case. “Your Account Sir, appears to have been very candidly deliver’d, but I dare not flatter you with promises; when 1 shall have heard the other side I will give my voice as reason and conscience shall dictate.” Mr. Deane thank’d me. I remark’d further to my Colleague that nothing short of a written and correct narrative ought to have been accepted by Congress—that if Mr. Deane had acted, which I made no doubt he had, with that accuracy and perspicuity which is the duty of a Gentleman in the Great trust of a Plenipotentiary, nothing could be easier than to render a detail in writing. As it was incumbent on Mr. Deane to transmit from time to time to Congress advices of all his proceedings, discoveries and observa tions, and as I could not entertain so degrading a sentiment as a be lief of the contrary would involve, very little more than a fair transcript of his letters and journals would be necessary for satisfy ing the fullest inquiry—without assuming to myself any superiour knowledge I cannot help regretting that the Chair was a bar to the delivery of that opinion in public which arrived too late in friendly conversation after the question had been determined by a majority of nine of thirteen States, thirty two Members present. Gentlemen had reasoned upon the immense labour of reducing to writing occurences, in three whole years, that the work would pro crastinate the business several months, that all that would be de liver’d in writing might in less time and with equal accuracy be related viva voce; those who had not been much accustomed to business, and who lament the waste of time in almost all our pro ceedings were captivated—but the most curious objection, consider ing it was started by Mr. Deanes friends, was, that should a narrative in writing be demanded, that Gentleman might avail himself of the advantage of representing glossing &c. &c. as he pleas’d—every un-
