476 August 18, 1778 over power’d or block’d up at Rhode Island, Congress will again be shamefully exiled, possibly in the absence of our Army, captured and all our prisoners retaken—all these things Your Excellency and the state I have the honor of representing should know with proper reservations—there are a thousand other things you are entitled to be informed of, which time and political propriety forbid in the present moment. Therefore I shall leave the subject after one sen tence more—I remember to have read or heard some where of a Chief Justice’s recommending to a Grand Jury to present the King- permit me to ask my Countrymen if it would be a greater outrage, to present their Attornies (I am in earnest Sir,) for neglect of duty- why are not public Accounts adjusted? Why are not the proceedings of the Confederal Attornies published? I have by strife this day ob tain’d a continuation in two volumes including 31st December 1776 which I sent to Your Excellency by this conveyance—half, even quar ter diligence would have reached to 1st August 1778 in boards, and to the 19th where I am now in sheets—for the correctness of these which I now transmit I will not be answerable, I know not how they are compiled nor if by any body corrected at the Press. Major General Mifflin has taken one step on the line of present ment, and although, with submission to his better judgment I think his ground unfirm, yet it may hereafter prove to have been an happy Omen—the first Commandment is the basis of true religion. 5 Concerning the present Embargo, Congress have recommended to this State and New Jersey to take Measures for ensuring a strict ob servance, and for preventing infractions by evil minded Men on this extensive unguarded Coast and upon the numerous Creeks Bays and Inlets 6 —the Commercial Committee have recommended to their Agent in Charlestown 7 to dispatch two Vessels with Rice from that Port. I wont affront Your Excellency by intimating that this is no authority—the motive for the Order is good, to save a faithful Con federal Agent at Hispaniola 8 from absolute ruin by paying protested Bills drawn on our Account, but who brought the unhappy Gentle man into this dilemma? I will not say a faithless Secret Committee, but I have no doubt of proving the fact when I get home. Thank God this is the 19th August and that I have strength enough to write on without dinner at 6 o’clock P.M.—a report from the Com mittee recommending a relaxation of the Embargo in the particular case abovementioned was offer’d two days ago and remains uncon sidered 9 —break one link, the gap will be thirteen wide—maugre any and all particular considerations. 20th August. When I had written Yesterday as above, Muckinfuss came in and honored me with your Excellency’s favor of the 29th July 10 which I shall endeavour to pay my respects to, before I lay
