August 18, 1778 477 down the Pen. In the mean time a few scraps of intelligence shall precede. Count d’Estaing from a happy prospect of immediate Conquest at Rhode Island, has in my opinion been decoy’d, what may be the consequence respecting himself is uncertain, but Your Excellency will learn from General Sullivan’s last letter of the 14th that our in sulated Army were in danger of a Coup de Burgoyne. 11 Who but my friend General Sullivan would have thought that Lord Howe came within ken of the French fleet merely for the benefit of running away from it? Sandy Hook would have been a much more advanta geous starting Post. The French ships are extreamly foul, the bot toms of the English Squadron quite clean, these may take or leave; even the immagination of gaining time for the arrival of a Rein forcement was good, the hope encouraged the risque, but I can hard ly think Lord Howe as well as he knows the Count’s impetus for fight, could have expected such sudden success to his stratagem. The storm which General Sullivan suffered in will have made a great in disposition of both fleets, and they may have since met by single Combatants—the story of a number of ships of War and others in this River and this bay is not yet explained to us—this draws forth another complaint, upon a conference with Monsr. Girard I pressed, weeks since for a regular daily Courier to and from the Capes and Lewistown either by land or water or both. The expence being for an essential service ought to have been no objection, nor indeed has that Article been the obstacle—mere inattention has kept us in igno rance three days, of vessels of War being in the River. Three hours of this Morning passed in debate whether Governor Franklin should be given in Exchange for Governor McKinly the previous question by aye and nay—an Oration by S.C. Esquire 12 on the improvement of time with the life and characters of Elizabeth and Mary Qu. of Scots—the comparative beauty of black eyes and blue eyes—adjourned. 13 Seldom a question upon a Million of Dollars, seldom an unquestionable demand for an hundred. The Confederation is now signed by Delegates from ten States as Your Excellency will see in a paper inclosed—Delaware and New Jersey will probably be instructed when their respective Assemblies meet, Maryland ’tis said will not come in without she receives a dower of Land, New York is not bound unless the whole confeder ate—the decimal is therefore equal to, a 0. General Lee’s tryal ended a week ago. The sentence of the Court Martial is on the road, and ought to have been a secret until Con gress had approved or disapproved, but I have been pretty well in formed he is acquitted from the charges for disobedience of Orders and shameful retreat, and censured only for insolent letters to the Commander in Chief 14 —the British Officers in New York, who were good judges of fact have passed quite a different Verdict. Governor
