478 August 18, 1778 McKinly assures me upon his honor, they aver he might have taken the whole party before whom he retreated. That his retreat aston ished them and led some of them to suspect stratagem—that animad verting on his term “Check”—Sir Wm. Erskine the best Soldier they have, replied, “Lee may call it a check if he pleases, but, by I call it a very handsome flogging, Gentlemen may be convinced now the Americans can and will fight.” By a return lately reported from the Board of War, it appears we have ample stores of Cannon, Powder, Balls, Lead &c. &c. and are not deficient in Muskets—and a Member of that Board promises a re port in a few days which will demonstrate cloathing of all species for upwards of 40,000 Men—and yet however strange, near half our little Army have long been and are half naked. A Schedule to be subjoined or inclosed will shew your Excellency what papers are intended to accompany this & to which please to be referred. And now in order to give Your Excellency some prospect of relief from a tedious Epistle, I turn to Your Excellency’s favour above quoted. The sequel of the Expedition towards Augustine does not strike disappointment upon my Mind. 15 I will say no more upon the sub ject at present. Your Excellency will have received Commissions, both Marine and Army and I will endeavour to transmit more of each by Muckinfuss’ return, all Commissions signed by the late President and dated on and after 1st November 1777 ought undoubtedly to be exchanged, the objections against them are good. The Commission granted by Governor Caswell to Colonel Carroll appears to me a bad precedent, 16 nor will it I apprehend be regarded as a Confederal; were Commissions to be granted by the Executive power of each State, and regular immediate notice given to Congress of name rank and date, it would answer all the ends of the present mode and save trouble, but the law and practice being otherwise, I should suppose the instance in question will be deemed invalid. I can perceive much regulation is wanted in this branch, there is ground for believing that a great, very great number of Officers are receiving pay and Rations who have never been in a field of battle, who are scatter’d over the face of the Country on various pretences and many employ’d in their private occasions, who will also by means of Certificates and good swearing entitle themselves to half pay after the war. This circumstance leads into deep reflection upon the total derangement of every important department in the Union. The Enemy do not exchange Seamen for any but Seamen of equal rank, and they treat all our Seamen whom they capture with a rigor and barbarity unheard of before the present contest, hence we have begun to retaliate, but our returns of severity bear no kind of pro-
