August 21, 1778 485 said Capes for the time stipulated with your Crew, not exceeding ten leagues from Cape Henlopen. Should you be fortunate to take prizes, you must send them to the most convenient port in the United States, and the Cruize being ended you are to return with your Brigantine to Philadelphia and make report of your Cruize to this Committee together with the Journals of the same. You will use your endeavours to prevail with the directors of the Brig Convention belonging to this State to order the said Brigantine to make the Cruize aforesaid in company with you. On going down the Bay you will proceed ahead of the Frigate Chimere if desired so to do by the captain of that frigate in order to reconnoitre the enemy, and receive on board your Brig the Pilot of the Chimere should the Captain request it. Wishing you Success we are sir, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My dear Philada. August 21st 1778 This letter will be forwarded & perhaps handed to you by Mr. Wentworth my Colleague who is to set out tomorrow morning for Home on account of his bad State of Health. I hope it will find you & the rest of my family in health and that my affairs are well Car ried on so that you meet with no uncommon Difficulties on that ac count. As to my Self I have been & Continue to be in a pretty good State of health. Charles Chace is got about but in a poor State. I have given him leave to ride out into the Country 15 or 20 miles & tarry 2 or 3 weeks for his health which will I hope Recruit him. He is to Set out tomorrow. The weather here is very Disagreably wet & muggy which has occasioned Dysenteries & Diarrheas to be very Common but not very mortal as I am told by some Physicians of my ac quaintance. I hope in a few weeks the weather will be Cooler & more healthy. Your letter of the 17th of last month is the last I have Reed from you. I have nothing new to write to you at present. Expect to have some interesting -news from Rhode Island & the French fleet soon. Give my Respects to all friends. [PA.] Mr. Wentworth sets [owt] to Day. Hope another Delegate will be sent forward immediately. RC (NhHi). In Bartlett’s hand, with the signature clipped.
