486 August 21, 1778 Samuel Holten’s Diary [August 21, 1778] 21. By a letter from Genl. Sullivan datd 17th Instt. we understand that he was almost ready to attack the enemy at Rode Island. Congress sit late. The weather is very hot. MS (MDaAr). Henry Laurens to William Livingston Dear Sir 21st Augt. [1778] I was honor’d with Your Excellency’s very obliging favor of the 3d Instant on the 12th, 1 not a day has since passed without an earnest desire in my Mind to pay my respects to it, but other employment obliged me day by day, to say, “tomorrow.” We have nothing new from Spain, I mean new to me, Gentlemen not only smiled, but laughed at my Ideas, expressed while we were reading the Treaties with France, that the Spaniard had his Eye upon the Floridas and Providence, in order to secure the straights of the Gulph. My conjecture was founded on seeing the bawble of Ber muda thrown in to us, and not a word said of Bahama 2 I have lately received strong confirmation of my suspicions—the Post of St. Marks having been withdrawn by the English, a Spanish Guard I suppose from Pansacola succeeded them, these had a conference lately with our friendly Creek Indians, and in the course of their Talks intimated to the Savages that Spain would soon be repossess’d of that Post and adjacent Country. A venerable Don 3 who lately din’d with me let the Cat a little further out-speaking of the late abortive expedition against St. Augustine, a Gentleman 4 observ d in French that East Florida would be a great acquisition to South Car olina and Georgia, my good friend Don Juan, either unwarily or supposing I did not understand, replied with much gravity, “and also for Spain.” I drank a glass of Ale with the Don.® This I really mean Sir, as a secret, and if we keep it so, the discov- ery may be apply’d to good purposes when we come to treat in ear nest. I am afraid our present Commissioners are not appriz’d of the im mense value to our whole Union of St. Augustine and Bahama, and that too many of us here, view the possession in a light of partial benefit. If the lampoon of New York hurt Governor Johnstone, 6 W.H. D’s. declaration 7 will not be received as an healing plaistir, this thing by the bye, was sadly hurried up; I had been for a fortnight
