August 21, 1778 487 anxiously soliciting my friend out of doors to introduce an Act or Resolve to the same effect, but thro’ delay, we were necessitated to accept of a stiff performance without time for proper amendments. Your Excellency may not have seen the late Remonstrance and requisition of Governor Johnstone and his Colleagues. 8 I shall in close with this a Copy of that, and of Mr. Adam Ferguson’s Letter which usher’d the Paper, calculated as I presume to retort upon Congress for the late publication signed Charles Thomson. 9 It is im possible they can conceive that Congress will admit their Commis sion for quieting disturbances, founded on a special Act of Parliament as sufficient authority for making a “distinct and explicit Ratification of the Convention of Saratoga”—or, that it contains “a proper notification by the Court of Great Britain to Congress.” Congress have committed their paper, an honor which in my humble opinion it is not entitled to. The Act of the 8th of January 10 has exceedingly embarrassed the wise Men in the East, a conformity with the terms will Amount to an acknowledgement of our capacity to treat as a Nation, any thing below will imply a continued claim upon us as Subjects in rebellion, to which we will not subscribe, since the Court perceive the dilemma to which she is reduced by a few cunningly designed words dropt from the pen of her marionnette Lieutenant General John Bur goyne Esquire, who has acknowledged in Parliament that he, solely, penned his infamous Proclamation, and in the same moment de clared, he had no intention to carry his threats into execution—and it is not to be wondered that in such circumstances they instruct their present minions to try the effect of a little ambi-dexterity. Your Excellency must know more than I do of the affairs of the fleets and Armies, late of Rhode Island and New York. My last ac counts were very unpleasant. Colonel Boudinot will inform you Sir, the sentence of the Court Martial on General Lee, I presume Congress when they have ap proved or disapproved will order the tryal to be publish’d. 11 I Am, With high Esteem &c. P.S. I have been long out of humour with the too comprehensive term “Continental,” and have a strong inclination to coin “Confoederal.” If Your Excellency has no objection, it shall pass. LB (ScHi). 1 Governor Livingston’s August 3 letter to Laurens is in Livingston, Papers (Prince), 2:406-7. 2 See the fifth and sixth articles of the treaty of alliance with France in JCC, 11:450. 3 Don Juan de Miralles. < The marquis de Britigney. 5 Miralles gave a somewhat different account of his dinner conversation with President Laurens on the subject of the marquis de Bretigney’s plan for the re-
