August 24, 1778 497 RC (NhHi). 1 Although the Pennsylvania act confiscating the property of people attainted by the assembly or convicted of treason was passed on March 6, 1778, its oper ational impact remained insignificant until after the British evacuation of Philadelphia exposed many loyalists to the state judicial system. See Thomas McKean to William Atlee, July 7, 1778, note. Marine Committee to John Barry Sir August 24th. 1778 Immediately upon receipt of these our orders you will commence on a Cruize in Company with the Continental Brigt. Ressistance, Captain Bourke, between Cape Henlopen and Occracock on the Coast of North Carolina, with a view to take certain armed Vessels fitted out by the Goodriches, 1 or any other of the enemies Vessels that may be infesting that Coast. As both the Raleigh and Resistance may soon be wanted to an swer the purpose of Convoy, you are to manage your Cruize assd. as that you may be ready to receive the future orders of this Commit tee. For this purpose you are once a week to put into Cheseapeake Bay and call at the Town of Hampton, where you will find such or ders lodged and you are to continue to cruize and call at Hampton in this manner until you receive our Instructions. We are Sir, Your Hble servants P.S. You will communicate to Captain Burke these our Orders, and as Senior officer will give such Instructions for the Cruize as may be necessary. 2 We have written to the Governor of Virginia to furnish you at Hampton with such provisions or Supplies as you and captain Bourke may want. 3 We expect that Governor will appoint some per son at Hampton to supply you—let us know by every opportunity the progress of your Cruize. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Addressed: “Captain John Barry of the Frigate Raleigh.” 1 See also Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell, September 15, 1778, note 2. 2 This day the Marine Committee also wrote the following letter to Capt. William Burke: “We have given orders to Captain John Barry of the Frigate Raleigh for a Cruize on the Coast in which he is to be accompanied by the Brig Resistance un der your command. Captain Barry will communicate to you a Copy of our orders and as Senior officer will give you such further Instructions as may be necessary which you are to obey.” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:288. 3 The Marine Committee’s letter to Patrick Henry has not been found.
