August 25, 1778 499 have corresponded through your favor with Mr. Hudson on the great point, the price. I am inform’d he purchas’d with the Carriage, Harness for four horses, and that there were too cushions, the whole for £250 Cur rency. His demand therefore, after deducting one set of Harness and one Cushion is enormous. The Idea that every thing is cheap enough for the present will ruin me unless he takes care to lay a proper restraint. You would be astonish’d if I were to tell you the daily Amount of my expence. I nevertheless, my Dear Sir, thank you for the purchase of the Wine, and within this Cover remit a reimbursement in 134 dollars. It is said a ship from Bourdeaux is in the Delaware. I am per suaded when it is known in the West Indies the River is open we shall have Vessels dropping in with all kinds of goods, hence I am induced to lay the restraint intimated above for a few days. Dunlap’s Packet will give you the current News of Philadelphia- Let me assure you not one word relative to the French and English Fleets deserves higher regard than as mere report—the most authen tic Account respecting them I received from a very sensible Man of the rank of Commissary who lately came in from the Enemy at New York. He says that on the 18th Inst, it was whisper’d among the British and Foreign Officers that Lord Howe’s Squadron had receiv’d very great injuries; the Eagle and 3 or 4 other ships of the line were driven on shore on the back of Long Island, but whether by the French fleet or by the storm, he could not positively tell, but believe the latter, except the ragged and distressed state of the Isis and that one frigate dismasted had got into New York all is conjecture. I ex pect this Evening or tomorrow Morning to receive regular Advices. You will find within, Copy of General Sullivan’s late letter, by no means let this be publish’d. I sent it for your amusement and in formation. My hopes of success at Rhode Island without the further aid of Count d’Estaing are exceedingly faint-’tis probable however there will be much blood spilt. I not only dislike the vaunting of his Burgoynade Proclamation but another material circumstance which need not at present be intimated. This instant I have a Letter from the General of the 19th inclosed in one of the 21st from His Excellency the Commander in Chief. 1 The 19th General Sullivan had advanced his Batteries within Mus ket shot of the Enemy’s Redoubts, and intended to open upon them the next Morning—they had kept an incessant fire on him two days without injuring a single Man—Count d’Estaing not return d. General Washington writes, “By advices from an Officer of Rank and intelligence I am informed that 16 ships entred the Hook on the 17th, one having a flag, and that on that and the preceding day a heavy Cannonade was heard at Sea.” 2 ’Tis nine o’clock. I must re-
