520 August 28, 1778 able here & much wanted; formerly we were entirely supply’d with those articles from England & our Intercourse with them having been so long stopped, Supplys from other Countrys are yet very in considerable & our own People too much employed in War & Agri culture to Manufacture. You may readily judge what must be our Wants therefore you have nothing to do but send hither soon as you can any Quantities of the Articles mentioned in your Letter. We raise Considerable Quantities of Hemp & Flax ourselves, but do not manufacture Sufficient of Cordage, Sail Cloth or Linnen & these Ar ticles are always in good Demand, Lace is chiefly used by the Ladies, some Quantities will sell well but they must not be too large, Muslins sell well, as will also Hardware, Paints, Woollen Stuffs & Cloths but you will take care that every thing is of a good Quality, proportioned to its cost. Wines that come here should be of a good Body & round, not sweet, dry Wines being most used. Hardware is much wanted but should be good & that from England is preferred to any other. Shoud you send any Goods put them on board Small fast Sailing Vessells, if you can meet with such & your Returns may be made in Tobacco, Rice, Indigo, Wheat, Flour, Tar, Pitch, Tur pentine, Skins, Furrs &c! Should you adventure you may depend on my Zeal & Attention in your Service as I am, Sir, Your Obed, hble Servt. 2 Robt. Morris. Copy RC (MWA). In the hand of John Swanwick and signed by Morris. Addressed: “Monsr. J. Bertier, Negt. & Changeur du Roi a Nancy en Loraine.” 1 Little has been discovered about Morris’ commercial relations with Bertier, although various endorsements and notations on this letter indicate that it was received on November 23, 1778, after being forwarded on the 17th from Bordeaux by Samuel & John H. Delap. Bertier apparently replied to it on June 10, 1780. 2 Morris had also written the following brief letter to his business associate Jonathan Hudson at Baltimore on August 18. “I have your favour of the 17th. Sorry I am to hear of such rapid rise in the price of Tobacco, if it gets to 20 Dollrs per hundd. will it not be best to sell ours, consider of this & we will come to some determination when we meet.” PPRF. Andrew Adams to Horatio Gates Sir Philadelphia 29th August 1778 I do myself the honor to write you tho I have not the happiness of your Acquaintance: On Acct particularly of Major Bigelows being so long detaind at Congress, as the Reasons of his Delay in my Op pinion really Plead an Excuse: at least I wish to show my full Disap probation of the Measure. On Major Bigelow presenting yours & Genl Parsons Letter to Congress & makeing known his Business: I perceived an Opposition against granting the Money proposed and of such a Nature as not to be agreable to me. 1 The first attact
