August 29, 1778 521 seamd. to be levelld. agt. the State of Connecticut in general and at Govr. Trumbull and Genl Parsons in particular: But this being so fully obviated by one of my worthy Colleagues: that it subsided: The Matter was committed and a Report brought in stating a Num ber of facts and proposeing sundry Resolves: one of which was designd as a Censure upon you. This appeard. to some Gentlemen so illfounded and unjust that they were lead to examine into the facts stated. I have not the Report before me & can not pretend to be very exact: but it was said that you had no Right to order the pur chase by Major Bigelow as there was a Clothier with the Army (vizt) Major Measom: that the Resolution of Congress under which you acted directed the Clothier Genl, to send a Deputy or assistant to the Army on the North River 8c that in the Mean Time the Com manding Officer take such Orders 8cc: (The words of the Resolve I pretend not to repeat). The Argument was that as you had a Cloth ier with you, your Power in that respect ceasd. 8c This lead some Gentlemen to examin into Mr. Measom 8c Col. Hews’s 2 appoint ments as it was represented that Mr. Measom succeed Col. Hews: and for my own part I considered them only in the lights of Issuing Commissary. The Report however was in favour of granting the Money notwithstand you had no power to appoint Major Bigelow. This Matter was fully discussd. and it was urged that the Resolve ne gating your power and expressing a Censure on you should not pass: as there appeard no kind of Necessity for such a Step and it rather appeard. like seeking an occasion agt you. 2dly that it was unconsti tutional to censure any Gentleman much less a high Officer in his publick Conduct unheard. 3dly that the proposed resolve was ill founded 8cc. Many other Arguments were made off and on the whole the matter passd. in the Negative and the Money was ordered 8cc. I am sorry to Observe that in the whole progress of this Affair it appeard. to me that every Obsticle was thrown in the way by one Gentleman from a State which is under the highest Obligation to you. The Gentleman I refer to Major Bigelow well knows. 3 I ask your Pardon for the Freedom I have used. I write in Confidence. I should not have giveing you this but was assured by Major Bigelow you would accept it well: In this I Claim no Credit as it was the Cause of Truth 8c Justice alone which Influenced him who has the Honor to be with the highest Esteam, Your Obedt. humbe Servt. 4 Andw Adams RC (NHi). 1 Acting in response to letters from Generals Gates of July 22 and Samuel H. Parsons of July 21 urging payment for clothing supplies purchased by Maj. John Bigelow, Congress approved payment for the goods despite misgivings about Gates’ authority to appoint Bigelow. A censure of Gates in the committee report—that he “was not warranted by the Resolution of Congress of the 4th of March last, to make an Appointment of any
