August 29, 1778 527 scurrilous terms without exonerating himself from the charges al leged against him submits to the decree of Interdiction lately pro nounced by Congress—Nor do the Gentlemen late his Coadjutors so highly resent the Proceedings on our part as to refuse to treat with out the support of the Governor’s name. 2 Your Excellency will judge best from their respective performances on the present occasion, Copies of which shall accompany this Letter. I take the liberty of inclosing with the present dispatches a Letter directed to Lieutt. Colo. Laurens under a flying Seal & of requesting Your Excellency to peruse a Paragraph contained in it, which speaks of a Monsr. Galvan. Monsr. Girard is exceedingly affected by the late determinations on the Water near Rhode Island & has communicated his sentiments to me with great candour. 3 Good accounts from General Sullivan will do more towards recovering him from a slight intermittent which really seized that Gentleman immediately after he had re ceived Monsr. Chouin’s Letter, than four ounces of Bark—indeed I never saw people in general more anxious than my acquaintances are under the present suspence—within the next two hours I make no doubt there will be fifty inquiries for news within this door. I remain with the utmost Regard, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s Obliged & Hum servt, Henry Laurens private RC (DLC). 1 This money was intended to finance Washington’s efforts to gather military intelligence. See JCC, 11:851; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 12:356; and Laurens’ second letter to Washington of August 28, 1778. 2 Adam Ferguson’s August 26 letter to Laurens and two enclosed declarations of that date by George Johnstone and by the earl of Carlisle, Sir Henry Clinton, and William Eden—all three endorsed by Secretary Thomson as read in Congress on August 31—are in the Peter Force Collection, DLC. Both declarations sought to divert attention from congressional charges of bribery and corruption by Johnstone, the first by announcing Johnstone’s intention to return to England and criticizing Congress’ refusal to allow the Convention Army to leave America and the second by denouncing the French alliance. Although at first Congress did nothing more than read these documents on August 31, Johnstone’s jibes about the Convention Army were probably partially responsible for the delegates’ deci sion on September 4 to reaffirm their suspension of the Saratoga Convention. JCC, 11:855, 12:880-83. See also William Henry Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners, September 4; and Gouverneur Morris to the Earl of Carlisle, September 19, 1778. 3 For Ambassador Gerard’s August 29, 1778, report to the comte de Vergennes on the French fleet’s abrupt departure from Rhode Island waters, see Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 236-39.
