August 30, 1778 531 these two companies were to compose part of the regiment. I wish the information I give may settle the matter to the satisfaction of all concerned and particularly of Col Lamb of whom I entertain a high Opinion. I am sr, Your humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (NHi). 1 Perhaps Congress’ resolutions of November 26, 30, and December 27, 1776, pertaining to raising a regiment of artillery in Virginia that President, Laurens had recently sent to Washington. See Henry Laurens to Washington, August 16, 1778, note 3. For Col. John Lamb’s seniority dispute with the various colonels of the Continental artillery, see James Lovell to John Lamb, August 8; and Commit tee of Arrangement to Washington, September 10, 1778. Committee of Arrangement to George Washington Dear Sir Head Quarters, Sunday at 12 o’clock [August 30, 1778] It is submitted by the Committee to your Excellency’s Judgement, whether it would not be better to direct an adjournment of the Court Martial, which is composed of the principal Part of the Genl, officers, for a few daies untill the Arrangement of the Army shall be completed, as all Information, & subject matter for the Committee to proceed upon is derived from these officers. 1 The Committee also request your Excellency to order the attend ance of Generals Poor, Patterson & Nixon, Tomorrow. They were Part of yesterday at a loss for Information, 8c have in Consequence thereof troubled you with the above Requests, hoping that no incon venience may be derived from postponing the business of the Court martial, 8c great good result from a permanent Settlement of the Army. I am with every Sentiment of Attachment 8c Regard yr. Excel lency’s respectful 8c obedient Servant. By desire of the Committee, John Banister RC (DNA: RG 93). Written and signed by John Banister. Endorsed: ‘‘30 Augt. 1778 from Committee of Arrangement.” 1 Washington’s general orders for August 23 had directed that a general court- martial (consisting of Generals Benjamin Lincoln, James Clinton, Peter Muhlen berg, John Nixon, and Anthony Wayne and eight colonels) be convened the following day to hear testimony regarding Maj. Gen. Arthur St. Clair’s role in the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence in 1777. Washington, Writ ings (Fitzpatrick), 12:352, 354. For Washington’s orders on the adjournment and reconvening of this court-martial, see ibid., pp. 406, 495.
