August 30, 1778 533 hands five hundred Guineas to be transmitted to Your Excellency to be expended at your discretion Sir, for public service. These I have put under a firm cover and committed the safe conveyance and de livery of the Package to the bearer of this, Captain Josiah Stoddard of the 2nd Regt, of Light Dragoons. Captain Stoddard has been long soliciting Congress on behalf of himself and twelve other Memorialists of the same Regiment for a compensation equivalent to their extra expence in equipping them selves for the service in which they are engaged. The Memorial was committed and a Report made which together with divers concomi tant Papers are referred to the present Committee of Arrangement at Camp who are desired by an Act of Yesterdays’ date, to make necessary enquiries of Your Excellency respecting the application of Captain Stoddard, I shall therefore for Your Excellencys’ informa tion inclose with this a Copy of the abovemention’d Act. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). John Mathews to Thomas Bee My Dear Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 30th. 1778. I wrote to you a few days ago by Mr. McLean of Georgia, in which I promised to answer yours of 11 July, more fully by McKin- fus, who tells me he shall go tomorrow morning. It is true I did oppose the Embargo act, as I shall uniformly do, every act of Congress, where I perceive an attempt to step over that constitutional line which has been chaulked out to them, even inde pendent of the Confederation, for if they can exceed their powers in one instance, they may claim an equal right to do it in any & which was the case in this affair for the favourers of the measure claimed a right to do it, because they had done it before & surely said they if we had a right to do it once, we have a right to do it again. This proves to what dangerous lengths Precedents may be carryed, for which reason, I think every, the least attempt in Congress to go be yond the bounds of their Constitution should be immediately checked. Never suffer the plea of necessity to justify the Act, for a specious pretext can never be wanted, by artful men, to cover even the most arbitary measure, under the guise of necessity & if such a doctrine is once admitted, what is to hinder them, from at last to tally subverting the Liberties of America. Examples of this nature are within the knowledge of every Man of reading, & because the people of America have a very high Opinion of & a very extensive confidence in the present Congress (I mean previous to our being Confederated) I would for that very reason be doubly watchful of
