534 August 30, 1778 their Conduct, as the precedents they now make will hereafter be ex- cercised by a set of men less virtuous, to the worst purposes. I’ll as sure you I don’t remember any thing that has come within my knowledge since the beginning of these troubles, that has given me more uneasiness, than the eager disposition that appeared in Congress to have that Embargo carryed into execution, they even suspended taking up the Confederation, untill this measure could be carryed, which I think was taking a very uncandid, & unjustifyable advantage of the unlimited powers they conceived to be prior to the ratification of the Confederation, lodged in their hands, but which was, notwithstanding, in my humble opinion, a very gross mistake, for I must ever deny they had at any time this power, for if this is conceded to them, then they have indisputably a right to legislate for the whole whenever they see fit, & which acts of legislation must be binding, whether approved by the States or not, the contrary position, I have always understood to be the true one. If they ever had this right or if it had been deemed eligible, they ought to have had it. Why was it not made an Article in the Confederation? That this right was never given up to Congress, is already proven, by the Acts of the different legislatures, & which speak their sense of the matter, for you find them lodging the power of laying Embargos, in their Executive branc[h]es for a certain limited time. This evidently is productive of a confused clashing of the Acts of Congress, with those of the different States. The same Arguments that may be made use of for the propriety of lodging this power with Congress may be adduced for giving them several other important powers they at present have not. For God’s sake let’s stop where we are, & take a breath a little. Let anyone attentively examine, what the powers of Congress are, when they have done this, I cannot perswade myself they will be for giving more, in my poor opinion they are already enormous. That single one of borrowing & making what money they please, & I may truely say without controul, is sufficient for, & I am affraid in the end will, be our destruction. I know my sentiments on this point, are rather singular, however, I also know your candour therefore I speak freely. This a most extensive field for Argument, &: will admit of a great deal being said on it, but I am sure I must al ready have tired your patience, therefore shall make but one obser vation more. There are two reasons assigned by the Proclamation for laying this embargo. The first is, the better to feed our own army. Now let us consider from whence the resources for this purpose are drawn. The four New England States raise very little more meat provisions than is necessary for their own consumption together with that of the convention troops, and Sulivans army, what they have to spare, they are glad to exchange for bread from hence. The Distressed situation of New York & Jersey enables them to raise a bare sufficiency for themselves. Then it is Pensylvania, Maryland,
