538 August 31, 1778 pened to the french fleet by the Storm, will I fear Defeat our Designs on Rhode Island, if nothing worse happen from it, we must Expect bad fortune Sometimes as well as good, but hope it will all turn Right in the end. This month has been a wet Disagreable month here and Seems likely to Continue so. Give my Regard to all Enquiring friends, Yours Josiah Bartlett RC (NhHi). Samuel Holten’s Diary [August 31, 1778] 31. Monday. The Revd. Mr. Dufell, Mr. Hopkinson, & 4 Gentle men of Congress dined with us. Congress sit late, we dined at four. I drank tea at Mr. Hopkinsons. MS (MDaAr). Titus Hosmer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Augst. 31st. 1778 We were this day honored with your favor of the 25th Inst. 1 Mr. Sherman is at present with the Army on a Committee to arrange the affairs in the Battalions and reduce them to the form prescribed in a plan lately adopted by Congress, which I presume your Excellency has had laid before you. Mr. Adams and myself joined in a letter to your Excellency which went by Maj. Bigelow on Saturday last, since which nothing hath happened to make a public letter necessary. 1 lament with you Sir the sickness and death of your Son—and the distress and melancholy it hath occasioned to you; your family and his near connections and friends, and am pleased to find Col. Dyer hath undertaken his accounts and business: when he arrives as Mr Ellsworth is to relieve Mr Adams, it will naturally fall to me to give place to him; I shall do it with pleasure, as I have informed him by this post. 2 I wish I could with truth, assure Your Excellency that in my view, our affairs are in a happy train, and that Congress has adopted wise and effectual measures to restore our wounded public credit, and to establish the United States, their liberty, union, and happiness upon a solid and permanent foundation. I dare not do it, while my heart is overwhelmed with the most melancholy presages: the idleness and captiousness of some gentlemen, maugre the wishes and endeavours
