546 September 1, 1778 Henry Laurens to Conrad Alexandre Gerard My Dear Sir I Septr. [1778] You need not to have apolgiz’d for the hints which you have so politely and kindly transmitted to me this Morning. 1 I feel myself happy that I cannot with respect to my own sentiments, add, neces sarily. At the receipt of the Commissioners first Address the Act of Congress of the 22d of April instantly drew my attention. 2 My opin ion and my advice was to have returned them all their Papers to gether with a Copy of that Act accompanied by a few necessary and proper lines from our Secretary intimating that Congress not being subjects to their Master were willing for the present to impute their conduct to pure mistake or something in these terms. I trust we shall still recover our ground. Believe me to be, With the highest Esteem & Regard, Dear Sir, Your Obliged Humble Servt. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “Monsieur Gerard, Minister of France, Philada., by M[oses] Y[oung]. 1 These "hints” consisted of Gerard’s proposals for a public congressional re sponse to the August 26 declaration of the British peace commissioners, which called upon Congress to release Gen. John Burgoyne’s army under the terms of the Saratoga Convention. See Gerard to Vergennes, this date, Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 248-52. On September 4 Congress merely reaffirmed its previous decision not to carry out the Convention until it had been ratified by the "court Great Britain”—a far less elaborate response to the British commissioners than the one suggested by the French minister. JCC, 12:882-83. See also William Henry Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners, September 4, 1778, note 1. 2 For Congress’ response to the Carlisle Commissioners’ “first Address,” see Laurens to the Carlisle Commissioners, June 17, 1778. The “Act of . . . the 22d April” was Congress’ initial response to Lord North’s conciliatory bills. JCC, 10:374-80. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Dear Sir 1st September [1778] Your very obliging favor of the 21st reach’d me the 25th and has been ever since lying in my view, a scroll of the same date which I had the honor of writing will have inform’d Your Excellency that I was not dead. I have not leisure for attending to a business which we ought to be least concern’d about. 1 More of my time than usual had indeed been engag’d in eating and drinking in that interval of silence which is so kindly pointed to in Your Excellency’s Letter, and as I make it a rule never to neglect my Duty a faithful discharge had incroached largely upon hours which are generally passed on the Pillow, this excluded much of my
