September 1, 1778 547 satisfaction in private correspondence, but the honey Moon is over. We have slack’d into an easy trot again, and Mr. Gerard is an excel lent sensible, sociable Neighbour, and conducts his visits without that formality which is an interruption to a drudging President. I presented a day or two ago Governor Livingston’s Compliments to him, he longs to see you, and I Sir shall think my Paper correspon dence realiz’d by the honor of Your Excellency’s company. Upon my honor Sir I have many things to say which ought to be said and which I would attempt to say as properly as loudly were I not ex actly in the station I am. I do assure You Sir, our circumstances are truly deplorable. I would touch gently on profligacy of time and treasure upon conni- vals or collusion, folly or tyranny, especially when I meant to impute any or all of these to a person whose bottom of heart was good or where the innocent might suffer for the errors of the mistaken, as soft a term as I can think of, but ’tis high time to pursue Measures for the protection of those innocents who are kept in an implicit be lief that all is solid gold because of the much glistering—a worm in one night destroy’d the Mansion of Jonah. Mr. Deane late one of our Commissioners has been near two Months with us. We know too much, and yet I almost fear we know nothing of our affairs in Europe, I do not mean hence to impute blame to Mr. Deane, he has complain’d heavily to me in private of inattention on our part xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx serious matters entre- nous. Three hours my Dear Sir have I been writing not studying one second, what I should write, these two pages, perpetual influx of Personages of all sorts this Morning as if People had determin’d I should never write to Governor Livingston again, the finger now points to 9 I must fly to be in the way of my duty altho’ experience has taught me I shall have squandered an hour and an half when I enter upon it. For Your Excellency’s amusement, entertainment and information I shall send with this Copies of a set of curious Papers which I have just receiv’d from Messrs. Ie Commissioners 2 who as the Merchants express have discarded one Partner and opened a house under a new firm—in the language of an old fellow I say, had my advice been fol- lowed, at York town, we should have preserv’d our dignity, given satisfaction to our Constituents, and have been free from the imper tinent attacks of these People. Mr. Johnstone’s Declaration in partic ular cannot escape in New Jersey the correction it deserves, when the proper time shall come, of which due notice shall be given, it ought to be bated every where. I go now to see whether we can with good grace recover the ground on which we stood on the late fast day 22nd of April.
