September 1, 1778 549 But,—I almost forget that the Post is to convey this memorandum of my constant affectionate Wishes for your Happiness. James Lovell RC (MHi). 1 For Abigail’s letters to Lovell, see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butter field), 3:76, 84n.l. 2 The Scottish poet Allan Ramsay. For this quotation and the reference below to Vertumnus and Pomona, see ibid., p. 84 nn.2-3. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen September 1st. 1778 We are favoured with yours of the 18th Ultimo and are now to direct that you will distribute from time to time the One half of the Sea Books amongst such of the Continental officers as may be in want thereof. On the 28th Ultimo we transmitted to you by William Jones an Express 324,000 Dollars which we hope will be safely de livered, and are Gentlemen, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter’ Book). Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton Sir, In Congress 1st Sep’r 1778. A Debate just now in the House relative to some Cannon the Property of the United States, which lately arrived in a Southern Port, 1 calls my Attention to a matter which I had the Honor of mentioning shortly before I left the State either to the Assembly or the Council of Safety of which I was a member. Your Excellency is not to be informed that the Cannon of the State of New York as well those in the City as those which were at the Posts of Ticon deroga and Crown Point were frankly and generously submitted to the Use of the United States. A Day of Reckoning must arrive and I hope the State will be prepared with an accurate Account (among other things) of the military Stores which they have furnished to the Continent. I know well there will be great Difficulty in collecting the necessary Documents on this Occasion and, therefore, it is the more worthy of the early Attention of your Excellency and of the Legisla ture. You will excuse, Sir, my mentioning to you a matter perhaps not strictly within my Line upon a Principle which I beg you to be lieve, that I cannot on any Occasion omit attending to matters
