September 3, 1778 553 Samuel Adams to James Bowdoin Dear Sir, Philadelphia, Septr 3, 1778. A few days ago I receivd a letter from your son in law Mr Temple dated New York, August 23d, requesting me by the first opportunity to inform you of his & Mrs Temple’s arrival there, & that, for partic ular reasons he should be exceedingly happy if your affairs would permit you to meet them at Philadelphia, or as near it as might be convenient to you. He requested this of me, because excepting that letter & another to Mr President Laurens, 1 he had not written a line since his arrival at N. Y., & he had still weighty reasons for declining it. He also desired me to cause it to be made as convenient as might be (at his expence) for Mrs Temple & her little boy, who had not been well since their arrival, to get to Philadelphia. His baggage which is both heavy & bulkey, he intended to get transported in a Flag, if any should be suffered to pass, to Boston, or some port as near it as might be, & hoped to see me soon in this city. His letter to the President was read in Congress. It was short and contained little more than to sollicit leave to come to Philada to pay his respects to Congress. This was refus’d upon the idea that he might be a secret emissary from the British Court. I think it is best for him that his re quest is not granted; for the jealousy of the people at large would, I believe, render his residence here very uncomfortable. A certain Doctor Burkenhout, who came from London in the same packett with Mr T , is now in prison in this city, committed by the au thority of this State, under the same suspicion. 2 I took occasion to inform Congress from my own knowledge of Mr Temple, that al though he had been formerly an officer of the Crown of Great Brit ain, and in the Customs, yet he had constantly given great offence to his brother Commissioners & other friends of that government, par ticularly Bernard & Hutchinson, by his attachment to those who espoused the liberties of America; that he went to England seven years ago, where, I understood, he had since lived the greater part of the time, entirely out of favor at Court & in private life; and that I had reason to think his connexions in Boston had long expected his return to spend his days there. Congress afterwards orderd the Secre tary to inform Mr Temple, that if it was his intention to reside in any one of the United States, the same should be signified by him to the State in which he intends to reside, & the approbation of that State obtaind before a passport could be granted to him. Thus the matter stands in all its particulars, a view of which I thought it proper you should be acquainted with. I wish Mr Temple had turned his attention first to Boston. It is probable he will now do it, and that you will soon receive a letter from him. I am with the greatest sincerity, Your affectionate friend, and humble servant, S. Adams.
