554 September 3, 1778 MS not found; reprinted from Bowdoin-Temple Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society Collections, 6th ser. 9:423-25. 1 John Temple’s August 23 letter to President Laurens is in PCC, item 78, 22:589. 2 John Temple (1731-98) , a native of Boston and former surveyor general of the North American customs in Massachusetts, had returned to America with the avowed intention of resettling in his native state. Despite newspaper accounts that he and Dr. John Berkenhout were coming to America to aid the Carlisle commis sioners, Temple said that his American sympathies were the cause of his precari ous situation. He claimed he had been dismissed from his British customs position in 1774 as a result of his aid to Benjamin Franklin in obtaining the no torious Hutchinson-Oliver-Whately correspondence in 1772, and that subsequently the British government had prevented him from returning to America with Franklin. In reality Temple was returning as a secret emissary to seek support for the Carlisle Commission among his old friends and relatives in New England, and Samuel Adams was one of his prime objectives. An April 1778 memorandum in the British Secret Service papers of William Eden indicates that Temple received £2000 and a baronetcy, with the promise of a £2000 yearly pension if the Carlisle Commissioners “now going out to America shall approve his conduct in that country.” Although Congress did not know the particulars of this mission, they were im mediately suspicious of both Temple and Berkenhout, the latter of whom was jailed soon after his arrival in Philadelphia. On September 1 Congress refused Temple’s request to travel to Philadelphia and, apparently at the urging of Adams, directed him to send his residency application to the state in which he wished to reside. See JCC, 11:858-60; Richard Henry Lee to William Maxwell, August 29; and Henry Laurens to William Maxwell, September 5, 1778. After this rebuff, Temple went to Boston, where he attempted to keep his credibility intact by offering to serve American interests in England. Trading on his past services and family connections, he even obtained formal recommenda tions from the Massachusetts Council and several revolutionary leaders such as Meshech Weare, Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., James Warren, and William Livingston. Thus armed, he set off for Philadelphia, where he arrived on December 1 and immediately approached both Adams and Henry Laurens, renewing speculation that he had indeed come to America to arrange secret negotiations. Bowdoin- Temple Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society Collections, 6th ser., 9:425-36, 445-47, 455-69; Lewis Einstein, Divided Loyalties: Americans in England during the War of Independence (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1933), chap. 3; Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 251-53, 406-7, 409-11, 420, 432, 444; and JCC, 12:1186, 1201. Among those who suspected from the outset that Temple was in fact a secret British agent was the French minister, Gerard, who explained his views in a Sep tember 1 report to the French foreign minister, the comte de Vergennes. “I have made it clear,” Gerard stated, “that he can be only a secret emissary substituted for the underhand dealings of Mr. Johnstone, or a sort of hanger-on that they propose to attach to me, a spy to dog my foot-steps. I have demonstrated that if he was charged with some particular commission, even a secret one, the rule to be followed in war-time would require that he make his overtures on that head before setting foot on the territory of the United States. I am so impressed, Mon seigneur, with the importance and the delicacy of anything which tends to es tablish the slightest thread of communication and of correspondence with Great Britain that I have no fear lest these details seem unimportant to you. I shall be easy in my mind only when Congress shall have resolved no longer to receive any agents from that Power, at least until they shall be provided with letters of
