September 4, 1778 559 in the Inquiry, &: neither this false Delicacy or Timidity suppress any Knowledge tending to serve the publick. 1 I am with due Re gard, Sir, Your Obed. Hbble Serv. Jos. Reed P.S. Direct to me under Cover to Mr. Freeman or send it to Mrs. Reed at Fleming Town. RC (NCooHi). Written and signed by Joseph Reed. Addressed. “To Robert Wil son Esqr., Hacket’s Town.” 1 No record of Deputy Commissary General of Purchases Wilson’s reply to the committee has been found. William Henry Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners September 4, 1778 To the Earl of CARLISLE, Sir HENRY CLINTON, Knight of the Bath, and WILLIAM EDEN, Esquire. 1 Your Excellencies must be sensible, that it does not comport with the measures of Congress to make any observations upon your decla ration of the 26th of August. 2 But as it was evidently calculated for the people, I make no doubt you will be glad to know what effect it is likely to produce; and that your Excellencies may form some opin ion, I take the liberty to shew you, in what light it is considered by an individual: Valeat quantum valere potest. 3 I do not flatter myself that my observations upon your applications to Congress are very agreeable to you: However, I am in no degree discouraged from writing a third letter to your Excellencies. It seems the declaration of Congress on the 11th of August, 4 drew forth yours of the 26th. The storm of military war has lost its vio lence; on your part it has spent itself; you now assail us with words. You are pleased “solemnly to declare,” that you had not any knowledge, either directly or indirectly, of the letters and conversa tion alluded to in the declaration of Congress, until you saw them made public in the newspapers. This declaration related to your col league, George Johnstone, Esq; nor did it charge your Excellencies with a privity to, or participation in his very exceptionable conduct. Unaccused, you have thought proper to endeavour to exculpate yourselves; a circumstance which strongly brings to my recollection a rule which Charles the First recommended to his favourite Stafford, as one that may serve for a statesman, courtier or lover—“never to make a defence or apology before you are accused.” Without doubt, your Excellencies will not be at a loss to comprehend the meaning of the Royal hint. That you would publicly have assented to the construction
