560 September 4, 1778 Congress gave to Governor Johnstone’s conduct, or that you would intimate a belief that any person was authorized to hold the conver sation stated to have been held with Mr. Read, “to engage his inter est to promote the object of your commission,” was not expected. Neither was it imagined, that there was any obligation upon you to vindicate Mr. Johnstone’s “abilities and integrity.” The first we never doubted, till we saw his declaration of the 26th of August; the last he himself has not even attempted to vindicate; and I mark this as an instance of his prudence: It is laudable to point out merit wherever it is distinguished. On the other hand, it is also proper to observe the public shades of a public character: The Governor ap pears to have lost that calmness and circumspection necessary in the profession of a statesman. The declaration of Congress has precipi tated him into abuse, mistake and contradiction. He censures Congress for bowing to a French Ambassador! Did his Britannic Majesty never bow to a French Ambassador? The Governor thinks “many individuals” of Congress “now entertain different sentiments” from those in the declaration of Congress: He is certainly mistaken, for I have heard every individual Member declare, he considered him as no longer an enemy to corruption. As to his contradiction of himself, I need only contrast these two ideas in his declaration— “The said George Johnstone for himself says, that he is far from considering the said resolution of Congress as offensive to him, that he rather receives it as a mark of distinction:” However, “he reserves to himself the liberty of publishing, if he shall judge proper, a justi fication of his conduct against the aspersions thrown on his charac ter.’’ This unoffended, yet aspersed gentleman, who considers a resolution which asperses his character, “as a mark of distinction,” draughted his declaration ad populum, and with them I will leave it, that I may proceed to shew a proper respect to your Excellencies performance. Why do you tell the world, you “were authorized to restore peace, to preserve the value and promote the credit of the paper circula tion, to give satisfaction and security for ever on the subject of mili tary establishments, and to extend every freedom to trade?” Your Excellencies sent to the Congress copies of the instruments by which you were, and by which only you are authorized. They were pub lished, and the world have not yet forgot, that they only allow you to treat, not to determine upon any of those particulars. Nay, you are expressly prohibited, and it is declared your proceedings on those points shall not be of any validity unless ratified by the British Parliament. Need I hint, that every word you deliver is accurately weighed, and critically examined; and that consequential ideas naturally follow? And do you really think you have “offered everything that is, or can be proposed by the French alliance?” I am apt to suspect that
