September 4, 1778 5G1 your Excellencies are inclined to pleasantry. Pardon me if I intro duce a serious idea: I will be short; nay, I will use but a single word. Independence! This is proposed by the alliance with France: This is not to be found in your offers. As you are astonished at one circumstance, I may be permitted to express a little surprize at another, it is at your assertion that France “has ever shewn itself an ememy to all civil and religious liberty.” I cannot suppose you are unread in the histories of France, of Ger many, and of the Low Countries, especially for the eighty years pre ceding the peace of Westphalia; and it is painful even to remark, that there is an alternative. The civil and religious liberties of Ger many and of the Seven United Provinces found in the power of France a friend and a guarantee; and the same power is now a friend and a guarantee to the civil and religious liberty of America. On the other hand, the power of England has been, and now is an enemy to civil and religious liberty. Witness your penal laws against Roman Catholics, and the rejected petitions of Dissenters. Witness the reigns of Charles the Second and his successor. Witness the present reign in Britain; the stamp act, the Quebec bill, the cotem porary and subsequent outrages of laws and arms, respecting Amer ica. Your Excellencies ought to have looked at home, before you ventured to cast your eyes and censures abroad. It is a favourite point with you, and you constantly press to have it established, that the offers of France “were made only in conse quence of the plan of accommodation previously concerted in Great Britain.” And to prove this, you aver, first, “that public intimation of the conciliatory propositions on the part of Great Britain was given to the British Parliament, and consequently to the whole world, in the month of November last.” Secondly, “that the prelimi naries of a French treaty, did not bear earlier date than the 16th of December.” We will examine the subject. The terms in which the first point is couched, give an idea, that the intimation was pointed and public, descriptive of the propositions, and that they were im portant in their nature. I wish your Excellencies had condescended to give us the terms in which the intimation was expressed, and the authority expressing them: Because from these lights, we might have seen, whether the propositions were, or if you please, the intimation was, of sufficient weight to affect, change and give a ton to the measures of the court of France. The evidence was in your hands, you have not thought proper to lay it before us, and no doubt you have reasons for the suppression. However, as my object is truth, I will endeavour to supply the evidence that you have withheld. The late sessions of the British Parliament began on the 20th day of November last. On the 21st, your House of Lords presented their address to your sovereign in answer to his speech. In that they say, “we cannot but applaud your Majesty’s unwearied vigilance and wis-
