562 September 4, 1778 dom in recommending to us, to prepare at all events, for such fur ther operations as the contingences of the war, and the obstinacy of the rebels may render expedient.” “We thankfully receive your Majesty’s declaration of perserverance in the measures now pursu ing, for the re-establishment of a just and constitutional subordina tion through the several parts of your Majesty’s dominions.” On the 22d of November your House of Commons also presented their address in answer to the speech; nor does this address contain any thing repugnant to the other; nor can it be denied, that these addresses are always mere echoes to the speech, and that the three flow from the Ministers. Thus, at one view, we have the public and joint sense of the Ministers, King, Lords and Commons of Great Britain. It is sufficient here to observe, that sense was a “perse verance” in military coercion—not a change to “conciliatory prop ositions.” This “public intimation” “given to the British Parliament, and consequently to the whole world in November last,” of the public measures to be pursued, perhaps may not be that public intimation, to which your Excellencies allude? Well, I am not tired in my research after truth, I will make another attempt. I hope your Excel lencies will patiently attend, while I endeavour to discover the inti mation you mean; and whether it was in its nature such, as ipso facto made a mere nullity of the declaration from the throne, couched by the Ministers, and approved by the Houses of Parlia ment. On the 17th of February last, Lord North made a decisive speech in the House of Commons. This states what he said in November relative to terms that might be offered to America; and it is proba ble this may be the public intimation to which your Excellencies al lude. This speech strikes my attention, because it not only states what Lord North said on the 20th of November, but it demonstrates his conduct and the reasons for it, from that time to the 17th of Feb ruary. It was on this memorable day that Lord North declared himself in the following manner. “At the opening of the present sessions, on the first day during the debate upon the address to his Majesty, I told the House, that in my opinion terms might be made with the Colonies short of unconditional submission, and that the time of making them was the moment of victory.” Here Lord North himself gives evidence of what he had said, and it must be deemed abso lutely sufficient. Thus it undeniably appears, that on the 20th day of November Lord North, speaking upon another subject, en passant, threw out a mere speculative “proposition,” the truth of which was self evident: Terms might be made in the moment of victory. His Lordship did not intimate, that he would offer terms, nay, that he intended to do so. And is this mere speculative proposition “the con-
