September 4, 1778 571 as Mrs. Tatnal with a little family are under his charge I request you Sir, to do me the favor of facilitating their passage. Congress have also permitted Captain William Nicholls late Com mander of the British Packet Eagle to go into New York for the like purpose of effecting a proper Exchange which you will prescribe and determine upon, and will also take Captain Nicholls’ Parole and restrict the term for his absence in failure of his attempt, in which I would wish you to be very pointed, because from my partic ular application this indulgence has been obtain’d. Your Predecessor in Office the Honorable Mr. Boudinot will say much in favor of Captain Nicholls’ conduct during his parole con finement within this State. I have known the Captain some five or six years, and have from thence a regard for him. I am with great Esteem 8c Respect Sir Your Obedient 8c Most Humble Servt. ENCLOSURES By Permission of Congress assembled at Phila. 3d. Septr. 1778 Josiah Tatnal Esqr. late of the State of Georgia a Prisoner of His Most Christian Majesty is to pass thro’ New Jersey in terms of written sub scrib’d and Seal’d Act of Egress granted to him by the Honorable the Minister Plenipotentiary of France residing at this City. Captain Nicholl’s Pass. By permission of Congress sitting in Assembly at Philadelphia 3d of September 1778, Captain William Nicholls late of the British Packet Eagle now a Prisoner of War in this State is to pass unmolest ed from Philadelphia by the direct Road to Princetown in New Jer sey or to any place within that State in which Colo. John Beatty, Commissary General of Prisoners holds his Residence and Office. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Col. John Beaty, Com. Genl, of Prison ers, Princetown, by Mr. Tatnal." 1 Beatty reported to Laurens on September 11 that he had allowed Tatnall and his family and Captain Nichols to proceed to New York. PCC, item 78, 3:181-82. Richard Henry Lee to George Bryan Sir, Philadelphia Septr. 4 1778 Mr. President Laurens having this day informed Congress that your honorable board desired he would write to Gen. Maxwell concerning Doctor Birkenhout, it was desired by Congress that I should furnish you with the Generals letter to me upon the subject, which I have now the honor of doing. 1
