September 4, 1778 572 I must do Dr. Birkenhout the justice to say, that when I informed him General Maxwell had written me that he, the Doctor, said he had “intelligence of much import for Congress” he replied it was a mistake, and that he attributed it to the General being at the time engaged in business with many people, and to his having said his business was to see a Member of Congress, meaning myself. He has further, in conversation told me, that his plan in coming to America was to find a proper place to fix himself and his family in a country of freedom, and where he might advantageously practise physick which is his profession. For this he assigned many reasons that ap peared to me very forcible ones. Be pleased Sir to return me the letter of Gen. Maxwell when you have done with it. I am, with due regard, Sir your most obedient and very humble servt - Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 There is no mention in the minutes of the Pennsylvania Council of a deci sion to request information on John Berkenhout from President Laurens, or in the journals of Congress of a decision to ask Lee to send Maxwell’s letter to Vice President Bryan. But for information on Berkenhout’s case and references to the Pennsylvania Council’s determinations concerning the doctor, see Richard Henry Lee to William Maxwell, August 29; Henry Laurens to William Maxwell, Septem ber 5, 1778; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:567, 569-70, 576. James Smith to Eleanor Smith Congress Chamber, September the fourth, 1778. This morning I sent a bundle of newspapers and a half finished letter 1 by Mr. Hahn. Yesterday I dined with the president at his own house, he lives elegantly and keeps house himself, we had an elegant dinner and very good claret and Madeira. No further ac counts from Rhode Island that can be depended on, but one letter mentions they expect the French fleet from Boston again, and if so they will not quit the Island. If any thing certain arrives before this letter is sealed, I will mention it in a postscript. But for this unlucky storm that scattered the fleets of France and England we had the best ground to hope that Rhode Island would have been recovered, and that would have put an end to the war in all human probabil ity, but if Heaven determines otherwise, we must submit; I am tired of the city heartily, it is very expensive living and not very agree able, since I left the Indian Queen, I have paid for my room and bed, and breakfast and supper, six pounds per week, and four pounds per week more, for my dinner at another house without any drink.
