574 September 5, 1778 MS not found; reprinted from John Sanderson, Biography of the Signers to the Declaration of Independence, 9 vols. (Philadelphia: R.W. Pomeroy, 1820-27), 7:231-33. 1 Not found. 2 See JCC, 12:876. 3 Lt. Zacharius Shugart of Col. Michael Swope’s Pennsylvania Battalion of the Flying Camp was taken prisoner at Ft. Washington on November 16, 1776, and was not exchanged until December 31, 1780. Heitman, Historical Register, p. 366. 4 Sanderson quoted part of a postscript Smith added to this letter “dated fifth September, 1778,” reporting that “an account has arrived that there was a battle at Rhode Island, in which the English were worsted.” Andrew Adams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia 5th Septr. 1778. I wrote your Excellency some time past respecting the matter of Col. &C, 1 since which we have been honored with your favor of the 25th Ulto, and cant but again lament your distresses occasioned by the sickness and death of the late Commy. General and the mel ancholy of your mind in consequence of that event. I sincerely pray that under your present heavy and grievious affliction you may be comforted with the consolations of God—which are neither few nor small, & that while you are deprived of such tender connections, and dear enjoyments in life, you may at the same time, rejoice in the God of your Salvation. I am very glad to hear Col. Dyer is coming on, not only on ac count of the late Commissary’s affairs, but also of the public, and shall be happy to resign my Seat in Congress to his superior abilities and experience, and especially at such a time as the present when every effort of the greatest abilities is necessary to be exerted in be half of the suffering public, for the manner of our conducting or rather delaying business in Congress gives me the most sensible uneasiness. I should think it my duty to give your Excellency a par ticular account of our proceedings had not Mr Hosmer done me the honour of presenting me his letter of the 31st Ulto. which had my full approbation, and which states that matter with such justice as to supercede the necessity of any observations from me upon the dis- agreable subject; other than most sincerely to lament the disagreable truth it contains. It is a most unwelcome consideration & what fills my mind with the deepest anxiety 8c concern, that the conduct of any of the members of Congress should be such, as to create in my mind strong suspicions of their moral and political virtue. But these things lead me more and more to remove my confidence from man, and to comfort myself with that consideration, that none of the wicked machinations of the deceitful and vile shall ever be able to defeat the kind instructions of the Deity.
