582 September 6, 1778 pose of my present Address is to intimate that I now add fifteen setts to the former, these will be found within the present Cover, you will be pleased Gentlemen, in due time to acknowledge the receipt of the whole. I am, With very great Respect &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “The Commissioners of the Navy Board for the Eastern District, Boston.” Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais My Dear Friend 6th September [1778] My last was dated the 22nd Ulto. conveyed by Captain Pyne, since which I have received none of your favors. I must again beg leave to refer you to our worthy friend the President for news in General. I have sent him a Budget—much of it ought to be confined within the knowledge of a few friends for the present. Within the present cover I give you several of Dunlaps’ Packets, Copy of a Letter from Your friend John Laurens of 1st September, and of one relative to him from General Washington. 1 I know you will be glad to see these; if you think proper to publish the first in order to do justice to some characters of whom he writes don’t pub lish his name. I am sure he is as averse as I am to that sort of News paper Parade. I was in great hopes to have sent you General Lees’ trial at length, but ’tis not out of Press. You will read what I have written to His Excellency the President respecting the Embargo and the Article of Rice an intimation in tended for public good, 2 to yourself, I say if you are disposed to pur chase 4000 Barrels of very good Rice at the Current price as speedily as possible after you receive this I shall be glad to hold a moiety of the concern, you will be the best judge of quality, goodness of Bar rels and convenience of Storage, I shall therefore not trouble you on these Points, nor do I mean to impose myself on you as a Partner unless it shall be quite agreeable to yourself and that you can pay for one half the purchase out of my own funds. My next shall mark my sentiments respecting the shipping or oth erwise disposing of the Rice. A swift sailing Sloop or Schooner to run into Delaware with 2 or 300 Barrels immediately if you have general permission will proba bly make a good Voyage provided the freight is not too extravagant. I judge it will sell here at 40/ or perhaps 6 dollars per 112 w[eight] if the Vessel be light, you may dispose of as much rough Rice as will fill the hollows in stowage of the Cask—but note ’tis not impossible
