September 6, 1778 583 that British Men of War may again appear in the Bay, and that there is no great hope of a back freight—these circumstances you will duly consider. I shall also in my next talk seriously to you concerning my return. ’Tis high time, and yet when I reflect—Mr. Heyward gone, Mr. Hud son absent, Mr. Mathews going, I feel a sensible pain at the prospect of leaving our State again almost unrepresented, but if my Country men are totally inattentive to their dearest Interests, the continuance of my feeble efforts to serve them will be in vain with respect to them, although it may work the ruin of my Estate. I expect to hear from you such Answer as General Gadsden shall have given. 3 My respectful Compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Manigault, Mrs. Ger vais and all Friends. I continue with great Regard and Esteem, Dear Sir, Your Affectionate Hbl. Servant LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens is referring to a private letter Washington wrote to him on Septem ber 4 quoting Gen. Nathanael Greene in praise of John Laurens’ bravery during the Rhode Island campaign. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 12:397-98. 2 See the next entry. 3 See Laurens to Gervais, August 7, 1778, note 8. Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir 6th September [1778] Mr Heyward left us so suddenly about the 10th Ulto. it was impos sible for me to pay my respects to Your Excellency by him. I writ the 11th continued to the 21st and my Packet overtook Captain Pyne the 23rd at Baltimore which I hope will supply that defect. In that Dispatch I omitted to send Copy of the Decree of the Committee of Appeals on the case of the Brigantine Success, because indeed I could not procure it in time from the Register. 1 It will now be found under cover with this among diverse other papers which will accompany it, as will appear by an inclos’d Schedule of the whole. I am much dissatisfied with this determination and have doubts concerning the respect which will be paid to the Decree in Charles town. Certainly a very formal and solemn Verdict given there is in tended to be set aside by the judgment of a Court far inferiour to that of our Admiralty in every view—besides the 280 Dollars to be paid in obedience to his judgment for the Costs and charges of Cap tain Arthur the law charges which I must pay here will Amount I am inform’d to seven hundred Dollars and upwards.
