September 6, 1778 585 and foreign troops on Rhode Island and a fleet of British Men of War riding in parade in Boston Bay, this will probably however, end in parade furnishing Mr Rivington with small means for long vaunt ing Paragraphs. Will your Excellency pardon me in my present haste for making- this private letter a vehicle for conveying an Act of Congress of the 2nd Inst, for relaxing the general Embargo in so far as to procure a supply of Vegetable Provisions for the necessary consumpt of the Eastern States. 3 I find the Embargo in this State is in existence and to run about fourteen days longer, Peccadillo evasions excepted, whether it will be renew’d is a question, probably it may be under the present relaxation which will answer every purpose to the 15th November. I am desired by the Honorable the Minister Plenipotentiary to encourage the exportation of Rice to the French West India Islands, & to Count d’Estaing’s fleet, and I am persuaded small Cargoes will meet with good sales in this City—which I intimate for the general benefit of my Countrymen that each may have timely notice and an option to adventure when the term of the present restriction shall expire. I am persuaded it will not be renewed this Year. 4 I have the honor to be, With the highest Esteem & Regard 5 Schedule of Papers sent Mr. Lowndes No. 1. The Marquis de Bretigney’s Memorial and Plan 2. General Sullivan’s Letter to the Commander in Chief 21st Augt. 3. Dr. Berkenhout’s Letter to Congress 4th Septr. 4. Dr. Berkenhout’s unfinish’d Letter intended to R. H. Lee 5. Dr. Berkenhout’s Letter to the Printer 6. Mr. Temple’s Letter to the President 23d August 7. Colonel Lauren’s Letter to the President 22nd August 8. Declaration of the British Commissioners 26th August 9. Requisition by the British Commissioners 26th August 10. Governor Johnstone’s Declaration 26th August 11. Dr. Ferguson’s Letter accompanying the Declaration 26th Augt. 12. Resolves of Congress on the Declaration &c. 4th Sepr. 13. Lieut. Richard Well’s Receipt for 200 Dollars, 24th August 14. Captain Joseph Price’s Receipt for 109 Dollars 29th August 15. Capt. Geo. Leacey’s Receipt for 350 Dollars 5th Septr. 16. List of British Men of War arriv’d at Sandy Hook the 28th of August with remarks on Lord Howe’s Squadron & upon the reported loss of Admiral Byron 17. Decree of the Committee of Appeals at Phila. 7th Augt. 18. An Act of Congress of the 2nd September 19. General Sullivan’s Letter to the President 31st August
