590 September 6, 1778 slight grounds that a French Fleet is after them—And we yet Trust that we shall see Our Worthy Ally superior in Our Seas to the British Fleet, within a few Days or Weeks. This however it may not be proper to publish. I should be glad to know the Real Loss of the Enemy in their Shipping at Rhode Island—Whether Their Transports were so sunk as to be destroyed—Whether their Hay &c at Connecticut was destroyed. Our last account from Genl. Sullivan was after the Battle of the 29th but he was not particular as to our Loss, or the Enemies. But we presume it was great on both Sides. We are very anxious to hear that he got off safe, before the Reinforcements got to the En emy which sailed more than a Week ago. My Respects to your Lady & Family. Most respectfully I am Yr. Excellency’s most obedt. and very humble Servt. Hy Marchant RC (R-Ar). 1 Governor Greene’s August 20 letter to Marchant is in William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress 1765-1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 196-98. The Board of Treasury’s letter to Greene has not been found. 2 That is, the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard. 3 Comte d’Estaing. Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia 6’ Sep’r 1778. By Doctor Jones who will deliver this to your Excellency, I do my self the Honor to enclose a short memorandum of the Sums ad vanced from the Continental Treasury to the several States of the Union. I shall make no Comments. The Paper contains Information and, therefore, I have sent it to your Excellency’s Prudence. Doctor Jones hath informed me that a Law lately passed bears very hard upon many Individuals of the State of N. York, who being willing to become faithful Subjects are nevertheless incapable from what they call conscientious Principles to take an Oath prescribed in it- 1 This Information is corroborated from other Quarters. What the Law or Oath are I know not, nor will I pretend even to suppose that against either there is well-grounded Cause of Complaint. Seri ously, I have too good an Opinion of our Legislature to believe they would wantonly sport with the Feelings of mankind. But, Sir, I can not help mentioning, that in my Opinion it is not good Policy to banish useful Citizens, and that it is better to bend the Spirit of Leg islation at Times even to the Prejudices of the People, than to scat ter the Riches and Strength of the State among Strangers—what is worse among Enemies. Excuse me, Sir, If I am too free. I am of no Party but that of my Country and as I always have, so I trust I al-
