September 8, 1778 607 vocate in my Namesake 1 & really the Representation in Congress from N. York does honour to the State. You called on me to give my feeble Voice in support of your representation of the Indian affairs & in bringing forward the Tryal of General Schuyler and had I at tended Congress, I certainly shou’d have promoted the points you wished all in my power because I did then as I do now think them just & reasonable, the first have not produced all the evils you ex pected especially to N York & the latter is I hope brought about by this time. I make no doubt our Friend Genl. Schuyler will be acquit ted with honour & I shall rejoice very sincerely with you whenever it happens. I did not join Congress seriously untill since they came down here, now & then I paid them a visit of a few days in York Town during the Winter & Spring. Notwithstanding this a great part of my time was employed in Public business for People were perpetually coming after me about it. The recess I obtained from my State was of real service to my own affairs & enabled me to arrange 8c bring them again into some order. I find also that this recess has caused the strongest desire to take place in my mind to get back into my private Station again. Ambition had no share in bringing me forward into Public life nor has it any Charms to keep me there. The time I have spent in it has been the severest Tax of my life and really I think those who have had so much, shou’d now be relieved 8c let some fresh hands take the Helm. These notions prompt me to get out of Congress at the next appointment of Delegates, but my Namesake swears I shall not depart. Philadelphia my Good Friend is vastly changed, the avowed Tories are I think more inveterately so than ever, our Circle’s of Friends 8c acquaintance are all broke up and it is with difficulty we cou’d patch up a little Social Club at Dick Peters’s Spring during the hot weather, in short our greatest Society is now in the Company of Strangers. Shou’d the British evacuate New York you will experience this 8c many other changes that I cannot spare time to tell you of. The Hills, poor Hills alas have changed, a Mel- ancholly cast of Countenance covers the Face of Nature 8c the Works of Art exhibit Such Melancholly pictures in their present Views that Hospitality can no more cherrish nor Festivity exhilerate the chear- full guest but I hope to see the day when the Scene again shall change 8: all be bright 8c gay. The Alliance with France certainly Secures our Independance 8c has procured us temporary advantages but I wish these may be properly followed up and the most made of them, our Money is at present the only stumbling block. I wish you was here to assist on that Subject, it is as Intricate as important 8c we really want lights 8c help. God Bless you my Good Friend. I hope Mrs. Duane has recov-
