608 September 8, 1778 ered her health & that you & yours may always enjoy that first of blessings. I am most truely yr. affectionate, R. Morris. P.S. I send this by a Monsr. Hutner who has in view to make some enquiries into the Fur Trade & to make some Speculation thereon. If you can give or Procure him any information on that Subject you will oblige me & Serve the interest of Monsr. LeRay du Chaumont a Gentn who has rendered the United States great & Important Serv ices in France. RM. RC (NHi). 1 Gouverneur Morris. Robert Morris to John Jay Dear Sir Philada. Septr. 8th. 1778 Our Friend Governeur Morris shew’d me a letter from you to him this day in which you make kind mention of me and you may be sure I was much pleased thereat, 1 observing that you expected to have heard from me in reply to your last letter. I cannot help think ing there has been a miscarriage in the case, for the last letter I have received from you is dated at Fish Kill 4th June & the entire pur port is to tell me that Capt Stewarts Family live at New-Town on Long Island with a Mr. Vanderbilt. Whether you expected that I shou’d in consequence of this notice have sent forward their Money I don’t know, as it is neither express’d nor Implyed in that letter, and as I thought the place mentioned was in the Enemies possession it never occured to me to take further trouble about the matter, but waited to hear when you cou’d convey the Money to those it is in tended for, and I shall be glad to get rid of it by sending it to you or paying to the Delegates whenever you will tell me to do so. I per ceive my Namesake gives you the doings of the Day and I need not trouble you with them, I think our Friend D. 2 has much Public merit, has been Ill used, but will rise Superiour to his Enemies. Shou’d the bearer Monsr Hutner fall under your Notice I shoud be glad if it suited to pay him some little attention because he is sent out by a Monsr Le Ray du Chaumont a Gentn. these States are much indebted to for many Acts of Friendship to D. & uncommon exertions to serve us. Monsr Hutner seeks after Furrs & Fur Trade, any information you can give or procure him on that Subject will be very acceptable. 3 I am Dear Sir, Your Obliged and Obedt. humble servant, Robt Morris RC (NNC). 1 J a y’s August 29 letter to Gouverneur Morris is in Jay, Papers (Morris), 1:496-97.
