612 September 9, 1778 Henry Laurens to Silas Deane Dear Sir 9th Septr. [1778] I had the honor of presenting to Congress your Note of Yesterday and have only to say, the House came to no determination thereon. 1 I Am with great Regard &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Deane’s brief letter to Laurens of September 8, asking the delegates to “in form me if they desire my further attendance,” was read in Congress on the eighth and tabled. See PCC, item 103, fols. 111-12; and JCC, 12:891. Committee of Arrangement to George Washington Sir Head Qr. 10 April [September] 1778. Before a proper Arrangement can take place in the Line of Artil lery, it is the opinion of the Committee that a dispute Subsisting be tween Cols Harrison, Lamb & Crane, respectively, should be settled; they therefore request the Subject of this difference may be referred to a board of Officers, of some other Corps, as soon as it may be con venient. 1 We are with the highest Respect your Excellency’s Most Obed. Servants, Jos. Reed, Chairman of the Committee P.S. The Committee also request that the Board will at the same Time determine the Seniority of the Regimts. 2 RC (DLC). Written by John Banister, with signature and postscript by Joseph Reed. 1 For the arrangement of the Continental Artillery, which a board of general officers determined on September 15 in keeping with "the rules of settling rank as published in General Orders of the 9th instant (with the Approbation of the honorable Committee of Congress for arranging the Army),” see Washington’s general orders of that date in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 12:458-59. 2 The first casualty of the arrangement of the artillery settled upon at this time was Ebenezer Stevens, who as the junior lieutenant colonel of artillery (holding a commission by brevet) was immediately deprived of a battalion com mand he had long held. Accordingly a special certificate was issued to him, dated September 14 and signed by John Banister, Roger Sherman, and Washington, recommending “that he be entitled to the first vacancy that may fall in the Line,” a recommendation that was implemented on November 24, 1778, when Congress adopted a series of proposals contained in the final report of the Com mittee of Arrangement. See PCC, item 59, 2:75-80; Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 12:457; and JCC, 12:1158.
