614 September 10, 1778 I have the honor to be. With the highest Esteem &: the most pro found Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient and Most Humble Servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (Archives Nationale: Archives de la Marine, B<:146). In the hand of Moses Young and signed by Laurens. Addressed: “His Excellency Count d’Estaing, Lieutt. General of the Armies of His Most Christian Majesty, Vice Admiral of His Fleets, And Knight of His Orders, Boston.” 1 D’Estaing’s July 8 letter to Laurens, which had been read in Congress on July 12, is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:640-42. The comte’s August 26 letter to the president, in which he dealt in general with his actions since ar riving in America and in particular with his reasons for breaking off operations in Rhode Island and sailing to Boston, is in PCC, item 164, fols. 555-72. Congress read the second letter on September 9 and appointed a committee to draft a re ply. The committee submitted a draft letter the following day that was “read and agreed to” and ordered to be “signed and forwarded by the President to the Count d’Estaing.” See JCC, 12:892, 897. The committee draft has not been found. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais My Dear Friend 10th September [1778] I had the honor of writing to you the 6th Instant by Muckinfuss to which I beg leave to refer, the opinion which I then intimated refering the Article of Rice, I now confirm, more on your Account than mine; I am altogether indifferent respecting a Concern in any purchase you may think proper to make, except the wish ever up permost in my mind to promote your Interest. I do not apprehend you will be a loser, should you venture to lay up even ten thousand Barrels, a small Cargo at Egg Harbour or Sinnepuxent will be in a fair way for Count d’Estaing’s fleet and for further Orders. I shall persevere in offering my opinion by every opportunity. Within the present inclosure you will receive two Newspapers— also a Copy of Count d’Estaings late letter to Congress and the An swer to it, which shew, that all at present is harmony, altho’ I may truly say, and say it with some concern, there is a cursed, unreason able, impolitic jealousy resting in some Minds. What this observa tion alludes to will afford Annecdote when I shall have the happiness of seeing you at Ansonburgh—you will shew these Copies to His Excellency the President, then be so good as to deposit them among my own Papers. Mr. Timothy Matlack of this City has been so polite and generous as to put into my hands a long Letter which he receiv’d from Mr. Gadsden, 1 and if I understand him right he has hitherto shewn it to no other Person, altho’ the Author has intimated that it should be shewn to any body or every body but me; It is highly probable you have seen or learned the Contents of that Letter. As Mr. Gadsden has, in this new instance without the least grounds, most injuriously
