616 September 10, 1778 Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes 10th Septr. [1778] I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency on the 6th which I sent after Muckinfuss whom I had engaged to wait eight and forty hours—business had crouded in upon me for the preceding week in such quantity and numbers as to render it impossible for me to write while he remained in the City—my Colleague Mr. Drayton had de tained him five days. I have therefore paid Muckinfuss for the whole, 70 Dollars, which I charge to our State; had we sent a special Express which our variety of Intelligence seemed to call for, the ex pence would have been ten times as much. By mere accident I have learned of an opportunity for Charles town, and have half an hour allowed me to write. General Sullivan writes the 3d Inst, that a perfect harmony subsist ed between the Count d’Estaing and himself, 1 this points at certain Circumstances which had happened upon the Count’s determination to go into Boston, the knowledge of which Congress had engaged to keep within doors, therefore I have not spoke of them to Your Ex cellency or any other friend and I think myself not yet releas’d. The General adds that the British fleet in Boston Bay consists of 8 ships of the line, 10 frigates, one Sloop and a Schooner. They cannot lie there long without coming to blows with the French Squadron whose re-equipment is proceeding with great celerity and whose Ad miral is brimfull of desire for Action. We are too ignorant of the State of our Enemy’s forces in this neighbourhood both on land and water. I am endeavouring since I perceive the public neglected to collect the fullest intelligence for their benefit. General Washington the 4th of September says ‘‘the designs of the Enemy as to their future movements remain yet entirely unfolded; but the expectation of their leaving the Continent is daily decreas ing.” The reasons which his Excellency assigns for the ground of this opinion appear to me as good premises for a quite contrary conclu sion. Mr. Gerard concurs in my sentiments, therefore I am not very presumptous in saying, that important point remains doubtful; in the mean time I am grieved by knowing from General Washington in the same Letter that our Army are again likely to suffer exceed ingly for want of Cloaths and Blankets, yet we have been amused for Months past with Reports of Cloathing enough in the public Stores for forty thousand Men. The management of Provision is equally improvident. In a word. Sir, every complaint which I have lately made to Your Excellency of the deplorable state of our Affairs gathers strength from every days melancholly experience—if Congress continues inert, the States will soon be alarmed by informations which will throw the whole into
