September 12, 1778 619 missioner, who shall be possessed of the said books and papers when this order arrives, deliver the same, both public and private, to the said Robert Morris, or to his order,” see JCC, 12:879. Committee of Arrangement to Theodorick Bland, Jr. Dear Sir Head Quarters September 11th. 1778 The Committee of Arrangement request you would transmit to Head Quarters either to the Commander in Chief or them an exact Return of your Regiment, or if possible an arrangment of it pursu ant to the new Regulation of Congress; specifying in the Return the particular State from which each Recruit was raised. If any disputes subsist among the Captains or Subalterns they are to be settled by a Board to be appointed for that purpose, &: if any such prevail among the Field Officers you will please to make a State[men]t & Report thereof to this Committee, & as no Claims not represented before the Committee make their Report can be admitted without an applica tion to Congress they wish the utmost dispatch. With a return of the officers Names Send the dates of their Commissions. I am in Behalf of the Committee your mo. obed Servant, J. Banister. [P.S.] Inclosed is a Copy of the new Arrangment, prescribed by Congress, for your direction. RC (PHC). Written and signed by John Banister. Addressed: "Col. Theok. Bland or in his absence to the Commanding Officer of his Regimt. of Horse.” Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philade. Sept. 12. 1778 Your obliging Letter of the 25 of August came duly to my Hand. 1 As you again mention Captn. Manly I will speak of him to you with Candor. I never saw him but once, viz. the last spring in Boston, till he came to this City. I had preconceivd an opinion of his Bravery, in speaking of which you tell me “no Caution ought to be used,” though I have never yet been pointed to a single Instance. I confess his Appearance in Boston did not strike me most agreably. He was in the midst of a Crowd who were shouting his Entrance into Bos ton, and like some of his Superiors, he seemd to be intoxicated with popular Applause. I had some other Apprehensions, but I give you my most charitable Thoughts. I retaind however an Opinion of him; for I concluded, that Huzza for the brave Manly, might be suf ficient to induce him to lay a Pop Gun Schooner alongside the Eagle
