September 12, 1778 621 2 Trumbull’s August 27 letter recommending Seth Harding to command the frigate Confederacy, which was under construction at Norwich, is in PCC, item 66, 1:410-12. For Congress’ appointment of Harding to this command, see Marine Committee to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., September 25, 1778. 3 Notwithstanding Adams’ concern that resentment over d’Estaing’s precipitate withdrawal from Rhode Island might be used by the unscrupulous for political advantage, John Hancock, the object of Adams’ immediate suspicions, joined in Massachusetts’ conspicuous public pro-French displays, praising the French and entertaining d’Estaing’s fleet during its brief stay at Boston. This official show of solidarity nevertheless failed to extinguish vestiges of the traditional anti-French sentiment that was more typical of the region, which found expression in a series of clashes that occurred between French and American sailors at Boston during September and October 1778. For discussion of Anglo-French relations at this critical juncture, see William C. Stinchcombe, The American Revolution and the French Alliance (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1969), pp. 53-61. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear Philadelphia Septr 12th 1778 This will be Sent by Express to Boston and I have only just to in form you that I am in a Comfortable State of Health; Charles Chace is got well; and I hope to Set out for home the first of November. The Congress are very much Engaged in Business So that we are obliged to Set twice a Day Besides being on Committees Morning or Evening which is very tedious but while I tarry shall Endeavor to Stick Closely to the Business. I have nothing new to write you; we are very uncertain what are the Designs of the Enemy. Some think they are going off to leave us, others think they will make a trial on New England. A Short time will Determine their Designs. The inclosed paper will Shew you the letters that have been Sent by the Brittish Comissioners to Congress. 1 You will please to lay up Carefully the news papers I Send you as it is probable I Shall hereaf ter Desire to read some of them. I hope you &: the rest of my family are well and that I Shall have the pleasure to find you all So in about two months from this time. I have wrote to Genl Whipple to Desire him to come forward Sea sonably. Give my Regards to all friends. If David Sanborn’s time is out before I Return I hope he will tarry till the fall Business is quite Compleated. I am yours Josiah Bartlett RC (NhHi). 1 That is, the Pennsylvania Packet, September 12, 1778.
