September 12, 1778 627 letter from a Mr. Fisher at Lewes & something respecting the movements of the French fleet And of some ships of war having appeared in Delaware Bay. I do most solemnly declare, that, I never saw or heard of any letter to the Governor or Councill or Any member of Councill, giving information, respecting exporta tion of flour to the eastern states, Nor did I at the time I gave you the intima tion, ever hear any Gentleman Named as suspected, nor did I believe it at that time. “If such a declaration, so injurious to my character has been made in a public manner, I must beg, My Dear Sir that you will read or permit Mr. Secry to read this letter in Congress. Otherwise if the declaration has been made in private to your Honor I would only request youll shew the Gent. My letter & if he will be kind enough to write me on the Subject, I will give him all the satisfaction in my power. For I do declare I do not even yet know with certainty to whom I am in debted for this groundless slander.” Laurens Papers, William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, MHi. In reply, Laurens wrote a letter to Smith on October 4, 1778, that has not been found except for an extract quoted by Charles Carroll of Carrollton in a public letter to Chase printed in the Maryland Gazette in 1781. "You appeared to me to have been abused, and yet I was not so clear in the fact, as to authorise me to write names. In conversation with Mr. Forbes, he informed me lately who said you had opened the letter, and circulated the contents; this gentleman is now go ing to Baltimore, and will be so polite as to take charge of my letter, to him therefore, I beg leave to refer you. Believe me Sir, from the first moment I heard the intimation alluded to, I treated it not only with discredit, but indignation, and expressed my feelings in the very instant to a particular friend. I know, said I, Mr. Smith’s honor and his discretion are never so unguarded, as this impu tation seems to imply.” "I am authorised to say,” Carroll continued, “that Mr. Forbes made no scruple to declare, at Mr. Smith’s table, that Mr. Chase was the member of congress who said Mr. Smith had opened his letter to the governor and council and betrayed the secret intended only for their information.” Although Chase’s letter to the governor and council has not been found, and much of the information on the episode derives from documents relating to the investigation of his misconduct in 1781-82, it seems clear that Chase’s accusation against Smith was designed to divert attention from himself. Congress received warning of the threat to American troops at Rhode Island posed by New En gland’s flour shortage in a July 23 letter from Commissary Wadsworth that was referred to committee on July 31. Soon thereafter Chase advised John Dorsey, a business partner in Baltimore, to start purchasing flour, and after the August 24 resolve was passed he urged Dorsey to increase his purchases. Eventually Dorsey bought 7,000 bushels of wheat and 400 barrels of flour and sold them to the Con tinental Army for a handsome profit in October 1778. News of Chase’s transgression, which posed a grave threat to the maintenance of Continental leadership, quickly spread beyond the halls of Congress and had significant political repercussions. Alexander Hamilton vigorously criticized Chase’s behavior in three pseudonymous letters published in the New-York Jour nal in October and November 1778. The Maryland legislature left Chase out of the new slate of delegates it selected in November 1778, and in its instructions to the delegates issued the following month it pointedly warned against "combining with the monopolizers and engrossers of the necessaries of life,” asserting the duty of delegates “to be watchful each one over the conduct of the other” to expose such dishonorable practices. And in a final burst of anticommercial sentiment in 1779, it adopted an “Act to restrict the delegates of this state in Congress from engaging in any trade, either foreign or domestic.” The issue was not laid to rest until January 1782 when the Maryland Assembly declared Chase not guilty “of a breach of his duty, as a member of Congress, by
