September 12, 1778 631 Gen. John Sullivan to President Laurens asking the delegates to authorize forma tion of a militia reserve in neighboring states that he could draw upon for help at Rhode Island. See JCC, 12:907; and Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 2:295. Henry Marchant to John Sullivan Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 12th. 1778 I have to congratulate you upon the acknowledged generalship which You displayed in the late Expedition against Rhode Island. Not to you Sir, or the brave Troops under your Command is to be attributed the failing in the full Success which Appearances at first gave Us rational Expectations of. I resolve that, into those Acci dents, or rather Counsells of Divine Providence, which are often for good & wise Purposes hid from human Investigation, and so resolv ing, I wish we may humbly submit, Thankful that it Pleased Heaven in the midst of some Disappointments to crown Our Arms with Laurells of Honour. I did myself the Honour of bringing into Congress such Resolu tions upon that Occasion as I thought were due from the Publick, to Your Zeal, Bravery and good Conduct, and that Display of fortitude and Spirit which annimated the Officers and Troops. 1 Those Resolu tions with some small alterations were passed, they are contained in the Papers inclosed. I shall not fail to inform the State 1 have the Honor to represent, of the Justice you have done to their great Exertions; and the Inter est You take in procuring them some Relief from their uncommon Burthens. I assure You Sir, I felt myself interested in whatever affects either Your Honor or Happiness, And it shall ever be my Study to promote both, while you are thus eminently continuing to merit them. And I doubt not You will find Your Reward in a grateful Country. Be pleased Sir to present my Respects to such of the worthy Sharers of those Publick Honors, as You may find I have the Honor to be ac quainted with, and assure Them I have the Honor to be theirs, & Your very humble Servt. Hy Marchant RC (MHi). This letter is incorrectly dated September 17 in Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 2:349-50. 1 See the September 9 resolutions on the recent unsuccessful Rhode Island ex pedition in JCC, 12:894.
