638 September 14. 1778 fluence in assisting you. 2 Relying upon your activity in the Speedy execution of this business, We are sir, Your Hble servants 3 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). t The Marine Committee’s letter of this date to the deputy commissary at Al bany is in Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:7. This day the committee also wrote a similar letter to the Albany Committee. Ibid., pp. 6-7. 2 For the Marine Committee’s letter of this date to General Schuyler, see ibid., p. 6. 3 After learning from the deputy quartermaster and deputy commissary at Al bany that they could not ship flour to Boston in time to reach d’Estaing, John Brown, the Marine Committee’s secretary, notified Commissary General Jeremiah Wadsworth on September 29 “that 1500 Barrels flour more than what has already been ordered, should be sent from the Magazine nearest to Boston for the use of the French Fleet.” Ibid., p. 11. Marine Committee to Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen September 14th 1778. We are favoured with yours of the 26th August in answer to which we highly approve of your supplying the French fleet with what they may want, and recommend your giving them every as sistance in your power, you will please to take proper receipts for ev ery thing you furnish them with, and keep distinct and clear Accounts of the cost and charges attending this business which in due time you will transmit to this Committee in order that they may be settled with the Marine Agent of France at this place. We desire you will order the Commanders of the Frigates Raleigh, Warren, (should she be returned) or the Deane and the Brigt. Resistance to proceed on a Cruize in Company between Cape Hen- lopen and Occracock on the Coast of North Carolina with a veiw to take certain armed Vessels fitted out by the Goodriches, or any other of the Enemys Vessels that may be infesting that coast. That as the Raleigh, Warren or Deane and the Brig Resistance may soon be wanted to answer the purpose of Convoy, they are so to manage their Cruize as that they may be ready to receive the future orders of this Committee and for this purpose they are once a Week to put into Cheseapeake Bay and call at the Town of Hampton where they will find such Orders lodged, and they are to continue to Cruize and call at Hampton in this manner until they receive their Instructions. If you think the Vessels ordered to be built for Packets will answer best to be rigged as Brigantines you have our consent so to do. We are also favoured with yours of the first instant and desire you will apply to General Heath to order the commissarys to return the Provisions you lent General Sullivan of the like kind and quality. We are glad to hear of the arrival of the Brigantine General Gates with her Prizes, but regret very much the loss of her late gallant
