September 14, 1778 639 commander captain Skimmer. You will please to appoint another commander and fit her out on a Cruize as soon as possible. We enclose an Order from the Board of War for 100 Muskets and Baynets for the use of the Alliance. The Officers of the Navy since the 10th of October, 1776 rank ac cording to the dates of their Commissions, we shall in our next transmit you a List of them and are Gentlemen, Your very Hble servants P.S. We approve of the purchase you have made of the Cannon Iron and other Articles taken out of the British frigates burned at New port. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Marine Committee to Jeremiah Wadsworth Sir September 14th 1778 As the dificultys attending sending flour by water from Virginia to Boston woud be so very great, It is our desire that the Orders you have had for that purpose may not be executed but instead thereof the following order. We desire you will purchase without delay 18000 Barrels flour in Virginia or if necessary in Maryland for the use of the French Squadron and collect the same quickly as possible, and Store it at such place in Virginia as the Governor and Council of that State Shall advise will best answer the purpose of speedy de livery to the Squadron when it is called for, and avoid at the same time danger from the enemy and interruption from the frost. 1 We are sir, Your very Hble servants P.S. This new order of 18,000 Barrels of Flour is to be considered as over and above all former Orders, that you have received from Congress or the Marine Committee, and it requires to be purchased and collected in Virginia with all possible despatch, as it may be soon called for by the French Admiral. It should be so placed as to be taken off with the greatest facility by the fleet, yet care should be taken against surprize from the enemy and delay from the frost. The enemy being now masters of the Sea between the Capes of Virginia and Boston, perhaps you may see it convenient not to send out flour yet by water for the Army. Lord Howe with a powerful Squadron is hovering between Rhode Island and Boston Bay. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 This day the Marine Committee also wrote a letter to the deputy commissary at Boston, requesting him to forward certain food supplies to the comte d’Estaing. Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:4-5.
