654 September 16, 1778 positively determined to expose upon his arrival in America, Mr. Deane’s conduct as a Commissioner, in the fullest extent,” a view repeated in a February 1 letter to Lee from Stevenson. The circumstances that frustrated the Lees at this time, however, was simply that Carmichael had patched up his relationship with Deane but had had a falling out with Arthur Lee before he had left France and was now reluctant to offer information against the former, although he had once so freely admitted to Lloyd and Stevenson that he was prepared to. The originals of their letters to Arthur Lee are located in the Lee Papers, MH-H; but the fact that copies of these and other related Lloyd and Stevenson letters can be -found in the Laurens Papers, ScHi, Lee Papers, ViU, and Peter Force Collection, DLC, suggests that considerable significance was attached to their intelligence and that several delegates obtained access to it. For the examination of Carmichael before Congress and the steps taken to com pel his testimony, see Gouvernor Morris’ Proposed Resolve on William Carmi chael, September 18; and Charles Thomson’s Notes on William Carmichael’s Examination, September 28, 1778. For information on Carmichael, and an extend ed analysis of Richard Henry Lee’s role in the entire Deane-Arthur Lee affair, see Floyd B. Streeter, “The Diplomatic Career of William Carmichael,” Maryland Historical Magazine 8 (June 1913): 120-27; and Paul C. Bowers, “Richard Henry Lee and the Continental Congress, 1774-1779,” (Ph.D. diss., Duke University, 1965), pp. 280-341. 4 William Stevenson, whose arrival in America in June had been reported by James Lovell in the Committee for Foreign Affairs’ June 20, 1778, letter to Ben jamin Franklin. 5 Benjamin Franklin. 6 William Lee. 7 Whether “immoral” or “immoderate” was intended must be conjectured. 8 Richard Henry’s son Ludwell, whose education in France was being super vised by Arthur. John Witherspoon to William Churchill Houston Dr Sir Philadelphia Septr 16. 1778 Receive inclosed an Extract of the Minutes of Congress relating to the Representation from New Jersey. 1 We have not copied the Representation itself as You must have it—I believe there is not an other State which has its Sense in its own Words on the Records of Congress the rest having generally had only Instructions to their Members. I have no News. It begins to be believed that the Enemy are to leave New York & it is thought to be with a view of going to the Westindies. The Arrival of the August Packet alone will make that definitively certain. My Complements to Mrs. Houston. I am, Dr Sir you most obedt, humble Servant, Jno Witherspoon RC (PHC). 1 For Congress’ rejection on June 25 of a representation from the New Jersey legislature proposing amendments to the Articles of Confederation, see JCC, 11:648-51. Houston was in Princeton attending a session of the New Jersey As-
