September 17, 1778 655 sembly that had just received President Laurens’ July 10 circular letter urging prompt ratification of the Articles. New Jersey Assembly Proceedings, September 14, 1778, DLC(ESR). Jonathan Elmer to the New Jersey Council and Assembly Gentlemn. Philada. 17th Septr. 1778 Sensible of the important trust reposed in me & the honour you have done me in appointing me one of your Delegates in Congress for two years past, I esteem it my duty to embrace every opportunity of returning you my sincere thanks therefor. A willingness to comply with your requisition 8c an earnest desire to serve my Country as far as my slender abilities would enable me, were the sole motives that induced me to accept of the appointment. How far I have answered your expectations in executing the trust I willingly submit to your candour to determine. Permit me however to assure you that the public Interest & the good of my Country, par ticularly of the State which I have had the honour of representing, have constantly been the objects of my attention. I hope the integ rity of my conduct at least, will meet with your approbation. As the circumstances of my family & private affairs render it im practicable for me to attend Congress any longer I take this oppor tunity of acquainting the honourable Council & Assembly therewith 8c of soliciting leave to resign. 1 I have the honour to be, Gentlemen, Your very Humble Servant, Jonathn. Elmer RC (PHC). 1 The New Jersey Assembly read Elmer’s letter on October 1 and referred it to a joint conference of the assembly and council, but there is no other reference to it in the journals of either house for 1778. New Jersey Assembly Proceedings, Oc tober 1, 1778, DLC(ESR). Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son 17th September [1778] My last was under the 13th Instant, I am now to thank you for your several favors of the 10th, 12th and 12th Inst. Continue your intelligent correspondence by every opportunity I intreat you, and be as ample as circumstances will possibly admit of. I shall upon every occasion pay particular attention to those brave Officers whose names you have specified. It mortifies me exceedingly to see a Gentleman of Mr. Ternant’s merit held in suspense without
