656 September 17, 1778 ability on my part to afford him any aid—I can do no more than to ask him to a Dinner and entertain him civily. Can you, my Dear Son, appologize for asking me to supply you with common necessaries? You know nothing affords me more pleasure than acting the part of your Friend. The first proper person going to Camp shall be the Bearer of Money, and probably a Piece of Linnen. I presume you may get it converted into shirts with as much accuracy 8c expedition at Camp, as any where else. If I had been where you were treated with so much hospitality I should have been invited to accept the same sort of kindness, al though the Person knows I hold him extremely cheap because I have detected him in some mean, and even in some dishonest Acts, 1 therefore I am sorry it has happened that you are laid under any obligations, especially as I am told you are more indebted to the Creditors of the Person than to himself. This is a disagreeable sub ject, but you know I hate Imposters, and I believe there never was a greater—but dont misunderstand me, I never passed an angry word with the Man in my Life; my present sentiments are not new, they are grounded in observation and conviction. Your friend F. Kinloch will probably salute you in Camp this day sinnight, another friend of yours R. Berresford is in New York. 2 I hope to obtain permission for his coming here in a few days, this indeed should have been done four days ago, but Mr. Kinloch had omitted till last evening to deliver me a message from Mr. Ber resford. Mr. Robert Williams, his son, and many other Carolina and Geor gia Gentlemen are also in New York, among them Mr. J. Hopton— the Chief Justice assures me this young Gentlemen and my old friend R.W. will meet the people in Charlestown full of resentment against them. Mr. H. Peronneau and his brother in law Mr Cooper are both at New Providence waiting, no doubt, for the moving of the Waters. How very kind Great Britain has been to her Votaries. How very unkind these devotees, to themselves and their families. Sir E.L. Mr. Kinloch informs me is wretched, and he will relate to you the melancholly Catastrophe of the unfortunate M.B. I again recommend to your serious Consideration the near ap proach of the 1st of November. I do not say that I shall leave Philadelphia immediately after its arrival, nor can I promise not to leave it on the 2nd. I have a duty to you, to your Brother, to your sisters, and some to myself which call loudly on me. My Country is like all other collective Bodies, extremely easy when they can get a Man to serve them diligently and faithfully, be the consequence to himself what it may, even Ruin.
