September 17, 1778 657 God Bless, and keep you in health and safety. P.S. Inclosed you will find 2 Letters from England, and a Newspa per. LB (ScHi). 1 The letter from John Laurens mentioning this "person" has not been found, and he is not identified in the younger Laurens’ September 24 reply to this letter. Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 225-29. 2 See Laurens to Richard Beresford, September 19, 1778. Henry Laurens to Baron Steuben Dear Sir Philadelphia 17th September 1778 Notwithstanding my promise which was really grounded on deter mination to pay my respects to you the 14th this is the first moment I have been able to redeem for that purpose since my last of the 13th. I think it fortunate to yourself that you did not proceed to Rhode Island, it would have been on every account a disagreeable em bassy. 1 The Commander in Chief having returned to Congress the report of the Committee on the Inspectorate with His Excellency’s remarks & observations the whole is recommitted & will probably be soon re ported on, but the House is so overcharged with business as renders it impossible even to guess at a time when it will be taken under consideration & concluded. 2 My Man James having been sick for several days & no other per son in my house knowing where to find your Servants, I can only hope that Mr. Peters & Mr. Melcher have done the needful, never theless I shall request Major Young while I am at Congress this Morning to make special enquiries 8c if there shall remain any room for my interposition, it will be immediately applied & you shall be further informed. Nothing, I am extremely sorry to say it, is yet reported respecting Mr. Ternant. I am grieved to see this meritorious Officer kept in sus- pence. 3 Be assured Dear Baron my inclinations are warm for rendering you every service in my Power, that I will embrace every oppor tunity of confirming this assurance, proving that I am with great truth, Dear Sir, Your most obedient, 8c Most humble Servant, Henry Laurens. RC (NHi). 1 Although Congress had requested Steuben on August 28 to join General Sul livan in Rhode Island, Washington had instructed him to disregard this request
