658 September 17, 1778 and remain at his post as inspector general of the army. See JCC, 11:849; and John M. Palmer, General -von Steuben (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1937), p. 197. 2 See Laurens’ second letter to Washington of August 20, 1778, note 2. 3 On September 11 Congress had read a letter of the fifth from Steuben to Laurens recommending the appointment of Jean Baptiste Ternant as “Inspector of the Light Troops” with the rank of lieutenant colonel. As a result. Congress appointed Ternant a lieutenant colonel on September 25 and ordered him to serve as inspector of Continental troops in Georgia and South Carolina. See JCC, 12:904,952; and PCC, item 164, fols. 146-48. Medical Committee to Jonathan Potts Sir Philadelphia 17th Sepr. 1778. It appearing by the Returns that there are more Medicines on Hand in your Department than are necessary for the public Use, And it appearing also that by the Removal of the Army to the Eastern Department the Medicines and Stores of that Department are insufficient for the Troops and Sick here, You are therefore desired to furnish to the Orders of the Director General such Medi cines and Stores as he may think proper for the Use of that Depart ment, And also to consult with him and dispose of by public Sale or otherwise for the greatest public advantage such of the Medicines now in your Possession as may not be necessary for the Armies & Hospitals of the United States. 1 I am Sir, Your humble Servant Gouvr. Morris of the Medical Committee RC (PHi). Written and signed by Gouverneur Morris. Addressed: “To Doctor Jonathan Potts, Deputy Director Genl., Middle Department.” 1 Potts had written to the Medical Committee on September 3 to ask whether he should comply with a request for medical supplies from William Shippen, Jr., the director general of hospitals. PCC, item 143, fol. 63. Henry Laurens to George Bryan Sir 18th September [1778] Mr. Jackson of Jamaica captured on his voyage from that Island bound for New York, where he was going to reside for the benefit of his health, and now a Prisoner of this State on Parole is desirous of going to South Carolina. I request you Sir, to enlarge his bounds and permit him to pass to that State. I will take proper means for holding him under such restrictions as that he shall be forthcoming if this State shall hereafter judge it necessary to demand his appear ance.
