September 18, 1778 659 Mr. Richard Beresford, a young Gentleman Native of South Car olina is now in New York and wishes to be permitted to pass to his own Country where he has a large Estate and where he means to be come a Citizen. I pray you Sir, grant him a Permit to come to Philadelphia on his way to Carolina. I shall write to Governor .Liv- ingston in order to obtain from His Excellency permission for Mr. Beresford to pass thro’ New Jersey. 1 I have the honor to be &c. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “The Honble George Bryan Esquire Vice President of Pennsylvania, Phila., by M[oses] Y[oung]. 1 Although no reply by Bryan to this letter has been found, he must have ap proved Laurens’ request because on September 19 Laurens wrote to Richard Beresford and assured him that he could safely come to Philadelphia. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear Sir Sepr. 18th. 1778 Your Favor of the 11th brought by Col. Hazen was a Confirmation of my former good Opinion of our late Alliance. As I always make the best of every Misshap, I think we ought to conclude that the Events at Newport will prevent too much of our Independence being attributed to the Arrival of the allied Fleet on our Coasts. It is reported here that War is declared in the West Indies by the French. The Print of Tomorrow will have the Accounts, if it is au thentic. I own I wish we could have settled our Quarrel with Britain without a general War. Our Ally seems to see an Advantage in the Declaration, and therefore, for the present, I repose myself on the old Skill of France in such matters. I have catched part of a Story that offends me much relative to some late Transactions between you and a former Officer of yours. 1 I will not, outright, condemn your Condescention, because I do not know critically all Circumstances. I readily conceive that you view [latent?] Springs as giving Dignity to the Tool. I am uneasy with you; and I am astonished that among your large Number of Pupils, many are not found to crush intended Insults, that might in its Con sequences prove most fatal to the Public. There must be a great Change of Men in a certain Assembly be fore you can fail of many Friends there; or, as much less probable Circumstance, you yourself must be reversed in Character. I suppose you feel confirmed in your Winter’s Opinion that New England would have the main Struggle of this Campaign. But, the Period for much Business is too far over. The Enemy are themselves greatly at a Loss what Orders they shall receive from Europe; and appear to me to be putting themselves into Posture for going off,
