666 September 19, 1778 the Merits of the Captors; I cannot presume however what will be the Sentiments of the Court, or of Congress. Not knowing whether the Resolution of Congress respecting the allowance to be made the Court appointed to inquire into the Causes of the failure of the Ex pedition against Rhode Island was ever transmitted to you, I enclose it to you 1 —By which it appears we are referred to the Dep Paymas ter Genl, in the Eastern Department. I mean to exhibit my Account for my Services only, noting that I have already reed, my Expences. And I mean to charge the same per Day as was allowed me by the State at that Time as a Delegate in Congress, viz five Dollars. I have also sent a like Copy to Mr. Ellsworth. He is expected here in a few Days. Nor are we without Hopes of seeing You this Fall. Before this I dare say you have heard of the Fate of Stateing Bills, or Regulations of Prices. They all fell to the Ground—Thus you may see the Weight & Influence of Monopolizers & Extortioners. The Necessity of such Acts I early foresaw, and also the present Conse quences from the non-complyance with Them. But some great State Polliticians will spin their Thread till it breaks. Had those Acts been carried into Execution—Millions would have saved—The Credit of the Money mainly supported, at least as far as further Emissions have tended to sink it. I entirely agree with you Sir, that we have had & still have more to fear from the Decay of publick & private Virtue, than from the Arms of Britain, With any possible Aids she might procure. This is an Evil that not only Congress, but every Legislature, ought immedi ately with Might & Main to pay their Attention to. America would have had Peace before this Day had she deserved it; and I wish to God she was as ready for the Blessing, as Heaven is to grant it. It is to Miracles we are to ascribe Our present Situa tion—But appearances which strike with Wonder and astonishment all Europe, are scarcely noticed by two many amongst ourselves. They Expect that Congress and Washington, have some magick Wand, to raise, feed & cloath Armies with. However that be, tis certain, that Thousands of vile Extortioners and devilish monopolizers rise up with more magick Acts & Spells to counteract every Attempt to give Strength and Vigour to our Arms and Accomplish the Blessings of Peace, Liberty and Independence. To such Men as those, Tories are virtuous Men, and Britons & Hessians less unnatural. I lament Sir the Failure of the Expedition agt. Rhode Island. I re joice however that the Arms of America far from being sullied, have reaped Glory & Honor in the Attempt. I resolve the Misfortune into the just Providence of God. Again I say Heaven knows we were not under proper Habits and Temper of Mind to receive the fulfillment of the Blessings, which yet I trust are reserved for this Land. I hope Time 8c Reflection will put the most candid construction upon the
