September 19, 1778 667 Conduct of the Count De Staing. We may not Doubt of His Honor & Integrity—much less of the strongest Assurances we have of the Friendship of his Royal Master. I have not Room to add, unless I tire you with a new Sheet. I am Dear Sir, your Friend & Servant, Hy. Marchant RC (MHi). 1 Marchant and Paine were among the five commissioners appointed by Congress on December 11, 1777, to investigate the failure of a proposed Rhode Is land expedition in September 1777. JCC, 9:1018—20. For Congress March 27, 1778, resolve on their compensation, see JCC, 10:290. Gouverneur Morris to the Earl of Carlisle [September 19, 1778] To his Excellency the Earl of CARLISLE. MY LORD, through the medium of a news-paper, I see a declaration and requisition, signed by yourself and your brethren Clinton and Eden, together with an apologetic Epistle from Governor Johnstone. 1 As these papers are transmitted by your Secretary, and reflect light upon each other, your Lordship will excuse a few animadversions on them addressed to you. My intention is, to undeceive you in some matters you seem to have mistaken, and to state the true ground on which you stand with respect to America. 2 This I attempt from a sincere desire of peace; considering it as a blessing, the loss of which can never be compensated by the splendors of victory. Your first error, a leading one, which hath tinged the complexion of all your national acts since the early commencement of the con troversy, is a supposition that Congress do not speak the sense of the people of America. Of all the people they do not, but of a consider able majority they certainly do. Considerable for the numbers, property, principles, temper and character of those who compose it. The number, according to my best estimation, is at least two- thirds of the whole; and the remaining third are of very little politi cal consideration. They consist of a few who adhere to you from principle, a few more from interest, and a very few (now) from fear, as Indians worship the Devil. The remainder are attached to no side, unless indeed they could discover with absolute certainty which is the strongest side, being, as they term it moderate men. Add to this, that your American friends, from their religious notions and other circumstances, are generally averse to war. The majority are further considerable from their property. It is by no means a figurative expression to say that the land of America is
