668 September 19, 1778 against you. This may seem extraordinary after what you have heard, especially if you have had the honor of a conversation with some of those traders who have lately, taken it into their heads to call themselves the Gentlemen of America. But if your Lordship will condescend to enquire for the ten greatest landholders of the state of New-York on the whig side of the question, you will find that no forty tories throughout the whole Continent have an equal property; considered as to the extent, the fertility, or the value in coin. The principles of your opponents are republican, some indeed aristocratic; the greater part democratic, but all opposed to Kings, from a thorough conviction by reason, by history, and above both by experience, that nine times in ten they are the scourges of man kind. 3 The temper of this majority is not only vigilant and irascible, but much roused and exasperated. Exasperated by the injustice, the treachery, the cruelty of Great-Britain. Respect, my Lord, for your feelings forbids that odious detail which justifies these charges. 4 Should you doubt, ask Sir Henry. Ask the officers in your regiments and on board your ships. Let them paint the violations, the burn ings, the massacres, the starvings they have been witness to. And if this evidence is insufficient, invocable the manes of those wretches who died at Philadelphia in the paroxisms of madness and despair, from reflecting on the horrors they themselves had executed.® Lastly, the character of those who compose the majority in Amer ica is of no small importance. Many of them are the most respect able members of the community; others again are distinguished by superior talents; and a great number are of that aspiring cast who look on high, and will neither be thrown out in pursuit of their fa vourite objects, nor dropped into insignificancy. To these things, I add the perseverance of the lower class in a cause which they think, with me, is just and righteous. At the Valley-Forge I was an eye witness to the sufferings of our soldiery: Many of them lay literally on the earth naked without fire and without food. It is to their honor that they did not mutiny; that they did not desert; that they did not even complain. The sentiment expressed by these brave cit izens was, “We know every measure is taken to relieve our wants, and if we are distressed, it is because distress is unavoidable.” Of such a majority, my Lord, the sense is spoken by Congress. To con vince you of it, look at their publications; see how frequently, how fully, how directly they appeal to the people. Can you lay your fin ger on any falsehood sanctioned by their authority? Have they ever descended to meanness or artifice to cajole or to deceive their con stituents or even their enemies? I know that your Gazetteers have charged all these things upon them; but, my Lord, I can hardly sup pose that you was sent hither to read or to write news-papers. 8 A second error which hath affected your national conduct, is an
