September 19, 1778 669 opinion that Congress lead the people. The direct contrary is so much a fact, that the business of Congress is, in a great measure, to discover the sentiment of the people and clothe it in words. When ever any step is to be taken, they ask, what is the opinion of the people? For should they go beyond the ground on which they are supported by popular favour, that instant their power is at an end. To prove this further, I ask if the people have ever refused obedi ence to the matters proposed by Congress? Have the accumulated distresses of the present war, distresses almost beyond example, pre vailed on them to desert their Congress? Nay, have all your efforts impaired the credit of our continental money, resting, as it did, merely on the public opinion and confidence in Congress? An error of another kind appears in the papers now before me. From them it is manifest that you really misinterpret the language, and mistake the meaning of Congress. You seem to suppose, that when they declared it incompatible with their honor to hold inter course with George Johnstone, especially to negociate with him upon affairs in which the cause of liberty and virtue is interested, they indirectly receded from their determination to have nothing to say to any of you till you sent away your fleets and armies, or ac knowledged the Independence of America. 7 It is a maxim, my Lord, that a positive act cannot be repealed by implication. The plain lan guage of the resolution, therefore, is this, “Perhaps the British Com missioners may have collateral matters to urge, such as the exchange of prisoners, &c. If he who hath insolently tendered bribes to us should join in any application of this sort, 8 we cannot listen to it. Let us therefore give our enemies a timely notice, that they may square their conduct accordingly. Let us not leave them the shadow of a reason to charge us with any disingenuous procedure.” From the best information, I take on me to assure your Lordship, that not the remotest idea was entertained of departing from their resolutions. The candour which dictated this last determination, is entitled to a very different language from what it hath met with. But since the conduct of Congress is stigmatized with the charge of du plicity, it may not be improper to shew the entire consistency of that Body, notwithstanding the many changes it hath undergone of the individuals. This will corroborate my former position, that they are simply the mouth of a people steadily attached to, and determined to support their rights and liberties. The declaration of Independence will form a principal part of the present question. But, though much hath been, and much more may be speculated on the right of a people to become independent, it will perhaps ultimately turn on their power. You yourselves tender to Congress every thing they may ask short of a total separation of interests: Therefore, you offer to confine the union simply to the person of the Prince. Supposing it accepted, then without enquiring
