670 September 19, 1778 whether Americans might afterwards choose a King for themselves, clearly the English might, or else as clearly their now King is an usurper. If the people of Britain should exercise this right, then America continuing under her old King, would be independent. But a contract which one party can break, and the other cannot, is void; and therefore America could of right break the bargain as well as Great Britain; and therefore either party might at pleasure be inde pendent of the other. And if America could of right declare herself independent after the agreement, certainly she could before. But fur ther; from your own shewing, we are not subjects of the Parliament: If subjects therefore, we are subjects of the King. Again, it is agreed that if we do not like a King, we can send him away and take an other in his stead, for our fathers did so before us. Therefore, as the greater contains within it the lesser, so we could do just one half of the proposition, viz. get rid of one King without getting another; and this is precisely what we have done. Take it lastly as a question of force, and then we fight to determine the moot point of which side are rebels. So much for the right to Independence. In the commencement of this controversy, Congress prayed to be placed in the situation of sixty-three. This was practicable at that time, for nothing more was necessary than on your part to repeal the impolitic acts you had passed. You refused; they pressed it ear nestly. For tho’ the situation of sixty three was not very eligible, yet, as the event of war was uncertain, and the costs and the miseries but too certain, it was prudent and right to urge this request. Still you refused and appealed to the sword, and prosecuted and persecuted us to obtain what you now acknowledge you had no right to ask. Thus then were we plunged into a war against our inclinations, and of consequence could not be bound by any offer made with a view to avoid it. Besides, the situation of sixty three was no longer attaina ble: For, though the paper acts of your Parliament could have been repealed, yet the bloody acts of your soldiery could not. You could not pour back into the veins of our citizens the blood you had wan tonly spilt. Previous to the year sixty three, points which should al ways have remained in oblivion, had never been started. But the question of supremacy once made in the rude language of arms, a decided line of authority and subjection became necessary to a fu ture union. Desirous of avoiding the further calamities of war, we intreated you to pursue the measures necessary for reconciliation. This you refused, pertinaciously adhering to your first postulatum of unconditional submission, and with a view to the great object of solid revenue. You therefore urged the war, and applied to every little Prince in Europe for troops: We deprecated it, and did not even seek an alliance with any foreign power, knowing well that such alliance would close the door of reconciliation forever with all the bars of national faith and honor.
