September 19, 1778 671 The situation of America was at length such by your obstinacy, that the evils Congress laboured to avoid were to become certain. At the same time it was a decided fact, that the interests of England and of America were directly opposed to each other. It was your in terest to restrict our commerce, and it was our interest to extend it: It was your interest to take our money, and it was our interest to keep it. In a word, it was your interest to tyrannize, and it was our interest to be free. We therefore could not trust you, and you would not trust us. The King and his Ministers no body would trust. So that a re-union became every day more problematical. The great fleets and armies you had employed, and the pains you had taken to deprive us of all military stores, obliged us to seek for eign aid, and it was clear that no Prince would assist us while we ac knowledged ourselves to be rebels. Thus it was certain that we should experience the horrors of war, notwithstanding we had of fered a part of our rights to avoid them. It was highly probable that without help we should be conquered. The object of reconciliation was distant and precarious at best, and by no means worth the blood and treasure necessary to attain it; and therefore, the people of America, through their Congress, declared themselves free and inde pendent, as the only mode left to obtain their great end of peace, liberty and safety. The war continued, and success seemed to be yours. Swoln with the hopes'of conquest, you disclaimed every thing which looked like concession. At length the fate of the brave unfortunate Burgoyne re called you to your senses: You sent to Congress the draft of your conciliatory bills. They, at that time, knew nothing of what their Commissioners had done in Europe. They saw, however, that your concessions proceeded from weakness, and were dictated by necessity. They knew your insincerity, and therefore wisely determined to have nothing to say to you till you acknowledged our independence, or withdrew your forces. Between this period and your Lordship’s ar rival, Congress received a copy of the treaties with his Most Chris tian Majesty. In answer to your letters therefore, they informed you, that after you had complied with the alternative just now men tioned, they would consent to a treaty with your Prince, not incon sistent with those already entered into. At length a war hath broken out between your sovereign and France, which, if I am rightly in formed, will again alter the situation of affairs as far as they relate to negociation. From this detail your Lordship will perceive that the most perfect consistency hath been maintained on our part. We have acted from a conviction of your force and your violence, of your weakness and your insincerity. 9 I come now to a matter of some delicacy, which I shall neverthe less, treat with freedom, and hope your Lordship’s pardon for the unpolished terms of a republican. In your declaration you state a
