678 September 21, 1778 criminating him. The Tories will try their utmost to discredit our new Alliance. They cannot succeed but by making injudicious Whigs their Instruments. There are two things from which I am more apprehensive than I am from the joynt Efforts of all our Ene mies, viz the intemperate and misplacd Zeal of our honest Friends, and an insatiable Desire in others who are called Friends to establish a Popularity in order to obtain the Splendor or Emoluments of Places, or that Vanity of Vanities the Breath of Applause. Adieu my Friend, FC (NN). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 There is no July 4, 1778, letter to Samuel Adams in the Samuel Adams Pa pers, NN, in the absence of which it has not been possible to identify Adams’ cor respondent. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia Septr 21st 1778. Your favor of the 5th inst is now before me. We have had all the particulars of the Rhode Island expedition transmitted to us by General Sullivan and have rec’d a letter or rather a folio book from Count d’Estaing in justification of his conduct. 1 I make no doubt he acted what he thought for the best and had it not been for the unlucky storm which it was impossible for him to foresee, it is very probable that it might have been for the best; nor do I think him so much to blame for going to Boston with his shattered fleet when he knew Admiral Byron’s fleet might be hourly expected which joined to Lord Howe’s fleet and all the troops at New York ready to be sent immediately to assist them might endanger the total destruction of the whole French Squadron. I hope great care will be taken not to throw too much blame on the French, and raise a misunderstanding between us and them in this early period of the Alliance, than which nothing could give our enemies greater pleasure. The Rhode Island expedition though not successful, yet brought no disgrace on our arms, nor have the enemy any great cause of boasting. Our commercial, marine and treasury affairs are in a very bad Sit uation and will never be otherwise while they are managed by Com mittees of Congress who are many of them unacquainted with the business and are continually changing and by that time they begin to be acquainted with the business they quit, others come in who know nothing that has been done; thus we go on from time to time to the great loss of the public. But you will ask why don’t you put those affairs in other hands to be conducted who may give their whole time to the business. There are several reasons—first we have not time to make the proper arrangements and form proper Systems
