September 22, 1778 683 us, every day’s delay to the completion of which gives an almost fatal stab to the Interests of this Great Continent, I can assure you with out exaggeration, frets me in such a manner, as frequently to de prive me of that indifferent share of health which I should otherwise enjoy. As far as my poor abilities extend I will never flinch from any duty that I may be called upon by my country to undertake but at the same time, I could wish to be placed in some station, where I could render some service. I fully intended when I came into Congress, to have accustomed my self to deliver my sentiments upon every important Question, but I have found the thirst for Chattering so extremely prevalent, that it absolutely disgusts me, Sc frequently seals my lips, least my conscience should upbraid me with the com mission of that very Sin against our righteous cause that I see daily committed by others, Vizt. the loss of so much precious, irretrievable time, & I am affraid the day will shortly arrive when some men, will be made sensible, that all the future services they can render their Country can never compensate for the invaluable moments, nay hours, days, & months they have trifled away, in idle debate. For my own part I seldom speak, except it is a subject in which the State I belong to, is particularly interested, for I most commonly find some member or other, speak my sentiments, then when is the necessity of a repetition? I thank God, I am not Coxcomb enough to conceive, that my cloathing the same sentiments, in a different garb, can have greater influence over the minds of men, than the picture that has already been exhibited by my Neighbour. If any thing has been left unsaid by others, that has struck my mind, & which I think material why I throw it out in as few words as possible. If every member would observe this line of conduct, the business of the Great Public may be done, but whilst every member is so tenacious, 8c so cursedly conceited of his own rhetoric, it never can. I am affraid, my Dr Sir, you will think your old acquaintance, has of late grown very ambi tious, thus to presume to lay down a rule for the Government of so Wise 8c August a body as this one of whom I have been speaking, 8c that Egotisms, of all things, are most peculiarly disgusting. I submit it all to your candour, 8c will most chearfully abide by your decision. It is now a month ago since I moved the enclosed resolution, 1 but it has been postponed from time to time, 8c as I See the disposition of the house is decidedly not to comply with it I bear it with pa tience. I have done my duty. I wait with anxious expectation for your answer to my request for leave to return home. I hope you will be kind enough to forward it to me, as soon as possible. There are some parts of this letter that your good sense will point out to you as not proper to be communicated, except to a very few, to you, I write with unreservedness, well knowing you will make al-
