September 23, 1778 687 Board of War to do so. Although the board had been called to task for this breach of congressional policy early in June, Pulaski's enlistment of prisoners came under renewed attack during efforts to complete the final arrangement of the army when a motion was offered on September 21 that would have purged all prisoners of war from Pulaski’s corps. When an effort to postpone consider ation of the motion failed, it was simply referred to a committee consisting of Joseph Reed, James Lovell, and John Witherspoon for further study. Thus Reed penned the present letter to determine what recruiting instructions Pulaski had actually received from the board, and the committee eventually delivered a report reaffirming the ban on recruiting prisoners and recommending that his corps be purged of troops enlisted in violation of that ban. Despite the appearance that this report had finally laid the issue to rest, con sideration of the committee’s recommendations was postponed in order to consult Washington again on the subject. Although he had long opposed recruiting prisoners of war, the commander in chief subsequently recommended that in this instance past recruiting violations be ignored to avoid offending Pulaski and weakening his corps, and as a consequence Congress never resumed consideration of the committee’s report. See JCC, 12:939-40, 965-06; Henry Laurens to Wash ington, March 30, note 1; Henry Laurens to William Atlee, May 29, note 2; Thomas McKean to William Atlee, June 5, note; and Committee of Arrangement to Washington, September 30, 1778. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais My Dear Sir 23d September [1778] Let me upon this occasion refer you to His Excellency the President for Intelligence, and for the security of my property in case of another visit from Sir Peter Parker to your friendship- should the menaces of Governor Johnstone be attempted you will be exceedingly distressed; the earlier removals begin, the more likely to save something. Your Letters by Sharp are just come to hand but ’tis impossible for me even to read them ’till tomorrow. I shall write again about the 25th. I pray God protect you all. LB (ScHi). Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir 23d September [1778] Mr. Richard Beresford arrived at a late hour last night from New York and immediately called on me and delivered a verbal Message from Robert Williams Esquire. 1 Mr. Williams had been frequently in conversation with Governor Johnstone, at the last interview which happened on or about the
