September 26, 1778 693 now out of employ. But the reasons assigned by your Excellency were so strong as to prevail with all the States against the opposition made by individuals. I hope and trust every exertion will be made by Capt Harding & that nothing will prevent the Ship being manned and got to Sea immediately—as I now look upon the honor of the State concerned in some measure in this matter. We have rea son from appearances to expect the enemy are about to leave the Northern part of the Continent. The evacuation of New York &c is soon expected, and 'tis apprehended that there is some probability of their making a visit to South Carolina—under this idea cautionary measures have been taken by Congress, which perhaps may eventu ally have a more extensive operation—but of this hereafter. We have had no foreign intelligence of consequence since my last. The state of our finances is in a most wretched situation, and noth ing as yet has been done decisively by Congress upon that important subject. A Report of a Committee upon that head is to come under consideration this day which I hope may produce something effec tual tho’ in my opinion the Report (which is very lengthy and com plex) is exceptionable. As the State has for some time past depended singly upon my feeble abilities for their representation I strongly wish the arrival of some of my Colleagues. I have the honor to be with great esteem Your Excellency’s obedi ent Servant, Andw Adams Tr (DLC). 1 Governor Trumbull’s August 31 letter to the Connecticut delegates is in Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.) 7th ser. 2:263-64. Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare Hond Sir Philadelphia Septr 26th 1778 Soon after I Reed your letter of 19 Augt with the Inclosures Rela tive to a number of Towns on the Eastern Side Connecticut River Joining themselves to & being Reed by the Nominal State of Ver mont 1 I Communicated the Matter to the New England Delegates & to Some others all of whom Seemed much surprized at their Con duct. After Some time for Consideration they Advised me to lay the Letter & papers before Congress and Request their advice in the matter which I accordingly Did and had the satisfaction to find that Every person who Spoke on the Subject Severely Condemned the Conduct of the Revolted Towns & of Vermont; What was proper to be done was all the Difficulty. After Some little time Spent as it ap peared to be a matter of Consequence the Congress Resolved that on Friday the 18th Inst.; the Congress would go into a Committee of the whole House to take into Consideration the said letter & papers.
