September 27, 1778 703 Laurens to inform the governor that the delegates were “well satisfied with the propriety of his conduct as commander of the forts on Hudson’s river.’’ JCC, 11:803-4, 12:936. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir 27th Septr. [1778] I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the 20th Instant by Colonel Hazen. This will be accompanied by an Act of Congress of the 25th Inst, for the immediate defence of South Carolina and Georgia, to which I beg leave to refer. Congress have appointed Mr. John Ternant Lieutenant Colonel in the service of the United States, and Inspector of the Troops in South Carolina and Georgia and ordered that he be allowed the Pay and subsistence of a Lieutenant Colonel from the 26th March last. 1 I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See JCC, 12:952; and Laurens to Steuben, September 17, 1778, note 3. Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton Sir, Phila. 27th Sep’r 1778. I write this short note to your Excellency to suggest the Hint of sending a Committee to confer with the Legislature of New Hamp shire on the Affairs of Vermont. You are not to learn that these new States men have debauched some of the Western Townships of New Hampshire. The temper of Congress in this Business from what passed lately, seems to be if possible to keep matters quiet untill the Enemy leave us, when the Forces of the whole Continent may be turned to reduce them if refractory to the Resolutions of that Body. Application was made for a Commission of Colo, to Ethan Allen which I opposed. When he was redeemed I moved a Brevet Rank for him which was granted, and he would certainly have had the Commission if I had not learnt that he hath lately interfered in Op position to the authority of the State of New York. 1 I am with Respect Your Excellency’s most obedient & humble Ser vant, Gouv. Morris [P.S.] As Mr. Duer intends soon for the State I have not written at large. Should he delay I shall be more full and more particular on our private Affairs. I mean those of the State as distinct from the
