704 September 27, 1778 Continent. I have the Pleasure to tell you that at Length with infi nite Pains and many Disappointments we have got an arrangement for our Treasury which promises the best Consequences. 2 We are now to be employed in Finance. A proper System is before Congress But will they adopt it? Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 3:100 1 See JCC, 11:505-6, 12:947. 2 For this “arrangement,” see JCC, 12:956-61. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear Philadelphia Septembr 28th 1778 Major Gardner of Portsmouth Came here last Saturday and in forms me the He Called at my House as he came along & that you & the family were well the 14th of this month. I have nothing material in the news way to inform you of, and can only Repeat the old Story, that I am in a comfortable State of health & Remember my Love to you and the Children, Charles Chace is well. The weather ere is very pleasant & agreable neither too cold & too hot at this time; it has been very Sickly & a Considerable Dying time in this City for a month or Six weeks past, but is now more Healthy as the weather Grows Cooler, Dr Rush who took Care of Charles Chace when he was sick, has been at the point [of] Death, but is geting better, and I believe the sick are Generally [getting better. September 29th. Yours of the 10th inst. Reed yesterday afternoon am glad to hear Mr Wentworth was arrived & better in health. Yesterday afternoon an Express arrived from Baltimore with Let ters from our agent at Martinico a french Island in the west Indies who tells us war was proclaimed there the 16th of August against England, and that Spain had Declared openly for France. 1 The vessel left the Dutch Island of Statia the 13th of this month; and in forms that the french had taken the English Island of Dominica the 7th of the Month, and that the Inhabitants of the English west In dia Islands were in the greatest Consternation & flying to the Dutch & other neutral Islands with their Effects &c &c &c but if my letters are as long geting to you as formerly you will hear the news before you Receive this. In haste, I am yours, Josiah Bartlett RC (NhHi). 1 See next entry, note.
