September 28, 1778 705 Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Bingham Sir Philadelphia Septr 28. 1778 Your Several favors up to the 28th July came duly to our hands, and, having been communicated to Congress, were received as agrea- ble proofs of your regular Correspondence. 1 The papers which you enclose are with the Marine Committee, who will doubtless take oc casion soon to report upon the Contents. This will be conveyed to you in a small Schooner which perhaps is not fit for a Winters re turn to this Coast, you will determine in conjunction with the Cap tain whether to send her back immediately, or to make the best use of her for the public in your Neighbourhood, till a proper Month for her return. She is confided thus to your discretion. No absolute judgement can at this instant be formed of the in tended movements of the Enemy. A course of Dunlaps papers will convey to you a general insight into the posture of our Military af fairs. It is not probable that any considerable decision in the field will take place this fall; and the Councils in Britain appear to be for relinquishing the mad project of subjugating us by Arms. It was to give conveyance to the Letters of the French Minister that the bearer, was at this Season dispatched for Martinique; so that you will get further information of our affairs through the Genl, with whose confidence you are so much honored. You will herewith receive the 2d Volume of the journals of Congress but' lately pub lished, and, as it was uncertain whether you had ever received the first, that also is sent. The Index, at least, will be new to you and Serviceable. We are Sir &c, Richard H Lee James Lovell Tr (DNA: PCC, item 79). 1 Only Bingham’s July 6 letter to the committee is in PCC. See item 78, 2:503. Bingham’s August 26 letter to the committee, which was read in Congress on Sep tember 29, apparently arrived after this letter was written. JCC, 12:965. Marine Committee to John Barry Sir September 28th 1778 We have received your favour of the 8th instant from Boston and are sorry to hear that so many of the Guns on board the Raleigh had burst in proving but we hope they will be Speedily replaced and that you will Shortly receive this letter at Hampton agreeable to our former Instructions which you acknowledge having received. 1 As you represent the Raleigh to be exceedingly foul and on that
