September 30, 1778 717 will see by this State that the Committee find themselves in an awk ward Situation as having represented the Necessity of a Measure founded upon your Opinion—in which some Gentlemen who favour the Employment of Prisoners 8c Deserters think we were not suffi ciently warranted. And of Course the proposed Scrutiny of this Corps has been delayed 8c will in all Probability finally fail, unless some farther Advice is received from your Excelly. on this Head. We must observe that in all Probability if the Corps should be purged there will remain sufficient to compose the original Establish ment of 68 Horse & 200 Foot—As the Count has extended his Num ber far beyond it—by adding what he calls supernumerary Troops 8c Companies. The Committee are sensible of the Value of your Excellys. Time but as the Determination of this Matter will probably lead to the Settlement of other Corps of like Character, 8c they are attended with a very heavy Expence, we trust you will not think a few Mo ments unusefully employed on the Subject. 3 With the most respectful Sentiments 8c very sincere Regard, We are, Your Excellys. most Obed., Hbbl Servts. Jos. Reed, Chairman 4 RC (DLC). Written and signed by Joseph Reed. 1 Undoubtedly the letter from the Committee of Arrangement that was read in Congress on September 7 and referred to the Board of War. JCC, 12:887. 2 For Washington’s September 19 response to the Board of War’s September 9 inquiry on this point, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 12:470. 3 For Washington’s October 6 reply to Reed, see ibid., 13:41-43. « Although Reed was here undoubtedly representing himself as a spokesman for the Committee of Arrangement, his letter was actually occasioned by his ap pointment to the special committee appointed on September 21 that had on the 29th delivered a report recommending the purging of prisoners of war recruited into Pulaski’s corps. Because Congress postponed consideration of that report, however, Reed apparently believed that no action would be taken on his recom mendation until he obtained a clarification of Washington’s present view of the matter. As the commander in chief replied that he now thought it advisable to exempt Pulaski from Congress’ ban on recruiting prisoners, no action was ever taken on the report. Charles Thomson’s Notes on William Carmichael’s Examination Wednesday [September 30, 1778.] The last question proposed. 1 Although I think the house by their determination has put me into a Very delicate and to me disagreeable Situation, as I am desir ous of giving the house every information, I am ready to answer the
