} 


HAMILTON'S  WORKS. 


VOL.  II. 


I 


THE  WORKS 


OF 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON: 

0OMPBI8ING 

HIS  CORRESPONDENCE, 

AND 

HIS    POLITICAL  AND   OFFICIAL  WBITIN* 

EXCLUSIVE  OF  THE  FEDERALIST, 

CIVIL      AND      MILITABT. 

PUBLISHED  FROM  THE  ORIGINAL  MANUSCRIPTS  DEPOSITED  IN 
THE  DEPARTMENT   OF   STATE, 

BY   ORDER    OF 

THE  JOINT  LIBRARY  COMMITTEE  OJ  CONOR] 


EDITED    BY 

JOHN  C.  HAMILTON', 

AT7THOR     OF     "THE      LIFE     OF      HAMILTON 


•  • 


. 


VOL.  IL 


r^ou  u 


NEW  VnllK:  "--ALJ 


JOHN  F.  TROW,  PRINTER,   19,  51  A   N  AW-STi: 

M.DCCC.L. 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1850,  by 

JOHN  C.  HAMILTON, 

In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States  for  the  Southernn 

District  of  New- York. 


■»  • 


•    . «  •        -  • . 

..•:■• 
•  •• .  • 


:  ••■.  .•  -.-  • 


Two  modes  of  editing  these  "Works  presented  themselves: 
one,  the  publication  of  them  in  chronological  series,  without 
distinction  of  subject  or  character;  another,  the  publication  of 
all  the  correspondence  consecutively,  according  to  d;ite,  and 
a  similar  but  distinct  disposition  of  the  other  writings.  On 
reflection,  I  have  preferred  a  third  course :  that  of  comprising 
in  a  separate  volume  the  correspondence,  and  in  another,  the 
remaining  writings,  which  precede  the  organization  of  the  present 
Constitution  of  the  United  States.  As  that  correspondence  and 
those  writings  chiefly  relate  to  that  important  epoch  in  our 
history,  this  seemed  to  be  a  natural  point  of  division. 

In  the  future  volumes,  a  similar  distribution  will  be  observed, 
with  this  difference :  the  classification  of  the  official  papers  accord- 
ing to  their  subjects  and  dates,  to  be  followed  by  the  residue  of 
the  correspondence,  as  in  part  arising  out  of,  or  explanatory  of 
these  papers.  The  publication  to  close  with  the  writings  not 
official. 

J.  C.  H. 

New-York,  Oct.  12,  1850. 


JEt.  17.] 


A  FULL  VINDICATION. 


December  J  5,  1774. 

A  Full  Vindication  of  the  Measures  of  Congress  from  the 
calumnies  of  their  enemies,  in  answer  to  a  Letter  un- 
der the  signature  of  a  Westchester  Farmer;  whereby 
his  sophistry  is  exposed,  his  cavil*  confuted,  his  a/rti- 
jices  detected,  and  his  wit  ridiculed,  in  a  General 
Address  to  the  inhabitants  of  America,  and  a  Parti- 
cular Address  to  the  Farmers  of  the  Province  of 
New-York.  Veritas  magna  est  et  prevalebit — Truth 
is  powerful  and  will  prevail  New-York  :  printed  by 
James  Rivington :   1774. 

Friends  and  Countrymen: 

It  was  hardly  to  be  expected  that  any  man  could  be  so  pre- 
sumptuous, as  openly  to  controvert  the  equity,  wisdom,  and 
authority  of  the  measures  adopted  by  the  Congress:  an  assembly 
truly  respectable  on  every  account !  Whether  we  consider  the 
characters  of  the  men  who  composed  it;  the  number  and  dignity 
of  their  constituents  ;  or  the  important  ends  for  which  they  were 
appointed.  But,  however  improbable  such  a  degree  of  pr<  sump- 
tion might  have  seemed,  we  find  there  are  some  in  whom  it 
exists.     Attempts  are  daily  making  to  diminish  the  influence  of 

VOL.  II.  1 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  17. 

their  decisions,  and  prevent  the  salutary  effects  intended  by 
them.  The  impotence  of  such  insidious  efforts  is  evident  from 
the  general  indignation  they  are  treated  with;  so  that  no  ma- 
terial ill-cmiscqnences  can  be  dreaded  from  them.  But  lest  they 
should  have  a  tendency  to  mislead,  and  prejudice  the  minds  of  a 
few,   it   cannot  be  deemed  altogether  useless  to  bestow  some 

ice  upon  them. 

And  first,  let  me  ask  these  restless  spirits,  "Whence  arises 
that  violent  antipathy  they  seem  to  entertain,  not  only  to  the 
natural  rights  of  mankind,  but  to  common  sense  and  common 
modesty?  That  they  are  enemies  to  the  natural  rights  of  man- 
kind is  manifest,  because  they  wish  to  see  one  part  of  their 
-  enslaved  by  another.  That  they  have  an  invincible 
a  version  to  common  sense,  is  apparent  in  many  respects :  They 
endeavor  to  persuade  us,  that  the  absolute  sovereignty  of  parlia- 

nt  does  not  imply  our  absolute  slavery;  that  it  is  a  Christian 
duty  to  submit  to  be  plundered  of  all  we  have,  merely  because 
some  of  our  fellow  subjects  are  wicked  enough  to  require  it  of 
us ;  that  slavery,  so  far  from  being  a  great  evil,  is  a  great  bless- 
ing ;  and  even,  that  our  contest  with  Britain  is  founded  entirely 
upon  the  petty  duty  of  three  pence  per  pound  on  East  India  tea ; 
whereas  the  whole  world  knows,  it  is  built  upon  this  interesting 
question,  AVhether  the  inhabitants  of  Great  Britain  have  a  right 
to  dispose  of  the  lives  and  properties  of  the  inhabitants  of  Ame- 
rica, or  not  ?  And  lastly,  that  these  men  have  discarded  all  preten- 
se >n  to  common  modesty,  is  clear  from  hence  ;  first,  because  they, 
in  tin  ■  plainest  terms,  call  an  august  body  of  men,  famed  for  their 
patriotism  and  abilities,  fools  or  knaves;  and  of  course  the  peo- 
ple whom  they  represented,  cannot  be  exempt  from  the  same 
opprobrious  appellations;  and  secondly,  because  they  set  them- 
selves up  as  standards  of  wisdom  and  probity,  by  contradicting 
and  censuring  the  public  voice  in  favor  of  those  men. 

A  little  consideration  will  convince  us,  that  the  Congress, 
instead  of  having  " ignorantly  misunderstood,  carelessly  neglect- 
ed, or  basely  betrayed  the  interests  of  the  colonies,"  have,  on  the 
contrary,  devised  and  recommended  the  only  effectual  means  to 

me  tin-  freedom,  and  establish  the  future  prosperity  of  Ame- 


JEt.  17.]  A     P  DLL     VINDICATION. 

rica  apon  a  solid  basis.     If  we  are  qoI  free  and  happy  hereafl 
it  nrasl   proceed   from  the  want   of  integrity  and  resolution,  in 
executing  what  they  have  concerted;  qo1   from  the  temerity  or 
impolicy  of  their  determinations. 

Before  I  proceed  to  confirm  this  assertion  by  the  ]  »bvi- 
ous  arguments,  I  will  premise  a  few  brief  remarks.  The  only 
distinction  between  freedom  and  slavery  consists  in  this:  In  the 
former  state  a  man  is  governed  1>\  the  laws  to  which  he  has 
given  his  consent,  either  in  person,  or  by  his  representative :  In 
the  latter,  he  is  governed  by  the  will  of  another.  In  the  i 
rase,  his  life  and  property  arc  his  own  :  in  the  other,  they  depend 
apon  tin'  pleasure  of  a  master.  It  is  easy  to  discern  which  of 
these  two  states  is  preferable.  No  man  in  his  senses  can  hesitate 
in  choosing  to  be  free,  rathci- than  a  slave. 

That  Americans  are  entitled  to  freedom  is  incontestable  apon 
every  rational  principle.  All  men  have  one  common  original : 
they  participate  in  one  common  nature,  and  consequently  have 
one  common  right.  Xo  reason  can  be  assigned  why  one  man 
should  exercise  any  power  or  pre-eminence  over  his  fellow-crea- 
tures more  than  another;  unless  they  have  voluntarily  vested 
him  with  it.  Since,  then,  Americans  have  not,  by  any  act  of 
theirs,  empowered  the  British  Parliament  to  make  lawsfor  them, 
it  follows  they  can  have  no  just  authority  to  do  it. 

Besides  the  clear  voice  of  natural  justice  in  this  respect,  the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  English  constitution  are  in  our 
favor.  It  has  been  repeatedly  demonstrated,  that  the  idea  of 
Legislation,  or  taxation,  when  the  subject  is  not  represented,  is 
inconsistent  with  that  Nor  is  this  all;  our  charters,  the  ex- 
press conditions  on  which  our  progenitors  relinquished  their 
native  countries,  and  came  to  settle  in  this,  preclude  every  claim 
of  ruling  and  taxing  us  without  our  assent. 

Every  subterfuge  that  sophistry  has  been  able  to  invent,  to 
evade  or  obscure  this  truth,  has  been  refuted  by  the  most  con- 
clusive reasonings;  so  that  we  may  pronounce  it  a  matter  of 
undeniable  certainty,  that  the  pretensions  of  Parliament  are  con- 
tradictory to  the  law  of  nature,  subversive  of  the  British  consti- 
tution, and  destructive  of  the  faith  of  the  most  solemn  compa 


4  HANILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.11. 

What,  then,  is  the  subject  of  our  controversy  with  the  mother 
country?'  It  is  this:  Whether  we  shall  preserve  that  security 
to  our  lives  and  properties,  which  the  law  of  nature,  the  genius 
of  the  British  constitution,  and  our  charters,  afford  us ;  or  whe- 
ther we  shall  resign  them  into  the  hands  of  the  British  House  of 
Commons,  which  is  no  more  privileged  to  dispose  of  them  than 
the  Great  Mogul?  What  can  actuate  those  men  who  labor  to 
delude  any  of  us  into  an  opinion,  that  the  object  of  contention 
between  the  parent  state  and  the  colonies,  is  only  three  pence 
duty  upon  tea?  or  that  the  commotions  in  America  originate  in 
a  i>ian,  formed  by  some  turbulent  men,  to  erect  it  into  a  repub- 
lican government?  The  Parliament  claims  a  right  to  tax  us  in 
all  cases  whatsoever:  its  late  acts  are  in  virtue  of  that  claim. 
Eow  ridiculous,  then,  is  it  to  affirm,  that  we  are  quarrelling  for 
the  trifling  sum  of  three  pence  a  pound  on  tea ;  when  it  is  evi- 
dently the  principle  against  which  we  contend. 

The  design  of  electing  members  to  represent  us  in  general 
Congress,  was,  that  the  wisdom  of  America  might  be  collected 
in  devising  the  most  proper  and  expedient  means  to  repel  this 
atrocious  invasion  of  our  rights.  It  has  been  accordingly  done. 
Their  decrees  are  binding  upon  all,  and  demand  a  religious  ob- 
servance. 

We  did  not,  especially  in  this  province,  circumscribe  them  by 
any  fixed  boundary ;  and  therefore,  as  they  cannot  be  said  to 
have  exceeded  the  limits  of  their  authority,  their  act  must  be 
esteemed  the  act  of  their  constituents.  If  it  should  be  objected, 
that  they  have  not  answered  the  end  of  their  election,  but  have 
fallen  upon  an  improper  and  ruinous  mode  of  proceeding,  I  reply 
by  asking,  Who  shall  be  the  judge?  Shall  any  individual  op- 
pose ■  his  ]  irivate  sentiment  to  the  united  counsels  of  men,  in  whom 
America  has  reposed  so  high  a  confidence?  The  attempt  must 
argue  no  small  degree  of  arrogance  and  self-sufficiency. 

Yet  this  attempt  has  been  made ;  and  it  is  become,  in  some 
measure,  accessary  to  vindicate  the  conduct  of  this  venerable 
assembly  from  the  aspersions  of  men,  who  are  their  adversaries, 
only  because'  they  are  foes  to  America. 

When  the  political  salvation  of  any  community  is  depending, 


JEt.  17.]  A      FULL     VINDICATION. 

it  is  incumbenl  upon  those  who  are  sel  ap  as  its  guardians,  to 
embrace  such  measures  as  bave  justice,  vigor,  and  a  probability 
of  success  to  recommend  them.  1 1'.  instead  of  this,  thej  I 
those  methods  which  arc  in  themselves  feeble,  and  little  likely  to 
succeed;  and  may,  through  a  defect  in  vigor,  involve  the  com- 
munity in  still  greater  danger,  they  may  be  justly  considered  as 
its  betrayers.  It  is  not  enough,  in  times  of  imminenl  peril, 
oae  only  possible  means  of  preservation.  Justice  and  Bound 
policy  dictate  the  use  of  probable  means. 

The  only  scheme  of  opposition,  suggested  by  those  who  hai 
been  and  are  averse  from  a  non-importation  and  non-exportation 
agreement,  is,  by  remonstrance  and  petition.  The  authors 
and  abettors  of  this  scheme  have  never  been  able  to  inventa 
single  argumehl  to  prove  the  likelihood  of  its  succeeding.  On 
the  other  band,  there  are  many  standing  facts  and  valid  conside- 
rations against  it. 

In  the  infancy  of  the  present  dispute,  we  had  recourse  to 
this  method  only.  We  addressed  the  throne  in  the  most  loyal 
ami  respectful  manner,  in  a  legislative  capacity;  but  what  was 
the  consequence?  Our  address  was  treated  with  contempt  and 
neglect.     The   first  American   Co  did  the  same,  andmet 

with  similar  treatment.     The  total   repeal  of  the  .-tamp  act,  and 

the  partial  repeal  of  the  revenue  acts,  took  place,  not  1 ause 

the  complaints  of  America  were  deemed  just  and  reasonable,  but 
because  these  acts  were  found  to  militate  against  the  commercial 
interests  of  I  rreat  Britain.  This  was  the  declared  motive  of  the 
repeal. 

These  instances  are  sufficient  for  our  purpose ;  hut  they  de- 
rive greater  validity  and  force  from  the  following: 

The  legal  assembly  of  Id  tusetts  Hay  presented,  not  long 

since,  a  most  bumble,  dutiful,  and  earnesl  petition  to  bis  May 
requesting  the  dismission  of  a  governor  highly  odious  to   the 

] pie,  and  whose  misrepresentations  they  regarded  as  one  chief 

source  of  all  their  calamities.     Did  they  succeed  in  their  requ 
No — it  was  treated  with  the  greatesl  indignity,  and  stigmal       I 
a  seditious,  is,  and  scandalous  libel." 

I  know  the  men  1  have  to  deal  with  will  acquiesce  in  this 


6  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  17. 

Will  t  hey  also  dare  to  calumniate  the  noble  and  spirited 
petition  thai  came  from  the  Major  and  Aldermen  of  the  city  of 

„  1,  ,ii.     Will  1  hey  venture  to  justify  that  unparalleled  stride  of 

,vi-r  l'V  whirl)  popery  and  arbitrary  dominion  were  established 
in  Canada?  The  citizens  of  London  remonstrated  against  it; 
thrv  signified  its  repugnancy  to  the  principles  of  the  revolution; 
but,  like  ours,  their  complaints  were  unattended  to.  From 
thence  we  may  learn  how  little  dependence  ought  to  be  placed 
on  this  method  of  obtaining  the  redress  of  grievances. 

There  is  less  reason  now  than  ever  to  expect  deliverance,  in 
this  way,  from  the  hand  of  oppression.  The  system  of  slavery, 
fabricated  against  America,  cannot,  at  this  time,  be  considered  as 
the  effect  of  inconsideration  and  rashness.  It  is  the  offspring  of 
mature  deliberation.  It  has  been  fostered  by  time,  and  strength- 
ened by  every  artifice  human  subtilty  is  capable  of.  After  the 
claims  of  parliament  had  lain  dormant  for  awhile,  they  are  again 
resumed  and  prosecuted  with  more  than  common  ardor.  The 
I  'render  has  advanced  too  far  to  recede  with  safety.  He  is  deeply 
interested  to  execute  his  purpose,  if  possible.  We  know  he  has 
declared,  that  he  will  never  desist,  till  he  has  brought  America 
to  his  feet ;  and  we  may  conclude,  nothing  but  necessity  will 
induce  him  to  abandon  his  aims.  In  common  life,  to  retract  an 
emir,  even  in  the  beginning,  is  no  easy  task;  perseverance  con- 
firms ua  in  it,  and  rivets  the  difficulty.  But  in  a  public  station, 
to  have  been  in  an  error,  and  to  have  persisted  in  it,  when  it  is 
detected,  ruins  both  reputation  and  fortune.  To  this  we  may 
add,  that  disappointment  and  opposition  inflame  the  minds  of 
men,  and  attach  them  still  more  to  their  mistakes. 

What  can  we  represent  which  has  not  already  been  repre- 
sented?  What  petitions  can  we  offer,  that  have  not  already 
been  offered?  The  rights  of  America,  and  the  injustice  of 
parliamentary   pretensions,  have   been  clearly   and   repeatedly 

ted,  both  in  and  out  of  parliament.  No  new  arguments  can 
be  framed  to  operate  in  our  favor.  Should  we  even  resolve  the 
errors  of  the  ministry  and  parliament  into  the  fallibility  of  hu- 
man understanding,  if  they  have  not  yet  been  convinced,  we 
have  no  prospect  of  being  able  to  do  it  by  any  thing  further  we 


JEt.  17.]  A    FULL    VINDICATION.  7 

can  Bay.  Bui  if  we  impute  their  condud  to  a  nicked  thirsl  of 
domination  and  disregard  to  justice,  we  have  do  hope  of  pre- 
vailing with  them  to  alter  it,  by  expatiating  on  our  i  and 
suing  to  their  compassion  for  relief;  especially  since  we  have 
found,  by  various  experiments,  the  inemcacj  of  Buch  methods. 
Dpon  the  whole,  il  is  morally  certain,  this  mode  of  opposition 
would  be  fruitless  and  defective.  The  exigency  of  the  times 
requires  vigorous  and  probable  remedies ;  ao1  weak  and  impro- 
bable. It  would,  therefore,  be  the  extreme  of  folly  t"  place  any 
confidence  in,  much  less  confine  ourselves  wholly  to  it. 

T  is  being  the  case,  we  can  have  no  resource  bu1  in  a  restric- 
tion of  our  trade,  or  in  a  resistance  met  armis.  It  is  impossible 
to  conceive  any  other  alternative.  Our  ( 'ongre&s,  therefore,  bave 
imposed  whal  restraint  they  thought  necessary.  Those  who  con- 
demn or  clamor  against  it,  do  nothing  more,  nor  less,  than  ad- 
vise us  to  be  slaves. 

1  shall  now  examine  the  principal  measures  of  the  Cong] 
and  vindicate  them  I'm  11  \  from  the  charge  of  injustice  or  impolicy. 

Were  I  to  ariruc  in  a  jiliili>soj>liical  manner,  I  mighl  Bay,  the 
obligation  to  a  mutual  intercourse,  in  the  way  of  trade,  with  the 
inhabitants  of  Great  Britain,  [reland,  and  the  Wesl  Ladies,  is 
the  imperfect  kind.  There  is  ao  law,  either  of  nature,  or  of  tin- 
civil  society  in  which  we  live,  thai  obliges  us  to  purchase,  and 
make  use  of  the  products  and  manufactures  of  a  differenl  land  or 

pie.  It  is  indeed  a  dictate  of  humanity  to  contribute  to  the 
supporl  and  happiness  of  our  fellow-creatures,  and  more  especially 
those  who  arc  allied  to  us  by  the  ties  of  blood,  interest,  and  mu- 
tual protection  ;  bu1  humanity  <\>>r<  nol  require  us  to  sacrifice  our 
own  security  and  welfare  to  the  convenience  or  advantage  of 
others.  Self-preservation  is  the  6rs1  principle  of  our  nature. 
WTien  our  lives  and  properties  are  at  stake,  it  would  be  foolish 
and  unnatural  to  refrain  from  such  measures  as  mighl  preserve 
them,  because  they  would  be  detrimental  to  others. 

But    we   are  justilied    upon  another  principle  besides  this. 
Though  the  manufacturers  of  <  rreal  Britain  and  [reland,  and  the 
inhabitants  of  the  Wesl  [ndies,  are  nol  chargeable  with  any  i 
tual  crime  towards  America;  they  may,  in  a   political  view,  be 


>  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  17. 

ostccmcil  criminal.  In  a  civil  society,  it  is  the  duty  of  each  par- 
ticular branch  to  promote,  not  only  the  good  of  the  whole  com- 
inunitv,  but  the  good  of  every  other  particular  branch.  If  one 
pari  endeavors  to  violate  the  rights  of  another,  the  rest  ought  to 
assist  in  preventing  the  injury.  "When  they  do  not,  but  remain 
neutral,  they  are  deficient  in  their  duty,  and  may  be  regarded, 
in  some  measure,  as  accomplices. 

The  reason  of  this  is  obvious,  from  the  design  of  civil  society ; 
which  is,  that  the  united  strength  of  the  several  members  might 
give  stability  and  security  to  the  whole  body,  and  each  respective 
member ;  so  that  one  part  cannot  encroach  upon  another,  without 
becoming  a  common  enemy,  and  eventually  endangering  the 
safety  and  happiness  of  all  the  other  parts. 

Since,  then,  the  persons  who  will  be  distressed  by  the  me- 
thods we  are  using  for  our  own  protection,  have,  by  their  neu- 
trality, first  committed  a  breach  of  an  obligation,  similar  to  that 
which  bound  us  to  consult  their  emolument  ;  it  is  plain,  the  ob- 
ligation upon  us  is  annulled,  and  we  are  blameless  in  what  we 
are  about  to  do. 

With  respect  to  the  manufacturers  of  Great  Britain,  they  are 
criminal  in  a  more  particular  sense.  Our  oppression  arises  from 
that  member  of  the  great  body  politic,  of  which  they  compose  a 
considerable  part.  So  far  as  their  influence  has  been  wanting  to 
counteract  the  iniquity  of  their  rulers,  so  far  they  acquiesced  in 
it,  and  are  to  be  deemed  confederates  in  their  guilt.  It  is  impos- 
sible to  exculpate  a  people,  that  suffers  its  rulers  to  abuse  and  ty- 
rannize over  others. 

It  may  not  be  amiss  to  add,  that  we  are  ready  to  receive  with 
open  arms  any  who  may  be  sufferers  by  the  operation  of  our 
measures,  and  recompense  them  with  every  blessing  our  country 
affords  to  honest  industry.  We  will  receive  them  as  brethren, 
and  make  them  sharers  with  us  in  all  the  advantages  we  are 
struggling  for. 

From  these  plain  and  indisputable  principles,  the  mode  of  op- 
position we  have  chosen,  is  reconcileable  to  the  strictest  maxims 
of  justice.  It  remains  now  to  be  examined,  whether  it  has  also 
the  sanction  of  good  policy. 


JEt.  17.]  A    PULL    VINDICATION.  9 

To  render  it  agreeable  to  good  policy,  three  thii  [ui« 

.-it'-.     First,  that  the  necessity  of  the  times  requires  it:  dly, 

thai  it  be  nol  the  probable  source  of  greater  evila  than  those  it 
pretends  to   remedy;  and  lastly,  thai   it   have  a    probability  of 

success. 

Thai  the  necessity  of  the  times  demands  it,  needs  bu1  little 
elucidation.  We  are  threatened  with  absolute  slavery.  It  has 
been  proved,  thai  resistance  by  means  of  remonstb 
petition,  would  not  be  efficacious,  and  of  course,  thai  a  restric- 
tion on  our  trade,  is  tin'  only  peaceable  method  in  our  power  to 
avoid  the  impending  mischief.  It  follows,  therefore,  thai  such  u 
restriction  is  necessary. 

That  it  is  no1  the  probable  source  of  greater  evils  than  ti 
it  pretends  to  remedy,  may  easily  be  determined.     rJ*h.-  mosl 
jed  slavery,  which  comprehends  almosl  every  species  of  human 
misery,  is  what  it  is  designed  to  prevent. 

The  consequences  of  the  means  are  a  temporary  stagnation  of 
commerce,  and  thereby  a  deprivation  of  the  luxuries,  and  some 
of  the  conveniences  of  life.     The  necessaries  and  many  of 
oonveniei  v  own  fertile  and  propitious  soil  affords  ns. 

X"  person  thai  has  enjoyed  the  sweets  of  liberty,  can  be  in- 
dole of  its  infinite  value,  or  can  reflect  on  its  reverse,  without 
horror  and  detestation.  No  person  thai  is  nol  losl  to  every 
nerous  feeling  of  humanity,  or  that  is  nol  stupidly  blind  to  his 
own  interest,  could  bear  to  offer  himself  and  postei  I  victims 
at  the  shrine  of  despotism,  in  preference  to  enduring  the  short- 
lived inconveniences  thai  may  resull  from  an  abridgment,  or 
even  entire  suspension  of  commerce. 

Were  nol  the  disadvantages  of  slavery  too  <>l>viou-  tand 
in  need  of  it.  I  might  enumerate  and  describe  the  tedious  train  <>f 
calamities  inseparable  from  it.  I  might  show  that  it  is  fatal  to 
religion  and  morality;  that  it  tends  to  debase  the  mind,  and 
corrupt  its  noblest  springs  of  action.  1  mighl  show  thai  it 
laxes  the  sinews  of  industry,  clips  the  wings  immerce,  and 

introduces  misery  and  indigence  in  every  shape. 

Under  the  auspices  of  tyranny,  the  life  of  the  subji 
sported  with,  and  the  fruits  of  his  daily  toil  arc  I  in  op. 


Ill  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  M. 

pressive  taxes,  that  serve  to  gratify  the  ambition,  avarice,  and 
lusts  of  his  superiors.  Every  court  minion  riots  in  the  spoils  of 
the  honest  laborer,  and  despises  the  hand  by  which  he  is  fed. 
The  page  of  history  is  replete  with  instances  that  loudly  warn  us 
to  beware  of  slavery. 

Ko:ui<:  was  the  nurse  of  freedom.  She  was  celebrated  for  her 
justice  and  lenity  ;  but  in  what  manner  did  she  govern  her  de- 
pendent provinces  ?  They  were  made  the  continual  scene  of 
rapine  and  cruelty.  From  thence  let  us  learn,  how  little  confidence 
is  due  to  the  wisdom  and  equity  of  the  most  exemplary  nations. 

Should  Americans  submit  to  become  the  vassals  of  their  fel- 
low-subjects in  Great  Britain,  their  yoke  will  be  peculiarly  griev- 
ous and  intolerable.  A  vast  majority  of  mankind  is  entirely 
1  liassed  by  motives  of  self-interest.  Most  men  are  glad  to  remove 
any  burthens  off  themselves,  and  place  them  upon  the  necks  of 
their  neighbors.  We  cannot,  therefore,  doubt  but  that  the  Bri- 
tish Parliament,  with  a  view  to  the  ease  and  advantage  of  itself 
and  its  constituents,  would  oppress  and  grind  the  Americans  as 
much  as  possible.  Jealousy  would  concur  with  selfishness ;  and 
for  fear  of  the  future  independence  of  America,  if  it  should  be 
permitted  to  rise  to  too  great  a  height  of  splendor  and  opulence, 
every  method  would  be  taken  to  drain  it  of  its  wealth,  and  re- 
strain its  prosperity.  We  are  already  suspected  of  aiming  at 
independence,  and  that  is  one  principal  cause  of  the  severity  we 
experience.  The  same  cause  will  always  operate  against  us,  and 
produce  a  uniform  severity  of  treatment. 

The  evils  which  may  flow  from  the  execution  of  our  mea- 
sures, if  we  consider  them  with  respect  to  their  extent  and  dura- 
tion, are  comparatively  nothing.  In  all  human  probability  they 
will  scarcely  be  felt.  Eeason  and  experience  teach  us,  that  the 
consequences  would  be  too  fatal  to  Great  Britain  to  admit  of 
delay.  There  is  an  immense  trade  between  her  and  the  colonies. 
The  revenues  arising  from  thence  are  prodigious.  The  con- 
sumption of  her  manufactures  in  these  colonies,  supplies  the 
means  of  subsistence  to  a  vast  number  of  her  most  useful  inha- 
bitants. The  experiment  we  have  made  heretofore,  shows  us  of 
how  much  importance  our  commercial  connection  is  to  her ;  and 


JEt.  17.]  A    FULL    VINDICATION.  11 

gives  us  the  highest  assurance  of  obtaining  Immediate  redress  by 
suspending  it. 

From  these  considerations  it  is  evidenl  she  musl  do  something 
decisive.  She  must  either  listen  to  our  complaints,  and  restore 
us  to  a  peaceful  enjoymenl  of  our  riolated  rights;  o  be  must 
exert  berself  to  enforce  ber  despotic  claims  by  Ore  and  sword. 
To  imagine  sin-  would  preferthe  latter,  implies  a  charge  of  the 

-i  infatuation,  of  madness  itself.  Our  numbers  are  \ 
considerable;  the  courage  of  Americans  bas  been  tried  and 
proved.  Contests  for  liberty  have  ever  been  found  the  □ 
bloody,  implacable,  and  obstinate.  The  disciplined  tri  Great 
Britain  could  send  againsl  us.  would  be  bul  few.  Our  superi- 
ority in  number  would  overbalance  our  inferiority  in  discipline. 
Jt  would  be  a  hard,  if  no1  impracticable  task,  to  subjugate  as  by 
force. 

Besides,  while  Great  Britain  w:is  eii^aned  in  carrying  on  an 
unnatural  war  againsl  us,  ber  commerce  would  be  in  a  state  of 
decay.  Her  revenues  would  be  decreasing.  An  armament,  suf- 
ficient to  enslave  America,  would  pul  her  to  an  insupportable 
expense. 

She  would  he  laid  open  to  the  attacks  of  foreign  enem 
Ruin,  like  a  deluge,  would  pour  in  from  every  quarter.     After 

lavishing  her  1»1 1  and  ti  to  reduce  us  to  a  state  of  "\ 

Balage,  she  would  berself  become  a   prey   to  some  triumphant 
neighbor. 

These  are  not  imaginary  mischiefs.  The  Colonies  contain 
above  three  millions  of  people.  Commerce  flourishes  with  the 
most  rapid  progress  throughout  them.  This  commerce  Ghreal 
Britain  has  hitherto  regulated  to  ber  own  advantage.     Can  we 

think  the  annihilation  of  SO  exub  rant  a  source  (.('wealth  a  mat- 
ter of  trifling  import?  On  the  contrary,  must  it  not  be  produc- 
tive of  the  most  disastrous  effects?  It  is  evident  it  must  It  is 
equally  evident,  that  the  conquesl  of  .-,>  numerous  a  peo] 
armed  in  the  animating  cause  of  liberty,  could  not  he  accom- 
plished without  an  inconceivable  expense  of  blood  and  treasure. 

We  cannot,  therefore,  suspeel  Ghreat  Britain  to  be  capabl 
such  frantic  extravagance  as  to  hazard   these  dreadful 


12  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  17. 

quenccs;  without  which,  she  must  necessarily  desist  from  her 
unjusl  pretensions,  and  leave  us  in  the  undisturbed  possession  of 
our  privileges. 

Those  who  affect  to  ridicule  the  resistance  America  might 
make  to  the  military  force  of  Great  Britain,  and  represent  its  hu- 
miliation as  a  matter  the  most  easily  to  be  achieved,  betray  either 
;i  mind  clouded  by  the  most  irrational  prejudices,  or  a  total  igno- 
rance of  human  nature.  However,  it  must  be  the  wish  of  every 
honest  man  never  to  see  a  trial. 

But  should  we  admit  a  possibility  of  a  third  course,  as  our 
pamphleteer  supposes  ;  that  is,  the  endeavoring  to  bring  us  to  a 
compliance  by  putting  a  stop  to  our  whole  trade;  even  this 
would  not  be  so  terrible  as  he  pretends.  We  can  live  without 
trade  of  any  kind.  Food  and  clothing  we  have  within  ourselves. 
Our  climate  produces  cotton,  wool,  flax,  and  hemp  ;  which,  with 
proper  cultivation,  would  furnish  us  with  summer  apparel  in 
abundance.  The  article  of  cotton,  indeed,  would  do  more ;  it 
would  contribute  to  defend  us  from  the  inclemency  of  winter. 
We  have  sheep,  which,  with  due  care  in  improving  and  increas- 
ing them,  would  soon  yield  a  sufficiency  of  wool.  The  large 
quantity  of  skins  Ave  have  among  us,  would  never  let  us  want  a 
warm  and  comfortable  suit.  It  would  be  no  unbecoming  em- 
ployment for  our  daughters  to  provide  silks  of  their  own  coun- 
try. The  silk- worm  answers  as  well  here  as  in  any  part  of  the 
world.  Those  hands,  which  may  be  deprived  of  business  by  the 
cessation  of  commerce,  may  be  occupied  in  various  kinds  of  ma- 
nufactures  and  other  internal  improvements.  If,  by  the  neces- 
sity of  the  thing,  manufactures  sjiould  once  be  established,  and 
take  root  among  us,  they  will  pave  the  way  still  more  to  the  fu- 
ture grandeur  and  glory  of  America;  and,  by  lessening  its  need 
of  external  commerce,  will  render  it  still  securer  against  the  en- 
ci'oachments  of  tyranny. 

It  is,  however,  chimerical  to  imagine,  that  the  circumstances 
of  Great  Britain  will  admit  of  such  a  tardy  method  of  subjuga- 
ting us,  for  reasons  which  have  been  already  given,  and  which 
shall  be  corroborated  by  others  equally  forcible. 

I  come  now  to  consider  the  last  and  principal  ingredient  that 


St.  n.]  a    IT  i.i,    VINDICATION.  18 

constitutes  the  policy  of  a  measure,  which  is,  a  probability 
success.     I  have  beeu  obliged  to  anticipate  this  pari  ofr 
ject  in  considering  the  second  requisite;  and,  indeed,  whal   I 
have  already  said,  seems  to  me  to  leave  no  room  for  doubting, 
thai  the  means  we  have  used  will  be  successful ;  bul  I  shall  ! 
examine  the  matter  more  thoroughly,  and  endeavoT  to  •■•.  id 
more  fully. 

The  design  of  the  Congress  in  their  proc lings,  h  cannot, 

and  need  no1  be  denied,  was,  either,  by  a  prosped  of  the 
consequences,  to  influence  the  ministry  to  give  up  their  enter- 
prise; or,  should  they  prove  inflexible,  to  affect  the  inhabitants 
of  Greal   Britain,  Ireland,  and  the  Wesl  Indies,  in  such  a  man- 
ner as  to  rouse  them  from  their  state  of  neutrality,  and  enj 
them  to  unite  with  us  in  opposing  the  lawless  hand  of  tyrai 
whirl,  is  extended  to  ravish  our  liberty  from  us,  and  mig]  I 
be  extended  for  the  same  purpose  againsl  them. 

The  Farmer  mentions,  as  one  probable  consequen* four 

measures,    "clamors,   discord,  confusion,  mobs,   riots,    insm 
tions,  rebellions  in  Greal  Britain,  Ireland,  and  the  Wesl  I   d 
though  a1  the  same  time  that  he  thinks  it  is,  he  also  thi] 

■  a  probable  consequence.     For  my  part,  without  hazarding 
any  such  seeming  contradictions,  I  .-hall,  in  a  plain  way, 
thai  I  verily  believe,  a  non-importation   and  non-exportation, 
will  effed  all  the  purposes  they  are  intended  tor. 

It  is  no  easy  matter  to  make  any  tolerably  <  tate  <>t' 

the  advantages  thai  accrue  to  Great  Britain,   Ireland,  and 
West   Indies,  from  their  comnu Trial  intercourse  with  the  colo- 
nies :    nor,   indeed,   is  it,  i,  .     Every  man,  the  1' 
quainted  with  the  state  and  extent  of  our  trade,  mi  ■■        con- 
vinced, it  is  the  source  of  immense  revenues  to  the  parei 
and  gives  employment  and  bread  to  a  vasl  number  of  bis  ! 
jesty's  subjects.     It  is  impossible  but  thai  a  suspension  of  it. 
any  time,  musl  introduce  beggary  and  wretchedness,  in  an  emi- 
nenl  degree,  both  in  England  and  Ireland.     An  •  the  W 
India  plantations,  they  could  nol  possibly  subsisl  withoul   is.     I 
am  the  more  confident  of  this,  because  I  have  a  |  era! 
acquaintance  with  their  circumstances  and  depend 


14  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  17. 

We  are  told,  "  that  it  is  highly  improbable,  we  shall  succeed 
in  distressing  the  people  of  Great  Britain,  Ireland,  and  the  West 
J  in  lies,  so  far  as  to  oblige  them  to  join  with  us  in  getting  the  acts 
of  Parliament,  which  we  complain  of,  repealed.  The  first  dis- 
tress," it  is  said,  "will  fall  on  ourselves;  it  will  be  more  se- 
verely felt  by  us,  than  any  part  of  all  his  Majesty's  dominions, 
and  will  affect  us  the  longest.  The  fleets  of  Great  Britain  com- 
mand respect  throughout  the  globe.  Her  influence  extends  to 
every  part  of  the  earth.  Her  manufactures  are  equal  to  any, 
superior  to  most  in  the  world.  Her  wealth  is  great.  Her  peo- 
ple enterprising  and  persevering  in  their  attempts  to  extend,  and 
enlarge,  and  protect  her  trade.  The  total  loss  of  our  trade  will 
be  felt  only  for  a  time.  Her  merchants  would  turn  their  atten- 
tion another  way ;  new  sources  of  trade  and  wealth  would  be 
opened ;  new  schemes  pursued.  She  would  soon  find  a  vent  for 
all  her  manufactures  in  spite  of  all  we  could  do.  Our  malice 
would  hurt  only  ourselves.  Should  our  schemes  distress  some 
branches  of  her  trade,  it  would  be  only  for  a  time ;  and  there  is 
ability  and  humanity  enough  in  the  nation  to  relieve  those  that 
are  distressed  by  us,  and  put  them  in  some  other  way  of  getting 
their  living." 

The  omnipotence  and  all-sufficiency  of  Great  Britain  may  be 
pretty  good  topics  for  her  passionate  admirers  to  exercise  their 
declamatory  powers  upon,  for  amusement  and  trial  of  skill ;  but 
they  ought  not  to  be  proposed  to  the  world  as  matters  of  truth 
and  reality.  In  the  calm,  unprejudiced  eye  of  reason,  they  are 
altogether  visionary.  As  to  her  wealth,  it  is  notorious  that  she  is 
oppressed  with  a  heavy  national  debt,  which  it  requires  the  ut- 
most policy  and  economy  ever  to  discharge.  Luxury  has  ar- 
rived to  a  great  pitch ;  and  it  is  a  universal  maxim,  that  luxury 
indicates  the  declension  of  a  state.  Her  subjects  are  loaded  with 
the  most  enormous  taxes.  All  circumstances  agree  in  declaring 
their  distress.  The  continual  emigrations  from  Great  Britain 
and  Ireland  to  the  continent,  are  a  glaring  symptom  that  those 
kingdoms  are  a  good  deal  impoverished. 

The  attention  of  Great  Britain  has  hitherto  been  constantly 
awake  to  expand  her  commerce.     She  has  been  vigilant  to  ex- 


JEt.  17.]  A     PULL    VINDICATION.  15 

plore  every  region  with  which  it  mighl  be  her  int.  ■■!.•. 

One  of  the  principa]  branches  of  her  commerce  is  with  th<   i 
nics.     These  colonies,  aa  they  are  now  settled  and  peopled,  1 
been  the  work  of  near  two  centuries.     They  arc  blessed  with 
every  advantage  of  soil,  climate,  and  situation.     They  have  ad- 
vanced with  an  almosl  incredible  rapidity.     It  is,  therefore,  an 
egregious  piece  of  absurdity  to  affirm,  thai  the  loss  of  our  trade 
would  be    fell    for  a    time  i  which  must  signify  ;i  short  time). 
No  new  schemes  could  be  pursued  thai  would  nol  requir< 
least,  as  much  time  to  repair  the  loss  of  our  trade,  as  was  B] 

in  bringing  it  to  its  presenl  degr< f  perfection,  which  is  near 

two  centuries.  Nor  ••an  it  be  reasonably  imagined,  that  the  total 
and  sudden  loss  of  so  extensive  and  lucrative  a  branch,  would 
no1  produce  the  mosl  violenl  effects  to  a  nation  thai  subsists  en- 
tirely upon  its  commerce. 

It  is  said,  "there  is  ability  and  humanity  enough  in  the  na- 
tion, to  relieve  those  thai  are  distressed  by  as,  and  to  put  them 
into  some  other  way  of  getting  their  livii  I  wish  the  gentle- 

man had  obliged  his  readers  so  much  as  to  have  pointed  out  this 
other  way.  1  must  confess,  I  have  racked  my  brains  to  no  pur- 
pose to  discover  it ;  and  I  am  fully  of  opinion  it  is  purely  ideal. 
B  3ides  the  common  mechanic  arts,  which  arc  subservient  t<>  the 
ordinary  uses  of  life,  and  which  arc  the  instruments  of  commerce, 
I  know  no  other  ways,  in  time  of  peace,  in  which  men  can  be 

ployed,  except  in   agriculture  and  the  liberal  arts.     I' 
employed  in  the  mechanic  arts,  are  those  whom   the  abridgment 
of  commerce  would  immediately  affect :  and  as  to  such  branches 

mighl   I"-  less  affected,  they  are  already  sufficiently  stocked 
with  workmen,  and  could  give  bread  to  no  more.     Nol  onlj 
bu1  I  can't  see  by  what  legerdemain,  a  weaver,  or  clothier,  could 
be  at  once  converted  into  a  carpenter  or  blacksmith.     With 
sped  to  agriculture,  the  lands  of  Grreal  Britain  and  Ireland  b 
been  long  ago  distributed  and  taken  up;  dot  do  they  require  any 
additional  laborers  to  till  them,  bo  that  there  could  be  no  employ- 
menl   in  this  way.     The  liberal  arts  cannot  maintain  those  who 
are  already  <!,■  voted  to  them;  i<"'  to  £     ,  it  if  more  than  pn 


16  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  17. 

ble,  the  generality  of  mechanics  would  make  but  indifferent  phi- 
losophers, poets,  painters,  and  musicians. 

What  poor  shifts  is  sophistry  obliged  to  have  recourse  to! 
We  are  threatened  with  the  resentment  of  those  against  whom 
our  measures  will  operate.  It  is  said,  that  "  instead  of  concilia- 
ting, we  shall  alienate  the  affections  of  the  people  of  Great  Bri- 
tain ;  of  friends,  we  shall  make  them  our  enemies."  And  fur- 
ther, that  "we  shall  excite  the  resentment  of  the  government 
at  home  against  us,  which  will  do  us  no  good,  but,  on  the  con- 
trary, much  harm." 

Soon  after,  we  are  told,  that  "we  shall  probably  raise  the  re- 
sentment of  the  Irish  and  West  Indians.  The  passions  of  human 
nature,"  it  is  said,  "  are  much  the  same  in  all  countries.  If  they 
find  ns  disposed  wantonly  to  distress  them,  to  serve  our  own 
purposes,  they  will  look  out  for  some  method  to  do  without  us. 
Will  they  not  look  elsewhere  for  a  supply  of  those  articles  they 
used  to  take  from  us  ?  They  would  deserve  to  be  despised  for 
their  meanness,  did  they  not." 

To  these  objections  I  reply,  first,  with  respect  to  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Great  Britain :  that  if  they  are  our  friends,  as  is  supposed, 
and  as  we  have  reason  to  believe,  they  cannot,  without  being 
destitute  of  rationality,  be  incensed  against  us,  for  using  the  only 
peaceable  and  probable  means  in  our  power,  to  preserve  our  in- 
vaded rights.  They  know,  by  their  own  experience,  how  fruit- 
less remonstrances  and  petitions  are.  ■  They  know  we  have  tried 
them,  over  and  over,  to  no  purpose.  They  know  also  how  dan- 
gerous to  their  liberties  the  loss  of  ours  must  be.  What,  then, 
could  excite  their  resentment,  if  they  have  the  least  regard  to 
common  justice?  The  calamities  that  threaten  them  proceed 
from  the  weakness  or  wickedness  of  their  own  rulers,  which 
compels  us  to  take  the  measures  we  do.  The  insinuation,  that 
we  wantonly  distress  them,  to  serve  our  own  purposes,  is  futile, 
and  unsupported  by  a  single  argument.  I  have  shown,  we  could 
have  no  other  resource ;  nor  can  they  think  our  conduct  such, 
without  a  degree  of  infatuation  that  it  would  be  impossible  to 
provide  against,  and  therefore  useless  to  consult.  It  is  most  rea- 
sonable to  believe,  they  will  revenge  the  evils  they  may  feel,  on 


^t.  17.]  \     PULL    VINDICATION 


IT 


foe  true  authors  of  them;  on  an  aspiringand  ffl-judged  ministry- 
n<-t  on  us,  whoactoul  of  a  melancholy  aecessity,  and  are  the  in' 
noivnt  causes  m  self-defei 

w,,h  »'"sl"''-'  to  foe  ministry,  it  is  certain,  thai  an     tl 
whirl,  has  a  tendency  to  frustrate  their  designs,  will  ,„.,  fej]  ^ 

excite  their  displeasure.     But  since  we  have  aothing  | .,„,.,, 

from  their  justice  and  lenity,  it  can  be  no  objection  I 
foal  it  tends  to  stir  up  their  resentment     Bui  their  resentment 
(it  is  of,,.,,  said)  may  run,  as.    The  impossibility  ofd         thai 
withoul  a1  the  same  time  ruining  Greal  Britain,  is  a  sufficient 
curity.  ' 

The  Bame  may  be  said  with  regard  to  the  [rish  and  the  Vv"es1 
[ndians,  which  has  been  said  concerning  the  people  ofGreai  I 

tarn.     The  [rish,  in  particular,  In-  thru-  own  circumstai -   will 

be  teughl  to  sympathize  with  us,  ami  commend  our  conducl 
Justice  will  direct  their  resentment  to  its  proper  objects. 

It  is  true,  self-love  will  prompt   both  the  Irish  and  the  West 
Indians  to  take  every  method  in  their  power  to  escape  the  mise- 
ries they  are  in  danger  of.    But  what  methods  can   they  tal 
"Thelrish,"  it  is  said,   "  may  be  supplied  with  flax-seed  from 
Holland,  the  Baltic,  and  the  river  St.  Lawrence.     Cai     la  pro- 
duces no  inconsiderable  quantity  already."    And  as  to  the  V\ 
Indies,  "they  produce  dow  many  of  the  accessaries  of  life     ] 
quantity  may  be  easily  increased.     Canada  will    famish    them 
with  many  articles  they  aow  take  from  us;  flour,  lumber,  hoi 
&c.    Georgia,  the  Floridas,  and  the  Mississippi,  abound  in  Lum- 
ber;  Nova  Seotia  in  fish." 

The  Dutchare  rivalstothe  English  in  their  commerce.    Thi 
make  large  quantities  of  fine  linens,  gauze,  laces,  etc,  which  re- 
quire the  tlaxtobe  picked  before  it  comes  to  seed;  for  whirl, 

-on.  it  is  not  in  theirpower  to  raise  much  more  s 1  than  they 

want   for  their  own  ose.     [reland   has  always  had  the  surplus 
from  them   They  could,  if  they  were  ever  so  willing,  enlarge  their 

usual  supplies  but  very  little.     It  is,  ind 1,  probable  they  i 

withhold  them.     They  may  cl se  to  improve  th jcasioE 

the  advancement  of  their  own  trade.    They  may  take  advant 

b  2 


18  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  17. 

of  the  scarcity  of  materials  in  Ireland,  to  increase  and  pnt  off 
their  own  manufactures. 

The  Baltic  has  ever  supplied  Ireland  with  its  flax ;  and  she 
has  been  able  to  consume  that,  with  all  she  could  derive  from 
other  quarters. 

As  to  Canada,  I  am  well  informed,  it  could  at  present  afford 
but  a  very  inconsiderable  quantity.  It  has  had  little  encourage- 
ment, hitherto,  to  raise  that  article ;  and,  of  course,  has  not  much 
attended  to  it.  The  instances  mentioned,  of  seed  being  "bought 
up  there  at  a  low  price,  brought  to  New-York,  and  sold  to  the 
Irish  factors  at  a  great  advance,"  does  not  prove  there  is  any  quan- 
tity raised  there.  Its  cheapness  proceeds  from  there  being  no 
demand  for  it ;  and  where  there  was  no  demand,  there  was  no 
inducement  to  cultivate  it. 

Upon  the  whole  it  appears,  that  the  supplies  of  flax-seed, 
which  Ireland  might  draw  elsewhere,  could  be  trifling,  in  com- 
parison with  those  received  from  us,  and  not  at  all  equivalent  to 
her  wants.  But  if  this  were  not  the  case  ;  if  she  might  procure 
a  sufficiency  without  our  help ;  yet  could  she  not  do  without  us. 
She  would  want  purchasers  for  her  linens  after  they  were  manu- 
factured ;  and  where  could  she  find  any  so  numerous  and  wealthy 
as  we  are  ?  I  must  refer  it  to  the  profound  sagacity  of  Mr.  A 
W.  Farmer  to  explore  them.     It  is  too  arduous  a  task  for  me. 

Much  less  could  the  West  Indies  subsist  independent  of  us. 
Notwithstanding  the  continual  imports  from  hence,  there  is  sel- 
dom, or  ever,  in  any  of  the  Islands,  a  sufficient  stock  of  provi- 
sions to  last  six  months,  which  may  give  us  an  idea  how  great 
the  consumption  is.  The  necessaries  they  produce  within  them- 
selves, when  compared  with  the  consumption,  are  scarcely  worth 
mentioning.  Yery  small  rjortions  of  the  land  are  appropriated  to 
the  productions  of  such  necessaries  ;  indeed,  it  is  too  valuable  to 
admit  of  it.  Nor  could  the  quantity  be  increased  to  any  material 
degree,  without  applying  the  whole  of  the  land  to  it.  It  is  alleged, 
that  "  Canada  will  furnish  them  with  flour,  lumber,  horses,  &c," 
and  that  Georgia,  the  Floridas,  and  Mississippi,  abound  in  lum- 
ber; Nova  Scotia  in  fish."  These  countries  have  been  all  along 
carrying  on  a  trade  to  the  West  Indies  as  well  as  we ;  and  can 


Mt.  17.]  A    FUM,     VINDICATION,  19 

it  be  imagined  that,  alone,  they  will  be  able  to  rapply  them  I 
rably?  The  Canadians  have  been  indolent,  and  have  not  im- 
proved their  country  as  they  oughl  to  have  done.  The  wheal 
they  raise  a1  present,  over  and  above  whal  thej  tun 
for  themselves,  would  be  found  to  go  but  little  way  among  the 
islands.  Those  who  think  the  contrary,  musl  have  mistaken  ac- 
tions ofthem.  They  must  be  unapprised  of  the  number  of  souls 
they  contain.  Almost  every  one  hundred  and  fifty,  or  two  hun- 
dred, acres  of  land,  exclusive  of  populous  towns,  comprehends 
hundred  people.  It  is  not  a  small  quantity  of  food  thai  will 
suffice  for  so  many.  Ten  or  fifteen  years'  diligence,  I  grant, 
mighl  enable  Canada,  to  perform  what  is  now  expected  from  her* 
but,  in  the  moan  time,  the  Wesl  Indians  might  have  the  satisfac- 
tion of  starving. 

To  suppose  the  best ;  which  is,  that  by  applying  their  cane- 
lands  to  the  purpose  of  procuring  sustenance,  they  may  preserve 
themselves  from  starving :  still,  the  consequences  musl  be  very 
serious  or  pernicious.  The  wealthy  planters  would  but  ill  relish 
the  loss  of  their  crops:  and  such  ofthem  as  were  considerably 
in  debt,  would  be  ruined.  At  any  rate,  the  revenues  of  Great 
Britain  would  suffer  a  vasl  diminution. 

The  Farmer,  I  am  inclined  to  hope,  builds  too  much  upon 
the  present  disunion  of  Canada,  Georgia,  the  Bloridas,  the  Mis- 
sissippi, and  Nova  Scotia,  from  other  colonies.  A  little  time,  I 
trust,  will  awaken  them  from  their  slumbers,  ami  bring  them  to 
a  proper  sense  of  their  indiscretion.  1  please  myself  with  the 
flattering  prospect,  that  they  will,  ere  long,  unite  in  one  indis- 
soluble  chain  with  the    rest  of  the  colonies.      1  cannot  believe, 

they  will  persist  in  such  a  conduct,  as  must  exclude  them  from 
the  secure  enjoyment  of  those  heaven-descended  immunities  we 

are  contending  for. 

There  is  one  argument  1  have  frequently  heard  urged,  which 
it  maybe  of  some  use  to  invalidate.     It  is  this:  that  if  the  mother 
country  should  be  inclined  to  an  accommodation  of  our  dispul 
we  have,  by  our  rash    procedure,  thrown  an  insurmountable  ob- 
stacle in  her  way ;  we  have  made  it  disgraceful  to  her  to  comply 


20  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  17. 

with  our  requisitions,  because  they  are  proposed  in  a  hostile 
manner. 

Our  present  measures,  I  have  proved,  are  the  only  peaceable 
ones  we  could  place  the  least  confidence  in.  They  are  the  least 
exceptionable,  upon  the  score  of  irritating  Great  Britain,  of  any 
our  circumstances  would  permit.  The  Congress  have  petitioned 
his  Majesty  for  the  redress  of  grievances.  They  have,  no  doubt, 
addressed  him  in  the  most  humble,  respectful  and  affectionate 
terms:  assured  him  of  their  own  loyalty  and  fidelity,  and  of 
the  loyalty  and  fidelity  of  his  American  subjects  in  general:  en- 
deavored to  convince  him,  that  we  have  been  misrepresented 
and  abused :  and  expressed  an  earnest  desire,  to  see  an  amica- 
ble termination  of  the  unhappy  differences  now  existing.  Can 
a  pretext  be  wanting,  in  this  case,  to  preserve  the  dignity  of  this 
■parent  state,  and  yet  remove  the  complaints  of  the  colonies  ? 
How  easy  would  it  be,  to  overlook  our  particular  agreements, 
and  grant  us  redress  in  consequence  of  our  petitions?  It  is 
easy  to  perceive  there  would  be  no  difficulty  in  this  respect. 

I  have  omitted  many  considerations  which  might  be  adduced, 
to  show  the  impolicy  of  Great  Britain  delaying  to  accommodate 
matters,  and  attempting  to  enforce  submission,  by  cutting  off  all 
external  sources  of  trade.  To  say  all  the  subject  allows,  would 
spin  out  this  piece  to  an  immoderate  length.  I  shall  therefore 
content  myself  with  mentioning  only  three  things  more.  First, 
it  would  be  extremely  hurtful  to  the  commerce  of  Great  Britain, 
to  drive  us  to  the  necessity  of  laying  a  regular  foundation  for 
manufactories  of  our  own ;  which,  if  once  established,  could  not 
easily,  if  at  all,  be  undermined,  or  abolished.  Secondly,  it 
would  be  very  expensive  to  the  nation  to  maintain  a  fleet  for 
the  purpose  of  blocking  up  our  ports  and  destroying  our  trade : 
nor  could  she  interrupt  our  intercourse  with  foreign  climes,  with- 
out, at  the  same  time,  retrenching  her  own  revenues ;  for  she 
must  then  lose  the  duties  and  customs  upon  the  articles  we  are 
wont  to  export  to,  and  import  from,  them.  Added  to  this,  it 
would  not  be  prudent  to  risk  the  displeasure  of  those  nations,  to 
whom  our  trade  is  useful  and  beneficial.  And  lastly,  a  perse- 
verance in  ill-treatment,  would  naturally  beget  such  deep-rooted 


^t.  17.]  A    PULL    VINDICATION.  •_' 1 

animosities  in  America,  as  tnighl  never  be  eradicated  ;  and  which 
mighl  operate  to  the  prejudice  of  the  empire,  to  the  latesl  period 

Tims  haw  I  clearly  proved,  thai  the  plan  of  opposition  con- 
oerted  by  our  Congress,  is  perfectly  consonant  with  justice  and 
sound  policy;   and  will,  in  all  Inn, .a,,  probability,  ,„ir 

& lorn  against  the  assaults  of  our  enemies. 

,'1"-  after  all,  it  may  be  demanded,  why  they  have  adopted 
;i  aon-exportation  :  seeing  many  arguments  tend  to  show,  th 
Qon-importation,  alone,  would  accomplish  the  end  desired? 

I  answer,  thai  the  continuance  of  our  exports,  is  the  only 
thin-  whirl,  could  lessen,  or  retard,  the  efficacy  of  ;,  aon-impor- 
tation.  ^  is  not,  indeed,  probable  it  should  do  that  to  any  great 
degree;  but  it  was  advisable  to  provide  against  every  possible 
obstruction.  Besides  this,  the  prospect  of  its  taking  place,  and 
of  the  evils  attendant  upon  it,  will  be  a  prevailing  motive  with 
the  ministry,  to  abandon  their  malignant  schemes.  It  will  b 
serve  to  convince  thru, ,  that  we  are  not  afraid  of  putting  our- 
selves to  any  inconveniences,  sooner  than  be  the  \  icti  ,,-ir 
lawless  ambition. 

The  execution  of  this  measure,  lias  1 n  wisely  deferred  I 

future  time;  because  we  haw  thegreatesl  reason  to  think,  afl 
will  be  settled  without  it:  ami   because  its  consequences  would 
be  too  fatal,  to  be  justified  by  any  thin-  but  absolute  ne< 
This  necessity' there  will  be,  should  not  our  disputes  tennin 
before  the  time  allotted  i\,y  its  commencement. 

Before  I  conclude  this  part  of  my  address,  I  will  answer  I 
very  singular  interrogatories  proposed  by  the  Farmer  "Can 
we  think,"  says  he,  "to  threaten,  and  bully,  and  frighten,  the 
supreme  government  of  th.-  nation  into  a  compliance  with  our 
demands?  Can  we  expect  to  force  submission  toon,-  peevish 
and  petulanl  humors,  by  exciting  clamors  and  riots  in  England?" 
No,  gentle  sir.  We  aeithei  desire,  nor  endeavor,  to  threaten, 
bully,  nor  frighten,  any  persons  into  a  compliance  with  our 
mauds.  Wehaveno  peevish  and  petulant  humors  to  be  sub- 
mitted to.  All  we  aim  at.  is.  to  convince  your  high  and  mighty 
master,  the  ministry,  that  we  are  not  such  a-  -  to  lei  them 
ride  us  as  they  please.     We  are  determined  to  show  them  that 


22 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.11. 


we  know  the  value  of  freedom:  nor  shall  their  rapacity  extort 
that  inestimable  jewel  from  us,  without  a  manly  and  virtuous 
struggle.  But  for  your  part,  sweet  sir !  though  we  cannot  much 
applaud  your  wisdom,  yet  we  are  compelled  to  admire  your 
valor,  which  leads  you  to  hope  you  may  be  able  to  swear, 
threaten,  bully,  and  frighten,  all  America  into  a  compliance 
with  your  sinister  designs.  When  properly  accoutred,  and 
armed  with  your  formidable  hickory  cudgel,  what  may  not  the 
ministry  expect  from  such  a  champion?  Alas,  for  the  poor 
committee  gentlemen!  how  I  tremble  when  I  reflect  on  the 
many  wounds  and  scars  they  must  receive  from  your  tremen- 
dous arm !  Alas  for  their  supporters  and  abettors !  a  very  large 
part,  indeed,  of  the  continent :  but  what  of  that  ?  They  must 
all  be  soundly  drubbed  with  that  confounded  hickory  cudgel : 
for  surely  you  would  not  undertake  to  drub  one  of  them,  without 
knowing  yourself  able  to  treat  all  their  friends  and  adherents  in 
the  same  manner ;  since  'tis  plain  you  would  bring  them  all  upon 
your  back. 

I  am  now  to  address  myself  in  particular  to  the  Farmers  of 
New-York. 

My  Good  Countrymen  : 

The  reason  I  address  myself  to  you,  in  particular,  is  not  be- 
cause I  am  one  of  your  number,  or  connected  with  you  in  inter- 
est, more  than  with  any  other  branch  of  the  community.  I  love 
to  speak  the  truth,  and  would  scorn  to  prejudice  you  in  favor  of 
what  I  have  to  say,  by  taking  upon  me  a  fictitious  character,  as 
other  people  have  done.  I  can  venture  to  assure  you,  the  true 
writer  of  the  piece  signed  A  W.  Farmer,  is  not  in  reality  a 
Farmer.  He  is  some  ministerial  emissary,  that  has  assumed  the 
name  to  deceive  you,  and  make  you  swallow  the  intoxicating 
potion  he  has  prepared  for  you.  But  I  have  a  better  opinion  of 
you,  than  to  think  he  will  be  able  to  succeed.  I  am  persuaded, 
you  love  yourselves  and  children  better  than  to  let  any  design- 
ing men  cheat  you  out  of  your  liberty  and  property,  to  serve 
their  own  purposes.    You  would  be  a  disgrace  to  your  ancestors, 


jEt.  17.]  A    PULL    VINDICATION. 

and  the  bittereel  enemies  to  yourselves,  and  to  your  posterity,  if 
you  did  doI  act  like  men,  in  protecting  and  defending  th 
rights  yon  nave  hitherto  enjoyed. 

I  gay,  my  friends,  I  do  doI  address  yon  in  particular,  I 
I  have  any  greater  connection  with  yon  than  with  other  people. 
I  despise  all  false  pretensions,  and  mean  arts.     Lei  those  1. 
recourse  to  dissimulation  and  falsehood,  who  can't  defend  their 
cause  without  it.     "Tis  my  maxim,  to  let  the  plain  naked  truth 
speak   for  itself:  and  if  men  won'1   listen   to  it,  'tis  their  own 
fault :  they  must  be  contented  to  suffer  for  it.    I  am  neither  mer- 
chant, nor  farmer.     I  address  you,  because  I  wish  wel]  to  my 
country,  and  of  course  to  you,  who  are  one  chief  support  of  it ; 
and  because  an  attempt  has  been  made  to  lead  you  astray  in 
particular.     You  arc  the  men,  too,  who  -would  lose  most,  should 
you  be  foolish  enough  to  counteract  the  prudenl   measures  our 
worthy  Congress  has  taken,  for  the  preservation  of  our  libert 
Those  who  advise  you  to  do  it,  arc  not  your  friends,  but  your 
greatest  foes.     They  would  have  you  made  slaves,  that  they 
may  pamper  themselves  with  the  fruits  of  your  honest  labor. 
'Tis  the  Farmer  who  is  most  oppressed   in  all  countries  wi. 
slavery  prevails. 

You  have  seen  how  clearly  T  have  proved,  thai  a  non-impor- 
tation and  non-exportation,  are  the  only  peaceable  means  in  our 
power,  to  save  ourselves  from  the  most  dreadful  state  of  slavery. 
I  have  shown  there  is  not  the  least  hope  to  be  placed  in  any 
thing  else.  1  have  confuted  all  the  principal  cavils  raised  by 
the  pretended  Farmer;  and  I  hope,  before  I  finish,  to  satisfy 
you,  that  lie  has  attempted  t<>  frighten  you  with  the  prospe<  I 
evils  which  will  never  happen.  This,  indeed,  I  have,  in  a  great 
measure,  done  already,  by  making  appear,  the  greal  probability, 
I  may  almost  say,  certainty,  that  our  measures  will  procure   us 

the   im 'St   Speedy  reill'eSS. 

Are  y,,u  willing,  then,  to  he  slaves  without  a  single  struggle? 
Will  you  give  up  your  freedom,  or,  which  is  the  same  thing,  will 
you  resign  all  security  for  your  life  and  property,  rather  than 
endure  some  small  present  inconveniences?     Will  you  not  t 
a  little  trouble  to  transmit   the  advantages  you  now  ; 


24  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  17. 

those  who  are  to  come  after  you  ?  I  cannot  doubt  it.  I  would 
not  suspect  you  of  so  much  baseness  and  stupidity,  as  to  suppose 
the  contrary. 

Pray,  who  can  tell  me  why  a  farmer  in  America,  is  not  as 
honest  and  good  a  man  as  a  farmer  in  England  ?  or,  why  has 
not  the  one  as  good  a  right  to  what  he  has  earned  by  his  labor 
as  the  other  ?  I  can't,  for  my  life,  see  any  distinction  between 
them.  And  yet,  it  seems,  the  English  farmers  are  to  be  gov- 
erned and  taxed  by  their  own  Assembly,  or  Parliament ;  and 
the  American  farmers  are  not.  The  former,  are  to  choose  their 
own  Eepresentatives  from  among  themselves,  whose  interest  is 
connected  with  theirs,  and  over  whom  they  have  proper  control. 
The  latter,  are  to  be  loaded  with  taxes  by  men  three  thousand 
miles  off ;  by  men  who  have  no  interest  or  connections  among 
them ;  but  whose  interest  it  will  be,  to  burden  them  as  much  as 
possible ;  and  over  whom  they  cannot  have  the  least  restraint. 
How  do  you  like  this  doctrine,  my  friends  ?  Are  you  ready  to 
own  the  English  farmers  for  }^our  masters  ?  Are  you  willing  to 
acknowledge  their  right  to  take  your  property  from  you,  and 
when  they  please  ?  I  know  you  scorn  the  thought.  You  had 
rather  die  than  submit  to  it. 

But  some  people  try  to  make  you  believe,  we  are  disputing 
about  the  foolish  trifle  of  three  pence  duty  upon  tea.  They 
may  as  well  tell  yow,  that  black  is  white.  Surely  you  can 
judge  for  yourselves.  Is  a  dispute,  whether  the  Parliament  of 
Great  Britain  shall  make  what  laws,  and  impose  what  taxes, 
they  please  upon  us,  or  not ;  I  say,  is  this  a  dispute  about  three 
pence  duty  upon  tea  ?  The  man  that  affirms  it,  deserves  to  be 
laughed  at. 

It  is  true,  we  are  denying  to  pay  the  duty  upon  tea ;  but  it  is 
not  for  the  value  of  the  thing  itself.  It  is  because  we  cannot 
submit  to  that  without  acknowledging  the  principle  upon  which 
it  is  founded;  and  that  principle  is,  a  right  to  tax  us  in  all  cases 
vjhatsoever. 

You  have  heretofore  experienced  the  benefit  of  being  taxed 
by  your  own  Assemblies  only.  Your  burdens  are  so  light,  that 
you  scarcely  feel  them.     You'd  soon  find  the  difference,  if  you 


jEt.  17.]  A    FUU-     VINDICATION. 

were  once  to  le1  the  Parliament  have  the  management  of  th    • 
matters. 

How  wonld  yon  like  to  pay  fonr  shillings  a  year,*ont  of 
every  ponnd  your  farms  are  worth,  to  be  squandered  (at  Least  a 
great  pari  of  it)  upon  ministerial  tools  and  court  sycophants? 
What  would  you  think  of  giving  a  tenth  part  (.!'  the  yearly  pro- 
ducts of  your  lands  to  the  clergy?     V7ould  you  not  thin!. 
very  hard  to  pay  ten  shillings  sterling,  per  annum,  for  <■■■ 
wheel  of  your  waggons  and  other  carriages;  a  shilling  or  I 
for  every  pane  of  glass  in  your  houses;  and  two  or  three  shilli 
for  everyone  of  your  hearths?     I  might  mention  taxes  upon 

your   mares,   cows,   and   many  other  things;    but   those    I    hi 

already  mentioned,  are  sufficient.     Methinks   I   see  you  stare, 

and  hear  you  ask,  how  you  could  live,  if  you  were  to  pay  such 
heavv  taxes?  Indeed,  my  friends,  1  can't  tell  you.  You  are  to 
look  out  for  that,  and  take  care  you  do  not  run  yourselves  in 
the  way  of  danger,  by  following  the  advice  of  those  who  want 
to  betray  you.  This  you  may  depend  upon;  if  ever  you  let  the 
Parliament  carry  its  point,  you  will  have  these  and  more  to  | 
Perhaps,  before  long,  your  tables,  and  chairs,  and  platters,  and 
dishes,  and  knives,  and  forks,  and  every  thing  else,  would  be 
taxed.  Nay,  I  don't  know  but  they  would  find  means  to  tax 
you  for  every  child  you  got,  and  for  every  kiss  your  daughters 
received  from  their  sweethearts;  and  God  know.-,  that  would 
soon  ruin  you.  The  people  of  England  wonld  pull  down  the 
Parliament  House,  if  their  present  heavy  burdens  were  not 
transferred  from  them  to  you.  Indeed,  there  is  no  reason  to 
think,  the  Parliament  would  have  any  inclination  to  spare  you. 
The  contrary  is  evident. 

But  being  ruined  by  taxes,  is  not  the  worst  you  have  to  fear. 
What  security  would  yon  have  for  your  lives?  How  can  any 
of  you  be  sure  you  would  have  the  tree  enjoyment  of  your  reli- 
gion long?  Would  you  put  your  religion  in  the  power  of  any 
set  of  men  living?    Remember,  civil  and  religions  liberty  always 


*  The  full  price  of  your  farms  every  five  years. 


2G  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  17. 

go  together :  if  the  foundation  of  the  one  be  sapped,  the  other 
will  fall  of  course. 

Call  to  mind  one  of  our  sister  colonies,  Boston.  Reflect  upon 
the  situation  of  Canada ;  and  then  tell  me  whether  you  are  in- 
clined to  place  any  confidence  in  the  justice  and  humanity  of  the 
Parliament.  The  port  of  Boston  is  blocked  up,  and  an  army 
planted  in  the  town.  An  act  has  been  passed  to  alter  its  char- 
ter ;  to  prohibit  its  assemblies ;  to  license  the  murder  of  its  in- 
habitants; and  to  convey  them  from  their  own  country  to  Great 
Britain  to  be  tried  for  their  lives.  What  was  all  this  for  ?  Just 
because  a  small  number  of  people,  provoked  by  an  open  and 
dangerous  attack  upon  their  liberties,  destroyed  a  parcel  of  Tea 
belonging  to  the  East  India  Company.  It  was  not  public,  but 
private  property  they  destroyed.  It  was  not  the  act  of  the 
whole  province,  but  the  act  of  a  part  of  the  citizens.  Instead  of 
trying  to  discover  the  perpetrators,  and  commencing  a  legal  pro- 
secution against  them,  the  Parliament  of  Great  Britain  inter- 
fered in  an  unprecedented  manner,  and  inflicted  a  punishment 
upon  a  whole  province,  "untried,  unheard,  unconvicted  of  any 
crime."  This  may  be  justice,  but  it  looks  so  much  like  cruelty, 
that  a  man  of  a  humane  heart  would  be  more  apt  to  call  it  by 
the  latter  than  the  former  name. 

The  affair  of  Canada,  if  possible,  is  still  worse.  The  English 
laws  have  been  superseded  by  the  French  laws.  The  Romish 
faith  is  made  the  established  religion  of  the  land,  and  his  Majesty 
is  placed  at  the  head  of  it.  The  free  exercise  of  the  Protestant 
faith  depends  upon  the  pleasure  of  the  Governor  and  Council. 
The  subject  is  divested  of  the  right  of  trial  by  jury,  and  an  inno- 
cent man  may  be  imprisoned  his  whole  life,  without  being  able 
to  obtain  any  trial  at  all.  The  Parliament  was  not  contented 
with  introducing  arbitrary  power  and  popery  in  Canada,  with  its 
former  limits ;  but  they  have  annexed  to  it  the  vast  tracts  of  land 
that  surround  all  the  colonies. 

Does  not  your  blood  run  cold,  to  think  that  an  English  Par- 
liament should  pass  an  act  for  the  establishment  of  arbitrary 
power  and  popery,  in  such  an  extensive  country  ?  If  they  had 
had  any  regard  to  the  freedom  and  happiness  of  mankind,  they 


JEr.  17.]  A    FULL    VINDICATION.  -7 

would  never  have  done  it.     IT  they  had  been  friends  to  the  Pro- 
testanl  cause,  they  would  never  1ki\  e  pro\  ided  such  :i  nursery  for 

■iv;it  enemy  ;  they  would  qo1  have  given  such  encouragement 
to  popery.  The  thoughl  of  their  conduct,  in  this  particular, 
shocks  me.  It  musl  shock  you,  too,  my  friends,  r.  fare  of 
trusting  yourselves  to  men,  who  are  capable  of  such  an  action  I 
They  may  as  well  establish  popery  in  New-York,  and  the  other 
colonies,  as  they  did  in  Canada.  They  had  no  more  righl  to  do 
it  there  than  here. 

Is  it  nol  better,  1  ask,  to  suffer  a  few  present  inconveniei 
than  to  put  yourselves  in  the  way  of  losing  every  thing  thai  is 
precious?  Your  lives,  your  property,  your  religion,  are  all  at 
stake.  I  do  my  duty.  I  warn  you  of  your  danger,  [f  you 
should  still  be  so  mad  as  to  bring  destruction  upon  yourseh 
if  you  should  still  neglecl  what  you  owe  to  God  and  man,  you 
cannot  plead  ignorance  in  your  excuse.  Your  consciences  will 
reproach  you  for  your  folly;  and  your  children's  children  will 
curse  you. 

You  are  told,  the  schemes  of  our  Congress  will  ruin  you. 
You  are  told,  they  have  not  considered  your  interest  :  but  have 
neglected  or  betrayed  you.  Itris  endeavored  to  make  you  look 
upon  some  of  the  wisest  and  Lest  men  in  America  as  rogues  and 
rebels.  What  will  not  wicked  men  attempt !  They  will  scruple 
nothing  that  may  serve  their  purposes,  [n  truth,  my  friends,  it 
is  very  unlikely  any  of  us  shall  suffer  much;  but  let  the  worst 
happen,  the  fanners  will  be  better  off  than  other  people. 

Many  of  those  thai  made  ap  the  Congress  have  large  poss 
sions  in  land,  and  may,  therefore,  be  looked  upon   as   fanners 
themselves.     Can  it  be  supposed  they  would  be  careless  about 
the  farmer's  interest,  when   they  could  not  injure  that,  without 
injuring  themselves?    You  see  the  absurdity  of  such  a  sup] 
tion. 

The  merchants,  and  a  great  part  of  the  trade-men.  gel  their 

living  by  commerce.    These  are  the  ] pie  thafwould  be  hurt 

most  Ly  putting  a  .-top  to  it.  As  to  the  farmers,  " they  fun 
food  for  the  merchant  and  mechanic;  the  raw  materials  for  n 
manufactures  are  the  produce  of  their  indusl  The  merchai 


28  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.11. 

and  mechanics  are  already  dependent  upon  the  farmers  for  their 
food  ;  ami  if  the  non-importation  should  continue  any  time,  they 
would  be  dependent  upon  them  for  their  clothes  also. 

ll  is  a  false  assertion  that  the  merchants  have  imported  more 
than  usual  this  year.  That  report  has  been  raised  by  your  ene- 
mies, to  poison  your  minds  with  evil  suspicions.  If  our  dis- 
putes be  not  settled  within  eighteen  months,  the  goods  we  have 
among  us  Avill  be  consumed ;  and  then  the  materials  for  making 
clothes  must  be  had  from  you.  Manufactures  must  be  promoted 
with  vigor ;  and  a  high  price  will  be  given  for  your  wool,  flax, 
and  hemp.  It  will  be  your  interest  to  pay  the  greatest  care  and 
attention  to  your  sheep.  Increase  and  improve  the  breed  as 
much  as  possible.  Kill  them  sparingly,  and  such  only  as  will  not 
be  of  use  toward  the  increase  and  improvement  of  them.  In  a 
few  months  we  shall  know  what  we  have  to  trust  to.  If  matters 
be  not  accommodated  by  spring,  enlarge  the  quantity  of  your 
flax  and  hemp.  You  will  experience  the  benefit  of  it.  All  those 
articles  will  be  very  much  wanted ;  they  will  bring  a  great  deal 
higher  price  than  they  used  to  do.  And  while  you  are  supplying 
the  wants  of  the  community,  you  will  be  enriching  yourselves. 

Should  we  hereafter  find  it  necessary  to  stop  our  exports,  you 
can  apply  more  of  your  land  to  raising  flax  and  hemp,  and  less 
of  it  to  wheat,  rye,  &c.  By  which  means,  you  will  not  have  any 
of  those  latter  articles  to  lie  upon  hand.  There  will  be  a  con- 
sumption for  as  much  of  the  former  as  you  can  raise ;  and  the 
great  demand  they  will  be  in  will  make  them  very  profitable  to 
you. 

Patience,  good  Mr.  Critic !  Kill  them  sparingly,  I  said.  What 
objection  have  you  to  the  phrase?  You'll  tell  me,  it  is  not  clas- 
sical; but  I  affirm  it  is,  and  if  you  will  condescend  to  look  into 
Mr.  Johnson's  dictionary,  you  will  find  I  have  his  authority  for 
it.  Pray,  then,  for  the  future,  spare  your  wit,  upon  such  occasions, 
otherwise  the  world  will  not  be  disposed  to  spare  its  ridicule. 
And  though  the  man  that  spares  nobody,  does  not  deserve  to  be 
spared  himself,  yet  will  I  spare  you,  for  the  present,  and  proceed 
to  things  of  more  importance. 

Pardon  me,  my  friends,  for  taking  up  your  time  with  this  di 


JEt.  17.]  A    PULL    VINDICATION.  29 

gression,  but  I  could  not  forbear  stepping  oat  of  the  way  a  little  to 

show  the  world  1  am  as  able  a  critic  and  as  ■ 'I  a  punstei 

Mr.  Parmer.     1  now  return  to  the  main  point  with  pleasure. 

It  is  i i isi n i Kit e< I,  "Thai  the  bustle  about  non-importation,  &c, 
has  its  rise,  not  from  patriotism,  bu1  selfishness;"  and  is  only 
made  by  the  merchants,  thai  they  may  gel  a  high  price  for  their 

goods.    . 

Bj  this  time,  1  flatter  myself  you  are  convinced,  thai  we  are 
not  disputing  about  trifles.  It  bas  been  clearly  proved  to  you, 
thai  we  are  contending  for  every  thing  dear  in  life ;  and  thai  the 
measures  adopted  by  the  Congress,  are  the  only  ones  which  can 
save  osfrora  ruin.  This  is  sufficient  to  confute  th;ii  insinuation. 
But  to  confirm  it,  lei  me  observe  to  you,  thai  the  merchants  have 
not  been  the  foremost  to  bring  about  a  non-importation.  All  the 
members  of  the  Congress  were  unanimous  in  it;  and  many  oi 
them  were  not  merchants.  The  warmest  advocates  for  it.  every 
where,  are  not  concerned  in  trade:  and,  as  1  have  before  re- 
marked, the  traders  will  be  the  principal  sufferers,  if  it  should 
continue  any  time. 

.But,  it  is  said,  it  will  not  continue,  because,  "  \\  hen  the  .-tores 
are  like  to  become  empty,  they  will  have  weighl  enough  to  break 
up  the  agreement."  1  don'1  think  they  would  attempt  it :  but, 
if  they  should,  it  is  impossible,  a  few  mercenary  men  could  have 
influence  enough  to  make  the  whole  body  of  the  people  'jive  up 
the  only  plan  their  circumstances  admit  of,  for  the  preservation 
of  their  rights,  and,  of  course,  to  forfeit  all  they  have  been  so 
Long  striving  to  secure.  The  making  of  a  non-importation 
agreement,  did  uo1  depend  upon  the  merchants;  neither  will  the 
breaking  of  it  depend  upon  them.  The  Congress  ha\  e  provided 
against  the  breach  of  the  non-importation,  by  the  non-consump- 
tion  agreement.  They  have  resolved,  for  themselves,  and  as  their 
constituents,  "not  to  purchase,  nor  use,  any  Easl  [ndiaTea  what- 
soever; nor  any  goods,  wares,  or  merchandise,  from  <  hreal  Britain, 
or  Ireland,  imported  after  the  first  of  December ;  nor  mo 
from  the  Wot  [ndies ;  nor  wine,  from  Madeira,  i  »rthe  W.  atern  Isl- 
ands; nor  foreign  Indigo."  If  we  do  not  purchase,  nor  use,  tl 
things,  the  merchant  will  have  no  inducement  to  import  them. 


30  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  11. 

H nice,  you  may  perceive,  the  reason  of  a  non-consumption 
agreement'.'  1 1  is,  to  put  it  out  of  the  power  of  dishonest  men,  to 
break  i he  non-importation.  Is  this  a  slavish  regulation  t  Or,  is 
it  a  hardship  upon  us,  to  submit  to  it?  Surely  not.  Every 
sensible,  every  good  man,  must  approve  of  it.  Whoever  tries  to 
disaffect  you  to  it,  ought  to  meet  with  your  contempt. 

Take  notice,  my  friends,  how  these  men  are  obliged  to  con- 
tradict themselves.  In  one  place,  you  are  told,  "  that  all  the 
bustle  about  non-importation,  &c,  has  its  rise,  not  from  patriot- 
ism, but  from  selfishness  ;"  or,  in  other  words,  that  it  is  made  by 
the  merchants,  to  get  a  higher  price  for  their  goods.  In  another 
place,  it  is  said,  "that  all  we  are  doing,  is  instigated  by  some 
turbulent  men,  who  want  to  establish  a  republican  form  of  gov- 
ernment among  us." 

The  Congress  is  censured,  for  appointing  committees  to 
carry  their  measures  into  execution,  and  directing  them,  "to 
establish  such  further  regulations,  as  they  may  think  proper,  for 
that  purpose."  Pray,  did  we  not  appoint  our  Delegates,  to  make 
regulations  for  us  ?  What  signified  making  them  if  they  did  not 
provide  some  persons,  to  see  them  executed?  Must  a  few 
bad  men  be  left  to  do  what  they  please,  contrary  to  the  general 
sense  of  the  people,  without  any  persons  to  control  them,  or  to 
look  into  their  behaviour,  and  mark  them  out  to  the  public? 
The  man  that  desires  to  screen  his  knavery  from  the  public  eye, 
will  answer,  Yes :  but  the  honest  man,  that  is  determined  to  do 
nothing  hurtful  to  his  country,  and  who  is  conscious  his  actions 
will  bear  the  light,  will  heartily  answer,  No. 

The  high  prices  of  goods  are  held  up,  to  make  you  dissatis- 
fied with  the  non-importation.  If  the  argument  on  this  head 
were  true,  it  would  be  much  better  to  subject  yourselves  to  that 
disadvantage,  for  a  time,  than  to  bring  upon  yourselves  all  the 
mischiefs  I  have  pointed  out  to  you.  Should  you  submit  to  the 
claims  of  the  Parliament,  you  will  not  only  be  oppressed  with 
the  taxes  upon  your  lands,  &c,  which  I  have  already  men- 
tioned; but,  you  will  have  to  pay  heavy  taxes  upon  all  the 
goods  we  import  from  Great  Britain.  Large  duties  will  be  laid 
upon  them  at  home ;  and  the  merchants,  of  course,  will  have  a 


jEt.  17.]  A    PULL    VINDICATION.  31 

greater  price  for  them,  ot  it  would  uo1   be  worth  their  while  to 
carry  on  trade.      The  duty   laid  upon   paper,  .   paint  i 

colors,  &c,  was  a  beginning  of  this  kind.  The  presenl  < lut y 
upon  tea,  is  preparatory  to  the  Imposition  of  duties  upon  all 
other  articles.  Do  you  think  the  Parliamenl  would  make  Bucb 
a  Berious  matter  of  three  pence  a  pound  upon  tea,  if  it  intended 
to  stopthere?  It  is  absurd  to  imagine  it.  5Tou  would  boos 
find  your  mistake  if  you  did.  For  fear  of  paying  somewhal  a 
higher  price  to  the  merchants,  for  a  year  or  two,  you  would  b 
to  pay  an  endless  list  of  taxes,  u  ithin  and  without,  as  long  as  you 
live,  and  your  children  after  you. 

But,  I  trust,  there  is  no  danger  that  the  prices  of  goods  will 
rise  much,  if  at  all.  The  same  Congress,  that  put  a  stop  to  the 
importation  of  them,  has  also  forbid  raising  the  prices  of  them. 
The  same  committee  that  is  to  regulate  the  one,  is  also  to  regulate 
tii"  other.  All  care  will  be  taken  to  give  no  cause  of  dissatisfac- 
tion. Confide  in  the  men  whom  von,  and  the  rest  of  the  continent, 
have  chosen  the  guardians  of  our  common  liberties.  They  are 
men  of  sense  and  virtue.  They  will  do  nothing  but  what  is 
reallv  necessary  for  the  security  of  your  lives  and  properties. 

A  sad  pother  is  made,  too,  about  prohibiting  the  exportation 
of  sheep  without  excepting  wethers.  The  poor  Farmer  is  at  a 
mighty  loss  to  know  how  wethers  can  improve,  or  increase  the 
breed.  Truly  I  am  not  such  a  conjurer  as  to  be  able  to  inform 
him:  but,  if  you  please,  my  friends,  I  can  give  you  two  pretty 
good  reasons  why  the  Congress  have  not  excepted  wethers.  I  I 
is,  that,  for  some  time,  we  shall  have  occasion  for  all  the  wool  we 
can  raise;  so  that  it  would  be  imprudent  to  export  Bheep  of  any 
kind.  And  the  other  is,  that  if  you  confine  yourself  ehietly  to 
killing  wethers,  as  you  ought  to  do,  you  will  have  none  to  ex- 
port. The  gentleman  who  made  the  objection  must  have  known 
these  things  as  well  as  myself :  bu1  be  loves  to  crack  a  jest,  and 
could  not  pass  by  so  fair  an  opportunity. 

Ee  takes  notice  of  the  first  of  these  reasons  himself:  but,  in 
order  to  weaken  its  force,  cries,  "  Let  me  ask  you.  brother  tann- 
ers, which  of  you  would  keep  a  flock  of  sheep,  barely  for  the 
sake  of  their  wool?"     To  this  he  answers.    "  Nol  one  of  you.     It 


32  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  11. 

you  cannot  sell  your  sheep  to  advantage,  at  a  certain  age,  you 
cannot  keep  them  to  any  profit."  He  thinks,  because  he  calls 
you  "  brother  farmers,"  that  he  can  cajole  you  into  believing 
what  he  pleases :  but  you  are  not  the  fools  he  takes  you  for. 
You  know  what  is  for  your  own  interest  better  than  he  can  tell 
you.  And  we  all  know,  that,  in  a  little  time,  if  our  affairs  be 
not  settled,  the  demand  for  wool  will  be  very  great.  You  will 
be  able  to  obtain  such  a  price,  as  will  make  it  worth  your  while 
to  bestow  the  greatest  attention  upon  your  sheep. 

In  another  place  this  crafty  writer  tells  you,  that,  "  from  the 
day  our  exports  from  this  province  are  stopped,  the  farmers  may 
date  the  commencement  of  their  ruin."  He  asks,  "  Will  the 
shopkeeper  give  you  his  goods  ?  Will  the  weaver,  shoemaker, 
blacksmith,  carpenter,  work  for  you  without  pay  ?"  I  make  no 
doubt  you  are  satisfied,  from  what  I  have  said,  that  we  shall 
never  have  occasion  to  stop  our  exports :  but  if  things  turn  out 
contrary  to  our  expectation,  and  it  should  become  necessary  to 
take  that  step,  you  will  find  no  difficulty  in  getting  what  you 
want  from  the  merchants  and  meohanics.  They  will  not  be 
able  to  do  without  you :  and,  consequently,  they  cannot  refuse 
to  supply  you  with  what  you  stand  in  need  of  from  them.  Where 
will  the  merchants  and  mechanics  get  food  and  materials  for 
clothing,  if  not  from  the  farmer?  And  if  they  are  dependent 
upon  you,  for  those  two  grand  supports  of  life,  how  can  they 
withhold  what  they  have  from  you  ? 

I  repeat  it,  my  friends,  we  shall  know  how  matters  are  like 
to  be  settled  by  the  spring.  If  our  disputes  be  not  terminated 
to  our  satisfaction  by  that  time,  it  will  be  your  business  to  plant 
large  parts  of  your  lands  with  flax  and  hemp.  Those  art'icles 
will  be  wanted  for  manufactures;  and  they  will  yield  you  a 
greater  profit  than  any  thing  else.  In  the  interim,  take  good 
care  of  your  sheep. 

I  heartily  concur  with  the  farmer  in  condemning  all  illicit 
trade.  Perjury  is,  no  doubt,  a  most  heinous  and  detestable 
crime;  and,  for  my  part,  I  had  rather  suffer  any  thing,  than 
have  my  wants  relieved  at  the  expense  of  truth  and  integrity. 
I  know  there  are  many  pretended  friends  to  liberty,  who  will 


JEt.  17.]  A     FULL     VINDICATION. 

take  offence  at  this  declaration;  but  I  speak  the  sentiments  of 
in\  heart  without  reserve.  1  do  no1  write  for  a  party.  I  Bhould 
scorn  to  bo  of  any.  All  I  say,  is  from  a  disinterested  regard  to 
the  public  weal. 

The  Congress,  I  am  persuaded,  were  of  the  sai pinion. 

They,  like  honest  men,  have,  as  much  as  was  in  their  po1 
provided  against  this  kind  of  trade,  by  agreeing  to  use  uo  East 
[ndia  Tea  whatever,  after  the  firsl  day  of  March  next. 

I  shall  now  consider  what  has  been  said  with  respect  to  the 
payment  ^>l'  debts,  and  stopping  of  the  courts  of  justice.  Lei 
what  will  happen,  it  will  be  your  own  faults,  if  you  are  not  able 
to  pay  your  debts.  I  have  told  you,  in  what  manner  you  may 
make  as  much  out  of  your  lands  as  ever:  by  bestowing  more  of 
your  attention  upon  raising  flax  and  hemp,  and  less  upon  other 
things.  Those  articles  (as  I  have  more  than  once  observed)  will 
be  in  the  highest  demand.  There  will  be  no  doing  without 
them;  and,  of  course,  you  will  be  able  to  get  a  very  profits 
price  for  them.  How  can  it  be,  that  the  farmers  should  be  at  a 
loss  for  money  to  pay  their  debts  at  a  time  when  the  whole 
community  must  buy,  not  only  their  food,  but  all  the  materials 
for  their  clothes,  from  them?  You  have  no  reason  to  be  uneasy 
on  that  account. 

As  to  the  courts  of  justice,  no  violence  can,  nor  wid,  be  used, 
to  shut  them  up:  but,  if  it  should  be  found  necessary,  we  may 
enter  into  solemn  agreement,  to  cease  from  all  litigations  at  law, 
except  in  particular  cases.  We  may  regulate  law-suits  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  prevent  any  mischief  thai  might  arise  from  them. 
Eestrictions  may  be  laid  on,  to  hinder  merciless  creditors  from 
taking  advantage  of  the  times  to  oppress  and  ruin  their  debtors: 
but,  at  the  same  time,  not  to  put  it  in  the  power  of  tip-  debtors, 
wantonb/  to  withhold  their  just  dues  from  their  creditors,  when 
tl icy  are  able  to  pay  them.  The  law  ruins  many  a  good  honest 
family.  Disputes  may  be  settled  in  a  more  friendly  way.  One 
or  two  virtuous  neighbors  may  be  chosen  by  each  party  to  de- 
cide them.  If  the  next  Congress  should  think  any  regulati 
concerning  the  courts  of  justice,  requisite,  they  will  make  them; 
and  proper  persons  will  be  appointed  to  carry  them  into  execu 

b  3 


:;|  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JE-r.  17. 

(don,  and  to  sec  that  no  individuals  deviate  from  them.  It  will 
be  pour  duty  to  elect  persons  whose  fidelity  and  zeal  for  your 
interesl  you  can  depend  upon,  to  represent  you  in  that  Congress, 
which  is  to  meet  in  Philadelphia  in  May  ensuing. 

The  Farmer  cries,  "Tell  me  not  of  delegates,  congresses, 
committees,  mobs,  riots,  insurrections,  associations:  a  plague  on 
them  all !  Give  me  the  steady,  uniform,  unbiassed,  influence  of 
the  courts  of  justice.  I  have  been  happy  under  their  protection ; 
and,  I  trust  in  God,  I  shall  be  so  again." 

I  say,  tell  me  not  of  the  British  Commons,  lords,  ministry, 
ministerial  tools,  placemen,  pensioners,  parasites.  I  scorn  to  let 
my  life  and  property  depend  upon  the  pleasure  of  any  of  them. 
Give  me  the  steady,  uniform,  unshaken,  security  of  constitu- 
tional freedom.  Give  me  the  right  to  be  tried  by  a  jury  of  my 
own  neighbors;  and  to  be  taxed  by  my  own  representatives 
only.  What  will  become  of  the  law  and  courts  of  justice  with- 
out this  ?  The  shadow  may  remain,  but  the  substance  will  be 
gone.  I  would  die  to  preserve  the  law  upon  a  solid  foundation : 
but  take  away  liberty,  and  the  foundation  is  destroyed. 

The  last  thing  I  shall  take  notice  of,  is  the  complaint  of  the 
Farmer,  that  the  Congress  will  not  allow  you  "a  dish  of  tea  to 
please  your  wives  with,  nor  a  glass  of  Madeira  to  cheer  your 
spirits,  nor  a  spoonful  of  molasses  to  SAveeten  your  buttermilk 
with."  You  would  have  a  right  to  complain,  if  the  use  of  these 
things  had  been  forbidden  to  you  alone :  but  it  has  been  equally 
forbidden  to  all  sorts  of  people.  The  members  of  the  Congress, 
themselves,  are  no  more  permitted  to  please  their  wives  with  a 
dish  of  tea,  nor  to  cheer  their  spirits  with  a  glass  of  wine,  nor  to 
sweeten  their  buttermilk  with  a  spoonful  of  molasses,  than  you 
are.     They  arc  upon  a  footing  with  you  in  this  respect. 

By  him — but,  with  your  leave,  my  friends,  we'll  try,  if  we 
can,  to  do  without  swearing.  I  say,  it  is  enough  to  make  a  man 
mad,  to  hear  such  ridiculous  quibbles  offered,  instead  of  sound 
argument :  but  so  it  is :  the  piece  I  am  writing  against  contains 
nothing  else. 

When  a  man  grows  warm,  he  has  a  confounded  itch  for 
swearing.     I  have  been  going,  above  twenty  times,  to  rap  out  an 


JEt.  17.]  A    FULL    VINDICATION. 

oath,  By  him  that  made  me:  bill  I  have  checked  myself  with  the 
reflection,  thai  it  is  rutin']-  unmannerly  to  treat  him  that  made  as 

with  so  much  IV lom. 

Thus  have  1  examined  and  confuted  ;ill  tin-  cavils  and  obj 
tions,  <>f  any  consequence,  stated  by  this  Farmer.     I  have  only 
passed   over  such   things   as   arc  of  little  weight,  the   fall 
of  which  will  easily  appear.    I  have  shown,  that  tin-  Cong] 
have  neither   "ignorantly  misunderstood,  careles.-ly  neglected, 
nor  basely  betrayed  you ;"  hut  that  they  have  devised  and  re- 
commended the  only  effectual  means  to  preserve  your  invalua- 
ble privileges.     1  have  proved  thai  their  measures  cannot  fail  of 
success;  hut  will  procure  the  most  speedy  relief  for  us.     I  have 
also  proved,  that  the  farmers  are  the  people  who  would  suffer 
hast,  shouhl  we  he  obliged  to  carry  all  our  measures  into  exe- 
cution. 

Will  vou,  then,  my  friends,  allow  yourselves  to  be  duped  by 
this  artful  enemy?  Will  you  follow  his  advices,  disregard  the 
authority  of  your  Congress,  and  bring  ruin  on  yourselves  and 
posterity?  AVill  you  act  in  such  a  manner  as  to  deserve  the 
hatred  and  resentment  of  all  the  rest  of  America?  I  am  sure 
you  will  not.  1  should  be  sorry  to  think  any  of  my  country- 
men would  be  so  mean,  so  blind  to  their  own  inter  losl  to 
every  generous  and  manly  feeling. 

The  sort  of  men  I  am  opposing,  give  you  fair  words  to  per- 
suade you  to  serve  their  own  turns;  but  they  think  and  speak 
of  you,  in  common,  in  a  very  disrespectful  manner.  I  have 
heard  some  of  their  party  talk  of  you,  as  the  most  ignorant  and 
mean-spirited  set  of  people  in  the  world.  They  say  that  you 
have  no  sense  of  honor  or  generosity;  that  you  don't  care  a 
farthing  about  your  country,  children,  nor  any  body  else  hut 
yourselves:  and  that  you  are  so  ignorant,  as  not  to  be  able 
to  look  beyond  the  present:  so  that  if  you  can  once  be  per- 
suaded to  believe  the  measures  of  your  Congress  will  invol 
you  in  some  little  present  perplexities,  you  will  be  glad  to  do 
any  thing  to  avoid  them  ;  without  considering  the  much  greater 
miseries  that  await  you  at  a  little  distance  off.     This  is  the  char- 

ir  they  give  of  you.     Bad  men  are  apt  to  paint   others  I 


36  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  17. 

themselves.  For  my  part,  I  will  never  entertain  such  an  opinion 
of  you,  unless  you  should  verify  their  words,  by  wilfully  falling 
into  the  pit  they  have  prepared  for  you.  I  natter  myself  you 
will  convince  them  of  their  error  by  showing  the  world  you  are 
capable  of  judging  what  is  right  and  left,  and  have  resolution  to 
pursue  it. 

All  I  ask,  is,  that  you  will  judge  for  yourselves.  I  don't  de- 
sire you  to  take  my  opinion,  nor  any  man's  opinion,  as  the  guide 
of  your  actions.  I  have  stated  a  number  of  plain  arguments. 
I  have  supported  them  with  several  well-known  facts.  It  is  your 
business  to  draw  a  conclusion,  and  act  accordingly.  I  caution 
you,  again  and  again,  to  beware  of  the  men  who  advise  you  to 
forsake  the  plain  path  marked  out  for  you  by  the  Congress. 
They  only  mean  to  deceive  and  betray  you.  Our  representa- 
tives in  General  Assembly  cannot  take  any  wiser  or  better  course 
to  settle  our  differences,  than  our  representatives  in  the  Conti- 
nental Congress  have  taken.  If  you  join  with  the  rest  of  Ame- 
rica in  the  same  common  measure,  you  will  be  sure  to  preserve 
your  liberties  inviolate :  but  if  you  separate  from  them,  and 
seek  for  redress  alone,  and  unseconded,  you  will  certainly  fall  a 
prey  to  your  enemies,  and  repent  your  folly  as  long  as  you  live. 

May  God  give  you  wisdom  to  see  what  is  your  true  interest, 
and  inspire  you  with  becoming  zeal  for  the  cause  of  virtue  and 
mankind. 


JEt.  18.] 


THE  FARMEE  REFUTED. 


Febhuary  5,  1775. 

The  Farmer  Refuted  ;  or,  a  more  comprehensive  and  im- 
partial View  of  the  Disputes  between  Great  Britain 
and  the  Colonies.  Intended  as  a  further  Vindication 
of  the  Congress,  in  answer  to  a  Letter  from  a  Win- 
chester Fanner,  entitled  a  View  of  the  Controversy 
between  Great  Britain  and  her  Colonies,  including  a 
mode  of  determinrng  the  present  disputes,  finally  and 
effectually,  &c.  By  a  sincere  friend  to  America. 
Tituli  remedia  pollicentnr,  sed  pixedes  ipsae  venena 
continent — The  title  promises  remedies,  l>ut  the  l>ox 
itself  poisons.     Printed  by  James  Eivington,  1775. 


ADVERTISEMENT. 

The  writer  of  the  ensuing  sheets  can,  with  truth,  say  more  than  the  generality 
of  those  who  either  esponse  or  oppose  the  claim  of  the  British  Parliam 
which  is,  that  his  political  opinions  hare  been  the  result  of  mature  deliberation  and 
rational  inquiry.  They  have  not  been  influenced  by  prejudice  nor  by  any  inter- 
ested or  ambitious  motives.  They  are  not  the  spawn  of  licentious  clamors  or  po- 
pular declamation ;  but  the  genuine  offspring  of  sober  reason.  To  those  whoare 
inclined  to  doubl  his  sincerity,  ht  begsleave  to  recommend  a  little  mop-  -  \arity  I 
those  who  are  possessed  of  greater  candor,  and  who  yet  may  !>.•  disposed  to 


•  IS  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

How  h  can  be  sure  that  his  opinions  have  not  been  influenced  by  prejudice?  He 
answers,  Because  he  remembers  the  time,  when  he  had  strong  prejudices  on  the 
side  h  now  opposes.  His  change  of  sentiment  {he  firmly  believes),  proceeded  from 
the  superior  force  of  the  arguments  in  favor  of  the  American  claims. 

Though  he  is  convinced  there  are  too  many,  whose  judgments  are  led  captive  by 
the  most  venal  and  despicable  motives,  yet  he  does  not  presume  to  think  every 
man,  Who  differs  from  him,  either  fool  or  knave.  He  is  sensible  there  are  men  of 
parts  and  virtue,  whose  notions  are  entirely  contrary  to  his.  To  imagine  there  are 
not  wise  and  good  men  on  both  sides,  must  be  the  effect  of  a  weak  head,  or  a  cor- 
rupt heart.  H:  earnestly  entreats  the  candid  attention  of  the  judicious  and  well- 
meaning  ;  and  hopes  that  what  he  has  written  may  be  read  with  as  much  impar- 
tiality, and  as  sincere  a  regard  to  truth,  as  the  importance  of  the  controversy  de- 
mands. 

• 

Sir, — I  resume  my  pen,  in  rejny  to  the  curious  epistle  you 
have  been  pleased  to  favor  me  with ;  and  can  assure  you,  that 
notwithstanding  I  am  naturally  of  a  grave  and  phlegmatic  dispo- 
sition, it  has  been  the  source  of  abundant  merriment  to  me.  The 
spirit  that  breathes  throughout,  is  so  rancorous,  illiberal,  and  im- 
perious ;  the  argumentative  part  of  it  is  so  puerile  and  fallacious; 
the  misrepresentations  of  facts,  so  palpable  and  flagrant ;  the  cri- 
ticisms so  illiterate,  trifling,  and  absurd;  the  conceits  so  low, 
sterile,  and  splenetic ;  that  I  will  venture  to  pronounce  it  one  of 
the  most  ludicrous  performances  which  has  been  exhibited  to 
public  view  during  all  the  present  controversy. 

You  have  not  even  imposed  on  me  the  laborious  task  of  pur- 
suing you  through  a  labyrinth  of  subtilty.  You  have  not  had 
ability  sufficient,  however  violent  your  efforts,  to  try  the  deptlis 
of  sophistry;  but  have  barely  skimmed  along  its  surface.  I 
should  almost  deem  the  animadversions  I  am  going  to  make  un- 
necessary, were  it  not  that  without  them  you  might  exult  in  a 
fancied  victory,  and  arrogate  to  yourself  imaginary  trophies. 

But,  while  I  pass  this  judgment,  it  is  not  my  intention  to  de- 
tract from  your  real  merit.  Candor  obliges  me  to  acknowledge 
that  you  possess  every  accomplishment  of  a  polemical  writer 
which  may  serve  to  dazzle  and  mislead  superficial  and  vulgar 
minds :  a,  peremptory,  dictatorial  air ;  a  pert  vivacity  of  expres- 
sion; an  inordinate  passion  for  conceit;  and  a  noble  disdain  of 
being  fettered  by  the  laws  of  truth.  These,  sir,  are  important 
qualifications;    and  these  all  unite  in  you  in  a  very  eminent 


JEt.  18.]  T  II  E     V  A  R  M  i:  B     R  E  P  I   'I'  E  I).  39 

degree.  So  that,  though  you  may  never  expecl  the  plaudits  of 
the  judicious  and  discerning,  you  may  console  yourself  with  this 
assurance,  that 

■•  Km >N  and  witlings  '  will'  ev'ry  Bentence  raise 
And  wonder,  with  ;i  foolish  face  oi  praise." 

V.Hi  will,  do  doubt,  bo  pleased  with  this  further  concession  : 
to  wit :  thai  there  is  a  striking  resemblance  between  yourself  and 
the  renowned  hero  of  the  Dunciad.  "Pertdulru  ,"  seems  to  be 
the  chief  characteristic  of  your  genius  as  well  as  his.  1  might 
poinl  "nt  a  variety  of  circumstances  in  which  you  both  agree; 
bul  1  shall  content  myself  with  having  given  the  hint,  and  Leave 
it  to  yourself  and  to  your  other*  admirers,  to  prosecute  a  compa- 
rison, which  will  reflect  so  high  lustre  on  the  object  of  admi- 
ration. 

Having  thus  briefly  delivered  my  sentiments  of  your  per- 
formance in  general,  I  shall  proceed  to  a  particular  examination 
of  it,  so  far  as  may  be  requisite,  towards  placing  it  in  that  just 
point  of  light  in  which  it  ought  to  stand.  I  Hatter  myself,  I 
shall  find  no  difficulty  in  obviating  the  objections  you  have  pro- 
duced  against  the  "  Full  Vindication  ;"  and  in  showing  that  your 
"View  of  the  Controversy  between  Great  Britain  and  the  Colo- 
nies," is  not  <inly  partial  and  unjust,  but  diametrically  opposite  to 
the  first  principles  of  civil  society.  In  doing  this,  I  may  oc 
sionally  interweave  some  strictures  on  the  ,-  <  longress  Canvassed." 

First,  then,  I  observe  you  endeavor  to  bring  the  imputation 
of  inconsistency  upon  me,  for  writing  "a  long  and  elaborate 
pamphlet,  to  justify  decision.-,  against  whose  influence  none  but 
impoA  ///attempts  had  been  made."  A  little  attention  would  have 
unfolded  the  whole  mystery.  The  reason  assigned  for  what  I 
did  was,  "lest  those  attempt-,"  impotent  as  they  were,  in  a  gene- 
ral sense,  "might  yet  have  a  tendency  to  mislead  and  prejudice 
the  minds  of  a  few."  To  prevent  this,  I  wrote;  and  if  I  have 
been  instrumental  in  preserving  a  single  person  from  the  baneful 

*  [fwe  may  judge  from  the  style  and  nun  of  thought,  yon  wen-  pleased  to  be 
yonr  own  admirer  in  the  card  in  reply. 


40  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  18. 

effects  of  your  insidious  efforts,  I  snail  not  regret  the  time  I  have 
(1, 'voted  to  that  laudable  purpose.  To  confirm,  or  to  add,  one 
friend  to  his  country,  would  afford  a  more  refined  and  perma- 
nent satisfaction  to  me,  than  could  possibly  animate  the  breast 
of  the  proudest  ministerial  minion,  though  elevated  to  the  pinna- 
cle of  his  wished-for  preferment,  and  basking  in  the  sunshine  of 
court  favor,  as  the  despicable  wages  of  his  prostitution  and  servi- 
lity. 

You  tell  me,  "  I  knew,  that  at  the  bar  of  impartial  reason  and 
common  sense,  the  conduct  of  the  Congress  must  be  condemned  ; 
but  was  too  much  interested,  too  deeply  engaged  in  party  views 
and  party  heats  to  bear  this  with  patience.  I  had  no  remedy 
(you  say)  but  artifice,  sophistry,  misrepresentation  and  abuse.'1'' 
These  you  call  "  my  weapons,  and  these  I  wield  like  an  old  ex- 
perienced practitioner." 

You  ask,  "  Is  this  too  heavy  a  charge  ?  Can  you  lay  your 
hand  upon  your  heart,  and  upon  your  honor  plead  not  guilty  ?" 
Yes,  sir,  I  can  do  more.  I  can  make  a  solemn  appeal  to  the  tri- 
bunal of  Heaven,  for  the  rectitude  of  my  intentions.  I  can  affirm, 
with  the  most  scrupulous  regard  to  truth,  that  I  am  of  opin- 
ion the  conduct  of  the  Congress  will  bear  the  most  impartial 
scrutiny ;  that  I  am  not  interested  more  than  as  the  felicity  and 
prosperity  of  this  vast  continent  are  concerned ;  and  that  I  am 
perfectly  disengaged  from  party  of  every  kind. 

Here,  I  expect  you  will  exclaim,  with  your  usual  vehemence 
and  indecency,  "  You  are  now  espousing  the  cause  of  a  party! 
It  is  the  most  daring  impudence  and  falsehood  to  assert  the  con- 
trary !"  I  can  by  no  means  conceive,  that  an  opposition  to  a 
small  herd  of  malcontents,  among  whom  you  have  thought  pro- 
per to  rank,  and  a  zealous  attachment  to  the  general  measures  of 
America,  can  be  denominated  the  effect  of  a  party  spirit.  You, 
sir,  and  your  adherents,  may  be  justly  deemed  a  faction,  because 
you  compose  a  small  number  inimical  to  the  common  voice  of 
your  country.  To  determine  the  truth  of  this  affirmation,  it  is 
necessary  to  take  a  comprehensive  view  of  all  the  colonies. 

Throughout  your  letter,  you  seem  to  consider  me  as  a  person 
who  has  acted,  and  is  still  acting,  some  part  in  the  formation  and 


jEt.  18.]  'I'll  E    I' a  R  m  i:  R    i:  i:  PUT  E  I).  II 

execution  of  public  measures.  You  tacitly  represenl  me  ac 
Delegate,  or  member  of  the  Committee.  Whether  this  be  d< 
with  a  design  to  create  a  suspicion  of  my  sincerity,  or  whether  it 
be  really  your  opinion,  I  know  not.  Perhaps  il  is  from  a  com- 
plex motive.  But  1  can  assure  you,  if  you  are  in  earnest,  that 
yon  are  entirely  mistaken.  I  bave  taken  no  other  part  in  the 
affair,  than  that  of  defending  the  proceedings  of  the  Congress,  in 
conversation,  and  by  the  pamphlel  I  lately  published.  J  ap- 
proved of  them,  and  thought  an  ondeviating  compliance  with 
them  essentia]  to  the  preservation  of  American  freedom.  I  shall, 
therefore,  strenuously  exert  myself  for  the  promotion  of  thai  va- 
luable end 

In  the  Held  of  literary  contention,  it  is  common  to  see  the 
epithets  artifice,  sophistry,  misrepresentation)  and  abuse,  mutually 
bandied  about.  Whether  they  are  more  justly  applicable  to  von, 
or  to  me,  the  public  must  deride.  AVitb.  respect  to  abuse,  1  make 
not  the  least  doubt  but  every  reader  will  allow  you  to  surpass 
me  in  that. 

Your  envenomed  pen  has  endeavored  to  sully  the  characters 
of  our  continental  representatives  with  the  presumptuous  charges 
of  ignorance,  knavery,  sedition,  rebellion,  treason,  and  tyranny 
— a  tremendous  catalogue,  indeed!  Nor  have  you  treated  their 
friends  and  adherents  with  any  greater  degree  of  complaisance. 
Yon  have  also  delineated  the  mercantile  body  as  entirely  devoid  of 
principle;  and  the  several  committees,  as  bands  of  robbers  and 

v  tyrants.  In  short,  except  the  few  who  arc  of  your  own 
complexion  and  stamp,  "the  rirtmnis  friends  of  order  and  good 
government,"  you  have  not  hesitated  to  exercise  your  obloquy 
and  malevolence  against  the  whole  continent. 

These  things  being  considered,  it  is  manifest,  that  in  my 
answer  to  your  "  Free  Thoughts."  I  treated  yon  with  more  lenity 
than  you  had  a  right  to  expect;  and  did  by  no  means  observe 
the  strict  law  of  retaliation.  None  but  yourself,  will  think  you 
can,  with  the  least  propriety,  complain  of  abuse. 

I  congratulate  myself  upon   the  sentiments  you  entertai 
my  last  performance.     Such  is  my  opinion  of  your  abiliti 
critic,  that  I  very  much  prefer  your  disapprobation  to  your  ap- 


42  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

pi  arise.  But  with  respect  to  trie  brilliancy  of  thought  you  speak 
of,  give  me  leave  to  inform  you,  that  I  aimed  at  nothing  more 
than  justness  of  thought.  I  addressed  myself  to  the  judgment, 
not  to  the  imagination.  In  works  where  fancy  is  predominant, 
as  is  the  case  with  yours,  there  is  a  better  opportunity  for  dis- 
playing brilliancy  of  thought,  than  where  reason  presides  and 
directs.  No  wonder,  then,  if  you  have  excelled  me  in  this  par- 
ticular ;  since  your  plan  is  so  much  more  favorable  to  it  than 
mine. 

I  shall,  for  the  present,  pass  over  that  part  of  your  pamphlet, 
in  which  you  endeavor  to  establish  the  supremacy  of  the  British 
Parliament  over  America.  After  a  proper  eclaircissement  of 
this  point,  I  shall  draw  such  inferences  as  will  sap  the  foundation 
of  every  thing  you  have  offered. 

The  first  thing  that  presents  itself,  is  a  wish,  that  "  I  had,  ex- 
plicitly, declared  to  the  public,  my  ideas  of  the  natural  rights  of 
mankind.  Man,  in  a  state  of  nature  (you  say),  may  be  consi- 
dered as  perfectly  free  from  all  restraint  of  law  and  government ; 
and  then,  the  weak  must  submit  to  the  strong." 

I  shall,  henceforth,  begin  to  make  some  allowance  for  that 
enmity  you  have  discovered  to  the  natural  rights  of  mankind. 
For,  though  ignorance  of  them,  in  this  enlightened  age,  cannot 
be  admitted  as  a  sufficient  excuse  for  you ;  yet  it  ought,  in  some 
measure,  to  extenuate  your  guilt.  If  you  will  follow  my  advice, 
there  still  may  be  hopes  of  your  reformation.  Apply  yourself, 
without  delay,  to  the  study  of  the  law  of  nature.  I  would  re- 
commend to  your  perusal,  Grotius,  Puffendorf,  Locke,  Montes- 
quieu, and  Burlemaqui.  I  might  mention  other  excellent 
writers  on  this  subject ;  but  if  you  attend  diligently  to  these, 
you  will  not  require  any  others. 

There  is  so  strong  a  similitude  between  your  political  prin- 
ciples and  those  maintained  by  Mr.  Hobbes,  that,  in  j  udging  from 
them,  a  person  might  very  easily  mistake  you  for  a  disciple  of 
his.  His  opinion  was  exactly  coincident  with  yours,  relative  to 
man  in  a  state  of  nature.  He  held,  as  you  do,  that  he  was, 
then,  perfectly  free  from  all  restraint  of  law  and  government. 
Moral  obligation,  according  to  him,  is  derived  from  the  intro- 


jet.  is.]  tii  i:    i"  \  i;  \i  i:  i:    REPUTED.  I ■"■ 

duction  of  civil  society  :    and   there   la  qo  virtue  l>ut  whal 
purely  artificial,  the  mere  contrivance  of  politicians,  for  the  main- 
tenance  of  social  intercourse.     Bui  the  reason  he  run  into  this 
absurd  and  impious  doctrine,  was.  thai  be  disbelieved  th< 
ence  of  an  intelligent,  superintending  principle,  who  is  the  Gov- 
ernor, and  will  be  the  final  judge  of  the  univei 

A-  you  sometimes  swear  by  him  that  made  yout  I  conclude 
your  Bentiments  do  aol  correspond  with  his,  in  thai  which  is  the 
basis  of  the  doctrine  you  both  agree  in  :  and  this  makes  it  imj 
sible  to  imagine  whence  this  congruity  between  yon  arises.    To 
grant,  thai  there  is  a  supreme  intelligence,  who  rules  the  world, 
and  has  established  laws  to  regulate  the  actions  of  his  creatui 
and,  still,  to  assert  thai  man.  in  a  state  of  nature,  may  be  con- 
sidered as  perfectly  free  from  all  restraints  of  law  and  govi  mm 
appears,  to  a  common  understanding,  altogether  irreconcilable. 

Good  and  wise  men,  in  all  ages,  Lave  embraced  a  very  dis- 
similar theory.  They  have  supposed,  that  the  Deity,  from  the 
relations  we  stand  in  to  Himself;  and  to  each  other,  hi 
stituted  an  eternal  and  immutable  law,  which  is  indispensably 
obligatory  upon  all  mankind,  prior  to  any  human  institution 
whatever. 

This  is  what  is  called  the  law  of  nature,  "  which,  being 
coeval  with  mankind,  and  dictated  by  God  himself,  is,  <>f  em; 
superior  in  obligations  to  any  other.  It  is  binding  over  all  the 
globe,  in  all  countries,  and  al  all  times.  No  human  law-  are 
of  any  validity,  if  contrary  to  this:  and  such  of  them  as 
valid,  derive  all  their  authority,  mediately,  or  immediately,  from 
this  original."— Blackstone. 

Upon  this  law  depend  the  natural  rights  of  mankind :  the 
Supreme  Being  gave  existence  to  man,  together  with  the  mi 
of  preserving  and  beautifying  thai  existence.  Ee  endowed  him 
with  rational  faculties,  by  the  help  of  which,  to  discern  and 
pursue  such  things  as  were  consistent  with  his  duty  and  inter, 
and  invested  him  with  an  inviolable  righl  to  personal  liberty 
and  personal  safety. 

Hence,  in  a  state  of  nature,  no  man  had  any  moral  p 
deprive  another  of  his  life,  limbs,  property,  or  liberty; 


44  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [.tor.  18 

least  authority  to  command,  or  exact,  obedience  from  him,  ex- 
cept that  which  arose  from  the  ties  of  consanguinity. 

Hence,  also,  the  origin  of  all  civil  government,  justly  estab- 
lished, must  be  a  voluntary  compact  between  the  rulers  and 
the  ruled ;  and  must  be  liable  to  such  limitations,  as  are  neces- 
sary for  the  security  of  the  absolute  rights  of  the  latter:  for  what 
original  title  can  any  man,  or  set  of  men,  have  to  govern  others, 
except  their  own  consent?  To  usurp  dominion  over  a  people, 
in  their  own  despite ;  or  to  grasp  at  a  more  extensive  power 
than  they  are  willing  to  intrust;  is  to  violate  that  law  of  nature, 
which  gives  every  man  a  right  to  his  personal  liberty ;  and  can, 
therefore,  confer  no  obligation  to  obedience. 

"  The  principal  aim  of  society,  is  to  protect  individuals  in 
the  enjoyment  of  those  absolute  rights  which  were  vested  in 
them  by  the  immutable  laws  of  nature ;  but  which  could  not  be 
preserved,  in  peace,  without  that  mutual  assistance  and  inter- 
course, which  is  gained  by  the  institution  of  friendly  and  social 
communities.  Hence  it  follows,  that  the  first  and  primary  end 
of  human  laws,  is  to  maintain  and  regulate  these  absolute  rights 
of  individuals." — Blackstone. 

If  we  examine  the  pretensions  of  Parliament  by  this  criterion, 
which  is  evidently  a  good  one,  we  shall  presently  detect  their 
injustice.  First,  they  are  subversive  of  our  natural  liberty,  be- 
cause an  authority  is  assumed  over  us,  which  we  by  no  means 
assent  to.  And,  secondly,  they  divest  us  of  that  moral  security, 
for  our  lives  and  properties,  which  we  are  entitled  to,  and  which 
it  is  the  primary  end  of  society  to  bestow.  For  such  security  can 
never  exist,  while  we  have  no  part  in  making  the  laws  that  are 
to  bind  us;  and  while  it  may  be  the  interest  of  our  uncontrolled 
legislators  to  oppress  us  as  much  as  possible. 

To  deny  these  principles,  will  be  not  less  -absurd,  than  to 
deny  the  plainest  axioms.  I  shall  not,  therefore,  attempt  any 
further  illustration  of  them. 

You  say,  "  When  I  assert,  that  since  Americans  have  not,  by 
any  act  of  theirs,  empowered  the  British  Parliament  to  make 
laws  for  them,  it  follows  they  can  have  no  just  authority  to  do 
it ;  I  advance  a  position  subversive  of  that  dependence,  which 


/Et.  18.]  THE    F.\  i;  m  EH    ElEFUTED.  15 

nil  colonies  must,  from  their  very  nature,  bare  <>n  the  mother 
country."  The  premises  from  which  I  drew  this  conclusion,  are 
indisputable.  5Tou  have  not  detected  anj  fallacy  in  them ;  but 
endeavor  to  overthrow  them  by  deducing  a  false  and  imaginary 
consequence.  My  principles  admil  the  only  dependence  which 
can  subsist,  consistent  with  any  idea  of  civil  liberty,  or  with  the 
future  welfare  of  the  British  empire,  as  will  appear  hereaft 

"The  dependence  of  the  colonies  "n  the  mother  counl 
you  assert,  "has  ever  been  acknowledged.     It  is  an  impropi 
"I  speech,  to  talk  of  an  independent  colony.    The  words  is 
pendent  ami  colony,  convey  contradictory   ideas;    much    I 
Trilling  and  sparing.*    As  soon  as  a  colony  becomes  independ- 
ent on  the  parent  state,  it  ceases  to  be  any  longer  a  colon   . 
as  when  you  hill  a  sheep,  you  cease  to  span  him." 

In  what  sense  the  dependence  of  the  colonics  on  the  mother 
country,  has  been  acknowledged,  will  appear  from  those  circum- 
stances of  their  political  history,  which  I  shall,  by  and  by,  re<  I 

T  e  term  colony,  signifies  nothing  more  than  a  body  of  j pie 

drawn  from  the  mother  country,  to  inhabit  some  distant  pi 
or  the  country  itself  so  inhabited.     As  to  the  d  and  modi- 

r  that  subordination,  which  is  due  to  the  parenl  si 
these  must  depend   upon  other  things   besides  th  of 

emigration,  to  inhabit  or  settle  a  distant  country.  These  must 
be  ascertained  by  the  spirit  of  the  constitution  of  the  mother 
country:  by  the  compacts  for  the  purpose  of  colonizing;  and, 
more  especially,  by  the  law  of  nature,  and  that  supreme  law  o£ 
every  society — -its  own  happim 

The  idea  of  colony  doe-;  not  involve  the  idea  of  slavery. 
There  is  a  wide  difference  between  the  dependence  of  a  free 
people,  and  the  submission  of  slaves.     The  former  1  allow:  the 


*  I  find,  sir.  ynu  take  a  particular  delighl  in  persisting  in  absurdity.  Bat  If 
y.  >ii  are  nol  totally  incorrigible,  tbe  following  interpretation  of  the  unfortunate 
rb,  will  secure  it  from  any  future  Btripes.  It  is  taken  from  Johnson's  Diction- 
ary: Sparingly,  not  abundantly,  Bacon  .■  '_',  frugally,  parsimoniously  .  nol  lavishly. 
Hayward;  with  abstinence,  AUerbwry;  cautiously,  tenderly.  Substitute  I  - 
<>r.  not  lavishly,  for  sparingly,  and  yon  musl  blush  .it  your  own  conceit.  Kill  your 
-' j>  '  t  lavishly."    Where  is  the  impropriety  of  this 


46  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Ms.  18. 

hitter  I  reject  with  disdain.  Nor  does  the  notion  of  a  colony 
imply  any  subordination  to  our  fellow-subjects  in  the  parent 
state  while  there  is  one  common  sovereign  established.  The 
dependence  of  the  colonies  on  Great  Britain,  is  an  ambiguous 
and  equivocal  phrase.  It  may  either  mean  dependence  on  the 
people  of  Great  Britain,  or  on  the  king.  In  the  former  sense,  it 
is  absurd  and  unaccountable.  In  the  latter,  it  is  just  and  rational. 
No  person  will  affirm  that  a  French  colony  is  independent  on  the 
parent  state,  though  it  acknowledge  the  king  of  France  as  right- 
ful sovereign.  Nor  can  it,  with  any  greater  propriety,  be  said, 
that  an  English  colony  is  independent,  while  it  bears  allegiance 
to  the  king  of  Great  Britain.  The  difference  between  their  de- 
pendence, is  only  that  which  distinguishes  civil  liberty  from 
slavery ;  and  results  from  the  different  genius  of  the  French  and 
English  constitutions. 

But  you  deny  that  "  we  can  be  liege  subjects  to  the  king  of 
Great  Britain,  while  we  disavow  the  authority  of  Parliament." 
You  endeavor  to  prove  it  thus  :*  "  The  king  of  Great  Britain 
was  placed  on  the  throne,  by  virtue  of  an  act  of  Parliament : 
and  he  is  king  of  America,  by  virtue  of  being  king  of  Great 
Britain.  He  is,  therefore,  king  of  America  by  act  of  Parlia- 
ment :  and,  if  we  disclaim  that  authority  of  Parliament  which 
made  him  our  king,  we,  in  fact,  reject  him  from  being  our  king ; 
for  we  disclaim  that  authority  by  which  he  is  king  at  all." 

Admitting  that  the  king  of  Great  Britain  was  enthroned  by 
virtue  of  an  act  of  Parliament ;  and  that  he  is  king  of  America, 
because  he  is  king  of  Great  Britain ;  yet,  the  act  of  Parliament 
is  not  the  efficient  cause  of  his  being  the  king  of  America.  It  is 
only  the  occasion  of  it.  He  is  king  of  America,  by  virtue  of  a 
compact  between  us  and  the  kings  of  Great  Britain.  These 
colonies  were  planted  and  settled  by  the  grants,  and  under  the 
protection,  of  English  kings,  who  entered  into  covenants  with 
us,  for  themselves,  their  heirs,  and  successors;  and  it  is  from 
these  covenants,  that  the  duty  of  protection,  on  their  part,  and 
the  duty  of  allegiance,  on  ours,  arise. 


*  Vide   "  Congress  Canvassed." 


jet.  18.]  Til  E    F.\  R  m  i:  R    ii  i:  I'  [J TED.  I  . 

So  that,  to  disclaim  the  authority  of  a   British   Parliament 
over  us,  does  by  ao  means  imply  the  dereliction  of  oar  all 
ance  to  British  monarchs.     Ourcompacl  aizanceof 

the  manner  of  their  accession  to  the  throne.     It   \e  sufficient  for 
as  thai  they  are  kings  of  England. 

Themosl  valid  reasons  can  be  assigned  foT  our  allegiance  to 
the  king  of  Great  Britain;  bu1  no1  one  of  the  leasl  force,  or 
plausibility,  for  our  subjection  to  parliamentary  decre< 

We  hold  our  lands  in  America  by  virtue  of  charters  from 
British  monarchs;  and  are  under  no  obligations  to  the  Lords  or 
Commons  for  them.  Our  title  is  similar,  and  equal,  to  thai  by 
which  they  possess  their  lands ;  and  the  king  is  the  Legal  foun- 
tain of  both.  This  is  one  grand  source  of  our  obligation  to 
allegiance. 

Another,  and  the  principal  source,  is,  that  protection  which 
we  have  hitherto  enjoyed  from  the  kings  of  Great  Britain. 
Nothing  is  more  common  than  to  hear  the  votaries  oi  Parlia- 
ment urge  the  protection  we  have  received  from  the  mother 
country,  as  an  argument  for  submission  to  its  claims.  Bu1  they 
entertain  erroneous  conceptions  of  the  matter.  The  king  him- 
self being  the  supreme  executive  magistrate,  is  regarded  by  the 

3titution  as  the  supreme  protector  of  the  empire.  For  this 
purpose,  he  is  the  generalissimo,  or  first  in  military  command. 
In  him  is  vested  the  power  <4'  making  war  and  peace;  of  raising 
armies,  equipping  fleets,  and  directing  all  their  motions.  He  it 
is,  that  has  defended  as  from  our  enemies ;  and  to  him  alone  we 

are  obliged  to  render  allegiance  and  submission. 

The  law  of  nature,  and  the  British  constitution,  both  confine 
allegiance  to  the  person  of  the  king;  and  found  it  upon  the 
principle  of  protection.  We  may  see  the  Bubjed  discussed  at 
large,  in  the  case  of  Calvin.  The  definition  given  of  it  by  the 
learned  Coke,  is  this:  "  Legiance  is  the  mutual  bond  and  obliga- 
tion between  the  king  and  his  subjects;  whereby  subjects  are 
called  his  liege  subjects,  because  they  are  bound  to  obey  and 
serve  him:  and  he  is  called  their  liege  lord,  because  he  is  bound 
to  maintain  and  defend  them."  Hence  it  is  evident,  that  while 
we  enjoy  the  protection  of  the  king,  it  is  incumbenl  upon  as  to 


48  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  18. 

obey  and  serve  him,  without  the  interposition  of  parliamentary 
supremacy. 

The  right  of  Parliament  to  legislate  for  us,  cannot  be  ac- 
counted for  upon  any  reasonable  grounds.  The  constitution  of 
Great  Britain  is  very  properly  called  a  limited  monarchy ;  the 
people  having  reserved  to  themselves  a  share  in  the  legislature, 
as  a  check  upon  the  regal  authority,  to  prevent  its  degenerating 
into  despotism  and  tyranny.  The  very  aim  and  intention  of  the 
democratical  part,  or  the  House  of  Commons,  is  to  secure  the 
rights  of  the  people.  Its  very  being  depends  upon  those  rights. 
Its  whole  power  is  derived  from  them,  and  must  be  terminated 
by  them. 

It  is  the  unalienable  birth-right  of  every  Englishman,  who 
can  be  considered  as  a  free  agent,  to  participate  in  framing  the 
laws  which  are  to  bind  him,  either  as  to  his  life  or  property. 
But,  as  many  inconveniences  would  result  from  the  exercise  of 
this  right  in  person,  it  is  appointed  by  the  constitution  that  he 
shall  delegate  it  to  another.  Hence,  he  is  to  give  his  vote  in 
the  election  of  some  person  he  chooses  to  confide  in  as  his  repre- 
sentative. This  right  no  power  on  earth  can  divest  him  of.  It 
was  enjoyed  by  his  ancestors  time  immemorial ;  recognized  and 
established  by  Magna  Charta ;  and  is  essential  to  the  existence  of 
the  constitution.  Abolish  this  privilege,  and  the  House  of  Com- 
mons is  annihilated. 

But  what  was  the  use  and  design  of  this  privilege?  To 
secure  his  life  and  property  from  the  attacks  of  exorbitant 
power.  And  in  what  manner  is  this  done  ?  B}>-  giving  him  the 
election  of  those  who  are  to  have  the  disposal  and  regulation  of 
them,  and  whose  interest  is  in  every  respect  connected  with  his. 

The  representative,  in  this  case,  is  bound,  by  every  possible 
tie,  to  consult  the  advantage  of  his  constituents.  Gratitude  for 
the  high  and  honorable  trust  reposed  in  him,  demands  a  return 
of  attention,  and  regard  to  the  advancement  of  his  happiness. 
Self-interest,  that  most  powerful  incentive  of  human  actions, 
points  and  attracts  towards  the  same  object. 

The  duration  of  his  trust  is  not  perpetual,  but  must  expire 
in  a  few  years :  and  if  he  is  desirous  of  the  future  favor  of  his 


JEt.  18.]  tii  i:    I'A  ii  m  i;i;    1;  i:  PUTED.  49 

constituents,  he  must  not  abuse  the  presenl  Instance  of  it,  bul 
musl  pursue  the  end  for  which  he  enjoys  it;  otherwise  he  forfeits 
it,  and  defeats  his  own  purpose.  Besides,  if  he  consenl  to  any 
laws  hurtful  to  his  constituent,  he  is  bound  by  the  .  and 

must  partake  the  disadvantage  of  them.     His  friends,  relations, 
children,  all  whose  ease  and  comfoii  are  dear  to  him,  will  be  in 
a  like  predicament,     And  Bhould  he  concur  in  any  Qagranl  i 
of  injustice  or  oppression,  he  will  1"'  within  the  reach  of  popular 
igeance;  and  this  will  restrain  him  within  due  bounds. 

To    crown    the    whole;    at     the    expiration    of  a    few   years,  if 

their  representatives  have  abused  their  trust,  the  people  have  it 
in  their  power  to  change  them  :  ami  to  eleel  others,  who  may  be 
more  faithful  ami  more  attached  to  their  interest 

These  securities,  the  most  powerful  that   human  affairs  will 
admit  of|  have  the  people  of  Britain  lor  the  good  deportment  of 
their  representatives  towards  them.    They  may  have  proved, a1 
somo  times,  and  on  some  occasions,  defective;  but,  upon   | 
whole,  they  have  been  found  sufficient 

When  we  ascribe  to  the  British  House  of  Commons  a  jm 
diction  over  the  colonies,  the  scene  is  entirely  reversed.     All 
these  kinds  of  security  immediately  disappear;  no  ti  lati- 

tude or  interesl  remain.  Interest,  indeed,  may  operate  to  our 
prejudice.  To  oppress  us.  may  serve  as  a  recommendation  to 
their  constituents,  as  well  as  an  alleviation  of  their  own  incum- 
brances. The  British  patriots  maw  in  time,  be  heard  to  court 
the  gale  of  popular  favor,  by  boasting  their  exploits  in  laying 
some  new  impositions  on  their  American  vassals;  and,  by  that 
means,  lessening  the  burthens  of  their  friends  and  fellow-subjects, 

Bu1    what    merits   still    more  Berious  attention    is   this:   there 
seems  to  be  already  a  jealousy  <>f  our  dawning  splendor.     It  is 
looked  upon  as  portentous  of  approaching  independence.     Tin'-. 
we  have  reason  to  believe,  is  one  of  the  principal  incitemi 
the  present  rigorous  and  unconstitutional  proceedings  against  us. 
And  though  it  may  have  chiefly  originated  in  the  calumni< 
designing  men, yet  it  do,s  not  entirely  depend  upon  adventitious 
or  partial  causes;  hut  is  also  founded  in  the  circumsta 
our  country  and  situation.     The  boundless  extent  i  if  terril 

B  4 


50  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

possess ;  the  wholesome  temperament  of  our  climate ;  the  luxu- 
riance and  fertility  of  our  soil;  the  variety  of  our  products;  the 
rapidity  of  our  population ;  the  industry  of  our  countrymen ; 
and  the  commodiousness  of  our  ports ;  naturally  lead  to  a  sus- 
picion of  independence,  and  would  always  have  an  influence  per. 
nicious  to  us.  Jealousy  is  a  predominant  passion  of  human  na 
ture,  and  is  a  source  of  the  greatest  evils.  Whenever  it  takes 
place  between  rulers  and  their  subjects,  it  proves  the  bane  of 
civil  society. 

The  experience  of  past  ages  may  inform  us,  that  when  the 
circumstances  of  a  people  render  them  distressed,  their  rulers 
generally  recur  to  severe,  cruel,  and  oppressive  measures.  In- 
stead of  endeavoring  to  establish  their  authority  in  the  affection 
of  their  subjects,  they  think  they  have  no  security  but  in  their 
fear.  They  do  not  aim  at  gaining  their  fidelity  and  obedience, 
by  making  them  flourishing,  prosperous,  and  happy  ;  but  by 
rendering  them  abject  and  dispirited.  They  think  it  necessary 
to  intimidate  and  awe  them ;  to  make  every  accession  to  their 
own  power,  and  to  impair  the  people's  as  much  as  possible. 

One  great  engine  to  effect  this  in  America,  would  be  a  large 
standing  army,  maintained  out  of  our  own  pockets,  to  be  at  the 
devotion  of  our  oppressors.  This  would  be  introduced  under 
pretext  of  defending  us ;  but,  in  fact,  to  make  our  bondage  and 
misery  complete. 

We  might  soon  expect  the  martial  law,  universally  prevalent 
to  the  abolition  of  trials  by  juries,  the  Habeas  Corpus  act,  and 
every  other  bulwark  of  personal  safety,  in  order  to  overawe  the 
honest  assertors  of  their  country's  cause.  A  numerous  train  of 
court  dependents  would  be  created  and  supported  at  our  expense. 
The  value  of  all  our  possessions,  by  a  complication  of  extorsive 
measures,  would  be  gradually  dejDreciated,  till  it  became  a  mere 
shadow. 

This  will  be  called  too  high  wrought  a  picture,  a  phantom  of 
my  own  deluded  imagination.  The  highest  eulogies  will  be 
lavished  on  the  wisdom  and  justice  of  the  British  nation.  But 
deplorable  is  the  condition  of  that  people,  who  have  nothing 
else  than  the  wisdom  and  justice  of  another  to  depend  upon. 


Mr.  18.]  THE    P  A  R  M  i:  R     REFUT  E  I) .  •">  I 

"Political  writers,-'  says  a  celebrated  author,*  "have  estab- 
lished it  as  a  maxim,  that,  in  contriving  any  system  of  govern- 
ment, and  fixing  the  several  checks  and  controls  of  the  constitu- 
tion, every  man  oughl  to  be  supposed  a  knaw  ;  and  to  have  qo 
other  end,  in  all  his  actions,  bul  private  inten  By  this  interest 
we  must  govern  hdm;  and,  by  means  "lit,  mah  him  co-operai 
public  good,  notwithstanding  his  insatiable  avarice  and  ambition. 
Without  this,  we  shall  in  vain  boasl  of  the  advantages  of  any 
constitution;  and  shall  find,  in  the  end,  that  we  have  no  security 
for  our  liberties  and  possessions,  excepl  the  good  will  of  our  ru- 
lers;  that  is,  we  should  have  //"  security  at  all. 

••It  is,  theivfoiv,  a  just  pnlitinil  maxim,  that  every  man  must 
be  supposed  a  knave.  Though,  at  the  same  time,  il  appea  ime- 
what  strange,  that  a  maxim  should  be  true  in  politics  which  is 
false  in  tact.  But  to  satisfy  us  on  this  head,  we  may  consider  that 
men  arc  generally  more  honest  in  a  private  than  in  a  public  ca- 
pacity; and  will  go  greater  lengths  to  serve  a  party  than  when 
their  own  private  interesl  is  alone  concerned.  Eonor  is  a  great 
check-  upon  mankind.  But,  where  a  considerable  body  of  men 
act  together,  t his  check  is  in  a  great  measure  removed,  since  a 
man  is  sure  to  be  approved  by  his  own  party  for  what  promotes 
the  common  interest  ;  and  he  soon  learns  to  despise  the  clamors 
of  adversaries.  'To  this  we  may  add,  that  every  court  ot  senate  is 
determined  by  the  greater  number  of  voices  ;  SO  that,  it'  >el  ('-inter- 
est influences  only  the  majority  (as  it  will  always  do),  the  whole 
senate  follows  the  allurements  of  this  separate  interesl ;  and  acts 
as  if  it  contained  not  one  member  who  had  any  regard  to  public 
interest  and  liberty."  What  additional  force  do  these  observa- 
tions acquire,  when  applied  to  the  dominion  of  one  community 
over  another! 

From  what  has  been  said,  it  is  plain,  that  we  are  without 
those  checks  upon  the  representatives  of  Greal  Britain  which 
alone  can  make  them  answer  the  end  of  their  appointment  with 
respect  to  us;  which  is  the  preservation  of  the  rights,  and 
advancement  of  the  happiness  of  the  governed.  The  direct  and 
inevitable  consequence  is,  they  Turn  no  right,  to  govern  its. 

*  Hume,  vol.  1.    Essay  5. 


52  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEr.lt. 

Let  us  examine  it  in  another  light.     The  House  of  Commons 
receives  all  its  authority  from  its  electors,  in  consequence  of  the 
right  they  have  to  a  share  in  the  legislature.     Its  electors  are  free- 
holders, citizens,  and  others,  in  Great  Britain.     It  follows,  there- 
fore, that  all  its  authority  is  confined  to  Great  Britain.     This  is 
demonstrative.     Sophistry,  by  an  artful  play  of  ambiguous  terms, 
may  perplex  and  obscure  it ;  but  reason  can  never  confute  it. 
The  power  which  one  society  bestows  upon  any  man,  or  body  of 
men,  can  never  extend  beyond  its  own  limits.  The  people  of  Great 
Britain  may  confer  an  authority  over  themselves,  but  they  can 
never  confer  any  over  the  people  of  America,  because  it  is  impos- 
sible for  them  to  give  that  to  another  which  they  never  possessed 
themselves.     Now,  I  should  be  glad  to  see  an  attempt  to  prove 
that  a  freeholder,  citizen,  or  any  other  man  in  Great  Britain,  has 
any  inherent  right  to  the  life,  property,  or  liberty,  of  a  freeholder, 
citizen,  or  any  other  man  in  America.     He  can  have  no  original 
and  intrinsic  right,  because  nature  has  distributed  an  equality  of 
rights  to  every  man.     He  can  have  no  secondary  or  derivative 
right,  because  the  only  thing  which  could  give  him  that  is  want- 
ing— the  consent  of  the  natural  proprietor.     It  is  incumbent  upon 
you  to  demonstrate  the  existence  of  such  a  right,  or  any  thing 
else  you  may  produce  will  be  of  little  avail.     I  do  not  expect  you 
will  be  discouraged  at  the  apparent  difficulty.     It  is  the  peculiar 
province  of  an  enterprising  genius  to  surmount  the  greatest  ob- 
stacles, and  you  have  discovered  an  admirable  dexterity  in  this 
way.     You  have  put  to  flight  some  of  my  best  arguments,  with 
no  greater  pains  than  a  few  positive  assertions,  and  as  many  pal- 
try witticisms ;  and  you  become  altogether  irresistible  by  adding, 
with  a  proper  degree  of  confidence,  You  know  the  case  to  be  as  I 
state  it. 

When  I  say  that  the  authority  of  Parliament  is  confined  to 
Great  Britain,  I  speak  of  it  in  its  primitive  and  original  state. 
Parliament  may  acquire  an  incidental  influence  over  others,  but 
this  must  be  by  their  own  free  consent ;  for,  without  this,  any 
power  it  might  exercise  would  be  mere  usurpation,  and  by  no 
means  a  just  authority. 

The  best  way  of  determining  disputes,  and  of  investigating 


Mr.  18.]  THE    I"  a  i:  m  K  it    i;  i:  i  r  t  i:  d. 

truth,  is  by  descending  to  elementary  principles.     Any  other 
method  may  only  bewilder  and  misguide  tin-  understanding,  bnt 

this  will  so,, ii  Lead  to  a  convincing  and  satisfactory  crisia     \'-. 
observing  this  method,  we  shall  learn  the  following  truths. 

Thai  the  existence  of  the  Eouse  of  Commons  depends  upon 
tli.'  people's  righl  to  a  share  in  the  legislature,  which  i 

d  by  means  of  electing  the  members  of  that  house.    Thai  I 
end  and  intention  of  this  righl  is  to  preserve  the  life,  prop<  rty, 
and  liberty  of  the  subject,  from  the  encroachments  of  oppress 
and  tyranny. 

Thai  this  end  is  accomplished,  by  means  of  the  intimate  <<,/,- 
nection  of  interest,  befrw  een  those  members  and  their  constituents, 
the  people  of  Ghreal  Britain. 

That  with  resped  to  the  people  of  America,  there  is  no  such 
intimate  connection  of  interest,  but  the  contrary;  and  therei 
that  end  could  not  be  answered  to  them;  consequently,  the  end 
ceasing,  the  means  must  cease  also. 

The  House  of  Commons  derives  all  its  power  from  its  own 
real  constituents,  who  are  the  people  of  Ghreal  Britain  :  and  that, 
therefore,  it  has  no  power  hut  what  they  originally  had  in  them- 
selves. 

That  they  had  no  original  right  to  the  life,  property,  or  lib- 
erty, of  Americans;  nor  any  acquired  from  their  own  consent; 
and  of  course  couM  give  no  authority  over  them. 

That,  therefore,  the  House  of  Commons  has  no  such  author- 
ity. 

What  need  is  there  of  a  multiplicity  of  arguments,  or  a  ! 
chain  of  reasoning,  to  inculcate  these  luminous  principles?  They 
speak  the  plainest  language  to  every  man  of  common 
and  must    carry  conviction  where  the    mental  eye  is  not 
dimmed    by  the    mist    of   prejudice,   partiality,   ambition,  or 
avarice.    Let  us  now  sec  what  has  been  offered  in  opposition 
to  them. 

But,  by  the  way,  let  me  remark,  that  I  have  levelled  my  bat- 
tery chiefly  against  the  authority  of   the  House  of  Comr 
over  America;    because,  if  that   he   proved    doI  to  ea 
dispute  is  at  an  end.    The  effica  f  Parliami 


54  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 


0 


pencls  upon  the  due  authority  of  the  respective  branches,  to 
bind  the  different  orders  and  ranks  of  the  nation. 

It  is  said,  that  "in  every  government  there  must  be  a 
supreme  absolute  authority  lodged  somewhere.  In  arbitrary 
governments,  this  power  is  in  the  monarch ;  in  aristocratical 
governments,  in  the  nobles ;  in  democratical,  in  the  people,  or 
the  deputies  of  their  electing.  Our  own  government,  being  a 
mixture  of  all  these  kinds,  the  supreme  authority  is  vested  in 
the  king,  nobles,  and  people ;  i.  e.,  the  King,  House  of  Lords, 
and  House  of  Commons  elected  by  the  people.  The  supreme 
authority  extends  as  far  as  the  British  dominions  extend.  To 
suppose  a  part  of  the  British  dominions,  which  is  not  subject  to 
the  power  of  the  British  legislature,  is  no  better  sense  than  to 
suppose  a  country,  at  one  and  the  same  time,  to  be,  and  not  to 
be,  a  part  of  the  British  dominions.  If,  therefore,  the  colony  of 
New-York  is  a  part  of  the  British  dominions,  the  colony  of  New- 
York  is  subject  to,  and  dependent  on,  the  supreme  legislative 
authority  of  Great  Britain." 

This  argument  is  the  most  specious  of  any  the  advocates  for 
parliamentary  supremacy  are  able  to  produce ;  but  when  we 
come  to  anatomize,  and  closely  examine,  every  part  of  it,  we 
shall  discover,  that  it  is  entirely  composed  of  distorted  and  mis- 
applied principles,  together  with  ambiguous  and  equivocal 
terms. 

The  first  branch  is,  That  "in  every  government,  there 
must  be  a  supreme,  absolute  authority  lodged  somewhere."  This 
position,  Avhen  properly  explained,  is  evidently  just.  In  every 
civil  society,  there  must  be  a  supreme  power,  to  which  all  the 
members  of  that  society  are  subject ;  for,  otherwise,  there  could 
be  no  supremacy,  or  subordination ;  that  is,  no  government  at 
all.  But  no  use  can  be  made  of  this  principle  beyond  matter  of 
fact.  To  infer  from  thence,  that  unless  a  supreme  absolute 
authority  be  vested  in  one  part  of  an  empire  over  all  the  other 
parts,  there  can  be  no  government  in  the  whole,  is  false  and 
absurd.  Each  branch  may  enjoy  a  distinct,  complete  legislature, 
and  still  good  government  may  be  preserved  every  where.  It 
is  in  vain  to  assert,  that  two  or  more  distinct  legislatures  cannot 


/F/r.  18.]  T  H  i:     PA  It  M  K  K      I!  K  I'  I    T  I!  I) 

isl  iii  the  same  State.  If,  by  the  same  State,  be  meant  the 
same  individual  community,  it  is  true.  Thus,  for  instance,  there 
cannot  be  two  supreme  legislatures  in  Greal  Britain,  dot  two  in 

New-York.     Bui  if,  by  the  same  State,  1"-  undersl I  a  Dumber 

of  individual  societies,  or  bo<  lies  politic,  united  ander  one  com- 
mon bead,  then  I  maintain,  thai  there  may  be  one  distinct,  com- 
plete legislature  in  each.  Thus  there  may  be  one  in  Greal 
Britain,  another  in  Ireland,  and  another  in  New- York  ;  and  .-till 
these  several  parts  ma\  form  but  one  State.  In  order  to  this, 
there  must  indeed  be  some  connecting,  pervading  principle ;  bu1 
this  is  found  in  the  person  and  prerogative  of  the  king.  Be  it 
is,  that  conjoins  all  these  individual  societies  into  one  greal  b 
politic.  Be  it  is,  thai  is  to  preserve  their  mutual  connection  and 
dependence,  and  make  them  all  co-operate  to  one  common  end, 
the  general  good.  Bis  power  is  equal  to  the  purpose  :  and  his 
interest  hinds  him  to  the  due  prosecution  of  it. 

Those  who  aver,  that  the  independency  of  America  on  the 
British  Parliament,  implies  two  sovereign  authorities  in  the  Bame 
State,  deceive  themselves,  <>r  wish  to  deceive  ethers,  in  two 
ways;  by  confounding  the  idea  of  the  same  State  with  thai  of 
the  same  individual  society;  and  by  losing  sighl  of  that  share 
which  the  king  has  in  the  sovereignty,  both  of  Greal  Britain 
and  America.  Perhaps,  indeed,  it  may  with  propriety  be  said, 
thai  the  king  is  the  only  sovereign  of  the  empire.  The  part 
which  the  people  have  in  the  legislature,  may  more  justly  be 
considered  as  a  limitation  of  the  sovereign  authority,  to  prevenl 
its  being  exercised  in  an  oppressive  and  despotic  manner.  Mon- 
archy is  universally  allowed  to  predominate  in  the  constitution. 
In  this  view,  there  is  doI  the  leasl  absurdity  in  the  supposition, 
that  Americans  have  a  righl  to  a  limitation,  similar  to  thai  of 
the  people  of  Great  Britain.  Al  any  rate,  there  can  never  be 
said  to  be  two  sovereign  power.-  in  the  same  State,  while 
common  king  is  acknowledged  by  every  member  of  it 

Lei  us,  for  a  moment,  imagine  the  legislature  of  New-York 
independent  on  that  of  Greal  Britain.  Where  would  be  the 
mighty  inconvenience?  Bow  would  government  be  frustrated, 
or  obstructed,   by   this   mean.-'.'      In    what   manner   would    I 


56  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

interfere  with  eacli  other?  In  none,  that  I  can  perceive.  The 
affairs  of  government  might  be  conducted  with  the  greatest  har- 
mony, and,  by  the  mediation  of  the  king,  directed  to  the  same 
end.  He  (as  I  before  observed)  will  be  the  great  connecting 
principle.  The  several  parts  of  the  empire,  though  otherwise 
independent  on  each  other,  will  all  be  dependent  on  him.  He 
must  guide  the  vast  and  complicated  machine  of  government, 
to  the  reciprocal  advantage  of  all  his  dominions.  There  is  not 
the  least  contradiction  in  this;  no  iiwperium  in  imperio,  as  is 
maintained:  for  the  power  of  every  distinct  branch  will  be 
limited  to  itself;  and  the  authority  of  his  Majesty  over  the 
whole,  will,  like  a  central  force,  attract  them  all  to  the  same 
point. 

The  second  part  of  your  paragraph,  is  this:  "In  arbitrary 
governments,  this  (supreme  absolute)  power  is  in  the  monarch ; 
in  aristocratical  governments,  in  the  nobles ;  in  democratical,  in 
the  people,  or  the  deputies  of  their  electing.  Our  own  govern- 
ment, being  a  mixture  of  all  these  kinds,  the  supreme  authority 
is  vested  in  the  king,  nobles,  and  people ;  that  is  in  the  King, 
House  of  Lords,  and  House  of  Commons  elected  by  the  people." 

You  are  mistaken  when  you  confine  arbitrary  government  to 
a  monarchy.  It  is  not  the  supreme  power  being  placed  in  one, 
instead  of  many,  that  discriminates  an  arbitrary  from  a  free 
government.  When  any  people  are  ruled  by  laws,  in  framing 
which  they  have  no  part,  that  are  to  bind  them,  to  all  intents 
and  purposes,  without,  in  the  same  manner,  binding  the  legisla- 
tors themselves,  they  are,  in  the  strictest  sense,  slaves ;  and  the 
government,  with  respect  to  them,  is  despotic.  Great  Britain  is 
itself  a  free  country ;  but  it  is  only  so,  because  its  inhabitants 
have  a  share  in  the  legislature.  If  they  were  once  divested  of 
that  they  would  cease  to  be  free.  So  that,  if  its  jurisdiction  be 
extended  over  other  countries  that  have  no  actual  share  in  its 
legislature,  it  becomes  arbitrary  to  them  ;  because  they  are  des- 
titute of  those  checks  and  controls  which  constitute  that  moral 
security  which  is  the  very  essence  of  civil  liberty. 

I  will  go  farther,  and  assert,  that  the  authority  of  the  British 
Parliament  over  America,  would,  in  all  probability,  be  a  more 


jEt.  18.]  THE    FARMER     REFUTED.  5 . 

intolerable  and  excessive  species  of  despotism  than  an  absolute 
monarchy.*    The  power  of  an  absolute  prince  is  aol  tempora 
bu1  perpetual.    lie  is  under  no  temptation  to  purchase  the  favor 
of  one  pari  of  his  dominions  a1  the  expense  of  another;  bul  it  is 
his  interesl  to  treat  them  all  upon  the  same  footing.  Very  different 
is  the  case  with  regard  to  the  Parliament    The  Lords  and  Com- 
mons, both,  have  a  pm  ate  and  separate  interest  to  pursue.  Tl 
must  be  wonderfully  disinterested,  it'  they  would  not  make  as 
bear  a  yery  disproportional  part  of  the  public  burthens,  to  avoid 
them  as  much  as  possible  themselves.    The  people  of  Britain 
must,  in  reality,  be  an  order  of  superior  beings,  nol   casl    in  the 
same  mould  with  the  common  degenerate  race  of  mortals,  if  the 
sacrifice  of  our  interest  and  ease  to  theirs,  be  not  extremely  wel- 
come and  alluring.     But  should  experience  teach  us,  that  they 
:ire  only  mere   mortals,  fonder  of  themselves  than  their  neigh- 
bors;   the  philanthropy  and   integrity  of  their  representatives 
will  be  of  a  transcendent  and  matchless  nature,  should  they  not 
gratify  the  natural  propensities  of  their  constituents,  in  order  to 
gratiate  themselves,  and  enhance  their  popularity. 
When  you  say,  that  "our  government,  being  a  mixture  of 
all  these  kinds,  the  supreme  authority  is  vested  in   the  king, 
nobles,  and  people;   that    is,  the    King,  House   of  Lords,  and 
Bouse  of  Commons  e?cW"/  by  the  people;"  you  speak   unintelli- 
gibly.    A  person  who  had  no1  read  any  more  of  your  pamphlet 
than  this  passage,  would  have  concluded  you  were  speaking  of 
our  Governor,  Council,  and  Assembly,  whom,  by  a   rhetorical 


*  Mr.  Hume,  in  enumerating  these  political  maxims,  which  will  be  eternally 
troe,  speaks  thus :  "H  may  easily  he  observed,  thai  though  free  governments  have 
been  commonly  the  mosl  happy,  for  those  who  partake  of  their  freedom,  yel  are 
tliey  most  ruinous  and  oppressive  to  th  ir  provinces."  He  goes  on  to  give  many  solid 
reasons  for  this;  and,  among  other  things,  observes,  that  "a  free  state  necessarily 
makes  a  great  distinction  (between  herself  and  the  provinces  |,  and  must  continue 
to  do  so,  till  men  learn  to  love  their  neighbors  as  well  as  themselves  II  eon- 
Brms  his  reflections  by  many  historical  facts,  and  concludes  them  thus:  Com- 
pare the  pais  conquis  of  France  with  Ireland,  and  you  will  be  convinced  of  this 
truth  ]  though  tin--  latter  kingdom  being  in  a  good  measure  peopled  from  England, 
possesses  so  many  rights  and  privileges  as  should  naturally  make  it  challenge  better 
treatment." 


58  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

figure,  }rou  styled,   "  king,  nobles,  and  people."     For  how  could 
it  be  imagined,  you  would  call  any  government  our  oivn,  with 
this  description,  that  it  is  vested  in  the  king,  nobles,  and  peojile, 
in  which,  our  own  people  have  not  the  least  share?    If  our  own 
government  be  vested  in  the  king,   nobles,   and   people,   how 
comes  it  to  pass,  that  our  own  people  have  no  part  in  it  ?     The 
resolution  of  these  questions  will  afford  a  proper  field  in  which 
to  display  your  ingenuity.     You  must  endeavor  to  transmute 
the  people  of  America  into  those  of  Great  Britain,  or  your  des- 
cription will  be  considered  as  mere  jargon,  by  every  man  of 
sense.     Perhaps  you  may  be  able,  in  imitation  of  that  celebrated 
sophist  Spinosa,  to  prove,  that  they  are  only  modally  different, 
but  substantially  the  same.     Or,  if  you  please,  that  syllogism  of 
the  schools,  by  which  a  man  is  proved  a  horse,  may  serve  as  an 
excellent  model.     If  I  recollect  right,  it  is  in  these  words : 

Homo  est  animal: 
Equus  est  animal : 
Ergo,  homo  est  equus. 

which  is  rendered  thus:  A  man  is  an  animal:  A  horse  is  an 
animal:  Therefore  a  man  is  a  horse.  By  the  same  method  of 
argumentation,  you  may  prove,  that,  as  Britons  and  Americans 
are  genetically  the  same,  they  are  numerically  so,  likewise,  as  your 
description  implies.     You  may  form  a  syllogism  thus : 

Britons  are  men : 

Americans  are  the  same: 

Therefore,  Britons  and  Americans  are  the  same. 

This  argument  will  be  as  good  as  the  one  I  am  next  going  to 
examine. 

"The  supreme  authority,"  you  say,  "extends  as  far  as  the 
British  dominions  extend.  To  suppose  a  part  of  the  British  do- 
minions, which  is  not  subject  to  the  power  of  the  British  legis- 
lature, is  no  better  sense,  than  to  suppose  a  country  at  one  and 
the  same  time,  to  be,  and  not  to  be,  a  part  of  the  British  domin- 
ions.    If,  therefore,  the  colony  of  New-York  be  a  part  of  the 


jet.  18.]  'I  ii  E    I'A  R  M  EH    1:  i;  PUTED.  59 

British  dominions,  the  colony  of  New-Yori  is  subjed  and  de- 
pendenl  on  the  supreme  Legislative  authority  of  Great  Britain." 

I '.  "  this  supreme  authority,"  [suppose  you  an  the  Par- 
liament of  Greal  Britain.  I  deny  thai  it  extends  as  far  as  the 
British  dominions  extend;  and  I  have  given  many  substantia] 
reasons  for  this  denial :  whereas  you  have  never  offered  any  t<> 
prove  that  it  does.  5Tou  have  begged  the  question,  and  taken 
thai  for  granted,  which  is  the  very  point  in  debate.  As  toyoui 
general  position,  thai  there  musl  be  a  Bupreme  absolute  autho- 
rity Lodged  somewhere,  I  have  explained  in  whal  sense  it  ought 
to  be  understood;  and  shown,  thai  the  Beveral  parts  of  the  em- 
pire may  each  enjoy  a  separate  independenl  Legislature,  with 
regard  to  each  other,  under  one  common  head,  the  king. 

The  seeming  proof  you  have  subjoined,  is  entirely  fallacious; 
and  depends  upon  the  use  of  the  terms  British  dominions,  and 
British  Legislature,  in  an  equivocal  sense.  The  former  may  either 
signify  countries  subject  to  the  king,  or  to  the  legislature  of  Great 
Britain.  When  "\ve  say  French  dominions,  we  mean  countries 
subject  to  the  king  of  France.  In  like  manner,  when  we  say 
British  dominions,  the  most  proper  signification  is,  countries 
subjed  to  the  king  of  Great  Britain.  At  leasl  there  is  no  impro- 
priety in  using  it  in  this  sense.* 

IT.  by  the  British  Legislature,  you  mean  nothing  more  than 
the  Parliament  of  Great  Britain,  it  is  well;  but  if  you  affix  a 
different  idea  to  it,  you  are  uol  arbitrari///  t<>  ini]><>se  it  upon 
others.  If  there  be  any  chimera  in  your  fond  imagination,  which 
you  express  by  that  term,  you  must  allow  others  the  Liberty  to 
think  it  such.  In  short,  if,  by  the  term,  you  mean  an  authority 
resident  in  one  part  of  his  Majesty's  dominions,  to  make  Laws  for 
every  other  part  of  them;  you  ought  not  to  apply  ii  in  this 
sense,  till  you  have  proved   thai   such  an  authority  does  really 

jl :  especially  in  a  controversy  aboul  thai  very  matter. 

\)y  the  British  dominions,  I  mean  the  countries  subject  to  his 


*  Or,  if  there  is,  all  yonr  objection  amounts  to  this :  that  we  have  adopted  an 
improper  mode  of  expression :  and,  for  t  h.-  future,  we  may,  in  the  language  of  the 
honorable  House  of  Assembly,  call  the  colonies  his  Majesty's  American  dominions. 


60  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

Britannic  Majesty,  in  his  royal  capacity.  By  the  British  legis- 
lature, I  will  suppose  you  intend  simply  the  Parliament  of  Great 
Britain.  Let  us  now  try  whether,  "  to  suppose  there  may  be  a 
part  of  his  Britannic  Majesty's  dominions,  which  is  not  subject 
to  the  Parliament,  be  no  better  sense,  than  to  suppose  a  country, 
at  one  and  the  same  time,  to  be,  and  not  to  be,  a  part  of  the 
British  dominions."  It  is  impossible  for  any  thing  to  be,  and  not 
to  be ;  but  it  involves  no  contradictions  to  say,  that  a  country 
may  be  in  subjection  to  his  Britannic  Majesty,  and,  in  that  sense, 
a  part  of  the  British  dominions,  without  being  at  all  dependent 
on  the  Parliament  of  Great  Britain.*  The  colony  of  New- York, 
therefore,  may  be  a  branch  of  the  British  empire,  though  not 
subordinate  to  the  legislative  authority  of  Britain. 

Upon  the  whole,  if,  by  the  British  dominions,  you  mean  ter- 
ritories subject  to  the  Parliament,  you  adhere  to  your  usual 
fallacy,  and  suppose  what  you  are  bound  to  prove.  I  deny  that 
we  are  dependent  on  the  legislature  of  Great  Britain  ;  and  yet  I 
maintain  that  we  are  a  part  of  the  British  empire ;  but  in  this 
sense  only,  as  being  the  free  born  subjects  of  his  Britannic 
Majesty. 

Thus  I  have  fully  examined  that  argument,  which  is  esteemed 
the  bulwark  of  the  doctrine  of  Parliamentary  supremacy ;  and 
I  flatter  myself,  clearly  refuted  it.  The  main  pillar  being  now 
broken  down,  the  whole  structure  may  easily  be  demolished.  I 
shall,  therefore,  proceed  Avith  alacrity  in  the  completion  of  the 
work.  But  it  is  worthy  of  observation,  that  a  cause  must  be 
extremely  weak,  which  admits  of  no  better  supports. 

Your  next  argument  (if  it  deserve  the  name)  is  this :  "Legis- 
lation is  not  an  inherent  right  in  the  colonies :  many  colonies 

*  I  doubt  not.  you  will  here  be  disposed  to  cavil,  by  urging,  that  if  we  deny 
the  authority  of  Parliament,  we  also  reject  his  Britannic  Majesty,  since  he  com- 
poses a  part  of  it :  but,  let  it  be  considered,  that  the  Parliament,  as  such,  is  a 
political  institution,  not  a  physical  being.  We  may  deny  his  Majesty,  in  his  politi- 
cal capacity,  as  a  part  of  the  legislature  of  Great  Britain,  and  yet  acknowledge 
him  in  a  similar  political  capacity,  as  a  part  of  the  legislature  of  New- York.  This 
is  an  obvious  distinction,  and  cannot  be  contested,  without  an  affront  to  common 
sense. 


JEt.  18. J  THE    FARMER     REPUTED.  61 


have  been  established  and  subsisted  long  without  it.  The  I.'  - 
man' colonies  bad  do  legislative  authority.  It  was  nol  till  the 
latter  period  of  their  republic,  that  tin-  privileges  of  Roman  citi- 
zens, among  which,  that  of  voting  in  Assemblies  of  the  people, 
at  Rome,  was  a  principal  one,  were  extended  to  the  inhabits 
of  Italy.  All  the  laws  of  the  empire  were  enacted  al  Elome. 
Neither  their  colonies  nor  conquered  countries,  had  any  thing  to 
do  with  legislation." 

The  fundamental  source  of  all  your  errors,  sophisn 
reasonings,  is  a  total  ignorance  of  the  natural  rights  of  man' 
kind.  Were  you  one.'  to  become  acquainted  with  these,  you 
could  never  entertain  a  thought,  thai  all  men  are  not,  by  nature, 
entitled  to  a  parity  of  privileges.  Yon  would  be  convinced,  that 
natural  liberty  is  a  gift  of  the  beneficent  Creator,  to  the  whole 
human  race;  and  that  civil  liberty  is  founded  in  that:  and  fan- 
not  be  wrested  from  any  people,  without  the  mosl  manifest  viola- 
tion of  justice.  Oivil  liberty  is  only  natural  liberty,  modified  and 
secured  by  the  sttii<-ti<>ns  of  civil  society.  It  is  not  a  thing,  in  its  own 
nature,  precarious  and  dependent  on  human  will  and  caprice; 
but  it  is  conformable  to  the  constitution  of  man,  as  well  as  n< 
sary  to  the  well-being  of  society. 

Upon  this  principle,  colonists,  as  well  as  other  men,  have  a 
right  to  civil  liberty,     for,  if  it  ho  conducive  to  the  happiness 
society  (and  reason  and  experience  testify  that  il  isi.it  is  evident, 

that  rvcry  society,  of  whatsoever   kind,  has  an  absolute  and  per 

fed  right  to  it,  which  can  never  be  withheld  withoul  cruelty  and 
injustice.     The  practice*  of  Rome  towards  her  colonies,  cannot 
afford  the  shadow  of  an  argumenl  against  this.     That  mistres 
the  world  was  often  unjust.     And  the  treatment  of  her  depend* 
cut  provinces,  is  one  of  the  greatest  blemishes  in  her  history. 

Through    the    want    of  that    civil    liberty    for    which    we   are   so 

warmly  contending,  they  groaned  under  every  Bpecies  of  wan- 
ton   oppression,      if  we   are    wise,  we    shall    take   warning   B 

*  If  her  practice  proves  any  thing,  it  equally  proves,  thai  sin-  had  a  righ(  to 
plunder  them  :i^  much  as  possible.    This  doctrine,  I  presume,  will  not  1"'  >\\--\ 
able  to  some  ears.    There  are  many  who  would  rejoice  to  see  America  plund 
in  a  like  manner  provided  they  could  be  appointed  the  instruments, 


62  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

tlience ;  and  consider  a  like  state  of  dependence,  as  more  to  be 
dreaded  than  pestilence  and  famine. 

The  right  of  colonists,  therefore,  to  exercise  a  legislative 
power,  is  an  inherent  right.  It  is  founded  upon  the  rights  of 
all  men  to  freedom  and  haj:>piness.  For  civil  liberty  cannot 
possibly  have  any  existence,  where  the  society,  for  whom  laws 
are  made,  have  no  share  in  making  them ;  and  where  the  inter- 
est of  their  legislators  is  not  inseparably  interwoven  with  theirs. 
Before  you  asserted,  that  the  right  of  legislation  was  derived 
"from  the  indulgence  or  grant  of  the  parent  state,"  you  should 
have  proved  two  things  : — that  all  men  have  not  a  natural  right 
to  freedom  ;  and  that  civil  liberty  is  not  advantageous  to  society. 

"  The  position,"  you  say,  "  that  we  are  bound  by  no  laws  but 
those  to  which  we  have  assented,  either  by  ourselves,  or  by  our 
representatives,  is  a  novel  position,  unsupported  by  any  authori- 
tative record  of  the  British  constitution,  ancient  or  modern.  It 
is  republican  in  its  very  nature  ;  and  tends  to  the  utter  subver- 
sion of  the  English  monarchy. 

"  This  position  has  arisen  from  an  artful  change  of  terms. 
To  say,  that  an  Englishman  is  not  bound  by  any  laws  but  those 
to  which  the  representatives  of  the  nation  have  given  their  con- 
sent, is  to  say  what  is  true.  But  to  say  that  an  Englishman 
is  bound  by  no  laws  but  those  to  which  he  hath  consented,  in 
person,  or  by  his  representative,  is  saying  what  never  was  true, 
and  never  can  be  true.  A  great  part  of  the  people  have  no  vote 
in  the  choice  of  representatives ;  and,  therefore,  are  governed 
by  laws  to  which  they  never  consented,  either  by  themselves, 
or  by  their  representatives." 

The  foundation  of  the  English  constitution  rests  upon  this 
principle ;  that  no  laws  have  any  validity  or  binding  force,  with- 
out the  consent  and  approbation  of  the  people,  given  in  the  per- 
sons of  their  representatives,  periodically  elected  by  themselves. 
This  constitutes  the  democratical  part  of  the  government. 

It  is  also  undeniably  certain,  that  no  Englishman,  who  can 
be  deemed  a  free  agent  in  a  political  view,  can  be  bound  by  laws, 
to  which  he  has  not  consented,  either  in  person,  or  by  his  repre- 
sentative.    Or,  in  other  words,  every  Englishman  (exclusive  of 


jEt.  18.]  THE    FARMER    REFUTED. 

the  mercantile  and  trading  part  of  the  nation)  who  p< 
Lolil  to  the  value  of  forty  shillings  per  annum,  bas  :i  right 
share  in  the  Legislature;  which  he  exercises,  bj  giving  hu 
in  the  election  of  some  person  be  approves  of  as  bis  representa- 
tive. 

"The  true  reason,"  says  Blackstone,  "  of  requiring  any  quali- 
fication, with  regard  to  property  in  voters,  is  to  exclude  such 
persons  as  are  in  s"  mean  a  situation,  thai  they  are  esteemed  to 
bave  no  "-ill  of  their  own.  If  these  persons  had  votes,  they 
would  be  tempted  to  dispose  of  them,  under  Borne  undue 
influence  or  other.  This  would  give  a  great,  an  artful,  or  a 
wealthy  man,  a  larger  share  in  elections  than  Is  consistenl  with 
genera]  liberty.  If  it  were  probable  thai  every  man  would  give 
his  vote  freely,  and  without  influence  of  any  kind;  then,  upon 
the  true  theory  and  genuine  principles  of  liberty,  every  mem- 
he]'  <>f  the  community,  however  poor,  should  have  a  vote  in 
electing  those  delegates,  to  whose  charge  is  committed  the  dis- 
posal of  his  property,  his  liberty,  and  life.  Bui  since  thai 
hardly  be  expected,  in  persons  of  indigent  fortunes,  or  Buch 
as  arc  under  the  immediate  dominion  of  others;  al]  popular 
States  have  been  obliged  to  establish  certain  qualifications, 
whereby  some,  who  are  suspected  to  bave  do  will  of  their 
own.  are  excluded  from  voting;  in  order  to  se1  other  individ- 
uals, whose  wills  may  be  supp<  «ed  independent,  more  thoroughly 
upon  a  level  with  each  other." 

Bence,  it  appears,  that  such  "of  the  j pie  as  have  uo 

in  the  choice  of  representatives,  and,  therefore,  are  governed 
by  laws  to  which  they  have  no1  consented,  either  by  themselves 
or  by  their  representatives,"  are  only  those  "persons,  who 
in  so  mean  a  situation,  thai  they  are  esteemed  to  have  no  will 
of  their  own."  Every  fret  agent,  every  free  man.  possessing  a 
freehold  of  forty  shillings  per  annum,  is,  by  the  British  consti- 
tution, entitled  to  a  vote  in  the  election  of  those  who  are  in- 
vested with  the  disposal  of  his  life,  bis  liberty,  and  property. 

It  is  therefore  evident,  to  a  demonstration,  thai  unles 
freeagentvn  America  be  permitted  to  enjoy  the  same  privil< 
we  are  entirely  stripped  of  the  benefits  of  the  constitute 


64  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  18. 

precipitated  into  an  abyss  of  slavery.  For,  we  are  deprived  of 
that  immunity  which,  is  the  grand  pillar  and  support  of  free- 
dom. And  this  cannot  be  done  without  a  direct  violation  of 
the  constitution,  which  decrees  to  every  free  agent,  a  share  in  the 
legislature. 

It  deserves  to  be  remarked  here,  that  those  very  persons  in 
Great  Britain,  who  are  in  so  mean  a  situation  as  to  be  excluded 
from  a  part  in  elections,  are  in  more  eligible  circumstances  than 
they  would  be  in  who  have  every  necessary  qualification. 

They  compose  a  part  of  that  society  to  whose  government 
they  are  subject.  They  are  nourished  and  maintained  by  it ; 
and  partake  in  every  other  emolument  for  which  they  are  quali- 
fied. They  have,  no  doubt,  most  of  them,  relations  and  con- 
nections among  those  who  are  privileged  to  vote  ;  and,  by  that 
means,  are  not  entirely  without  influence  in  the  appointment 
of  their  rulers.  They  are  not  governed  by  laws  made  ex- 
pressly and  exclusively  for  them ;  but  by  the  general  laws  of 
their  country,  equally  obligatory  on  the  legal  electors,  and  on 
the  law  makers  themselves.  So  that  that  they  have  nearly  the 
same  security  against  oppression,  which  the  body  of  the  people 
have. 

To  this  we  may  add,  that  they  are  only  under  a  conditional 
prohibition,  which  industry  and  good  fortune  may  remove. 
They  may,  one  day,  accumulate  a  sufficient  property  to  enable 
them  to  emerge  out  of  their  present  state.  Or,  should  they  die 
in  it,  their  situation  is  not  entailed  upon  their  posterity  by  a 
fixed  and  irremediable  doom.  They,  agreeably  to  the  ordinary 
vicissitudes  of  human  affairs,  may  acquire  what  their  parents 
were  deficient  in. 

These  considerations  plainly  show,  that  the  people  in  Ame- 
rica, of  all  ranks  and  conditions,  opulent  as  well  as  indigent  (if 
subjected  to  the  British  Parliament),  would  be  upon  a  less  favor- 
able footing  than  that  part  of  the  people  of  Great  Britain,  who 
are  in  so  mean  a  situation,  that  they  are  supposed  to  have  no  will 
of  their  own.  The  injustice  of  this,  must  be  evident  to  every 
man  of  common  sense. 

I  shall  now  proceed  to  take  such  a  survey  of  the  political  his- 


JEt.  18.]  T  ii  E    i'.\  R  m  i:  R    R  i:  r  [JT  i:  D.  65 

tory  of  the  oolonies  as  may  be  necessary  to  oasl  a  lull  1  i  lt  1 1 1  upon 
their  presenl  contest  ;  and,  al  the  same  time,  to  give  the  public  u 
jusl  conception  of  the  profound  and  comprehensive  knowle* 
yon  have  of  the  dispute,  the  fairness  and  candor  with  which  you 
have  represented  Pacts,  and  the  immaculate  purity  of  your  inten- 
tions. 

But,  previous  to  this,  the  following  observations  may  nol 
destitute  of  utility. 

I  lis  Holiness  the  Pope,  by  virtue  of  being  Christ's  Vicegerent 
upon  earth,  piously  assumed  to  himself  a  right  to  dispose  of  the 
territories  of  infidels  as  he  thought  lit.  Ami  in  process  of  time 
all  Christian  princes  learned  to  imitate  his  example,  very  libe- 
rally giving  and  granting  away  the  dominions  and  property  of 
Pagan  countries.  They  did  not  seem  to  be  satisfied  with  the  title 
which  Christianity  gave  them  to  the  next  world  only,  but  chose 
to  infer  from  thence  an  exclusive  right  to  this  world  also. 

I  must  refer  it  to  sounder  casuists  than  lam  to  determine  con- 
cerning the  consistency  or  justice  of  this  principle.  It  is  sufficient 
for  my  purpose  to  observe  that  it  is  the  only  foundation  upon 
which  Queen  Elizabeth  and  her  successors  undertook  to  disp 
of  the  lands  in  America.  Whatever  right,  therefore,  we  may 
suppose  to  have  existed,  it  was  vested  entirely  in  the  crown ;  the 
nation  had  no  concern  in  it.  It  is  an  invariable  maxim,  that 
every  acquisition  of  foreign  territory  is  at  the  absolute  disposal 
of  the  king;  and  unless  he  annex  it  to  the  realm,  it  is  no  part  of 
it.  Ami  if  it  be  once  alienated,  it  can  neverbeunited  to  it  with- 
out the  concurrence  of  the  proprietors. 

Were  there  any  room  to  don  ht  that  the  sole  right  of  the  terri- 
tories in  America  was  vested  in  the  crown,  a  convincing  argu- 
ment might  be  drawn  from  the  principle  of  English  tenure.  By 
means  of  the  feudal  system  the  king  became,  and  still  contui 
to  be,  in  a  legal  sense,  the  original  proprietor,  or  lord  paramount, 
of  all  the  lands  in  England.*  Agreeably  to  this  rule,  he  must 
have  been  the  original  proprietor  of  all  the  lands  in  America,  and 

*  See  Blackstonc,  vol.  1. 
B  5 


36  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  18. 

was  therefore  authorized  to  dispose  of  them  in  what  manner  he 

thought  proper. 

The  great  inquiry,  therefore,  is  concerning  the  terms  on  which 
these  lands  were  really  dispensed. 

"The  first  charter  granted  by  the  crown,  for  the  purpose  of 
colonization,  is"  not   "  that  of  King  James  the  first,  to  the  two 
Virginia  companies,"  as  you  assert.     Previous  to  that,  there  was 
one  from  Queen  Elizabeth  to  Sir  Walter  Ealeigh,  for  all  the  ter- 
ritory he  might  discover  and  plant  between  the  thirty-third  and 
fortieth  degrees  of  north  latitude,  which  was  not  actually  pos- 
sessed by  any  Christian  prince,  or  inhabited  by  any  Christian 
people ;  to  have,  hold,  occupy,  and  enjoy  the  same,  to  him,  his 
heirs  and  assigns  for  ever,  with  all  prerogatives,  jurisdictions,  roy- 
alties, privileges,  franchises,  thereunto  belonging,  by  sea  or  land; 
only  reserving  to  herself,  her  heirs  and  successors,  the  fifth  part 
of  all  gold  and  silver  ore  that  might  be  acquired  in  those  regions. 
By  this  grant,  Queen  Elizabeth  relinquished  the  whole  legis- 
lative and  executive  power  to  Sir  Walter,  upon  no  other  condi- 
tion than  simple  homage,  and  the  above-mentioned  fifth  part  of 
gold  and  silver  ore ;  which  shows  that  the  crown  considered  itself 
as  invested  with  the  absolute  and  entire  disposal  of  the  territories 
in  America ;  and  the  passive  conduct  of  the  nation  declares  its 
acquiescence  in  the  same. 

After  many  successless  efforts  to  plant  a  colony  in  Virginia, 
this  charter  was  forfeited  and  abrogated  by  the  attainder  of  Sir 
Walter  Ealeigh;  and  then  succeeded  that  of  King  James  the 
first,  to  the  two  Virginia  companies,  dated  the  10th  of  April, 
1606.  This  was  afterwards  altered  and  improved  by  a  second 
charter,  issued  in  1609.  There  was  also  a  third,  dated  March 
12,  1611-12.  The  mention  of  this  last  would  not  have  answered 
your  purpose,  and,  therefore,  you  chose  to  pass  it  over  in  silence. 
In  neither  of  these  three,  is  there  the  least  reservation  made 
of  any  authority  to  Parliament.  The  colonies  are  considered  in 
them  as  entirely  without  the  realm,  and,  consequently,  without 
the  jurisdiction  of  its  legislature. 

In  the  first  charter  from  King  James,  there  are  the  following 
clauses : 


jEt.  18.]  T  1 1  E     V  A  ltMER     R  E  I '  I '  T  B  D.  61 

"  We  do  ordain,  establish,  and  decree,  &c,  thai  each  of  the 
Baid  colonies  shall  have  a  council,  which  shall  govern  and  order 
all  matters  and  all  causes,  which  shall  arise,  grow,  or  happen  to, 
or  within  the  same ;  according  to  such  laws,  ordinances,  and  in- 
structions, as  shall  be,  in  that  behalf  given  and  signed  with  our 
hand,  or  sign  manual,  and  pass  under  the  privy  seal  of  our  realm 
of  England." 

"  And  that,  also,  then'  shall  be  a  council  established  here  in 
England,  which  shall  consist  of  thirteen  persons,  to  be  for  that 
purpose  appointed ;  which  shall  have  the  superior  mai  and 

direction  only  of,  and  for,  all  matters,  that  shall  or  may  concern 

the  government  of  the  said  several  colonies. " 

•■  Also,  we  do  for  us,  our  heirs,  &c.,  declare,  thai  all  and  every 
the  persons,  being  our  subjects,  which  shall  dwell  and  inhabit 
within  every,  or  any,  the  said  several  colonies,  and  every  of  their 
children,  which  shall  happen  to  be  born  within  any  of  the  said 
several  colonies,  shall  have  and  enjoy  all  liberties,  franchises,  and 
immunities,  within  any  of  our  other  dominions,  to  all  intents  and 
purposes,  as  if  they  had  been  abiding  and  born  within  our  realm  of 
E  iland" 

This  latter  declaration  (to  which  there  is  one  correspondent, 
or  similar,  in  every  American  grant),  plainly  indicates,  that  it 
was  not  the  royal  intention  to  Comprise  the  colonies  within  the 
realm  of  England  The  powers  committed  to  the  two  coun- 
cils, demonstrate  the  same;  for  they  would  be  incompatible  with 
the  idea  of  any  other  than  distinct  States. 

The  King  could  neither  exercise,  himself,  nor  empower  others 
to  exercise,  such  an  authority  as  was  really  vested  in  the  council, 
without  a  breach  of  the  Constitution,  it'  the  colonies  had  been  a 
part  of  the  realm,  or  within  the  jurisdiction  of  Parliament.  Such 
an  exertion  of  power  would  have  been  unconstitutional  and  ille- 
gal, and  of  course  inadmissible:  but  we  find  it  was  never  called 
in  question  by  the  legislature ;  and  we  may  conclude  from  thence, 
that  America  was  universally  considered  as  being  without  the 
jurisdiction  of  Parliament. 

The  second  charter  explains  and  amplifies  the  privileges  of 
the  company,  erecting  them  into  ''one  body  or  commonalty  | 


68  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

petual ;"  and  confirming  to  them  the  property  of  their  former 
territories,  with  the  addition  of  all  the  islands  lying  within  one 
hundred  miles  of  the  shores  of  both  seas;  together  with  all 
"  commodities,  jurisdictions,  royalties,  privileges,  franchises,  and  pre- 
eminences," to  be  held  by  the  king,  his  heirs  and  successors,  "in 
free  and  common  soccage."  They  were  only  to  pay  one  fifth  part 
of  all  the  gold  and  silver  ore  they  might  find,  in  lieu  of  all  ser- 
vices. 

Their  government  was  vested  in  a  council,  first  appointed  by 
the  king ;  which,  upon  every  necessary  occasion,  was  to  be  sum- 
moned together  by  the  company's  treasurer.  But  immediately 
after  the  persons  appointed  are  named  in  the  charter,  it  is  de- 
clared, that  "  the  said  council  and  treasurer,  or  any  of  them, 
shall  be  henceforth  "  nominated,  chosen,  continued,  displaced, 
changed,  altered,  or  supplied,  as  death,  or  other  several  occasions 
shall  require,  out  of  the  company  of  the  said  adventurers,  by  the 
voice  of  the  greater  part  of  the  said  company  and  adventurers  ;" 
every  member,  newly  elected,  to  be  sworn  into  office  by  the  Lord 
Chancellor. 

This  council  had  "full  power  and  authority  to  make,  ordain, 
and  establish,  all  manner  of  orders,  laws,  directions,  instructions, 
forms  and  ceremonies,  of  government  and  magistracy,  fit  and  ne- 
cessary for,  and  concerning,  the  government  of  the  said  colo- 
ny ;  and  the  same  to  abrogate,  revoke,  or  change,  at  all  times,  not 
only  within  the  precincts  of  the  said  colony,  but  also  on  the 
seas,  in  going  or  coming,  to  or  from  the  said  colony." 

This  charter  is  also  silent  with  respect  to  Parliament;  the 
authority  of  which  is  evidently  precluded  by  the  whole  tenor 
of  it. 

You,  sir,  took  no  notice  of  the  circumstance,  that  the  council 
was  to  be  nominated,  chosen,  continued,  &c,  out  of  the  Virginia 
company  itself,  agreeably  to  the  voice  of  the  majority.  You 
omitted  this,  and  gave  quite  a  different  turn  to  the  matter :  but 
herein  you  acted  not  at  all  discordant  with  your  usual  practice. 
Nor  did  you  esteem  it  politic  to  transcribe  the  following  clause : 
"  that  the  said  company,  and  every  of  them,  their  factors  and 
assigns,  shall  be  free  of  all  subsidies  and  customs  in  Virginia, 


jEt.  18.]  T  II  E    l'.\  R  M  i:  H     R  E  PUTBD  69 

for  the  space  of  one  and  twenty  yeans;  and  from  aft  taa 
impositions  for  ever,  apon  any  goods  or  merchandises,  al  any  time 
or  times  hereafter,  either  upon  importation  thither,  <  »rta- 

ti<Mi  from  thence." 

The  third  charter  is  a  still  farther  enlargement  of  their  terri- 
tory and  privileges,  and  is  thai  by  which  their  presenl  form  of 
government  is  modelled.  The  following  extracl  will  show  the 
nature  of  it.  "We  do  hereby  ordain  and  grant,  thai  the  Baid 
treasurer  and  company  of  adventurers  and  planters  aforesaid, 
shall  and  may,  once  every  week,  and  oftener,  a1  their  pleasure, 
hold  and  keep  a  courl  or  assembly,  for  the  better  order  and  ■_ 
en  i!  m  Mit  of  the  said  plantation  ;  and  that  any  five  persons  of  OUT 
council  for  the  time  being,  of  which  company  the  treasurer,  or 
his  deputy,  to  be  always  one,  and  the  cumber  of  fifteen  persons, 
at  the  least,  of  the  generality  of  the  said  company  assembled 
together,  in  such  manner  as  hath  been  heretofore  used  and  accus- 
tomed, shall  be  reputed  to  he,  and  shall  be,  a  Bufficienl  courl  for 
the  handling,  ordering,  and  dispatching  of  all  such  casual  and 
particular  occurrences,  as  shall,  from  time  to  time,  happen, 
touching  and  concerning  the  said  plantation.  And,  neverthe- 
less, for  the  candling,  ordering,  and  disposing  of  tk 
and  affairs  of  greater  weighl  and  importance,  such  as  shall,  in 
any  sort,  concern  the  weal  public,  and  the  general  good  of  tin- 
said  plantation,  as,  namely,  the  manner  of  government,  from  time 
to  time,  to  be  used,  the  ordering  and  disposing  of  the  lands  and 
possessions,  and  the  settling  and  establishing  of  a  trad  there,  or  such 
like,  there  shall  be  held  ami  kept,  r\cyy  year  for  ever,  one 
genera]  and  sol, -inn  assembly.  In  all  and  every  of  which  said 
great  and  general  courts,  so  assembled,  our  will  and  pleasure  is, 
and  we  do,  for  ns,  our  heirs  and  sue  -  for  ever,  give   and 

grant  to  the  said  treasurer  and  company,  or  the  greater  number 
of  them,  so  assembled,  that  they  shall  and  may  have  full  power 
and  authority,  from  time  to  time,  and  at  all  times  hereafter,  to 
elect  and  choose  discreet  persons  to  be  of  our  said  council,  for  tin- 
first  colony  of  Virginia;  and  to  nominate  and  appoint  such 
officers,  as  they  shall  think-  tit  and  requisite  for  the  govermm 
managing,  ordering,  and  dispatching  of  the  affairs  of  the  Baid 


70  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

company ;  and  snail  likewise  have  full  power  and  authority  to 
ordain  and  make  such  laws  and  ordinances  for  the  good  and 
welfare  of  the  said  plantation,  as  to  them,  from  time  to  time, 
shall  be  thought  requisite  and  meet ;  so  always,  as  the  same  be  not 
contrary  to  the  laws  and  statutes  of  this  our  realm  of  England" 

By  this  charter,  King  James  divested  himself  wholly  both  of 
the  legislative  and  executive  authority :  but,  for  his  own  secu- 
rity, prescribed  a  model  for  their  civil  constitution.  Their  laws 
were  not  to  be  contrary  to  the  laws  and  statutes  of  his  realm  of 
England ;  which  restriction  was  inserted  into  all  the  subsequent 
charters,  with  some  little  variation,  such  as,  that  their  laws 
should  be  "  consonant  to  reason,  and  not  repugnant,  or  contrary, 
but  as  near  as  conveniently  may  be,  agreeable  to  the  laws,  statutes, 
and  rights  of  this  our  kingdom  of  England." 

This  mode  of  expression,  so  indefinite  in  itself,  shows  that 
the  use  made  of  the  clause,  by  some  ministerial  advocates,  is  by 
no  means  natural  or  warrantable.  It  could  only  be  intended  to 
set  forth  the  British  Constitution  as  a  pattern  for  theirs:  and 
accordingly  we  find,  that  upon  the  arrival  of  Sir  George  Yardly 
in  Virginia,  soon  after  this  patent  was  procured,  the  government 
was  regulated  upon  a  new  plan,  that  it  might  "resemble  the 
British  Constitution,  composed  of  two  Houses  of  Parliament, 
and  a  sovereign.  The  number  of  the  council  was  increased, 
intending  this  body  should  represent  the  House  of  Lords,  while 
the  House  of  Commons  was  composed  of  burgesses,  assembled 
from  every  plantation  and  settlement  in  the  country." 

There  might  be  a  great  dissimilarity  between  the  laws  of 
Virginia  and  those  of  Great  Britain,  and  yet  not  an  absolute  con- 
trariety :  so  that  the  clause  in  question  is  not  explicit  or  deter- 
minate enough,  to  authorize  the  conclusion  drawn  from  it.  Be- 
sides, if  the  colonies  were  within  the  realm  of  England,  there 
would  be  no  necessity  for  any  provision  in  favor  of  its  laws : 
and  if  they  were  without  (as  is  clearly  implied  by  the  clause 
itself),  it  must  be  a  contradiction  to  suppose  its  jurisdiction  could 
extend  beyond  its  own  limits. 

But  the  true  interpretation  may  be  ascertained,  beyond  a 
doubt,  by  the  conduct  of  those  very  princes  who  granted  the 


JEt.  18.]  THE    FARMER     REFUTED.  71 

charters.     They  were  certainly  the  besl  judges  of  their  own  in- 
tention, and  they  have  lefl  as  indubitable  marks  of  it. 

In  April,  L621,  about  nine  years  after  the  third  Virginia 
charter  was  issued,  a  bill  was  introduced  into  the  II  of  Com- 
mons, for  indulging  the  subjects  of  England  with  the  priviL 
of  fishing  upon  the  coast  of  America:  bul  the  Souse  .  -  in- 
formed by  the  Secretary  of  State,  by  order  of  his  Majesty  Bang 
-lames,  that  " America  was  not  annexed  to  the  realm  ;  andthai  it 
was  not  fitting  thai  Parliament  should  make  laws  for  those  count. 

In  the  reign  of  his  successor,  Charles  the  First  (who  grai 
the  Massachusetts  ami  Maryland  charters),  the  same  hill  v^afi 
again  proposed  in  the  House,  and  was,  in  the  like  manner,  re 
fused  the  royaJ  assent;  with  a  similar  declaration,  that  "it  was 
unnecessary;  that  the  colonies  were  without  the  realm  <m<l  juris- 
diction  of  Parliarm  ,>/." 

Circumstances  which  evidently  prove,  that  these  clauses  v. 
not  inserted  to  render  the  colonies  dependent  on  the  Parliament  ; 
but  only  (as  I  have  observed)  to  mark  out  a  model  of  govern- 
ment for  them.     If,  then,  the  colonies  were,  at  first,  without  tin 
realm  and  jurisdiction  of  Parliament,  no  human  authority  could 

rwards  alter  the  case,  without  their  own  voluntary,  full,  and 
express  approbation. 

The  settlement  of  New  England  was  the  next  in  succession, 
and  was  instigated  by  a  detestation  of  civil  and  ecclesiasl 
tyranny.  The  principal  design  of  the  enterprise,  was  to  be 
emancipated  from  their  sufferings,  under  the  authority  of  Par- 
liament and  the  laws  of  England.  For  this  purpose,  the  Puri- 
tans had  before  retired  to  foreign  countries,  particularly  to  Bol- 
land.  But  Sir  Robert  Naughton,  Secretary  of  State,  ha  vim 
remonstrated  to  his  Majesty,  concerning  the  impolicy  and  ab- 
surdity of  dispeopling  his  own  dominions,  by  mean-  of  religious 
oppression,  obtained  permission  for  the  Puritans  to  take  up  then 
abode  in  America,  where  they  found  an  asylum  from  their  fori 
misfortunes. 

Previous  to  their  embarkation   at   Holland,  they  had  stipu- 
lated with  the  Virginia  Company,*  fora  tract  of  land  'mcontigvAtij 

*  This  was  after  they  had  received  their  third  charter. 


72  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  18. 

with  Hudson's  Eiver:  but  when  they  arrived  in  America  (by 
some  misconduct  of  the  Pilot),  they  found  themselves  at  Cape 
Cod,  which  was  without  the  boundaries  of  the  Virginia  Patent. 
There  the  season  compelled  them  to  remain;  and  there  they 
have  prosecuted  their  settlements. 

They  looked  upon  themselves  as  having  reverted  to  a  state 
of  nature ;  but,  being  willing  still  to  enjoy  the  protection  of  their 
former  sovereign,  they  executed  the  following  instrument. 

"In  the  name  of  God,  Amen!  We,  whose  names  are  un- 
derwritten, the  loyal  subjects  of  our  dread  Sovereign  Lord, 
King  James,  of  Great  Britain,  &c,  King*  defender  of  the 
faith,  &c,  having  undertaken,  for  the  glory  of  God,  and  the 
advancement  of  the  Christian  faith,  and  the  honor  of  our 
King  and  country,  a  voyage  to  plant  the  first  colony  in  the 
northern  part  of  Virginia,  do,  by  these  presents,  mutually,  in 
the  presence  of  God  and  one  another,  covenant  and  combine 
ourselves  together,  into  a  civil  body  politic,  for  our  better 
order  and  preservation,  and  furtherance  of  the  ends  aforesaid ; 
and  by  virtue  hereof,  to  enact,  constitute,  and  frame,  such  just 
and  equal  laws,  ordinances,  acts,  constitutions,  and  officers,  from 
time  to  time,  as  shall  be  thought  most  meet  and  convenient  for 
the  general  good  of  the  colony ;  unto  which  we  promise  all  due 
submission  and  obedience. 

"  In  witness  whereof,  we  have  hereunto  subscribed  our  names, 
at  Cape  Cod,  November  11,  1620." 

This  was  the  original  constitution  of  New  Plymouth.  It 
deserves  to  be  remarked  here,  that  these  first  settlers  possessed 
their  lands  by  the  most  equitable  and  independent  title,  that  of  a 
fair  and  honest  purchase  from  their  natural  owners,  the  Indian 
tribes.  King  James,  soon  after,  erected  a  council  at  Plymouth, 
in  the  county  of  Devon,  "for  the  planting,  ruling,  ordering,  and 

*  This  ought  to  silence  the  infamous  calumnies  of  those,  who  represent  the  first 
settlers  in  New  England,  as  enemies  to  kingly  government ;  and  who  are,  in  their 
own  opinions,  wondrous  witty,  by  retailing  the  idle  and  malicious  stories  that  have 
been  propagated  concerning  them ;  such  as  their  having  erased  the  words  King, 
Kingdom,  and  the  like,  out  of  their  Bibles,  and  inserted  in  their  stead,  Civil  Magis- 
trate, Parliament,  and  Republic. 


Mt.  is.]  THE    I' a  R  M  i:  i;    i:  i:  P  i  T  r.  i>.  7". 

governing,  of  New  Englandin  America;"  and  granted  to  "them, 
their  successors  and  assigns,  all  thai  pari  of  America,  lying  and 
being,  in  breadth,  from  forty  degrees  of  north  latitude  from  the 
equinoctial  line,  to  the  forty-eighth  degree  of  the  said  northerly 
latitude,  inclusively  ;  and  in  Length  of,  and  within  nil  the  breadth 
aforesaid,  throughoul  ;ill  the  main  land,  l'r<>m  sea  to  sea  ;  together 
with  all  the  firm  lands,  soils,  grounds,  havens,  ports,  riv 
waters,  fishings,  mint's,  minerals,  precious  stones,  quarries,  and 
all  ami  singular  other  commodities,  jurisdictions,  royalties,  privi- 
leges, franchises,  and  pre-eminences,,  both  within  the  said  trad  of 
land  upon  the  main,  ami  also  within  the  islands  ami  se^s  adja- 
cent— To   lie  held   bf  his   Majesty,    his    heirs  ami   BUCC  -.  in 

free  ami  common  soccage:  ami  the  only  consideration  to  he,  the 
fifth  part  of  all  gold  ami  silver  ore,  for  ami  in  respect  of  nil  <in<l 
all  manner  of  duties,  di  ni<ni<l.<,  and  services." 

This  council  was  vested  with  the  sole  power  of  legislation; 
the  election  ami  appointment  of  all  officers,  civil  and  military; 
authority  to  coin  money,  make  war  and  peace,  and  a  variety  of 
other  signal  privileges.  The  colony  of  New  Plymouth  was  com- 
prehended within  the  grant.  In  consequence  of  which,  its  in- 
habitants, a  few  years  after,  purchased  the  claim  of  the  patent 
with  all  their  rights  ami  immunities,  ami  became  an  independent 

te  by  charter. 

The  same  motives  that  induced  the  settlement  of  New 
Plymouth,   did   also   produce   that   of  Massachusetts.      It   was 

firsl  colonized  by  virtue  «.i  a  patent  from  the  council  ;it  Ply- 
mouth ;  and  in  a  year  after,  by  a  charter  from  King  Charles  the 

First,  dated  the  4th   of  March,  in  the  fourth  year   of  his  reign; 

by  which  the  adventurers  ami  inhabitants  were  formed  into 
"  one  body  politic  and  corporate,  by  the  name  of  the  Governor 

ami  Company  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay,  in  New  England,"  and 
clothed  with  powers  and  privileges  resembling  those  of  the 
colony  of  Ni       Plymouth. 

It  happened  .-nine  time  1m  fore  this,  that  then'  was  a  dissolu- 
tion of  the  Virginia  Company,  by  a  royal  proclamation,  dated 
loth  of  July,  L624;  by  which  the  colony  became  more  immedi- 
ately dependent  on  the  king.      The   Virginians  wei  itly 


74  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

alarmed  at  this,  and  forthwith  presented  a  remonstrance  to  the 
Throne ;  in  which  they  signified  an  apprehension  of  "  designs 
formed  against  their  rights  and  privileges."  In  order  to  banish 
their  fears,  the  Lords  of  the  Council  (in  a  letter  dated  the  22d  of 
July  1634,)  gave  them  an  assurance,  by  his  Majesty's  direction, 
"  that  all  their  estates,  trade,  freedom,  and  privileges,  should  be 
enjoyed  by  them,  in  as  extensive  a  manner  as  they  enjoyed  them 
before  the  recall  of  the  company's  patent."  Agreeably  to  this, 
their  former  constitution  was  confirmed  and  continued. 

The  Maryland  charter  is  the  next  in  order,  of  which  you,  sir, 
have  made  no  mention.  It  was  granted  by  King  Charles  the 
First  to  Lord  Baltimore ;  and  contains  such  ample  and  exalted 
privileges,  that  no  man  in  his  senses  can  read  it,  without  being 
convinced  it  is  repugnant  to  every  idea  of  dependence  on  Parlia- 
ment. 

It  bestows  on  him,  "  all  the  country  of  Maryland,  and  the 
islands  adjacent ;  together  with  all  their  commodities,  jurisdic- 
tions, privileges,  prerogatives,  royal  rights,  &c.  &c,  of  what  kinds 
soever,  as  well  by  sea  as  land  ;  and  constitutes  him,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  true  and  absolute  lords  and  proprietaries  of  the  said 
country,  and  of  all  the  premises  aforesaid;  saving  always  the 
faith  and  allegiance,  and  the  sovereign  dominion,  due  to  himself, 
his  heirs  and  successors :  to  be  holden  of  the  Kings  of  England, 
in  free  and  common  soccage,  by  fealty  only,  and  not  in  capite  ; 
paying  two  Indian  arrows  every  year,  and  also  the  fifth  part  of 
all  gold  and  silver  ore  which  shall  from  time  to  time  happen  to 
be  found :  Granting  also  full  and  absolute  power  to  the  said  Lord 
Baltimore,  his  heirs,  &c,  to  ordain,  make,  enact,  and  publish, 
any  laws  whatsoever,  by  and  with  the  advice,  assent,  and  approba- 
tion, of  the  freemen  of  the  said  province,  or  the  greater  part  of 
them ;  or  of  their  delegates  or  deputies ;  whom,  for  the  enacting 
of  the  said  laws,  when,  and  as  often  as  need  shall  require,  we 
will,  that  the  said  now  Lord  Baltimore,  and  his  heirs,  shall 
assemble  in  such  sort  and  form,  as  to  him  and  them,  shall  seem 
best.  Provided,  nevertheless,  that  the  said  laws  be  consonant  to 
reason,  and  be  not  repugnant,  or  contrary,  but  as  near  as  conven- 
iently may  be,  agreeable  to  the  laws,  statutes,  and  rights  of  this 
ou   kingdom  of  England." 


JEt.  18.]  T II  E     I '  A  R  M  E  R     R  i:  I •  I   T  I ■'.  D.  75 

In  another  place  it  is  ordained,  thai  he  the  "said  Lord  Balti- 
more, may  from  thru  to  time/or  ever,  have  and  enjoy,  the  customs 
and  subsidies,  within  the  said  ports,  harbors,  &c,  within  the 
province  aforesaid,  payable  or  dne  for  merchandises  and  wares, 
there  tn  be  laden  and  unladen;  the  said  subsidies  and  customs,  to 
be  reasonably  assessed (npon  any  occasion),  by  themselvi  and  the 
people  there,  as  aforesaid;  to  whom  we  give  power  by  these  pre- 
sents, for  as,  our  heirs  and  successors,  upon  just  cause  and  in  due 
proportion,  to  assess  and  impose  the  same." 

1  confine  myself  to  these  extracts,  to  avoid  prolixity,  and  pass 
over  the  enumeration  of  those  many  extensive  prerogatives  this 
charter  confers ;  such  as  the  appointment  of  all  officers,  civil  and 
military;  the  power  of  making  war  and  peace;  the  establish- 
ment of  boroughs  and  cities ;  with  all  necessary  immunities,  and 
the  like. 

In  the  fourteenth  year  of  Charles  the  Second,  the  two  colo- 
nics, Connecticut  and  New  Haven,  petitioned  the  King  to  unite 
them  into  one  colony,  which  was  complied  with.  Privileges,  as 
valuable  and  extensive  as  any  that  had  been  before  granted, 
were  comprised  in  their  charter.  There  was  only  a  reservation 
of  allegiance  to  the  king,  without  the  smallest  share  of  the  legis- 
lative or  executive  power.  The  next  year,  Providence  and  Rhode 
Island  procured  a  charter,  with  privileges  exactly  correspondent 
to  those  of  Connecticut. 

You  are  pleased  to  assert,  "that  the  charters  of  Rhode  [sland 
and  Connecticut  are  simply  matters  of  incorporation;"  and  pro- 
duce an  extract  in  confirmation  of  this  assertion. 

I  should  be  astonished  at  so  extraordinary  a  deviation  from 
truth,  if  there  were  not  many  instances  similar  to  it.  Not  only 
the  whole  tenor  of  their  charters,  but  their  constant  practice  and 
form  of  government,  hitherto,  declare  the  reverse  of  your  ass 
tion.  But,  that  I  may  not  unnecessarily  prolong  this  letter  by  a 
quotation  of  the  diiferenl  parts  of  the  respective  charters,  give 
me  leave  to  present  you  with  an  account  of  the  constitution  oi 
these  colonies,  which  was  laid  before  the  House  of  Lords  in  Jan- 
uary 1734. 

Connecticut  and  Rhode  Island,"  say  the  commissioners  o 


76  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

Trade  and  Plantations,  "  are  charter  governments,  where  almost 
the  whole  power  of  the  crown  is  delegated  to  the  people,  who 
make  annual  election  of  their  Assembly,  their  Councils,  and 
their  Governors  ;  likewise  to  the  majority  of  which  Assemblies, 
Councils,  and  Governors,  respectively,  being  collective  bodies, 
the  upwer  of  making  laws  is  granted ;  and,  as  their  charters  are 
worded,  they  can,  and  do,  make  laws,  even  without  the  Govern- 
or's assent,  no  negative  voice  being  reserved  to  them,  as  Govern- 
ors, in  said  charters.  These  colonies  have  the  power  of  making 
laws  for  their  better  government  and  support ;  and  are  not  under 
any  obligation,  by  their  respective  constitutions,  to  return  au- 
thentic copies  of  their  laws  to  the  crown,  for  approbation  or  dis- 
allowance ;  nor  to  give  any  account  of  their  proceedings ;  nor 
are  their  laws  repealable  by  the  crown  ;  but  the  validity  of  them 
depends  upon  their  not  being  contrary,  but  as  nearly  as  may  be, 
agreeable  to  the  laws  of  England." 

As  to  the  expression,  as  other  our  liege  people  of  this  our  realm 
of  England,  or  any  other  corporation  or  body  politic,  within  the 
same  ;  if  any  stress  be  laid  on  the  particle  other,  it  will  imply  not 
only  that  the  colonies  were  simple  matters  of  corporation,  but 
that  the  inhabitants  of  them  were  considered  as  being  within  the 
realm  of  England.  But  this  cannot  be  admitted  as  true  Avithout 
contradicting  other  clauses  of  the  same  charters.  Thus,  in  the 
preamble  to  that  of  Rhode  Island,  it  is  said  that  the  first  planters 
"  did,  by  the  consent  of  our  royal  progenitors,  transport  them- 
selves out  of  this  Kingdom  of  England  into  America."  And  in 
each  of  the  charters  the  King  stipulates  that  all  the  children 
born  in  America,  shall  enjoy  "  all  the  liberties  and  immunities 
of  free  and  natural  subjects,  within  any  of  his  dominions,  as  if 
they  and  every  of  them  were  born  within  the  realm  of  England." 

The  vague  and  improper  manner  in  which  this  particle  is 
used  in  many  other  places  of  the  several  charters,  will  not  allow 
it  the  least  weight  in  the  present  instance.  In  the  eleventh  arti- 
cle of  the  third  Virginia  charter  there  is  this  expression :— "  All 
such,  and  so  many  of  our  loving  subjects,  or  any  other  strangers 
that  will,  &c."  The  same  rule  of  inference  that  makes  Ehode 
Island  and  Connecticut  simple  corporations,  will  also  transform 


— 


JEt.  18.]  T  1 1  E     F  A  R  M  K  K     I!  I'.  1 '  I    T  1 1  I ) .  11 

the  king's  loving  subjects  into  mere  strangers,  which  I  appre- 
hend cannot  be  done  without  some  degree  of  absurdity. 

In  the  fifteenth  year  of  Charles  the  Second,  Carolina  was 
erected  into  a  principality.  A  patenl  dated  March  24,  L663, 
was  granted  to  eight  lord  proprietors,  vesting  them  with  all  its 
rights,  privileges,  prerogatives,  royalties,  &c,  and  the  whole 
Legislative  and  executive  authority,  together  with  the  power  of 
creating  a  nobility.  'The  form  of  government  was  determined 
bya  compact  between  the  people  and  the  proprietors,  which  con- 
tained one  hundred  and  twenty  articles;  and  "these  were  to  be 
and  remain  the  sacred  and  unalterable  ride  and  form  of  govern- 
ment in  Carolina  forever."  A  Palatine  was  to  be  erected  from 
among  the  proprietaries,  who  was  to  govern  the  principality 
during  his  life ;  and  at  his  demise,  the  surviving  lords  were  to 
succeed  him  according  to  the  order  of  seniority.  The  legislative 
power  was  to  reside  in  the  parliament  of  that  country,  consisting 
of  the  Palatine  as  sovereign ;  an  upper  House,  in  which  the  pro- 
prietors or  their  deputies,  the  Governor  and  the  Nobility,  were 
to  sit ;  and  a  lower  House  composed  of  the  delegates  of  the people. 
There  was  likewise  a  court  established,  the  members  of  which 
were  three  proprietaries,  and  the  Palatine  as  president,  and  in 
this  court  the  whole  executive  authority  was  Lodged. 

There  were  also  several  other  courts:  the  Chief  Justice's,  the 
High  Constable's,  the  Chancellor's,  and  High  Steward's  Court. 
The  principal  officers  of  the  State,  in  number,  titles,  and  power, 
resembled  those  of  the  realm  of  England.  The  proprietors  of  ( !a- 
rolina  considered  themselves  as  possessed  of  every  requisite 
towards  forming  a  separate  independent  State,  and  were  always 
extremely  jealous  of  any  encroachments.  They  even  disputed 
the  King's  authority  to  establish  Courts  of  Vice  Admiralty  within 
their  precincts,  though  for  the  examination  and  punishment  oi 
offences  committed  without  them,  and  always  appointed  as  Ad- 
miral of  their  own.  One  of  their  governors  was  deposed,  for  "ac- 
cepting a  commission  under  King  William,  as  Judge  of  the  Ad 
miralty,  when  he  had,  at  the  same  tune,  a  commission  from  the 
Lords  proprietaries  for  the  same  office." 

The  Philadelphia  charter   was  next  granted,  and   contained 


78  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

almost  an  equality  of  privileges  with  that  of  Maryland.  There 
was,  indeed,  a  reserve  in  favor  of  Parliament,  perfectly  singular 
and  unprecedented  in  any  foregoing  charter ;  and  which  must 
either  be  rejected,  or  the  general  tenor  of  the  grant  becomes  un- 
intelligible. 

It  happened  that  the  charter  of  Massachusetts  was  vacated 
by  a  decision  in  Chancery,  and  a  new  one  was  conferred  by 
William  and  Mary.  The  agents  for  that  colony  did  not  accept 
it,  till  they  had  first  consulted  the  most  judicious  civilians  and 
politicians  upon  the  contents  of  it ;  and  then  drew  up  an  instru- 
ment in  which  they  assigned  the  reasons  of  their  acceptance. 
The  following  extract  will  serve  to  show  their  sense  of  it :  "  The 
colony,"  say  they,  "  is  now  made  a  province ;  and  the  General 
Court  has,  with  the  King's  approbation,  as  much  power  in  New 
England  as  the  King  and  Parliament  have  in  England.  They 
have  all  English  privileges  and  liberties,  and  can  be  touched  by 
no  laiv,  and  by  no  tax,  but  of  their  own  making.  All  the  liberties 
of  their  religion  are  for  ever  secured." 

You  say,  that  "the  power  to  levy  taxes  is  restrained  to  pro- 
vincial and  local  purposes  only  ;  and  to  be  exercised  over  such, 
only,  as  are  inhabitants  and  proprietors  of  the  said  province." 

They  are  empowered  "  to  levy  proportionable  and  reason- 
able assessments,  rates,  and  taxes,  for  our  service  in  the  ne- 
cessary defence  and  support  of  the  government  of  the  said  prov- 
ince or  territory ;  and  the  protection  and  preservation  of  the  in- 
habitants there."  The  defence  and  support  of  government,  and 
their  own  protection  and  preservation,  are  the  purposes  for 
which  they  are  to  raise  supplies ;  and,  in  my  humble  opinion, 
there  are  no  others  to  which  any  society  is  under  an  obligation 
to  contribute  its  wealth  or  property. 

I  shall  only  make  one  more  observation  upon  this  charter ; 
which  is,  that  there  was  a  reservation  in  it  of  liberty  for  the  peo- 
ple of  England  to  fish  upon  their  coasts,  which  would  have  been 
useless  and  absurd,  had  that  province  been  a  part  of  the  realm, 
and  within  the  jurisdiction  of  Parliament. 

Were  it  necessary  to  elucidate,  still  more,  a  point  which  is  so 
conspicuous  from  the  several  charters  of  the  colonies,  as  well  as 


JEt.  18.]  T  1 1  E    V  \  R  M  I :  R    R  I ;  P  i  T  1 5 1 1 .  79 

the  express  declarations  of  those  princes  by  whom  they  were 
granted,  to  wit,  "that  the  colonies  are  without  the  realm  and  juris- 
diction of  Parliament;"  I  might  enumerate  many  Btriking  cir- 
cumstances besides  those  I  have  already  mentioned.  Bui  as  the 
case  is  by  this  time  sufficiently  clear,  [shall  confine  myself  to 
the  recital  of  only  one  or  two  more  transactions. 

An  act  of  the  twenty-fifth  of  Charles  the  Second,  was  the 
first  that  ever  imposed  duties  on  the  colonies  for  any  purpi 
and  these,  as  the  preamble  itself  recites,  were  simply  as  a  regula- 
tion of  trade,  and  were  of  a  prohibitory  nature.  Notwithstand- 
ing this,  il  was  the  source  of  great  dissatisfaction;  and  was  one 
><\'  the  principal  causes  of  the  insurrection  in  Virginia,  under 
Colonel  Bacon,  which  after  his  death  Bubsided;  and  then  the 
province  sent  agents  to  England,  to  remonstrate  "  against  taxes 
and  impositions  being  laid  on  the  colony,  by  any  authority  bu1 
that  of  the  (ieneral  Assembly."  In  consequence  of  this,  a  de- 
claration was  obtained,  under  the  privy  seal  of  Bang  Charles, 
dated  nineteenth  of  April,  1676,  to  this  effect:  that  ••  taxes  ought 
not  to  be  laid  upon  the  proprietors  and  inhabitants  of  the  colony, 
but  by  the  common  consent  of  the  General  Assembly." 

Al» >nt  three  years  after,  when  King  Charles  had  occasion  to 
raise  a  permanent  revenue  for  the  support  of  Virginia,  be  did 
not  attempt  to  do  it  by  means  of  a  parliamentary  donation  ;  but 
framed  a  bill,  and  senl  it  there  by  Lord  Culpepper,  who  was  at 
that  time  governor,  to  receive  the  concurrence  of  their  legisla- 
ture. It  was  then  passed  into  a  law,  and  a enacted  by  the  King's 
most  excellent  Majesty,  by  and  with  the  consent  of  the  General  Assem- 
bly of  tlie  enfany  of  Virginia."  [f  the  Virginians  had  been  sub- 
jects of  the  realm,  this  could  not  bave  been  done,  without  a 
direct  violation  ^<l'  Magna  Gharta;  which  provides,  that  no  Eng- 
lish subject  shall  be  taxed  without  the  consenl  of  Parliament. 

Thus,  sir,  I  bave  taken  a  pretty  general  survey  of  the  Amer- 
ican charters,  and  proved,  to  the  satisfaction  of  every  unbiassed 
person, that  they  are  entirely  discordanl  with  that  sovereignty  of 
Parliament  for  which  you  are  an  advocate.  The  disingenuity  of 
your  extracts  (to  give  it  no    harsher  name")  merits   th  rest 

censure ;  and  will,  no  doubt,  Berve  to  discredit  all  your  former,  as 
well  as  future,  labors  in  your  favorite  cause  ^\'  despotism. 


80  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

It  is  true,  that  New- York  has  no  charter.  But  if  it  could 
support  its  claim  to  liberty  in  no  other  way,  it  might,  with 
justice,  plead  the  common  principles  of  colonization :  for  it 
would  be  unreasonable  to  exclude  one  colony  from  the  enjoy- 
ment of  the  most  important  privileges  of  the  rest.  There  is  no 
need,  however,  of  this  plea.  The  Sacred  Eights  of  Man- 
kind ARE  NOT  TO   BE  RUMMAGED  FOR  AMONG  OLD  PARCHMENTS 

or  musty  records.  they  are  written,  as  with  a  sun- 
beam, in  the  whole  volume  of  human  nature,  by  the 
Hand  of  the  Divinity  itself  ;  and  can  never  be  erased 
or  obscured  by  mortal  power. 

The  nations  of  Turkey,  Eussia,  France,  Spain,  and  all  other 
despotic  kingdoms  in  the  world,  have  an  inherent  right,  when- 
ever they  please,  to  shake  off  the  yoke  of  servitude  (though 
sanctioned  by  the  immemorial  usage  of  their  ancestors),  and  to 
model  their  government  upon  the  principles  of  civil  liberty. 

I  will  now  venture  to  assert,  that  I  have  demonstrated,  from 
the  voice  of  nature,  the  spirit  of  the  British  constitution,  and  the 
charters  of  the  colonies  in  general,  the  absolute  non-existence  of 
that  parliamentary  supremacy  for  which  you  contend.  I  am  not 
apt  to  be  dogmatical,  or  too  confident  of  my  own  opinions ;  but, 
if  I  thought  it  possible  for  me  to  be  mistaken,  when  I  maintain, 
that  the  Parliament  of  Great  Britain  has  no  sovereign  authority 
over  America,  I  should  distrust  every  principle  of  my  under- 
standing, reject  every  distinction  between  truth  and  falsehood, 
and  fall  into  a  universal  skepticism. 

Hitherto,  I  have  reasoned  against  the  whole  authority  of 
Parliament,  without  even  excepting  the  right  we  have  conceded, 
of  regulating  trade.  I  considered  it,  in  its  original  state,  as 
founded  in  the  British  constitution,  the  natural  rights  of  society, 
and  the  several  charters  of  the  colonies.  The  power  of  regu- 
lating our  trade,  was  first  exercised  in  the  reign  of  Charles  the 
Second.  I  shall  not  examine  upon  what  principle.  It  is  enough, 
we  have  consented  to  it.  But  I  shall  proceed  to  consider  the 
argument  you  make  use  of,  to  establish  the  propriety  of  allow- 
ing special  duties  to  be  imposed  by  way  of  tribute,  for  the  pro- 
tection of  our  commerce. 


JEt.  18.]  'I'll  E    FARMER     REPUTED.  B1 

You  argue  thus:   " Notwithstanding  the  large  landed  i 
possessed  by  the  British  subjects  in  the  dhTerenl  parte  of  the 
world,  they  must  1"'  considered  as  a  commercial,  manufacturing 

1 pie,    The  welfare,  perhaps  thi  nee,  of  Greal  Britan 

an  independent  or  sovereign  State,  depends  upon  her  main, 
tures  and  trade ;  and  many  people  in  America  think,  thai  her 
manufactures  and  commerce  depend,  in  a  greal  measure,  on  her 
intercourse  with  her  colonies;  insomuch,  that  if  this  Bho 

.  her  commerce  would  decline  and  die  away;  her 
wealth  would  cease;  and  her  maritime  power  be  at  an  end.  If 
these  observations  be  just,  they  establish  the  right  of  the  British 
Parliament  to  regulate  the  commerce  of  the  whole  empire,  be- 
yond possibility  of  contradiction;  a  denial  of  it,  would  be  a  de- 
nial of  a  right  in  the  British  empire  to  preserve  itself  They 
prove  also,  that  all  parts  of  the  empire  must  be  subjed  to  the 
British  Parliament;  for,  otherwise,  the  trade  of  the  whole  can- 
not be  regulated.  They  point  out,  also,  the  besl  mode  of  raising 
such  a  revenue  as  is  necessary  for  the  support  and  defence  of  the 
government,  viz.,  by  duties  on'importe  and  exports:  bees 
these  are  attended  with  the  least  inconvenience  to  the  subject, 
and  may  be  so  managed  as  to  raise  a  revenue  and  regulate  the 
trade  a1  the  same  time. 

"  When  it  is  considered  that  Greal  Britain  is  a  maritime 
power;  that  the  presenl  flourishing  state  of  her  trade,  and  of  the 
trade  of  her  colonies,  depends,  in  a  great  measure,  upon  the  pro- 
tection  which  they  receive  from  the  navy;  thai  her  own  security 
depends  upon  her  navy ;  and  that  it  is,  principally,  a  naval  pro 
tection  we  receive  from  her;  there  will  appear  a  peculiar  pro- 
priety in  laying  the  chief  burthen  of  supporting  her  navy,  u] 
her  commerce;  and  in  requesting  us  to  hear  a  part  of  the  ex- 
pense, proportional  to  our  ability,  and  to  that  protection  and 
security  which  we  receive  from  it." 

The  supposition,  that  a  c  »n  of  commerce  between  Gr 

Britain  and  the  colonies,  would  be  ruinous  and  destructive  to 
the  former,  is  ushered  in,  as  the  principal  argument  for  her  right 
to  regulate  the  commerce  of  the  whole  empire.     I  am  willing 
allow  it  its  full  weight;  but  1  cannot  conceive  how  you  C    i] 

b  6 


82  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [>Et.  18. 

tend,  after  making  such  use  of  it,  to  deny  it  the  force  it  ought  to 
have,  when  it  is  urged  as  affording  a  moral  certainty  that  our 
present  measures  will  be  successful.  If  you  tacitly  adopt  the 
principle,  and  reason  from  it,  in  one  case,  with  what  propriety 
can  you  reject  it  in  the  other  ?  If  the  preservation  of  the  British 
empire  depends,  in  any  material  degree,  upon  the  right  of  Par- 
liament to  regulate  the  trade  of  the  colonies,  what  will  be  the 
consequence  if  the  trade  ceases  altogether?  You  must  either 
acknowledge,  that  you  have  adduced  a  very  weak  and  foolish 
argument,  or  that  the  commercial  connection  between  Great 
Britain  and  the  colonies,  is  essential  to  her  security  and  pros- 
perity. You  have  either  failed  in  proving  your  point,  or  you 
have  furnished  me  with  an  ample  confutation  of  all  your  reason- 
ing against  the  probability  of  success,  from  the  restrictions  laid 
on  our  commerce.  If  our  trade  be  necessary  to  the  welfare  of 
Great  Britain,  she  must,  of  course,  be  ruined  by  a  discontinuance 
of  it. 

But  it  is  granted,  that  Great  Britain  has  a  right  to  regulate 
the  trade  of  the  empire.  The  Congress  have  acknowledged  it, 
so  far  as  concerned  their  constituents.  You  infer  from  thence, 
that  all  parts  of  the  empire  must  be  subject  to  her.  They  need 
only  be  so  far  subject,  as  is  necessary  for  the  end  proposed,  that 
is,  the  regulation  of  their  trade.  If  you  require  any  further  sub- 
jection, you  require  means  that  are  disproportionate  to  the  end, 
which  is  unreasonable,  and  not  at  all  allowable. 

With  respect  to  the  justice  of  submitting  to  impositions  on 
our  trade,  for  the  purpose  of  raising  a  revenue  to  support  the 
navy  by  which  it  is  protected ;  I  answer,  that  the  exclusive  reg- 
ulation of  our  commerce  for  her  own  advantage,  is  a  sufficient 
tribute  to  Great  Britain  for  protecting  it.  By  this  means,  a  vast 
accession  of  wealth  is  annually  thrown  into  her  coffers.  It  is  a 
matter  of  notoriety,  that  the  balance  of  trade  is  very  much  against 
us.  After  ransacking  Spain,  Portugal,  Holland,  the  English, 
French,  Spanish,  Dutch,  and  Danish  plantations,  for  money  and 
Bills  of  Exchange,  as  remittances  for  the  commodities  we  take 
from  Great  Britain ;  we  are  still  always  greatly  in  arrears  to  her. 
At  a  moderate  computation,  I  am  well  informed,  that  the  profits 


iET.  18.]  Til  E    r.\  R  M  E  ll    REFUTED. 

she  derives  Gram  as  every  year,  ■  .  eed  two  millions  and  a  half 
sterling;  and  when  we  reflect,  thai  this  sum  will  be  continually 
increasing,  as  we  grow  more  and  more  populous,  it  musl  be  evi- 
dent, thai  there  is  uol  the  leasl  justice  in  raising  a  revenue  w 
as,  by  the  imposition  of  special  duties. 

The  right  of  Greal  Britain  to  regulate  our  trade  upon  this 
plan,  it  is  now  acknowledged,  is  uol  an  inconsiderable  matt  r.  [1 
is  as  much  as  any  free  people  can  concede,  and  as  much  as  any  just 
people  would  require.  We  are  no1  permitted  to  procure  manu- 
factures any  where  else  than  from  Greal  Britain,  or  [reland. 
Our  trade  is  limited  and  prescribed,  in  every  respect,  as  is  i 
fbi  her  interest  This  is  a  plentiful  sourer  of  wealth  to  her, 
have  heretofore  shown,  and  shall  hereafter  confirm  by  the  testi- 
mony of  some  British  writers. 

But  I  have  found  out  an  argument,  which,  1  imagine,  will  go 
very  near  convincing  yourself  of  the  absurdity  of  what  you  have 
offered  on  this  head.  It  is  short,  but  conclusive.  "  The  princi- 
pal profits  of  our  trade  centre  in  Great  Britain"*  How  can  you, 
my  dour  sir,  after  making  this  confession,  entertain  a  single 
thought,  that  it  is  incumbent  upon  us  to  suffer  her  to  raise  a  rev- 
enue upon  our  trade?  Are  uot  the  principal  profits  a  sufficienl  re- 
compense for  protecting  it  ?  Surely  you  would  not  allow  her  the 
whole.  This  would  be  rather  too  generous.  However  ardenl  your 
affection  to  her,  and  however  much  it  may  be  your  glory  to  ad- 
vance her  imperial  dignity,  you  oughl  to  moderate  it  so  far,  . 
permit  us  to  enjoy  some  little  benefit  from  our  trade.  (  mly  a  small 
portion  of  the  profits  will  satisfy  as.  We  are  willing  to  let  her 
have  the  principal  share,  and  this  you  acknowl  me  already 
has.  But  why  will  you  advise  us  to  let  her  exhausl  the  small 
pittance  we  have  reserved,  as  the  reward  of  our  own  industry, 
in  hurthensome  revenues?  This  might  be  liberality  and  gener- 
osity, but  it  would  not  be  prudence  :  and  let  me  tell  you.  in  this 
selfish,  rapacious  world,  a  little  discretion  is,  at  worst,  only  a 
venial  sin.  It  will  be  expedient  to  be  more  cautious  for 
future.    It  is  difficult  to  combat  truth;  and  unless  you  redouble 

*  Sec  Page  19  of  your  own  letter. 


84  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  18. 

your  vigilance,  you  will  (as  in  the  present  instance)  be  extremely 
apt  to  ensnare  yourself. 

I  shall  now  briefly  examine  the  excellent  mode  you  have  pro- 
posed, for  settling  our  disputes  finally  and  effectually.  All  inter- 
nal taxation  is  to  be  vested  in  our  own  legislatures;  and  the 
right  of  regulating  trade,  by  duties,  bounties,  &c,  to  be  left  to 
the  Parliament,  together  with  the  right  of  enacting  all  general 
laws  for  all  the  colonies.  You  imagine  that  we  should  then 
"  have  all  the  security  for  our  rights,  liberties,  and  properties, 
which  human  policy  can  give  us." 

Here  we  widely  differ  in  sentiment.  My  opinion  is,  that  we 
should  have  no  "  security  besides  the  good  will  of  our  rulers ; 
that  is,  no  security  at  all."  Is  there  no  difference  between  one 
system  of  laws  and  another  ?  Are  not  some  more  favorable  and 
beneficial  to  the  subject ;  better  calculated  to  preserve  his  life 
and  personal  liberty  than  others  ?  It  is  evident  they  are.  Sup- 
pose, instead  of  the  present  system  established  among  us,  the 
French  laws  were  to  be  introduced,  for  the  good  of  all  the  colo- 
nies :  Should  we  have  the  same  security  for  our  lives  which  we 
now  have  ?  I  presume  we  should  not.  I  presume,  also,  that  a 
revolution  in  our  laws  might  and  would  gradually  take  place. 

A  fondness  for  power  is  implanted  in  most  men ;  and  it  is 
natural  to  abuse  it,  when  acquired.  This  maxim,  drawn  from 
the  experience  of  all  ages,  makes  it  the  height  of  folly  to  intrust 
any  set  of  men  with  power,  which  is  not  under  every  possible 
control ;  perpetual  strides  are  made  after  more,  as  long  as  there 
is  any  part  withheld.  We  ought  not,  therefore,  to  concede  any 
greater  authority  to  the  British  Parliament,  than  is  absolutely 
necessary.  There  seems  to  be  a  necessity  for  vesting  the  regula- 
tion of  our  trade  there,  because,  in  time,  our  commercial  interests 
might  otherwise  interfere  with  hers.  But  with  respect  to  mak- 
ing laws  for  us,  there  is  not  the  least  necessity,  or  even  propri- 
ety in  it.  Our  legislatures  are  confined  to  ourselves,  and  cannot 
interfere  with  Great  Britian.  We  are  best  acquainted  with  our 
own  circumstances,  and  therefore  best  qualified  to  make  suitable 
regulations.  It  is  of  no  force  to  object,  that  no  particular  colony 
has  power  to  enact  general  laws  for  all  the  colonies.     There  is 


Mr.  18.]  Til  i:    i'.\  i:  \i  1:1;    REPUTED. 

Hi*  need  of  such  general  laws.     I.  |        try  colony  attend  to    I 
own  internal  police,  and  all  will  be  well.     Bow  bave  we  man* 

1  heretofore?  The  Parliamenl  baa  made  no  general  laws  for 
our  good  :  and  ye1  onr  affairs  have  beeD  conducted  much  {■>  our 

■  and  satisfaction.     LP  any  discord  has  sprung  up  am. 
it  is  wholly  imputable  to  the  incursions  of  Gtoeal   Britain.     We 
should  be  peaceable  and  happy,  if  unmolested  by  her.     We  are 
in>t  so  destitute  of  wisdom  as  to  be  in  want  of  her  assistance . 
devise  proper  and  salutary  laws  for  as. 

The  legislative  power  of  Parliament  would  a1  any  rate  be 
less  to  us;  and  as  utility  is  the  prime  end  of  all  laws,  thai  power 
has  no  reason  foi  which  it  should  exist     It  is  aot  even  requi 
for  preserving  the  connection  between  Great  Britain  and  the  co- 
lonies, for  that  is  sufficiently  secured   in  two  ways:  by  being 
united  under  the  same  king,  and  by  the  importanl  prrv 
regulating  our  commerce,  to  which  we  have  submitted. 

That  it  might  be  prejudicial  to  us,  uo  reasonable  man  can 
deny.  We  may  trace  the  evils  of  it  through  the  whole  adminis- 
tration of  justice.  Judicial  proceedings  may  be  so  ordered  ■■■■- 
render  our  lives  and  properties  dependent  on  the  will  and  ca- 
price of  court  favorites  and  tools.  A  wide  field  for  bribery  and 
corruption  of  every  kind  would  be  opened,  and  themostenor- 
mous  exactions  would  take  shelter  under  the  garb  of  law.  It  is 
unnecessary  to  enter  into  a  particular  detail  of  the  different 
methods  in  which  all  this  might  be  effected ;  every  man's  own 
imagination  will  suggesl  t<>  him  a  multiplicity  of  instances. 

Rigorous,  oppressive,  and  tyrannical  laws  may  be  thought 
expedient,  as  instruments  to  humble  our  rebellious  tempers,  ami 
oblige  us  tn  submit  to  further  exertions  of  authority,  till  the  claim 

ind  us  in  all  cases  whatsoever  1"-  fully  complied  with.  This. 
do  doubt,  would  be  a  work  of  time.  The  steps  would  be  gradual, 
ami  perhaps  imperceptible  ;  hut  they  would  be  sun-  ami  effectual. 

That  thirst  of  power  which  influen I  the  Parliament  to 

an  unlimited  authority  over  us.  without  tin'  Least  plausible  foun- 
dation for  it  ias  I  have  clearly  proved),  will  authorize  us  to  ap- 
prehend tin-  worst. 

The  power  of  legislating  for  us,  and  of  raising  a  revenue  upon 


86  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

the  articles  of  commerce,  would  be  a  sufficient  degree  of  slavery. 
It  is  absurd  to  say,  that  Great  Britain  could  not  impose  heavy 
burthens  on  our  commerce,  without  immediately  feeling  the 
effect  herself.  She  may  enrich  herself  by  reducing  us  to  the 
most  lamentable  state  of  penury  and  wretchedness.  We  are 
already  forbid  to  purchase  the  manufactures  of  any  foreign  coun- 
tries. Great  Britain  and  Ireland  must  furnish  us  with  the  ne- 
cessaries we  want.  Those  things  Ave  manufacture  among  our- 
selves may  be  disallowed.  We  should  then  be  compelled  to  take 
the  manufactures  of  Great  Britain  upon  her  own  conditions. 
We  could  not,  in  that  case,  do  without  them.  However  exces- 
sive the  duties  laid  upon  them,  we  should  be  under  an  inevitable 
necessity  to  purchase  them.  How  would  Great  Britain  feel  the 
effects  of  those  impositions,  but  to  her  own  advantage  ?  If  we 
might  withdraw  our  custom,  and  apply  to  other  nations ;  if  we 
might  manufacture  our  own  materials,  those  expedients  would 
serve  as  a  refuge  to  us,  and  would  indeed  be  a  security  against 
any  immoderate  exactions.  But  these  resources  would  be  cut 
off.  There  would  be  no  alternative  left  us.  We  must  submit  to 
be  drained  of  all  our  wealth,  for  those  necessaries  which  we  are 
not  permitted  to  get  elsewhere.    ■ 

As  to  our  trade  with  foreign  countries,  the  burthens  imposed 
on  that,  however  grievous,  would  in  like  manner  affect  Great 
Britain  only  by  increasing  her  public  treasure.  Her  own  inha- 
bitants would  pay  no  part  of  them  ;  they  would  fall  solely  upon 
ourselves.  There  is  no  immediate  connection  between  her  trade 
and.  ours,  of  this  kind ;  they  are  separate  and  independent ;  and, 
of  course,  the  incumbrances  on  the  one  would  not  injure  the 
other.  The  superfluity  of  our  products  must  be  exported,  to 
enable  us  to  pay  our  debts  to  her ;  and  we  must  submit  to  be 
loaded  at  her  discretion.  If  we  look  forward  to  a  period  not  far 
distant,  we  shall  perceive  that  the  productions  of  our  country 
will  infinitely  exceed  the  demands  which  Great  Britain  and  her 
connections  can  possibly  have  for  them ;  and,  as  we  shall  then  be 
greatly  advanced  in  population,  our  wants  will  be  proportiona- 
bly  increased.  These  circumstances  will  open  an  ample  field  for 
extortion  and  oppression. 


jEt.  18.]  T  1 1  B    P  A  R  m  E  it    R  I :  i '  i  T  i :  1 1 .  M 

The   legislative   authority   of  Parliament  would  atoi 
ready  to  silence  our  murmurs  by  tyrannical  edicts.    These  would 
be  enforced  by  a  formidable  army,  kepi  up  among  as  for  the 
purpose.     The  slightest   Btruggles   to   recover  our  losl   lib 
would  become  dangerous,  and  even  capital.    Those  hated  thu 
Continental  Conventions,  by  which  there  tnighl  be  a  communion 
of  councils  and  measures,  would  be  interdicted.     Nbn-importa- 
tic >n  and  non-exportation  agreements  would,  in  effect,  1"-  made 

Hems,  illegal,  and  treasonable.*     No  remedy  would  be  Left,  bu1 
in  the  clemency  of  our  oppressors;  a  wretched  one,  indeed,  and 
such  as  no  prudent  man  would  confide  inl     [n  whatever] 
uv  consider  the  matter,  we  shall  find  that  we  must  effectually 
seal  our  bondage  by  adopting  the  mod,'  you  recommend. 

Agreeably  to  your  own  concessions,  Great  Britain  is  abun- 
dantly recompensed  for  the  naval  protection  she  affords,  by  the 
principal  profits  of  our  trade.  It  can,  therefore,  with  no  color  of 
justice,  be  urged  upon  us  to  permil  her  to  raise  a  revenue  through 
that  channel. 

But,  after  all,  let  us  suppose  that  the  emolument  which  ai 
from  the  simple  and  abstracted  regulation  of  our  trade,  is  inade- 
quate to  the  protection  we  derive  from  the  parent  State:  does  it 
follow,  that  her  jusl  demands  cannot  be  satified,  unless  we  put  it 
in  her  power  to  nun  us?  When  did  the  colonies  refuse  to  con- 
tribute their  proportion  towards  defraying  the  expenses  of  gov- 
ernment? During  the  war.  our  contributions  were  so  liberal 
and  generous,  that  we  were  thought  to  have  ih>i\c  more  than  our 
part  ;   and   restitution  was  accordingly  made.     Massachus 

that  injured,  insulted,  and  calumniated  country,  was  foremost   in 
displaying  its  Loyalty;  and  was  parsimonious  neither  of  its  men 
normoney.    But,  notwithstanding  this,  no  confidence,  it  seems. 
is  due  to  our  virtue  or  fidelity;  but  every  thing  is  to  be  tm  I 
to  the  wisdom  and  disinterestedness  of  a  British  Parliament. 

We  do  not  expect,  nor  require,  that  all  should  depend  upon 
our  integrity  or  generosity,  but  only  a  part ;  and  this,  every  rule 
of  equity  entitles  us  to.     We  have  assented  to  the  exi 

*  I  believe  these  were  the  epithets  bestowed  on  them  by  Gen.  Gage. 


88  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  18. 

power  which  gives  a  certainty  to  Great  Britain  of  a  vast  annual 
income :  any  further  aids  that  may  be  necessary,  ought  to  be 
intrusted  to  our  fidelity.  When  the  circumstances  of  two  parties 
will  not  admit  of  precise  boundaries  to  the  duty  of  each,  it  is  not 
a  dictate  of  justice  to  put  one  entirely  into  the  power  of  the 
other.  If  the  mother  country  would  desist  from  grasping  at  too 
much,  and  permit  us  to  enjoy  the  privileges  of  freemen,  interest 
would  concur  with  duty,  and  lead  us  to  the  performance  of  it. 
We  should  be  sensible  of  the  advantages  of  a  mutual  intercourse 
and  connection,  and  should  esteem  the  welfare  of  Britain  as  the 
best  security  for  our  own.  She  may,  by  kind  treatment,  secure 
our  attachment  in  the  powerful  bands  of  self-interest.  This  is 
the  conduct  that  prudence  and  sound  policy  point  out :  but, 
alas !  to  her  own  misfortune  as  well  as  ours,  she  is  blind  and 
infatuated. 

If  we  take  futurity  into  the  account,  as  we  no  doubt  ought  to 
do,  we  shall  find,  that  in  fifty  or  sixty  years,  America  will  be  in 
no  need  of  protection  from  Great  Britain.  She  will  then  be 
able  to  protect  herself,  both  at  home  and  abroad.  She  will  have 
a  plenty  of  men,  and  a  plenty  of  materials,  to  provide  and  equip 
a  formidable  navy.  She  will,  indeed,  owe  a  debt  of  gratitude  to 
the  parent  State  for  past  services ;  but  the  scale  will  then  begin 
to  turn  in  her  favor  :  and  the  obligation  for  future  services  will 
be  on  the  side  of  Great  Britain.  It  will  be  the  interest  of  the 
latter  to  keep  us  without  a  fleet,  and,  by  this  means,  to  continue 
to  regulate  our  trade  as  before.  But,  in  thus  withholding  the 
means  of  protection  which  we  have  within  our  own  reach,  she 
will  chiefly  consult  her  own  advantage,  and  oblige  herself  much 
more  than  us.  At  that  era,  to  enjoy  the  privilege  of  enriching 
herself  by  the  direction  of  our  commerce,  and,  at  the  same  time, 
to  derive  supports,  from  our  youthful  vigor  and  strength,  against 
all  her  enemies,  and  thereby  to  extend  her  conquests  over  them, 
will  give  her  reason  to  bless  the  times  that  gave  birth  to  these 
colonies. 

By  enlarging  our  views,  and  turning  our  thoughts  to  future 
days,  we  must  perceive,  that  the  special  benefits  we  receive  from 
the  British  nation,  are  of  a  temporary  and  transient  nature: 


jEt.  18.] 


THE    PARMER    aEPUTED.  89 


while,  "ii  the  other  hand,  those  it  may  reap  from  as,  by  an  affec- 
tionate and  parental  conduct,  will  I"-  permanenl  and  dural 
and  will  Berve  to  give  it  such  :i  degree  of  stability  and  lasting 
jperity,  as  could  no1  be  expected  in  the  common  fluctuating 
course  of  human  affairs.  Such  reflections  will  teach  as,  that 
there  is  no  propriety  in  making  any  concessions  to  '  foeal  Britain, 

which  may  be  at  all  inc. insistent  with  our  safety. 

You  employ  several  contemptible  artifices  to  Tarnish  and 
commend  your  scheme.  Your  conduct,  in  every  respect,  affi 
astriking  instance  of  the  depravity  of  human  nature.  5Tou  in- 
sinuate, that  the  Pennsylvania  Farmer  admits  the  righl  of  Par- 
liament to  regulate  our  trade  in  the  same  sen.--  you  do.  The 
very  Inter  your  extracts  are  taken  from,  is  expressly  levelled 
against  the  revenue  act,  with  regard  to  paper,  glass,  ,V'-.  The 
design  <>!' that,  ami  all  his  subsequenl  papers,  is  t<>  prove,  that 
all  duties,  imposed  upon  the  articles  of  commerce,  for  the  | 

•  of  raising  a  revenue,  are  to  be  considered  in  the  same  light 

as  what  you  call  internal  taxes,  and  ought  equally  to  he  opposed. 

By  the  "legal  authority  to  regulate  trade,"  la-  means  nothing 

more,  than  what  the  Congress  have  allowed:  an  authority  to 

fine  us  to  the  use  of  our  own  manufactures ;  to  prescribe  our 

le  with  foreign  nations,  and  the  like.     This  is  the  power  he 

aks  of  as  being  "lodged  in  the  British  Parliament."  1  as 

to  general  duties,  he  means  such  as  the  people  of  Great  Britain 

are  to  payas'well  as  ourselves.     Duties,  for  the  purpose  of  a 

revenue  raised  upon  us  only,  he  calls  special  duties:  and  Bays, 

"they  arc  as  much  a  tax  upon  as  as  those  imposed  by  the  .-tamp 

act." 

The  following  passage  will  show  the  sentiments  of  this  i 
nious  and  worthy  gentleman ;  and,  at  the  same  time,  will  serve 
to  illustrate  what  I  have  heretofore  said. 

••  If  you  once  admit,"  says  he,  "that  Great  Britain  may  lay 
duties  upon  her  exportations  to  us,  for  theph 
on  us  only,  she  will  then  have  nothing  to  do,  but  to  lay  di 
on  the  articles  which   she   prohibits   OS  to  manufacture,  and  the 
traevdv  iil'.lw/w/j  liberty  is  finished.     We  have  been   pro- 
hibited from  procuring  manufactures  in  all  c         i  ay  where  but 


90  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  18. 

from  Great  Britain  (excepting  linens,  which  we  are  permitted  to 
import  directly  from  Ireland).  We  have  been  prohibited  in 
some  cases  from  manufacturing  for  ourselves,  and  may  be  pro- 
hibited in  others.  We  are,  therefore,  exactly  in  the  situation  of 
a  city  besieged,  which  is  surrounded  by  the  besiegers  in  every 
part  but  one.  If  that  is  closed  up,  no  step  can  be  taken,  but  to 
surrender  at  discretion.  If  Great  Britain  can  order  us  to  come  to 
her  for  the  necessaries  we  want ;  and  can  order  us  to  pay  what 
taxes  she  pleases  before  we  take  them  away,  or  when  we  land 
them  here ;  we  are  as  abject  slaves  as  France  and  Poland  can 
show,  in  wooden  shoes,  and  with  uncombed  hair.* 

"  Perhaps  the  nature  of  the  necessities  of  dependent  States, 
caused  by  the  policy  of  a  governing  one  for  her  own  benefit, 
may  be  elucidated  by  a  fact  mentioned  in  history.  When  the 
Carthaginians  were  possessed  of  the  island  of  Sardinia,  they 
made  a  decree,  that  the  Sardinians  should  not  raise  corn,  nor  get 
it  any  other  way  than  from  the  Carthaginians.  Then,  by  impos- 
ing any  duties  they  would  upon  it,  they  drained  from  the  miser- 
able Sardinians  any  sums  they  pleased ;  and,  whenever  that  mis- 
erable and  oppressed  people  made  the  least  movement  to  assert 
their  liberty,  their  tyrants  starved  them  to  death  or  submission. 
This  may  be  called  the  most  perfect  kind  of  political  necessity." 

You  would  persuade  us,  also,  that  Mr.  Pitt's  sentiments 
accord  with  yours,  about  the  regulation  of  trade ;  but  this  is  as 
false  as  the  other.  When  he  tells  them  "  to  exercise  every 
power  but  that  of  taking  money  out  of  our  pockets,"  he  does 
not  mean  that  they  shall  barely  refrain  from  a  manual  operation 
upon  our  pockets  ;  but  that  they  shall  exact  money  from  us  in 
no  way  whatsoever.  To  tax  the  commodities  Great  Britain 
obliges  us  to  take  from  her  only,  is  as  much  taking  money  out 
of  our  pockets  as  to  tax  our  estates ;  and  must  be  equally  ex- 
cluded by  Mr.  Pitt's  prohibition. 

You  all  along  argue  upon  a  suppositious  denial  of  the  right 
of  Parliament  to  regulate  our  trade.      You  tell  us,    "It  will 


*  The  peasants  of  France  wear  wooden  shoes ;  and  the  vassals  of  Poland  are 
remarkable  for  matted  hair  which  never  can  be  combed. 


Mr.  18.]  T  u  E    i'.\  i:  M  i:  R    R  i:  PUT  i:  i>.  91 

never  give  up  the  right  of  regulating  the  trade  of  the  colonit  :" 
and,  in  another  place,  "  If  we  succeed  in  depriving  G  I  I'  tain 
of  the  power  of  regulating  our  trade,  the  colonies  will  probably 

be  b i  a1  variance  with  each  other.    Their  i mercial  inter 

will  interfere;*  there  will  be  no  supreme  power  to  interp 
and  discord  and  animosity  must  ensue." 

I  leave  others  to  determine,  whether  you  are  mosl  defective 
in  memory  or  honesty :  bu1  in  order  to  show  that  you  are  Btart- 
ing  difficulties  where  there  are  really  none,  I  will  transcribe,  for 
your  perusal,  pari  of  the  fourth  resolve  of  the  Congress.  After 
asserting  the  right  of  the  several  provincial  legislatures  to  an 
exclusive  power  of  legislation  "in  all  cases  of  taxation  and  in- 
ternal policy,"  they  conclude  thus :  "But  from  the  necessity  of 
the  case,  and  a  regard  to  the  mutual  interests  of  both  countries, 
we  cheerfully  consent  to  the  operation  of  such  acts  of  the  British 
Parliament,  as  are  bona  fide  restrained  to  the  regulation  of  our  ex- 
ternal  commerce,  for  the  purpose  of  securing  the  commercial  ad- 
vantages of  the  whole  empire  to  the  mother  country,  ami  the 
commercial  benefits  of  its  respective  members;  excluding  every 
idea  of  taxation,  internal  or  external,  for  raising  a  revenue  on 
the  subjects  in  America  without  their  consent." 

It  seems  to  me  not  impossible,  that  our  trade  may  be  so  re- 
gulated, as  to  prevent  the  discord  and  animosity,  at  the  pros] 
of  which  you  are  so  terrified,  without  the  least  assistance  from 
a   ■(  '■'  nue. 

Tims  have  I  not  only  disproved  the  existence  of  that  parlia- 
mentary authority  of  which  you  are  so  zealous  an  abettor;  but 
also  shown,  that  the  mode  you  have  proposed  for  the  accommo- 
dation of  our  disputes,  would  be  destructive  to  American  free- 
dom.    -Mv  next  business  is,  to  vindicate  the  Congress  by  a  few 

natural  inferences;  and  such  reflections  on  the  state  of  our  com- 
mercial connection  with  the  mother  country,  as  are  necessary  to 
show  the  insignificancy  of  your  objections  to  my  former  argu- 
ments on  this  head. 

*  I  do  doI  sec  any  reason  to  believe  this  would  be  the  case ;  but  as  it  li  of  no 
importance  to  controvert  it.  I  .shall  pass  it  over. 


92  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [.tor.  18. 

Since  it  has  been  proved,  that  the  British  Parliament  has  no 
right,  either  to  the  legislation  or  taxation  of  America ;  and  since 
neither  could  be  ceded  without  betraying  our  liberties  ;  the  Con- 
gress would  have  acted  inconsistent  with  their  duty  to  their 
country  had  they  done  it.  Their  conduct,  therefore,  so  far  from 
being  reprehensible,  was  perfectly  justifiable  and  laudable. 

The  regulation  of  our  trade,  in  the  sense  it  is  now  admitted, 
is  the  only  power  we  can,  with  justice  to  ourselves,  permit  the 
British  Parliament  to  exercise :  and  it  is  a  privilege  of  so  im- 
portant a  nature,  so  beneficial  and  lucrative  to  Great  Britain, 
that  she  ought,  in  equity,  to  be  contented  with  it,  and  not 
attempt  to  grasp  at  any  thing  more.  The  Congress,  therefore, 
have  made  the  only  concession,  which  the  welfare  and  pros- 
perity of  America  would  warrant,  or  which  Great  Britain,  in. 
reason,  could  expect. 

All  your  clamors,  therefore,  against  them  for  not  having 
drawn  some  proper  line,  are  groundless  and  ridiculous.  They 
have  drawn  the  only  line  which  American  freedom  will  autho- 
rize, or  which  the  relation  between  the  parent  State  and  the 
colonies  requires. 

It  is  a  necessary  consequence,  and  not  an  assumed  point,  that 
the  claim  of  Parliament  to  bind  us  by  statutes  in  all  cases  whatso- 
ever, is  unconstitutional,  unj  ust,  and  tyrannical ;  and  the  repeated 
attempts  to  carry  it  into  execution,  evince  a  fixed,  inveterate 
design  to  exterminate  the  liberties  of  America. 

Mr.  Grenville,  during  his  administration,  was  the  projector  of 
this  scheme.  His  conduct,  as  a  minister,  has  been  severely 
arraigned  by  his  successors  in  office,  and  by  the  nation  in  gen- 
eral :  but,  notwithstanding  this,  a  measure  which  disgraces  his 
character  more  than  any  thing  else  has  been  steadily  pursued 
ever  since. 

The  Stamp  Act  was  the  commencement  of  our  misfortunes  ; 
which,  in  consequence  of  the  spirited  opposition  made  by  us,  was 
repealed.  The  Eevenue  Act,  imposing  duties  on  paper,  glass, 
&c,  came  next,  and  was  also  partly  repealed  on  the  same  ac- 
count. A  part,  however,  was  left  to  be  the  instrument  of  some 
future  attack.     The  present  minister,  in  conjunction  with  a  mer- 


Ma.  18.]  THE    F  A  H  M  E  R     B  E  I'  I   T  B D . 

cenary  tribe  of  merchants,  attempted  to  effect,  by  stratagem, 
whal  could  not  be  done  by  an  open,  undisguised  manner  of  pro- 
ceeding.    Bis  emissaries,  every  where,  were  se1  to  work.    T 
endeavored,  by  every  possible  device,  to  allure  as  into  the  snare. 
The  Act,  passed  for  the  purpose,  was  misrepresented;  and 
were  assured,  with  all  the  parade  of  pretended  patriotism,  that 

liberties  were  in  do  danger.  The  advantage  w<  uld 
receive  from  the  probable  cheapness  of  English  tea,  was  pla 
off  with  every  exaggeration  offalseh I:  and  specious  declama- 
tions on  the  criminality  of  illicit  trade,  served  as  a  gilding  for 
the  whole.  Thus,  truth  and  its  opposite  were  blended.  The 
men,  who  could  makejusl  reflections  on  the  Bar  f  an  oath, 

were  vet  base  enough  to  strike  at  the  vitals  of  t!  -  lit-  which 

ought  to  be  held  sacred  by  every  rational  being. 

It  so  happened,  that  the  firsl  tea  ship  arrived  at  Boston. 

The  Assembly  of  thai  province,  justly  alarmed  at  the< sequen- 

.  made  repeated  applications  to  the  consignees  for  the  East 
India  Company,  requesting  them  to  send  back  the  tea.  They 
as  often  refused  to  comply.  The  ship  was  detained  till  the  time 
was  elapsed;  after  which  the  tea  must  have  been  landed,  and 
the  duties  paid,  or  it  would  have  been  seized  by  tl  i  rtom 
II.  -  .  To  prevenl  this,  a  partof  the  citizens  of  Boston  assem- 
bled, proceeded  to  the  ship,  and  threw  the  tea  into  the  river.* 

The  scheme  of  the  ministry  was  disappointed  on  all  hands. 
The  tea  was  returned  from  all  the  colonies  I   South  Caro- 

lina.    It  was  landed  there;  but  such  precautions  were  takei 
equally  served  to  baffle  their  attempt. 

This  abortion  of  their  favorite  plan,  inflamed  the  ministerial 
ire.  They  breathed  nothing  bul  vengeance  against  America. 
Menaces  ofpunishmenl  resounded  through  both  Bouses  of  Parlia- 
ment. The  Commons  of  Greal  Britain  spoke  more  in  the  super- 
cilious tone  of  masters,  than  in  the  becoming  language  of  fellow- 
To  all  the  judicious  reasonings  of  a  Burke,  or  Barre, 
no  other  answer  was  returned,  than  the  idle  tale  oi  and 

*  I  shall  examine  the  justice  and  policy  of  this  procedure  in  some  future 
publication. 


94  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

severity.  Much,  was  said  on  their  past  forbearance,  and  of  their 
future  resentment.  This  was  the  burthen  of  the  song.  The 
Quixotte  minister,  too,  promised  to  bring  America  to  his  feet. 
Humiliating  idea,  and  such  as  ought  to  be  spurned  by  every 
free-born  American ! 

Boston  was  the  first  victim  to  the  meditated  vengeance.  An 
Act  was  passed  to  block  up  her  ports  and  destroy  her  commerce, 
with  every  aggravating  circumstance  that  can  be  imagined.  It 
was  not  left  at  her  option  to  elude  the  stroke  by  paying  for  the 
tea ;  but  she  was  also  to  make  such  satisfaction  to  the  officers  of 
his  Majesty's  revenue,  and  others  who  might  have  suffered,  as 
should  be  judged  reasonable  by  the  governor. 

Nor  is  this  all.  Before  her  commerce  could  be  restored,  she 
must  have  submitted  to  the  authority  claimed  and  exercised  by 
the  Parliament.* 

Had  the  rest  of  America  passively  looked  on,  while  a  sister 


*  This  must  bo  evident  to  every  person  who  has  read  the  Act.  The  prefatory 
part  of  it,  is  in  these  words  :  "  Whereas,  dangerous  commotions  and  insurrections 
have  been  fomented  and  raised  in  the  town  of  Boston,  &c. ;  in  which  commotions 
and  insurrections,  certain  valuable  cargoes  of  tea,  &c,  were  seized  and  destroyed: 
And  whereas,  in  the  present  condition  of  the  said  town  and  harbor,  the  commerce 
of  his  Majesty's  subjects  cannot  be  safely  carried  on  there,  nor  the  customs  payable 
to  his  Majesty,  duly  collected,  &c." 

The  commotions  specified,  are  those  in  which  the  tea  was  destroyed :  The  com- 
merce obstructed,  was  that  of  the  East  India  Company:  And  the  customs  which 
could  not  be  collected,  were  those  on  the  tea.  These  are  the  evils  the  Act  is  intend- 
ed to  punish  and  remove:  and  accordingly  it  provides,  that  "whenever  it  shall 
appear  to  his  Majesty,  in  his  privy  council,  that  peace  and  obedience  to  the  laws 
(i.  e.  the  laws  of  Parliament)  shall  be  so  far  restored  in  the  said  town  of  Boston, 
that  the  trade  of  Great  Britain  may  safely  be  carried  on  there,  and  his  Majesty's 
customs  duly  collected;"  then,  his  Majesty  may,  at  his  discretion,  so  far  open  the 
port,  as  to  him  seems  necessary.  So  that  until  the  Bostonians  shall  submit  to  let 
the  trade  of  Great  Britain  be  carried  on  upon  her  own  terms,  and  suffer  his  Ma- 
jesty's customs  (the  duty  upon  tea,  or  any  other  Parliament  may  impose)  to 
be  duly  collected,  they  must  remain  in  their  present  distressed  situation  :  that 
is,  unless  they  resign  their  freedom,  and  put  on  the  ignominious  yoke  tendered 
them  by  Parliament,  they  are  never  to  recover  their  lost  trade.  Hence  it  appears, 
how  weak,  ungenerous,  and  contemptible,  that  objection  is,  which  supposes  the 
Bostonians  might  have  avoided  their  present  calamities  by  paying  for  the  tea. 
The  truth  is,  they  had  no  alternative  but  submission  to  all  the  unjust  claims  of  Par- 
liament. 


Mr.  18.]  'I'll  B    FA  R  M  ER     ttEPI   T  E  D. 

colonv  was  subjugated,  the  same  fate  would  graduallj  bave 
overtaken  all.  r  I "  1 1 « -  safety  of  the  whole  depends  apon  the  mu- 
tual protection  of  every  part,  [f  the  sword  of  oppression  be 
permitted  to  lop  off  one  limb  without  opposition;  reiterated 
strokes  will  soon  dismember  the  whole  body.  Hence,  it  was  the 
duty  and  interest  of  all  the  colonies  to  succor  and  support  the 
one  which  was  Buffering.  It  is  sometimes  sagaciously 
that  we  ought  to  commiserate  the  dista  of  the] pie  of  Mas- 

sachusetts, but  not  intermeddle  in  their  affairs,  bo  far  as  perhaps 
to  brine  ourselves  into  like  circumstances  with  them.  This 
might  be  good  reasoning,  if  our  neutrality  would  no1  I"-  more 
dangerous  than  our  participation  :  but  I  am  unable  to  c  mceive, 
how  the  colonies  in  general  would  have  any  security  againsl  op- 
pression, if  they  were  once  to  content  themselves  with  barely 
pitying  each  other,  while  Parliament  was  prosecuting  and  enforc- 
ing its  demands.  [Jnless  they  continually  protect  and  ach 
other,  they  must  all  inevitably  tall  a  prey  to  their  enemi 

Extraordinary  emergencies  require  extraordinary  expedients. 
The  best  mode  of  opposition  was  that  in  which  there  might 
be  a  union  of  councils.  This  was  necessary  to  ascertain  the 
boundaries  of  our  rights,  and  to  give  weight  and  dignity  to  our 
measures,  both  in  Great  Britain  and  America.  A  Congress  was 
accordingly  proposed,  and  universally  agreed  to. 

You,  -ir,  triumph  in  the  supposed  illegality  of  this  body :  hut 
granting  your  supposition  were  true,  it  would  he  a  matter  of  no 
real  importance.  When  the  first  principles  of  civil  society  arc 
violated,  and  the  rights  of  a  whole  people  are  invaded,  the  com- 
mon forms  of  municipal  law  are  not  to  be  regarded.  Men  may 
then  hetake  themselves  to  the  lawofnature;  ami,  il  they  hut 
conform  their  actions  to  that  standard,  all  cavils  against  them 
betray  either  ignorance  or  dishonesty.     There  are  some  events 

in    society,    to    which    human    laws    cannot    extend;     hut,    when 

applied  to  them,  lose  all  their  force  and  efficacy.     In  Bhort,  when 

human    laws  contradict,  or  discountenance,  the  means  which 
necessary  to  preserve  the  essential   rights  of  any  society,  I 
defeat  the  proper  end  '<l'  all    laws,  and  so  become  null  and  \ 
But  you  have  barely  asserted,  not  proved,  this  ill  If 


96  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mi.  18. 

by  the  term,  you  mean  a  contrariety  to  law,  I  desire  yon  to  pro- 
duce the  law  against  it.  I  maintain  there  is  none  in  being.  If 
you  mean  that  there  is  no  law,  the  intention  of  which  may 
authorize  such  a  convention,  I  deny  this  also.  It  has  been 
always  a  principle  of  the  law,  that  subjects  have  a  right  to  state 
their  grievances,  and  petition  the  king  for  redress.  This  is  ex- 
plicitly acknowledged  by  the  Act  of  the  first  of  William  and 
Mary :  and  "  all  prosecutions  and  commitments  for  such  petition- 
ing," are  declared  to  be  illegal.  So  far,  then,  the  Congress  was 
a  body  founded  in  law ;  for  if  subjects  have  such  a  right,  they 
may  undoubtedly  elect  and  depute  persons  from  among  them- 
selves to  act  for  them.* 

As  to  the  particular  agreements  entered  into,  with  respect  to 
our  commerce,  the  law  makes  no  provision  for  or  against  them : 
they  are  perfectly  indifferent  in  a  legal  sense.  We  may,  or  may 
not,  trade,  as  is  most  suitable  to  our  own  circumstances. 

The  deputies  chosen  in  the  several  provinces,  met  at  Phi- 
ladelphia according  to  appointment,  and  framed  a  set  of  re- 
solves, declarative  of  the  rights  of  America :  all  which  I  have  by 
general  arguments  proved,  are  consonant  to  reason  and  nature ; 
to  the  spirit  of  the  British  Constitution ;  and  to  the  intention  of 
our  charters.  They  made  the  only  concession  (as  I  have  also 
shown)  that  their  duty  to  themselves  and  their  country  would 
justify,  or  that  the  connection  between  Great  Britain  and  the 
colonies  demanded. 

They  solicited  the  King  for  a  redress  of  grievances :  but, 
justly  concluding,  from  past  experience;  from  the  behavior 
and  declarations  of  the  majority  in  both  Houses  of  Parliament ; 
and  from  the  known  character  and  avowed  designs  of  the  min- 
ister; that  little  or  no  dependence  was  to  be  placed  upon  bare 
entreaties ;  they  thought  it  necessary  to  second  them  by  restric- 
tions on  trade. 

In  my  former  defence  of  the  measures  of  the  Congress,  I 

*  All  lawyers  agree,  that  the  spirit  and  reason  of  a  law,  is  one  of  the  principal 
rules  of  interpretation;  if  so,  it  cannot  be  doubted,  that  when  a  people  are  ag- 
grieved, and  their  circumstances  will  not  allow  them  unitedly  to  petition  in  their 
own  persons,  they  may  appoint  representatives  to  do  it  for  them. 


.F/r.  18.]  'I'll  i:    PA  R  M  i:  R     REPUTED.  97 

proved,  in  a  manner  you  aever  will  be  able  to  invalidate,  thai 
petitions  and  remonstrances  would  certainly  be  unavailing.  J 
will  now  examine  your  frivolous  and  prevaricating  reply. 

You  answer  thus:    "In   the  commotions  occasioned  by  the 
Stamp  Act,  wc  recurred  to  petitions  and   remon  I  ;    our 

grievances  were  pointed  out,  and  redress  solicited  with  temper 
and  decency.  They  were  heard;  they  were  attended  to;  and 
the  disagreeable  Act  repealed.  The  same  mode  of  application 
succeeded,  with  regard  to  the  duties  laid  upon  glass,  painters' 
colors,  &c.  You  say,  indeed,  thai  our  addresses  on  this  occasion 
were  treated  with  contempl  and  neglected.  But,  I  beseech  you, 
were  no1  our  addresses  receh  ed,  read,  and  debated  upon  '.'  And 
was  no1  the  repeal  of  those  Acts  the  consequence?  Thefactyou 
know  is  as  T state  if.  Lf  these  Acts  were  cot  only  disagreeabli 
the  Americans,  but  were  also  found  to  militate  against  the  com- 
mercial bate  rests  of  Great  Britain,  it  proves  what  1  asserted 
above;  that  duties  which  injure  our  trade,  will  soon  be  ielt  in 
England;  and  then  there  will  be  no  difficulty  in  getting  them 
repealed." 

I  entirely  deny  the  Pad  to  be  as  you  state  it;  and  you  are 
it  is  not.  Our  addresses  were  no1  heard,  attended  to, 
and  the  disagreeable  Acl  repealed  in  consequence  of  them.  If 
this  had  been  the  case,  why  was  no  notice  taken  of  them  in 
the  repealing  Act?  Why  were  nol  our  complaints  assigned  as 
the  inducement  to  it  ?  On  the  contrary,  these  are  the  expi 
words  of  the  first  repeal,  to  which  the  secoad  is  also  similar: 
■■  Whereas  the  continuance  of  the  said  Act  would  be  attended 
with  many  inconveniences,  and   may  be  products  msequenoes 

greatly  detrimental  to  the  commercial  interests  of  Oreai  Britain: 
May  it  therefore  please  your  mosl  excellent  Majesty,  by  and 
with  the  advice  and  consent,  &c.,  that  from  and  after  thenrsl 
day  of  May,  L766,  the  above  mentioned  Act,  and  the  several 
matters  and  things  therein  contained,  shall  be,  and  is,  and  are, 
hereby  repealed  and  made  void,  to  all  intents  and  purp 
whatsoever." 

The  inconveniences  and  the  ill  consequences  to  Greal  Britain 
arc  the  only  reasons  given  for  the  revocation  of  the  Act.    B 

B  7 


98  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

then  can  you  pretend  to  say  it  was  in  compliance  with  our  peti- 
tions ?  You  must  think  the  complaisance  of  your  readers  very 
great  to  imagine  they  will  credit  your  assertions  at  the  expense 
of  their  own  understandings. 

Neither  is  the  use  you  make  of  the  assigned  reasons  at  all 
just.  The  consequences,  so  detrimental  to  the  commercial  inter- 
ests of  Great  Britain,  are  not  such  as  would  have  resulted  from 
the  natural  operation  of  the  Act,  had  it  been  submitted  to  ;  but 
from  the  opposition  made  by  us,  and  the  cessation  of  imports 
which  had  taken  place. 

A  non-importation  (to  which  you  have  so  violent  an  aversion) 
was  the  only  thing  that  procured  us  redress  on  preceding  occa- 
sions. We  did  not  formerly,  any  more  than  now,  confine  our- 
selves to  petitions  only,  but  took  care  to  adopt  a  more  prevailing 
method  ;  to  wit, — a  suspension  of  trade. 

But  what  proves  to  a  demonstration  that  our  former  petitions 
were  unsuccessful,  is,  that  the  grand  object  they  aimed  at  was 
never  obtained.  This  was,  an  exemption  from  Parliamentary 
taxation.  Our  addresses  turned  entirely  upon  this  point.  And 
so  far  were  they  from  succeeding,  that  immediately  upon  the  re- 
peal of  the  Stamp  Act,  a  subsequent  Act  was  passed,  declaring 
the  right  of  Parliament  to  bind  us  by  statutes  in  all  cases  what- 
soever. This  declaration  of  the  unlimited,  universal  authority  of 
Parliament,  was  a  direct  denial  of  the  leading  claim  held  up  in 
our  petition,  and  of  course  a  rejection  of  the  petition  itself. 

The  same  observations  are  applicable  to  the  Eevenue  Act, 
which,  had  our  addresses  been  successful,  would  have  been 
wholly,  not  partially,  revoked ;  and  we  should  not,  at  this  time, 
have  had  any  occasion  to  renew  our  complaints,  but  should  have 
been  in  a  state  of  security  and  tranquillity. 

In  my  former  reflections  on  this  head,  I  urged  many  consider- 
ations to  show,  that  there  is  less  reason  now  than  ever  to  expect 
deliverance  by  means  of  remonstrance  and  entreaty.  And,  in- 
deed, if  we  consider  the  vindictive  spirit  diffused  through  the 
words  and  actions  of  our  oppressors,  we  must  be  convinced  of 
this.  It  impeaches  the  understandings  of  the  ministry  and  the 
Parliament  in  the  grossest  manner,  to  suppose  they  have  re- 


iE-r.  18.]  T  n  i:    PA  H  m  1:  B    if  i:  r  r  T  ED.  99 

newed  their  attempts,  and  taken  such  violent  methods  to  carry 
them  Into  execution,  merely  to  have  the  pleasure  of  undoing  the 
whole,  in  condescension  to  our  prayers  and  complaints.  The 
taxation  of  America  is  an  objecl  too  near  at  hearl  to  be  re- 
signed unless  from  necessity;  and,  if  they  would  qoI  have  aban- 
doned tin-  principle,  there  could  be  no  reason  to  expecl  they 
would  have  desisted  from  the  exercise  of  it  in  the  present  in- 
stance. For  the  duty  upon  tea  is  in  itself  very  trifling ;  and, 
since  that  is  opposed,  they  could  nol  hope  to  vary  the  mode  in 
any  way  that  would  be  less  offensive  and  Less  obnoxious  to  op- 
position. 

In  answer  to  the  instance  I  produced  from  the  unsuccessful 
application  of  the  Boston  Assembly,  you  tell  me,  that  "the 
Governor  against  whom  the  complaint  was  made,  was  called  to 
a  public  trial  before  the  only  court  where  the  cause  was  cogniza- 
ble, the  King  in  Council;  but  the  Boston  Assembly  could  not 
support  their  charge,  and  the  Governor  was  acquitted."  The 
truth  is,  their  charge  was  extremely  well  supported  in  the  eye  of 
strict  justice;  but  it  was  destitute  of  the  mere  formalities  of  law, 
and  on  this  score  it  was  rejected.  They  accused  him  of  treachery 
and  falsehood,  and  produced  his  own  letters  against  him.  It 
was  not  admitted  as  a  legal  charge,  or  crimen ;  nor  the  party's 
letters  as  an  evidence,  or  testis;  and.  by  these  evasions,  the  cri- 
minal escaped  the  punishment  he  deserved;  and,  instead  of  it, 
been  advanced  to  higher  honors,  while  the  complainants 
were  unrelieved  and  insulted.  I  remember  when  the  particulars 
of  this  transaction  were  first  published,  there  was  one  circum- 
stance mentioned:  thai  the  petition  in  question  was  pronounced 
at  St.  James's  to  be  "a  seditious,  vejuiimis,  and  sr,i,,il<il,,u<  /,'/„/." 

You  tell  me,  "There  is  also  this  reason  why  we  should,  at 
least,  have  tried  the  mode  of  petition  and  remonstrance,  to  ob- 
tain a  removal  of  the  grievances  we  complain  of:  The  friends  of 
America  in  England  have  strongly  recommended  it  as  the  i 
decent  and  probable  means  of  succeeding."  I  wish  you  had 
been  so  kind  as  to  have  particularized  those  friends  you  speak  o£ 
[  am  inclined  to  believe  you  would  have  found  some  difficulty  in 
this.     There  have  been  some  publications  in  the   newspap 


100  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [.tor.  18. 

said  to  be  extracts  of  letters  from  England ;  but  who  were  the 
authors  of  them  ?  How  do  you  know  they  were  not  written  in 
America  ?  or,  if  they  came  from  England,  that  the  writers  of 
them  were  really  sincere  friends  ?  I  have  heard  one  or  two  per- 
sons named  as  the  authors  of  some  of  these  letters ;  but  they 
were  those  whose  sincerity  we  have  the  greatest  reason  to  distrust. 
The  general  tenor  of  advice,  from  those  with  whose  integrity  we 
are  best  acquainted,  has  been,  to  place  no  dependence  on  the  jus- 
tice or  clemency  of  Great  Britain ;  but  to  work  out  our  deliver- 
ance by  a  spirited  and  self-denying  opposition.  Eestrictions  on 
our  trade  have  been  expressly  pointed  out  and  recommended  as 
the  only  probable  source  of  redress. 

You  say,  "  If  the  information  from  England  be  true,  we  have 
by  our  haughty  demands  detached  most  of  our  friends  there  from 
our  interest,  and  forced  them  to  take  part  against  us."  Pray, 
sir,  where  did  you  get  this  information  ?  Is  there  any  inhabit- 
ant of  the  invisible  world  that  brings  intelligence  to  you  in  a 
supernatural  way  ?  There  have  been  no  arrivals  from  England 
preceding  the  time  you  wrote  your  letter,  that  have  brought  any 
account  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Congress  being  received  there,  or 
of  the  consequences  resulting  from  them.  Your  information  must 
have  either  come  to  you  in  a  miraculous  manner,  or  it  must  be  a 
fiction  of  your  own  imagination. 

But  there  are  other  powerful  reasons  against  trusting  to  peti- 
tions only,  in  our  present  circumstances.  The  town  of  Boston 
is  in  a  very  critical  situation.  Men,  under  sufferings,  are  ex- 
tremely apt,  either  to  plunge  into  desperation,  or  to  grow  dis- 
heartened and  dejected.  If  the  colonies,  in  general,  appear  re- 
miss, or  unwilling  to  adopt  vigorous  measures,  in  order  to  pro- 
cure the  most  speedy  relief,  the  people  of  Massachusetts  might 
perhaps  have  been  hurried  on  to  a  rash  and  fatal  conduct,  or 
they  might  have  become  languid  and  lifeless.  Delays  are  ex- 
tremely dangerous  in  affairs  of  such  vast  consequence. 

The  dispute  might  have  been  spun  out  by  ministerial  artifice, 
till  the  generality  of  the  people  became  careless  and  negligent, 
and,  of  course,  fitter  to  be  imposed  upon,  and  less  forward  to 
assert  their  rights  with  firmness  and  spirit.     The  hand  of  bri- 


Err.  18.]  T  II  E    I'  \  i:  M  E  U     B  EFUTED  1<»1 

BERV  MIGHT  HAVE  BEEN    STRETCHED  ACROSS  THE  ATLANTIC,  and 

the  number  of  domestic  vipers  increased  among  as.  Tin*  min- 
istry and  their  agents  here,  are  active  and  subtile:  nothing  would 
have  been  neglected,  thai  migh.1  have  a  tendency  t'>  di  the 

ignorant  and  unwary,  or  to  attracl  the  dishonest  and  avaricii 

How  greal  an  influence,  places,  pensions,  and  h rs,  have  qj 

the  minds  of  men,  we  may  easily  discover,  by  contrasting 
former  with  the  presenl  conduct  of  some  among  ourselves.  Many 
who,  at  the  time  of  the  Stamp  Act,  were  loudest  in  the  caus 
liberty,  and  the  most  ardenl   promoters  of  the  spirited  proceed- 
ings on  thai  occasion,  have  qow,  from  patriots  of  the  first  magni- 
tude, dwindled  into  moderate  men,  friends  to  ordeT  and  good  - 
eminent,  dutiful  and  zealous  servants  to  the  ministry. 

Il.nl  our  petitions  failed,  we  should  have  found  our  diffi- 
culties multiplied  much  more  than  we  can  imagine:  and  since 
there  was  the  highesl   probability  of  a   failure,  it   would  h 
been  madness  to  have  hazarded  so  much  upon  so  unproniisinj 
footing. 

It  betrays  an  ignorance  of  human  nature,  to  suppose,  that  a 
design  formed  and  ripened  for  several  year-  againsl  the  liberl 

of  any  \ pie,  mighl  be  frustrated  by  the  men-  force  of  entreaty. 

Men  must  cease  to  1"-  as  fond  of  power  as  they  are,  before  this 
can  !"•  the  case. 

I  therefore  infer,   that   it'  the  Congress  had  qo1  rted 

other,  more  efficacious  measures,  they  would  have  trifled  away 
the  liberties  of  their  country,  and  merited  censure  instead  of 
approbation.     Commercial  regulations  were  the  only  peaceable 

means,    from    which    we    could    have    the    least    hope    of  succ 

These  they  have  entered  into ;   and  these,  I  maintain,  mus 
I,  if  they  are  qo1  treacherously  or  pusillanimously  infringed. 
You  tell  me,  "1  overrate  the  importance  of  thee  oies 

to  the  British  empire;"  and  proceed  to  make  such  assertions, 
musl  convince  every  intelligent   person,  that  yon  are  either  a 
mortal  foe  to  truth,  or  totally  ignorant  <>l'  the  matter  you  under- 
take.    The  following  extracts  will  show  whether  my  rep: 
tions  have  keen  just  or  not 

"Our  plantations  spend  mostly  our  English  manufs 


102  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

and  those  of  all  sorts  almost  imaginable,  in  prodigious  quantities ; 
and  employ  near  two-thirds  of  all  our  English  shipping ;  so  that 
we  have  more  people  in  England,  by  reason  of  our  plantations  in 
America* 

"  We  may  safely  advance,  that  our  trade  and  navigation  are 
greatly  increased  by  our  colonies ;  and  that  they  really  are  a 
source  of  treasure  and  naval  power  to  this  kingdom,  since  they 
work  for  us,  and  their  treasure  centres  here.  Before  their  settle- 
ment, our  manufactures  were  few,  and  those  but  indifferent;  the 
number  of  English  merchants  very  small ;  and  the  whole  shipping 
of  the  nation,  much  inferior  to  what  now  belongs  to  the  northern 
colonies  only.  These  are  certain  facts.  But  since  their  establish- 
ment, our  condition  has  altered  for  the  better,  almost  to  a  degree 
beyond  credibility.  Our  manufactures  are  prodigiously  increased ; 
chiefly  by  the  demand  for  them  in  the  plantations,  where  they  at 
least  take  off  one-half  and  supply  us  with  many  valuable  com- 
modities for  exportation;  which  is  as  great  emolument  to  the 
mother  kingdom  as  to  the  plantations  themselves."f 

The  same  author  says,  in  another  place,  "Before  the  settle- 
ment of  these  colonies,  our  manufactures  were  few,  and  those  but 
indifferent.  In  those  days,  we  had,  not  only  our  naval  stores,  but 
our  ships,  from  our  neighbors." 

"  I  shall  sum  up  my  whole  remarks,"  says  another  writer, 
"  on  our  American  colonies,  with  this  observation  :  that,  as  they 
are  a  certain  annual  revenue  of  several  millions  sterling  to  their 
mother  country,  they  ought  carefully  to  be  protected,  duly  en- 
couraged, and  every  opportunity  that  presents,  improved  for 
their  increment  and  advantage ;  as  every  one  they  can  possibly 
reap,  must  at  last  return  to  us  with  interest11^ 

These  quotations  clearly  prove,  that  the  colonies  are  of  the 
last  importance  to  Great  Britain.  They  not  only  take  off  vast 
quantities  of  her  manufactures,  but  furnish  her  with  materials  to 
extend  her  trade  with  foreign  nations.  They  also  supply  her 
with  naval  stores,  and,  in  a  great  measure,  with  a  navy  itself. 
The  present  flourishing  state  of  her  commerce,  is  chiefly  to  be 

*  Postlethwait.  |  Ibid.  %  Lex  mercatoria. 


Mt.  is.]  THE    PARMER    REFUTED.  L08 

attributed  to  the  colonies  who  work  far  fur,  and  whose  b 
centres  in  her.  1 1 <  > w  unjust,  therefore,  is  it  in  her,  qo1  to  l 
Bed  with  the  advantages  she  has  hitherto  received  from  as,  but 
to  aim  al  depriving  us  of  our  freedom  and  happim  '  Ami 
what  ruinous  consequences  must  flow  from  a  cessation  of  "ur 
trade,  on  which  her  manufactures  so  much  depend  !  Wha1  pro- 
digious numbers  must  be  thrown  oul  of  employ  and  reduced 

■;irv  and  misery  ! 

"Butshe  is  a  -rent  nation;  hasvasl  resources;  may  easily 
supply  the  want  of  our  trade,  by  making  very  small  concessions 
to  Portugal,  Russia,  Turkey,  &c.  Should  our  non-importation 
distress  her  manufactures,  every  man  may  employ  himself  to  la- 
boron  a  farm;  and  the  price  of  grain  would  be  much  advanced 
in  Prance,  Spain,  and  the  Mediterranean.  Notwithstanding  the 
present  high  cultivation  of  the  lands  in  Kngland,  that  kingdom 
is  capable  of  being  improved,  by  agriculture  and  commerce,  so 
as  to  maintain  double  the  number  of  people  that  it  docs  ;it  pro- 
sent.     The  improvements  in  Scotland  within  the  lasl  thirty  years 

arc  amazing.     The  enterprising  spirit  of  tin?  ] pie  has  opened 

an  easy  intercourse  between  ;ill  parts  of  the  country,  and  they 
have  been  enriched  by  commerce  to  ;i  surprising  degree." 

I  can  hardly  prevail  upon  myself  to  give  a  serious  answer  to 
such  ridiculous  rant ;  hut  it  may  !»■  requisite,  for  the  sake  of  the 
uninformed,  and  of  course  it  would  be  improper  to  decline  it. 

The  national  debt  is  now  about  one  hundred  and  forty  mil- 
lions sterling — ;i  debt  unparalleled  in  the  annals  of  any  country 
beside-.     The  surplus  of  the  annual  revenues,  after  paying  the 

interest  of  this  debt,  and  the  usual  expense.-  of  the  nation,  is, 
upon  an  average,  about  one  million  and  a  quarter  sterling:*  so 
that,  with  ad  their  pre-ent  resources,  they  would  not  be  able  to 
discharge  the  public  debt  in   less  than  one  hundred  and  tw 

years,  should  the  pei continue  ad  that  time.     It  is  wed  known 

that  mosl  of  the  necessaries  of  life  are,  at  pre-ent,  heavily  taxed 
in  (ireat  Britain  and  Ireland.     The  common  people  are  extremely 

*Seea  calculation  made  bj   Blackstone.    He  Baya   the  jrear'66  two milliooa 
were  paid,  and  three  millions  in  the  succeedin  i  '•..  five  millions  in  (bur 

yiar-. 


104  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

impoverished,  and  find  it  very  difficult  to  procure  a  subsistence. 
They  are  totally  unable  to  bear  any  new  impositions ;  and  of 
course  there  can  be  no  new  internal  sources  opened.  These  are 
stubborn  facts,  and  notorious  to  every  person  that  has  the  least 
acquaintance  with  the  situation  of  the  two  kingdoms.  Had 
there  been  the  vast  resources  you  speak  of,  why  have  they  not 
been  improved  to  exonerate  the  people,  and  discharge  the  enor- 
mous debt  of  the  nation  ?  The  guardians  of  the  State  have  been 
a  supine,  negligent,  and  stupid  pack  indeed,  to  have  overlooked, 
in  the  manner  they  have  done,  those  numerous  expedients  they 
might  have  fallen  upon  for  the  relief  of  the  public.  It  cannot  be 
expected,  but  that  a  war  will  take  place  in  the  course  of  a  few 
years,  if  not  immediately ;  and  then,  through  the  negligence  of 
her  rulers,  Great  Britain,  already  tottering  under  her  burthens, 
will  be  obliged  to  increase  them  till  they  become  altogether  in- 
supportable, and  she  must  sink  under  the  weight  of  them.  These 
considerations  render  it  very  evident,  that  the  mighty  resources 
you  set  forth,  in  such  pompous  terms,  have  nothing  but  an  ima- 
ginary existence,  or  they  would  not  have  been  left  so  uncultiva- 
ted in  such  necessitous  and  pressing  circumstances. 

You  think  you  have  nothing  to  do,  but  to  mention  the  names 
of  a  few  countries,  Portugal,  Eussia,  Turkey,  &c,  and  you  have 
found  out  an  easy  remedy  for  the  inconveniences  flowing  from 
the  loss  of  our  trade.  Yet,  in  truth,  Great  Britain  carries  on  as 
extensive  a  commerce  with  those  countries,  and  all  others,  as 
their  circumstances  will  permit.  Her  trade  is  upon  the  decline 
with  many  of  them.  France  has,  in  a  great  measure,  supplanted 
her  in  Spain,  Portugal,  and  Turkey ;  and  is  continually  gaining 
ground.  Eussia  is  increasing  her  own  manufactures  fast ;  and 
the  demand  for  those  of  Great  Britain  must  decrease  in  pro- 
portion. 

"Most  of  the  nations  of  Europe  have  interfered  with  her, 
more  or  less,  in  divers  of  her  staple  manufactures,  within  half  a 
century ;  not  only  in  her  woollen,  but  in  her  lead  and  tin  manu- 
factures, as  well  as  her  fisheries."* 

*  Postlethwait. 


jet.  18.]  THE    PARMEB     REFUTED.  l(l"> 

A  certain  writer  in  England,  who  has  written  on  the  present 
situation  of  affairs  with  great  temper,  deliberation,  and  appai 
integrity,  has  these  observations:  "The  condition  of  the  great 
staple  manufactures  of  our  country  is  well  known;  those  of  the 
linen  and  the  silk  are  in  the  greatesl  distress;  and  the  woollen 
and  the  linen  are  now  publicly  bandied,  and  contending  against 
one  another.  One  pari  of  our  people  is  starving  al  home  on  tin- 
alms  of  their  parishes;  and  another  running  abroad  to  this  very 
country  that  we  are  contending  with.  The  produce  of  North 
America,  thai  used  to  be  sent  yearly  to  Greal  Britain,  is  reck- 
oned .-it  aboul  four  millions  sterling;  the  manufactures  of  Great 

Britain,  and  other  commodities  retur I  from  hence,  a1   nearly 

the  same  sum;  the  debts  due  from  America  to  the  British  mer- 
chants here,  at  aboul  six  millions,  or  a  year  and  a  half  of  that 
commerce.     Supposing,  therefore,  the  Americans  to  acl   in  this 

■  as  they  did  in  the  time  of  the  Stum])  Ad  ;  we  shall  then 
have  yearly,  until  the  final  settlemenl  of  this  affair,  manufacti 
to  the  value  of  four  millions  sterling,  left  and  heaped  on  the 
hands  of  our  merchants  and  master  manufacturers;  or  we  shall 
have  workmen  and  poor  people  put  out  <>f  employ  ami  turned 
adrifl  in  thai  proportion.  There  will  likewise  be  drawn  from  our 
home  consumption,  and  out  of  our  general  trade  and  traffic, 
North  American  commodities  to  the  same  value ;  and  debts, 

Immense  sum  above-mentioned,  will  1"'  withheld  from  private 
people  here.  What  etVeets  these  things  will  produce,  considering 
the  present  state  of  our  trade,  manufactures,  and  manufacturers, 
the  condition  of  our  poor  at  home,  and  the  numbers  of  people 
running  abroad,  it  don't  want  many  words  to  explain  and 
forth.  They  were  before  severely  felt  for  the  time  thai  they  lasted; 
and  it  is  apprehended,  tliat  the  present  situation  of  the  public  is 
yet  more  liable  to  the  impression.  These  are  some  of  the  diffi: 
culties  and  distresses  which  we  arc  for  a  trial  of  skill,  going  to 
bring  on  ourselves;  and  which  will  be  perpetually  magnifying 
and  increasing  as  long  as  the  unnatural  contest  shall  continue. 

From  these  facts  and  authorities  it  appears  unqu  ble, 

that  the  trade  of  Great  Britain,  instead  of  being  capable  of  im- 
provement among  foreign  countries,  is  rather   declining:    and 


106  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

instead  of  her  being  able  to  bear  the  loss  of  our  commerce,  she 
stands  in  need  of  more  colonies  to  consume  her  manufactures. 

It  is  idle  to  talk  of  employing  those  who  might  be  thrown 
out  of  business  upon  farms.  All  the  lands  in  England,  of  any 
value,  have  been  long  ago  disj^osed  of,  and  are  already  cultivated 
as  high  as  possible.  The  laborious  farmers  find  it  an  exceeding 
difficult  task  to  pay  their  yearly  taxes,  and  supply  their  families 
with  the  bare  necessaries  of  life :  and  it  would  be  impracticable 
to  give  employment  in  agriculture  to  any  more  than  are  already 
engaged.  We  can  have  no  doubt  of  this,  if  we  consider  the 
small  extent  of  territory  of  Great  Britain,  the  antiquity  of  its 
settlement,  and  the  vast  number  of  people  it  contains.  It  is 
rather  overstocked  with  inhabitants :  and  were  it  not  for  its  ex- 
tensive commerce,  it  could  not  maintain  near  the  number  it  does 
at  present.  This  is  acknowledged  on  all  hands.  None  but 
yourself  would  hazard  the  absurdity  of  a  denial.  The  emigra- 
tions from  Great  Britain,  particularly  from  the  north  part  of  it, 
as  well  as  the  most  authentic  accounts,  prove  the  contrary  of 
your  representations.  Men  are  generally  too  much  attached  to 
their  native  country  to  leave  it,  and  dissolve  all  their  connec- 
tions, unless  they  are  driven  to  it  by  necessity.  The  swarms 
that  every  year  come  over  to  America,  will  never  suffer  any 
reasonable  man  to  believe,  upon  the  strength  of  your  word,  that 
the  people  in  Scotland,  or  Ireland,  are  even  in  tolerable  circum- 
stances. 

I  cannot  forbear  wondering,  when  you  talk  of  the  price  of 
grain  being  advanced  in  France,  Spain,  and  the  Mediterranean, 
and  insinuate  that  Great  Britain  may  be  able  to  supply  them. 
It  will  be  well  if  she  can  raise  grain  enough  for  herself,  so  as 
not  to  feel  the  want  of  those  considerable  quantities  she  fre- 
quently gets  from  us.  I  am  apt  to  think  she  will  experience 
some  inconveniences  on  this  account. 

With  respect  to  Ireland,  you  think  yourself  under  no  obliga- 
tion to  point  out  where  she  may  find  purchasers  for  her  linens 
so  numerous  and  wealthy  as  we  are :  but  unless  you  could  do 
this,  you  must  leave  that  country  in  very  deplorable  circum- 
stances.    It  is  not  true,  that  she  may  do  just  as  well  with  her 


jEt.  18.] 


T  ii  k    FA  k  m  i:  i;    i;  r.  r  r  t  i:  I).  M 


linens  apon  hex  hands,  as  we  can  with  onr  flax  Beed  upon  ours. 
Linen  is  a  staple  manufacture  of  hers,  and  tin-  sole  means  of  sub- 
sistence to  a  large  part  of  her  inhabitants  Flax  seed,  as  an 
article  of  commerce,  is  comparatively  of  little  importance  to  us : 
hut  we  shall  stand  in  need  oi  all  the  flax  we  can  raise,  t"  manu- 
facture linens  r.>r  ourselves;  and  therefore  shall  not  lose  our 
seed  by  ceasing  to  exporl  it.  1  shall  say  more  of  this  here- 
after. 

Nor  is  it  by  any  means  a  just  inference,  that  because  [re- 
land  formerly  subsisted  without  a  linen  manufactory,  she  would 
not,  therefore,  severely  feel  any  present  obstruction  to  the  sale 
of  the  article  in  question.  Eer  burthens  are  now  much  more 
grievous  than  they  formerly  were;  ami  of  course  her  resources 
oughl  to  be  proportionally  greater,  ot  she  must  sink  under  the 
pressure  of  them.  The  linen  manufactory  is,  at  this  time,  one 
of  her  most  valuable  resources,  ami  could  nut  he  materially  in- 
jured, or  impeded,  without  producing  the  most  melancholy 
effects.  The  distressed  condition  of  Ireland  will  not  admit  of 
any  diminution  of  her  moms,  hut  pressingly  demands  an  en- 
largement of  them. 

It  is  of  little  momenl  to  contest  the  possibility  that  that 
country  mighl  procure  a  sufficiency  of  flax  elsewhere  than  from 

us.  till  it  .-an  he  shown  where  she  may  find  a  mart  for  her  linens 

equal  to  the  American:  ami  this  you  are  not  willing  even  to 
■nipt.  Vet  1  have  credible  information  that  she  could  not 
obtain  from  Eollandmuch  more  than  usual  (for  the  reasons] 
before  assigned) ;  ami  that  .-he  has  always  had  as  much  from 
the  Baltic  as  she  could  conveniently  get.  With  regard  to 
1  tada,  any  considerable  supply  from  thence  would  he  a  work 
of  time,  and  no  relief  to  her  immediate  exigencies. 

I  observed,  in  my  former  pamphlet,  that  "the  Dutch  may 
withhold  their  usual  supplies:  They  may  choose  to  improve  the 
occasion  for  the  advancement  of  their  own  trade:   They  may 

take  advantage  of  the  scarcity  of  materials  in  Ireland,  to  incr 
and  put  oil'  their  own  manufactui  Yon  answer  it  by  saj  ' 

•■You   never   yel    knew   a    Hollander  who  would    withhold   any 

thing  that  would  fetch  him  a  good  price."    The  force  of  my  ob- 


108  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  18. 

servation  turns  upon  its  being  his  interest  to  do  it.  You  should 
have  shown,  that  it  would  be  more  profitable  to  him  to  sell  it  to 
the  Irish  than  to  retain  it  for  the  purposes  mentioned ;  other- 
wise, that  very  avarice  you  ascribe  to  him,  will  operate  as  I 
supposed. 

You  are  unmercifully  witty  upon  what  I  said  concerning  the 
West  Indies :  but  the  misfortune  of  it  is,  you  have  done  nothing 
else  than  "blunder  round  about  my  meaning."  I  will  endeavor 
to  explain  myself  in  a  manner  more  level  to  your  capacity. 

The  lands  in  the  West  Indies  are  extremely  valuable,  be- 
cause they  produce  the  sugar  cane,  which  is  a  very  lucrative 
plant ;  but  they  are  small  in  quantity,  and  therefore  their  pro- 
prietors appropriate  only  small  portions  to  the  purpose  of  raising 
food.  They  are  very  populous,  and  therefore  the  food  raised 
among  themselves  goes  but  little  way.  They  could  not  afford 
sufficient  sustenance  to  their  inhabitants,  unless  they  were  chiefly 
or  entirely  applied  to  the  production  of  necessaries;  because 
they  are  so  small  in  quantity,  and  so  thickly  inhabited. 

These  are  truths  which  every  person  acquainted  with  the 
West  Indies  must  acquiesce  in :  and  should  they  be  deprived  of 
external  succors,  they  must  either  starve,  or  suspend  the  culti- 
vation of  the  sugar  cane.  The  last  is  the  best  side  of  the 
dilemma ;  but  that  would  cut  off  an  annual  income  of  several 
millions  sterling  to  Great  Britain ;  for  it  cannot  admit  of  a  doubt, 
that  the  chief  part  of  the  profits  of  the  English  West  Indies, 
ultimately  centres  there. 

But,  in  order  to  disappoint  my  malice,  you  tell  me  that  Can- 
ada raises  four  hundred  thousand  bushels  of  wheat  a  year  ;  and 
this,  you  imagine,  will  pretty  well  supply  the  wants  of  the  West 
Indians :  but  give  me  leave  to  inform  you,  that  it  would  not 
satisfy  a  tenth  part  of  them.  The  single  Island  of  Jamaica 
would  require  much  more.  At  a  moderate  computation,  I  be- 
lieve there  are  four  hundred  thousand  people  in  the  British 
West  Indies  only.  Let  us  allow  a  pound  of  wheat  a  day  upon 
an  average,  to  each,*  and  make  a  calculation  accordingly. 

*  This  allowance  cannot  be  thought  too  much,  if  we  consider  that  the  negroes 


jEt.  18.]  T  !i  i:    v  \  i:  m  i:  R    n  i:  p  rJT  I'D.  L09 

At  a  pound  a  day,  every  person  musl  be  supposed  to  con- 
sume three  hundred  and  Bixty-five  pounds  a  year;  thai  is,  about 
twelve  bushels.  Now,  as  there  are  as  many  people  as  there  are 
bushels  of  wheat  raised  in  Canada;  and  as  each  person  would 
consume  twelve  bushels,  it  follows,  that  the  quantity  you  men- 
tion, would  ao1  be  above  a  twelfth  pari  sufficient. 

Bui  '•.hi  we  imagine,  thai  all  the  wheal  of  Canada  would  be 
devoted tothe  use  of  the  British  West  Indies?  [four  p 
were  to  be  blocked  up,  would  not  the  French  and  Spanish 
islands  be  in  great  distress  for  provisions?  And  have  no1  the 
Canadians  any  uear  connections  among  them  ?  Would  they  uot 
naturally  sympathize  with  them,  and  do  all  in  their  power  to 
afford  relief?  And  could  they  find  no  means  to  accomplish 
their  inclinations?  The  answer  to  these  questions  is  easy.  The 
islands  belonging  to  the  French  and  Spaniards  will  be  greatly 
distressed:  The  Canadians  will  1"'  very  ready  and  desirous 

-i  them:  And  they  will  contrive  some  expedients  to  commu- 
nicate a  large  share  of  whal  their  country  yields. 

Whal  you  say  concerning  the  lumber  exported  from  Canada 
i-  totally  false.  That  country  labors  under  many  inconveni- 
ences which  have  hitherto  prevented  the  exportation  of  that 
article,  bul  in  very  small  quantities,  and  of  a  particular  kind. 
The  places  where  the  lumber  grows,  are  so  far  distant  from  the 
seaports,  thai  the  expense  of  transportation  is  too  great  to  make 
it  worth  while  to  ship  nay  other  than  butl  staves,  and  these  must 
be  brought  quite  from  Lake  Champlain.  This  disadvantage, 
together  with  the  number  of  hands  it  would  require,  and  the 
time  necessary  to  enter  extensively  into  any  branch  <»t'  trade, 
and  t<>  remove  all  the  impediments  naturally  in  the  way,  would 
render  the  situation  of  the  Wesl  Indians  truly  pitiable,  were  they 
once  necessitated  to  depend  upon  Canada  only,  for  supplies  of 
lumber. 

The  attention  of  Mississippi  is   entirely^  jsed    in   rai- 

corn  and  indigo.    The  advantage  arising  from  these  arti 

live  chiefly  upon  grain ;  and  must  continue  to  do  bo  ;  because  the  quantity  of  I 
and  fish  wuuld  be  proportionally  diminished  when  uur  supplies  failed 


110  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

much  greater  than  would  result  from  lumber ;  and  of  course  the 
people  of  that  country  will  never  attend  to  the  latter  in  prefer- 
ence to  the  former. 

Thus  have  I  proved,  in  a  full,  clear,  and  conclusive  manner, 
that  a  cessation  of  our  trade  with  Great  Britain,  Ireland,  and  the 
West  Indies,  would  be  productive  of  the  most  fatal  consequences 
to  them  all ;  and  that,  therefore,  the  peace,  happiness,  and  safety, 
of  the  British  empire,  are  connected  with  the  redress  of  our 
grievances ;  and,  if  they  are  at  all  consulted,  our  measures  can- 
not fail  of  success. 

As  to  the  justice  of  proceeding  in  the  manner  we  have  done, 
it  must  depend  upon  the  necessity  of  such  a  mode  of  conduct.  If 
the  British  Parliament  are  claiming  and  exercising  an  unjust 
authority,  we  are  right  in  opposing  it,  by  every  necessary  means. 
If  remonstrances  and  petitions  have  been  heretofore  found  in- 
effectual (and  we  have  no  reasonable  ground  to  expect  the  con- 
trary at  present),  it  is  prudent  and  justifiable  to  try  other  me- 
thods, and  these  can  only  be,  restrictions  on  trade.  Our  duty  to 
ourselves  and  posterity,  supersedes  the  duties  of  benevolence  to 
our  fellow-subjects  in  Great  Britain,  Ireland,  and  the  West 
Indies. 

You  can  never  confute  the  arguments  I  before  made  use  of 
on  this  head,  unless  you  can  prove  the  right  of  Parliament  to 
act  as  it  has  done ;  or  the  likelihood  of  succeeding  by  petitions. 
Your  feeble  endeavors  to  effect  this,  I  have  sufficiently  baffled. 
You  must  now  collect  new  forces,  and  make  a  more  vigorous 
effort,  or  you  must  quit  the  field  in  disgrace. 

Such  vociferation  as  this  is  not  to  be  admitted  instead  of 
argument:  "Are  the  Irish  and  the  West  Indians  accountable 
for  our  mad  freaks  ?  Do  you  expect  to  extend  the  tyranny  of 
the  Congress  over  the  whole  British  empire,  by  the  legerdemain 
of  calling  it  American  freedom  ?  Do  you  think  that  the  Irish 
and  West  Indians  are  in  duty  bound  to  enter  into  our  non-im- 
portation, non-consumption,  and  non-exportation  agreements,  till 
our  grievances,  real  or  pretended,  are  removed  ?  And  that  they 
deserve  to  be  starved  if  they  do  not?  Enjoy  your  folly  and 
malevolence  if  you  can." 


jet.  18.]  THE    FARMER     REFUTED.  Ill 

The  resistance*  we  are  making  to  Parliamentary  tyranny, 
cannot  wear  the  aspecl  of  madjreaks  to  any,  bn1  Buch  mad  ima- 
ginations as  yours.  It  will  be  deemed  virtuous  and  laudable 
by  every  ingenuous  mind.  When  I  said  thai  the  people  of 
Greal  Britain,  [reland,  and  the  Wes1  Indies,  were  to  be  consid- 
ered as  politically  criminal,  for  remaining  neutral  while  our  pri\  i- 
leges  were  attacked ;  I  did  no1  mean  thai  they  oughl  to  enter 
into  any  of  the  above  mentioned  agreements;  bu1  thai  it  . 
their  duty  to  signify,  in  a  public  manner,  their  disapprobation  of 
the  measures  carrying  on,  and  to  use  all  their  influence  to  1. 
them  laid  aside.  Ead  they  interested  themselves  in  the  affair, 
with  any  degree  of  zeal  and  earnestness,  we  should  not,  pro- 
bably, have  had  occasion  to  act  as  Ave  do;  and  they  would  not 
have  been  in  danger  of  their  presenl  calamities.  Their  obliga- 
tion to  assist  as  in  the  preservation  of  our  rights,  is  of  the  very 
same  nature  with  ours,  to  carry  on  a  trade  with  them. 

But  you  insist  upon  it.  we  should  nol  be  able  to  live  without 
the  manufactures  of  Great  Britain;  and  thai  we  should  be 
ruined  by  a  prohibition  of  our  exports.  "The  first  winter  after 
our  KiiLi'lish  irooils  are  eonsumed,  we  shall  be  starving  with 
cold:"  after  all  our  endeavors,  "the  requisite  quantity  of  wool 
to  clothe  the  inhabitants  of  this  continent,  could  oo1  be  obtained 
in  twenty  years."  As  to  cotton,  it  "  must  come  from  the  south- 
colonies;  and  the  expense  of  bringing  it  by  land,  would  be 
too  greal  for  the  poor.  Besides,  we  have  nobody  to  manufacture 
our  materials  after  we  have  got  them."  Ail  these,  you  think, 
are  insuperable  obstacles;  and  would,  if  duly  considered,  induce 
us  to  bend  our  necks  tamely  and  quietly  to  the  proffered  yoke, 
as  much  less  dreadful  than  the  evils  attendant  upon  our  mea- 
sures will  inevitably  be. 

\  iture  has  disseminated  her  blessings  variously  throughout 
this  continent.  Some  parts  of  it  are  favorable  to  some  things, 
others  to  others;  some  colonies  are  best  calculated  for  grain; 

*  I  mean  the  general  resistance.  That  there  have  been  some  irregularities 
committed  in  America,  1  freely  confess  It  would  be  miraculous  and  inconsistent 
with  human  nature,  for  a  people  in  such  critical  and  trying  circumstance  -  to  ad 
perfectly  right. 


112  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |\Et.  18. 

others  for  flax  and  hemp ;  others  for  cotton ;  and  others  for  live 
stock  of  every  kind.  By  this  means,  a  mutually  advantageous 
intercourse  may  be  established  between  them  all.  If  we  were  to 
turn  our  attention  from  external  to  internal  commerce,  we  should 
give  greater  stability  and  more  lasting  prosperity  to  our  country 
than  she  can  possibly  have  otherwise.  We  should  not  then  im- 
port the  luxuries  and  vices  of  foreign  climes ;  nor  should  we 
make  such  hasty  strides  to  public  corruption  and  depravity. 

Let  all  those  lands,  which  are  rich  enough  to  produce  flax  and 
hemp,  be  applied  to  that  purpose ;  and  let  such  parts  as  have 
been  a  long  time  settled,  still  continue  to  be  appropriated  to 
grain,  or  other  things  they  are  fit  for.  We  shall  want  as  much 
of  the  former  articles  as  can  be  raised;  and  perhaps  as  much  of 
the  latter,  as  may  be  requisite  towards  the  due  improvement  of 
the  poorer  part  of  our  soil.  Let  it  be  considered,  that  the  colo- 
nies which  are  adapted  to  the  production  of  materials  for  manu- 
factures, will  not  be  employed  in  raising  grain,  but  must  take 
what  they  use  chiefly  from  the  other  colonies ;  and,  in  return, 
supply  their  materials.  By  this  means,  and  by  dedicating  no 
more  of  our  land  to  the  raising  of  wheat,  rye,  corn,  &c,  than  is 
incapable  of  producing  other  things,  we  shall  find  no  superfluity 
of  those  articles ;  and  shall  make  a  very  beneficial  use  of  all  our 
lands.  This  is  practicable ;  difficulties  may  be  started,  but  none 
which  perseverance  and  industry  may  not  overcome. 

The  clothes  we  already  have  in  use,  and  the  goods  at  present 
in  the  country,  will,  with  care,  be  sufficient  to  last  three  years* 
During  that  time,  we  shall  be  increasing  our  sheep  as  much  as 
possible.  It  is  unfair  to  judge  of  the  future  from  the  past. 
Hitherto  we  have  paid  no  great  attention  to  them ;  we  have 
killed  and  exported  as  fast  as  we  could  obtain  a  sale.  When  we 
come  to  attend  properly  to  the  matter,  to  kill  but  few,  and  to  ex- 
port none,  we  shall,  in  the  course  of  two  or  three  years,  have 
large  numbers  of  sheep ;  and  wool  enough  to  go  a  considerable 
way  towards  clothing  ourselves. 

*  I  may  be  thought  here  to  contradict  my  former  assertion,  to  wit,  that 
in  eighteen  months,  all  the  goods  we  have  among  us  will  be  consumed ;  but  I 
only  meant,  that  all  the  goods  in  the  hands  of  the  merchants  would  be  purchased 
and  taken  off. 


jEt.  18.]  Till:    PARMEB     REFUTED.  118 

Flax  and  hemp  we  should  undoubtedly  bave  in  abundance. 
The  immense  tracts  of  new  rich  land,  which  may  be  planted  with 
these  articles,  would  yield  immense  quantities  of  them.  What 
large  supplies  of  seed  do  we  annually  expoii  to  Ireland  I  When 
we  come  to  withhold  these,  and  make  the  cultivation  of  Sax  and 

hemp  a  matter  of  serious  attention,  we  shall  s< procure  a  plenty 

of  them.  Jn  speaking  of  this  matter,  you  confine  your  \  iev. 
the  single  small  province  of  New- York.  You  Bay,  "  We  bow  al- 
ready as  much  flax  as  we  can  conveniently  manage.  Besides,  it 
requires  a  rich  free  soil  ;  uor  will  the  same  ground  in  this  country 
produce  flax  a  second  time,  till  alter  an  interval  of  Ave  or  six 
years.  If  the  measures  of  the  Congress  should  be  carried  into 
full  effect,  1  confess  we  may,  in  a  year  or  two,  want  a  large  quan- 
tity of  hemp  for  the  executioner.  But  I  fear  we  must  import  it. 
It  exhausts  the  soil  too  much  to  be  cultivated  in  the  old  settled 
parts  of  the  province." 

There  is  land  enough  in  the  other  provinces,  that  is  rich,  free 
and  new  ;  nor  is  it  at  all  liable  to  the  objections  you  make.  As 
to  this  particular  province,  and  any  others  in  the  same  circum- 
stances, let  only  such  parts  as  are  lit,  be  planted  with  the  articles 
in  question,  and  let  the  rest  be  managed  as  before.  Much  more 
may  be  produced  in  this,  than  has  been  hitherto;  but  if  it  could 
not  afford  a  sufficiency  for  itself,  let  it  exchange  its  grain  with 
other  colonies  that  Buperabound  with  such  materials. 

If  we  sow  already  as  much  flax  as  we  can  conveniently  ma- 
nage, it  is  because  the  chief  of  our  attention  is  engrossed  by  other 
things;  but  the  supposition  is,  that  there  will  be  less  demand  for 
them,  and  more  for  flax  ;  and,  by  attending  less  to  present  ob- 
jects, we  shall  have  it  in  our  power  for  the  future  to  sow  and 
manage  much  more  flax  than  in  the  time  past. 

With  respect  to  cotton,  you  do  not  pretend  to  deny  thai  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  that  might  be  produced.  Several  of  the 
southern  colonies  arc  so  favorable  to  it,  that  with  due  cultivation, 
in  a  couple  of  years,  they  would  afford  enough  to  clothe  the 
whole  continent. 

A.s  to  the  expense  of  bringing  it  by  land,  the  besi  way  will 
be,  to  manufacture  it  where  it  grows,  and  afterwards  transport  it 

B  8 


114  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

to  the  other  colonies.  Upon  this  plan,  I  apprehend,  the  expense 
would  not  be  greater  than  to  build  and  equip  large  ships  to  im- 
port the  manufactures  of  Great  Britain  from  thence. 

The  difficulty  of  transportation  would  be  attended  with  one 
great  advantage.  It  would  give  employment  and  bread  to  a 
number  of  people ;  and  would,  among  other  things,  serve  to 
prevent  there  being  those  terrific  bands  of  thieves,  robbers,  and 
highwaymen,  which  you  endeavor  to  draw  up  in  such  formid- 
able array  against  the  Congress. 

It  would,  however,  be  hardly  possible  to  block  up  our  ports 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  cut  off  all  communication  between  the 
colonies  by  water. 

There  would  remain  some  avenues,  in  spite  of  all  that  could 
be  done ;  and  we  should  not  be  idle  in  making  proper  use  of 
them. 

I  mentioned  before  the  vast  quantities  of  skins  in  America, 
which  would  never  let  us  want  a  warm  and  comfortable  suit. 
This  is  one  of  our  principal  resources ;  and  this  you  have  passed 
over  in  silence.  A  suit  made  of  skins  would  not  be  quite  so 
elegant  as  one  of  broadcloth ;  but  it  would  shelter  us  from  the 
inclemency  of  the  winter  full  as  well. 

Upon  the  whole,  considering  all  the  resources  we  have,  and 
the  time  we  shall  have  to  prepare  them  before  we  are  in  actual 
want,  there  can  be  no  room  to  doubt,  that  we  may  live  without 
the  manufactures  of  Great  Britain,  if  we  are  careful,  frugal  and 
industrious. 

But  it  is  said,  we  have  no  persons  to  manufacture  our  ma- 
terials after  we  have  provided  them.  Among  the  swarms  of 
emigrants  that  have,  within  these  few  years  past,  come  to  the 
continent,  there  are  numbers  of  manufacturers  in  the  necessary 
branches.  These,  for  want  of  encouragement  in  their  own 
occupations,  have  been  obliged  to  apply  themselves  to  other 
methods  of  getting  a  living,  but  would  be  glad  of  an  oppor- 
tunity to  return  to  them.  Besides  these,  we  should  soon  have 
a  plenty  of  workmen  from  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Num- 
bers who  would  be  thrown  out  of  employ  there,  would  be 
glad  to  flock  to  us  for  subsistence.     They  would  not  stay  at 


JEt.  18.]  THE    P  A  R  M  E  It    R  E  F  DT  BD.  11  5 

borne  and  be  miserable,  while  there  was  any  prospect  of  en- 
courageinenl  here.  Neither  is  there  any  greal  difficulty  in 
acquiring  a  competent  knowledge  of  the  manufacturing  arts. 
In  a  couple  of  years,  many  of  our  own  people  mighl  become 
proficient  enough  to  make  the  coarser  kinds  of  stufis  and  linens. 

But,  if  it  should  be  necessary,  we  have  other  resources  he- 
sides  all  these.  It  will  be  impossible  for  the  .-hips  of  Great 
Britain  to  line  the  vast  extended  coasl  of  this  continent,  in  such 
a  manner  as  to  preclude  the  admission  of  foreign  aids  and  sup- 
plies. After  every  possible  precaution  againsi  it,  we  shall  still 
be  able  to  get  large  quantities  of  goods  from  Franco  and 
Holland* 

I  shall  conclude  this  head  with  one  more  observation, 
which  is  this:  That  all  such  as  maybe  deprived  of  business 
by  the  operation  of  our  measures  in  America,  may  be  employed 
in  cultivating  lands.  We  have  enough  and  to  spare.  It  is  of 
no  force  to  object,  that  "  when  our  exports  are  stopped,  our 
grain  would  become  of  little  worth."  They  can  be  occupied  in 
raising  other  things  that  will  be  more  wanted,  to  wit,  materials 
for  manufactures;  and  only  a  sufficiency  of  provisions  for  their 
own  use.  In  such  a  country  as  this,  there  can  be  no  great  diffi- 
culty in  finding  business  for  all  its  inhabitants.  Those  obstacles 
which,  to  the  eye  of  timidity,  or  disaffection,  seem  like  the 
Alps,  would,  to  the  hand  of  resolution  and  perseverance,  become 
mere  hillocks. 

Once  more  I  insist  upon  it,  that  Great  Britain  can  never  force 
us  to  submission  by  blocking  up  our  ports;  and  that  the  con- 
sequences  of  such  a  procedure  to  herself,  Ireland,  and  the 
West  Indies,  would  be  too  fatal  to  admit  of  it.  If  she  is  deter- 
mined to  enslave  us,  it  must  be  by  force  of  arms;  and  to  attempt 
this,  I  again  assert,  would  be  nothing  less  than  tju  grossest  vnfatoir 

on,  madru  ss  its<  If. 

*  You  may  perhaps  tell  me  here,  thai  [  contradict  the  sentiments  I  formerly 
delivered,  respecting  unlawful  trade.  But  it  is  by  no  means  the  case,  [despise 
the  practice  of  avaricious  smugglers  very  heartily;  but  when  a  whole  people 
are  invaded,  there  can  be  no  law  of  any  force  against  their  procuring  every 
needful  succor. 


116  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  18. 

Whatever  may  be  said  of  the  disciplined  troops  of  Great 
Britain,  the  event  of  the  contest  must  be  extremely  doubtful. 
There  is  a  certain  enthusiasm  in  liberty,  that  makes  human 
nature  rise  above  itself  in  acts  of  bravery  and  heroism.  It 
cannot  be  expected  that  America  would  yield,  without  a  mag- 
nanimous, persevering,  and  bloody  struggle.  The  testimony  of 
past  ages,  and  the  least  knowledge  of  mankind,  must  suffice  to 
convince  us  of  the  contrary.  We  have  a  recent  instance  in 
Corsica,  to  what  lengths  a  people  will  go  in  defence  of  its  liber- 
ties :  and  if  we  take  a  view  of  the  colonies  in  general,  we  must 
perceive  that  the  pulse  of  Americans  beats  high  in  their  coun- 
try's cause.  Let  us,  then,  suppose  the  arms  of  Great  Britain 
triumphant,  and  America  mutilated,  exhausted  and  vanquished. 
What  situation  will  Great  Britain  then  be  in  ?  What  laurels 
will  she  reap  from  her  conquests  ?  Alas,  none !  Every  true 
friend  to  that  deluded  country,  must  shudder  at  the  prospect  of 
her  self-destroying  success.  The  condition  we  should  be  left  in, 
would  disable  us  from  paying  the  six  millions  sterling,  which  is 
due  for  the  manufactures  of  Great  Britain.  Instead  of  the  pre- 
sent millions  derived  annually  from  our  trade,  we  should  be  so 
distressed  and  reduced,  as  to  be,  for  many  years  to  come,  a  bur- 
then, and  not  an  advantage.  Millions  are  soon  dispensed  in 
supporting  fleets  and  armies.  Much  British  treasure  and  blood 
would  be  expended  in  effecting  our  ruin. 

This,  then,  would  be  the  situation  of  Great  Britain.  Her 
public  debt  would  be  augmented  several  millions.  Her  mer- 
chants, who  are  one  of  the  principal  sources  of  her  opulence, 
would,  many  of  them,  become  bankrupt,  by  the  loss  of  the  vast 
sums  due  them  in  America.  Her  manufactures  would  stagnate 
and  decay,  and  her  revenues  would  be  considerably  diminished. 
This  continent,  which  is  now  a  rich  source  of  wealth  and 
strength,  would  be  debilitated  and  depressed. 

Would  the  ancient  rivals  and  enemies  of  Great  Britain  be 
idle  at  such  a  conjuncture  as  this?  Would  they  not  eagerly 
seize  the  opportunity  to  recover  their  former  losses,  and  revenge 
the  evils  they  have  sustained  on  former  occasions  ?  It  will  be 
said,  This  is  possible,  but  it  may  not  happen.     I  answer,  Causes 


JEt.  18.]  THE    FARM  Kit    REPUTED.  117 

must   tail  of  their  usual   effects  If  it  does   not      Princes  and 
aationa  musl  cease  to  1"'  ambitions  and  avaricious.    The  French, 
from  being  a  jealous,  politic,  and  enterprising  people,  musl  be 
grown   negligent,  stupid,  and  Inattentive  to  their  own  inter 
They  never  could  have  a  fairer  opportunity,  or  a  greater  temp- 
tation to  aggrandize  themselves,  and  triumph  over  ©real  Britain 
than  would  be  here  presented.     Let  as  imagine  England  im- 
mersed in  a  war  with  Prance,  Spain,  or  any  other  potent  neigh- 
bor;   with  her  public  debl  increased;  some  of  her  l>es1  Bpri] 
dried  up;  and  America   ruined:  not  onlyunable  to  afford  her 
any  assistance,  but,  perhaps,  fired  with  resentment,  and  a  sei 
of  accumulated  injuries,  ready  to  throw   itself  into  the  arms  of 
her  enemies.     In  the>e  circumstances,  what  would  be  the  late  of 
this  unhappy   kingdom?     Everyman  of  discernment  must  be 
convinced  that  ruin  would  be  unavoidable. 

But  what  reason  have  we  to  believe  the  arms  of  Great  Britain 
would  prevail?  It  will  be  replied.  Because  she  can  send  against 
us  some  of  the  best  troops  in  the  world,  either  with  respect  to 
valor  or  discipline;  and  because  we  have  only  a  raw,  unexperi- 
enced militia  to  oppose  them.  Discipline  and  military  skill  are 
certainly  matters  of  great  importance,  and  give  those  to  whom 
they  belong,  a  vasl  superiority;  bu1  they  do  not  render  them 
invincible.  Superior  numbers,  joined  to  natural  intrepidity,  and 
that  animation,  which  is  inspired  by  a  desire  of  freedom,  and  a 
love  of  one's  country,  may  very  well  overbalance  those  advan- 
ces. 

I  imagine,  it  will  be  readily  allowed,  that  Great  Britain  could 
not  spare  an  army  of  above  fifteen  thousand  men  to  send  against 
the  colonies.  These  would  have  to  subdue  near  six  hundred 
thousand.  The  established  rule  of  computing  the  number  of 
men  capable  of  bearing  arms  in  any  nation,  is  by  taking  a  tilth 
pari  of  the  whole  people.  By  the  best  calculations,  we  are  sup- 
posed, in  America,  to  exceed  three  millions.  The  fifth  part  of 
three  millions  is  six  hundred  thousand.  But  in  order  to  be  cer- 
tain of  our  computation.  Le1  OS  suppose  there  are  only  five  hun- 
dred thousand  fighting  men  in  the  colonies.  Then  there  will  be 
upwards  of  thirty  Americans  to  one  British  soldier.     A  great 


118  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  18. 

disparity  indeed !  And  such  as  never  can  be  compensated  by 
any  discipline  or  skill  whatever!  It  will  be  objected,  that  these 
five  hundred  thousand  cannot  act  together.  I  grant  it :  nor  is 
there  any  occasion  that  they  should.  Forty  thousand  will  be  a 
sufficient  number  to  make  head  at  a  time ;  and  these  must  be 
kept  up  by  fresh  supplies  as  fast  as  there  is  any  diminution. 

Let  it  be  remembered,  that  there  are  no  large  plains  for  the 
two  armies  to  meet  in,  and  decide  the  contest  by  some  decisive 
stroke;  where  any  advantage  gained  by  either  side,  might  be 
prosecuted  till  a  complete  victory  was  obtained.  The  circum- 
stances of  our  country  put  it  in  our  power  to  evade  a  pitched 
battle.  It  will  be  better  policy  to  harass  and  exhaust  the  soldi- 
ery, by  frequent  skirmishes  and  incursions,  than  to  take  the  open 
field  with  them,  by  which  means  they  would  have  the  full  benefit 
of  their  superior  regularity  and  skill.  Americans  are  better 
qualified  for  that  kind  of  fighting,  which  is  most  adapted  to  this 
country,  than  regular  troops.  Should  the  soldiery  advance  into 
the  country,  as  they  would  be  obliged  to  do  if  they  had  any 
inclination  to  subdue  us,  their  discipline  would  be  of  little  use 
to  them.  We  should,  in  that  case,  be  at  least  upon  an  equality 
with  them,  in  any  respect ;  and  as  we  should  have  the  advantage, 
on  many  accounts,  they  would  be  likely  to  gain  nothing  by  their 
attempts. 

Several  of  the  colonies  are  now  making  preparation  for  the 
worst  (and  indeed  the  best  way  to  avoid  a  civil  war,  is  to  be  pre- 
pared for  it).  They  are  disciplining  men  as  fast  as  possible ;  and, 
in  a  few  months,  will  be  able  to  produce  many  thousands,  not 
so  much  inferior  in  the  essentials  of  discipline  as  may,  perhaps, 
be  imagined.  A  little  actual  service  will  put  them  very  nearly 
upon  a  footing  with  their  enemies.  The  history  of  the  Swedes 
and  Eussians,  under  Charles  XII.,  and  Peter  the  Great,  will 
teach  us  how  soon  a  people,  possessed  of  natural  bravery,  may 
be  brought  to  equal  the  most  regular  troops.  The  Swedes,  at 
first,  obtained  very  signal  advantages ;  but,  after  a  while,  the 
Eussians  learned  to  defeat  them  with  equal  numbers.  It  is  true, 
there  was  one  of  the  greatest  men  the  world  has  seen,  at  the 
head  of  the  latter ;  but  there  was  one  who  emulated  the  Mace- 


jEt.  18.]  THE    FARMEB     REFUTED.  119 

donian  conqueror,  a1  the  head  of  the  former.  Charles  was,  per- 
haps, never  surpassed  by  any  man  in  courage,  or  skill:  and  his 
soldiers  were  well  worthy  of  such  a  general.  There  is  also  this 
important  circumstance  in  our  favor,  when  compared  with  the 
Russians.  They  were  barbarous  and  (intractable.  We  are  civ- 
ilized and  docile.  They  were  ignoranl  even  of  the  theory  of 
war.  We  are  well  acquainted  with  it;  and,  therefore,  should 
more  easily  1"'  brought  to  the  practice  of  it,  and  be  Booner 
taughl  that  order  and  method  which  we  are  deficienl  in. 

It  i-  sometimes  urged  thai  we  have  no  experienced  officers  to 
command  us.  We  labor  tinder  some  disadvantage  in  this  re- 
spect,  but  not  so  great  as  is  believed.  There  are  many  who 
have  3erved  in  the  lasl  warwith  reputation,  dispersed  throughout 
the  colonies.     These  might  have  the  superior  direction  of  nntt- 

:  and  there  are  men  enough  of  known  sense  and  courage, 
who  would  soon  make  excellent  officers.  During  the  disputes 
between  the  unfortunate  Charles  and  the  Parliament,  many 
country  gentlemen  served  in  the  armies  of  the  latter,  and  signa- 
lized themselves  for  their  military  virtues.  It  is  worthy  of  ob- 
servation, that  the  present  state  of  the  army  is  not  the  most 
favorable.  As  is  always  the  consequence  of  a  long  peace,  there 
are  many  effeminate  striplings  anion--  the  officers,  who  are  better 
calculated  to  marshal  the  forces  of  Venus,  than  to  conduct  the 
sturdy  sons  of  Mars.  There  are,  comparatively,  but  few  vete- 
rans, either  among  the  Leaders,  or  the  common  soldiei 

You  ask  me,  What  resources  have  the  colonies  to  pay,  clothe, 
arm,  and  feed  their  troo] is  ?  1  refer  yon  to  the  accounts  from 
Virginia  and  Marblehead,  for  an  answer  to  this  question.  Our 
troops,  on  the  spot  with  us,  will  be  much  more  easily  maintained, 
than  those  of  Greal  Britain  a1  such  a  distance.  We  arc  not  so  poor 
and  encumbered,  as  to  be  unable  to  support  those  who  are  imme- 
mediately  employed  in  defending  our  liberties.  Our  country 
abounds  in  provisions.  We  have  already  materials  eno 
among  us,  to  keep  its  in  clothes,  longer  than  Great  Britain 
would  have  any  appetite  to  continue  her  hostilities.  Several  of 
the  colonies  are  pretty  well  stored  with  ammunition.  France, 
Spain,  and  Holland,  would  find  means  to  supply  US  with  what- 
ever we  wanted. 


120  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

Let  it  not  be  said,  that  this  last  is  a  bare  possibility:  that 
France  and  Spain  have  promised  not  to  interfere  in  the  dispute ; 
and  that  Holland  has  long  been  a  faithful  ally  to  the  British 
nation.  There  is  the  highest  degree  of  probability  in  the  case. 
A  more  desirable  object  to  France  and  Spain,  than  the  disunion 
of  these  colonies  from  Great  Britain,  cannot  be  imagined.  Every 
dictate  of  policy  and  interest,  would  prompt  them  to  forward  it 
by  every  possible  means.  They  could  not  take  any  so  effectual 
method  to  destroy  the  growing  power  of  their  great  rival.  The 
promises  of  princes  and  statesmen  are  of  little  weight.  They 
never  bind  longer,  than  till  a  strong  temptation  offers  to  break 
them:  and  they  are  frequently  made  with  a  sinister  design.  If 
we  consult  the  known  character  of  the  French,  we  shall  be  dis- 
posed to  conclude,  that  their  present  seemingly  pacific  and 
friendly  disposition,  is  merely  a  piece  of  finesse,  intended  to  dupe 
administration  into  some  violent  measures  with  the  colonies,  that 
they  may  improve  them  to  their  own  advantage.  The  most  that 
can  be  expected,  is,  that  they  would  refrain  from  any  open  rup- 
ture with  Great  Britain.  They  would  undoubtedly  take  every 
clandestine  method  to  introduce  among  us,  supplies  of  those 
things  which  we  stood  in  need  of  to  carry  on  the  dispute.  They 
would  not  neglect  any  thing  in  their  power,  to  make  the  opposi- 
tion on  our  part  as  vigorous  and  obstinate  as  our  affairs  would 
admit  of. 

With  respect  to  Holland,  notwithstanding  express  engage- 
ments to  the  contrary,  her  merchants,  during  the  last  war,  were 
constantly  suppb/ing  the  French  and  Spaniards  with  military 
stores,  and  other  things  they  had  occasion  for.  The  same,  or 
perhaps,  more  powerful  motives,  would  influence  them  to  assist 
us  in  a  like  manner. 

But  it  seems  to  me  a  mark  of  great  credulity  to  believe,  upon 
the  strength  of  their  assurance,  that  France  and  Spain  would 
not  take  a  still  more  interesting  part  in  the  affair.  The  disjunc- 
tion of  these  colonies  from  Great  Britain,  and  the  acquisition  of 
a  free  trade  wth  them,  are  objects  of  too  inviting  a  complexion, 
to  suffer  those  kingdoms  to  remain  idle  spectators  of  the  conten 
tion.     If  they  found  us  inclined  to  throw  ourselves  upon  their 


JEr.  18.]  THE    PARMER     REFUTED.  1-1 

protection,  they  would  eagerly  embrace  the  opportunity  to 
weaken  their  antagonist,  and  strengthen  themselves.  Su] 
added  to  these  general  and  prevailing  inducements,  th<  re  .-ire 
others oi  a  more  particular  nature.  They  wouldfeel  no  -mall 
inconvenience  in  the  loss  of  those  supplies  they  annually 
from  us;  ami  their  islands  in  the  West  liplies  would  be  inQhe 
greatesl  distress  t«>r  want  of  our  trade. 

Prom  these  reflections  it  is  more  than  probable,  thai  America 
is  able  to  support  its  freedom,  even  by  the  force  of  ai  3he 

be  not  betrayed  by  her  own  sons.  And,  in  whatever  lighl  we 
view  the  matter,  the  consequences  to  Ghreal  Britain  won  1-1  be  too 
destructive  to  permit  her  to  proceed  to  extremities,  unless  she 
has  losl  all  just  sense  of  her  own  interest. 

You  Bay,  "The  grand  Congress,  the  piddling  committees, 
through  the  continent,  have  all  disclaimed  their  subjection  to  the 
sovereign  authority  of  the  empire.  They  deny  the  authority  of 
Parliament  to  make  any  laws  to  bind  them  at  all.  They  clt 
an  absolute  independency.  Greal  Britain  has  no  choice,  but  to 
declare  the  colonies  independent  States,  or  to  try  the  force  of 
arms,  in  order  to  bring  them  to  a  sense  of  their  duty." 

It  is  the  common  trick  of  ministerial  writers,  to  represent 
the  Congress  as  having  made  some  new  demands,  which  v. 
unknown  to  former  times;  whereas,  in  truth,  they  have,  in  sub- 
stance, acknowledged  the  only  dependence  on  Parliament  which 
was  eve]-  intended  by  their  predecessors.  Nor  is  it  true,  that 
they  have  claimed  an  absolute  independency.  It  is  insulting  com- 
mon sense  to  say  so,  when  it  is  notorious  that  they  have  acknow- 
ledged the  right  of  Parliament  to  regulate  the   trade   of  the 

colonies.      Any  further  dependent n  it,  is  unnecessary  and 

dangerous.     They  have  professed  allegiance  to  the  British  King, 
and  have  hound  themselves,  on  any  emergency,  to  contribute 
their  proportion  of  men   and  money,  to  the  defence  and  prol 
tion  of  the  whole  empire.     Can  this  be  called  absohth  indep 
encyf    Is  it  better  for  Gxeal  Britain  to  hazard  the  total  loss  of 
these  colonies,  than  to  hold  them  upon  these  conditions ?     Is  it 
preferable  to  make  enemies  of  the  people  of  America,  insl 
of  being  connected  with  them,  by  the  equal  tie  i  ■flub- 


122  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  18. 

jects  ?  Is  it  not  madness,  to  run  the  risk  of  losing  tlie  trade  of 
these  colonies,  from  which  the  mother  country  drew*  "  more 
clear  profit  than  Spain  has  drawn  from  all  her  mines,"  because 
they  insist  only  upon  all  the  essential  rights  of  freemen  ?  You 
may  call  it  effrontery,  consummate  assurance,  or  what  you 
plftise,  to  say  so  :  but  every  man,  capable  of  taking  a  full  pros- 
pect of  all  the  probable  mischiefs  which  may  result  from  an  open 
rupture  between  Great  Britain  and  the  colonies,  will  coincide 
with  me  when  I  affirm,  that  nothing  but  the  most  frantic  extra- 
vagance, can  influence  administration  to  attempt  the  reduction 
of  America  by  force  of  arms. 

It  is  sufficiently  evident,  from  the  respective  charters,  that 
the  rights  we  now  claim,  are  coeval  with  the  original  settlement 
of  these  colonies.  These  rights  have  been,  at  different  times, 
strenuously  asserted,  though  they  have  been  suffered  to  be  vio- 
lated in  several  instances,  through  inattention,  or,  perhaps,  an 
unwillingness  to  quarrel  with  the  mother  country.  I  shall  de- 
cline producing  any  other  proofs  of  the  sense  of  the  other  pro- 
vinces than  those  already  mentioned,  and  shall  confine  myself 
to  a  few  extracts  from  the  resolves  of  some  assemblies  of  this 
province. 

In  1691,  there  was  an  Act  passed  by  the  General  Assembly, 
which  contained  the  following  clauses,  f 

"  Be  it  enacted,  by  the  Governor,  Council,  and  Representa- 
tives, met  in  General  Assembly,  and  it  is  hereby  enacted  and 
declared  by  the  authority  of  the  same,  that  the  siipreim.  hyislative 
power  and  authority,  under  their  Majesties,  William  and  Mary, 
King  and  Queen  of  England,  &c,  shall  for  ever  be,  and  reside, 
in  a  Governor-in-Chief  and  Council,  appointed  by  their  Majes- 
ties, their  heirs  and  successors,  and  the  people,  by  their  repre- 
sentatives met  and  convened  in  General  Assembly. 

"  That  no  freeman  shall  be  taken  or  imprisoned,  or  be  de- 
prived of  his  freehold,  or  life,  or  liberty,  or  free  customs,  or  out- 

*  Sec  Shipley's  Speech. 

f  This  Act  is  very  remarkable.  It  was  drawn  up  by  Messrs.  Tazewell  and 
Emmett,  two  gentlemen  appointed  by  the  governor  for  the  purpose,  and  remained 
six  years  in  England  before  there  was  a  negative  put  upon  it. 


Mt.  is.]  T  ii  1:    P  \  it  m  1:1:    B  1:  PUTED.  123 

lawed,  ot  exiled,  or  any  otherways  destroyed;    dot  shrill   be 

3ed  upon,  adjudged,  or  condemned,  bul  by  the  lawful  judgment 
of  his  peers,  and  by  the  law  of  the  provim  . 

"Thatno  aid,  tax,  tallage,  custom,  loan,  benevolent 
duty,  or  imposition  whatsoever,  shall  be  laid,  assessed,  imposed, 
levied,  or  required  <>f.  or  on,  any  of  their  Majesties' sub 
within  this  province,  &c,  or  their  estates,  upon  any  manner  of 
color  or  pretence  whatsoever,  bul  by  the  ac1  and  consenl  of  the 
Governor  and  Council,  and  Representatives  of  the  people,  in 
General  Assembly  me1  and  convened." 

This  Art  shows  clearly,  the  sense  of  Hi-  Majesty's  represen- 
tative, his  Council,  and  the  Assembly  of  this  Province,  above 
eighty  years  ago,  which  was,  thai  the  supreme  Legislative  author- 
ity, and  the  exclusive  power  of  taxation,  should  for  ever  be, 
and  reside,  in  a  Governor-in-Chief  and  Council,  appointed  by 
their  Majesties,  their  heirs  unci  successors;  and  the  people  by 
their  representatives,  met  and  convened  in  General  Assembly. 

We  may  also  infer  from  hence,  that  the  other  coloni 
ually  enjoyed  similar  privileges  a1  that  time  :  for  it  would  have 
been  the  heighl  of  presumption,  in  this  province,  to  claim  such 
important  immunities,  bad  not  the  others  been  in  possession  of 
the  like. 

This  Act,  of  itself)  confutes  all  thai  has  been  said  coi rning 

the  novell  ir  presenl  claims;  and  proves,  thai  the  injuri- 

ous  reflections  on  the  Congress,  for  having  risen  in  their  de- 
mands, are  malicious  and  repugnanl  to  truth. 

You   have  produced  some  expressions  of  the  Congress  and 
Assembly  of  this  province,  in  L765,  which  you  lay  great  sti 
upon.    The  true  meaning  of  them  may  be  gathered  from  the 
following  passage,  which  is  taken  from  the  same  piece  thai  con- 
tains the  expressions  in  question.     The  Congress  speak  thus: 
"It  is  humbly  submitted,  whether  there  be  nol  a  material  dis- 
tinction, in  reason  and  Bound  policy  al  least,  between  the  ne 
sary  exercise  of  parliamentary  jurisdiction,  in  general  A< 
the  amendm#it  of  the  common  law,  and  the  regulation  of  trade 
and  commerce  through  the  whole  empire;  and  thee: 
that  jurisdiction  by  imposing  taxes  on  the  coloni 


124  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

They  allow  only  a  power  of  making  general  Acts  for  the 
amendment  of  the  common  law,  and  for  the  general  regulation  of 
trade.  As  to  any  special  laws  to  bind  the  colonies,  in  particular, 
they  never  intended  submission  to  these ;  nor  could  they  intend 
a  right  to  impose  special  duties,  of  any  kind,  for  the  purpose  of 
raising  a  revenue ;  which  is,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  a  species 
of  taxation. 

The  Eesolves  of  our  Assembly,  the  last  day  of  December, 
1771,  about  three  years  afterwards,  will  serve  as  a  full  explana- 
tion. "  As  it  is  not  only  the  common  birthright  of  all  his  Ma- 
jesty's subjects,  but  is  also  essential  to  the  preservation  of  the 
peace,  strength,  and  prosperity  of  the  British  empire,  that  an 
exact  equality  of  constitutional  rights,  among  all  his  Majesty's  sub- 
jects, in  the  several  parts  of  the  empire,  be  uniformly  and  inva- 
riably maintained  and  supported ;  and  as  it  would  be  inconsistent 
with  the  constitutional  rights  of  his  Majesty's  subjects  in  Great 
Britain,  to  tax  them,  either  in  person  or  estate,  without  the  con- 
sent of  their  representatives,  in  Parliament  assembled:  It  is 
therefore 
Eesolved,  nemine  contradicente : 

"That  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  Committee,  that  no  tax  under 
any  name,  or  denomination,  or  on  any  pretence,  or  for  any  purpose 
whatsoever,  can  or  ought  to  be  imposed,  or  levied,  upon  the  per- 
sons, estates,  or  property,  of  his  Majesty's  good  subjects  within 
this  colony,  hut  of  their  free  gift,  by  their  representatives  lawfully  con- 
vened in  General  Assembly. 

"  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  Committee,  that  this  colony 
lawfully  and  constitutionally  has,  and  enjoys,  an  internal  legisla- 
ture, in  which  the  Crown  and  the  people  of  this  colony,  are  con- 
stitutionally represented  :  and  that  the  power  and  authority  of  the 
said  legislature  cannot  lawfully  or  constitutionally  be  suspended, 
abridged,  abrogated,  or  ammlled,  by  any  power  or  prerogative  what- 
soever;  the  prerogative  of  the  Crown,  ordinarily  exercised  for 
prorogations  and  dissolutions,  only  excepted." 

A  supreme  authority,  in  the  Parliament,  to  make  any  special 
laws  for  this  province,  consistent  with  the  internal  legislature 


JEt.  18.]  THE    FARMER     REPUTED.  L25 

here  claimed,  is  impossible,  and  can n- -t   he  supposed,  without 
filling  into  thai  solecism  in  politics,  of  imperium  in  impa 
I  imagine,  sir,  1   have,  by  this  time,  pretty  rally  and 
torily  answered  every  lining  contai 1  in  your  letter  of  ani  con- 
sequence.   rl'li''  parts  I  have  lefl  unattended  to,  are  Buch  as  can- 
t i < >t  operate,  materially,  to  tin'  prejudice  of  tin'  cause  I  espo 
lint   1  should  qo1  have  neglected  them,  had  it  not  been,  thai  I 
have  already  taken  a  very  ample  range;  ami  it  would,  perhaps, 
I"-  imprudeul  t<>  delay  a  conclusion. 

Whatever  opinion  may  be  entertained  of  my  sentiments  ami 
intentions,  1  attesl  that.  Being,  whose  all-seeing  eye  penetral 
the  inmost  recesses  of  the  heart,  that  I  am  no1  influenced  (in  the 
part  I  take)  by  any  unworthy  motive—  That,  if  I  am  in  an  er- 
ror, it  is  my  judgment^  no1  my  heart,  that  errs. — That]  earnestly 
lam. 'tit  the  unnatural  quarrel  between  the  parent  State  ami  the 
colonies;  and  most  ardently  wish  for  a  speedy  reconciliation — 
a  perpetual  ami  mutually  beneficial  union. — That  I  am  a  warm 
advocate  for  limited  monarchy,  and  an  unfeigned  well-wisher  to 
the  present  Royal  Family. 

But,  on  tin'  other  hand,  I  am  inviolably  attached  to  the 
Mai   rights  of  mankind,  and  tin'  true  interests  of  society.     I 
mh'i-  civil  liberty,  in  a  genuine,  unadulterated  the 

greatesl  "I'  terrestrial  blessings.     1  am  convinced,  that  the  whole 
human  race  is  entitled  to  it  ;  and  that  it  can  he  wrested  from  no 
of  them,  without  the  blackest  and  most  aggravated  guilt. 
I  verily  believe,  also,  that  the  b«>t  way  t<>  secure  a  perma- 
nent and  happy  union  between  Greal  Britain  ami  the  coloni<  - 
to  permit  the  hitter  to  he  as  live  as  they  desire.     To  abri 
their  liberties,  or  to  exercise  any  power  over  them,  which  they 
are  unwilling  to  submil  to.  would  he  ;(  perpetual  source  of  dis- 
content   and  animosity.     A  continual  jealousy  would  exist  on 
both  sides.     This  would  lead  to  tyranny  on  the  one  ha  i  to 

sedition  ami  rebellion  on  the  ..the)'.  Impositions,  not  really 
grievous  in  themselves,  would  he  thought  so;  and  the  murmurs 
arising  from  thence,  would  he  considered  as  the  i  of  a  turbu- 

lent, ungovernable  spirit.    These  jarring  principles  would  at 


126  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

length  throw  all  things  into  disorder,  and  be  productive  of  an 
irreparable  breach,  and  a  total  disunion. 

That  harmony  and  mutual  confidence  may  speedily  be  re- 
stored between  all  the  parts  of  the  British  empire,  is  the  fa- 
vorite wish  of  one  who  feels  the  warmest  sentiments  of  good  will 
to  mankind ;  who  bears  no  enmity  to  you  ;  and  who  is 

A  Sincere  Friend  to  America. 


jEt.  18.] 


REMARKS  ON   THE   QUEBEC    BILL. 


1775. 

N".    I. 


Incompliance  with  my  promise  to  the  public,  and  in  order 
to  rescue  truth  from  the  specious  disguise  with  which  it  has  been 
clothed,  I  shall  now  offer  a  few  remarks  on  the  Act,  entitled  "  An 
Acl  for  making  more  effectual  provision  for  the  governmenl 
the  province  of  Quebec  in  North  America;"  whereby  I  trusl  it 
will  clearly  appear,  that  arbitrary  po  nd   its  great  engine, 

th«'   Popish  religii  i  all  intents  and  purj  dished 

in  that  province. 

While  Canada  was  under  the  dominioii  of  Prance,  the  French 
laws  and  customs  were  in  force  there;  which  are  regulated  in 
conformity  to  the  genius  and  complexion  of  a  despotic  constitu- 
tion; and  expose  the  lives  and  properties  of  subjects  to  continual 
depredations  from  the  malice  and  avarice  <>l  those  in  authority. 
But  when  it  fell  under  the  dominion  of  <  hreal  Britain,  these  !. 
so  unfriendly  to  the  happiness  .  gave  pla 

to  th«  •  milder  influence  of  the  English  laws:  and  his  Majesty,  by 
proclamation,  promised  to  all  those  who  should  settle  there,  a  full 
enjoymenl  of  the  rights  of  British  sul  In  violation  of  this 

promise,  the  Ad  before  us  d  .   "Thai  the  said  proclama. 

tion,  and  the  commission  under  the  authority  whereof  the 
vernmenl  of  the  said  province  is  at  presenl  administered,  ; 
the  same  are,  hereby  revoked,  annulled,  and  made  void,  from 
and  after  the  first  day  of  M  e  thousand  seven  hundred 

Beventy-five."    This  abolition  of  the  privileges  stipulated  by  the 


128  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

proclamation,  was  not  inflicted  as  a  penalty  for  any  crime  by 
which  a  forfeiture  had  been  incurred  ;  but  merely  on  jjretence  of 
the  present  form  of  government  having  been  found  by  experience 
to  be  inapplicable  to  the  state  and  circumstances  of  the  Province. 

I  have  never  heard  any  satisfactory  account  concerning  the 
foundation  of  this  pretence ;  for  it  does  not  appear,  that  the  peo- 
ple of  Canada,  at  large,  ever  expressed  a  discontent  with  their 
new  establishment,  or  solicited  a  restoration  of  their  old.  They 
were,  doubtless,  the  most  proper  judges  of  the  matter,  and  ought 
to  have  been  fully  consulted  before  the  alteration  was  made.  If 
we  may  credit  the  general  current  of  intelligence  which  we  have 
had  respecting  the  disposition  of  the  Canadians,  we  must  con- 
clude they  are  averse  to  the  present  regulation  of  the  Parlia- 
ment, and  had  rather  continue  under  the  form  of  government 
instituted  by  the  Eoyal  proclamation. 

However  this  be,  the  French  laws  are  again  revived.  It  is 
enacted,  "That  in  all  matters  of  controversy  relative  to  property 
and  civil  rights,  resort  shall  be  had  to  the  laws  of  Canada,  as 
the  rule  for  the  decision  of  the  same :  and  all  causes  that  here- 
after shall  be  instituted  in  any  of  the  Courts  of  justice,  shall, 
with  respect  to  such  property  and  rights,  be  determined  agree- 
ably to  the  said  laws  and  customs  of  Canada,  until  they  shall  be 
varied  and  altered  by  any  ordinances  that  shall,  from  time  to 
time,  be  passed  in  the  said  province,  by  the  Governor,  Lieute- 
nant-Governor, or  Commander-in-Chief  for  the  time  being,  by 
and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Legislative  Council  of 
the  same."  Thus  the  ancient  laws  of  Canada  are  restored,  liable 
to  such  variations  and  additions  as  shall  be  deemed  necessary  by 
the  Governor  and  Council :  and  as  both  the  one  and  the  other 
are  to  be  appointed  by  the  King  during  pleasure,  they  will  be 
all  his  creatures,  and  entirely  subject  to  his  will,  which  is  thereby 
rendered  the  original  fountain  of  law :  and  the  property  and 
civil  rights  of  the  Canadians  are  made  altogether  dependent 
upon  it :  because  the  power  communicated,  of  varying  and  alter- 
ing, by  new  ordinances,  is  indefinite  and  unlimited.  If  this  does 
not  make  the  king  absolute  in  Canada,  I  am  at  a  loss  for  any 
tolerable  idea  of  absolute  authority ;  which  I  have  ever  thought 


jEt.  18.]  QUEBEC     BILL.  129 

to  consist,  with  respect  to  a  monarch,  in  the  power  of  governing 
his  people  according  to  the  dictates  of  his  <>wi.  will.  In  the 
presenl  case,  he  has  only  to  inform  the  Governor  and  Council, 
what  new  laws  he  would  choose  to  have  passed,  and  their  situ- 
ation will  insure  their  compliance. 

It  is  further  provided,  "Thai  nothing  contained  in  the  Act, 
shall  extend,  or  be  construed  to  extend,  to  prevenl  or  hinder  his 
Majesty,  his  heirs,  and  successors,  from  erecting,  constituti 
and  appointing,  from  time  to  time,  such  courts  of  criminal,  civil, 
and  ecclesiastical  jurisdiction,  within  and  for  the  said  province  of 
Qucl.cc,  and  appointing,  from  time  to  time,  the  judges  and  offic 
thereof,  as  his  Majesty,  his  heirs  and  successors,  shall  think   ne- 
cessary for  the  circumstances  of  the  said  province." 

Here  a  power  of  a  most  extraordinary  and  dangerous  nature 
is  conferred.  There  must  be  an  end  of  all  liberty  where  the 
prince  is  possessed  of  such  an  exorbitant  prerogative  as  enables 
him,  at  pleasure,  to  establish  the  most  iniquitous,  cruel,  and 
oppressive  courts  of  criminal,  civil,  and  ecclesiastical  jurisdic- 
tion; and  to  appoint  temporary  judges  ami  officers,  whom  he 
can  displace  and  change  as  often  as  he  pleases.  For  what  can 
more  nearly  concern  the  safety  and  happiness  of  Bubjects,  than 
the  wise  economy,  and  equitable  constitution  of  those  courts  in 
which  trials  for  life,  liberty,  property,  and  religion,  are  to  be 
conducted?  Should  it  eve]-  comport  with  the  designs  <<l'  an 
ambitious  and  wicked  minister,  we  may  see  an  Inquisition  ere 
in  Canada;  and  priest  lv  t\  ran  n  v  hereafter  find  as  propitious  a  -oil 
in  America,  as  it  ever  has  in  Spain  or  Portugal 

But  in  order  to  varnish  over  the  arbitrary  complexion  of  the 
Act,  and  to  conciliate  the  minds  of  tin-  Canadians,  it  is  provided, 
"That  whereas,  the  certainty  and    lenity  of  tin-   criminal    law  of 
England,  and  the  benefits  and  advantages  resulting  from  thi 
of  it,  have  been  sensibly  felt   by  the  inhabitants,  from  an  expe- 
rience of  more  than  nine  years:    Therefore,   the  same  shall  he 
administered,  and  shall  be  observed  as  law,  in  the  provinc 
Quebec,  to  the  exclusion  of  every  rule  of  criminal   law  w 
did,  or  might,  prevail  in  said  province  before  the  \,'.ty  o] 
sand  seven  hundred  and  sixty-four." 

B  9 


130  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  18. 

As  "it  is  in  the  goodness  of  criminal  laws,  that  the  liberty 
of  the  subject  principally  depends,"*  this  would  have  been  an 
important  privilege,  had  it  not  been  rendered  uncertain  and  alien- 
able by  the  latter  part  of  the  same  clause,  which  makes  them 
"  subject  to  such  alterations  and  amendments,  as  the  Governor, 
Lieutenant-Governor,  and  Commander-in-Chief  for  the  time  be- 
ing, by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Legislative  Council 
of  the  same,  shall,  from  time  to  time,  cause  to  be  made  therein." 

Under  the  notion  of  necessary  alterations  and  amendments, 
the  King,  through  the  medium  of  his  creatures,  the  Governor 
and  Council,  may  entirely  new  mould  the  criminal  laws  of 
Canada,  and  make  them  subservient  to  the  most  tyrannical 
views.  So  that,  in  this  respect,  also,  the  principle  of  arbitary 
power,  which  is  the  soul  of  the  Act,  is  uniformly  maintained 
and  preserved,  in  full  vigor,  Avithout  the  least  real  or  effectual 
diminution. 

It  has  been  denied,  with  the  most  palpable  absurdity,  that  the 
right  of  trial  by  juries  is  taken  from  the  Canadians.  It  is  said, 
that  the  provincial  legislature  of  Canada  may  introduce  them  as 
soon  as  they  please ;  and  it  is  expected  that  they  will,  "  as  soon 
as  the  inhabitants  desire  them,"  or  "the  state  of  the  country  will 
admit  of  them." 

A  civil  right  is  that,  which  the  laws  and  the  constitution 
have  actually  conferred ;  not  that  which  may  be  derived  from 
the  future  bounty  and  beneficence  of  those  in  authority.  The 
possibility  that  the  Legislature  of  Canada  may  hereafter  intro- 
duce trials  by  juries,  does  not  imply  a  right  in  the  people  to 
enjoy  them.  For  in  the  same  sense  it  may  be  said,  that  the  inhabit- 
ants of  France,  or  Spain,  have  a  right  to  trial  by  juries,  because 
it  is  equally  in  the  power  of  their  legislatures  to  establish  them. 

Since,  therefore,  it  is  apparent,  that  a  system  of  French  laws 
has  been  established  in  the  province  of  Quebec ;  and  an  indefi- 
nite power  vested  in  the  King,  to  vary  and  alter  these  laws ;  as 
also  to  constitute  such  courts  of  criminal,  civil,  and  ecclesiastical 
jurisdiction  ;  and  to  introduce  such  a  form  of  criminal  law  as  he 
shall  judge  necessary ;  I  say,  since  all  this  is  deducible  from  the 

*  Montesquieu. 


JEt.  18.]  QUEHIlc     BILL.  131 

express  letter  of  the  Act;  or,  in  other  words,  since  tin-  whole 
Legislative,  Executive,  and  Judiciary  powers,  are  ultimately  and 
effectually,  though  not  immediately,  Lodged  in  the  King;  there 
can  1"'  no  room  to  doubt,  that  an  arbitrary  government  bas  been 
really  instituted  throughout  the  extensive  region  now  com- 
prised in  the  province  of  Qih 'I "c. 


NO.  II. 

Having  considered  tin-  nature  of  this  Bill  with  regard  to  civil 
government,  1  am  next  to  examine  it  with  relation  to  religion; 
and  to  endeavor  to  show,  that  the  Church  of  Rome  has  now  the 
sanction  of  a  legal  establishment  in  the  province  of  Quebec. 

In  order  to  do  this  the  more  satisfactorily,  I  beg  leave  to 
adopt  the  definition  given  of  an  established  religion,  by  a  certain 
writer  who  has  takm  great  pains  to  evince  the  contrary.  l>  An 
established  religion,"  says  be,  "is  a  religion  which  the  civil  au- 
thority engages,  not  only  to  protect,  but  to  support."  This  Act 
makes  effectual  provision,  not  only  for  the  protection,  but  for 
the  permanent  support  of  popery  :  as  is  evident  from  the  follow- 
ing clause:  "And  for  the  more  perfeel  security  and  ease  of  the 
minds  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  said  province,  it  is  hereby  de- 
clared, thai  his  Majesty's  subjects,  professing  the  religion  of  the 
Church  of  Home,  in  the  said  province,  may  have,  hold,  and  en- 
joy, the  free  exercise  of  the  religion  of  the  Church  of  Rome. 
subject  to  the  Bang's  supremacy,  &c. ;  and  that  the  clergy  of  the 
said  Church,  may  hold,  receive,  and  enjoy,  their  accustomed 
dues  and  rights,  &c." 

This  is  represented  as  a  bare  permission  to  the  clergy,  to  en- 
joy the  usual  emoluments  of  their  functions,  and  not  as  a  legal 
provision  for  their  support  Much  Btress  &  ems  to  be  laid  on  tin- 
word  "may,"  which  is  commonly  italicised.  But  though  the 
phraseology  be  artful,  yet  it  is  easy  to  perceive,  that  it  opei 
to  the  same  effect  as  if  it  had  been  more  positive  and  emphatical. 

The  clergy  "may  hold,  receive,  and  enjoy,  their  accustomed 
dues  and  rights."     They  may  if  they  please.     It  is  at  then 


132  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  18. 

tion,  and  must  depend  upon  their  will ;  and,  consequently,  there 
must  be  a  correspondent  obligation  upon  their  parishioners  to 
comply  with  that  will,  and  to  pay  those  dues  when  required. 
What  the  law  gives  us  an  unconditional  permission  to  enjoy,  no 
person  can  legally  withhold  from  us.  It  becomes  our  property 
and  we  can  enforce  our  right  to  it.  If  the  Legislature  of  this  co- 
lony were  to  decree,  that  the  clergy  of  the  different  denomina- 
tions, may  hold,  receive,  and  enjoy,  tithes  of  their  respective  con- 
gregations; we  should  soon  find  that  it  would  have  the  same 
efficacy  as  if  it  were  decreed,  that  the  several  congregations 
should  pay  tithes  to  their  respective  clergy.  For,  otherwise,  the 
Legislature  might  confer  a  right  which  had  no  correlative  obliga- 
tion ;  and  which  must,  therefore,  be  void  and  inefficacious.  But 
this  is  contradictory  and  impossible. 

"  Tithes  in  Canada,"  it  is  said,  "are  the  property  of  the  Ro- 
man Church :  and  permitting  a  tolerated  Church  to  enjoy  its  own 
property,  is  far  short  of  the  idea  of  an  establishment."  But  I 
should  be  glad  to  know,  in  the  first  place,  how  tithes  can  be  the 
property  of  any  but  of  an  established  church  ?  And  in  the  next, 
how  they  came  to  be  the  property  of  the  Romish  Church  in  Ca- 
nada, during  the  intermediate  space  between  the  surrender  of 
that  province  to  the  English,  and  the  passing  of  this  Act? 
Nothing  can  be  deemed  my  property,  to  which  I  have  not  a 
perfect  and  uncontrollable  right  by  the  laws.  If  a  church  have 
not  a  similar  right  to  tithes,  it  can  have  no  property  in  them ; 
and  if  it  have,  it  is  plain  the  laws  must  have  made  provision  for 
its  support,  or  in  other  words,  must  have  established  it. 

Previous  to  the  surrender  of  Canada,  the  Catholic  religion 
was  established  there  by  the  laws  of  France ;  and  tithes  were, 
on  that  account,  the  legal  property  of  the  Church  of  Rome ;  and 
could  not  be  withheld  by  the  laity,  though  ever  so  much  dis- 
posed to  it.  But  after  the  surrender,  this  circumstance  took  a 
different  turn.  The  French  laws  being  no  longer  in  force,  the 
establishment  of  the  Romish  Church  ceased  of  course  ;  and  with 
it,  the  property  which  it  before  had  in  tithes. 

It  is  true,  the  clergy  may  have  continued  to  receive  and  en- 
joy their  customary  dues,  tithes,  and  other  perquisites  :  but  they 


JEr.  18.]  QUEBEC     HILL.  1  '■'<■' 

were  not,  for  all  that,  the  property  of  the  Church;  because  it 
had  lost  its  Legal  right  to  them,  and  it  was  ;it  the  discretion  <»i 
the  laity  to  withhold  them,  if  they  had  thoughl  proper;  or  to 
abridge  them,  ami  place  them  upon  a  more  moderate  footing. 
Their  voluntary  concurrence  was  necessary  to  give  their  prii 
a  right  to  demand  them  as  before.     Bu1  by  the  Late  Act,  this 

matter   is    again    put   into   its    former    situation.      Tithes  are  now 

become  the  property  of  the  Church,  as  formerly;  because  it  again 
has  a  legal  claim  to  them;  and  the  conditional  consent  of  the 
people  is  set  aside.  Thus  we  sec,  thai  this  Act  does  not,  in  fact, 
permit  a  tolerated  church  to  enjoy  "its  own  property,"  but 
gives  it  a  real  and  legal  property  in  that  which  it  before  held 
from  the  bounty  and  liberality  of  its  professors;  and  which  they 
might  withhold,  or  diminish,  at  pleasure:  and  this,  in  the  most 
proper  sense,  converts  it  into  an  establishment. 

The  characteristic  difference  between  a  tolerated  and  estab- 
lished religion,  consists  in  this:  With  respect  to  the  support  of 
the  former,  the  law  is  passive  and  improvident,  leaving  it  to 
those  who  profess  it,  to  make  as  much,  or  as  little,  provision  as 
they  shall  judge  expedient ;  and  to  varyand  alter  thai  provision, 
as  their  circumstances  may  require.  In  this  manner,  the  I'res- 
byt'  -  and  other  sects,  are  tolerated  in  England.  They  are 
allowed  to  exercise  their  religion  without  molestation,  and  to 
maintain  their  clergy  as  they  think  proper.  These  are  wholly 
dependent  upon  their  congregation.-,  and  can  exact  no  more  than 
they  stipulate  and  are  satisfied  to  contribute.  But  with  respect 
to  the  support  of  the  Latter,  the  Law  is  active  and  provident. 
Certain  precise  dues,  (tithes  &C.,)  are  legally  annexed  to  the 
clerical  office,  independent  on  the  liberal  contributions  of  the 
people;  which  is  exactly  the  case  with  the  Canadian  pries 
and  therefore,  no  reasonable,  impartial  man,  will  doubt  that  the 
religion  of  the  Church  of  Rome  is  established  in  Canada.    While 

tithes  Were  the  free,   t  hough  CUst  •  >ma  rv.  gift  of  the  people,  aS  WM 

the  case  before  the  passing  of  the  Act  in  question,  the  Roman 

Church  was  only  in  a  state  of  toleration  :  but  when  the  law  came 
to  take  cognizance  of  them,  and,  by  determining  their  permanent 
existence,  destroyed  the  free  agency  of  the  people,  it  then  re- 


134  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  18. 

sumed  the  nature  of  an  establishment,  which  it  had  been  divested 
of  at  the  time  of  the  capitulation. 

As  to  the  Protestant  religion ;  it  is  often  asserted  that  ample 
provision  has  been  made  by  the  Act,  for  its  future  establish- 
ment :  to  prove  which,  the  writer  before  mentioned,  has  quoted 
a  clause  in  the  following  mutilated  manner :  "  It  is  provided  " 
says  he,  "that  his  Majesty,  his  heirs  or  successors,  may  make 
such  provision  out  of  the  accustomed  dues,  or  rights,  for  the  en- 
couragement of  the  Protestant  religion,  and  for  the  maintenance 
of  a  Protestant  clergy  within  the  said  province,  as  he  or  they 
shall,  from  time  to  time,  think  necessary  and  expedient." 

It  must  excite  a  mixture  of  anger  and  disdain  to  observe 
the  wretched  arts  to  which  a  designing  administration,  and  its 
abettors,  are  driven,  in  order  to  conceal  the  enormity  of  their 
measures.     This  whole  clause,  in  its  true  and  original  construc- 
tion, is  destitute  of  meaning ;  and  was  evidently  inserted  for  no 
other  end  than  to  deceive  by  the  appearance  of  a  provident  re- 
gard for  the  Protestant  religion.     The  Act  first  declares,  "  That 
his  Majesty's  subjects,  professing  the  religion  of  the  Church  of 
Eome,  may  have  and  enjoy  the  free  exercise  of  their  religion ; 
and  that  the  clergy  of  the  said  church,  may  hold,  receive,  and 
enjoy  their  accustomed  dues  and  rights."      Then  follows  this 
clause :  "  Provided,  nevertheless,  that  it  shall  be  lawful  for  his 
Majesty,  his  heirs  and  successors,  to  make  such  provision  out  of 
the  rest  of  the  said  accustomed  dues  and  rights,  for  the  encour- 
agement of  the  Protestant  religion,  for  the  maintenance  and  sup- 
port of  a  Protestant  clergy  within  the  said  province,  as  he  or 
they  shall,  from  time  to  time,  think  necessary  and  expedient." 

Thus  we  see,  the  Eomish  clergy  are  to  have,  hold,  and  enjoy, 
their  accustomed  dues  and  rights ;  and  the  rest  and  remainder 
of  them,  is  to  be  applied  towards  the  encouragement  of  the 
Protestant  religion :  but  when  they  have  had  their  wonted  dues, 
I  fancy  it  will  puzzle  administration,  by  any  effort  of  political 
chemistry  to  produce  the  rest,  or  remainder.  Suppose,  for  in- 
stance, A.  made  an  actual  settlement  of  a  hundred  pounds  on 
B. ;  and,  by  a  subsequent  act,  should  declare  that  B.  should 
continue  to  hold  and  enjoy  his  accustomed  and  annual  bounty ; 


jEt.  18.]  QUEBEC    BILL.  185 


• 


and  that  tli"  rest  of  the  said  bounty  Bhould  be  given  to  Q. :  it  is 
evident  thatC.  would  have  oothing,  becanse  there  would  be  no 
rest  whatever.  Exactly  parallel  ami  analogous  i-  the  case  in 
hand.  The  Romish  priests  an'  t<>  have  their  accustomed  dues 
and  rights;  and  the  rest  of  the  said  dues  and  rights,  is  to  be 
dedicated  to  the  encouragement  of  the  Protestanl  religion  In 
the  above  recited  quotation,  there  is  a  chasm:  the  words  " the 
restof"  being  artfully  omitted,  to  give  the  passage  some  una  n- 
ing  which  i1  hasnotin  itself.  With  this  amendment,  the  sense 
must  be,  thai  his  Majesty  might  appropriate  what  portion  of  the 
customary  revenues  of  the  Romish  clergy  he  should  think  pro- 
pel-, to  the  support  and  maintenance  of  Protestant  churches. 
But,  according  to  the  real  words  of  the  Act,  he  can  only  devote 
"the  rest,"  or  remainder,  of  such  revenues  to  that  purpose; 
which,  as  I  Lave  already  shown,  is  nothing.  So  that  the  seem- 
ing  provision  in  favor  of  the  Protestant  religion,  is  entirely  ver- 
bal and  delusory.  Excellent  must  be  the  encouragement  it  will 
derive  from  this  source.  But  this  is  not  all.  Had  there  been 
really  provision  made,  to  be  applied  at  the  discretion  of  his 
M  ijesty,  I  should  still  consider  this  Act  as  an  atrocious  infraction 
on  the  rights  of  Englishmen,  in  a    point  of  the  most  delicate  and 

momentous  concern.  No  Protestant  Englishman  would  consent 
to  let  the  five  exercise  of  his  religion  depend  upon  the  mere 
pleasure  of  any  man,  however  great  or  exalted.  The  privilege 
of  worshipping  the  Deity,  in  the  manner  his  conscience  dictates, 
which  is  one  of  the  dearest  he  enjoys,  must,  in  that  case,  be 
rendered  insecure  and  precarious.  Vet  this  is  the  unhappy  sit- 
uation to  which  the  Protestant  inhabitants  of  Canada  are  now 
reduced. 

The  will  of  the  king  must  give  law  to  their  consciences.  It 
is  in  his  power  to  keep  them  for  ever  dispossessed  of  all  religious 
immunities;   and  there  is  too  much  reason  to  apprehend,  that  the 

same  motives  which  instigated  the  A.ct,  would  induce  him  to 
give  them  as  little  future  encouragement  as  possible. 

I  imagine  it  will  clearly  appear,  from  what  has  been  oifen-d, 
that  the  Roman  Catholic  religion,  instead  of  being  tolerated, 

stipulated  by  the  Treaty  of  Peace,  is  established  by  the  late  Act; 


136  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

and  that  the  Protestant  religion  has  been  left  entirely  destitute 
and  unbefriended  in  Canada.  But  if  there  should  be  any  who 
think  that  the  indulgence  granted,  does  not  extend  to  a  perfect 
establishment;  and  that  it  may  be  justified  by  the  terms  of  the 
treaty,  and  the  subsequent  conduct  of  the  Canadians ;  and  if 
they  should  also  be  at  a  loss  to  perceive  the  dangerous  nature  of 
the  Act,  with  respect  to  the  other  colonies ;  I  would  beg  their 
further  attention  to  the  following  considerations. 

However  justifiable  this  Act  may  be,  in  relation  to  the  pro- 
vince of  Quebec,  with  its  ancient  limits,  it  cannot  be  defended 
by  the  least  plausible  pretext,  when  it  is  considered  as  annexing 
such  a  boundless  extent  of  new  territory  to  the  old. 

If  a  free  form  of  government  had  "  been  found  by  experi- 
ence to  be  inapj)licable  to  the  state  and  circumstances  of  the  pro- 
vince;" and  if  "a  toleration  less  generous,  although  it  might 
have  fulfilled  the  letter  of  the  articles  of  the  treaty,  would  not 
have  answered  the  expectations  of  the  Canadians,  nor  have  left 
upon  their  minds  favorable  impressions  of  British  justice  and 
honor ;"  if  these  reasons  be  admitted  as  true,  and  allowed  their 
greatest  weight,  they  only  prove  that  it  might  be  just  and 
politic  to  place  the  province  of  Quebec,  alone,  with  its  former 
boundaries,  in  the  circumstances  of  civil  and  religious  govern- 
ment which  are  established  by  this  Act.  But  when  it  is  de- 
manded, Why  it  has  also  added  the  immense  tract  of  country 
that  surrounds  all  these  colonies,  to  that  province,  and  has  placed 
the  whole  under  the  same  exceptionable  institutions,  both  civil 
and  religious  ? — the  advocates  for  administration  must  be  con- 
founded and  silent. 

This  Act  developes  the  dark  designs  of  the  ministry  more 
fully  than  any  thing  they  have  done ;  and  shows  that  they  have 
formed  a  systematic  project  of  absolute  power. 

The  present  policy  of  it  is  evidently  this.  By  giving  a  legal 
sanction  to  the  accustomed  dues  of  the  priests,  it  was  intended 
to  interest  them  in  behalf  of  the  administration ;  and  by  means 
of  the  dominion  they  possessed  over  the  minds  of  the  laity> 
together  with  the  appearance  of  good  will  towards  their  religion, 
to  prevent  any  dissatisfaction  which  might  arise  from  the  loss  of 


jEt.  18.]  QUEBEC     BILL.  187 

their  civil  rights;  and  to  propitiate  diem  tothegreal  pnrpo 
in  contemplation ;  first,  the  subjugation  of  the  colonies;  and  after- 
wards, that  of  Greal   Britain  itself     It  was  necessary  to  throw 
out  some  such  lure  to  reconcile  them  to  the  exactions  of  that 

power  which   has   been   communicated   to    the    Kin.1/,  and  which 

the  emergency  of  the  times  may  require  in  a  very  extensive 
degree. 

The  future  policy  of  it  demands  particular  attention,  'i 
nature  of  its  civil  government  will  hereafter  pu1  a  Btop  to  emigra- 
tions from  other  parts  of  the  British  dominions  thither,  and  from 
all  other  free  countries.  The  pre-eminen1  advantages  secured 
to  the  Roman  Catholic  religion,  will  discourage  all  Protestant 
settlers,  of  whatever  nation;  and  on  these  accounts,  the  province 
will  be  Bettled  and  inhabited  by  none  but  Papists.  If  lenity 
and  moderation  are  observed  in  administering  the  laws;  the 
natural  advantages  of  this  fertile  infant  country,  united  to  the 
indulgence  given  to  their  religion,  will  attract  droves  of  emi- 
grant- from  all  the  Roman  Catholic  States  in  Europe:  and  these 
colonies,  in  time,  will  find  themselves  encompassed  with  innu- 
merable hosts  of  neighbors,  disaffected  to  them,  both  because  of 
difference  in  religion  and  government.  How  dangerous  their 
situation  would  be,  let  every  man  of  common  sense  judge. 

What  can  speak  in  plainer  language,  the  corruption  of  the 
British  Parliament  than  this  Act,  which  invests  the  King  with 
absolute  power  over  a  little  world  (if  I  maybe  allowed  the  ex- 
pression), and  makes  such  ample  provision  for  the  Popish  reli- 
gion, and  leaves  the  Protestant  in  such  a  dependent,  disadvanta- 
geous situation ;  that  he  is  like  to  have  no  other  subjects  in  this 
part  of  his  domain,  than  Roman  Catholics,  who,  by  reason  of 
their  implicit  devotion  to  their  priests,  and  the  superlative  reve- 
rence they  bear  those  who  countenance  and  favor  their  religion, 
will  be  the  voluntary  instruments  of  ambition,  and  will  be  ready, 
at  all  times,  to  second  the  oppressive  designs  of  administration 
againsl  the  other  parts  of  the  empire. 

Hence,  while  our  ears  are  stunned  with  the  dismal  Bounds 
New  England's  Republicanism,  bigotry,  and  intolerance;  it  be- 
hooves us  to  be  upon  OUT  guard,  against  the  deceitful  wiles  ol 


138  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  18. 

those  who  would  persuade  us,  that  we  have  nothing  to  fear  from 
the  operation  of  the  Quebec  Act.  We  should  consider  it  as 
bemg  replete  with  danger  to  ourselves,  and  as  threatening  ruin 
to  our  posterity.  Let  us  not,  therefore,  suffer  ourselves  to  be 
terrified  at  the  prospect  of  an  imaginary  and  fictitious  Scylla; 
and,  by  that  means,  be  led  blindfold  into  a  real  and  destructive 
Charybdis. 


jEt.  91.] 


RKOlUJANIZATlo.X  <  >F  THE  ARMY. 

January  28.  1778.* 

The  numerous  defects  in  our  present  military  establishment, 
rendering  many  reformations  and  many  new  arrangements  abso- 
lutely necessary,  and  (Vngivss  having  been  pleased  to  appoint 
you  a  committee,  in  concert  with  me,  to  make  and  recommend 
such  as  shall  appear  eligible,  in  pursuance  of  the  various  objects 
expressed  in  the  resolution,  for  that  purpose ;  I  have,  in  the 
following  sheets,  briefly  delivered  my  sentiments  upon  such  of 
them  as  appeared  to  me  most  essential,  so  far  as  observation  has 
suggested  and  leisure  permitted.  These  are  submitted  to  con- 
sideration, and  I  shall  be  happy,  if  they  are  found  conducive  to 
remedying  the  evils  and  inconveniences  we  are  now  subject  to, 
and  putting  the  army  upon  a  more  respectable  footing.  Some- 
thing must  be  done;  important  alterations  must  be  made; 
necessity  requires  that  our  resources  should  be  enlarged  and 
our  system  im] >roved,  for  without  it,  if  the  dissolution  of  the 
army  should  not  be  the  consequence,  at  least  its  operations  must 
be  feeble,  languid,  and  ineffectual. 

As  I  consider  a  proper  and  satisfactory  provision  for  officers, 
as  the  basis  of  every  other  arrangement  and  regulation  neces- 
sary to  be  made,  since  without  officers  no  army  can  exist;  and 
unless  some  measures  be  devised  to  place  those  officers  in  a 
more  desirable  condition,  few  of  them  would  be  able,  if  willing, 

*  This  important  communication  was  addressed  by  Washington  tothecom- 
mittee  of  Congress,  in  camp  at  Valley  Forge.  It  is  printed  from  two  Incomplete 
drafts  in  the  handwriting  of  Hamilton.      The  copy  is  not  found  among  the 

archi 


140  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEr.21. 

to  continue  in  it,  I  shall  begin  with  a  few  reflections  tendinc 
to  prove  the  necessity  of  ° 


A  Half-pay  and  Pensionary  Establishment. 

A  small  knowledge  of  human  nature  will  convince  us,  that 
with  far  the  greatest  part  of  mankind,  interest  is  the  govern- 
ing principle,  and  that  almost  every  man  is  more  or  less  under 
its  influence.     Motives  of  public  virtue  may,  for  a  time  or  in 
particular  instances,  actuate  men  to  the  observance  of  a  con- 
duct purely  disinterested,  but  they  are  not  sufficient  of  them- 
selves to  produce  a  persevering  conformity  to  the  refined  dic- 
tates of  social  duty.     Few  men  are  capable  of  making  a  con- 
tjnual  sacrifice  of  all  views  of  private  interest  or  advantage  to 
the  common  good.   It  is  in  vain  to  exclaim  against  the  deprav, tv 
of  human  nature  on  this  account,  the  fact  is  so,  the  experW 
of  every  age  and  nation  has  proved  it,  and  we  must  in  a  Teat 

tzz^szz not  bu,lt  m  the  "t!-  «■  °f 

as  ^eJt,them  eSeTIiM  in  *e  American  officers  as  well 

fte  ft  f  <?         men'     A*  the  commencement  of  the  dispute  in 
the  first  effusions  of  their  7pnl  „,„l  i„  i  •  ,       0iJule>  Iu 

be  onlv  f»m„  »,  '  Poking  upon  the  service  to 

be  on  y  temporary,  they  entered  into  it,  without  paying  any  re- 

furti      f  Tary  ,°r  Sdflsh  considerations.      But,  finding  its 
itt    doft6  mU°h  ^J  than  **  at  *-  -pected,  ancft 

-do  nVwffh  ™tS;  th67  haTC  ^^  abated  i  *eir 
unto  ^IH  ^  m  entoe  disindination  to  ^  service, 
unaer  its  present  circumstances,  has  taken  place     To  this  in  ,„ 

»  r be  Tibed  the  ^  -^-  "4 

to  SK 1 1 the  m°re  ire^Uent  ™P0rtunities  for  permission 
te  resign,  and  from  some  officers  of  the  greatest  merit     To  thi» 

wfiSX^  f  aPfy-  lMttat-  ^-Xct  of  dut 
which  pervade  all  ranks,  and  which  will  necessarily  continue  and 


jEt.  21.]  ARMV    REORGANIZATION.  1 -H 

increase,  while  an  officer,  instead  of  gaining,  is  impoverished  by 
his  commission,  and  conceives  he  is  conferring,  no1  receiving;  a 
favor  in  holding  it  There  can  be  no  tie  nponmen  p<  ing 
such  sentiments,  nor  ran  we  adopt  any  method  to  oblige  tl. 
to  a  punctual  discharge  of  their  duty,  who  are  indifferenl  aboul 
their  continuance  in  the  service,  and  are  often  seeking  a  prel 
todisengage  themselves  from  it.  Punishment,  in  this  case,  will 
be  unavailing;  bu1  when  an  officer's  commission  is  made  valu- 
able to  him,  and  he  tears  to  lose  it,  thru  may  you  exact  obedi- 
ence from  him. 

It  is  not  indeed  consistent  with  reason  or  justice,  to  expect, 
that  one  set  of  men  should  make  a  sacrifice  of  property,  domestic 
ease  and  happiness,  encounter  the  rigors  of  the  field,  the  perils 
and  vicissitudes  of  war,  to  obtain  those  blessings  which  every 
citizen  will  enjoy  in  common  with  them,  without  some  adequate 
compensation. 

It  must  also  be  a  comfortless  reflect  ion  to  any  man,  that, 
after  he  may  have  contributed  to  the  securing  the  lights  of  his 
country  at  the   risk   of  his  life  and  the  ruiu  of  his  fortune,  there 

dd  be  no  provision,  to  prevent  himself  and  family,  from  sink- 
ing into  indigence  and  wretchedness.  1  urge  these  sentiments 
with  the  greater  freedom,  because  I  cannot,  and  shall  not  re- 
ceive the  smallest  benefit  from  the  establishment,  and  have  no 
other  inducement  for  proposing  it.  than  a  full  conviction  of  its 

Utility  and  propriety. 

*  *  *  * 

Of  completion  the  Regiments  and  altering  their  establishment 

rf he  necessity  of  the  first,  in  the  most  expeditious  manner 
possible,  is  too  self-evident  to  need  illustrations  or  proof;  and  I 
shall,  therefore,  only  beg  leave  to  offer  Borne  reflections  on  the 
mode.  Voluntary  enlistments  seem  to  be  totally  out  of  the 
question;  all  the  allurements  of  the  most  exorbitant  bounties, 
and  every  other  inducement  that  could  be  thought  of,  have  I 

tried  in  vain,  and  seem  to  have  had  little  other  effeel   than  to 

increase   the   rapacity  and   raise   the   demands   of  those  to  whom 
they  were  held  out.     We  may  fairly  infer  that  the  country  hafl 


142  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [£2t.  21. 

been  already  pretty  well  drained  of  that  class  of  men  whose 
tempers,  attachments,  and  circumstances  disposed  them  to  enter 
permanently,  or  for  a  length  of  time,  into  the  army;  and  that 
the  residue  of  such  men,  who,  from  different  motives,  have  kept 
out  of  the  army,  if  collected,  would  not  augment  our  general 
strength  m  any  proportion  to  what  they  require.     If  experience 
has  demonstrated  that  little  more  can  be  done  by  voluntary  en 
listments,  some  other  mode  must  be  concerted,  and  no  other  pre- 
sents itself  than  that  of  filling  the  regiments  by  drafts  from  the 
militia.     This  is  a  disagreeable  alternative,  but  it  is  an  unavoida- 
ble  one. 

'  As  drafting  for  the  war,  or  for  a  term  of  years,  would  pro- 
bably be  disgusting  and  dangerous,  perhaps  impracticable,  I 
would  propose  an  annual  draft  of  men,  without  officers,  to  serve 
till  the  first  day  of  January  in  each  year.  That  on  or  before  the 
first  day  of  October  preceding,  these  drafted  men  should  be 
called  upon  to  re-enlist  for  the  succeeding  year ;  and  as  an  incite- 
ment to  doing  it,  those  being  much  better  and  less  expensive 

fflrecf  VhT'8'  '  Wj  °f  tW6ntj-fiVe  d°1IarS  ^  ^ 
ofieied.     That  upon  ascertaining  at  this  period  the  number  of 

men  willing  to  re-engage,  exact  returns  should  be  made  to  Con- 
gress of  the  deficiency  in  each  regiment  and  transmitted  by  them 
to  he  respective  States,  in  order  that  they  may  have  their  sev- 
eral quotas .immediately  furnished  and  sent  on  to  camp,  for  the 

™  ;ant;nSUmg  W  "  "  *  **<*  *  «  ««  *»  *« 

This  method,  though  not  so  good  as  that  of  obtaining  men  for 

we  shtli  T       T' tHe  ^  °Ur  <*™**»™»  -m  allow;  and  as 
we  shall  always  have  an  established  corps  of  experienced  offi- 

Sk  ofTo answei tolerablj  welL  Tt  is  the  ^y  ™*°  i  - 

I ^P r  si    ct°o?         "  ""I  battali°nS  m  time'  **  Pr0mises  *" 
ec  toftl         t°f  SUTS;  the  accomPlis^entof  which  is  an  ob- 

2!lortlT^Tnce]  and  ft  has  this  advant^>  **  the 

mind   of  the  people  being  once  reconciled  to  the  experiment  it 
would  prove  a  source  of  continual  supplies  hereafter"  ' 

recede  atton  ?  T  T"'  *""**  GOt'  ™  the  ^  ^ance, 
receive  any  bounty  from  the  public;  which  being  solemnly  en- 


jEt.  21.]  ARMY    REORGANIZATION.  L48 

joined  upon  each  State,  and  a  stop  put  to  the  militia  substitution 
laws,  would  probably  be  attended  with  very  happy  conse- 
quences. 

A  number  of  Idle  mercenary  fellows  would  be  thrown  oul  of 
employment,  precluded  from  their  excessive  wa  substitutes 

for  a  few  weeks  or  months,  and  constrained  to  enlisl  in  the  Con- 
tinental army.  In  Bpeaking  of  abolishing  the  militia  substitution 
laws,  it  is  not  meant  to  hinder  a  person  who  might  be  drafted  in 
the  annual  allotments  from  procuring  a  substitute  in  his  stead, 
himself  inconsequence  being  excused.  This  indulgence  would 
be  admissible,  and,  considering  all  things,  necessary,  as  there  are 
many  individuals  whose  dispositions  and  private  affairs  would 
make  them  inveoneileahly  averse  from  giving  their  personal 
services  for  SO  long  a  duration,  and  with  whom  it  would  be  im- 
politie  to  use  compulsion.  The  allowance  of  substitution  upon 
a  smaller  scale,  in  the  occasional  coming  out  of  the  militia  for  a 
few  weeks,  a  month  or  two,  is  the  thing  meant  to  be  reprobated. 
It  is  highly  productive  of  the  double  disadvantage  of  preventing 

the  growth  of  the  army  and  depreciating  our  currency. 

*  *  * 

In  the  new  establishmenl  of  a  Regiment,  as  apparent  incon- 
veniences  result  from  the  enemy's  having  no  full  Colonels  in 
their  army,  distinctly  such,  to  exchange  with  ours  in  case  of 
captivity,  1  would  propose  that  our  battalions  should  be  com- 
manded by  Lieutenant-Colonels  commandant,  with  the  pay  of 
1  olonel,  and  consisl  of  the  following  officers  and  men: — 1  Lieu- 
tenant-Colonel commandant;  1  Lieutenant-Colonel :  1  Major;  9 
Captains;    '.'Lieutenants;    \)  Ensigns;   an  Adjutant,  Quarter-.M.  - 

ter,  Pay-Master,  Sergeant,  Drum  and  Fife  Major,  27  Sergeants, 
18  Drums  and  Fifes,  and  504  rank  and  file. 

These  I  would  propose  to  have  divided  into  eight  companies, 
and  that  a  Captain,  Lieutenant,  Ensign,  3  S  tnts,  2  drums 
and  fifes  and  56  rank  and  file  be  selected  from  the  whole  to  com- 
pose a  company  of  Light  [nfantry.  That  the  Infantry  from  each 
brigade  be  commanded  by  a  field  officer  belonging  to  it;  it'  offi- 
cers, by  the  reduction  of  corps  and  otherwise  unprovided  for, 
are  not  appointed  to  these  commands — a  mode  preferable  to  that 


144  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEi.  21. 

of  drafting  from  the  brigades,  as  a  means  of  doing  the  officers 
justice,  and  because  the  brigades  must  miss  the  field  officers 
taken  from  them,  for  this  jmrpose,  and  that  the  whole  be  under 
the  command  of  General  officers  of  the  line,  chosen  by  the  Com- 
mander-in-Chief. This  body  would  compose  the  flying  army 
and  in  conjunction  with  a  body  of  horse  become  extremely  for- 
midable and  useful. 

The  benefits  arising  from  a  superiority  of  horse  are  obvious 
to  those  who  have  experienced  them.     Independent  of  such  as 
you  may  derive  from  it  in  the  field  of  battle,  it  enables  you  very 
materially  to  control  the  inferior  and  subordinate  motions  of 
an  enemy — to  impede  their  knowledge  of  what  you  are  doing ; 
while  it  gives  you  every  advantage  of  superior  intelligence,  and 
consequently  facilitates  your  enterprise  against  them  and  ob- 
structs theirs  against  you.     In  a  defensive  war,  as  in  our  case,  it 
is  peculiarly  desirable,  because  it  affords  great  protection  to  the 
country,  and  is  a  barrier  to  those  inroads  and  depredations  upon 
the  inhabitants,  which  are  inevitable  when  the  superiority  lies 
on  the  side  of  the  invaders.     The  enemy,  fully  sensible  of  the 
advantages,  are  taking  all  the  pains  in  their  power  to  acquire  an 
ascendency  in  this  respect,  to  defeat  which,  I  would  propose  an 
augmentation  of  the  cavalry,  by  adding  a  Lieutenant,  a  Sergeant, 
Corporal,  and       privates  to  each  troop.     The  establishment  will 
then  be  as  follows:— 1  Colonel;  1  Lieutenant-Colonel;  1  Major; 
6  Captains;   12  Lieutenants;  6  Cornets;  1  Adjutant;  1  Quar- 
ter-Master ;  1  Saddler ;  6  Farriers  ;  6  Quarter-Master  Sergeants ; 
Sergeants;       Corporals;        Trumpeters;        Privates;    all  as 
usual  except  6  additional  Lieutenants. 

There  are,  and  will  continue,  four  regiments  of  Cavalry, 
which,  composing  a  brigade,  will  require  a  Brigadier,  Brigade- 
Major,  Quarter-Master,  Commissary  and  Forage-Master,  as  usual. 

The  men  for  this  service  can  easily  be  gotten  ;  the  providing 
horses  and  accoutrements  will  be  found  to  suffer  some  difficulty, 
yet  will  not  be  impracticable.  The  procuring  horses  would  be 
undertaken  by  judicious  officers,  from  each  regiment,  well  skilled 
in  them,  and  conducted  in  such  a  manner  as  to  occasion  no  inter- 
ference with  each  other.     Let  Sheldon's  purchases  be  confined  to 


JEt.2\.\  ARMY    reorganization.  145 

the  eastward  of  the  North  River;  Rfoylan's  between  the  North 
River  and  the  Susquehanna;     Baylor's  between  Susquehanna 
and  James  River;  and  Bland's  to  the  southward  of  that.    ] 
Dumber  of  horses  purchased  by  each,  ought  to  be  determii 
and  an  average  price  limited,  disclosed  only  to  the  purcha 
with  a  strict  injunction  to  conceal  it  as  much  as  possible;  be- 
cause, if  once  generally  known,  sellers  would  take  advantage  of 
it,  and  pari  \\  ith  i e  under  the  limitation. 

The  accoutrements  ought  to  be  provided  in  the  same  dis- 
tricts, and  by  the  same  persons,  '"it  as  some  of  these  districts 
abound  more  in  manufactures  than  others,  all  thai  can  be  en- 
gaged in  each,  in  a  certain  stipulated  time,  oughl  to  be  secured, 
in  order  thai  the  overplus  in  one  part,  may  supply  the  deficiency 
in  another.     And  as  these  articles  may  be  imported  cheaper  and 

■r  in  quality,  than  they  can  1"'  made  here,  I  would  ;i<1\ 
that  a1  leasl  fifteen   hundred  sets  may  be  sent   for  to  France, 
with  directions  to  divide  them  into  small  parcels,  and  embark 
them  in  differenl  vessi  Is,  that  we  may  have  a  probability  of  { 
ting  is1  a  part,  and  no1  be  in  danger  of  sustaining  a  total 

and  disappointment,  by  adventuring  the  whole  in  one  bottom. 

( '  the  .  I  rrangt  wn  nt  of  the  .  1  rmy. 

The  establishmenl  of  a  battalion  being  fixed  under  the  last 
head,  it  remains  to  ascertain  the  number  of  battalions,  in  order 
to  form  a  proper  arrangement.  The  number  of  battalions  now 
in  the  field,  from  each  State,  stands  thus: — New  Hampshir  • 
Massachusetts  L5,  Rhode  [sland  2,  Connecticut  8,  New-Yorls  1. 
New  Jersey  4,  Pennsylvania  L2,  Col.  W.  Stewart's  1,  Delaware  1. 
Maryland  7,  Virginia  L5,  one  State  do.  1.  Carolina  9,  German 
battalion  1,  Hazen's  regimenl  1,  additional  ami  ['arts  IS. — Total, 
97. 

]>v  the  foregoing  list,  it  appears,  thai  in  regiments  and  parts 

of  regiments  there  are  ninety-seven  now  ill  the  field;   the  state  "t' 
them  requires  explanation. 

<  hit  of  nine  from  North  Carolina,  by  a  return  of  the  -"1 1st  ult., 

only  572,  rank'  and  file,  are  lit  for  duty.    These,  with  seventy- 
one  sick  present,  and  137  on  command,  make  780,  rank 

B  10 


146  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  21. 

file,  which  I  suppose  may  be  produced.  The  total  number,  rank 
and  file,  in  the  nine  regiments,  is  1079 ;  the  difference  is  ac- 
counted for  in  sick,  absent,  and  on  furlough ;  which  is  the  only 
way,  I  am  apprehensive,  they  ever  will  be  accounted  for.  From 
this  defective  state  of  them,  I  should  think  it  advisable,  to  throw 
the  rank  and  file  of  the  nine  regiments  into  two  (they  have 
already  been  reduced  to  three),  and  to  send  the  supernumerary 
officers  back  to  the  State,  to  collect  such  men,  as  on  various  pre- 
tences were  left  behind,  and  deserters.  And  aided  by  the  whole 
efficiency  of  the  State,  voluntary  enlistments,  being,  as  I  said 
before,  out  of  the  question ;  to  exert  their  endeavors  towards 
completing  the  seven  other  regiments,  or  such  of  them  as  Con- 
gress shall  direct.  These  new  raised  corps  may  either  join  this 
army,  or  aid  South  Carolina  or  Virginia,  as  circumstances  shall 
point  out. 

I  am  the  more  induced  to  recommend  this  measure  from  the 
possibility  of  the  enemy's  attempting  a  more  Southern  expedition 
the  next  campaign.  This  they  may  do,  in  order  to  gain  posses- 
sion of  the  capital  of  another  State,  which  will  give  reputation 
to  their  arms  in  Europe,  distress  our  trade,  and  abridge  our  sup- 
plies ;  at  the  same  time,  will  enable  Administration,  in  another 
instance,  to  avail  themselves  of  the  illusory  idea,  they  endeavor 
to  hold  up  to  the  nation — to  keep  its  hopes  alive,  and  extract 
fresh  contributions — that  every  State,  whose  capital  is  possessed, 
is  conquered. 

Virginia,  I  understand,  though  not  from  any  direct  authority, 
has  resolved  to  draft  towards  the  completion  of  her  battalions ; 
and  as  this  mode  seems  to  be  the  only  one  calculated  to  answer 
the  end,  it  is  to  be  hoped  she  will  be  able  to  furnish  her  full 
complement  of  fifteen,  including  the  State  regiment.  What 
plan  Maryland  has  fallen  upon,  or  may  adopt,  to  fill  her  bat- 
talions I  know  not,  but  as  the  powers  of  government  are  with 
her  in  full  vigor,  and  the  abilities  of  the  State  entirely  adequate, 
I  think  her  original  quota  ought  to  be  depended  upon.  Dela- 
ware must,  undoubtedly,  contribute  one  battalion ;  no  change 
having  happened  since  that  portion  was  assigned  her,  sufficient 
to  afford  a  plea  for  reducing  it.  In  behalf  of  Pennsylvania,  much 


jEt.31.]  ARMY    REORGANIZATION.  117 

may  be  said;  the  exhausted  Btate  of  her  regiments;  loss  of  her 
capital,  and  intestine  divisions,  ever  destructive  to  the  energn 

ernment,  may  perhaps  incapacitate  her  from  completing  her 
thirteen  regiments  now  on   foot.     [  suppose  the  number  should 

In-.  Cor  tlir  present,  diminished  to  eight,  and  the  State  should 
exert  herself  to  till  them  in  the  first  place.  When  this  shall  be 
accomplished,  if  her  resources  appear  equal  to  any  further  effi 
slif  may  proceed  tn  raising  the  remaining  five.  Jersey,  New- 
York,  Connecticut,  Rhode  [slant,  Massachusetts,  ami  New- 
Hampshire,  are  fully  oompetenl  to  the  quotas  respectively  re- 
quired of  them,  and  no  abatemenl  seems  necessary  with  respect 
to  either.  We  have  reason  to  hope  their  exertions  will  keep 
pace  with  their  abilities,  and  thai  they  will  take  decisive  mea- 
sures to  semi  their  several  proportions  into  the  field.  I  am  at  a 
loss  what  to  propose  concerning  the  German  battalion  ;  Hazen's 
regiment,  and  the  sixteen  additionals.  Appertaining  to  no  par- 
ticular State  or  States,  they  will  have  no  chance  of  being  filled 
by  drafts,  and  as  little  by  any  other  means.  They  must  either 
remain  weak  and  imperfed  corps;  be  adopted  by  the  States,  or 
incorporated  into  each  other,  and  then,  if  possible,  1""  recruited. 
The  first,  upon  every  principle,  oughl  no1  to  be  the  case,  an 
the  second  would  not  be  alto-ether  eligible,  from  the  difficulty 
of  apportioning  them  without  dividing  and  subdividing  the 
regiments;  the  third  seems  to  be  the  expedient  to  which  we 
must  have  recourse.  Let  Maryland  take  the  German  batta! 
wholly,  as  one  of  her  eight,  for  she  already  claims  a  part  of  it; 
and  then  lei  the  sixteen  additionals,  none  of  which  are  strong 
some  extremely  weak,  and  others  only  partly  organized,  be 
thrown  into  nine.  There  is  this  number  of  them,  which,  com- 
paratively speaking,  are  tolerably  respectable,  and  have  under- 
gone a  good  deal  of  hard  service  in  the  course  of  the  campaign. 
These,  niter  having  received  the  men  out  of  the  reduced  corps, 
licensed,  though  a  barren  experiment,  ought  to  try  what  can  In- 
done  by   voluntary   enlistments,    throughout    the    Continent    at 

large.     Hazen's  regimenl   migh.1  be  added  to  them,  and  united 
in  the  same  privilege. 

[f  these  propositions  are  approved  the  whole  numl  bat- 


148  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  21. 

talions  on  the  establishment  will  be  eighty,  and  if  complete,  the 
total  amount  of  them  40,320  rank  and  file.  Upon  this  number 
of  battalions,  I  shall  make  my  arrangements.  Whether  full  or 
not  they  will  require  to  be  thrown  into  brigades  and   {desunt.) 

Of  Auditors  of  Accounts. 

The  want  of  such  an  institution  has  been  much  felt,  and  I  am 
happy  it  is  at  length  adopted.  The  sooner  the  gentlemen  ap- 
pointed enter  upon  the  execution  of  their  office  the  better,  as 
much  necessary  business  wants  their  regulating  hand.  The  pub- 
lic has  sustained  a  loss  of  many  thousands,  which  might  have 
been  prevented,  by  the  negligence  and  death  of  numberless 
officers. 

Having  run  through  the  different  distributions  of  the  army 
as  composed  of  horse  and  foot,  with  all  the  departments  depend- 
ent thereon,  and  offered  such  remarks  as  occurred  to  me  on  the 
several  subjects,  I  proceed  to  the  mention  of  two  departments 
commonly  considered  as  separate  and  distinct — the  artillery  and 
engineering. 

Artillery. 

This  department,  if  the  arrangements  and  measures  concerted 
met  with  proper  countenance  and  support,  bids  fair  to  be  upon  a 
very  respectable  establishment.  A  plan  was  agreed  upon  not 
long  since  between  General  Knox  and  nryself  for  the  formation 
of  four  battalions,  which  was  intended  to  be  presented  to  Con- 
gress, that  if  approved  by  them  it  might  be  recommended  to  the 
several  States.  It  is  now  submitted  to  the  consideration  of  the 
Committee. 

Engineering. 
*  *  *  # 

Paymaster  General. 

This  department  is  well  conducted,  so  far  as  depends  upon  the 
gentleman  at  the  head  of  it,  but  the  want  of  money,  which  too 
frequently  happens,  is  extremely  injurious  to  our  affairs.     It  is 


At. 91.]  ARMY    REORGANIZATION.  149 

unnecessary  to  observe,  thai  besides  feeding  and  clothing  a  sol« 
dier  well,  nothing  is  of  greater  importance  than   paying   him 

punctually;   and  it  is  perhaps  more  essential] ir  army  than 

any  other,  because  our  men  are  worse  supplied  and  more  no 
sit.  »us;  and  the  notions  of  implicit  subordination  noi  being  as  yet 
sufficiently  ingrafted  among  them,  they  are  more  apt  to  reason 
npon  their  rights,  and  rendered  readier  to  manifesl  their  Bensibi- 
litv  of  any  thing  thai  has  the  appearance  of  injustice  to  them,  in 
which  lighl  they  consider  their  being  kept  out  of  their  pay  aftei 
it  is  due.  Nor  does  the  evil  end  here.  The  inhabitants  who, 
through  choice,  accident,  or  necessity,  have  any  pecuniary  con- 
cerns with  the  army,  finding  themselves  frequently  disappointed 
in  the  payments  they  have  a  right  to  expect,  grow  dissatisfied 
and  clamorous;  the  credit  of  the  army,  and  which  is  nearly  the 
same  thing,  the  credit  of  the  Continent  is  impaired,  our  supplies 
of  course  are  impeded,  and  the  price  of  every  article  we  want 
raised.  This  circumstance  is  not  among  the  least  causes  of  the 
depreciation  of  the  currency. 

A  question  has  arisen  whether  officers,  prisoners  with  the 
enemy,  who  come  out  on  parole,  and  are  not  provided  for  by 
any  actual  appointments,  are  entitled  to  pay  during 

A  Resolve  of  Congress  of  the  l'.'tli  instant  provides,  that  all 
continental  officers,  prisoners  with  the  enemy,  either  while  in 
confinement,  <»r  on  parole,  bo  long  as  they  <•.  >)itiiiu«.*  officers  of  the 
Dnited  States,  shall  be  entitled  to  their  pay  and  rations,  liable  to 
a  deduction  for  what  they  may  have  received  in  confinemenl ; 
and  that  all  flying  camp  and  militia  officers  should  l»c  entitled  to 
the  same  while  in  confinemenl  only.  This  resolve  exclude-  from 
pay  all  officers  Liberated  on  parole,  who  have  not  actual  appoint- 
ments in  the  continental  army.  Will  it  not  be  deemed  a  hard- 
ship and  injustice  to  such  officers,  especially  to  those  who  me] 
from  their  absence  have  been  neglected  in  arrangements  p  oterior 

to  their  capture,  as  has  been  too  much  the  CSi 

While  they  continue  prisoner.-,  whether  in  possession  of  the 

enemy,  or  out  on  parol,',  they  can  have  little  opportunity  oi  pro- 
secuting any  business  for  a  livelihood,  and  musl  he  in  a  distJ 


150  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEn.  21. 

ful  situation,  unless  they  have  a  private  fortune  sufficient  to 
maintain  them.  It  has,  in  many  instances,  happened  that  offi- 
cers in  captivity  have  been  omitted  in  promotions  made  in  their 
absence,  upon  which  a  question  has  arisen,  whether  there  should 
not  be  a  restoration  of  rank  with  respect  to  those  who  are  men 
of  merit.     It  seems  but  reasonable  there  should. 

Several  new  regulations  will,  I  imagine,  be  found  useful  in 
the  articles  of  war,  which  the  judge  advocate,  from  his  official  ex- 
perience of  the  deficiency,  can  more  accurately  indicate.  One 
thing  we  have  suffered  much  from,  is  the  want  of  a  proper  gra- 
dation of  punishments.  The  interval  between  a  hundred  lashes 
and  death  is  too  great,  and  requires  to  be  filled  up  by  some  inter- 
mediate stages.  Capital  crimes  in  the  army  are  frequently  com- 
muted, particularly  in  the  instance  of  desertion.  Actually  to  in- 
flict capital  punishment  or  death  upon  every  deserter,  or  other 
heinous  offender,  would  incur  the  imputation  of  cruelty,  and  by 
the  too  common  exhibition  of  the  example,  destroy  its  efficacy. 
On  the  other  hand,  to  give  only  a  hundred  lashes  to  such  crimi- 
nals, is  rather  a  burlesque  on  the  crime  than  a  serious  cor- 
rection, and  affords  encouragement  to  obstinacy  and  to  imita- 
tion. The  courts  are  often  in  a  manner  compelled,  by  the 
enormity  of  the  facts,  to  pass  sentences  of  death.  I  am  as  often 
obliged  to  remit,  on  account  of  the  number  in  the  same  circum- 
stances, and  let  the  offenders  pass  wholly  unpunished.  This 
would  be  avoided,  if  there  were  other  punishments  short  of  the 
destruction  of  life,  in  some  degree  adequate  to  the  crime.  These 
the  courts  would  ordain,  and  I  should  have  executed.  Crimes 
too  are  so  various  in  their  complexions,  that  to  preserve  the 
first  rule  of  proportion  there  cannot  be  too  great  a  variety  in 
the     *     *     *     * 

*  *  *  * 

The  Position. 

Unhappily,  we  begin  to  feel  intensely  some  of  the  disadvan- 
tages apprehended  from  taking  the  present  position  of  the  army, 
instead  of  retiring  into  more  commodious  though  more  remote 
winter  quarters.     The  present  position  of  this  army,  adopted  in 


jEt.  21.]  ARMY    REORGANIZATION.  1"»1 

compliance  with  the  prevailing  current  of  sentiment  among 
the  people,  and  the  apparent  wish  and  inclination  of  Congress,  is 
no1  without ,  its  inconveniences ;  no  inconsiderable  one  is  a  scar- 
city of  forage— an  article  no  less  essential  to  the  well-being  of  an 
army  than  that  of  provisions.  We  have  a  number  of  hoi 
dying  daily  foT  the  want  of  provender.  We  are  exhausting  the 
small  stock  there  is  on  the  spot,  which  will  probably  be  the  im- 
mediate  scene  of  our  operations  next  campaign.     We  shall  be 

likely  to  sutler  still  more  a1  a  more  critical  time 

*  *  *  * 

*  *  *  *  *  geem  always  to  be  at  variance,  and  recriminating 
the  sufferings  of  the  sick  upon  each  other.  The  regimental  sur- 
geons complain  that,  for  want  o\'  medicines  and  other  necessai 

they  are  disabled  from  giving  that  assistance  in  slight  and 

in  the  first  stages  of  dangerous  complaints,  which  would  serve  to 
cheek  their  progress  to  maturity  and  save  the  lives  of  the  sol- 
diery. The  hospital  surgeons  reply  that  their  stores  are  incapa- 
ble of  bearing  the  excessive  drafts  which  the  profusion  and  r-M-,-- 
lessness  of  the  regimental  surgeons  would  make  upon  them  if 
indulged  in  their  demands. 

I  shall  not  attempt  to  decide  the  merits  of  this  dispute,  nor 
can  I  conceive  any  adequate  mode  of  adjusting  the  difference. 
But  one  would  imagine  it  might  not  be  impossible  to  fix  some 
general  rule  of  allowance  by  which  the  supplies  to  the  regimental 
surgeons  might  be  regulated,  and  to  make  them  accountable  for 
the  right  and  economical  application  of  what  they  received. 

At  all  events,  as  the  accommodation  of  the  sick,  and  the  pre- 
servation of  men's  lives,  are  the  firsl  and  great  objects  to  be  con- 
sulted, the  regimental  surgeons  ought  not  to  be  destitute  of  a 
reasonable  quantity  of  medicines  and  other  conveniences  of  which 
the  sick  stand  in  need.  The  ill  effects  resulting  from  it  are  many 
and  glaring. 

Either,  im",,  at  every  slight  indication  of  disease,  must  be  sent 
away  to  distant  hospitals,  and  the  army  unnecessarily  deprived  of 
the  services  of  numbers  who,  if  the  means  were  at  hand,  might 
in  a  day  or  two  be  restored;  or,  they  must  remain  without  pro- 


152 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[Mt.  21. 


per  assistance,  till  their  disorders  confirm  themselves,  and  with 
many  get  beyond  the  power  of  cure. 

Other  ill  consequences  that  have  attended  the  sending  so 
many  men  away  to  a  distance  from  the  army,  are  desertions  and 
the  waste  of  arms  and  clothing,  for  which  reason  it  ought  to  be 
avoided  as  much  as  possible.  To  prevent  these  evils,  as  far  as 
can  be  done,  a  field  officer  is  stationed  at  each  hospital  to  see  the 
arms  of  the  soldiers  carefully  deposited  at  their  admission  into 
it,  take  care  of  them  in  their  convalescent  state,  and  send  them  on 
to  join  their  regiments  under  proper  officers,  as  soon  as  they  are 
fit  for  duty. 

Consult  General  Knox  about  the  10th  Article. 

The  Adjutant  General  about  the  11th. 

*  *  *  *  * 

Upon  the  whole,  Gentlemen,  I  doubt  not  you  are  fully  im- 
pressed with  the  defects  of  our  present  military  system,  and  of 
the  absolute  necessity  of  speedy  and  decisive  measures  t'o  put  it 
upon  a  satisfactory  footing.  The  disagreeable  picture  I  have 
given  you  of  the  wants  and  sufferings  of  the  army,  and  the  dis- 
contents reigning  among  the  officers,  is  a  just  representation  of 
evils  equally  melancholy  and  important;  and  unless  effectual 
remedies  be  applied  without  loss  of  time,  the  most  alarming  and 
ruinous  consequences  are  to  be  apprehended. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be, 

With  very  great  respect, 

G.  W. 


JBr.91.]  INSPECTOR     (iKNKKAl,.  I  :,:; 


INSPECTOR  GENERAL. 

Submitted  by  Wasbington  to  Congress.    Draft  by  Hamilton.  May  6,  1778. 

One  Inspector  General.     Sir  Deputy  Inspectors  General. 
One  Inspector  to  each  Brigade. 

The  business  of  the  office,  to  form  a  system  of  manual  and 
manoeuvres,  to  concert  all  accessary  regulations  for  the  better 
government  and  arrangement  of  the  army  in  all  its  departments. 

The  exercise  of  the  same,  of  course,  to  be  subordinate  to  Con- 
gress, the  Board  of  War,  and  the  Commander  in-Chief  But  the 
[nspector  General,  with  the  approbation  and  authority  of  the 
Commander-in-Chief,  to  have  full  power  of  establishing  regula- 
tions for  manoeuvres,  camp  discipline,  and  every  thing  relating 
to  the  internal  police  of  the  army,  all  kinds  of  military  duty  in 
the  field,  In  camp,  in  garrison,  or  in  quarters;  to  define  limits  of 
the  several  departments,  and  adopl  such  amendments  and  chai 

mail  seem  requisite.  Provided  no  power  be  exercised  to  su- 
persede or  interfere  with  any  positive  institution  made,  ot  rules 
and  regulations  prescribed,  by  Congress  or  the  Board  of  War: 
and  provided,  also,  that  this  poweT  do  not  extend  to  prescribing 
ndes  for  the  management  of  the  horse  and  artillery  in  any  thing 
that  concerns  them  as  distinct,  separate  corps,  but  only  so  far  as 
they  may  be  affected  under  the  collective  idea  of  an  army,  and  in 
their  common  connection  with  it. 

The  gentlemen  in  this  department  to  be  considered  as  the  in- 

ictors  and  censors  of  the  army  in  every  thing  connected  with 
discipline  and  arrangement.  Tiny  areto  superintend  the  execu- 
tion of  the  regulations  established,  and  to  sec  that  a  due  con- 
formity to  them  is  observed  throughout  the  army. 

They  arc  to  manoeuvre  the  army  agreeable  to  the  rules  laid 


154  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [&.& 

down  under  the  orders  of  the  Generals  commanding.  The  In- 
spector General  to  exercise  the  whole  under  the  directions  of  the 
Commander-in-Chief.  His  deputies,  the  wings  or  divisions  under 
the  direction  of  the  Lieutenant  or  Major  General  commanding 
tnem;  and  the  Inspectors  to  exercise  the  brigades  under  the  df 
rection  of  their.  Brigadiers.' 

The  Inspector  General  to  assist  the  Quartermaster  General  in 
forming  all  orders  of  march,  the  common  order  of  battle  in 
choosing  and  arranging  encampments,  and  in  fixing  guards  &c 

In  action,  and  on  marches,  the  Inspector  General  to  be'  near 
he  person  of  the  Commander-in-Chief.  The  immediate  assistants 
to  be  distributed  to  the  different  wings  or  divisions  of  the  army 
to  promote  order,  and  see  that  all  the  movements  be  properly 
performed.  The  Brigade  Inspectors  to  be  with  their  brigades  for 
the  same  purposes.  °     ™ lul 

These  outlines  of  a  plau  for  the  office  of  the  Inspector  General 

armiefb,.  7er  "**?"*?  dually  practised  in  the  European 
arm.es,  hut  they  are  adapted  to  our  circumstances,  confused  and 

ZKzr department  is- and  ^  *  ~  -S 

The  person  I  would  propose  for  Inspector  General  is  the 
Baron  Steuben.    I  have  had  much  conversation  with  this  gentle 

v2  te  met?  lm  to  be  We"  *"***  fOT  the  0ffl-  ^e  ap- 
tarv  W  r  T  M  a°CUrate  knOTrfedge  °f  every  part  of  mill- 
jud^nT  a™angem-ts.  and  'o  be  a  man"  sense  and 

seiefce  in  ^  ?*■  HoItzendorf  W^r  also  to  be  men  of 

he  Inslfo  "rP       T°n'naUdW0Uld  "*>  «0od  de^^  but 

ome  me of      fn  '  reqUire'  f°r  his  i—ediate  assistants, 

OZZ  fo I::  f 0?T  ,and  "***   *>  -  Americans! 

them-nmLf  language  and  an  acquaintance  with 

cnlls       ,  ,Sem°e  aBd  men-  he  ™^  ^  involved  in  dffl 


jE,r.-2\.}  INSPECTOR    GENERAL.  1  :,5 

volutions  that  would  neither  be  practicable  nor  palatable,    Tl 

-tains,  or  some  of  them,  should  be  men  of  extensive  abilities, 
skilled  in  the  French  language,  of  zeal,  activity,  and  decision. 
I  have  not  a  suffioienl  knowledge  of  our  officers  to  pointont 
those  whobesl  answer  this  description;  but  Eenly,  Lee,  Barber, 
and  Scull,  occur  to  me  as  men  who  mighl  be  very  useful  in  this 
line-  though  1  know  not  if  either  of  them  understand  the  French 

language. 

The  Brigade  Inspectors  should  be  officers  drawn  from  the 
Brigade— the  besl  qualified  that  ran  be  found.  The  Baron 
Steuben,  if  appointed,  as  ne  lias  held  high  rank  in  the  Prussian 
serviee,  and  has  been  Lieutenant  General  in  the  service  of  the 
M  rgrave  de  Baden,  cannot  with  propriety  accept  of  less  rank 
than  that  ,.1' Major  General. 

The  deputies  Brigade  Inspectors  should  have  no  increase  of 
rank,  hut  precisely  the  same  which  they  may  have  held  before 
their  appointment  to  those  offices.  Those  who  are  taken  from 
the  line,  should  preserve  their  stations  in  it,  and  rise  in  course. 

There  are  two  gentlemen  out  of  this  army,  whom  I  should 
wish  to  he  introduced  int..  this  department— General  Cadwalla- 
der  and  Colonel  Fleming.  The  former  is  a  military  genius,  of  a 
decisive  and  independent  spirit,  properly  impressed  with  the 
necessity  of  order  and  discipline,  and  of  sufficient  vigor  to  en- 
force  it  II-'  would  soon  perfect  himself  in  the  practical  part, 
and  he  tit  to  succeed  to  the  first  place  in  the  department  Colonel 
Fleming  is  an  excellenl  disciplinarian,  and  from  long  practice  in 
the  British  army,  has  axjquired  the  necessary  knowledge. 


156  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  21. 


PUBLIUS. 

Popghkeepsie,  October  19,  1778 

Me.  Holt  : 

There  are  abuses  in  the  State,  which  demand  an  immediate 
remedy.  Important  political  characters  must  be  brought  upon 
the  stage,  and  animadverted  upon  with  freedom.  The  opinion 
I  have  of  the  independence  of  your  spirit,  convinces  me  you 
will  ever  be  a  faithful  guardian  of  the  liberty  of  the  press,  and 
determine  me  to  commit  to  you  the  publication  of  a  series  of 
letters,  which  will  give  you  an  opportunity  of  exemplifying  it. 

The  following  is  by  way  of  prelude.  You  may  depend  I 
shall  always  preserve  the  decency  and  respect,  due  either  to  the 
government  of  the  United  States,  or  to  the  government  of  any 
particular  State;  but  I  shall  not  conceive  myself  bound  to  use 
any  extraordinary  ceremony  with  the  characters  of  corrupt 
individuals  however  exalted  their  stations. 


TO   THE   PRINTER   OF   THE   NEW- YORK   JOURNAL. 

Sir: 

While  every  method  is  taken  to  bring  to  justice  those  men 
whose  principles  and  practices  have  been  hostile  to  the  present 
revolution;  it  is  to  be  lamented  that  the  conduct  of  another 
class,  equally  criminal,  and,  if  possible,  more  mischievous,  has 
hitherto  passed  with  impunity,  and  almost  without  notice.  I 
mean  that  tribe  who,  taking  advantage  of  the  times,  have  carried 

hnT  f  °nTlj  "^  eXt°rtion  to  an  excess>  ^^  scarcely 
irnno  it  "  T,  '  Emboldened  hy  ^  access  of  progressive 
impositions,  it  has  extended  to  all  the  necessaries  of  life  The 
exorbitant  price  of  every  article,  and  the  depreciation  upon  our 


JEt.21.)  publius.  1-*~ 

currency,  are  evils  derived  essentially  from  this  sourcte.     When 
avarice  takes  the  lead  in  a  State,  it  is  commonly  the  forerun 
0f  its  fall.    How  shocking  is  it  todiscover  among  ourselves,  even 
at  this  early  period,  the  strongest  Bymptoms  of  this  fatal  d 

Tlli.IV  .;,,.  meD  jn  ;,ii  countries,  the  businesfi  of  whose  lives  it 
is  to  mi.-'  themselves  above  indigence  by  every  little  an  in  their 
power.     When  these  men  are  observed  to  be  influenced  by  the 
spirit    I    bave  mentioned,  it   is  nothing  more  than  might  be  < 
!„,.,,,!,  and  ran  onlj  excite  contempt     When  others,  who  hi 
characters  to  support,  and  credil  enough  in  the  world  to  satisfy 
.,  moderate  appetite   for  wealth,  in  an  honorable  way.  are  found 
to  be  actuated  by  the  same  spirit,  our  contempl   is  mixed  with 
indignation.     Bu1  when  a  man.  appointed  to  be  the  guardian  of 
the  State,  and  the  depositary  of  the  happiness  and  morals  of  the 
people,  foi-vtl'ul   of  the  solemn   relation  in  which   he  stands, 
d(  scends  to  the  dishonest  artifices  of  a  mercantile  projector,  and 
sacrifices  his  conscience  and  histrusl  topecuniaryn  -:  there 

i,  qo  strain  of  abhorrence  of  which  the  human  mind  is  capable, 

no  punishment,  the   \rengeai of  the  people  ran  inflict,  which 

may  not  be  applied  to  him  with  justice. 

If  it  should  have  happened,  that   a    member  of  Cong 
has  been  this  degenerate  character,  and  has  been  known  to  turn 
the  kn  --e  of  secrets,  to  which  his  office  gave  hin  as,  to 

the  purposes  of  private  profit,  by  employing  emissaries  to  engross 
an  article  ofimmediate  necessity  to  the  public  servic  tght 

to  feel  the  utmost  rigor  of  puhhc  resentment,  and  be  detested  as 
a  traitor  of  the  worst  and  most  dangerous  kind. 

Pi  BI 


THE   HONORABLE  — ,    1 

1 i  •  iber  26   I 

Sir  :  ■    •      i 

The  honor  of  being  a  li.-r....!':.  public  gync,is  whal 

could  hardly  have  aspired  to,  either  from  your  talents,  or  I 


158  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.'M. 

your  good  qualities.     The  partiality  of  your  friends  has  never 
given  you  credit  for  more  than  mediocrity  in  the  former ;  and 
experience  has  proved,  that  you  are  indebted  for  all  your  conse- 
quence to  the  reverse  of  the  latter.     Had  you  not  struck  out  a 
new  line  of  prostitution  for  yourself,  you  might  still  have  re- 
mained unnoticed  and  contemptible— your  name  scarcely  known 
beyond  the  little  circle  of  your  electors  and  clients,  and  recorded 
only  in  the  journals  of  C ss.    But  you  have  now  forced  your- 
self into  view,  in  a  light  too  singular  and  conspicuous  to  be  over- 
looked, and  have  acquired  an  undisputed  title  to  be  immortalized 
in  infamy.     I  admire  the  boldness  of  your  genius,  and  confess 
you  have  exceeded  expectation.    Though  from  your  first  appear- 
ance m  the  world,  you  gave  the  happiest  presages  of  your  future 
life,  and  the  plainest  marks  of  your  being  unfettered  by  any  of 
those  nice  scruples,  from  which  men  of  principle  find  so  much 
inconvenience ;  yet  your  disposition  was  not  understood  in  its 
tall  extent.     You  were  thought  to  possess  a  degree  of  discretion 
and  natural  timidity,  which  would  restrain  you  from  any  hazard- 
ous extremes      You  have  the  merit  both  of  contradicting  this 
opinion,  and  discovering,  that  notwithstanding  our  youth  and 
inexperience  as  a  nation,  we  begin  to  emulate  the  most  veteran 
and  accomplished  states  in  the  art  of  corruption.     You  have 
shown  that  America  can  already  boast,  at  least  one  public  char- 

ct  pCdut  "  ^  thQ  **"*  °f  ^  °r  ™  *« 

Were  your  associates  in  power  of  a  congenial  temper  with 

yourself,  you  might  hope,  that  your  address  and  dexter  ty  upon 

of  yo7;Sn'  W°U  d  ^^  a  ^  ^  ^-tageous  impLsio" 
of  your  abilities,  and  recommend  you  to  employment  in  some 

"so7;::tztiatio  vhich  might  affbrd  ^  <*«*  <*£££ 

public  JS  J°Ur  aV°nte  inclinatio»>  ■*  the  expense  of  the 

anA^ZTUn"T  f°r  thG  repUtati°n  °f  Go™r  Huston, 

2t  %s^as£% rojal  rter' that  he  ~ 

tion.     If  he  had  known  you,  and  had  thought  your  services 


JEt.  21.] 


publius.  159 


worth  purchasing,  be  mighl  have  played  a  bum  game,  and 
avoided  the  risk  of  exposing  himself  to  contempl  and  ridicule. 
Ami  von,  sir,  mighl  have  made  your  fortune  a1  one  decisive 

stroke. 

It  is  matter  of  curious  inquiry,  what  could  have  raised  you, 
in  the  firsl  instance,  and  supported  you  since  in  your  presenl 
elevation.    1  never  knew  a  Bingle  man,  bu1  was  ready  to  do  am- 
ple justice  to  your  demerit.    The  mosi  indulgent  opinion  of  the 
qualifications  of  your  head  and    heart,  could   not   offend   the 
modest  delicacy  of  your  ear,  or  give  the  Bmallesl  cause  of  exul- 
tation to  your  vanity.     It  is  your  lot  to  have  the  peculiar  privi- 
lege of  being  universally  despised.     Excluded  from  all  resource 
to  your  abilities  or  virtues,  there  is  only  one  way  in  which  1  can 
account  for  the  rank  you  hold  in  the  political  scale     There  are 
seasons  in  every  country,  when  noise  ami   impudence  pass  cur- 
rent for  worth;  ami  in  popular  commotions  especially,  the  clam- 
ors of  interested  and  factious  men  are  often  mistaken  for  patriot- 
ism.    Yon  prudently  took  advantage  of  the  commencement  of 
the  contest,  to  ingratiate  yourself  in  the  favor  of  the  people,  and 
gain  an  ascendant  in  their  confidence  by  appearing  a  zealous 
srtor  of  their  rights.     No  man  will  suspecl  you  of  the  folly  of 
public  spirit— a  heart  notoriously  selfish,  exempts  you  from  any 
charge  of  this  nature— and  obliges  us  to  resolve  the  part  you 
took,  into  opposite  principles.     A   desire  of  popularity,  and  a 
rivalship  with   the   ministry  will   best    explain    them.     Their  at- 
tempt to  confine  the  sale  of  ;,  lucrative  article  of  commerce  to 
the  Bast  India  Company,  must  have  been  more  unpardonable  in 
the  sight  of  a  monopolist,  than  the  most  daring  attack  upon  the 
public  liberty.     There  is  a  vulgar  maxim  which  has  a  pointed 
emphasis  in  your  case,  and  has  mad.'  many  notable  patriots  in 
this  dispute. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  a  temporary  Capri »f  the  people 

leads  them  to  make  choice  of  nan,  whom  they  neither  love  nor 
respect;   and  that  they  afterwards,   from  an  indolent  and  me- 
chanical habit,  natural   to  the  human  mind,  continue  their  confi- 
dence and  support   merely  because    they    had   once   cm;!. 
them.     I  cannot  persuade  myself,  that  your  influence  rests  upon 


160  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  21. 

a  better  foundation,  and  I  think  the  finishing  touch  you  have 
given  to  the  profligacy  of  your  character,  must  rouse  the  recol- 
lection of  the  people,  and  force  them  to  strip  you  of  a  dignity 
which  sets  so  awkwardly  upon  you,  and  consign  you  to°that 
disgrace  which  is  due  to  a  scandalous  perversion  of  your  trust 
When  you  resolved  to  avail  yourself  of  the  extraordinary  de- 
mand for  the  article  of  flour,  which  the  wants  of  the  French 
fleet  must  produce,  and  which  your  official  situation  early  im- 
pressed on  your  attention— to  form  connections  for  monopoliz- 
ing that  article,  and  raising  the  price  upon  the   public  more 
than  one  hundred  per  cent.— when  by  your  intrigues  and  studied 

delays,  you  protracted  the  determination  of  the  C tt— e  of 

C ss  on  tne  proposals  made  by  Mr.  W— sw— th,  C— ss— y 

G       n 1  for  procuring  the  necessary  supplies  for 'the  public 

use— to  give  your  agents  time  to  complete  their  purchases— I 
say  when  you  were  doing  all  this,  and  engaging  in  a  traffic 
infamous    m    itself,    repugnant    to    your   station,   and   ruinous 
to  your  country  ;  did  you  pause  and  allow  yourself  a  moment's 
reflection  on  the  consequences?     Were  you  infatuated  enough 
to  imagine  you  would  be  able  to  conceal  the  part  you  were  act- 
ing /     Or  had  you  conceived  a  thorough  contempt  of  reputation 
and  a  total  indifference  to  the  opinion  of  the  world  ?    Enveloped 
m  the  promised  gratifications  of  your  avarice,  you  probably  for- 
got to  consult  your  understanding,  and  lost  sight  of  every  con- 
sideration that  ought  to  have  regulated  the  man,  the  citizen,  the 
statesman.  ' 

I  am  aware,  that  you  could  never  have  done  what  you  hare 
«i  bout  first  obtaining  a  noble  victory  over  every  sentiment  of 
honor  and  generosity.     You  have  therefore  nothing  to  fear  from 
the  reproaches  of  own  mini    Your  insens° 

to  extT  T     But  tUlS  ale  ar^meuts  P°™^  enough 
You  are  „rq  TV™  *"""  ^^  "   Call™S  »  JO™- 

rlspecTits  dT'  6  ,WOTld'  *'  70Ur  SelHOTe  forees  J°*  * 

bZ  the     si  TmS'  "^  70Ur  Utm°St  °redit  witt  i4.  ^  ™* 
fateyou  Z1J0UV  reCCnt  enOTmitieS'  OT  ™«  ^ou  from  the 


jfii.  91.]  PUBLIUS.  161 

THE  HONORABLE  ,  ESQ. 

Nov.  16,  1778. 

Sib: 

It  may  appear  Btrange,  that  you  should  be  made  a  second 
time  the  principal  figure  of  a  piece  intended  for  the  public  eye. 
But  a  character,  insignificanl  in  every  other  respect,  may  become 
interesting  from  the  numher  and  magnitude  of  its  vices.  In  this 
view,  Y"ii  have  a  right  to  tin'  firsl  marks  of  distinction,  ami  I 
regrel  that  1  feel  any  reluctance  to  render  you  the  liberal  tribute 
you  deserve.  Bui  I  reverence  humanity,  and  would  not  wish  to 
pour  a  blush  upon  the  checks  of  its  advocates.  Were  I  inclined 
to  make  a  satire  upon  the  species,  I  would  attempt  a  faithful  de- 
scription of  your  heart.  It  is  hard  to  conceive,  in  theory,  one  of 
more  finished  depravity.  There  are  some  men.  whose  vices  are 
blended  with  qualities  thai  casl  a  lustre  upon  them,  and  force  us 
to  admire  while  we  detest!  Yours  are  pure  and  unmixed,  with- 
out a  single  solitary  excellence  even  to  serve  for  contrast  and 
variety. 

The  defects,  however,  of  your  private  character,  shall  | 
untouched.     This  is  a  field  in  which  your  personal  enemies  may 
expatiate   with  pleasure.      1  find  it   enough  to  consider  you  in  a 
public  capacity. 

I'he  station  of  a  member  of  C as,  is  the  most  illustrious 

and  important  of  any  1  am  able,  to  conceive,  lie  is  to  be  re- 
garded not  only  as  a  legislator,  hut  as  a  founder  of  an  empire. 
A  man  of  virtue  and  ability,  dignified  with  so  precious  a  trust, 
would  rejoice  that  fortune  had  given  him  birth  at  a  time,  and 
placed  him  in  circumstances,  so  favorable  for  promoting  human 
happiness.  He  would  esteem  it  not  more  the  duty  than  the  pri- 
vilege and  ornament  of  his  office  to  do  good  to  all  mankind. 
From  this  commanding  eminence  he  would  look  down  with  con- 
tempt upon  every  mean  or  interested  pursuit. 

To  form  useful  alliances  abroad     to  establish  a  wise  govern* 

meiit  a1  home      to  improve  the  internal  resources  and  limine. 

the   nation     would   be   the  generous  objects  of  his  fare,     lie 

B  11 


162  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  21. 

would  not  allow  his  attention  to  be  diverted  from  these  to  in- 
trigue for  personal  connections,  to  confirm  his  own  influence; 
nor  would  be  able  to  reconcile  it,  either  to  the  delicacy  of  his 
honor,  or  to  the  dignity  of  his  pride,  to  confound  in  the  same 
person  the  representative  of  the  commonwealth,  and  the  little 
member  of  a  trading  company.  Anxious  for  the  permanent 
power  and  prosperity  of  the  State,  he  would  labor  to  perpetuate 
the  union  and  harmony  of  the  several  parts.  He  would  not 
meanly  court  a  temporary  importance,  by  patronizing  the  nar- 
row views  of  local  interest,  or  by  encouraging  dissensions  either 

among  the  people  or  in  C ss.     In  council,  or  debate,  he 

would  discover  the  candor  of  a  statesman,  zealous  for  truth ;  and 
the  integrity  of  a  patriot,  studious  of  the  public  welfare ;  not 
the  cavilling  petulance  of  an  attorney,  contending  for  the  triumph 
of  an  opinion,  nor  the  perverse  duplicity  of  a  partisan,  devoted 
to  the  service  of  a  cabal.  Despising  the  affectation  of  superior 
wisdom,  he  would  prove  the  extent  of  his  capacity  by  foreseeing 
evils,  and  contriving  expedients  to  prevent  or  remedy  them. 
He  would  not  expose  the  weak  sides  of  the  States,  to  find  an  op- 
portunity of  displaying  his  own  discernment,  by  magnifying  the 
follies  and  mistakes  of  others.  In  his  transactions  with  indivi- 
duals, whether  foreigners  or  countrymen,  his  conduct  would  be 
guided  by  the  sincerity  of  a  man,  and  the  politeness  of  a  gentle- 
man ;  not  by  the  temporizing  flexibility  of  a  courtier,  nor  the 
fawning  complaisance  of  a  sycophant. 

You  will  not  be  at  a  loss,  sir,  in  what  part  of  this  picture  to 
look  for  your  own  resemblance ;  nor  have  I  the  least  apprehen- 
sion that  you  will  mistake  it  on  the  affirmative  side.  The  happy 
indifference  with  which  you  view  those  qualities  most  esteemed 
for  their  usefulness  to  society,  will  preserve  you  from  the  possibi- 
lity of  an  illusion  of  this  kind.  Content  with  the  humble  merit 
of  possessing  qualities  useful  only  to  yourself,  you  will  contem- 
plate your  own  image  on  the  opposite  side,  with  all  the  satisfac- 
tion of  conscious  deformity. 

It  frequently  happens  that  the  excess  of  one  selfish  passion 
either  defeats  its  own  end,  or  counteracts  another.  This,  if  I  am 
not  mistaken,  is  your  case.     The  love  of  money  and  the  love  of 


At.  31.]  PUBLIUS.  ,,;:' 


it 

-• 


power  are  the  predominating  ingredients  of  your  mind;  cunnin 
the  characteristic  of  vout  understanding.  This  has  hitherto  car- 
ried you  successfully  through  life,  and  has  alone  raised  yon  to 
the  exterior  consideration  yon  enjoy.  The  Datura!  consequence 
0f  BUccesa  is  temerity.  It  1ms  now  proceeded  one  step  too  far, 
;m(1  precipitated  yon  into  measures  from  the  consequence  of 
whirl,  you  will  not  easily  extricate  yourself.  Four  avarice  will 
be  fatal  to  your  ambition.  1  have  too  good  an  opinion  of  the 
3e  and  spirit,  to  say  nothing  of  the  virtue  of  your  countrymen, 
to  believe  they  will  permil  you  any  longer  to  abuse  their  confi- 
dence, or  trample  upon  their  honor.  Admirably  fitted,  m  many 
respects,  for  the  meridian  of  St.  James,  you  might  there  make  the 
Worthy  representative  of  a  venal  borough,  but  you  ought  not  to 
be  Buffered  to  continue  to  sully  the  majesty  of  the  people  In  an 

American  C ss. 

It  is  a  mark  of  comparison,  to  which  you  arc  not  entitled,  to 
advise  you  by  a  timely  and  voluntary  retreat,  to  avoid  the  igno- 
miny of  a  formal  dismission.  Your  career  has  held  out  as 
long  as  you  could  have  hoped,  h  is  time  you  should  cease  to 
personate  the  fictitious  character  you  have  assumed,  and  appear 
what  you  really  are.  Lav  aside  the  mask  of  patriotism,  and  as- 
sert your  station  among  the  honorable  tribe  of  speculators  and 
projectors.     Cultivate  a  close  alliance  with  your  and 

Vl)Ur  the  accomplices  and  instruments  of  your  guilt,  and 

console  yourself  for  the  advantage  you  have  lost,  by  indulging 
your  ffeniua   without  restraint  in  all  the  forms  and  varieties  of 

fashionable  peculation. 

Fublius. 


164  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [J3t.  22. 


MILITARY  REMARKS  AND  QUERIES. 

Submitted  by  Washington  to  Committee  in  Camp.  Draft  by  Hamilton,  Jan.  8, 1779. 

The  first  and  great  object  is  to  recruit  the  army 
1st.  By  enlisting  all  the  men  now  in  it  during  the  war,  who  are 
Ste^^^  *  **  ^P~  houn^ 

to  ££^^S  &«»  — nded 

The  nest  object  is,  to  fix  some  ideas  respecting  the  Northern 
preparatory  concerning  which,  the  ComLnderin-Chief  now 
finds  h.mself  m  .  dilcmma.  and  operations  ofthl 

S  7'    The  following  questions,  on  which  the  foregoino- 

\  teP™5  ,°U8ht  '°  he  consid^d  and  decided.  °      ° 

•md  R,    it,    f6my  retaia  tneir  Present  toe  at  New- York 

S *  "»  -  — *  •  «***»«  «*.  and  ^ns 

both  these  «  fiUan0eS  6qUal  t0CTent-l  Potions  for 

keef  Ponton  w '"T^  ™  *"  afE™atire-  »*  *■  -emy 
e»rtioPn ^ Z'tl  iMg  /?  T  aW  °»  wMe  for<*  ■* 
dcavor  to  make  Some  it0''  ""  """"^  °f  °»  *»*>*  en- 
settlements  by  wror'011  "^  Detroit'  aad  the  ^ 
to   object   the  eLl>  ^    °Ur  P"P«*>"  being  for 

nonncc  P  ^  agamSt   NiaS™  *»  ought  to  re- 

If  the  first  question  is  answered  negatively,  and  the  second 


jEt.  33.  ]  M I L IT  A  It  V     R  1 1  MARKS.  16 5 

affirmatively,  and  if  it  is  judged  expedient  to  make  such  an 
attempt,  out  preparations  oughl  to  have  reference  principally 
thereto,  and  we  must  contenl  ourselves  with  a  merelj  defensive 

conduct  elsewhere,  and  should  study  economy  as  much  as  ; 
aible.  It  is  in  vain  to  attempl  things  which  are  more  the  objects 
of  desire  than  attainment.  Every  undertaking  must  1"-,  at  least 
ought  to  be,  regulated  by  the  state  of  our  finances,  the  prospect 
of  our  supplies,  and  the  probability  of  success.  Without  this, 
disappointment,  disgrace,  and  an  increase  of  debt,  will  ensue 
on  our  part,  exultation  and  renewed  bope  on  that  of  the  enemy. 
To  determine,  therefore,  what  we  can  undertake;  the  state  of 
the  army,  the  prospect  of  recruiting  it.  paying,  clothing,  and 
feeding  it,  the  providing  the  necessary  apparatus  for  offensive 
operations;  all  these  matters  ought  to  be  well  and  maturely 
considered.  On  them  every  thing  must  depend ;  andhowever 
reluctantly  we  yield,  they  will  compel  us  to  conform  to  them, 
or  by  attempting  impossibilities  we  shall  ruin  our  affairs. 

If  the  third  question  is  answered  affirmatively,  which  it  is 
much  to  !"•  feared  cannot  be  done;  then  eventual  preparations 

OUffht  t>»    be    made    for   both.       We  shall  then  be  best  able  to  act 

according  to  future  circumstances;  for,  though  it  will  be  im- 
possible to  unite  both  objects  in  the  execution;  yet  in  the  event 
of  the  enemy's  leaving  these  States,  we  should  be  ready  to  strike 
an  important  blow  lor  the  effectual  security  of  our  frontiers,  and 
for  opening  a  door  to  a  further  progress  into  Canada. 

From  the  investigation  of  these  points  another  question  may 
possibly  result. 

Will  not  the  situation  of  our  affairs,  on  account  of  tin'  depre- 
ciated condition  of  our  currency;  deficiency  of  bread ;  scarcity 
of  forage;  the  exhausted  state  of  our  resources  in  the  middle 
department,  and  the  general  distress  of  the  inhabitants ;  render 
it  advisable  for  the  main  body  of  the  army  to  lie  quiet  in  sonic 
favorable  position  for  confining,  as  much  as  possible,  the  enemy 
to  their  present  posts  (adopting  at  the  same  time  the  besl  means 
in  our  power  to  scourge  the  Indians,  and  prevent  their  depreda- 
tions), in  order  to  save  expenses,  avoid  new  emissions,  recruit 
our  finances,  and  give  a  proper  tone  to  our  money,  formore 
vigorous  measures  hereafter'.'' 


106  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  22. 

In  determining  a  plan  of  operations  for  next  campaign,  much 
"will  depend  on  the  prospect  of  European  affairs ;  what  we  have 
to  expect  from  our  friends,  what  they  will  expect  from  us ;  and 
what  the  enemy  will  probably  be  able  to  do.  These  points 
should  be  well  weighed  and  every  information  concentred  to 
throw  light  upon  them.  But  upon  the  whole,  it  will  be  the 
safest  and  most  prudent  way  to  suppose  the  worst  and  prepare 
for  it. 


It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  say,  that  the  providing  ample  sup- 
plies of  arms,  clothes  and  ordnance  stores  is  essential ;  and  that 
an  uncertain  dependence  on  them  may  not  only  be  hurtful,  but 
ruinous.  Their  importance  demands  that  every  possible  expe- 
dient should  be  without  delay  adopted  towards  obtaining  these 
articles  in  due  season,  for  the  purposes  of  next  campaign. 

Heavy  cannon  for  the  posts  in  the  Highlands,  for  battering, 
and  for  vessels,  if  offensive  measures  are  to  be  pursued,  must  be 
immediately  provided,  and  in  considerable  quantity.  Large 
mortars,  with  a  sufficient  apparatus,  will  also  be  wanted. 

The  completing  the  arrangement  of  the  army,  without  fur- 
ther delay,  is  a  matter  of  great  importance,  whatever  may  be 
our  plan.  The  want  of  this  is  the  source  of  infinite  dissatisfac- 
tion to  the  officers  in  general,  and  continual  perplexity  to  the 
Commander-in-Chief.  The  want  of  Brigadiers  is  a  material 
inconvenience,  and  hath  been  the  cause  of  much  relaxation  of 
discipline,  discontent  and  loss  in  several  instances. 

The  Ordnance  Department  seems  to  require  some  important 
alterations.  General  Knox's  representation,  transmitted  to  Con- 
gress in  July  or  August  last,  and  his  letter  and  memorial  of  the 
-  ulto.,  copy  of  which  is  annexed,  show  that  he  finds  himself 
under  embarrassments  of  a  disagreeable  nature,  from  the  pre- 
sent form  of  it.  1 

The  Clothing  Department  appears  to  be  altogether  unsettled, 
and  confused,  and   requires  immediate  attention,  for  the  pur^ 


jEt.  22.]  M  I  L I T  A  It  V     REMARKS.  1 '  1 7 

poses  both  of  regular  issues  to  the  army,  and  of  saving  to  the 
public.  There  are  too  many  persons  concerned  in  thai  busi- 
ness, and  acting  independenl  of  each  other,  to  have  il  well  con- 
ducted. The  army  is  now  greatly  deficient  in  the  articles  of 
blankets  and  hats,  and  Bhoes,  or  soon  will  be,  as  these  last  are 
in  constant  demand.  They  might,  1  Bhould  conceive,  I"-  con- 
tracted for  by  means  of  the  hides,  ami  in  great  abundance. 


The  Hospital  is  in  some  respects,  in  my  judgment,  upon  an 
improper  establishment,  and    might   be  altered   for  the  better. 

I  mean  that  part  of  it   which  appoints  Subdirectors,  Surg is, 

etc.,  for  differenl  districts,  which  necessarily  must  be  attended 
with  one  or  other  of  these  disadvantages:  either  thai  a  com- 
petent number  must  be  appointed  in  eaeh  district,  to  serve  the 
purposes  of  the  whole  army,  in  ease  the  theatre  of  war  should 
happen  to  be  there;  which  must  be  a  great    mm  ry  bur- 

then to  the  public;  or  these  gentlemen  must  be  occasionally 
removed  from  one  district  to  another,  which  is  productive  of  an 
interference  of  authority,  and  jealousies  and  disputes  v  ry  injuri- 
ous to  the  service.  It  appears  to  me,  thai  there  is  no  occasion 
for  allotting  those  departments  which  are  under  one  general 
director  into  districts.  'Tistrue,  thai  wherever  there  are  troops, 
there  must  be  surgeons  and  Hospital  stores;  but  these  can  be 
sent  by  the  Director  General,  as  exigencies  may  require,  and 
proportioned  to  the  particular  exigency;  whereas,  by  being 
made  stationary,  tiny  become  inadequate  to  the  duty  in  one 
case,  and  sinecures  in  the  other. 

From  the  beginning  of  the  war,  there  has  been  a  constant 
disagreement  between  the  Eospital  and  Regimental  Surgeons  in 
which,  more  than  probably,  both  have  been  wrong*  Bu1  I  can- 
not help  thinking,  if  a  little  more  latitude  \Veiv  granted  to  the 
Regimental  Surgeons,  under  the  inspection  of  the  Director 
General,  or  rather  Surgeon  General  of  the  dying  hospital,  that 
great  good  would  result  from  it.  As  far  as  1  can  judge,  much 
expense  has  been  inclined,  inan\    lives  have  been  lost,  and  many 

desertions  occasioned,  by  removing  men  from  camp,  which  the 
means  of  taking  care  of  them  in   their  regiments,  might  have 


1G8  •  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  22. 

prevented.  It  often  happens,  that  the  seeds  of  dangerous  dis- 
orders are  sown,  by  removing  the  sick  at  improper  times,  and  in 
unfavorable  weather,  which  might  be  avoided  by  keeping  them 
in  camp,  if  they  could  have  the  necessary  assistance  there ;  but 
which,  under  the  present  arrangement,  is  unavoidable. 


The  immediate  establishment  of  the  Inspectorship  on  some 
definite  plan,  that  the  benefits  of  it  may  be  fully  derived  towards 
the  next  campaign,  is  a  matter  of  the  utmost  importance. 

It  is  also  very  interesting  that  the  Engineering  Department 
should  be  arranged  upon  some  fixed  and  explicit  footing. 

The  situation  of  the  officers  of  the  army  in  the  present 
depreciated  state  of  the  paper  currency,  and  the  consequent 
high  prices  of  every  necessary,  is  so  singularly  hard,  that  the 
bare  mention  of  their  case  is  sufficient  to  bring  it  home  to  the 
attention  and  feeling  of  every  man  of  reflection,  and  will  leave 
no  doubt  of  the  necessity  of  applying  a  remedy,  the  most  speedy 
and  effectual. 

Geo.  Washington. 


INSPECTOR  GENERAL. 

Report  of  Committee  of  Conference  with  the  Commander-in-Chief  being  the 
Plan  lor  the  Department  of  the  Inspectorship.  Agreed  to  in  Committee,  January 
28,  1779.    Passed  February  18,  1779.     Draft  by  Hamilton. 

In  Congress.  Feb.  18,  1779. 
The  Committee  appointed  to  confer  with  the  Commander-in- 
Chief,  to  whom  was  committed  a  Report  from  the  Board  of  War 
on  the  Department  of  Inspector  General,  having  in  conference 
with  the  Commander-in-Chief  agreed  on  the  foregoing  Plan,  beg 
leave  to  submit  the  same  to  Congress,  viz. : 


JEt.  89.] 


INSPECTOR    GENERAL.  1,;'' 


Plan  for  the  Department  of  Inspector  General. 

Resolved.  That  there  shall  be  an  Cnspector  General  to  the 
armies  of  the  United  States,  with  the  rank  of  Major  General,  who 
in  ;,ii  future  appointments  shall  be  taken  from  the  line  of  Major 
Generals. 

That  the  duty  of  the  Enspector  General  shall  principally  con- 
sist in  forming  a  system  of  regulations  for  the  exercises  of  the 
troops  in  i!i<-  manual,  evolutions,  and  manoeuvres;  fortheser- 
\  ice  of  guards  and  detachments,  and  for  camp  and  garrison  duty. 

That  the  Inspector  General  and  his  assistants  shall  review 
the  troops  at  such  times  and  places,  and  receive  such  returns  for 
that  purpose,  as  the  Commander-in-Chief;  or  Commanding  Gene- 
ral, shall  direct     At  which  reviews  he  or  they  shall  inspect  the 

number  and  condition  of  the  mm,  their  discipline  and  exercise, 

and  the  Btate  of  their  aims,  accoutrements,  and  clothes,  observing 
what  of  these  articles  have  been  lost  or  spoiled  since  the  last 
review,  and  as  near  as  possible  by  what  means,  reporting  the 

same,  with  the   deficiencies   and    neglects,  to    the   <  oiuinanderdu- 

t'hict:  or  the  commanding  officer  of  a  detachment,  and  to  the 
Board  of  War. 

Thai  all  aew  manoeuvres  shall  he  introduced  by  the  Inspector 
General,  and  all  old  ones  performed  according  to  the  established 
principles  under  his  superintendency.  But.  he  shall  not  intro- 
duce or  practise  any  regulations  relative  to  the  objects  of  his  de- 
partment, save  such  as  are  made  and  established  in  manner  fol- 

following. 

All  regulations  whatsoever  to  be  finally  approved  and  estab- 
lished by  Congress.  Bu1  the  exigence  of  the  service  requiring  it, 
a  temporary  one  may  from  time  to  time  be  introduced  by  the 
Inspector  General,  with  the  approbation  of  the  Commander-in- 
Chief.  These  regulations  to  be  communicated  to  the  army 
through  the  Adjutanl  General,  and  to  be  transmitted  to  the 
Board  of  War  with  all  convenienl  dispatch,  that  being  examined 
and  reported  by  them  to  Congress,  they  may  be  rejected,  altered, 
amended,  or  continued,  as  Congress  shall  deem  proper. 

[That  in  the  mam  army,  or  in  any  detachment,  when  eireiim- 


170  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [At.  24. 

stances  require  it,  there  shall  be  an  Assistant  Inspector  General, 
taken  from  the  line  of  Colonels  or  Lieutenant  Colonels  command- 
ant, and  to  continue  in  the  office  so  long  only  as  the  particular 
exigence  for  which  he  was  appointed  shall  render  it  necessary.*] 

That  there  be  as  many  Subinspectors  as  the  Commander-in- 
Chief,  or  commanding  officer  in  a  detachment,  shall,  on  consi- 
deration of  the  strength  and  situation  of  the  army,  from  time  to 
time  deem  necessary,  to  be  taken  from  the  line  of  Lieutenant 
Colonels,  and  to  receive  their  instructions  relative  to  the  depart- 
ment from  the  Inspector  General. 

That  there  be  one  Brigade  Inspector  to  each  Brigade,  who 
shall  be  one  of  the  Majors  in  the  Brigade,  and  that  the  office  of 
Brigade  Inspector  shall  in  future  be  annexed  to  that  of  Major  of 
Brigade.  He  shall  accordingly  keep  a  roster  of  the  battalions  of 
his  brigade ;  regulate  the  details,  and  take  care  of  the  formation 
and  march  of  all  guards,  detachments,  &c,  from  the  brigade. 

He  is  to  receive  the  general  orders,  and  communicate  them 
to  the  commanding  officers  of  the  brigade  and  regiments,  and 
through  the  adjutants  to  all  the  officers  of  the  brigade.  He  is, 
so  far  as  concerns  his  brigade,  to  inspect  the  police  of  the  camp, 
the  discipline,  and  order  of  the  service.  In  time  of  action,  he  is 
to  assist  in  executing  the  necessary  manoeuvres  of  the  brigade, 
according  to  the  orders  of  the  brigadier,  or  officer  commanding. 
He  is  to  do  no  duty  in  the  line. 

[That  each  brigadier  be  allowed  an  aid-de-camp  for  the  dis- 
patch of  his  orders.  That  he  be  taken  from  the  line  under  the 
rank  of  captain,  and  hold  the  same  rank  as  in  the  line,  preserving 
his  right  of  promotion  as  usual.  This  regulation  not  to  be  ex- 
tended so  as  to  injure  the  present  brigade  majors,  who  may  act 
as  aid-de-camps  to  their  respective  brigadiers  with  their  present 
rank,  pay,  and  rations,  and  with  every  other  privilege  as  hereto- 
fore.] f 

That  all  the  officers  of  the  inspectorship,  having  appoint- 

*  The  General  upon  the  whole  thinks  this  part  respecting  an  Assistant  Inspector 
General  may  as  well  be  omitted,  as  a  subinspector  may  answer  the   same  purpose. 

f  This  article,  as  it  is  not  properly  connected  with  the  inspectorship,  had  bet- 
ter form  a  separate  resolution. 


jEt.  23.]  mission    TO    PRANCE.  171 

incuts  iii  the  line,  shall  retain  their  rights  of  command,  succes- 
sion, and  promotion,  in  the  same  manner  as  if  thej  had  not  as- 
sumed the  "Dice.  But  as  the  duties  of  this  department  are  Buffi- 
cienl  to  employ  their  whole  time,  they  are  to  suspend  the  exer- 
ciae  of  their  respectiye  commands,  excepl  od  particular  occasions, 
when  tin-  Commander-in-Chief,  or  commanding  officer  in  a  sepa- 
rate detachment,  may  deem  it  necessary  to  invest  them  with 
command. 

They  are  to  be  exempted  from  all  common,  camp,  and  garri- 
son <ln!  \ ,  that  they  may  attend  the  inure  carefully  to  those  of  the 
inspection  ;  and  in  time  of  action  they  are  to  be  employed  in  as- 
sisting  in  the  execution  of  the  held  manoeuvres. 

(Clause  as  to  pay  stricken  out.  Pay  fixed  by  resolution  of 
Congress,  of  May  5,  1778.) 

That  the  Inspector  General,  so  far  as  relates  to  the  inspection 
of  the  army,  be  subject  to  the  order  of  Congress,  the  Board  of 
War,  and  the  Commander-in-Chief  only,  but  the  Subinspectors 
shall  also  be  subject  to  the  officers  commanding  the  divisions  and 
brigades  to  which  they  are  attached  on  the  principles  herein 
established. 


MISSION  TO  PRANCE. 

Instructions  by  Washington  to  Laurens,    Draft  by  Hamilton. 

"In  compliance  with  your  request,  I  shall  commit  to  writing 
the  result  of  our  conferences  on  the  present  state  of  American 
affairs;  in  which  I  have  given  you  my  opinion  with  thai  free- 
dom and  explicitness,  which  the  objects  of  your  commission, 

my  entire  confidence  in  you,  and  the  exigency  of  our  affairs 

demand. 

••  Lst.  To  me  it  appears  evident,  that,  considering  the  dilV 
population  of  these  States,  the  consequent  difficulty  of  drawing 
together  their  resources,  the  composition  and  temper  of  a  {'art 


172  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  23. 

of  their  inhabitants,  the  want  of  a  sufficient  stock  of  national 
wealth,  as  a  basis  for  revenue,  and  the  almost  total  extinction 
of  commerce,  the  efforts  that  we  have  been  compelled  to  make 
for  carrying  on  the  war,  have  exceeded  the  natural  abilities  of 
this  country,  and,  by  degrees,  brought  us  to  a  crisis  that  makes 
the  most  efficacious  and  immediate  succor  from  abroad  indispen- 
sable to  our  safety. 

"  2d.  That  notwithstanding,  from  the  confusion  inseparable 
from  the  revolution ;  from  our  having  had  governments  to 
frame,  and  every  species  of  civil  and  military  institution  to 
create  ;  from  that  inexperience  in  affairs  necessarily  incident  to 
a  nation  in  its  commencement,  some  errors  may  have  been  com- 
mitted in  the  administration  of  our  finances,  to  which  a  part  of 
our  embarrassments  are  to  be  attributed ;  yet  they  are  principally 
to  be  ascribed  to  an  essential  defect  of  means,  to  the  want  of  a 
sufficient  stock  of  wealth,  as  mentioned  in  the  first  article,  which 
continuing  to  operate,  will  make  it  impossible,  by  any  merely 
interior  exertions,  to  extricate  ourselves  from  those  embarrass- 
ments, restore  public  credit,  and  furnish  the  funds  requisite  for 
carrying  on  the  war. 

"  3d.  That  experience  has  demonstrated  it  to  be  impossible 
long  to  support  a  paper  credit,  without  funds  for  its  redemption ; 
that  the  depreciation  of  our  currency  was  in  the  main  a  necessary 
effect  of  the  want  of  those  funds;  and  that  its  restoration  is  im- 
possible for  the  same  reason,  to  which  the  general  diffidence  that 
has  taken  place  among  the  people  is  an  additional,  and,  in  the 
present  state  of  things,  an  insuperable  obstacle. 

"4th.  That  the  mode  which  for  want  of  money  has  been 
substituted  for  supplying  the  army,  by  assessing  a  portion  of  the 
productions  of  the  earth,  has  hitherto  been  found  to  be  ineffect- 
ual ;  has  frequently  left  the  army  to  experience  the  most  calam- 
itous distress,  and  from  its  novelty  and  incompatibility  with 
ancient  habits  is  regarded  by  the  people  as  burthensome  and  op- 
pressive; has  excited  serious  discontents,  and  in  some  States 
there  appear  alarming  symptoms  of  opposition.  That  this  mode 
has,  besides,  many  particular  inconveniences,  which  contribute 
to  make  it  inadequate  to  our  exigencies,  and  ineligible  but  as  an 
auxiliary. 


JEt.  23.]  mission    TO    P  a  AN  C  E  .  1  7  3 

"5th.  Thai  the  resource  of  domestic  Loans  is  inconsiderable; 

mse  there  are,  properly  speaking,  few  moneyed  men  in  this 
country,  and  the  few  there  are,  can  employ  their  money  to  do 
advantage  otherwise ;  besides  which,  the  instability  of  our  cur- 
rency, and  tlir  want  of  funds,  have  impaired  the  public  credit 
Thai  from  the  besl  estimates  of  the  annual  expense  of  the  war, 
and  the  annual  revenues  which  these  States  are  capable  of 
producing,  there  is  a  Large  balance  to  be  made  up  by  public 
credit. 

-•  6th.  Thai  the  patience  of  the  army,  from  an  almost  uninter- 
rupted scries  of  complicated  distresses,  is  now  nearly  exhausted; 
their  discontents  arc  matured  to  an  extremity  which  has  recently 
had  the  most  disagreeable  consequences,  and  demonstrates  the 
absolute  necessity  of  speedy  relief.  You  are  too  well  acquainted 
with  all  their  sufferings,  for  want  of  clothing,  for  want  of  sub- 
sistence, tor  want  of  pay. 

"7th.  That  the  people  begin  to  be  dissatisfied  with  the  pre- 
sent system  for  the  support  of  the  war;  ami  there  is  cause  to 
apprehend  that  evils  actually  fell  in  the  prosecution  of  it,  may 
weaken  those  sentiments  which  began  it,  founded,  not  on  imme- 
diate sufferings,  but  on  a  speculative  apprehension  of  evils  to 
arise  in  future  from  the  deprivation  of  our  liberties.  There  is 
danger  that  a  commercial  ami  free  people,  little  accustomed  to 
heavy  burdens,  pressed  by  impositions  of  a  new  ami  odious  kind, 
may  uo1  make  a  proper  allowance  for  tin'  necessity  of  the  con- 
juncture, and  may  imagine  they  have  only  exchanged  one  tyr- 
anny for  another. 

•■  Bth.  That  from  all  the  foregoing  considerations  results, 
first,  the  absolute  uecessity  of  an  immediate,  ample,  and  effica- 
cious succor  of  money,  considerable  enough  to  be  a  foundation 
for  permanent   arrangements  of  finance;  to  restore  the  public 

Credit,  and  give  new    life    ami    activity  to  our  future   operations. 
Secondly,  the   vast  importance  of  a   decided  effort   of  the  allied 

arms  upon  this  country  the  ensuing  campaign,  to  give  a  fatal 
blow  to  the  power  of  the  enemy,  and  secure  the  greal  obj 

the  war, — the  liberty  and  independence  of  these  States.      With- 
out the  first,  we  may  make  a  feeble  and  expiring  efforl  the  i 


174  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEi.  23. 

campaign,  which  would,  in  all  probability,  be  the  period  of  our 
opposition.  With  it,  we  should  be  in  a  condition  to  continue 
the  war  as  long  as  the  obstinacy  of  the  enemy  might  require. 
The  first  is  essential  to  the  last :  both  combined,  would  at  once 
bring  the  contest  to  a  glorious  issue ;  put  the  objects  of  the  alli- 
ance out  of  the  reach  of  contingencies ;  crown  the  obligations 
which  America  already  feels  to  the  magnanimity  and  generosity 
of  her  allies,  and  perpetuate  the  union  by  those  ties  of  gratitude 
and  affection,  as  well  as  mutual  advantage,  which  alone  can  ren- 
der it  solid  and  indissoluble. 

"  9th.  That  next  to  a  loan  of  money,  a  constant  naval  su- 
periority on  these  coasts,  is  the  object  which  most  interests  us. 
This  would  instantly  red  ace  the  enemy  to  a  difficult  defensive, 
and  by  depriving  them  of  all  prospect  of  extending  their  acquisi- 
tions, would  take  away  the  motives  for  prosecuting  the  war.  In- 
deed, it  is  not  easy  to  conceive,  how  they  could  subsist  a  large 
force  in  this  country,  if  we  had  the  command  of  the  seas  to 
internrpt  the  regular  transmission  of  supplies  from  Europe. 
This  superiority  (with  an  aid  of  money)  would  enable  us  to  con- 
vert the  operations  of  the  war  into  a  vigorous  offensive.  I  say 
nothing  of  the  advantages  to  our  trade,  nor  how  infinitely  it 
would  facilitate  our  supplies.  In  short,  it  seems  to  be  a  deciding 
point.  It  appears,  too,  to  be  the  interest  of  our  allies,  abstracted 
from  the  immediate  benefits  to  this  country,  to  transfer  the 
whole  naval  war  to  America.  The  number  of  ports  friendly  to 
them  and  hostile  to  the  British ;  the  materials  this  country 
affords  for  repairing  the  disabled  ships  ;  the  large  quantities  of 
provisions  towards  the  subsistence  of  the  fleet;  are  circum- 
stances which  would  give  a  palpable  advantage  to  our  allies  in  a 
naval  contest  in  these  seas. 

"  That  notwithstanding  the  embarrassments  under  which  we 
labor,  and  the  inquietudes  prevailing  among  the  people,  there  is 
still  a  fund  of  inclination  and  resources  in  this  country,  equal  to 
great  and  continued  exertions ;  provided  we  have  it  in  our  power 
to  stop  the  progress  of  disgust,  by  changing  the  present  system, 
by  restoring  public  credit,  and  by  giving  activity  to  our  mea- 
sures ;  of  all  which,  a  powerful  succor  of  money  might  be  the 


jEt.  23.]  MISSION     TO     FRANC  E.  1  75 

basis.    The  people  are  dissatisfied;  but  it  is  with  the  feeble  and 
oppressive  mode  of  conducting  the  war,  not  w  it h  the  war  itsel£ 
They  are  Qot  unwilling  t<>  c< uitrilnite  to  its  support,  but  they  i 
unwilling  to  do  it  in  a  way  that  renders  private  propert 
carious,  —a  aecessary  consequence  of  the  fluctuation  of  the  na- 
tional currency,  and  of  the  inability  of  government  to  perform 
its  engagements  coercively  made.      A   large  majority  are  -till 
firmly  attached  to  its  independence;    abhor  a   re-union    with 
Great  Britain;  and  are  affectionate  to  the  A ll inner  with  France : 
but  this  disposition  cannol  supply  the  place  of  the  means  essen- 
tial in  war,  nor  can  we  rely  on  its  continuance  amid  the  per- 
plexities, opp]  -.  and  misfortunes  thai  attend  the  want  of 
them. 

"That  no  nation  will  have  it  more  in  its  power  to  repay 
what  it  may  borrow  than  this.  Our  debts  are  small;  the  im- 
mense tracts  of  unlocated  lands:  the  variety  and  fertility  of  soils; 
the  advantages  of  every  kind  which  we  possess  for  commerce, 
insure  to   this  country  a  rapid    progress   in  population  and  p 

perity,  and  a  certainty,  its  independence  being  established,  of 
reducing,  in  a  short  term  of  years,  the  comparatively  inconsider- 
able debts  we  may  have  occasion  to  contract. 

■■  [f  thi    foregoing  observations  will  be  of  an\  » you,  1 

shall  be  happy.  I  wish  yon  a  safe  and  pleasant  voyage,  the  roll 
accomplishment  of  your  mission,  and  a  speedy  return;--  being, 
with  sentiments  of  perfeel  friendship,  regard,  and  affection,  dear 


sir, 


••Your  obedient  servant, 

"G.  \\V* 


*  It  will  be  observed  by  a  comparison  of  this  document  with  that  laserted  in 
the  diplomatic  correspondence  that  there  isa  difference  in  the  disposition  of  the 
parts  of  these  instructions  and  thai  the  copy  given  t"  Laurens  was  fuller.  The 
difference  is  not  however  importanl  The  above  is  copied  from  the  Oral  'trait  In 
Hamilton's  autograph,  with  the  exception  of  the  four  closing  lines,  which  are 
addi'<]  in  the  handwriting  of  Washington. 


!^6  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [-fix.  23. 


MLLITAEY  REGULATIONS. 

Draft  by  Hamilton.     Submitted  to  Washington. 

There  are  still  existing  in  the  army  so  many  abuses  absolute- 
ly contrary  to  the  military  constitution,  that,  without  a  speedy 
stop  is  put  to  them,  it  will  be  impossible  even  to  establish  any 
order  or  discipline  among  the  troops. 

I  would,  therefore,  propose  the  following  Regulations,  sub- 
mitting to  his  Excellency  the  Commander-in-Chief,  to  distinguish 
such  as  may  be  published  under  his  own  authority  in  General 
Orders,  and  such  as  will  require  the  sanction  and  authority  of 
the  committee  of  Congress  now  in  camp. 

lstly.— Every  officer  or  soldier  who  acts  contrary  to  the  Re- 
gulations for  the  order  and  discipline  of  the  army,  established  by 
Congress,  shall  be  tried  and  punished  for  disobedience  of  orders 
2dly.— Every  officer  who  absents  himself  from  his  regiment 
without  leave,  shall  be  tried  and  punished.     If  he  remain  absent 
three  weeks,  he  shall  be  ordered  to  join  bY  a  notification  in  Ge- 
neral Orders,  and  in  the  public  newspapers.     And  in  case  of  his 
absence  three  weeks  afterward,  such   notification   shall  be  re- 
peated     And  should  he  not  return  in  three  weeks  from  the  last 
notification,  he  shall,  by  the  sentence  of  a  court  martial    be 
cashiered  and  rendered  incapable  of  ever  holding  a  commission 
m  the  armies  of  the  United  States. 

dnv3,llj'~Erry  ?ffiC6r  °n  furl°Ugh'  who  remaiQS  »fc*nt  ten 
day   longer  than  the  time  allowed  him,  shall  be  tried  by  a  court 

c  use  i  t  1  *  ^  °f  ^  b6in&  ^  Sickness  OT  »7  other 
cause  detained  from  his  regiment  six  days  above  the  time  al- 
lowed in  his  furlough,  he  shall  inform  the  commanding  officer  of 

o?  suchT/ of  th:  rers  that  to  his  ™*-  ™%£ 
ill  biv trth   ' : slia]I  be  notiM>  tned>  -d  p—m, 

agreeably  to  the  second  article. 


JEt.  23.]  MILITARY    REGULATIONS.  177 

-Itlih-.--  [t being  permitted,  for  the  care  and  conveni 
the  Generals,  and  other  officers  of  the  army,  to  take  servants 
from  the  regiments,  many  abuses  have  resulted  therefrom.    To 
remedy  which,  the  following  Regulations  are  to  take  place  for 
the  future: 

Each  Major-General  is  permitted  to  take  from  the  division 
which  he  commands,  lour  men.  Bach  Brigadier-General,  three 
men.  Bach  Colonel,  or  Lieutenant-Colonel-Commandant,  two 
men.  Bach  lieutenant-Colonel,  or  Major,  one  man,  and  ;i 
cond  man,  who  is  to  1'"  exempted  from  ordinary  duty,  but  to 
turn  out  in  time  of  action.  Each  Captain,  two  men,  to  be  ex- 
empted from  ordinary  duty  only.  Each  Subaltern,  one  man,  who 
is  io  mount  guard  with  the  officer  lie  serves.  rJ  nose  Generals, 
ami  other  officers,  who  are  not  attached  to  any  particular  division 
or  brigade,  to  take  their  servants  from  the  line. 

No  officer  in  a  civil  department,  shall  be  permitted  to  take  a 
soldier  from  any  regimenl  to  serve  him ;  nor  is  any  Colonel,  or 
commanding  officer,  to  suffer  a  soldier  of  their  regiment  to  be  de- 
tained by  any  such  officer. 

Those  who  may  be  permitted  to  have  servants  from  the  line, 
are  to  apply  to  the  Quarter-Master-General,  who  will  tak 
from  the   regiments,  and  distribute  them   to  whom  he   thinks 
proper. 

othly. — (ireat  quantities  of  arms  and  ammunition  have  been 

fcroyed,  by  being  in  the   ;■  on  of  men  who  do  not  use 

them  in  time  of  action.     To  prevent  this,  lor  the  future,  uoarms, 

lutrements,  or  ammunition,  are  to  !„•  delivered  to  those  ur 
the  following  description,  viz.:  general  and  Btaff officers,  waiters, 
wagoners,  camp  color  men,  and  all  those  who  do  not  bear  arms 
in  time  of  action.  Such  of  those  as  have  arms,  are  immediately 
to  deliver  them  to  their  Captains,  who  will  deliver  them  to  the 
Conductor,  that  they  may  be  returned  to  the  Field  Commissary. 

6thly. — Abolition  of  standing  guards,  though  of  irrea- 
quence  to  the  order  and  discipline  of  the  army,  has  not  yet  taken 
place.    The  soldiers  on  these  guards,  being  separated  from  their 
regiments,  are  often  employed  as  servants.     They  becOD 
rant  of  the  service,  and  lose  and  destroy  their  arms  and  clothing, 

B  12 


178  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  23. 

Therefore,  for  the  future,  no  standing  guard  shall  be  permitted  to 
any  general,  or  other  officer,  on  any  pretence  whatever. 

Those  guards  which  cannot  be  relieved  every  twenty-four 
hours,  must  be  relieved  at  least  every  three  days ;  for  which  the 
Inspectors  and  Majors  of  Brigade  are  to  be  answerable.  All 
guards  or  pickets,  for  more  than  three  days,  shall  be  called  de- 
tachments. 

7thly. — The  multiplicity  of  small  guards,  for  the  stores  and 
baggage  of  the  army,  being  unnecessary,  and  diminishing  the 
strength  of  the  regiments,  it  will  be  necessary  to  repeat  the  order 
given  at  Smith's  Clove,  the  25th  of  June  last,  relative  to  this  ob- 
ject.    It  should  therefore  be  ordered,  that 

The  order  given  at  Smith's  Clove  the  25th  of  June  last,  rela- 
tive to  the  guard  usually  furnished  for  the  Quarter-Master's,  and 
other  stores,  is  to  be  carried  into  execution  with  the  greatest 
rigor,  and  is  to  be  regarded  as  a  standing  order. 

8thly. — It  being  very  improper  and  hurtful  to  the  service, 
that  guards  should  be  sent  too  far  from  the  corps  to  which  they 
belong,  it  is  ordered, 

That  the  general  officers  shall  have  their  guard  from  the  divi- 
sions and  brigades  to  which  they  belong ;  and  those  who  have 
no  division  or  brigade,  shall  be  furnished  with  a  guard  from  the 
line,  by  detail  from  the  Adjutant  General. 

No  General  shall  take  his  guard  above  ten  miles  from  camp, 
without  the  express  leave  of  the  Commander-in-Chief. 

9thly. — Nothing  being  more  disgraceful  to  the  service,  nor 
dangerous  for  the  army,  than  for  the  advanced  posts  to  be  sur- 
prised by  the  enemy,  it  is  necessary  that  every  possible  precau- 
tion should  be  taken  to  prevent  an  accident  so  dishonorable  to 
the  officer  who  commands  at  such  a  post.  And  as  the  instruc- 
tion given  in  the  chapter  on  the  service  of  the  guard,  in  the  Ke- 
gulations,  is  not  full  and  explicit,  it  is  thought  necessary  to  add 
the  following  article : 

As  soon  as  an  officer,  commanding  a  detachment,  arrives  at 
the  post  he  is  to  occupy,  he  must  endeavor  to  procure  some  inha- 
bitant on  whom  he  can  depend,  to  show  him  all  the  roads,  foot- 
paths, and  other  avenues  leading  to  the  post.     These  he  must 


jEt.  23.]  MILITARY    REGULATIONS.  IT'.) 

himself  reconnoitre,  and  then  determine  the  number  of  guards 
necessary  for  his  security,  as  well  in  front,  as  on  the  flanks  and 
in  the  rear  of  the  post.  lie  must  then  divide  his  detachment  into 
three  parts,  one  of  which  musl  be  always  on  guard ;  another,  ad 
as  reserve  picket :  and  the  third,  1"'  nil' duty. 

The  pari  destined  for  guard,  must  he  divided  into  as  many 
guards  as  the  officer  may  think   accessary;  always  observing, 
that  the  guards  are  so  proportioned  as  that  one-third  o 
guard  may  always  be  on  sentry  at  the  same  time. 

These  guards  should  be  posted  at  three  or  four  hundred  p 

from    the  main    post,  and    the   sentinels    form  a    chain    round    it. 

They  musl  be  within  sighl  of  each  other  during  the  day,  and 
within  rail  during  the  night 

The  commanding  officer  having  himself  posted  these  guards 
and  sentinels,  and  well  instructed  the  officers  and  sergeants  in 
theirduty,  will  fix  the  place  where  he  means  to  defend  himself  in 
of  an  attack  ;  as  a  house,  a  height,  or  behind  some  bridge  or 
fence,  which  he  will  strengthen  as  much  as  possible  by  an  abatis, 
ditch,  or  any  thing  his  genius  may  direct  him  for  that  purpose. 

The  reserve  pickets  are  on  no  account  to  stir  from  the  main 

•,  or  take  otr  their  accoutrements;  but  must  be  ready  to  pa- 
rade underarms  at  any  moment  of  the  day  or  night;  though, 
•  luring  the  day,  they  may  be  permitted  to  lay  down  and  sleep. 
E .  TV  man  musl  have  his  haversack  under  his  head;  and  if  the 
post  is  dangerous,  his  arms  in  his  hand. 

The  Reserve  will  furnish  a  guard  of  a  sergeant  and  from  six 
to  twelve  men,  to  furnish  from  two  to  four  sentinels  round  the 
house,  or  wherever  they  are  posted,  to  give  notice  of  all  that  ap- 
proach, or  of  any  alarm.  One  of  these  sentries  must,  always  be 
before  the  arms. 

That  part  of  the  detachment  oil' duty,  may  undress  and  re- 
pose themselves.     They  must  cook  for  the  guard  and  picket, 

fetch  the  wood  and  water  necessary  for  the  post;  but  they  must 
not  do  this  before  the  roll-call  in  the  morning  when  the  com- 
manding officer  receives  the  reportsofal]  the  L    If  the' 
is  near  the  enemy,  this  part  iA'  the  detachment  must  not  uncb 
duriug  the  night. 


180  HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[Mt.  23. 


As  the  guard  form  a  chain  of  sentinels  round  the  post,  no 
soldier  must  pass  the  chain  without  a  non-commissioned  officer  ■ 
nor  any  stranger  be  permitted  to  enter,  without  being  conducted 
to,  and  examined  by,  the  commanding  officer. 

After  roll-call  in  the  evening,  no  soldier  must  be  permitted  to 
go  more  than  forty  paces  from  the  place  of  arms.  The  officers  it 
is  expected,  always  remain  with  their  men. 

As  soon  as  a  sentry  perceives  the  enemy,  he  must  fire  his 
piece  to  alarm  the  other  guards  and  the  main  body.     The  guards 
immediately  parade,  and  follow  the  rules  prescribed  in  the  Eegu- 
lations.     The  picket  parades  immediately,  and  the  other  part 
joins  it  as  fast  as  it  can  get  ready.     The  commanding  officer  will 
immediately  detach  one-third  of  the  picket,  with  orders  to  march 
toward  the  guard  attacked,  and  lay  in  ambuscade  behind  some 
house,  barn,  or  m  a  wood  on  the  road  leading  from  them  to  the 
mam  post.     And  when  the  guard  attacked  retreat,  and  are  fol- 
lowed by  the  enemy,  they  must  fall  in  the  rear  of  the  enemy  and 
keep  up  a  scattered  fire.     This  manoeuvre,   especially  in   the 
night,  will  not  fad  to  disconcert  the  enemy,  and  cause  a  failure  of 
their  enterprise. 

_  Tie  g^rd  are,  in  every  respect,  to  observe  the  rules  laid  down 
in  the  Regulations. 

The  part  on  guard  is  to  be  relieved  by  the  part  off  duty,  and 
the  guard  take  the  reserve  picket. 

thanNZ?f  *rhe  TiCe  1S  m°re  imp°rtant'  "or  more  neSle<^ 
hZ  1  IY  STd>  n°tWlthstandini;  &e  duties  are  so  particu- 
larly  described  in  the  Regulations. 

„f  t?  a   VerJ  f  M°m  '  gUard  tum  out  for  a  ^ral  officer 

ever  b!^  T  ^  "^  tUm  °Ut'  **  »  «*»>  or 

ever  drawn  up  in  the  order  prescribed.  Therefore,  for  the  fu- 
ture, the  Generals,  and  Field  officers  of  the  day  are  ordered  to 
pay  the  greatest  attention,  that  the  service  of  Ae  gua  dlpe" 
formed  stnctly  conformable  to  the  Eegulations.     For  which  Z. 

LTa  e!  TIT the  grds °1*^ - ***££%, 

and  arrest  or  confine  any  officer,  or  non-commissioned  officer 
whose  guard  >  not  already  paraded  in  order  at  his  arrival  A 
guard  whack  is  suxprised  by  an  officer  of  the  day,  may,  wnh  the 


jet.  23.]  MILITARY    REGULATIONS.  181 

same  facility,  be  surprised  by  the  enemy.    If  the  sentinel  1"  I 
the  guard-house  is  uol  sufficient,  others  must  be  added,  who  can 
see  around  the  environs  of  the  post,  and  give  notice  of  all  that 
appri  tach. 

For  tin1  more  effectual  preservation  of  the  arms,  accoutre* 
ments,  and  ammunition,  each  regiment  shall  be  charged  with  the 
arms,  &c.,  n<»w  in  their  possession,  agreeably  to  the  returns  made 
at  the  last  inspection.  And  r<>r  the  future,  none  of  those  artii 
shall  be  drawn  from  the  Field  Commissary,  but  by  returns  signed 
by  the  Inspector  of  the  Division,  or,  in  bis  absence,  by  the  Major 
of  Brigade,  doing  his  duty.  And  the  Inspector  and  Major  of 
Brigade,  are  to  pay  the  strictest  attention,  that  the  Regulations, 
with  respect  to  this  object,  are  strictly  carried  into  execution,  ex- 
amining and  comparing  the  Regimental  Returns  with  those  of  the 
Conductors. 

In  the  Returns  of  the  army,  a  great  number  of  men  are 
reckoned,  who  have  been  sick,  or  otherwise  absent,  a  long  time, 
without  any  account  of  them  having  been  sent  to  their  regiments. 

Orders  must  be  given  to  the  officers  superintending  the  hos- 
pitals, to  send  their  Returns  regularly  every  month;    and  the 
Majors  of  Brigade  must  take  an  extract  of  those  of  their  Bi 
returned  in  the  several  hospitals,  to  compare  with  the  Returns  of 
the  inspection. 

For  those  men  who  are  sick  in  the  country  at  private  houses, 
certificates  must  be  produced  every  two  months,  signed  by  a  jus- 
tice of  the  peace;  and  without  such  certificates,  the  men  must 
no  longer  returned,  though  the  regiment  may  keep  an  i  t  of 

them,  that  they  be  reclaimed  if  ever  found. 

The  army,  even  at  this  day.  is  much  reduced  by  a  considera- 
ble number  of  men  being  permitted  to  retire  on  furlough  and  ex- 
tra service.  I  would  therefore  recommend  the  following  Regu- 
lations ; 

That  from  the  first  of  May  till  the  campaign  closes,  no  officer 
have  leave  of  absence  for  more  than  eight  days,  unless  1>\    | 
mission  from  the  Commander-in-Chief^  or  officer  commanding 

-irate  post  :  and  that  no  Qon-commissioned  officer,  norsoldier, 
be  furkmghed  during  the  aforesaid  period,  unless  by  his  .Major- 


182  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  23. 

General,  or  officer  commanding  at  a  separate  post :  and  that  for 
only  six  days,  and  on  the  most  special  account.  That  during  the 
army's  continuance  in  winter  quarters,  not  more  than  six  men  of 
a  hundred  be  absent  on  furlough  at  the  same  time ;  these  to  have 
leave  of  absence  from  the  officers  commanding  the  regiments  to 
which  they  belong. 

That  every  officer,  non-commissioned  officer,  and  soldier  now 
on  furlough,  or  on  the  recruiting  service,  be  ordered  to  join  their 
respective  corps,  by  the  first  of  June ;  the  commanding  officers  of 
regiments  to  be  answerable  that  they  be  notified  of  this  order. 

Notwithstanding  the  General  Order  lately  issued,  respecting 
men  on  extra  service,  many  are  still  improperly  absent.  It  is 
therefore  ordered,  that  they  join  by  the  first  of  June,  the  com- 
manding officers  of  the  regiments  to  which  they  respectively 
belong,  to  be  answerable  that  they  be  notified  of  this  order. 
That  for  the  future,  none  be  suffered  to  go  on  such  employ,  ex- 
cept by  order  of  the  Commander-in-Chief,  officers  commanding  at 
a  separate  post,  or  the  Quarter-Master  General. 

The  Marechaussee  Corps,  though  raised  at  a  great  expense, 
has  been  found  not  to  answer  the  purpose  for  which  it  was 
raised ;  and  as,  by  its  composition,  it  is  not  fit  to  be  employed  on 
the  lines,  in  order  that  they  may  not  1.  e  useless  to  the  army,  I 
would  propose  the  following 

Arrangement  for  the  Marechaussee. 

That  the  name  they  at  present  bear,  be  changed  into  that  of 
General  Staff  Dragoons;  and  that  they  be  employed  in  the  fol- 
owing  manner : 

To  furnish  a  guard  for  the  Commander-in-Chief,  of  such  a 
number  as  he  shall  please  to  order. 

To  furnish  Orderly  dragoons  to  Major  Generals  and  Briga- 
diers ;  when  their  divisions  and  brigades  are  separated  from  the 
army,  or  when  the  Commander-in-Chief  shall  think  them  neces- 
sary. To  furnish,  also,  Orderly  dragoons  to  the  Quarter-Master 
General,  and  Inspector  General  of  the  Army,  and  commanding 
officers  of  separate  departments. 

The  Inspector  who  has  the  department  of  the  Cavalry,  to  have 
the  direction  of  this  corps;  to  furnish  the  guards  and  Orderly 


JEt.  24.] 


D  IS  CI1'  LINK. 


dragoons,  agreeably  to  the  orders  be  may  receive  from  the  Com* 
mander-in-Chief,  without  whose  orders  nodraj 
tached  from  the  troop. 

To  prevent  the  abuses  whioh  have  arisen,  with  res] 
derly  dragoons,  the  following  Order  should  be  rigorously  ob- 
served : 

CTo  Orderly  dragoons  to  be  employed  on  any  but  military 
duty,  nor  senl  express  more  than  twenty  miles;  theirduty  b 
only  to  carry  the  orders  of  the  General  in  writing,  whenever  I 
may  be  ordered:  aor  are  they  to  follow  the  Aids,  or  any  other 
officer,  but  the  General  to  whom  they  are  Orderly;  who  will 
himself  consult  the  preservation  of  the  ho  -  much  as  possible, 

by  employing  them  only  in  cases  of  necessity. 

No  person  whatever  is  to  ride  the  dragoon  horses  but  the 
dragoons  themselves:  and  any  dragoon  is  to  inform  the  in 
of  any  breach  of  this  order;  and  the  Inspector  will  immediately 
inform  the  Inspector  General  thereof;  that  the  person  who  made; 

•  of  the  horse,  may  be  punished.     And  in  case  any  dragoon 
neglects  to  inform  the  Inspector  as  aforesaid,  he  shall  receive 
hundred  lashes  for  such  neglect 


DISCIPLINE. 

Submitted  by  Washington  to  Congress.    Draft  by  Hamilton. 

Hkw>  Quarters,  Now  Windsor,  Fob.  3,  1781. 

I  have,  on  different  occasions,  myself  the  honor, 

present  to  Congress  the  inconveniences  arising  from  the  want  of 
a  proper  gradation   of  punishment  in  our  military  code;  bul 

no  determination  has  1 o  communicated  tome,  [conclud  . 

multiplicity  of  business  may  have  diverted  their  attention  6 
the  object     As  I  am  convinced,  a  greal  part  of  the  vi 
discipline  springs  from  this  source,  I  take  the  liberty  again 


184  HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[Mt.  24. 


renew  the  subject.  The  highest  corporal  punishment  we  are 
allowed  to  give,  is  a  hundred  lashes;  between  that  and  death 
there  are  no  degrees.  Instances  daily  occurring  of  offences  for 
which  the  former  is  entirely  inadequate,  Courts  Martial,  to  pre- 
serve some  proportion  between  the  crime  and  the  punishment 
are  obliged  to  pronounce  sentence  of  death.  Capital  sentences 
on  this  account,  become  more  frequent  in  our  service  than  in 
any  other;  so  frequent,  as  to  render  their  execution,  in  most 
cases,  inexpedient;  and  it  happens  from  this  that  greater  of- 
fences often  escape  punishment,  while  lesser  are  commonly  pun- 
ished, which  cannot  but  operate  as  an  encouragement  to  the 
commission  of  the  former. 

The  inconveniences  of  this  defect  are  obvious.      Congress 
are  sensible  of  the  necessity  of  punishment  in  an  army,  of  the 
justice  and  policy  of  a  due  proportion  between  the  crime  and 
the  penalty ;  and,  of  course,  of  the  necessity  of  proper  degrees 
of  the  latter.    I  shall  therefore  content  myself  with  observing, 
that  it  appears  to  me  indispensable  there  should  be  an  extension 
of  the  present  corporal  punishment,  and  also  that  it  would  be 
useful  to  authorize  courts  martial  to  sentence  delinquents  to 
labor  on  the  public  works;  perhaps  even  for  some  crimes,  par- 
ticularly desertion,  to  transfer  them  from  the  land  to  the  sea 
service,  where  they  have  less  opportunity  to  indulge  their  incon- 
stancy.    A  variety  in  punishments  is  of  utility  as  well  as  a  pro- 
portion. 

The  number  of  lashes,  may  either  be  indefinite,  left  to  the 
discretion  of  the  Court  to  fix  a  limited  to  a  larger  number-  in 
this  case  I  would  recommend  five  hundred.  There  is  one  evil 
however,  which  I  shall  particularize,  resulting  from  the  imper- 
fection of  our  regulation  in  this  respect.  It  is  the  increase  of 
arbitrary  punishments.  Officers  finding  discipline  cannot  be 
maintained  by  a  regular  course  of  proceeding,  are  tempted  to 
use  their  own  discretion  which  sometimes  occasions  excesses,  to 
correct  winch,  the  interests  of  discipline  will  not  permit  much 
rigor.  rompt,  and  therefore  arbitrary  punishments  are  not  to 
be  avoided  m  an  army,  but  the  necessity  for  them  will  be  more 
or  less,  m  proportion  as  the  military  laws  have  more  or  less 


vigor. 


jEt.-2\.}  the   continent alist. 


185 


There  is  another  thing  in  our  articles  of  war,  which  I  beg 
leave  to  Bnggesl  to  Congress,  the  propriety  of  altering.  It  is  the 
2d  article  of  the  Itli  section;  allowing  commanding  officers  of 
oorpa  to  furlough  their  soldiers.    This  privilege,  it'  suffered  to 

operate,  would  often  deprive  the  army  of  i e  men  than  it 

could  spare.     It.  lias  been  attended  with  abuses ;  il  is  'I 
able  for  a  general  officer  to  restrain  the  exercise  of  a  privil 
granted  by  authority  of  Congn 

Toprevenl  uneasiness  and  discussion,  it  were  to  be  wished, 
Congress  would  think  proper  to  repeal  this  article,  and  ves\  the 
power  of  designating  the  mode  of  granting  furloughs  in  the 
Cominaii.l.T-in-Chiefj  or  commanding  officer  of  a  separate  army. 
It  would  perhaps  be  useful  to  prescribe  a  printed  form,  tor  which 
purpose  I  have  taken  the  liberty  to  inclose  one.  This  would 
hinder  counterfeits  and  impositions.  On  the  same  principle  I 
inclose  the  form  of  a  discharge.  It  would,  in  my  opinion,  be  a 
o-oo.l  regulation,  that  a  soldier  returning  home,  either  or  fur- 
lough or  discharged,  who  did  cot,  in  ten  days  after  his  return, 
produce  to  the  nearest  magistrate  his  printed  certificate,  should 
W  ;i]>]uvhrinlr<l  by  tlm  magistrate  as  a  deserter,  and  through  the 
Governor,  reported  to  the  General  Officer  commanding,  in  the 
State  or  department  This  regulation,  published  in  the  army 
and  in  the  several  States,  would  have  a  tendency  to  discourage 
desertion.  Something  of  this  kind  has  been  Lately  adopted  in 
Virginia,  and  I  doubt  not,  will  have  a  goodeffect  It  wereto 
be  wished  its  utility  could  become  general 


THE    CONTINENTS  LIST. 

Fisiikii.i..  Nbw-York  Packet,  July  19   1781. 

Mi:.  Loudon  : 

1  send  von  the  firsi   number  of  a  series  of  papers,  which  I 

intend  to  publish,  on  matters  ><\~  the  greatest  importance  to  tl 

I  hope  they  will  be  read  with  as  much  candor  and  at- 


186  HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[Mt.  24. 


tention  as  the  object  of  them  deserve ;  and  that  no  conclusions 
will  be  drawn  till  these  are  folly  developed. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  most  ob't  humble  servant, 

A.  B. 

NO.  I. 

It  would  be  the  extreme  of  vanity  in  us  not  to  be  sensible 
that  we  began  this  revolution  with  very  vague  and  confined  no- 
tions of  the  practical  business  of  government.  To  the  greater 
part  of  us  it  was  a  novelty ;  of  those  who  under  the  former  con- 
stitution had  had  opportunities  of  acquiring  experience,  a  large 
proportion  adhered  to  the  opposite  side,  and  the  remainder  can 
only  be  supposed  to  have  possessed  ideas  adapted  to  the  narrow 
colonial  sphere,  in  which  they  had  been  accustomed  to  move,  not 
of  that  enlarged  kind  suited  to  the  government  of  an  independ- 
ent nation. 

There  were,  no  doubt,  exceptions  to  these  observations;  men 
in  all  respects  qualified  for  conducting  the  public  affairs  with 
skill  and  advantage ;  but  their  number  was  small— they  were 
not  always  brought  forward  in  our  councils;  and  when  they 
were,  their  influence  was  too  commonly  borne  down  by  the  pre- 
vailing torreut  of  ignorance  and  prejudice. 

On  a  retrospect,  however,  of  our  transactions,  under  the  dis- 
advantages with  which  we  commenced,  it  is  perhaps  more  to  be 
wondered  at,  that  we  have  done  so  well,  than  that  we  have  not 
done  better.  There  are,  indeed,  some  traits  in  our  conduct,  as 
conspicuous  for  sound  policy,  as  others  for  magnanimity.  But, 
on  the  other  hand,  it  must  also  be  confessed,  there  have  been 
many  false  steps,  many  chimerical  projects  and  Utopian  specula- 
tions, in  the  management  of  our  civil  as  well  as  of  our  military 
attains.  A  part  of  these  were  the  natural  effects  of  the  spirit  of 
the  times,  dictated  by  our  situation.  An  extreme  jealousy  of 
power  is  the  attendant  on  all  popular  revolutions,  and  has  sel- 
dom been  without  its  evils.  It  is  to  this  source  we  are  to  trace 
many  of  the  fatal  mistakes,  which  have  so  deeply  endangered 


4BT.94.]  THE    CONTINENT ALIST.  W 

the  common   cause;   particularly  that   defect   wliii-li   will  be  the 

object  of  these  remarks — A  want  of  power  in  Coi 

The  present  Congress,  respegtable  for  abilities  and  integrity, 
by  experience  convinced  of  the  necessity  of  change,  are  prepar- 
ing Beveral  important  articles,  to  be  submitted  to  the  respeel 
States,  for  augmenting  the  powers  of  the  Confederation.  But 
though  there  is  hardly  at  this  time  a  man  of  information  is 
America,  who  will  not  acknowledge,  as  a  general  proposition, 
that  in  itspresenl  form,  it  is  unequal,  either  to  a  vigorous  | 
secution  of  the  war,  or  to   the  preservation  of  the  union  in 

,.:  vet  when  the  principle  comes  to  be  applied  to  praci 
there  seems  not  to  be  the  same  agreement  in  tlie  modes  of 
remedying  the  defect;  and  it  is  to  be  feared,  from  a  disposition 
which  appeared  in  some  of  the  States,  on  a  late  occasion,  that 
the  salutary  intentions  of  Congress  may  meet  with  more  delay 
and    opposition,  than  the   critical   posture   of  the   States   will 

justify. 

It  will  be  attempted  to  show,  in  a  course  of  papers,  what 
ought  to  be  done,  and  the  mischiefs  of  a  contrary  policy. 

In  the  firsl  stages  of  the  controversy,  it  was  excusable  to  err. 
Good  intentions,  rather  than  great  skill,  were  to  have  been  ex- 
pected from  us.  Bui  we  have  now  had  sufficient  time  for  re- 
flection, and  experience  as  ample  as  unfortunate,  to  rectify  our 
errors.  To  persist  in  them  becomes  disgraceful,  and  even  crimi- 
nal, and  belies  that  character  of  good  sense,  and  a  quick  discern- 
ment of  our  interests,  winch,  in  spite  of  our  mistakes,  we  have 
been  hitherto  allowed.  It  will  prove,  that  our  sagacity  is 
limited  to  interests  of  inferior  moment  ;  and  that  we  are  inca- 
pable of  those  enlightened  and  liberal  views,  necessary  to  make 
us  a  great  and  a  flourishing  people. 

History  is  full  of  examples,  where  in  contests  for  liberty,  a 
jealousy  of  power  has  either  defeated  the  attempts  to  recover  or 
preserve  it,  in  the  first  instance,  or  has  afterwards  subverted  it 
by  clogging  government  with  too  great  precautions  for  its 
felicity,  or  by  leaving  too  wide  a  door  for  sedition  and  popular 
licentiousness.  In  a  governmenl  framed  for  durable  liberty, 
not  less  regard  must  be  paid  to  giving  the  magistrate  a  | 


188 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  (>Et.  24. 

degree  of  authority,  to  make  and  execute  the  laws  with  rigor 
than  to  guard  against  encroachments  upon  the  rights  of  the  com- 
munity. As  too  much  power  leads  to  despotism,  too  little  leads 
to  anarchy,  and  both,  eventually,  to  the  ruin  of  the  people. 
These  are  maxims  well  known,  but  never  sufficiently  attended 
to,  in  adjusting  the  frames  of  governments.  Some  momentary 
interest  or  passion  is  sure  to  give  a  wrong  bias,  and  pervert  the 
most  favorable  opportunities. 

No  friend  to  order  or  to  rational  liberty,  can  read  without 
pain  and  disgust,  the  history  of  the  Commonwealths  of  Greece. 
Generally  speaking,  they  were  a  constant  scene  of  the  alternate 
tyranny  of  one  part  of  the  people  over  the  other,  or  of  a  few 
usurping  demagogues  over  the  whole.     Most  of  them  had  been 
originally  governed   by  kings,  whose   despotism    (the    natural 
disease  of  monarchy)  had  obliged  their  subjects  to  murder,  ex- 
pel, depose,  or  reduce  them  to  a  nominal  existence,  and  institute 
popular  governments.     In  these  governments,  that  of  Sparta  ex- 
cepted, the  jealousy  of  power  hindered  the  people  from  trusting 
out  of  their  own  hands  a  competent  authority,  to  maintain  the 
repose  and  stability  of  the  Commonwealth;  whence  originated 
the  frequent  revolutions  and  civil  broils,  with  which  they  were 
distracted.     This,  and  the  want  of  a  solid  federal  union  to  re- 
strain the  ambition  and  rivalship  of  the  different  cities,  after  a 
rapid  succession  of  bloody  wars,  ended  in  their  total  loss  of 
liberty,  and  subjugation  to  foreign  powers. 
_    In  comparison   of  our  governments  with  those  of  the  an- 
cient republics,  we  must,    without  hesitation,  give  the  prefer- 
ence to  our  own;  because  every  power  with  us  is  exercised  by 
representation,  not  in  tumultuary  assemblies  of  the  collective 
body  of  the  people,  where  the  art  or  impudence  of  the  Orator  or 
ir^e  rather  than  the  utility  or  justice  of  the  measure  conld 
seldom  fail  to  govern.     Yet,  whatever  may  be  the  advantage  on 
our  side,  m  such  a  comparison,  men  who  estimate  the  value  of 
institutions    not  from  prejudices  of  the  moment,  but  from  ex, 
penence  and  reason,  must  be  persuaded,  that  the  same  jealousy 
of  power  has  prevented  our  reaping  all  the  advantages,  from  the 
examples  of  other  nations,  which  we  ought  to  have  done,  arid 


iET.'Ji]  THE    C0NTINENTALI8T.  L89 

li;i-  rendered  our  Constitutions  in  inanv  respects,  feeble  and  im- 
perfect 

Perhaps  the  evil  is  no1  verygreal  in  i  tootu  i  'in- 

stitutions;  for,  notwithstanding  their  imperfections,   they  a 
for  some  time,  be  made  to  operate  in  such  a  manner,  as  to  ansi 
the  purposes  of  the  common  defence,  and  the  maintenance  of 
order;  and  they  seem  to  nave,  in  themselves,  and  in  the  pi 
of  society,  among  as  the  seeds  of  improvement. 

Bui  this  is  not  the  ease  with  respect  to  the  Federal  Govern- 
ment; if  it  is  too  weak  at  first,  it  will  continually  grow  weal 
The  ambition  and  local  interests  of  the  respective  members,  will 
be  constantly  undermining  and  usurping  upon  its  prero§ 
till  it  comes  to  a  dissolution;  if  a  partial  combination  of  some 
of  the  more  powerful  ones  does  not  bring  it  to  a  more  speedy 
and  violent  end. 


NO.  IV. 
August  30:  1781. 

Tlic  preceding  numbers  are  chiefly  intended  I  firm  an 

opinion,  already  pretty  generally  received,  that  it  t£ 
augmenl  the  powers  of  the  confederation.     The  principal  difficul- 
ty yet   remains  to  fix  the  public  judgment  definitively  on  the 
points  which  ought  to  compose  that  augmentation. 

I:   may  be  pronounced  with  confidence  that  nothing  short  of 
the  following  articles  can  suffice. 

1st. — The  Poweb  of  Regulating  Tbade,  comprehend!] 
right  of  granting  bounties  and  premiums  by  way  of  encoun 
inent,  of  imposing  duties  of  every  kind  as  well  for  revenu 

regulation,  of  appointing  all  officers  of  tie  :ns,  and  of  laying 

embargoes  in  extraordinary  emergenc 

2d. — A  moderate-levied  tax,  throughout  the  United  Si 
a  specific  rate  per  pouud  or  per  acre,*  granted  to  the  Federal 


*  T«o  pence  .111  acre  on  cultivated,  and  a  half-penny  on  ttncnlth 
wouM  answer  the  purpose,  and  would  !><■  so  moderate  ;is  not  to  be  fi  II    ■'  nna 


190 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  24. 

Government  in  perpetuity  ;  and,  if  Congress  think  proper,  to  be 
levied  by  their  own  collectors. 

3d.— A  moderate  capitation-tax*  on  every  male  inhabitant 
above  fifteen  years  of  age,  exclusive  of  common  soldiers,  com- 
mon seamen,  day  laborers,  cottagers,  and  paupers,  to  be  also 
vested  in  perpetuity,  and  with  the  same  condition  of  collection 

4th.— The  disposal  of  all  unlocated  land  for  the  benefit  of  the 
United  States  (so  far  as  respects  the  profits  of  the  first  sale  and 
the  quit-rents),  the  jurisdiction  remaining  to  the  respective  States 
in  whose  limits  they  are  contained. 

5th.— A  certain  proportion  of  the  product  of  all  mines  disco- 
vered, or  to  be  discovered,  for  the  same  duration,  and  with  the 
same  right  of  collection  as  in  the  second  and  third  articles 

6th.-The  appointment  of  all  land  (as  well  as  naval)  officers 
oi  every  rank. 

The  three  first  articles  are  of  immediate  necessity  •  the 
three  last  would  be  of  great  present,  but  of  much  greater  future 
to  the"  LTntn  C°mbined  W°uldSivesolidity  ^d  permanency 

n,i^%f  T  ^^  °f  ^  Confederation  is>  that  it  gives  the 
United  States  no  property;  or,  in  other  words,  no  revenue,  nor 
the  means  of  acquiring  it,  inherent  in  themselves  and  indepen- 
dent on  the  temporary  pleasure  of  the  different  members  And 
power  without  revenue,  in  political  society,  is  a  name.  While 
Congress  continue  altogether  dependent  on  the  occasional  grants 

TlZTiT^ for  the  means  of  defra^ the  e"  of 

the  Federal  Government,  it  can  neither  have  dignity,  4or  nor 
credit.     Credit  supposes  specific  and  permanent  funds  for  the 

theLTalllffii011'  h  T11^^  require  m°re'  °»  — *  ^ 

ZslZnlt  "  f 1Ch  haS  b6en  eXGited  hJ  ^  P**  bor- 

ders m  our  finances.     It  will  perhaps  be  necessary,  in  the  first 

*  Suppose  a  dollar',  or  events  ?££  "^  **  ^  *°  * 


JEt.  24.]  THE    CONTINENT  A  LI  ST.  191 

instance,  to  appropriate  funds  for  the  redemption  of  the  principal 
in  a  determinate  period,  as  well  as  for  tin'  payment  of  interef 

It  is  essential  thai  the  property  in  such  funds  should  be  in 
the  contractor  himself  and  the  appropriation  dependenl  on  his 
own  will.    If,  instead  of  this,  the  possession  or  disposal  <>f  them 
is  dependenl  on  tin-  voluntary  or  occasional  concurrence  of  a 
number  of  different  wills  not  under  his  absolute  control,  both  the 
one  and  the  other  will  be  too  precarious  to  be  trusted.    The 
most  wealthy  and  besl  established  nations  are  obliged  to  pledge 
their  funds  to  obtain  credit,  and  it  would  be  the  height  of  absur- 
dity in  us,  in  the  midst  of  a  revolution,  to  expect  to  have  it  on 
better  terms.    This  credit  being  to  be  procured  through  Con- 
gress, the  funds  ought  to  be  provided,  declared,  and  vested  in 
them.*    It  is  a  fact  that  verifies  the  want  of  specific  funds — a  cir- 
cumstance which  operates  powerfully  against  our  obtaining  cre- 
dit abroad  is,  not  a  distrust  of  our  becoming  independent,  but  of 
our  continuing  united,  and  with  our  present  confederation  the 
distrust   is   natural.      Both    foreigners   and   the   thinking   men 
among  ourselves,  would  have  much  more  confidence  in  the  du- 
ration of  the  Union,  if  they  were  to  see  it  supported  on  the  foun- 
lation  here  proposed. 

There  are  some  among  us  ignorant  enough  to  imagine,  that 
the  war  may  he  carried  on  without  credit,  defraying  the  expe 
of  the  year  with  what  may  be  raised  within  the  year.     Bu1  this 
-  for  want  of  a  knowledge  of  our  real  resources  and  i  3es. 

It  may  be  demonstrated,  that  the  whole  amount  of  the  reve- 
nue, which  these  States  are  capable  of  affording,  will  he  deficient 
annually  live  or  six  millions  of  dollars  for  the  support  of  civil 
government  and  of  the  war. 

This  is  not  a  conjecture  hazarded  at  random,  but  the  result  of 
experiment  and  calculation;   nor  can  it  appear  surprisimj",  when 

it  is  considered  that  the  revenues  of  the  Onited  Provinces,  equal 

*  It  might,  indeed,  !"■  a  i.r""'l  restrainl  npon  the  spirit  of  running  in  debt, 
with  which  governments  are  too  apt  to  I"-  infected,  to  make  it  a  condition  of  the 
grants  to  Congress,  thai  they  shall  be  obliged,  in  all  their  loans,  t<>  appropriate 
funds  for  the  payment  of  principal  as  well  as  interest,  and  such  a  restriction  might 

be  serviceable  to  public  credit. 


102  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  24. 

to  these  States  in  population,  beyond  comparison  superior  in  in- 
dustry, commerce,  and  riches,  do  not  exceed  twenty -five  millions 
of  guilders,  or  about  nine  millions  and  a  half  of  dollars.  In 
times  of  war,  they  have  raised  a  more  considerable  sum,  but  it 
has  been  chiefly  by  gratuitous  combinations  of  rich  individuals, 
a  resource  we  cannot  employ,  because  there  are  few  men  of 
large  fortunes  in  this  country,  and  these  for  the  most  part  in  land. 
Taxes  in  the  United  Provinces  are  carried/tp><an  extreme  which 
would  be  impracticable  here.  Not  only  the  living  are  made 
to  pay  for  every  necessary  of  life,  but  even  the  dead  are  tri- 
butary to  the  public  for  the  liberty  of  interment  at  particular 
hours.  These  considerations  make  it  evident  that  we  could 
not  raise  an  equal  amount  of  revenue  in  these  States.  Yet, 
in  '76,  when  the  currency  was  not  depreciated,  Congress  emit- 
ted, for  the  expenses  of  the  year,  fourteen  millions  of  dollars. 
It  cannot  be  denied,  that  there  was  a  want  of  order  and  eco- 
nomy in  the  expenditure  of  public  money,  nor  that  we  had  a 
greater  military  force  to  maintain  at  that  time  than  we  now 
have  ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  allowing  for  the  necessary  in- 
crease in  our  different  civil  lists,  and  for  the  advanced  prices  of 
many  articles,  it  can  hardly  be  supposed  possible  to  reduce  our 
annual  expense  very  much  below  that  sum.  This  simple  idea 
of  the  subject,  without  entering  into  details,  may  satisfy  us, 
that  the  deficiency  which  has  been  stated  is  not  to  be  sus- 
pected of  exaggeration. 

Indeed,  nations  the  most  powerful  and  opulent  are  obliged  to 
have  recourse  to  loans  in  time  of  war,  and  hence  it  is  that  most 
of  the  States  of  Europe  are  deeply  immersed  in  debt.  France  is 
among  the  number,  notwithstanding  her  immense  population, 
wealth,  and  resources.  England  owes  the  enormous  sum  of  two 
hundred  millions  sterling.  The  United  Provinces,  with  all  their 
prudence  and  parsimony,  owe  a  debt  of  the  generality  of  fifty 
millions,  besides  the  particular  debts  of  each  province.  Almost 
all  the  other  powers  are  more  or  less  in  the  same  circumstances. 

While  this  teaches  us  how  contracted  and  uninformed  are 
the  views  of  those  who  expect  to  carry  on  the  war  without  run- 
ning in  debt.     It  ought  to  console  us  with  respect  to  the  amount 


jEt.  24.]  THE     CON  TIN  K  \  T  A  LI  ST.  L90 

oftli.it  which  we  now  owe,  or  may  hai  e  occasion  to  incur,  in  the 
remainder  of  tin-  war.    The  whole,  without  burthening  the  j 
pie,  m;i\   be  paid  off  in  twenty  years  after  the  conclusion  of 
peace. 

The  principal  part  of  the  deficienl  five  or  six  millions  musl  be 
procured  liy  loans  from  private  persons  at  home  and  abroad. 
Every  thing  may  be  boped  from  the  generosity  of  Prance,  which 
her  means  will  permit,  bul  she  has  lull  employment  for  hex 
revenues  and  credit  in  the  prosecution  of  the  war  on  her  own 
part  [f-we  judge  of  the  future  by  the  past,  tin-  pecuniary  .suc- 
cors fifom  her  must  continue  to  be  far  short  of  our  wants;  and 
the  contingency  of  a  war  on  the  continent  of  Europe  makes  it 

able  they  may  diminish  rather  than  increase. 

We  have  in  a  less  degree  experienced  the  friendship  of  Spain 
in  this  article. 

The  government  of  the  United  Provinces,  if  disposed  to  do  it, 
can  give  us  no  assistance.  The  resources  of  the  Republic  are 
chiefly  mortgaged  for  former  debts.  Happily,  it  has  extensive 
credit,  but  it  will  have  occasion  for  the  whole  to  supply  its  own 
exigencies. 

Private  men,  either  foreigners  or  natives,  will  not  lend  to  a 
large  amount,  but  on  the  usual  security  of  funds  prpperly  estab- 
lished.   This  security  Congress  cannot  give,   till   the  several 

S     •  •  them  with  revenue,  or  the  means  of  revenue,  for  that 

purpose. 

Congress  have  wisely  appointed  a  superintendent  of  their 
finances — a  man  of  acknowledged  abilities  and  integrity,  as  well 
as  of  great  personal  credit  and  pecuniary  influence. 

It  was  impossible,  thai  the  business  of  finance  could  be  ably 
conducted  by  a  body  of  men  however  well  composed  or  well  in- 
tentioned.  Order  in  the  future  management  of  our  moneyed  con- 
cerns, a  strict  regard  to  the  performance  of  public  engagements, 
and  of  course  the  restoration  of  public  credit,  may  be  reasonably 
and  confidently  expected  from  Mr.  Morris's  administration,  it  he 

is  furnished  with  materials  upon  which  to  Operate  ;    that  IS,  if  the 
Federal  Government  can   acquire  funds  as  the  basis  of  his  ar- 
rangements,    lie  has  very  judiciously  proposed  a  Nati<  >nal  bank, 
B  13 


194  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  25. 

which,  by  uniting  the  influence  and  interest  of  the  moneyed  men 
with  the  resources  of  Government,  can  alone  give  it  that  durable 
and  extensive  credit  of  which  it  stands  in  need.  This  is  the  best 
expedient  he  could  have  devised  for  relieving  the  public  embar- 
rassments ;  but  to  give  success  to  the  plan,  it  is  essential  that 
Congress  should  have  it  in  their  power  to  support  him  with  unex- 
ceptionable funds.  Had  we  begun  the  practice  of  funding  four 
years  ago,  we  should  have  avoided  that  depreciation  of  the  cur- 
rency which  has  been  pernicious  to  the  morals  and  to  the  credit 
of  the  nation ;  and  there  is  no  other  method  than  this  to  prevent 
a  continuance  and  multiplication  of  the  evils  flowing  from  that 
prolific  source. 


NO.  VI. 

July  4,  1782. 

Let  us  see  what  will  be  the  consequences  of  not  authorizing 
the  Federal  Government  to  regulate  the  trade  of  these  States. 
Besides  the  want  of  revenue  and  of  power,  besides  the  imme- 
diate risk  to  our  independence,  the  dangers  of  all  the  future  evils 
of  a  precarious  Union,  besides  the  deficiency  of  a  wholesome 
concert,  and  provident  superintendence,  to  advance  the  general 
prosperity  of  trade,  the  direct  consequence  will  be  that  the  landed 
interest  and  the  laboring  poor,  will  in  the  first  place  fall  a  sacri. 
fice  to  the  trading  interest,  and  the  whole  eventually  to  a  bad 
system  of  policy,  made  necessary  by  the  want  of  such  regulating 
power. 

Each  State  will  be  afraid  to  impose  duties  on  its  commerce, 
lest  the  other  States,  not  doing  the  same,  should  enjoy  greater 
advantages  than  itself,  by  being  able  to  afford  native  commodi- 
ties cheaper  abroad,  and  foreign  commodities  cheaper  at  home. 

A  part  of  the  evils  resulting  from  this  would  be,  a  loss  to  the 
revenue  of  those  moderate  duties,  which,  without  being  injurious 
to  commerce,  are  allowed  to  be  the  most  agreeable  species  of 
taxes  to  the  people.  Articles  of  foreign  luxury,  while  they  would 
contribute  nothing  to  the  income  of  the  State,  being  less  dear  by 


JEt.  25.]  THE    CONTINENT ALIST.  L95 

an  exemption  from  duties,  would  have  a  more  extensive  con 
sumption. 

Many  branches  of  trade,  hurtful  to  die  common  int. 
would  be  continued  for  want  of  proper  checks  and  discoun 
incuts.     As  revenues  musl   be  found  to  satisfy  the  pub) 
genciee  in  peace  and  in  war,  too  greal  a  proportion  of  taxes  will 
fall  directly  upon  land,  and  upon  the  aecessaries  of  life — the  i 
duce  of  that  land.    The  influence  of  these  evils  will  be  to 
landed  propertj    fluctuating  and  less  valuable — to  oppr< 
poor  by  raising  the  prices  of  necessaries — to  injure  commerce  by 

encouraging  the  < sumption  of  foreign  Luxuries-  by  increasing 

the  value  of  labor — bj  lessening  the  quantity  of  home  produc- 
tions, enhancing  their  prices  al  foreign  markets,  of  course  ob- 
structing their  sale,  and  enabling  other  nations  to  supplant  i 

Particular  caution  ought  at  present  to  be  observed  in  this 
country  not  to  burthen  the  soil  itself  and  its  productions  with 
heavy  impositions,  because  the  quantity  of  unimproved  land  will 
invite  the  husbandmen  to  abandon  old  settlements  for  new,  and 
the  disproportion  of  our  population  for  some  time  to  come  will 
necessarily  make  labor  dear,  to  reduce  which,  and  not  to  b 
it,  oughl  to  be  a  capita]  object  of  our  policy. 

Easy  duties,  therefore,  on  commerce,  especially  on  imp 
ought  to  lighten  the  burthens  which  will  unavoidably  Gall  upon 
land.    Though  it  may  be  said  that,  on  the  principle  ofa  n 
cal  influence  of  prices,  whereon  the  taxes  are  laid  in  the  first  in- 
stance, they  will  in  the  end  be  home  by  all  ■  t    [\   ;,  0j 
the  greatest  importance  thai  do  one  should  sink  under  the  im- 
mediate pressure.     The  great  art  is  to  distribute  the  public  bur- 
thens well,  and  not  suffer  them,  cither  first  or  last,  to  fall   I    i 
heavily  on  parts  of  the  community;  else,  distress  and  d 
must  ensue — a  shock  given  to  any  {'art  of  the  political   machine 
vibrates  through  the  whole. 

As  a  sufficient  revenue  could  not  be  raised  from  b 
answer  the  public  purp  .  other  articles  have  been  pr 
A  moderate  land  and  poll  tax  being  of  easy  and  onexj 
collection,  and  leaving  oothing  to  discretion,  are  the  simp! 
best  that  could  be  devised. 


196  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  25. 

It  is  to  be  feared  the  avarice  of  many  of  the  landholders  will 
be  opposed  to  a  perpetual  tax  upon  land,  however  moderate. 
They  will  ignorantly  hope  to  shift  the  burthens  of  the  national 
expense  from  themselves  to  others — a  disposition  as  iniquitous 
as  it  is  fruitless — the  public  necessities  must  be  satisfied ;  this 
can  only  be  done  by  the  contributions  of  the  whole  society.  Par- 
ticular classes  are  neither  able  nor  will  be  willing  to  pay  for  the 
protection  and  security  of  the  others,  and  where  so  selfish  a 
spirit  discovers  itself  in  any  member,  the  rest  of  the  com- 
munity will  unite  to  compel  it  to  do  its  duty. 

Indeed,  many  theorists  in  political  economy  have  held,  that 
all  taxes,  wherever  they  originate,  fall  upon  land,  and  have 
therefore  been  of  opinion,  that  it  would  be  best  to  draw  the 
whole  revenue  of  the  State  immediately  from  that  source,  to 
avoid  the  expense  of  a  more  diversified  collection,  and  the  ac- 
cumulations which  will  be  heaped  in  their  several  stages,  upon 
the  primitive  sums  advanced  in  those  stages  which  are  imposed 
on  our  trade.  But  though  it  has  been  demonstrated,  that  this 
theory  has  been  carried  to  an  extreme,  impracticable  in  fact; 
yet  it  is  evident,  in  tracing  the  matter,  that  a  large  part  of  all 
taxes,  however  remotely  laid,  will,  by  an  insensible  circulation, 
come  at  last  to  settle  upon  land — the  source  of  most  of  the 
materials  employed  in  commerce. 

It  appears,  from  calculation  made  by  the  ablest  master  of 
political  arithmetic,  about  sixty  years  ago,  that  the  yearly  pro- 
duct of  all  the  lands  in  England  amounted  to  £42,000,000 
sterling,  and  the  whole  annual  consumption  at  that  period,  of 
foreign  as  well  as  domestic  commodities/  did  not  exceed  £49,000- 
000,  and  the  surplus  of  the  exportation  above  the  importation 
£2,000,000,  on  which  sums  arise  all  the  revenues  in  whatever 
shape,  which  go  into  the  Treasury. 

It  is  easy  to  infer  from  this,  how  large  a  part  of  them  must, 
directly  or  indirectly,  be  derived  from  land. 

Nothing  can  be  more  mistaken,  than  the  collision  and  rival- 
ship  which  almost  always  subsist  between  the  landed  and  trading 
interests,  for  the  truth  is,  they  are  so  inseparably  interwoven 
that  one  cannot  be  injured  without  injury  nor  benefited  without 


jEt.  26.]  Tin:    r<>\  ti  \  i:  \  r  \  i,  i  st.  l'.»7 

benefit  to  tin*  other.    Oppress  trade,  Lands  sink  in  value,  mi 
it  flourish,  1 1  n  i r  value  rises;    incumber  husbandry,  trade   de« 
olines,  encourage  agriculture,  commerce  revives.    The  pi 
of  this  mutual  ivacti.  »n  might  be  easily  delineated,  but  il 
obvious  to  every  man,  who  turns  his  thoughts,  however  super- 
ficially, upoii  the  subject,  to  require  it,     It   is  only  to  be  rei 
gretted,  that   it  is  too  often  losl  sight  o£  when  the  seduction 
some  immediate  advantage  or  exemption  tempt  us  to  saci 
the  future  to  the  present 

But  perhaps  the  class   is  more  numerous  of  those,  who,  not 
Unwilling  to  bear  their  share  of  public  burthens,  are  yel    averse 

to  the  idea  of  perpetuity,  as  if  there  ever  would  arrive  a  period 

When  the  State  would  eease  to  want  revenues,  and  taxes  he- 
come  unnecessary.  It  is  of  importance  to  unmask  this  delusion, 
and  open  the  eyes  of  the  people  to  the  truth.  It  is  paying 
great  a  tribute  to  the  idol  of  popularity,  to  flatter  so  injurious 
and  so  visionary  an  expectation.  The  error  is  too  gross  to  be 
tolerated  any  where  but  in  the  cottage  of  the  peasant  Should 
we  meet  with  it  in  the  Senate  House,  we  must  lament  the  ig 
ance  or  despise  the  hypocrisy  on  which  it  is  ingrafted.  K.\- 
pense  is  in  the  present  siate  of  things  entailed  upon  all  govern- 
ments; though,  if  we  continue  united,  we  shall  be  hereafter 

posed  to  wars  by  land  than  most  other  countries;  yel  while 
We  have  powerful  neighbors  on  cither  extremity,  and  our  fron- 
tier  is   embraced    1>V    savages,  whose   alliance    they  may  without 

difficulty  command,  we  cannot,  in  prudence,  dispense  with 
the  usual  precautions  tor  our  interior  .security  ;  as  a  commercial 
people,  maritime  power  must  be  a  primary  object  of  our  atten- 
tion, and  a  navy  cannot  be  created  or  maintained  without  ample 
revenues.  The  nature  of  our  popular  institutions  requires 
numerous  magistracy,  for  whom  eompetenl  provision  nausl  be 

made,  or  wc  may  be  certain  our  affairs  will  always  he  committed 
to  improper  hands,   and    experience    will    teach    us   that    0.0  gOY- 

ernmenl  costs  so  much  as  a  had  one. 

We  mav  preach,  till  we  arc  tired   of  the  theme,  the  D 

of  disinterestedness  in  republics,  without  makings  singl< 

lyte.     The  virtuous  declaimer  will  neither  persuade  hima  li  nor 


198  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  25. 

any  other  person  to  be  content  with  a  double  mess  of  pottage, 
instead  of  a  reasonable  stipend  for  his  services.  We  might  as 
soon  reconcile  ourselves  to  the  Spartan  community  of  goods  and 
wives,  to  their  iron  coin,  their  long  beards,  or  their  black  broth. 
There  is  a  total  dissimilarity  in  the  circumstances,  as  well  as  the 
manners  of  society  among  us,  and  it  is  as  ridiculous  to  seek  for 
models  in  the  small  ages  of  Greece  and  Rome,  as  it  would  be  to 
go  in  quest  of  them  among  the  Hottentots  and  Laplanders. 

The  public,  for  the  different  purposes  that  have  been  men- 
tioned, must  always  have  large  demands  upon  its  constituents, 
and  the  only  question  is,  whether  these  shall  be  satisfied  by 
annual  grants,  perpetually  renewed  by  a  perpetual  grant,  once 
for  all,  or  by  a  compound  of  permanent  and  occasional  supplies. 
The  last  is  the  wisest  course.  The  Federal  Government  should 
neither  be  independent  nor  too  much  dependent.  It  should 
neither  be  raised  above  responsibility  or  control,  nor  should  it 
want  the  means  of  maintaining  its  own  weight,  authority,  dig- 
nity and  credit.  To  this  end,,  permanent  funds  are  indispen- 
sable, but  they  ought  to  be  of  such  a  nature,  and  so  moderate 
in  their  amount  as  never  to  be  inconvenient.  Extraordinary 
supplies  can  be  the  objects  of  extraordinary  emergencies,  and  in 
that  salutary  medium  will  consist  our  true  wisdom. 

It  would  seem  as  if  no  mode  of  taxation  could  be  relished, 
but  the  worst  of  all  modes,  which  now  prevails  by  assessment. 
Every  proposal  for  a  specific  tax  is  sure  to  meet  with  opposition. 
It  has  been  objected  to  a  poll  tax  at  a  fixed  rate,  that  it  will  be 
unequal,  and  the  rich  will  pay  no  more  than  the  poor.  In  the 
form  in  which  it  has  been  offered  in  these  papers,  the  poor,  pro- 
perly speaking,  are  not  comprehended,  though  it  is  true,  that 
beyond  the  exclusion  of  the  indigent,  the  tax  has  no  reference  to 
the  proportion  of  property,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  it 
is  impossible  to  devise  any  specific  tax  that  will  operate  equally 
on  the  whole  community.  It  must  be  the  province  of  the  Legis- 
lature to  hold  the  scales  with  a  judicious  hand,  and  balance 
one  by  another.  The  rich  must  be  made  to  pay  for  their  lux- 
uries, which  is  the  only  proper  way  of  taxing  their  superior 
wealth. 


jEt.  25.]  THE    CONTINENT  A  LIST.  L99 

Do  we  imagine  that  our  assessments  operate  equally! 
thing  can  be  more  contrary  to  the  fact.     Wnerevei  a  tion- 

ary  power  is  Lodged  in  anysel  of  men  over  the  property  of  their 
neighbors,  they  will  abuse  it;    their  passions,  prejudi© 
tialities  dislikes,  will  have  the  principal   lead  in  measuring  the 
abilities  of  those  over  whom  their  power  extends  ;  and  a 
will  ever  1"'  a  sel  of  petty  tyrants,  too  unskilful,  if  honest, 
possessed  of  so  delicate  a  trust,  and  too  seldomhom 
them  the  excuse  of  want  of  skill. 

The  genius  of  liberty  reprobates  every  thing  arbitrary  or  dis- 
cretionary in  taxation.  It  exacts  that  every  man,  by  a  definite 
and ge  teral  rule,  should  know  what  proportion  of  his  property 
the  State  demands;  whatever  liberty  we  may  boast  in  theory,  it 
cannot  exist  in  fact  while  assessments  continue. 

The  admission  of  them  anion-;  ua  is  a  aew  proof,  how  often 
human  conduct' reconciles  the  most  glaring  opposites;  in  the 
present  ease,  the  most  vicious  practice  of  despotic  governments, 
with  the  freest  constitutions  and  the  greatesl  love  of  liberty. 

Tlie  establishment  of  permanent  funds  would  not  only 
answer  the  public  purposes  infinitely  better  than  temporary 
sup]  but  it  would  be  the  most  effectual  way  of  easing  the 
people. 

With  this  basis  for  procuring  credit,  the  amount  of  present 
taxes  might  1m-  greatly  diminished.  Large  sums  of  money  might 
be  borrowed  abroad,  at  a  Low  interest,  and  introduced  i. 
country,  to  defray  the  em-rent  expenses  and  pay  the  public 
debts:  which  would  not  only  lessen  the  demand  for  immediate 
supplies,  but  would  throw  more  money  into  circulation,  and 
furnish  the  people  with  greater  means  of  paying  the  t 

Though  it  be  a  just  rule  thai  we  oughl  not  to  run  in  debt 
to  avoid  present  expense,  so  far  as  our  faculties  extend,  yel  the 
propriety  of  doing  it  cannot  be  disputed,  when  it  is  apparent 
that  these  are  incompetent  to  the  public  necessil 

beyond    our   abilities   can    only    tend    to    individual   distress  and 
national    disappointment.      The    product    of  the   three    fo] 

articles  will  be  as  little  as  can  be  required,  to  enabl  I 


200  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  25. 

pay  their  debts,  and  restore  order  into  their  finances.    In  addi- 
tion to  them — 

The  disposal  of  the  imlocated  lands  will  hereafter  be  a  valu- 
able source  of  revenue,  and  an  immediate  one  of  credit.  As  it 
may  be  liable  to  the  same  condition  with  the  duties  on  trade, 
that  is,  the  product  of  the  sales  within  each  State  to  be  credited 
to  that  State,  and  as  the  rights  of  jurisdiction  are  not  infringed, 
it  seems  to  be  susceptible  of  no  reasonable  objection. 

Mines  in  every  country  constitute  a  branch  of  the  revenue. 
In  this,  where  nature  has  so  richly  impregnated  the  bowels  of 
the  earth,  they  may  in  time  become  a  valuable  one ;  and  as  they 
require  the  care  and  attention  of  government  to  bring  them  to 
perfection,  this  care  and  a  share  in  the  profits  of  it  will  very 
properly  devolve  upon  Congress.  All  the  precious  metals  should 
absolutely  be  the  property  of  the  Federal  Government,  and  with 
respect  to  the  others  it  should  have  a  discretionary  power  of 
reserving,  in  the  nature  of  a  tax,  such  part  as  it  may  judge  not 
inconsistent  with  the  encouragement  due  to  so  important  an  ob- 
ject.    This  is  rather  a  future  than  a  present  resource. 

The  reason  of  allowing  Congress  to  appoint  its  own  officers 
of  the  customs,  collectors  of  the  taxes,  and  military  officers  of 
every  rank,  is  to  create  in  the  interior  of  each  State,  a  mass  of 
influence  in  favor  of  the  Federal  Government.  The  great  danger 
has  been  shown  to  be,  that  it  will  not  have  power  enough  to 
defend  itself,  and  preserve  the  Union,  not  that  it  will  ever  be- 
come formidable  to  the  general  liberty ;  a  mere  regard  to  the 
interests  of  the  confederacy  will  never  be  a  principle  sufficiently 
active  to  crush  the  ambition  and  intrigues  of  different  members. 
Force  cannot  effect  it.  A  contest  of  arms  will  seldom  be  be- 
tween the  common  sovereign  and  a  single  refractory  member,  but 
between  distinct  combinations  of  the  several  parts  against  each 
other.  A  sympathy  of  situations  will  be  apt  to  produce  associ- 
ates to  the  disobedient.  The  application  of  force  is  always  dis- 
agreeable—the issue  uncertain.  It  will  be  wise  to  obviate  the 
necessity  of  it,  by  interesting  such  a  number  of  individuals  in 
each  State,  in  support  of  the  Federal  Government,  as  will  be 


Mt.  25.]  GENERAL    CONVENTION.  201 

counterpoised  to  the  ambition  of  others,  and  will  make  it  difli- 
cult  for  them  to  unite  the  people  in  opposition  to  the  first  and 
necessary  measures  of  the  I  fnion. 

There  is  something  noble  and  magniflcenl  in  the  perspeol 
of  a  great    Federal   Republic,  closely  linked  in  the  pursnil  of  a 
common  interest,  tranquil  and  prosperous  al  home  -respectable 
abroad;  but  there  is  something  proportionably  diminutive  and 
contemptible  in  the  prospecl  oi  a  number  of  petty  States,  with 
the  appearance  only  of  onion,  jarring,  jealous,  and   perv< 
withoul  any  determined  direction,  fluctuating  and  unhappy     I 
home,  weak  and  insignificanl  by  their  dissensions  in  the  eyes  of 
other  nations, 

Happy  America,  if  those  to -whom  thou  hast  intrusted  the 
guardianship  of  thy  infancy,  know  how  to  provide  tor  thy 
future  repose,  but  miserable  and  undone,  if  their  negligence  or 
ignorance  permits  the  spirit  of  discord  to  erect  her  banner  on 
the  ruins  of  thy  tranquillity  I 

[Note.    The  other  numbers  are  not  found.] 


RESOLUTION  FOR  A  GENERAL   CONVENTION   OF 

THE  STATES. 

Passed  by  the  Legislature  of  New- York,  Sun. lay.  July  21sl    L7W 

Resolved,  That  it  appears  to  this  Legislature — after  full 
solemn  consideration  of  the  Beveral  matters  communicated  1>\ 
the  Honorable  the  Oommittee  of  Congress,  relative  to  the] 
sent  posture  of  our  affairs,  foreign  and  domestic,  and  contained 
in  a  letter  from  the  Secretary  I  ign  Affairs,  respecting  the 

former,  as  well  as  of  the  representations,   from  time  to  time 
madr  by  the  Superintendent  of  the  Finances  <>f  the   Unil    I 

tes,  relative  to  his  particular  department — that  the  Bitual 


202  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  25. 

of  these  States  is  in  a  peculiar  manner  critical,  and  affords  the 
strongest  reason  to  apprehend,  from  a  continuance  of  the  pre- 
sent constitution  of  the  Continental  Government,  a  subdivision 
of  the  public  credit,  and  consequences  highly  dangerous  to  the 
safet}^  and  independence  of  these  States. 

Resolved,  That  while  this  Legislature  are  convinced  by  the 
before  mentioned  communications,  that,  notwithstanding  the 
generous  intentions  of  an  Ally,  from  whom  we  have  experi- 
enced, and  doubtless  shall  still  experience  all  possible  support ; 
exigencies  may  arise  to  prevent  our  receiving  pecuniary  succors 
hereafter,  in  any  degree  proportioned  to  our  necessities.  They 
are  also  convinced  from  facts  within  their  own  knowledge,  that 
the  provisions  made  by  the  respective  States  for  carrying  on  the 
war,  are  not  only  inadequate  to  the  end,  but  must  continue  to 
be  so,  while  there  is  an  adherence  to  the  principles  which  now 
direct  the  operation  of  public  measures. 

Resolved,  That  it  is  also  the  opinion  of  this  Legislature, 
that  the  present  plan,  instituted  by  Congress,  for  the  administra- 
tion of  their  Finances,  is  founded  in  wisdom  and  sound  policy. 
That  the  salutary  effects  of  it,  have  already  been  felt  in  an  ex- 
tensive degree  ;  and  that  after  so  many  violent  shocks  sustained 
by  the  public  credit,  a  failure  in  this  system,  for  want  of  the  sup- 
port which  the  States  are  able  to  give,  would  be  productive  of 
evils  too  pernicious  to  be  hazarded. 

Resolved,  That  it  appears  to  this  Legislature,  that  the  pre- 
sent British  ministry,  with  a  disposition  not  less  hostile  than  that 
of  their  predecessors,  taught  by  experience  to  avoid  their  errors, 
and  assuming  the  appearance  of  moderation,  are  pursuing  a 
scheme  calculated  to  conciliate  in  Europe,  and  seduce  in  Ame- 
rica, That  the  economical  arrangements  they  appear  to  be 
adopting,  are  adapted  to  enlarging  the  credit  of  their  Govern- 
ment, and  multiplying  its  resources,  at  the  same  time  that  they 
serve  to  confirm  the  prepossessions  and  confidence  of  the  people, 
and  that  the  plan  of  a  defensive  war  on  this  Continent,  while 
they  direct  all  their  attention  and  resources  to  the  augmentation 
of  their  Navy,  is  that  which  may  be  productive  of  consequences 
ultimately  dangerous  to  the  United  States. 


JEt.  25.]  GENERAL    CONVENTION.  208 

Resolved,  That  it   is   the  opinion  of  this    Legislature,  that 

the  presenl  system  of  these  States,  exposes  the  i anon  run--  to 

a  precarious  issue,  and  Leaves  as  at  the  mercy  of  evenl 
which  we  have  n<>  influence;  a  conduct  extremely  unwise  in 

any  nation,  and   at  all    times,   ami  t<>  a   change  of  which,  we 

impelled  at  this  juncture,  by  reasons  of  peculiar  ami  irresistible 
weight,  ami  that  it  is  the  natural  tendency  ofthe  weakness  ami 
disorders  in  our  national  measures,  to  Bpread  diffidence  ami  dis- 
trust anion--  the  people,  ami  prepare  their  minds  to  r<  ■  the 
impressions  the  enemy  wish  to  make. 

Resolved,  That  the  general  Btate  of  European  affairs,  as  Cat- 
as  they  have  eome  to  the  knowledge  of  this  Legislature,  affords, 
in  their  opinion,  reasonable  -round  of  confidence,  and  assures 
us,  that  with  judicious,  vigorous  exertion  on  our  part,  we  may 
rely  on  the  final  attainment  of  our  objecl :  bu1  far  from  justify- 
ing indifference  and  security,  calls  upon  us  by  every  motive  of 
honor,  good  faith,  and  patriotism,  without  delay,  to  unite  in 
some  system  more  effectual,  for  producing  energy,  harmony, 
and  consistency  of  measures,  than  that  which  now  exists,  and 
more  capable  of  putting  the  common  cause  out  of  the  reach  of 
contingencies. 

Resolved,  That  in  the  opinion  of  this  Legislature,  the  radical 
source  of  most  of  our  embarrassments  is,  the  want  of  sufficient 
power  in  Congress,  to  effectuate  thai  ready  and  perfect  co-opera- 
tion of  the  different  States,  on  which  their  immediate  safety  and 
future  happiness  depend — that  experience  has  demonstrated  the 

confederation  to  be  defective  in  several  essential  point-.,  particu- 
larly in  not  vesting  the  Federal  Government  either  with  a  power 
of  providing  revenue  for  itself,  or  with  ascertained  and  produc- 
tive funds,  secured  by  a  sanction  so  solemn  and  general  as  would 
inspire  the  fullest  confidence  in  them,  and  make  them  a  substan- 
tia] basis  of  credit-  that  these  detect-,  oughl  to  be  without  loss  of 
time  repaired,  the  powers  of  Congress  extended,  a  solid  security 
established  for  the  payment  of  debts  already  incurred,  and  com- 
petent means  provided  for  future  credit,  and   for  supplying  the 

current  demand-  of  the  war. 

Resolved,  That  it  appears  evidently  to  this  Legislature,  that 


204  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [At.  25. 

the  annual  income  of  these  States,  admitting  the  best  means  were 
adopted  for  drawing  out  their  resources,  would  fall  far  short  of 
the  annual  expenditure,  and  that  there  would  be  a  large  defi- 
ciency to  be  supplied  on  the  credit  of  the  States,  which,  if  it 
should  be  inconvenient  for  those  powers  to  afford,  on  whose 
friendship  we  justly  rely,  must  be  sought  for  from  individuals, 
to  engage  whom  to  lend,  satisfactory  securities  must  be  pledged 
for  the  punctual  payment  of  interest,  and  the  final  redemption  of 
the  principal. 

Resolved,  That  it  appears  to  this  Legislature  that  the  forego- 
ing important  ends  can  never  be  attained  by  partial  delibera- 
tions of  the  States  separately ;  but  that  it  is  essential  to  the  com- 
mon welfare,  that  there  should  be  as  soon  as  possible  a  confer- 
ence of  the  whole  on  the  subject,  and  that  it  would  be  advisable 
for  this  purpose  to  propose  to  Congress  to  recommend,  and  to 
each  State  to  adopt  the  measure  of  assembling  a  General  Con- 
vention of  the  States,  specially  authorized  to  revise  and 
amend  the  Confederation,  reserving  a  right  to  the  respective 
Legislatures  to  ratify  their  determinations. 

July  22,  1782. 

Resolved,  That  the  Honorable  James  Duane,  William  Floyd, 
John  Morin  Scott,  Ezra  L'Hommedieu,  and  Alexander  Hamil- 
ton, Esquires,  are  duly  nominated  and  appointed  delegates,  to 
represent  this  State  in  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled 
for  the  ensuing  year. 


PLAN  OF  SPECIFIC  TAXATION  FOR  THE  STATE  OF 

NEW-YORK. 

Let  the  method  of  taxing,  throughout  the  State,  by  quotas 
and  assessments,  be  abolished  ;  and,  instead  thereof,  let  all  taxes 
be  specific. 

Let  there  be  a  land  tax  of  three  pence  per  acre  upon  all 
meadow  land  in  the  State,  and  two  pence  upon  all  arable  land. 


Mr.  25.]  SPECIFIC     TAXATION.  205 

Suppose  there  are,  in  1 1 1>-  State,  tfbOtil  forty  thousand  farm* 
ers,  and  thai  each  (arm,  upon  an  average,  contains  about  t^n 
Meres  of  meadow,  ami  forty  acres  of  arable  land:  that  would  mi 
in  the  whole  State,  about 
Four  hundred  thousand  acres  ofmeadow 

land,  al  three  pence  per  acre,  C"»<»oo.o.O 

One  million,  six  hundred  thousand  acres 

of  arable  land,  al  two  pence  per  acre,  13,333.6.8 — £18,33- 
Five  millions  of  acres  of  waste  land,  at 

two  shillings  per  hundred,  6000.0.0 


.t^:;.:;:;:;.»;.s 
Let  there  be  a  tax  upon  salt,  at  two  shillings  per  bushel. 
Suppose  forty  thousand  families,  each  family  consuming  three 

bushels : 

This  will  be  one  hundred  and  twenty  thousand  bushels, 
at  two  shillings  [English,  three  shillings  and  four 
pence  sterling,  per  bushel  ],  £12,000 

Let  there  be  a  tax  upon  tobacco  of  one  penny  per  pound. 
Suppose  thirty  thousand  persons  consumers  of  tobacco,  at 

twenty  pounds  each,  per  annum  : 

This  would  make  six  hundred  thousand  pounds,  at  one 

penny  per  pound,  £2,500 

Let  there  be  a  tax  upon  carriages,  of 

Six  pounds  for  every  coach, 
Five  pounds  for  every  chariot, 
Four  pounds  for  every  other  four-wheeled  earn/ 
One  pound  for  every  two  wheeled  carria 
Five  shillings  for  every  pleasure  sleigh. 
Suppose,  in  the  whole  State, 
Thirty  coaches,  six  pounds  per  coach,  £lv|t 

One  hundred  chariots,  al  five  pounds  per  chariot,  r>i»0 

One  hundred  and  fifty  phaetons,  a1  four  pounds  each,  600 

Five  hundred  two-wheeled  carriages,  at  our  pound  each,        500 
Five  thousand  pleasure  sleighs,  at  live  shillings  each,  1,260 

£8,1 


206  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  25. 

Let  there  be  a  tax  upon  plate,  at  the  rate  of  three  pence  per 
ounce  ;  and  upon  gold  plate  four  pence  per  ounce. 

Suppose  each  family,  upon  an  average,  to  have  six  ounces  of 
plate  :     This  would  make  two  hundred  and  forty  thousand 

ounces  at  three  pence  per  ounce,  £3000 

Upon  all  silver-plated  furniture,  one  penny  per  ounce. 

Let  there  be  a  tax  upon  taverns. 
For  license  to  keep  an  inn  or  tavern  at  all,  one  pound,  or  two 

pounds,  per  annum. 
For  license  to  sell  spirituous  liquors,  two  pounds  or  three  pounds 

per  annum. 
For  license  to  sell  wine,  two  pounds,  or  five  pounds  per  annum. 
For  license  to  keep  a  billiard  table,  ten  pounds  per  annum. 
For  license  to  play  at  other  games,  two  pounds  per  annum. 
For  selling  imported  malt  liquors,  five  pounds  per  annum. 

Suppose,  in  the  whole  State,  five  hundred  inns  or  taverns,  of 
which — 

Four  hundred  would  sell  spirituous  liquors, 
Two  hundred,  wine, 
Twenty  keep  billiard  tables, 
One  hundred  gaming  houses : 
Five  hundred  inns,  at  one  pound  [at  two  pounds,  £1000],  £500 
Four  hundred  selling  spirituous  liquors,  at  two  pounds  [at 

three  pounds,  £1200],  800 

Two  hundred,  wine,  at  two  pounds  [at  five  pounds,  £1000],  400 
Twenty  billiard  tables,  at  three  pounds,  60 

One  hundred  gaming  houses,  at  two  pounds,  200 


£1,960 
Let  there  be  a  tax  of  ten  shillings  per  head  on  menial  or 

household  servants  ;  bachelors  paying  two  pounds  per  head. 
Suppose  ten  thousand  menial  servants : 

Nine  thousand  eight  hundred  family  menials,  at  ten  shil- 
lings per  head,  £4,900 

Two  hundred  bachelor  menials,  at  ten  shillings  per  head,       400 


£5,300 


Mr. 95.]  SPECIFIC    TAXATION.  -"7 

Let  there  be,  in  addition  to  the  Emposta  granted  to  Oongr 

Upon  all  rum  of  Jamaica  proof,  three  pence. 

Open  all  brandies  of  foreign  manufacture,  three  pence. 

Upon  all  other  spirituous  liquors  of  foreign  manufacture,  two 

pence. 
Upon  all  spirituous  liquors  distilled  in  any  of  the  States,  time 

pence. 
Molasses,  one  penny  per  gallon. 
Upon  every  pound  of  bohea  tea,  threepence. 

Upon  ;ill  other  teas 

I'pon  Madeira  wine,  per  gallon,  twopence. 

Upon  all  other  wines,  per  gallon,  one  penny. 

Upon  loaf  sugar,  per  pound,  one  penny. 

Every  pound  of  snuff,  ten  pence. 

Every  coach  or  chariot,  ten  pounds. 

Every  other  four-wheeled  carriage,  five  pounds. 

Every  curricle,  chaise,  chair,  ketereen,  or  sulky,  two  pence. 

Every  bushel  of  malt,  four  pence. 

Every  gallon  of  porter,  ale,  beer,  or  cider,  ten  pence. 

Every  pound  of  cheese,  two  pence. 

Wrought  silver  plate,  per  ounce,  one  shilling. 

Wroughl  gold  plate,  per  ounce,  four  shilling 

Every  clock,  twenty  shillings. 

Every  ,Lrold  watch,  twenty  shillings. 

Every  other  watch,  eight  shilli: 

Hollow  iron  ware,  per  one  hundred  pounds,  four  shillings. 

Scythes,  or  Axes,  per  dozen,  twelve  shillings. 

Saddles,  per  piece,  eight  shilli 

Every  pair  woman's  shoes,  leather  or  stuff,  six  pence. 

Every  pair  woman's  silk  shoes,  one  shilli 

Every  pair  of  boots,  two  shilli  1 

Every  pound  of  starch,  or  hair  powder,  three  pence. 

Every  gallon  of  linseed  oil,  six  pence. 

Every  pound  of  dressed  or  tanned  Leather,  four  pence. 

Every  pack  of  playing  cards,  three  penc  . 

White   rope,   twine,   pipes,   beef,   pork,   butter,   cam  ap, 

anchors,  bar  iron,  hats,  raisins,  prunes,  figs,  and  currants,  three 

per  cent,  ad  valorem. 


208  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.26. 

Nails,  per  cwt., 

Upon  all  mahogany  furniture,  five  per  cent,  ad  valorem. 

Upon  all  mahogany  wood,  three  per  cent.,  with  a  drawback  in 

case  of  exportation. 
Upon  all  paper  hangings,  five  per  cent.,  ad  valorem. 

Let  there  be  a  tax  upon  houses. 
For  every  log  house  three  shillings  per  room  (exclusive  of  gar- 
rets and  cellars). 
For  every  other  house  of  three  rooms  and  under  (exclusive  as 

before),  four  shillings  per  room. 
For  every  other  house  of  four  rooms,  five  shillings  per  room. 
For  every  house  of  five  rooms,  six  shillings  per  room. 
For  every  house  of  six  rooms  and  upwards,  eight  shillings  per 

room. 
For  every  room  of  any  house  painted  on  the  wooden  work 

inside,  five  shillings  additional  per  room. 
For  every  room  papered  inside,  ten  shillings  per  room  additional. 
For  every  marble  chimney  piece,  twenty  shillings  additional. 
For  every  stucco  roof,  forty  shillings  additional. 

This  tax  may  be  computed  to  produce  forty  thousand  pounds. 

Let  there  be  a  tax  upon  writs,  to  be  paid  by  the  lawyers,  and 
not  allowed  in  taxable  costs, 

Of  two  shillings  for  each  chancery  and  Supreme  Court  seal. 
And  one  shilling  for  each  County  and  Mayor's  Court  seal. 

Let  the  Bank  be  incorporated  on  condition  of  lending  one- 
eighth  of  its  income,  on  landed  security,  towards  forming  a  loan 
office. 

PLAN  OF  A  LOAN  OFFICE. 

The  Interest  of  the  two  hundred  thousand  poands,  £10,000 

The  tax  on  salt,  12,000 

The  tax  on  taverns,  2,000 
Tobacco  tax, 

APPROPRIATION  OF  THE  FOREGOING  TAXES. 

lstly.  That  upon  land  to  the  support  of  internal  government. 


JEt.  25.]  SPECIFIC     TAXATION  209 

2dly.  Seal  tax  and  )        , 

8dly.  House  tax  to  Congress,  for  supplementary  fund. 

-Ithy.   Sail  tax,  ) 

T.iwtii  tax,      -  for  constituting  a  loan  office. 

ToSacco  tax,    ) 
All  the  .surplus  of  these  taxes,  and  amounl  of  the  other  te 
to  form  an  aggregate  fund  foT  contingencii  apply  federal 

treasury,  etc. 

MODE  OF  COLLECTION. 

Land  Tax. 

The  assessors  of  each  district  to  meel  od  a  day,  and  at  a  place, 
certain  in  each  year,  to  receive  from  the  p  rs  of  land 

statement  of  the  quantity  of  lands,  specifying  the  duTerenl  kinds 
holden  by  him  iu  that  district,  thus: 

Acres. 

Meadow  land, 

Arable  land, 

W 1  or  waste  laud, 

This  statement  to  be  made  on  oath  (accord  the  best  of 

knowledge  and  belief  to  be  administered  b  -i,  and 

to  be  entered  in  a  book  kept  for  thai  purpose,  in  which  shall  be 
carried  out  the  amount  <»r  th'-  tax;  a  copy  of  which,  delivered  to 
the  several  collectors,  signed  by  the  or  one  of  them, 

shall  be  their  warrant  to  collect. 

As  to  such  persons  as  do  uot  appear,  thi  irs  to  make  an 

estimate  of  their  land,  i  ling  to  the  best  of  their  judgment 
and  belief. 

And  if  they  suspect  concealment,  they  shall  order  a  sun 
and  in  case  it  be  found  that  the  Jmenl  to  the  extenl 

of  one  acre  in  twenty,  the  survey  shall  be  at  the  expense  ol 
party,  to  be  added  to  his  tax  of  the  succeeds  .  id  fur- 

ther, the  part}  shall  be  liable  to  forfeit,  to  be  recovered  in  an 
action  of  debt,  forty  shillings  for  every  acre  concealed,  if  Buch 
concealment  shall  appeal  to  the  jury,  tO  DAVi  been  D  ugh 

B  14 


210  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  25. 

ignorance  or  mistake,  but  with  intent  to  defraud  the  revenue. 
If  concealment  not  found  to  that  extent,  expense  of  survey  shall 
be  by  public,  to  be  paid  by  treasurer,  upon  a  certificate  from  two 
of  the  assessors. 

A  day  certain,  in  each  year,  to  be  fixed  for  the,  payment  of 
the  tax ;  and  if  not  paid  at  the  time,  the  collector  shall  immedi- 
ately distrain  ;  to  proceed  in  the  mode  practised  in  case  of  dis- 
tress for  rent,  with  the  same  penalties  for  rescue,  etc. ;  and  no 
replevin  without  first  paying  the  money. 

And  where  no  sufficient  distress  can  be  found,  to  be  re- 
covered by  action  of  debt. 

House  Tax  until  provided  for  by  Congress. 

The  collector  of  each  ward,  precinct,  or  district,  to  visit  each 
house  once  in  a  year,  or  some  day  between  the  and 

the  of  ;   and  make  a  list  of  the  different 

kinds  of  rooms  upon  which  he  shall  calculate  the  amount  of  the 
tax. 

This  tax  to  be  also  paid  on  a  day  certain,  different,  and  at 
some  distance,  from  the  day  for  payment  of  the  land  tax ;  and  to 
be  collected  in  the  same  manner  as  land  tax. 

In  case  the  possessor  of  the  house  shall  have  any  dispute 
with  the  collector  about  the  descriptions  of  any  of  the  rooms,  he 
may  appeal  to  the  assessors  at  their  aforesaid  meeting,  who  shall 
examine  the  party  and  the  collector  on  oath,  and  decide  as  shall 
appear  to  them  right. 

Salt,  Tobacco,  and  other  enumerated  articles. 

To  be  collected  in  the  present  mode  of  collecting  the  cus- 
toms, except  that  one  year  shall  be  allowed  for  payment  of 
the  additional  duties ;  at  the  end  of  which  all  drawbacks  shall 
be  discounted. 

Carriage  Tax.     Servant  Tax. 
Collector,  at  the  time  he  visits  the  houses,  to  take  a  list,  from 


;ET.  25.]  SPECIFIC     'I' A  NATION.  211 

the  information  oi  the  persons  in  the  bouses,  of  the  carriages  and 
menial  servants. 

Bach  person,  having  carriagea  and  menial  servants,  shall 
obliged  to  give  sucli  information,  under  the  penalty  of  tw< 
pom als  for  concealment  of  each  carriage  and  servant;  to  be  re- 
covered by  action  of  debt,  foT  the  benefil  of  the  informer. 

These  taxes  to  be  collected  at  the  same  t inn-,  ami  in  the  same 
manner,  with  the  house  tax. 

Seal  Tax. 

To  be  paid  at  the  time  of  sealing  the  writs,  ami  accounted  tin-, 

once  a  year,  1\  tin-  persons  having  custody  of  the  sc;il>.  to  the 
county  treasurer,  who  will  themselves  be  chargeable  with  ;i  : 
on  every  seal  put  t<>  any  process. 

N.  13.  All  lulls  of  cost  to  be  taxed  by  the  Clerk  of  the  Court; 
and  the  fee  for  taxing  to  be  accounied  for  in  the  same  manner  to 
the  county  treasurers. 

The  fees  for  seals,  and  for  taxing  bills  of  cost  in  the  Supreme 
Court  and  Chancery,  to  be  accounted  for  to  the  treasurer  "i  the 
State. 

Tavern  Tax. 

The  treasurer  of  the  State  to  furnish  each  county  treasurer 
with  a  certain  number  of  licenses,  expressive  of  the  different 
purposes;  for  which  he  shall  charge  such  county  treasurer,  who 
shall  deliver  out  the  licenses  to  the  supervisors  in  equal  pro- 
portions, charging  each  for  his  proportion.  And  the  super- 
visors to  deliver  them  out  to  the  persons  applying  and  paying 
for  them. 

Once  in  each  year  the  supervisors  to  aeeounl  with  the  county 
treasurer,  and  to  be  charged  with  all  the  blank  licences  they  do 
not  then  return. 

Th<'  same  to  take  place  between  the  county  treasurer  and  the 
State  treasurer;  who  shall  be  chargeable  in  like  manner,  tu 
in  case  of  insolvency  of  supervisors,  to  be  proved  to  the  satis- 
faction of  a  jury. 


212  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  25. 


EESOLUTIONS  IN  CONGRESS. 

December  6,  1782. 

Besolved,  That  the  Superintendent  of  Finance  be,  and  he  is 
hereby  directed  to  represent  to  the  Legislatures  of  the  several 
States,  the  indispensable  necessity  for  their  complying  with  the 
requisitions  of  Congress,  for  raising  1,200,000  dollars,  for  paying 
a  year's  interest  of  the  domestic  debt  of  the  United  States,  and 
2,000,000  of  dollars  towards  defraying  the  expenses  of  the  esti- 
mate for  the  ensuing  year ;  and  the  inconveniences,  embarrass- 
ments, and  injuries  to  the  public  service,  which  will  arise  from 
the  States,  individually  making  appropriations  of  any  part  of  the 
said  2,000,000  of  dollars,  or  of  any  other  moneys  required  by 
the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  ;  assuring  them  withal, 
that  Congress  are  determined  to  make  the  fullest  justice  to  the 
public  creditors  an  invariable  object  of  their  counsels  and  ex- 
ertions ;  that  a  deputation  be  sent  to  the  State  of  Rhode  Island, 
for  the  purpose  of  making  a  full  and  just  representation  of  the 
public  affairs  of  the  United  States,  and  of  urging  the  absolute 
necessity  of  a  compliance  with  the  resolution  of  Congress,  of  the 
3d  day  of  February,  1781,  respecting  the  duty  on  Imports  and 
Prizes,  as  a  measure  essential  to  the  safety  and  reputation  of 
these  States. 


SINKING     FUND 


December  16,  1782. 


Whereas,  It  is  essential  to  justice  and  to  the  preservation  of 
public  credit,  that  whenever  a  nation  is  obliged,  by  the  exigencies 
of  public  affairs,   to  contract  a  debt,  proper  funds  should  be 


JSi.  98.]  aBSOLUTIONS    in    CONORB88.  818 

established,  not  only  for  paying  the  annual  value 

the  same,  bu1  for  discharging  the  principal  within  a  reasons 

period,  by  which  a    nation    may  avoid   the  evils  of  an 

accumulation  of  debl ;  therefore, 

I:  wived,  That  whenever  the  ne1  product  of  any  funds,  re- 
commended by  Congress  and  granted  by  the  State 
the  debl  already  contracted,  or  for  procuring  further  Loans 
the  support  of  the  war,  shall  exceed  the  sum  requisite  for  pay- 
ing the  interest  of  the  whole  amount  of  the  national  debt,  wl 
these  States  may  owe  at  the  termination  of  the  present  war;  l 
surplus  of  such  grants  shall  form  a  Sinking  Fund,  and  be  in. 
lably  appropriated  to  the  payment  of  the  principal  of  the  said 
debt,  and  shall  on  no  account  be  diverted  to  any  other  purpose. 
And  in  order  that  the  several  States  may  have  proper  informa- 
tion of  the  state  of  their  finances,  it  is  further 

Resolved,  That   as  soon  as  the  public  debt  can  be  liquidated, 
each  State  be  annually  furnished  with  the  amount  thereof',  and 
of  the  interest  thereon;  and  also  of  the  proceeds  and  disposil 
of  the  funds  provided  for  the  redemption  thereof 

That  the  faith  of  the  United  States  he  pledged  for  the  obser- 
vance of  the  foregoing  resolutions,  and  that  if  any  State  shall 
think  it  may  he  necessary  to  make  it  a  condition  of  their  grants, 
the  same  will  he  considered  by  Conj  rith  the 

resolution  of  the  L';:d  February,  L781. 


REPORT   ON    [MPOST    IU'TY. 

By  the  United  States  in  (  •''<</.  December  L6,  1782. 

The  Committee,  consisting  of  Mr.   Hamilton,   Mr.  Mad: 
and  Mr.  Fitzsimmons,  to  whom   was  referred  die  letter  of  the 
thirtieth  of  November,  from   the  Bonorable  William  Bradford, 
Speaker  of  the  lower  Souse  of  Assemblj  of  the  State  oi    I 
Island,  containing,  under  three  heads,  the  reasons  of  thai  : 
for  refusing  their  compliance  with  the  recommend  I 
gross  for  a  duty  on  imports  and  pria         is,  report: 


214  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  25. 

That  they  flatter  themselves  the  State,  on  a  reconsideration 
of  the  objections  they  have  offered,  with  a  candid  attention  to 
the  arguments  which  stand  in  opposition  to  them,  will  be  in- 
duced to  retract  their  dissent,  convinced  that  the  measure  is  sup- 
ported on  the  most  solid  grounds  of  equal  justice,  policy,  and 
general  utility.  The  following  observations,  contrasted  with 
each  head  of  the  objections,  successively,  will  furnish  a  satisfac- 
tory answer  to  the  whole. 

First  objection.  "  That  the  proposed  duty  would  be  unequal 
in  its  operation,  bearing  hardest  upon  the  most  commercial  States, 
and  so  would  press  peculiarly  hard  upon  that  State  which  draws 
its  chief  support  from  commerce." 

The  most  common  experience,  joined  to  the  concurrent 
opinions  of  the  ablest  commercial  and  political  observers,  have 
established,  beyond  controversy,  this  general  principle:  "That 
every  duty  on  imports  is  incorporated  with  the  price  of  the  com- 
modity, and  ultimately  paid  by  the  consumer,  with  a  profit  on 
the  duty  itself,  as  a  compensation  to  the  merchant  for  the  ad- 
vance of  his  money." 

The  merchant  considers  the  duty  demanded  by  the  State  on 
the  imported  article,  in  the  same  light  with  freight  or  any  simi- 
lar charge,  and,  adding  it  to  the  original  cost,  calculates  his  pro- 
fit on  the  aggregate  sum.  It  may  happen  that,  at  particular 
conjunctures,  where  the  markets  are  overstocked,  and  there  is  a 
competition  among  the  sellers,  this  may  not  be  practicable  ;  but, 
in  the  general  course  of  trade,  the  demand  for  consumption  pre- 
ponderates ;  and  the  merchant  can  with  ease  indemnify  himself, 
and  even  obtain  a  profit  on  the  advance.  As  a  consumer,  he 
pays  his  share  of  the  duty,  but  it  is  no  further  a  burthen  upon 
him.  The  consequence  of  the  principle  laid  down,  is,  that  every 
class  of  the  community  bears  its  share  of  the  duty  in  proportion 
to  its  consumption ;  which  last  is  regulated  by  the  comparative 
wealth  of  the  respective  classes,  in  conjunction  with  their  habits 
of  expense  or  frugality.  The  rich  and  luxurious  pay  in  propor- 
tion to  their  riches  and  luxury  ;  the  poor  and  parsimonious,  in 
proportion  to  their  poverty  and  parsimony.  A  chief  excellence 
of  this  mode  of  revenue,  is,  that  it  preserves  a  just  measure  to 


JEt.  95.]  IMPOST     I»  I    T  ^  215 

the  abilities  of  individuals,  promotes  frugahl 

mce.  The  Bame  reasoning,  in  our  situation,  applies  to  the 
intercourse  between  two  States:  if  one  imports  and  the  other 
does  not,  the  latter  must  be  supplied  by  the  former.    The  d 

being  transferred  to  the  pri< f  the  commodity,  is  no  mon 

charge  on  the  importing  Stair  for  whal  is  consumed  in  the 
other, than  it  is  a  charge  on  the  merchanl  for  whal  is  con- 
sumed by  the  Sinner  or  artificer.  Either  State  will  only  fi 
burthen  in  a  rati  >  to  its  consumption 5  and  this  will  be  in  a  ratio 
to  its  population  and  wealth.  What  happens  between  the  dif- 
ferenl  Glasses  of  the  same  community,  internally  happens  between 
the  two  States;  and  as  the  merchant,  in  the  first  case,  so 
from  losing  the  duty  himself,  has  a  profit  on  the  money  he  ad- 
vances for  that  purpose;  so  the  importing  State,  which,  in  the 
second  case,  is  the  merchanl  with  respeel  to  the  other,  is  not 
only  reimbursed  by  the  non-inij  State,  but  has   a  like 

tent  on  the  duty  advanced. 

It  is,  therefore,  the  reverse  of  a  just  position,  thai  the  duty  pro- 
posed will  bear  hardest  on  the  most  commercial  States:  it  will, 
if  any  thing,  have  a  contrary  effect,  though  not  in  a  sumcienl 
gree  to  justify  an  objection  on  the  part  of  the  non-import 
States.     For  it  is  as  reasonable  they  should  allow  an  advance  on 

•aid  as  on  the  firsl  cost,  freight,  or  any  incidental  chai 
They  have  also  other  advantages  in  the  measure,  fully  equivalent 
to  this  disadvantage.    Over  nice  and  minute  calculations,  in  mat- 
ters of  this  nature,  are  inconsistenl  with  national  measures,  and,  in 

the  imp'')!  te  of  human  affairs,  would  Btagnate  all  the  oper- 

ations of  government     Absolute  equality  is  nol  to  be  attained: 
to  aim  at  it,  is  pursuing  a   shad  the  expense  of  the  sub- 

stance; and,  in  the  event,  we  should  find  ourselves  wider  of  the 
mark,  than  if,  in  the  firsl  instance,  we  were  content  to  appr< 
it  with  moderation. 

S    md  Objection.     ''That    the   r >mmendation   p  -  to 

introduce  into  that   and   the. .tie'     -  ficers   unknown  and 

unaccountable  to  them,  and  so  insl  th    1       stitution  of  the 

te." 

It  is  not  to  be  presumed  that  the  Constitution  of  ai 


216  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  25. 

could  mean  to  define  and  fix  the  precise  numbers  and  descrip- 
tions of  all  officers  to  be  permitted  in  the  State,  excluding  the 
creation  of  any  new  ones,  whatever  might  be  the  necessity  de- 
rived from  that  variety  of  circumstances  incident  to  all  political 
institutions.  The  Legislature  must  always  have  a  discretionary 
power  of  appointing  officers,  not  expressly  known  to  the  Consti- 
tution ;  and  this  power  will  include  that  of  authorizing  the  Fed- 
eral Government  to  make  the  appointments  in  cases  where  the 
general  welfare  may  require  it.  The  denial  of  this  would  prove 
too  much  :  to  wit,  that  the  power  given  by  the  Confederation  to 
Congress,  to  appoint  all  officers  in  the  post-office,  was  illegal  and 
unconstitutional. 

The  doctrine  advanced  by  Ehode  Island  would,  perhaps, 
prove  also,  that  the  Federal  Government  ought  to  have  the  ap- 
pointment of  no  internal  officers  whatever ;  a  position  that  would 
defeat  all  the  provisions  of  the  Confederation,  and  all  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Union.     The  truth  is,  that  no  Federal  Constitution 
can  exist  without  powers  that,  in  their  exercise,  affect  the  internal 
police  of  the  component  members.     It  is  equally  true,  that  no 
government  can  exist  without  a  right  to  appoint  officers  for  those 
purposes  which  proceed  from,  and  concentre  in,  itself:  and  there- 
fore the  Confederation  has  expressly  declared,  that  Congress  shall 
have  authority  to  appoint  all  such  "  civil  officers  as  may  be  ne- 
cessary for  managing  the  general  affairs  of  the  United  States 
under  their  direction."     All  that  can  be  required,  is,  that  the 
Federal  Government  confine  its  appointments  to  such  as  it  is  em- 
powered to  make  by  the  original  act  of  union,  or  by  the  subse- 
quent consent  of  the  parties.     Unless  there  should  be  express 
words  of  exclusion  in  the  Constitution  of  a  State,  there  can  be 
no  reason  to  doubt  that  it  is  within  the  compass  of  legislative 
discretion  to  communicate  that  authority. 

The  propriety  of  doing  it  upon  the  present  occasion,  is 
founded  on  substantial  reasons. 

The  measure  proposed  is  a  measure  of  necessity.  Eepeated 
experiments  have  shown,  that  the  revenue  to  be  raised  within 
these  States,  is  altogether  inadequate  to  the  public  wants.  The 
deficiency  can  only  be  supplied  by  loans.     Our  applications  to 


iE-r.  25.]  1  M  POST    DUT  Y.  -17 

the  foreign  powers,  on  whose  friendship  we  depend,  have  bad  :i 
success  far  short  of  our  uecessities.     The  uexl  reso  irce  is  to  I 
row  from  individuals.    These  will  neither  be  actuated  by  gener- 
osity nor  reasons  iA'  state      'Tifi  bo  their  Lnteresl  alone  •■ 
appeal.    To  conciliate  this,  we  must  doI  only  stipulate  a  pro 
compensation  for  what  they  lend,  hut  we  mus1  give  security  for 
the  performance,     Wemusl  pledge  an  ascertained  fund; 
and  productive  in  its  nature,  general  in  its  principle,  and  al  I 
disposal  of  a  single  will.    There  can  be  little  confidence  in  a 
curitv  under  the  constant  revisaJ  of  thirteen  differenl  delib 
tives.     It  must,  once  for  all,  be  defined  and  established  on  the 
faith  of  the  States  solemnly  pledged  to  each  other,  and  not  revo- 
cable by  any  without  a  breach  of  the  general  compact. 

"I'is  by  such  expedients  thai  nations,  whose  resources  are  un- 
derstood, whose  reputations  and  governments  are  erected  on  the 
foundation  of  ages,  are  enabled  to  obtain  a  solid  and  extensive 
credit.  Would  it  be  reasonable  in  us  to  hope  for  more  < 
terms,  who  have  so  recently  assumed  our  rank  among  the  na- 
tions? Is  it  not  to  be  expected,  that  individuals  will  be  cautious 
in   Lending  their  money  to  a  people   in   our  circumsl  and 

that  they  will  at  least  require  the  besl  security  we  can  gr 

We  have  an  enemy  vigilant,  intriguing,  well  acquainted  with 
our  defects  and  embarrassments.  We  may  expect  that  he  will 
make  every  effort  to  instil  diffidences  into  individuals;  and.  in 
the  present  posture  of  our  internal  affairs,  he  will  have  too  plau- 
sible ground  on  which  to  tread.  Our  necessities  have  obliged  us 
to  embrace  measures,  with  respect  to  OUT  public  credit,  calculated 
to  inspire  distrust.    The  prepo  os  on  this  article  must  na- 

turally be  against  us,  and  it  is  therefore  indispensable  we  should 
endeavor  to  remove  them,  by  such  means  as  will  be  the  most  ob- 
vious and  striking. 

It  was  with  these  views  I  determined  on  era! 

fund;  and  the  one  they  have  recommended  must,  upon  a  tho- 
rough examination,  appear  to  have  fewer  Lnconveni  than 
any  other. 

It  has  been  remarked,  as  an  essential  part  of  the  plan,  that  the 
fund  should  depend  on  a  single  will.     This  will  not  i 


218  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  25. 

unless  the  collection,  as  well  as  the  appropriation,  is  under  the 
control  of  the  United  States ;  for  it  is  evident,  that  after  the  duty 
is  agreed  upon,  it  may,  in  a  great  measure,  be  defeated  by  an  in- 
effectual mode  of  levying  it.  The  United  States  have  a  common 
interest  in  a  uniform  and  equally  energetic  collection ;  and  not 
only  policy,  but  justice  to  all  the  parts  of  the  Union,  designates 
the  utility  of  lodging  the  power  of  making  it  where  the  interest 
is  common.  Without  this,  it  might,  in  reality,  operate  as  a  very 
unequal  tax. 

Third  Objection.  "  That  by  granting  to  Congress  a  power  to 
collect  moneys  from  the  commerce  of  these  States,  indefinitely  as 
to  time  and  quantity,  and  for  the  expenditure  of  which  they  are 
not  to  be  accountable  to  the  States,  they  would  become  indepen- 
dent of  their  constituents  ;  and  so  the  proposed  impost  is  repug- 
nant to  the  liberty  of  the  United  States." 

Admitting  the  principle  of  this  objection  to  be  true,  still  it 
ought  to  have  no  weight  in  the  present  case,  because  there  is  no 
analogy  between  the  principle  and  the  fact. 

Firstly.  The  fund  proposed  is  sufficiently  definite  as  to  time, 
because  it  is  only  co-extensive  with  the  existence  of  the  debt  con- 
tracted, and  to  be  contracted,  in  the  course  of  the  war.  Congress 
are  persuaded  that  it  is  as  remote  from  the  intention  of  their  con- 
stituents to  perpetuate  that  debt,  as  to  extinguish  it  at  once  by  a 
faithless  neglect  of  providing  the  means  to  fulfil  the  public  en- 
gagements. Their  ability  to  discharge  it  in  a  moderate  time,  can 
as  little  be  doubted  as  their  inclination ;  and  the  moment  that 
debt  ceases,  the  duty,  so  far  as  respects  the  present  provision, 
ceases  with  it. 

The  resolution  recommending  the  duty,  specifies  the  object  of 
it  to  be  the  discharge  of  the  principal  and  interest  of  the  debts 
already  contracted,  or  which  may  be  contracted,  on  the  faith  of 
the  United  States  for  supporting  the  present  war. 

Secondly.  The  rate  per  cent,  is  fixed ;  and  it  is  not  at  the  op- 
tion of  the  United  States  to  increase  it.  Though  the  product  will 
vary  according  to  the  variations  in  trade,  yet,  as  there  is  this 
limitation  of  the  rate,  it  cannot  be  properly  said  to  be  indefinite 
as  to  quantity. 


JEt.  i  IMPOST     DUTY.  219 

By  the  Confederation,  Congress  have  an  absolute  discretion 
in  determining  the  quantum  of  revenue  requisite  for  the  national 
expenditure.     When  this  is  done,  nothing  remains  for  the  St; 
separately,  bul  the  mode  "I'  raising.     No  State  can  dispute  the 
obligation  to  pay  the  sum  demanded,  withoul  :t  breach  of  the 
Confederation ;  and  when  the  money  comes  Into  the  treasury,  the 
appropriation  is  the  exclusive  province  of  the  Fcederal  Govern- 
ment.    This  provision  of  the  Confederation  (withoul   which 
would  be  an  empty  form)  comprehends  in  it  the  principle,  in  its 
fullest  latitude,  which  the  Objection  under  consideration  treat* 
repugnant  to  the  liberty  of  the  United  States;  to  wit,  an  indefi- 
nite power  of  prescribing  the  quantity  of  money  to  be  raise,],  and 
of  appropriating  it  when  raised. 

If  it  be  said  that  the  State,,  individually,  having  the  collec- 
tion in  their  own  hands,  may  refuse  a compliance  with  exorbitant 
demands,  the  Confederation  will  answer,  that  this  is  a  point  of 
which  they  h;ive  no  constitutional  liberty  to  judge.  Such  a 
rasal  would  he  an  exertion  of  power,  not  of  right ;  and  the  same 
power  which  could  disregard  a  requisition  made  on  the  authority 
of  the  Confederation,  might  at  any  time  arrest  the  collection  of 
the  dutv. 

The  same  kind  of  responsibility  which  exist-,  with  respect  to 
the  expenditure  of  money  furnished  in  the  firms  hitherto  prac- 
tised, would  he  equally  applicable  to  the  revenue  from  the  im- 
ports. 

The  truth  is,  the  security  intended  to  tin'  general  liberty  in 
tin'  Confederation,  consists  in  the  frequent  election,  and  in  the 
rotation  of,  the  members  of  Congress,  by  which  then  son- 

stant  and  an  effectual  check  upon  them.    This  is  the  security 

which  the  people  in  every  State  enjoy  against  the  usurpation-  of 

their  internal  governments;  and  it  is  the  true  source  of  security 
in  a  representative  republic.  The  government,  so  constituted, 
ought  to  have  the  means  necessary  to  answer  the  end  of  its  insti- 
tution. By  weakening  its  hands  to,,  much,  it  may  he  rendered 
incapable  of  providing  for  the  interior  harmony,  or  t: 
defence  of,  the  State. 

The   measure   in   question,  it'  not  within  the  Lett  within 


220  HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[JEt.  25. 


the  spirit  of  the  Confederation.  Congress,  by  that,  are  empow- 
ered to  borrow  money  for  the  use  of  the  United  States  ;  and,  by 
implication,  to  concert  the  means  necessary  to  accomplish  the 
end.  But  without  insisting  upon  this  argument,  if  the  Confede- 
ration has  not  made  proper  provision  for  the  exigencies  of  the 
States,  it  will  be  at  all  times  the  duty  of  Congress  to  suggest  fur- 
ther provisions :  and  when  their  proposals  are  submitted  to  the 
unanimous  consent  of  the  States,  they  can  never  be  charged  with 
exceeding  the  bounds  of  their  trust.  Such  a  consent  is  the  basis 
and  sanction  of  the  Confederation,  which  expressly,  in  the  thir- 
teenth article,  empowers  Congress  to  agree  to,  and  propose,  such 
additional  provision. 

The  remarks  hitherto  made,  have  had  reference,  principally, 
to  the  future  prosecution  of  the  war.  There  still  remains  an 
interesting  light  in  which  the  subject  ought  to  be  viewed. 

The  United  States  have  already  contracted  a  debt  in  Europe, 
and  in  this  country,  for  which  their  faith  is  pledged.  The  capi- 
tal of  this  debt  can  only  be  discharged  by  degrees  :  but  a  fund 
for  this  purpose,  and  for  paying  the  interest  annually,  on  every 
principle  of  policy  and  justice,  ought  to  be  provided.  The 
omission  will  be  the  deepest  ingratitude  and  cruelty  to  a  large 
number  of  meritorious  individuals,  who,  in  the  most  critical 
periods  of  the  war,  have  adventured  their  fortunes  in  support  of 
our  independence.  It  would  stamp  the  national  character  with 
indelible  disgrace. 

An  annual  provision  for  the  purpose  will  be  too  precarious. 
If  its  continuance  and  application  were  certain,  it  would  not  af- 
ford complete  relief.  With  many,  the  regular  payment  of  in- 
terest, by  occasional  grants,  would  suffice;  but  with  many  more 
it  would  not.  These  want  the  use  of  the  principal  itself;  and 
they  have  a  right  to  it:  but  since  it  is  not  in  our  power  to  pay 
off  the  principal,  the  next  expedient  is  to  fund  the  debt,  and  ren- 
der the  evidences  of  it  negotiable. 

Besides  the  advantage  to  individuals  from  this  arrangement, 
the  active  stock  of  the  nation  would  be  increased  by  the  whole 
amount  of  the  domestic  debt,  and  of  course  the  abilities  of  the 
community  to  contribute  to  the  public  wants:  the  national  credit 
would  revive  and  stand  hereafter  on  a  secure  basis 


JEt.  95.]  [MPO  ST    D  0  T  V .  221 

This  was  another  object  of  the  proposed  duty. 

If  it  be  conceded  thai  a  similar  fund  is  ae<  .  it  can  hardly 

be  disputed  that  the  one  recommended  is  the   mosl   eligil 
It  has  been  already  Bhown,  thai  it  affects  all  parts  of  the  commu- 
nity in  proportion  to  their  consumption,  and  has  therefore  the 
besl  pretensions  to  equality.     It  is  the  most  agreeable  tax  to  the 
people  that  can  be  imposed,  because  It  is  paid  insensibly,  and 

mis  to  be  voluntary. 

It  may,  perhaps,  be  imagined  that  it  is  unfavorable  to  com- 
merce; bul  t he  contrary  can  easily  be  demonstrated.  It  I 
been  Been  that  it  does  not  diminish  the  prolit  of  the  merchant, 
and  of  course  can  be  no  diminution  of  his  inducements  to 
trade.  It  is  too  moderate  in  its  amount  to  discourage  the  con- 
sumption of  imported  goods,  and  cannot,  on  that  account,  abridge 
the  extent  of  importations.  If  it  even  had  this  effect,  it  would 
be  an  advantage  to  commerce,  by  lessening  the  proportion  of 
our  imports  to  our  exports,  and  inclining  the  balance  in  favor 
of  this  country. 

The  principal  tiling  to  be  consulted  for  the  advancement  of 
commerce,  is  to  promote  exports.  All  impediments  to  th 
either  by  way  of  prohibition,  or  by  increasing  the  prices  of  native 
commodities,  decreasing  by  that  means  their  sale  and  consump- 
tion at  foreign  markets,  are  injurious.  Duties  on  exports  have 
this  operation.     For  the  same  reason,  taxes  on  pos  is,  and 

the  articles  of  our  own  growth  or  manufacture,  whether  in  the  form 
of  a  land  tax,  ex  r    any   other,  are  more  hurtful   to  trade 

than  impost  duties.  The  tendency  of  all  such  taxes  is  to  incn 
the  prices  of  those  articles  which  are  the  objects  of  exportation, 
and  to  enable  others  to  undersell  us  abroad.  The  farmer,  if  he 
pays  a  heavy  land  tax,  must  endeavor  to  get  more  for  the  pro- 
ducts of  his  farm;  the  mechanic  and  laborer,  if  they  find  the 
necessaries  of  life  grow  dearer  by  an  excise,  must  endeavor  to 
exact  higher  wages:  and  these  causes  will  produce  an  increas 
prices  within,  and  operate  against  foreign  commerce. 

It  is  not,  however,  to  be   inferred,  thai  the  whole  revenue 
ought  to  be  drawn  from  imports;  all  extremes  are  to  be  n 
The  chief  thing  to  be  attended  to,  is,  that  the  weight  of  the  t; 


222  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  25. 

fall  not  too  heavily,  in  the  first  instance,  upon  particular  parts  of 
the  community.  A  judicious  distribution  to  all  kinds  of  taxable 
property,  is  a  first  principle  in  taxation.  The  tendency  of  these 
observations  is  only  to  show,  that  taxes  on  possessions,  on  arti- 
cles of  our  own  growth  and  manufacture,  are  more  prejudicial  to 
trade  than  duties  on  imports. 

The  observations  which  conclude  the  letter  on  which  these 
remarks  are  made,  naturally  lead  to  reflections  that  deserve  the 
serious  attention  of  every  member  of  the  Union.  There  is  a 
happy  mean  between  too  much  confidence  and  excessive  jealousy, 
in  which  the  health  and  prosperity  of  a  State  consist.  Either 
extreme  is  a  dangerous  vice.  The  first  is  a  temptation,  to  men 
in  power,  to  arrogate  more  than  they  have  a  right  to ;  the  latter 
enervates  government,  prevents  system  in  the  administration 
defeats  the  most  salutary  measures,  breeds  confusion  in  the  State 
disgusts  and  discontents  among  the  people,  and  may  eventually 
prove  as  fatal  to  liberty  as  the  opposite  temper. 

It  is  certainly  pernicious  to  leave  any  government  in  a  situa- 
tion of  responsibility  disproportioned  to  its  power. 

The  conduct  of  the  war  is  intrusted  to  Congress,  and  the 
public  expectation  turned  upon  them  without  any   competent 
means  at  their  command  to  satisfy  the  important  trust.      After 
the  most    full    and  solemn    deliberation,   under    a    collective 
view,  of  all  the  public  difiiculties,  they  recommended  a  measure 
which  appears  to  them  the  corner-stone  of  the  public  safety : 
they  see  this  measure  suspended  for  nearly  two  years ;    partially 
complied  with  by  some  of  the  States;    rejected  by  one  of  them, 
and  in  danger,  on  that  account,  to  be  frustrated ;  the  public  em- 
barrasments    every  day  increasing;    the  dissatisfaction  of  the 
army  growing  more  serious ;    the  other  creditors  of  the  public 
clamoring  for  justice;  both  irritated  by  the  delay  of  measures 
for  their  present  relief  or  future  security ;  the  hopes  of  our  ene- 
mies encouraged  to  protract  the  war /the  zeal  of  our  friends 
depressed  by  an  appearance  of  remissness  and  want  of  exertion 
on  our  part;    Congress  harassed;  the  national  character  suffer- 
ing ;  and  the  national  safety  at  the  mercy  of  events. 

This  state  of  things  cannot  but  be  extremely  painful  to  Con- 


iET.25.]  RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  223 

gross;  and  appear  to  your  Oommitte  to  make  it  tJieir  duty  to 

urgent,  to  obviate  the  evils  with  which  it  is  pregnant. 

Resolved,  That  Congress  agree  to  the  said  report 


AS  TO  FURTHER  PROVISION   For  THE  PAYMENT  OF  INTEREST  ON 

THE  PUBLIC  DEBT. 

December,  1782. 

h'rsn/mt,  That  a  Committee  he  appointed  to  consider  what  fur- 
ther and  other  provision  may  be  made  for  discharging  the  inter- 
est that  is,  or  may  be,  due  on  loan  office  certificates,  and  other 
liquidated  debts  of  the  I'niti-d  States,  and  be  also  directed  to  re- 
vise the  requisition  for  the  service  of  the  preceding  and  present 
year,  and  to  report  -whether  the  same  ought  to  be  cunt inued  or 
altered. 


COMPENSATION  TO  BARON  DE  STEUBEN. 

December  80,  17v- 

The  Committee,  consisting  of  Mr.  Hamilton,  Mr.  Clark,  and 
Mr.  Carroll,  to  whom  was  referred  a  letter  of  the  5th  from  Ma  or 
General  the  Baron  de  Steuben,  haying  conferred  with  him  there- 
upon, submit  to  the  consideration  of  Congress  the  following  fa 
resulting  from  the  communications  made  to  them,  supported  by 
the  testimonials  of  the  Commander-in-Chief,  and  many  other 
principal  officers  of  the  army. 

1st.   That  the  Baron  de  Steuben  was  in  Europe  \  d  of 

respectable  military  rank,  and  different  posts  of  honor  and  ei 
lument,  which  he  relinquished  to  come  to  America,  and  offer  his 
services  at  a  critical  period  of  the  war.  and  without  any  previ 
stipulations. 

2dly.  That  on  his  arrival,  he  actually  engaged  in  the  army  in 


224  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  25. 

a  very  disinterested  manner,  and  without  compensations  similar 
to  those  which  had  been  made  to  several  other  foreign  officers. 

3dly.  That  under  singular  difficulties  and  embarrassments  in 
the  department  in  which  he  has  been  employed,  he  has  rendered 
very  important  and  substantial  services,  by  introducing  into  the 
army  a  regular  formation  and  exact  discipline,  and  by  establish- 
ing a  spirit  of  order  and  ceconomy  in  the  interior  administration 
of  the  regiments,  which,  besides  other  advantages,  have  been 
productive  of  immense  savings  to  the  United  States.  That,  in 
the  command  in  which  he  has  been  employed,  he  has  on  all  oc- 
casions conducted  himself  like  a  brave  and  experienced  officer. 
The  Committee  are  therefore  of  opinion,  that  the  sacrifices  and 
services  justly  entitle  him  to  the  distinguished  notice  of  Congress, 
and  to  a  generous  compensation,  whenever  the  situation  of  public 
affairs  will  admit.  The  Committee  further  report  that  the  Baron 
de  Steuben  has  considerable  arrearages  of  pay  due  to  him  from 
these  States  on  a  liquidated  account,  and  that  having  exhausted 
his  resources  in  past  expenses,  it  is  now  indispensable  that  a  sum 
of  money  should  be  paid  him  for  his  present  support,  and  to 
enable  him  to  take  the  field  another  campaign,  and  propose  that 
the  sum  of  $2-100  be  paid  to  him  for  that  purpose,  and  charged 
to  his  account  aforesaid. 


VALUATION  OF  LANDS  AND  A  CENSUS. 

January  6,  1783. 

Resolved,  That  in  order  to  enable  Congress  to  form  an  eventual 
plan  towards  carrying  into  execution  the  eighth  article  of  the 
Confederation,  the  several  States  be  required  to  pass  laws  for 
forming  or  dividing  their  respective  States  into  such  districts  as 
they  judge  most  convenient  for  procuring  an  accurate  valuation 
of  the  lands,  and  of  the  buildings  and  improvements  thereon,  and 
to  appoint  commissioners  in  each  district  to  return  to  them  the 
quantity  of  land   in  such  district,  the  quantity  surveyed,  the 


Mr.  26.]  RESOLUTIONS     |\     CONGRESS.  225 

quantity  in  actual  occupation,  the  general  quality  of  the  land,  the 
number  and  kind  of  buildings,  the  average  rate  .-it  which  lands 
under  improvement,  and  lands  unimproved,  are  usually  sold  in 

m  district,  and  also  an  i ounl  of  the  males  between  sixti 

and  sixty,  distinguishing  the  whites  from  the  blacks  within  t 
district,  and  that  the  executive  of  each  State  transmil  Buch  re- 
turns to  Co         3  on  or  before  the  first  day  of  January,  17 


QUARTER-MASTER   GEXKHAL's   DEPARTMENT. 

January  0.  1783. 

The  Committee  to  whom  were  referred  the  letter  from  the 
Quarter-Master  General  of  the  4th  December  last,  have  conferred 
with  him,  find  thi  ii,  .us  omissions  in  the  plan  adopt.  1 

by  Congress  the  23d  of  October  last,  for  regulating  the  Quarter- 

rter's  Department,  and  are  of  opinion  that  some  of  the  sala- 
ries of  particular  officers  therein  are  reduced  too  low. 

They  therefore  recommend  that  the  Resolutions  of  the  afore- 
said 23d  of  October  be  repealed,  and  the  following  plan  be  sub- 
stituted in  their  plac 


REGULATIONS  FOR  THE  QUAETBE-MASTEB  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT. 

That  the  resolve  of  Congress  of  the  23d  October  last  be  repealed 
and  the  following  regulations  adopted  in  its  stead. 

Resolved,  That  there  be  one  Quarter-Master  General,  who,  on  every 
vacancy,  shall  be  appointed  by  Congress. 

That  the  Quarter-Master  General,  with  the  approbation  of  the  Com- 
mander-in-Chief, appoint  the  following  officers  for  the  armies  of  the 
United  States. 

Fbr  the  Main  Army, 

One  Deputy  Quarter-Master. 

One  Commissary  of  Forage. 

One  Wagon  Blaster. 

One  Director,  i    .  .   .     .„ 

One  Sub-Director,  \  of  a  coniPany  of  Art.ficers. 

B  15 


125 

a 

12 

75 

u 

5 

75 

'.i 

5 

60 

t: 

4 

75 

a 

5 

50 

u 

4 

226  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  26. 


.For  a  Separate  Army. 

One  Deputy  Quarter-Master. 

One  Deputy  Commissary  of  Forage. 

One  Deputy  Wagon-Master. 

One  Director,  and  )    c  c  K    ,-a 

One  Sub-Director  j  ofa  COmPaQy  of  Artlficers- 

Provided  that  this  shall  only  operate  in  future  appointments,  and 
not  derange  the  company  of  Artificers  at  present  formed  in  the  South- 
ern Army,  under  the  resolution  of  29th  March,  1781. 

And  as  many  Assistants,  Clerks,  Forage-Masters,  and  Wagon  Con- 
ductors, as  the  service  may  require. 

That  the  pay  and  rations  of  the  officers  above-mentioned,  including 
their  pay  and  rations  in  the  line  of  the  army,  shall  be  as  follows : 

Quarter-Master  General,       .     $250  per  month,  15  rations  per  day. 

Deputy  with  a  separate  army, 

Deputy  with  the  main  army, 

Commissary  of  Forage, 

Deputy  with  a  separate  army, 

Wagon-Master, 

Deputy  with  a  separate  army, 

Assistant  Quarter-Master. 

One  principal  in  a  separate  army,   $50  per  month,  3  rations  per  day. 

All  others  not  exceeding 

Clerks,  each, 

Directors  of  Artificers,  each, 

Sub-Directors,  each, 

Forage-Masters,  each, 

Wagon  Conductors,  each,     . 

That  the  following  be  the  proportion  of  wagons  and  led  horses  to 
the  different  ranks  of  officers,  unless  otherwise  directed  in  special  cases 
by  the  Commander-in-Chief,  or  commanding  officer  of  a  separate  corps. 

The  Commander-in-Chief,  and  Commanding  Officer  of  a  separate 
army,  for  themselves  and  families,  as  many  as  they  may  find  ne- 
cessary. 

Major-General  and  family,  one  covered  four-horse  wagon,  and  one 
open  two-horse  wagon. 

Brigadier-General  and  family,  one  covered  four-horse  wagon. 

Field  Officers  of  a  Regiment,  or  other  corps,  one  covered  four-horse 
wagon. 

Field  Officers  of  Engineers,  as  near  as  may  be,  in  the  same  pro- 
portion. r 

Captains  and  Subalterns  of  a  Regiment,  or  other  corps,  one  covered 
four-horse  wagon,  and  one  open  four-horse  wagon. 


.  40 

a 

2 

.  30 

i. 

2 

.  40 

a 

2 

.  30 

U 

o 

.  20 

u 

2 

.  20 

a 

2 

JEt.  26.]        RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  227 

Surgeon  and  Mate,  Paymaster,  Adjutant  and  Qoartor  '  one 

covered  four-horse  wagon. 

Brigade   Chaplain,   Major  ami   Quarter-Master,  on 
horse  wagon. 

Every  hundred  men,  for  their  tents,  bul  to  1"-  varied  aooordii 
the  weight  of  the  tint-  ami  state  of  the  roads,  one  open  four-fa 
wagon. 

•  Quarter-Master  (icneral.  for  himself,  as  many  as   he  shall  find  as 
ccssary. 

Deputy  (Quarter-Master,  in  a  Beparate  army,  tie'  Bame 

Commissary  of  forage  ami  Clerks,  urn'  oovered  two  hoi  in. 

Deputy  Commissary  of  Forage  and  Clerk-.  .1.. 

Wagon-Master  and  Clerks,  do. 

Deputy  Wagon-Master  and  Clerks,  do. 

Assistant    Quarter-Master,   who   is   storekeeper   for   himself   and 
clerks,  do. 

Each  company  of  Artificers,  for  tin  ir  tent-  ami  baggage,  do. 

[nspeetor-General,  for  himself  ami  family,  one  covered  four-li 
wagon,  and  one  coven  d  two  horse,  and  one  open  two-horse  wagon 

Adjutant-General  and   assistants,   one   covered   four-horse   wagon, 
one  covered  two-horse  wagon,  ami  one  open  twodiorse  wagon. 

Deputy    Adjutant-Ceneral    and    assistant,    one  i    fuur-horse 

wagon 

Jml_'<'  Advocate,  one  covered  two-horse  wagon. 

Deputy  Judge-Advocate,  with  a  separate  army,  one  covered  two- 
horse  wagon. 

Commissary  *<['  Prisoners,  one  covered  two-horse  wagon. 

Deputy  do.,  a  separate  army.  do. 

Provost  Marshal,  with  pi  and  guard,  one   open    four  k 

wagon 

Field  Commissary  of  Military  Stores,  with  his  clerks  and  conduct- 
ors, "ne  covered  two-horse  wagon. 

Deputy  do.,  for  a  separate  army,  with  clerks  and  conductors,  one 
do.  two-horse  wagon. 

Deputy  Paymaster,  with  the  main  or  a  separate  army,  one  do.  two- 
horse  wagon. 

Field  Postmaster,  one-horse  wag  in  each. 

Each  Geographer,  with  his  assistant,  oni vered  two-horse  wagon. 

Direotox  of  Military  Hospitals,  one  oovered  two-hoi  in. 

Physician,  Hospital  Surgeons,  and  Mat'.-,  with  the  main  army,  one 
covered  four-horse-waggon. 

Deputy  Director,  one  oovered  two-horse  wagon. 

Hospital  Surgeons  and  Mates,  with  a  Beparate  army,  one  cov 
two-horse  wagon. 

Hospital  Steward  and  attendant-  with  each  army,  one  open  I 
horse  wagon. 

Provided,  that  if  the  Dumber   of  wagons   allotted  above  b! 
prove  insufficient,  the  (juarter-M  ral   may  occasionally  fur- 


228  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  26. 

nish  such  additional  carriages  as  the  Commander-in-Chief,  or  chief 
Commanding  Officer  of  a  separate  army,  or  the  Secretary  at  War, 
may  direct. 

That  no  military  or  staff  officer  shall  own,  or  be  in  any  manner  in- 
terested in  any  boat,  shallop,  wagon,  or  other  carriage,  horse,  or  team, 
employed,  on  hire  or  contract,  in  the  service  of  the  United  States. 

That  a  ration  of  forage  shall  consist  of  fourteen  pounds  of  hay,  and 
eight  quarts  of  oats,  or  other  grain  equivalent,  for  a  saddle-horse ;  and 
of  sixteen  pounds  of  hay  and  twelve  quarts  of  oats,  or  other  grain  equi- 
valent, for  a  wagon-horse  per  day. 

That  there  be  issued  to  the  Commander-in-Chief,  and  to  the  com- 
manding officer  of  a  separate  army,  and  to  those  of  their  suite,  as  many 
rations  as  the  service  may  require. 

That  for  saddle-horses  there  be  allowed — 

To  a  Major-General  and  family,  seven  rations. 

Brigadier-General  and  do.,  five. 

Brigade  Major  and  Chaplain,  each  one. 

Field  Officers,  of  whatsoever  corps,  each  two. 

Regimental  Surgeons,  Paymaster,  Adjutant,  Quarter-Masters,  each 
one. 

Captains  and  subalterns  of  Engineers,  each  one. 

Captains  and  subalterns  of  the  mounted  troops  of  Dragoons,  each 
one. 

Quarter-Master  General,  as  the  service  may  require. 

Deputy,  with  a  separate  army,  the  same. 

Deputy,  with  the  main  army,  two  rations. 

Principal  assistant,  with  a  separate  army,  two. 

All  other  assistants,  each  one. 

Commissary  of  Forage,  two. 

Each  of  his  clerks,  one. 

Deputy,  with  a  separate  army,  two. 

Clerks,  each  one. 

Forage-Masters,  each  one. 

Wagon-Master,  two. 

Clerk,  one. 

Deputy  Wagon-Master,  with  a  separate  army,  two. 

Clerk.  J 

Wagon  Conductors,  each  one. 

Inspectors,  in  addition  to  what  they  draw  in  the  line,  each  one. 

Assistant  Inspectors,  each  one. 

Adjutant-General,  three. 

Deputy  Adjutant-General,  with  a  separate  army,  three. 

Assistants  to  the  Adjutant  and  Deputy  Adjutant-General,  each  one. 

Commissary  of  Prisoners,  two. 

Deputy,  with  a  separate  army,  two. 

Other  Deputies,  each  one. 

Judge-Advocate,  two. 

Deputy,  with  a  separate  army,  one. 


^Et.  26.]  RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  229 

Deputy,  with  the  main  army,  one, 

Field  Commissary  of  Military  Stores,  two. 

Deputy,  with  ;i  separate  army,  two. 

Pejmty  Paymaster,  one. 

Field  Paymaster,  one. 

Geographers,  each  two. 

Assistant  ilu,  each  one. 

Director  of  Military  Hospital,  two. 

Deputy,  with  a  separate  army,  two. 

Physician  to  the  army,  two. 

Hospital  Surgeons,  each  one. 

That  any  of  the  officers  entitled  to  forage,  who  shall  keep  their 
horses  at  their  own  expense,  shall  be  paid  therefor,  by  the  Quarter- 
ly >tor  General,  at  the  average  price  given  by  him  for  the  forage  of  the 
army. 

Resolved,  That  the  Quarter-Master  General,  with  the  approbation  of 
the  Secretary  at  War.  shall  appoint  so  many  assistants,  to  reside  in  the 
several  States,  as  the  service  may  require. 

That  all  officers  in  the  Quarter-Master  General's  Department,  of 
whatever  denomination,  shall  take  the  oaths  of  allegiance  and  the  oath 
of  office  prescribed  by  Congress,  before  they  enter  on  business. 

That  the  Quarter-Master  General  make  a  return  of  the  name  and 
station  of  each  person  to  be  appointed  in  his  department. 

That  in  settling  the  accounts  of  officers  in  the  said  department,  no 
pay  or  allowance  whatever  be  granted  to  any  person  employed  therein, 
whose  name  and  employment,  together  with  a  certificate  of  his  having 
taken  the  aforesaid  oaths,  shall  not  have  been  returned  within  two 
months  after  the  acceptance  of  such  office. 


ABMY  MEMORIAL. 

January  26  1783. 

The  Grand  Committee,  consisting  of  a  member  from  each 
State,  report:  That  they  have  considered  the  contents  of  a  me- 
morial, presented  by  tihe  army,  and  find  that  they  comprehend 
five  different  articles.  "1st  Presentpay.  2d.  A.  settlement  of 
accounts  of  the  arrearages  of  pay  and  security  for  what  is  due. 
3d.  A  ( limitation  of  the  half-pay,  allowed  by  differenl  resolu- 
tions of  Congress,  for  an  equivalent  in  gross.  4th.  A 
menl  of  the  accounts  of  deficencies  of  rations  and  compensation. 
5th.  A  settlement  of  the  accounts  of  deficencies  oi  i  loth 
compensation."    Whereupon, 


230  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  26. 

Resolved,  As  to  the  first — that  the  Superintendent  of  Finance 
be  directed,  conformably  to  the  measures  already  taken  for  that 
purpose,  as  soon  as  the  state  of  the  public  finances  will  permit, 
to  make  such  payment,  and  in  such  manner,  as  he  shall  think 
proper,  until  the  further  order  of  Congress. 

Resolved,  With  respect  to  the  second  article — so  far  as  re- 
lates to  the  settlement  of  accounts — that  the  several  States  be 
called  upon  to  complete,  without  delay,  the  settlement  with  their 
respective  lines  of  the  army,  up  to  the  first  day  of  August,  1780, 
and  that  the  Superintendent  of  Finance  be  directed  to  take  such 
measures  as  shall  appear  to  him  most  proper  for  effecting  the 
settlement  from  that  period. 

As  to  what  relates  to  the  providing  of  security  for  what 
shall  be  found  due  on  such  settlement, 

Resolved,  That  the  troops  of  the  United  States,  in  common 
with  all  the  creditors  of  the  same,  have  an  undoubted  right  to 
expect  such  security ;  and  that  Congress  will  make  every  effort 
in  their  power  to  obtain  from  the  respective  States  substantial 
funds,  adequate  to  the  object  of  funding  the  whole  debt  of  the 
United  States,  and  will  enter  upon  an  immediate  and  full  con- 
sideration of  the  nature  of  such  funds,  and  the  most  likely  mode 
of  obtaining  them. 


REPORT  BY  HAMILTON  OF  A  COMMITTEE  UPON  THE  MEMORIALS 
OF  THE  REPRESENTATIVES  OF  THE  COMMONWEALTH  OF  PENN- 
SYLVANIA, OF  THE  28TH  OF  AUGUST,  AND  12TH  OF  NOVEM- 
BER LAST. 

January  30,  1783. 
The  Committee  of  the  28th  August,  states  that  their  con- 
stituents labor  under  grievances,  because  they  are  not  enabled  to 
settle  their  accounts  against  the  United  States,  and  because  they 
cannot  obtain  payment  of  the  debts  due  to  them  by  the  public, 
nor  receive  interest  on  loan-office  certificates,  dated  subsequent 
to  the  month  of  February,  1778.     It  states  further,  that  appre- 


JEr.-2>;.\         RESOLUTIONS    i\    CONGBE88  281 

hensions  bad  taken  place,  that  the  interest  on  certifi    I 
prior  date  would  be  suspended;    thai  other  Stal  I 

were  making  provision    for   ascertaining  and   paj         sundry 
debts  <lut'  to  their  citizens,  and  that  the  suspension  of  debts  com* 
plained  of,  was  a  material  impediment  t<»  the  collection  ol 
after  which  follows  a  request,  that  Congress  will  be  i 
devise  and  recommend  such  general  plan,  as  they  Bhall  think 
adequate  and   effectual,   for   settling  and  ascertaining   the  on- 
liquidated  debts  of  the  I'nited  States,  and  for  paying  th< 
or  at  least  some  pari  thereof,  and  also  for  the  regular  and  pu 
tual  payment  «»t'  the  lnteresi  on  all  the  public  debts,  as  well  oa 
Loan  as  otherwise,  until  the  principal  shall  finally  he  discharg 

The subsequenl  memorial  of  the  L2th  November,  after  n 
ring  particularly  to  the  former,  and  observing  that  the  hnsiness 
was  yet  nueileeted,  declares  the  assembly  to  l.e  deeply  impressed 
with  the  absolute  necessity,  that  speedy  and  effectual  mi 
be  taken  to  afford  reliei  to  the  public  creditors,  at  least  - 
to  liquidate  and  ascertain  their  respective  claims,  and  to 
to  them  the  payment  of  the  interest  due  thereon,  until  the  prin- 
cipal he  discharged;    and  then  requests,  thai  C  98 
pleased  to  give  them  such  information  as  will  enable  the  Ho 
to  judge  what  steps  it  may  he  proper  to  take,  in  order  to  afford 
that  effectual  relief  to   the  public  creditors   in   Pennsylvania, 
which  they  conceive  it  to  he  their  indispensable  duty  to  procure. 

On  these  memorials  Congress  remark: 

That  the  objects  to  which  they  relate  musl    i  rily  de- 
pend on  the  compliances  of  the  several  States  with  the  req 
tions  of  Congress.     That  th<'  interest  payable  by  hills  of  ex- 
change on  Loan-offi tertificates,   continued   until   a':  expi 

declaration  made  to  Congress,  that  those  who  should  draw  ' 
for  thai  purpose,  musl  provide  for  the  payment  <<\'  them.     That 
Congress  are  not  informed  of  any  State  which  has  taken  sepai 
measures  for  satisfying  its  own  citizens,  who  are  public  credit- 
ors; and  that  there  docs  not  appear  a  possibility  of  making  such 

a    private   and   partial    provision,  because  the   various  eerl 

are  principally  made  payable  to  the  hearer  of  them,  and  h 
been  transferred  and  negotiated.     A  provision  tor  them  by  any 


232  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  26. 

State  must  therefore  exclude  the  demands  of  many  of  its  own 
citizens,  or  admit  the  demands  of  all. 

That  the  attempts  to  pay  any  of  the  past  debts  would  form 
so  heavy  a  deduction  from  the  greatest  revenue  which  can  be 
raised,  as  would  totally  obstruct  all  present  service.  Wherefore, 
the  provision  to  be  made  at  present,  ought  to  be  confined  to  the 
interest  of  the  public  debts.  That  such  provision  would  afford 
eventual  relief  to  the  public  creditors,  and  enable  them  to  sup- 
port their  share  of  the  public  burthens,  without  appropriating 
the  whole  revenue,  which  can  be  drawn  from  the  people,  to  a 
payment  of  debts,  and  leaving  thereby  the  public  service  unpro- 
vided for,  which  would  involve  the  ruin  of  all  ranks,  whether 
creditors  or  others. 

That  Congress  are,  and  have  been  long  impressed  with  the 
absolute  necessity,  that  speedy  and  effectual  measures  should  be 
taken;  first,  to  liquidate  and  ascertain  the  public  debts,  and, 
secondly,  to  secure  the  payment  of  the  interest,  until  the  princi- 
pal could  be  discharged,  as  will  appear  from  the  following 
facts : 

That  for  the  first  of  these  essential  objects,  Congress  had 
made  provision  by  their  Acts  of  the  20th  and  27th  of  February 
last,  and  have  reason  to  believe,  from  the  information  contained 
in  a  letter,  from  the  office  of  Finance,  dated  the  3d  of  December 
following,  and  the  report  of  a  committee  thereon  (both  which  are 
annexed),  that  the  plan  adopted  will  speedily  be  in  an  effectual 
train  of  execution  throughout  the  United  States.  That  the  duty 
of  five  per  cent,  was  recommended  by  Congress  so  early  as  the  3d 
of  February,  1781 ;  but  after  a  delay  of  near  two  years,  Congress 
have  the  mortification  to  find,  that  one  State  entirely  refuses  its 
concurrence ;  that  another  has  withdrawn  its  assent  once  given, 
and  that  a  third  has  returned  no  answer. 

That  when  Congress  received  the  determination  of  the  State 
of  Ehode  Island  on  that  subject,  they  resolved  to  send  a  solemn 
deputation  to  that  State,  to  induce  a  reconsideration  of  the  mea- 
sure. At  the  moment  when  the  committee  were  about  to  de- 
part, intelligence  was  received,  that  Virginia  had  repealed  the 
act  formerly  passed  on  that  recommendation,  which  has  placed 


jEt.  ae.]  RESOLUTIONS    |\    CONGRESS.  888 

the  business  oti  a  new  ground,  and  compelled  Con  to  take 

it  up  in  a  more  extensive  view. 

The  inability  of  Congress  to  perform  the  engagements  taken 
with  the  public  creditors  will  readily  appear,  when  if  is  conav 
dered  how  defective  have  been  the  compliances  of  the  States  in 
every  period  of  the  war.  Without  recurring  t<>  details  previous 
to  the  year  L782,  it  will  be  sufficienl  to  state  the  situation  of  the 
finances  for  thai  year,  which  is  as  follows:     0  -.  by  Iheir 

resolution  of  the  30th  October,  L781,  demanded  8,000,000  of 
dollars  for  the  service  of  the  ensuingyear.  Without  noticing 
the  Lesser  i  ta  of  their  requisition,  the  annexed  accounl  will 

show,  that  only  420,031.29-90  have  have  been  received. 

The  precise  account  of  moneys  in  Europe  cannot  be  ascer- 
tained until  the  final  settlement  of  the  accounts  there,  because 
the  bills  drawn  on  Spain  and  Eolland,  having  been  finally  paid, 
and  made  payable  in  France,  the  sum  in  livivs  of  those  which 
remained  due  at  the  close  of  the  year    L781,  and  v.  hich  had  1  •■ 

drawn  in  guilders  and  dollars,  musl  depend  on  the  diil'crcnt  ex- 
changes between  Amsterdam,  Madrid,  and  Paris.     Bu1  a< rding 

to  the  besl  accounts  which  can  be  obtained,  the  anticipations 

made  in  the   funds   for  the  year    L782,  amounted   at    t1  »  of 

17-1.    :  i    I. ,000   Of  livres.      For   the  service  of  that    war   his 

most  Christian  Majesty  lent  the  liiited  States  6,000,000  livres. 
In  addition  thereto,  Mr.  Adams  opened  a  loan  in  Holland  for 
10,000,000  of  livres;  but,  by  the  last  accounts  from  him,  he  had 
obtained  only  3,000,000.  So  that  the  whole  sum  borrowed  far 
the  year  L782,  being  9,000,000,  there  remained,  after  deducting 

the  anticipations,  only  5, .' which,  according  to  the  course 

of  exchange  which  has  prevailed,  will  amount  to  833,333.80-90 
dollars. 

By  the  :ed  account  of  the  receipts  and  expenditures  for 

the  year  L781,  it  appear-,  that  there  wrc  in  the  treasury,  at  the 
commencement  of  the  year    L782,  292,463.66-90  dollars  ;    BO  that 

the  whole  amount  of  the  sums  which  ( Jongress  have  had  to  carry 

on    the   public    business    for  the  year    1782,    is    no    more    than 

1,545,818.30-90  dollars. 

From  the  annexed  estimates,  it  will  appear  thai  the 


234  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  26. 

the  American  army,  according  to  the  present  reduced  establish- 
ment, amounts  to  3,038,795.32-90  dollars— that  the  clothing 
amounts  to  1,165,263 — that  the  rations,  besides  those  issuable 
to  prisoners,  amount  to  1,509,352  =  5,713,610.32-90.  So  that 
the  three  branches  of  feeding,  clothing,  and  paying  the  army,  on 
its  present  establishment,  would  amount  to  5,713,610.32-90, 
without  entering  into  the  other  branches  of  service,  or  consider- 
ing the  necessity  of  tents,  firing,  camp  utensils,  horses,  carriages, 
forage,  military  stores,  hospitals,  and  the  like. 

The  incompetency  of  the  revenue  will  appear  from  a  com- 
parison of  it  with  the  sums  necessary  for  feeding  and  clothing 
the  army,  which  services  alone  amount  to  above  2,500,000 
dollars. 

And  what  must  place  the  matter  in  a  still  more  striking 
point  of  view,  is,  that  the  whole  sum  which  Congress  could  com- 
mand was  not  sufficient  to  pay  the  interest  then  due  on  the  pub- 
lic debts.  Every  circumstance,  therefore,  which  has  hitherto 
retarded  the  measures  which  Congress  have  adopted  for  making 
provision  for  the  public  debt,  has  increased  the  necessity  of  ma- 
king such  provision.  And,  therefore,  notwithstanding  the  dis- 
couraging obstacles  they  have  hitherto  encountered,  they  con- 
ceive it  a  duty  to  themselves  and  to  their  constituents  to  perse- 
vere in  their  intentions,  and  to  renew  and  extend  their  endea- 
vors to  procure  the  establishment  of  revenues  equal  to  the  pur- 
pose of  funding  all  the  debts  of  the  United  States.  And  they 
think  it  proper  to  inform  the  Assembly  of  Pennsylvania,  that 
this  subject  is  now  before  them  under  solemn  deliberation,  and 
that  the  ready  and  early  compliance  of  the  Legislature  of  Penn- 
sylvania with  the  recommendation  of  the  3d  of  February,  1781, 
assures  Congress  of  the  vigorous  support  of  that  State. 

Among  the  steps  taken  by  Congress  to  secure  the  debts  in- 
curred for  the  common  defence,  they  must  not  omit  to  mention 
the  recommendation  of  the  6th  of  September,  1780,  for  a  cession 
of  part  of  the  Western  territory,  claimed  by  particular  States.  In 
consequence  thereof,  New- York  has  made  a  cession,  accepted  by 
Congress,  the  nature  of  which  will  appear  by  the  act  herewith 
communicated. 


^Et.  26.]  RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  285 

Virginia  and  Connecticut  have  also  mad  rns,  the  accept- 

ance of  which  has  hitherto  been  delayed  by  peculiar  circum- 
stances. Other  States,  claiming  Western  territory,  have  not 
complied  with  the  recommendation.  Congress  cannol  help  call- 
ing the  serious  attention  of  the  Legislature  of  Pennsylvania  to 
thai  subject,  which  they  consider  as  of  importance,  no1  only  as  it 
may  affect  the  public  credit,  bu1  as  it  will  contribute  to  give 
aeral  satisfaction  to  the  members  of  the  Union.     They  intend 

also  to  renew  their   instances  with  the  Other  States  on   the  same 
occasion. 


VALUATION   OF   LANDS  DEFERRED. 

February  G,  1783. 

Whereas,  the  carrying  into  execution  the  eighth  article  of  the 
Confederation,  relative  to  a  valuation  of  land  for  ascertaining  the 
quotas  of  each  State,  towards  the  general  expense,  in  a  manner 
consistent  with  justice  to  all  the  members  of  the  Union,  and  with 
such  accuracy  as  the  importance  of  the  Bubjecl  demands,  willne- 

-arilv  he  attended  with  very  considerable  expense,  to  which 
tin-  present  state  of  the  public  finances  is  inadequate  :  and 
whereas,  in  a  matter  so  fundamental  in  the  Confederation,  it  is 
essential  to  the  harmony  and  welfare  of  the  United  States  that 
the  said  article  should  he  carried  into  effect  with  greal  care,  cir- 
cumspection, and  impartiality,  and  a  short  delay  will  be  much 
less  pernicious  than  a  defective  execution  ;  therefore, 

Hisnlr,,!.  That  Congress  are  under  a  necessity  of  deferring 
the  attempt  to  a  period  when  the  situation  of  the  finances  of  the 
United  States  will  admit  of  tin'  necessary  expense  for  effecting 
the  object  with  as  much  precision  and  equity  as  possible ;  and 
that  they  will  then  proceed  to  such  valuation  by  Commissioners 
appointed  by  them,  and  acting  under  their  authority  upon  prin- 
ciples uniform  throughout  the  United  States. 

//  .,/,-,,/_  When  the  valuation  is  complete,  Congress  will 
finally  adjust  the  accounts  of  the  United  States  with  the  St 


236  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  26. 

separately,  agreeable  to  that  standard,  making  equitable  abate- 
ments to  such  States  as  have  been  more  immediate  sufferers  by 
the  war,  and  in  the  mean  time  will  adhere,  in  the  temporary  ad- 
justment of  those  accounts,  to  the  proportions  established  from 
time  to  time  by  the  several  requisitions  of  Congress. 

Resolved,  For  the  information  of  Congress,  in  forming  an 
eventual  plan,  that  those  States  which  have  already  made  valua- 
tions of  their  lands  respectively,  be  requested  to  transmit  to  Con- 
gress the  amount  of  such  valuations,  with  an  explanation  of  the 
principles  on  which  they  have  been  made. 


PERMANENT  AND  ADEQUATE  FUNDS  TO   BE   COLLECTED  BY  CON- 
GRESS. 

February  12,  1783. 
Besolved,  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  Congress  that  complete 
justice  cannot  be  done  to  the  creditors  of  the  United  States,  nor 
the  restoration  of  Public  Credit  be  effected,  nor  the  future  ex- 
igencies of  the  War  provided  for,  but  by  the  establishment  of 
permanent  and  adequate  funds  to  operate  generally  throughout 
the  United  States,  to  be  collected  by  Congress. 


Feb.  20,  1783. 

Resolved,  That  the  Commander-in-Chief  be  informed  that  Con- 
gress, always  happy  to  receive  his  sentiments  on  the  political  and 
military  affairs  of  these  States,  the  utility  of  which  they  have 
upon  so  many  occasions  experienced,  have  paid  all  the  attention 
to  his  letter  of  the  thirtieth  of  January  which  the  importance  of 
it  demands.  That  should  the  war  continue  another  campaign, 
every  motive  of  policy  and  economy  would  operate  in  favor  of 
the  enterprise  suggested,  but  that,  on  the  present  situation  and 
prospects  of  these  States,  it  would  be  inexpedient  at  this  time  to 


JEt.  26.]         RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGEE 88.  •-'•">  7 

determine  upon  the  plans,  or  to  enter  upon  the  extensive  | 
parationa  it  would  require. 

Thai  the  official  accounts  received  by  < '  ond- 

ing  with  other  intelligence,  afford  appearances  of  an  approach 
peace. 

Resolved,  That  the  Secretary  of  Foreign  Affairs  be  dir< 
to  make  ;i   confidential  communication   to  the  Commander-in- 
Chief  of  the  state  of  the  JNYgotiations  for  Peace,  when   the  Last 
advices  were  received. 


OPEN   DEBATE. 

17*::. 

Whereas  it  is  the  desire  of  Congress  that  the  motives  of  their 
deliberations  and  measures  (as  far  as  they  can  be  disclosed  con- 
sistently with  the  public  safety)  should  be  fully  known  to  their 
constituents, — therefore  Resolved,  that  when  the  establishment 
of  funds  for  paving  the  principal  and  interest  of  the  public  debt 
shall  be  under  the  consideration  of  this  House,  the  doors  shall 
pened. 


1 783. 

The  Committee  to  whom  were  referred  certain  letters  of  the 
Commander-in-(  Ihief,  submit  the  following  resolution  : 

/,'  olved,  That  Congress  consider  the  conduct  of  the  Com- 
mander-in-Chief on  the  occasion  of  some  late  attempts  to  create 
disturbances  in  the  army,  as  a  new  proof  of  his  prudence  ami 
zealous  attention  to  the  welfare  of  the  community;  that  he  be 
informed  thai  Congress  also  entertain  a  high  sense  ofthe  patri- 
otic sentiments  expressed  by  the  officers  in  their  proce- 
which  evince  their  unshaken  perseverance  in  those  princi] 
which  have  distinguished  them  in  every  period  of  the  war.  and 
have  so  justly  entitled  the  troops  of  the  United  States  to  the 
3l  ''in  and  gratitude  of  their  country,  and  to  the  character  "f  a 
Pateiot  Abut. 


238  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  26. 

1783. 
Resolved,  That  a  Committee  be  appointed  to  consider  of  the 
best  manner  of  carrying  into  execution  the  engagements  of  the 
United  States  for  certain  allowances  of  land  to  the  army  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  war. 


1783. 
Resolved,  That  the  Commander-in-Chief  be  informed,  it  is  the 
intention  of  Congress  to  effect  the  settlement  of  the  accounts  of 
the  respective  lines  previous  to  their  reduction,  and  that  Congress 
are  doing,  and  will  continue  to  do,  every  thing  in  their  power 
towards  procuring  satisfactory  securities  for  what  shall  be  found 
due  on  such  settlement. 


19th  March,  1783. 
Resolved,  That  as  Congress  are  desirous  of  manifesting  at  all 
times  the  most  perfect  confidence  in  their  ally,  the  Secretary  of 
Foreign  Affairs  be  directed  to  communicate  to  the  Minister  from 
the  Court  of  France  to  these  States,  the  separate  article  of  the 
Provisional  Treaty  between  the  United  States  and  his  Britannic 
Majesty,  and  that  he  inform  the  Commissioners  from  these  States 
for  making  peace  of  the  reasons  for  that  communication,  repeat- 
ing to  them  the  desire  of  Congress  that  they  will  upon  all  occa- 
sions maintain  perfect  harmony  and  confidence  with  an  ally  to 
whose  generous  assistance  the  United  States  are  so  signallv 
indebted. 

Resolved,  That  Congress  entertain  a  high  sense  of  the  services 
of  their  Commissioners  for  their  steady  attention  to  the  dignity 
and  essential  interests  of  the  United  States,  and  in  obtaining 
from  the  Court  of  Great  Britain  articles  so  favorable  and  so  im- 
portant to  those  interests. 


^t.  26.]  RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  239 


N  ATIONAL  FUNDS. 

Maivh  20th    17- 

Whereas  Congress  did,  on  the  twelfth  day  of  February  hist, 
resolve,  that  it  is  the  opinion  of  Congress,  that  the  establishment 
of  adequate  and  permanent  funds,  in  taxes  or  duties,  which  shall 
operate,  generally  and  on  the  whole,  in  just  proportions  through- 
out the  United  State.-,  are  indispensably  necessary  towards  do- 
ing complete  justice  to  the  public  creditors  for  restoring  public 
credit,  and  for  providing  for  future  exigencies  of  the  war;,  and 
whereas,  it  is  the  duty  of  Congress,  on  whose  faith  the  public 
debts  have  been  contracted  lor  the  common  safety,  to  make  every 
effort  in  their  power  for  the  effectual  attainment  of  objects  so 
essential  to  the  honor  and  welfare  of  the  United  States,  relying 
on  the  wisdom  and  justice  of  their  constituents  for  a  compliance 
with  this  recommendation  ;   Therefore, 

Resolved,  That  it  be  earnestly  recommended  to  the  several 
States,  without  delay,  to  pass  laws  for  the  establishment  of  the 
following  funds,  to  be  vested  in  the  United  States,  and  to  be 
collected  and  appropriated  by  their  authority.  Provided,  that 
the  officers  for  the  collection  of  the  said  funds  shall  be  inhabit- 
ants of  each  State  respectively  in  which  they  reside,  and  being 
nominated  by  Congress,  shall  be  approved  and  appointed  by 
such  State,  accountable  to,  and  removable  by.  Congress;  and 
provided  that,  if  alter  any  nomination  being  reported  to  the 
State,  the  same  is  not  approved  or  rejected  at  the  next  meeting 
of  the  legislature,  the  person  or  persons  so  nominated  shall  be 
deemed  to  be  duly  appointed,  viz. : 

A  duty  of  five  per  cent,  ad  valorem,  at  the  time  and  place  of 
importation,  upon  all  goods,  wares,  and  merchandises  of  foreign 
growth  and  manufacture,  which  may  be  imported  into  ;my  of 
said  States,  from  any  foreign  part,  island,  or  plantation,  except 


240  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  26. 

arms,  ammunition,  clothing,  and  other  articles  imported  on  ac- 
count of  the  United  States,  or  any  of  them,  and  except  wool- 
cards,  cotton-cards,  and  wire  for  making  them,  and  also  except 
the  articles  hereinafter  enumerated,  the  duty  on  which  shall  be 
regulated  according  to  the  specified  rates  thereunto  annexed. 
(Here  the  duties  inserted  in  the  report,  to  which  it  was  a  substi- 
tute, were  enumerated.) 

Also,  a  duty  of  five  per  cent,  ad  valorem  on  all  prizes  and 
prize  goods  condemned  in  the  Court  of  Admiralty  of  any  of 
these  States  as  lawful  prize. 

A  land  tax,  at  the  rate  of  a  nineteenth  of  a  dollar  for  every 
hundred  acres  of  located  and  surveyed  land ;  a  house  tax  at  the 
general  rate  of  half  a  dollar  for  each  dwelling-house  (cottages 
excepted),  and  at  the  additional  rate  of  two  and  a  half  per  cent, 
on  whatever  sum  the  rent  of  the  said  house  may  exceed  twenty 
dollars,  to  be  calculated  on  the  actual  rent  when  the  house  is 
rented,  and  when  in  the  occupancy  of  the  owner,  on  an  ap- 
praised rent   by  commisioners,  under  oath,  appointed   by  the 

State  once  in  ■ years.     The  lot  and  its  appurtenances  in  towns 

and  in  the  county,  the  out-houses,  and  garden  and  orchard,  to  be 
comprehended  with  the  dwelling-house. 

The  duties  on  imports  to  pass  to  the  general  benefit  of  the 
United  States,  without  credit  for  the  proceeds  to  any  particular 
State ;  but  the  product  of  the  land  and  house  taxes  to  be  credit- 
ed to  each  State  in  which  it  shall  arise.  The  said  funds  to  con- 
tinue till  the  principal  of  the  debt  due  by  the  United  States,  at 
the  termination  of  the  present  war,  shall  be  finally  discharged. 

Resolved,  That  an  estimate  be  transmitted  to  each  State  of  the 
amount  of  the  public  debt,  as  far  as  the  same  can  be  now  ascer- 
tained, and  that  Congress  will  inviolably  adhere  to  their  resolu- 
tions of  the  sixteenth  day  of  December  last  respecting  the  appro- 
priation of  any  funds  which  might  be  granted,  and  the  annual 
transmission  of  the  state  of  the  public  debt,  and  the  proceeds  and 
disposition  of  the  said  funds,  by  which  all  doubts  and  appre- 
hensions respecting  the  perpetuity  of  the  public  debt,  may  be 
effectually  removed. 


JEt.  26.]  RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  241 


NUMBEBS— BASIS  OF  TAXATION. 
Passed  April  1.  1788. 

/,'  olved)  That  as  a  more  convenient  and  certain  rule  of  ascer- 
taining the  proportions  to  be  supplied  by  tin-  States  respectively 
to  the  common  treasury,  the  following  alteration  in  the  articles 
of  confederation  and  perpetual  union  between  these  States  be, 
and  the  same  is  hereby  agreed  to  in  Congress;  and  the  several 
States  are  advised  to  authorize  their  respective  delegates  to 
subscribe  and  ratify  the  same,  as  part  of  the  said  instrument  of 
union,  in  the  words  following,  to  wit: 

So  much  of  the  8th  of  the  articles  of  confederation  and  perpe- 
tual union  between  the  thirteen  States  of  America,  as  is  con- 
tained in  the  words  following,  to  wit,  "All  charges  of  war,  and 
all  other  expenses  that  shall  be  incurred  for  the  common  defence 
or  general  welfare,  and  allowed  by  the  United  States  in  Congress 
assembled,  shall  be  defrayed  out  of  a  common  treasury,  which 
shall  be  supplied  by  the  several  States  in  proportion  to  the  value 
of  all  land  within  each  State,  granted  to  or  surveyed  by  any 
person,  as  such  land,  and  the  buildings  and  improvements  thereon, 
shall  be  estimated,  according  to  such  mode  as  the  United  States 
in  Congress  assembled  shall,  from  time  to  time,  direct  and  ap- 
point," is  hereby  revoked,  and  made  void  ;   and  in  place  thereof 

it  is  declared  and  concluded,  the  same  having  1 □  agreed  to  in 

a  Congress  of  the  United  States,  that  all  charges  of  war,  and  all 
other  expenses  that  have  been,  or  shall  be  incurred  for  the  com- 
mon defence  or  general  welfare,  and  allowed  by  the  United  States 
in  Congress  assembled,  except  so  far  as  shall  be  otherwise  provi- 
ded for,  shall  be  defrayed  out  of  a  common  treasury,  which  shall 
be  supplied  by  the  several  States  in  proportion  to  the  whole 
number  of  white  and  other  free  citizens  and  inhabitants  of  every 
age,  sex,  and  condition,  including  those  bound  to  servitude  for  a 
term  of  years,  and  three-fifths  of  all  other  persons  not  compre- 
hended in  the  foregoing  description,  except  Indians  not  paying 
taxes,  in  each  State;  which  Dumber  shall  be  triennially  taken 
and  transmitted  to  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled 
in  such  mode  as  they  shall  direct  and  appoint. 

B  16 


242  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  26. 


DEPAKTMENT  OF  FOKEIGN"  AFFAIES. 

April  2,  1783. 

The  Committee  appointed  to  consider  what  arrangements  it 
will  be  proper  to  make  relatively  to  peace,  submit  the  following 
Eeport  on  the  Department  of  Foreign  Affairs. 

Resolved,  That  the  Ordinances  and  Resolutions  heretofore 
passed  relatively  to  the  Department  of  Foreign  Affairs  shall 
continue  in  force,  subject  to  the  alterations  and  additions  fol- 
lowing : 

That  the  Secretary  for  that  department  shall  be  considered 
as  the  Head  of  the  Diplomatic  Corps  of  the  United  States ;  and 
to  remove  any  doubts  which  may  have  existed  respecting  the 
nature  of  the  office,  it  is  hereby  declared  to  be  his  duty  from 
time  to  time  to  lay  before  Congress  such  plans  for  conducting  the 
political  and  commercial  intercourse  of  the  United  States  with 
foreign  nations,  as  may  appear  to  him  conducive  to  the  interests 
of  the  said  States. 

That  the  said  Secretary  be  entitled  to  the  same  allowance  for 
salary  and  expenses  as  is  hereinafter  specified  for  a  minister  at  a 
foreign  court,  and  that  instead  of  two  Under  Secretaries,  as  by 
the  Resolve  of  the  first  of  March,  1782,  there  be  appointed  un- 
der him  an  Official  Secretary,  with  the  same  allowance  as  to  a 
Secretary  of  Embassy — the  said  Secretary  to  be  nominated 
by  him. 

That  each  minister  shall  be  allowed  eight  thousand  dollars  in 
lieu  of  all  salary  and  expenses,  except  for  the  postage  of  letters 
and  the  purchase  of  public  prints  and  papers,  which  shall  be  a 
charge  upon  the  United  States. 

That  the  said  minister  shall  be  invested  with  consular  powers, 
and  shall  accordingly  be  at  the  same  time  Consul  General  in  the 
country  where  he  resides,  having  the  control  and  superintend- 
ence of  all  Vice-Consuls,  or  inferior  commercial  agents,  but  shall 
not  be  at  liberty  to  engage  directly  or  indirectly  in  any  kind  of 
trade  or  traffic  whatsoever. 

That  for  the  more  convenient  management  of  the  commercial 
interests  of  the  United  States,  there  be  so  many  Vice-Consuls 


jEt.  26.]         RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  243 

appointed  to  reside  in  foreign  porta  with  which  the  trade  of  the 
said  States  may  be  carried  on,  as  shall  from  time  to  time  be  found 
necessary,  and  that  1 1 1> •  said  Yi(v-(\>nsuls  shail  have  free  liberty 
to  trade,  but  no  salary  or  other  emolument,  excepl  the  usual  com- 
missions on  such  matters  as  thej  may  be  authorized  to  trail 
on  account  oi  the  United  States,  and  reimbursemenl  for  contin- 

:  ami  reasonable  expenses  incurred  in  their  behalf. 

That  the  Secretary  for  Foreign  Affairs  prepare  and  lay  before 
Congress  an  ordinance  conformable  to  the  foregoing  principles 
for  regulating  the  consular  powers  ami  privileges,  and  the  plan 
of  a  convention  be  entered  into  with  foreign  nations  for  that 
purpose. 

That  whenever  Congress  shall  judge  expedient  to  appoint  an 
Official  Secretary  to  anj  Embassy,  In- shall  be  entitled  to  a  salary 
of  one  thousand  dollars,  and  to  a  place  in  the  house  and  at  the 
table  of  the  minister  with  whom  he  shall  reside. 

The  Committee  consider  it  unnecessary  to  report  concerning 
the  rank  of  the  Secretary  for  Foreign  Affairs  relatively  to  the 
Other  heads  of  the  executive  department.-,  as  this  is  an  object  in 
another  report  depending  before  Congress. 


April  7,  1783. 

Resolved,  That  the  Secretary  at  War,  in  concert  with  the  Com- 
mander-in-Chief be  and  he  is  hereby  directed  to  consider  and  re- 
port to  Congress  as  speedily  as  may  be  such  measures  as  it  will 
be  proper  to  take  in  the  present  juncture,  for  reducing  the  expenses 
of  the  United  States  in  the  War  Department. 


RATIFICATION    OF   TREATY    Willi    GREAT   BRITAIN. 

April  L6    17-  ' 

Resolve!,  That  a  Committee  be  appointed  to  prepare  ami  lay 
before  Congress  a  draft  of  a  Ratification  of  the  articles  entered 


244  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.26. 

into  between  the  Commissioners  of  the  United  States,  and  the 
Commissioners  of  his  Britannic  Majesty,  at  Paris,  on  the  30th  day 
of  November  last. 

Resolved,  That  the  Commander-in-Chief  be  directed  to  enter 
into  preparatory  arrangements  relative  to  the  seventh  article  of 
the  said  Treaty,  with  the  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  British 
Land  and  Naval  forces  in  America ;  and  that  a  committee  be 
appointed  to  prepare  a  letter  to  him  on  this  subject.* 


INDIAN  AFFAIRS. 

April  21,  1783. 

Eeport  of  a  Committee,  to  whom  was  committed  the  letter 
from  his  Excellency,  the  President  of  the  State  of  Pennsylvania, 
respecting  a  peace  with  the  Indians. 

Whereas,  by  the  ninth  article  of  the  Confederation,  the 
United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  are  vested  with  the  sole 
and  exclusive  right  and  power,  among  other  things,  of  regulat- 
ing the  trade,  and  managing  all  affairs  with  the  Indians,  not 
members  of  any  of  the  States, 

Besolved,  That  the  general  superintendence  of  Indian  affairs 
under  Congress,  be  annexed  to  the  Department  of  War. 

That  there  be  a  suspension  of  offensive  hostilities  against  the 
Indian  nations,  and  that  immediate  measures  be  taken  to  com- 
municate the  same  to  the  several  tribes,  preparatory  to  a  final 
pacification. 

That  there  be  four  agents  appointed  for  the  transaction  of 
affairs  with  the  Indians,  in  the  different  districts— one  for  the 
Eastern  district,  comprehending  all  the  tribes  under  the  general 
denomination  of  the  Penobscot  Indians  ;  one  for  the  Northern 
district,  comprehending  the  Six  Nations,  and  the  nations  depend- 
ing on  them ;  one  for  the  Western  district,  comprehending  all 

*  The  draft  of  the  Ratification  is  by  Hugh  Williamson ;   corrected  in  some 
particulars  by  Hamilton. 


JEt.  26.]         RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  245 

tli.'  tribes  under  the  general  denomination  of  the  WeBtern  En- 
dians;  one  for  the  Southern  district,  comprehending  all  the 
Southern  Indians ;  with  an  allowance,  not  exceeding 

lars  per  annum,  to  each  agent. 

That  measures  be  taken  to  procure  articles  proper  for  pre- 
sents i"  tlic  Indians,  to  the  amount  of  ,  to  be  dis- 
tributed when  their  deputies  shall  assemble  for  the  purpose  of  a 
treat}  ofpeace.  Thai  in  order  to  a  speedy  pacification  till  the 
commissioners  aforesaid  can  be  appointed,  a  special  Committee 
be  appointed,  instructed  to  endeavor  to  engage  one  or  more  re- 
spectable  inhabitants  for  each  district,  acquainted  with  [ndian 
affairs,  to  undertake  the  negotiation  of  an  immediate  peace ;  and 
that  tin'  said  Committee  digest  such  further  measures  as  it  will 
be  proper  for  Congress  to  take  in  reference  thereto. 

Provided,  That  the  preceding  measures  of  Congress  respect- 
ing Indian  affairs,  shall  not  be  construed  to  affect  the  territorial 
claim  of  any  of  the  States,  or  their  legislative  rights  within  their 
respective  limits. 


April  22,  1783. 

Ordered,  That  the  Secretary  lay  before  Congress  on  every 
Monday,  a  list  of  all  the  Committees  which  have  been  appointed 
at  any  time  before  the  preceding  week,  and  have  not  reported; 
and  thai  such  Committees  be  then  called  on  to  state  the  reasons 
why  they  have  not  reported. 


COMMERCIAL  TREATY    WITH    <;i;i:\T   BRITAIN". 

May  1, 1783. 

Resolved,  Thai  a  Commission  be  prepared  to  Messrs.  Benja- 
min Franklin,  John  Adams,  and  John  Jay,  authorizing  them,  or 
cither  of  them,  in  the  absence  of  the  others,  to  enter  into  a  Treaty 
of  Commerce  between  the  United  States  and  Great  Britain,  sub- 
ject to  the  revisal  of  the  contracting  parties  previous  to  its  final 


246  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.26. 

conclusion ;  and  in  the  mean  time,  to  enter  into  a  Commercial 
Convention,  to  continue  in  force  one  year. 

That  the  Secretary  for  Foreign  Affairs  lay  before  Congress, 
without  delay,  a  plan  of  a  Treaty  of  Commerce,  and  instructions 
relative  to  the  same,  to  be  transmitted  to  the  said  Commission- 
ers. 


CORPS  OF  INVALIDS. 

May  1,  1783. 

Resolved,  That  the  Corps  of  Invalids  be  reduced.  Such  offi- 
cers as  have  lost  a  limb,  or  been  equally  disabled  in  service,  to 
retire  on  full  pay  for  life.  Such  officers  as  may  not  be  included 
in  this  description,  to  retire  on  the  same  principles,  with  other 
officers  of  the  army. 

Such  non-commissioned  officers  and  soldiers,  as  being  stran- 
gers in  the  country,  and,  having  been  disabled  in  service,  are  in- 
capable of  providing  for  their  own  subsistence,  and  are  proper 
objects  for  a  hospital,  to  be  received  into  some  fixed  hospital, 
to  be  appropriated  for  the  purpose,  and  then  supplied  during  life 
on  such  provision  as  may  be  hereafter  determined ;  to  be  enti- 
tled, in  the  mean  time,  to  their  usual  rations,  and  clothing.  And 
such  non-commissioned  officers  and  soldiers,  disabled  in  service, 
as  may  have  homes  to  which  they  can  retire,  to  be  discharged 
on  the  principles  of  the  Eesolutions  of  the  third  of  April  last. 

That  the  Secretary  at  War  be  directed  to  take  proper  mea- 
sures, previous  to  the  reduction,  to  ascertain  the  different  classes 
above  described. 

That  the  officers  who  shall  retire  on  full  pay  may,  at  their 
option,  collectively  accept,  in  lieu  of  such  full  pay  for  life,  the 
amount  of  years  full  pay,  in  the  terms  of  the  Eesolution  of 

the  last. 

That  at  the  reduction  of  this  corps,  all  the  officers  and  men 
shall  receive  one  month's  pay,  and  shall  share  in  any  further  pay- 


jEt.in;.]  RESOLUTIONS    l\    CONGRESS.  247 

ments  which  may  be  made  to  the  other  parts  of  the  army,  when 
reduced. 


OOLLEI  i  i"N    OF    VAXES    DBGBD. 

Mr.  2   1788. 

Whereas  it  is  the  desire  <>f  (\>i  when  the  reduction 

of  the  army  shall  take  place,  to  enable  the  "Hirers  and  soldiers 
to  return  to  their  respective  homes  with  convenience  and  satia- 
tion; for  which  purpose  it  will  be  indispensable  to  advance 
them  a  pari  of  their  pay,  before  they  leave  the  field;  and  where- 
■  the  ]  resent  juncture,  there  are  many  otheT  engagements 
for  which  the  public  faith  is  pledged,  and  the  punctual  perform- 
ance ofwhich,  is  essential  t<>  the  credit  of  the  United  Sta1 
neither  of  which  important   objects  can   be  effected  without  the 

sertions  of  the  seVeral  States  in  the  collection  of  tas 
therefore, 

Resolved,  That  the  respective  States  be  called  upon  in  the 
mosl  earnest  manner,  to  make  every  efforl  in  their  power  to  for- 
d  the  collection  of  taxes,  that  such  a  sum  may.  without  delay, 
be  paid  into  the  common  treasury,  as  will  be  adequate  to  the 
public  exigencies ;  and  thai  Congress  confidently  rely  upon  the 
disposition  of  their  constituents,  do1  only  to  do  justice  to  tl 
brave  men,  who  have  suffered  and  sacrificed  so  much  in  tin- 
cause  of  their  country,  and  whose  distresses  must  be  extreme, 
should  they  be  sent  from  the  field  without  the  payment  of  a  part 
of  their  well-earned  dues,  hut  also  to  ma  Me  Congress  to  main- 
tain the  faith  and  reputation  of  the  United  State-,  both  which 
are  seriously  concerned,  in  relieving  the  necessities  of  a  merito- 
rious army,  and  fulfilling  the  public  stipulations. 

Resolved,  'That  the  Superintendent  of  Finance  he  dire 
take  the  necessary  arrangements  for  carrying  the  views  ol  Con- 
3s  into  execution;  and  that  he  be  assured  of  their  firm  sup- 
port towards  fulfilling  the  engagements  he  has  already  take;., 
may  take,  on  the  public  account,  during   his  continuance   in 
office. 


248  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  26. 


FKONTIER  POSTS. 

May  12,  1783. 

Resolved,  That  the  Commander-in-Chief  be  directed,  when- 
ever the  frontier  posts  of  these  United  States  shall  be  evacuated 
pursuant  to  the  articles  of  peace,  to  place  therein  of  the  troops 
under  his  command,  who  have  enlisted  for  three  years,  and 
whose  term  of  service  may  not  then  have  expired,  such  force  as 
he  may  judge  necessary  to  secure  and  hold  the  same,  until  fur- 
ther measures  can  be  taken  for  the  security  of  them,  or  such  of 
them  as  it  may  be  necessary  to  support,  provided  it  does  not  ex- 
ceed the  term  of  nine  months ;  and  that  he  take  measures  for 
exchanging  with  the  British,  or  transporting  artillery,  stores,  and 
provisions,  that  he  may  judge  necessary  for  that  purpose  ;  and 
the  Superintendent  of  Finance  is  directed  to  afford  all  the  assist- 
ance in  his  department  which  circumstances  will  permit. 


TREATY  WITH  RUSSIA. 

May  21,  1783. 

Resolved,  That  Mr.  Dana  be  informed  that  the  treaties  lately 
entered  into  for  restoring  peace,  have  caused  such  an  alteration 
in  the  affairs  of  these  States,  as  to  have  removed  the  primary  ob- 
ject of  his  mission  to  Eussia — the  acquisition  of  new  supports  to 
their  independence — that  though  Congress  approve  the  princi- 
ples of  the  armed  neutrality  founded  on  the  liberal  basis  of  a 
maintenance  of  the  rights  of  neutral  nations,  and  of  the  privi- 
leges of  commerce ;  yet  they  are  unwilling  at  this  juncture  to 
become  a  party  to  a  confederacy  which  may  hereafter  too  far 
complicate  the  interests  of  the  United  States,  with  the  politics  of 
Europe  ;  and  therefore,  if  such  a  progress  is  not  yet  made  in  the 
business  as  may  make  it  dishonorable  to  recede,  it  is  their  desire 
that  no  further  measures  may  be  taken  at  present,  towards  the 
admission  of  the  United  States  into  that  confederacy. 


JEt.  26.]  RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRK  88.  249 

That  with  respect  to  a  commercial  treaty  with  Russia,  they 
consider  the  benefits  of  i1  to  this  country,  in  any  extensive  de- 
a  rather  remote,  and  have  therefore,  little  present  induce- 
ment to  enter  into  it,  besides  the  desire  of  cultivating  the  friend- 
ship of  that  Court  and  presert  ing  a  consistency  with  the  dis] 
sition  already  manifested  towards  forming  a  connection  there- 
with, and  also  of  laying  the  foundation  of  a  future  intercourse 
between  the  same,  when  the  circumstances  of  the  two  count] 
may  be  more  favorable  to  the  same. 

[That  as  experience  will  enable  both  nations  to  form  abetter 
judgment  hereafter,  of  the  principles  upon  which  that  inter- 
course may  be  most  advantageously  conducted,  Congress  would 
wish  any  treaty  now  formed  to  be  of  temporary  duration,  and 
limited  to  a  fixed  period.  That  in  this  view,  unless  Mr.  Dana 
shall  have  already  formed  engagements,  or  made  proposals  from 
which  he  cannot  easily  recede,  of  a  more  indefinite  or  extensive 
nature,  before  this  reaches  him,  he  be  instructed  to  confine  the  du- 
ration of  the  proposed  treaty  of  commerce  to  fifteen  years,  agree- 
ably to  the  term  limited  for  a  similar  treaty,  with  the  Court  of 
Sweden;  stipulate  expressly  that  the  same  shall  be  subject  to 
the  revisal  of  Congress,  previous  to  its  final  conclusion,  and  that 
in  all  matters,  he  insist  upon  exact  reciprocity.  That  so  soon  as 
this  object  be  accomplished,  or  if  he  discovers  any  repugnancy 
on  the  part  of  the  Court  of  Russia,  to  entering  into  a  treaty 
with  these  States  on  liberal  principles,  he  be  permitted  to  re- 
turn: That  with  respect  to  the  money  mentioned  in  hi.-  letter  of 
the  to  be  employed  in  presents  to  the  ministers  of  that 

Court,  he  be  informed,  that  as  by  tin;  Con  federation  no  persons 
holding  offices  under  the  United  States  are  permitted  to  receive 
presents  from  foreign   p  not  consistent  with  the  sit- 

uation or  policy  of  these  States,  in  their  transactions  with  other 
nation-;,  and  that  he  be  instructed  to  decline  paying  the  same, 
unless  the  steps  already  taken  by  him  towards  forming  a  treaty, 
or  treaties,  shall,  in  his  judgment,  imply  an  <  ment  to  make 

such  payment. 


250  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  26. 


DISCHARGE  OF  ARMY. 

May  23,  1783. 

The  Committee,  consisting  of  Mr.  Hamilton,  Mr.  Peters,  and 
Mr.  Gorham,  to  whom  was  referred  a  letter  of  the  9th  from  the 
Superintendent  of  Finance  and  Secretary  at  War,  in  order  to 
confer  with  them  on  the  resolutions  of  the  7th  and  28th  of  April, 
and  2d  inst.,  report,  "  That  all  the  non-commissioned  officers  and 
soldiers  in  the  service  of  the  United  States,  enlisted  to  serve 
during  the  war,  be  discharged ;  and  that  the  Secretary  at  War 
and  Commander-in-Chief  take  the  proper  measures  for  doing  this, 
in  a  manner  most  convenient  to  the  soldiery  and  to  the  inhab- 
itants, having  the  men  previously  conducted,  under  proper  offi- 
cers, to  their  respective  States,  and  that  they  be  at  the  same  time 
authorized  to  retain  as  many  officers  as  they  may  judge  neces- 
sary to  command  the  men  who  still  continue  in  service,  permit- 
ting the  others  to  retire. 


May  26, 1783. 

Resolved,  That  the  Commander-in-Chief  be  instructed  to  grant 
furloughs  to  the  non-commissioned  officers  and  soldiers  in  the 
service  of  the  United  States,  enlisted  to  serve  during  the  war, 
who  shall  be  discharged  as  soon  as  the  definitive  treaty  of  peace 
is  concluded,  together  with  a  proportionable  number  of  commis- 
sioned officers  of  the  different  grades  ;  and  that  the  Secretary  at 
War  and  Commander-in-Chief  take  the  proper  measures  for  con- 
ducting those  troops  to  their  respective  homes,  in  such  manner 
as  may  be  most  convenient  to  themselves  and  to  the  States 
through  which  they  may  pass  ;  and  that  the  men  thus  furloughed 
be  allowed  to  take  their  arms  with  them. 


J5T.26.]  RESOLUTIONS    l\    CONGRESS. 


251 


DKI'OKTATION    OF    NUGBOES. 


Whereas  by  the  articles  agreed  upon  on  the  80th  of  Novem- 
ber last,  by  and  between  the  Commissioners  of  the  United  States 
of  America  for  making  peace,  and  the  Commissioner  on  the  | 
of  his  Britannic  Majesty,  it  is  stipulated  thai  bis  Britannic  Ma- 
jesty shall,  with  nil  convenienl  speed,  and  without  causing  any 
destruction,  or  carrying  away  any  negroes  or  other  property  of 
tli,.  American  inhabitants,  withdraw  all  his  armies,  garrisons, 
and  fleets,  from  the  said  United  States,  and  from  everypart, 
place,  and  harbor  within  the  same:  and  whereas  a  consider) 
number  of  negroes  belonging  to  the  citizens  of  these  States  bave 
been  carried  off  therefrom,  contrary  to  the  true  intent  and  mean- 
ing of  said  articles, — Besolved,  that  copies  of  the  letters  between 
the  Commander-in-Chief  and  Sir  Guy  Carleton,  and  other  pipers 
on  tins  subject,  Ik-  transmitted  to  the  Minister  Plenipotentiary  of 
these  States  for  negotiating  a  peace  in  Europe  :  and  thai  they  be 
directed  to  remonstrate  thereon   to  the  Court  of  Greal  Britain, 

I  take  proper  measures  for  obtaining  such  reparation  as  the  na- 
ture of  the  case  will  admit  Ordered,  thai  a  copy  of  'lie  fori 
ing  resolve  be  transmitted  to  tli,'  Commander-in-Chief;  and  that 
he  be  directed  to  continue  his  remonstrances  to  Sir  Guy  Carle- 
ton,  respecting  the  permitting  negroes  belonging  to  the  citizens  of 
these  States  to  Leave  New-York,  and  to  insist  on  the  discontinu- 
ance of  that  measure. 


ALLOWANCES   OF    LAND  T<  >   ARMY. 

Maj  80  178 

The  Committee  appointed  to  consider  of  the  besl  manner  of 
carrying  into  execution   the  engagements  of  the  United  States 

for  certain  allowances  of  land   to   the   army  at    the  COncll 
the  war,  submit  the  following  resolution. 


252  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  26. 

Congress  having  by  their  Resolution  of  the 
promised  certain  allowances  of  land  'to  all  officers  and  to  such 
soldiers  of  the  United  States  engaged  to  serve  during  the  war, 
who  should  continue  in  service  to  the  end  thereof — 

Resolved,  That  till  provision  can  be  made  by  the  United 
States  for  locating  and  surveying  to  the  officers  and  soldiers 
aforesaid  the  portions  of  land  to  which  they  are  respectfully  en- 
titled, certificates  be  given  to  them  when  furloughed  or  discharged, 
as  evidences  of  their  claim  upon  the  United  States,  specifying 
the  name  of  each  person,  the  regiment  or  corps  to  which  he  be- 
longs, his  rank  therein,  and  the  quantity  of  land  to  which  he  is 
entitled,  the  certificates  to  be  signed  by  the  Paymaster  General, 
and  to  be  in  the  form  following. — [Certificate.'] 


FULFILMENT  OF  TREATY  WITH   GREAT  BRITAIN. 

May  30,  1783. 

The  Committee,  consisting  of  Mr.  Hamilton,  Mr.  Elsworth, 
Mr.  Izard,  Mr.  Madison,  and  Mr.  Hawkins,  appointed  to  take 
into  consideration  and  report  to  Congress  what  further  steps  are 
proper  to  be  taken  by  them  for  carrying  into  effect  the  stipula- 
tions contained  in  the  articles  between  the  United  States  and 
Great  Britain,  dated  the  30th  day  of  November  last,  having  re- 
ported as  follows :  Whereas,  by  the  treaty  entered  into  at  Paris, 
on  the  30th  day  of  November  last,  between  the  Commissioners 
for  making  peace  on  the  part  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Com- 
missioners for  making  peace  on  the  part  of  his  Britannic  Majesty, 
it  is  stipulated  among  other  things  in  the  4th,  5th,  and  6th  arti- 
cles (here  recited)— (the  first  precluding  any  "  lawful  impediment 
to  the  recovery  of  the  full  value  in  sterling  money  of  all  bona  fide 
debts  heretofore  contracted,"  the  5th  "recommending  the  res- 
titution of  all  confiscated  estates  belonging  to  real  British  sub- 
jects," and  the  6th  stipulating  that  there  be  "  no  future  confisca- 
tions made"  of  such  estates  nor  "  any  prosecutions"  commenced 


JEt.  26.]  PEACE    ESTABLISHMENT.  253 

or  "any  damage  be  suffered  by  reason  of  the  pari  taken  in  the 
war;")" 

And  whereas  Congress  arc  desirous  of  giving  B] <lv  and  full 

effect  to  all  the  stipulations  in  the  said  treaty  on  the  pari  of  the 
United   States,  and  of  accelerating  thereby  the    bL  of 

peace,  in  confidence,  that  the  conduct  of  his  Britannie  Majesty 
will  be  governed  by  a  like  disposition — Therefore,  Resolved, 
That  the  several  states  be  required,  and  they  are  hereby  requir- 
ed, to  remove  all  obstructions  which  may  interpose  in  the  way  of 
the  entire  and  faithful  execution  of  the  4th  and  6th  articles 
above  recited.  And  that  it  be  at  the  same  time  earnestly  recom- 
mended to  them,  to  take  into  serious  consideration  the  5th  arti- 

also  above  recited,  and  to  conform  to  the  several  matters 
therein  contained,  with  that  spirit  of  moderation  and  liberality, 
which  ought  ever  to  characterize  the  deliberations  and  measures 
of  a  free  and  enlightened  nation. 


June  4,  1783. 

Mr.  Livingston  having  signified  to  Congress  his  desire  of  re- 
linquishing the  exercise  of  the  office  of  Foreign  Affairs,  and  his 
intention  of  returning  to  the  State  of  New  York, 

Resolved  unanimously,  That  the  thanks  of  Congress  be  pre- 
sented to  Mr.  Livingston  for  his  services  during  his  continuance 
in  office,  and  that  he  be  assured  Congress  entertain  a  high  sense 
of  the  ability,  zeal,  and  fidelity  with  which  he  has  discharged 
the  important  trust  reposed  in  him. 


MILITARY  PEACE  ESTABLISHMENT. 

1783. 

Before  any  plan  can,  with  propriety,  be  determined  for  a  mil- 
itary peace  establishment,  it  is  necessary  to  ascertain  what  [tow- 
ers exist,  for  that  purpose,  in  the  Confederation. 


254  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  26. 

In  the  fifth  clause  of  the  ninth  article,  the  United  States,  in 
Congress  assembled,  are  empowered  (without  any  mention  of 
peace  or  war)  "  to  build  and  equip  a  navy,  to  agree  upon  the 
number  of  land  forces,  and  to  make  requisitions  from  each  State 
for  its  quota,  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  white  inhabitants 
in  each  State ;  which  requisition  shall  be  binding ;  and  there- 
upon, the  Legislature  of  each  State  shall  appoint  the  regimental 
officers,  raise  the  men,  and  clothe,  arm,  and  equip  them,  in  a 
soldier-like  manner,  at  the  expense  of  the  United  States ;  and 
the  officers  and  men,  so  clothed,  armed,  and  equipped,  shall 
march  to  the  place  appointed,  and  within  the  time  agreed  on  by 
the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled." 

By  the  fourth  clause  in  the  same  article,  the  United  States 
are  empowered  "  to  appoint  all  officers  of  the  land  forces  in  the 
service  of  the  United  States,  excepting  regimental  officers;  to 
appoint  all  officers  of  the  naval  forces ;  and  to  commission  all 
officers  whatever,  in  the  service  of  the  United  States,  making 
rules  for  the  government  and  regulation  of  the  said  land  and  na- 
val forces,  and  directing  their  operations. 

By  the  fourth  clause  of  the  sixth  article,  it  is  declared,  that 
"  no  vessels  of  war  shall  be  kept  up  by  any  State,  in  time  of 
peace,  except  such  number  only,  as  shall  be  deemed  necessary 
by  the  United  States,  in  Congress  assembled,  for  the  defence  of 
such  State  or  its  trade  ;  nor  shall  any  body  of  forces  be  kept  up 
by  any  State,  in  time  of  peace,  except  such  number  only,  as,  in 
the  judgment  of  the  United  States,  in  Congress  assembled,  shall 
be  deemed  requisite  to  garrison  the  forts  necessary  for  the  de- 
fence of  such  State." 

The  Committee  apprehend,  that  the  terms  of  the  last  clause, 
being  rather  permissive  than  directory,  do  not  interfere  with  the 
positive  power  vested  in  the  United  States  by  the  preceding 
clauses ;  and  that  they  have  a  discretion  in  the  choice  of  the 
mode  of  providing  for  the  general  safety  in  time  of  peace  as  well 
as  in  time  of  war. 

If  this  interpretation  is  just,  the  Committee  are  of  opinion, 
there  are  conclusive  reasons  in  favor  of  a  Continental,  in  prefer- 


JEt.  26.]  P  E  ACE     K  s  T  A B LI  SB  M  E  N  T  ,  2.')-". 

ence  to  separate  State  establishments;  and  that,  a1  all  events, 
there  must  be  Borne  Continental  establishment 

/     </7.    There  are  objects  which  cannot  fall  within  the  pur- 
view of  separate  Stair  establishments;  posta  within  districts,  the 
jurisdiction  and  property  of  which,  are  covered  by  opposite  and 
mterfering  claims,  the  possession  of  which,  for  the  security  of 
the  western  country,  is  of  great  importance,  and  for  which,  pro- 
vision cannot,  with  proprii  ty,  be  made  by  any  particular  State: 
u  tract  of  territory  ceded  to  the  United  States  by  the  late  treaty 
with  Greal   Britain,  which  is  no1   within  the  original  claims 
any  of  the  States,  the  safety  of  which  must  depend  on  Conti- 
nental provisions;   the  navigation  of  the  blississippi,  in  which 
all  the  States  arc  more  or  less  interested,  and  the  security  of 
which  ought  to  be  provided  for  by  their  joinl  forces,  as  well 
naval  as  land;  the  fisheries,  the  rights  respecting  which,  are  in 
no  particular  Stairs,  but   in  the  Union  at  large,  and  therefore 
call  for  tin ■  protection  of  the  Union ;  the  general  commerce  of 
the  United  States,  the  rights  of  which,  founded  npon  the  laws  of 
nations,  and  the  treaties  of  the  United  States  with  foreign  coun- 
tries claim  the  joinl   protection  of  the  Confederacy,  and 

not,  with  propriety,  be  Left  to  the  care  of  State  establishments. 
A  distinction,  that,  in  time  of  war  it  is  to  be  protected  by  the 
I  ion,  in  time  of  peace  by  each  State,  would  involve,  besides 
other  inconveniences,  this  capital  one:  Thai  the  United  States, 
when  a  Federal  navy  should  become  necessary  to  assert  the 
Federal  rights,  would  be  obliged  to  begin  to  i  ,  i1  the  moment 
they  would  have  occasion  to  employ,  a  fleet 

Secondly.  The  fortifications  to  be  established  for  the  security 
of  the  States,  ought  to  be  constructed  with  relation  to  each  other, 
on  some  general  and  well  digested  plan;  and  the  provisions  for 
their  di  ,  should  be  made  on  the  same  principles.     This  is 

equally  important  in  the  double  view  of  safety  andeconomy.  If 
this  is  not  done  under  the  direction  of  the  United  States,  each 
State  following  a  disjointed  and  partial  plan,  it  will  be  found, 
that  the  posts  will  have  no  mutual  dependence  or  support ;  that 
they  will  be  improperly  distributed,  and  more  aumerous  than  is 

necessary,   us  well  as  less  efficacious.      Eence  they  will  be  D 


256  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  26. 

easily  reduced ;  and  there  will  be  a  greater  expense,  both  in  the 
construction  and  defence. 

Thirdly.  It  happens  that,  from  local  circumstances,  particular 
States,  if  left  to  take  care  of  their  own  defence,  would  be  in  pos- 
session of  the  chief  part  of  the  standing  forces,  and  of  the  princi- 
pal fortified  places  of  the  Union ;  a  circumstance  inconvenient  on 
various  accounts.  It  tends  to  impose  a  heavy  exclusive  burthen 
on  them,  in  a  matter,  the  benefit  of  which,  will  be  immediately 
shared  by  their  neighbors,  and,  ultimately,  by  the  Union  in 
general.  It  trusts  the  care  of  the  safety  of  the  whole  to  a  part, 
which  will  naturally  be  unwilling,  as  well  as  unable,  to  make 
such  effectual  provisions,  at  its  j)articular  expense,  as  the  com- 
mon welfare  requires.  A  single  State,  from  its  local  situation, 
will,  in  a  great  degree,  keep  the  keys  of  the  United  States.  A 
considerable  force,  in  the  hands  of  a  few  States,  may  have  an  un- 
friendly aspect  on  the  mutual  confidence  and  harmony  which 
ought  carefully  to  be  maintained  between  the  whole. 

Fourthly.  It  is  probable,  that  a  Continental  provision  of  the 
forces  which  will  be  necessary  to  be  kept  up,  will  be  made  upon 
a  more  systematic  and  economical  plan,  than  a  provision  by  the 
States  separately ;  especially,  as  it  will  be  of  great  importance 
that,  as  soon  as  the  situation  of  affairs  will  permit,  public  manu- 
factories of  arms,  powder,  etc.,  should  be  established  ;  and  a  part 
of  the  troops,  employed  in  this  way,  will  furnish  those  necessary 
articles  to  the  United  States,  and  defray  a  considerable  part  of 
the  expense  of  supporting  themselves. 

Fifthly.  There  must  be  a  corps  of  Artillery  and  Engineers, 
which  being  a  scientific  corps,  and  requiring  institutions  for  the 
instruction  and  formation  of  the  officers,  cannot  exist  upon  sepa- 
rate establishments  without  enormous  expense. 

The  Committee,  upon  these  principles,  submit  the  following 

PLAN. 

The  Military  Peace  Establishment  of  the  United  States  to  consist 
ot  tour  regiments  of  Infantry,  one  regiment  of  Dragoons,  one  regiment 
ot  Artillery  incorporated  in  a  corps  of  Engineers,  with  the  denomina- 
tion oi  the  Corps  of  Engineers. 


Mt.  26.]  P  E  A  ( !  E    E  s  t  A  HI .  I  s  1 1  \i  i ;  \  T .  2  5  7 

Eaoh  regiment  of  Infantry  to  consist,  when  oomplete,  of  two  bat- 
taliinis;  each  battalion  of  four  companies;  and  each  company  of  one 
hundred  and  twenty-eight  rank  and  file;  with  the  following  commis- 
sioned ami  Don-oommissiooed  officers: 

<  in.'  I  lolonel  :  two  Majors,  one  to  each  battalion  :  eight  Captains,  one 
to  each  oompany ;  nineteen  Lieutenants,  two  to  each  company  <t 
twenty  Dm'  Lieutenants,  eleven  first,  and  ten  second.  Lieutenants,  in- 
cluding one   Paymaster,  one  Quarter-Master,  one   Adjutant,  and  two 

Ensigns,  one  Ensign  to  eaoh  battalion  :  Chaplain  :  Surg and  Mate  : 

two  Sergeant-Majors,  one  to  eaoh  battalion ;  two  Quarter-Master-Ser- 
geants, one  tci  each  battalion  ;  two  Drum -and-Fife-Majors,  one  to  eaoh 
battalion;  sixteen  drums  and  fifes,  two  to  each  company;  thirty-two 
Sergeants,  four  to  each  company;  one  hundred  and  twenty-eighl  Corpo- 
rals, included  in  the  rank  and  file  :  that  is.  sixteen  Corporals,  and  one 
hundred  and  twelve  private  men  to  a  company. 

The  regiment  of  Dragoons  to  consist,  when  complete,  of  two  cohorts  ; 
each  cohort  of  two  squadrons,  each  squadron  of  two  troops,  and  each 
troop  of  thirty-two  dragoons,  rank  and  file,  with  the  following  commis- 
sioned and  non-commissioned  officers : 

One  Colonel:  two. Majors;  eight  Captains  ;  nineteen  Lieutenants ; 
including  Paymaster.  Quarter-Master,  and  Adjutant;  Chaplain;  one 
Surgeon  and  one  Mate  ;  two  Sergeant-Majors  ;  two  Quarter  Master- 
Sergeants  ;  two  Trumpet-Majors  ;  eight  Trumpeters  ;  eight  Farriers  ; 
sixteen  Saddlers;  two  Kiding-Masters  j  thirty-two  Sergeants;  sixty- 
four  Corporals,  included  in  the  rank  and  file  ;  that  is,  to  each  troop, 
eight  Corporals  and  twenty-four  private  dragoons. 

The  corps  of  Engineers  to  be  composed  as  follows: 
One  Major  or  Brigadier  General  commandant;  one  Colonel;  two 
Lieutenant- Col  mi  els  two  Majors:  twenty  Captains;  forty-five  Lieu- 
tenants (including  Paymaster,  Quarter  Master,  and  Adjutant),  twenty 
first,  and  twenty-three  second,  Lieutenants;  Chaplain,  Surgeon,  and 
two  Mates:  one  Professor  of  Mathematics  :  one  Professor  of  Chemis- 
try: Professor  of  Natural  Philosophy;  Professor  of  Civil  Architecture; 
two  Sergeant-Majors  ;  two  Quarter-Master-Sergeants  ;  two  Drum-and- 
Fife-Majors;  twenty  drums  and  fifes;  forty  Sergeants  :  thirty-two  Bom- 
bardiers; eight  Corporals  of  Sappers  and  Miners;  three  hundred  and 
eighty-four  matrosses:  ninety-six  Sappers  and  Miners;  one  hundred 
and  eighty-eight  artificers  of  different  kinds,  to  be  distributed  in  the 
following  manner : 

Two  battalions  of  Artillery,  each  consisting  of  four  companies,  com- 
manded by  a  field  officer  ;  each  company  consisting  of  one  Captain,  font 
Lieutenants,  four  Sergeants,  four  Bombardiers,  and  forty-eight  ma- 
tros- 

Two  companies  of  sappers  and  miners  ''ich  company  consisting 
of  one  Captain,  four  Lieutenants,  four  Sergeants,  and  forty-eight  sap- 
pers and  miners. 


B  17 


258 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[Mt.  26. 


A  corps  of  Artificers,  commanded  by  one  Captain  of  the  corps,  and 
consisting  of, 

Artificers  of  the  First  Class. 


One  Master-Founder  in  Brass, 

One  Master-Founder  in  Iron, 

One  Master  Armorer, 

One  Master-Cutler, 

One  Master-Blacksmith, 

One  Master-Carpenter, 

One  Master-Wheelwright, 

One  Master-Mason, 

One  Master-Saddler, 

One  Master-Manufacturer  of  Cartridge-boxes 

One  Master-Engraver, 


Pay  per  month. 
$60 
60 
50 
50 
50 
50 
50 
50 
50 

,  Scabbards,  &c.  50 
60 


Of  the  Second  Class. 

Four  Founders  in  Brass  and  Iron  ;  four  Armorers ;  two  Cutlers  ; 
two  Blacksmiths ;  two  Carpenters  ;  two  Wheelwrights  ;  two  Masons ; 
two  Saddlers  ;  two  Manufacturers  of  Cartridge-boxes,  &c. 

Of  tlie  Third  Class. 

Four  Founders  in  Brass  and  Iron  ;  twenty  Armorers  :  twelve  Cut- 
lets ;  [Powder-makers?]  thirty  Blacksmiths  ;  thirty  Carpenters  ;  twen- 
ty Wheelwrights  ;  twelve  Masons ;  six  Saddlers ;  six  Manufacturers  of 
Cartridge-boxes,  &c. ;  two  Turners;  two  Tinmen;  two  Brickmakers; 
two  Potters ;  one  Glazier  ;  two  Cabinet-makers  ;  one  Locksmith ;  one 
Spur-niaker  ;  one  Tanner  ;  one  Currier. 

That  the  pay  of  a  regiment  of  Infantry  shall  be  as  follows : 

Per  month. 

To  a  Colonel,                 .....  $100 

Major,          ......  65 

Captain,.             ......  50 

Lieutenant,               .....  25 

Ensign,               ......  20 

Paymaster,  besides  his  pay  as  Lieutenant,                .  15 

Quartermaster,             do.                 do.                .             .  15 

Adjutant,                      do.                 do.          .             .  15 

Chaplain,            ......  50 

Surgeon,                   .....  50 

Mate,                  ......  25 

Sergeant-Major  and  Quartermaster-Sergeant,  each,  8 

Drum-and-fife-Major,                                 ...  8 

Drum  and  fife,                       ....  2 

Sergeant,             ......  5 

Corporal,                 .....  3 

Private,               ......  2 


jEt.  26.]  PEACE    ESTABLISHMENT.  269 


The  pay  of  a  regiment  of  Dragoons,  as  follows : 


Per  month. 


Field  officers  as  Infantry. 

Captain,         )  being  obliged  to  find  their  own  j> 

Lieutenant,    )      horses,  $  35 

Quartermaster,  Paymaster,  Adjutant,  as  Infantry,  in 

Second  Lieutenants,  30 

Chaplain.  Surgeon,  and  Mates,  OS  in  the  Infantry. 
Sergeant-Majors,  Quarteruia>trr  S  its,  do. 

Trumpet  Major,  .  .  .  .  .8 

Trumpeter,  .....  2 

Farrier,   .......        8 

Saddler.  ......  8 

Riding  Master,  •  •  .  .10 

Sergeants,  Corporals,  and  private  Dragoons, 
as  in  the  Infantry. 

The  pay  of  the  corps  of  Artillery  and  Engineers,  to  be  as  follows : 

Per  month. 

Commandant  according  to  his  rank. 

To  a  Colonel,  .  .  .  .  *H0 

Lieutenant-Colonel,         .  .  .  .  .80 

.Major.  ......  70 

Captain.  .  .  .  .  .  .60 

Lieutenant,     .  .  .  .  .  30 

Paymaster,         C  including  paj  a-  Lieutenants:! 
Quartermaster,  <  first  Lieutenants,  $30,  second  >  each,       45 
Adjutant,  (  Lieutenants,  $25.  ) 

Chaplain.  Surgeon,  and  Mates,  as  in  Infantry. 

Profi rs,  each,  .  ...        80 

Sergeant-Major,  Quartermaster-Sergeant,  each,         .  8 

Drum  ami  fit. Majors,       .....  8 

Drums  and  fifes,         .....  3 

Sergeant.  ......         6 

Bombardier,  .....  4 

Corporal,  ...... 

Matross,  or  Private  of  sappers  or  miners.  .  3 

Artificers  as  annexed  to  them. 

That  a  ration  of  provisions  -hall  consist  of  one  pound  of  bread,  or 
flour:  half  a  pound  of  salt,  or  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  fresh,  beef  or 
pork:  a  pint  of  peas,  or  other  vegetables  equivalent;  one  gill  of  vinegar, 
and  half  a  c;ill  of  salt. 

Each  officer  and  soldier  to  be  entitled  to  draw  one  ration  per  day  j 
the  officer  at  his  option  to  receive  tin'  estimated  value  in  money  j  and 
the  soldier  to  be  paid  at  the  rate-  annexed  to  each  article,  for  whatever 
it  may  not  be  possible  to  furnish  him. 


260  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.26. 

That  there  be  an  allowance  of  soap  per  to  eaeh  com- 

missioned officer ;  and  to  every  non-commissioned  officer  and 

soldier.  m 

The  allowance  of  forage  to  officers  whose  duty  is  to  be  performed  on 
horseback,  shall  be  as  follows: 

To  a  Major-General,  four  rations ;  Brigadier,  three ;  Field  officers 
of  every  corps,  each,  two  ;  Chaplain,  Surgeon,  Quartermaster,  Paymas- 
ter, Adjutant,  of  every  corps,  each,  one  ;  Captains,  and  other  officers  of 
Dragoons,  each,  one ;  Captains  of  Engineers,  each.  one. 

A  ration  of  forage  to  consist  of  the  following  articles  : 

When  officers  are  absent  from  their  corps  on  duty,  and  cannot  draw 
forage,  they  shall  be  paid  for  it  at  the  rate  of  for  each 

ration. 

That  the  allowance  of  clothing  to  each  non-commissioned  officer,  and 
private  soldier,  shall  be  as  follows  : 

One  cloth  coat,  jacket,  and  overall,  every  second  year ;  one  hat,  one 
linen  frock,  three  shirts,  three  pair  overalls,  six  pair  shoes,  two  leather 
stocks,  annually  ;    one  blanket  every  year.     And  if  it  shall  be 

found  necessary  to  supply  any  non-commissioned  officer  or  soldier,  with 
any  articles  beyond  the  quantity  above  specified,  the  value  thereof  shall 
be  deducted  from  his  pay,  according  to  the  rates  annexed  to  each. 

If  the  idea  of  tlie  Confederation  is  adhered  to,  the  number  of 
troops  to  be  raised  must  be  distributed  in  the  best  manner  the 
nature  of  the  case  will  admit,  to  the  several  States,  according  to 
the  proportion  of  their  respective  populations ;  and  each  must 
appoint  regimental  officers  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  men 
it  furnishes ;  but  as  no  State  will  have  to  furnish  a  complete 
regiment,  this  apportionment  of  the  officers,  especially,  will  be- 
come extremely  difficult,  if  not  impracticable,  on  any  satisfac- 
tory plan :  and  the  filling  up  vacancies  as  they  arise,  will  pro- 
duce endless  perplexity.  It  would  be  much  to  be  preferred,  if 
the  States  could  be  induced  to  transfer  this  right  to  Congress ; 
and  indeed,  without  it,  there  can  never  be  regularity  in  the  mili- 
tary system.  It  would  also  be  much  the  best,  that  the  men 
should  be  enlisted  under  Continental  direction  ;  which  will  be  a 
more  certain  and  more  economical  mode :  for  as  it  now  stands, 
the  United  States  are  obliged  to  pay  for  all  mismanagement  or 
extravagance  which  may  happen. 

The  next  object  to  be  attended  to,  is  that  of  fortifications. 
These  are  of  two  kinds,  land  and  naval :  the  first  for  internal 


jEt.  26.]  I'llACE     EST  A  151,1  S  II  M  K  N  T  261 

security,  the  last  for  the  protection  of  tin-  future  fleets  of  the 
United  States. 

A-  to  the  lirst  kind,  there  are  many  posts  "f  Importance  al- 
ready existing,  several  of  which  it  will  be  essential  to  occupy  ami 
guard,  till  more  permanent  measures  *  - ;  1 1 1  be  taken  <>n  a  general 
plan.     For  this.  Congress  have  already  made  provision  by  tl 
resolution  of  the 

The  Committee  are  of  opinion,  that  the  principles  laid  down 
in  the  memorial  from  Major-General  Du  Portail,  Chief  Engineer, 
accompanying  this  report,  so  far  as  they  respect  the  article  "t 
fortifications,  are,  in  general,  sound  and  jusl ;  and  that  it  will  in- 
expedient for  Congress,  as  soon  as  they  have  determined  <>w  the 
establishment  of  the  corps  of  Engineers,  to  instruct  the  head  of 
that  corps  to  make  a  general  survey  of  the  points  necessary 
be  fortified,  and  to  lay  a  general  plan  before  Congress  lor  their 
Consideration. 

With  respect  to  maritime  fortifications,  the  Committee  are  of 
opinion,  that  this  object,  though  of  the  highesl  importance,  can- 
not be  immediately  undertaken  ;  bu1  that  it  will  be  advisable  for 

Congress  to  appoint  an  Agent  of  Marine,  to  make  all   the    impii- 

.  obtain  all  the  lights,  and  prepare,  in  proportion  as  the  public 
finances  will  admit,  all  the  means  previously  requisite  towards 
the  establishment  of  posts,  and  the  formation  of  a  navy. 

The  Committee  apprehend,  that  even  if  the  resources  of  the 
!  :  itted  States  were  at  this  time  equal  to  the  undertaking  of  con- 
structing and  equipping  a  navy,  it  would  he  ineligible  to  enter 
upon  it,  till  a  plan,  deliberately  combined  in  all  its  parts,  had 
1 a  digested  and  approved  for  that  purpose.  As  the  prepara- 
tory steps  will  require  a  considerable  length  of  time  before  such 
a  plan  could  he  matured  for  execution,  it  will,  therefore,  he  pro- 
per, in  the  judgment  of  the  Committee,  to  make  the  appoint- 
ment -  -peedily  as  it  can  conveniently  he  done. 

The  Committee  are  further  of  opinion,  that  it  will  he  pro 
for  Congress  to  keep  constantly  on  foot,  magazines  and  arsenals, 
in  different  parts  of  the  [Juited  States,  equal  to  the  complete 
equipment  of  twenty  thousand  men,  in  every  thing  n©  for 

the  field  or  for  a  siege,  calculating  on  a  three  years'  supply  ;  and 


262  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  26. 

that,  in  this  view,  it  will  be  expedient  to  establish  arsenals  and 
magazines  at  the  following  places : 

and  to  deposit  all  the  artillery  and  military  stores,  in  possession 
of  the  United  States,  in  those  several  places,  in  equal  propor- 
tions ;  and  as  soon  as  may  be,  to  make  up  any  deficiencies  which 
may  be  found  in  the  quantity  proposed ;  so  that  each  deposit 
may  suffice  for  five  thousand  men. 

With  respect  to  the  establishment  of  military  academies,  as 
proposed  in  the  letter  of  the 

by  the  Secretary  at  "War,  the  Committee  are  of  opin- 
ion, that  the  benefits  of  such  institutions  rarely  compensate  for 
the  expense ;  and  that,  by  having  the  three  professors  proposed 
to  be  attached  to  the  corps  of  Engineers,  all  the  utility  to  be  ex- 
pected from  academies,  may  be  substantially  obtained :  that,  at 
all  events,  such  institutions  can  only  be  the  object  of  future  con- 
sideration. 

The  Committee  are  of  opinion,  that  as  soon  as  the  situation 
of  public  affairs  will  permit,  it  ought  to  be  made  a  serious  object 
of  policy,  to  be  able  to  supply  ourselves  with  all  the  articles  of 
first  necessity  in  war ;  and  in  this  view,  to  establish  foundries, 
manufactories  of  arms,  powder,  etc. 

There  are  two  reasons  which  appear  to  them  conclusive  for 
this.  The  first  is,  that  every  country  ought  to  have  within  it- 
self all  the  essential  means  of  defence  ;  for,  to  depend  on  foreign 
supplies,  is  to  render  its  security  precarious  :  the  second,  that  as 
it  will  be  indispensable  to  keep  up  a  corps  of  Artillery,  and  some 
other  troops,  the  labor  of  a  part  of  these,  bestowed  upon  the 
manufactories,  will  enable  the  public  to  supply  itself  on  better 
terms  than  by  importation.  The  Committee  propose  that  the 
Secretary  at  War  be  directed  to  lay  before  Congress  a  plan,  in 
detail,  for  this  purpose ;  designating  the  places  where  those 
oundries  and  manufactories  can  be  erected  with  advantage,  the 
means  to  be  employed,  and  the  expense  to  be  incurred  in  the  ex- 
ecution of  the  plan. 

The  Committee  are  of  opinion,  that  a  general  staff  is  unneces- 
sary in  time  of  peace,  as  all  the  objects  of  it  may  be  answered 
by  the  War  Department,  by  the  regimental  officers,  and  by  con- 


jEt.  26.]  PEACE     E  8  T  ABLI SH  M  E  \  T .  263 

tracts.  They  would  only  recommend  to  have  a  Major-Genera] 
to  command  all  the  troops;  a  General  officer  to  command  the 
corps  of  Engineers  and  Artillery;  and  as  [nspector-General  to 
preserve  uniformity  in  the  regulations  and  sen  ice  of  the  tr< 

The  pay  of  these  officers  may  be  : 
To  a  Major  <  leneral,  per  month,    .        .        .        .        .        | 

To  a  Brigadier-General,    ......  | 

Inspector-General,  including  the  pay  of  his  rank,  .        .        Q 

In  time  of  war.  it  will  be  necessary  to  appoint  a  Brigadier-General 
to  each  brigade  consisting  of  two  regiments  of  Infantry ;  but  during 
peace,  as  the  service  of  the  regiments  will  be  detached,  this  may  be 
dispensed  with. 

It  will  be  necessary  to  establish  a  General  Hospital  for  the  reception 
of  invalids  of  the  army  and  navy.  For  the  present,  only  the  following 
officers  will  be  requisite  : 

Pay  and  subsistence  per  month. 

One  Physician  and  Director,  who  shall  also  have  the    )  *.„ 

superintendence  of  the  regimental  hospitals,  ^ 

One  Purveyor  and  Apothecary,        .  .         .         .         50 

One  Surgeon,  .  50 

One  Mate,  .  

One  Steward,      ........  15 

One  Matron, 

Pour  Nurses,  each .  ."» 

To  be  entitled  to  draw  a  ration  per  day  each,  and  no  other  subsist- 
ence or  allowance. 

The  invalids  to  be  allowed  no  pay;  but  the  clothing  and  rations 
specified  for  soldiers  during  life. 

The  gross  expense  of  this  establishment,  if  complete,  as  will  appear 
by  the  annexed  estimate,  will  be  s 

From  this  may  be  deducted  the  value  of  the  product  of 
the  manufactories,  when  established  by  the  estimate  also 
annexed, 


Balance,  an  annual  charge  upon  the  United  States,  * 

If  Congress  should  think  it  inexpedient  immediately  to  incur 
so  considerable  an  expense,  the  following  method  may  be  taken 
to  diminish  it. 

The  companies  of  [nfantry  may,  for  the  present,  be  recm 
only  to  sixty-four  men  each. 

Only  four  troops  of  the  Dragoons  may  be  raised,  and  only 
one  troop  mounted.    It  rfbuld  be  inexpedient  to  neglect  this 


264  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [-tor.  26. 

arm  altogether ;  for  it  will  always,  in  case  of  war,  be  of  great 
importance  in  the  southern  States;  and  the  knowledge  of  its 
principles  and  uses  ought  to  be  cultivated. 

The  companies  of  Sappers  and  Miners,  and  the  company  of 
Artificers,  except  the  Master-Founders  and  the  Armorers,  may 
be  deferred  till  the  means  of  the  United  States  will  admit  of 
carrying  into  execution  the  plan  of  foundries  and  manufactories. 

Yet  it  would  be  proper  that  these  establishments  should  be 
adopted  as  proposed  ;  and  the  execution,  in  these  instances,  sus- 
pended. 

The  savings  of  expense,  by  these  deductions,  would  amount 
to  ;  which,  taken  out  of  the 

aggregate  expense  of  the  whole  establishment,  will  leave  a  resi- 
due of  annual  expense,  of 

The  Committee  are  of  opinion,  that  this  expense  is  unavoid- 
able ;  and  that  the  only  question  is,  whether  it  shall  be  borne  by 
the  United  States  or  by  particular  States :  in  which  last  case, 
it  is  probable  it  will  be  greatly  increased,  for  want  of  being  con- 
ducted on  a  systematic  plan  :  and  it  is  to  be  observed,  that  the 
resources  of  the  States,  jointly  or  severally,  are  confined  within 
certain  bounds  ;  and  that  if  any  States  contribute  an  extra  pro- 
portion in  one  way,  they  must  contribute  less  than  their  propor- 
tion in  another.  The  superior  national  considerations  already 
stated,  leave  no  doubt  as  to  the  manner  in  which  the  question 
ought  to  be  decided. 

The  Committee  are  also  of  opinion,  that  in  considering  the 
means  of  national  defence,  Congress  ought  not  to  overlook  that 
of  a  well  regulated  militia ;  that  as  the  keeping  up  of  such  a 
militia,  and  proper  arsenals  and  magazines,  by  each  State,  is 
made  a  part  of  the  Confederation,  the  attention  of  Congress  to 
this  object  will  be  a  constitutional  duty ;  that  as  great  advan- 
tages would  result  from  uniformity  in  this  article,  in  every 
State,  and  from  the  militia  establishment  being  as  similar  as  the 
nature  of  the  case  will  admit,  to  the  Continental  military  estab- 
lishment, it  will  be  proper  for  Congress  to  adopt  and  recommend 
a  general  plan  for  that  purpose. 

The  Committee  submit   the   following  outlines  of  such  a 


Mi.  86.]  PEACE    ESTABLISHMENT.  265 

plan;    which  may,  it'  thought   necessary,  1":  digested  and  im- 
proved. 

All  the  free  male  inhabitants  in  each  Sti  >m  twenty 

years  old  to  fifty,  exceptsuch  as  the  laws  of  each  State  shall 
think  it  proper  to  exempt,  to  1"'  divided  into  two  general  el 
one  class  consisting  "f  married,  tin-  other  class  consisting  of  sin- 
.  men. 

Each  'la.-s  t<>  be  formed  into  corps  of  Infantry  and  Dragoons, 

inized  in  the  Bame  manner  as  has  been  proposed  for  the  Con- 
tinental  troops. 

Those  who  are  willing  to  be  at  the  expense  of  eqnipp 
tihemselves  for  the  Dragoon  service,  to  be  permitted  to  enter  into 
that  corps.     The  residue  to  be  formed  into  Infantry.     This  will 
consult  the  convenience  and  inclinations  of  diil'erent  classes  of 
citizens. 

Each  officer  and  private  of  the  Dragoons,  to  provide  himself 

with   a   horse,  saddle,  etc,  pistols  and  sabre;  and  each  non-com- 

jsioned  officer  and  private,  with  a  carbine  and  cartouch  box, 

with   twelve  rounds  for  his  carbine,  and  six  rounds  for  each 

pistol. 

Each  officer  of  the  Infantry  to  have  a  sword  and  esponi 
and  each  non-commissioned  officer  and  private,  a  musket,  bay- 
onet, and  cartouch-box  containing  always  twelve  rounds  of  pow- 
dei  and  ball. 

That  the  corps  of  single  men  be  obliged  to  assemble  in  com- 
panies once  a  month  ;  and  once  in  three  months  regimentally,  to 
be  inspected  and  exercised,  subject  to  a  penalty  to  be  assigned 
for  that  purpose. 

That  the  corps  of  married  men  be  obliged  to  assemble  once 
in  three  months  by  companies :  and  once  in  six  month.-  regimen- 
tally, for  the  same  purposes  as  above-mentioned. 

That  when    the    State   is   invaded,  the   corps  of  cither   <•' 
indifferently,  shall  be  obliged  to  take  the  field  for  its  defence,  and 
to  remain  in  service  one  year,  unless  sooner  relieved   by  sp< 
order. 

That  when  another  State   is  attacked,  and   it  is  m 
march  to  its  succor,  one-half  of  the  corps  of  single  mi  D  -hall  be 


266  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  26. 

obliged  to  take  their  turn  first,  and  to  serve  for  the  same  period ; 
to  be  afterwards  relieved  by  one-half  of  the  corps  of  the  married 
men  ;  and  so  on  alternately. 

That  in  addition  to  these  two  classes,  there  shall  be  a  third 
class,  under  a  particular  denomination,  as  fencibles,  fusiliers, 
train-bands,  or  whatever  else  may  be  judged  expedient ;  with  the 
same  organization  as  the  other  classes,  but  composed  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner : 

Of  all  such  of  either  of  the  two  other  classes  as  will  volun- 
tarily engage  to  serve  for  the  term  of  eight  years,  provided  they 
shall  not  exceed  the  proportion  of  one  to  fifty  of  all  the  enrolled 
militia  of  the  State ;  and  provided,  that,  if  a  war  breaks  out, 
they  shall  be  bound  to  serve  three  years  after  they  are  called 
into  service,  and  to  march  wherever  the  service  may  require. 

The  conditions  on  the  part  of  the  public  to  be  these :  That 
they  shall  be  furnished  with  a  musket,  bayonet,  cartouch  box, 
and  twenty-four  rounds  of  powder  and  ball ;  and  once  every  two 
years  with  a  suit  of  uniform,  to  consist  of  a  coat,  jacket,  and 
overall  of  cloth ;  the  arms  and  accoutrements  to  become  their 
property  at  the  end  of  their  time  of  service. 

These  corps  to  be  obliged  to  assemble,  by  companies,  once  a 
week ;  and  by  regiments  monthly,  for  exercise  and  inspection ; 
and  to  encamp  at  a  general  rendezvous  twenty  days  in  each 
year,  to  be  paid  at  the  rate  of  six  pence  per  day  to  each  non- 
commissioned officer  and  private.  Whenever  any  of  the  militia 
are  called  into  service,  they  shall  be  entitled  to  the  same  emolu- 
ments with  the  regular  troops. 

The  Committee  are  of  opinion,  that,  with  a  view  to  these 
establishments,  it  will  be  proper  to  direct  the  Commander-in- 
Chief  to  appoint  a  Board,  consisting  of  not  more  than  five  offi- 
cers, of  which  the  Inspector-General,  Commandant  of  Artillery, 
and  Chief  Engineer,  to  be  members,  to  revise  the  system  of  regu- 
lations for  the  army  of  the  United  States  ;  and  to  digest,  for  the 
consideration  of  Congress,  a  General  Ordinance  for  the  service  of 
the  troops  of  the  United  States,  as  well  the  corps  of  Engineers 
and  of  Horse,  as  of  Infantry :  also  an  ordinance  to  be  recom- 
mended to  the  several  States  for  the  service  of  the  militia. 


iET.  2<;.] 


PEA<*  E    ESTA  BLIS  II  M  E  N  T.  267 


All  promotions  to  be  made  regimentally  to  the  rank  of  Col- 
onel, according  to  seniority ;  and  from  the  rank  of  Colonel  up- 
wards, the  officers  of  Dragoons  and  [nfantry,  ahal!  roll  togetl 
and  be  promoted  according  to  seniority,  without  distincti I* 

corps. 

The  rule  of  promotion  in  the  corps  of  Engin  i  be,  in 

all  respects,  distinct,  and  according  to  seniority  in  thai  corps. 

Provided,  thai  no  officer,  of  whatsoever  corps,  shall  consider 

it  as  a  violation  of  his  rights,  if  any  other,  who  baa  been  for- 
tunate enongh  to  have  an  opportunity  of  distinguishing  himself 
in  a  particular  manner,  receives  an  extra  promotion  in  the  corpsi 
on  aeeount  of  brilliant  services  or  peculiar  talents. 

Ai,,l  iii  order  that  Buch  extra  promotion  may  not  be  produced 
by  misrepresentation,  it  shall  not  be  made,  but  on  the  recommen- 
dation of  the  Commander  of  the  army,  accompanied  by  an  au- 
thenticated state  of  the  Pacts  and  reasons  upon  which  the  recom- 
mendation is  founded ;  together  with  the  opinion  of  the  officer 
commanding  the  corps  in  which  the  promotion  is  to  be  made : 
all  which  shall  be  reported  to  Congress  by  the  Secretary  at  War, 
with  his  sentiments  thereupon. 

The  officers  to  command  the  different  corps  in  the  first 
ins.  appointed  out  of  such  of  those,  now  in  service, 

are  willing  to  continue  in  the  military  line :  provided,  that 

ae  who  are  retain. -.1,  shall  no1  be  entitled  to  the  half  pay  Got 
their  services  during  the  war. 

The  men  to  be  enlisted  for  six  years. 

Women  to  each  company. 


Notes  to  be  recollected. 

An  absurdity,  that  Congress  are  empowered  to  build  and  equip  a 
navy  :  and  yet,  in  time  of  peace,  the  States  are  to  keep  up  one  for  their 

own  defence.  , 

There  must  be  a  navy  Formed  in  time  of  peace  it  ought  to  be  pro- 
portioned to  our  defence ;  and.will  then  ho  all  in  the  hands  of  certain 
States. 

Congress,  constituted  ae  they  are,  can't  have  time  Fot  usurp  I 
Usurpation  in  such  an  extensive  empire  requires  long  previous  prepa- 


268  HAMILTON'S    WORKS, 


[Mi.  26. 


A  people  seldom  reform  with  moderation.  Men,  accustomed  to  read 
of  usurpation  suddenly  effected  in  small  cities,  look  upon  such  a  thing 
as  a  work  of  a  day. 

The  weak  side  of  democracies,  is  danger  of  foreign  corruption. 
No  individual  has  sufficient  interest  in  the  State,  to  be  proof  against  the 
seduction. 

The  want  of  an  army  lost  the  liberty  of  Athens — vide  Demos- 
thenes. 


June  19th,  1783. 
Resolved,  That  copies  of  the  letter  from  the  Commander-in- 
Chief,  of  the  seventh  instant,  with  its  inclosures,  be  transmitted 
to  the  several  States,  for  their  information,  and  that  their  atten- 
tion be  recalled  to  the  resolution  of  the  second  of  Maj  last,  to 
facilitate  the  punctual  payment  of  the  notes  issued  to  the  army, 
on  account  of  their  pay.  That  the  Commander-in-Chief  be  in- 
formed Congress  approve  the  variation  made  by  him  in  the  man- 
ner of  furloughing  the  troops. 


June  21st,  1783. 

Resolved*  That  the  president  and  supreme  executive  council 
of  Pennsylvania  be  informed,  that  the  authority  of  the  United 
States  having  been  this  day  grossly  insulted  by  the  disorderly 
and  menacing  appearance  of  a  body  of  armed  soldiers  about  the 
place  within  which  Congress  were  assembled,  and  the  peace  of 
this  city  being  endangered  by  the  mutinous  disposition  of  the 
said  troops  now  in  the  barracks,  it  is,  in  the  opinion  of  Congress, 
necessary  that  effectual  measures  be  immediately  taken  for  sup- 
porting the  public  authority. 

Resolved,  That  the  committee,  on  a  letter  from  Colonel  Butler, 
be  directed  to  confer,  without  loss  of  time,  with  the  supreme  execu- 
tive council  of  Pennsylvania,  on  the  practicability  of  carrying  the 
preceding  resolution  into  effect ;  and  that,  in  case  it  shall  appear  to 
the  committee  that  there  is  not  a  satisfactory  ground  for  expecting 

*  See  Works,  vol.  i.  pp.  374,  393,  395,  409. 


JEr.  26.]  RESOLUTIONS     IN     CONGRESS.  269 

adequate  and  prompl  exertions  of  this  State,  for  supporting  the 
dignity  of  the  Federal  Government,  the  President,  on  the  ad\ 
of  the  committee,  be  authorized  to  summon  the  members  of 
Congress  to  meet  on  Thursday  next,  al  Trenton  or  Princeton, 
in  New  Jersey,  in  order  thai  further  and  more  effectual  measures 
may  be  taken  for  suppressing  the  presenl  revolt,  and  maintain' 
ing  the  dignity  and  authority  of  the  United  States. 

Resolved,  Thai  the  Secretary  a1  War  be  directed  to  commu- 
nicate to  the  Commander-in-Chief  the  Btate  and  disposition  of  the 
said  troops,  in  order  thai  be  may  take  immediate  m  3  to 

dispatch  to  this  city  such  force  as  he  mayjudge  expedient  for 
suppressing  any  disturbances  thai  may  ensue. 


RESOLUTIONS  FOR  A  GENERAL  CONVENTION. 

June  80th,  17 

Whereas,  in  the  opinion  of  this  Congress,  the  Confederation 
e  1  rnited  States  is  defective  in  the  following  essential  i>"ints, 
to  wit  : 

/  stly,  and  generally ;  En  confining  the  powerofthe  Federal 
eminent  within  too  narrow  limits ;  withholding  from  it  that 
efficacious  authority  and  influence,  in  all  matters  of  general  con- 
cern, which  arc  indispensable  to  the  harmony  and  welfare  of  the 
whole;  embarrassing  general  provisions  by  unnecessary  details, 
and  inconvenienl  exceptions,  incompatible  with  their  nature, 
tending  only  to  create  jealousies  and  disputes  respecting  the 
proper  hounds  of  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  and  of  that 
of  the  particular  States,  and  a  mutual  interference  of  the  one 
with  the  other. 

v   tmdly:  In  confounding  legislative  and  executive  pov 
in  a  single  body;  as,  that  of  determining  on  the  Dumber  and 
quantity  of  force,  land  and  naval,  to  be  employed  for  the  com- 
mon defence,  and  of  directing  their  operations  when  raised  and 
equipped,  with  that  of  ascertaining  and  making  requisite 


270  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [JEt.  26. 

the  necessary  sums,  or  quantities,  of  money  to  be  paid  by  the 
respective  States  into  the  common  treasury ;  contrary  to  the  most 
approved  and  well-founded  maxims  of  free  government,  which 
require,  that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judicial  authorities, 
should  be  deposited  in  distinct  and  separate  hands. 

Thirdly :  In  want  of  a  Federal  Judicature,  having  cognizance 
of  all  matters  of  general  concern  in  the  last  resort ;  especially 
those  in  which  foreign  nations,  and  their  subjects,  are  interested: 
from  which  defect,  by  the  interference  of  the  local  regulations  of 
particular  States  militating,  directly  or  indirectly,  against  the 
powers  vested  in  the  Union,  the  national  treaties  will  be  liable  to 
be  infringed,  the  national  faith  to  be  violated,  and  the  public 
tranquillity  to  be  disturbed. 

Fourthly :  In  vesting  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled, 
with  the  poiver  of  general  taxation,  comprehended  in  that  of 
"  ascertaining  the  necessary  sums  of  money  to  be  raised  for  the 
common  defence,  and  of  appropriating  and  applying  the  same, 
for  defraying  the  public  expenses ;"  and  yet,  rendering  that  power, 
so  essential  to  the  existence  of  the  Union,  nugatory,  by  with- 
holding from  them  all  control  over  either  the  imposition  or  the 
collection  of  the  taxes  for  raising  the  sums  required  :  whence  it 
happens,  that  the  inclinations,  not  the  abilities,  of  the  respective 
States,  are,  in  fact,  the  criterion  of  their  contributions  to  the  com- 
mon expense ;  and  the  public  burthen  has  fallen,  and  will  con- 
tinue to  fall,  with  very  unequal  weight. 

Fifthly:  In  fixing  a  rule  for  determining  the  proportion  of 
each  State  towards  the  common  expense,  which,  if  practicable  at 
all,  must,  in  the  execution,  be  attended  with  great  expense,  in- 
equality, uncertainty,  and  difficulty. 

Sixthly :  In  authorizing  Congress  "  to  borrow  money,  or  emit 
bills,  on  the  credit  of  the  United  States,"  without  the  power  of 
establishing  funds  to  secure  the  repayment  of  the  money  bor- 
rowed, or  the  redemption  of  the  bills  emitted ;  from  which  must 
result  one  of  these  evils :  Either  a  want  of  sufficient  credit,  in 
the  first  instance,  to  borrow,  or  to  circulate  the  bills  emitted, 
whereby,  in  great  national  exigencies,  the  public  safety  may  be 
endangered ;    or,  in  the  second  instance,  frequent  infractions  of 


Jfc.  36.]  RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  -71 

the  public  engagements,  disappointments  to  lend  ititions 

of  the  calamities  of  depreciating  paper,  a  continuance  of  the  in- 
justice and  mischiefs  of  an  unfunded  debt,  and,  first  or  last,  the 
annihilation  of  public  credit. 

[ndeed,  in  authorizing  Congress  at  all,  to  emil  an  unfui 
paper  as  the  sign  of  value,  a  resource,  whioh,  though  useful  in 
the  infancy  of  this  country,  indispensable  in  the  commencement 
of  the  revolution,  oughl  no1  to  continue  a  formal  part  of  the  Con- 
stitution, iHM-  ever,  hereafter,  to  !"■  employed,  being,  in  its  na- 
ture, pregnant  with  abuses,  and  liable  to  he  made  the  engine  of 
imposition  ami  fraud;  holding  out  temptations  equally  perni- 
cious  to  the  integrity  of  Government  and  to  the  morals  oi  the 

S    enthly:  In  not  making  proper  or  < ipetent  j>rovisions  for 

interior  or  exterior  defence:  For  interior  defence,  by  leaving  it 
to  the  individual  States  to  appoint  all  regimental  officers  of  the 
land  forces;  to  raise  the  men  in  their  own  way;  to  clothe,  arm, 
and  equip  them  at  the  expense  of  the  United  States:  from  which 
circumstances,  have  resulted,  and  will  hereafter  result,  great  con- 
fusion in  the  military  department;  continual  disputes  of  rank ; 
guid  and  disproportionate  levies  of  men:  an  enormous  in- 

-e  of  expense,  tor  want  of  system  and  uniformity  in  the  man- 
ner of  conducting  them,  and  from  the  competitions  of  State, 
bounties:— by  an  ambiguity  in  the  fourth  clause  of  the  sixth 
article,  susceptible  of  a  construction  which  would  devolve  upon 
the  particular  States  in  time  of  peace,  the  care  of  their  own  de- 
fence, both  by  sea  and  land,  and  would  preclude  the  United 
States  from  raising  a  single  regiment,  or  building  a  single  ship, 
before  a  declaration  of  war,  or  an  actual  commencement  of  hos- 
tilities; a  principle  dangerous  to  the  Confederacy  in  different 
respects,  by  leaving  the  Tinted  States  at  all  times  unprepi 
for  the  defence  of  their  common  rights  ;  obliging  them  to  begin 

to  raise  an  army,  and  to  build   and  equip  a  navy,  at  the  moment 

they    would    have  occasion  to  employ  them;    and  by    putl 
into  the  hands  of  a  tew  Mates,  who,  from  their  local  situal 
are  more  immediately  exposed,  all   the  standing  forces  of  the 
country  ;  thereby,  not  only  leaving  the  care  of  tic  <<\  the 


272  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  26. 

whole  to  a  part,  which  will  naturally  be  both  unwilling  and  un- 
able to  make  effectual  provision  at  its  particular  expense,  but 
also  furnishing  grounds  of  jealousy  and  distrust  between  the 
States  ;  unjust,  in  its  operation,  to  those  States  in  whose  hands 
they  are,  by  throwing  the  exclusive  burthen  of  maintaining  those 
forces  upon  them,  while  their  neighbors,  immediately,  and  all  the 
States,  ultimately,  would  share  the  benefits  of  their  services. 

For  exterior  defence,  in  authorizing  Congress  to  "  build  and 
equip  a  navy,"  without  providing  any  means  of  manning  it, 
either  by  requisitions  of  the  States,  by  the  power  of  registering 
and  draughting  the  seamen  in  rotation,  or,  by  embargoes  in 
cases  of  emergency,  to  induce  them  to  accept  employment  on 
board  the  ships  of  war  :  the  omission  of  all  of  which,  leaves  no 
other  resource  than  voluntary  enlistment ;  a  resource  which  has 
been  found  ineffectual  in  every  country,  and,  for  reasons  of  pe- 
culiar force,  in  this. 

Eighthly :  In  not  vesting  in  the  United  States,  a  general  su- 
perintendence of  trade ;  equally  necessary  in  the  view  of  reve- 
nue and  regulation :  Of  revenue,  because  duties  on  commerce, 
when  moderate,  are  one  of  the  most  agreeable  and  productive 
species  of  it ;  which  cannot,  without  great  disadvantages,  be  im- 
posed by  particular  States,  while  others  refrain  from  doing  it, 
but  must  be  imposed  in  concert,  and  by  laws  operating  upon  the 
same  principles,  at  the  same  moment,  in  all  the  States :  other- 
wise, those  States  which  should  not  impose  them,  would  engross 
the  commerce  of  such  of  their  neighbors  as  did :  Of  regulation, 
because,  by  general  prohibitions  of  particular  articles,  by  a  judi- 
cious arrangement  of  duties,  sometimes  by  bounties  on  the  man- 
ufacture or  exportation  of  certain  commodities,  injurious  branch- 
es of  commerce  might  be  discouraged ;  favorable  branches 
encouraged  ;  useful  products  and  manufactures  promoted  :  none 
of  which  advantages,  can  be  as  effectually  attained  by  separate 
regulations,  without  a  general  superintending  power:  because, 
also,  it  is  essential  to  the  due  observance  of  the  commercial  stip- 
ulations of  the  United  States  with  foreign  powers  ;  an  interfer- 
ence with  which,  will  be  unavoidable,  if  the  different  States  have 
the  exclusive  regulation  of  their  own  trade,  and,  of  course,  the 
construction  of  the  treaties  entered  into. 


jEt.26.]  RESOLUTIONS    l\    CONGRESS.  -''■'< 

Ninthly:   In  defeating  essential   powers  by  provisions  and 
limitations  inconsistenl  with  their  nature;  as,  the  power  of  mak- 
ing treaties  with  foreign  nations;  "provided  thai   no  treaty  of 
commerce  shall  be  made,  whereby  the  legislative  power  of  the 
respective  States  shall  be  restrained  from  imposing  such  imp 
and  duties  on  foreigners,  as  their  own  people  are  subjected 
or,  from  prohibiting  the  importation  or  exportation  of  a 
cies  of  goods  or  commodities  whatsoever  :"  a  proviso,  suscepl 
of  an  interpretation  which  includes  a  constitutional  possibility  oi 
defeating  the  treaties  of  commerce  entered  into  by  the   In 
States:   A-  also  the  power  "of  regulating  the  trade  and  manag- 
ing all  affairs  with   the   Indians,  nol   members  of  any  of  the 
States;  provided  that  the  Legislative  righl  of  any  State,  within  its 
own  limits,  be  not  infringed  or  violated  ;"  and  others  of  a  simi- 
lar nature. 

/  ithly:  In  granting  the  United  States  the  sole  power  "of 
regulating  the  alloy  and  value  of  coin  struck  by  their  own 
authority,  or  by  that  of  the  respective  States,"  without  the 
power  of  regulating  the  foreign  coin  in  circulation  ;  though  the 
one  is  essential  to  the  due  exercise  of  the  other,  as  there  ought 
to  be  such  proportions  maintained,  between  the  national  and 
foreign  coin,  as  will  give  the  former  a  preference  in  all  internal 
negotiations;  and  without  the  latter  power,  the  operations  of 
government,  in  a  matter  of  primary  importance  to  the  oomm< 
and  finances  of  the  United  States,  will  be  exposed  to  number- 
less obstructions. 

Eleventhly:  In  requiring  the  assenl  of  nint  States  to  matters 
of  principal  importance,  and  of  seven  to  all  others,  except  ad- 
journments from  day  to  day;  a  rule,  destructive  of  vigor,  con- 
sistency, or  expedition  in  the  administration  of  atl'airs  ;  tending 
t-  subjeel  the  <■,,-■  of  the  majority  to  timt  ,<\'  the  minority,  by 
putting  it    in    the    power   of  a   small  combination  to    retard,  and 

even  to  frustrate,  the  most  n            ■■    measures;   and  to 
the  greater  number,  in   cases  which   require  sp ly  determina- 
tions, as  happens  in  the  most  interesting  concerns  of  tie-  com- 
munity, to    come   into  the    views  of  the  smaller;    the  , 
which,  have    been    felt    in  critical  conjunctures,  and  mu.-t  alv. 
B             18 


274  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  26. 

make  the  spirit  of  government,  a  spirit  of  compromise  and  ex- 
pedient, rather  than  of  system  and  energy. 

Twelfthly :  In  vesting  in  the  Federal  Government,  the  sole 
direction  of  the  interests  of  the  United  States,  in  their  inter- 
course with  foreign  nations,  without  empowering  it  to  pass  all 
general  laws  in  aid  and  support  of  the  laws  of  nations  :  for  the 
want  of  which  authority,  the  faith  of  the  United  States  may  be 
broken,  their  reputation  sullied,  and  their  peace  interrupted  by 
the  negligence  or  misconception  of  any  particular  State. 

And  whereas,  experience  hath  clearly  manifested,  that  the 
powers  reserved  to  the  Union,  in  the  Confederation,  are  unequal 
to  the  purpose  of  effectually  drawing  forth  the  resources  of  the 
respective  members,  for  the  common  welfare  and  defence :  where- 
by the  United  States  have,  upon  several  occasions,  been  exposed 
to  the  most  critical  and  alarming  situations ;  have  wanted  an 
army  adequate  to  their  defence,  and  proportioned  to  the  abilities 
of  the  country ;  have,  on  account  of  that  deficiency,  seen  essen- 
tial posts  reduced,  others  eminently  endangered,  whole  States, 
and  large  parts  of  others,  overrun  and  ravaged  by  small  bodies 
of  the  enemy's  forces ;  have  been  destitute  of  sufficient  means  of 
feeding,  clothing,  paying,  and  appointing  that  army  ;  by  which 
the  troops,  rendered  less  efficient  for  military  operations,  have 
been  exposed  to  sufferings,  which  nothing  but  unparalleled  pa- 
tience, perseverance,  and  patriotism,  could  have  endured ;  where- 
by, also,  the  United  States  have  been  too  often  compelled  to 
make  the  administration  of  their  affairs  a  succession  of  tempo- 
rary expedients,  inconsistent  with  order,  economy,  energy,  or  a 
scrupulous  adherence  to  the  public  engagements  ;  and  now  find 
themselves,  at  the  close  of  a  glorious  struggle  for  independence, 
without  any  certain  means  of  doing  justice  to  those  who  have 
been  its  principal  supporters;  to  an  army  which  has  bravely 
fought  and  patiently  suffered ;  to  citizens  who  have  cheerfully 
lent  their  money,  and  to  others  who  have,  in  different  ways, 
contributed  their  property  and  their  personal  service  to  the  com- 
mon cause ;  obliged  to  rely,  for  the  only  effectual  mode  of  doing 
that  justice,  by  funding  the  debt  on  solid  securities,  on  the  pre- 
carious concurrence  of  thirteen  distinct  deliberatives,  the  dissent 


JEt.  26.]  RE  SOLUTION  S    l  \    CONGRESS.  -  7  5 

of  either  of  which,  may  defeal  the  plan,  and  Leave  these  Stal 
at  thia  early  period  of  their  existence,  involved   in  all  the  dis- 
grace and  mischiefs  of  violated  faith  and  national  bankruptcy. 

A  id  whereas,  aotwithstanding  we  have,  by  the  blessinj 
Providence,  so  far  happily  escaped  the  complicated  dangers  of 
Buch  a  situation,  and  now  see  the  object  of  our  wishes  secured 
U  an  bonorable  peace,  it  would  be  unwise  to  hazard  a  repeti- 
tion of  the  Bame  dangers  and  embarrassments  in  any  future  war 
in  which  these  States  may  be  engaged,  or  to  continue  this  i 
tensive  empire  under  a  government  unequal  to  Its  protection 
and  prosperity. 

And  whereas,  it  is  essential  to  the  happiness  and  security  of 
these  States,  that  their  union  should  be  established  on  the  most 
solid  foundations :  and  it  is  manifest  thai  this  desirable  object 
can  not  be  effected  but  by  a  government  capable,  both  in  peace 
and  war,  of  making  every  member  of  the  Union  contribute,  in 
just  proportion,  to  the  common  necessities,  and  of  combining  and 
directing  the  forces  and  wills  of  the  several  parts  to  a  general 
end;  to  which  purposes,  in  the  opinion  of  Congress,  the  present 
Confederation  is  altogether  inadequate. 

And  whereas,  on  the  spirit  which  ma\  direel  the  councils 
and  measures  of  these  States,  al  the  presenl  juncture,  may  de- 
pend their  future  safety  and  welfare;  Congress  conceive  it  to 
their  duty,  freely  to  state  to  their  constituents,  the  defects  \\  hich, 
by  experience,  have  been  discovered  in  the  presenl  plan  of  the 
Federal  Union,  and  solemnly  to  call  their  attention  to  a  re- 
visal  and  amendment  of  the  Same. 

Therefore,    Resolved,  That   it   be  earnestly  recommended  to 

the  several  States,  to  appoint  a  Convention,  to  meet,  al 

,  on  the  day  of  ,  with  full  powers 

to  revise  the  Confederation,  and  to  adopt  and  propose  such  alter- 
ations as  to  them  shall  appear  necessary  ;   to  be  finally  approved 
or  rejected  by  the  States  respectively  :  and  that  a  Committee  ,.f 
be  appointed  to  prepare  an  address  upon  the  subj< 


276  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  26. 

July  1, 1783. 

Resolved,  That  Major  General  Howe  be  directed  to  march 
such  part  of  the  force  under  his  command  as  he  shall  judge  ne- 
necessar y,  to  the  State  of  Pennsylvania,  in  order  that  immediate 
measures  may  be  taken  to  confine  and  bring  to  trial  all  such  per- 
sons belonging  to  the  army  as  have  been  principally  active  in  the 
late  meeting,  to  disarm  the  remainder,  and  to  examine  fully  into 
all  the  circumstances  relating  thereto. 

That  in  the  exercise  of  the  foregoing  resolution,  if  any  mat- 
ters shall  arise  which  may  concern  the  civil  jurisdiction,  or  in 
which  its  aid  may  be  necessary,  application  be  made  for  the  same 
to  the  executive  authorities  of  the  State. 


July  1,  1783. 

The  Committee,  consisting  of  Mr.  Hamilton,  Mr.  Ellsworth, 
and  Mr.  Peters,  to  whom  were  referred  a  letter  of  the  17th  of 
June,  from  Col.  E.  Butler,  at  Lancaster,  and  sundry  papers  com- 
municated to  Congress  by  the  Executive  Council  of  Pennsylva- 
nia, through  their  delegates,  having,  on  the  19th  of  June,  made 
a  verbal  report,  and  on  the  20th  of  the  same  month,  a  report  in 
writing,  and  the  written  report  being  on  the  30th  recommitted, 
that  they  might  amend  it  by  adding  thereto  their  verbal  report, 
and  the  report  being  this  day  brought  in  with  the  said  amend- 
ment, ordered  that  it  be  entered  on  the  journal. 

Report 

The  Committee,  to  whom  were  referred  the  letters  and  papers 
communicated  to  Congress  by  the  Executive  Council  of  Penn- 
sylvania, through  their  delegates,  report :  That  they  had  a  con- 
ference yesterday,  as  directed,  with  the  Supreme  Executive  Coun- 
cil, in  which,  in  the  first  instance,  the  propriety  of  calling  out  a 
detachment  of  militia  to  intercept  the  mutineers  on  their  march 
from  Lancaster,  was  proposed  to  the  Council,  suggesting  the  dan- 
ger of  their  being  suffered  with  impunity  to  join  the  troops  in 


jEt.  26.] 


REPORTS.  -77 


the  barracks,  who  a  few  'lavs  before  had  manifested  a  dangerous 
spirit  by  an  insolenl  and  threatening  mess  it  to  Congress  in 
thr  li.ini. •  of  a  board  of  sergeants,  and  who,  it  was  apprehended, 
would  1"'  ready  to  make  common  cause  with  those  on  their 
march  for  mutinous  purposes:  that  thr  Council,  baying  shown  a 
reluctance  to  call  oul  any  part  of  the  militia,  expressing  an  "pin- 
ion that  they  would  not  be  willing  to  act  till  som itrage  Bhould 

have  been  committed  by  thr  troops,  there  appeared  to  thr  com- 
mittee qo  alternative  hut  to  endeavor  to  dissuade  thr  mutineers 
from  coming  t<>  town:  and,  it'  they  failed  in  thai  attempt,  to 
make  use  of  expedients  to  prevenl  thr  troops  in  the  barracks 
from  joining  in  any  excesses,  ami  to  induce  the  detachment  from 
Lancaster  to  return  to  that  place:  that,  in  this  view,  and  at  theii 
desire,  the  Assistant  Secretary  a1  War  met  the  detachmenl  thru 
on  it.s  march  to  the  city,  and  endeavored  to  engage  them  to  re- 
turn to  the  former  place,  urging  the  considerations  contained  in 
the  annexed  instructions  within;  but  the  said  detachment  per- 

ed  in  their  intention  of  coming  to  this  city,  and  arrived  here 
this  morning:  that  upon  conferring  with  the  Superintendent  of 
Finance,  they  find  there  is  a  probability  that  the  Paymaster  Gene- 
ral, to  whom  the  settlement  of  thr  accounts  of  the  army  has  been 

omitted,  and  who.  having  all  the  documents  in  I  ion, 

•  .  alone  execute  the  business  with  propriety,  will  shortly  ar- 
rive from  thr  army,  and  will  immediately  enter  upon  a 
ment  with  thr  troops  in  this  State:  that,  in  thr  mean  time,  mea- 
sures will  1h>  taken  to  prepare  the  business  for  a  future  adjust- 
ment :  that  there  will  immediately  !><■  .-rut  to  Lancaster  a  sum  of 
money  to  be  paid  to  thr  troops  on  account  of  the  month's  pay 
heretofore  described  to  l>r  advanced  to  them,  thr  payment  of 
which  has  hitherto  been  delayed  by  particular  circumstar 
together  with  notes  for  three  month.-'  pay,  intended  to  hr  advanc- 
ed to  the  men  when  furloughed:  that  they  have  desired  this  in- 
formation t<>  hr  transmitted  to  thr  commanding  officer  here  ami 
at  Lancaster,  with  this  declaration,  that  the  corps  stationed  at 
Lancaster,  including  thr  detachment,  ran  only  hr  settled  with 
or  paid  at  that  place. 


278  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  26. 

Instructions  to  Major  Jackson. 
Sir: 

Information  having  been  received  that  a  detachment  of  about 
eighty  mutineers  are  on  their  way  from  Lancaster  to  this  place, 
you  will  please  to  proceed  to  meet  them,  and  to  endeavor,  by  every 
prudent  method,  to  engage  them  to  return  to  the  post  they  have 
left.  You  will  inform  them  of  the  orders  that  have  been  given, 
permitting  them  to  remain  in  service  till  their  accounts  shall 
have  been  settled,  if  they  prefer  it  to  being  furloughed,  and  of  the 
allowance  of  pay  which  has  been  made  to  the  army  at  large,  and 
in  which  they  are  to  be  included.  You  will  represent  to  them 
that  their  accounts  cannot  be  settled  without  their  officers,  whom 
they  have  left  behind  them  at  Lancaster.  You  will  represent  to 
them  with  coolness  but  energy,  the  impropriety  of  such  irregular 
proceedings,  and  the  danger  they  will  run  by  persisting  in  an  im- 
proper conduct.  You  will  assure  them  of  the  best  intentions  in 
Congress  to  do  them  justice,  and  of  the  absurdity  of  their  expect- 
ing to  procure  it  more  effectually  by  intemperate  proceedings. 
You  will  point  out  to  them  the  tendency  which  such  proceedings 
may  have  to  raise  the  resentments  of  their  country,  and  to  in- 
dispose it  to  take  effectual  measures  for  their  relief.  In  short,  you 
will  urge  every  consideration  in  your  power  to  induce  them  to 
return,  at  the  same  time  avoiding  whatever  may  tend  to  irritate. 
If  they  persist  in  coming  to  town,  you  will  give  the  earliest  no- 
tice to  us  of  their  progress  and  disposition.  Should  they  want 
provisions,  you  will  assure  them  of  a  supply,  if  they  will  re- 
main where  they  are,  which  you  are  to  endeavor  to  persuade 
them  to  do,  in  preference  to  coming  to  town. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  most  obedient  servant, 

A.  Hamilton, 
In  behalf  of  the  Committee. 

Philadelphia,  June  19,  1783. 

The  Committee,  consisting  of  Mr.  Hamilton  and  Mr.  Ellsworth, 
appointed  on  the  21st  of  June,  to  confer  with  the  Supreme  Exe- 
cutive Council  of  Pennsylvania,  on  the  practicability  of  taking 


jET.  26.]  R  B  P  O  B  T  s 


2  7 


effectaal  measures  to  support  the  public  authority,  having  deli- 
vered in  a  report,  ordered  thai  it  be  entered  in  the  journal. 

/»'<  port. 

The  Committee  appointed  to  confer  with  the  Supreme  I 
cutive  Council  of  Pennsylvania,  on  the  practicability  of  taking 
effectual  measures  to  support  the  public  authority,  inconsequi 

of  the  disorderly  and   menacing  appearan< fabodyofar] 

soldiers  surrounding  the  place  where  Congress  were  assembled  on 
Saturday  the  21st,  beg  leave  to  report: 

That  they  had  a  conference  the  morning  following  with  the 
Supreme  Executive  Council,  agreeable  to  the  intention  of  Con- 
gress, and  having  communicated  their  resolution  on  that  subject, 

irmed  the  Council  that  Congress  considered  the  proceeding  on 
which  that  resolution  was  founded,  of  so  serious  a  nature  as  to 
render  palliatives  improper,  and  to  require  that  vigorous  n 
sures  should  be  taken  to  put  a  stop  to  the  further  progress  of  the 
evil,  and  to  compel  submission  on  the  part  of  the  offenders: 
that,  in  this  view,  they  had  thought  it  expedient  to  declare  to  the 
I-    ecutive  of  the  State  in  which  they  reside,  the  u<  oi 

taking  effectual  measures  for  supporting  the  public  authority: 
that  though  they  had  declined  a  specification  of  the  m< 
which  they  would  deem  effectual,  it  was  their  sense,  that  a  num- 
ber of  the  militia  should  be  immediately  called  out,  sufficient  to 
suppress  the  revolt  That  Congress,  unwilling  to  expose  the 
!  lited  States  to  a  repetition  of  the  insult,  had  suspended  their 
ordinary  deliberations  in  this  city,  till  proper  steps  could  be  ta 
to  provide  against  the  possibility  of  it. 

The  Council,  after  some  conversation,  informed  the  Committee 
that  they  would  wish,  previous  to  a  determination,  I  3certain 
the  state  and  disposition  of  the  militia,  and  to  consult  the  officers 
for  that  purpose. 

The  day  following  the  Committee  waited  upon  the  Council  fo 
their  final  resolution,  having  previously  presented  a  Letter  ad 
dressed  to  his  Excellency  the  President,  of  which  a  copy  is  an 


280  HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[jEt.  26. 


nexed,*  requesting  the  determination  of  the  Council  in  writing. 
The  Council  declined  a  written  answer,  alleging  that  it  had  been 
unusual  on  similar  occasions  ;  that  they  were  unwilling  to  do  any- 
thing which  might  appear  an  innovation  in  the  manner  of  con- 
ducting conferences  between  their  body  and  committees  of  Con- 
gress:  adding,   however,   that   they  were   ready  to   give   their 
answer  in  writing,  if  Congress  should  request  it.     They  then 
proceeded  to  a  verbal  answer,  in  substance  as  follows  :  That  the 
Council  had  a  high  respect  for  the  representative  sovereignty  of 
the  United  States,  and  were  disposed  to  do  every  thing  in  their 
power  to  support  its  dignity.     That  they  regretted  the  insult 
which  had  happened,  with  this  additional  motive  of  sensibility, 
that  they  had  themselves  had  a  principal  share  in  it.     That  they 
had  consulted  a  number  of  well-informed  officers  of  the  militia 
and  found  that  nothing  in  the  present  state  of  things  was  to  be 
expected  from  that  quarter.     That  the  militia  of  the  city  in  gen- 
eral, were  not  only  ill-provided  for  service,  but  disinclined  to  act 
upon  the  present  occasion.     That  the  Council  did  not  believe  any 
exertions  were  to  be  looked  for  from  them,  except  in  case  of  fur- 
ther outrage  and  actual  violence  to  person  or  property.     That  in 
such  case  a  respectable  body  of  citizens  would  arm  for  the  secu- 
rity of  their  property  and  of  the  public  peace  ;  but  it  was  to  be 
doubted  what  measure  of  outrage  would  produce  this  effect ;  and 
in  particular,  it  was  not  to  be  expected  merely  from  a  repetition 
of  the  insult  which  had  happened. 

The  Council  observed  that  they  thought  it  their  duty  to  com- 
municate their  expectations  with  candor,  and  passed  from  the  sub- 
ject of  the  practicability  of  vigorous  measures  to  the  policy  of 
them.  They  stated,  that  General  St.  Clair,  with  the  approbation 
of  several  members  of  Congress  and  of  Council,  had,  by  a  decla- 
ration in  writing,  permitted  the  mutineers  to  choose  a  committee 

*  „  „         w    .  Philadelphia,  June  23,  1783. 

bm -We  have  the  honor  to  inclose  for  your  Excellency  and  the  Council,  a 
copy  of  the  resolutaons  communicated  in  our  conference  yesterday.  Having  then 
fully  entered  into  all  the  explanations  which  were  necessary  on  the  subject,  we 
shall  not  trouble  your  Excellency  with  a  recapitulation,  but  as  the  object  is  of  a 
delicate  and  important  nature,  we  think  it  our  duty  to  request  the  determination 
ot  the  Council  in  writing- 


JEt.  26.]  REPORTS.  281 

of  commissioned  officers  to  represenl  their  grievances  to  Council, 
and  had  authorized  them  to  expecl  that  a  conference  would  be 
allowed  for  thai  purpose.  Thai  it  was  said  the  mutineers  began 
t<>  be  convinced  of  their  error,  and  were  preparing  submissions. 

Thai  from  the  steps  which  bad  1 □  taken,  the  business  seemed 

to  be  in  a  train  of  negotiation,  and  that  it  merited  consideration, 
how  far  it  would  be  prudenl  to  terminate  the  matter  in  thai  way 
rather  than  employ  coercive  means. 

The  Committee  remarked,  with  respecl  to  the  scruple  about 
giving  an  answer  in  writing,  thai  they  could  not  forbear  differing 
in  opinion  as  to  its  propriety.  That  nothing  was  more  common 
than  written  communications  between  the  Executives  of  the  dif- 
ferenl  States  and  the  civil  and  military  officers  acting  under  the 
authority  of  the  I  nited  States;  that  for  a  much  stronger  reason 
there  was  a  propriety  in  this  mode  of  transacting  business  be- 
tween the  Council  and  a  Committee  of  the  body  of  Congress. 
Thai  indeed  it  would  be  conformable  to  the  most  obvious  and 
customary  rules  of  proceeding,  and  that  the  importance  of  the 
present  occasion  male  it  desirable  to  give  every  transaction  the 
greatest  precision.  With  respect  to  the  practicability  of  employ- 
ing the  militia,  the  Committee  observed,  thai  this  was  a  point  of 
which  the  Council  was  alone  competent  to  judge.  Thai  the  duty 
of  the  Committee  was  performed  in  explicitly  signifying  the  ex- 
pectations of  Congress. 

And  with  respect  to  the  policy  of  coercion,  the  Committee  re- 
marked, that  the  measures  taken  by  Congress  clearly  indicated 
their  opinion,  thai  the  excesses  of  the  mutineers  had  passed  the 
bounds  within  which  a  spirit  of  compromise  might  consist  with 
the  dignity  and  even  safety  of  government.  'That  impunity  for 
what  had  happened  might  encourage  to  more  flagrant  proceed- 
ings, invite  others  to  follow  the  example,  and  extend  the  mis- 
chief    That   the  passiveness  of  conducl  observed  towards  the 

detachment  which    had    mutinied    at    Lancaster,  and  came  to  the 

city  in  defiance  of  their  officers,  had,  do  doubt,  led  to  the  sub- 
sequent violences.  That  these  considerations  had  determined 
Congress  to  adopt  decisive  measures.  Thai  besides  the  applica- 
tion to  the  State  in  which  they  reside,  for  its  immediate  support, 


282  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [>Et.  26. 

they  had  not  neglected  other  means  of  ultimately  executing  their 
purposes,  but  had  directed  the  Commander-in-Chief  to  march  a 
detachment  of  troops  towards  the  city.  That  whatever  modera- 
tion it  might  be  prudent  to  exercise  towards  the  mutineers,  when 
they  were  once  in  the  power  of  the  government,  it  was  neces- 
sary, in  the  first  instance,  to  place  them  in  that  situation.  That 
Congress  would  probably  continue  to  pursue  this  object,  unless 
it  should  be  superseded  by  unequivocal  demonstrations  of  sub- 
mission on  the  part  of  the  mutineers.  That  they  had  hitherto 
given  no  satisfactory  evidence  of  this  disposition,  having  lately 
presented  the  officers  they  had  chosen  to  represent  their  griev- 
ances, with  a  formal  commission  in  writing,  enjoining  them,  if 
necessary,  to  use  compulsory  means  for  redress,  and  menacing 
them  with  death,  in  case  of  their  failing  to  execute  their  views. 
Under  this  state  of  things,  the  Committee  could  not  forbear  sug- 
gesting to  the  Council,  that  it  would  be  expedient  for  them  so  to 
qualify  the  reception  which  they  should  think  proper  to  give  to 
any  propositions  made  by  the  mutineers,  as  not  to  create  embar- 
rassment, should  Congress  continue  to  act  on  the  principle  of 
coercion. 

The  Committee  finding  that  there  was  no  satisfactory  ground 
to  expect  prompt  and  adequate  exertions  on  the  part  of  the  Ex- 
ecutive of  this  State,  for  supporting  the  public  authority,  were 
bound  by  the  resolution  under  which  they  acted,  to  advise  the 
President  to  summon  Congress  to  assemble  at  Princeton  or  Tren- 
ton on  Thursday  the  26th  inst. 

Willing,  however,  to  protract  the  departure  of  Congress  as 
long  as  they  could  be  justified  in  doing  it,  still  hoping  that  fur- 
ther information  would  produce  more  decisive  measures  on  the 
part  of  the  Council,  ond  desirous  of  seeing  what  complexion  the 
intimated  submissions  would  assume,  they  ventured  to  defer  ad- 
vising the  removal  till  the  afternoon  of  the  day  following  that  on 
which  the  answer  of  Council  was  given.  Bet  having  then  re- 
ceived no  further  communication  from  the  Council,  and  having 
learnt  from  General  St.  Clair  that  the  submissions  proposed  to  be 
offered  by  the  mutineers,  through  the  officers  they  had  chosen  to 
represent  them,  were  not  of  a  nature  sufficiently  explicit  to  be 


jEt.  26.]  VINDICATION    OF    CONGRESS.  283 

accepted  or  relied  on,  thai  they  would  be  accompanied  by  aew 
demands,  to  which  it  would  be  improper  to  listen  ;  thai  the  offi- 
-  themselves  composing  the  committee  had  shown  a  mysteri- 
ous reluctance  to  Inform  Genera]  St.  Clair  of  their  proceedii 
had  refused,  in   the  first  instance,  to  do  it,  and  had  afterwards 
only  yielded  to  a  peremptory  demand  on  his  part.     The  Commit- 
tee could   do  Longer  think  themselves  at   liberty  to  delay  their 
advice  for  an  adjournment,   which  they   this  day  accordingly 
e;  persuaded,  at  the  Bame  time,  thai  it  was  accessary  to  im- 
press the  mutineers  with  a  conviction,  thai  extremities  would  be 
osed  against  them  before  they  would  be  induced  to  resolve  on  a 
final  and  unreserved  submission; 
Philadelphia,  June  uttli   1783. 


Jiilv  2d,  1783. 

Whereas,  by  the  Confederation,  the  assent  of  nine  States  is 
requisite  to  the  determination  of  matters  of  principal  importance 
to  the  Tinted  States,  and  the  representation  in  Congri  .  for 

some  time  past,  generally  consisted  of  less  than  the  Dumber  of 
States:  in  consequence  whereof,  the  public  business,  at  an  in- 
teresting juncture,  has  suffered,  and  continues  to  Buffer,  greal  de- 
lay and  embarrassment, 

I:  tlved,  That  the  States  which  are  do1  presenl  in  Congress, 
be  informed  that  it  is  indispensable  they  should,  without  loss  Oi 
time,  send  forward  a  delegation  to  Congress. 


VINDICATION'  OF  CONGRESS. 

However    men  netnated   by   private    pique    or    party   v; 
may  take  pleasure  in  stigmatizing  the  conduct  of  Congress,  with 
or  without  reason,  considerate  and  good  men.  who  are  solicitous 
for  the  honor  of  then-  country,  will  ad  upon  very  differenl  prin- 
ciples.    They  will  view  with  regret  those  instances  in  which  the 


284  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [iEi.  26. 

measures  of  that  body  may  be  really  entitled  to  blame — will  be 
cautious  how  they  bestow  it  where  it  is  not  merited — and  will 
always  examine  with  candor  before  they  condemn.  Though  it 
is  certainly  true  that  the  infallibility  of  that  or  any  other  body  is 
a  doctrine  to  be  reprobated  in  a  free  country,  and  a  servile  com- 
plaisance to  its  errors  would  be  as  dangerous  as  despicable,  yet 
it  must  be  allowed,  that  an  opposite  extreme  may  be  little  less 
pernicious. 

A  captious  disposition  to  arraign  without  examination — to 
accumulate  undistinguishing  censure — to  excite  jealousies  against 
the  phantom,  without  the  substance  of  power — to  blame  for  de- 
fects in  the  Constitution  itself,  not  in  the  administration  of  it — 
is  a  vice  of  nearly  as  mischievous  a  tendency  in  the  public  mind, 
as  a  blind  and  superstitious  reverence. 

In  the  present  circumstances  of  this  country,  most  evil  is  to  be 
apprehended  from  the  prevalency  of  the  former  spirit ;  for  new 
governments  emerging  out  of  a  revolution,  are  naturally  deficient 
in  authority,  and  require  that  every  effort  should  be  made  to 
strengthen,  not  to  undermine,  the  public  confidence.  This  ob- 
servation applies  with  peculiar  force  to  the  government  of  the 
Union— the  constitutional  imbecility  of  which  must  be  apparent 
to  every  man  of  reflection. 

It  is  therefore  painful  to  hear,  as  is  too  fashionable  a  practice, 
indiscriminate  censure  heaped  upon  Congress  for  every  public 
failure  and  misfortune,  without  considering  the  entire  dispropor- 
tion between  the  means  which  that  body  have  it  in  their  power 
to  employ,  and  their  responsibility. 

It  is  equally  exceptionable  to  see  all  the  errors  of  their  prede- 
cessors concentred  in  a  mass  of  accusation  against  the  subsisting 
body.  If  there  have  been  meritorious  acts  performed  by  Con- 
gress at  any  period  of  the  revolution,  all  the  praise  of  it  is  con- 
fined to  the  immediate  actors ;  if  there  have  been  faults  com- 
mitted, they  descend  with  increasing  odium  upon  all  who  come 
after.  The  good  deeds  of  Congress  die,  or  go  off  the  stage  with 
the  individuals  who  are  the  authors  of  them,  but  their  mistakes 
are  the  inheritance  of  all  those  who  succeed. 

It  is  true,  Congress  in  a  political  capacity  are  perpetual ;  but 


JEt.  26.]  VINDICATION    OF    CONGRESS.  285 

the  individuals  who  compose  it  in  fact  undergo  frequenl  ehanj 
It  is  qoI  more  reasonable  to  charge  any  presenl  sei  of  memb 
for  th«'  mismanagement  of  a  former  set — allowing  it  to  I"-  real — 
than  it  would  be  to  impute  to  George  the  Third  the  crimes  of 
Eenry  the  Eighth.  It  is  a  principle  of  the  English  law  thai  tin: 
king  never  dies,  and  yet  no  mac  in  his  senses,  on  accounl  of  this 
fiction  of  the  law,  will  transfer  to  the  reigning  monarch  the  in- 
famy of  his  predecessor's  misconduct.  It  is  not  less  unjust  or 
absurd  to  blame  a  subsisting  Congress,  the  greater  part  of  whose 
members  have  had  no  agency  in  the  measures  which  are  tln> 
objects  of  crimination,  lor  the  ill  consequences  of  those  measures. 

It  is  not  much  to  he  wondered  at  that  this  error  should  exist 
anion--  the  uninformed  parts  of  the  community,  who  can  only  be 
expected  to  have  general  notions  of  Congress,  without  any  pre- 
ideas  of  their  constitution,  and  who,  therefore,  will  he  dis- 
posed to  view  them  always  under  the  same  form,  without  attend- 
ing to  the  changes  which  the  body  is  continually  undergoing. 
But  when  men  more  enlightened  tall  into  the  same  fallacy,  it  is 
an  argument  of  disingenuous  intentions,  and  proves  them  to  be 
under  the  influence  of  passion,  of  prejudice,  or  of  something 
worse. 

The  chief  topics  of  clamor  against  Congress  are,  either  posi- 
tive breaches  of  faith,  by  avowed  departures  from  express  stipu- 
lations, as  in  the  reduction  of  the  Continental  money  from  forty 
to  one,  or  negative,  as  the  general  non-performance  of  the  public 
engagemet 

As  to  those  of  the  first  kind,  without  entering  into  a  discus- 
sion of  particular  instances— withoul  examining  whether  those 
which  may  have  happened,  may  have  been  produced  by  inexpe- 
rience, necessity,  levity,  or  design — it  will  be  sufficient,  in  justi- 
fication of  the  presenl  Congress  to  Bay,  that  a  large  majority  of 

them  had  no  share  whatever  in  those  acts  which   are  the  sub 

of  complaint.     And  to  those  of  the  lasl  kind,  there  always  has 
been,  and  is,  a  conclusive  and  satisfactory  answer  to  be  given  for 
Congress.     The  power  of  raising  money  is  not  vested  in  them. 
All  they  can  do,  is  to  assign  their  quota  to  the  several  Si 
and  to  make  requisitions  from  them.     This  they  have  uot  fe      I 


286  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [iEi.  26. 

to  do  in  the  most  ample  manner ;  and  if  the  States  do  not  com- 
ply, to  enable  them  to  execute  their  engagements,  the  delin- 
quency is  not  to  be  charged  upon  Congress. 

Should  it  be  said,  that  Congress  ought  not  to  have  made  en- 
gagements without  the  power  of  fulfilling  them,  this  is  to  say, 
that  they  ought  to  have  given  up  the  contest,  and  to  have  be- 
trayed the  liberty  of  America.  It  was  necessary  to  incur  debts 
to  support  the  revolution ;  and  no  man  who  is  a  sincere  friend  to 
it,  can  be  serious  in  advancing  the  position,  that  this  essential 
resource  ought  not  to  have  been  employed,  from  a  scruple  of  that 
nature. 

If  Congress,  indeed,  after  a  definitive  conclusion  of  the  peace, 
consent  to  be  the  instruments  of  future  engagements,  without 
more  effectual  provision  at  their  disposal,  they  will  then  merit 
the  indignation  of  every  honest  man. 

But  the  present  Congress  have  more  than  this  general  argu- 
ment to  offer  in  their  vindication.  They  can  say,  with  truth, 
that  so  far  from  having  committed  any  positive  violations  of 
faith,  they  have  manifested  a  uniform  and  anxious  solicitude 
for  the  restoration  of  public  credit,  and  for  doing  complete  justice 
to  every  class  of  public  creditors.  Having  found,  by  repeated 
and  daily  experience,  that  the  provisions  of  the  Confederation 
were  unequal  to  the  purpose,  they  have  had  recourse  to  extra- 
ordinary expedients.  The  plan  of  the  (April  18,  1782,) 
for  funding  the  public  debt,  is  now  depending  before  the  several 
legislatures ;  nor  is  it  possible  for  them.to  give  a  more  decisive 
proof  of  their  disposition  to  justice  than  is  contained  in  that 
plan. 

Congress  stand  in  a  very  delicate  and  embarrassing  situation. 
On  the  one  hand,  they  are  blamed  for  not  doing  what  they  have 
no  means  of  doing;  on  the  other,  their  attempts  are  branded 
with  the  imputations  of  a  spirit  of  encroachment,  and  a  lust  of 
power. 

In  these  circumstances,  it  is  the  duty  of  all  those  who  have 
the  welfare  of  the  community  at  heart,  to  unite  their  efforts  to 
direct  the  attention  of  the  people  to  the  true  source  of  the  public 
disorders — the  want  of  an  efficient  General  Government — 


JEt.  27.]  PHOCION.  -NT 

an<l  to  impress  upon  them  this  conviction,  thai  these  States,  to  be 
happy,  i mi.-!  bave  a  stronger  bond  of  Union,  and  a  Confedera- 
tion capable  of  drawing  forth  the  resources  of  the  country.    This 

will  be  :i  more  laudahle  otvu | at i< >n  tli.'in  that  < >f  i-;i\  i  1 1 .  linst 

measures,  the  imperfection  of  which  is  the  necessary  resnll  of  the 

( '-  »i  1-1  i  t  ul  ion. 

The  residue  is  qo(  preserved, 


LETTERS  FROM  PHOCION 

To  Oie  considerate  Oitm  ns  of  New-  York,  on  tin-  Politics  of  the  Times, 

in  conseqtu  nee  oj  the  Peace. 

1784. 

LETTER     I. 

While  not  only  every  personal  artifice  is  employed  by  a  few 
heated  and  inconsiderate  spirits,  to  practise  upon  the  passions  of 
the  people,  but  the  public  papers  are  made  the  channel  of  the 
-'  inflammatory  and  pernicious  doctrines,  tendL  I  the  sub- 
rion  of  all  private  security  and  genuine  liberty;  it  would  be 
culpable  in  those  who  understand  and  value  the  true  inter 
of  the  community  to  be  silent  spectators.  It  is,  however,  a  com- 
mon observation,  that  men,  1  »•  - 1 1 1  upon  mischief,  are  mor< 
in  the  pursuit  of  their  objed  than  those  who  aim  at  doing  good. 
Hence  it  is,  in  the  presenl  moment,  we  see  the  most  industrious 
efforts  made  to  violate  the  Constitution  <>t'  this  State,  to  trample 
upon  the  rights  of  the  subject,  and  to  chicane  or  infringe  the 
most  solemn  obligations  of  treaty ;  while  dispassionate  and  up- 
right men  almost  totally  ueglecl  the  means  >A'  counteracting 
these  dangerous  attempts.     A  >f  duty  alone  calls  forth  the 

observations,  which  will  be  submitted  to  the  good  sense  of  the 
people,  in  this  paper,  from  our  who  has  more  inclination  than 
leisure  to  serve  them;  and  who  has  had  too  deep  a  Bhare  m  the 


288  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [>Et.  27. 

common  exertions  in  this  Revolution,  to  be  willing  to  see  its 
fruits  blasted  by  the  violence  of  rash  or  unprincipled  men,  with- 
out, at  least,  protesting  against  their  designs. 

The  persons  alluded  to,  pretend  to  appeal  to  the  spirit  of 
whigism ;  while  they  endeavor  to  put  in  motion  all  the  furious 
and  dark  passions  of  the  human  mind.  The  spirit  of  whigism 
is  generous,  humane,  beneficent,  and  just.  These  men  inculcate 
revenge,  cruelty,  persecution,  and  perfidy.  The  spirit  of  whig- 
ism cherishes  legal  liberty,  holds  the  rights  of  every  individual 
sacred,  condemns  or  punishes  no  man  without  regular  trial  and 
conviction  of  some  crime  declared  by  antecedent  laws  ;  repro- 
bates equally  the  punishment  of  the  citizen  by  arbitrary  acts  of 
legislation  as  by  the  lawless  combinations  of  unauthorized  indi- 
viduals ;  while  these  men  are  advocates  for  expelling  a  large 
number  of  their  fellow-citizens  unheard,  untried  ;  or,  if  they  can- 
not effect  this,  are  for  disfranchising  them,  in  the  face  of  the 
Constitution,  without  the  judgment  of  their  peers,  and  contrary 
to  the  law  of  the  land. 

The  thirteenth  article  of  the  Constitution  declares,  "that  no 
member  of  the  State  shall  be  disfranchised,  or  defrauded  of  any  of 
the  rights  or  privileges  sacred  to  the  subjects  of  this  State  by  the 
Constitution,  unless  by  the  law  of  the  land  or  the  judgment  of  his 
peers."  If  we  inquire  what  is  meant  by  the  law  of  the  land,  the 
best  commentators  will  tell  us,  that  it  means  due  process  of  law; 
that  is,  by  indictment  or  presentment  of  good  and  lawful  men*  and 
trial  and  conviction  in  consequence. 

It  is  true,  that  in  England,  on  extraordinary  occasions,  at- 
tainders for  high  treason,  by  Act  of  Parliament,  have  been 
practised;  but  many  of  the  ablest  advocates  for  civil  liberty 
have  condemned  this  practice  ;  and  it  has  commonly  been  exer- 
cised with  great  caution  upon  individuals  only  by  name,  never 
against  general  descriptions  of  men.  The  sense  of  our  Constitu- 
tion on  this  practice,  we  may  gather  from  the  forty-first  article, 
where  all  attainders,  other  than  for  crimes  committed  during  the 
late  war,  are  fordidden. 

*  Coke  upon  Magna  Charta,  chap.  29,  page  60. 


jEt.  27.]  PHOCION.  889 

If  there  had  been  no  Treaty  in  the  \\  ay,  the  I  legislature  might, 
by  noma,  have  attainted  particular  persons  of  high  treason  for 
crimes  committed   during  the  war;    but,   independent  of   the 

Tivatv,  it  could   not,  ami  cannot,  without,  tyranny,  disfranc] 
or  punish  whole  classes  of  citizens  by  general  descriptions,  with- 
out trial  and  conviction  of  offences  known   1>\  laws  previously 
established,  declaring  the  offence  and  prescribing  the  penalty. 

This  is  a  dictate  of  natural  justice,  and  a  fundamental  prin* 
ciple  of  law  and  liberty. 

Nothing  is  more  common  than  for  a  five  people,  in  times  of 
heat  and  violence,  to  gratify  momentary  passions,  by  letting  into 
the  government,  principles  ami  precedents  which  afterwards 
prove  fatal  to  themselves.  Of  this  kind  is  the  doctrine  of  dis- 
qualification, disfranchisement,  and  banishment,  by  Acts  of  Leg- 
islature. The  da n,",-! Tons  consequences  of  this  power  are  mani- 
fest. If  the  Legislature  can  disfranchise  any  number  of  citizens 
at  pleasure,  by  general  descriptions,  it  may  soon  confine  all  the 
votes  to  a  small  number  of  partisans,  and  establish  an  aristocracy 
or  an  oligarchy.     If  it  mav  banish  at  discretion,  all  those  whom 

ticular  circumstances  render  obnoxious,  without  hearing  or 
trial,   no  man  can    be    safe,  nor  know  when  he  mav  be  the  inno- 

•  victim  of  a  prevailing  faction.     The  name  of  liberty  app 
to  Buch  a  government,  would  be  a  mockery  of  common  sense. 

The  English  Wnigs,  after  the  Revolution,  from  an  overween- 
ing dread  of  Popery  and  the  Pretender,  from  triennial,  voted  the 
parliament  septennial.  They  have  been  trying,  ever  since,  to 
undo  this  false  step  in  vain,  and  repenting  the  effects  of  their 
folly  in  the  overgrown  power  of  the  new  family.  Some  impru- 
dent WhigS  among  US,  from  resentment  to  those  who  have  t8 
the  opposite  side  (ami  many  of  them  from  Worse  motives),  would 

corrupt  the  principles  of  our  government,  and  furnish  precedents 
for  future  usurpations  on  the  rights  of  the  community. 

Let  the  people  beware  <<\'  such  counsellors.      HoweveT  a    few 

designing  men  may  rise  in  consequence,  and  advance  their  pri- 
vate interests  by  such  expedients,  the  people,  at  large, 

to  be  the  Losers,  in    the   event,  whenever  they  Buffer  a  departure 
B  19 


290  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^Et.  27. 

from  the  rules  of  general  and  equal  justice,  or  from  the  true 
principles  of  universal  liberty. 

These  men  not  only  overleap  the  barriers  of  the  Constitution 
without  remorse,  but  they  advise  us  to  become  the  scorn  of  na- 
tions, by  violating  the  solemn  engagements  of  the  United  States. 

They  endeavor  to  mould  the  Treaty  with  Great  Britain,  into 
such  form  as  pleases  them,  and  to  make  it  mean  any  thing  or 
nothing,  as  suits  their  views.  They  tell  us,  that  all  the  stipula- 
tions, with  respect  to  the  Tories,  are  merely,  that  Congress  will 
recommend,  and  the  States  may  comply  or  not,  as  they  please. 

But  let  any  man  of  sense  and  candor  read  the  Treaty,  and  it 
will  speak  for  itself.  The  fifth  article  is  indeed  recommendatory ; 
but  the  sixth  is  as  positive  as  words  can  make  it.  "  There  shall 
he  no  future  confiscations  made,  nor  prosecutions  commenced 
against  any  person  or  persons,  for  or  by  reason  of  the  part  which 
he  or  they  may  have  taken  in  the  present  war ;  and  no  person 
shall,  on  that  account,  suffer  any  future  loss  or  damage,  either  in 
his  person,  liberty,  or  property." 

As  to  the  restoration  of  confiscated  property,  which  is  the 
subject  of  the  fifth  article,  the  States  may  restore  or  not,  as  they 
think  proper,  because  Congress  engage  only  to  recommend ;  but 
there  is  not  a  word  about  recommendation  in  the  sixth  article. 

Quotations  are  made  from  the  debates  in  Parliament,  to  prove 
that  the  whole  is  understood  as  recommendatory ;  but  the  ex- 
pressions in  those  quotations,  turn  altogether  upon  those  persons 
who  have  been  actually  proscribed,  and  their  property  confis- 
cated ;  they  have  no  relation  to  those  who  come  under  the  sixth 
article,  or  who  might  be  the  objects  of  future  prosecution  or 
punishment.  And  to  this  it  may  be  added,  that  it  is  absurd 
and  inadmissible  in  fair  reasoning,  to  combat  the  plain,  authentic 
language  of  solemn  treaty,  by  loose  recitals  of  debates  in  news- 
papers. 

The  sound  and  ingenuous  construction  of  the  two  articles, 
taken  collectively,  is  this :  That  where  the  property  of  any  per- 
sons, other  than  those  who  have  been  in  arms  against  the  United 
States,  had  been  actually  confiscated,  and  themselves  proscribed, 
then  Congress  are  to  recommend  a  restoration  of  estates,  rights, 


JSt.  27.J  PHOCION  29J 

and  properties;  and,  with  respecl  to  those  who  had  been  in 
arms,  they  are  to  recommend  permission  for  them  to  remain  a 
twelvemonth  in  the  country,  to  solicil  a  Like  restoration;  but 
with  respecl  to  all  those  who  were  do1  in  this  situation,  and  who 
had  not  already  been  the  ob  ects  of  confiscation  and  banishment 
they  were  to  be  absolutely  secured  from  all  future  injury  to  i 

son,  liberty,  or  property. 

To  Bay  that  this  exemption  from   positive  injury,  does  not 
imply  a  righl  to  live  among  us  as  citizens,  Is  a  pitiful  sophist] 
it    is  to  say  that  the  banishment  of  a  person  from  his  country, 
connections,  and  resources  (one  of  the  greatesl  punishments  that 
can  befall  a  man),  is  do  punishmenl  at  all. 

The  meaning  of  the  word  lihrrtij  has  been  contested.  Its 
true  sense  musl  be,  the  enjoymenl  oi  the  common  privileges  of 
subjects  under  the  same  government.  There  is  uo  middle  Hue 
of  just  construction  between  this  sense  and  a  mere  exemption 
from  personal  imprisonment  I  If  the  lasl  were  adopted,  the  sti- 
pulation would  become  uugatory;  and,  by  depriving  those  who 
are  the  subjects  of  it,  of  the  protection  of  government,  it  would 
amount  to  a  virtual  confiscation  and  banishment  :  for  I  »uld 

not  have  the  benefil  of  the  laws  against  those  who  should 
gressors. 

Should  it  be  said,  that  they  may  receive  protection  without  be- 
ing admitted  to  a  full  enjoyment  ol' the  pi'i\il,-.  -;  this 
musl  be  either  matte]-  of  righl  under  the  I  .  or  matter  of 
grace  in  the  government.  If  the  latter,  the  governmenl  may  re- 
it  :  and  then  the  objection  presents  itself,  that  the  Treaty 
would,  by  this  construction,  he  virtually  defeated:  if  matter  of 

right,  then    it    follows,  that    more  i-  intended  by  the  word  liberty 

than  a   mere  exemption  from  imprisoment ;  and  where  shall  the 

line  he  drawn?    Q(  ipricious  and  arbitrary  line,  hut  one   war- 

ranted by  rational  and  legal  construction? 

To  say  that,  by  espousing  the  cause  of  Grreal  Britain,  they 
became  aliens,  and  that  it  will  satisfy  the  Treaty  to  allow  them 
the  same  protection  to  which  aliens  are  entitled,  is  to  admit 
that  subjects  may,  at  pleasure,  renounce  their  allegiance  to  the 
State  of  which   they  are    members,  and   devote   themseh 


292  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [vEt.  27. 

foreign  jurisdiction ;  a  principle  contrary  to  law  and  subversive 
of  government.  But  even  this  will  not  satisfy  the  Treaty ;  for 
aliens  cannot  hold  real  property  under  our  government :  and  if 
they  are  aliens,  all  their  real  estates  belong  to  the  public.  This 
will  be,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  a  confiscation  of  property. 
But  this  is  not  all.  How  does  it  appear  that  the  persons  who 
are  thus  to  be  stripped  of  their  citizenship,  have  been  guilty  of 
such  an  adherence  to  the  enemy,  as,  in  legal  contemplation, 
amounts  to  a  crime  ?  Their  merely  remaining  in  their  posses- 
sions, under  the  power  of  the  conqueror,  does  not  imply  this, 
but  is  executed  by  the  laws  and  customs  of  all  civilized  nations. 
To  adjudge  them  culpable,  they  must  be  first  tried  and  convict- 
ed ;  and  this  the  Treaty  forbids.  These  are  the  difficulties  in- 
volved, by  recurring  to  subtle  and  evasive,  instead  of  simple  and 
candid,  construction,  which  will  teach  us,  that  the  stipulations  in 
the  Treaty  amount  to  an  amnesty  and  act  of  oblivion. 

There  is  a  very  simple  and  conclusive  point  of  view  in  which 
this  subject  may  be  placed.  No  citizen  can  be  deprived  of  any 
right  which  the  citizens  in  general  are  entitled  to,  unless  forfeited 
by  some  offence.  It  has  been  seen  that  the  regular  and  consti- 
tutional mode  of  ascertaining  whether  this  forfeiture  has  been  in- 
curred, is  by  legal  process,  trial,  and  conviction.  This  ex  vi  ter- 
mini, supposes  prosecution.  Now,  consistent  with  the  Treaty, 
there  can  be  no  future  prosecution  for  any  thing  done  on  account 
of  the  war.  Can  we  then  do,  by  act  of  Legislature,  what  the 
Treaty  disables  us  from  doing  by  due  course  of  law  ?  This 
would  be  to  imitate  the  Eoman  General,  who,  having  promised 
Antiochus  to  restore  half  his  vessels,  caused  them  to  be  sawed  in 
two  before  their  delivery;  or  the  Platseans,  who,  having  pro- 
mised the  Thebans  to  restore  their  prisoners,  had  them  first  put 
to  death,  and  returned  them  dead. 

Such  fraudulent  subterfuges  are  justly  considered  more  odious 
than  an  open  and  avowed  violation  of  Treaty. 

When  these  posture-masters  in  logic  are  driven  from  this  first 
ground  of  the  meaning  of  the  Treaty,  they  are  forced  to  that  of 
attacking  the  right  of  Congress  to  make  such  a  stipulation,  and 
arraigning  the  impudence  of  Great  Britain  in  attempting  to  make 


JEt.  27.]  PHOCION.  293 

terms  for  our  own  Bubjecta    Bu1  here,  as  every  where  ela  .  thej 

are  only  successful  in  betraying  their  narrowness  and  ig 'ai 

Dors  nol  the  ac1  of  Confederation  place  the  exclusive  right  of 
making  war  and  pence  in  the  I  Fnited  States  in  Cor  0 

they  not  the  Bole  power  of  making  treaties  with  foreign  natio 

not  these  among  the  first  rights  of  sovereignty?     And  does 
not  the  delegation  of  them  to  the  general  Confeden  i  far 

abridge  the  sovereignty  of  each  particular  State?  Would  nol  a 
differenl  doctrine  involve  the  contradiction  of  imperium  in  impe- 

What  reasonable  limits  can  be  assigned  to  these  prero 
tives  of  the  Union,  other  than  the  general  safety  and  the  funda- 
mentals of  the  Constitution?  Can  it  be  said,  that  a  Treaty  for 
arresting  the  future  operations  of  positive  acts  of  Legislature,  and 
which  has  indeed  no  other  effect  than  that  of  a  pardon  for 
offences  committed  against  these  acts,  is  an  attack  upon  the  fun- 
damentals of  the  State  Constitutions?  Can  it  be  denied  thai  the 
peace  which  was  made,  taken  collectively,  was  manifestly  for  the 

eral  good — that  it  was  even  favorable  to  the  solid  interests 
this  country,  beyond  the  expectation  of  the  most  sanguine?     If 

this  cannol    be   denied — and    none,  can  deny  it,  who  know  either 

the  value  of  the  objects  gained  by  the  Treaty,  or  the  necessity 
these  States  were  under  at  the  time  of  making  peace — it  follows, 
that  C  and  their  Ministers  acted  wisely  in  making  the 

Treaty  which  has  been  made;    and  it  follows  from  this,  that  th 

Si  ites  are  hound  by  it.  and  oughl  religiously  to  observe  it. 

The  >i(i  possidetis,  each  party  to  hold  what  it  possesses,  is  the 
point  from  which  nations  set  out  in  framing  a  Treaty  of  Pei 
If  one  side  gives  up  a  pari  of  its  acquisitions,   the  other  - 
renders  an  equivalent  in  some  other  way.     What  is  the  equiva- 
lent given  to  Great   Britain  lor  all  the  important  concessions  she 
has  made?     she  has  surrendered  the  capital  of  this  State  and  its 
large  dependencies.     She  is  to  surrender  our  immensely  valuable 
posts  on  the  frontier  :    and  to  yield  to  us  a  vast  tract  <<['  v,  estern 
territory,  with  one  half  of  the  lakes,  by  which  we  shall  com- 
mand almost  the  whole   fur   trade.     She  renounces  to  us  hex 
claim  to  the  navigation  of  the  Mississippi,  and  admits  as  to  sh 
in  the  fisheries,  even  on  better  terms  than  we  formerly  enji 


294  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  27. 

it.  As  she  was  in  possession,  by  right  of  war,  of  all  these  objects, 
whatever  may  have  been  our  original  pretensions  to  them,  they 
are,  by  the  laws  of  nations,  to  be  considered  as  so  much  given  up 
on  her  part.  And  what  do  we  give  in  return  ?  "We  stipulate 
that  there  shall  be  no  future  injury  to  her  adherents  among  us. 
How  insignificant  the  equivalent  in  comparison  with  the  acquisi- 
tion !  A  man  of  sense  would  be  ashamed  to  compare  them ;  a 
man  of  honesty,  not  intoxicated  with  passion,  would  blush  to 
lisp  a  question  of  the  obligation  to  observe  the  stipulation  on  our 
part. 

If  it  be  said  that  Great  Britain  has  only  restored  to  us  what 
she  had  unjustly  taken  from  us,  and  that  therefore  we  are  not 
bound  to  make  compensation ;  this  admits  of  several  answers : 
— Firstly :  That  the  fact  is  not  true  ;  for  she  has  ceded  to  us  a 
large  tract  of  country  to  which  we  had  even  no  plausible  claim. 
Secondly :  That  however  the  principle  of  the  objection  might 
have  been  jDroper,  to  prevent  our  promising  an  equivalent,  it 
comes  too  late  after  the  promise  has  been  made.  Thirdly: 
That  as  to  the  external  effects  of  war,  the  voluntary  law  of  na- 
tions knows  no  distinction  between  the  justice  or  injustice  of  the 
quarrel,  but  in  the  Treaty  of  Peace  puts  the  contracting  parties 
upon  an  equal  footing ;  which  is  a  necessary  consequence  of  the 
independence  of  nations :  for,  as  they  acknowledge  no  common 
judge,  if,  in  concluding  peace,  both  parties  were  not  to  stand 
upon  the  same  ground  of  right,  there  never  could  be  an  adj  ust- 
ment  of  differences,  or  an  end  of  war.     This  is  a  settled  principle. 

Let  us  examine  the  pretext  upon  which  it  is  disputed.  Con- 
gress, say  our  political  jugglers,  have  no  right  to  meddle  with 
our  internal  police.  They  would  be  puzzled  to  tell  what  they 
mean  by  the  expression.  The  truth  is,  it  has  no  definite  mean- 
ing ;  for  it  is  impossible  for  Congress  to  do  a  single  act  which 
will  not,  directly  or  indirectly,  affect  the  internal  police  of  every 
State.  When,  in  order  to  procure  privileges  of  commerce  to 
the  citizens  of  these  States,  in  foreign  countries,  they  stipulate  a 
reciprocity  of  privileges  here,  does  not  such  an  admission  of 
the  subjects  of  foreign  countries  to  certain  rights  within  these 
States,  operate  immediately  upon  their  internal  police  ?     And 


jEt.27.]  phocion. 

were  this  not  .Ion.-,  wmiM  not  the  power  of  making  commercial 
treaties,  vested  in  Congress,  become  a  mere  nullity?  In  Bhort, 
if  aothing  was  to  be  done  by  Congress  thai  would  affect  our  in- 
ternal police,  in  the  Large  sense  in  which  it  has  been  taken, 
u,,.lM  Qo1  .,n  tne  powers  oi  the  Confederation  be  annihilated, 

ami  thr  CTnion  dissolved? 

Hut.  say  they  again,  Buch  a  thin-  was  aeveT  heard  of,  i  -  an 
indemnityfor  traitorous  subjects  stipulated  in  a  Treaty  oi  !'• 
History  will  inform  them  that  it  is  a  stipulation  often  made. 
T  o  examples  shall  be  cited:  Thr  Treaty  oi  Munster,  which 
put  an  end  to  the  differences  between  Spam  and  the  United 
after  the  revolution  of  those  Provinces:  The  Tr< 

eluded,  in  seventeen  hundred  and  thirty-eight,  be1  the 

:„,,.   France,  Spain.  Pola.nl  ami  several  otherpow<  led 

thr  Christian  peace.    The  war  whirl,  preceded  this  Treal 
one  of  the  most  complicated  in  whirl,  Europe  had  hem  en 
thr  succession  to  thr  Spanish  Monarchy,  and  the  righl  to 
throneofPola.nl,   had  been  included   in   it:  Stanislaus  having 
been  obliged  to  abdicate  the  crown.     Differenl   parts  of  the  na- 
•     ,s  concerned  had  taken  opposite  sides.     Many  of  the  Gen 
princes  had  been   in  arms  againsl   thr   Empire  to  which  I 
owed  obedience.     This  Treaty  qo1  only  mutually  stipulates  in- 

mity  to  thr  subjects  of  thr  respective  powers,  bul  even  resti- 
tution of  property  ami  offices.  The  Emperor,  who  contracted  in 
behalf  of  thr  Empire,  has  much  ttensive  powers,  asl 

the  Empire,  than  Congress,  as  representative  of  tin- 

States 

Bui  let  it  be  admitted  that  Congress  had  no  right  to  e 
into  this  article;  do  not  equity  and  prudence  strongly  urge  the 

eral  States  to  comply  with  it ?  We  have,  in  part,  enjoyed 
thr  benefit  of  thr  Treaty;  in  consequence  of  which,  we,  of  tins 
State,  are  now  in  pos  i  of  our  capital ;  ami  this  implies  an 

obligation  in  conscience,  to  perform  what  is  to  be  performed  on 
our  part.     But  there  is  a  consideration  which   will,   perl 
have  more  force  with  mm  who  seem  to  be  superior  to 
tious  obligations;  i1  is  that  thr  British  are  still  in  po 
our  frontier  posts,  which  thej  may  keep  in  sp.tr  of  us;  ami  that 


296 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  27. 

they  may  essentially  exclude  us  from  the  fisheries,  if  they  are  so 
disposed.     Breach  of  Treaty  on  our  part  wiU  be  a  just  ground  for 
breaking  it  on  theirs.     The  Treaty  must  stand  or  fall  together. 
The  wilful  breach  of  a  single  article  annuls  the  whole*     Con- 
gress are  appointed  by  the  Constitution,  to  manage  our  foreign 
concerns.     The  nations  with  whom  they  contract,  are  to  suppose 
they  understand  their  own  powers,  and  will  not  exceed  them. 
If  they  do  it  in  any  instance,  and  we  think  it  proper  to  disavow 
the  act,  it  will  be  no  apology  to  those  with  whom  they  contract 
that  they  had  exceeded  their  authority.     One  side  cannot  be 
bound,  unless  the  obligation  is  reciprocal. 

Suppose,  then,  Great  Britain  should  be  induced  to  refuse  a 
further  compliance  with  the  Treaty,  in  consequence  of  a  breach 
of  it  on  our  part ;  what  situation  should  we  be  in  ?  Can  we  re- 
new the  war  to  compel  a  compliance?  We  know,  and  all  the 
world  knows,  it  is  out  of  our  power.  Will  those  who  have 
heretofore  assisted  us,  take  our  part  ?  Their  affairs  require 
peace  as  well  as  ours;  and  they  will  not  think  themselves  bound 
to  undertake  an  unjust  war,  to  regain  to  us  rights  which  we 
have  forfeited  by  a  childish  levity,  and  a  wanton  contempt  of 
public  faith.  l 

We  should  then  have  sacrificed  important  interests  to  the 
little  vindictive,  selfish,  mean  passions  of  a  few.  To  say  nothing 
of  the  loss  of  territory,  of  the  disadvantage  to  the  whole  com 
merce  of  the  Union,  by  obstructions  in  the  fisheries;  this  State 
would  lose  an  annual  profit  of  more  than  fifty  thousand  pounds 
sterling  from  the  fur  trade. 

But  not  to  insist  on  possible  inconveniences,  there  is  a  certain 
evil  which  attends  our  intemperance;  a  loss  of  character  in 
Europe  Our  ministers  write,  that  our  conduct,  hitherto,  in  this 
respect  has  done  us  infinite  injury,  and  has  exhibited  us  in  the 
light  of  a  people  destitute  of  government,  on  whose  engagements 
of  course  no  dependence  can  be  placed 

for  2lZZ ,!?°  ^  f  tbe  h6ad  °f  the  ^  wM  ^tends 
for  disqualification  and  expulsion,  endeavor  to  enlist  a  number 

*  Vatel,  Book  4,  Chapter  4,  ()  47.    Grotius,  Book  3,  Chapter  19,  $  14. 


JEt.  21.] 


P  HO  CI  ON.  291 


of  people  on  their  aide  by  holding  ou1  motives  of  private  advan- 
tage to  them.  To  the  trader  they  Bay,  Yon  will  be  overborne  by 
the  large  capitals  ofthe  tory  merchants;  to  the  mechanic,  Xonr 
Dua  ■  il]  be  leas  profitable,  youi  wages  less  considerable,  by 
the  interference  of  tory  workmen.  A  man,  the  Leasl  acquainted 
with  trade,  will  ind 1  langh  a1  rach  suggestions.  Be  will  know- 
that  every  merchant,  or  trader,  lias  an  interesl  in  the  aggre$ 
mass  of  capital,  or  stock  in  trad.-;  thai  what  he  himself  wantB  in 
capital,  he  musl  make  ap  in  credit;  that  unless  there  are  othew 
who  possess  large  capitals,  this  credil  cannot  be  had;  and  that, 
in  the  diminution  of  the  general  capital  of  the  State,  comm< 

Will  decline,  and  his  own  prospects  of  profit  will  diminish. 

These  arguments,  it*  they  were  understood,  would  be  conclu- 
sive with  the  mechanic:   "There  is  already  employment  enough 

all  the  workmen  in  the  city,  and  wages  are  sufficiently  high. 
If  you  could  raise  them  by  expelling  those  who  have  remained 
in  the  city,  and  whom  you  consider  as  rivals,  the  extravagant 
price  of  wages  would  have  two  effects;  it  would  draw  persons 
to  settle  here,  not  only  from  other  parts  of  this  State,  hut  from 
neighboring  Statea  Those  ela.-ses  ofthe  community  who  are 
to  employ  you,  will  make  a  great  many  shifts  rather  than  pay 
the  exorbitant  prices  you  demand;  a  man  will  wear  his  old 
clothes  so  much  longer,  before  he  gets  a  new  suit ;  he  will  buy 
imported  shoes  cheap  rather  than  those  made  here  at  so  dear  a 
rate:  the  owner  of  a  house  will  defer  the  repairs  as  long  as  pos- 
sible; lie  will  only  have  those  which  are  absolutely  necessary 
made;  he  will  not  attend  to  eleganl  improvement:  and  the  like 
willhappen  in  other  branches.  These  circumstances  will  give 
less  employment,  and  in  a  very  little  time  bring  back  your  wages 

to  what  they  now  are,  and  even  sink  them  lower.  But  this  is 
not  all.  You  are  aot  required  merely  to  expel  youxrival  me- 
chanics, hut  you  must  drive  away  the  rich  merchants  and  others 
who  are  called  tories,  to  p]  our  leaders,  who  will  persuade 

jqq  they  are  d.  •  :s  to  your  liberty  (though,  indeed,  they 

only  mean  their  own  consequence).  By  this  conduct  you  will 
drive  away  the  principal  part  of  those  who  have  the  means  -t 
becoming  large  undertakers.    The  carpenters  and  masons,  in  par- 


298 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [iEi.  27. 

ticular,  must  be  content  with  patching  up  the  houses  already 
built,  and  buildmg  little  huts  upon  the  vacant  lots,  instead  of 
having  profitable  and  durable  employment  in  erecting  laroe  and 
elegant  edifices."  b 

There  is  a  certain  proportion,  or  level,  in  all  the  departments 
of  industry.     It  is  folly  to  think  to  raise  any  of  them,  and  keep 
them  long  above  their  natural  height.     By  attempting  to  do  it 
the  economy  of  the  political  machine  is  disturbed,  and  till  things 
return  to  their  proper  state,  the  society  at  large  suffers      The 
only  object  of  concern  with  an   industrious    artisan,  as   such 
ought  to  be,  that  there  may  be  plenty  of  money  in  the  commu- 
nity, and  a  brisk  commerce  to  give  it  circulation  and  activity 
All  attempts  at  profit,  through  the  medium  of  monopolv  or  vio- 
lence, will  be  as  fallacious  as  they  are  culpable. 

But,  say  some,  to  suffer  these  wealthy  disaffected  men  to  re- 
main among  us,  will  be  dangerous  to  our  liberties.     Enemies  to 
our  government,  they  will  be  always  endeavoring  to  undermine 
it  and  bring  us  back  to  the  subjection  of  Great  Britain.     The 
safest  reliance  of  every  government,  is  on  men's  interests.     This 
is  a  principle  of  human  nature,  on  which  all  political  speculation, 
to  be  just,  must  be  founded.     Make  it  the  interest  of  those  citi- 
zens who,  during  the  Eevolution,  were  opposed  to  us,  to  be 
nends  to  the  new  government,  by  affording  them  not  only  pro- 
tection but  a  participation  in  its  privileges,  and  they  will  un- 
doubted y  become  its  friends.     The  apprehension  of  returning 
under  the  dominion  of  Great  Britain  is  chimerical :  if  there  if 
any  way  to  bring  it  about,  the  measures  of  those  men  against 
whose  conduct  these  remarks  are  aimed,  lead  directly  to  it      A 
disorderly,  or  a  violent  government,  may  disgust  the  best  citi- 

penden"  **  ^  °f  **•  Pe°ple  tired  °f  their  -de" 

thpfrr111^886'1  and  6XhaUSted  s^e  of  Great  Britain,  and 
the  pohfccal  system  of  Europe,  render  it  impossible  for  her  ever 

tTv  wil i  °f  thf'  and  aband0n  her  cause  as  Asperate. 

time7"  iirr  !6  ^  en°Ugh  t0  ri8k  their  fort-es  *  -cond 
time,  in  the  hopeless  attempt  of  restoring  her  authority;  nor 


JET.  27.]  PlloriuV  ■ 

will  they  have  any  inclination  to  do  it,  if  fchey  are  allowed  to  be 
happy  under  the  governmenl  of  the  society  in  which   they  I 
To  make  it  practicable,  if  they  Bhould  be  ao  disposed,  they  must 
QOl  ,„,k  gei  the  governmenl  of  this  State,  bu1  of  the   Qnited 
States,  into  their  hands.     To  suppose  this  possible,  is  to  Bup] 
thai   a  majority  of  the  numbers,  property,  and  abilities  of  the 

United  States,  has  1 n,  and  is,  in  opposition  to  the  Etevolul 

[taSU(  -  is  a  clear  proof  thai  this  has  no1  been  the  case;  and 
every  man  of  information  among  us.  knows  the  contrary.  'I  he 
supposition  itself  would  Bhow  the  absurdity  of  expelling  a  small 
number  from  the  city,  which  would  constitute  so  insignificant  a 
proportion  of  the  whole,  as,  without  diminishing  their  influence, 
1,1  only  increase  their  disposition  to  do  mischief.  The  policy, 
iu  this  case,  would  be  evident,  of  appealing  to  their  interests 

rather  than  to  their  fears. 

Nothing  can  be  more  ridiculous  than  the  idea  of  expelling  a 
few  from  this  city  and  neighborhood,  while  there  are  numbers  in 
differed   parts  -if  this  and  other  States,  who  must  necessarily 
,  in  our  governments,  and  whocan  never  expect  tobethe 
obj  animadversion  or  exclusion.     It  is  coimrming  many 

in  their  enmity  and  prejudi  ainst  the  State,  to  indulge  our 

enmity  and  prejudices  againsl  a  few. 

The  idea  of  Buffering  the  tories  to  live  anion-  us  under  dis- 
qualifications, is  equally  mischievous  and  absurd.     It  is  nee 
tating  a  large  body  of  citizens  in  the  State,  to  continue  enemies 
to  the  government,  ready,  at  all  times,  in  a  momenl  of  commo- 
tion, to  throw  their  weight  into  thai  scale  which  meditat 
change,  whether  favorable  or  unfavorable  to  public  liberty. 

Viewing  the  subjecl  in  every  possible  light,  there  is  nol  a 
single  interest  of  the  community  bu1  dictates  moderation  rather 
than  violence.  Thai  honesty  is  still  the  besl  policy  :  thai  justice 
and  moderation  are  the  surest  supports  of  every  governmenl  ;  are 
maxims  which,  however  they  may  be  called  trite,  are  at  all  times 
true:  though  too  seldom  regarded,  bul  rarely  neglected  with  im- 
punity. Were  the  people  of  America,  with  one  voice,  to 
What  shall  we  do  to  perpetuate  our  liberties  and  secure  our  hap- 
piness? the  answer  would  be,  "Govern  well,"  and  you  have 


300 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [iET.  27. 

nothing  to  fear,  either  from  internal  disaffection  or  external  hos- 
tility. Abuse  not  the  power  you  possess,  and  you  need  never 
apprehend  its  diminution,  or  loss.  But  if  you  make  a  wanton 
use  of  it ;  if  you  furnish  another  example,  that  despotism  may 
debase  the  government  of  the  many  as  well  as  the  few ;  you,  like 
all  others  that  have  acted  the  same  part,  will  experience' that 
licentiousness  is  the  forerunner  to  slavery. 

How  wise  was  that  policy  of  Augustus,  who,  after  conquering 
his  enemies,  when  the  papers  of  Brutus  were  brought  to  him" 
which  would  have  disclosed  all  his  secret  associates,  immediately 
ordered  them  to  be  burnt.  He  would  not  even  know  his  ene- 
mies, that  they  might  cease  to  hate  where  they  had  nothing 
to  rear. 

How  laudable  was  the  example  of  Elizabeth,  who,  when  she 
was  transferred  from  the  prison  to  the  throne,  fell  upon  her 
knees,  and,  thanking  Heaven  for  the  deliverance  it  had  granted 
her  from   her   bloody   persecutors,    dismissed   her   resentment, 
lhis  act  of  pious  gratitude,"  says  her  historian,  "seems  to 
have  been  the  last  circumstance  in  which  she  remembered  any 
past  injuries  and  hardships.     With  a  prudence  and  magnanimity 
truly  laudable,  she  buried  all  offences  in  oblivion,  and  received, 
with  affabihty,  even  those  who  had  acted  with  the  greatest  viru- 
lence agamst  her."     She  did  more;  she  retained  many  of  the 
opposite  party  in  her  councils. 

_  The  reigns  of  these  two  sovereigns  are  among  the  most  illus- 
trious in  history.  Their  moderation  gave  a  stability  to  their 
government,  which  nothing  else  could  have  effected.  This  was 
the  secret  of  uniting  all  parties. 

These  sentiments  are  delivered  to  you,  in  the  frankness  of 
conscious  integrity,  by  one  who  feels  that  solicitude  for  the  good 
of  the  community  which  the  zealots,  whose  opinions  he  encoun- 
ters profess  ;  by  one  who  pursues  not,  as  they  do,  the  honors  or 
emoluments  of  his  country ;  by  one  who,  though  he  has  had,  in 
the  course  of  the  Revolution,  a  very  confidential  share  in  the  pub- 
lic councils  civil  and  military,  and  has  as  often,  at  least,  met 
changer  m  the  common  cause  as  any  of  those  who  now  assume 
to  be  the  guardians  of  the  public  liberty,  asks  no  other  reward 


jEt.  27.]  I' HOC  ION.  801 

from  his  countrymen,  than  to  be  beard  without    prejudice  for 

their  own  interest. 

I'll",  i 

P.  S.  While  the  writer  hopes  the  Bentimenta  of  this  letter 
will  meet  the  approbation  of  discreel  and  honesl  men,  he  thinks 
it  necessary  to  apologize  for  the  hasty  and  incorrect  manner. 
Perhaps,  too,  expressions  of  too  much  asperity  have  been  em- 
ployed against  those  who  take  the  lead  in  the  principles  which 
are  here  opposed;  and  feelingsof  indignation  against  the  perni- 
cious tendency  of  their  measures,  haye  Dot  admitted  sufficient 
allowances  for  what  is,  in  some  instances,  an  honest  though  mis- 
taken zeal.  Though  the  writer  entertains  the  worst  opinion  of 
the  motives  of  many  of  them,  he  believes  there  are  some  who 
act  from  principle. 


LKT'J  i.i;    II. 

The  little  hasty  production,  under  the  signature  of  PHOCION, 
has  met  with  a  more  favorable  reception  from  the  public  than 
was  expected.  The  force  of  plain  truth  has  carried  it  al< 
against  the  stream  of  prejudice;  and  the  principles  it  holds  out, 
have  gained  ground,  in  spiff  of  the  opposition  of  those  who  v 
either  too  angry,  or  too  much  interested,  to  be  convinced.  Men 
of  this  description,  have,  til]  lately,  contented  themselves  with 
virulent  invectives  against  the  writer,  without  attempting  to 
answer  his  arguments;  but  alarmed  a1  the  ;  -  of  the  senti- 

ments advocated  by  him,  one  of  them  has  at  lasl  come  forward 
with  an  answer ;  with  what  degree  of  su  .  ho  are 

most  partial  to  his  opinion  determine. 

To  say  that  the  answer  of  Mentor  is  a  feeble  attempt,  w< 
be  no  derogation  from   his  abilities;  for,  in   feet,  the  c 
espouses,  admits  of  nothing  solid;  and,  e  of  its  partis 

he  is  only  to  be  blamed  for  not  knowing  its  weak  sides  bel 
than  to  have  been  tempted  to  expose  it  to  the  experii 
defence. 


302  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  27. 

But,  before  I  enter  further  into  the  subject,  I  shall  take  oc- 
casion to  acknowledge,  with  regret,  the  injudicious  appearance 
of  warmth  in  my  former  letter  ;  calculated,  with  many  minds,  to 
raise  prejudices  against  the  truths  it  contains,  and  liable  to  be 
misrepresented  into  a  general  censure  on  that  part  of  the  commu- 
nity whose  zeal,  sacrifices,  and  sufferings,  must  ever  render  them 
respectable  to  the  true  friends  of  the  Eevolution.  I  shall  only 
observe,  in  apology  (as  is  truly  the  case),  that  whatever  severity 
of  animadversion  may  have  been  indulged,  was  wholly  directed 
against  a  very  small  number  of  men,  who  are  manifestly  aiming 
at  nothing  but  the  acquisition  of  power  and  profit  to  themselves ; 
and  who,  to  gratify  their  avidity  for  these  objects,  would  tram- 
ple upon  every  thing  sacred  in  society,  and  overturn  the  founda- 
tions of  public  and  private  security.  It  is  difficult  for  a  man, 
conscious  of  a  pure  attachment  to  the  public  weal,  who  sees  it 
invaded  and  endangered  by  such  men,  under  specious  but  false 
pretences,  either  to  think,  or  to  speak  of  their  conduct,  without 
indignation.  It  is  equally  difficult  for  one,  who,  in  questions 
that  affect  the  community,  regards  principles  only,  and  not  men,  to 
look  with  indifference  on  attempts  to  make  the  great  principles  of 
social  right,  justice,  and  honor,  the  victims  of  personal  animosity 
or  party  intrigue. 

More  tenderness  is  indeed  due  to  the  mistakes  of  those  who 
have  suffered  too  much  to  reason  with  impartiality ;  whose  hon- 
est prejudices,  grown  into  habits  by  the  impressions  of  an  eight 
years'  war,  cannot  at  once  accommodate  themselves  to  that  sys- 
tem which  the  public  good  requires ;  and  whose  situations  are 
less  favorable  to  distinguishing  between  doctrines  invented  to 
serve  the  turn  of  a  Eevolution,  and  those  which  must  give 
permanent  prosperity  to  the  State. 

These  observations  I  have  thought  proper  to  premise,  in 
justice  to  my  own  intentions ;  and  I  shall  now  proceed,  as  con- 
cisely as  possible,  to  examine  the  suggestions  of  Mentor,  inter- 
spersing, as  I  go  along,  some  remarks  on  objections  which, 
though  omitted  by  him,  have  been  urged  in  other  shapes  against 
the  principles  of  Phocion. 

Mentor  proposes  to  treat  the   sentiments  of  Phocion  as  a 


JEt.  97.]  1' Hoc  ION. 

political  nov.'lty:  bu1  if  lie  is  serious,  it  is  a  proof  thai  he  is  not 
even  "tolerably  well  informed."  Theyare  as  "'.'I  as  anj  regular 
notions  of  free  governmenl  among  mankind;  and  are  to  be  met 
with  ii<>t  only  in  every  speculative  writer  on  these  subjects,  but 
are  interwoven  in  the  theory  and  practice  of  thai  code  which 
constitutes  the  law  of  the  land.  They  speak  the  common  Ian- 
guage  of  this  countrj  at  the  beginning  of  the  Revolution,  and 
are  essential  to  its  future  happiness  and  respectability. 

The  principles  of  all  the  arguments  I  have  used,  or  shall 
lie  withm  the  compass  of  a  tew  simple  propositions,  which.  I 
assented  to,  need  only  to  be  stated. 

Firstly:  Thai  no  man  can  forfeit,  or  be  justly  deprived,  with- 
out his  consent,  of  any  right,  to  which,  as  a  member  of  the  com- 
munity, he  is  entitled,  but  for  some  crime  incurring  the  for 
feature. 

Secondly:  That  no  man  ought  to  be  condemned  unheard,  or 
punished  for  supposed  offences,  without  having  an  opportunity 
of  making  his  defence.* 

Thirdly:  That  a  crime  is  an  act  committed  or  omitted,  in 
violation  of  a  public  law,  either  forbidding  or  commanding  it.f 

Fourthly:   That  a  prosecution  is,  in  it.-  mosl  pn  unifica- 

tion, an   inquiry  or   mode  of  ascertaining,   whether  a  particular 
person  has  committed  or  omitted  such  act 

Fifthly:  That  duties  and  rights,  as  applied  to  subjects,  are  re- 
ciprocal; or,  in  other  words,  thai  a  man  cannot  be  a  for 
the  purpose  of  punishment,  and  no1  i           i  for  the  purpoa 
privilege. 

These  propositions  will  hardly  be  controverted  by  any  man 
professing  to  be  a  friend  to  civil  liberty.  Thi  application  of 
them  will  more  fully  appear  hereafter. 

1 1 .  the  Declaration  of  [ndependence,  on  the  fourth  of  July, 
in  the  year  seventeen  hundred  and  seventy-six,  acceded  to  by 
our  Convention  on  the  ninth,  the  late  colony  oi   N        i 
came  an  independent  State.     All  the  inhabitants,  who  were 

*  Vide  Address  of  Congress  to  Che  people  of  Great  Britain.  Septembers 
f  Blackstone,  v.  »l.  iv..  pag 


304  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEi.  27. 

jects  under  the  former  government,  and  who  did  not  withdraw 
themselves  upon  the  change  which  took  place,  were  to  be  con- 
sidered as  citizens,  owing  allegiance  to  the  new  government. 
This,  at  least,  is  the  legal  presumption  ;  and  this  was  the  princi- 
ple, in  fact,  upon  which  all  the  measures  of  our  public  councils 
have  been  grounded.  Duties  have  been  exacted,  and  punish- 
ments inflicted,  according  to  this  rule.  If  any  exceptions  to  it 
were  to  be  admitted,  they  could  only  flow  from  the  indulgence  of 
the  State  to  such  individuals  as,  from  peculiar  circumstances, 
might  desire  to  be  permitted  to  stand  upon  a  different  footing. 

The  inhabitants  of  the  southern  district,  before  they  fell  un- 
der the  power  of  the  British  army,  were  as  much  citizens  of  the 
State  as  the  inhabitants  of  other  parts  of  it.  They  must,  there- 
fore, continue  to  be  such,  unless  they  have  been  divested  of 
that  character  by  some  posterior  circumstance.  This  circum- 
stance must  either  be, 

Their  having,  by  the  fortune  of  war,  fallen  under  the  power 
of  the  British  army  ; 

Their  having  forfeited  their  claim  by  their  own  miscon- 
duct; 

Their  having  been  left  out  of  the  compact  by  some  sub- 
sequent association  of  the  body  of  the  State ;  or, 

Their  having  been  dismembered  by  treaty. 

The  first  of  these  circumstances,  according  to  the  fundamental 
principles  of  government,  and  the  constant  practice  of  nations, 
could  have  no  effect  in  working  a  forfeiture  of  their  citizenship. 
To  allow  it  such  an  effect,  would  be  to  convert  misfortune  into 
guilt ;  it  would  be,  in  many  instances,  to  make  the  negligence  of 
the  society,  in  not  providing  adequate  means  of  defence  for  the 
several  parts,  the  crime  of  those  parts  which  were  the  immediate 
sufferers  by  that  negligence.  It  would  tend  to  the  dissolution  of 
society,  by  loosening  the  ties  which  bind  the  different  parts  to- 
gether, and  justifying  those  who  should,  for  a  moment,  fall  un- 
der the  power  of  a  conqueror;  not  merely  in  yielding  such  a 
submission  as  was  exacted  from  them,  but  in  taking  a  willing, 
interested,  and  decisive  part  with  him. 

It  was  the  policy  of  the  Eevolution,  to  inculcate  upon  every 


Mr.  27.] 


1' Hoc  I  oN.  805 


citizen  the  obligation  of  renouncing  his  habitation,  property,  and 
every  private  concern,  for  the  Ben  ice  of  his  country  ;  and  many 
of  as  have  scarcely  ye1  Learned  to  consider  il  than  trea 

to  have  acted  in  a  differenl  manner.     But  il  istimewesho 
correcl  the  exuberances  of  opinions  propagated  through  pol 
and  embraced  from  enthusiasm  :  and  while  we  admit,  thai  tl. 
who  did  act  so  disinterested  and  noble  a  part,  deserve  the  ap- 
plause, and,  wherever  they  can  be  bestowed  with  propriety,  the 
rewards  of  their  country,  we  Bhould  cease  to  impute  indiscrimi- 
nate guill  to  those  who,  submitting  to  the  accidents  of  war,  re- 
mained with  their  habitations  and  property.     We  should  Learn 
that  this  conduct  is  tolerated  by  the  general  Bense  of  mankind; 
and  that,  according  to  that  sense,  whenever  the  State  recovers 
the  possession  of  such  parts  as  wore,  for  a  time,  subdued,  the 
citizens  return  at  once  to  all  the  rights  to  which   they  were 
formerly  entitled. 

As  to  the  second  head,  of  forfeiture  by  miscondui  re  is 

no  doubt  that  all  such  as,  remaining  within  the  British  Lines,  did 
not  merely  yield  an  obedience  which  they  could  not  refuse  with- 
out ruin,  but  took  a  voluntary  and  interested  pari  with  the  i 
my,  in  carrying  on  the  war,  became  subjeel  to  the  penalties  of 
treason.  They  could  not,  however,  by  thai  conduct,make  them- 
selves aliens,  because,  though  they  were  bound  topaya  temporary 
and  qualified  obedience  to  the  conqueror,  they  could  not  trans- 
fer their  eventual  allegiance  from  the  State  to  a  foreign  power. 
By  becoming  aliens,  too,  they  would  have  ceased  to  be  traitors; 
and  all  the  laws  of  the  State,  passed  duri]  Revolution,  by 

which  they  are  considered  and  punished  as  subjects,        ild  have 
been,  by  that  construction,  unintelligible  and  unjust     The  i 
indeed,  of  citizens  transforming  themselves  into  al  •  taking 

part  againsl  the  State  to  which  they  belong,  is  altogether  of  new 
invention,  unknown  and  inadmissible  in  law,  and  contrary  to  the 
nature  of  the  social  compact. 

But  were    this   not   the  case,   an    insurmountable  difficulty 

would  .-till  remain:  lor  hoV>  shall  we  ascertain  who  are  ali 

or  traitors,  let  us  call  them  which   we  will?    It    has   ; 
that  the  boundaries  oi'   the  British  lines  cannot  determine  the 
b  20 


306  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.21. 

question ;  for  this  would  be  to  say,  that  the  merely  falling  un- 
der the  power  of  the  British  army,  constituted  every  man  a  traitor 
or  an  alien.  It  would  be  to  confound  one  third  of  the  citizens 
of  the  State  in  promiscuous  guilt  and  degradation,  without  evi- 
dence or  inquiry.  It  would  be  to  make  crimes,  which  are,  in 
their  nature,  personal  and  individual,  aggregate  and  territorial. 
Shall  we  go  into  an  inquiry  to  ascertain  the  crime  of  each  per- 
son ?  This  would  be  a  prosecution  ;*  and  the  Treaty  forbids  all 
future  prosecutions.  Shall  the  Legislature  take  the  map,  and 
make  a  geographical  delineation  of  the  rights  and  disqualifica- 
tions of  its  citizens  ?  This  would  be  to  measure  innocence  and 
guilt  by  latitude  and  longitude.  It  would  be  to  condemn  and 
punish,  not  one  man  but  thousands,  for  supposed  offences,  without 
giving  them  an  opportunity  of  making  their  defence.  God  for- 
bid that  such  an  act  of  barefaced  tyranny  should  ever  disgrace 
our  history !  God  forbid  that  the  body  of  the  people  should  be 
corrupt  enough  to  wish  it,  or  even  to  submit  to  it ! 

Bat  here  we  are  informed  by  Mentor,  that  the  Treaty,  instead 
of  offering  any  obstacle  to  the  views  of  those  who  wish  to  meta- 
morphose their  fellow-citizens  into  aliens,  is  precisely  the  thing 
which  removes  the  difficulty.  Mentor  is  thus  far  right,  that  if 
they  are  aliens  at  all,  it  must  be  by  some  stipulation  in  the 
Treaty  :  but  it  requires  not  a  little  dexterity  to  show  that  such 
a  stipulation  exists.  If  it  exists  at  all,  it  must  be  collected  from 
the  fifth  and  sixth  articles.  Let  us,  by  analyzing  these  articles, 
try  if  we  can  find  it  out. 

The  fifth  article  speaks,  in  the  first  clause,  of  real  British  subjects, 
whose  estates  had  been  confiscated;  and  stipulates  that  Congress 
shall  recommend  a  restitution. 

In  the  second  clause  it  speaks  of  persons  resident  in  districts 
in  the  possession  of  the  British  forces,  who  had  not  borne  arms 
against  the  United  States  ;  of  whose  estates,  also  confiscated,  Con- 
gress are,  in  like  manner,  to  recommend  a  restitution. 

In  the  third  clause,  persons  of  every  other  description  are 
comprehended,  who  are  to  be  permitted  to  remain  twelve  months 

*  Vide  Proposition  4th. 


jEt.  27.]  PHOCION.  -"'"7 

unmolested,  in  any  of  the  States,  to  Bolicil  a  restoration  of  their 
property,  which  had  been  confiscated;  Congress  recommending, 
even  with  resped  to  them,  a  restitution,  on  condition  of  their 
refunding  to  the  presenl  possessors,  where  there  bad  been  a 
sale,  th«'  bona  fide  price  given  by  them  for  the  estates  in  their 
possession. 

It  is  apparent,  from  the  dissection  of  the  article,  thai  the  in- 
habitants in  the  Southern  district,  possessed  by  the  British  ai 

are  not  confounded   in  one  general  mass  of  alienism,  as  has  I u 

asserted.     We   find  the  express  words  of  description  are 
B  tish  subjects,  and  as  contradistinguished  from  them,  t 

lent  in  districts  within  the  possession  of  the  British  ai 
These  last,  by  the  letter  as  well  as  the  spirit  of  the  article,  are 
deemed  imt  1  in' tish  subjects. 

There  is  no  intelligible  medium  between  a  real  British  sub- 
ject and  one  that  is  not  a  British  subject  at  all.     A  man  either 
is  or  is  not  the  subject  of  a  country.     The  word  real,  as  applied 
to  the  allirmative,  is  a  redundancy.     Its  natural  contrasts  are 
titious or  pretended.  If  we  should  call  the  persons  of  other  descrip- 
tions in  the  article  fictitious  or  pretended  British  subjects;  insj 
of  justifying,  it  would  exclude,  the  construction  given  by  Men- 
tor.    For  if  they  were  only  fictitious  ox  pretended  British  subji 
they  must  be  real  American  subjects:  or,  in  other  words,  if; 
were  not  real  British  subjects,  which,  by  accessary  implication, 
they  are  declared  not  to  be,  they  must,  of  necessity,  be  American 
subjects. 

The  phrase  real  British  subjects,  strictly  considered,  is  inaccu- 
rate; but  its  practical  import,  with  the  help  ofalittle  can 
is  easily  fixed.      It  is  well  known,  thai  in  this  and  othei 
the  property  <">f  persons  who  had  never  been  subjects  of  this 
country,  before  or  after  the  Revolution,  but  who  had  truly  I 
subjects  of  Greal    Britain,  had.  in  many  instances,  bens 
cated.    Sir  Henry  Clinton,  the  late  Governor  Tryon,  Lord  Dun- 
more,  are  examples,  among  us,  of  the  real  British  sub;  the 
contemplation  of  the  Treaty.     All  the  rest  are,  of  course,  Ame- 
rican subjects. 

To  understand  the   fifth  and    sixth   articles   relatively,    it  is 


308  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  27. 

necessary  to  remark,  that  all  the  different  classes  described  in  the 
fifth  article,  agree  in  one  common  quality ;  they  are  all  persons 
wltose  property  had  been  already  confiscated.  I  have  placed  this 
fact  in  a  pointed  view  ;  because  it  shows  incontestably,  that  the 
persons  who  are  the  objects  of  the  fifth  article,  and  those  who 
are  the  objects  of  the  sixth,  are  totally  different.  The  one  re- 
lates to  persons  whose  property  had  been  confiscated,  and  aims 
at  restitution ;  the  other  relates  to  those  whose  property  had  not 
yet  been  confiscated,  who  were  not  actually  suffering  the  sen- 
tence of  the  law,  and  has  for  object,  to  prevent  future  prosecu- 
tions, confiscations,  or  injuries  to  individuals,  on  account  of  their 
conduct  in  the  war. 

This  distinction  solves  the  seeming  contradiction  between  the 
fifth  and  sixth  articles ;  the  former  providing  for  the  future  resi- 
dence of  persons  of  a  particular  description  within  the  State,  for 
a  twelvemonth ;  the  other  prohibiting  all  future  injury  or  dam- 
age to  persons,  liberty,  or  property.  At  first  sight,  the  great 
extent  of  the  latter  provision  appears  to  supersede,  and  render 
absurd,  the  former :  but  the  two  articles  are  reconciled,  by  con- 
sidering those  who  had  already  suffered  the  sentence  of  the  law, 
as  not  within  the  purview  of  the  sixth  article,  to  arrest  or  remit 
that  sentence ;  while  all  others  against  whom  sentence  had  not 
passed,  are  within  the  protection  of  the  sixth  article.  It  does  not 
operate  with  a  retrospective  and  restorative  influence,  but  looks 
forward  and  stops  the  future  current  of  prosecution  and  punish- 
ment. 

To  illustrate,  in  a  more  striking  manner,  the  fallacy  of  Men- 
tor's comment  upon  the  Treaty,  I  shall  give  a  recital  of  it,  with 
some  explanatory  additions,  the  fairness  of  which,  I  think,  will 
not  be  disputed. 

"In  the  sixth  article,"  says  he,  "it  is  provided  that  no  one 
shall  suffer  in  his  person,  liberty,  or  property,  on  account  of  the 
part^  he  may  have  taken  in  the  war;"  and  yet,  though  no  one, 
consistently  with  the  Treaty,  can  hereafter  suffer  in  either  of 
those  respects,  yet,  many,  consistently  with  the  Treaty,  may  be 
declared  aliens,  may  be  stripped  of  the  most  valuable  rights  of 
citizenship,  and  may  be  banished  from  the  State,  without  injury 


JEt.  27.]  PHOCION. 

to  person,  liberty,  or  property,     "The  fifth  article,"  though  it 
Bpeaks  of  none  but  those  who  have  already  had  thi  son- 

fiscated,  "describes   the   persona   provided  for  by  the  sixth," 
which  indeed  says,  thai  there  ihattbe  do  future  prosecutions,  nor 
confiscations,  nor  injury  to  person,  liberty,  or  property:  but  this 
only  means,  thai  there  shall  be  no  future  pr<  isecutions  commenced 
againsl  those  who  have  been  already  attainted  and  banished ; 
confiscations  made  of  the  estates  of  those  whose  estates  ha 
already  confiscated;  nor  injuries  done  to  the  persons,  liberty,  and 
property  of  those,  who  are  already  to  be  esteemed  dead  in  lax 
attainder  and  exile:  bu1  with  reaped  to  all  those  who  have  not 
been  already  attainted,  banished,  and  subjected  to  confiscation  (the 
only  persons  comprehended  in  the  fifth  article,  and  provided  for 
in  the  sixth),  we  may  prosecute,  banish,  confiscate,  diafranc] 
and  do  whatever  else  we  think  proper.   The  fifth  article  stipuL 
the  good  offices  of  Congress  for  those  who  have  been  already  ru- 
ined; and  the  sixth  benignly  takes  care  thai   they  shall  no;  be 
ruined  a  second  time;  but  leaves  all  others  to  their  destiny  and 
our  mercy.     "The  fifth  article  distinguishes  the  persons  who  are 
the  objects  of  it  into  three  classes: — First;  those  who  are  real 
British  subjects.     The  second ;  those,"  meaning  British  subjects, 
who  were  not  real  British  subjects,  described  by  the  appellatio 
persons  resident  in  districts  in  the  possession  of  the  British  foi 
"who  had  not  taken  arms  against  the  country.    The  third  i 
are  described  by  the  provision  that  is  made  forthem;  nami 
They  shall  have  liberty  to  go  into  any  part  of  the  United  : 
for  twelve  months,  to  solicit  a  restoration  of  their  estates  that 
may  have  been  confiscated.     This  class  musl  be  those  who, 
longing  to  America,  have  taken  arms  againsl   their  country. 
The  first  and  second  class,  n  is  agreed,  thai  C  all  recom- 

mend to  the  States  a  restoration  of  their  property.  The  third,  it 
seems,  were  too  infamous  for  the  English  minister  to  ask  any 
consideration  for,  except  the  wretched  privilege  of  asking  it  for 
themselves;"  though,  in  fact,  with  respecl  even  to  them.  ; 
expressly  stipulated,  that  <  'ongress  shall  recommend  a  i 
of  their  estates,  rights,  and  properties,  on  paying  to  the  present 
possessors,  the  bona  fid   price  given  for  them,  whi  :iaa 


310  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  27. 

been  an  actual  sale.  "But,"  continues  he,  "I  can  find,  nowhere, 
even  a  request,  and  that  only  implied,  that  any  of  the  three 
classes  may  dwell  among  us,  and  enjoy  the  immunities  and  privi- 
leges of  citizens :  for  the  first  class  are  considered  as  former  sub- 
jects; the  second  and  third  as  acquired  subjects  of  England;" 
acquirer!  but  not  real. 

Thus  we  see,  by  taking  the  outlines  of  Mentor's  construction, 
and  filling  up  the  canvas  in  a  manner  suited  to  the  design,  the 
whole  is  a  group  of  absurdities  ;  or,  in  other  words,  by  connect- 
ing the  consequences  with  the  principles  of  his  comment  on  the 
Treaty,  the  result  is  too  ridiculous  not  to  strike  the  meanest  un- 
derstanding. 

It  must  appear  by  this  time  manifest,  that  there  is  nothing  in 
the  terms  of  the  Treaty,  which  countenances  fhe  supposition  that 
those  who  have  been  within  the  British  lines  are  considered  and 
stipulated  for  as  aliens.  One  ground  upon  which  this  idea  has 
been  originally  adopted,  was,  that  it  would  have  been  improper 
to  have  stipulated  for  them  at  all,  if  they  were  not  aliens :  but  I 
have  shown,  in  my  former  letter,  that  a  stipulation  for  subjects, 
in  similar  circumstances,  has  been  far  from  unprecedented. 

A  good  criterion  by  which  to  determine  the  meaning  of  the 
Treaty,  in  this  respect,  is,  to  recur  to  the  impressions  that  it 
made  on  its  first  appearance,  before  there  had  been  time  to  con- 
trive and  substitute  an  artificial  to  the  natural  and  obvious  sense 
of  the  words.  Every  mau,  by  appealing  to  his  own  bosom,  will 
recollect  that  he  was  at  first  struck  with  an  opinion  that  the  dis- 
affected were  secured  from  every  future  deprivation  and  injury 
whatever :  and  however  many  may  have  been  chagrined  at  the 
idea  that  they  should  be  admitted  to  a  parity  of  privileges  with 
those  who  had  supported  the  Bevolution,  none  doubted  that  this 
was  the  sense  of  the  Treaty.  Indeed,  the  principal  doubt  seemed 
to  be,  in  the  first  instance,  whether  the  sixth  article  was  not  so 
broad  as  to  protect  even  those  who  had  been  attainted,  from  per- 
sonal injury,  in  case  of  their  return  within  the  State. 

I  shall  not,  in  this  place,  revive  the  question  of  the  power  of 
Congress  to  make  this  stipulation;  not  only  because  Mentor 
appears  to  have  conceded  this  point,  and  to  acknowledge  our 


JEt.  27.] 


l>  H  Of  ION.  •"' 1  1 


obligation  to  a  faithful  observance  of  the  Treaty;  but  b 
v.hat   baa  been  offered  in  mv  former  letter  on  this  bead,  must 
continue  to  appear  to  me  to  be  absolutely  concl 
satisfactory  limits  can  b  aed  to  the  powers  of  war,  pe 

and  treaty,  rested  in  Congress,  other  than  those  I  have  men- 
ed    -the  public  safety,  and  the  fundamental  constitutions  oi 

society. 

When  any  differenl  and  intelligible  line  shall  be  cb        .  1 
will  give  up  the  4ur.Mi.Mi,  if  I  cannot  Bhow  it  is  inadmissible 

iu  practice. 

The  common  interests  of  bumanity,  and  the  general  tran- 
quillity of  the  world,  require  thai  the  power  of  making  peace, 
wherever  lodged,  should  be  construed  and  exercised  liberally: 
and  even  in  cases  where  its  extent  may  be  doubtful,  it  is 

policy  of  all  wise  nations  to  give  it  latitude  ratlin-  than  con 
it.  The  exigencies  of  a  community,  in  time  of  war,  arc  so 
various,  and  often  so  critical,  thai  it  would  be  extremely  dan 
ous  to  prescribe  narrow  bounds  to  that  power  by  which  it  i 
be  restored.  The  consequence  rnighl  frequently  be  a  diffid 
of  our  engagements,  and  a  prolongation  of  the  calamities  oi  war. 

It  may  not  be  improper,  in  this  place,  to  answer  an  objection 
which  has  been  madetoa  position  contained  in  my  former  letter. 
It  is  there  laid  down  as  a  rale,  that  the  breach  of  a  single  article 
of  a  Treaty  annuls  the  whole.     The  reason  of  this  rule  is,  that 

ry  article  is  to  be  regarded  as  the  consideration  of  some  other 

article. 

This  has  given  occasion  to  observe,  that  a  breach  of  the 
Trei  the  pari  of  the  British,  in  sendingawaj 

berof  negroes,  has.  upon  my  principles,  long  sine-  annihili 

Treaty, and  left  us  at  perfecl  liberty  todeserl  the  stipulati 

on  our  part. 

This  admits  of  an  easy  and  Bolid  answer.     The  breach  oi 
article  annuls  the  whole,  if  the  side  injured  by  it  chooses  to  I 
advantage  of  it  to  dissolve  the  Treaty:*  but  if  its  intei 
tates  a  differenl  conduct,  it   may  waive  the  breach,  and 
obligation  of  the  Treaty  continue.     The  power  of  determi 

*  v.u.i,  page  r.o,  $48. 


312  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEr.VJ. 

•whether  the  Treaty  has  been  broken,  properly  belongs  to  that 
body  who  made  it.  Congress  have  wisely  taken  a  different 
course  ;  and,  instead  of  reviving  the  state  of  hostility  by  declar- 
ing the  Treaty  void,  have  proceeded  upon  the  presumption  of 
its  continuing  in  force ;  and,  by  subsequent  acts,  have  given  it 
additional  validity  and  strength.  The  definitive  Treaty  has  been 
since  concluded,  and  proclaimed  with  a  remarkable  solemnity 
and  energy  for  the  observance  of  the  citizens  of  the  United 
States. 

The  third  mode  mentioned,  by  which  the  inhabitants  of  the 
Southern  district  may  have  lost  their  rights  of  citizenship,  is, 
their  having  been  left  out  of  the  compact  by  some  subsequent 
association  of  the  body  of  the  State.  The  fact,  however,  is  di- 
rectly the  reverse :  for,  not  only  the  Constitution  makes  provi- 
sion for  the  representation  of  the  people  of  the  Southern  district 
in  the  Legislature,  but,  during  the  whole  war,  by  an  ordinance 
of  the  Convention  who  framed  the  Constitution,  an  actual  repre- 
sentation has  been  kept  up  in  a  manner,  the  regularity  of  which 
(whatever  might  have  been  the  expedience  of  it)  was  more  than 
questionable,  as  all  elections  were  suspended  in  that  part  of  the 
State.  This  circumstance  of  a  constant  representation  of  the  in- 
habitants of  the  Southern  district  in  the  Legislature,  during:  the  war, 
is,  in  a  rational  as  well  as  a  legal  light,  a  conclusive  refutation  of 
the  pretended  alienism  of  those  inhabitants  by  any  events  of  the 
war,  or  by  any  other  matter  that  applies  to  them  in  a  collective 
view  antecedent  to  the  Treaty  of  Peace.  To  this  it  may  be  added 
that  a  variety  of  the  laws  of  the  State,  in  the  course  of  the  war, 
suppose  and  treat  the  inhabitants  of  the  Southern  district  as  sub- 
jects owing  allegiance  to  the  State,  and,  consequently,  having  the 
rights  which  subjects  in  general  enjoy  under  the  government.* 

The  argument  is  still  stronger  when  we  attend  to  what  has 
been  done  by  the  government  since  the  restoration  of  its  jurisdic- 
tion in  the  Southern  district.  We  did  not  wait  till  a  bill  of  natu- 
ralization was  passed,  to  remove  the  disabilities  of  the  inhabitants 
before  we  proceeded  to  elections.      We  did  not  confine  those 

*  Vide  Position  5th. 


,Et.  27.]  PHOCION 


313 


elections  to  such  persons  only  aa  had  resided  without  the  British 
lines,  l.Mt  left  thfin  open  to  all  descriptions  ofpersonswho  would 

(.| se   to  take  the  oath   prescribed    Pot  thai   purpose  by  t! 

Council.    Few,  indeed,  in  this  city,  besides  those  who  had  been 
absent,  did  in  fact  vote  al  the  elections;  bu1  i isiderable  num- 
ber did  in  the  counties.     An.l  if  we  should  admil  the  doctrine  of 
the  genera]  alienism  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  Southern  district, 
either  before,  or  in  consequence  of  the  Treatyof  Peace,a  curious 
question,  no1  easy  to  be  solved,  would  arise,  as  to  the  validity 
of  the  election  of  many  individuals  now  holding  Beats  in  Senate 
and    Assembly.     So   far   as  an  act  of  government  can  decide 
the  point  in  controversy,  it   is   already   decided.     The   Coun- 
cil for  the  temporary  government  of  the  Southern  district,  in 
appointing  the  mode  of  election  ;  the  conduct  of  the  Legislature 
since,  in  admitting  the  members  elected  in  that  mode,  are  un- 
constitutional; or  the  inhabitants  at   large  of  the  Southern  dis- 
trict, either  by  the  Treaty,  or  any  antecedent  circumstance,  are 

not  aliens. 

I  have  dwelt  the  more  largely  on  this  head,  not  only  he- 
cause  the  idea  of  a  general  alienism  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
Southern  district  is  the  ground  Mentor  has  taken  :  hut  because 
some  persons,  who  have  it  in  their  power  to  make  a  mischiev- 
,  ous  use  of  it,  are  endeavoring  to  give  it  circulation,  where,  if 
it  could  prevail,  it  mighl  lead  to  pernicious  consequences; 
Pressed  by  the  difficulty  of  discriminating  those  who  may  have 
forfeited  the  rights  of  citizenship  from  those  who  have  not,  with- 
out a  manifest  violation,  as  well  of  the  Constitution  as  of  the 
Treaty  of  Peace,  they  are  willing,  if  possible,  to  devise  some  gen- 
eral expedient  to  evade  both;  and  the  one  they  have  hit  upon, 
is,  to  declare  all  those  aliens  who  have  lived  within  the  British 
lines  during  the  war,  on  the  miserable  pretence  that  they  are 
made  such  by  the  Treaty. 

Thus  we  have  another  example  how  easy  it  is  for  men  to 
change  their  principles  with  their  situations ;  to  be  zealous  advo- 
cates for  the  rights  of  the  citizens  when  they  are  invaded  by 
others;  and,  as  soon  as  they  have  it   in  their  power, 
the  invaders  themselves ;  to  resist  the  encroachments  od  pofwea> 


314  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  27. 

when  it  is  in  the  hands  of  others ;  and,  the  moment  they  get 
it  into  their  own,  to  make  bolder  strides  than  those  they  have 
resisted.  Are  such  men  to  be  sanctified  with  the  hallowed 
name  of  patriots  ?  Are  they  not  rather  to  be  branded  as  men 
who  make  their  passions,  prejudices,  and  interests,  the  sole  mea- 
sure of  their  own  and  others'  rights  ? 

The  history  of  mankind  is  too  full  of  these  melancholy  in- 
stances of  human  contradiction. 

Having  mentioned  the  oath  directed  to  be  prescribed  to  elec- 
tors in  the  Southern  district,  by  the  Council  for  the  temporary 
government,  I  shall  take  occasion,  in  this  place,  with  freedom 
but  with  respect,  to  examine  the  propriety  of  that  measure. 

This  measure  was  founded  upon  an  act  of  the  Legislature 
of  this  State,  passed  in  the  year  ,  declaring,  that  persons 

who  had  been  guilty  of  certain  matters  particularized  in  that 
act,  should  be  for  ever  after  disqualified  from  voting  at  all  public 
elections.  I  confine  myself,  for  the  sake  of  brevity,  to  the  gene- 
ral idea  of  the  act.  The  embarrassment  with  the  Council,  no 
doubt  was,  how  to  ascertain  the  persons  who  had  incurred  the  dis- 
ability. As  the  matters  to  which  that  disability  related  were  of  a 
specific  nature,  it  was  necessary  they  should  be  specifically 
ascertained  before  the  law  could  have  its  effect. 

The  Council,  therefore,  could  not  satisfy  that  law  by  declar- 
ing all  those  disqualified  who  had  resided  within  the  British 
lines  during  the  war.  They  would  not  leave  the  operation  of 
it  to  a  course  of  judicial  investigation  and  decision,  because  this 
would  be  to  fly  in  the  face  of  the  Treaty ;  and  appearances  were 
to  be  preserved.  This  consideration  was  strengthened  by  ano- 
ther. The  course  of  the  law  must  have  been  dilatory.  The  elec- 
tions were  to  be  entered  upon.  It  was  deemed  inexpedient  that 
the  voice  of  the  citizens  at  large  (which  must  have  been  the 
case  if  the  act  of  the  Legislature  in  question  had  been  left  to 
its  natural  course)  should  govern  these  elections.  If  the  re- 
turning citizens  were  not  at  this  juncture  gratified,  tumults 
were  by  some  apprehended. 

This  was  a  plausible  step,  and  on  that  account  the  more 
dangerous.     If  we  examine  it  with  an  unprejudiced  eye,  we  must 


JEr.  27.] 


I'lloriON.  315 


acknowledge,  not  only  that  it  was  an  evasion  of  the  Treaty,  but 
a  subversioD  of  oik-  greal  principle  of  social  security;    to  • 
thai  every  man  shall  be  presumed  innocent  until  he  is  • 
guilty.    This  was  to  invert  the  order  of  things ;  and,  instead 
obliging  the  State  to  prove  the  guilt  in  ordeT  to  inflict  the  pen- 
alty, it  was  to  oblige  the  citizen  to  establish  his  own  innocence 
toavoid  the  penalty.     It  was  to  excite  scruples  in  the  hoi 
and  conscientious,  and  to  hold  out  a  bribe  to  perjury. 

That  this  was  an  evasion  of  the  Treaty,  the  fourth  pro] 
tion  already  laid  down  will  illustrate.  It  was  a  mode  of  inquiry, 
who  had  committed  any  of  those  crimes  to  which  the  pen 
of  disqualification  was  annexed;  with  this  aggravation,  that  it. 
rived  the  citizen  of  the  benefit  of  that  advantage  which  he 
would  have  enjoyed,  by  leaving,  as  in  all  other  cases,  the  bur- 
then of  the  proof  upon  the  prosecutor. 

To  place  this  matter  in  a  still  clearer  light,  let  it  be  supposed, 
that  instead  of  the  mode  of  indictmenl  and  trial  by  jury,  the  Le- 
gislature was  to  declare,  that  every  citizen  who  did  not  swear  he 
had  never  adhered  to  the  King  of  Ghreal  Britain, should  incur  all 
the  penalties  which  our  treason  laws  prescribe.     Would  this  not 
be  a  palpable  evasion  of  the  Treaty,  and  a  duvet  infringement  of 
the  Constitution?     Theprinciple  is  thesame  in  both  cases;  with 
onlv  this  difference  in  the  consequences,   that,  in  the  ii 
already  acted  upon,  the  citizen  forfeits  a  part  ofhis  rights;  in  the 
pposed,  he  would  forfeit  the  whole.    The  degree  of  punish- 
ment is  all  that  distinguishes  th<  -.     tn  either,  justly  con- 
sidered, it  is  substituting  a  new  and  arbitrary  mode  of  prosecu- 
i  to  that  ancient  and  highly            ned  one,  recognized  by  the 
laws  and  the  Constitution  of  the  State;   1  mean  the  trial  by  jury. 
^  ,,.,  qoI           •.  that  the  Constitution  declares,  that  trial  by 
jnrv.  in  all  cases  in  which  it  has  been  formerly  used,  should  re- 
main inviolate  for  ever ;  and  that  the  Legislature  should,  a1 
time,  erect  anj  new  jurisdiction  which  should  not   proceed 
cording  to  the  course  of  the  common  law.     Nothingcan  be  i 
repugnant  to  the  true  genius  of  the  common  law,  than  sue 
inquisition  as  has  been  mentioned  into  the  consciences  of  men. 

A  .-hare  m  the    sovereignty  of  the   State,  which    IS 


316  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  27. 

by  the  citizens  at  large,  in  voting  at  elections,  is  one  of  the  most 
important  rights  of  the  subject,  and,  in  a  Republic,  ought  to 
stand  foremost  in  the  estimation  of  the  law.  It  is  that  right  by 
which  we  exist  a  free  people ;  and  it  certainly,  therefore,  will 
never  be  admitted,  that  less  ceremony  ought  to  be  used  in  divest- 
ing any  citizen  of  that  right  than  in  depriving  him  of  his  pro- 
perty. Such  a  doctrine  would  ill  suit  the  principles  of  the 
Revolution,  which  taught  the  inhabitants  of  this  country  to  risk 
their  lives  and  fortunes  in  asserting  their  liberty ;  or,  in  other 
words,  their  rigid  to  a  share  in  the  government.  That  portion  of 
the  sovereignty  to  which  each  individual  is  entitled,  can  never 
be  too  highly  prized.  It  is  that  for  which  we  have  fought  and 
bled :  and  we  should  cautiously  guard  against  any  precedents, 
however  they  may  be  immediately  directed  against  those  we 
hate,  which  may,  in  their  consequences,  render  our  title  to  this 
great  privilege  precarious.  Here  we  may  find  the  criterion  to 
distinguish  the  genuine  from  the  pretended  whig.  The  man  that 
would  attack  that  right,  in  whatever  shape,  is  an  enemy  to  whig- 
ism. 

If  any  oath,  with  retrospect  to  past  conduct,  were  to  be  made 
the  condition  on  which  individuals  who  have  resided  within  the 
British  lines  should  hold  their  estates,  we  should  immediately 
see  that  this  proceeding  would  be  tyrannical,  and  a  violation  of 
the  Treaty  ;  and  yet,  when  the  same  mode  is  employed  to  divest 
that  right,  which  ought  to  be  deemed  still  more  sacred,  many  of 
us  are  so  infatuated  as  to  overlook  the  mischief. 

To  say  that  the  persons  who  will  be  affected  by  it,  have  pre- 
viously forfeited  that  right,  and  that  therefore  nothing  is  taken 
away  from  them,  is  a  begging  of  the  question.  How  do  we 
know  who  are  the  persons  in  this  situation  ?  If  it  be  answered, 
This  is  the  mode  taken  to  ascertain  it ;  the  objection  returns, 
'Tis  an  improper  mode,  because  it  puts  the  most  essential  inter- 
ests of  the  citizen  upon  a  worse  footing  than  we  should  be  wil- 
ling to  tolerate  where  inferior  interests  were  concerned ;  and 
because,  to  elude  the  Treaty,  it  substitutes  to  the  established  and 
legal  mode  of  investigating  crimes,  and  inflicting  forfeitures,  one 
that  is  unknown  to  the  Constitution  and  repugnant  4to  the  genius 
of  our  law. 


jEt.  27.] 


P  Hoc  |  on.  317 


Much  stress  has  been  laid  upon  a  couple  of  unmeaning  words 
m  ii,,.  :,,t,  to  enforce  the  penalties  of  which,  the  oath  was  in- 
vented. It  is  declared,  thai  the  persons  who  have  done  the 
several  things  enumerated  in  the  act,  shall  be  ipso  facto  disquali- 
fied. These  words  of  potenl  sound,  bul  of  little  substance,  b 
been  supposed  to  include  wonderful  effects.    Lei  if  we  can 

give  them  anydefinite  meaning.  II"  a  man  commits  murder,  by 
the  very  act,  ipso  facto,  he  incursthe  penalty  of  death;  bul  be- 
fore he  can  be  hanged,  we  musl  inquire  whether  be  baa  certainly 
committed  the  act.  [fa  man  has  done  any  of  those  thii 
which  are  declared  Bufficienl  to  disqualify  bim  from  voting, 
though  by  the  very  act,  ipso  facto,  he  incurs  the  penalty  of  tin- 
law,  yet,  before  he  can  be  actually  disqualified,  we  musl  inquire 
whether  he  has  really  done  the  act.  From  this  we  perceive  the 
words  ipso  facto  are  mere  expletives,  which  add  nothing  to  the 
force  or  efficacy  of  the  law. 

It  has  been  said,  too,  that  an  oath  to  determine  the  qualifica- 
tions of  electors,  is  a  usual  precaution  in  free  governments;  but 
we  may  challenge  those  who  make  the  assertion,  to  show  that 
retrospective  oaths  have  ever  been  ao^ninistered,  requiri] 
tors  to  swear  that  they  luivt-  not  Urn  guilty  ofpasl  offences.     In 
all  tin-  violence  of  party  which  has,  a1  differenl  periods,  agitated 
Great  Britain,  nothing  of  this  kind  has  ever  been  adopted;  but 
even  where  religious  fanaticism  has  given  an  edge  to  political 
opposition,  and  in  an  undecided  contesl  foT  the  crown,  they  have 
never  gone  further  than  to  prescribe  oaths  foi  testing  present 
dispositions  towards  the  government,  on  general  principles,  with- 
out  retrospection   to  particular  instances  of  past   mal-conduct 
The  practical  notions  of  Legal  liberty  established  in  that  country 
by  a  series  of  time,  would    make  such  an  experiment  too  odious 
to  be  attempted  by  the  government     Wise  men  have  thought, 
that  even  there,  they  have  carried   the  business  of  oaths  to  an 
exceptionable  length:  but  we  who  pretend  a  purerzeal  for  lib- 
erty, in  a  decided  contest,  after  a  fori, ml    renunciation   of  claims 
by  the  adverse  party,  are  for  carrying  the  matter  to  a  .-till  more 
blamable  extreme. 

Men,  whose  judgments  and  intentions  I  respect,  were  the  pro- 


318  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  21. 

moters  of  the  measure  which  has  occasioned  this  digression: 
some  from  the  contagion  of  popular  opinion ;  others  from  the 
too  strong  impressions  of  momentary  expedience ;  and  a  third 
class  from  the  insensible  bias  of  some  favorite  pursuit. 

As  to  the  fourth  method  in  which  the  inhabitants  of  the 
Southern  district  may  have  lost  their  rights  of  citizenship,  a  dis- 
memberment by  Treaty,  I  have  naturally  been  drawn,  under  the 
third  head,  into  a  discussion  of  this  ;  and  I  trust  have  shown,  to 
the  full  satisfaction  of  all  candid  men,  that  there  is  not  a  shadow 
of  foundation  to  suppose  that  such  a  dismemberment  is  in  the 
contemplation  of  the  Treaty.  A  few  short  remarks  shall  con- 
clude what  I  intend  to  say  on  this  article. 

It  is  a  case  without  precedent,  that  a  nation,  in  surrendering 
its  acquisitions  in  war,  to  the  State  from  which  those  acquisitions 
were  made,  should  stipulate  for  the  inhabitants  of  the  country 
given  up  as  for  its  own  subjects.  To  do  it,  would  be  both  use- 
less and  absurd  :  useless,  because  the  country  being  surrendered, 
no  reasonable  advantage  could  be  derived  from  retaining  the  al- 
legiance of  its  inhabitants ;  absurd,  because  the  district  of  terri- 
tory surrendered,  being  given  up  as  a  part  of  the  State  to  which 
the  surrender  is  made,  it  would  be  contradictory,  by  the  same 
act,  to  acknowledge  the  right  of  that  State  to  the  part  given 
up,  and  yet  to  hold  up  a  claim  to  the  allegiance  of  its  inhabit- 
ants. 

The  surrender  (for  the  question  does  not  relate  to  original 
cessions)  carries  in  itself  a  decisive  implication,  that  the  inhabit- 
ants of  the  country  surrendered,  are  the  subjects  of  the  power  to 
which  the  surrender  is  made  ;  and  the  presumption  in  this  case 
is  so  strong,  that  nothing  but  the  most  positive  and  unequivocal 
exceptions  in  the  Treaty  would  be  sufficient  to  defeat  it.  La- 
bored constructions  to  give  the  Treaty  that  complexion  are  inad- 
missible; for  if  there  were  room  to  doubt,  the  doubt,  in  just 
reasoning,  should  be  interpreted  against  the  position,  that  the  in- 
habitants of  the  country  surrendered  were  the  subjects  of  the 
power  by  which  the  surrender  was  made. 

The  only  additional  remark  I  shall  make  on  this  head  is 
this :     Though  we  are  under  great  obligations  to  our  ministers 


JBv.*L]  I'll  or  i  o\.  819 

for  the  substance  of  the  Treaty,  which  comprehends  all  the 
Bential  interests  of  this  country ;  we  musl  acknowledge  thai  the 
language  of  it  is,  in  many  respects,  defective  and  obscure.     'I 
true  rule  in  this  case  is,  do1  i"  have  recourse  to  artificial  and  far- 
fetched interpretation,  bul  to  admil  such  meanings  as  the  simple 
and  popular  import  of  the  words  conveya     WTien,  therefore,  it 
is  said,  in  the  sixth  article,  "  thai  there  shall  be  no  future  pr 
cutions  commenced,  aor  confiscations  made,  nor  damage  dom 
person,  liberty,  or  property,  of  anj  person  or  persons,  on  account 
of  the  pari  taken  by  them  in  the  war;"  as  the  natural  and  obvi- 
ous scope  of  the  words  presents  a  full  amnesty  and  indemnity 
for  the  future,  we  should  qoI  torture  our  imaginations  to  pervert 
them  to  a  differenl  sense. 

It  has  been  urged,  in  support  of  the  doctrines  under  consider- 
ation, that  every  government  has  a  righl  to  take  precautions  for 
its  own  security,  and  to  prescribe  the  terms  on  which  it-  rights 
shall  be  enjoyed. 

All   this  is  true  when   undersl 1  with  propeT  limitations; 

but,  when  rightly  understood,  will  no1   be  found  to  justify  the 
conclusions  which  have  been  drawn  from  the  premisi 

In  the  first  formation  of  a  government,  the  society  may 
multiply  its  precautions  as  much,  and  annex  as  many  conditions 
to  the  enjoyment  of  its  rights,  as  it  shall  judge  expedient;  but 
when  it  has  once  adopted  a  Constitution,  that  Constitution  1 
be  the  measure  of  its  discretion,  in  providing  for  its  own  safety, 
and  in  prescribing  the  conditions  upon  which  its  privileges  are 
to  be  enjoyed.  If  the  Constitution  declares,  that  persons 
ing  certain  qualifications  shall  be  entitled  to  certain  rights,  while 
that  Constitution  remains  in  force,  the  government,  which  is  the 
mere  creature  of  the  Constitution,  can  divesl  no  citizen,  who 
has  the  requisite  qualifications,  of  his  corresponding  rights.  It 
may  indeed  enact    laws,  and   annex    to    the    breach    oi'  them    the 

penalty  of  forfeiture;  bu1  before  that  penalty  can  operate,  the 
existence  of  the  feci  upon  which  it  is  to  take  place,  musl   be 

ascertained  in  that  mode  which  the  Constitution  and  funda- 
mental laws  have  provided,  [f  trial  by  jury  is  the  mod(  known 
and  established  by  that  Constitution  and  those  laws,  the  persons 


320  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  27. 

who  administer  the  government,  in  deviating  from  that  course, 
will  be  guilty  of  usurpation.  If  the  Constitution  declares,  that 
the  legislative  power  of  the  State  shall  be  vested  in  one  set  of 
men  and  the  judiciary  power  in  another;  and  those  who  are 
appointed  to  act  in  a  legislative  capacity,  undertake  the  office 
of  judges :  if,  instead  of  confining  themselves  to  passing  laws, 
with  proper  sanctions  to  enforce  their  observance,  they  go  out  of 
their  province  to  decide  who  are  the  violators  of  those  laws, 
they  subvert  the  Constitution  and  erect  a  tyranny.  If  the  Con- 
stitution were  even  silent  on  particular  points,  those  who  are 
intrusted  with  its  power,  would  be  bound,  in  exercising  their 
discretion,  to  consult  and  pursue  its  spirit,  and  to  conform  to  the 
dictates  of  reason  and  equity :  if,  instead  of  this,  they  should 
undertake  to  declare  whole  classes  of  citizens  disfranchised  and 
excluded  from  the  common  rights  of  the  society,  without  hear- 
ing, trial,  examination,  or  proof;  if,  instead  of  waiting  to  take 
away  the  rights  of  citizenship  from  individuals  till  the  State  has 
convicted  them  of  crimes  by  which  they  are  to  lose  them,  before 
the  ordinary  and  regular  tribunal,  they  institute  an  inquisition 
into  men's  consciences,  and  oblige  them  to  give  up  their  privi- 
leges, or  undertake  to  interpret  the  law  at  the  hazard  of  perjury; 
they  expose  themselves  to  the  imputation  of  injustice  and  op- 
pression. 

The  right  of  a  government  to  prescribe  the  conditions  on 
which  its  privileges  shall  be  enjoyed,  is  bounded,  with  respect  to 
those  who  are  already  included  in  the  compact,  by  its  original 
conditions  :  in  admitting  strangers  it  may  add  new  ones  ;  but  it 
cannot,  without  a  breach  of  the  social  compact,  deprive  those 
who  have  been  once  admitted,  of  their  rights,  unless  for  some 
declared  cause  of  forfeiture,  authenticated  with  the  solemnities 
required  by  the  subsisting  compact. 

The  rights,  too,  of  a  republican  government  are  to  be  modi- 
fied and  regulated  by  the  principles  of  such  a  government. 
These  principles  dictate,  that  no  man  shall  lose  his  rights  without 
a  hearing  and  conviction  before  the  proper  tribunal ;  that,  previ- 
ous to  his  disfranchisement,  he  shall  have  the  full  benefit  of  the 
laws  to  make  his  defence ;  and  that  his  innocence  shall  be  pre- 


At.  27.] 


IMMM'ION.  3*21 


Bomed  till  his  guilt  ha.s  been   proved.     These,  with  many  other 
maxims,  never  to  be  forgotten   in  any  bul  tyrannical  govern- 
ments, oppose  the  aims  of  those  who  quarrel  with  the  princip 
of  Pliocion. 

( iases,  indeed,  of  extreme  necessity,  arc  exceptions  to  all  gen- 
eral rules;  but  these  only  exist  when  it  is  manifest  the  Bafetj  of 
the  community  is  in  imminenl  danger.  Speculations  of  possible 
danger  uever  can  be  justifying  causes  of  departures  from  princi- 
ples on  which,  in  the  ordinary  course  of  things,  all  private  secu- 
rity depends;  from  principles  which  constitute  the  essential 
distinction  between  tree  and  arbitrary  governments. 

When  the  advocates  for  legislative  discriminations  are  driven 
from  one  subterfuge  to  another,  their  last  resting-place  is,  that 
this  is  a  new  case,  the  case  of  a  Revolution.     Your  principles  are 
all  right,  say  they,  in  the  ordinary  course  of  society;  but  they 
do  not  apply  to  a  situation  like  ours.     This  is  opening  a  wilder- 
ness, through  all  the  labyrinths  of  which  it  is  impossible  to  pur- 
sue them.     The  answer  to  this  must  be,  that  there  are  principles 
eternally  true,  and  which  apply  to  all  situations,  such   as  those 
that  have  been  already  enumerated  ;  that  we  are  not  now  in  the 
midst  of  a  Revolution,  but  have  happily  brought  it  to  a  succ 
ful  issue  ;  that  we  have  a  Constitution  formed  as  a  rule  of  con- 
duct;  that  the  frame  of  our  government  is  determined,  and  the 
general  principles  of  it  settled;  that  we  have  taken  our  stal 
among  nations  ;  have  claimed  the  benefit  of  the  laws  which  regu- 
late them,  and  must,  in  our  turn,  be  bound  by  the  same  hi 
that  those  eternal  principles  of  social  justice  forbid  the  inflicting 
punishment  upon  citizens  by  an  abridgment  of  rights,  or  in  any 
other  manner,   without  conviction  of  some  specific  offence  by 
regular  trial  and  condemnation;  that  the  Constitution  we  have 
formed,  makes  the  trial  by  jury  the  only  proper  mode  of  ascer- 
taining the  delinquencies  of  individuals;    that  legislative  dis- 
criminations to  supersede  the  necessity  of  inquiry  and  proof; 
would  be  a  usurpation  on  the  judiciary  powers  of  the  govern- 
ment, and  a  renunciation  of  all  the  maxims  of  civil  liberty  :   that, 
by  the  laws  of  nations  and  the  rules  of  justice,  we  are  bound  to 
observe  the  engagements  entered  into  on  our  behalf,  by  that 
b  21 


322  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  27. 

power  which  is  invested  with  the  constitutional  prerogative  of 
treaty  ;  and  that  the  Treaty  we  have  made,  in  its  genuine  sense, 
ties  up  the  hands  of  government,  from  any  species  of  future  pro- 
secution or  punishment,  on  account  of  the  part  taken  by  indi- 
viduals in  the  war. 

Among  the  extravagancies  with  which  these  prolific  times 
abound,  we  hear  it  often  said,  that  the  Constitution,  being  the 
creature  of  the  people,  their  sense  with  respect  to  any  measure, 
if  it  even  stand  in  opposition  to  the  Constitution,  will  sanctify 
and  make  it  right. 

Happily  for  us  in  this  country,  the  position  is  not  to  be  con- 
troverted, that  the  Constitution  is  the  creature  of  the  people ; 
but  it  does  not  follow  that  they  are  not  bound  by  it,  while  they 
suffer  it  to  continue  in  force  ;  nor  does  it  follow  that  the  Legisla- 
ture, which  is,  on  the  other  hand,  a  creature  of  the  Constitution, 
can  depart  from  it,  on  any  presumption  of  the  contrary  sense  of 
the  people. 

The  Constitution  is  the  compact  made  between  the  society  at 
large  and  each  individual.  The  society,  therefore,  cannot,  with- 
out breach  of  faith  and  injustice,  refuse  to  any  individual  a  sin- 
gle advantage  which  he  derives  under  that  compact,  no  more 
than  one  man  can  refuse  to  perform  his  agreement  with  another. 
If  the  community  have  good  reasons  for  abrogating  the  old  com- 
pact and  establishing  a  new  one,  it  undoubtedly  has  a  right  to 
do  it ;  but  until  the  compact  is  dissolved  with  the  same  solemnity 
and  certainty  with  which  it  was  made,  the  society,  as  well  as 
individuals,  are  bound  by  it. 

All  the  authority  of  the  Legislature  is  delegated  to  them  un- 
der the  Constitution  ;  their  rights  and  powers  are  there  defined : 
if  they  exceed  them,  it  is  a  treasonable  usurpation  upon  the 
power  and  majesty  of  the  people :  and  by  the  same  rule  that 
they  may  take  away  from  a  single  individual  the  rights  he  claims 
under  the  Constitution,  they  may  erect  themselves  into  perpetual 
dictators.  The  sense  of  the  people,  if  urged  in  justification  of 
the  measure,  must  be  considered  as  a  mere  pretext ;  for  that 
sense  cannot  appear  to  them  in  a  form  so  explicit  and  authorita- 
tive as  the  Constitution  under  which  they  act ;  and  if  it  could 


jEt.  87.]  P  HOC  |  ON.  B28 

appear  with  equal  authenticity,  it  could  only  bind  when  it  had 
been   preceded  by  a  declared  change  in  the  Gram  i  m- 

ment, 

The  contrary  doctrine  Berves  to  undermine  all  tho»  •  by 
which  individuals  can  know  their  duties  and  their  rights,  and  to 
convert  the  government  into  a  government  of  will,  not  of  la 

There  is  only  one  light,  on  Mentor's  plan,  in  which  this  sub- 
ject remains  to  be  considered;  the  danger  to  the  government 
from  suffering  persons  to  reside  among  as  who  have  an  avei 
to  our  Constitution;  either  by  thru-  becoming  auxiliaries  to  fu- 
ture attempts  of  the  British  nation  to  recover  their  lost  authority, 
or  by  their  contributing  to  corrupt  the  principles  and  change  the 
lorm  of  our  government. 

M  5  observations  on  this  subject  in  my  former  letter,  I  belii 
remain  unshaken  by  what  Mentor  has  opposed  to  them.     I  shall, 
however,  add  a  few  others. 

The  restoration  of  British  authority  in  this  country  is  too 
chimerical  to  be  believed  even  by  Mentor  himself;  though  he 
makes  some  faint  essays  to  induce  the  supposition. 

Why  did  Great  Britain  make  peace  with  America?  Because 
the  necessity  of  her  affairs  compelled  her  to  it.  In  what  did  this 
necessity  consist  ?  In  every  species  of  embarrassment  and  dis- 
order that  a  nation  could  experience.  Urn-  public  debt  had  al- 
most arrived  at  that  point,  when  the  expenses  of  a  peace  estab- 
lishment were  nearly  equal  to  all  the  revenues  they  were  able  to 
extract  from  exhausting  the  sources  of  taxation.     Had  they 

ried  on  the  war  till  they  had  exc Led  this  point,  a  bankru] 

would  have  been  the  inevitable  consequence.     We  perceive,  as  it 
is,  the  great  difficulties  that  are  acknowledged  by  every  sue 

sion  of  ministers,  in  devising  means  to  retrieve  the  allairs  oi'  the 

nation. 

The  distractions  of  the  government,  arising  from  those  em- 
barrassments, are  scarcely  paralleled  in  any  period  of  B 
historv.     Almost  every  sitting  of  Parliament  is  a  signal  of  a 
change  of  ministry.     The  King  at  variance  with  his  minist 
the  ministers  unsupported  by  Parliament;  the  Lords  disagreeing 
with  the  Commons ;  the  nation  execrating  the  King,  Mini.-' 


324  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  27. 

Lords  and  Commons :  all  these  are  symptoms  of  a  vital  malady 
in  the  present  state  of  the  nation. 

Externally  the  scene  is  not  brighter.  The  affairs  of  the  East 
India  settlements  are  in  the  most  perplexing  confusion ;  and 
Ireland  seems  to  be  ready  to  dismember  itself  from  the  British 
empire. 

It  may  be  said  that  these  are  temporary  mischiefs,  which  may 
be  succeeded  by  greater  tranquillity,  prosperity,  and  power.  The 
future  situation  of  Great  Britain  is  a  problem  which  the  wisest 
man  cannot  solve.  In  all  appearance,  it  will  be  a  considerable 
time  before  she  can  recover  from  the  pressure  of  the  evils  under 
which  she  now  labors,  to  be  in  a  condition  to  form  enterprises 
against  others.  When  that  period  may  arrive,  our  strength  and 
resources  will  have  greatly  increased ;  the  habits  of  men  attached 
to  her  will  have  worn  out :  and  it  is  visionary  to  suppose  that 
she  will  then  entertain  a  disposition  to  renew  her  attempts  upon 
a  country,  increased  in  strength  and  resources,  exerting  its  forces 
under  an  established  Constitution,  fortified  by  foreign  alliances, 
which  her  acknowledged  independence  will  at  all  times  command ; 
when  she  reflects  that  that  country,  in  the  tumult  of  a  Bevolu- 
tion,  and  in  a  state  of  comparative  impotence,  baffled  all  her  ef- 
forts in  the  zenith  of  her  power. 

To  an  enlightened  mind  it  will  be  sufficient  to  say,  upon  this 
subject,  that,  independent  of  our  own  means  of  repelling  enter- 
prises against  us,  Europe  has  been  taught,  by  this  Eevolution,  to 
estimate  the  danger  to  itself  of  a  union  of  the  two  countries  un- 
der the  same  government,  in  too  striking  a  manner  ever  to  per- 
mit the  reunion,  or  tolerate  the  attempts  of  Great  Britain  towards 
it. 

The  danger,  from  a  corruption  of  the  principles  of  our  gov- 
ernment, is  more  plausible  but  not  more  solid.  It  is  an  axiom, 
that  governments  form  manners,  as  well  as  manners  form  govern- 
ments. The  body  of  the  people  of  this  State  are  too  firmly 
attached  to  the  democracy,  to  permit  the  principles  of  a  small 
number  to  give  a  different  tone  to  that  spirit.  The  present  law 
of  inheritance,  making  an  equal  division  among  the  children  of 
the  parents'  property,  will  soon  melt  down  those  great  estates, 


JEt.  27.]  PIIOCION.  828 

which,  if  thej  continued,  might  favor  the  power  of  the  A"'.  'I 
number  of  the  disaffected,  who  are  so  from  speculative  notions  of 
ir< >\  <  rrniit-nt,  is  small.  The  great  majority  of  those  wrho  took 
pari  against  us,  did  it  from  accident,  from  tin-  dread  of  the 
British  power,  and  from  the  influence  of  others  to  whom  they 
had  been  accustomed  to  look  up.  Most  of  the  men  who  had  that 
kind  of  influence  an1  alivady  gone:  the  residue  and  their  ad- 
herents, must  be  carried  along  by  the  torrent,  and,  with  very  few 
exceptions,  if  the  government  is  mild  and  just,  will  soon  come 
to  view  it  with  approbation  and  attachment. 

Either  the  number  of  malcontents  in  the  State  is  small  or  it 
is  considerable.  If  small,  there  is  no  room  for  apprehen- 
sion :  if  great,  then  opposition  to  the  government  is  only 
to  be  overcome  by  making  it  their  interest  to  be  its  friends, 
or  by  extirpating  them  from  the  community.  A  middle 
line,  which  will  betray  a  spirit  of  persecution  in  the  govern- 
ment, but  will  only  extend  its  operation  to  a  small  num- 
ber, will  answer  no  other  purpose  than  to  disable  a  ivw,  and  in- 
flame and  rivet  the  prejudices  of  the  rest,  by  exhibiting  the  tem- 
per of  government  in  a  harsh  and  unconciliating  light.  We 
shall  then,  in  truth,  have  a  considerable  faction  in  the  State 
ready  for  all  innovations. 

The  impracticability  of  such  a  general  extirpation,  suggi  - 
the  opposite  conduct  as  the  only  proper  one. 

There  is  a  bigotry  in  polities  as  well  as  in  religions,  equally 
pernicious  in  both.  The  zealots,  of  either  description,  are  igno- 
rant of  the  advantage  of  a  spirit  of  toleration.  It  was  a  long 
time  before  the  kingdoms  of  Europe  were  convinced  of  the  folly 
of  persecution  with  respect  to  those  who  were  schismatics  from 
the  established  church.  The  cry  was.  These  men  will  be  equally 
the  disturbers  of  the  Hierarehy  and  of  the  State.  While  some 
kingdoms  were  impoverishing  and  depopulating  themselves  by 
their  severities  to  the  non-conformists,  their  wiser  neighl 
were  reaping  the  fruits  of  their  folly,  and  augmenting  their  own 
numbers,  industry,  and  wealth,  by  receiving,  with  open  arms,  the 
persecuted  fugitives.  Time  and  experience  have  taught  a  differ- 
ent lesson:  and  there  is  not  an  enlightened  nation  which  does 


326  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  27. 

not  now  acknowledge  the  force  of  this  truth,  that  whatever 
speculative  notions  of  religion  may  be  entertained,  men  will  not, 
on  that  account,  be  enemies  to  a  government  that  affords  them 
protection  and  security.  The  same  spirit  of  toleration  in  poli- 
tics, and  for  the  same  reasons,  has  made  great  progress  among 
mankind,  of  which  the  history  of  most  modern  revolutions  is  a 
proof.  Unhappily  for  this  State,  there  are  some  among  us  who 
possess  too  much  influence ;  that  have  motives  of  personal  am- 
bition and  interest  to  shut  their  minds  against  the  entrance  of 
that  moderation  which  the  real  welfare  of  the  community 
teaches. 

Our  neighbors  seem  to  be  in  a  disposition  to  benefit  by  our 
mistakes ;  and  the  time  will  not  be  very  remote,  if  the  schemes 
of  some  men  can  prevail,  when  we  shall  be  ashamed  of  our  own 
blindness,  and  heap  infamy  upon  its  promoters. 

It  is  remarkable,  though  not  extraordinary,  that  those  char- 
acters, throughout  the  States,  who  have  been  principally  instru- 
mental in  the  Eevolution,  are  the  most  opposed  to  persecuting 
measures.  Were  it  proper,  I  might  trace  the  truth  of  this  re- 
mark from  that  character  which  has  been  the  first,  in  conspicu- 
ousness,  through  the  several  gradations  of  those,  with  very  few 
exceptions,  who,  either  in  the  civil  or  military  line,  have  borne 
a  distinguished  part.  On  the  other  hand,  I  might  point  out  men 
who  were  reluctantly  dragged  into  taking  a  part  in  the  Eevolu- 
tion ;  others  who  were  furious  zealots  in  the  commencement  of 
the  dispute,  that  were  not  heard  of  to  any  public  purpose,  during 
the  progress  of  it ;  and  others  who  were  fluctuating,  according  to 
the  tide  of  good  or  ill-fortune;  all  of  whom  now  join  in  the  cry 
with  a  third  class,  more  imprudent,  but  much  more  respectable, 
and  endeavor,  by  the  loudness  of  their  clamors,  to  atone  for  their 
past  delinquencies. 

As  to  Mentor's  commercial  reveries,  I  shall  decline  bestowing 
many  remarks  upon  them ;  not  only  because  they  are  not  immedi- 
ately connected  with  the  general  subject,  but  because  there  is 
little  danger  of  their  making  any  proselytes,  while  men  are  con- 
vinced that  the  prosperity  of  the  national  commerce  depends  as 
much  upon  the  extent  of  its  capital  as  that  of  an  individual ; 


Mr.  27.] 


PHOCION.  327 


that  to  confine  trade  to  any  particular  description  of  men,  in  ex- 
clusion of  others  who  have  better  means  of  carrying  it  on,  would 
be,  it'  practicable,  to  make  the  people  at  large  tributary  to  the 
avarice  of  a  small  number  who  were  to  have  the  benefil  of  tin' 
monopoly;  that,  in  the  present  situation  of  things,  a  very  -mall 
proportion  of  those  intended  to  be  benefited,  who  have  the 
means  to  avail  themselves  of  the  advantage,  would  reap  all  its 
fruits,  even  at  the  expense,  and  to  the  prejudice,  of  the  gra 
part  of  those  who  were  meant  to  be  favored;  that  the  fewer 
hands  trade  is  confined  to,  the  less  will  be  its  activity,  and  the 
less  the  degree  of  employment  afforded  to  other  classes  of  the 
community;  and,  in  short,  that  all  monopolies,  exclusions,  and 
discriminations,  in  matters  of  traffic,  are  pernicious  and  absurd. 

Since  writing  the  foregoing,  I  have  learned   that  a  bill  is 
depending  before  the  House  of  Assembly,  for  putting  various 
descriptions  of  persons  out  of  the  protection  of  government.     I 
have  too  much  respect  for  the  wisdom  and  virtue  of  that  body, 
to  suppose  a  measure  of  this  nature  can  obtain  the  sanction  of 
the  majority.      What  is  the  plain  language  of  the   proposal? 
There  are  certain  persons  who  are  obnoxious  to  public  resent- 
ment    The  Treaty  forbids  us  to  proceed  against  them  in  a  legal 
way.    Let  us,  therefore,  by  an  unconstitutional  exertion  of  po 
evade  the  Treaty,  however  dangerous  the  precedent  to  the  lib- 
erty of  the  subject,  and  however  derogatory  to  the  honor  of  the 
nation.     By  the  Treaty  we  stipulate,  that  no  person  or  persons 
shall  sitffer,  on  account  of  the  part  they  may  have  taken  in  the  war, 
any  damage  to  person,  liberty,  or  properly;  and  yet,  by  taking 
away  the  protection  of  government,   which  they  would  enjoy 
under  the  subsisting  laws,  we  leave  them  to  suffer  whatever  in- 
jury to  either,  the  rashness  of  individuals  who  are  the  subja 
the  State,  may  think  proper  to  inflict     What  would  this  be,  but 
to  imitate  the  conduct  of  a  certain  General,  who,  having  pro- 
mised that  he  would  not  spill  the  blood  of  some  prisoners  who 
were  about  to  surrender  by  capitulation,  after  he  had  them  in 
his  power  had  them  all  strangled  to  death?     Words,  in  every 
contract,  are  to  be  construed  so  as  to  give  them  a  reasonable 


328  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.21. 

effect.  When  it  is  stipulated  that  a  man  shall  not  suffer  in  per- 
son, liberty,  or  property,  it  does  not  merely  mean,  that  the  State 
will  not  inflict  any  positive  punishment  upon  him,  but  also  that 
it  will  afford  him  protection  and  security  from  injury.  The  very 
letter,  as  well  as  the  spirit,  of  the  stipulation,  imports  this.  He 
shall  not  suffer  any  damage,  are  the  words  of  the  Treaty. 

The  scheme  of  putting  men  out  of  the  protection  of  the  law, 
is  calculated  to  transfer  the  sceptre  from  the  hands  of  government 
to  those  of  individuals ;  it  is  to  arm  one  part  of  the  commu- 
nity against  another ;  it  is  to  enact  a  civil  war.  If,  unhappilv  for 
the  State,  this  plan  could  succeed,  no  man  can  foresee  the  end  of 
it.  But  the  guardians  of  the  rights  of  the  community  will  cer- 
tainly, on  mature  deliberation,  reject  it. 

Feeling  for  the  honor  of  the  State,  if  expulsions  must  take 
place,  if  the  Constitution  and  the  faith  of  the  United  States  must 
be  sacrificed  to  a  supposed  political  expedience,  I  had  much 
rather  see  an  open  avowal  of  the  principles  upon  which  we 
acted,  than  that  we  should  clothe  the  design  with  a  veil  of  arti- 
fice and  disguise,  too  thin  not  to  be  penetrated  by  the  most  or- 
dinary eye. 

I  shall  now,  with  a  few  general  reflections,  conclude. 

Those  who  are  at  present  intrusted  with  power,  in  all  these 
infant  Eepublics,  hold  the  most  sacred  deposit  that  ever  was 
confided  to  human  hands.  'Tis  with  governments  as  with 
individuals;  first  impressions  and  early  habits  give  a  lasting 
bias  to  the  temper  and  character.  Our  governments,  hitherto, 
have  no  habits.  How  important  to  the  happiness,  not  of  Ame- 
rica alone,  but  of  mankind,  that  they  should  acquire  good  ones! 

If  we  set  out  with  justice,  moderation,  liberality,  and  a  scru- 
pulous regard  to  the  Constitution,  the  government  will  acquire  a 
spirit  and  tone  productive  of  permanent  blessings  to  the  commu- 
nity. If,  on  the  contrary,  the  public  councils  are  guided  by 
humor,  passion,  and  prejudice  ;  if  from  resentment  to  individu- 
als, or  a  dread  of  partial  inconveniences,  the  Constitution  is 
slighted,  or  explained  away,  upon  every  frivolous  pretext,  the 
future  spirit  of  government  will  be  feeble,  distracted,  and  arbi- 
trary.    The  rights  of  the  subject  will  be  the  sport  of  every  party 


JEt.  27.  J  PHOCION.  329 

vicissitude.     There  will  be  no  settled  rule  of  conduct,  l»ut  every 
thing  will  fluctuate  with  the  alternate  prevalent  of  contending 

factions. 

Tin-  world  has  its  eye  upon  America.  The  Qoble  Straggle 
we  have  made  in  the  cause  of  liberty,  has  occasioned  a  kind  ..t' 
revolution  in  human  sentiment.  The  influence  of  oar  example 
has  penetrated  the  gloomy  regions  of  despotism,  and  has  pointed 
the  way  to  inquiries  which  may  shake  it  to  its  deepest  founda- 
tions. Men  begin  to  ask,  every  where,  Who  is  this  tyrant  that 
dares  to  build  his  greatness  on  our  misery  and  degradati< 
What  commission  has  he  to  sacrifice  millions  to  the  wanton 
appetites  of  himself  and  a  lew  minions  that,  surround  his  throne? 

To  ripen  inquiry  into  action,  it  remains  for  us  to  justify  the 
Eevolution  by  its  fruits. 

If  the  consequences  prove  that  Ave  really  have  asserted  the 
cause  of  human  happiness,  what  may  not  be  expected  from  so 
illustrious  an  example?  In  a  greater  or  less  degree,  the  world 
will  bless  and  imitate. 

But  if  experience,  in  this  instance,  verifies  the  lesson  ! 
taught  by  the  enemies  of  liberty,  that  the  bulk  of  mankind 
not  fit  to  govern  themselves;  that  they  must  have  a  master,  and 
were  only  made  for  the  rein  and  the  spur  ;  we  shall  then  see  the 
final  triumph  of  despotism  over  liberty:  the  advocates  of  the 
latter  must  acknowledge  it  to  be  an  ignis Jaknts,  and  abandon  the 
pursuit.  With  the  greatest  advantages  for  promoting  it  that 
ever  a  people  had,  we  shall  have  betrayed  the  cause  of  human 
nature. 

Let  those  in  whose  hands  it  is  placed,  pause  far  a  moment, 
and  contemplate,  with  an  eye  of  reverence,  the  vast  trust  com- 
mitted to  them.     Let  them  retire  into  their  own  bosoms  and 
amine  the  motives  which  there  prevail.     Lei  them  ask  themsel 
this  solemn  question:      Is  the  Bacrifice  of  a  few  mistaken  01  cri- 
minal individuals  an  object  worthy  of  the  shifts  to  which  we 

reduced,  to  evade  the  Constitution  and  the  national  engagemei 
Then  let  them  review  the  arguments  that  have  been  offered  with 
dispassionate  candor;  and  if  they  even  doubl  the  propriety  of 
the  measures  they  may  be  about  to  adopt,  let  them  remem 


330 


HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  21. 

that,  in  a  doubtful  case,  the  Constitution  ought  never  to  be  ha- 
zarded without  extreme  necessity. 

Phocion. 


CONSTITUTION  OF  THE  BANK  OP  NEW-YOKK. 

t *?% L . Tholthe  Eank  Sha11  be  Called  b?  tne  name  and  title 
of  the  Bank  of  New- York. 

Art  2.  That  the  capital  stock  consist  of  five  hundred  thou- 
sand dollars  m  gold  or  silver,  divided  into  one  thousand  shares 
of  five  hundred  dollars  each  share ;  and  that  a  majority  of  all  the 
directors  may,  at  their  discretion,  open  new  subscriptions  for  in- 
creasing the  capital  stock,  when  they  shall  judge  it  for  the  inter- 
est of  the  Bank  so  to  do,  provided  the  said  new  subscriptions  do 
not  exceed  the  sum  of  five  hundred  thousand  dollars 
_     Art.  3.  That  thirteen  directors  be  annually  chosen  by  a  ma- 

Z  f  t  I°te5  W,h0  ^  t0  W  the  Sole  conduct  a»d  manage- 
ment 0f  ^  Bank     At  the  firgt  general  dectio     the  S 

and  cashier  are  to  be  elected  by  the  subscribers  to  the  Bank,  but 
for  ever  afterwards  the  thirteen  directors  are  to  choose  a  presi- 
dent from  among  themselves;  and  the  cashier,  as  well  as  every 
other  person  employed  in  the  Bank,  is  to  be  appointed  and  paid 
by  them,  and  be  under  their  immediate  control. 

17«f  Tt'^\  T^1  the  firSt  el6Cti0n  be  0n  the  15th  daJ  of  March, 
1/84;  that  the  next  general  election  for  thirteen  directors  shall 
be  on  the  second  Monday  in  May,  1785  ;  and  so  continue  yearly, 
and  e^y  year,  but  m  case  of  any  vacancy  in  the  direction  by 
death^  resignation,    or  otherwise,  public  notice   shall  be  give. 

fined    r  r?     ^  SUCh  an  eVent'  that  the  vacancJ  *4  be 

Art,   Ti C !°n  t0  be  ^  Ween  da^s  after  -<*  notice. 

ber Z  f  i  iiT"7  h°lder  °f  °ne  °r  more  shares>  to  <*"  num- 
ber of  four  shall  have  one  vote  for  each  share.     A  subscriber  of 

u  shares  shall  have  five  votes ;  eight  shares,  six  votes ;  and  ten 

hares,  seven  votes;  and  one  vote  for  every  five  shares  above 


jEt.  27.]  BANK    OF    NKW-YORK.  331 

Art.  6.  That  no  stockholder,  after  the  first  election,  shall  be 
entitled  to  rote,  unless  Bnch  person  has  possessed  the  Btock  three 
months  previous  to  the  day  fixed  for  an  election  of  directors,  or 
any  other  general  purpose.  And  if  any  stockholder  (who  shall 
haVe  been  a  resident  in  this  State  at  least  twelve  months  imi 
diately  preceding  such  election)  should  be  absent,  he  shall 
entitled  to  vote  by  proxy,  properly  appointed;  but  in  no  other 
case  shall  any  vote  be  admitted  by  proxy. 

Art  7.  That  no  person  shall  be  eligible  to  serve  in  the  office 
of  director  unless  he  be  a  stockholder. 

Art  8.  That  the  board  of  directors  determine  the  manner  of 
doing  business,  and  the  rules  and  forms  to  be  pursued  ;  appoint 
and  employ  the  various  clerks  and  servants,  which  they  may  find 
necessary,  and  dispose  of  the  money  and  credit  of  the  Bank  for 
the  interest  and  benefit  of  the  proprietors ;  but  they  are  not 
to  employ  the  money  or  credit  of  the  Bank  in  the  drawing  or 
negotiating  of  any  foreign  bill,  or  bills  of  exchange,  or  advance  a 
loan  to  any  foreign  power  whatever. 

Art,  9.  That  if  at  any  time  it  shall  be  the  opinion  of  a  majority 
of  the  directors  that  any  of  their  body  are  guilty  of  neglect  of 
duty,  or  any  mal-practice,  whereby  the  interest  of  the  Bank  is 
or  may  be  affected,  such  majority  of  the  directors,  with  or  with- 
out the  consent  of  the  president,  may  advertise  for  a  general 
meeting  of  the  stockholders,  to  lay  before  them  a  complaint  of 
such  neglect  of  duty,  or  breach  of  trust ;  and  if  it  appears  to  the 
stockholders  to  be  well  founded,  such  director  or  directors  may 
be  removed  by  a  majority  of  votes. 

Art.  10.  That  if  any  of  the  directors  shall  convert  any  of  the 
money  or  property  of  the  Bank  to  his  own  particular  use,  or  be 
guilty  of  fraud  or  embezzlement,  he  shall  forfeit  his  whole  share 
of  stock  to  the  company  and  be  expelled  the  direction  by  a 
majority  of  all  the  directors,  and  thereby  rendered  incapable  of 
ever  serving  again  in  that  office. 

Art.  11.  That  no  president  or  director  shall  receive  any  other 
emolument  for  his  attendance  on  the  duties  of  the  office  than 
such  as  shall  be  fixed  and  agreed  to  by  a  majority  of  votes  at  a 
general  election. 


332  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  27. 

Art.  12.  That  there  shall  be  a  meeting  of  the  directors  quar- 
terly, for  the  purpose  of  regulating  the  affairs  of  the  Bank,  and 
not  ]ess  than  seven  shall  constitute  a  board,  who  may  adjourn  from 
time  to  time,  and  the  president  if  necessary  may  call  a  meeting 
of  the  directors  at  any  intermediate  time ;  at  every  meeting  of  the 
directors  all  questions  are  to  be  decided  by  a  majority  of  votes. 

Art.  13.  That  the  president  or  a  majority  of  the  directors  shall 
have  power  to  call  a  general  meeting  of  the  stockholders  by  an 
advertisement  in  the  public  papers,  whenever  it  appears  to  them 
there  is  urgent  occasion. 

Art.  14.  That  the  cashier  and  every  principal  clerk  do  give  a 
security  for  their  trust  to  such  an  amount,  as  a  majority  of  all 
the  directors  shall  require. 

Art.  15.  That  all  notes  issued  by  the  Bank  shall  be  signed  by 
the  president  for  the  time  being,  or  any  director  who  may  be 
fixed  upon  by  the  board  for  that  purpose,  and  countersigned  by 
the  cashier,  or  in  his  absence  by  a  clerk  to  be  appointed  by  the 
directors. 

Art.  16.  That  no  stockholder  shall  be  accountable  to  any  in- 
dividual or  the  public  for  money  lodged  in  the  Bank  for  a  greater 
sum  than  the  amount  of  his  stock. 

Art.  17.  That  such  a  dividend  on  the  profits  of  the  Bank  as  a 
majority  of  all  the  directors  shall  determine  to  make,  shall  be 
declared  at  least  fourteen  days  previous  to  the  general  election  in 
May  1785  ;  and  that  all  subsequent  dividends  shall  be  made  half 
yearly. 

Art.  18.  That  all  shares  shall  be  transferable,  such  transfer  to 
be  made  by  the  proprietor  or  proprietors,  or  his,  her,  or  their 
lawful  attorney,  in  books  kept  at  the  Bank  for  that  purpose,  which 
books  shall  be  always  kept  open  at  the  usual  office  hours,  except 
on  particular  days  previous  to  the  declaring  a  dividend  of  which 
due  notice  shall  be  given. 

Art.  19.  That  the  president  and  directors  shall  petition  the 
Legislature  to  incorporate  the  subscribers  or  stockholders  under 
the  name  and  title  of  the  president,  directors  and  company  of 
the  Bank  of  New- York,  and  to  pass  laws  for  inflicting  the  most 
exemplary  punishment  on  those  who  may  commit   fraud  or 


jEt.  29.]  REVENUE     SYSTEM.  333 

embezzlement;  and  also  to  punish  the  counterfeiters  of  Bank 
notes  ami  checks  in  the  like  exemplary  manner,  with  such  other 
clauses  in  the  act  as  they  shall  judge  accessary  and  proper  for 
the  security  of  the  stockholders  and  the  public. 

Art.  20.  That  this  constitution  shall  be  fairly  transcribed  upon 
parchment  and  remain  at  the  Bank;  the  president  and  directors 
when  chosen,  and  prior  to  the  opening  of  the  Bank,  shall  sever- 
ally sign  and  seal  the  same,  and  take  an  oath  or  affirmation  before 
a  magistrate,  thai  he  will  to  the  hest  of  his  knowledge  and 
abilities  conduct  the  business  of  the  Bank  for  the  interest  and 
benefit  of  the  proprietors  and  agreeable  to  the  true  intent  and 
meaning  of  this  constitution,  which  oath  or  affirmation  shall  also 
be  taken  by  every  future  director  when  chosen,  and  before  he 
enters  upon  the  execution  of  his  trust. 


PETITION  AS  TO  REVENUE  SYSTEM. 

New-York,  1786. 

To  th>  Honorable  the  Legislahure  of  the  State  of  New- York : — 

The  Petition  of  the  Subscribers,  Inhabitants  of  the  City  of 
New-York,  respectfully  showeth, 

That  your  petitioners,  anxious  for  the  welfare  of  the  com- 
munity of  which  they  are  members,  have  seen  with  peculiar 
regret  the  delay  which  has  hitherto  attended  the  adoption  of  the 
Revenue  System  recommended  by  Congress  in  the  resolutions  of 
the  eighteenth  of  April,  1783. 

That  the  anxiety  which  your  petitioners  have  all  along  felt 
from  motives  of  a  more  general  nature  is,  at  the  present  juncture, 
increased  by  this  particular  consideration,  that  the  State  of  New- 
York  now  stands  almost  alone  in  a  non-compliance  with  a  mea- 
sure, in  which  the  sentiments  and  wishes  of  the  Union  at  large 
appear  to  unite,  and  by  a  further  delay  may  render  itself  respon- 
sible for  consequences  too  serious  not  to  affect  every  considerate 
man. 


334  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mi.  29. 

That  in  the  opinion  of  your  memorialists,  all  the  considera- 
tions important  to  a  State,  all  the  motives  of  public  honor,  faith, 
reputation,  interest,  and  safety,  conspire  to  urge  a  compliance 
with  these  resolutions. 

That  government  without  revenue  cannot  subsist.  That  the 
mode  provided  in  the  Confederation  for  supplying  the  Treasury 
of  the  United  States  has,  on  experiment,  been  found  inade- 
quate. 

That  the  system  proposed  will,  in  all  probability,  prove  much 
more  efficacious,  and  is,  in  other  respects,  as  unexceptionable  as 
the  various  circumstances  and  interests  of  these  States  will 
permit. 

That  any  objection  to  it  as  a  measure  not  warranted  by  the 
Confederation,  is  refuted  by  the  thirteenth  article,  which  pro- 
vides that  alterations  may  be  made,  if  agreed  to  by  Congress  and 
confirmed  by  the  Legislature  of  each  State  ;  and  the  conduct  of 
this  State  itself  in  adopting  the  proposed  change  of  the  Eighth 
Article,  is  a  precedent  in  which  we  find  the  principle  reduced  to 
practice,  and  affords  a  complete  answer  to  every  pretence  of  the 
Revenue  System  being  unconstitutional. 

That  as  to  danger  in  vesting  the  United  States  with  these 
funds,  your  memorialists  consider  their  interests  and  liberties  as 
not  less  safe  in  the  hands  of  their  fellow-citizens  delegated  to 
represent  them  for  one  year  in  Congress,  than  in  the  hands  of 
their  fellow-citizens  delegated  to  represent  them  for  one  year  or 
four  years  in  the  Senate  and  Assembly  of  this  State. 

That  government  implies  trust ;  and  every  government  must 
be  trusted  so  far  as  is  necessary  to  enable  it  to  attain  the  ends  for 
which  it  is  instituted ;  without  which  insult  and  oppression  from 
abroad,  confusion  and  convulsion  at  home. 


^Et.  29.]  CINCINNATI.  335 


CINCINNATI. 

New- York,  July  f,,  178O. 

The  Committee  to  whom  was  referred  the  proceedings  of 
the  society  of  the  Cincinnati,  at  their  last  general  meeting,  beg 
leave  to  report,  that  they  have  attentively  considered  the  'alter- 
ations proposed  at  that  meeting  to  be  made  in  the  original  con- 
stitution of  the  society ;  and  though  they  highly  approve  the 
motives  which  dictated  those  alterations,  they  are  of  opinion  it 
would  be  inexpedient  to  adopt  them,  and  this  chiefly  on  the 
two  following  accounts. 

"  First,— Because  the  institution,  as  proposed  to  be  altered, 
would  contain  in  itself  no  certain  provision  for  the  continuance 
of  the  society  beyond  the  lives  of  the  present  members ;  this 
point  being  left  to  the  regulation  of  charters,  which  may  never 
be  obtained,  and  which,  in  the  opinion  of  this  Committee,  so  far 
as  affects  this  object,  ought  never  to  be  granted,  since  the  dangers 
apprehended  from  the  institution  could  then  only  cease  to  be 
vmaginan/i  when  it  should  receive  the  sanction  of  a  legal  establish- 
ment. The  utmost  the  society  ought  to  wish  or  ask  from  the 
several  legislatures  is,  to  enable  it  to  appoint  trustees  to  hold  its 
property,  for  the  charitable  purposes  to  which  it  is  destined. 
Second,— Because,  by  a  fundamental  article,  it  obliges  the  soci- 
ety of  each  State  to  lend  its  funds  to  the  State ;  a  provision 
which  would  be  improper,  for  two  reasons;  one,  that  in  many 
cases  the  society  might  be  able  to  dispose  of  its  funds  to  much 
greater  advantage ;  the  other,  that  the  State  might  not  always 
choose  to  borrow  from  the  society. 

"  That  while  the  Committee  entertain  this  opinion  with  re- 
spect to  the  proposed  alterations,  they  are  at  the  same  time 
equally  of  opinion,  that  some  alterations  in  the  original  constitu- 
tion will  be  proper,  as  well  in  deference  to  the  sense  of  many  of 
our  fellow-citizens,  as  in  conformity  to  the  true  spirit  of  the  insti- 
tution itself.     The  alterations  they  have  in  view  respect  princi- 


336  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  29. 

pally  the  duration  or  succession  of  the  society,  and  the  distinc- 
tion between  honorary  and  regular  members.  As  to  the  first,  the 
provision  intended  to  be  made  appears  to  them  to  be  expressed 
in  terms  not  sufficiently  explicit ;  and  as  far  as  it  may  intend  an 
hereditary  succession  by  right  of  primogeniture,  is  liable  to  this 
objection — that  it  refers  to  birth  what  ought  to  belong  to  merit  only: 
a  principle  inconsistent  with  the  genius  of  a  society  founded  on 
friendship  and  patriotism.  As  to  the  second,  the  distinction 
holds  up  an  odious  difference  between  men  who  have  served 
their  country  in  one  way,  and  those  who  have  served  it  in  an- 
other, and  improper  in  a  society  where  the  character  of  patriot 
ought  to  be  an  equal  title  to  all  its  members. 

The  Committee,  however,  decline  proposing  any  specific  sub- 
stitute for  the  parts  of  the  original  constitution,  which  appear 
to  them  exceptionable ;  as  they  are  of  opinion,  any  alterations 
necessary  to  be  made,  can  only  be  digested  in  a  general  meet- 
ing of  the  society,  specially  authorized  to  agree  upon,  and  finally 
establish,  those  alterations.  With  a  view  to  this,  they  beg  leave 
to  recommend  that  a  circular  letter  be  written  from  the  society, 
to  the  different  State  societies,  suggesting  the  expediency  of  in- 
structing, and  empowering  their  delegates,  at  the  next  general 
meeting,  to  concur  in  such  alterations  as  may  appear  to  that 
meeting  proper,  after  a  full  communication  of  what  shall  be 
found  to  be  the  sense  of  the  several  societies. 


ADDKESS  OP  THE  ANNAPOLIS  CONVENTION. 

1786. 

"To  the  Honorable  the  Legislatures  of  Virginia,  Delaware, 
Pennsylvania,  and  New- York. 
"  The  commissioners  from  the  said  States  respectively,  assem- 
bled at  Annapolis,  humbly  beg  leave  to  report,  That  pursuant 
to  then-  several  appointments,  they  met  at  Annapolis,  in  the 
State  of  Maryland,  on  the  eleventh  day  of  September,  instant, 


JEt.  29.]  ANNA  1M)  I.  is    CONVENTION.  •'*--".7 

and  having  proceeded  to  a  communication  of  their  powers,  they 
found  thai  the  States  of  New-York,  Pennsylvania,  and  Vir- 
ginia, had  in  substance,  and  aearly  in  the  same  terms,  authorized 
their  respective  commissioners  to  meel  such  commissioners 
were  or  mighl  be  appointed  by  the  other  States  in  the  Union, 
at  such  time  and  place  as  Bhould  be  agreed  upon  by  the  said 
commissioners,  to  take  into  consideration  the  trade  and  corn- 
mere,'  of  the  United  States,  to  consider  how  far  a  uniform 
system  in  their  commerciaJ  intercourse  and  regulations  might  be 
necessary  to  their  common  interesl  and  permanent  harmony 
and  to  report  to  the  several  States  such  an  act  relative  to  this 

at  object,  as,  when  unanimously  ratified  by  them,  would  en- 
able the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled  effectually  to  pro- 
vide for  thf  same. 

'  That  the  State  of  Delaware  had  given  similar  powers  to 
their  commissioners;  with  this  difference  only,  that  the  act  to 
be  framed  in  virtue  of  these  powers,  is  required  to  be  reported 
'to  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  to  be  agreed  to 
by  them,  and  confirmed  by  the  Legislature  of  every  State.' 

■■  That  the.  State  of  New  Jersey  had  enlarged  the  object  of 
their  appointment,  empowering  their  commissioners  'to  con- 
sider how  far  a  uniform  system  in  their  commercial  regula- 
tions, and  other  important  matters,  might  be  necessary  to  the 
common  interesl  and  permanenl  harmony  of  the  several  States; 
and  to  report  such  an  act  on  the  subject,  as,  when  ratified  by 
them,  would  enable  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled 
effectually  to  provide  for  the  exigencies  of  the  Union.' 

'That  appointments  of  commissioners  have  also  been  made 
by  tli,'  States  of  NTew  Eampshire,  Massachusetts,  Rhode  Island, 
and  North  Carolina,  none  of  whom,  however,  have  attended. 
lint  that  no  information  has  been  received  by  your  commission- 
ers of  any  appointmenl  having  been  made  by  the  States  of  Con- 
necticut, Maryland,  South  Carolina,  or  Georgia  That  the  ex- 
press terms  of  the  powers  to  your  commissioners  supposing  a 
deputation  from  all  the  States,  and  having  for  their  object  the 
trade  and  commerce  of  the  United  States,  your  commissioneM 
did  not  conceive  it  advisable  to  proceed  to  the  business  of  their 

b  22 


338  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  29. 

mission  under  the  circumstances  of  so  partial  and  defective  a 
representation. 

"  Deeply  impressed,  however,  with  the  magnitude  and  im- 
portance of  the  object  confided  to  them  on  this  occasion,  your 
commissioners  cannot  forbear  to  indulge  an  expression  of  their 
earnest  and  unanimous  wish  that  speedy  measures  may  be  taken 
to  effect  a  general  meeting  of  the  States  in  a  future  Convention 
for  the  same,  and  such  other  purposes,  as  the  situation  of  public 
affairs  may  be  found  to  require. 

"If  in  expressing  this  wish,  or  intimating  any  further  senti- 
ment, your  commissioners  should  seem  to  exceed  the  strict 
bounds  of  their  appointment,  they  entertain  a  full  confidence 
that  a  conduct  dictated  by  an  anxiety  for  the  welfare  of  the 
United  States  will  not  fail  to  receive  a  favorable  construction. 
In  this  persuasion,  your  commissioners  submit  an  opinion  that 
the  idea  of  extending  the  powers  of  their  deputies  to  other  sub- 
jects than  those  of  commerce,  which  had  been  adopted  by  the 
State  of  New  Jersey,  was  an  improvement  on  the  original  plan,  and 
will  deserve  to  be  incorporated  into  that  of  a  future  Convention. 
They  are  the  more  naturally  led  to  this  conclusion,  as,  in  the 
course  of  their  reflections  on  the  subject,  they  have  been  in- 
duced to  think  that  the  power  of  regulating  trade  is  of  such  com- 
prehensive extent,  and  will  enter  so  far  into  the  general  system 
of  the  Federal  Government,  that  to  give  it  efficacy,  and  to  obvi- 
ate questions  and  doubts  concerning  its  precise  nature  and  limits, 
may  require  a  correspondent  adjustment  of  other  parts  of  the 
Federal  system.  That  there  are  important  defects  in  the  system 
of  the  Federal  Government,  is  acknowledged  by  the  Acts  of  all 
those  States  which  have  concurred  in  the  present  meeting ;  that 
the  defects,  upon  a  closer  examination,  may  be  found  greater  and 
more  numerous  than  even  these  acts  imply,  is  at  least  so  far 
probable,  from  the  embarrassments  which  characterize  the  pre- 
sent state  of  our  national  affairs  foreign  and  domestic,  as  may 
reasonably  be  supposed  to  merit  a  deliberate  and  candid  discus- 
sion in  some  mode  which  will  unite  the  sentiments  and  councils 
of  all  the  States. 

"  In  the  choice  of  the  mode,  your  commissioners  are  of  the 


Mr.  29.]  ANNAPOLIS     CONVENTION.  339 

opinion  that  a  convention  of  deputies  from  die  different  States 
for  the  special  and  sole  purpose  of  entering  into  this  investiga- 
tion, and  digesting  a  plan  of  supplying  such  defects  as  may  be 
discovered  to  exist,  will  be  entitled  to  a  preference,  from  con- 
siderations  which  will  occur  without  being  particularized.  Your 
commissioners  decline  an  enn ration  of  those  Dational  circum- 
stances on  which  their  opinion  respecting  the  propriety  of  a 
future  Convention  with  those  enlarged  powers  is  founded,  as  it 
would  be  an  intrusion  of  facts  and  observations,  most  of  which 
have  been  frequently  the  subject  of  public  discussion,  and  none 
of  which  can  have  escaped  the  penetration  of  those  to  whom  they 
would  in  this  instance  be  addressed. 

"They  are,  however,  of  a  nature  so  serious,  as,  in  the  view 
of  your  commissioners,  to  render  the  situation  of  the  United 
States  delicate  and  critical,  calling  for  an  exertion  of  the  united 
virtue  and  wisdom  of  all  the  members  of  the  Confederacy.  Un- 
der this  impression  your  commissioners,  with  the  most  respect- 
ful deference,  beg  leave  to  suggest  their  unanimous  conviction, 
that  it  may  effectually  tend  to  advance  the  interests  of  the 
Union,  if  the  States  by  which  they  have  been  respectively  dele- 
■  1  would  concur  themselves,  and  use  their  endeavors  to  pro- 

e  the  concurrence  of  the  other  States,  in  the  appointment  of 
commissioners  to  meet  at  Philadelphia  on  the  the  second  Monday 
in  May  next,  to  take  into  consideration  the  situation  of  the 
United  States,  to  devise  such  further  provisions  as  shall  appear 
to  them  necessary  to  render  the  Constitution  of  the  Federal 
Government  adequate  to  iht  exigencies  of  the  Union^  and  to  report 
such  an  act  for  that  purpose  to  the  United  States  in  Congress 

mbled,  as,  when  agreed  to  by  them  and  afterwards  confirmed 
by  the  Legislature  of  every  State,  will  effectually  provide  for  the 
same. 

"Though  your  commissioners  could  not  with  propriety  ad- 
dress these  observations  and  sentiments  to  any  but  the  St; 
they  have  the  honor  to  represent,  they  have  nevertheless  con- 
cluded, from  motives  of  respect,  to  transmit  copies  of  this  report 
to  the  United  States  in  Congress  assembled,  and  to  the  Execu- 
tives of  the  other  States. 


340  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 


LEGISLATUEE  OF  NEW-YOEK. 

RESOLUTIONS. 

February  17,  1787. 
Resolved,  if  the  Hon.  the  Senate  concur,  that  the  Delegates  of 
this  State  in  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  of  America  be 
and  they  are  hereby,  instructed  to  move  in  Congress  for  an  Act 
recommending  to  the  States  composing  the  Union,  that  a  Con- 
vention of  Eepresentatives  from  the  said  States  respectively,  be 
held  and  meet  at  a  time  and  place,  to  be  mentioned  in  such 
recommendation,  for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  articles  of  Con- 
federation and  Perpetual  Union  between  the  United  States  of 
America,  by  such  alterations  and  amendments  as  a  majority  of 
the  Eepresentatives  in  such  Convention  shall  judge  proper  and 
necessary  to  render  them  adequate  to  the  preservation  and  sup- 
port of  the  Union. 


February  26,  1787. 
Resolved,  (if  the  Honorable  the  Senate  concur  herein,)  that 
five  Delegates  be  appointed  on  the  part  of  this  State  to  meet  such 
Delegates  as  may  be  appointed  on  the  part  of  the  other  States 
respectively,  on  the  second  Monday  of  May  next,  at  Philadel- 
phia, for  the  sole  and  express  purpose  of  revising  the  Articles  of 
Confederation,  and  reporting  to  Congress  and  to  the  several  Legis- 
latures, such  alterations  and  provisions  therein  as  shall,  when 
agreed  to  in  Congress,  and  confirmed  by  the  several  States,  render 
the  Federal  Constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  Govern- 
ment, and  the  preservation  of  the  Union;    and  that,   in   case 
of  such  concurrence,  the  two  Houses  of  the  Legislature  will  meet 
on  Thursday  next,  at  such  place  as  the  Honorable  the  Senate 
shall  think  proper,  for  the  purpose  of  electing  the  said  delegates 
by  joint  ballot. 


M-r.  30.]  NEW-YORK     LEGISLATURE.  :>!1 


An  Act  In  institute  mi  rxiVKitsrrv  in'thin  this  State,  and  /brother 
/imposes  therein  mentioned.     Passed  13th  April,  1787. 

Whereas,  by  two  Acts  of  the  Legislature  of  the  State  of  New- 
York,  the  one  passed  the  first  day  of  May,  and  the  other  the 
twenty-sixth  day  of  November,  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and 
eighty-four,  an  University  is  instituted  within  this  State,  in  the 
manner,  and  with  the  powers,  therein  specified.  And  whereas, 
from  the  representation  of  the  regents  of  the  said  University,  it 
appears  that  there  are  defects  in  the  constitution  of  the  said  Uni- 
\ -i i-sit  v  which  call  for  alterations  and  amendments.  And  whereas, 
a  nni nber  of  Acts  on  the  same  subject,  amending,  correcting,  and 
altering  former  ones,  tend  to  render  the  same  less  intelligible  and 
easy  to  be  understood :  wherefore,  to  the  end  that  the  constitution 
of  the  said  University  may  be  properly  amended,  and  appear 
entire  in  one  law,  it  will  be  expedient  to  delineate  and  establish 
the  same  in  this,  and  repeal  all  former  Acts  relative  thereto. 

I.  Be  it  enacted  by  the  people  of  the  State  of  New- York,  represent- 
ed in  Senate  and  Assembly,  and  it  is  hereby  enacted  by  the  authority 
of  the  .same,  That  an  University  be  and  is  hereby  instituted  within 
this  State,  to  be  called  and  known  by  the  name  or  style  of,  The 
Regents  of  the  University  of  the  State  of  New- York.  That  the 
said  ngents  shall  always  be  twenty-one  in  number,  of  which  the 
Governor  and  Lieutenant-Governor  of  the  State,  for  the  time 
being,  shall  always,  in  virtue  of  their  offices,  be  two.  That  the 
Governor  and  Lieutenant-Governor,  and  John  Rogers,  Egbert 
Benson,  I'hilip  Schuyler,  Ezra  L'lloinmeilicu,  Nathan  ('air,  Pe- 
ter Sylvester,  John  Jay,  Dirck  Romeyn,  .lames  Livingston, 
Ebenezer  Russel,  Lewis  Morris,  Matthew  Olarkson,  Benjamin 
Moore,  Kilardus  Westerlo,  Andrew  King,  William  Lynn,  Jona- 
than GL  Tompkins,  John  M'Donald,  and  Frederick  William  de 
Steuben,  shall  be,  and  hereby  are,  appointed  the  present  regents; 
and  that  they  and  all  future  regents  shall  continue  in  p 
during  the  pleasure  of  the  Legislature.     That  all  vacancies  in  the 

ency  which  may  happen  by  death,  or  removal,  or  resignation, 
shall,  from  time  to  time,  be  supplied  by  the  Legislature,  in  the 


342  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEr.  30. 

manner  in  which  Delegates  to  Congress  are  appointed.  That  the 
said  regents,  as  soon  as  may  be  after  the  passing  of  this  Act, 
shall  convene  at  such  time  and  place  as  the  Governor  shall  ap- 
point, and  by  plurality  of  voices,  by  ballot,  choose  a  chancellor 
and  vice-chancellor,  to  continue  in  office  during  the  pleasure  of 
the  said  regents.  That  the  said  chancellor,  or,  in  his  absence 
from  the  said  meeting,  the  vice-chancellor,  or,  in  case  both  be 
absent,  then  the  senior  regent  present  (and  whose  seniority  shall 
be  decided  by  the  order  in  which  the  regents  are  named  or  ap- 
pointed) shall  preside ;  and,  in  case  of  division,  have  a  casting- 
voice  at  all  meetings  of  the  said  regents.  That  all  the  meetings 
of  the  said  regents,  after  the  first,  shall  be  held  at  such  time  and 
place  as  the  chancellor,  or  in  case  of  his  death,  absence  from  the 
State,  or  resignation,  the  vice-chancellor,  or,  in  case  of  the  death, 
absence  from  the  State,  or  resignation  of  both  of  them,  then,  at 
such  time  and  place  as  the  senior  regent  present  in  the  State 
shall  appoint. 

And  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  chancellor,  vice-chan- 
cellor, or  senior  regent,  as  the  case,  in  virtue  of  the  above 
contingencies,  may  be,  to  order  and  call  a  meeting  of  the  said 
regents,  whenever  and  as  often  as  three  regents  shall,  in  writing, 
apply  for  and  request  the  same  ;  such  order  or  call  to  be  pub- 
lished in  one  or  more  of  the  public  newspapers  in  the  city  of 
New- York,  at  least  ten  days  prior  to  such  meeting. 

And  further,  that  any  eight  of  the  said  regents,  meeting  at 
the  time  and  place  so  ordered,  shall  be  a  quorum,  and  be  en 
abled  to  transact  and  do  the  business  which,  by  this  act,  they 
shall  be  authorized  or  directed  to  do  and  transact.  That  the 
said  University  shall  be,  and  hereby  is,  incorporated,  and  shall 
be  known  by  the  name  of  The  Eegents  of  the  University  of  the 
State  of  New- York,  and  by  that  name  shall  have  perpetual  suc- 
cession, and  power  to  sue  and  be  sued,  to  hold  property,  real  and 
personal,  to  the  amount  of  the  annual  income  of  forty  thousand 
bushels  of  wheat ;  to  buy  and  to  sell,  and  otherwise  lawfully 
dispose  of  lands  and  chattels ;  to  make  and  use  a  common  seal, 
and  to  alter  the  same  at  pleasure. 

II.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That  the 


;Et.  30.]  NEW- YORK     LEGISLATURE.  343 

said  corporation  Shall  appoint,  by  ballot,  a  treasurer  and  a  secre- 
tary, to  continue  in  office  during  the  pleasure  of  the  corporation. 
Thai  the  treasurer  shall  keep  fair  and  true  accounts  of  all  moneys 
l>v  him  received  and  paid  ou1  ;  and  thai  the  secretary  shall  keep 
a  fair  journal  of  the  meetings  and  proceedings  of  the  corporation, 
in  which  the  yeas  and  nays  on  all  questions  shall  be  entered,  if 
required,  by  any  one  of  the  regents  present.     And  to  all  the 

1 ks  and  papers  of  the  corporation,  every  regent  shall  always 

have  access,  and  he  permitted  to  take  copies  of  them. 

III.  And  beit further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid.  That 
it  shall  and  may  !"•  law  ful  to  and  for  the  said  regents,  and  they 
aiv  hereby  authorized  and  required,  to  visit  and  inspect  all  the 
colleges,  academies,  and  schools,  which  are  or  may  be  established 
in  this  State ;  examine  into  the  state  and  system  of  education 
and  discipline  therein,  and  make  a  yearly  report  thereof  to  the 
Legislature;  and  also  to  visit  every  college  in  this  State  once 
a  year,  by  themselves  or  by  their  committees,  and  yearly  to  re- 
port the  state  of  the  same  to  the  Legislature;  and  to  make  such 
by-laws  and  ordinances,  not  inconsistent  with  the  constitution 
and  laws  of  the  State,  as  they  may  judge  most  expedient  for  the 
accomplishment  of  the  trust  hereby  reposed  in  them. 

And  in  case  the  trustees  of  the  said  colleges,  or  any  of  them, 
shall  Leave  the  office  of  president  of  the  college,  or  the  trustees  of 
any  academy  shall  leave  the  office  or  place  of  principal  of  the 
academy  vacant,  for  the  space  of  one  year,  it  shall,  in  all  such 
cases,  1»'  lawful  for  the  regents,  unless  a  reasonable  cause  shall 
be  assigned  for  such  delay,  to  their  satisfaction,  to  till  up  such 
vacancies;  and  the  persons  by  them  appointed  shall  continue  in 

:e  during  the  pleasure  of  the  regents,  and  shall  respectively 
be  received  by  the  college  or  academy  to  which  they  may  be  ap- 
pointed, and  shall  have  all  the  powers,  and  exactly  the  same 
salary,  emoluments,  and  privileges,  as  his  next  immediate  prede- 

3or  in  olhce  enjoyed,  it' any  predecessor  he  had;  if  not,  then 
such  salary  as  the  regents  shall  direct,  to  be  paid  by  the  tins: 
who  shall,  out  of  the  funds  or  estate  of  their  college  or  academy, 
be  compellable,  by  the  said  president  or  principal,  to  pay  the 
same. 


344  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

IV.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That  the 
said  regents  shall  have  the  right  of  conferring,  by  diplomas,  un- 
der their  common  seal,  on  any  person  or  persons  whom  they 
may  think  worthy  thereof,  all  such  degree  or  degrees,  above  or 
beyond  those  of  bachelor  or  master  of  arts,  as  are  known  to,  and 
usually  granted  by,  any  university  or  college  in  Europe. 

V.  And  be  it  farther  enacted,  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That  it 
shall  and  may  be  lawful  to  and  for  the  said  regents,  from  time  to 
time,  to  apply  such  part  of  their  estate  and  funds,  in  such  man- 
ner as  they  may  think  most  conducive  to  the  promotion  of  litera- 
ture, and  the  advancement  of  useful  knowledge  within  this  State. 
Provided  always,  that  where  grants  shall  be  made  to  them,  for 
certain  uses  and  purposes  therein  expressed  and  declared,  the 
same  shall  not  be  applied,  either  in  the  whole  or  in  part,  to  any 
other  uses. 

VI.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That  the 
regents  shall  anually  meet  on  the  second  Thursday  next  after  the 
Senate  and  Assembly,  at  the  annual  session  of  the  Legislature, 
shall  have  formed  a  quorum  respectively,  and  at  the  assembly 
chamber,  immediately  after  the  Assembly  shall  have  adjourned. 
That  the  said  regents,  at  such  meetings,  and  all  others,  may 
adjourn  from  time  to  time,  not  exceeding  ten  days  at  any  one  time. 

VII.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
That  any  citizen  or  citizens,  or  bodies  corporate,  within  this  State, 
being  minded  to  found  a  college  at  any  place  within  the  same, 
he  or  they  shall,  in  writing,  make  known  to  the  regents,  the 
place  where,  the  plan  on  which,  and  the  funds  with  which  it  is 
intended  to  found  and  provide  for  the  same,  and  who  are  pro- 
posed for  the  first  trustees  ;  and  in  case  the  regents  shall  approve 
thereof,  then  they  shall  declare  their  approbation,  by  an  instru- 
ment under  their  common  seal,  and  allow  a  convenient  time  for 
completing  the  same.  And  if  at  the  expiration  of  the  said  time, 
it  shall  appear  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  regents,  that  the  said 
plan  and  propositions  are  fully  executed,  then  they  shall,  by  act 
under  their  common  seal,  declare,  that  the  said  college,  to  be 
named  as  the  founders  shall  signify,  and  with  such  trustees,  not 
exceeding  twenty-four,  nor  less  than  ten,  as  they  shall  name, 


jEt.  30.]  NEW-YORE    LEGISLATURE.  345 

s  1 1 : 1 1 1  forthwith  become  incorporated,  and  Bhal]  have  perpetual 
succession,  and  enjoy  all  the  corporate  rights  and  privileges  en- 
joyed by  <  Jolumbia  College,  hereinafter  mentioned. 

VIII.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  Thai 
tlic  charter  heretofore  granted  to  the  governors  of  the  college  of 
the  province  <>!'  New-York,  in  tin-  city  of  New- York,  in  America, 
dated  the  thirty-first  day  of  October,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  one 
thousand  seven  hundred  and  fifty-four,  shall  be,  and  hereby  is 
fully  and  absolutely  ratified  and  confirmed,  in  all  respects,  except 
tli.it  the  college  thereby  established,  shall  be  henceforth  called 
Columbia  College :  That  the  style  of  the  said  corporation  shall 
be,  'The  trustees  of  Columbia  College,  in  the  city  of  New- York; 
and  that  no  persons  shall  be  trustees  of  the  same,  in  virtue  of 
any  offices,  characters,  or  descriptions  whatever ;  excepting  also 
such  clauses  thereof  as  require  the  taking  of  oaths,  and  subscrib- 
ing the  declaration  therein  mentioned;  and  which  render  a  per- 
son ineligible  to  the  office  of  president  of  the  college,  on  account 
of  his  religions  tenets,  ;md  prescribe  a  form  of  public  prayer  to 
be  used  in  the  said  college  ;  and  also  excepting  the  clause  thereof 
which  provides,  thai  the  by-laws  and  ordinances  to  be  made  in 
pursuance  thereof,  should  not  be  repugnant  to  the  laws  and  stat- 
utes of  that  part  of  the  kingdom  of  Great  Britain,  called  Eng- 
land: except  also,  that  in  all  cases  where  fifteen  governors  are 
required  to  constitute  a  quorum  for  the  dispatch  of  business, 
thirteen  trustees  shall  be  sufficient.  Provided,  always,  that  the 
by-laws  and  ordinances  to  be  mad''  by  the  trustees  of  the  said 
Columbia  College,  shall  not  be  contrary  to  the  constitution  and 
laws  of  this  State. 

IN.  An'/  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid\ 
That  James  Duane,  Samuel  Provost,  .lolm  11.  Livingston.  Rich- 
ard Varick,  Alexander  Eamilton,  John  Mason,  .lames  Wilson, 
John  Gano,  Brockholsl  Livingston,  Robert  Barper,  John  Daniel 
Gross,  Johann  Christoff  ELunze,  Walter  Livingston,  Lewis  A. 
Scott,  Joseph  Delaplaine,  Leonard  Ldspenard,  Abraham  Beach, 
John  Lawrence,  John  Rutherford,  Morgan  Lewis,  .John  Cochran, 
Gershom  Seixas,  Charles  McKnight,  Thomas  .lone-,  Malachi 
Treat,  Samuel  Bard,  Nicholas    Romeyn,  Benjamin    Ki.-s.im,  and 


346  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  30. 

Ebenezer  Crosby,  shall  be  and  they  are  hereby  constituted  and 
declared  to  be  the  present  trustees  of  Columbia  College,  in  the 
city  of  New- York,  and  that  when  by  the  death  or  resignation  or 
removal  of  any  of  the  said  trustees,  the  number  of  those  trus- 
tees shall  be  reduced  to  twenty-four,  then  and  from  thenceforth 
the  said  twenty-four  trustees  shall  be,  and  they  hereby  are  de- 
clared and  constituted  trustees  of  the  said  Columbia  College,  in 
perpetual  succession,  according  to  the  true  intent  and  meaning  of 
the  said  charter ;  and  all  vacancies  thereafter  shall  be  supplied 
in  the  manner  thereby  directed. 

X.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That  all 
and  singular  the  power,  authority,  rights,  privileges,  franchises, 
and  immunities,  so  heretofore  granted  to,  and  vested  in  the  said 
governors  of  the  college  of  the  province  of  New- York,  in  the 
city  of  New- York,  in  America,  by  the  said  charter,  excepting  as 
before  excepted,  shall  be,  and  the  same  hereby  are  granted  to  and 
vested  in  the  trustees  of  Columbia  College,  in  the  city  of  New- 
York,  and  their  successors  for  ever,  as  fully  and  effectually,  to  all 
intents  and  purposes,  as  if  the  same  were  herein  particularly 
specified  and  expressed ;  and  all  and  singular  the  lands,  tene- 
ments, hereditaments,  and  real  estate,  goods,  chattels,  rents,  annui- 
ties, moneys,  books,  and  other  property,  whereof  the  said  governors 
of  the  college  of  the  province  of  New-York,  in  the  city  of  New- 
York,  in  America,  were  seized,  possessed,  or  entitled,  under  and 
in  virtue  of  the  said  charter,  or  with  which  the  regents  of  the 
said  university  were  invested,  under  or  by  virtue  of  the  said  acts 
for  the  use  or  benefit  of  the  said  Columbia  College,  shall  be  and 
the  same  hereby  are  granted  to  and  vested  in  the  said  trustees  of 
Columbia  College  in  the  city  of  New- York,  and  their  successors 
for  ever  for  the  sole  use  and  benefit  of  the  said  college  ;  and  it 
shall  and  may  be  lawful  to  and  for  the  said  trustees,  and  their 
successors  to  grant,  bargain,  sell,  demise,  improve,  and  dispose 
of  the  same  as  to  them  shall  seem  meet.  Provided,  always, 
That  the  lands  given  and  granted  to  the  governors  of  the  col- 
lege of  the  province  of  New- York,  in  the  city  of  New- York,  in 
America,  by  the  corporation  heretofore  styled,  The  rector  and 
inhabitants  of  the  city  of  New- York,  in  communion  of  the  Church 


iET.  30.] 


NEW- YORK    LEGISLATURE.  "-17 


of  England,  as  by  law  established,  on  part  whereof  the  said  col- 
lege i-  erected,  shall  nol  be  granted  for  any  greater  estate,  or 
in  any  other  manner,  than  is  limited  by  the  said  charter. 

XI.  Aw/  be  if  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That 

when  any  special  meeting  of  the  trustees  of  the  Baid  college, 

shall  he  deemed  necessary,  it  shall  and  may  he  lawful  to  and  for 
the  senior  trustee  of  the  said  college,  then  in  the  city  of  New- 
York,  and  taking  upon  himself  the  exercise  of  the  office  (which 
seniority  shall  be  determined  according  to  the  order  in  which  the 
said  trustees  are  named  in  this  act.  and  shall  be  elected  hereafter), 
and  be  is  hereby  authorized  and  required,  on  application  for  that 
purpose  in  writing,  under  the  hands  of  any  five  or  more  of  the 
said  trustees,  to  appoint  a  time  for  such  special  meeting,  in  some 
convenient  place  within  the  said  city,  and  to  cause  due  notice 
thereof  to  be  given  in  the  manner  directed  by  the  said  charter. 

XII.  And  whereas  academies  for  the  instruction  of  youth  in 
the  languages,  and  other  branches  of  useful  learning,  have  been 
erected  and  instituted  in  different  parts  of  this  State,  by  the  free 
and  liberal  benefactions  of  corporations,  as  well  as  individuals ; 
and  the  regents  of  the  university  having  represented  that  the 
appointment  and  incorporation  of  trustees  for  each  of  the  said 
academies,  with  competent  powers  to  manage  the  funds  already 
appropriated,  and  the  donations  which  may  be  made  to  such 

demies,  and  to  superintend  the  morals  and  education  of  the 
scholars,  and  the  conduct  of  the  principal,  masters  and  teachers, 
would  greatly  conduce  to  their  security  and  prosperity ; 

Therefore  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That 
upon  the  application  of  the  founders  and  benefactors  of  any 
academy  now  or  hereafter  to  be  erected  or  established  within  any 
of  the  cities  or  counties  of  this  State,  or  as  many  of  them  as  shall 
have  contributed  more  than  one  half  in  value  of  the  real  and 
persona]  property  and  estate,  collected  or  appropriated  for  the 
use  and  benefit  thereof,  by  an  instrument  in  writing  under 
their  hands  and  seals,  to  the  regents  of  the  university,  expressing 
their  request,  thai  such  academy  should  be  incorporated,  and  be 
subject  to  the  visitation  of  the  regents  nominating  in  such  instru- 
ment the  trustees,  not  more  than  twenty-four  or  less  than  twelve, 


348  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

for  such  academy,  and  specifying  the  name  by  which  the  said 
trustees  shall  be  called  and  distinguished ;  and  whenever  any 
such  request  shall  be  made  to  the  said  regents,  they  shall  in 
every  such  case  (if  they  conceive  such  academy  calculated  for 
the  promotion  of  literature),  by  an  instrument  under  their  com- 
mon seal,  signify  their  approbation  of  the  incorporation  of  the 
trustees  of  such  academy  named  by  the  founders  thereof,  by  the 
name  mentioned  in  and  by  their  said  request  in  writing,  which 
said  request  in  writing,  and  instrument  of  approbation  by  the  said 
regents,  shall  be  recorded  in  the  secretary's  office  of  the  State. 

XIII.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That 
the  trustees  so  constituted  shall  be  the  first  trustees  for  the 
academy  for  which  they  shall  be  appointed,  and  immediately  after 
recording  the  said  request  in  writing,  and  instrument  of  appro- 
bation, shall  be  legally  invested  with  all  the  real  and  personal 
estate  appertaining  to  such  academy,  or  in  any  wise  given  or 
granted  for  the  use  thereof;  and  the  said  trustees  from  the  time 
of  their  appointment  as  aforesaid,  and  their  successors  for  ever 
thereafter,  shall  be  a,  body  corporate  and  politic,  in  deed,  fact 
and  name,  known  and  distinguished  by  the  name  and  style 
to  be  expressed  in  the  said  instrument,  and  by  that  name  shall 
have  perpetual  succession,  and  be  capable  in  the  law  to  sue  and 
be  sued,  and  defend  and  be  defended,  in  all  courts,  and  in  all 
causes,  plaints,  controversies,  matters  and  things  whatsoever ;  and 
by  the  same  name  and  style,  they  and  their  successors  shall  law- 
fully hold,  use  and  enjoy  the  lands,  tenements,  and  hereditaments, 
in  any  wise  appertaining  to  the  academy  for  which  they  shall  be 
constituted  trustees,  and  shall  and  may  lawfully  have,  take, 
acquire,  purchase  and  enjoy  lands,  tenements  and  hereditaments, 
and  use  and  improve  such  goods  and  chattels,  in  such  manner  as 
they  shall  judge  to  be  most  beneficial  for  such  academy :  Pro- 
vided, That  the  annual  revenue  or  income,  arising  from  the  real 
and  personal  estate  of  any  such  academy,  shall  not  exceed  the 
value  of  four  thousand  bushels  of  wheat ;  any  law,  usage  or 
custom  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

XIV.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,    That 
it  shall  and  may  be  lawful  to  and  for  such  trustees,  and  their 


Mr.  30.]  NEW- YORK    LEGISLATURE.  •">  40 

successors  for  ever,  to  have  ami  use  a  commoD  seal,  and  the  same 
i-  alter,  break,  and  make  anew,  at  their  pleasure.  And  as  often 
as  any  three  or  more  of  the  said  trustees  shall  think  lit,  and  sig- 
nify their  request,  the  senior  trustee  actua  1  ly  exercising  his  office 
and  residing  within  three  miles  of  such  academy,  shall  call  a 
meeting  of  the  said  trustees  at  such  convenient  time  and  place  as 
he  shall  appoint,  not  less  than  eight  nor  more  than  twelve  days 
from  the  time  of  such  request,  of  which  previous  notice  in 
writing  shall  be  affixed  on  the  door  of  the  academy,  and  of  the 
church  aearesl  thereto,  within  two  days  after  such  appointment; 
and  at  every  such  meeting  the  senior  trustee  shall  preside,  such 
seniority  in  all  cases  to  he  determined  according  to  the  order  of 
their  nomination  in  the  said  instrument,  or  according  to  the 
priority  of  election  after  all  the  first  trustees  shall  become  extinct, 
and  the  major  part  of  such  trustees  shall  always  be  a  suilicient 
quorum  to  proceed  on  business,  and  shall  have  full  power  and 
authority  to  adjourn  from  time  to  time,  not  exceeding  seven 
day-  at  any  one  time,  as  the  duties  of  their  trust  may  require. 
And  it  shall  and  may  be  lawful  to  and  for  such  quorum  of  the 
said  trustees,  when  assembled  and  met  in  manner  aforesaid,  or 
the  major  part  of  them,  from  time  to  time  to  appoint  a  treasurer 
and  clerk,  principal,  masters,  tutors,  teachers,  and  other  necessary 
officers,  to  ascertain  their  respective  salaries,  and  to  remove  and 
displace  any  of  them  at  their  pleasure,  and  to  make  by-laws  for 
the  admission,  education,  government,  ami  discipline  of  the 
scholars  and  students,  and  the  establishment  of  the  price  or 
terms  of  tuition;  for  securing,  revising,  and  paying  ou1  and  dis- 
posing of  the  revenues,  and  in  general  for  conducting  and  man- 
aging  the  estate,  business,  and  affairs  of  the  said  academv,  and 

DO  '  »/    ' 

every  matter  and  thing  relating  thereto  in  such  manner  as  they 
shall  judge  to  be  most  conducive  to  its  interesl  and  prosperity, 
and  the  end  of  their  trust. 

X  V.  And  in  order  to  preserve  the  succession  of  trustees  for 
the  said  academies  respectively,  />'■  it  further  enacted  by  the 
auth" riti/  aforesaid,  That  whenever  a  vacancy  shall  happen  in  any 
corporation  of  trustees,  by  the  death,  resignation,  or  refusal  to 
act  of  any  trustee,  it  shall  and   may  be  lawful    to   and    for   the 


350  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  30. 

trustees  of  such  academy,  and  they  are  hereby  authorized  and 
required,  at  any  legal  meeting  of  the  trustees,  to  elect  and  choose 
a  fit  person  to  fill  up  and  supply  such  vacancy. 

XVI.  And  for  the  greater  encouragement  of  such  academies, 
and  to  render  them  more  useful  and  respectable,  Be  it  further 
enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That  the  regents  of  the  univer- 
sity shall  be  visitors  of  such  academies,  and  the  chancellor,  vice- 
chancellor,  or  a  committee  of  the  regents  shall,  as  often  as  they 
see  proper,  visit  such  academies,  to  inquire  into  the  state  and 
progress  of  literature  therein. 

XVII.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That 
when  any  scholar  who  shall  be  educated  at  any  of  the  said 
academies,  on  clue  examination  by  the  president  and  professors 
of  Columbia  College,  or  any  other  college  subject  to  the  visita- 
tion of  the  said  regents,  shall  be  found  competent  in  the  judg- 
ment of  the  said  president  and  professors,  to  enter  into  the  sopho- 
more, junior,  or  senior  classes  of  such  colleges  respectively,  such 
scholar  shall  be  entitled  to  an  admission  into  such  of  the  said 
classes  for  which  he  shall  be  so  adjudged  competent,  and  shall 
be  admitted  accordingly,  at  any  one  of  the  quarterly  examina- 
tions of  such  respective  classes. 

XVIII.  Provided  always  and  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authori- 
ty aforesaid,  That  to  entitle  the  scholars  of  any  such  academies 
to  the  privileges  aforesaid,  the  trustees  thereof  shall  lay  before 
the  regents  of  the  said  university,  from  time  to  time,  the  plan  or 
system  proposed  to  be  adopted  for  the  education  of  the  students 
in  each  of  the  said  academies  respectively,  in  order  that  the  same 
may  be  revised  and  examined  by  the  said  regents,  and  by  them 
be  altered  or  amended,  or  approved  and  confirmed,  as  they  shall 
judge  proper. 

XIX.  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That 
whenever  it  shall  appear  to  the  said  regents,  that  the  state  of  lit- 
erature in  any  academy  is  so  far  advanced,  and  the  funds  will 
admit  thereof,  that  it  may  be  expedient  that  a  president  be  ap- 
pointed for  such  academy,  the  said  regents  shall  in  such  case  sig- 
nify their  approbation  thereof,  under  their  common  seal,  which 
being  entered  of  record  as  aforesaid,  shall  authorize  the  trustees 


En.  80.]  NEW- YORK    LEGISLATURE.  35 1 

of  sucli    academy  to  elect  ;i  president,   who   shall    Inve,  hold,  and 

enjoy  .-ill  the  powers  thai  the  president  of  any  college  recognized 
by  this  acl  shall  or  may  lawfully  have,  hold,  and  enjoy;  and 
such  academy  thereafter,  instead  of*  being  called  an  academy, 
shall  be  called  and  known  by  the  Bame  name  it  was  called  while 
it  was  an  academy,  excepl  thai  the  word  college  shall  be  used  in 
all  eases  instead  of  the  word  academy,  and  be  subject  to  the  I 
rales  and  regulations,  control  and  visitation  of  the  regents,  as 
other  colleges  mentioned  in  this  act. 

XX.  Andh  it  further  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid,  That 
no  president  or  professor  shall  be  ineligible  for  or  by  reason  of 
any  religious  tenet  or  tenets  that  he  may  or  shall  profess;  or  be 
compelled  by  any  law  or  otherwise,  to  take  any  test  oath  what- 
soever; and  no  professor  or  tutor  of  any  college  or  academy 
recognized  by  this  act,  shall  be  a  trustee  of  any  such  college  or 
academy,  nor  shall  any  president  of  any  college  or  principal  of 
any  academy,  who  shall  be  a  trustee,  have  a  vote  in  any  case  re- 
lating to  his  own  salary  or  emoluments ;  nor  shall  any  trustee, 
president,  principal,  tutor,  fellow,  or  other  officer  of  any  college 
or  academy,  be  a  regenl  of  the  university. 

XXI.  And  be  it  jurther  <  nacted  by  th  authority  aforesaid,  That 
whenever  any  person,  now  or  hereafter  appointed  a  trustee  of 
any  college  or  academy,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  a  regent  of 
the  university,  and  whenever  any  person,  being  a  regent  of  the 
university,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  a  trustee  of  any  college 
or  academy,  such  person  so  appointed  or  elected,  shall,  on  due 
notice  thereof,  decide  and  elect  in  which  of  the  said  places  he  will 
serve,  and,  by  writing,  under  his  hand,  shall  make  known  such 
election,  whether  of  refusal  or  acceptance,  to  those  by  whom  he 
was  elected,  to  the  end  that  such  appointment  may  take  effect,  in 

case  he  accept  it,  or  that  they  proceed  to  a  new  appointment  in 
ca-e  he  refuse  it. 

XXII.  And   be   it  Jurther  enacted  by  the  authority  af 
That  the  aet  entitled,  An  act  for  granting  certain  privileges  to 
the  college  heretofore   called    King's   College,  for  altering  the 
name  and  charter  thereof,  and  erecting  au  university  within  this 

te,  passed  the  first  day  of  May,  1784;  and  the  act  entitled, 


352  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

An  act  to  amend  an  act  entitled,  An  act  for  granting  certain  pri- 
vileges to  the  college  heretofore  called  King's  College,  for  alter- 
ing the  name  and  charter  thereof,  and  erecting  an  university 
within  this  State,  passed  the  26th  day  of  November  1784,  be,  and 
they  are  hereby  severally  repealed. 


SPEECH   ON   THE   EEVENUE   SYSTEM. 

There  appears  to  me  to  have  been  some  confusion  in  the 
manner  of  voting  on  the  two  preceding  clauses  of  this  bill ;  the 
first,  for  granting  the  impost  to  the  United  States,  having  been 
carried  by  a  majority  of  one,  and  the  last,  for  making  the  officers 
employed  in  the  collection  accountable  to  them,  having  been  lost 
by  a  much  larger  majority.  I  was  induced  to  hope,  from  the 
success  of  the  first  question,  that  the  second  would  have  met 
with  equal  success ;  as  I  presume  gentlemen  who  meant  to  ad- 
here to  the  act  of  the  last  session,  would  have  opposed  the  whole 
of  the  present  bill  as  unnecessary ;  and  those  who  meant  to  de- 
part from  it,  would  be  willing  to  agree  substantially  to  the  sys- 
tem recommended  by  Congress,  as  it  had  been  adopted  and 
modified  by  the  other  States  generally.  From  the  complexion 
of  the  votes  on  the  last  question,  I  am  obliged  to  conclude,  either 
that  I  was  mistaken  in  my  ideas  of  the  intention  of  the  commit- 
tee, or  that  there  is  some  misapprehension,  in  part,  of  the  mem- 
bers. 

It  becomes,  therefore,  necessary — to  obviate  such  misappre- 
hension, if  any  exists,  and  to  discharge  my  duty  at  all  events — 
to  lay  the  subject  fully  before  the  committee,  and  to  detail,  at 
large,  my  reasons  for  wishing  to  see  the  bill,  in  its  present  form, 
prevail. 

It  is  a  common  practice,  in  entering  upon  the  discussion  of 
an  important  subject,  to  endeavor  to  conciliate  the  good  will  of 
the  audience  to  the  speaker,  by  professions  of  disinterestedness 
and  zeal  for  the  public  good.  The  example,  however  frequent, 
I  shall  no  further  imitate  than  by  making  one  or  two  general 


jEt.  30.]  N  i:\V-YORK    I,  K  QISLATURB.  353 

observations.  If,  in  the  public  stations  I  have  filled,  I  have  ac- 
quitted myself  with  zeal,  fidelity  and  disinterestedness;  if.  in  the 
private  walk  of  life,  my  conducl  lias  been  unstained  by  any  dis- 
honorable art,  if  it  lias  been  uniformly  consistent  with  the  rules 
of  integrity,  I  have  ;i  right  to  the  confidence  of  those  to  whom  I. 
address  myself :  they  cannol  refuserl  to  me  without  injustice,  I 
am  persuaded  they  will  not  refuse  it  to  me.  If,  on  the  other 
hand,  my  public  conduct  has  been  in  any  instance  marked  with 
perfidy,  duplicity,  or  with  sinister  views  of  any  land;  if  any  im- 
putations, founded  in  fact,  can  be  adduced  to  the  prejudice  of  my 
private  character,  1  have  no  claim  to  the  confidence  of  the  com- 
mittee; nor  should  I  expect  it. 

Iv.en  these  observations  I  should  have  spared  myself,  did  I 
not  know  that,  in  the  rage  of  party,  gross  calumnies  have  been 
propagated.  Some  I  have  traced  and  detected  :  there  may  still 
be  others  in  secret  circulation,  with  which  I  am  unacquainted. 
Against  the  influence  of  such  arts  I  can  have  no  other  shield 
than  the  general  tenor  of  my  past  conduct.  If  that  will  protect 
me,  1  may  safely  confide  in  the  candor  of  the  committee.  To 
that  standard  I  cheerfully  submit. 

But,  indeed,  of  what  importance  is  it  who  is  the  speaker?  'tis 
his  reasons  only  that  concern  the  committee;  if  these  are  good 
they  owe  it  to  themselves  and  to  their  constitution  to  allow  them 
their  full  weight. 

The  first  objection  (and  that  which  is  supposed  to  have  the 
greatest  force)  against  the  principles  of  the  bill,  is,  that  it  would 
be  unconstitutional  to  delegate  Legislative  power  to  Congress.  If 
this  objection  be  founded  in  truth  there  is  at  once  an  end  of  the 
inquiry.  God  forbid  that  we  should  violate  that  Constitution 
which  is  the  charter  of  our  rights.  But  it  is  our  duty  to  examine 
dispassionately  whether  it  really  stands  in  our  way.  If  it  does 
not,  let  us  not  erect  an  ideal  barrier  to  a  measure  which  the  pub- 
lie  good  may  require. 

The  first  ground  of  the  objection  is  deduced  from  that  clause 
of  the  Constitution  which  declares  "  that  no  power  shall  be  exer- 
cised over  the  people  of  this  State  but  such  as  is  granted  by  or 
derived  from  them." 
b  23 


354  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

This,  it  is  plain,  amounts  to  nothing  more  than  a  declaration 
of  that  fundamental  maxim  of  republican  government,  "  that  all 
power,  mediately  or  immediately,  is  derived  from  the  consent  of 
the  people,"  in  opposition  to  those  doctrines  of  despotism  which 
uphold  the  divine  right  of  kings,  or  lay  the  foundations  of  gov- 
ernment in  force,  conquest,  or  necessity.  It  does  not  at  all  affect 
the  question  how  far  the  legislature  may  go  in  granting  power 
to  the  United  States.  A  power  conferred  by  the  representatives 
of  the  people,  if  warranted  by  the  Constitution  under  which  they 
act,  is  a  power  derived  from  the  people.  This  is  not  only  a  plain 
inference  of  reason,  but  the  terms  of  the  clause  itself,  seem  to 
have  been  calculated  to  let  in  the  principle.  The  words,  "de- 
rived from,"  are  added  to  the  words  "  granted  by,"  as  if  with 
design  to  distinguish  an  indirect  derivation  of  power  from  an 
immediate  grant  of  it.  This  explanation  is  even  necessary  to 
reconcile  the  Constitution  to  itself,  and  to  give  effect  to  all  its 
parts,  as  I  hope  fully  to  demonstrate  in  its  proper  place. 

The  next  clause  of  the  Constitution  relied  upon,  is  that  which 
declares  that  "  the  supreme  legislative  power  within  this  State 
shall  be  vested  in  a  Senate  and  Assembly."  This,  it  is  said, 
excludes  the  idea  of  any  other  legislative  power  operating  within 
the  State.  But  the  more  obvious  construction  of  this  clause,  and 
that  which  best  consists  with  the  situation  and  views  of  the 
country  at  this  time,  with  what  has  been  done  before  and  since 
the  formation  of  our  Constitution,  and  with  those  parts  of  the 
Constitution  itself  which  acknowledge  the  Federal  Government,  is 
this — "  In  the  distribution  of  the  different  parts  of  the  sovereignty 
in  the  particular  government  of  this  State,  the  legislative  authority 
shall  reside  in  a  Senate  and  Assembly,"  or  in  other  words,  "the 
legislative  authority  of  the  particular  government  of  the  State  of 
New-York  shall  be  vested  in  a  Senate  and  Assembly."  The  framers 
of  the  Constitution  could  have  had  nothing  more  in  view  than  to 
delineate  the  different  departments  of  power  in  our  own  State 
government,  and  never  could  have  intended  to  interfere  with  the 
formation  of  such  a  Constitution  for  the  Union  as  the  safety  of 
the  whole  might  require.  The  justness  of  this  construction  will 
be  further  elucidated  by  that  part  of  the  Constitution  which  pre- 


JEt.  30.]  NEW- YORK     LEGISLATURE.  855 

scribes,  that,  "  the  supreme  executive  authority  of  the  Stat  -lull 
be  vested  in  a  governor."  II'  the  former  elaut  dudes  the 
granl  of  legislative  power,  this  must  equally  exclude  the  grant  of 
tin-  executive  power,  and  the  consequence  would  be  that  there 
could  lie  UM  Federal  Gtovernmenl  ;it  all. 

It  will  lie  of  no  avail  i<>  say,  that  there  is  ;i  difference  in  the 
two  cases  in  tin'  mode  of  expression ;  that,  in  one,  the  terms  of 
description  are  "within  the  State,"  in  the  other,  "  of  the  State." 
[n  grammar,  or  good  sense,  the  difference  in  the  phrases  con- 
stitutes no  substantia]  difference  in  the  meaning,  or  if  it  does,  it 
concludes  againsl  the  objection;  for  the  words,  within  this  Stated 
which  are  applied  to  the  legislative  power,  have  a  certain  pre- 
cision thai  may  be  supposed  to  intend  a  distinction  between  that 
legislative  power  which  is  to  operate  within  this  State  only,  and 
thai  which  is  to  operate  upon  this  State  in  conjunction  with 
the  others.  But  I  lay  no  stress  on  this  observation.  In  my 
opinion  the  legislative  power  "within  this  Stain,  "or  the  legislative 
power  "of  this  State,"  amount  in  substance  to  the  same  thing, 
and  therefore  (as  has  been  already  observed)  if  the  Constitution 
prohibits  the  delegation  of  legislative  power  to  the  Union,  it 
equally  prohibits  the  delegation  of  executive  power— and  the 

ifederacy  must  then  beat  an  end;  for  without  legislative  or 
executive  power,  it  becomes  a  nullity. 

Unfortunately  for  the  objection,  if  it  proves  any  thing  it 
proves  too  much.  It  proves  thai  the  powers  of  the  Union  in 
their  presenl  form  are  an  usurpation  on  the  Constitution  of  this 
•.  This  will  appear  not  only  from  the  reasoning  adduced, 
but  from  this  further  consideration, — that  the  United  States  are 
already  possessed  of  legislativ*  as  well  as  executiv<  authority.  The 
objects  of  executive  power  are  of  three  kinds,  to  make  treaties 
with  foreign  nations,  to  make  war  and  peace,  to  execute  and 
interpret  the  laws.  This  description  of  the  executive  power  will 
enable  as  the  more  readily  to  distinguish  the  legislative;  wi 
in  general  may  be  defined  the  power  of  prescribing  rules  for  the 
community. 

The  United  States  are  authorized  to  require  from  the  several 
Stal  much  money  as  they  judge  necessary  for  the  general 


356  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

purposes  of  the  Union,  and  to  limit  the  time  within  which  it  is 
to  be  raised  :  to  call  for  such  a  number  of  troops  as  they  deem 
requisite  for  the  common  defence  in  time  of  war — to  establish 
rules  in  all  cases  of  capture  by  sea  or  land — to  regulate  the  alloy 
and  value  of  coin,  the  standard  of  weights  and  measures,  and  to 
make  all  laws  for  the  government  of  the  army  and  navy  of  the 
Union.  All  these  are  powers  of  the  legislative  kind,  and  are 
declared  by  the  Confederation  to  be  binding  upon  all  the  States. 

The  first  is  nothing  less  than  a  power  of  taxing  the  States  in 
gross,  though  not  in  detail ;  and  the  last  is  the  power  of  dispos- 
ing of  the  liberty  and  lives  of  the  citizens  of  this  State,  when 
in  arms  for  the  common  defence.  That  the  powers  enumerated 
are  all,  or  most  of  them,  of  a  legislative  nature,  will  not  be  de- 
nied by  the  law  members  on  the  other  side  of  the  question.  If 
the  Constitution  forbids  the  grant  of  legislative  power  to  the 
Union,  all  those  authorities  are  illegal  and  unconstitutional,  and 
ought  to  be  resumed. 

If,  on  the  contrary,  those  authorities  were  properly  granted, 
then  it  follows  that  the  Constitution  does  not  forbid  the  grant 
of  legislative  power,  and  the  objection  falls  to  the  ground ;  for 
there  is  nothing  in  the  Constitution  permitting  the  grant  of  one 
kind  of  legislative  authority,  and  forbidding  that  of  another. 
The  degree  or  nature  of  the  powers  of  legislation  which  it  might 
be  proper  to  confer  upon  the  Federal  Government,  would  in  this 
case  be  a  mere  question  of  prudence  and  expediency,  to  be  de- 
termined by  general  considerations  of  utility  and  safety. 

The  principle  of  the  objection  under  consideration  would  not 
only  subvert  the  foundation  of  the  Union  as  now  established — 
would  not  only  render  it  impossible  that  any  Federal  Govern- 
ment could  exist ;  but  would  defeat  some  of  the  provisions  of 
the  Constitution  itself.  This  last  idea  deserves  particular  atten- 
tion. 

The  nineteenth  clause  makes  it  the  duty  of  the  Governor  "  to 
correspond  with  the  Continental  Congress."  The  twentieth  pro- 
vides "that  the  judges  and  chancellor  shall  hold  no  other  office 
than  delegate  to  the  General  Congeess  ;"  and  the  thirtieth 
directs  "  that  delegates  to  represent  this  State  in  the  General  Con- 


jEt.  30.]  NEW -YORK     LEGISLATURE.  357 

gross  of  the    Tinted   States  of  America  shall  be  annually  ap- 
pointed." 

Now,  sir,  I  ask,  if  Congress  were  to  have  neither  executive 
nor  legislative  authority,  to  what  purpose  wen;  they  to  exist? 
To  what  purpose  were  delegates  to  be  annually  appointed  to  that 
body?  To  what  purpose  were  these  delegates  to  represenl  this 
State?     Or  how  could  they  be  said  to  represent  it  at  all? 

Is  not  the  plain  import  of  this  part  of  the  Constitution,  that 
they  were  to  represent  this  State  in  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
United  States,  for  the  purpose  of  managing  the  common  con- 
cerns of  the  Union  ?  And  does  not  this  necessarily  imply  that 
they  were  to  be  clothed  with  such  powers  as  should  be  found 
essential  to  that  object  ?  Docs  it  amount  to  a  constitutional  war- 
rant to  the  Legislature  to  confer  those  powers,  of  whatever  kind 
they  might  be  ? 

To  answer  these  questions  in  the  negative,  would  be  to  charge 
the  Constitution  with  the  absurdity  of  proposing  to  itself  an  end, 
and  yet  prohibiting  the  means  of  accomplishing  that  end. 

The  words  "to  represent  this  State"  are  of  great  latitude, 
and  are  of  themselves  sufficient  to  convey  any  power  necessary 
to  the  conduct  and  direction  of  its  affairs  in  connection  with  the 
other  parts  of  the  Confederacy. 

In  the  interpretation  of  laws  it  is  admitted  to  be  a  good  rule 
to  resort  to  the  coexisting  circumstances,  and  collect  from  thence 
the  intention  of  the  framers  of  the  law.  Let  us  apply  this  rule 
to  the  present  case. 

In  the  commencement  of  the  Revolution  delegates  were  sent 
to  meet  in  Congress  with  large  discretionary  powers.  In  short, 
generally  speaking,  with  full  power  "  to  take  care  of  the  repub- 
lic." In  the  whole  of  this  transaction  the  idea  of  an  Union  of 
the  colonies  was  carefully  held  up.  It  pervaded  all  our  pub- 
lie  acts. 

In  the  Declaration  of  Independence  we  find  it  continued  and 
confirmed.  That  declaration,  alter  setting  forth  its  motives  and 
causes,  proceeds  thus  :  "  We,  therefore,  the  representatives  of  the 
United  States  of  America  in  general  Congress  assembled,  appeal- 
ing to  the  Supreme  Judge  of  the  world  for  the  rectitude  of  our  in- 


358  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

tentions,  do  in  the  name  and  by  the  authority  of  the  good  people 
of  these  colonies,  solemnly  publish  and  declare,  that  these  United 
Colonies  are,  and  of  right  ought  to  be,  free  and  independent 
states  ;  that  they  are  absolved  from  all  allegiance  to  the  British 
Crown,  and  that  all  political  connection  between  them  and  the 
State  of  Great  Britian  is,  and  ought  to  be,  totally  dissolved  ;  and 
that,  as  free  and  independent  states,  they  have  full  power  to  levy 
war,  conclude  peace,  contract  alliances,  establish  commerce,  and 
do  all  other  acts  and  things  that  independent  states  may  of 
right  do." 

Hence  we  see  that  the  Union  and  Independence  of  these 
States  are  blended  and  incorporated  in  one  and  the  same  act ; 
which,  taken  together,  clearly  imports  that  the  United  States  had 
in  their  origin  full  power  to  do  all  acts  and  things  which  independ- 
ent states  may  of  right  do ;  or,  in  other  words,  full  power  of 
sovereignty. 

Accordingly,  we  find  that  upon  the  authority  of  that  act  only 
approved  by  the  several  States,  they  did  levy  war,  contract  alli- 
ances, and  exercise  other  high  powers  of  sovereignty,  even  to 
the  appointment  of  a  dictator,  prior  to  the  present  confederation. 

In  this  situation,  and  with  this  plenitude  of  power,  our  Con- 
stitution knows  and  acknowledges  the  United  States  in  Congress 
assembled,  and  provides  for  the  annual  appointment  of  delegates 
to  represent  this  State  in  that  body  ;  which,  in  substance,  amounts 
to  a  constitutional  recognition  of  the  Union,  with  complete  sov- 
ereignty. 

A  government  may  exist  without  any  formal  organization  or 
precise  definition  of  its  powers.  However  improper  it  might 
have  been,  that  the  Federal  Government  should  have  continued 
to  exist  with  such  absolute  and  undefined  authority,  this  does 
not  militate  against  the  position  that  it  did  possess  such  authority. 
It  only  proves  the  propriety  of  a  more  regular  formation  to  ascer- 
tain its  limits.  This  was  the  object  of  the  present  Confederation, 
which  is,  in  fact,  an  abridgment  of  the  original  sovereignty  of 
the  Union. 

It  may  be  said,  (for  it  has  been  said  upon  other  occasions,) 
that,  though  the  Constitution  did  consider  the  United  States  in 


;Et.  30.]  \  I :  XV  -  Y O  R  K     LEG!  S  I.  A  T  U  R  E  .  359 

the  light  T  have  described,  and  left  the  legislature  at  liberty  in 
the  first  instance  to  have  organized  the  Federal  Governmenl  in 
such  ;i  manner  as  they  thought  proper,  yet  thai  liberty  ceased 
with  the  establishment  of  the  present  Confederacy.  The  discre- 
tion of  tin'  Legislature  was  then  determined. 

This,  upon  the  face  of  it,  is  a  subtilty,  uncountenanced  by  a 
single  principle  of  government,  or  a  single  expression  of  the  Con- 
stitution. It  is  saying  that  a  general  authority  given  to  the 
Legislature  for  the  permanent  preservation  and  good  of  the  com- 
munity, has  been  exhausted  and  spent  by  the  exercise  of  a  part 
of  that  authority.  The  position  is  the  more  destitute  of  color, 
because  the  Confederation,  by  the  express  terms  of  the  compact, 
preserves  and  continues  tins  power.  The  last  clause  of  it  autho- 
rizes Congress  to  propose,  and  the  States  to  agree  to  such  altera- 
tion.- as  might  be  afterwards  found  necessary  or  expedient, 

"We  see,  therefore,  that  the  Constitution  knows  and  acknow- 
ledges the  United  States  in  Congress;  that  it  provides  for  the 
annual  appointment  of  delegates  to  represent  tin's  State  in  that 
body  without  prescribing  the  objects  or  limits  of  that  representa- 
tion; that  at  the  time  our  Constitution  was  framed,  the  Union 
existed  with  full  sovereignty;  and  that  therefore  the  idea  of 
sovereignty  in  the  Union  is  not  incompatible  with  it.  We  see, 
further,  that  the  doctrine  contained  in  the  objection  againsl  grant- 
ing legislative  power,  would  equally  operate  againsl  granting 
executive  power,  would  prove  that  the  powers  already  vested  in 
the  Union  are  illegal  and  unconstitutional,  would  render  a  con- 
fede racy  of  the  States  in  any  form  impracticable,  and  would  defeat 
all  those  provisions  of  our  own  Constitution  which  relate  to  the 
United  States.  I  submit  it  to  the  committee,  whether  a  doctrine 
pregnant  with  such  consequences  can  be  true;  whether  it  is  not 
as  opposite  to  our  Constitution  as  to  the  principles  of  national 

ty  and  prosperity ;  and  whether  it  would  not  be  lamentable 
if  the  zeal  of  opposition  to  a  particular  measure  should  carry  us 
to  the  extreme  of  imposing  upon  the  Constitution  a  Bense  foreign 
to  it ;  which  must  embarrass  the  national  councils  upon  future 
occasions,  when  all  might  agree  in  the  utility  and  necessity  of  a 
different  construction. 


360  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  30. 

If  the  arguments  I  have  used  under  this  head  are  not  -well- 
founded,  let  gentlemen  come  forward  and  shoiv  their  fallacy.  Let 
the  subject  have  a  fair  and  full  examination,  and  let  truth,  on 
whatever  side  it  may  be,  prevail ! 

Flattering  myself  it  will  appear  to  the  committee  that  the 
Constitution,  at  least,  offers  us  no  impediment,  I  shall  proceed  to 
other  topics  of  objection.  The  next  that  presents  itself,  is  a 
supposed  danger  to  liberty  from  granting  legislative  power  to 
Congress. 

But,  before  I  enter  upon  this  subject,  to  remove  the  asper- 
sions thrown  upon  that  body,  I  shall  give  a  short  history  of  some 
material  facts  relating  to  the  origin  and  progress  of  the  business. 
To  excite  the  jealousies  of  the  people,  it  has  been  industriously 
represented  as  an  undue  attempt  to  acquire  an  increase  of  power. 
It  has  been  forgotten,  or  intentionally  overlooked,  that,  consider- 
ing it  in  the  strongest  light  as  a  proposal  to  alter  the  Confedera- 
tion, it  is  only  exercising  a  power  which  the  Confederation  has 
in  direct  terms  reposed  in  Congress,  who,  as  before  observed, 
are,  by  the  13th  article,  expressly  authorized  to  propose  al- 
terations. 

But  so  far  was  the  measure  from  originating  in  improper 
views  of  that  body,  that,  if  I  am  rightly  informed,  it  did  not 
originate  there  at  all.  It  was  first  suggested  by  a  convention  of 
the  four  Eastern  States,  and  New- York,  at  Hartford,  and,  I  be- 
lieve, was  proposed  there  by  the  deputies  of  this  State.  A  gen- 
tleman on  our  bench,  unconnected  with  Congress,  who  now 
hears  me  (I  mean  Judge  Hobart),  was  one  of  them.  It  was  dic- 
tated by  a  principle  which  hitter  experience  then  taught  us,  and 
which,  in  peace  or  war,  will  always  be  found  true — that  adequate 
supplies  to  the  federal  treasury,  can  never  flow  from  any  system 
which  requires  the  intervention  of  thirteen  deliberatives  between 
the  call  and  the  execution. 

Congress  agreed  to  the  measure,  and  recommended  it.  This 
State  complied  without  hesitation.  All  parts  of  the  government — 
Senate,  Assembly,  and  Council  of  Bevision — concurred;  neither 
the  Constitution  nor  the  public  liberty  presented  any  obstacle. 
The  difficulties  from  these  sources  are  a  recent  discovery. 


jEt.  30.]  NEW- YORK     LEGISLATURE.  861 

So  late  as  the  first  session  of  the  legislature,  after  the  evacua- 
tion of  this  city,  tin'  (inventor  of  the  State,  in  his  speech  to  both 
Bouses,  gave  a  deei<le<l  eoiinteiianoe  to  the  measure.  This  he 
does,  though  not  in  express  terms,  yet  by  implications  qo1  t - »  be 
misunderstood. 

The  leading  opponents  of  the  impost,  of  the  presenl  day,  have 
all  of  them,  at  other  times,  either  concurred  in  the  measure,  in 
its  most  exceptionable  form,  and  without  the  qualifications  an- 
nexed to  it  by  the  proposed  bill,  or  have,  by  other  instances  of 
conduct,  contradicted  their  own  hypothesis  on  the  Constitution, 
which  professedly  forms  the  main  prop  of  their  opposition. 

The  honorable  member  in  my  eye  (  ),  at  the  last 

session,  brought  in  a  bill  for  granting  to  the  United  States  the 
power  of  regulating  the  trade  of  the  Union.  This  surely  in- 
cludes  more  ample  legislative  authority  than  is  comprehended  in 
the  mere  power  of  levying  a  particular  duty.  It  indeed  goes  to 
a  prodigious  extent,  much  farther  than,  on  a  superficial  view, 
can  be  imagined.  Can  we  believe  that  the  constitutional  ob- 
jection, it' well  founded,  would  so  long  have  passed  undiscovered 
and  unnoticed?  Or,  is  it  fair  to  impute  to  Congress  criminal 
motives  for  proposing  a  measure  which  wasnrst  recommended 
to  them  by  five  States,  or  from  persisting  in  that  measure,  after 
the  unequivocal  experience  they  have  had  of  the  total  inefficacy 
of  the  mode  provided  in  the  Confederation  for  supplying  the 
treasury  of  the  Union  ? 

1  leave  the  answer  to  these  questions  to  the  good  sense  and 
candor  of  the  committee,  and  shall  return  to  the  examination  of 
the  question,  how  far  the  power  proposed  to  be  conferred  upon 
Congress  would  be  dangerous  to  the  liberty  of  the  people.  And 
here  I  ask — 

Whence  can  this  danger  arise?  The  members  of  Congress 
are  annually  chosen  by  the  members  of  the  several  Legislatures. 
They  come  together  with  different  habits,  prejudices,  and  in- 
terests. They  arc.  in  fact,  continually  changing.  How  i 
possible  for  a  body  so  composed  to  be  formidable  to  the  liberties 
of  States     several  of  which  arc  large  empires  in  themselv 

The  subversion  of  the  liberty  of  these  States  could  not  be  the 


362  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

business  of  a  day.  It  would  at  least  require  time,  premeditation, 
and  concert.  Can  it  be  supposed,  that  the  members  of  a  body 
so  constituted,  would  be  unanimous  in  a  scheme  of  usurpation  ? 
If  they  were  not,  would  it  not  be  discovered  and  disclosed?  If 
we  could  even  suppose  this  unanimity  among  one  set  of  men, 
can  we  believe  that  all  the  new  members  who  are  yearly  sent 
from  one  State  or  another,  would  instantly  enter  into  the  same 
views  ?  Would  there  not  be  found  one  honest  man  to  warn  his 
country  of  the  danger  ? 

Suppose  the  worst — suppose  the  combination  entered  into  and 
continued.  The  execution  would  at  least  announce  the  design  ; 
and  the  means  of  defence  would  be  easy.  Consider  the  separate 
power  of  several  of  these  States,  and  the  situation  of  all.  Con- 
sider the  extent,  populousness,  and  resources  of  Massachusetts, 
Virginia,  Pennsylvania ;  I  might  add,  of  New- York,  Connecti- 
cut, and  other  States.  Where  could  Congress  find  means  suf- 
ficient to  subvert  the  government  and  liberties  of  either  of  these 
States?  or,  rather,  where  find  means  sufficient  to  effect  the  con- 
quest at  all?  If  an  attempt  was  made  upon  one,  the  others, 
from  a  sense  of  common  danger,  would  make  common  cause; 
and  they  could  immediately  unite  and  provide  for  their  joint 
defence. 

There  is  one  consideration,  of  immense  force  in  this  question, 
not  sufficiently  attended  to.  It  is  this — that  each  State  possesses 
in  itself  the  full  powers  of  government,  and  can  at  once,  in  a 
regular  and  constitutional  way,  take  measures  for  the  preserva- 
tion of  its  rights.  In  a  single  kingdom  or  state,  if  the  rulers  at- 
tempt to  establish  a  tyranny,  the  people  can  only  defend  them- 
selves by  a  tumultuary  insurrection;  they  must  run  to  arms 
without  concert  or  plan ;  while  the  usurpers,  clothed  with  the 
forms  of  legal  authority,  can  employ  the  forces  of  the  State  to 
suppress  them  in  embryo,  and  before  they  can  have  time  or  op- 
portunity to  give  system  to  their  opposition.  With  us,  the  case 
is  widely  different.  Each  State  has  a  government,  completely 
organized  in  itself,  and  can  at  once  enter  into  a  regular  plan  of 
defence ;  with  the  forces  of  the  community  at  its  command,  it 
can  immediately  form  connections  with  its  neighbors,  or  even 
with  foreign  powers,  if  necessary. 


jEt.  30.]  NEW- YORK     LEGISLATURE.  •°>,'':' 

In  a  contest  of  this  kind,  the  body  of  the  people  will  always 
be  on  the  side  of  the  State  governments.  This  will  nol  only  re- 
sult  from  their  love  of  liberty,  and  regard  to  their  own  safely, 
lmt  from  other  strong  principles  of  human  nature.  The  State 
governments  operate  upon  those  immediate  familiar  personal 
concerns  to  which  the  sensibility  of  individuals  is  awake.  The 
distribution  of  private  justice  belonging  to  them,  they  must  al- 
ways appear  to  the  senses  of  the  people  as  the  immediate  guardi- 
ans of  their  rights.  They  will,  of  course,  have  the  strongest 
hold  on  their  attachment,  respect,  and  obedience.  Another  cir- 
cumstance will  contribute  to  the  same  end  :  Far  the  greatest  num- 
ber of  offices  and  employments  are  m  the  gift  of  the  States  sepa- 
rately; the  weight  of  official  influence  will  therefore  he  in  favor 
of  the  State  governments;  and,  with  all  these  advantages,  they 
cannot  fail  to  carry  the  people  along  with  them  in  every  contesl 
with  the  Genera]  Government  in  which  they  are  not  palpably  in 
the  wrong,  and  often  when  they  are.  What  is  to  be  feared  from 
the  efforts  of  Congress  to  establish  a  tyranny,  with  the  great  body 
of  the  people,  under  the  direction  of  their  State  governments, 
combined  in  opposition  to  their  views?  Must  not  their  attempts 
recoil  upon  themselves,  and  terminate  in  their  own  ruin  and  dis- 
grace? or,  rather,  would  not  these  considerations,  if  they  v. 
insensible  to  other  motives,  for  ever  restrain  them  from  making 

such  attempts? 

The  causes  taken  notice  of,  as  securing  the  attachment  of  the 
people  to  their  local  governments,  presenl  us  with  another  im- 
portant truth — the  natural  imbecility  of  Federal  governments,  and 
the  danger  that  they  will  never  be  able  to  exercise  power  enough 
to  manage  the  general  affairs  of  the  Onion;  though  the  States 
will  have  a  common  interest,  ye1  they  will  also  have  a  particular 
interest.  For  example;  as  a  part  of  the  Union,  it  will  be  the 
interest  of  every  State  to  pay  as  little  itself,  and  to  let  its  neigh- 
bors pay  as  much,  as  possible.  Particular  interests  have  always 
more  influence  upon  men  than  general.  The  Federal  States, 
therefore,  consulting  their  immediate  advantage,  may  be  con- 
sidered as  so  many  eccentric  power.-,  tending  in  a  contrary  di- 
rection to  tin-  government  of  the  UNION;   and  a.-  they  \vi 


364  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  30. 

rally  carry  the  people  along  with  them,  the  Confederacy  will 
be  in  continual  danger  of  dissolution.  This,  Mr.  Chairman,  is 
the  real  rock  upon  which  the  happiness  of  this  country  is  likely  to 
split.  This  is  the  point  to  which  our  fears  and  cares  should  be 
directed — to  guard  against  this,  and  not  to  terrify  ourselves  with 
imaginary  dangers  from  the  spectre  of  power  in  Congress,  will 
be  our  true  wisdom. 

But  let  us  examine  a  little  more  closely  the  measure  under 
consideration.  What  does  the  bill  before  us  require  us  to  do  ? 
Merely  to  grant  duties  on  imposts  to  the  United  States,  for  the 
short  period  of  twenty-five  years ;  to  be  applied  to  the  discharge 
of  the  principal  and  interest  of  the  debts  contracted  for  the  sup- 
port of  the  late  war ;  the  collection  of  which  duties  is  to  be 
made  by  officers  appointed  by  the  State,  but  accountable  to  Con- 
gress, according  to  such  general  regulations  as  the  United  States 
shall  establish,  subject  to  these  important  checks,  that  no  citizen 
shall  be  carried  out  of  the  State  for  trial ;  that  all  prosecutions 
shall  be  in  our  own  courts  ;  that  no  excessive  fines  or  penalties 
shall  be  imposed ;  and  that  a  yearly  account  of  the  proceeds  and 
application  of  the  revenue  shall  be  rendered  to  the  legislature, 
on  failure  of  which  it  reserves  to  itself  a  right  of  repealing  its 
grant. 

Is  it  possible  for  any  measure  to  be  better  guarded  ?  or  is  it 
possible  that  a  grant  for  such  precise  objects,  and  with  so  many 
checks,  can  be  dangerous  to  the  public  liberty  ? 

Having  now,  as  I  trust,  satisfactorily  shown,  that  the  Consti- 
tution offers  no  obstacle  to  the  measure ;  and  that  the  liberty  of 
the  people  cannot  be  endangered  by  it,  it  remains  only  to  con- 
sider it  in  the  view  of  revenue. 

The  sole  question  left  for  discussion  is,  Whether  it  be  an 
eligible  mode  of  supplying  the  Federal  treasury  or  not  ? 

The  better  to  answer  this  question,  it  will  be  of  use  to  ex- 
amine how  far  the  mode  by  quotas  and  requisitions  has  been 
found  competent  to  the  public  exigencies. 

The  universal  delinquency  of  the  States  during  the  war,  shall 
be  passed  over  with  the  bare  mention  of  it.  The  public  embar- 
rassments were  a  plausible  apology  for  that  delinquency  ;  and  it 


JEt.  30.]  NEW- YORK    LEGISLATURE.  865 

was  hoped  the  peace  would  have  produced  greater  punctuality. 
The  experiment  has  disappointed  thai  hope,  to  a  degree  which 
confounds  the  leasl  sanguine.  A  comparative  new  of  the  com- 
pliances of  the  aeveral  States,  for  tin-  five  lasl  years,  will  rornish 
a  striking  result 

During  thai  period,  as  appears  by  a  statement  on  our  fi 
New  Eampshire,  North  Carolina,  South  Carolina,  ami  Georgia, 
have  paid  nothing.  I  say  nothing,  because  the  only  actual  pay- 
ment, is  the  trifling  sum  of  about  7000  dollars  by  New  Hamp- 
shire. South  Carolina  indeed  has  credits,  but  these  are  merely 
by  way  of  discount,  on  the  supplies  furnished  by  her  during  tin- 
war,  in  consideration  of  her  peculiar  sult'erings  and  exertions 
while  the  immediate  theatre  of  it. 

Connecticut  and  Delaware  have  paid  about  one  third  of  their 
requisitions.  Massachusetts,  Khode  Island,  and  Maryland,  about 
one  half;  Virginia  about  three  fifths,  Pennsylvania  nearly  the 
whole,  and  New-York  more  than  her  quota. 

These  proportions  are  taken  on  the  specie  requisitions,  the 
indents  have  been  very  partially  paid,  and  in  their  present  state 
are  otdittle  account. 

The  payments  into  the  Federal  treasury  have  declined  ra- 
pidly each  year.  The  whole  amount,  for  three  years  past,  in 
specie,  has  not  exceeded  L,400,000  dollars,  of  which  New-York 
has  paid  LOO  per  cent,  more  than  her  proportion.  This  sum, 
little  more  than  fc00,000  dollars  a  year,  it  will  readily  be  con- 
ceived, has  been  exhausted  in  the  support  of  the  civil  estab- 
lishments of  the  Union,  and  the  necessary  guards  and  garrisons 
of  public  arsenals,  and  on  the  frontiers:  without  any  surplus 
for  paying  any  part  of  the  debt,  foreign  or  domestic,  principal 
or  interest 

Things  are  continually  growing  worse  ;  the  last  year  in  parti- 
cular produced  less  than  two  hundred  thousand  dollars,  and  that 
from  only  two  or  three  States.     Several  of  the  States  have  b 
so  long  unaccustomed  to  pay,   that    they  seem   no   longer  con- 
cerned even  about  the  appea i'a uccs  of  compliance. 

Connecticut  and  Jersey  have  almost  formally  declined  paying 
any  longer.     The  ostensible  motive  is  the  non-concurrence  "t 


366  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  30. 

this  State  in  the  impost  system.     The  real  one  must  be  conjec- 
tured from  the  fact. 

Pennsylvania,  if  I  understand  the  scope  of  some  late  reso- 
lutions, means  to  discount  the  interest  she  pays  upon  her 
assumption  to  her  own  citizens ;  in  which  case  there  will  be 
little  coming  from  her  to  the  United  States.  This  seems  to  be 
bringing  matters  to  a  crisis. 

The  pecuniary  support  of  the  Federal  Government  has  of 
late  devolved  almost  entirely  upon  Pennsylvania  and  New- York. 
If  Pennsylvania  refuses  to  continue  her  aid,  what  will  be  the  sit- 
uation of  New- York  ?  Are  we  willing  to  be  the  Atlas  of  the 
Union  ?  or  are  we  willing  to  see  it  perish  ? 

This  seems  to  be  the  alternative.  Is  there  not  a  species  of 
political  knight-errantry  in  adhering  pertinaciously  to  a  system 
which  throws  the  whole  weight  of  the  Confederation  upon  this 
State,  or  upon  one  or  two  more  ?  Is  it  not  our  interest,  on  mere 
calculations  of  State  policy,  to  promote  a  measure,  which,  ope- 
rating under  the  same  regulations  in  every  State,  must  pro- 
duce an  equal,  or  nearly  equal,  effect  every  where,  and  oblige 
all  the  States  to  share  the  common  burthen  ? 

If  the  impost  is  granted  to  the  United  States,  with  the 
power  of  levying  it,  it  must  have  a  proportionate  effect  in  all 
the  States,  for  the  same  mode  of  collection  every  where  will 
have  nearly  the  same  return  every  where. 

What  must  be  the  final  issue  of  the  present  state  of  things  ? 
Will  the  few  States  that  now  contribute,  be  willing  to  contri- 
bute much  longer?  Shall  we  ourselves  be  long  content  with 
bearing  the  burthen  singly  ?  Will  not  our  zeal  for  a  particular 
system,  soon  give  way  to  the  pressure  of  so  unequal  a  weight  ? 
And  if  all  the  States  cease  to  pay,  what  is  to  become  of  the 
Union  ?  It  is  sometimes  asked,  Why  do  not  Congress  oblige  the 
States  to  do  their  duty?  But  where  are  the  means?  Where  are 
the  fleets  and  armies,  where  the  Federal  treasury  to  support 
those  fleets  and  armies,  to  enforce  the  requisitions  of  the 
Union  ?  All  methods  short  of  coercion,  have  repeatedly  been 
tried  in  vain. 

Let  us  now  proceed  to  another  most  important  inquiry.     How 


JEt.  30.]  NEW-YORK    LEGISLATURE.  36? 

are  we  to  pay  our  foreign  debt?  This,  I  think,  is  estimated  al 
aboul  7,000,000  of  dollars,  which  will  every  year  increase  with 
the  accumulations  of  interest,  [fwe  pay  neither  principal  nor 
interest,  we  do1  only  abandon  all  pretensions  to  character  as  a 
nation,  bu1  we  endanger  the  public  peace.  Eowever  it  may  be 
in  our  power  to  evade  the  just  demands  of  our  domestic  creditors, 
our  foreign  creditors  must  and  will  be  paid. 

Tiny  have  power  to  enforce  their  demands,  and  Booner  or 
later  they  may  he  expected  to  do  it.  It  is  not  my  intention  to 
endeavor  to  excite  the  apprehensions  of  the  committee,  but  I 
would  appeal  to  their  prudence.  A  discreel  attention  to  the  con- 
sequences of  national  measures  is  no  impeachment  of  our  firmness. 

Tlic  foreign  debt,  1  say,  must  sooner  or  later  lie  paid,  and  the 
longer  provision  is  delayed  the  heavier  it  must  tall  at  last. 

We  require  about  biioi.i.nno  dollars  to  discharge  the  interest 
and  instalments  <>i'  the  present  year,  about  a  million  annually 
upon  an  average,  for  ten  years  more,  and  about  300,000  do h 
for  another  ten  years. 

The  producl  u('  the  impost  may  be  computed  a1  aboul  a  mil- 
lion of  dollars  annually.  It  is  an  increasing  fund.  This  fund 
would  not  only  suffice  lor  the  discharge  of  the  foreign  debt,  but 
important  operations  might  be  ingrafted  upon  it  towards  the 
extinguishment  of  the  domestic  debt. 

Is  it   possible  to  hesitate  about  the  propriety  of  adoptii 
resource  so  easy  in  itself,  and  so  extensive  in  its  effi  cts? 

Here  I  expect  1  1 1 1 ; i \  be  told  tlieiv  is  no  objection  to  employ- 
ing this  resource.  The  acl  of  the  lasl  session  does  it.  The  "illy 
dispute  is  aboul  the  mode.  We  are  willing  to  grant  the  money, 
hut  not  the  power  required  from  us.  Money  will  pay  our  debts; 
power  may  destroy  our  liberties. 

It  has  been  insinuated  that  nothing  bu1  a  lust  of  power  would 
have  prevented  Congress  from  accepting  the  grant  in  the  shape 
it  has  already  passed  the  legislature.  This  is  a  Bevere  charge. 
If  true,  it  ought  undoubtedly  to  prevent  our  going  ;i  step  further. 
Bu1  it  is  e.i-'.  to  .-how  that  Congress  could  not  have  accepted  our 
grant  without  removing  themselves  further  from  the  object  than 
they  now  are.    To  gain  o      State  they  must  have  lost  all  the 


368  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [-tor.  30. 

others.  The  grants  of  every  State  are  accompanied  with  a  con- 
dition that  similar  grants  be  made  by  the  other  States.  It  is  not 
denied  that  our  act  is  essentially  different  from  theirs.  Their 
acts  give  the  United  States  the  power  of  collecting  the  duty ; 
ours  reserves  it  to  the  State,  and  makes  it  receivable  in  paper 
money. 

The  immediate  consequences  of  accepting  our  grant  would  be 
a  relinquishment  of  the  grants  of  other  States.  They  must  take 
the  matter  up  anew,  and  do  the  work  over  again  to  accommodate 
it  to  our  standard.  In  order  to  anchor  one  State,  would  it  have 
been  wise  to  set  twelve,  or  at  least  eleven  others,  afloat  ? 

It  is  said,  that  the  States  which  have  granted  more  would 
certainly  be  willing  to  grant  less.  They  would  easily  accommo- 
date their  acts  to  that  of  New-York,  as  more  favorable  to  their 
own  power  and  security. 

But  would  Massachusetts  and  Virginia,  which  have  no  paper 
money  of  their  own,  accede  to  a  plan  that  permitted  other  States 
to  pay  in  paper  while  they  paid  in  specie  ?  Would  they  consent 
that  their  citizens  should  pay  twenty  shillings  in  the  pound,  while 
the  citizens  of  Rhode  Island  paid  only /our,  the  citizens  of  North 
Carolina  ten,  and  of  other  States  in  different  degrees  of  inequality, 
in  proportion  to  the  relative  depreciation  of  their  paper  ?  Is  it 
wise,  in  this  State,  to  cherish  a  plan  that  gives  such  an  advantage 
to  the  citizens  of  other  States  over  its  own  ? 

The  paper  money  of  the  State  of  New- York,  in  most  transac- 
tions, is  equal  to  gold  and  silver;  that  of  Rhode  Island  is  depre- 
ciated to  five  for  one ;  that  of  North  Carolina  to  two  for  one ; 
that  of  South  Carolina  may  perhaps  be  worth  fifteen  shillings  in 
the  pound. 

If  the  States  pay  the  duties  in  paper,  is  it  not  evident  that 
for  every  pound  of  that  duty  consumed  by  the  citizen  of  New- 
York,  he  would  pay  twenty  shillings,  while  the  citizen  of  South 
Carolina  would  pay  fifteen  shillings;  of  North  Carolina,  ten 
shillings  ;  and  Rhode  Island,  only  four ! 

This  consideration  alone  is  sufficient  to  condemn  the  plan  of 
our  grant  of  last  session,  and  to  prove  incontestably  that  the 
States  which  are  averse  to  emitting  a  paper  currency,  or  have  it 


Mr.  30.]  NEW- YORK     LEGISLATURE.  369 

in  their  power  to  support  one  when  emitted,  would  uever  come 
into  it. 

Again,  would  those  States  which  by  their  public  acts  de- 
monstrate  a  conviction  that  the  powers  of  the  Union  require 
augmentation;  which  arc  conscious  of  energy  in  their  own  ad- 
ministration— would  they  be  willing  to  concur  in  a  plan  which 
left  the  collection  of  the  duties  in  the  hands  of  each  State;  and 
of  course  subject  to  all  the  inequalities  which  a  more  or  less 
vigorous  system  of  collection  would  produce? 

This  too  is  an  idea  which  ought  to  have  great  weight  with  us. 
We  have  better  habits  of  government  than  are  to  be  found  in 
some  of  the  States;  and  our  Constitution  admits  of  more  energy 
than  the  Constitution  of  most  of  the  other  States.  The  duties, 
therefore,  would  be  more  effectually  collected  with  us  than  in 
such  States,  and  this  would  have  a  similar  effect  to  the  deprecia- 
tion of  the  money,  in  imposing  a  greater  burthen  on  the  citizens 
of  this  State. 

If  any  State  should  incline  to  evade  the  payment  of  the  du- 
ties,  having  the  collection  in  its  own  hands,  nothing  would  be 
easier  than  to  effect  it,  and  without  materially  sacrificing  appear- 
ances. 

It  is  manifest,  from  this  view  of  the  subject,  that  we  have  the 
strongest  reasons,  as  a  State,  to  depart  from  our  own  act;  and 
that  it  would  have  been  highly  injudicious  in  Congress  to  have 
accepted  it. 

11  there  even  had  been  a  prospect  of  the  concurrence  of  the 
other  States  in  the  plan,  how  inadequate  would  it  have  been  to 
the  public  exigencies,  lettered  with  the  embarrassments  of  a  de- 
preciating paper ! 

It  is  to  no  purpose  to  say,  that  the  faith  of  the  State  was 
pledged  by  the  act  to  make  the  paper  equal  to  gold  and  silver  ; 
and  that  the  other  States  would  be  obliged  to  do  the  same. 
What  greater  dependence  can  be  had  on  the  faith  of  the  St 
pledged  to  this  measure,  than  on  the  faith  they  pledged  in  the  Con- 
federation sanctioned  by  a  solemn  appeal  to  heaven?  If  the  obli- 
gation of  faith  in  one  case  has  had  so  little  influence  upon  their 
conduct  in  respect  to  the  requisitions  of  Congress,  what  hope 

b  24 


370  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  30. 

can  there  be  that  they  would  have  greater  influences  in  respect  to 
the  deficiencies  of  the  paper  money  ? 

There  yet  remains  an  important  light  in  which  to  consider 
the  subject  in  the  way  of  revenue.  It  is  a  clear  point  that  we 
cannot  carry  the  duties  upon  imports  to  the  same  extent  by  sepa- 
rate arrangements  as  by  a  general  plan — we  must  regulate  our- 
selves by  what  we  find  done  in  the  neighboring  States :  while 
Pennsylvania  has  only  two  and  a  half  per  cent,  on  her  importa- 
tions, we  cannot  greatly  exceed  her.  To  go  much  beyond  it 
would  injure  our  commerce  in  a  variety  of  ways,  and  would  de- 
feat itself.  While  the  ports  of  Connecticut  and  Jersey  are  open 
to  the  introduction  of  goods  free  from  duty,  and  the  conveyance 
from  them  to  us  is  so  easy — while  they  consider  our  imposts  as 
an  ungenerous  advantage  taken  of  them,  which  it  would  be  laud- 
able to  elude,  the  duties  must  be  light  or  they  would  be  evaded. 
The  facility  to  do  it,  and  the  temptation  of  doing  it,  would  be 
both  so  great,  that  we  should  collect  perhaps  less  by  an  increase 
of  the  rates  than  we  do  now.  Already  we  experience  the  effects 
of  this  situation.  But  if  the  duties  were  to  be  levied  under  a 
common  direction,  with  the  same  precautions  every  where  to 
guard  against  smuggling,  they  might  be  carried  without  prejudice 
to  trade  to  a  much  more  considerable  height. 

As  things  now  are,  we  must  adhere  to  the  present  standard  of 
duties,  without  any  material  alterations.  Suppose  this  to  pro- 
duce fifty  thousand  pounds  a  year.  The  duties  to  be  granted 
to  Congress  ought,  in  proportion,  to  produce  double  that  sum. 
To  this  it  appears,  by  a  scheme  now  before  us,  that  additional 
duties  might  be  imposed  for  the  use  of  the  State,  on  certain  enu- 
merated articles,  to  the  amount  of  thirty  thousand  pounds.  This 
would  be  an  augmentation  of  our  national  revenue  by  in- 
direct taxation  to  the  extent  of  eighty  thousand  pounds  a  year, 
an  immense  object  in  a  single  State,  and  which  alone  demon- 
strates the  good  policy  of  the  measure. 

It  is  no  objection  to  say  that  a  great  part  of  this  fund  will  be 
dedicated  to  the  use  of  the  United  States.  Their  exigencies 
must  be  supplied  in  some  way  or  other.  The  more  is  done  to- 
wards it  by  means  of  the  impost,  the  less  will  be  to  be  done  in 


vEt.  30.]  NEW- YORK    LEGISLATURE.  371 

other  modes.  IT  we  do  not  employ  thai  resource  to  the  best 
account,  we  must  find  others  in  direct  taxation.  And  to  this  are 
opposed  all  the  habits  and  prejudices  of  the  community.  T; 
is  not  a  farmer  in  the  State  who  would  not  pay  a  shilling  in  the 
voluntary  consumption  of  articles  on  which  a  duty  is  paid, 
rather  than  a  penny  imposed  immediately  on  his  bouse  and  land. 

There  is  but  one  objection  to  the  measure  under  consideration 
that  lias  come  to  my  knowledge,  which  yel  remains  to  be  discuss- 
ed. I  mean  the  effect  it  is  supposed  to  have  upon  our  paper 
currency.  It  is  said  the  diversion  of  this  fund  would  leave  the 
oredil  of  the  paper  without  any  effectual  support. 

Though  I  should  not  be  disposed  to  put  a  consideration  of 
this  kind  in  competition  with  the  safety  of  the  Union;  yet  I 
should  be  extremely  cautious  about  doing  any  thing  that  might 
alii ict  t  he  credit  of  our  currency.  The  legislature  hav ing  thought 
an  emission  of  paper  advisable,  I  consider  it  my  duty  as  a  repre- 
sentative of  the  people  to  take  care  of  its  credit.  The  farmers 
appeared  willing  to  exchange  their  produce  for  it;  the  merchants 
on  the  other  hand  had  large  debts  outstanding.  They  supposed 
that  giving  a  free  circulation  to  the  paper  would  enable  their 
customers  in  the  country  to  pay,  and  as  they  perceived  that 
they  would  have  it  in  their  power  to  convert  the  money  into  pro- 
duce, they  naturally  resolved  to  give  it  their  support. 

These  causes  combined  to  introduce  the  money  into  general 
circulation,  and  having  once  obtained  credit,  it  will  now  be  able 
to  support  itself. 

The  chief  difficulty  to  have  been  apprehended  in  respect  to 
the  paper,  was  to  overcome  the  diffidence  which  the  still  recent 
experience  of  depreciating  paper  had  instilled  w  .Vs  minds. 

This,  it  was  to  have  been  feared,  would  have  shaken  its  credil  at 
its  outset,  and  if  it  had  <>}i,:<-  began  to  .sink,  it  would  be  no  ei 
matter  to  prevent  its  total  decline. 

The  event  has,  however,  turned  ou1  otherwise,  and  the  money 
been  fortunate  enough  to  conciliate  the  general  confidence. 

This  point  gained,  there  need   be  no  apprehensions  of  its    future 
fate,  unices  the  government  should  do  something  to  d<  that 

confidence. 


372  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

The  causes  that  first  gave  it  credit  still  operate,  and  will  in 
all  probability  continue  so  to  do.  The  demand  for  money  has 
not  lessened,  and  the  merchant  has  still  the  same  inducement  to 
countenance  the  circulation  of  the  paper. 

I  shall  not  deny  that  the  outlet  which  the  payment  of  duties 
furnished  to  the  merchant,  was  an  additional  motive  to  the  re- 
ception of  the  paper.  Nor  is  it  proposed  to  take  away  this  mo- 
tive. There  is  now  before  the  House  a  bill,  one  object  of  which 
is  the  establishment  of  a  State  impost  on  certain  enumerated  arti- 
cles, in  addition  to  that  to  be  granted  to  the  United  States.  It 
is  computed  on  very  good  grounds,  that  the  additional  duties 
would  amount  to  about  £30,000,  and  as  they  would  be  payable 
in  paper  currency,  they  would  create  a  sufficient  demand  upon 
the  merchant  to  leave  him,  in  this  respect,  substantially  the  same 
inducement  which  he  had  before.  Indeed,  independent  of  this, 
the  readiness  of  the  trading  people  to  take  the  money  can  never 
be  doubted,  while  it  will  freely  command  the  commodities  of  the 
country ;  for  this,  to  them,  is  the  most  important  use  they  can 
make  of  it. 

But  besides  the  State  impost,  there  must  be  other  taxes  :  and 
these  will  all  contribute  to  create  a  demand  for  the  money; 
which  is  all  we  now  mean  when  we  talk  of  funds  for  its  support ; 
for  there  are  none  appropriated  for  the  redemption  of  the  paper. 

Upon  the  whole,  the  additional  duties  will  be  a  competent 
substitute  for  those  now  in  existence ;  and  the  general  good  will 
of  the  community  towards  the  paper,  will  be  the  best  security 
for  its  credit. 

Having  now  shown,  Mr.  Chairman,  that  there  is  no  constitu- 
tional impediment  to  the  adoption  of  the  bill ;  that  there  is  no 
danger  to  be  apprehended  to  the  public  liberty  from  giving  the 
power  in  question  to  the  United  States ;  that  in  the  view  of  revenue 
the  measure  under  consideration  is  not  only  expedient  but  neces- 
sary— let  us  turn  our  attention  to  the  other  side  of  this  impor- 
tant subject.  Let  us  ask  ourselves,  what  will  be  the  consequence 
of  rejecting  the  bill  ?  What  will  be  the  situation  of  our  national 
affairs  if  they  are  left  much  longer  to  float  in  the  chaos  in  which 
they  are  now  involved  ? 


Ev.  30.]  NEW-YORK    LEGISLATURE.  373 

Can  our  National  Character  be  preserved  withoul  paying 
our  debts?  Can  the  Dniok  subsist  withou!  revenue?  Eavewe 
realized  the  consequences  which  would  attend  its  dissolution? 

1 F these  States  are  not  united  under  a  Federal  government 
they  will  infallibly  have  wars  with  each  other;  and  their  divi- 
sions will  subjecl  them  to  all  the  mischiefs  of  foreign  influence 
and  intrigue.  The  human  passions  will  never  want  objects  of 
hostility-  The  Western  Territory  is  an  obvious  and  fruitful 
source  of  contest.  Lei  us  also  cast  our  eye  upon  the  map  of  this 
State,  intersected  from  one  extremity  to  the  other  by  a  large 
navigable  river.  In  the  event  of  a  rupture  with  them,  what  is  to 
hinder  our  metropolis  from  becoming  a  prey  to  our  neighbors ? 
Is  it  even  supposable  that  they  would  suffer  it  to  remain  the  nur- 
sery of  wealth  to  a  distinct  community? 

These  subjects  are  delicate,  but  it  is  necessary  to  contemplate 
them,  to  teach  us  to  form  a  true  estimate  of  our  situation. 

Wars  with  each  other  would  beget  standing  armies — a  source 
of  more  real  danger  to  our  liberties  than  all  the  powers  that 
could  be  conferred  upon  the  representatives  of  the  Union.  And 
wars  with  each  other  would  lead  to  opposite  alliances  with 
foreign  powers,  and  plunge  us  into  all  the  labyrinths  of  European 
politic-. 

The  Romans,  in  their  progress  to  universal  dominion,  when 
they  conceived  the  project  of  subduing  the  refractory  spirit  of 
the  Grecian  republics,  which  composed  the  famous  Achaian 
League,  began  by  sowing  dissensions  among  them,  and  instilling 
jealousies  of  each  other,  and  of  the  common  head,  and  finished 
by  making  them  a  province  of  the  Roman  empire. 

■  application  is  easy:  if  there  are  any  foreign  enemies,  if 
there  are  any  domestic  foes  to  this  country,  all  their  arts  and  ar- 
tifices will  be  employed  to  effect  a  dissolution  of  the  Union. 
This  cannot  1"'  better  done  than  by  sowing  jealousies  of  the  Fed- 
eral head,  and  cultivating  in  each  State  an  undue,  attachment  to 
its  own  power. 


374  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [iE-r.  30. 


INDEPENDENCE   OF  VERMONT. 

An  act  to  empower  and  direct  the  delegates  of  this  State  in  Congress, 
to  accede  to,  ratify,  and  confirm  the  sovereignty  and  independence 
of  the  people  of  the  territory  commonly  called  and  known  by  the 
name  of  the  State  of  Vermont.     1787. 

Be  it  enacted  by  the  people  of  the  State  of  New-York,  represented 
in  Senate  and  Assembly,  and  it  is  hereby  enacted  by  the  authority  of 
tlie  same,  That  the  delegates  of  this  State  in  the  Cougress  of  the 
United  States  of  America,  or  any  two  of  them,  shall  be,  and 
hereby  are  fully  authorized,  empowered,  and  required,  wholly, 
entirely,  and  absolutely,  for  and  in  behalf  of  the  people  of  this 
State,  and  in  such  manner,  and  with  such  formalities  as  shall  be 
determined  in  Congress,  to  accede  to,  recognize,  ratify,  approve 
and  confirm  the  independence  and  sovereignty  of  the  people  in- 
habiting the  Territory  commonly  called  and  known  by  the  name 
of  the  State  of  Vermont : 

Provided,  always,  that  it  be,  and  it  hereby  is  declared  to  be, 
an  indispensable  preliminary  to  such  act  of  accession  to  and  re- 
cognition of  the  independence  and  sovereignty  of  the  said  people, 
that  they  explicitly  relinquish  and  renounce  all  claims  and  pre- 
tensions to  any  lands,  territory,  or  jurisdiction,  on  the  east  side 
of  the  west  bank  of  Connecticut  river,  and  on  the  west  side  of  a 
line  beginning  at  a  point  in  the  north  bounds  of  the  State  or 
Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  at  the  distance  of  twenty 
miles  on  a  direct  line  from  Hudson's  river,  thence  running 
twenty  miles  east  of  Hudson's  river,  so  far  as  the  said  river  runs 
north-easterly  in  its  general  course ;  then  by  the  west  bounds  of 
the  townships  granted  by  the  late  government  of  New  Hamp- 
shire, to  the  river  running  from  South  Bay  to  Lake  Champlain ; 
thence,  along  said  river  to  Lake  Champlain ;  thence  along  the  east 
side  of  the  Lake  Champlain  to  the  latitude  of  forty-five  degrees 
north ;  excepting  only  a  neck  of  land  between  Missiskoy  Bay 
and  the  waters  of  Lake  Champlain : 

Provided,  also,  that  such  act  of  accession  to  and  recognition 
of  the  independence  and  sovereignty  of  the  said  people,  shall  be 


jEt.  30.]  NEW- YORK    LEGISLATURE.  :>'75 

upon  this  express  condition,  that  the  Baid  people  Bhall  thereupon 
immediately  accede,  to  be  received  into,  and  become  a  member  of 
the  Confederacy  of  the  United  States  of  America,  to  all  intents 
and  purposes  whatsoever. 

Provided,  also,  that  such  act  of  accession  to,  and  recogni- 
tion of  the  said  independence  and  sovereignty  of  the  said  peo- 
ple, shall  be  upon  this  further  condition :  that  the  rights,  titles, 
or  claims,  of  any  person  or  persons,  to  lands  within  the  said  ter- 
ritory of  Vermont,  by  virtue  of  grants  under  the  government  of 
the  late  Colony  or  Province  of  New-York,  shall  be  and  remain  in 
as  full  force  as  if  tins  act  had  never  passed,  to  be  asserted,  prose- 
cuted, maintained,  and  determined,  agreeably  to  the  mode  speci- 
lied  and  prescribed  in  the  9th  of  the  Articles  of  Confederation 
and  perpetual  union  for  the  determination  of  controversies  con- 
cerning the  private  right  of  soil  claimed  under  different  grants  of 
two  or  more  States ;  and 

Provided,  always,  that  nothing  in  this  act  contained,  nor  any 
act,  matter,  or  thing,  to  be  done  and  transaet.,1  by  the  delegates 
of  this  State  in  the  Congress  of  the  said  United  States  of  Ame- 
rica, in  and  concerning  the  premises,  or  any  part  thereof,  shall 
bind  or  oblige,  or  be  construed,  deemed,  or  taken  to  bind  or 
oblige  the  Government,  Legislature,  people,  subjects,  or  inhabit- 
ants of  this  State,  until  not  less  than  eight  other  of  the  said 
United  States  of  America,  of  which  number  the  State  of  Xew 
Hampshire  to  be  one,  shall  accede  to,  recognize,  rarity,  approve, 
and  confirm  the  sovereignty  and  independence  of  the  said  people 
of  the  said  Territory  of  Vermont. 


SPEECH  ON  ACCEDING  TO  THE    INDEPENDENCE   OF  VERMONT. 

The  counsel  for  the  petitioners  has  entered  into  a  large  field 
ofargumenl  against  the  present  bill,  lie  has  endeavored  to  s 

that  it  is  contrary  to  tl     (        -t itnti. >n.  to  the   maxims  of  SO 
policy,  and  to  the  rights  of  property.     His  observations  have  not 
11  destitute  of  weight.     They  appear  to  have  the  more  force, 


376  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  30. 

as  they  are  to  a  certain  degree  founded  in  truth.  But  it  is  the 
province  of  the  committee  to  distinguish  the  just  limits  of  the 
principles  he  has  advanced ;  how  far  they  extend,  and  where 
they  terminate.  To  aid  the  committee  in  this  inquiry  shall  be 
my  endeavor,  and  following  the  counsel  for  the  petitioners 
through  the  different  heads  of  his  argument,  I  hope  to  be  able  to 
show,  that  neither  of  the  objections  he  has  urged  stands  in  the 
way  of  the  measure  proposed,  and  that  the  Constitution  permits, 
policy  demands  it,  and  justice  acquiesces  in  its  adoption. 

The  first  objection  is  drawn  from  that  great  principle  of  the 
social  compact, — that  the  chief  object  of  government  is  to  protect 
the  rights  of  individuals  by  the  united  strength  of  the  com- 
munity. The  justness  of  this  principle  is  not  to  be  disputed,  but 
its  extent  remains  to  be  ascertained.  It  must  be  taken  with  this 
limitation :— The  united  strength  of  the  community  ought  to  be 
exerted  for  the  protection  of  individuals  so  far  as  there  is  a  rational 
prospect  of  success ;  so  far  as  is  consistent  with  the  safety  and 
well  being  of  the  whole.  The  duty  of  a  nation  is  always  limited 
by  these  considerations : — It  is  bound  to  make  efforts  and  encoun" 
ter  hazards  for  the  protection  of  its  members,  proportioned  to  its 
abilities,  warranted  by  a  reasonable  expectation  of  a  favorable 
issue,  and  compatible  with  its  eventual  security.  But  it  is  not 
bound  to  enter  in  or  prosecute  enterprises  of  a  manifest  rashness 
and  folly ;  or  which,  in  the  event  of  success,  would  be  productive 
of  more  mischief  than  good. 

This  qualification  of  the  principle,  can  no  more  be  denied 
than  the  principle  itself.  The  counsel  for  the  petitioners  indeed 
admits  it  in  substance,  when  he  admits  that  a  case  of  extreme 
necessity  is  an  exception  to  the  rule :  but  he  adds  that  this  neces- 
sity should  be  apparent  and  unequivocal. 

What  constitutes  a  case  of  extreme  necessity,  admits  of  no 
precise  definition.  It  is  always  a  question  of  fact,  to  be  deter- 
mined by  a  consideration  of  the  condition  of  the  parties  and  the 
particular  circumstances  of  the  case  itself.  A  case  of  necessity 
then  exists,  when  every  discerning  unprejudiced  man,  well 
acquainted  with  facts,  must  be  convinced  that  a  measure  cannot  be 
undertaken  or  pursued  with  a  probability  of  success.    To  determine 


iET.  30.]  NEW- YORK     LEGISLATURE.  377 

this  an  experiment  is  not  always  necessary :  circumstances  may 
exisl  bo  decisive  and  palpable  in  their  nature,  as  to  render  it  the 
extreme  of  temerity  to  begin  aswell  aa  to  continw  an  experiment. 
The  propriety  of  doing  either  the  one  or  the  other,  must  equally 
be  decided  by  n  judicious  estimate  of  the  national  situation. 

The  tendency  of  the  principle  contended  for,  on  the  applica- 
tion of  it  in  argument,  has  been  to  prove  thai  the  State  ought  to 
employ  the  common  strength  of  the  society  to  protecl  the  rights 
of  its  citizens,  interested  in  the  district  of  territory  in  question,  by 
reducing  the  revolted  inhabitants  of  thai  district  to  an  obedie 
to  its  laws.  The  inquiry  therefore  is, — Can  this  be  done?  Is  the 
Stat.'  in  a  situation  to  undertake  it?  Is  there  a  probability  that 
the  objecl  will  be  more  attainable  at  a  future  day?  Is  there  not 
rather  a  probability  that  it  will  be  every  day  more  out  of  our 
reach,  and  that  leaving  things  in  their  present  state,  will  be  attend- 
ed with  serious  dangers  and  inconveniences?  Is  it  even  desirable, 
if  practicable,  to  reduce  the  people  in  question  under  subjection 
to  this  State? 

In  pursuing  this  inquiry  we  ought  to  bear  in  mind,  that  a 
nation  is  never  to  regulate  its  conduct  by  remote  possibilities  or 
mere  contingencies,  bu1  by  such  probability  as  may  reasonably 
be  inferred  from  the  existing  state  of  things,  and  the  usual  course 
of  human  affairs. 

With  this  caution,  uo  well  informed  mind  can  be  at  a  loss  in 
■what  mannerto  answer  the  questions  I  have  proposed.  A  con- 
cise review  of  the  past,  and  a  dispassionate  consideration  of  the 
present,  will  enable  ns  to  judge  with  accuracy  of  the  obligations 
and  interests  of  the  State. 

The  pretensions  to  independence  of  the  district  of  territory 
in  question,  began  shortly  after  the  commencement  of  the  late 
revolution.     We  weir  then  engaged  in  a  war  for  our  existence 

people,  which  required  the  utmost  exertion  of  our  resoun 
to  give  as  a  chance  of  success.     To  have  diverted  any  part  <>[ 
them  from  this  objecl   to  thai  of  Bubduing  the   inhabitants  of 
Vermont,  to  have  involved  a  domestic  quarrel  which  would  h 
compelled  that  hardy  and  numerous  body  of  men  to  throw  them- 
Belves   into   the   arms  of    the   power   with   which   we   were   then 


378  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  30. 

contending,  instead  of  joining  their  efforts  to  ours  in  the  common 
cause  of  American  liberty,  as  they  for  a  long  time  did,  with  great 
advantage  to  it,  would  have  been  a  species  of  frenzy,  for  which 
there  could  have  been  no  apology,  and  would  have  endangered 
the  fate  of  the  revolution  more  than  any  one  step  we  could  have 
taken. 

This  idea  is  too  obvious  to  need  being  enlarged  upon.  The 
most  prejudiced  will  acquit  the  State  from  blame  for  not  trying 
the  effect  of  force  against  that  people  during  the  continuance  of 
the  war.  Every  moderate  measure,  every  thing  short  of  hostility 
or  a  total  sacrifice  of  those  rights,  which  were  the  original  cause 
of  the  revolt,  and  which  are  the  occasion  of  the  opposition  to  the 
present  bill,  were  tried.  Conciliating  laws  were  passed,  overtures 
made,  negotiations  carried  on  in  Congress,  but  all  to»no  purpose. 

The  peace  found  the  Vermonters  in  a  state  of  actual  inde- 
pendence, which  they  had  enjoyed  for  several  years — organized 
under  a  regular  form  of  government,  and  increased  in  strength 
by  a  considerable  accession  of  numbers.  It  found  this  State  the 
principal  seat  of  the  war,  exhausted  by  peculiar  exertions  and 
overwhelmed  in  debt.  The  embarrassments  arising  from  this 
situation  press  us  daily.  The  utmost  exertion  of  wisdom  in  our 
public  councils,  would  not  be  more  than  equal  to  extricating  us 
from  them.  As  matters  stand,  the  public  debts  are  unprovided 
for,  and  the  public  credit  prostrate. 

Are  we  now  in  a  situation  to  undertake  the  reduction  of  Ver- 
mont; or  are  we  likely  speedily  to  be  in  such  a  situation? 
Where  are  our  resources,  where  our  public  credit,  to  enable  us  to 
carry  on  an  offensive  war? 

We  ought  to  recollect,  that  in  war,  to  defend  or  attack,  are 
two  different  things :  to  the  first,  the  mountains,  the  wilderness, 
the  militia,  sometimes  even  the  poverty  of  a  country  will  suffice. 
The  latter  requires  an  army  and  a  treasury. 

The  population  of  Vermont  will  not  be  rated  too  high,  if 
stated  at  nearly  one  half  of  that  of  New-York.  Can  any  reason- 
able man  suppose  that  New-York,  with  the  load  of  debt  the  revo- 
lution has  left  upon  it,  and  under  a  popular  government,  would 
be  able  to  carry  on  with  advantage  an  offensive  war  against  a 


jEt.  30.]  NEW-YORK    LEGISLATURE.  379 

people  half  as  numerous  as  itself,  in  their  own  territory;  a  terri- 
tory defended  as  much  by  its  natural  situation  as  by  the  numbers 
and  hardihood  of  its  inhabitants?  Can  it  be  imagined  thai  it 
would  1"'  able,  finally,  to  reduce  such  a  people  to  it.-  obedien 

The  supposition  would  be  chimerieal,  and  the  attempt   madii 

Can  we  hope  a  more  favorable  posture  of  affairs  hereafter? 
Will  not  the  population  and  strength  of  Vermont  increase  in  ra- 
tio to  our  own?  There  is,  perhaps,  no  essentia]  difference  be- 
tween  their  government  and  ours.  The  necessity  of  making 
provision,  in  one  way  or  another,  for  the  exigencies  of  the 
Onion,  and  for  the  discharge  of  the  debts  of  the  State,  must  con- 
tinue to  subject  our  citizens  to  heavier  burthens  than  are  borne 
by  the  inhabitants  of  that  country,  "who  have  no  call  for  revenue 
beyond  the  support  of  their  domestic  administration.  A  country 
possessing  a  fertile  soil,  exempt  from  taxes,  cannot  fail  of  having 
a  rapid  growth. 

The  enterprise  will  of  course  become  more  difficult  by  delay  ; 
and  procrastination  can  only  serve  to  render  the  claims  of  the 
State  and  its  citizens,  in  the  opinion  of  mankind,  obsolete,  and  to 
give  the  consent  of  time  to  the  connection  which  the  people  of 
Vermont  have,  in  all  appearance,  already  formed  with  the  British 
Government.  This  last  point  1  shall  discuss  more  fully  in  ano- 
ther place. 

I  have  confined  myself  in  my  reasoning  to  an  examination  of 
whal  is  practicable  on  the  part  of  this  State  alone.  No  assist- 
ance is  to  be  expected  from  our  neighbors.  Their  opinion  of  the 
origin  of  the  controversy  between  this  State  and  the  people  of 
Vermont,  whether  well  or  ill  founded,  is  not  generally  in  our  fa- 
vor; and  it  is  notorious  that  the  E  i  States  have  uniformly 
countenanced  the  independence  of  that  country.  This  might 
suggest  to  us  reflections  that  would  confirm  the  belief  of  the  im- 
practicability of  destroying,  and  the  danger  of  attempting  to 
destroy  thai  independence. 

The  scheme  of  coercion  would  ill  suit  even  the  dispositio 
our  own  citizens.     The  habits  of  thinking  to  which  the  Revolu- 
tion has  given  birth,  are  nol  adapted  to  the  idea  of  a  contest  for 
dominion  over  a  people  disinclined  to  live  under  our  govern- 


380  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

ment.  And,  in  reality,  it  is  not  the  interest  of  the  State  ever  to 
regain  dominion  over  them  by  force.  We  shall  do  well  to  advert 
to  the  nature  of  our  government,  and  to  the  extent  of  this  State, 
according  to  its  acknowledged  limits.  Are  we  sure  we  shall  be 
able  to  govern  what  we  already  possess  ?  or  would  it  be  wise  to 
wish  to  try  the  strength  of  our  government  over  a  numerous 
body  of  people  disaffected  to  it,  and  compelled  to  submit  to  its 
authority  by  force  ?  For  my  part,  I  should  regard  the  reunion 
of  Vermont  to  this  State  as  one  of  the  greatest  evils  that  could 
befall  it;  as  a  source  of  continual  embarrassment  and  disqui- 
etude. 

It  is  hinted  by  the  counsel  for  the  petitioners,  that  many  of 
the  inhabitants  of  Vermont  are  desirous  of  living  under  our  gov- 
ernment; and  sanguine  tempers  have  long  ago  predicted  that 
they  would  shortly  grow  weary  of  their  independence,  throw  it 
off,  and  become  reunited  with  us  and  New  Hampshire,  of  their 
own  accord.  There  are  clear  principles  of  human  nature,  to 
which  we  may  resort  to  falsify  this  prediction.  In  popular  gov- 
ernments, the  sentiments  of  the  people  generally  take  their  tone 
from  their  leaders.  The  leaders  of  Vermont  cannot  desire  a  re- 
union with  New-York,  because  this  would  amount  to  an  abdica- 
tion of  their  own  power  and  consequence.  The  people  of  Ver- 
mont will  not  desire  it ;  because  no  people  ever  desired  to  pass 
from  a  situation  in  which  they  were  exempted  from  taxes,  and  in 
which  they  suffered  no  particular  oppression,  to  one  in  which 
they  would  be  subject  to  burthens  comparatively  heavy. 

I  pass  now  to  an  examination  of  the  constitutionality  of  the 
measure  proposed  by  the  bill.  It  is  observed,  that  by  the  Con- 
stitution the  counties  of  Charlotte,  Cumberland,  and  Gloucester, 
are  constituent  parts  of  the  State ;  that  one  article  of  it  declares 
that  no  power  shall  be  exercised  over  the  people,  but  such  as  is 
derived  from  and  granted  by  them ;  that  no  express  power  is 
given  to  the  Legislature  to  dismember  any  part  of  the  State ;  and 
that  this  silence  of  the  Constitution  is  a  tacit  reservation  of  that 
power  to  the  people. 

To  all  this  I  answer,  that  the  sovereignty  of  the  people,  by 
our  Constitution,  is  vested  in  their  representatives  in  Senate  and 


Mt.  30.]  NEW-YORK    LEGISLATURE.  381 

Assembly,  with  tin'  intervention  of  the  Council  of  Revision,  and, 
thai  the  power  of  dismembering  the  State,  under  certain  circum- 
stances, is  a  necessary  appendage  of  the  sovereignty.  The  prac- 
tice of  nations,  and  the  authority  of  writers,  conspire  to  establish 
this  principle;  and  the  safety  of  society  requires  it.  There  are 
certain  situations  of  kingdoms  and  States,  in  which  the  sacrifice 
of  a  part  is  essential  to  the  preservation  or  welfare  of  the  rest. 

History  furnishes abundanl  examples  of  such  sacrifices.  Na- 
tions, in  making  peace,  frequently  cede  parts  of  their  territories 
to  each  other.  Civil  commotions  have  many  times  produced 
similar  dismemberments.  The  monarchy  of  Spain,  after  a  de- 
structive and  fruitless  contest  to  preserve  it,  was  obliged,  at  last, 
to  surrender  its  dominion  over  the  Netherlands.  The  crown  of 
Austria  was,  in  like  manner,  compelled  to  abandon  its  jurisdic- 
tion over  the  Swiss  Cantons.  And  the  United  States  are  a  re- 
cent, and  still  more  signal  instance  of  the  exercise  of  the  same 
right.  Neither  of  these  instances  has  been  censured  or  con- 
demned, nor  the  power  of  the  sovereign  to  accede  to  the  separa- 
tion called  in  question. 

The  celebrated  author  quoted  by  the  counsel  for  the  petition- 
ers, is  explicit  on  this  article,  and  decides  with  clearness  that  the 
prince  or  body  intrusted  with  the  sovereign  authority,  may,  in 
certain  emergencies,  dismember  the  empire,  and  lop  off  a  limb 
for  the  good  of  the  body.  This  inference  from  the  silence  of  a 
1  ostitution,  is  the  reverse  of  that  drawn  by  the  counsel  of  the 
petitioners.  Doubts  have  been  raised  by  particular  theorists 
upon  the  subject;  but  their  theories  were  too  abstracl  for  prac- 
tice, and  are  now  exploded  by  the  ablest  writers  on  the  laws  of 
nations.  Indeed,  those  doubts  were  chiefly  applied  to  the  case 
of  a  cession,  or  relinquishment,  of  a  pari  of  the  empire  still  in 
possession  of  the  sovereign.  It  has  Ion-  been  considered  as  a  clear 
point,  that  where  a  part  of  an  empire  is  actually  severed^  by  con- 
quest, or  a  revolution,  the  prince,  or  body  vested  with  the 
administration  of  the  government,  has  a  right  to  assent  to  and  to 
ratify  that  separation.  This  is  an  obvious  and  important  distinc- 
tion; from  which  other  inferences  of  moment  will  be  drawn  in 
another  place.  It  will  be  found  in  Vattel,  book  four,  chapter 
second. 


382  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  30. 

Yerniont  is,  in  fact,  severed  from  New- York,  and  has  been  so 
for  years.  There  is  no  reasonable  pros]3ect  of  recovering  it,  and 
the  attempt  would  be  attended  with  certain  and  serious  calami- 
ties. The  Legislature  have,  therefore,  an  undoubted  right  to  re- 
linquish it,  and  policy  dictates  that  it  should  be  done. 

It  is  of  no  force  to  say  that  this  principle  would  authorize 
the  dismemi  erment  of  Long  Island,  or  of  any  other  part  of  the 
State.  There  is  no  doubt,  the  same  circumstances  concurring, 
the  same  consequences  would  result,  but  not  sooner ;  and  it  will 
be  the  duty  of  the  State  to  endeavor  to  prevent  a  similar  ex- 
tremity. 

The  next  thing  in  the  order  observed  by  the  counsel  for  the 
petitioners  that  presents  itself  to  our  discussion  is  the  policy  of 
the  measure. 

Against  this  it  is  objected,  that  the  precedent  would  be  dan- 
gerous, that  the  facility  with  which  the  Yermonters  will  have 
accomplished  their  object,  might  invite  other  parts  of  this  State 
and  the  United  States  to  follow  their  example. 

To  this  I  answer,  that  examples  have  little  to  do  with  the 
revolutions  of  empire.  Wherever  such  a  state  of  things  exists 
as  to  make  it  the  interest  or  the  inclination  of  a  large  body  of 
people  to  separate  from  the  society  with  which  they  have  been 
connected,  and  at  the  same  time  to  afford  a  prospect  of  success, 
they  will  generally  yield  to  the  impulse,  without  much  inquiry 
or  solicitude  about  what  has  been  done  by  others,  or  upon  other 
occasions  ;  and  when  this  is  not  the  case,  precedents  will  never 
create  the  disposition.  Events  of  this  kind  are  not  produced  or 
controlled  by  the  ordinary  operations  of  human  policy,  care 
or  contrivance. 

But,  whatever  may  be  the  effect  of  the  example,  it  is  too 
late  to  prevent  or  redress  the  evil.  It  sprang  up  under  circum- 
stances which  forbade  the  application  of  an  effectual  remedy, 
and  it  has  now  acquired  a  maturity  which  would  mock  all  our 
efforts  to  counteract  it.  Yerniont  is  lost  to  New- York,  beyond 
the  possibility  of  a  recovery;  and  a  passive  acquiescence  in  its 
independence  cannot  make  it  more  formidable,  as  an  example, 
than  a  direct  recognition  of  it.     Success  and  impunity  are  the 


Mt.  30.]  NEW-YORK    LEGISLATURE.  .W. 

ingredients  that  are  to  constitute  the  force  of  the  example,  and 
these  will  exist  in  either  case. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  policy  of  the  measure  results  from  two 
important  considerations.  The  one,  that  by  the  union  of  Vermont 
to  the  Confederacy,  i1  must  of  course  bear  a  proportion  of  the 
public  burdens;  the  other,  that  it  would  be  detached  from  the 
completion  of  a  connection,  already  in  all  appearance  begun  with 
a  foreign  power.  The  incorporation  of  Vermont  into  the  Con- 
federacy is  by  the  bill  made  an  express  condition  of  the  acknow- 
ledgmenl  of  their  independence. 

The  first  advantage  was  too  obvious  to  be  denied,  though 
observations  have  be<  n  made  to  diminish  its  importance.  Its 
inland  situation  has  been  noted  as  a  circumstance  that  precluded 
the  expectation  of  any  considerable  revenue  from  it.  But  the  same 
thing  might  be  said  of  the  interior  parts  of  this  and  of  the  other 
States;  and  yet  we  should  make  a  much  worse  figure  than  wedo 
if  our  resources  were  to  be  drawn  wholly  from  our  Atlantic  set- 
tlements. The  country  of  Vermont  is  fertile  and  will  soon  be 
populous,  and  the  resources  which  it  may  be  capable  of  afford 
a1  a  day  not  far  remote,  though  not  of  great  magnitude,  will  by 
no  means  be  contemptible. 

Bu1  the  principal  advantage  to  be  expected  from  the  measure 
is  the  one  mentioned  last.  Here  it  is  asked.  Where  is  the  evidence 
of  the  fact,  where  the  proof  of  the  connection?  Would  Great 
Britain,  which  has  so  recently,  in  a  solemn  treaty,  acknowledged 
the  territory  in  question  to  be  comprehended  within  the  Limits  of 
the  United  States,  derogate  from  thai  treaty,  and  for  so  insignifi- 
cant an  object,  as  a  connection  with  a  small  corner  of  one  of  the 
-.  hazard  a  rupture  with  the  whole  Confederacy? 

V'  expecting  a  formal  call  for  the  evidence  of  the  fact,  my 
memory  is  not  prepared  to  enter  into  all  the  details  requisite  to 
it-  lull  elucidation.  I  well  remember  that  during  the  latter  peri 
of  the  war,  a  variety  of  circumstances  produced  a  conviction  of  its 
existence  every  where  ;  in  the  army,  in  the  Legislature,  and  in 
Cong  'i  --.  Among  other  transactions  thai  came  to  my  knowled 
I  shall  mention  one  as  nearly  as  my  recollection  will  serve  me. 
Some  time  in  the  year  17bl,  Fay,  and  Ira  AH  n,  two  of  the  n 


384  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  30. 

influential  individuals  in  that  country,  went  into  Canada,  and  we 
were  well  informed  had  repeated  interviews  with  General  Hal- 
dimand.  Not  long  after,  a  party  of  the  British  under  St.  Leger, 
penetrated  as  far  as  Ticonderoga. 

A  detachment  from  that  body  fell  in  by  accident  with  a  small 
party  of  Vermonters,  fired  upon  them,  killed  one  of  their 
number,  and  took  the  rest  prisoners.  Discovering  their  mistake, 
they  interred  the  dead  body  with  the  honors  of  war,  and  sent  the 
prisoners  home  loaded  with  kindnesses  and  caresses.  From  that 
period  a  free  intercourse  subsisted  between  Canada  and  Vermont. 
This  is  one  proof,  and  a  pretty  decisive  one,  to  show  that  a  con- 
nection was  formed  during  the  war.  I  doubt  not  there  are  others 
equally  strong,  within  the  recollection  of  other  members  of  the 
committee.  Since  the  peace,  this  intercourse  has  been  cultivated 
with  reciprocal  zeal,  and  there  are  circumstances  related  (which  I 
shall  not  repeat,  as  they  do  not  come  to  me  with  sufficient  authen- 
ticity) that  look  strongly  to  a  continuance  of  the  connection. 

If  this  connection  ever   existed,  what  reason   have  we  to  ' 
believe  that  it  has  been  since  dissolved  ?    To  me,  I  confess,  there 
appears  none.     On  the  contrary,  the  situation  of  the  parties  in 
my  opinion  forbid  the  supposition  of  its  dissolution. 

I  flatter  myself,  those  who  know  my  manner  of  thinking,  will 
acquit  me  of  a  disposition  to  sow  groundless  jealousies  of  any 
nation.  I  consider  a  conduct  of  this  kind,  as  undignified  and 
indelicate  in  a  public  character  ;  and  if  I  were  not  persuaded  the 
suspicions  I  entertain  are  well  founded,  no  motive  would  have 
induced  me  to  bring  them  forward. 

It  is  asked,  in  substance,  what  object  Great  Britain  can  have 
in  cultivating  such  connection.    This  admits  of  several  answers. 

Great  Britain  cannot  but  see  our  governments  are  feeble  and 
distracted ;  that  the  Union  wants  energy ;  the  nation  concert. 
That  our  public  debts  are  unprovided  for  ;  our  federal  treasuries 
empty;  our  trade  languishing.  She  may  flatter  herself  that 
this  state  of  things  will  be  productive  of  discontents  among  the 
people;  and  that  these  discontents  may  lead  to  a  voluntary 
return  to  her  dominion.  She  may  hope  to  see  in  this  country  a 
counterpart  of  the  restoration  of  Charles  the  Second.     However 


jEt.  30.]  NEW-YORK     LEGISLATURE.  385 

mistaken  the y  maj  be,  i1   is  not  impossible,  thai  speculations  of 
this  kind  may  enter  into  the  b<  ad  of  a  British  minister. 

The  goveramenl  lately  established  in  Canada  the  splendid 
title  of  Viceroy-  seem  to  look  beyond  the  dreary  regions  of 
Canada  and  Nova  Sc<  »tia. 

In  this  view,  she  would  naturally  lay  hold  of  Vermonl 
link  in  the  chain  of  events,  [t  would  be  a  positive  acquisition 
of  s<>  much,  and  nothing  could  better  answer  the  purpose  of  accel- 
erating the  progress  of  discontent  than  the  example  of  a  country, 
part  of  ourselves,  comparatively  speaking,  free  from  taxes. 
Nothing  could  have  a  more  powerful  influence  than  such  an 
example  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  settlements  bordering  upon 
that  country.  How  far  and  bow  rapidlyit  might  extend  itself  is 
a  matter  not  easy  to  be  calculated. 

But  laying  aside  every  supposition  of  this  nature  there  are 
motives  of  interesl  which  would  dispose  the  British  government 
tocultivate  Vermont.  A  connection  with  Vermont  will  hereafter 
conduce  to  the  security  of  Canada,  and  to  the  preservation  of  the 
Western  posts.  Thai  Greal  Britain  means  to  retain  these  posts 
may  be  inferred  I'n  >m  the  interesl  she  has  in  doing  it.  The  osten- 
sible reason  for  not  having  delivered  them  up  heretofore  is 
the  infractions  of  the  treaty  on  our  part:  but  though  these 
infractions  in  some  instances  cannot  be  denied,  it  may  fairly 
be  presumed,  that  they  are  nothing  more  than  the  pretext  for 
withholding  the  posts,  while  the  true  motive  is  the  prodigious 
advantage  which  the  monopoly  of  the  fur  trade  affords  to  the 

commerce  of  the  English  nation. 

It'  Great   Britain  has  fori 1  the  design  of  finally  retaining 

those  posts,  she  must  look  forward  sooner  or  later  to  a  rupture 
with  this  country;  for,  degraded  as  we  are  by  our  mismana 
ment,  she  can  hardly  entertain  so  mean  an  opinion  of  as  as  to 
expect  we  shall  eventually  submit  to  such  a  violation  of  our 
rights  and  interests  without  a  struggle.  And,  in  such  a  case, 
Vermont  would  be  no  despicable  auxiliary. 

But  would  Greal  Britain  hazard  a  war  with  the  I'uitcd 
State-,  for  so  inconsiderable  an  object? 

In  the  first  place,  the  object  is  not  inconsiderable.     In  the 

B  25 


386  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

next,  our  situation  is  not  such  as  to  render  our  resentment 
formidable.  This  situation  is  perhaps  better  understood  by 
every  body  else  than  ourselves ;  and  no  nation  would  forego  a 
present  advantage  to  our  detriment,  while  it  knew  that  a  change 
of  government  must  precede  any  inconveniencies  from  our  dis- 
pleasure. 

I  do  not  suppose  that  the  British  government  would,  in  the 
present  state  of  things,  commit  itself  to  any  avowed  engagements 
with  the  people  of  Vermont.  It  will,  no  doubt,  take  care  to  be  in 
such  a  situation  as  to  leave  itself  at  liberty  to  act  according  to 
circumstances ;  but  it  will,  and  I  have  no  doubt  does,  by  the 
intermediation  of  its  officers,  keep  up  a  secret  intercourse  with 
the  leaders  of  that  people,  to  endeavor  gradually  to  mould  them 
to  its  interest,  to  be  ready  to  convert  them  to  its  own  purposes 
upon  any  favorable  conjuncture  or  future  emergency.  This 
policy  is  so  obvious  and  safe,  that  it  would  be  presumable  with- 
out any  evidence  of  its  existence. 

On  the  part  of  Vermont,  while  their  fate  in  the  American 
scale  remains  suspended,  considerations  of  safety  would  direct 
them  to  such  a  connection  with  the  British  government.  They 
would  not  choose  to  lie  at  our  mercy,  or  to  depend  on  their 
strength,  if  they  could  find  refuge  and  support  elsewhere. 

There  is  a  circumstance,  too,  mentioned  with  a  different  view 
by  the  council  for  the  petitioners,  which  would  contribute  to 
this  connection.  I  mean  the  relative  situation  of  Canada  and 
Vermont.  It  is  asked,  "  May  not  this  situation  induce  Vermont 
to  regret  the  offer  of  independence,  and  prompt  the  people  of 
that  country,  for  the  sake  of  commerce,  to  form  still  closer  con- 
nections with  a  foreign  power?"  I  ask,  does  not  this  situation, 
which  it  is  supposed  might  have  so  powerful  an  influence,  afford 
a  strong  presumption  of  the  existence  of  such  a  connection? 
And  is  it  not  our  true  policy  to  take  away  every  additional 
temptation  ? 

I  shall  readily  admit  that  it  is  very  doubtful  whether  Ver- 
mont will  accept  the  proffered  acknowledgment  of  its  inde- 
pendence, upon  the  condition  annexed.  I  firmly  believe  that 
she  does  not  desire  it,  and  that  she  would  be  perplexed  by  the 


JEt.  30.]  NEW-YORK    LEGISLATURE.  387 

dilemma  to  which  she  would  be  reduced.     Bu1    whether  she 

accepts  it  or  not,  the  offer  maybe  expected  to  have  a  good  effect. 
It  would  at  leasl  serve  to  ascertain  facts.  Her  refusal  would  be 
a  conclusive  evidence  of  a  determined  predilection  to  a  foreign 
connection;  and  it  would  show  the  United  States  the  absolute 
necessity  of  combining  their  efforts  to  subvert  an  independe 
so  hostile  to  their  safety.  It'  they  should  find  themselves  unequal 
to  the  undertaking,  it  must  operate  as  a  new  inducement  to  the 

several  States  to  strengthen  the  I    N  I '  > N . 

In  every  light,  therefore,  fche  measure  on  national  ground 
appears  advisable;  bul  it  still  remains  to  inquire  what  will  be 
our  duty  in  respect  to  the  citizens  of  this  State,  who  are  owners 
of  land  in  Vermont  How  far  shall  we  violate  their  rights,  and 
how  far  are  we  hound  to  make  them  compensation? 

The  claim  to  a  compensation  is  the  thing  which  has  been  with 
most  propriety  urged  by  the  counsel  for  the  petitioners.  Let  us, 
however,  examine  its  nature  and  foundation. 

r.ut,  liefore  I  enter  into  this  examination,  I  shall  repeat  an 
observation  which  I  made  on  a  former  occasion.  Whatever 
obligations  there  may  be  on  the  part  of  the  State  cannot  be 
increased  by  acceding  to  the  measure  proposed.  If  Vermont  is 
not  irretrievably  lost  to  this  State,  the  duty  of  protection  which 
it  owes  to  individuals,  obliges  it  to  employ  the  common  strength 
to  reinstate  them  in  their  rights.  If  it  is  irretrievably  lost,  no 
rights  capable  of  being  rendered  effective  will  be  sacrificed;  of 
course,  no  obligation  to  making  a  recompense  will  exist 

But  the  truth  is,  the  present  bill,  so  far  from  surrendering  the 
rights  of  individuals,  puts  things  in  the  only  train  in  which  they 
will  ever  have  an  opportunity  of  giving  them  validity.  The 
third  clause  of  the  ninth  article  of  the  Confederation  expressly 
declares  that  all  controversies  aboul  the  right  of  soil  between  the 
citizens  of  different  States,  shall  be  decided  by  a  federal  court. 
The  counsel  for  the  petitioners  tells  as  that  his  clients  doubt  the 
operation  of  this  clause,  but  as  he  gives  us  no  reason  for  the 
doubt,  I  shall  only  say  that  the  terms  of  it  appear  to  me  char  and 
explicit. 

I  have  no  doubt  that  the  petitioners  would  be  entitled  to  a 


388  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mi.  30. 

federal  court ;  and  though  that  court  would  not  decide  in  such  a 
question  like  the  tribunals  of  New  York,  but  upon  general  princi- 
ples of  natural  and  political  right,  I  should  confidently  expect 
that  all  equitable  claims  of  our  citizens  would  have  their  full  effect. 

It  is,  however,  further  observed  on  this  head,  that  the  expense 
of  such  court  would  exceed  the  abilities  of  individuals,  and  could 
only  be  compassed  by  the  resources  of  sovereign  States. 

If  this  suggestion  should  be  admitted  to  be  true,  (though  I 
think  the  expense  is  greatly  overrated,)  yet  surely  it  would  be 
more  reasonable  to  ask  the  State  for  its  assistance  in  procuring  a 
federal  court  to  obtain  justice  to  the  petitioners,  than  to  ask  it  to 
undertake  a  ruinous  war  for  that  purpose.  The  difference  in 
expense  would  not  bear  a  comparison.  Indeed,  the  first  would 
be  a  trifling  object  to  the  State,  while  the  last  would  exceed  its 
abilities,  and  perhaps  end  in  its  disgrace. 

But  if  the  bill  even  contained  no  provision  for  obtaining  jus- 
tice to  the  petitioners,  I  should  hold  that  the  State  would  not  be 
under  a  strict  obligation  to  recompense  them  for  their  losses. 
The  distinction  I  would  lay  down  upon  the  subject  is  this :  If 
a  government  voluntarily  bargains  away  the  rights,  or  disposes 
of  the  property  of  its  citizens,  in  their  enjoyment,  possession  or 
power,  it  is  bound  to  make  compensation  for  the  thing  of  which 
it  hath  deprived  them  ;  but  if  they  are  actually  dispossessed  of 
those  rights,  or  that  property,  by  the  casualties  of  war,  or  a  revo- 
lution, the  State,  if  the  public  good  requires  it,  may  abandom 
them  to  the  loss  without  being  obliged  to  make  reparation.  The 
author  quoted  by  the  counsel  for  the  petitioners,  has  in  view  the 
case  of  a  voluntary  disposition  of  the  property  of  citizens  in  the 
power  of  the  State ;  and  his  doctrine  is  unquestionably  just,  but 
it  does  not  apply  to  the  case  of  an  actual  dispossession  by  any  of 
those  events  in  which  nations  have  no  choice.  In  wars  be- 
tween States,  the  sovereign  is  never  supposed  to  be  bound 
to  make  good  the  losses  which  the  subject  sustains  by  the  cap- 
tures or  ravages  of  the  enemy,  though  they  should  amount  to 
the  destruction  of  his  whole  property ;  and  yet  nothing  can  be 
more  agreeable  to  natural  equity  than  that  those  who  happen  to 
be  the  unlucky  victims  of  the  war  should  be  indemnified  by  the 


JEt.  30.]  NEW- YORK    1. 1:<;  i  s  i.  a  t  r  K  i:.  .".s0 

community.  But,  in  practice,  such  a  principle  would  be  found 
attended  with  endless  difficulties  and  inconveniences;  and  there- 
fore the  reverse  of  it  has  been  adopted  aa  a  general  rule  The 
individual  sufferer,  however,  might   with  greal  color  of  justice, 

suv  i"  the  irovNiiiirnt,  \Vh\  did  you  make  peace  withoul  stipu- 
lating a  reparation  for  the  damage  done  to  your  citizens ?  If'it 
was  uecessary  for  the  public  good  to  sacrifice  my  interests,  I  have 
a  righl  to  a  public  compensation  for  my  losses. 

Though  this  case  may.  upon  a  superficial  view,  appear  dissi- 
milar to  the  one  tinder  consideration,  yel  the  principle  upon 
examination  will  be  found  as  applicable  to  the  one  as  to  the 
other.  The  true  reason  is,  thai  the  resources  ol'  nations  are  not 
adequate  to  the  reparation  of  such  extensive  losses  as  those 
which  are  commonly  occasioned  by  wars  and  revolutions  ;  and  it 
would  therefore  be  contrary  to  the  general  good  of  society  to 
establish  it  as  a  rule  that  there  is  a  strict  obligation  to  repay  such 
losses.  It  is  better  that  there  should  be  individual  sufferers  than 
to  admit  a  rule  which  would  fetter  the  operations  of  government 
and  distress  the  affairs  of  the  community. 

Generosity  and  policy  may,  in  particular  instances,  dictate 
such  compensation.  Sometimes  they  have  been  made  by  nations, 
but  much  oftener  omitted.  The  propriety  of  doing  the  one  or 
the  other  must  depend  on  circumstances  in  which  the  ability  of 
the  public  will  always  be  a  primary  consideration. 

I  think,  sir,  1  have  by  this  time  gone  through  all  the  argu- 
ments that  have  been  brought  against  the  bill,  and  I  hope  satis- 
factorily refuted  tlcm. 

I  shall  say  a  little  in  answer  to  the  observations  drawn  from 
the  examples  of  Roman  magnanimity.  Neither  the  manners  nor 
the  genius  of  Koine  are  suited  to  the  republic  or  to  the  age  we 
live  in.  All  her  maxims  and  habits  were  military;  her  govern- 
ment was  constituted  for  war.  <  hirs  is  unfit  for  it;  and  our  situ- 
ation still  less  than  our  Constitution,  invites  us  to  emulate  the 
conduct  of  le ,  or  to  attempt  a  display  of  unprofitable  heroism. 

One  more  observation  will  conclude  what  I  have  to  say. 
The  present  situation  of  our  national  affairs  appeals  to  me  pecu- 
liarly critical.     I  know  not  what  may  be  the  result  of  the  disor- 


390  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  30. 

dered  state  of  our  Government.  I  am,  therefore,  the  more  solici- 
tous to  guard  against  danger  from  abroad.  Gentlemen  who  view 
our  public  affairs  in  the  same  light  in  which  they  present  them- 
selves to  my  mind,  will,  I  trust,  vote  with  me  upon  the  present 
occasion.  Those,  on  the  contrary,  who  think  all  is  well — who 
suppose  our  Government  is  full  of  energy,  our  credit  high,  and 
trade  and  finances  flourishing — will  probably  see  no  room  for 
any  anxiety  about  the  matter,  and  may  be  disposed  to  leave  Ver- 
mont in  its  present  state.  If  the  bill  should  fail  I  hope  they  will 
never  have  occasion  to  regret  the  opportunity  they  have  lost. 

As  to  the  petitioners,  I  shall  only  say,  that  I  have  no  "reason 
to  doubt  the  purity  of  the  motives  with  which  they  are  actuated. 
With  many  of  them  I  am  too  well  acquainted  to  permit  me  to 
entertain  any  unfavorable  impression  of  their  conduct;  but, 
however  their  opinion  of  their  own  rights  or  interests  may  have 
misled  them  in  estimating  the  merits  of  the  question  before  the 
committee,  I  trust  we  shall  be  cautious  how  we  suffer  our  judg- 
ment of  a  national  question  to  be  biassed  or  misguided  by  the 
speciousness  of  the  arguments,  or  appearances  on  which  their  op- 
position is  supported. 


REPEAL  OF  ALL  ACTS    INCONSISTENT  WITH   THE  TREATY.. 

An  act  to  amend  an  act  entitled  "  An  act  relative  to  debts  due 
to  persons  within  the  enemy's  lines,  and  another  act  entitled 
An  act  to  explain  and  amend  the  act  entitled  An  act  relative 
to  debts  due  to  persons  within  the  enemy's  lines  "     April  20 

1787. 

Speech  on  the  passage  of  this  Act. 

1787. 

Mr.  Hamilton  expressed  great  uneasiness  that  any  opposition 
should  be  made  to  this  bill ;  particularly  as  this  State  was  individ- 
ually interested  therein.  He  felt  greater  regret,  from  a  conviction 
in  his  own  mind,  on  this  occasion,  that  the  bill  should  be  objected 


Mt.  30.]  NEW- YORK    LEGISLATURE.  391 

is  there  was  no1  a  single  law  in  existence  in  thisState,  in  direct 
contravcntii.il  of  the  treaty  of  peace.  Ee  urged  the  committee 
to  consenl  to  the  passing  of  the  bill,  from  the  consideration  that 
the  State  of  New-York  was  the  only  State  to  gain  any  thing  by 
a  strict  adherence  to  the  treaty.  There  was  no  other  State  in 
the  Union  that  had  so  much  to  expect  from  it.  The  restoration 
of  tlu-  western  posts,  was  an  object  of  more  than  a  £100,000  per 
annum.  Great  Britain,  he  said,  held  those  posts,  on  the  plea  that 
the  United  States  have  not  fulfilled  the  treaty,  and  which  we 
have  strong  assurances  she  will  relinquish,  on  the  fulfilment  of 
our  engagements  with  her.  But  how  far  Great  Britain  might  be 
sincere  in  her  declaration  was  unknown;  indeed  he  doubted  it 
himself.  But  while  he  doubted  the  sincerity  of  Great  Britain, 
he  could  not  but  be  of  opinion  that  it  was  the  duty  of  this  State 
to  enact  a  law  for  the  repeal  of  all  laws  which  may  be  against 
the  said  treaty,  as  by  doing  away  all  exceptions,  she  would  be 
reduced  to  a  crisis.  She  would  be  obliged  to  show  to  the  world 
whether  she  was  in  earnest  or  not,  and  whether  she  will  sacri- 
iiec  her  honor  and  reputation  to  her  interest.  With  respect  to 
the  bill,  as  it  was  drafted  in  conformity  to  the  recommendation 
of  Congress,  he  viewed  it  as  a  wise  and  a  salutary  measure,  one 
calculated  to  meet  the  approbation  of  the  different  States,  and 
most  likely  to  answer  the  end  proposed.  Were  it  possible  to 
exrMuine  an  intricate  maze  of  laws,  and  to  determine  which  of 
them,  or  what  parts  of  laws,  w^ere  opposed  to  the  treaty,  it  still 
might  not  have  the  intended  effect,  as  different  parties  would 
have  the  judging  of  this  matter.  What  one  should  say  was  a 
law  not  inconsistent  with  the  peace,  another  might  say  was  so; 
and  there  would  be  no  end,  no  derision  of  the  business.  Even 
some  of  the  States  might  view  laws  in  a  different  manner.  The 
only  way  to  comply  with  the  treaty,  was  to  make  a  general  and 
unexceptionable  repeal.  Congress,  with  an  eye  to  this,  had  pro- 
posed a  general  law,  from  which  the  one  before  them  was  a  copy. 
He  thought  it  must  be  obvious  to  every  member  of  the  com- 
mittee, that  as  there  was  no  law  in  direct  opposition  to  the  treaty, 
no  difficulty  could  arise  from  passing  the  bill. 

S. >me  gentlemen,  he  observed,  were  apprehensive  that  this 


392  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

bill  would  restore  the  confiscated  estates,  &c.  This  he  did  not 
admit.  However,  if  thej  were  so  disposed  they  might  add  a 
proviso  to  prevent  it.  He  had  written  one,  which  any  of  the 
gentlemen  might  move,  if  they  thought  it  necessary;  in  his 
opinion,  it  was  not. 

The  treaty  only  provided  that  no  future  confiscations  should 
take  place  ;  and  that  Congress  should  earnestly  recommend  a  res- 
toration of  property.     But  there  was  nothing  obligatory  in  this. 

If  this  State  should  not  come  into  the  measure,  would  it  not 
be  a  very  good  plea  for  the  other  States  to  favor  their  own  citi- 
zens, and  say,  "  Why  should  we  do  this,  when  New- York,  the 
most  interested  of  any  of  the  States,  refuses  to  adopt  it  ?  and 
shall  we  suffer  this  imputation  when,  in  fact,  we  have  no  laws 
in  existence  that  militate  against  the  treaty?  He  stated  the 
great  disadvantages  that  our  merchants  experienced  from  the 
western  posts  being  in  the  hands  of  the  British,  and  asked  if  it 
was  good  policy  to  let  them  remain  so. 

It  had  been  said,  that  the  Judges  would  have  too  much 
power ; — this  was  a  misapprehension.  He  stated  the  powers  of 
the  judges  with  great  clearness  and  precision.  He  insisted  that 
their  powers  would  be  the  same,  whether  this  law  was  passed  or 
not.  For,  as  all  treaties  were  known  by  the  Constitution  as  the 
laws  of  the  land,  so  must  the  judges  act  on  the  same,  any  law  to 
the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

Cicero,  the  great  Eoman  orator  and  lawyer,  lays  it  down  as  a 
rule,  that  when  two  laws  clash,  that  which  relates  to  the  most 
important  matters  ought  to  be  preferred  ?  If  this  rule  prevails, 
who  can  doubt  what  would  be  the  conduct  of  the  judges,  should 
any  laws  exist  inconsistent  with  the  treaty  of  peace  ?  But  it 
would  be  impolitic  to  leave  them  to  the  dilemma,  either  of  infring- 
ing the  treaty  to  enforce  the  particular  laws  of  the  State,  or  to  ex- 
plain away  the  laws  of  the  State  to  give  effect  to  the  treaty. 

He  declared  that  the  full  operation  of  the  bill  would  be  no 
more  than  merely  to  declare  the  treaty  the  law  of  the  land.  And 
that  the  judges,  viewing  it  as  such,  shall  do  away  all  laws  that 
may  appear  in  direct  contravention  of  it.  Treaties  were  known 
constitutionally  to  be  the  law  of  the  land,  and  why  be  afraid  to 


Bis.  so.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  398 

leave  the  interpretation  of  those  laws  to  the  judges?  The  Con- 
stitution knows  them  as  the  interpreters  of  the  law.  Be  asked 
if  there  was  any  member  of  the  committee  who  would  be  wil- 
ling to  see  the  firsl  treaty  of  peace  ever  made  by  this  country 
violated.  This  be  did  do1  believe.  Ee  could  nol  think  that 
any  member  on  thai  Boor  barbored  Buch  sentiments. 

Ilr  was  in  hopes  the  committee  would  agree  with  him  in  sen- 
timent, and  give  a  proof  of  their  attachmenl  to  our  national  en- 
gagements by  passing  the  bill,  which  would  do  awaj  cep- 
(don  of  the  British  court. 


FEDEEAL  CONVENTION. 

PROPOSITIONS   FOR  A   CONSTITUTION   OF   GOVERNMENT. 

By  Hamilton,  1787. 

I.  The  supreme  legislative  power  of  the  United  States  of 
America  to  be  vested  in  two  distinct  bodies  of  men;  the  one  to 
be  called  the  Assembly,  the  other  the  Senate;  who  together  shall 
form  the  legislature  of  the  United  States,  with  power  to  pass  all 
laws  whatsoever,  subject  to  the  negativi  hereafter  mentioned. 

I I.  The  Assembly  to  consist  of  persons  elected  by  i!«  people,  to 
serve  for  three  years. 

I I I.  The  Senate  to  consisl  of  persons  elected  to  serve  'luring 
good  behavior.  Their  election  to  bemade  by  electors  chosen  for 
that  purpose  by  the  people,  [n  order  to  this  the  States  to  be 
divided  into  election  districts.  ( >n  the  death,  removal,  or  resigna- 
tion of  any  Senator,  bis  place  to  be  filled  out  of  the  district  from 
which  be  fame. 

IV.  The  supreme  executive  authority  of  the  United  States 
to  be  vested  in  a  Governor,  to  be  elected  to  serve  during  good  be- 
havior.  Eis  election  to  be  made  by  electors  chosen  by 
chosen  by  the  people,  in  the  election  districts  aforesaid;  or  by 
electors  chosen  for  that  purpose  by  the  respective  legislatures — 
provided  that  if  an  election  be  not  made,  within  a  limited  time, 


394  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [iEi.  30. 

the  President  of  the  Senate  shall  be  the  Governor.  The  Gov- 
ernor to  have  a  negative  npon  all  laws  about  to  be  passed — and 
(to  have)  the  execution  of  all  laws  passed — (to  be  the  commander- 
in-chief  of  the  land  and  naval  forces  and  of  the  militia  of  the 
United  States) — to  have  the  entire  direction  of  war  when  author- 
ized or  began — to  have,  with  the  advice  and  approbation  of  the 
Senate,  the  power  of  making  all  treaties — to  have  the  appoint- 
ment of  the  Iieads  or  chief  officers  of  the  departments  of  finance 
war,  and  foreign  affairs — to  have  the  nomination  of  all  other  offi- 
cers (ambassadors  to  foreign  nations  included),  subject  to  the  ap- 
probation or  rejection  of  the  Senate' — to  have  the  power  of 
pardoning  all  offences  but  treason,  which  he  shall  not  pardon 
without  the  approbation  of  the  Senate. 

V.  On  the  death,  resignation,  or  removal  of  the  Governor, 
his  authorities  to  be  exercised  by  the  President  of  the  Senate 
(until  a  successor  be  appointed). 

VI.  The  Senate  to  have  the  sole  power  of  declaring  war — the 
power  of  advising  and  approving  all  treaties — the  power  of  ap- 
proving or  rejecting  all  appointments  of  officers,  except  the 
heads  or  chiefs  of  the  departments  of  finance,  war,  and  foreign 
affairs. 

VII.  The  supreme  judicial  authority  of  the  United  States  to 
be  vested  in  twelve  Judges,  to  hold  their  offices  during  good  be- 
havior, with  adequate  and  permanent  salaries.  This  court  to  have 
original  jurisdiction  in  all  causes  of  capture  and  an  appellate 
jurisdiction  (from  the  courts  of  the  several  States)  in  all  causes  in 
which  the  revenues  of  the  General  Government  or  the  citizens  of 
foreign  nations  are  concerned. 

VIII.  The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  to  have  power  to 
institute  courts  in  each  State  for  the  determination  of  all  causes 
of  capture  and  of  all  matters  relating  to  their  revenues,  or  in 
which  the  citizens  of  foreign  nations  are  concerned. 

IX.  The  Governor,  Senators,  and  all  officers  of  the  United 
States  to  be  liable  to  impeachment  for  mal  and  corrupt  conduct, 
and  upon  conviction  to  be  removed  from  office,  and  disqualified 
for  holding  any  place  of  trust  or  profit.  All  impeachments  to 
be  tried  by  a  court,  to  consist  of  the  judges  of  the  Supreme 


jEt.  30.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  395 

Court,  chief  or  senior  judge  of  the  superior  court  of  law  of  each 
State — provided  thai  such  judge  bold  his  place  during  good  be- 
havior and  have  a  permanenl  salary . 

X.  All  laws  of  the  particular  States  contrary  to  the  Constitu- 
tion or  laws  of  the  United  States  to  be  utterly  void.  And  the 
better  to  prevenl  such  laws  being  passed  the  Governor  or  Presi- 
dent of  each  State  shall  b*  appointed  by  the  General  Governnv  nt, 
and  shall  have  a  negative  upon  the  laws  about  to  be  passed  in  the 
State  of  which  he  is  Governor  or  President. 

X  T.  No  State  to  have  any  forces,  land  or  naval — and  the 
militia  of  all  the  States  to  be  under  the  sole  and  exclusive  direction 
of  the  United  States,  the  officers  of  which  to  be  appointed  and 
commissioned  by  them. 


CONSTITUTION   OF   GOVERNMENT   BY  THE   PEOPLE   OF  TIIE 
UNITED  STATES  OF   AMERICA. 

First  Draft  of  Hamilton,  1787. 

The  people  of  the  United  States  of  America  do  ordain  and 
establish  this  Constitution  for  the  government  of  themselves  and 
their  posterity. 

Article  I. 

5  .  1.  The  legislative  power  shall  be  vested  in  two  distinct 
bodies  of  men,  one  to  be  called  the  Assembly,  the  other  the 
Senate,  subjecl  to  the  negative  hereinafter  mentioned. 

v  .  'J.  The  executive  power,  with  the  qualifications  herein- 
after specified,  shall  be  vested  in  a  President  of  the  United 
Stutes. 

Sec.  3.  The  supreme  judicial  authority,  except  in  the  c: 
otherwise  provided  for  in  this  Constitution,  shall  be  vested  in  a 
court,  to  be  called   the  SUPREME  COUBT,  to  consist  of  not  less 
than  six.  nor  more  than  twelve  judges. 


396  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  30. 

Article  II. 

Sec.  1.  The  Assembly  shall  consist  of  persons  to  be  called 
Eepresentatives,  who  shall  be  chosen,  except  in  the  first  instance, 
by  the  free  male  citizens  and  inhabitants  of  the  several  States 
comprehended  in  the  Union,  all  of  whom,  of  the  age  of  twenty- 
one  years  and  upwards,  shall  be  entitled  to  an  equal  vote. 

Sec.  2.  But  the  first  Assembly  shall  be  chosen  in  the  manner 
prescribed  in  the  last  Article,  and  shall  consist  of  one  hundred 
members,  of  whom  New  Hampshire  shall  have  five,  Massachu- 
setts thirteen,  Ehode  Island  two,  Connecticut  seven,  New- York 
nine,  New  Jersey  six,  Pennsylvania  twelve,  Delaware  two,  Mary- 
land eight,  Virginia  sixteen,  North  Carolina  eight,  South  Caro- 
lina eight,  Georgia  four. 

Sec.  3.  The  Legislature  shall  provide  for  the  future  elections 
of  representatives,  apportioning  them  in  each  State,  from  time  to 
time,  as  nearly  as  may  be  to  the  number  of  persons  described  in 
the  4th  Section  of  the  7th  Article,  so  as  that  the  whole  number 
of  representatives  shall  never  be  less  than  one  hundred,  nor  more 
than  hundred.     There  shall  be  a  census  taken  for  this  pur- 

pose within  three  years  after  the  first  meeting  of  the  Legislature, 
and  within  every  successive  period  of  ten  years.  The  term  for 
which  representatives  shall  be  elected  shall  be  determined  by  the 
Legislature,  but  shall  not  exceed  three  years.  There  shall  be  a 
general  election  at  least  once  in  three  years,  and  the  time  of  ser- 
vice of  all  the  members  in  each  Assembly  shall  begin  (except  in 
filling  vacancies)  on  the  same  day,  and  shall  always  end  on  the 
same  day. 

Sec.  4.  Forty  members  shall  make  a  house  sufficient  to  pro- 
ceed to  business ;  but  this  number  may  be  increased  by  the 
Legislature,  yet  so  as  never  to  exceed  a  majority  of  the  whole 
number  of  representatives. 

Sec.  5.  The  Assembly  shall  choose  its  President  and  other 
officers,  shall  judge  of  the  qualifications  and  elections  of  its  own 
members,  shall  punish  them  for  improper  conduct  in  their  capa- 
city of  representatives,  not  extending  to  life  or  limb,  and  shall 
exclusively  possess  the  power  of  impeachment,  except  in  the  case 


jEt.  30.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION  397 

of  the  Presidenl  of  the  United  States;  bul  do  impeachmenl  of  a 
member  of  the  Senate  shall  be  by  less  than  two-thirds  of  the 
representatives  present. 

5  .  6.  Representatives  may  vote  by  proxy,  but  do  represent- 
ative present  shal]  be  proxy  for  more  than  one  who  is  absent. 

Sec.  7.  Bills  for  raising  revenue,  and  bills  for  appropriating 
moneys  for  the  snppoii  of  fleets  and  armies,  and  for  paying  the 
salaries  of  the  officers  of  government,  shal]  originate  in  the  As- 
sembly, but  may  be  altered  and  amended  by  the  Senate. 

Sec.  8.  The  acceptance  of  an  office  under  the  1'nited  States 
by  a  representative,  shall  vacate  his  seat  in  the  Assembly. 

Article  III. 

Sec.  1.  The  Senate  shall  consist  of  persons  to  be  chosen,  ex- 
cept in  the  first  instance,  by  electors  elected  for  thai  purpose  by 
the  citizens  and  inhabitants  of  the  several  States  comprehended 
in  the  Onion,  who  shall  have  in  their  own  right,  or  in  the  right 
of  their  wives,  an  estate  in  land  for  not  less  than  life,  or  a  term 
of  years,  whereof  at  the  time  of  giving  their  votes  there  shall  be 
at  least  fourteen  years  unexpired. 

Sec.  2.  But  the  full  Senate  shall  be  chosen  in  the  manner  pre. 
scribed  in  the  last  Article,  and  shall  consist  of  forty  members,  to 
be  called  Senators,  of  whom   New  Eampshire  shall  have  , 

Massachusetts  ,  Ehode  Island  (Connecticut  ,  New- 
York  ,  New  Jer-  ,  Pennsylvania  .  Delaware 
,  Maryland  ,  Virginia  ,  North  Carolina  , 
South  Carolina            ,  Georg 

S  .3.  The  Legislature  shall  provide  for  the  future  elections 
of  Senators;  for  which  purpose  the  States  respectively,  which 
have  more  than  one  Senator,  .-lull  be  divided  into  convenient 

nets  to  which  the  Senators  shall  be  apportioned.  A  State 
having  but  one  Senator  shall  be  itself  a  district.     On  the  death, 

gnation,  or  removal  from  office  of  a  Senator,  his  place  shall 
be  supplied  by  a  new  election  in  the  district  from  which  became. 
Upon  each  election  there  shall  not  be  less  than  six  nor  more  than 
twelve  electors  chosen  in  a  district. 


398  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

Sec.  4.  The  number  of  Senators  shall  never  be  less  than  forty, 
nor  shall  any  State,  if  the  same  shall  not  hereafter  be  divided, 
ever  have  less  than  the  number  allotted  to  it  in  the  second  Sec- 
tion of  this  Article  ;  but  the  Legislature  may  increase  the  whole 
number  of  Senators,  in  the  same  proportion  to  the  whole  number 
of  representatives  as  forty  is  to  one  hundred,  and  such  increase, 
beyond  the  present  number,  shall  be  apportioned  to  the  respective 
States  in  a  ratio  to  the  respective  numbers  of  their  represen- 
tatives. 

Sec.  5.  If  States  shall  be  divided,  or  if  a  new  arrangement  of 
the  boundaries  of  two  or  more  States  shall  take  place,  the  Legis- 
lature shall  apportion  the  number  of  Senators  (in  elections  suc- 
ceeding such  division  or  arrangement)  to  which  the  constituent 
parts  were  entitled  according  to  the  change  of  situation,  having 
regard  to  the  number  of  persons  described  in  the  4th  Section  of 
the  7th  Article. 

Sec.  6.  The  Senators  shall  hold  their  places,  during  good 
behavior,  removable  only  by  conviction,  on  impeachment  for 
some  crime  or  misdemeanor.  They  shall  continue  to  exercise 
their  offices  when  impeached,  until  a  conviction  shall  take  place. 
Sixteen  Senators  attending  in  person,  shall  be  sufficient  to  make 
a  house  to  transact  business ;  but  the  Legislature  may  increase 
this  number,  yet  so  as  never  to  exceed  a  majority  of  the  whole 
number  of  Senators.  The  Senators  may  vote  by  proxy,  but  no 
Senator  who  is  present  shall  be  proxy  for  more  than  two  who 
are  absent. 

Sec.  7.  The  Senate  shall  choose  its  President  and  other 
officers ;  shall  judge  of  the  qualifications  and  elections  of  its 
members ;  and  shall  punish  them  for  improper  conduct  in  their 
capacity  of  Senators ;  but  such  punishment  shall  not  extend  to 
life  or  limb,  nor  to  expulsion.  In  the  absence  of  their  President 
they  may  choose  a  temporary  President.  The  President  shall 
only  have  a  casting  vote  when  the  House  is  equally  divided. 

Sec.  8.  The  Senate  shall  exclusively  possess  the  power  of 
declaring  war.  No  treaty  shall  be  made  without  their  advice 
and  consent ;  which  shall  also  be  necessary  to  the  appointment 
of  all  officers,  except  such  for  which  a  different  provision  is 
made  in  this  Constitution. 


JEt.  30.  J  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  399 

ArtICI.i:   IV. 

Sec.  1.  The  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
(except  in  the  first  instance)  shall  be  elected  in  the  manner  fol- 
lowing: 

The  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  shall,  within  sixty  days 
after  a  vacancy  shall  happen,  cause  public  notice  to  1"'  given  in 
each  State  of  such  vacancy,  appointing  therein  three  several 
days,  for  the  several  purposes  following,  to  wit — a  day  for  com- 
mencing  the  election  of  electors  for  the  purposes  hereinafter 
specified,  to  be  called  the  first  electors,  which  clay  shall  be  not 
than  forty  nor  more  than  sixty  days  after  the  day  of  the 
publication  of  the  notice  in  each  State ;  another  day  for  the 
meeting  of  the  electors,  not  less  than  forty  nor  more  than 
ninety  days  from  the  day  for  commencing  their  election.  An- 
other day  for  the  meeting  of  electors,  to  be  chosen  by  the  first 
electors,  for  the  purpose  hereinafter  specified,  and  to  be  called 
the  second  electors,  which  day  shall  be  not  less  than  forty  nor 
more  than  sixty  days  after  the  day  for  the  meeting  of  the  first 
elector-. 

s  .  •_'.  After  notice  of  a  vacancy  shall  have  been  given, 
there  -hall  be  chosen  in  each  State  a  number  of  persons,  as  the 
first  electors  in  the  preceding  Section  mentioned,  equal  to  the 
whole  number  of  the  representatives  and  Senators  of  such  State, 
in  the  Legislature  of  the  United  States;  which  elector.-  shall  be 
chosen  by  the  citizens  of  such  State,  having  an  estate  of  inherit- 
ance or  for  three  lives  in  land,  or  a  clear  personal  of  the 
value  of  one  thousand  Spanish  milled  dollars  of  the  present 
standard. 

x  .  8.  These  first  electors  shall  meet  in  their  respective 
States  at  the  time  appointed,  at  our  place,  and  shall  proceed  to 
vote  by  1 'allot  for  a  President,  who  shall  not  be  one  of  their  own 
number,  a  the  L  J.-lature,  upon  experiment,  should  here- 

after direct  otherwise.  They  shall  cause  two  lists  to  be  mad.'  of 
the  name  or  names  of  the  person  or  persons  voted  for,  which 
they,  or  the  major  part  of  them,  shall  sign  and  certify.  They 
shall  then  proceed  each  to  nominate  individually,  openly,  in  the 


400  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  30. 

presence  of  the  others,  two  persons,  as  for  second  electors,  and 
out  of  the  persons  who  shall  have  the  four  highest  numbers  of 
nominations ;  they  shall  afterwards,  by  ballot,  by  plurality  of 
votes,  choose  two  who  shall  be  the  second  electors,  to  each  of 
whom  shall  be  delivered  one  of  the  lists,  before-mentioned.  These 
second  electors  shall  not  be  any  of  the  persons  voted  for  as 
President.  A  copy  of  the  same  list,  signed  and  certified  in  like 
manner,  shall  be  transmitted  by  the  first  electors,  to  the  seat  of 
the  government  of  the  United  States,  under  a  sealed  cover, 
directed  to  the  President  of  the  Assembly,  which,  after  the 
meeting  of  the  second  electors  shall  be  opened,  for  the  inspection 
of  the  two  houses  of  the  Legislature. 

Sec.  4.  These  second  electors  shall  meet  precisely  on  the 
day  appointed,  and  not  on  another  day,  at  one  place.  The 
chief  justice  of  the  Supreme  Court,  or  if  there  be  no  chief  jus- 
tice, the  judge  junior  in  office,  in  such  court,  or  if  there  be  no 
one  judge  junior  in  office,  some  other  judge  of  that  court,  by  the 
choice  of  the  rest  of  the  judges,  or  of  a  majority  of  them,  shall 
attend  at  the  same  place,  and  shall  preside  at  the  meeting, 
but  shall  have  no  vote.  Two  thirds  of  the  whole  number 
of  the  electors  shall  constitute  a  sufficient  meeting  for  the  ex- 
ecution of  their  trust.  At  this  meeting,  the  lists  delivered 
to  the  respective  electors,  shall  be  produced  and  inspected, 
and  if  there  be  any  person  who  has  a  majority  of  the  whole 
number  of  the  votes  given  by  the  first  electors,  he  shall  be  the 
President  of  the  United  States ;  but  if  there  be  no  such  person, 
the  second  electors  so  met  shall  proceed  to  vote  by  ballot,  for 
one  of  the  persons,  named  in  the  lists,  who  shall  have  the  three 
highest  numbers  of  the  votes  of  the  first  electors ;  and  if  upon 
the  first,  or  any  succeeding  ballot,  on  the  day  of  the  meeting, 
either  of  those  persons  shall  have  a  number  of  votes,  equal  to  a 
majority  of  the  whole  number  of  second  electors  chosen,  he 
shall  be  the  President.  But  if  no  such  choice  be  made,  on  the 
day  appointed  for  the  meeting,  either  by  reason  of  the  non- 
attendance  of  the  second  electors,  or  their  not  agreeing,  or  any 
other  matter,  the  person  having  the  greatest  number  of  votes 
of  the  first  electors  shall  be  the  President. 


JEt.  30.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  401 

•N  ,5.  It' it-  should  happen  thai  the  chief  justice  or  some 
other  judge  of  the  Supreme  Court,  Bhould  no1  attend  in  due 
time,  the  Becond  electors  shall  proceed  to  the  execution  of  their 

trust  without  him. 

j  .  6.  [f  the  judges  should  neglect  to  cause  the  notice  re- 
quired by  the  first  section  of  this  article  to  be  given  within  the 
time  therein  limited,  they  may,  nevertheless,  cause  it  to  be 
afterwards  given;  bu1  their  neglect,  if  wilful,  is  hereby  declared 
to  be  an  offence,  for  which  they  may  be  impeached,  and  if  con- 
victed, they  shall  be  punished  as  in  other  cases  of  conviction  on 
impeachment 

S>r.  7.  The  Legislature  shall,  by  permanent  laws,  provide 
su«h  further  regulations  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  more  or- 
derly  election  of  the  President,  not  contravening  the  provisions 
herein  contained. 

Sec.  8.  The  President,  before  he  shall  enter  upon  the  execu- 
tion of  his  office,  shall  take  an  oath  or  affirmation,  faithfully  to 
execute  the  same,  and  to  the  utmost  of  his  judgment  and  power 
to  protect  the  rights  of  the  people,  and  preserve  the  Constitu- 
tion inviolate.  This  oath  or  affirmation  shall  be  administered 
by  the  President  of  the  Senate,  for  the  time  being,  in  the  pre- 
sence of  both  houses  of  the  Legislature. 

x  .  9.  The  Senate  and  the  Assembly  shall  always  convene 
in  session  on  the  day  appointed  for  the  meeting  of  the  second 
electors,  and  shall  continue  sitting  till  the  Presidenl  take  the 
oath  or  affirmation  of  'office.  lie  shall  hold  his  office  during 
good  behavior,  removable  only  by  conviction  upon  an  impeach- 
incut  foT  some  crime  or  misdemeanor. 

Sec.  10.  The  President,  at  the  beginning  of  every  meeting  of 
the  Legislature,  ->»>\i  as  they  shall  be  ready  to  proceed  to 
business,  shall  convene  them  together  at  the  place  when;  the 
Senate  shall  sit,  and  shall  communicate  to  them  all  such  matters 
as  may  be  necessary  for  their  information,  or  as  may  reqi 
their  consideration.  Ee  may,  by  message,  during  the  session, 
communicate  all  other  matters  which  may  appear  to  him  proper. 
He  may,  whenever  in  his  opinion  the  public  business  shall 
quire  it,  convene  the  Senate  and  Assembly,  or  either  of  them, 
b  26 


402  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  30. 

and  may  prorogue  them  for  a  time,  not  exceeding  forty  days  at 
one  prorogation ;  and  if  they  should  disagree  about  their  ad- 
journment, he  may  adjourn  them  to  such  time  as  he  shall  think 
proper.  He  shall  have  a  right  to  negative  all  bills,  resolutions, 
or  acts  of  the  two  houses  of  the  Legislature,  about  to  be  passed 
into  laws.  He  shall  take  care  that  the  laws  be  faithfully  exe- 
cuted. He  shall  be  the  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  army  and 
navy  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  militia  within  the  several 
States,  and  shall  have  the  direction  of  war,  when  commenced ; 
but  he  shall  not  take  the  actual  command  in  the  field  of  an  army, 
without  the  consent  of  the  Senate  and  Assembly.  All  treaties,  con- 
ventions, and  agreements  with  foreign  nations,  shall  be  made  by 
him,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate.  He 
shall  have  the  appointment  of  the  principal  or  chief  officer  of 
each  of  the  departments  of  war,  naval  affairs,  finances,  and  for- 
eign affairs ;  and  shall  have  the  nomination,  and,  by  and  with 
the  consent  of  the  Senate,  the  appointment  of  all  other  officers 
to  be  appointed  under  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  ex- 
cept such  for  whom  different  provision  is  made  by  this  Consti- 
tution ;  and  provided,  that  this  shall  not  be  construed  to  prevent 
the  Legislature  from  appointing,  by  name,  in  their  laws,  persons 
to  special  and  particular  trusts,  created  in  such  laws ;  nor  shall 
be  construed  to  prevent  principals  in  office,  merely  ministerial, 
from  constituting  deputies.  In  the  recess  of  the  Senate  he  may 
fill  vacancies  in  offices,  by  appointments,  to  continue  in  force 
until  the  end  of  the  next  session  of  the  Senate ;  and  he  shall 
commission  all  officers.  He  shall  have  power  to  pardon  all 
offences  except  treason,  for  which  he  may  grant  reprieves,  until 
the  opinion  of  the  Senate  and  Assembly  can  be  had,  and  with 
their  concurrence,  may  pardon  the  same. 

Sec.  11.  He  shall  receive  a  fixed  compensation  for  his  ser- 
vices, to  be  paid  to  him  at  stated  times,  and  not  to  be  increased  or 
diminished  during  his  continuance  in  office. 

Sec.  12.  If  he  depart  out  of  the  United  States  without  the 
consent  of  the  Senate  and  Assembly,  he  shall  thereby  abdicate 
his  office. 

Sec.  13.     He  may  be  impeached  for   any  crime  or  misde- 


jEt.  30.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  403 

meanor  by  the  two  houses  of  the  Legislature,  two-thirds  of  each 
house  concurring;  and  if  com  icted,  shall  be  removed  from  <>llice. 
Ee  may  be  afterwards  tried  and  punished  in  the  ordinary  course 
of  law.  Bis  impeachmenl  shall  operate  as  a  suspension  from 
oilier  until  the  determination  thereof 

>  .  14.  The  President  »>f  tlir  Senate  shall  be  Vice-President 
of  the  I'nited  States.  On  the  death,  resignation,  impeachment, 
removal  from  office,  or  absence  from  the  United  States,  of  the 
Presidenl  thereof,  the  Vice-President  shall  exercise  all  the  powers 
by  this  ('(institution  vested  in  the  President,  until  another  shall 
be  appointed,  or  until  he  shall  return  within  the  United  States,  if 
his  absence  was  with  the  consent  of  the  Senate  and  Assembly. 

Article  V. 

Sec.  1.  There  shall  be  a  Chief  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court, 
and,  together  with  the  other  Judges  thereof,  shall  hold  their 
offices  during  good  behavior,  removable  only  by  conviction  on 
impeachment  for  some  crime  or  misdemeanor.  Each  Judge 
shall  have  a  competent  salary,  to  be  paid  to  him  aj:  Btated  times, 
and  not  to  be  diminished  during  his  continuance  in  office. 

The  Supreme  Court  shall  have  original  jurisdiction  in  all 
causes,  in  which  the  United  States  shall  be  a  party;  in  all  con- 
troversies between  the  United  States  and  a  particular  State,  or 
between  two  or  more  States,  except  such  as  relate  to  a  claim  of 
territory  between  the  United  States  and  one  or  more  States, 
which  shall  be  determined  in  the  mode  prescribed  in  the  Sixth 
Article;  in  all  eases  atVeeting  foreign  ministers,  consuls,  and 
agents;  and  an  appellate  jurisdiction,  both  as  to  law  and  feet,  in 
all  eases  which  shall  concern  the  citizens  of  foreign  nations,  in  all 
questions  between  the  citizens  of  different  States,  and  in  all 
others  in  which  the  fundamental  rights  of  this  Constitution  are 
involved,  subject  to  such  exception-  as  are  herein  contained,  and 
to  such  regulations  as  the  Legislature  shall  provide. 

The  Judges  of  all  Courts  which  may  be  constituted  l>y  the 
Legislature,  shad  also  hold  their  places  during  good  behavior, 
removable  only  by  conviction  on  impeachment  for  some  crime 


404  HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[^Gt.  30. 


or  misdemeanor ;  and  shall  have  competent  salaries,  to  be  paid 
at  stated  times,  and  not  to  be  diminished  during  their  continuance 
in  office;  but  nothing  herein  contained  shall  be  construed  to 
prevent  the  Legislature  from  abolishing  such  Courts  themselves. 
All  crimes,  except  upon  impeachment,  shall  be  tried  by  a  jury 
of  twelve  men;  and  if  thej  shall  have  been  committed  within 
any  State,  shall  be  tried  within  such  State.  And  all  civil  causes 
arising  under  this  Constitution  of  the  like  kind  with  those  which 
have  been  heretofore  triable  by  jury  in  the  respective  States, 
shall  in  like  manner  be  tried  by  jury,  unless  in  special  cases  the 
Legislature  shall  think  proper  to  make  different  provision,  to 
which  provision  the  concurrence  of  two-thirds  of  both  houses 
shall  be  necessary. 

Impeachments  of  the  President  and  Vice-President  of  the 
U.  S.,  members  of  the  Senate,  the  Governors  and  Presidents  of 
the  several  States,  the  principal  or  chief  officers  of  the  departments 
enumerated  in  the  Tenth  Section  of  the  Fourth  Article,  ambas- 
sadors, and  other  like  public  ministers,  the  judges  of  the  Su- 
preme Court,  generals  and  admirals  of  the  navy,  shall  be  tried 
by  a  Court  to  consist  of  the  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  and 
the  Chief  Justice,    or  First  or  Senior  Judge  of  the  Superior 
Court  of  Law  in  each  State,  of  whom  twelve  shall  constitute  a 
Court.     A  majority  of  the  Judges  present  may  convict.     All 
other  persons  shall  be  tried  on  impeachment,  by  a  Court  to  con- 
sist of  the  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  and  sis  Senators  drawn 
by  lot ;  a  majority  of  whom  may  convict.    Impeachments  shall 
clearly  specify  the  particular  offence  for  which  the  party  accused 
is  to  be  tried ;  and  judgment  on  conviction  upon  the  trial  thereof, 
shall  be  either  a  removal  from  office  singly,  or  removal  from 
office  and  disqualification  for  holding  any  future  office  or  place 
of  trust.     But  no  judgment  on  impeachment  shall  prevent  prose- 
cution and  punishment  in  the  ordinary  course  of  law,  provided 
that  no  judge,  concerned  in  such  conviction,  shall  sit  as  judge  on 
the  second  trial.     The  Legislature  may  remove  the  disabilities 
incurred  by  conviction  on  impeachment. 


Ex.  30.]  V  I ;  1 )  I :  I!  A  I,    CONV  E  NTION.  405 


Art.  VI. 

Controversies  about  the  right  of  territory  between  the  United 
States  and  particular  States,  shall  l>e  determined  by  a  court  to 
be  constituted  in  manner  following.  The  State  or  States  claiming 
in  opposition  to  the  United  States,  as  parties,  shall  nominate  a 
number  of  persons  equal  to  double  the  number  of  the  Judges  of 
the  Supreme  Court,  for  the  time  being,  of  whom  none  shall  be 
citizens  by  birth  of  the  States  which  are  parties,  nor  inhabitants 
thereof,  when  nominated,  and  of  whom  not  more  than  two  shall 
have  their  actual  residence  in  one  State.  Out  of  the  persons  so 
nominated,  the  Senate  shall  elect  one-half,  who,  together  with 
the  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  shall  form  the  court.  Two- 
thirds  of  the  whole  number  may  hear  and  determine  the  contro- 
versy by  plurality  of  voices.  The  States  concerned,  may,  at 
their  option,  claim  a  decision  by  the  Supreme  Court  only.  All 
the  members  of  the  court  hereby  instituted  shall,  prior  to  the 
healing  of  the  cause,  take  an  oath  impartially,  and  according 
to  the  best  of  their  judgments  and  consciences,  to  hear  and  deter- 
mine the  controversy. 

Article  VII. 

Sec.  1.  The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  have 
power  to  pass  all  laws  which  they  shall  judge  necessary  to  the 
common  defence  and  safety,  and  to  the  general  welfare  of  the 
Union.  But  no  bill,  resolution,  or  act  of  the  Senate  and  Assem- 
bly, shall  have  the  force  of  a  law  until  it  shall  have  received  the 
assent  of  the  President,  or  of  the  Vice-President  when  exercising 
the  powers  of  the  President ;  and  if  such  assent  shall  not  have 
been  given  within  ten  days  after  such  bill,  resolution,  or  other 
act  shall  have  been  presented  for  that  purpose,  the  same  shall  not 
be  a  law.  No  bill,  resolution,  or  other  act,  not  assented  to,  shall 
be  revived  in  the  same  session  of  the  Legislature.  The  mode  of 
signifying  such  assent  shall  be  by  signing  the  bill,  act,  or  resolu- 
tion, and  returning  it  so  signed  to  either  house  of  the  U 
lature. 


406  HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[^Et.  30. 


Sec.  2.  The  enacting  style  of  all  laws  shall  be  :  "  Be  it  enacted 
by  the  people  of  the  United  States  of  America." 

Sec.  3.  No  bill  of  attainder  shall  be  passed,  nor  any  ex  post 
facto  law ;  nor  shall  any  title  of  nobility  be  granted  by  the  United 
States  or  by  either  of  them  ;  nor  shall  any  person  holding  an  office 
or  place  of  trust  under  the  United  States,  without  the  permission 
of  the  Legislature  accept  any  present,  emolument,  office,  or 
title  from  a  foreign  prince  or  state.  Nor  shall  any  religious  sect, 
or  denomination,  or  religious  test  for  any  office  or  place,  be  ever 
established  by  law. 

Sec.  4.  Taxes  on  lands,  houses,  and  other  real  estate,  and  capi- 
tation taxes,  shall  be  proportioned  in  each  State  by  the  whole 
number  of  free  persons,  except  Indians  not  taxed,  and  by  three 
fifths  of  all  other  persons. 

Sec.  5.  The  two  houses  of  the  Legislature  may  by  joint  ballot 
appoint  a  Treasurer  of  the  United  States.  Neither  house  (in  the 
session  of  both  houses),  without  the  consent  of  the  other  shall  ad- 
journ for  more  than  three  days  at  a  time.  The  Senators  and  Eepre- 
sentatives  in  attending,  going  to  and  coming  from  the  session  of 
their  respective  houses,  shall  be  privileged  from  arrest  except  for 
crimes  and  breaches  of  the  peace.  The  place  of  meeting  shall 
always  be  at  the  seat  of  Government  which  shall  be  fixed  by  law. 
Sec  6.  The  laws  of  the  United  States  and  the  treaties  which 
have  been  made  under  the  articles  of  the  Confederation,  and 
which  shall  be  made  under  this  Constitution,  shall  be  the  supreme 
law  of  the  land,  and  shall  be  so  construed  by  the  Courts  of  the 
several  States. 

Sec.  7.  The  Legislature  shall  convene  at  least  once  in  each 
year,  which,  unless  otherwise  provided  for  by  law,  shall  be  the 
first  Monday  in  December. 

Sec.  8.  The  members  of  the  two  houses  of  the  Legislature  shall 
receive  a  reasonable  compensation  for  their  services,  to  be  paid  out 
of  the  treasury  of  the  United  States,  and  ascertained  by  law.  The 
law  for  making  such  provision  shall  be  passed,  with  the  concurrence 
of  the  first  Assembly,  and  shall  extend  to  succeeding  Assemblies ; 
and  no  succeeding  Assembly  shall  concur  in  an  alteration  of  such 
provision  so  as  to  increase  its  own  compensation  ;  but  there  shall 
be  always  a  law  in  existence  for  making  such  provision. 


Mr.  30.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  407 


Article  VIII. 

Sec.  1.  The  Governor  or  President  of  each  State  shall  be 
appointed  under  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  and  shall 

haw  a  right  to  negative  all  laws  about  to  be  passed  in  the  State 
of  which  he  shall  be  Governor  or  President,  subjeel  to  such 
qualifications  and  regulations  as  the  Legislature  of  the  United 

States  shall  prescribe.  lie  shall  in  other  respects  have  the  same 
powers  only  which  the  Constitution  of  the  State  does  or  shall 
allow  its  Governor  or  President,  except  as  to  the  appointment 
of  officers  of  the  militia. 

Sec.  2.  Each  Governor  or  President  of  a  State  shall  hold  his 
office  until  a  successor  be  actually  appointed,  unless  he  die  or 
resign  or  be  removed  from  office  by  conviction  on  impeach- 
ment. There  shall  be  no  appointment  of  such  Governor  or  Pre- 
sident in  the  recess  of  the  Senate. 

The  Governors  and  Presidents  of  the  several  States  at  the 
time  of  the  ratification  of  this  Constitution,  shall  continue  in 
office  in  the  same  manner  and  with  the  same  powers  as  if  they 
had  been  appointed  pursuant  to  the  first  section  of  this  article. 

The  officers  of  the  Militia  in  the  several  States  may  be  ap- 
pointed under  the  authority  of  the  U.  S;  the  Legislature  whereof 
may  authorize  the  Governors  or  Presidents  of  States  to  make 
such  appointments,  with  such  restrictions  as  they  shall  think 
proper. 

Article  IX. 

Sec.  1.  No  person  shall  be  eligible  to  the  office  of  President 
of  the  United  States  unless  he  be  now  a  citizen  of  one  of  the 
States,  or  hereafter  be  born  a  citizen  of  the  United  States. 

.V"-.  'J..  No  person  shall  be  eligible  asa  Senator  or  Repr<  sentative 
unless  at  the  time  of  his  election  he  be  a  citizen  and  inhabitant 
of  the  State  in  which  he  is  chosen;  provided  that  he  shall  not 
be  deemed  to  be  disqualified  by  a  temporary  absence  from  the 
State. 

Sec.  3.    No  person   entitled    by   this   Constitution    to  elect 


408  HAMILTON'S     WORKS.  [Mt.  30. 

or  to  be  elected  President  of  the  United  States,  or  a  Senator  or 
^Representative  in  the  Legislature  thereof,  shall  be  disqualified  but 
by  the  conviction  of  some  offence  for  which  the  law  shall  have 
previously  ordained  the  punishment  of  disqualification.  But  the 
Legislature  may  by  law  provide  that  persons  holding  offices 
under  the  United  States,  or  either  of  them,  shall  not  be  elioible 
to  a  place  in  the  Assembly  or  Senate,  and  shall  be,  during  their 
continuance  in  office,  suspended  from  sitting  in  the  Senate. 

Sec.  4.  No  person  having  an  office  or  place  of  trust  under  the 
United  States  shall,  without  permission  of  the  Legislature  accept 
any  present,  emolument,  office,  or  title  from  any  foreign  prince 
or  state. 

Sec.  5.  The  citizens  of  each  State  shall  be  entitled  to  the 
rights,  privileges,  and  immunities  of  citizens  in  every  other 
State ;  and  full  faith  and  credit  shall  be  given  in  each  State  to 
the  public  acts,  records,  and  judicial  proceedings  of  another. 

Sec.  6.  Fugitives  from  justice  from  one  State  who  shall  be 
found  in  another,  shall  be  delivered  up  on  the  application  of  the 
State  from  which  they  fled. 

Sec.  7.  No  new  State  shall  be  erected  within  the  limits  of 
another,  or  by  the  junction  of  two  or  more,  without  the  concur- 
rent consent  of  the  Legislatures  of  the  United  States  and  of  the 
States  concerned.  The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  may  ad- 
mit new  States  into  the  Union. 

Sec.  8.  The  United  States  are  hereby  declared  to  be  bound  to 
guarantee  to  each  State  a  republican  form  of  government,  and  to 
protect  each  State  as  well  against  domestic  violence  as  foreign 
invasion. 

Sec.  9.  All  treaties,  contracts,  and  engagements  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  under  the  articles  of  Confederation  and  per- 
petual Union,  shall  have  equal  validity  under  this  Constitution. 

Sec.  10.  No  State  shall  enter  into  a  treaty,  alliance,  or  con- 
tract, with  another,  or  with  a  foreign  power,  without  the  consent 
of  the  United  States. 

Sec.  11.  The  members  of  the  Legislature  of  the  United  States, 
and  of  each  State,  and  all  officers,  executive  and  judicial,  of  the 
one  and  of  the  other,  shall  take  an  oath  or  affirmation  to  support 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 


JEr.  30.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  409 

x  .  12.  This  c 1. .listituii.m  may  receive  Buch  alterations  and 
amendments  as  may  be  proposed  by  the  legislature  of  the  I  uited 
States,  with  the  concurrence  of  two-thirds  of  the  members  of 
both  houses,  ami  ratified  by  the  legislatures  of,  or  by  conventions 
of  deputies  chosen  by  the  people  in,  two-thirds  of  the  Sti 
composing  the  Union. 

Article  X. 

This  Constitution  shall  be  submitted  to  the  consideration  of 
Conventions  in  the  several  States,  the  members  whereof  shall  be 
chosen  by  the  people  of  such  States  respectively  under  the  direc- 
tion of  their  respective  legislatures.  Each.  Convention  which 
shall  ratify  the  same,  shall  appoint  the  first  Representatives  and 
Senators  from  such  State  according  to  the  rule  prescribed  in  the 
section  of  the  article.  The  Representatives  so  appointed 
shall  continue  in  office  for  one  year  only.  Each  Convention  so 
ratifying  shall  give  notice  thereof  to  the  Congress  of  the  United 
States,  transmitting  at  the  same  time  a  list  of  the  Representa- 
tives and  Senators  chosen.  When  the  Constitution  shall  have 
been  duly  ratified,  Congress  shall  give  notice  of  a  day  and  place 
for  the  meeting  of  the  Senators  and  Representatives  from  the 
several  States;  and  when  these,  or  a  majority  of  them,  shall 
have  assembled,  according  to  such  notice,  they  shall  by  joint  bal- 
lot, by  plurality  of  votes,  elect  a  President  of  the  United  States; 
and  the  Constitution  thus  organized  shall  be  carried  into  effect. 


BRIEF    OF   SPEECH    ON   SUBMITTING   HIS   FLAN    OF   CONSTITUTION. 

Introduction, 

I.  Importance  of  the  occasion. 
11.  A  Bolid  plan,  withoul  regard  to  temporary  opinions. 

III.  If  an  ineffeetual  plan  be  again  proposed,  it  will  beget  despair, 

and  no  government  will  grow  out  of  consent. 

IV.  There  seem  to  be  but  three  lines  of  conduct. 


410  HAMILTON'S    WORKS, 


[Mr.  30. 


I.  A  league  offensive,  treaty  of  commerce,  and  apportionment 

of  the  public  debt. 
II.   An   amendment  of  the  present  Confederation,  by  adding 
such  powers   as  the  public  mind  seems  nearest  being 
matured  to  grant. 
III.  The  forming  a  new  government  to  pervade  the  whole,  with 
decisive  powers ;  in  short,  with  complete  sovereignty. 
Last  seems  to  be  the  prevailing  sentiment. 
I.  Its  practicability  to  be  examined. 

Immense  extent  unfavorable  to  representation. 
Vast  expense. 
Double  sets  of  officers. 
Difficulty  of  judging  of  local  circumstances. 
Distance  has  a  physical  effect  on  men's  minds. 
Difficulty  of  drawing  proper  characters  from  home. 
Execution  of  laws,  feeble  at  a  distance  from  governmen1>- 
particularly  in  the  collection  of  revenue. 
Sentiment  of  obedience —  ) 
opinion.  j 

I.  Objections  to  the  present  Confederation. 

Intrusts  the  great  interests  of  the  nation  to  hands  incapa- 
ble of  managing  them. 
All  matters  in  which  foreigners  are  concerned. 
The  care  of  the  public  peace— debts. 
Power  of  treaty,  without  power  of  execution. 
Common  defence,  without  power  to  raise  troops— have  a 

fleet — raise  money. 
Power  to  contract  debts,  without  the  power  to  pay. 
These  great  interests  of  the  State  must  be  well  managed, 

or  the  public  prosperity  must  be  the  victim. 
Legislates  upon  communities. 

Where  the  legislatures  are  to  act,  they  will  deliberate. 
Io  ask  money,  not  to  collect  it,  and  by  an  unjust  mea- 
sure. 

No  sanction ! ! 
Amendment  of  Confederation  according  to  present  ideas. 
1.  Difficult,  because  not  agreed  upon  any  thing.     Ex— Im- 
post. 


jEt.  30.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  411 

'  'ommerce — differenl  theories. 
To  ascertain  the  practicability  of  this,  let  us  examine  the 
principles  of  civil  obedience. 

Supports  of  Government. 

I.  Interest  to  support  it. 
II.  Opinion  of  utility  and  necessity. 

III.  Habitual  sense  of  obligation. 

IV.  Force. 

V.  Influence. 

I.  Interest — particular  and  general  interests. 

Esprit  de  corps. 

Vox  populi,  Vox  Dei. 
II.  Opinion  of  utility  and  necessity. 

First  will  decrease  with  the  growth  of  the  States. 

Necessity. 
This  does  not  apply  to  Federal  Government. 
This  may  dissolve,  and  yet  the  order  of  the  community 

continue. 
Anarchy  not  a  necessary  consequence. 

III.  Habitual  sense  of  obligation. 

This  results  from  administration  of  private  justice. 
Demand  of  service  or  money  odious. 

IV.  Force — of  two  kinds. 

Coercion  of  laws — Coercion  of  arms. 
First  does  not  exist — and  the  last  useless. 
Attempt  to  use  it,  a  war  between  the  States. 
Knivign  aid. 

Delinquency  not  confined  to  one. 
V.  Influence — 

1.  From  municipal  jurisdiction. 

2.  Appointment  of  officers. 

3.  Military  jurisdiction. 

4.  Fiscal  jurisdiction. 

All  these  now  reside  in  (the)  particular  States. 
Their  governments  are  the  chief  sources  of  honor  and 
emolument. 


412  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

AMBITION — AVARICE. 

To  effect  any  thing,  passions  must  be  turned  towards  the  Gen- 
eral Government. 

Present  Confederation  cannot  be  amended,  unless  the  most 
important  powers  be  given  to  Congress,  constituted  as  they  are. 

This  would  be  liable  to  all  (the)  objections  against  any  form 
of  general  government,  with  the  addition  of  the  want  of  checks. 

Perpetual  effort  in  each  member. 

Influence  of  individuals  in  office  to  excite  jealousy  and 
clamor — State  leaders. 

Experience  corresponds. 

Grecian  republics. 

Demosthenes  says — Athens  seventy-three  years — Lacedasmon 
twenty -seven — Thebans  after  battle  of  Leuctra. 

Phocions — consecrated  ground — Philip,  &c. 

Germanic  empire. 

Charlemagne  and  his  successors. 

Diet — recesses. 

Electors  now  seven,  excluding  others. 

Swiss  Cantons. 

Two  diets. 

Opposite  alliances. 

Berne — Lucerne. 

To  strengthen  the  Federal  Government,  powers  too  great 
must  be  given  to  a  single  hand. 

League  offensive  and  defensive,  &c. 

Particular  governments  might  exert  themselves,  &c. 

But  liable  to  usual  vieissi(£wdes.) 

Internal  peace  affected. 

Proximity  of  situation — natural  enemies. 

Partial  confederacies  from  unequal  extent. 

Power  inspires  ambition. 

Weakness  begets  jealousy. 

Western  territory. 

Objn.— Genius  of  republics  pacific. 

Answer.  Jealousy  of  commerce  as  well  as  jealousy  of  power, 
begets  war. 


jEt.  30.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  U8 

Sparta — Athens — Thebes — Rome — Carthage  -Venice—  Ban- 
seatic  League. 

England  as  many  popular  as  royal  wars. 

Lewis  the  XIV. — Austria — Bourbons — William  and  Anne. 

Wars  depend  upon  trifling  circumstances. 

\Vh« 'iv     Duchess  of  Marlborough's  glove. 

Foreign  conquest. 

Pisinrinbrniienl — Poland. 

Foreign  influence. 

Distractions  sel  afloat  vicious  humors. 

Standing  armies  by  dissensions. 

Domestic  factions — Montesquieu. 

Moii'irrlnj  in  Southern  States. 

JU^gf  Federal  rights — Fisheries. 

Wars  —destructive. 

Loss  of  advantages. 

Foreign  nations  would  not  respect  our  rights  nor  grant  us 
reciprocity. 

Would  reduce  us  to  a  passive  commerce. 

Fisheries  -navigation  of  the  lakes — Mississippi — Fleet. 

The  genera]  government  must,  in  this  case,  not  only  have  a 
strong  soul,  but  strong  organs  by  which  thai  soul  is  to  ope] 

Eere  I  -iiall  give  my  sentiments  of  the  best  form  of  govern- 
ment— not  as  a  thing  attainable  by  us,  but  as  a  model  which  we 
oughl  to  approach  as  near  as  possible. 

British  constitution  best  form. 

Aristotle  — ( licero— Montesquieu — Neckar. 

Society  naturally  divides  itself  into  two  political  divisions — 
id  the  many,  who  have  distinct  interests. 

If  government  in  the  hands  of  thr  /<'»•,  they  will  tyrannize 
over  the  many. 

If  i  ■  hands  of  the  many,  they  will  tyrannize  over  the 

few.  It  ought  to  be  in  the  hands  of  both;  and  they  should  be 
separated. 

This  separation  must  be  permanent 

I;    iresentation  alone  will  not  do. 

Demi  .         -  will  grin-rally  prevail. 


414  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  30. 

And  if  separated,  they  will  need  a  mutual  check. 

This  check  is  a  monarch. 

Each  principle  ought  to  exist  in  full  force,  or  it  ■will  not 
answer  its  end. 

The  democracy  must  be  derived  immediately  from  the  people. 

The  aristocracy  ought  to  be  entirely  separated ;  their  power 
should  be  permanent,  and  they  should  have  the  caritas  liberorum. 

They  should  be  so  circumstanced  that  they  can  have  no 
interest  in  a  change — as  to  have  an  effectual  weight  in  the  Con- 
stitution. 

Their  duration  should  be  the  earnest  of  wisdom  and  stability. 

'Tis  essential  there  should  be  a  permanent  will  in  a  com- 
munity. 

Vox  populi,  vox  Dei. 

Source  of  government — the  unreasonableness  of  the  people — 
separate  interests — debtors  and  creditors,  &c. 

There  ought  to  be  a  principle  in  government  capable  of  re- 
sisting the  popular  current. 

No  periodical  duration  will  come  up  to  this. 

This  will  always  imply  hopes  and  fears. 

Creature  and  Creator. 

Popular  assemblies  governed  by  a  few  individuals. 

These  individuals  seeing  their  dissolution  approach,  will 
sacrifice. 

The  principle  of  representation  will  influence. 

The  most  popular  branch  will  acquire  an  influence  over  the 
other. 

The  other  may  check  in  ordinary  cases,  in  which  there  is  no 
strong  public  passion  ;  but  it  will  not  in  cases  where  there  is — 
the  cases  in  which  such  a  principle  is  most  necessary. 

[JSP^  Suppose  duration  seven  years,  and  rotation. 
One-seventh  will  have  only  one  year  to  serve. 

One-seventh  ■ two  years. 

One-seventh- . three  years. 

One-seventh — four  years. 

A  majority  will  look  to  a  dissolution  in  four  years  by  instal- 
ments. 


jEt.  30.]  FEDERAL    CONVENTION.  415 


) 


The  monarch  must  hare  proportional  strength.  lie  ought  to 
be  hereditary,  and  to  have  so  much  power,  that  it  will  not  be  his 
interest  to  risk  much  to  acquire  more. 

The  advantage  of  a  monarch  is  this — he  is  above  corruption — 
he  must  always  intend,  in  respect  to  foreign  nations,  the  true 
interest  and  glory  of  the  people. 

Republics  liable  to  foreign  corruption  and  intrigue — Holland 
— Athens. 

Effect  of  the  British  government.  • 

A  rigorous  execution  of  the  laws — and  a  vigorous  defence 

of  the  people,  will  result. 
Better  chance  for  a  good  administration. 
It  is  said  a  republican  government  does  not  admit  a  vigor- 
ous execution. 

It  is  therefore  bad;  for  the  goodness  of  a  government  con- 
sists in  a  vigorous  execution. 

The  principle  chiefly  intended  to  be  established  is  this — that 
there  must  be  a  permanent  ivill. 

Gentlemen  say  we  need  to  be  rescued  from  the  democracy. 
But  what  the  means  proposed  ? 

A  democratic  assembly  is  to  be  checked  by  a  democratic 
senate,  and  both  these  by  a  democratic  chief  magistrate. 

The  end  will  not  be  answered — the  means  will  not  be  equal 
to  the  object. 

It  will,  therefore,  be  feeble  and  inefficient. 

Becapitulaiion. 

I.  Impossible  to  secure  the  union  by  any  modification  of 
federal  government. 

II.  League,  offensive  and  defensive,  full  of  certain  evils  and 
greater  dangers. 

III.  General  government,  very  difficult,  if  not  impracticable, 
liable  to  various  objections. 

What  is  to  be  done  ? 

Answer.  Balance  inconveniences  and  dangers,  and  choose 
that  which  seems  to  have  the  fewest  objections. 


416  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

Expense  admits  of  this  answer.  The  expense  of  the  State 
governments  will  be  proportionably  diminished. 

Interference  of  officers  not  so  great,  because  the  objects  of 
the  general  government  and  the  particular  ones  will  not  be  the 
same — Finance — Administration  of  private  justice.  Energy  will 
not  be  wanting  in  essential  points,  because  the  administration  of 
private  justice  will  be  carried  home  to  men's  doors  by  the  par- 
ticular governments. 

And  the  revenues  may  be  collected  from  imposts,  excises, 
&c.  If  necessary  to  go  further,  the  general  government  may 
make  use  of  the  particular  governments. 

The  attendance  of  members  near  the  seat  of  government  may 
be  had  in  the  lower  branch. 

And  the  upper  branch  may  be  so  constructed  as  to  induce 
the  attendance  of  members  from  any  part. 

But  this  proves  that  the  government  must  be  so  constituted 
as  to  offer  strong  motives. 

In  short,  to  interest  all  the  passions  of  individuals. 

And  turn  them  into  that  channel. 


Hamilton  observed,  "  This  question  has  already  been  con- 
sidered in  several  points  of  view.  We  are  now  forming  a  re- 
publican government.  Real  liberty  is  neither  found  in  despotism, 
nor  in  the  extremes  of  democracy,  but  in  moderate  governments. 
Those  who  mean  to  form  a  solid  republican  government,  ought 
to  proceed  to  the  confines  of  another  government*    As  long  as 

*  It  will  be  remarked  that  a  similar  opinion  was  expressed  by  Jefferson  a  few 
months  before.  Writing  from  Paris,  February  28,  1787,  to  La  Fayette,  then  about 
to  take  part  in  the  deliberations  of  France,  he  observed,  "I  wish  you  success  in 
your  meeting  (the  assembled  des  notables).  I  should  form  better  hopes  of  it  if 
it  were  divided  into  two  houses  instead  of  seven;  keeping  the  good  model  of  your 
neighboring  country  before  your  eyes,  you  may  get  on  step  by  step  towards  a  good  eon- 
stitutwn,  Though  that  model  is  not  perfect,  yet,  as  it  would  unite  more  suffrages  than 
any  new  one  which  could  be  proposed,  it  is  better  to  make  that  the  object,  If  every  ad- 
vance is  to  be  purchased  by  fining  the  royal  coders  with  gold,  it  will  be  gold  well  em- 
ployed,"—2  Jeff.  Works,  p.  101. 


yEt.  30.]  FFDFRAL     CONVENTION.  417 

offices  are  open  to  all  men,  ami  no  constitutional  rank  is  established, 
it  is  pure  republicanism.  But  if  we  incUru  too  mw/i  to  <L  mormnj, 
ive  shall  soon  shoot  into  a  monarchy.  The  difference  of  property  is 
already  great  among  us.  Commerce  and  industry  will  still  in- 
crease  the  disparity.  Your  government  must  meet  this  state  of 
things,  or  combinations  will  in  process  of  time  undermine  your 
system.  What  was  the  tribunitial  power  of  Home  ?  It  was  insti- 
tuted by  the  plebeians  as  a  guard  against  the  patricians.  But 
was  this  a  sulliei.Mit  eheek  ?  No!  The  only  distinction  which 
remained  at  Rome  was,  at  last,  between  the  rich  and  the  poor. 
The  gentleman  from  Connecticut  forgets  that  the  democratic 
body  is  already  secure  in  a  representation.  As  to  Connecticut, 
what  were  the  little  objects  of  their  government  before  the  revo- 
lution ?  Colonial  concerns  merely.  They  ought  now  to  act  on 
a  more  extended  scale  ;  and  dare  they  do  this  ?  Dare  they  col- 
lect the  taxes  and  requisitions  of  Congress?  Such  a  government 
may  do  well  if  they  do  not  tax,  and  this  is  precisely  their  situa- 
tion." 


Ilamilton,  in  the  progress  of  this  discussion,  remarked — 
"The  course  of  my  experience  in  human  affairs  might,  perhaps, 
restrain  me  from  saying  much  on  this  subject.  I  shall,  how- 
ever, give  utterance  to  some  of  the  observations  I  have  made 
during  the  course  of  this  debate.  The  gentleman  from  Mary- 
land has  been  at  great  pains  to  establish  positions  which  are  not 
denied.  Many  of  them,  as  drawn  from  the  best  writers  on  gov- 
ernment, are  become  self-evident  principles.  But  I  doubt  the 
propriety  of  his  application  of  those  principles  in  the  present 
discussion.  Be  deduces  from  them  the  necessity  that  States  en- 
tering  into  a  confederacy  must  retain  the  equality  of  votes.  This 
position  canm.t  be  correct  Facts  contradict  it  The  parliament 
of  Great  Britain  asserted  a  supremacy  over  the  whole  empire, 
and  the  celebrated  Judge  Blackstone  labors  for  the  legality  of  it, 
although  many  parts  were  not  represented.  This  parliamentary 
B  27 


418  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

power  we  opposed  as  contrary  to  our  colonial  rights.     With  that 
exception,  throughout  that  whole  empire  it  is  submitted  to. 

"  May  not  the  smaller  and  greater  States  so  modify  their  re- 
spective rights  as  to  establish  the  general  interest  of  the  whole 
without  adhering  to  the  right  of  equality  ?  Strict  representation 
is  not  observed  in  any  of  the  State  governments.  The  Senate 
of  New- York  are  chosen  by  persons  of  certain  qualifications  to 
the  exclusion  of  others. 

"  The  question  after  all  is — Is  it  our  interest,  in  modifying 
this  general  government,  to  sacrifice  individual  rights  to  the  pre- 
servation of  the  rights  of  an  artificial  being,  called  States  ?  There 
can  be  no  truer  principle  than  this — That  every  individual  of  the 
community  at  large  has  an  equal  right  to  the  protection  of  government. 
If,  therefore,  three  States  contain  a  majority  of  the  inhabitants  of 
America,  ought  they  to  be  governed  by  a  minority  ?  "Would 
the  inhabitants  of  the  great  States  ever  submit  to  this  ?  If 
the  smaller  States  maintain  this  principle  through  a  love  of 
power,  will  not  the  larger,  from  the  same  motives,  be  equally 
tenacious  to  preserve  their  power  ?  They  are  to  surrender  their 
rights — for  what  ?  For  the  preservation  of  an  artificial  being. 
We  propose  a  free  government.  Can  it  be  so,  if  partial  distinc- 
tions are  maintained  ? 

"  I  agree  with  the  gentleman  from  Delaware,  that  if  the  State 
governments  are  to  act  in  the  general  government,  it  affords  the 
strongest  reason  for  exclusion.  In  the  State  of  New- York  five 
counties  form  a  majority  of  representatives,  and  yet  the  govern- 
ment is  in  no  danger,  because  the  laws  have  a  general  operation. 
The  small  States  exaggerate  their  danger,  and  on  this  ground 
contend  for  an  undue  proportion  of  power.  But  their  danger  is 
increased  if  the  larger  States  will  not  submit  to  it.  Where  will 
they  form  new  alliances  for  their  support  ?  Will  they  do  this  with 
foreign  powers?  Foreigners  are  jealous  of  our  increasing  great- 
ness, and  would  rejoice  in  our  distractions.  Those  who  have  had 
opportunities  of  conversing  with  foreigners  respecting  sovereigns 
in  Europe,  have  discovered  in  them  an  anxiety  for  the  preserva- 
tion of  our  democratic  governments,  probably  for  no  other  rea- 
son but  to  keep  us  weak.  Unless  your  government  is  respectable, 


jet.  30.]  P  i :  i )  i :  R  a  i ,   con V  i ■:  N  TI O N.  H '.) 

igners  will  invade  your  rights — ami  to  maintain  tranquillity, 
it  must  be  respectable.     Kvm  to  observe  neutrality  you  m 
have  a  strong  government 

"I  confess  our  present  situation  is  critical.  We  have  just 
finished  a  war  which  has  established  our  independence,  and 
Loaded  us  with  a  heavy  debt.  We  have  still  every  motive  to 
unite  for  our  common  defence.  Our  people  arc  disposed  to  hi 
a  good  government,  but  this  disposition  may  not  always  prevail. 
It  is  difficult  to  amend  confederations :  it  has  been  attempted  in 
vain,  ami  it  is  perhaps  a  miracle  that  we  are  now  met  We 
musl  therefore  improve  the  opportunity,  and  render  the  present 
system  as  perfect  as  possible.  Their  good  sense,  and,  above 
all,  the  necessity  of  their  affairs,  will  induce  the  people  to 
adopt  it." 


IMPRESSIONS  AS  TO  THE  NEW   CONSTITUTION. 

1787. 

"  The  new  consitution  has  in  favor  of  its  success  these  circum- 
stances:  A  very  great  weight  of  influence  of  the  persons  who 
framed  it,  particularly  in  the  universal  popularity  of  General 
Washington.  The  good-will  of  the  commercial  interest  through- 
out the  States,  which  will  give  all  its  efforts  to  the  establishment 
of  a  government  capable  of  regulating,  protecting,  and  extending 
the  commerce  of  the  Union.  The  good- will  of  most  men  of 
property  in  the  several  States,  who  wish  a  government  of  the 
Union  able  to  protect  them  against  domestic  violence,  and  the 
depredations  which  the  democratic  spirit  is  apt  to  make  on 
property;  and  who  are  besides  anxious  for  the  respectability  of 
the  nation.  The  hopes  of  tin-  creditors  of  the  United  States,  that 
a  general  government  possessing  the  means  of  doing  it,  will  pay 
the  debt  of  the  Union.  A  Btrong  belief  in  the  people  at  large  of 
the  insufficiency  of  the  present  confederation  to  preserve  the 
existence  of  the  Union,  and  of  the  necessity  of  the  Union  to  their 


420  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

safety  and  prosperity ;  of  course,  a  strong  desire  of  a  change,  and 
a  predisposition  to  receive  well  the  propositions  of  the  con- 
vention. 

"Against  its  success  is  to  be  put,  the  dissent  of  two  or  three 
important  men  in  the  convention,  who  will  think  their  charac- 
ters pledged  to  defeat  the  plan  ;  the  influence  of  many  inconsider- 
able men  in  possession  of  considerable  offices  under  the  State 
governments,  who  will  fear  a  diminution  of  their  consequence, 
power,  and  emolument,  by  the  establishment  of  the  general 
government,  and  who  can  hope  for  nothing  there  ;  the  influence 
of  some  considerable  men  in  office  possessed  of  talents  and  popu- 
larity, who,  partly  from  the  same  motives,  and  partly  from  a 
desire  of  playing  a  part  in  a  convulsion  for  their  own  aggrandize- 
ment, will  oppose  the  quiet  adoption  of  the  new  government; 
(some  considerable  men  out  of  office,  from  motives  of  ambition, 
may  be  disposed  to  act  the  same  part.)  Add  to  these  causes  the 
disinclination  of  the  people  to  taxes,  and  of  course  to  a  strong 
government ;  the  opposition  of  all  men  much  in  debt,  who  will 
not  wish  to  see  a  government  established,  one  object  of  which  is 
to  restrain  the  means  of  cheating  creditors.  The  democratical 
jealousy  of  the  people,  which  may  be  alarmed  at  the  appearance 
of  institutions  that  may  seem  calculated  to  place  the  power  of 
the  community  in  few  hands,  and  to  raise  a  few  individuals  to 
stations  of  great  pre-eminence ;  and  the  influence  of  some  foreign 
powers,  who,  from  different  motives,  will  not  wish  to  see  an 
energetic  government  established  throughout  the  States. 

"In  this  view  of  the  subject,  it  is  difficult  to  form  any  judg- 
ment whether  the  plan  will  be  adopted  or  rejected.  It  must  be 
essentially  matter  of  conjecture.  The  present  appearances  and 
all  other  circumstances  considered,  the  probability  seems  to  be  on 
the  side  of  its  adoption. 

"  But  the  causes  operating  against  its  adoption  are  power- 
ful, and  there  will  be  nothing  astonishing  in  the  contrary. 

"  If  it  do  not  finally  obtain,  it  is  probable  the  discussion  of 
the  question  will  beget  such  struggles,  animosities,  and  heats  in 
the  community,  that  this  circumstance,  conspiring  with  the  real 
necessity  of  an  essential  change  in  our  present  situation,  will  pro- 


JEt.ZO.]  new    constitution.  421 

duce  civil  war.  Should  this  happen,  whatever  parties  prevail,  it 
is  probable  governments  very  differenl  from  the  present  in  their 
principles,  will  be  established.  A  dismemberment  of  the  I'm  ion, 
and  monarchies  in  differenl  portions  of  it,  may  be  expected.  It 
may,  however,  happen  thai  no  civil  war  will  take  place,  but 
several  republican  confederacies  be  established  between  different 
combinations  of  the  particular  States. 

"A  reunion  with  Ghreat  Britain,  from  universal  disgust  at  a 
state  of  commotion,  is  not  impossible,  though  not  much  to  be 
feared.  The  most  plausible  shape  of  such  a  business  would  be, 
the  establishment  of  a  son  of  the  present  monarch  in  the  supreme 
government  of  this  country,  with  a  family  compact. 

"If  the  government  be  adopted,  it  is  probable  General  Wash- 
ington will  be  the  President  of  the  United  States.  This  will 
ensure  a  wise  choice  of  men  to  administer  the  government,  and 
a  good  administration.  A  good,  administration  will  conciliate 
the  confidence  and  affection  of  the  people,  and.  perhaps  enable 
the  iment  to  acquire  more  consistency  than  the  proposed 

constitution  seems  to  promise  for  so  great  a  country.  It  may 
then  triumph  altogether  over  the  State  governments,  and  reduce 
them  to  an  entire  subordination,  dividing  the  larger  States  into 
smaller  districts.  The  organs  of  the  general  government  may 
also  acquire  additional  strength. 

•  [f  this  should  not  be  the  case,  in  the  course  of  a  few  years, 
it  is  probable  that  the  contests  about  the  boundaries  of  power 
between  the  particular  governments  and  the  general  govern- 
ment, and  the  momentum  of  the  larger  States  in  such  contests 
will  produce  a  dissolution  of  the  Union.  This,  after  all,  seems 
to  be  the  most  likely  result. 

"Bu1  it  is  almost  arrogance,  in  so  complicated  a  subject, 
depending  so  entirely  on  the  incalculable  fluctuations  of  the 
human  passions,  to  attempt  even  a  conjecture  about  the  event. 

"It  will  be  eight  or  nine  months  before  any  certain  judgment 
can  be  formed  respecting  the  adoption  of  the  plan."' 


422  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  30. 

COMMENTS  ON  THE   OPPOSITION  TO  THE   CONSTITUTION. 

1787. 

Mr.  Hamilton,  in  his  absence  from  New- York,  on  public  duty 
(with  how  much  propriety  and  temper  his  fellow-citizens  must 
decide),  has  been  attacked,  by  name,  as  the  writer  of  a  publica- 
tion printed  in  Mr.  Childs'  paper  of  the  21st  of  July  last.  In 
fixing  that  publication  upon  him,  there  is  certainly  no  mistake  ; 
nor  did  he  ever  mean  to  be  concealed. 

He  left  his  name  with  the  printer,  to  be  disclosed  to  any  per- 
son who  should  apply  for  it  on  the  part  of  the  Governor,  with 
instructions  to  make  that  circumstance  known;  which  was  ac- 
cordingly done.  The  fairness  of  this  conduct  speaks  for  itself. 
The  citizens  of  the  State  have  too  much  good  sense  to  be  de- 
ceived into  an  opinion  that  it  could  have  been  dictated  by  a 
wanton  disposition  to  calumniate  a  meritorious  character.  They 
must  and  will  consider  it  as  an  honorable  an  cL  open  attempt  to 
unmask,  what  appeared  to  the  writer,  the  pernicious  intrigue  of 
a  man  high  in  office,  to  preserve  power  and  emolument  to  him- 
self, at  the  expense  of  the  union,  the  peace,  and  the  happiness  of 
America. 

To  say  that  it  would  have  been  derogatory  to  the  first  magis- 
trate of  the  State  to  enter  the  lists  in  a  newspaper,  with  an 
"  anonymous  scribbler,"  is  a  miserable  subterfuge.  Though  Mr. 
Hamilton,  to  avoid  the  appearance  of  ostentation,  did  not  put  his 
name  to  that  piece,  yet,  having  left  it  with  the  printer  to  be  com- 
municated to  the  party  concerned,  there  is  no  pretence  to  con- 
sider it  in  the  light  of  an  anonymous  publication.  If  the  matter 
alleged  had  been  false,  the  Governor  had  his  choice  of  two  modes 
of  vindicating  himself  from  the  assertion :  one,  by  giving  a  sim- 
ple and  direct  denial  to  it  in  the  public  prints ;  the  other,  by 
having  a  personal  explanation  on  the  subject  with  the  writer. 
Neither  of  these  modes  could  have  wounded  his  dignity.  The 
first  is  practised  in  most  governments  where  public  opinion  is 
respected.  A  short  paragraph  to  the  following  effect  would  have 
answered  the  purpose. 


JEt.  30.]  NEW    CONSTITUTION.  t23 

"The  printer  of  this  paper  is  authorized  to  assure  the  public, 
thai  his  Excellency  the  Governor  never  made  use  of  the  expres- 
sions attributed  to  him  in  a  publication  contained  in  Mr.  Ohilds' 
paper  of  the  21st  July,  nor  of  any  others  of  similar  import." 
This  would  have  tin-own  it  upon  Mr.  Hamilton  to  bring  forward 
to  public  view  the  sources  of  his  information,  ami  the  proofs  of 
his  charge.  And  this,  he  has  too  much  regard  tor  his  reputation, 
not  to  have  been  prepared  to  do.     This  he  is  still  ready  to  do, 

whenever  BUCh  a  denial  shall  appear. 

The  Governor,  if  he  had  any  objection  to  this  mode  of  pro- 
ding,  mighl  have  had  recourse  to  the  other,  that  of  a  personal 
explanation  with  the  writer.  Mr.  Hamilton  would  have  con- 
ceived  himself  bound,  by  the  principles  of  candor  and  honor,  to 
d(  sclare  on  what  grounds  he  had  proceeded ;  and,  if  he  could  have 
been  satisfied  they  were  erroneous,  to  retract  the  imputations 
founded  upon  them.  Would  it  have  impaired  the  dignity  of  the 
first  magistrate  of  a  republic  to  have  had  such  an  explanation 
with  any  reputable  citizen  ?  Would  it  have  impaired  his  dignity 
to  have  had  such  an  explanation  with  a  citizen,  who  is  at  this 
moment  acting  in  an  important  and  delicate  trust  by  the  appoint- 
ment of  the  Legislature  of  the  State? 

Mr.  Hamilton  freely  submits  to  the  judgment  of  his  fellow- 
citizens,  whether  there  was  any  thing  in  the  manner  of  his  ani- 
madversions that  preclude  such  an  explanation.  They  were 
strong  and  pointed;  but  he  flatters  himself  they  were  free  from 
indecorum.  He  states  the  charge  as  matter  of  report ;  and  makes 
his  observations  hypothetically,  even  seeming  to  admit  a  possi- 
bility of  misrepresentation.  As  he  was  not  himself  present  at 
the  conversation,  bul  spoke  from  the  information  of  those  who 
were,  he  could  not  with  propriety  have  expressed  himself  in  more 
positive  term-;.  As  he  was  speaking  of  an  officer  of  the  first  rank 
in  the  State,  he  was  disposed  to  use  as  much  moderation  in  the 
manner  of  exhibiting  his  misconduct  a.-  \\a.-  consistent  with  that 

explicitness  and  energy  which  were  necessary  to  place  it  in  its 
proper  light. 

These  remarks,  while  they  explain   Mr.  Hamilton's   moth 
will  serve  t<>  refute  the  cavil  respecting  his  doubt  of  the  truth  of 


424  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  30. 

the  fact  alleged  by  him.  He  now  declares,  that  from  the  nature 
of  his  information,  he  had  no  doubt  of  the  kind ;  and  that,  since 
the  publication,  he  has  understood  from  different  partisans  of  the 
Governor,  that  he  did  not  deny  the  expressions  attributed  to 
him  to  be  in  substance  true,  with  some  minute  and  unessential 
distinctions. 

It  is  insinuated,  that  the  circulation  of  the  fact  is  calculated 
to  produce  the  evil  pretended  to  be  guarded  against,  by  diffusing 
through  the  community  a  knowledge  of  the  Governor's  senti- 
ments. 

This  remark  admits  of  an  obvious  answer.  If  his  Excellency 
was  predetermined  to  oppose  the  measures  of  the  Convention,  as 
his  conduct  indicates,  he  would  take  care  himself  to  propagate 
his  sentiments  in  the  manner  in  which  it  could  be  done  with  most 
effect.  This  appears  to  have  been  his  practice.  It  was  therefore 
proper  that  the  antidote  should  go  along  with  the  poison ;  and 
that  the  community  should  be  apprised  that  he  was  capable  of 
forming  such  a  predetermination,  before,  it  can  be  presumed,  he 
had  any  knowledge  of  the  measures  themselves  on  which  to 
found  his  judgment. 

A  cry  is  attempted  to  be  raised  against  the  publication  of  Air. 
Hamilton,  as  if  it  were  an  invasion  of  the  right  of  the  first  magis- 
trate of  the  State  to  deliver  his  sentiments  on  a  matter  of  public 
concern.  The  fallacy  of  this  artifice  will  easily  be  detected. 
The  Governor  has  an  undoubted  right  to  give  his  sentiments 
freely  on  every  public  measure.  Under  proper  circumstances  it 
will  be  always  his  duty  to  do  it.  But  every  right  may  be  abused 
by  a  wrong  exercise  of  it.  Even  the  constitutional  powers  vested 
in  him  may  be  so  employed  as  to  subject  him  justly,  not  only  to 
censure,  but  to  impeachment.  The  only  question,  then,  is 
whether  he  has,  in  the  present  instance,  used  his  right  properly 
or  improperly,  whether  it  became  him,  by  anticipation,  to  en- 
deavor to  prejudice  the  community  against  the  "  unknown  and 
undetermined  measures  of  a  body,  to  which  the  general  voice  of 
the  Union  had  delegated  the  important  trust  of  concerting  and 
proposing  a  plan  for  reforming  the  national  Constitution  ?"  Let 
every  man  answer  this  question  to  himself. 


JEt.  30.]  NEW    CON  ST  I 'IT 'I' ION.  125 

The  apologists  for  the  Governor,  in  the  intemperate  ardor  of 
their  zeal   tin-  his  character,  seem  to  forgei  another  rightv< 
precious  to  the  citizens  of  a  free  country,  that  of  examining  the 
condud  of  their  rulers,     Then  have  an  undoubted  right,  within 

the  limits  of  the  Constitution,  to  speak  and  to  act their 

sentiments;  bu1  the  citizen  has  an  equal  righl  to  discuss  the  i 
priety  of  these  sentiments,  or  of  the  maimer  of  advancing  or 
supporting  them.  To  attempt  to  abridge  this  lasl  right,  by  ren- 
dering the  exercise  of  it  odious,  is  to  attempt  to  abridge  a  privi- 
lege, the  mosl  essential  of  any  t<>  the  security  of  the  people. 
The  laws,  which  afford  sufficienl  protection  to  the  tnaj 
will  punish  the  excess  of  this  privilege;  within  the  hounds  they 
allow,  it  is  the  bulwark  of  public  liberty. 

But  observations  of  either  kind  might  mutually  have  been 
spared.  There  is  do  danger  that  the  rights  of  a  man,  at  the 
head  of  the  Government  (possessing  all  the  influence  to  be 
derived  from  long  continuance  in  office,  the  disposition  of  lucra- 
tive places  and  consurrvmab  talents  for  popularity),  can  be  injured 
by  the  voice  of  a  private  individual.  There  is  as  little  danger 
that  the  spirit  of  the  pe,.ple  of  this  country  will  ever  tolerate 
attempts  to  seduce,  to  awe,  or  to  clamor  them  out  of  the  privi- 
lege of  bringing  the  conduct  of  men  in  power  to  the  bar  of  pub- 
lic condemnation. 

To  all  the  acclamation  and  abuse  with  which  the  Republican 
winds  up  his  performance  and  labors  to  mislead  the  public  atl 
tion  from  its  trtu  object,  but  one  answer  will  be  given.     It   is 
trick  of  the  party  to  traduce  every  independent  man  opposed  to 
their  views,  the  better  to  preserve  to  themselves  that  power  and 

Consequence  to  which  they  have  no  other  title  than   their  arts  of 
deceiving  the  people. 

Mi-.  Hamilton  can,  however,  defy  all  their  malevolent  i: 
nuity  to  produce  ;>  single  instance  of  his  conduct,  public  or  pri- 
vate, inconsistent  with  the  strictest  rules  of  integrity  and  honor — 
a  single  instance  that  may  even  denominate  him  selfish  or  Lnl 
ested-  -a  single  instance  in  which  he  has  either  "forfeited"  the 
confidence  of  the  people  or  failed  of  obtaining  any  pi-oof  of  their 
favor  for  which  he  has  been  a  candidate.     It  would  be  ingratil 


426  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  31. 

in  him  not  to  acknowledge  that  the  marks  of  their  confidence 
have  greatly  exceeded  his  deserts. 


RESOLUTION  IN  CONGRESS. 

June  3,  1788. 

Resolved,  That  in  their  opinion  it  is  expedient  that  the  Dis- 
trict of  Kentucke  be  erected  into  an  independent  State,  and  they 
therefore  submit  the  following  resolution — That  the  address  and 
resolutions  from  the  District  of  Kentucke,  with  the  acts  of  the 
Legislature  of  Virginia  therein  specified,  be  referred  to  a  com- 
mittee of  (a  member  from  each  State),  to  prepare  and  report  a 
proper  act  for  acceding  to  the  independence  of  the  said  District 
of  Kentucke,  and  for  receiving  the  same  into  the  Union  as  a 
member  thereof,  in  a  mode  conformable  to  the  articles  of  con- 
federation. 


CONVENTION  OF  NEW-YORK. 

SPEECH  ON  THE   COMPROMISES  OF  THE   CONSTITUTION. 

POUGHKEEPSIE,  1788. 

Mr  Chairman  :* 

The  honorable  member  who  spoke  yesterday,  went  into  an 
explanation  of  a  variety  of  circumstances  to  prove  the  expedi- 
ency of  a  change  in  our  National  Government,  and  the  necessity 
of  a  firm  Union  :  at  the  same  time  he  described  the  great  advan- 
tages which  this  State,  in  particular,  receives  from  the  Confed- 

*  The  reporter  of  this,  and  of  the  preceding  and  following  speeches,  observes 
— "  He  thinks  an  apology  due  for  the  imperfect  dress  in  which  these  arguments  are 
given  to  the  public.  Not  long  accustomed,  he  cannot  pretend  as  much  accuracy 
as  might  be  expected  from  a  more  experienced  hand." 


JEt.  31.]  NEW- YORK    CONVENTION.  1-7 

eracy,  and  its  peculiar  weaki  when  abstracted   from  the 

Union.  In  -  J  ■  >  i  1 1  •_*-  this,  he  advanced  :i  variety  of  arguments 
which  deserve  serious  consideration.  Gentlemen  have  this  day 
come  forward  to  answer  him.  II''  has  been  treated  as  having 
wandered  in  tin'  flowery  fields  of  fancy,  and  attempts  have  l 
made  to  take  off  from  the  minds  of  the  Committee  thai  sober  im- 
pression which  mighl  be  expected  from  his  arguments.  I  b 
sir,  that  observations  of  this  kind  are  cot  thrown  oul  to  casl  :i 
light  air  on  this  importanl  subject;  or  to  give  any  personal  bias 
on  the  greal  question  before  as.  I  will  not  agree  with  gentle- 
men who  trifle  with  the  weaknesses  of  our  country  ;  and  sup] 
that  they  are  enumerated  to  answer  a  parly  purpose,  and  to  ter- 
rify with  ideal  dangers.  No;  1  believe  these  weaknesses  to  he 
real,  and  pregnant  with  destruction.  Yet,  however  weak  our 
country  may  be,  I  hope  we  shall  never  sacrifice  our  liberties.  If, 
therefore,  on  ;i  full  ami  candid  discussion,  the  proposed  System 
shall  appear  to  have  that  tendency,  for  God's  sake,  lei  us  reject 
it!  But,  let  us  not  mistake  words  for  things,  noT  accepl  doubt- 
ful surmises  as  the  evidence  of  truth.  Lei  us  consider  the  Con- 
stitution calmly  and  dispassionately,  and  attend  to  those  things 
only  which  merit  consideration. 

No  arguments  drawn  from  embarrassment  or  inconvenience 
ought  to  prevail  upon  us  to  adopt  a  system  of  government  radi- 
cally had:  yet  it  is  proper  that  these  arguments,  among  others, 
should  he  brought  into  view.  In  doing  this,  yesterday,  it  was 
necessary  to  reflect  upon  our  situation  ;  to  dwell  upon  the  imbe- 
cility of  our  Union;  and  to  consider  whether  we,  State, 
could  stand  alone. 

Although  I  am  persuaded  this  convention  will  he  resolved^to 
adopt  aothing  thai  is  had  :  yet  I  think  every  prudent  man  will 
consider  the  merits  of  the  plan  in  connection  with  the  circum- 
stances of  our  country ;  and  that  a  rejection  6f  thi   I        titution 

may  involve  most    fatal  Consequences.      I    make  these  remark 

show,  that  though  we  ought  not  to  he  actuated  by  unreasonable 

fear,    Vet    we  OUght   to  he   prudent. 

This  daw  sir,  one  gentleman  has  attempted  to  answer  the 
arguments   advanced   by    my    honorahle   friend;    another 


428  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  31. 

treated  him  as  having  wandered  from  the  subject.  This  being 
the  case,  I  trust  I  shall  be  equally  indulged  in  reviewing  the 
remarks  which  have  been  made. 

Sir,  it  appears  to  me  extraordinary,  that  while  gentlemen  in 
one  breath  acknowledge,  that  the  old  Confederation  requires  many 
material  amendments,  they  should,  in  the  next,  deny  that  its  de- 
fects have  been  the  cause  of  our  political  weakness,  and  the  con- 
sequent calamities  of  our  country.     I  cannot  but  infer  from  this 
that  there  is  still  some  lurking  favorite  imagination  that  this  sys- 
tem, with  corrections,  might  become  a  safe  and  permanent  one. 
It  is  proper  that  we  should  examine  this  matter.     We  contend, 
that  the  radical  vice  in  the  old  Confederation  is  that  the  laws  of 
the  Union  apply  only  to  the  States  in  their  corporate  capacity. 
Has  not  every  man  who  has  been  in  our  Legislature  experienced 
the  truth  of  this  position  ?     It  is  inseparable  from  the  disposition 
of  bodies,  who  have  a  constitutional  power  of  resistance,  to  ex- 
amine the  merits  of  a  law. — This  has  ever  been  the  case  with  the 
federal  requisitions. — In  this  examination,  not  being  furnished 
with  those  lights  which  directed  the  deliberations  of  the  General 
Government ;  and  incapable  of  embracing  the  general  interests 
of  the  Union,  the  States  have  almost  uniformly  weighed   the 
requisitions  by  their  own  local  interests  ;  and  have  only  executed 
them  so  far  as  answered  their  particular  convenience  or  advan- 
tage.    Hence  there  have  ever  been  thirteen  different  bodies  to 
judge  of  the  measures  of  Congress — and  the  operations  of  govern- 
ment have  been  distracted   by  their   taking  different  courses. 
Those  which  were  to  be  benefited,  have  complied  with  the  requi- 
sitions ;  others  have  totally  disregarded  them.     Have  not  all  of 
us  been  witnesses  to  the  unhappy  embarrassments  which  resulted 
from  these  proceedings  ?     Even  during  the  late  war,  while  the 
pressure  of  common  danger  connected  strongly  the  bond  of  our 
union,  and  excited  to  vigorous  exertions,  we  have  felt  many  dis- 
tressing effects  of  the  impotent  system.     How  have  we  seen  this 
State,  though  most  exposed  to  the  calamities  of  the  war,  comply- 
ing, in  an  unexampled  manner,  with  the  federal  requisitions,  and 
compelled  by  the  delinquency  of  others  to  bear  most  unusual 
burdens  !     Of  this  truth  we  have  the  most  solemn  evidence  on 


iET.  31.]  NEW-YORK    CONVENTION.  429 

ourrecorda  In  L779  and  1780,  when  the  State,  from  the  rav- 
ages of  war,  and  from  her  great  exertiona  to  resisl  them,  became 
weak,  diatressed,  and  forlorn,  every  man  avowed  the  principle  we 
now  contend  for;  thai  our  misfortunes,  in  a  great  degree,  pro- 
ceeded from  the  want  of  vigor  in  the  Continental  Government 
These  were  our  sentiments  when  we  did  not  speculate,  but  feeL 
\\  e  Baw  our  weakness,  and  found  OUKelvea  its  vietims.  Let  us 
rHleet  that  this  may  again,  in  all  probability,  be  our  situation. 
This  is  a  weak  State,  and  its  relative  station  is  dangerous.  Your 
capital  is  accessible  by  land,  and  by  sea  is  expoaed  to  everj  dar- 
ing invader;  and  on  the  northwest  you  are  open  to  the  inroads 
of  a  powerful  foreign  nation.  Indeed  this  State,  from  its  .situa- 
tion, will,  in  time  of  war,  probably  be  the  theatre  of  its  op- 
erations. 

Gentlemen  have  said  that  the  non-compliance  of  the  States 
has  been  occasioned  by  their  aufferinga.  This  may  in  part  be 
true.  But  has  this  State  been  delinquent?  Amidst  all  our  dis- 
tresses,  we  have  fully  complied.  If  New-York  could  comply 
wholly  with  the  requisitions,  is  it  not  to  be  supposed  that  the 
other  States  could  in  part  comply?  Certainly  every  State  in  the 
I  oion  might  have  executed  them  in  some  degree.  Bui  New 
Hampshire,  who  has  not  suffered  at  all,  is  totally  delinquent 
North  Carolina  is  totally  delinquent.  Many  others  have  con- 
tributed in  a  very  small  proportion;  and  Pennsylvania  am  1  New- 
York  are  the  only  States  which  have  perfectly  discharged  their 
Federal  duty. 

From  the  delinquency  of  those  States  which  have  Buffi 

little  by  the  war,  we  naturally  Conclude,  that  they  have  made  no 

efforts;  and  a  knowledge  of  human  nature  will  teach  us,  that 
their  ease  and  security  have  ben  a  principal  cause  of  their  want 
of  exertion.  While  danger  is  distant  its  impression  is  weak,  and 
while  it  affects  only  our  neighbors,  we  have  few  motives  to  pro- 
vide againal  it.  Sir,  if  we  have  national  objects  to  puraue,  we 
must  have  national   revenues.     If  you  make   requiaitions  and 

they  are  not  complied  with  ;    u-),.lt    js   tl(   be  done?      k    has    i 

well  obaerved,  that  to  coerce  the  States  is  one  of  the  maddeat 
projectathat   was  ever  devised.     A   failure   of   compliance   will 


430  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  31. 

never  be  confined  to  a  single  State :  this  being  the  case,  can  we 
suppose  it  wise  to  hazard  a  civil  war  ?  Suppose  Massachusetts  or 
any  large  State  should  refuse,  and  Congress  should  attempt  to 
compel  them ;  would  they  not  have  influence  to  procure  assist- 
ance, especially  from  those  States  who  are  in  the  same  situation 
as  themselves  ?  What  a  picture  does  this  idea  present  to  our 
view  !  A  complying  State  at  war  with  a  non-complying  State : 
Congress  marching  the  troops  of  one  State  into  the  bosom  of 
another :  this  State  collecting  auxiliaries  and  forming  perhaps  a 
majority  against  its  Federal  head.  Here  is  a  nation  at  war  with 
itself !  A  government  that  can  exist  only  by  the  sword  !  Every 
such  war  must  involve  the  innocent  with  the  guilty. — This  sin- 
gle consideration  should  be  sufficient  to  dispose  every  peaceable 
citizen  against  such  a  government. 

But  can  we  believe  that  one  State  will  ever  suffer  itself  to  be 
used  as  an  instrument  of  coercion  ?  It  is  a  dream.  It  is  impos- 
sible. We  are  brought  to  this  dilemma :  either  a  Federal  stand- 
ing army  is  to  enforce  the  requisitions,  or  the  Federal  Treasury 
is  left  without  supplies,  and  the  government  without  support. — 
What  is  the  cure  for  this  great  evil  ?  Nothing,  but  to  enable 
the  national  laws  to  operate  on  individuals,  in  the  same  manner 
as  those  of  the  States  do. — This  is  the  true  reasoning  upon  the 
subject.  Gentlemen  appear  to  acknowledge  its  force ;  and  yet, 
while  they  yield  to  the  principle,  they  seem  to  fear  its  applica- 
tion to  this  government. 

What  shall  we  do  ?  Shall  we  take  the  Old  Confederation,  as 
the  basis  of  a  new  system  ?  Can  this  be  the  object  of  gentle- 
men ?— Certainly  not.— Will  any  man  who  entertains  a  wish 
for  the  safety  of  his  country,  trust  the  sword  and  the  purse 
with  a  single  Assembly,  organized  on  principles  so  defective? 
Though  we  might  give  to  such  a  government  certain  powers 
with  safety,  yet,  to  give  them  the  full  and  unlimited  powers  of 
taxation  and  the  national  forces,  would  be  to  establish  a  despot- 
ism ;  the  definition  of  which  is,  a  government,  in  which  all  power 
is  concentrated  in  a  single  body.  To  take  the  Old  Confederation, 
and  fashion  it  upon  these  principles,  would  be  establishing  a 
power  which  would  destroy  the  liberties  of  the  people.— These 


Ar.  81.]  NEW. YORE    CONVENTION.  I.'.l 

considerations  show  clearly  thai  a  government  totally  different 
must  be  instituted.     They  bad  weighl  in  the  Convention  who 
formed  the  new  system.     It  was  Been,  thai  the  necessary  poi 
were  too  great  to  betrusted   to  a  Bingle  body:    they  therefore 
formed  two  branches,  and  divided  the  powers,  thai  each  m 
lh'  ;l  check  upon  the  other.     This  was  the  resull  of  their  wisdom- 
and  1  presume  thai  every  reasonable  man  will  agree  to  it.     The 
more  thia  subjecl  is  explained,  the  hm.iv  clear  and  convincin 
will  appear  to  every  member  of  this  body.     The  fundamental 
principle  of  the  <  >M  Confederation  is  defective. — We  musl  totally 
eradicate  and  discard  this  principle  before  we  can  expert 
efficient  government     The  gentlemen  who  have  spoken  to-day 
havetakenup  the  subject  of  the  ancienl  Confederacies:    but 
their  view  of  them  has  been  extremely  partial  and  erroneo 
the  fact  is,  the  Bame  false  and  impracticable  principle  ran  through 
most  of  the  ancient  governments.    The  first  of  these  govern- 
ments that  we  read  of  was  the  Amphyctionio  confederacy. 
Council  which  managed  the  affairs  of  this  league  possessed  pow- 
ers of  a  similar  complexion  with  those  of  our  presenl  Cong] 
The  same  feeble  mode  of  legislation  in  the  head,  and  th< 
power  of  resistance  in  the  members,  prevailed.     When  a  requi- 
sition was  made,  it  rarely  met  a  compliance;  ami  a  civil  war 
the  consequence.     Those  which  were  attacked  called  in   foreign 
aid  to  protect  them;  and  the  ambitious   Philip,  under  the  mask 

n  ally  to  one,  invaded  the  liberties  of  each,  and  finally  sub- 
verted the  whole 

The  operation  of  this  principle  appears  in  the  same  light  in 
the  Dutch  Republics.  They  have  been  obliged  to  lew  taxes  by 
an  armed  force.  In  this  confederacy,  one  large  province,  by  its 
superior  wealth  and  influence,  is  commonly  a  match  for  all 
rot  ;  and  when  they  do  not  comply,  the  province  of  Bolland  is 
obliged  to  compel  them,     it  is  observed  that  the  United  Provin- 

bave  existed  a  long  time;  hut  they  have  been  constantly  the 
Bport  of  their  neighbors,  and  have  been  supported  only  by 
external  pressure  of  surrounding  powers.     The  policy  of  Eur 
not  the  policy  of  their  government,  has  saved  them  from  d 
tion.     Besides,  the  powers  of  the  Stadtholder  have  served 


432  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  31. 

give  an  energy  to  the  operations  of  his  government,  which  is 
not  to  be  found  in  ours.  This  prince  has  a  vast  personal  influ- 
ence :  he  has  independent  revenues :  he  commands  an  army  of 
forty  thousand  men. 

The  German  confederacy  has  also  been  a  perpetual  source  of 
wars : —  They  have  a  Diet,  like  our  Congress,  who  have  autho- 
rity to  call  for  supplies :  these  calls  are  never  obeyed ;  and,  in 
time  of  war,  the  imperial  army  never  takes  the  field  till  the 
enemy  are  returning  from  it.  The  emperor's  Austrian  domin- 
ions, in  which  he  is  an  absolute  prince,  alone  enable  him  to  make 
head  against  the  common  foe.  The  members  of  this  confederacy 
are  ever  divided  and  opposed  to  each  other.  The  king  of  Prus- 
sia is  a  member ;  yet  he  has  been  constantly  in  opposition  to  the 
emperor.     Is  this  a  desirable  government  ? 

I  might  go  more  particularly  into  the  discussion  of  examples, 
and  show  that,  wherever  this  fatal  principle  has  prevailed,  even 
as  far  back  as  the  Lycian  and  Achrean  leagues,  as  well  as  the 
Amphyctionic  confederacy,  it  has  proved  the  destruction  of  the 
government.  But  I  think  observations  of  this  kind  might  have 
been  spared.  Had  they  not  been  entered  into  by  others,  I  should 
not  have  taken  up  so  much  of  the  time  of  the  Committee.  No 
inference  can  be  drawn  from  these  examples,  that  republics  can- 
not exist :  we  only  contend  that  they  have  hitherto  been  founded 
on  false  principles.  We  have  shown  how  they  have  been  con- 
ducted, and  how  they  have  been  destroyed.  "Weakness  in  the 
head  has  produced  resistance  in  the  members :  this  has  been  the 
immediate  parent  of  civil  war :  auxiliary  force  has  been  invited, 
and  a  foreign  power  has  annihilated  their  liberties  and  their 
name.  Thus,  Philip  subverted  the  Amphyctionic,  and  Eome  the 
Achaean  Republic. 

We  shall  do  well,  Sir,  not  to  deceive  ourselves  with  the 
favorable  events  of  the  late  war.  Common  danger  prevented  the 
operation  of  the  ruinous  principle  in  its  full  extent.  But  since 
the  peace,  we  have  experienced  the  evils.  We  have  felt  the 
poison  of  the  system  in  its  unmingled  purity. 

Without  dwelling  any  longer  on  this  subject,  I  shall  proceed 
to  the  question  immediately  before  the  committee. 


jEt.  31.]  NEW- YORK    CONVENTION.  4.S3 

In  order  that  the  committee  may  understand  clearly   the 

principles  OB  which  the  general  convention  acted,  1  think  it  neces- 
sary  to  explain  some  preliminary  circumstances. 

Sir,  the  natural  situation  of  this  country  Beems  to  divide  us 
interests  into  different  classes.  There  are  navigating  and  non- 
navigating  States.  The  Northern  are  properly  the  navigating 
States;  the  Southern  appear  to  possess  neither  the  means  nor 
die  spirit  of  navigation.  This  dillerenee  in  situation  naturally 
produces  a  dissimilarity  of  interests  and  views  respecting  foreign 
commerce.  It  was  the  interest  of  the  Northern  States,  that  there 
should  be  no  restraints  on  their  navigation,  and  that  they  should 
have  lull  power,  by  a  majority  in  Congress,  to  make  commercial 
regulations  in  favor  of  their  own,  and  in  restraint  of  the  naviga- 
tion of  foreigners.  The  Southern  States  wished  to  impose  a 
restraint  on  the  Northern,  by  requiring  that  two-thirds  in  Con- 
gress should  be  requisite  to  pass  an  act  in  regulation  of  com- 
merce. They  were  apprehensive  that  the  restraints  of  a  naviga- 
tion law  would  discourage  foreigners;  and,  by  obliging  them  to 
employ  the  shipping  of  the  Northern  States,  would  probably 
enhance  their  freight  This  being  the  case,  they  insisted  strenu- 
ously on  having  this  provision  ingrafted  in  the  Constitution; 
and  the  Northern  States  were  as  anxious  in  opposing  it.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  small  States,  seeing  themselves  embraced  by 
the  Confederation  upon  equal  terms,  wished  to  retain  the  advan- 
tages which  they  already  possessed.  The  large  States,  on  the  con- 
trary, thought  it  improper  that  Rhode  Island  and  Delaware 
should  enjoy  an  equal  suffrage  with  themselves.  From  ti 
sources  a  delicate  and  difficult  contesl  arose.  It  became  necessary 
therefore  to  compromise,  or  the  convention  must  have  dissolved 
without  effecting  any  thing.  Would  it  have'  been  wise  and  pru- 
dent in  that  body,  in  this  critical  situation,  to  have  deserted 
their  country?  No.  Every  man  who  hears  me — every  wise 
man  in  the  United  States  would  have  condemned  them.  The 
convention  were  obliged  to  appoinl  a  committee  for  accommo 
tion.  In  this  committee  the  arrangement  was  formed  as  it  now 
stands,  and  their  report  was  accepted.  It  was  a  delicate  point, 
and  it  was  necessary  thai  all  parties  Bhould  be  indulged.     Gen- 

b  28 


434  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  31. 

tlemen  will  see,  that  if  there  had  not  been  unanimity,  nothing 
could  have  been  done.  For  the  convention  had  no  power  to 
establish,  but  only  to  recommend  a  government.  Any  other 
system  would  have  been  impracticable.  Let  a  convention  be 
called  to-morrow.  Let  them  meet  twenty  times — nay,  twenty 
thousand  times — they  will  have  the  same  difficulties  to  encounter 
— the  same  clashing  interests  to  reconcile. 

But,  dismissing  these  reflections,  let  us  consider  how  far  the 
arrangement  is  in  itself  entitled  to  the  approbation  of  this  body. 
We  will  examine  it  upon  its  own  merits. 

The  first  thing  objected  to,  is  that  clause  which  allows  a 
representation  for  three-fifths  of  the  negroes.  Much  has  been  said 
of  the  impropriety  of  representing  men  who  have  no  will  of  their 
own.  Whether  this  be  reasoning  or  declamation,  I  will  not  pre- 
sume to  say.  It  is  the  unfortunate  situation  of  the  Southern 
States  to  have  a  great  part  of  their  population  as  well  as  property 
in  blacks.  The  regulation  complained  of  was  one  result  of  the 
spirit  of  accommodation  which  governed  the  convention ;  and 
without  this  indulgence  no  Union  could  possibly  have  been 
formed.  But,  sir,  considering  some  peculiar  advantages  which 
we  derive  from  them,  it  is  entirely  just  that  they  should  be  gra- 
tified. The  Southern  States  possess  certain  staples — tobacco, 
rice,  indigo,  &c. — which  must  be  capital  objects  in  treaties  of 
commerce  with  foreign  nations ;  and  the  advantage  which  they 
necessarily  procure  in  these  treaties  will  be  felt  throughout  all 
the  States.  But  the  justice  of  this  plan  will  appear  in  another 
view.  The  best  writers  on  government  have  held  that  represen- 
tation should  be  compounded  of  persons  and  property.  This 
rule  has  been  adopted,  as  far  as  it  could  be,  in  the  Constitution  of 
New-York.  It  will,  however,  be  by  no  means  admitted  that  the 
slaves  are  considered  altogether  as  property.  They  are  men, 
though  degraded  to  the  condition  of  slavery.  They  are  persons 
known  to  the  municipal  laws  of  the  States  which  they  inhabit, 
as  well  as  to  the  laws  of  nature.  But  representation  and  taxa- 
tion go  together,  and  one  uniform  rule  ought  to  apply  to  both. 
Would  it  be  just  to  compute  these  slaves  in  the  assessment  of 
taxes,  and  discard  them  from  the  estimate  in  the  apportionment 


jEt.si.]  NEW-YORK    CONVENTION.  t35 

of  representatives?     Would  it  be  jusl  to  impose  a  singular  bur- 
then without  conferring  some  adequate  advantage? 

Another  circumstance  oughl  to  be  considered.  The  rule  we 
have  been  speaking  of)  is  a  general  rule,  and  applies  to  all  the 
States.  You  have  a  greal  number  of  people  in  your  State, 
which  are  nol  represented  at  all,  and  have  no  voice  in  your 
government.  These  will  be  included  in  the  enumeration,  not 
two-fifths,  or  three-fifths,  but  the  whole.  This  proves  that  the 
advantages  of  the  plan  are  no1  confined  to  the  Southern  States, 
but  extend  to  other  parte  of  the  Union. 

I  now  proceed  to  consider  the  objection  with  regard  to  the 
number  of  representatives  as  it  now  stands.  lam  persuaded  that 
the  system,  in  this  respect,  is  on  a  better  looting  than  the  gentle- 
men imagine. 

It  has  been  asse^|ed  thai  it  will  be  in  the  power  of  Congress 
to  reduce  the  number.  I  acknowledge  that  there  are  no  direct 
words  of  prohibition.  But  I  contend  that  the  true  and  genuine 
construction  of  tin'  clause  gives  Cod  lo  power  whatever  to 

reduce  the  representation  below  the  number  as  it  now  stands. 
Although  they  may  limit,  they  can  never  diminish  the  number. 
One  representative  for  every  thirty  thousand  inhabitants 
as  the  standard  of  increase,  till  by  the  natural  course  of  popula- 
tion, it  shall  become  necessary  to  limit  the  ratio.  Probably,  at 
present,  were  this  standard  to  be  immediately  applied,  tlic  repre- 
sentation would  considerably  exceed  sixty-five.  In  three  pears, 
it  would  ex< 1  a  hundred.    If  I  understand  the  gentlemen,  they 

itend  that  the  number  may  be  enlarged,  or  may  not.  1  admit 
that  this  is  in  the  discretion  of  Congress;  and  1  submit  to  the 
committee  whether  it  be  nol  necessary  and  proper.  Still,  1  insist 
that  an  immediate  limitation  is  not  probable ;  nor  was  it  in  the 
contemplation  of  the  convention.  But,  sir,  who  will  presume  to 
say  to  what  precise  poinl  the  representation  ought  to  be  increased? 
This  is  a  matter  ><\'  opinion;  and  opinions  are  vastly  different 
upon  the  subject.  In  Massachusetts,  the  Assembly  consists  of 
about  three  hundred;  in  South  Carolina,  of  nearly  one  hunch 
in  New- York,  there  are  sixty-live.  It  is  observed  generally  that 
the  number  ought  to  be  large.     Ieoni'ess  it  is  dillieult  for  mc 


436  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  31. 

to  say  what  number  may  be  said  to  be  sufficiently  large.     On 
one  band,  it  ought  to  be  considered  that  a  small  number  will  act 
with  more  facility,  system,  and  decision.     On  the  other,  that  a 
large  one  may  enhance  the  difficulty  of  corruption.     The  Con- 
gress is  to  consist  at  first  of  ninety -one  members.     This,  to  a 
reasonable  man,  may  appear  to  be  as  near  the  proper  medium  as 
any  number  whatever ;  at  least,  for  the  present.     There  is  one 
source  of  increase,  also,  which  does  not  depend  upon  any  con- 
structions of  the  Constitution :  it  is  the  creation  of  new  States. 
Vermont,  Kentucky,  and  Franklin,  will  probably  soon  become 
independent.     New  members  of  the  Union  will  also  be  formed 
from  the  unsettled  tracts  of  Western  territory.     These  must  be 
represented,  and  will  all  contribute  to  swell  the  federal  legisla- 
ture.    If  the  whole  number  in  the  United  States  be  at  present 
three  millions,  as  is  commonly  supposed,  Sccording  to  the  ratio 
of  one  for  thirty  thousand,  we  shall  have,  on  the  first  census,  a 
hundred  representatives.     In   ten   years,    thirty   more  will   be 
added  ;  and,  in  twenty-five  years,  the  number  will  double.    Then, 
sir,  we  shall  have  two  hundred,  if  the  increase  goes  on  in  the 
same  proportion.     The  convention  of  Massachusetts,  who  made 
the  same  objection,  have  fixed  upon  this  number  as  the  point  at 
which  they  chose  to  limit  the  representation.     But  can  we  pro- 
nounce with  certainty  that  it  will  not  be  expedient  to  go  beyond 
this  number  ?     We  cannot.     Experience  alone  may  determine. 
This  problem  may  with  more  safety  be  left  to  the  discretion  of 
the  legislature,   as  it  will  be  the  interest  of  the   larger   and 
increasing  States  of  Massachusetts,  New- York,  Pennsylvania,  &c, 
to  augment  the  representation.    Only  Connecticut,  Ehode  Island, 
Delaware,  and  Maryland,  can  be  interested  in  limiting  it.     We 
may,  therefore,  safely  calculate  upon  a  growing  representation, 
according  to  the  advance  of  population,  and  the  circumstances  of 
the  country. 

The  State  governments  possess  inherent  advantages,  which 
will  ever  give  them  an  influence  and  ascendency  over  the  Na- 
tional government,  and  will  for  ever  preclude  the  possibility  of 
federal  encroachments.  That  their  liberties,  indeed,  can  be  sub- 
verted by  the  federal  head,  is  repugnant  to  every  rule  of  political 


JBX.B1.]  NEW-YORK    CONVENTION.  \'M 

calculation.  Is  not  this  arrangemenl  then,  sir,  a  nftost  wise  and 
prudent  one?  Is  not  the  presenl  representation  fully  adequate 
to  our  present  exigencies,  and  sumcienl  to  answer  all  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Union?    I  am  persuaded  that  an  examination  of 

the  objects  of  the  federal  government  will  allbrd  a  conclusive 
answer. 

Many  other  observations  might  be  made  on  this  subject,  bu1 
I  cannot  now  pursue  them,  for  1  feel  myself  not  a  little  exhaust- 
ed; I  beg  Leave,  therefore,  to  waive  for  the  present  the  further 
discussion  of  this  question. 

SPEECH   ON   THE   CONSTITUTION  RESUMED. 

Mr.  Hamilton  resumed  his  argument.  "When,  said  he,  I  had 
the  honor  to  address  the  committee  yesterday,  I  gave  a  history 
of  the  circumstances  which  attended  the  convention,  when  form- 
ing the  plan  before  you.  I  endeavored  to  point  out  to  you  the 
principles  of  accommodation  on  which  this  arrangement  was 
made,  and  to  show  that  the  contending  interests  of  the  St; 
led  them  to  establish  the  representation  as  it  now  stands.  In 
the  second  place,  I  attempted  to  prove  that,  in  point  of  number, 
the  representation  would  be  perfectly  secure. 

Sir,  no  man  agrees  more  fully  than  myself  to  the  main 
principle  for  which  the  gentlemen  contend.  I  agree  that  there 
should  be  a  broad  democratic  branch  in  the  national  legislature. 
But  this  mutter  depends  on  circumstances.  It  is  impossible,  in 
the  first  instance,  to  be  precise  and  exact  with  regard  to  the 
number;  and  it  is  equally  impossible  to  determine  to  what  point 
it  may  be  brought  in  future  to  increase  it.  On  this  ground,  I 
am  disposed  to  acquiesce.  In  my  reasonings  on  the  subject  of 
government,  1  rely  more  on  the  interests  and  the  opinions  of  men, 
than  upon  any  speculative  parchment  provisions  whatever.  Ihave 
found, that  constitutions  are  more  or  less  excellent,  as  they  are  more 
or  less  agreeable  to  the  natural  operation  of  things ;  lam  therefore 
disposed  not  to  dwell  long  on  curious  speculations,  or  pay  much 
attention  to  modes  and  forms,  but  to  adopt  a  system  whose 
principles  have  been  sanctioned  by  experience — adapt  it  to  the 


438  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  31. 

real  state  of  our  country,  and  depend  on  probable  reasonings 
for  its  operation  and  result.  I  eontend,  that  sixty-five  and 
twenty-six,  in  two  bodies,  afford  perfect  security  in  the  present 
state  of  things;  and  that  the  regular  progressive  enlargement, 
which  was  in  the  contemplation  of  the  general  convention, 
will  leave  not  an  apprehension  of  clanger  in  the  most  timid  and 
suspicious  mind.  It  will  be  the  interest  of  the  large  States  to  in- 
crease the  representation.  This  will  be  the  standing  instruction 
to  their  delegates.  But  the  members  of  Congress  will  be  in- 
terested not  to  increase  the  number,  as  it  will  diminish  their 
relative  influence.  In  all  the  reasoning  upon  this  subject,  there 
seems  to  be  this  fallacy  : — They  suppose  that  the  representative 
wTill  have  no  motive  of  action,  on  the  one  side,  but  a  sense  of 
duty,  or,  on  the  other,  but  corruption.  They  do  not  reflect  that 
he  is  to  return  to  the  community — that  he  is  dependent  on  the 
will  of  the  people — and  that  it  cannot  be  his  interest  to  oppose 
their  wishes.  Sir,  the  general  sense  of  the  people  will  regulate 
the  conduct  of  their  representatives.  I  admit  that  there  are  ex- 
ceptions to  this  rule.  There  are  certain  conjunctures  when  it 
may  be  necessary  and  proper  to  disregard  the  opinions  which 
the  majority  of  the  people  have  formed;  but,  in  the  general 
course  of  things,  the  popular  views,  and  even  prejudices,  will  di- 
rect the  actions  of  the  rulers. 

All  governments,  even  the  most  despotic,  depend,  in  a  great 
degree,  on  opinion.  In  free  republics,  it  is  most  peculiarly  the 
case.  In  these,  the  will  of  the  people  makes  the  essential  princi- 
ple of  the  government,  and  the  laws  which  control  the  commu- 
nity, receive  their  tone  and  spirit  from  the  public  wishes.  It  is 
the  fortunate  situation  of  our  country,  that  the  minds  of  the 
people  are  exceedingly  enlightened  and  refined.  Here,  then,  we 
may  expect  the  laws  to  be  proportionably  agreeable  to  the  stand- 
ard of  a  perfect  policy,  and  the  wisdom  of  public  measures  to 
consist  with  the  most  intimate  conformity  between  the  views  of 
the  representative  and  his  constituent.  If  the  general  voice  of 
the  people  be  for  an  increase,  it  undoubtedly  must  take  place. 
They  have  it  in  their  power  to  instruct  their  representatives,  and 
the  State  Legislatures,  which  appoint  the  Senators,  may  enjoin 


jEt.  31.]  NEW- YORK    CONVENTION.  I:'.(.> 

it  also  upon  them.  If  I  believed  thai  the  number  would  remain 
at  sixty-five,  I  confess  I  should  give  my  vote  for  an  amendment, 
though  in  a  different  form  from  the  one  proposed. 

The  amendment  proposes  a  ratio  of  one  for  twenty  thousand. 
I  would  ask,  by  what  rale  oi  reasoning  it  is  determined,  that 
one  man  is  a  better  representative  for  twenty  than  for  thirty 
thousand?  At  present,  we  nave  three  millions  of  people;  in 
twenty-five  years  we  shall  have  six  millions;  and  in  forty  years 
•nine  millions ;  and  this  is  a  short  period  as  it  relates  to  the  ex- 
istence of  States.  Here,  then,  according  to  the  ratio  of  one  for 
thirty  thousand,  we  shall  have,  in  forty  years,  three  hundred 
representatives.  If  this  be  true,  and  if  this  be  a  sale  representa- 
ti<  >n,  why  be  dissatisfied  ?  Why  embarrass  the  Constitution  with 
amendments  that  are  merely  speculative  and  useless?  I  agree 
with  the  gentleman,  that  a  very  small  number  might  give  some 
color  for  suspicion.  I  acknowledge  that  ten  would  be  unsafe ; 
on  the  other  hand,  a  thousand  would  be  too  numerous.  But,  I 
ask  him,  why  will  not  ninety-one  be  an  adequate  and  safe  repre- 
sentation? This,  at  present,  appears  to  be  the  proper  medium. 
IVsides,  the  President  of  the  United  States  will  be  himself  the 
representative  of  the  people.  From  the  competition  that  ever 
subsists  between  the  branches  of  the  government,  the  President 
will  be  induced  to  protect  their  rights,  whenever  they  are  in- 
vaded by  either  branch.  On  whatever  side  we  view  this  subject, 
we  discover  various  and  powerful  cheeks  to  the  encroachments 
of  Congress.  The  true  and  permanent  interests  of  the  members 
are  opposed  to  corruption.  Their  number  is  vastly  too  large  for 
easy  combination.  The  rivalship  between  the  houses  will  for- 
ever prove  an  insuperable  obstacle.  The  people  have  an  obvi- 
ous and  powerful  protection  in  their  own  State  governments. 
Should  any  thing  dangerous  be  attempted,  these  bodies  of  per- 
petual observation  will  be  capable  of  forming  and  conducting 
plans  of  regular  opposition.  Can  we  suppose  the  people's  love 
of  liberty  will  not,  under  the  incitement  of  their  Legislative  lead- 
ers, be  roused  into  resistance,  and  the  madness  of  tyranny  be 
extinguished  at  a  blow?  Sir,  the  danger  is  too  distant;  it  is  be- 
yond all  rational  calculations. 


440  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [jEt.  31. 

It  has  been  observed,  that  a  pure  democracy,  if  it  were  prac- 
ticable, would  be  the  most  perfect  government.  Experience  has 
proved,  that  no  position  in  politics  is  more  false  than  this.  The 
ancient  democracies,  in  which  the  people  themselves  deliberated, 
never  possessed  one  feature  of  good  government. — Their  very 
character  was  tyranny;  their  figure  deformity.  When  they 
assembled,  the  field  of  debate  presented  an  ungovernable  mob, 
not  only  incapable  of  deliberation,  but  prepared  for  every  enor- 
mity. In  these  assemblies  the  enemies  of  the  people  brought 
forward  their  plans  of  ambition  systematically.  They  were 
opposed  by  their  enemies  of  another  party ;  and  it  became  a 
matter  of  contingency,  whether  the  people  subjected  themselves 
to  be  led  blindly  by  one  tyrant,  or  by  another. 

It  was  remarked  yesterday  that  a  numerous  representation 
was  necessary  to  obtain  the  confidence  of  the  people.     This  is 
not  generally  true.     The  confidence  of  the  people  will  easily  be 
gained  by  a  good  administration.     This  is  the  true  touchstone. 
I  could  illustrate  the  position  by  a  variety  of  historical  examples 
both  ancient  and  modern.     In  Sparta,  the  Ephori  were  a  body 
of  magistrates,  instituted  as  a  check  upon  the  Senate  and  repre- 
senting the  people.     They  consisted  of  only  five  men :  but  they 
were  able  to  protect  their  rights,  and  therefore  enjoyed  their 
confidence  and  attachment.     In   Eome  the  people  were  repre- 
sented by  three  Tribunes,  who  were  afterwards  increased  to  ten. 
Every  one  acquainted  with  the  history  of  that  Republic  will  re- 
collect how  powerful  a  check  to  the  senatorial  encroachments  this 
small  body  proved ;  how  unlimited  a  confidence  was  placed  in 
them  by  the  people  whose  guardians  they  were ;  and  to  what  a 
conspicuous  station  in  the  government,  their  influence  at  length 
elevated  the  plebeians.     Massachusetts  has  three  hundred  repre- 
sentatives; New  York  has  sixty-five.     Have  the  people  in  this 
State  less  confidence  in  their  representation  than  the  people  of 
that?      Delaware  has  twenty-one:    do  the  inhabitants  of  New 
York  feel  a  higher  confidence  than  those  of  Delaware?     I  have 
stated  these  examples  to  prove  that  the  position  is  not  just 
The  popular  confidence  depends  on  circumstances  very  distinct 
from  considerations  of  number.     Probably  the  public  attach- 


Mr.  31.]  NEW.  YORE    CONVENTION.  Ill 

ment  is  more  strongly  secured  by  a  train  of  prosperous  events, 
which  are  tin-  result  of  wise  deliberation  and  of  vigorous  execu- 
tion, and  t<>  which  large  bodies  are  much  leas  competenl  than 
small  ones.  It'  the  representative  conducts  with  propriety,  he 
will  necessarily  enjoy  the  good  will  of  the  constituent.  It  appears 
then,  if  my  reasoning  be  just,  that  the  clause  is  perfectly  proper, 
upon  the  principles  of  the  gentleman  who  contends  for  the 
amendment;  as  there  is  in  it  the  greatest  degree  of  present 
security,  and  a  moral  certainty  of  an  increase  equal  to  our 
Utmost   wishes. 

It  has  been  observed  that  a  large  representation  is  necessary 
to  understand  the  true  interests  of  the  people.  This  opinion  is 
by  no  means  true  in  the  extent  to  which  it  is  carried.  I  would 
ask.  why  may  not  a  man  understand  the  interests  of  thirty  as 
well  as  of  twenty  ?  The  position  appears  to  be  based  upon  the 
unfounded  presumption,  that  all  the  interests  of  all  parts  of  the 
community  must  be  represented.  No  idea  is  more  erroneous 
than  this.  Only  such  interests  are  proper  to  be  represented  as 
are  involved  in  the  powers  of  the  General  Government.  These 
interests  come  completely  under  the  observation  of  one,  or  a  i'rw 
men;  and  the  recpiisitc  information  is  by  no  means  augmented 
in  proportion  to  the  increase  of  number.  What  are  the  objects 
of  the  Government  ?  Commerce,  taxation,  &c.  In  order  to 
comprehend  the  interests  of  commerce,  is  it  necessary  to  know 
how  wheal  is  raised, — and  in  what  proportion  it  is  produced  in 
one  district  and  in  another?  By  no  means.  Neither  is  this 
species  of  knowledge  necessary  in  general  calculations  upon  the 
subject  of  taxation.  The  information  necessary  for  these  pur- 
poses  is  that  which  is  open  to  every  intelligent  inquirer;  and  of 
which  live  men  may  be  as  perfectly  p  1   as  fifty.     In   regal 

governments,  there  are  usually  particular  men  to  whom  the 
business  of  taxation  is  committed.  These  men  have  the  forming 
of  systems  of  finance,  and  the  regulation  of  the  revenue.  I  do 
not  mean  to  commend  this  practice.     It  proves,  however,  this 

point  :    that  a  few  individuals  may  he  competent  to  these  objects; 

and  that  large  cumbers  are  not  necessary  to  perfection  in  the 
science  of  taxation.      But,   granting   for  a   moment,   that    this 


442  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  31. 

minute  and  local  knowledge,  the  gentlemen  contend  for,  is  neces- 
sary, let  us  see,  if,  under  the  new  Constitution,  it  will  not  proba- 
bly be  found  in  the  representation.  The  natural  and  proper 
mode  of  holding  elections  will  be  to  divide  the  State  into  districts, 
in  proportion  to  the  number  to  be  elected.  This  State  will  con- 
sequently be  divided  at  first  into  six.  One  man  from  each  dis- 
trict will  probably  possess  all  the  knowledge  the  gentlemen  can 
desire.  Are  the  Senators  of  this  State  more  ignorant  of  the 
interests  of  the  people,  than  the  Assembly?  Have  they  not 
ever  enjoyed  their  confidence  as  much  ?  Yet,  instead  of  six  dis- 
tricts, they  are  elected  in  four;  and  the  chance  of  their  being 
elected  from  the  smaller  divisions  of  the  State  consequently 
diminished.  Their  number  is  but  twenty-four ;  and  their  powers 
are  coextensive  with  those  of  the  Assembly,  and  reach  objects, 
which  are  most  dear  to  the  people — life,  liberty,  and  property. 

We  hear  constantly  a  great  deal  which  is  more  calculated  to 
awake  our  passions,  and  create  prejudices,  than  to  conduct  us  to 
truth,  and  teach  us  our  real  interests.  I  do  not  suppose  this  to 
be  the  design  of  gentlemen.  Why  then  are  we  told  so  often  of 
an  aristocracy  ?  For  my  part,  I  hardly  know  the  meaning  of 
this  word  as  it  is  applied.  If  all  we  hear  be  true,  this  govern- 
ment is  really  a  very  bad  one.  But  who  are  the  aristocracy 
among  us  ?  Where  do  we  find  men  elevated  to  a  perpetual  rank 
among  our  fellow-citizens ;  and  possessing  powers  entirely  inde- 
pendent of  them  ?  The  arguments  of  the  gentlemen  only  go  to 
prove  that  there  are  men  who  are  rich,  men  who  are  poor  ;  some 
who  are  wise,  and  others  who  are  not ;  that,  indeed,  every  dis- 
tinguished man  is  an  aristocrat.  Does  the  new  government  ren- 
der a  rich  man  more  eligible  than  a  poor  one  ?  No !  It  re- 
quires no  such  qualification.  It  is  bottomed  on  the  broad  and 
equal  principle  of  your  State  Constitution. 

Sir,  if  the  people  have  it  in  their  option,  to  elect  their  most 
meritorious  men;  is  this  to  be  considered  an  objection?  Shall 
the  Constitution  oppose  their  wishes,  and  abridge  their  most  in- 
valuable privilege?  While  property  continues  to  be  pretty 
equally  divided,  and  a  considerable  share  of  information  per- 
vades the  community ;    the  tendency  of  the  people's  suffrages, 


Mr.  31.]  NEW-YORK    CONVENTION.  443 

will  be  to  elevate  merit  even  from  obscurity.    As  riches  incn 
and  accumulate  in  Pew  hands;  as  luxury  prevails  in  society; 
virtue  will  be  in  ;i  greater  degree  considered  as  only  :i  graceful 
appendage  of  wealth,  and  the  tendency  of  things  will  be  to  de- 

part  from  the  republican  standard.  This  is  the  real  disposition 
of  human  nature;  it  is  what  neither  the  honorable  member  nor 
myself  can  correct.  It  is  a  common  misfortune  that  awaits  our 
State  Constitution,  as  well  as  all  others. 

There  is  an  advantage  incidenl  to  large  districts  of  election, 
which  perhaps  the  gentlemen,  amidst  all  their  apprehensions  of 
influence  and  bribery,  have  oo1  adverted  to.  Tn  large  districts, 
the  corruption  of  the  electors  is  much  more  difficult.  Combina- 
tions, for  the  purposes  of  intrigue,  are  less  easily  formed.  Fac- 
tions and  cabals  are  little  known.  In  a  small  district,  wealth 
will  have  a  more  complete  influence;  because  the  people  in  the 
vicinity  of  a  great  man  are  more  immediately  his  dependents, 
and  because  this  influence  has  fewer  objects  to  act  upon.  It  has 
been  remarked,  that  it  would  be  disagreeable  to  the  middle  class 
of  men  to  go  to  the  Beat  of  the  new  government.  If  this  be  so, 
the  difficulty  will  be  enhanced  by  the  gentleman's  proposal.  If 
his  argument  be  true,  it  proves,  that  the  larger  the  rep#sentation 
is,  the  less  will  be  your  chance  of  having  it  filled.  But,  it  ap- 
pears to  me  frivolous  to  bring  forward  such  arguments  as  these. 
It  has  answered  no  other  purpose,  than  to  induce  me,  by  way  of 
reply,  to  enter  into  discussions,  which  I  consider  as  useless,  and 
not  applicable  to  our  subject. 

It  is  a  harsh  doctrine,  that  men  grow  wicked  in  proportion 
as  they  improve  and  enlighten  their  minds.  Experience  has  by 
no  means  justified  us  in  the  supposition,  that  there  is  more  vir- 
tue in  one  class  of  men  than  in  another.  Look  through  the  rich 
and  the  poor  of  the  community;  the  learned  and  the  ignorant. 
Where  dors  virtue  predominate?  The  difference  indeed  consists, 
not  in  the  quantity,  bul  kind  of  vices,  which  are  incidenl  to  the 
various  classes;  and  here  the  advantage  of  character  belongs  to 
the  wealthy.  Their  vices  are  probably  more  favorable  to  the 
prosperity  of  the  State,  than  those  of  the  indigent ;  and  partake 
less  of  moral  depravity. 


444  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  31. 

After  all,  we  must  submit  to  this  idea,  that  the  true  principle 
of  a  republic  is,  that  the  people  should  choose  whom  they  please 
to  govern  them.  Eepresentation  is  imperfect,  in  proportion  as 
the  current  of  popular  favor  is  checked.  This  great  source  of  free 
government,  popular  election,  should  be  perfectly  pure,  and  the 
most  unbounded  liberty  allowed.  Where  this  principle  is  ad- 
hered to;  where,  in  the  organization  of  the  government,  the 
legislative,  executive,  and  judicial  branches  are  rendered  dis- 
tinct ;  where  again  the  legislative  is  divided  into  separate 
houses,  and  the  operations  of  each  are  controlled  by  various 
checks  and  balances,  and  above  all,  by  the  vigilance  and  weight 
of  the  State  governments ;  to  talk  of  tyranny,  and  the  subversion 
of  our  liberties,  is  to  speak  the  language  of  enthusiasm.  This 
balance  between  the  National  and  State  governments  ought  to  be 
dwelt  on  with  peculiar  attention,  as  it  is  of  the  utmost  import- 
ance. It  forms  a  double  security  to  the  people.  If  one  en- 
croaches on  their  rights,  they  will  find  a  powerful  protection  in 
the  other.  Indeed,  they  will  both  be  prevented  from  over-pass- 
ing their  constitutional  limits,  by  a  certain  rivalship,  which  will 
ever  subsist  between  them.  I  am  persuaded,  that  a  firm  union 
is  as  necessary  to  perpetuate  our  liberties,  as  it  is  to  make  us  re- 
spectable ;  and  experience  will  probably  prove,  that  the  National 
government  will  be  as  natural  a  guardian  of  our  freedom,  as  the 
State  legislatures  themselves. 

Suggestions  of  an  extraordinary  nature,  have  been  frequently 
thrown  out  in  the  course  of  the  present  political  controversy. 
It  gives  me  pain  to  dwell  on  topics  of  this  kind ;  and  I  wish 
they  might  be  dismissed.  We  have  been  told,  that  the  old  Con- 
federation has  proved  inefficacious,  only  because  intriguing  and 
powerful  men,  aiming  at  a  revolution,  have  been  for  ever 
instigating  the  people,  and  rendering  them  disaffected  to  it. 
This,  sir,  is  a  false  insinuation. 

I  will  venture  to  assert,  that  no  combination  of  designing 
men  under  heaven,  will  be  capable  of  making  a  government  un- 
popular, which  is  in  its  principles  a  wise  and  good  one ;  and 
vigorous  in  its  operations. 

The  Confederation  was  framed  amidst  the  agitation    and 


A.SI.J  NEW- YORK     CONVENTION.  I  I  6 

tumult  of  society.    It  was  composed  of  unsound  materials,  put 
ether  in  haste.    Men  of  intelligence  discovered  the  feebleness 

of  the  structure,  in  tin-  firsl  stages  <>f  its  existence,  bul  the  great 
body  of  the  people,  too  much  engrossed  with  their  di  -.  t<> 

contemplate  any  bul  the  immediate  causes  "l'  them,  were  ignor- 
ant of  the  defects  of  their  Constitution.  But,  when  the  dangers 
of  war  were  removed,  they  saw  clearly  what  they  had  suffered, 
and  what  they  had  yet  to  suffer  from  a  feeble  form  of  govern- 
ment There  was  no  need  of  discerning  men  to  convince  the 
people  of  their  unhappy  situation.  The  complaint  was  coexten- 
sive with  the  evil,  and  both  were  eommon  to  all  classes  of  the 
imunity.  We  have  been  told,  that  the  spirit  of  patriotism 
ami  love  of  liberty  are  almost  extinguished  among  the  people, 
and  that  it  has  become  a  prevailing  doctrine,  that  republican 
principles  ought  to  be  hooted  out  of  the  world.  Sir,  I  am  con- 
fident that  such  remarks  as  these  arc  rather  occasioned  by  the 
heat  of  argument,  than  by  a  cool  conviction  of  their  truth  and 
justice.  As  for  as  my  experience  has  extended,  I  have  heard  no 
such  doctrine,  nor  have  1  discovered  any  diminution  of  regard 
for  those  rights  ami  liberties,  in  defence  of  which,  the  people 
have  fought  and  suffered.  There  have  been,  undoubtedly,  some 
d  who  have  had  speculative  doubts  on  the  subject  ol  govern- 
ment, but  the  principles  of  republicanism  are  founded  on  too 
firm  a  basis  to  be  shaken  by  a  few  Speculative  and  skeptical  rea- 
soned. ( >ur  error  has  been  of  a  very  different  kind.  We  have 
erred  through  -  of  caution,  and  a  zeal  false  and  impractica- 

ble. ( >ur  councils  have  been  destitute  of  consistency  and  stability. 
I  am  flattered  with  a  hope,  sir,  thai  we  have  now  found  a  cure  for 

the  evils  under  which  we  have  so  long  labored.      I  trust  that  the 

proposed  Constitution  affords  a  genuine  specimen  of  Representa- 
tive and  Republican  government;  and  that  it  will  answer,  in  an 
eminent  d'         .  all  the  beneficial  purposes  of  society. 


446  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  |>Et.  31. 

SPEECH  ON  THE  SENATE   OF    THE   UNITED  STATES. 

1788. 

I  am  persuaded  that  I,  in  my  turn,  shall  be  indulged  in  ad- 
dressing the  committee.  We  all,  with  equal  sincerity,  profess  to 
be  anxious  for  the  establishment  of  a  Eepublican  Government,  on 
a  safe  and  solid  basis.  It  is  the  object  of  the  wishes  of  every 
honest  man  in  the  United  States ;  and  I  presume  I  shall  not  be 
disbelieved  when  I  declare,  that  it  is  an  object,  of  all  others,  the 
nearest  and  most  dear  to  my  own  heart.  The  means  of  accom- 
plishing this  great  purpose,  become  the  most  important  study 
which  can  interest  mankind.  It  is  our  duty  to  examine  all  those 
means  with  peculiar  attention,  and  to  choose  the  best  and  most 
effectual.  It  is  our  duty  to  draw  from  nature,  from  reason,  from 
examples,  the  justest  principles  of  policy,  and  to  pursue  and  ap- 
ply them  in  the  formation  of  our  government.  We  should  con- 
template and  compare  the  systems  which,  in  the  examination, 
come  under  our  view ;  distinguish  with  a  careful  eye  the  defects 
and  excellencies  of  each,  and  discarding  the  former,  incorporate 
the  latter,  as  far  as  circumstances  will  admit,  into  our  Constitu- 
tion. If  we  pursue  a  different  course,  and  neglect  this  duty,  we 
shall  probably  disappoint  the  expectations  of  our  country  and  of 
the  world. 

In  the  commencement  of  a  revolution,  which  received  its 
birth  from  the  usurpations  of  tyranny,  nothing  was  more  natural 
than  that  the  public  mind  should  be  influenced  by  an  extreme 
spirit  of  jealousy.  To  resist  these  encroachments,  and  to  nourish 
this  spirit,  was  the  great  object  of  all  our  public  and  private  in- 
stitutions. The  zeal  for  liberty  became  predominant  and  exces- 
sive. In  forming  our  Confederation,  this  passion  alone  seemed  to 
actuate  us,  and  we  appear  to  have  had  no  other  view  than  to  se- 
cure ourselves  from  despotism.  The  object  certainly  was  a  valu- 
able one,  and  deserved  our  utmost  attention.  But  there  is 
another  object,  equally  important,  and  which  our  enthusiasm 
rendered  us  little  capable  of  regarding.  I  mean  a  principle  of 
strength  and  stability  in  the  organization  of  our  government,  and 


JEt.  31.]  MEW- YORK     CONVENTION.  i  1-7 

vi'jor  in  its  operations.  This  purpose  could  cover  1"'  accom- 
plished l>ut  by  the  establishment  of  some  Belecl  body,  formed 
peculiarly  on  this  principle.  There  are  few  positions  more  de- 
monstrable than  that,  there  should  he  iii  e\  ery  republic  some  per- 
manent body,  to  correct  the  prejudices,  cheek   the  intemperate 

- 1 * > 1 1 s .  ami  regulate  the  fluctuations  of  a  popular  assembly.  It 
is  evidenl  that  a  body  instituted  for  these  purposes,  musl  be  so 
formed  as  to  exclude  as  much  as  possible  from  its  own  character, 
those  infirmities,  and  that  mutability  which  it  is  designed  to  re- 
medy. It  is,  therefore,  necessary  that  it  should  be  small,  that  it 
shonM  h«>l<l  its  authority  during  a  considerable  period,  and  that 
it  should  have  such  an  independence  in  the  exercise  of  its  [low- 
ers, as  will  divest  it,  as  much  as  possible,  of  local  prejudices.  It 
should  be  so  formed  as  to  be  the  centre  of  political  know  ledge; 
to  pursue  always  a  steady  line  of  conduct,  and  to  reduce  every 
irregular  propensity  to  system.  Without  this  establishmenl  we 
may  make  experiments  without  end,  but  shall  never  have  an  effi- 
cient government. 

It  is  an  unquestionable  truth,  that  the  body  of  the  people  in 
every  country,  desire  sincerely  its  prosperity.  But  it  is  equally 
unquestionable,  that  they  do  not  possess  the  discernment  and  sta- 
bility necessary  for  systematic  government.  To  deny  that  they 
are  frequently  led  into  the  grossest  errors,  by  misinformation  and 
passion,  would  be  a  flattery  which  their  own  good  sense  must 
despise.  That  branch  of  administration,  especially,  which  in- 
volves our  political  relation  with  foreign  states,  a  community 
will  ever  be  incompetent  to.  These  truths  are  not  often  held  up 
in  public  assemblies;  but  they  cannot  be  unknown  to  any  who 
hear  me.  From  these  principles,  it  follows  that  there  ought  to 
be  two  distinct  bodies  in  our  Government:  one  which  shall  be 
immediately  constituted  by,  and  peculiarly  represent  the  people, 
and  possess  all  the  popular  features;  another  formed  upon  the 
principles,  and  for  the  purposes  before  explained.  Such  consid- 
erations as  these  inducec  1  the  Convention  who  formed  your  State 
Constitution,  to  institute  a  Senate  upon  the  present  plan.  The 
history  of  ancient  and  modem  republics  hail  taught  them  that 
many  of  the  evils  whieh  those  republics  suffered,  arose  from  the 


448  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  31. 

want  of  a  certain  balance,  and  that  mutual  control  indispensable 
to  a  wise  administration.  They  were  convinced  that  popular  as- 
semblies are  frequently  misguided  by  ignorance,  by  sudden  im 
pulses,  and  the  intrigues  of  ambitious  men ;  and  that  some  firm 
barrier  against  these  operations  was  necessary.  They,  therefore, 
instituted  your  Senate ;  and  the  benefits  we  have  experienced 
have  fully  justified  their  conceptions. 

What  is  the  tendency  of  the  proposed  amendment  ?  To  take 
away  the  stability  of  government,  by  depriving  the  Senate  of  its 
permanency.  To  make  this  body  subject  to  the  same  weakness 
and  prejudices,  which  are  incident  to  popular  assemblies,  and 
which  it  was  instituted  to  correct;  to  destroy  the  balance  be- 
tween them.  The  amendment  will  render  the  senator  a  slave  to 
all  the  capricious  humors  among  the  people.  It  will  probably 
be  here  suggested  that  the  Legislatures,  not  the  people,  are  to 
have  the  power  of  recall.  Without  attempting  to  prove  that 
the  Legislatures  must  be,  in  a  great  degree,  the  image  of  the  mul- 
titude in  respect  to  federal  affairs,  and  that  the  same  prejudices 
and  factions  will  prevail,  I  insist,  that  in  whatever  body  the 
power  of  recall  is  vested,  the  senator  will  perpetually  feel  him- 
self in  such  a  state  of  vassalage  and  dependence,  that  he  never 
can  possess  that  firmness  which  is  necessary  to  the  discharge  of 
his  great  duty  to  the  Union. 

Gentlemen  in  their  reasoning  have  placed  the  interests  of  the 
several  States  and  those  of  the  United  States  in  contrast.  This 
is  not  a  fair  view  of  the  subject.  They  must  necessarily  be 
involved  in  each  other.  What  we  apprehend  is,  that  some  sinis- 
ter prejudice,  or  some  prevailing  passion,  may  assume  the  form 
of  a  genuine  interest.  The  influence  of  these  is  as  powerful  as 
the  most  permanent  conviction  of  the  public  good,  and  against 
this  influence  we  ought  to  provide.  The  local  interests  of  a 
State  ought  in  every  case  to  give  way  to  the  interests  of  the 
Union.  For  when  a  sacrifice  of  one  or  the  other  is  necessary, 
the  former  becomes  only  an  apparent,  partial  interest,  and  should 
yield,  on  the  principle  that  the  smaller  good  ought  never  to  op. 
pose  the  greater  one.  When  you  assemble  from  your  several 
counties  in  the  Legislature,  were  every  member  to  be  guided 


JEt.  31.]  NEW -YORK    CONVENTION.  449 

only  by  the  apparent  interest  of  his  county,  government  would 
be  impracticable.  There  must  be  a  perpetual  accommodation 
ami  sacrifice  of  local  advantage  to  general  expediency.  But  the 
spirit  of  a  more  popular  assembly  would  rarely  be  actuated  by 
this  important  principle.  It  is,  therefore,  absolutely  necessary 
that  the  Senate  should  be  so  formed  as  to  be  unbiassed  by  false 
conceptions  of  the  real  interests,  or  undue,  attachment  to  the  ap- 
parent good  of  their  several  St; 

Gentlemen  indulge  too  many  unreasonable  apprehensions  of 
danger  to  the  State  governments.  They  seem  to  suppose,  that 
the  moment  you  put  men  into  the  national  council,  they  become 
corrupt  and  tyrannical,  and  lose  all  their  affection  for  their  fel- 
low-citizens. But  can  we  imagine  that  the  Senators  will  ever  be 
so  insensible  of  their  own  advantage  as  to  sacrifice  the  genuine 
interest  of  their  constituents  .'  The  State  governments  are  es- 
sentially necessary  to  the  form  and  spirit  of  the  general  system. 
As  long,  there  !'■  are,  as  Congress  have  a  full  conviction  of  this  ne- 
cessity, they  must,  even  upon  principles  purely  national,  have  as 
firm  an  attachment  to  the  one  as  to  the  other.  This  conviction 
can  never  leave  them,  unless  they  become  madmen.  While  the 
Constitution  continues  to  be  read,  and  its  principles  known,  the 
States  must,  by  every  rational  man,  be  considered  as  essential 
component  pints  of  the  Union;  and  therefore  the  idea  of  sacri- 
ficing the  former  to  the  latter  is  totally  inadmissible. 

The  objectors  do  not  advert  to  the  natural  strength  and  re- 
sources of  the  State  governments,  which  will  ever  give  them  an 
important  superiority  over  the  Gi  1  Government.  Ifwecom- 
pare  the  nature  of  their  different  powers,  or  the  means  of  popular 
influence  which  each  poe  .  we  shall  find  the  advantage  en- 

tirely on  the  side  of  the  States.  This  consideration,  important 
as  it  is,  seems  to  have  been  little  attended  to.  The  aggregate 
number  of  representatives  throughout  the  States  may  be  two 
thousand.  Their  personal  influence  will  therefore  be  propor- 
tion ably  more  extensive  than  that  of  one  or  two  hundred  nan 
in  Congress.  The  State  establishments  of  civil  and  military  offi- 
cers of  every  description,  infinitely  surpassing  in  number  any 
corresponding  establishments  in  the  General  Government,  will 

b  29 


450  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  31. 

create  such  an  extent  and  complication  of  attachments  as  will 
ever  secure  the  predilection  and  support  of  the  people.  When- 
ever, therefore,  Congress  shall  meditate  any  infringement  of  the 
State  Constitutions,  the  great  body  of  the  people  will  naturally 
take  part  with  their  domestic  representatives.  Can  the  General 
Government  withstand  such  a  united  opposition  ?  Will  the  peo- 
ple suffer  themselves  to  be  stripped  of  their  privileges  ?  Will 
they  suffer  their  legislatures  to  be  reduced  to  a  shadow  and  a 
name  ?     The  idea  is  shocking  to  common  sense. 

From  the  circumstances  already  explained,  and  many  others 
which  might  be  mentioned,  results  a  complicated,  irresistible 
check,  which  must  ever  support  the  existence  and  importance  of 
the  State  governments.  The  danger,  if  any  exists,  flows  from 
an  opposite  source.  The  probable  evil  is,  that  the  General  Go- 
vernment will  be  too  dependent  on  the  State  legislatures,  too 
much  governed  by  their  prejudices,  and  too  obsequious  to  their 
humors ;  that  the  States,  with  every  power  in  their  hands,  will 
make  encroachments  on  the  national  authority  till  the  Union  is 
weakened  and  dissolved. 

Every  member  must  have  been  struck  with  an  observation  of 
a  gentleman  from  Albany.  Do  what  you  will,  he  says,  local  pre- 
judices and  opinions  will  go  into  the  government.  What !  shall 
we  then  form  a  Constitution  to  cherish  and  strengthen  these  pre- 
judices ?  Shall  we  confirm  the  distemper  instead  of  remedying 
it  ?  It  is  undeniable  that  there  must  be  a  control  somewhere. 
Either  the  general  interest  is  to  control  the  particular  interests, 
or  the  contrary.  If  the  former,  then  certainly  the  Government 
ought  to  be  so  framed  as  to  render  the  power  of  control  efficient 
to  all  intents  and  purposes ;  if  the  latter,  a  striking  absurdity 
follows.  The  controlling  powers  must  be  as  numerous  as  the 
varying  interests,  and  the  operations  of  government  must  there- 
fore cease.  For  the  moment  you  accommodate  these  differing 
interests,  which  is  the  only  way  to  set  the  government  in  motion, 
you  establish  a  general  controlling  power.  Thus,  whatever  con- 
stitutional provisions  are  made  to  the  contrary,  every  Govern- 
ment will  be  at  last  driven  to  the  necessity  of  subjecting  the 
partial  to  the  universal  interest.     The  gentlemen  ought  always, 


JEt.  31.]  NEW- YORK    CONVENTION.  451 

in  their  reasoning,  to  distinguish  between  the  real,  genuine  good 
of  a  State,  and  the  opinions  and  prejudices  which  may  prevail 
respecting  it.  The  latter  may  be  opposed  to  the  general  good, 
and  consequently  oughl  to  be  sacrificed  :  the  former  is  bo  involved 
in  it  thai  it  never. can  he  sacrified.  Sir,  the  main  design  of  the 
convention,  in  forming  the  Senate,  was  to  prevent  lliictnations 
and  cabala  With  this  view,  they  made  that  body  small,  and  to 
exist  for  a  considerable  period.  Have  they  carried  this  design 
too  far  ?  The  Senators  are  to  serve  six  years.  This  is  only  two 
year.-  linger  than  the  Senators  of  this  State  hold  their  places. 
One-third  of  the  members  are  to  go  out  every  two  years  ;  and  in 
six  the  whole  body  may  be  changed.  Prior  to  the  lievolution, 
the  representatives  in  the  several  colonies  were  elected  for  differ- 
ent periods ;  for  three  years,  for  seven  years,  &c.  Were  those 
bodies  ever  considered  as  incapable  of  representing  the  people, 
or  as  too  independent  of  them  ?  There  is  one  circumstance 
which  will  have  a  tendency  to  increase  the  dependence  of  the 
Senators  on  the  States,  in  proportion  to  the  duration  of  their 
appointments.  As  the  State  legislatures  are  in  continual  fluc- 
tuation, the  Senator  will  have  more  attachments  to  form,  and 
consequently  a  greater  ditliculty  of  maintaining  his  place,  than 
one  of  shorter  duration.  He  will  therefore  be  more  cautious  and 
industrious  to  suit  his  conduct  to  the  wishes  of  his  constituents. 

AY  hen  you  take  a  view  of  all  the  circumstances  which  have 
been  recited,  you  will  certainly  see,  that  the  Senators  will  con- 
stantly look  up  to  the  State  governments,  with  an  eye  of  depend- 
ence and  affection.  If  they  are  ambitious  to  continue  in  office, 
they  will  make  every  prudent  arrangement  for  this  purpose,  and 
whatever  maybe  their  private  sentiments  of  politics,  they  will 
be  convinced,  that  the  surest  means  of  obtaining  a  re-election, 
will  be  a  uniform  attachment  to  the  interests  of  their  several 
States. 

In  support  of  this  amendment  it  has  been  observed  that  the 
power  of  recall,  under  the  old  Government,  has  never  been  exer- 
cised.   There  is  no  reasoning  from  this.   The  experience  of  a  i 
years,   under  peculiar  circumstances,   can   allbrd  no   probable 
security  that  it  never  will  be  carried  into  execution,  with  un- 


452  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  31. 

happy  effects.  A  seat  in  Congress  has  been  less  an  object  of 
ambition ;  and  the  arts  of  intrigue,  consequently,  have  been  less 
practised.  Indeed,  it  has  been  difficult  to  find  men,  who  were 
willing  to  suffer  the  mortifications  to  which  so  feeble  a  Govern- 
ment, and  so  dependent  a  station  exposed  them. 

Sir,  if  you  consider  but  a  moment  the  purposes,  for  which  the 
Senate  was  instituted,  and  the  nature  of  the  business  which 
they  are  to  transact,  you  will  see  the  necessity  of  giving  them 
duration.     They,  together  with  the  President,  are  to  manage  all 
our  concerns  with  foreign  nations.     They  must  understand  all 
their  interests,  and  their  political  systems.     This  knowledge  is 
not  soon  acquired, — but  a  very  small  part  is  gained  in  the  closet. 
Is  it  desirable  that  new  and  unqualified  members  should  be  con- 
tinually thrown  into  that  body  ?  When  public  bodies  are  engaged 
in  the  exercise  of  general  powers,  you  cannot  judge  of  the  pro- 
priety of  their  conduct,  but  from  the  result  of  their  systems. 
They  may  be  forming  plans,  which  require  time  and  diligence  to 
bring  to  maturity.     It  is  necessary,  therefore,  that  they  should 
have  a  considerable  and  fixed  duration,  that  they  may  make 
their  calculations  accordingly.      If  they  are  to  be  perpetually 
fluctuating,  they  can  never  have  that  responsibility  which  is  so 
important  in  republican  governments.      In  bodies  subject  to 
frequent  changes,  great  political  plans  must  be  conducted  by 
members  in  succession :  a  single  Assembly  can  have  but  a  partial 
agency  in  them,  and  consequently  cannot  be  answerable  for  the 
final  event.     Considering  the  Senate  therefore  with  a  view  to 
responsibility,  duration  is  a  very  interesting  and  essential  quality. 
There  is  another  view  in  which  duration  in  the  Senate  appears 
necessary :    a  government  changeable  in  its  policy,  must  soon 
lose  its  sense  of  national  character,  and  forfeit  the  respect  of  for- 
eigners.—Senators  will  not  be  solicitous  for  the  reputation  of 
public  measures,  in  which  they  have  had  but   a  temporary 
concern,  and  will  feel  lightly  the  burthen  of  public  disapproba- 
tion, in  proportion  to  the  number  of  those  who  partake  of  the 
censure.     Our  political  rivals  will  ever  consider  our  most  able 
counsels  as  evidence  of  deficient  wisdom,  and  will  be  little  appre- 
hensive of  our  arriving  at  any  exalted  station  in  the  scale  of 


jEt.  31.]  NEW-YORK    CONVENTION.  153 

power.  Such  are  the  internal  and  external  disadvantages  which 
would  resull  from  the  principle  contended  for.  Were  it  admitted, 
I  am  firmly  persuaded,  sir,  thai  prejudices  would  govern  the 
public  deliberations,  and  passions  rage  in  the  counsels  of  the 
Union.  If  it  were  necessary,  I  could  illustrate  my  subject  by 
historical  facts.  I  could  travel  through  an  extensive  field  of 
detail,  and  demonstrate  that  wherever  the  fatal  principle,  of  the 
head  Buffering  the  control  of  the  members,  has  operated,  it  has 
proved  a  fruitful  source  of  commotions  and  disorder. 

This  is  the  first  fair  opportunity  that  has  been  oilered  of  dc- 
liberately  correcting  the  errors  in  government.  Instability  has 
been  a  prominent  and  7ery  defective  feature  inmost  republican 
systems.  Jt  is  the  first  to  be  seen,  and  the  last  to  be  lamented  by 
a  philosophical  inquirer.  It  has  operated  most  banefully  in  our 
infant  republics.  It  is  necessary  that  we  apply  an  immediate 
remedy,  and  eradicate  the  poisonous  principle  from  our  govern- 
ment. If  this  be  not  done  we  shall  feel,  and  posterity  will  be 
convulsed,  by  a  painful  malady. 

This  is  one  of  those  subjects  on  which,  objections  very  natur- 
ally arise,  and  assume  the  most  plausible  shape.  Its  address  is 
to  the  passions,  and  its  first  impressions  create  a  prejudice,  before 
cool  examination  has  an  opportunity  for  exertion.     It  is  more 

.  for  the  human  mind  to  calculate  the  evils,  than  the  advan- 
tages of  a  measure ;  and  vastly  more  natural  to  apprehend  the 
danger  than  to  see  the  necessity  of  giving  powers  to  our  rulers. 
Eence,  1  may  justly  expect  that  those  who  hear  me  will  place 
less  confidence  in  those  arguments  which  oppose,  than  in  those 
which  favor,  their  prepossessions. 

After  all  our  doubts,  our  suspicions,  and  speculations,  on  the 
subj  eminent,  we  must  return  at  last  to  the  important 

truth,  that  when  we  have  formed  a  Constitution  upon  free  prin- 
ciples, when  we  have  given  a  proper  balance  to  the  different 
branches  of  administration,  and  fixed  representation  upon  pure 
and  equal  principles,  we  may  with  safety  furnish  it  with  all  the 

powers  necessary  to  answer  in  the  most  ample  manner  the  pur- 
poses of  government.  The  great  desiderata  are  a  free  representa- 
tion and  mutual  cheeks.     When  these  are  obtained,  all  our  ap 


454  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  31. 

pretensions  of  the  extent  of  powers  are  unjust  and  imaginary. 
What  is  the  structure  of  this  Constitution  ?  One  branch  of  the 
legislature  is  to  be  elected  by  the  people — by  the  same  people 
who  chose  your  State  representatives.  Its  members  are  to  hold 
their  office  two  years,  and  then  return  to  their  constituents.  Here 
the  people  govern.  Here  they  act  by  their  immediate  repre- 
sentatives. You  have  also  a  Senate,  constituted  by  your  State 
legislatures,  by  men  in  whom  you  place  the  highest  confidence, 
and  forming  another  representative  branch.  Then,  again,  you 
have  an  executive  magistate,  created  by  a  form  of  election  which 
meets  universal  admiration.  In  the  form  of  this  government, 
and  in  the  mode  of  legislation,  you  find  all  the  checks  which  the 
greatest  politicians  and  the  best  writers  have  ever  conceived. 
What  more  can  reasonable  men  desire  ?  Is  there  any  one 
branch  in  which  the  whole  legislative  and  executive  powers  are 
lodged  ?  No.  The  legislative  authority  is  lodged  in  three  dis- 
tinct branches,  properly  balanced.  The  executive  authority  is 
divided  between  two  branches,  and  the  judicial  is  still  reserved 
for  an  independent  body,  who  hold  their  office  during  good  be- 
havior. This  organization  is  so  complex,  so  skilfully  contrived, 
that  it  is  next  to  impossible  that  an  impolitic  or  wicked  measure 
should  pass  the  great  scrutiny  with  success.  Now,  what  do 
gentlemen  mean  by  coming  forward  and  declaiming  against  this 
government  ?  Why  do  they  say  we  ought  to  limit  its  powers, 
to  disable  it,  and  to  destroy  its  capacity  of  blessing  the  people  ? 
Has  philosophy  suggested — has  experience  taught — that  such  a 
government  ought  not  to  be  trusted  with  every  thing  necessary 
for  the  good  of  society  ?  When  you  have  divided  and  nicely 
balanced  the  departments  of  government;  when  you  have 
strongly  connected  the  virtue  of  your  rulers  with  their  interest ; 
when,  in  short,  you  have  rendered  your  system  as  perfect  as 
human  forms  can  be,  you  must  place  confidence,  you  must  give 
power. 

We  have  heard  a  great  deal  of  the  sword  and  the  purse.  It 
is  said  our  liberties  are  in  clanger  if  both  are  possessed  by  Con- 
gress. Let  us  see  what  is  the  true  meaning  of  this  maxim, 
which  has  been  so  much  used,  and  so  little  understood.     It  is, 


for.  31.]  NEW- YORK    CONVENTION.  455 

that  you  shall  not  plan'  these  powers  in  either  the  Legislative  or 
I  ecutive,  singly  ;  neither  one  nor  the  other  shall  have  both  ;  be- 
cause this  would  destroy  that  division  of  powers  on  which  political 
liberty  is  founded,  ami  would  furnish  one  body  with  all  the  means 
of  tyranny.  But  when  the  purse  is  Lodged  in  one  branch,  and  the 
sword  in  another,  there  can  be  no  danger.  All  governments 
have  possessed  these  powers.  They  would  be  monsters  without 
them,  and  incapable  of  exertion.  What  is  your  State  govern- 
ment? Does  not  your  Legislature  command  what  money  it 
pleases?  Does  not  your  Executive  execute  the  laws  without 
restraint?  These  distinctions  between  the  purse  and  the  sword 
have  no  application  to  the  system,  but  only  to  its  separate 
branches.  When  we  reason  about  the  great  interests  of  a  great 
people,  it  is  high  time  that  we  dismiss  our  prejudices,  and  banish 
declamation. 

In  order  to  induce  us  to  consider  the  powers  given  by  this 
Constitution  as  dangerous,  in  order  to  render  plausible  an  at- 
tempt to  take  away  the  life  and  spirit  of  the  most  important 
power  in  government,  the  gentleman  complains  that  we  shall  not 
have  a  true  and  safe  representation.  I  have  asked  him  what  a 
safe  representation  is,  and  he  has  given  no  satisfactory  answer. 
The  Assembly  of  New-York  has  been  mentioned  as  a  proper 
standard.  But  if  we  apply  this  standard  to  the  General  Govern- 
ment, our  Congress  will  become  a  mere  mob,  exposed  to  every 
irregular  impulse,  and  Bubject  to  every  breeze  of  faction.  Can 
such  a  system  afford  security?  Can  you  have  confidence  in 
such  a  body  ?  The  idea  of  taking  the  ratio  of  representation  in 
a  small  society,  for  tin'  ratio  of  a  gnat  one.  is  a  fallacy  which 
oughl  to  I"-  exposed.  It  is  impossible  to  ascertain  to  what  point 
our  representation  will  increase.  It  may  vary  from  one  to  two, 
three,  or  four  hundred.  It  depends  upon  the  progress  of  popula- 
tion. Suppose  it  to  rest  at  two  hundred;  is  not  this  number 
sufficient  to  secure  it  against  corruption?  Human  nature  must 
be  a  much    more  weak  and  despicable   thin,--  than  1  apprehend  it 

to  be,  if  two  hundred  of  our  fellow-citizens  can  be  corrupted  in 

two  years.  Bu1  BUppose  they  are  corrupted;  can  they,  in  two 
years,  accomplish  their  designs?     Can  they  form  a  combination, 


456  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  31. 

and  even  lay  a  foundation  for  a  system  of  tyranny,  in  so  short  a 
period  ?    It  is  far  from  my  intention  to  wound  the  feelings  of 
any  gentleman ;   but  I  must,  in  this  most  interesting  discussion, 
speak  of  things  as  they  are,  and  hold  up  opinions  in  the  light  in 
which  they  ought  to  appear ;   and  I  maintain,  that  all  that  has 
been  said  of  corruption,  of  the  purse  and  the  sword,  and  of  the 
danger  of  giving  powers,  is  not  supported  by  principle  or  fact ; 
that  it  is  mere  verbiage  and  idle  declamation.     The  true  princi- 
ple of  government  is  this— make  the  system  complete  in  its 
structure;   give  a  perfect  proportion  and  balance  to  its  parts, 
and  the  powers  you  give  it  will  never  affect  your  security.     The 
question,  then,  of  the  division  of  powers  between  the  General 
and  State  governments,  is  a  question  of  convenience.     It  be- 
comes a  prudential  inquiry,  what  powers  are  proper  to  be  re- 
served to  the  latter,  and  this  immediately  involves  another  in- 
quiry into  the  proper  objects  of  the  two  governments.     This  is 
the  criterion  by  which  we  shall  determine  the  just  distribution 
of  powers. 

The  great  leading  objects  of  the  Federal  Government,  in 
which  revenue  is  concerned,  are  to  maintain  domestic  peace,  and 
provide  for  the  common  defence.     In  these  are  comprehended 
the  regulation  of  commerce,  that  is,  the  whole  system  of  foreign 
intercourse,  the  support  of  armies  and  navies,  and  of  the  civil 
administration.     It  is  useless  to  go  into  detail.     Every  one  knows 
that  the  objects  of  the  General  Government  are  numerous,  exten- 
sive, and  important.     Every  one  must  acknowledge  the  necessity 
of  giving  powers,  in  all  respects  and  in  every  degree,  equal  to 
these  objects.     This  principle  assented  to,  let  us  inquire  what  are 
the  objects  of  the  State  governments.     Have  they  to  provide 
against  foreign  invasion?     Have  they  to  maintain  fleets   and 
armies  t     Have  they  any  concern  in  the  regulation  of  commerce, 
the   procuring   alliances,    or   forming  treaties   of  peace?      No. 
Their  objects  are  merely  civil  and  domestic,  to  support  the  legis- 
ative  establishment,  and  to  provide  for  the  administration  of  the 
ays.     Let  any  one  compare  the  expense  of  supporting  the  civil 
hst  m  a  State  with  the  expense  of  providing  for  the  defence  of 
the  Union.     The  difference  is  almost  beyond  calculation.     The 


^t.  31.]  NEW -YORK    CONVENTION.  457 

experience  of  GTeat  Britain  will  throw  some  light  on  this  subject. 
In  that  kingdom,  the  ordinary  expenses  of  peace  to  those  of  war 

are  as  one  to  fourteen.  But  there  they  have  a  monarch,  with 
his  splendid  court,  and  an  enormous  civil  establishment,  with 
which  we  have  nothing  in  this  country  to  compare.  If,  in  Great 
Britain,  the  expenses  of  war  and  peace  are  so  disproportioncd, 
how  wide  will  be  their  disparity  in  the  United  States!  How 
infinite] v  wider  between  the  General  Government  and  that  of 
each  individual  State!  AVhere  ought  the  great  resources  to  be 
lodged  ?  Every  rational  man  will  give  an  immediate  answer. 
To  what  extent  shall  these  resources  be  possessed  ?  Eeason  says, 
as  far  as  possible  exigencies  can  require ;  that  is,  without  limita- 
tion. A  Constitution  cannot  set  bounds  to  a  nation's  wants ;  it 
ought  not  therefore  to  set  bounds  to  its  resources.  Unexpected 
visitations,  long  and  ruinous  wars,  may  demand  all  the  possible 
abilities  of  the  country.  Shall  not  our  government  have  power 
to  call  these  abilities  into  action?  The  contingencies  of  society 
are  not  reducible  to  calculations  ;  thev  cannot  be  fixed  or 
bounded,  even  in  imagination.  Will  you  limit  the  means  of 
your  defence,  when  you  cannot  ascertain  the  force  or  extent  of 
the  invasion?  Even  in  ordinary  wars,  a  government  is  fre- 
quently obliged  to  call  for  supplies,  to  the  temporary  oppression 
of  the  people. 

If  we  adopt  the  idea  of  exclusive  revenues,  we  shall  be 
obliged  to  fix  some  distinguishing  line,  which  neither  govern- 
ment shall  overpass.  The  inconveniences  of  this  measure  must 
appear  evident  on  the  slightest  examination.  The  resources 
appropriated  to  one  may  diminish  or  fail,  while  those  of  the  other 
may  increase  beyond  the  wants  of  government.  One  may  be 
destitute  of  revenues,  while  the  other  shall  possess  an  unnecessary 
abundance;  and  the  Constitution  will  be  an  eternal  barrier  to  a 
mutual  intercourse  and  relief.  In  this  case,  will  the  individual 
States  stand  on  so  good  a  ground  as  if  the  objects  of  taxation 
were  lefl  free  and  open  to  the  embrace  of  both  the  governments? 
Possibly,  in  the  advancement  of  commerce,  the  imposts  may 
increase  to  such  a  degree,  as  to  render  direct  taxes  unnecessary; 
these  resources,  then,  as  the  Constitution  stands,  may  be  occa- 


458  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  31. 

sionally  relinquished  to  the  States.  But  on  the  gentleman's  idea 
of  prescribing  exclusive  limits,  and  precluding  all  reciprocal 
communication,  this  would  be  entirely  improper.  The  laws  of 
the  States  must  not  touch  the  appropriated  resources  of  the 
United  States,  whatever  may  be  their  wants.  Would  it  not  be 
of  more  advantage  to  the  States  to  have  a  concurrent  jurisdiction 
extending  to  all  the  sources  of  revenue,  than  to  be  confined  to 
such  a  small  resource  as,  on  calculation  of  the  objects  of  the 
two  governments,  should  appear  to  be  their  due  proportion? 
Certainly,  you  cannot  hesitate  on  this  question.  The  gentleman's 
plan  would  also  have  a  further  ill  effect ;  it  would  tend  to  dis- 
solve the  connection  and  correspondence  of  the  two  governments, 
to  estrange  them  from  each  other,  and  to  destroy  that  mutual 
dependence  which  forms  the  essence  of  Union. 

A  number  of  arguments  have  been  advanced  by  an  honorable 
member  from  New- York,  which,  to  every  unclouded  mind,  must 
carry  conviction.  He  has  stated  that,  in  sudden  emergencies,  it 
may  be  necessary  to  borrow ;  and  that  it  is  impossible  to  borrow 
unless  you  have  funds  to  pledge  for  the  payment  of  your  debts. 
Limiting  the  powers  of  government  to  certain  resources,  is  ren- 
dering the  funds  precarious;  and  obliging  the  government  to 
ask,  instead  of  empowering  it  to  command,  is  to  destroy  all  con- 
fidence and  credit.  If  the  power  of  taxing  is  restricted,  the 
consequence  is,  that  on  the  breaking  out  of  a  war,  you  must 
divert  the  funds,  appropriated  to  the  payment  of  debts,  to  answer 
immediate  exigencies.  Thus,  you  violate  your  engagements  at 
the  very  time  you  increase  the  burthen  of  them.  Besides,  sound 
policy  condemns  the  practice  of  accumulating  debts.  A  govern- 
ment, to  act  with  energy,  should  have  the  possession  of  all  its 
revenues  to  answer  present  purposes.  The  principle,  for  which 
I  contend,  is  recognized  in  all  its  extent  by  our  old  Constitution. 
Congress  is  authorized  to  raise  troops,  to  call  for  supplies  without 
limitation,  and  to  borrow  money  to  any  amount.  It  is  true,  they 
must  use  the  form  of  recommendations  and  requisitions  ;  but  the 
States  are  bound,  by  the  solemn  ties  of  honor,  of  justice,  of 
religion,  to  comply  without  reserve. 

Mr.  Chairman, — It  has  been  advanced  as  a  principle,  that  no 


jEt.  31.]  NEW- YORK    CONVENTION.  1  •'•'•» 

government  bnt  a  despotism  can  exist  in  a  very  extensive 
country.  This  is  a  melancholy  consideration  indeed.  It'it  were 
fouiidci I  on  truth,  we  ought  to  dismiss  the  idea  of  a  Republican 
government,  even  for  the  State  of  New- York.  This  idea  has 
been  taken  from  a  celebrated  writer,  who,  by  being  misunder- 
stood, lias  been  the  occasion  of  frequent  fallacies  in  our  reason- 
ing on  political  subjects.  But  the  position  has  1 n  misappre- 
hended; and  its  application  is  entirely  false  and  unwarrantable. 
It  relates  only  to  Democracies,  where  the  whole  body  of  the 
people  meel  to  transact  business,  and  where  representation  is 
unknown.  Such  were  a  number  of  ancient,  and  some  modern 
independent  cities.  Men  who  read  without  attention,  have  taken 
these  maxims  respecting  the  extent  of  country;  and,  contrary  to 
their  proper  meaning,  have  applied  them  to  Eepublics  in  gene- 
ral. This  application  is  wrong,  in  respect  to  all  representative 
governments,  but  especially  in  relation  to  a  Confederacy  of 
States,  in  which  the  supreme  legislature  lias  only  general  powers, 
and  the  civil  and  domestic  concerns  of  the  people  are  regulated 
by  the  laws  of  the  several  States.  This  distinction  being  kept 
in  view,  all  the  difficulty  will  vanish,  and  we  may  easily  con- 
ceive, that  the  people  of  a  large  country  may  be  represented  as 
truly,  as  those  of  a  small  one.  An  assembly  constituted  for  gen- 
eral purposes,  may  be  fully  competent  to  every  federal  regula- 
tion, without  being  too  numerous  for  deliberate  conduct  If  the 
State  governments  were  to  be  abolished,  the  question  would 
wear  a  different  face;  but  this  idea  is  inadmissible.  They  are 
absolutely  necessary  to  the  system.  Their  existence  must  form 
a  leading  principle  in  the  most  perfect  Constitution  we  could 
a.  I  insist  that  it  never  can  be  the  interest  or  desire  of  the 
National  legislature,  to  destroy  the  State  governments.  It  can 
derive  no  advantage  from  such  an  event;  but,  on  the  contrary, 
would  lose  an  indispensable  support,  a  necessary  aid  in  execut- 
ing the  laws,  and  conveying  the  influence  of  government  to  the 
doors  of  the  people.  The  Union  is  dependent  on  the  will  of  the 
State  governments  for  its  Chief  Magistrate,  and  for  its  Senate. 
The  blow  aimed  at  the  members,  must  give  a  fatal  wound  to  the 
head,  and  the  destruction  of  the  States  must  be  at  once  a  politi- 


460  HAMILTON'S    WORKS. 


[Mt.  31. 


cal  suicide.     Can  the  National  Government  be  guilty  of  this 
madness  ?      What   inducements,  what    temptations,  can   they 
have  ?     Will  they  attach  new  honors  to  their  station  ;  will  they 
increase  the  national  strength ;  will  they  multiply  the  national  re- 
sources;   will  they  make  themselves  more  respectable,  in  the 
view  of  foreign  nations,  or  of  their  fellow-citizens,  by  robbing 
the  States  of  their  constitutional  privileges  ?     But  imagine  for  a 
moment,  that  a  political  frenzy  should  seize  the  government. 
Suppose  they  should  make  the  attempt.     Certainly  it  would  be 
for  ever  impracticable.     This  has  been  sufficiently  demonstrated 
by  reason  and  experience.     It  has  been  proved,  that  the  mem- 
bers of  republics  have  been,  and  ever  will  be,  stronger  than  the 
head.     Let  us  attend  to  one  general  historical  example.     In  the 
ancient  feudal  governments  of  Europe  there  was  in  the  first 
place  a  monarch;  subordinate  to  him  a  body  of  nobles;  and  sub- 
ject to  these,  the  vassals  or  the  whole  body  of  the  people.     The 
authority  of  the  kings  was  limited,  and  that  of  the  barons  con- 
siderably independent.     A  great  part  of  the  early  wars  in  Eu- 
rope were  contests  between  the  king  and  his  nobility.     In  these 
contests,  the  latter  possessed  many  advantages,   derived  from 
their  influence,  and  the  immediate  command  they  had  over  the 
people,  and  they  generally  prevailed.     The  history  of  the  feudal 
wars  exhibits  little  more  than  a  series  of  successful  encroach- 
ments on  the  prerogatives  of  monarchy.    Here  is  one  great  proof 
of  the  superiority,  which  the  members  in  limited  governments 
possess  over  their  head.     As  long  as  the  barons  enjoyed  the 
cenfidence  and  attachment  of  the  people,  they  had  the  strength 
of  the  country  on  their  side,  and  were  irresistible.     I  may  be 
told  that  m  some  instances  the  barons  were  overcome.    But  how 
did  this  happen  ?     They  took  advantage  of  the  depression  of  the 
royal  authority,  and  the  establishment  of  their  own  power  to 
oppress  and  tyrannize  over  their  vassals.   As  commerce  enlarged, 
and  as  wealth  and  civilization  increased,  the  people  began  to 
feel  their  own  weight  and  consequence;  they  grew  tired  of  their 
oppressions;  united  their  strength  with  that  of  the  prince  ;  and 
threw  off  the  yoke  of  aristocracy.     These  very  instances  prove 
what  I  contend  for.     They  prove,  that  in  whatever  direction 


Mr.  31.]  NEW-YORK     CONVENTION.  461 

the  popular  weight  leans,  the  current  of  power  will  flow.  Wher- 
ever the  popular  attachments  be,  there  will  rest  the  political 

superiority.  Sir,  can  it  be  supposed  that  the  State  governments 
will  become  the  oppressors  of  the  people?  Will  they  forget 
their  affections?  Will  they  combine  to  destroy  the  liberties  and 
happiness  of  their  fellow-citizens,  for  the  sole  purpose  of  involv- 
ing themselves  in  ruin?  God  forbid!  The  idea  is  sin  irking  1 
It  outrages  every  feeling  of  humanity,  and  every  dictate  of  com- 
mon sense  1 

There  arc  certain  social  principles  in  human  nature,  from 
which  we  may  draw  the  most  solid  conclusions  with  respect  to 
the  conduct  of  individuals,  and  of  communities.     We  love  our 
families,  more  than  our  neighbors;  we  love  our  neighbors  more 
than  our  countrymen  in  general.     The  human  affections,  like 
the  solar  heat,  lose  their  intensity,  as  they  depart  from  the  cen- 
tre ;  and  become  languid  in  proportion  to  the  expansion  of  the 
circle  on  which  they  act.     On  these  principles,  the  attachment 
of  the  individual  will  be  first  and  for  ever  secured  by  the  State 
governments.     They  will  be  a  mutual   protection  and  support. 
Another  source  of  influence,  winch  has  already  been  pointed 
out,  is  the  various  official  connections  in  the  States.     Gentlemen 
endeavor  to  evade  the  force  of  this,  by  saying  that  these  oifices 
will  be  insignificant.     This  is  by  no  means  true.      The   State 
officers  will  ever  be  important,  because  they  are  necessary  and 
useful.     Their  powers  are  such  as  are  extremely  interesting  to 
the  people,  such  as  affect  their  property,  their  liberty  and  life. 
What  is  more  important,  than  the  administration  of  justice,  and 
the  execution  of  the  civil  and   criminal   laws?     Can  the  State 
governments  become  insignificant,  while  they  have  the  power  of 
raising  money  independently  and  without  control?     If  they  are 
really  useful;    if  they  are  calculated  to  promote  the  essential 
interests  of  the  people;  they  must  have  their  confidence 
support.    The  States  can  never  lose  their  till  the 

whole  people  of  America  are  robbed  of  their  liberties.     T 
must  go  together,  they  must  it  each  other,  or  meet  one 

common  fate.     On  the  gentleman's  principles,   we  may   safely 
trust  the  State  governments,  though  we  have   no   means  of  re- 


462  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  31. 

sisting  them,  but  we  cannot  confide  in  the  National  Government, 
though  we  have  an  effectual  constitutional  guard  against  every 
encroachment.  This  is  the  essence  of  their  argument,  and  it  is 
false  and  fallacious  beyond  conception. 

With  regard  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  two  Governments,  I 
shall  certainly  admit  that  the  Constitution  ought  not  to  be  so 
formed  as  to  prevent  the  States  providing  for  their  own  exist- 
ence; and   I  maintain   that  it  is   so   formed  that  their  power 
of  providing  for  themselves  is  sufficiently  established.     This  is 
conceded  by  one  gentleman,  and  in  the  next  breath  the  conces- 
sion i  s  retracted.   He  says  Congress  have  but  one  exclusive  right 
in  taxation,  that  of  duties  on  imports.     Certainly,  then,  their 
other  powers  are  only  concurrent.     But,  to  take  off  the  force  of 
this  obvious  conclusion,  he  immediately  says  that  if  the  laws  of 
the  United   States  are  supreme,  those  of  the   States  must  be 
subordinate,  because  there  cannot  be  two  supremes.     This  is 
curious  sophistry.   That  two  supreme  powers  cannot  act  together 
is  false.     They  are  inconsistent  only  when  they  are  aimed  at  each 
other,  or  at  one  indivisible  object.      The  laws  of  the  United 
States  are  supreme  as  to  all  their  proper  constitutional  objects. 
The  laws  of  the  States  are  supreme  in  the  same  way.     These  su- 
preme laws  may  act  on  different  objects  without  clashing,  or  they 
may  operate  on  different  parts  of  the  same  common  object  with 
perfect  harmony.     Suppose  both  governments  should  lay  a  tax 
of  a  penny  on  a  certain  article.     Has  not  each  an  independent 
and  uncontrollable  power  to  collect  its  own  tax  ?     The  meaning 
of  the  axiom,  that  there  cannot  be  two  supremes,  is  simply  this : 
two  powers  cannot  be  supreme  over  each  other.      This  meaning 
is  entirely  perverted  by  the  gentlemen.     But,  it  is  said,  disputes 
between  collectors  are  to  be  referred  to  the  Federal  courts. 
This  is  again  wandering  in  the  field  of  conjecture.     But  suppose 
the  fact  certain.     Is  it  not  to  be  presumed  that  they  will  express 
the  true  meaning  of  the  Constitution  and  the  laws  ?     Will  they 
not  be  bound  to  consider  the  concurrent  jurisdiction ;  to  declare 
that  both  the  taxes  shall  have  equal  operation ;  that  both  the 
powers,  in  that  respect,  are  sovereign  and  coextensive  ?     If  they 
transgress  their  duty  we  are  to  hope  that  they  will  be  punished. 


At.  31.]  NEW -YORK    CONVENTION.  463 

Sir,  we  cannot  reason  from  probabilities  alone.  When  we  Leave 
common  sense,  and  give  ourselves  up  to  conjecture,  there  can  be 
no  certainty,  no  security  in  our  reasonings. 

I  imagine  I  have  stated  to  the  committee  abundanl  reasons  to 

prove  the  entire  safety  of  the  State  governments  and  of  the  peo- 
ple. 1  would  go  into  a  more  minute  consideration  of  the  nature 
of  the  concurrent  jurisdiction,  and  of  the  operation  of  the  laws  in 
relation  to  revenue;  but  at  presenl  1  feel  too  much  indisposed  to 
proceed.  I  shall,  with  the  leave  of  the  committee,  improve  an- 
other opportunity  of  expressing  to  them  more  fully  my  ideas  on 
this  point.  I  wish  the  committee  to  remember,  that  the  Consti- 
tution under  examination  is  framed  upon  truly  republican  princi- 
ples, and  that,  as  it  is  expressly  designed  to  provide  for  the  common 
protection  and  the  general  welfare  of  the  United  States,  it  must 
be  utterly  repugnant  to  this  Constitution  to  subvert  the  State 
governments,  or  oppress  the  people. 


BRIEF   OF  ARGUMENT  OX  THE   CONSTITUTION  OF  THE   UNITED 

STATES. 

1788. 

A.       I.  A  republic,  a  word  used  in  various  senses. 

lias  been  applied  to  aristocracies  and  monarchies. 

1.  To  Home,  under  the  kings. 

2.  To  Sparta,  though  a  Senate  for  life. 

3.  To  Carthage,  though  the  same. 

4.  To  United  Netherlands,  though  Stadtholder,  he- 

reditary nobles. 

5.  To  Poland,  though  aristocracy  and  monarchy. 

6.  To  Great  Britain,  though  monarchy,  i\:r. 

II.  Again,  great  confusion  about  the  words  democracy,  aris- 
tocracy, monarchy. 

I.  Democracy  defined  by  some,  Rousseau,  &o,  a 
government  exercised  by  the  colleetive  body 
of  the  people. 


464  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  31. 

2.  Delegation  of  their  power  has  been  made 
the  criterion  of  aristocracy. 
I.  Aristocracy  has  been  used  to  designate  govern- 
ments. 

1.  Where  an  independent    few  possessed 

sovereignty. 

2.  Where  the  representatives  of  the  people 

possessed  it. 
II.  Monarch,  where  sovereignty  in  the  hands  of  a  single 
man. 
W^T*  General  idea — Independent  in  his  situation,  in  any  other 
sense  would  apply  to  State  of  New  York. 

III.  Democracy  in  my  sense,   where  the  whole    power  of 

the  government  in  the  people. 

1.  Whether  exercised  by  themselves,  or 

2.  By  their  representatives,  chosen  by  them  either  me- 

diately or  immediately  and  legally  accountable  to 
them. 

IV.  Aristocracy  where  whole  sovereignty  is  permanently  in 

the  hands  of  a  few  for  life  or  hereditary. 
V.  Monarchy  where  the  whole  sovereignty  is  in  the  hands 

of  one  man  for  life  or  hereditary. 
VI.  Mixed  government  where  these  three  principles  unite. 
B        I.   Consequence,   the   proposed   government  a  representative 
democracy. 

1.  House  of  representatives   directly  chosen  by  the 

people  for  two  years. 

2.  Senate  indirectly  chosen  by  them  for  six  years. 

3.  President  indirectly  chosen  by  them  for  four  years. 
Thus  legislative  and  executive  representatives  of  the 

people. 

4.  Judicial  power,  representatives  of  the  people  indi- 
rectly chosen  during  good  behavior. 

5.  All  officers  indirect  choice  of  the  people. 
Constitution  revocable  and  alterable  by  the  people. 

C  I.  This  representative  democracy  as  far  as  is'consistent  with 
its  genius  has  all  the  features  of  good  government. 
These  features. 


jEt.  31.]  NEW -YORK     CONVENTION.  465 

1.  An  immediate  and  operative  representation  of  the 

people,  which  is  found  in  the  Bouseof  Representa- 
tives. 

2.  Stability  and  wisdom,  which  is  found  in  the  Senate. 

3.  A  vigorous  executive,  which  is  found  in  the  Presi- 

dent. 

4.  An    independent  judicial,   which   is  found   in   the 

Supreme  Court,  &c. 

b     A  separation  of  the  essential  powers  of  government. 

Ascertain  the  sense  of  the  maxim. 
1.  One  department  must  not  wholly  possess  the  powers 

of  another. 

=     Montesquieu. 

=     British  Government. 
II.  Departments  of  power  must  be  separated,  yet  so  as  to 
check  each  other. 

1.  Legislative. 

2.  Legislative  executive. 

3.  Judicial  Legislative. 

4.  Legislative  judicial. 

I  '      Ai!  this  done  in  the  proposed  Constitution. 

1.  Legislative  in  the  Congress,  yet  checked  by  negative 

of  the  Executive. 

2.  Executive  in  the  President,  yet  checked  by  impeach- 

ment of  Congress. 

3.  Judicial  check  upon  Legislative,  or  Interpretation  of 

Laws. 

4.  And  checked  by  Legislative  through  Impeachment. 
D.         1.  <'an  such  a  Government  apply  to  so  extensive  a  ter- 
ritory ? 

Exaggerated  ideas  of  extent. 


N. 

45 

42 

S. 

31 

31 

14 

11 

434 

973       764$  mean  868|  by 

-  760 

b  30 


466  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  31. 

Great  Britain. 
2.  Despotic  Government  for  a  large  country  to  be  ex- 
amined. 

Review. 

I.  Full  House  of  Eepresentatives  chosen  every  second  year, 

&c. 

II.  Senate  for  six  years  by  Legislatures. 

Rotation  every  two  years. 
Probable  increase. 

III.  Executive  manner  of  appointment. 

Compensation. 
Negotiation  of  treaties. 
Nomination  of  officers. 

IV.  Judicial  power.     Constitution  of  Judges. 

Extent  of  powers. 
Inferior  Courts. 
Trial  by  jury. 
Criminal  cases. 

Poivers. 

I.  To  provide  revenue  for  the  common  defence. 

II.  To  regulate  commerce. 

III.  To  declare  war. 

IY.  To  raise  and  support  armies. 
V.  Admission  of  New  States. 
VI.  Disposal  of  property. 

Miscellaneovis  Advantages. 

I.  To  prohibit  importation  of  slaves  prior  to  1808. 

II.  Account  to  be  rendered  of  expenditure  of  moneys. 

III.  No  State  shall  emit  bills  of  credit  under  ex  post-facto  law, 

or  law  impairing  the  obligation  of  contracts,  or  grant 
title  of  nobility. 

IV.  Definition  of  treason. 

V.  Guarantee  of  Republican  Governments. 


jEt.  31.]  NEW-YORK     CONVENTION.  b',7 


DRAFT   OK    PRO  POSED    RATIFICATION   OF   THE   CONSTITUTION    OF 
THE    UNITED  STATES,    WITH    SPECIFIED   AMENDMENTS. 

We,  tin v  delegates  of  tin'  people  of  the  State  of  New-York 
in  Convention  assembled,  baying  maturely  considered  the  Con- 
stitution for  the  United  States,  agreed  to  on  the  L7th  day  of  Sep- 
fcember,  in  the  year  17s7,  at    Philadelphia,  in  the  commonwealth 

tit'  Pennsylvania,  by  the  Convention  then  and  there  convened, 
and  having  also  seriously  and  deliberately  considered  the  present 
situation  of  the  I'nited  States,  ami  I  ing  convinced  thai  it  is  ad- 
visable to  adopt  the  said  Constitution,  do  declare  and  make 
known,  in  the  nana'  ami  behalf  of  the  people  aforesaid,  that  the 
powers  granted  in  and  by  the  said  Constitution  being  derived 
from  the  people  of  the  United  States,  may  be  resumed  by  them 
whenever  they  shall  judge  it  necessary  to  their  happiness;  that 
e\  ery  power  not  granted  thereby  remains  either  to  them  or  their 
respective  State  governments,  to  whom  they  may  have  delegated 
the  same;  that  therefore  m>  riuht  of  any  kind,  either  of  the  peo- 
ple of  the  respective  States  or  of  the  said  governments,  can  be 
celled,  abridged,  restrained,  or  modified  by  Congress,  or  by 
any  officer  or  department  of  the  United  States,  except  in  con- 
formity to  the  powers  given  by  the  said  Constitution,  that  among 
other  essential  rights,  the  liberty  of  conscience  and  of  the  press 
cannot  l»e  cancelled  or  abridged  by  any  authority  of  the  United 

State-. 

With  these  impressions,  with  a  firm  reliance  on  the  blessing 
of  Providence  upon  a  government   framed  under  circumstances 

which    afford    a    new   and    instructive    example   of    wisdom    and 

moderation  to  mankind ;  with  an  entire  conviction  that  it  will  be 
more  prudent  to  rely,  for  whatever  amendments  may  be  desira- 
ble in  the  said  ( lonstitution,  on  the  mode  therein  prescribed,  than 
either  to  embarrass  the  Union  <>r  hazard  dissensions  in  any  part 
of  the  community  by  pursuing  a  differenl  course,  and  with  a  full 
confidence  that  the  amendments  which  shall  have  been  propos  d 
will  receive  an  early  and  mature  consideration,  and  that  sue1 
them  as  may  in  any  degree  tend  to  the  real  security  and  perma- 


468  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  31. 

nent  advantage  of  the  people,  will  be  adopted :  We,  the  said 
delegates,  in  the  name  and  behalf  of  the  People  of  this  State, 
Do,  by  these  presents,  assent  to  and  Eatify  the  Constitution 
aforesaid,  hereby  announcing  to  all  those  whom  it  may  concern, 
that  the  said  Constitution  is  binding  upon  the  said  people  accord- 
ing to  an  authentic  copy  hereunto  annexed. 

And  to  the  end,  that  the  sense  of  the  people  of  this  State 
may  be  manifested  touching  certain  parts  of  the  said  Constitu- 
tion, concerning  which  doubts  have  been  raised,  we  the  dele- 
gates aforesaid,  in  the  name  and  behalf  of  the  people  aforesaid, 
do,  by  these  presents,  further  declare  and  make  known  that,  ac- 
cording to  the  true  intent  and  meaning  of  the  said  Constitution, 
Congress  ought  not  to  interpose  in  the  regulation  of  the  times, 
places,  and  manner  of  holding  elections  for  Senators  and  Repre- 
sentatives, except  only  in  such  cases  in  which  the  Legislatures  of 
the  respective  States,  or  any  of  them,  may  neglect,  refuse,  or  be 
unable  to  make  provision,  or  for  the  purpose  of  appointing  a 
uniform  time  for  the  election  of  Representatives ;  and  that  the 
Legislature  of  any  State  may,  at  its  discretion,  lay  out  such  State 
into  convenient  districts  for  the  election  of  Representatives,  and 
may  apportion  its  Representatives  to  and  among  such  districts. 
And  also  that,  except  as  to  duties  on  imports  and  exports — in  the 
Post-Office,  and  duties  of  tonnage,  the  United  States  and  the  States 
respectively  have  concurrent  and  coequal  authority  to  lay  and  col- 
lect all  taxes  whatever ;  and  therefore  that  neither  of  them  can, 
in  any  wise,  contravene,  control,  or  annul  the  operation  or  exe- 
cution of  any  law  of  the  other  for  the  imposition  or  collection  of 
any  tax,  except  as  aforesaid.     And  also  that  there  must  be  once 
in  every  four  years  an  election  of  the  President  and  Vice-Presi- 
dent, so  that  no  other  officer  who  may  be  appointed  by  Congress 
to  act  as  President  in  case  of  the  removal,  death,  resignation,  or 
inability  of  the  President  and  Vice-President,  can  in  any  case 
continue  to  act  beyond  the  termination  of  the  period  for  which 
the  last  President  and  Vice-President  were  elected :  and  also 
that  the  judicial  power  of  the  United  States,  in  cases  in  which  a 
State  may  be  a  party,  does  not  extend  to  criminal  prosecutions, 
or  to  any  suit  by  private  persons  against  a  State  ;  and  that  the 


JBt. aa.]  NEW-YORK    CONVKNTION.  409 

appellate  jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme  Court  oannol  authorize  a 

second  trial  i>t'  any  suit  in  any  criminal  case  wh:ite\  er,  i  »r  a  3ec  md 

trial  of  any  suit  determinable  in  the>c Be  of  the  common  law 

by  a  jury,  and  which  dial]  have  been  so  determined  in  the  ori- 
ginal cause.  And  lastly,  thai  the  process  of  presentment  and  in- 
dictmenl  by  a  grand  jury  ought  to  l>e  observed  in  every  prosecu- 
tion for  any  crime,  as  a  necessary  preliminary  to  the  trial  then 

Anil  in  on  Km- that  the  foregoing  declarations  and  Constitution 
may  be  recognized  and  inviolably  observed  in  the  administration 
of  the  government  of  the  United  States,  this  Convention,  in  the 
name  and  behalf  of  the  people  aforesaid,  do  hereby  enjoin  upon 
the  Senators  and  Representatives  of  this  State  in  the  <  longress,  to 
proemv,  as  soon  as  may  t>e  after  the  meeting  of  Congress,  a 
claratory  act  in  conformity  to  these  presents. 

\\V  would  also  airree  to  recommend  the  following  Amend- 
ments to  th    Constitution  : — 

I.  That  there  shall  be  one  Representative  for  every  30,000, 
>rding  to  the  enumeration  or  census  mentioned  in  the  <  lonsti- 

tution,  until  the  whole  number  of  Representatives  amounts  to 
2<>0:  after  which  that  number  shall  be  continued  or  increased, 
but  not  diminished,  as  Congress  shall  direct,  and  according  to 
such  ratio  as  Congress  Bhall  fix  in  conformity  to  the  rule  pre- 
scribed for  the  apportionment  of  Representatives  and  Direct 
Taxes. 

II.  That  the  Court  for  the  Trial  of  Impeachments  shall  con- 
■  of  the  Senate,  the  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United 

States,  and  the  first  or  senior  Judge  for  the  time  being,  of  the 
highest  court  of  general  and  ordinary  common  law  jurisdiction 
in  each  State.  That  Congress  shall,  by  standing  laws,  designate 
the  Courts  in  the  respective  States  answering  this  description, 
and  it  a  having  no  Courts  exactly  answering  this  descrip- 

tion, shall  designate  some  other  Court,  preferring  such,  if  any 
there  be,  whose  Judge  or  Judges  may  hold  their  places  during 
good  behavior, — provided  that  not  more  than  one  Judge  shall 
come  from  oi:  31  ■.  That  Congress  be  authorized  to  pass  laws 
for  compensating  the  said  Judges  and  for  compelling  their  att 
ance,  and  that  a  majority  at  Least  of  the  said  Ju  ihall  be 


470  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  31. 

requisite  to  constituting  said  Court.  That  no  person  impeached 
shall  sit  as  a  member  thereof.  That  each  member  shall,  pre- 
vious  to  the  entering  upon  .any  trial,  take  an  oath  or  affirmation 
honestly  and  impartially  to  hear  and  determine  the  cause, — and 
that of  the  members  present  shall  be  necessary  for  a  con- 
viction. 

III.  That  the  authority  given  to  the  Executives  of  the  States 
to  fill  the  vacancies  of  Senators  be  abolished;  and  that  such 
vacancies  be  filled  by  the  respective  Legislatures. 

IV.  That  the  compensation  for  the  Senators  and  Eepresenta- 
tives  be  ascertained  by  standing  laws ;  and  that  no  alteration  of 
the  existing  rate  of  compensation  shall  operate  for  the  benefit  of 
the  Eepresentatives  until  after  a  subsequent  election  shall  have 
been  had. 

V.  That  no  appropriation  of  money  in  time  of  peace  for  the 
support  of  an  army,  shall  be  by  less  than  two-thirds  of  the  Eep- 
resentatives and  Senators  present. 

VI.  That  the  Executive  shall  not  take  the  actual  command 
in  the  field  of  an  army,  without  the  previous  direction  of  Con- 
gress. 

VII.  That  each  State  shall  have  power  to  provide  for  organ- 
izing, arming,  and  disciplining  its  militia,  when  no  provision 
for  that  purpose  shall  have  been  made  by  Congress,  and  until 
such  provision  shall  have  been  made  that  the  militia  shall  never 
be  subjected  to  martial  law,  but  in  time  of  war,  rebellion,  or 
insurrection. 

VIII.  That  the  Journals  of  Congress  shall  be  published  at 
least  once  a  year,  with  exception  of  such  parts  relating  to  trea- 
ties or  military  operations  as  in  the  judgment  of  either  House 
shall  require  secrecy. 

LX.  That  the  judicial  power  of  the  United  States,  shall  extend 
to  no  controversy  respecting  land,  unless  it  relate  to  claims  of 
territory  or  jurisdiction  between  States,  or  to  claims  of  land 
between  individuals,  or  between  States  and  individuals  under 
grants  of  different  States. 

X.  That  no  judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  shall  hold  any 
other  office  under  the  United  States  or  any  of  them. 


iE-r.  31.]  RESOLUTIONS     IN     CONCIMISS.  471 

XI.  Thai  when  the  number  of  persons  in  the  district  of  ter- 
ritory to  be  laid  oul  for  the  Beat  of  the  Government  of  the  United 
States,  shall,  according  to  the  rule  for  the  apportionment  of  Rep- 

mtatives  and  direcl   taxes,  amount  to  ,  such  district 

shall  erase  to  be  parcel  of  the  Slate  granting  the  same,  ami  pro- 
vision shall  he  made  l>y  Congress  for  having  a  distind  represen- 
tation ill  that   hoily. 

XII.  Thai  the  Representatives,  Senators,  Presidents,  Vice- 
Presidents,  and  Judges  of  the  United  States,  shall  each  take  an 
oath  or  affirmation  not  to  infringe  or  violate  the  Constitution  of 
Ihe  respects  e  States. 

X  1 1 1.  That  no  capitation  tax  shall  ever  be  laid  by  Congress. 


EESOLUTIONS  IN  CONGEESS. 

New-Yhuk.  Augusl  7.  1788. 

Whereas  the  Convention  assembled  at  Philadelphia,  in  the 
Commonwealth  of  Pennsylvania,  did,  on  the  seventeenth  clay  of 
September,  last  past,  resolve,  as  the  opinion  of  that  Convention, 
that  as  soon  as  the  Conventions  of  nine  States  should  have  rati- 
fied the  Constitution,  then  and  there  agreed  upon  by  the  .-aid 
Convention,  the  United  States,  in  Congress  assembled,  should  ii.\ 
a  da\  on  which  electors  should  be  appointed  by  the  States  which 
should    have  ratified   the  same,  and   a   day  on  which   the   electors 

should  assemble  to  vote  for  the  President,  and  the  time  and  place 
for  commencing  proceedings  under  the  said  Constitution  :  and 
whereas  the  United  States,  in  Congress  assembled,  having  re* 
ceived  the  ratifications  of  the  said  <  lonstitution,  by  eleven  States, 

did,  on  the  twenty-eighth  ultimo,  and  on  the  fourth  and  sixth  in- 
stant, agive  to  the  following  resolutions,  to  wit :  That  the  first 
Wednesday  in  January  next  be  the  day  for  appointing  electors 

in  the  several  States,  which  before  the  said  day  shall  have  rati- 
fied the  said  Constitution;  that  the  first  Wednesday  in  February 
next,  be  the  day  for  the  electors  to  assemble   in  their  respective 


472  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  31. 

States,  and  vote  for  a  President ;  and  that  the  first  Wednesday  in 
March  next  be  the  time,  and  the  present  seat  of  Congress  the 
place,  for  commencing  the  proceedings  under  the  said  Consti- 
tution ; 

And  whereas  it  does  not  appear  that  the  States  of  Ehode 
Island  and  North  Carolina  have  ratified  the  said  Constitution,  and 
whereas  the  delegates  of  the  said  two  States  have  voted  upon 
certain  parts  of  the  said  resolutions,  therefore, 

Resolved,  as  the  sense  of  this  Congress,  That  any  vote  given,  or 
which  may  be  given  on  said  resolutions,  by  the  delegate  or  dele- 
gates of  any  State  which  hath  not  ratified  the  said  Constitution, 
shall  in  no  wise  be  construed,  directly  or  indirectly,  to  imply,  on 
their  part,  or  on  the  part  of  the  States  which  they  represent,  an 
approbation  of  the  Constitution  aforesaid,  or  of  any  part  thereof, 
or  any  manner  or  kind  of  obligation  on  the  part  of  any  such 
State  touching  the  same,  or  the  relinquishment  of  any  right 
heretofore  or  now  claimed,  or  which  may  be  claimed  by  such 
State ;  and  that  all  and  singular  the  rights  of  such  State  shall  re- 
main, continue,  and  are,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  in  the  same 
situation  as  if  such  delegates  had  refrained  from  voting  respect- 
ing the  said  resolutions. 


ASYLUM  TO  FUGITIVE  SLAVES. 

August  26,  1788. 

On  the  report  of  a  committee,  consisting  of  Mr.  Hamilton, 
Mr.  Sedgewick,  and  Mr.  Madison,  to  whom  was  referred  a  report 
of  the  Secretary  for  the  Department  of  Foreign  Affairs,  of  the 
14th  instant, 

Resolved,  That  the  Secretary  for  the  Department  of  Foreign 
Affairs  be  directed  to  transmit  copies  of  the  papers  referred  to  in 
his  said  report,  to  the  Charge  des  Affaires  of  the  United  States  at 
Madrid,  and  instruct  him  to  represent  to  his  Catholic  Majesty  the 
inconveniences  which  the  States  bordering  on  his  dominions  ex- 
perience from  the  asylum  afforded  to  fugitive  negroes  belonging 


jEt.  31.]         RESOLUTIONS    IN    CONGRESS.  173 

to  the  citizens  of  the  said  States;  and  that  Congress  have  full 
confidence  thai  orders  Bhal]  be  given  to  his  governors  to  permit 
and  facilitate  their  being  apprehended  and  delivered  to  persons 
authorized  to  receive  them;  assuring  his  Majesty  thai  the  said 

mil  observe  the  likeoonducl   respecting  all  suchnegr 
belonging  to  his  subjects,  as  may  be  found  therein. 

R  solved,  That  the  said  Secretary  b  •  also  directed  to  commu- 
nicate the  said  papers  t<>  the  Encargado  de  Negocios  of  Spain, 
and  to  signify  to  him  that  his  interposition  to  obtain  proper  n 
hit i. >ns  to  be  made  on  the  subject,  would  be  very  agreeable  to 
Congress. 


FREE   NAVIGATION   OF  TIIE    MISSISSIPPI. 

September  16,  1788. 

On  the  report  of  the  committee,  consisting  of  Mr.  Hamilton, 
Mr.  Madison.  Mr.  Williamson,  Mr.  Dane,  and  Mr.  Edwards,  to 
whom  wasreferred  the  report  of  the  Secretary  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
on  a  motion  of  the  delegates  of  North  Carolina,  stating  the  un- 
iness  produced  by  a  report  "that  Congress  are  disposed  to 
treat  with  Spain  tor  the  surrender  of  their  claim  to  the  naviga- 
tion of  the  river  .Mississippi,"  and  proposing  a  resolution  intended 
to  remove  such  apprehensions, 

AVWra/,  That  the  said  report,  not  being  founded  in  fact,  the 
delegates  be  at  liberty  to  communicate  all  such  circumstances  as 
may  be  necessary  to  contradict  the  same,  and  to  remove  miscon- 
ceptions. 

/,'•  •./,-.,/,  That  the  IVe<>  navigation  of  the  river  Mississippi  is  a 
clear  and  essential  right  of  the  United  States,  and  that  the  same 
ought  to  be  considered  and  supported  as  such. 

Resolved,  That  no  further  pro  be  made  in  the  negotia- 

tions with  Spain,  by  the  Secretary  for  Foreign  Affairs,  but  that- 
the  subjeel  to  which  they  relate  be  referred  to  the  Federal  Con- 
gress, which  is  to  assemble  in  March  next. 


474  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  32. 


ADDRESS. 

New-York,  February  18,  1789. 
To  the  Supervisors  of  the  City  of  Albany,  in  the  County  of  Albany. 

Gentlemen  : 

The  last  Tuesday  of  April  next  being  the  day  appointed  by 
law  for  the  election  of  a  Governor  for  the  ensuing  three  years, 
the  great  importance  of  making  a  wise  choice  in  the  present 
peculiar  situation  of  our  local  and  national  affairs,  appears  to 
have  made  a  deep  impression  on  the  minds  of  considerate  men 
in  the  different  parts  of  the  State. 

On  the  eleventh  instant,  a  numerous  meeting  of  respectable 
inhabitants  was  held  in  this  city,  to  consult  on  what  was  best  to 
be  done  in  relation  to  that  object ;  and  we  have  been  advised 
that  similar  meetings  have  been  held  in  some  other  counties. 

The  meeting  in  this  city  were  unanimous  in  the  result  of 
their  deliberations ;  and  we,  the  subscribers,  were  appointed  a 
committee  to  correspond  with  our  fellow-citizens  in  the  other 
counties,  upon  the  subject,  in  order  that  a  mutual  communication 
of  sentiments  might  promote  mutual  confidence,  and  a  happy 
concert  in  such  a  choice,  as  a  dispassionate  attention  to  the  good 
of  the  community,  divested  of  all  particular  attachments  or  dis- 
likes, should  be  found  to  recommend. 

The  people  of  this  State  are  the  sovereigns  of  it ;  and  being  now 
called  upon  by  their  Constitution  to  appoint  a  Chief  Magistrate, 
it  cannot  but  be  useful  that  so  high  an  act  of  sovereignty  should 
be  preceded  by  an  interchange  of  ideas  and  sentiments,  especially 
at  so  critical  a  juncture  as  the  present ;  for  at  no  period  can  it  be 
more  necessary  to  take  care  that  our  affairs  be  committed  to  the 
management  of  disinterested,  discreet,  and  temperate  rulers,  than 
at  a  period  when  the  heats  of  party  are  to  be  assuaged,  discord- 
ant opinions  reconciled,  and  all  the  inconveniences  attending 
changes  in  national  government  provided  against. 

As  this  State  is  only  part  of  a  larger  community  ;  as  its  pros- 
perity must  therefore  materially  depend  on  its  maintaining  its 
due  weight  in  the  national  scale ;  on  its  being  charged  with  only 


jEt.  32.]  ADDRESS.  IT"- 

its  iliu' proportion  of  public  burthens;  and  oil  its  deriving  from 
the  General  Government  its  due  share  "l'  favor  and  protection; 
it  is  evidently  of  the  greatesl  momenl  thai  the  people  should  1"' 
united  and  circumspect,  and  their  rulers  should  be  men  who  will 
neither  be  seduced  by  interest,  dot  impelled  by  passi into  de- 
signs or  measures  which  may  justly  forfeit  the  confidence  or 
friendship  of  the  other  members  of  the  great  national  Bociety. 

()n  this  ground,  it  is  highly  necessary  that  the  Chief  Ma 
trate  of  the  State  Bhould  be  free  from  all  temptation  wantonly  to 
perplex  or  embarrass  the  National  Government — whether  that 
temptation  should  arise  from  a  preference  of  partial  confedera- 
cies; from  a  spirit  of  competition  with  the  national  rulers  for 

jonal  pre-eminence ;  from  an  impatience  of  the  restraints  of 
national  authority,  from  the  fear  of  a  iliminution  of  power  and 
emoluments  :  from  resentment  or  mortification,  proceeding  from 
disappointment;  or  from  any  other  cause  whatsoever.  For  all  at- 
tempts to  perplex  and  embarrass,  would  not  only  tend  to  prevent 
the  Government  from  doing  the  good  they  maymeditate,  but 
would  also  expose  this  State  to  the  distrust  and  ill  will  of  the 
otic 

It  is  also  of  no  inconsiderable  consequence,  in  the  same 
view,  that  the  Governor  of  the  State  should  be  of  a  disposi- 
:  to  pay  those  decent  attentions,  and  practise  that  be- 
coming republican  hospitality,  which  the  persons  who  adminis- 
ter the  National  Government,  and  distinguished  strangers  in 
public  character,  whom  the  affairs  of  the  nation  call  to  reside  in 
our  capital,  have  a  right  to  expect.  The  dignity  as  well  as  the 
interests  of  the  State  require  this,  and  ample  provision  is  con- 
stant^ made  for  it  by  the  liberal  salary  and  perquisites  annexed 

to  the  office.      A  contrary  conduct  cannot  fail  to  create  disgUSl  and 

tempt;  and  to  draw  not  merely  upon  the  Magistrate  himself 
but,  in  some  measure,  upon  the  State,  imputations  not  a  little 
mortifying  to  a  people  long  celebrated  for  their  hospitality,  and 
who  uniformly  enable  their  Bxe  >utive  representative  to  maintain 
their  character  in  tin.-  respect.  For  it  can  never  be  presumed  to 
be  their  intention  to  attach  such  considerable  emoluments  to  the 
offic-  ■.'//'-"'  the  sake  of  enriching  its  possessor. 


470  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  32. 

Many  considerations  might  be  detailed  to  show  the  important 
light  in  which  our  political  annexation  as  a  member  of  the  Union 
onght  to  be  viewed,  and  to  demonstrate  how  much  the  regula- 
tion of  our  trade,  the  repossession  of  our  frontier  posts,  and  va- 
rious other  important  interests  may  be  affected,  by  our  having 
much  or  little  influence  in  the  Confederacy.  But  this  would 
lead  to  a  discussion  too  long  for  the  occasion,  and,  to  reflecting 
men,  be  unnecessary.  Hence,  however,  this  inference  is  to 
be  drawn,  that  we  cannot  be  too  careful  of  keeping  power  and 
opportunity  from  those,  whom  we  have  reason  to  believe  may 
be  predisposed  to  employ  them  in  a  manner  calculated  to  alien- 
ate the  friendship  and  confidence  of  our  sister  States. 

As  to  the  domestic  situation  of  the  State,  it  appeared  to  the 
meeting  to  be  such  as  to  admonish  us  to  use  great  circumspection 
in  the  choice  of  a  Governor.  The  council  of  appointment  is  so 
powerful  an  engine  in  the  hands  of  a  Governor,  for  perpetuating 
himself  in  office,  that  his  conduct  in  it  cannot  be  regarded  with 
too  watchful  an  eye ;  because  it  is  evident,  that  an  artful  man 
may,  in  the  course  of  ten  or  twelve  years,  so  fasten  himself  to 
the  office,  by  means  of  this  engine,  as  to  become  too  indifferent 
to  the  opinion  and  control  of  the  people,  and  perhaps  immov- 
able by  the  efforts  of  the  virtuous  and  independent.  Extremely 
free  from  blame,  therefore,  and  from  all  suspicion  of  undue  at- 
tachment to  place  or  to  profit,  and  very  satisfactory  to  the  com- 
munity at  large,  ought  to  be  the  administration  of  a  Governor,  to 
render  it  prudent  in  the  people  to  leave  so  powerful  an  engine  in 
his  hands  for  a  long  succession  of  years. 

As  on  the  one  hand,  in  this  council  of  appointment,  the  Gov- 
ernor will,  for  the  most  part,  have  a  preponderating  influence, 
so  on  the  other,  that  influence  will  generally  be  exerted,  accord- 
ing to  the  views  and  wishes  of  the  man.  If  he  wishes  to  pro- 
mote the  public  good,  and  to  acquire  fame  and  popularity,  by 
acting  as  the  Governor  of  the  State,  and  not  as  the  Governor  of 
a  party,  then  merit  in  every  situation  will  be  cherished  and  em- 
ployed. If,  on  the  contrary,  offices  are  to  be  the  price  of  obedi- 
ence, and  men  are  to  enjoy  his  favor,  no  longer  than  they  con- 
sent to  be  his  tools,  merit  will  be  neglected,  and  the  State  must 


jEt.  32.]  ADDRESS.  477 

suffer  by  having  the  public  business,  in  too  many  instances, 
intrusted  to  improper  hands. 

In  addition  to  the  parties  which  have  too  long  existed  in  the 
State,  on  personal  and  particular  grounds,  it  must  be  Lamented, 
that  the  new  Constitution  for  the  government  of  the  United 
States  has  divided  the  community  on  a  more  extensive 
and  lias  occasioned  animosities  which  have  uot  yet  ceased  to 
operate.  <  >n  thai  greal  question  very  honesl  men  took  opposite 
sides;  and  those  who  were  not  ho  dsted  in  "troubling  the 

waters." 

certainly,  it  is  now  high  time  thai  those  parties  should  sub- 
side; and  should,  for  the  sake  of  the  public  good,  unite ;  ing 
in  these  two  points,  that  all  should  join  in  supporting  the  Constitu- 
tion established  by  the  people  of  the  United  States,  and  that  all 
should  join  in  obtaining  a  reconsideration  of  the  parts  which  have 
been  the  subject  of  objection,  in  order  that  every  reasonable  and 
safe  endeav<  >r  may  be  used  to  give  universal  satisfaction,  to  remove 
the  apprehensions  entertained  by  the  honest  opponents  of  the 
in,  and  t<>  provide,  it'  upon  cool  and  deliberate  examination 
any  be  found  requisite,  such  additional  securities  to  the  liberl 
of  the  people,  as  shall  be  compatible  with  the  salutary  and  neces- 
energy  of  an  efficient  National  Government.  To  such  a 
compromise,  it  is  essential  that  the  unhappy  divisions  which  now 

-■  among  us  should  be  buried.  And  to  this  end,  it  is  equally 
•  3S<  ntial,  that  our  first  magistrate  should  be  a  man  of  modera- 
tion, sincerely  disposed  to  heal,  uot  to  widen  those  divisions;  to 
promote  conciliation,  no1  dissension,  to  allay,  not  excite  the  fer- 
mentations of  party  spirit,  and  to  restore  that  cordial  goodwill 
and  mutual  confidence,  which  ought  to  exist  among  a  people, 
bound  to  each  other  by  all  the  ties  which  connect  members  of 
the  same  society. 

It  is  seriously  to  be  deplored,  that  dissension  reigns  in  the 
most  important  departments  of  the  State,  and  as  dissensions 
anion--  brethren,  so  destructive  to  the  happiness  of  families,  are 
often  appeased  by  parental  influence  and  prudence,  so  there  is 
good  reason  to  flatter  ourselves,  that  a  Chief  Magistrate,  srely 
desirous  of  re-establishing  concord,  may,  without  much  difficulty, 


478  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  32. 

effect  it,  especially  if  lie  should  owe  his  exaltation  to  the  votes 
of  both  the  contending  parties. 

Eeflections  of  this  nature  had  their  full  weight  in  forming 
the  opinion  of  the  meeting,  which  appointed  us,  not  only  as  to 
the  necessity  of  choosing  some  other  person  than  the  present 
Governor,  but  as  to  the  man  whom  it  would  be  desirable  to 
substitute. 

As  we  are  aware,  that  the  warm  partisans  of  men  in  office 
are  apt  to  represent  every  attempt  to  change  them,  as  a  species 
of  personal  injury,  we  think  it  necessary  to  remark  in  this 
place,  that  at  the  expiration  of  his  three  years,  the  Constitution 
will  return  the  present  Chief  Magistrate  to  the  mass  of  the  peo- 
ple. The  question  is  not,  therefore,  whether  he  shall  be  put  out, 
but  Avhether  he  shall  be  put  in.  As  no  man  has  a  right  to  office, 
or  re-election,  in  virtue  of  long  possession,  no  man,  of  course, 
can  have  a  right  to  complain,  if  the  people  do  not  think  it  pro- 
per to  continue  to  be  governed  by  Mm. 

In  the  consideration  of  the  character  most  proper  to  be  held 
up  at  the  ensuing  election,  some  difficulties  occurred.  Our  fellow- 
citizens  in  some  parts  of  the  State  had  proposed  Judge  Yates, 
others  had  been  advocates  of  the  Lieutenant  Governor,  and 
others  for  Chief  Justice  Morris.  It  is  well  known  that  the  in- 
habitants of  this  city  are,  with  few  exceptions,  strongly  attached 
to  the  New  Constitution,  and  have  been  remarkably  unanimous 
and  active  in  its  support.  It  is  also  well  known,  that  Lieutenant 
Governor  Cortland,  and  Chief  Justice  Morris,  whom  we  respect 
and  esteem,  were  zealous  advocates  for  the  same  cause.  Had  it 
been  agreed  to  support  either  of  them  for  the  office  of  Governor, 
there  would  have  been  reason  to  fear,  that  the  measure  would 
have  been  imputed  to  party,  and  not  to  a  desire  of  relieving  our 
country  from  the  evils  they  experience  from  the  heats  of  party. 
It  appeared,  therefore,  most  advisable  to  elect  some  man  of  the 
opposite  party,  in  whose  integrity,  patriotism  and  temper,  confi- 
dence might  be  placed,  however  little  his  political  opinions  on 
the  question  lately  agitated  might  be  approved  by  those  who 
were  assembled  upon  the  occasion. 

Among  the  persons  of  this  description,  there  were  circum- 


jEt.  32.]  \  D  D  I!  BBS.  179 

stances  which  Led  to  a  decision  in  favor  of  Judge  Yates.  And 
we  flatten  ourselves,  thai  this  decision,  to  those  who  are  acquaint- 
ed with  the  situation  of  the  State,  will  be  most  likely  t<»  appear 
well  founded.  It  is  certain,  thai  as  a  man  and  a  judge,  he  is  gene- 
rally esteemed.  And  though  his  opposition  to  th  Constitu- 
tion was  such  as  his  friends  cannol  but  disapprove;  yet,  Bince  the 
period  of  its  adoption,  his  conduct  has  been  tempered  with  a 
degree  of  moderation,  and  regard  to  peace  and  decorum,  which 
entitle  him  to  credit;  and  Beem  to  point  him  out  as  a  man 
likely  to  compose  the  differences  of  the  State,  and  to  unite  its 
citizens  in  the  harmonious  pursuit  oi  their  common  and  genuine 
inter 

Of  this  a1  least  we  feel  confident,  that  he  has  no  personal  re- 
venge to  gratify,  no  opponents  to  oppress,  no  partisans  to  pro- 
vide for,  nor  any  promises  for  personal  purposes  to  be  performed 
at  the  public  expense.  On  the  contrary,  we  trust  he  will  be 
found  to  be  a  man,  who  looks  with  an  equal  eye  on  his  fellow- 
citizens,  and  who  will  be  more  ambitious  of  leaving  a  good  name 
than  a  good  estate  to  his  posterity. 

For  these,  and  for  other  reasons,  which  considerations  of  de- 
corum induce  as  to  pass  over  in  silence,  the  meeting  was  una- 
nimously of  opinion,  that  it  would  be  advisable  to  try. Judge 
Fates,  as  our  Governor  for  the  n^xt  three  years.  They  were 
persuaded,  that  the  State  could  not  lose  by  the  experiment,  and 
entertained  strong  hopes,  that  much  good  would  redound  to  it 
from  his  administration. 

We  shall  be  happy  to  find,  that  the  same  reasons,  and  that 
regard  for  the  public  weal,  which  has  a1  all  times  distinguished 
their  conduct,  may  induce  the   Lieutenant-Governor  and  Chief 

fcice  Morris  to  forbear  a  competition  which  can  evidently,  un- 
der tli.'  existing  circumstances,  answer  ao  good  purpose;  and 
that  they,  and  their  particular  friends,  do  generously  join  with 
their  fellow-citizens  of  every  place  and  party,  in  promoting 
election  of  Mr.  Yates,  as  the  only  candidate  likely  to  succeed, 
whose  character  affords  a  prospect,  that  he  will,  under  Provi- 
dence, be  instrumental  in  preserving  and  advancing  the  dignity 
and  interests  of  the  people,  and  in  restoring  to  them  the  blessings 
of  union  and  cordiality  at  home,  and  resped  abroad. 


480  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  32. 

It  will  give  us  great  pleasure  to  learn  the  sentiments  of 
your  county,  on  this  important  subject,  and  to  know,  that  they 
coincide  with  those  which  we  entertain,  and  which  we  have 
every  reason  to  believe,  correspond  with  the  general  sense  of  the 
people  of  this  city  and  county.  We  acknowledge  that  we  feel 
a  very  serious  anxiety  for  the  issue ;  and  that,  from  the  most 
mature  reflection,  we  regard  a  change  in  the  person  of  the 
Chief  Magistrate,  as  a  matter  of  high  importance  to  the  tran- 
quillity and  prosperity  of  the  State.  Nor  can  we  forbear,  as 
brethren  and  fellow-citizens,  earnestly  to  exhort  the  inhabitants 
of  your  county,  to  weigh  well  the  importance  of  the  opportunity 
which  the  approaching  election  presents  to  them,  and  to  resolve 
to  exercise  their  right  of  suffrage,  in  that  unbiassed  and  inde- 
pendent manner,  which  becomes  a  free  and  enlightened  people. 
We  shall  only  add,  that  it  is  manifestly  essential  to  insure  suc- 
cess to  the  attempt,  that  all  those  who  concur  in  the  expediency 
of  a  change,  should  zealously  unite  in  the  support  of  the  same 
candidate. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be, 

Gentlemen, 

Your  obedient  servant. 
By  order  of  the  committee, 

Alexander  Hamilton,  Chairman. 


ETJLOGIUM  ON  MAJOE-GENEEAL  GEEENE. 

Delivered  before  the  Society  of  the  Cincinnati, 
July  4th,  1789. 

There  is  no  duty  that  could  have  been  assigned  to  me  by 
this  society  which  I  should  execute  with  greater  alacrity  than 
the  one  I  am  now  called  upon  to  perform.  All  the  motives 
capable  of  interesting  an  ingenuous  and  feeling  mind  conspire  to 
prompt  me  to  its  execution.  To  commemorate  the  talents,  virtues, 
and  exploits,  of  great  and  good  men,  is  at  all  times  a  pleasing 


JEt.  32.]  EULOGIU.M     <»N     GEN.     GREENE.  481 

task  to  those  who  know  how  to  esteem  them.  But  when  such 
men,  to  the  title  of  superior  merit,  join  thai  of  having  been  the 
defenders  and  guardians  of  onr  country;  when  they  have  been 
connected  with  as  as  companions  in  the  Bame dangers,  Bufferings, 
misfortunes,  and  triumphs;  when  they  have  been  allied  to  as  in 
the  still  more  endearing  character  of  friends;  we  recall  the  ideas 
of  their  worth  with  sensations  thai  affect  us  yet  more  nearly,  and 
feel  an  involuntary  propensity  to  consider  their  fame  as  our  own. 
We  seem  to  appropriate  to  ourselves  the  good  they  have  done; 
to  take  a  persona]  Lnteresl  in  the  glory  they  have  acquired;  and 
to  share  in  the  very  praise  we  bestow. 

In  entering  upon  a  subject  in  which  your  feelings  as  well  as 
my  own  are  so  deeply  concerned,  however  it  might  become  me 
to  follow  examples  of  humility,  I  shall  refrain  from  a  practice 
perhaps  not  less  laudable  than  it  is  common.  I  cannot  prevail 
upon  myself  to  check  the  current  of  your  sensibility  by  the  cold 
formalities  of  an  apology  for  the  defects  of  the  speaker.  These 
can  neither  be  concealed  or  extenuated  by  the  affectation  of  diffi- 
dence ;  nor  even  by  the  genuine  concessions  of  conscious  inability. 
'Tis  your  command,  and  the  reverence  we  all  bear  to  the  me- 
mory of  him  of  whom  I  am  to  speak,  that  must  constitute  my 
excuse,  and  my  claim  to  your  indulgence.  Did  I  even  possess 
the  powers  of  oratory,  I  should  with  reluctance  attempt  to 
employ  them  upon  the  present  occasion.  The  native  brilliancy 
of  the  diamond  needs  not  the  polish  of  art :  the  conspicuous 
features  of  pre-eminent  merit,  need  not  the  coloring  pencil  of 
imagination,  nor  the  florid  decorations  of  rhetoric. 

From  you  who  knew  and  loved  him,  I  fear  not  the  imputa- 
tion of  flattery,  or  enthusiasm,  when  I  indulge  an  expectation, 
that  the  name  of  GrBEENE  will  at  once  awaken  in  your  minds,  the 
images  of  whatever  is  noble  and  estimable  in  human  nature. 
The  fidelity  of  the  portrait  I  shall  draw,  will  therefore  have 
nothing  to  apprehend  from  your  sentence.  But  I  dare  not  hope 
that  it  will  meet  with  equal  justice  from  all  others;  or  that  it  will 
entirely  escape  the  cavils  of  ignorance  and  the  shafts  of  envy. 
For  high  as  this  great  man  stood  in  the  estimation  of  his  country, 
the  whole  extent  of  his  worth  was  little  known.  The  situations 
B  31 


482  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  32. 

in  which  he  has  appeared,  though  such  as  would  have  measured 
the  faculties  and  exhausted  the  resources  of  men  who  might  justly 
challenge  the  epithet  of  great,  were  yet  incompetent  to  the  full 
display  of  those  various,  rare,  and  exalted  endowments,  with 
which  nature  only  now  and  then  decorates  a  favorite,  as  if  with 
intention  to  astonish  mankind. 

As  a  man,  the  virtues  of  Greene  are  admitted ;  as  a  patriot,  he 
holds  a  place  in  the  foremost  rank ;  as  a  statesman,  he  is  praised ; 
as  a  soldier,  he  is  admired.  But  in  the  two  last  characters,  espe- 
cially in  the  last  but  one,  his  reputation  falls  far  below  his 
desert.  It  required  a  longer  life,  and  still  greater  opportunities, 
to  have  enabled  him  to  exhibit,  in  full  day,  the  vast,  I  had  almost 
said  the  enormous,  powers  of  his  mind. 

The  termination  of  the  American  war — not  too  soon  for  his 
wishes,  nor  for  the  welfare  of  his  country,  but  too  soon  for  his 
glory — put  an  end  to  his  military  career.  The  sudden  termina- 
tion of  his  life,  cut  him  off  from  those  scenes,  which  the  progress 
of  a  new,  immense,  and  unsettled  empire,  could  not  fail  to  open 
to  the  complete  exertion  of  that  universal  and  pervading  genius 
which  qualified  him  not  less  for  the  senate  than  for  the  field. 

In  forming  our  estimate  nevertheless,  of  his  character,  we  are 
not  left  to  supposition  and  conjecture.  We  are  not  left  to  vague 
indications  or  uncertain  appearances,  which  partiality  might 
varnish  or  prejudice  discolor.  We  have  a  succession  of  deeds, 
as  glorious  as  they  are  unequivocal,  to  attest  his  greatness  and 
perpetuate  the  honors  of  his  name. 

It  is  an  observation,  as  just  as  it  is  common,  that  in  those 
great  revolutions  which  occasionally  convulse  society,  human 
nature  never  fails  to  be  brought  forward  in  its  brightest  as 
well  as  in  its  blackest  colors :  and  it  has  very  properly  been 
ranked  not  among  the  least  of  the  advantages  which  compensate 
for  the  evils  they  produce,  that  they  serve  to  bring  to  light, 
talents  and  virtues,  which  might  otherwise  have  languished  in 
Obscurity,  or  only  shot  forth  a  few  scattered  and  wandering  rays. 

Nathaniel  Greene  descended  from  reputable  parents ;  but 
not  placed,  by  birth,  in  that  elevated  rank  which,  under  a 
monarchy,  is  the  only  sure  road  to  those  employments  that  give 


Mt.  32.]  EULOGIUM    ON    GEN.    GREENE.  483 

activity  and  scope  to  abilities,  must,  in  all  probability,  have  con- 
tented himself  with  the  humble  lo1  of  a  private  citizen,  or,  at 
most,  with  the  contracted  sphere  of  an  elective  office,  in  a  colonial 
and  dependent  government,  scarcely  conscious  of  the  resources 
of  his  own  mi  ml.  had  qo1  the  violated  rights  of  his  countrj  called 
him  to  ael  a  pan  "ii  a  more  splendid  and  more  ample  theatre. 

Happily  for  America,  he  hesitated  qo1  to  obej  the  call.  The 
vigor  <>t'  his  genius,  corresponding  with  the  importance  of  the 
prize  to  be  contended  for,  overcame  the  natural  moderation  of 
his   i  r;    ami   though    not  hurried  on  by  enthusiasm,  but 

animated  by  an  enlightened  Bense  of  the  value  of  free  govern- 
ment, he  cheerfully  resolved  to  stake  his  fortune,  his  hopes,  his 
life,  and  his  honor,  upon  an  enterprise,  of  the  danger  of  which  he 
knew  the  whole  magnitude  :  in  a  cause,  "which  was  Avorthy  of 
the  toils  and  of  the  Mood  of  heroes. 

The  sword  having  been  appealed  to,  at  Lexington,  as  the 
Arbiter  of  the  controversy  between  Great  Britain  and  America, 
Greene,  shortly  after,  marched,  at  the  head  of  a  regiment,  to 
join  the  American  forces  al  Cambridge;  determined  to  abide  the 
awful  decision. 

Ee  was  not  long  there  before  the  discerning  eye  of  the  Ame- 
rican Fabius  marked  him  out  as  the  object  of  his  confidence. 

His  abilities  entitled  him  to  a  pre-eminent  share  in  the  coun- 
cils of  his  Chief.  He  gained  it,  and  he  preserved  it,  amidst  all 
the  checkered  varieties  of  military  vicissitude,  and  in  defiance  of  all 
the  intrigues  of  jealous  and  aspiring  rivals. 

As  long  as  the  measures  which  conducted  us  safely  through 
the  first  most  critical  stages  of  the  war  shall  be  remembered  with 
approbation;  as  long  as  the  enterprises  of  Trenton  and  Princeton 
shall  be  regarded  as  thedawnings  of  that  bright  day  which  after- 
ward.- broke  forth  with  such  resplendent  lustre ;  as  long  as  the 
almost  magic  operations  of  the  remainder  of  that  memorable  win- 
ter, distinguished  not  more  by  these  <  •  than  by  the  extraor- 
dinary spectacle  of  a  powerful  army  straitened  within  narrow 
limits  by  the  phantom  of  a  military  force,  and  never  permitted 
to  transgress  those  Limits  with  impunity,  in  which  skill  .supplied 
the  place  of  means,  and  disposition  was  the  substitute  for  an 


484  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [^t.  32. 

army ;  as  long,  I  say,  as  these  operations  shall  continue  to  be  the 
objects  of  curiosity  and  wonder,  so  long  ought  the  name  of 
Greene  to  be  revered  by  a  grateful  country.  To  attribute  to 
him  a  portion  of  the  praise  which  is  due,  as  well  to  the  forma- 
tion as  to  the  execution  of  the  plans  that  effected  these  important 
ends,  can  be  no  derogation  from  that  wisdom  and  magnanimity 
which  knew  how  to  select  and  embrace  councils  worthy  of  being 
pursued. 

The  laurels  of  a  Henry  were  never  tarnished  by  the  obliga- 
tions he  owed  and  acknowledged  to  a  Sully. 

It  would  be  an  unpleasing  task,  and  therefore  I  forbear  to 
lift  the  veil  from  off  those  impotent  councils,  which,  by  a  formal 
vote,  had  decreed  an  undisturbed  passage  to  an  enemy  returning 
from  the  fairest  fruits  of  his  victories,  to  seek  an  asylum  from 
impending  danger,  disheartened  by  retreat,  dispirited  by  deser- 
tion, broken  by  fatigue,  retiring  through  woods,  defiles,  and 
morasses,  in  which  his  discipline  was  useless,  in  the  face  of  an 
army  superior  in  numbers,  elated  by  pursuit,  and  ardent  to  sig- 
nalize their  courage.  'Tis  enough  for  the  honor  of  Greene  to 
say,  that  he  left  nothing  unessayed,  to  avert  and  to  frustrate  so 
degrading  a  resolution.  And  it  was  happy  for  America,  that  the 
man,  whose  reputation  could  not  be  wounded  without  wounding 
the  cause  of  his  country,  had  the  noble  fortitude  to  rescue  him- 
self, and  the  army  he  commanded,  from  the  disgrace  with  which 
they  were  both  menaced  by  the  characteristic  imbecility  of  a 
council  of  war. 

Unwilling  to  do  more  than  merely  to  glance  at  a  scene  in 
which  the  meritorious  might  be  involved  with  the  guilty,  in  pro- 
miscuous censure,  here  let  me  drop  the  curtain,  and  invite  you  to 
accompany  me  to  the  Heights  of  Monmouth.  There  let  me  re- 
call to  your  indignant  view,  the  flower  of  the  American  infantry 
flying  before  an  enemy  that  scarcely  dared  to  pursue — vanquished 
without  a  blow — vanquished  by  their  obedience  to  the  commands 
of  a  leader  who  meditated  their  disgrace.  Let  me  contrast  with 
this  the  conduct  of  your  Greene;  the  calm  intrepidity  and 
unshaken  presence  of  mind,  with  which  he  seconded  the  dispo- 
sitions of  his  General,  to  arrest  the  progress  of  the  disorder  and 


JBr.39.]  EULOGIUM    ON    GEN.    GREENE.  485 

retrieve  the  fortune  of  the  day.     Lei  me  recall  to  your  recoil 
tii>n  thai  well-timed  and  happy  movement  on  the  lefl  of  the 
enemy,  by  which  he  so  materially  contributed  to  deciding  the 
dubi<  >us  event  of  the  conflict,  and  turning  the  hesitating  scale  of 
victorv. 

Prom  tin1  Heights  of  Monmouth  I  might  lead  you  to  the 
Plains  of  Springfield,  there  to  behold  the  yeteran  E£nyphaussen, 
at  the  head  of  a  veteran  army,  baffled  and  almost  beaten  by  a 
genera]  without  an  army  aided, or  rather  embarrassed,  by  small 
fugitive  bodies  of  volunteer  militia,  the  mimicry  of  soldiership  ! 

Bui  it  would  ill  become  me  to  detain  you  in  the  contempla- 
tion of  objects  diminutive  in  comparison  with  those  that  arc  to 

SUCeccd. 

Hitherto,  we  have  seen  the  illustrious  Greene  acting  in  a 
subordinate  capacity,  the  faint  glimmerings  of  his  fame  absorbed 
and  lost  in  the  superior  rays  of  a  Washington.  Happy  was  it 
for  him  to  have  been  called  to  a  more  explicit  station.  Had  this 
never  been  the  case,  the  future  historian,  perplexed  between  the 
panegyric  of  friends  and  the  satire  of  enemies,  might  have 
doubted  in  what  colors  to  draw  his  true  character.  Accident, 
alone,  saved  a  Greene  from  so  equivocal  a  late;  a  reflection 
which  might  damp  the  noble  ardor  of  emulation,  and  check  the 
towering  flight  of  conscious  merit. 

The  defeat  of  Camden,  and  the  misfortune  of  Gates,  opened 
the  career  of  victory  and  of  glory  to  Greene.  Congress  having 
resolved  upon  a  successor  to  the  former,  the  choice  was  left  to 
the  Commander-in-Chief,  and  fell  upon  the  latter.  In  this  desti- 
nation, honorable  in  proportion  as  it  was  critical,  he  acquiesced 
with  the  mingled  emotions  of  a  great  mind — impelled  by  a  sense 
of  duty — allured  by  the  hope  of  fame — apprised  of  the  danger 
and  precariousness  of  the  situation,  yet  confident  of  its  own 
Strength,  and  animated  by  the  magnitude  of  the  object  for  which 
it  was  to  be  exerted. 

Henceforth  wc  are  to  view  him  on  a  more  exalted  eminence. 
He  is  no  longer  to  figure  in  an  ambiguous  or  secondary  light : 
he  is  to  shine  forth  the  artificer  of  his  own  glory — the  leader  of 
armies  and  the  deliverer  of  States  ! 


486  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  32. 

To  estimate  properly  the  value  of  his  services,  it  is  necessary 
to  recur  to  the  situation  of  the  southern  extremity  of  the  Union 
at  the  time  he  entered  upon  the  command  in  that  quarter. 
Georgia  and  South  Carolina  subdued  and  overrun ;  the  spirit  of 
their  people  dejected  and  intimidated;  the  flame  of  resistance 
scarcely  kept  alive  by  the  transient  gleams  of  a  few  expiring  em- 
bers; North  Carolina  distracted  by  the  still  recent  effects  of 
internal  commotion,  dreading  the  hostility  of  a  considerable  part 
of  its  own  citizens,  and  depending,  for  its  exertions,  on  the  tried 
valor  and  patriotism  of  the  rest,  more  than  on  the  energy  of  a 
feeble  and  ill-organized  government ;  Virginia,  debilitated  by  the 
excessive  efforts  of  its  early  zeal,  and  by  the  dissipation  of  its 
revenues  and  forces,  in  Indian  hostilities,  in  domestic  projects, 
encumbered  by  a  numerous  body  of  slaves,  bound  by  all  the  laws 
of  degraded  humanity  to  hate  their  masters ;  deficient  in  order 
and  vigor  in  its  administration ;  and  relying  wholly,  for  imme- 
diate defence  against  threatened  invasion,  on  the  resources  of  a 
country,  extensive,  populous,  and  fertile,  to  be  put  in  motion  by 
the  same  ardent  and  magnanimous  spirit  which  first  lighted  up 
the  opposition  to  Great  Britain,  and  set  the  glorious  example  of 
resistance  to  America.  In  such  a  situation  what  was  to  be 
hoped  ?  What  was  to  be  hoped  from  a  General  without  troops, 
without  magazines,  without  money  ?  A  man  of  less  depth  of 
penetration  or  force  of  soul  than  Greene,  would  have  recoiled  at 
the  prospect;  but  he,  far  from  desponding,  undertook  the  ar- 
duous task  with  firmness — with  a  firmness  which  was  the  result 
of  a  well-informed  estimate  of  a  situation  perilous  but  not  despe- 
rate. He  knew  how  much  was  to  be  expected  from  the  efforts 
of  men  contending  for  the  rights  of  man.  He  knew  how  much 
was  to  be  performed  by  capacity,  courage,  and  perseverance. 

Not  to  be  disconcerted  by  the  most  complicated  embarrass- 
ments, nor  the  most  discouraging  prospects,  he  began,  before  he 
entered  upon  the  duties  of  the  field,  by  adjusting  the  outlines  of 
the  plan  which  was  to  regulate  his  future  conduct ;  a  plan  con- 
ceived with  so  much  wisdom,  and  so  perfect  a  judgment  of  cir- 
cumstances, that  he  never  had  occasion  to  depart  from  it  in  the 
progress  of  his  subsequent  operations.     This  alone  might  suffice 


Ar.  32;]  EU  LOCUM    ON    GEN.    GREENE.  1*7 

to  form  the  eulogium  of  his  genius,  and  to  demonstrate  thai  he 
was  an  accomplished  master  in  the  science  of  military  command. 

His  next  care  was  to  endeavor  to  impress  the  neighboring 
.villi  a  proper  sense  of  their  situation,  in  order  to  induce 
them,  with  system  and  effect,  to  furnish  the  succors  of  which  he 
stood  in  need.  To  urge  the  collection  and  accelerate  the  arrival 
of  these,  as  well  as  to  repel  any  invasion  to  which  the  State 
might  be  exposed,  he  stationed,  in  Virginia,  the  Baron  de  Steu- 
ben, an  officer  who  merited  and  justified  his  confidence;  and 
having  made  these  preliminary  arrangements,  he  hastened  to  put 
himself  at  the  head  of  the  inconsiderable  remains  of  the  Southern 
army,  which  he  joined  at  Charlotte,  on  the  borders  of  North 

ilina,  destitute  of  every  thing  but  courage,  and  an  uncon- 
querable attachment  to  the  cause  they  had  espoused. 

To  cuter  into  a  ['articular  detail  of  the  operations  by  which 
the  Southern  States  were  rescued  from  conquest  and  desolation, 
and  the  last  project  of  Britain  for  the  subjugation  of  America 
frustrated,  would  be  to  assume  the  province  of  the  historian. 
This,  neither  the  occasion,  nor  any  reasonable  claim  to  your  in- 
dulgence, would  justify.  A  general  sketch  is  all  thai  can,  with 
propriety,  be  attempted,  and  shall  limit  my  endeavors.  To  sup- 
ply a  •  army  by  coercion,  and  yet  maintain  the  confi- 
dence and  good  will  of  the  coerced:  this  was  among  the  lirst  and 
not  the  least  of  the  difficult  he  surmounted.  But  deli* 
and  difficult  as  was  the  task",  it  was,  nevertheless,  accomplished. 
Conducted  with  system,  moderation,  and  equity,  even  military 

tions  lost  their  rigor,  and  freemen  venerated  the  hand  that 
reluctantly  stripped  them  of  their  property  for  their  preserva- 
tion. 

Having  concerted  the  arrangements  requisite  to  this  end, 
Greene,  without  further  delay,  entered  upon  that  busy,  compli- 

d,  and  extraordinary  scene,  which  may  truly  be  said  to  form 
a  phenomenon  in  war  —a  scene  which  almost  continually  presents 
ii.-.  on  the  one  hand,  with  victories  ruinous  to  the  victors ;  on  the 
other,  with  retreats  beneficial  to  the  vanquished  :  which  exhibits 
to  our  admiration,  a  commander  almosl  constantly  obliged  to 
lincpiish  the  field  to  his  adversary,  yet  as  constantly  making  ac- 


488  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  32. 

quisitions  upon  him ;  beaten  to-day ;  to-morrow,  without  a  blow, 
compelliDg  the  conqueror  to  renounce  the  very  object  for  which 
he  had  conquered,  and,  in  a  manner,  to  fly  from  the  very  foe  he 
had  subdued.  Too  weak,  with  his  collected  strength,  to  dispute 
the  field  with  an  enemy  superior  both  in  numbers  and  discipline, 
and  urged  by  the  necessity  of  giving  activity  to  the  natural  force 
of  the  country,  by  rousing  the  inhabitants  from  the  state  of  de- 
spondency into  which  they  had  sunk,  with  the  prospect  of  succor 
and  protection,  Greene  divided  his  little  army  into  two  parts ; 
one  of  which  he  sent,  under  Morgan,  into  the  western  extremi- 
ties of  North  Carolina;  and,  with  the  other,  marched  to  Hicks' 
Creek. 

This  movement  had  the  desired  effect.  The  appearance  of 
aid,  magnified  by  advantages  opportunely  gained  (though  unim- 
portant in  themselves),  rekindled  this  ardor  of  patriotic  hope  in 
the  breasts  of  many  who  had  begun  to  despair,  and  emboldened 
them  to  resume  their  arms,  and  again  to  repair  to  the  standard  of 
liberty. 

Sensible  of  the  importance  of  counteracting  this  policy  of  the 
American  General,  the  British  commander  hesitated  not  about  the 
part  he  should  act.  Directing  his  first  attention  towards  the  de- 
tachment under  Morgan,  and  meditating  a  decisive  blow  against 
that  corps,  he  committed  the  execution  of  the  enterprise  to  Lieu- 
tenant-Colonel Tarleton,  at  the  head  of  a  thousand  veterans. 
Tarleton,  hitherto  not  less  the  favorite  of  fortune  than  of  his 
chief,  hastened  to  perform  the  welcome  duty ;  anticipating  an 
easy  triumph  over  foes  inferior  both  in  numbers  and  discipline  ; 
and  dreaming  not  of  the  reverse  which  was  destined  to  confound 
his  hopes,  and  even  to  sully  the  lustre  of  his  former  fame.  In 
the  very  grasp  of  victory,  when  not  to  combat  but  to  slaughter 
seemed  all  that  remained  to  be  done,  the  forward  intrepidity  of 
a  Washington,  seconded  by  the  cool,  determined  bravery  of  a 
Howard,  snatched  the  trophy  from  his  too  eager  and  too  exulting 
hand.  He  was  discomfited  and  routed.  The  greater  part  of  his 
followers  were  either  killed  or  taken  ;  and  the  remaining  few, 
with  himself,  were  glad  to  find  safety  in  flight. 

Here  first  the  bright  dawn  of  prosperity  began  to  dispel  that 


jEt.  32.]  EULOGIUM    ON    GEN.    GREENE.  489 

gloomy  cloud  which  had  for  some  time  lowered  over  the  Southern 
horizon!  Thunderstruck  at  so  unexpected  a  disaster,  and  ill 
able  to  spare  so  considerable  a  part  of  his  force,  Cornwall  is  re- 
solved, at  every  sacrifice,  to  attempt  the  recovery  of  his  captive 
troops.  The  trial  of  ski  Hid  exertion  between  the  Generals,  and 
of  patient  fortitude  between  the  troops,  to  which  that  attempt 
gave  occasion,  was  such  as  to  render  it  difficult  to  pronounce  to 
whom  the  palm  of  merit  ought  to  be  decreed.  Abandoning 
whatever  might  impede  the  celerity  of  his  motions,  Cornwallis 
began  and  urged  the  pursuit  of  the  detachment  under  Morgan, 
with  a  rapidity  seldom  equalled,  never  surpassed.  While,  on 
the  other  hand,  the  provident  and  active  Greene  spared  no  exer- 
tion to  disappoint  his  enterprising  adversary. 

Anxious  for  the  security  of  that  detachment,  with  their  pris- 
oners, and  desirous  of  affecting  a  reunion  of  his  forces,  now  ren- 
dered necessary  by  a  change  of  circumstances,  he  gave  instant 
orders  for  the  march  of  the  body  under  his  immediate  command 
to  Guilford  Court-House ;  and  hastened,  in  person,  through  the 
country,  a  hundred  and  fifty  miles,  to  join  General  Morgan, 
whom  he  came  up  with  on  the  banks  of  Catawba.  Thus,  placed 
in  front  of  the  enemy,  he  was  the  better  able  to  counteract  their 
immediate  design,  and  to  direct  the  co-operation  necessary  to  the 
intended  junction.  So  well  were  his  measures  taken,  that  he 
succeeded  in  both  objects.  The  prisoners  were  carried  off  in 
safety ;  and  Guilford  Court-IIouse,  the  destined  place  of  rendez- 
vous, received  and  reunited  the  two  divisions  of  the  American 
army.  Still,  however,  too  weak  to  keep  the  field  in  the  face  of 
his  enemy,  a  further  retreat  became  inevitable.  A  resolution 
was  accordingly  taken  to  retire  beyond  the  Dan.  Here  a  new 
ami  not  less  arduous  trial  of  skill  ensued.  To  get  between  the 
American  army  and  Virginia  ;  intercept  their  supplies  and  rein- 
forcements ;  and  oblige  them  to  fight  on  disadvantageous  terms : 
this  now  became  the  object  of  Cornwallis.  With  this  view  he 
directed  his  march  into  the  upper  country,  where  the  rivers  were 
fordable  with  facility;  flattering  himself  that  the  depth  of  the 
waters  below,  and  the  want  of  boats,  would  oppose  insuperable 
obstacles  to  the  expeditious  passage  of  the  American  troops.     To 


490  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [JEt.  32. 

retard  the  progress  of  the  British  army  was,  of  course,  an  indis- 
pensable policy  on  the  part  of  Greene.  For  this  purpose,  he 
practised  every  expedient  which  a  mind,  fertile  in  resource,  could 
devise.  And  so  efficacious  were  the  expedients  he  adopted, 
that,  surmounting  all  the  impediments  in  his  way,  he  completed 
his  retreat  across  the  Dan,  without  loss  of  men,  baggage,  or 
stores. 

Such,  nevertheless,  was  the  energy  of  the  pursuit,  that  in 
crossing  the  three  principal  rivers,  the  Catawba,  the  Yadken,  and 
the  Dan,  the  British  troops,  in  a  manner,  trod  upon  the  heels  of 
the  American.  In  the  passage  of  the  last  of  the  three,  the  van 
of  the  enemy's  army  reached  one  shore,  almost  at  the  very  mo- 
ment that  the  rear  of  ours  landed  on  the  opposite. 

Cornwallis,  upon  this  occasion,  imitating  Charles  the  Twelfth 
of  Sweden,  when  the  celebrated  Schulenburgh  made  good  his 
retreat  across  the  Oder,  in  spite  of  the  utmost  efforts  of  that  vig- 
orous and  enterprising  monarch,  might,  with  propriety,  have  ex- 
claimed, This  day,  at  least,  Greene  has  conquered  me  !  The  art 
of  retreating  is  perhaps  the  most  difficult  in  the  art  of  war.  To 
have  effected  a  retreat  in  the  face  of  so  ardent  a  pursuit,  through 
so  great  an  extent  of  country  ;  through  a  country  offering  every 
obstacle  ;  affording  scarcely  any  resource  ;  with  troops  destitute 
of  every  thing,  who  a  great  part  of  the  way  left  the  vestiges  of 
their  march  in  their  own  blood :  to  have  done  all  this,  I  say, 
without  loss  of  any  kind,  may,  without  exaggeration,  be  denomi- 
nated a  masterpiece  of  military  skill  and  exertion.  Disappointed 
in  his  first  aim,  Cornwallis  now  retired  from  the  Dan  to  Guilford 
Court-House.  Having  driven  the  American  army  out  of  North 
Carolina,  he  flattered  himself  that  his  efforts  would  at  least  be 
productive  of  the  advantage  of  an  accession  of  force,  by  en- 
couraging the  numerous  royalists  of  that  State  to  repair  to  his 
standard.  Greene,  not  without  apprehensions  that  the  hopes  of 
his  competitor,  in  this  respect,  might  be  realized,  lost  not  a  mo- 
ment, after  receiving  a  small  reinforcement  from  Virginia,  in 
recrossing  the  Dan,  to  take  post  in  the  vicinity  of  the  British 
army,  and  interrupt  their  communication  with  the  country. 
Three  weeks  passed  in  a  constant  scene  of  military  manoeuvre  : 


Met.  39.]         EULOGIUM    ON    (,'  K  \  .    GREENE.  MM 

<  'ornwallis,  equally  striving  to  bring  his  antagonist  I  <  an  action  ; 
and  Greene,  adroitly  endeavoring  to  elude  it:  yel  withoul  re- 
nouncing such  a  position  as  would  enable  him  to  prevenl  both 
supplies  and  reinforcements.  (  m  thia  occasion  he  played  tin' 
pari  of  Turenne;  and  he  played  ii  with  complete  succ  The 

relative  position  which  he  took  and  maintained,  and  the  trag 
fate  of  a  body  of  royalists,  intercepted  in  their  way  to  the  British 
army,  destroyed  every  prospecl  of  thai  aid  which  they,  do1  with- 
out reason,  had  promised  themselves  from  their  adherents  in 
V  i  th  <  'arolina. 

Virginia,  in  the  mean  time,  awakened  by  the  presence  of 
dan  erted  herself  to  reinforce  the  American  army.    Greene, 

speedily  finding  himself  in  a  condition  to  outnumber  his  adver- 
sary, resolved  to  offer  thai  battle  which  he  had  hitherto  declined. 
He  considered  that,  in  the  existing  circumstances,  a  defeal  must 
be,  to  the  enemy,  absolute  ruin;  while  to  him,  from  his  superi- 
ority in  cavalry,  united  with  other  advantages,  it  could  be 
nothing  more  than  a  partial  misfortune,  and  must  be  com- 
pensated  at  a  price  which  the  enemy  could  not  afford  to  pay 
for  it. 

The  two  armies,  now  equally  willing  to  try  the  fortune  . 

tie,  met  and  cniraircd  near  Guilford  Court-House.  All  that 
could  be  expected  from  able  disposition  towards  insuring  success, 
promised  a  favorable  issue  to  the  American  arms.  Bu1  superior 
discipline  carried  it  against  superior  numbers  and  superior  skill. 
Victory  decreed  the  glory  of  the  combat  to  the  Britons;  hut 
Heaven,  confirming  the  hopes  of  Greene,  decreed  the  advantage 
of  it  to  the  Americans.  Greene  retired;  Cornwallis  kept  the 
tield.     Bu1  Greene  retired  only  three  miles:  and  Cornwallis,  in 

three    days,    abandoning    the    place    where    tin-    laurels    he    had 

gained  were  a  slender  compensation  for  the  loss  he  had  suffei 

withdrew  to  Wilmington  on  the  Bea-coast. 

This  victory  cost  him  a  large  proportion  of  the  flower  of  his 

army;   and  it  cost  him  a  Webster. 

I  [ere  occurred  the  problem,  on  the  right  solution  of  which  de- 
led the  fame  of  Greene  and  the  fate  of  the  Southern  States. 

There  was  every  probability  that  the  next  movement  of  Corn- 


492  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mr.  32. 

wallis  would  be  towards  a  junction  with  Arnold  for  the  invasion 
of  Virginia.  Was  the  American  General  to  keep  pace  with  his 
adversary  in  his  northern  career,  in  order  to  resist  his  future 
enterprises  ?  Or,  was  he  to  return  into  the  field  he  had  lately- 
left,  to  endeavor  to  regain  what  had  been  there  lost  ?  The  first, 
as  the  most  obvious,  and,  in  a  personal  light,  the  least  perilous 
course,  would  have  been  thought  most  eligible  by  an  ordinary 
mind.  But  the  last,  as  the  wisest,  though,  to  his  own  reputation, 
the  most  hazardous,  appeared  preferable  to  the  comprehensive 
eye  and  adventurous  spirit  of  a  Greene. 

On  the  one  hand,  he  concluded,  justly,  that  Virginia  might 
safely  be  trusted  to  her  own  strength  and  resources,  and  to  the 
aid  which,  if  necessary,  she  might  derive  from  the  North, 
against  all  the  force  which  the  enemy  were  then  able  to  employ 
in  that  quarter.  On  the  other  hand,  he  foresaw,  that  if  South 
Carolina  and  Georgia  should  be  abandoned  to  the  situation  in 
which  they  then  were,  they  would  quickly  have  abandoned 
themselves  to  despair;  would  have  lost  even  the  spirit  of  op- 
position; and  might  have  been  rendered,  in  several  respects, 
subservient  to  the  future  progress  of  their  conqueror.  Under 
these  impressions  he  determined  to  return  into  South  Carolina, 
to  attempt  the  recovery  of  that  and  its  neighboring  State. 

This  was  one  of  those  strokes  that  denote  superior  genius, 
and  constitute  the  sublime  of  war.  'Twas  Scipio  leaving  Hanni- 
bal in  Italy,  to  overcome  him  at  Carthage ! 

The  success  was  answerable  to  the  judicious  boldness  of  the 
design.  The  enemy  were  divested  of  their  acquisitions  in  South 
Carolina  and  Georgia,  with  a  rapidity  which,  if  not  ascertained, 
would  scarcely  be  credible.  In  the  short  space  of  two  months, 
all  their  posts  in  the  interior  of  the  country  were  reduced.  The 
perseverance,  courage,  enterprise,  and  resource,  displayed  by  the 
American  General  in  the  course  of  these  events,  commanded  the 
admiration  even  of  his  enemies.  In  vain  was  he  defeated  in  one 
mode  of  obtaining  his  object:  another  was  instantly  substituted 
that  answered  the  end.  In  vain  was  he  repulsed  from  before  a 
besieged  fortress :  he  immediately  found  other  means  of  compel- 


jEt.  32.]  EULOGIUM    ON    GEN.     GREENE.  493 

ling  its  defenders  to  relinquish  their  stronghold.     Where  force 
Sailed,  address  and  stratagem  still  won  the  prize. 

Saving  deprived  the  enemy  of  all  their  posts  in  the  interior 
of  the  country,  ami  having  wasted  their  forces  in  a  variety  of 
ways,  Greene  now  thought  himself  in  a  condition  to  aim  a  de- 
cisive blow  at  the  mutilated  remains  of  the  British  army,  and,  at 
least,  to  oblige  them  to  take  refuge  within  the  lines  of  Charleston. 
With  this  view,  he  collected  his  forces  into  one  body,  and 
marched  to  give  battle  to  the  enemy,  then  stationed  at  the 
Springs  of  the  Kutaw. 

A  general  action  took  place.  Animated,  obstinate,  and 
bloody,  was  the  contest.  The  front  line  of  the  American  army 
consisting  of  militia,  after  beginning  a  brisk  attack,  began  to 
give  way.  At  this  critical  and  inauspicious  juncture,  Greene, 
"with  that  collected  intrepidity  which  never  forsook  him,  gave 
orders  to  the  second  line,  composed  of  Continentals,  to  advance 
to  the  charge  with  trailed  arms.  This  order,  enforced  by  exam- 
ple, and  executed  with  matchless  composure  and  constancy, 
could  not  fail  of  success.  The  British  veterans  shrunk  from  the 
American  bayonet.  They  were  routed  and  pursued  a  consider- 
able distance.  Numbers  of  them  fell  into  the  hands  of  their 
pursuers,  and  the  remainder  were  threatened  with  a  similar  fate; 
when,  arriving  at  a  position  which,  with  peculiar  advantages,  in- 
vited to  a  fresh  stand,  they  rallied,  and  renewed  the  action.  In 
vain  did  the  intrepid  Washington,  at  the  head  of  the  pursu- 
ing detachment,  redouble  the  ciforts  of  his  valor,  to  dislodge 
them  from  this  new  station.  He  was  himself  wounded  and 
made  a  prisoner,  and  his  followers,  in  their  turn,  compelled  to 
retire. 

But  though  the  enemy,  by  an  exertion  of  bravery  which 
demands  our  esteem,  saved  themselves  from  the  total  ruin  which 
was  ready  to  overwhelm  them ;  they  had,  nevertheless,  received 
too  severe  a  blow  to  attempt  any  longer  to  maintain  a  footing  in 
the  open  country.  They,  accordingly,  the  day  following,  re- 
treated towards  Charleston;  leaving  behind  them  their  wounded, 
and  a  considerable  quantity  of  arms.  Here  ended  all  serious 
offensive  operations  in  the  South!     The  predatory  excursions 


494  HAMILTON'S    WORKS.  [Mt.  32. 

which  intervened  between  the  battle  of  the  Eutaw  and  the  evac- 
uation of  Charleston  and  Savannah,  deserve  not  a  place  in  the 
catalogue  of  military  achievements.  But  before  we  take  leave 
of  a  scene  as  honorable  as  it  was  advantageous  to  the  American 
arms,  it  behooves  us  to  stop  for  a  moment,  to  pay  the  tribute  of 
merited  applause  to  the  memory  of  that  gallant  officer,  who,  at 
the  head  of  the  Virginia  line,  fell  in  this  memorable  conflict. 
More  anxious,  to  the  last,  about  his  country  than  himself,  in  the 
very  agonies  of  departing  life,  he  eagerly  inquired  which  of  the 
contending  parties  prevailed  ;  and  having  learned  that  his  coun- 
trymen were  victorious,  he  like  another  Epaminondas  yielded  up 
his  last  breath  in  this  noble  exclamation:  "  Then  do  I  die  con- 
tented.1'   Heroic  Campbell !  How  enviable  was  such  a  death  ! 

The  evacuation  of  the  two  capitals  of  South  Carolina  and 
Georgia,  entirely  restored  those  States  to  their  own  governments 
and  laws.  They  now  hailed  the  illustrious  Greene  as  their  de- 
fender and  deliverer.  Their  gratitude  was  proportioned  to  the 
extent  of  the  benefits  resulting  from  his  services ;  nor  did  it  show 
itself  in  words  only,  but  was  manifested  by  acts  that  did  honor 
to  their  generosity.  Consecrated  in  the  affections  of  their  citizens 
to  the  remotest  posterity,  the  fame  of  Greene  will  ever  find  in 
them,  a  more  durable,  as  well  as  a  more  flattering,  memorial, 
than  in  the  proudest  monuments  of  marble  or  brass. 

But  where,  alas,  is  now  this  consummate  General ;  this  brave 
Soldier ;  this  discerning  Statesman ;  this  steady  Patriot ;  this 
virtuous  Citizen ;  this  amiable  Man  ?  Why  could  not  so  many 
talents,  so  many  virtues,  so  many  bright  and  useful  qualities, 
shield  him  from  a  premature  grave  ?  Why  was  he  not  longer 
spared  to  a  country  he  so  dearly  loved ;  which  he  was  so  well 
able  to  serve ;  which  still  seems  so  much  to  stand  in  need  of  his 
services  ?  Why  was  he  only  allowed  to  assist  in  laying  the  foun- 
dation, and  not  permitted  to  aid  in  rearing  the  superstructure, 
of  American  greatness?  Such  are  the  inquiries  which  our 
friendly,  yet  short-sighted  regrets,  would  naturally  suggest.  But 
inquiries  like  these  are  to  be  discarded  as  presumptuous.  'Tis 
not  for  us  to  scan,  but  to  submit  to  the  dispensations  of  Heaven. 

Let  us  content  ourselves  with  revering  the  memory,  imitating 


jEt.  32.]        eim.oi;ii;m    on    <;i:\.   <;ki:i:\i: 


195 


the  virtues,  and,  as  far  as  we  dare,  emulating  the  glory  of  the 
man,   whom  neither  our  warmesl  admiration,  nor  our  fom 
predilection,  could  proted  from  the  fatal  shaft.     And  as  oftei 
we  indulge  our  sorrow  for  his  loss,  lei  usnol  fail  to  mingle  the 
reflection,  that  he  has  lefl   behind  him,  offspring  who  are  the 
heirs  to  the  friendship  which  we  l>ore  to  the  father,  and  who  1; 
a  claim  from  many,  if  not  from  all  of  as,  to  cares  not  Less  than 
parental 


END  OF  VOL.   II. 


OCT  2 7   1933 


, 


