Foreword Well before the signing on July 4, 1966, of Public Law 89-491, establishing a national American Revolution Bicentennial Commis sion, the Library of Congress began considering how it could contrib ute to the celebration of the Bicentennial of the American Revolu tion. In 1968 Congress approved the Library’s general plan and subsequently authorized the addition to the Library’s staff of several historians, all specialists in early American history. The Library took as the theme for its Bicentennial program “Liberty and Learning” from James Madison, who asked: “What spectacle can be more edify ing or more seasonable, than that of Liberty &: Learning, each lean ing on the other for their mutual and surest support.” Reflecting the Library’s unparalleled resources for the study of the revolutionary era, its Bicentennial program ranges widely: from the presentation of symposia to the publication of facsimiles and the texts of rare or unique material to the recording of American folk music and the compilation of bibliographies and guides. In preparing one of those guides, Manuscript Sources in the Li brary of Congress for Research on the American Revolution (Wash ington: Library of Congress, 1975), the staff of the Bicentennial Of fice discovered large numbers of letters, written by members of the Continental Congresses, which had not been published in Edmund C. Burnett’s magisterial 8-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continental Congress, 1774-89 (Washington: Carnegie Institution, 1921-36). Initially, it appeared that these letters might be published as a supplement to Burnett’s work, but as additional unpublished let ters of Congressmen turned up and as a cursory survey of other reposi tories suggested that even more unpublished letters were available, the Library decided that a new, expanded edition would be a valu able and appropriate Bicentennial project. As the editors of the present work grew to appreciate the magni tude of the task they had undertaken, their admiration for Burnett increased. It is not enough to say that his edition provided the inspi ration for their efforts. His research and annotations have stood the test of time and provide the foundation for much of the research which will appear in these volumes. Specialists will sense the editors’ dependence on Burnett’s pathfinding work, but perhaps few. other than the editors, can fully appreciate the dimensions of his achieve ment. The present edition has benefited immensely from the generous co operation of the editors of several other documentary publications iii
