xxvi Illustrations Christopher Gadsden 317 Gadsden, a Charleston merchant regarded as one of South Caro lina’s leading radicals, was among the foremost advocates in Congress of a Continental Navy. Gadsden’s support for this policy was a natural outgrowth of both his experience as purser on a ship of the Royal Navy in his youth and his more general concern for the defense of American rights against British encroachments. In fact, so enthusiasti cally did he champion the cause of American rights that Connecticut delegate Silas Deane observed during the First Continental Congress that “Mr. Gadsden leaves all New England Sons of Liberty, farr be hind.” Painting by Charles Willson Peale, Independence National His torical Park Collection. George Ross 359 A lawyer from Lancaster and brother-in-law of Delaware delegate George Read, Ross was the only Pennsylvania delegate not returned to Congress by the Pennsylvania Assembly in November 1775. A few days after replacing Ross by the conservative Andrew Allen, the as sembly adopted new instructions for the Pennsylvania delegates, directing them to oppose measures “that may cause, or lead to, a Separation from our Mother Country.” The assembly’s action, Ross feared, would have “fatal consequences.” He was, however, reelected to Congress the following July by the Pennsylvania Convention, which had assumed the authority of the defunct Pennsylvania Assembly, and he returned to Congress to become a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Painting by Benjamin West, 1755 or 1756. From the North Mus eum, Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa. Congressional Declaration of December 6, 1775. 449 A declaration of Congress adopted on December 6, 1775, and direct ed against the king’s proclamation of August 23, 1775, declaring the American colonies in a state of “open and avowed rebellion.” Con gress ordered the publication of this broadside to deny the king’s “aspersions” and to reaffirm both their allegiance to the king and their continued opposition to Britain’s exercise “of unconstitutional pow ers, to which neither the Crown nor Parliament were ever entitled.” Broadside printed by John Dunlap. Robert Treat Paine 460 Paine, a Taunton, Mass., lawyer, gradually became an authority on the production of saltpetre, powder, and arms, and during his two- and-a-half-year term as a delegate to Congress he played the leading
