September 15, 1775 13 dodges his Head too, rather disagreably, and both of them Spout out their Language in a rough and rapid Torrent, but without much Force or Effect. Dyer is long winded and roundabout—obscure and cloudy. Very talkative and very tedious, yet an honest, worthy Man, means and judges well. Sherman’s Air is the Reverse of Grace. There cannot be a more striking Contrast to beautifull Action, than the Motions of his Hands. Generally, he stands upright with his Hands before him. The fingers of his left Hand clenched into a Fist, and the Wrist of it, grasped with his right. But he has a clear Head and sound Judgment. But when he moves a Hand, in any thing like Action, Hogarths Genuis could not have invented a Motion more opposite to grace. It is Stiff ness, and Aukwardness itself. Rigid as Starched Linen or Buckram. Aukward as a junior Batchelor, or a Sophomore. Mr. Dickinsons Air, Gate, and Action are not much more elegant. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:172-73. 1 This entry is apparently retrospective, since the credentials of the Georgia delegates were entered into the journals on September 13. JCC, 2:240-42. 2 That is, William Lee. “For the arrival of the New’ Hampshire delegates, see Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett, September 16, 1775. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Philadelphia Septr 15th 1775 I wrote you from Trenton, last Sunday, 1 but miss’d a Conveyance untill on Tuesday, by the Stage, to Care of Mr. Hazard. Hope You received it. I think I promised you a long Letter in it as soon as I ar rived here, which shall disappoint you of, tho’ this by Brown is sure of coming safe to hand for which want of Spirits occasioned by a se ver cold must be my excuse. I have been casting in my Mind how to procure you a passage to this place. Suppose Mr. Webb who wants to come, at least as farr as N. York could contrive to put his light Horse, with Two others, into Browns Stage and so come on, to New York, where I would meet you, with my Carriage. Think of this and write me by the first post after the Receipt of this. Tell my Brother Simeon, that Monsieur Te- tard is gone Chaplain to the New York Forces, so that his views of studying with him are over, for the present. The Congress have hardly begun Business, New Hampshire, &: N. Carolina being absent. 2 This City is still busy in military parade, & preparation. It is well they are for something is Necessary to keep them employed, and to divert their Attention from the Melancholy
