September 15, 1775 15 by the K s answer to the London Petition. 2 But it rather seems there will be no reinforcement to Genii Gage this fall. I hope a good account may be given of those here in due time. Let me hear wether my son is with you & how he does. Due regards to all Friends & am yours Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Since my last we have recievd from Doctr Church an Invoice for a large quantity of Druggs. 3 As I had sent my son a large quanti ty of Rhubarb and it is now Scarce here I have engaged to Supply him with that Article I believe Cheaper than can be got here. I have shewd a Sample to the best appothecary here who say it is Cheap at 3 doll [ar] s per lb by 50 wt togeather. I have ordered my son Benjn to send forword to you about 56 lb the quantity Doctr Church sent for, at that price tho it is low, which you will be so kind as to deliver to him as soon as it comes to hand. The other articles we shall pro cure as soon as may be & forword. Your E D RC (CtHi) . 1 Probably Washington’s September 7 letter to Congress, endorsed "No. 6,” and enclosing Commissary Trumbull’s proposals for purchasing flour and pork econom ically. PCC, item 152, 1:109-14; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:662-63. Congress continued consideration of this letter on September 16 and on the 21st appointed a committee to consider means of provisioning the army. JCC, 2:253, 3:257-58. a On July 14, 1775, the lord mayor, aidermen, and Commons of the City of London petitioned the king, urging him to desist from the use of force against America. The king replied that he must continue to use force as long as there was any resistance. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:1602-3. 3 On the previous day Congress had appointed Dyer to a committee “to devise ways and means for supplying the continental army with Medicines.” JCC, 2:250. John Hancock to Lewis Morris and James Wilson Gentlemen, Congress Chamber Septr. 15th. 1775. Your Letter of the 6th Inst. 1 was duely reed, and communicated to the Congress, who immediately took into Consideration the pro posed Expedition against Detroit: and as the Season is so far ad vanced, and the Congress have not sufficient Light to direct their Judgment, they can not undertake to give their Countenance to the proposed Enterprize; more especially as an Enterprize is now on Foot, which, if successful, will necessarily draw that Place after it. Inclosed you have two Resolves passed in Congress, relative to the Appointment of Col. Morris and Doctr. Walker, 2 as Commissioners for Indian Affairs. If Doctr. Walker should not be present when this reaches you, it may be proper to dispatch an Express to him, and no tify him of his Appointment.
