16 September 15, 1775 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . 1 On this letter, now lost, see also Richard Smith’s Diary, September 13, 1775. 3 Thomas Walker (1715-94), a Virginia physician and explorer deeply involved in western land speculation, and Lewis Morris, a delegate from New York, were appointed commissioners for Indian affairs in the middle department on Septem ber 14-15, for the express purpose of concluding a treaty of friendship with the Ohio Indians at Pittsburgh. JCC, 2:251; and DAB. John Jay to Stephen Rapalje Sir Philad. 15 Septr. 1775 We are informd that a considerable Quantity of Drugs 8c Medi cines are in yr. Possession belonging to a Gent, in England or Ire land. The Congress are desirous of purchasing such of them as may be of use to the army, 8c I am desired to apply to you for that Pur pose. Be so kind therefore as to inform me by the first opportunity whether you will dispose of them. Be assured that yr. Compliance will be very agreable to the Congress. 1 I am Sir yr. very hble ServL J- J a Y FC (NNC) . 1 On September 23 Congress ordered the committee on supplying the army to "buy a parcel of Drugs in the hands of Mr. Rapalje, which he offers at the prime cost.” JCC, 3:261. George Ross to James Wilson Dear Sir Phida. 15th Septr. 1775 The Affair of Detroit has been considered in Congress and the re sult you will have in a Letter from the President. 1 It was thought too late in the Season. The Intelligence was not clear enough. That Can non might me [he] Necessary. That as the Treaty at Albany has been very happily Concluded The Indians might take Offence. That per haps the Indians in your department might take it amiss and Lastly that Should Genl. Shuyler Suceed as has Embarged 15 days Detroit would Fall of Course. I say those Reasons determined the Congress unanimously to delay the Expedition at this time. We have little to do. All waiting with Anxiety to hear from Schuyler. All is Quiet at Boston. The Best Intelligence from England shews we must depend on our own Steady measures. I have heard From Jammy, he is well. I have not lately heard from Mr. Biddle, by the last accounts he was better. My Complymts. to Col. Morris Mr. Lawrence & all Friends. Coll. Thompson is well 8c greatly Esteemed. There is another Brigadier Wanting For the Army. I hope to have
