September 15, 1775 17 Col. Armstrong appointed. I am with great affection Your Sincere Friend & Hble Servt. Geo. Ross RC (MeHi). 1 For Congress’ negative response to a proposed expedition against Detroit, recommended in Morris and Wilson’s letter of September 6, sec John Hancock to Lewis Morris and James Wilson, September 15. 1775, and JCC, 2:251. Richard Smith’s Diary Friday 15 Septr. [1775] Debates upon Indian Commissioners for the Middle Department. Henry and Franklin being unable to attend at Pittsburg, Col. Lewis Morris & Dr. Thomas Walker appointed to attend there Hac Vice. 1 Then the Affair of the Two Cargoes at Georgia referred from Yes terday, was largely agitated & in the End a Resolution drawn by Jay took place importing that the cargoes should be sold and the Proffits if any put into the Hands of the Georgia Convention or Comee. of Safety to be applied in Defence of the Province. An incidental Mat ter took up some Time viz, Whether Mr. Nelson should vote for Vir ginia he being the only Delegate present 2 & whether any lesser Num ber than the Quorum shall represent any Colony. Mr. Nelson waved his Question & the other went off without a Determination. (Since that Time no Colony votes without the Quorum present as limited by their Colony. Some authorize 3, some 2, some one Delegate to give a Vote.) Two of the Georgia Delegates are possessed of Homespun Suits of Cloaths, an Adornment few other Members can boast of, be sides my Bror. Crane and myself. MS (DLC). ’Although Dr. Walker was appointed commissioner of Indian affairs this day, Morris’ appointment had been made on September 14. JCC, 2:251. a Francis Lightfoot Lee and George Wythe were in Philadelphia but had been inoculated for small pox and were in seclusion, and Peyton Randolph was ill. See Samuel Ward to George Washington, September 17, 1775. According to his later account with Virginia, Thomas Nelson had been in attendance for a few days. His claim for expenses as a delegate included the following entries: “To Travelling to Phila. 300 Miles Cd 1/—Mile £15. To Attendance in Congress from Sepr 10th till Febv 22d is 165 days Cq 45/-£371-5.” NN. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 15, 1775] 15th. Met, Dr. Walker of Virginia appointed a Commissioner in the Room of Mr. Henry. Goods arrived in Georgia before 6th Augst.
