18 September 15, 1775 last to be sold or reshiped at the option of the Proprietors; if sold, first Cost & Charges to be reimbursed the Owners, the Profits to be ap plied by the provincial Congress for the Defence of the Colony. (Mr. Hopkins until 1 /2 past one.) MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1775 Sept. 16. Saturday. Walking to the Statehouse this Morning, I met Mr. Dickinson, on Foot in Chesnut Street. We met, and passed near enough to touch Elbows. He passed without moving his Hat, or Head or Hand. I bowed and pulled off my Hat. He passed hautily by. The Cause of his Offence, is the Letter no doubt which Gage has printed in Drap ers Paper. 1 I shall for the future pass him, in the same manner. But I was de termined to make my Bow, that I might know his Temper. We are not to be upon speaking Terms, nor bowing Terms, for the time to come. This Evening had Conversation with Mr. Bullock of Georgia. I asked him, whether Georgia had a Charter? What was the Extent of the Province? What was their Constitution? How Justice was admin istered? Who was Chancellor, who Ordinary? and who Judges? He says they have County Courts for the Tryal of civil Causes un der £8—and a C[hief] Justice, appointed from Home and 3 other Judges appointed by the Governor, for the decision of all other Caus es civil and criminal, at Savanna. That the Governor alone is both Chancellor and Ordinary. Parson Gordon of Roxbury, spent the Evening here. 2 I fear his in discreet Prate will do harm in this City. He is an eternal Talker, and somewhat vain, and not accurate nor judicious. Very zealous in the Cause, and a well meaning Man, but incautious, and not sufficiently tender of the Character of our Province, upon which at this Time much depends. Fond of being thought a Man of Influence, at Head Quarters, and with our Council and House, and with the general Of ficers of the Army, and also with Gentlemen in this City, and other Colonies. He is a good Man, but wants a Guide. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:173-75. 1 That is, Adams’ letter to James Warren, July 24, 1775. For another personal evaluation of the letter’s impact, see Adams to Abigail Adams, October 2, 1775. ’William Gordon (1728/29-1807), a dissenting clergyman from England, became pastor of a Roxbury, Mass., parish in 1772. Gordon, a correspondent of Lord Dartmouth and an outspoken Whig by 1775, was made chaplain of the Massachu-
