28 September 18, 1775 John Adams’ Diary 1775 Septr. 18. Monday. This Morning John McPherson Esq. came to my Lodging, and re quested to speak with me in Private. He is the Owner of a very hand some Country Seat, about five Miles out of this City: is the Father of Mr. McPherson, an Aid de Camp to General Schuyler. He has been a Captain of a Privateer, and made a Fortune in that Way the last War. Is reputed to be well skilled in naval Affairs. He proposes great Things. Is sanguine, confident, positive, that he can take or burn ev ery Man of War, in America. It is a Secret he says. But he will com municate it to any one Member of Congress upon Condition, that it be not divulged during his Life at all, nor after his Death but for the Service of this Country. He says it is as certain as that he shall die, that he can burn any Ship. 1 In the afternoon Mr. S.A. and I made visit at Mrs. Bedfords to the Maryland Gentlemen. We found Paca and Chase and a polite Recep tion from them. Chase is ever social and talkative. He seems in better Humour, than he was before the Adjournment. His Colony have act ed with Spirit in Support of the Cause. They have formed themselves into a System and enjoyned an Association, if that is not an Absurdi ty- MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:176. 'John Macpherson (1726-92), Philadelphia privateer-merchant, was one of sev eral persons to propose plans for using an explosive torpedo to destroy ships at anchor. Congress endorsed Macpherson’s scheme on October 19, 1775, and he subsequently went to Boston to implement it. JCC, 3:296, 300, 301; James Warren to John Adams, November 5, 1775, Warren-Adams Letters, 1:177; “Mount Pleasant and the Macphersons,” in Thomas A. Glenn, Some Colonial Mansions and Those Who Live in Them, 2d ser. (Philadelphia: Henry T. Coates & Co., 1900) , pp. 445-72. George Ross to the Lancaster County Committee of Correspondence Gent Philada. 18th Septr. 1775 I embrace with pleasure the Earliest opportunity to express the Deep sense of Gratitude I entertain of the Honourable Testimony the County of Lancaster have given of my Publick Conduct in the Ar duous task I have been entrusted with. Being Heartily & Conscientiously engaged in this best of Causes —The support of the just rights & Libertys of my Country, I shall ever Esteem it the most Honourable & happy period of my Life that
