36 September 20, 1775 There will arise a Difficulty (and God knows you need no addi tional ones) about the old Genl, of Connecticut, 1 perhaps it may be of Use to have a General to Command at Fort George & receive the Supplies, or is Ticonderoga a better Station for that purpose. We who know the officers commanding our Northern Army, have no doubt that every thing [A] done that Man can do. Cant you get Winter Quarters in Canada even shoud you not get Montreal, we hear the 2500 Highlanders are raising (tis thought) for Canada, and the Papers mention Cloathing being intended for 3000 Men to be raised in Canada is ordered from London. You being there can pre vent all this even if St. Johns stands as it does, & is it not possible to interpose your Forces between that Post & Supplies so as to starve them. (A pretty Fellow to be taking Canada in the Comee Room at Philad. say you.) I knock under. Colo. Arnold is on his Way to Canada by way the Genl mentioned to y[ou] and will I hope make a powerful diversion in Your Favour. I beg my best Comp [lime] nts to Genl Montgomery, Colo. Campbell &c. I am Sir your most Obedt. Th Lynch RC (NN). 1 David Wooster, who apparently resented the fact that he was outranked by Schuyler. The two men subsequently quarreled once they joined forces in northern New York. Benson J. Lossing, The Life and Times of Philip Schuyler, 2 vols. (New York: Sheldon & Co. 1860-73), 1:433-42; and DAB. 2 To facilitate Schuyler’s advance on Montreal, Washington had ordered a detachment under the command of Benedict Arnold to strike at Quebec by way of the Kennebec River. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 3:436-39, 491-96. Maryland Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety Philadelphia, September 20, 1225. In response to a letter from the New York committee, Thomas Johnson, Samuel Chase, and Wil liam Paca return a noncommittal reply pertaining to the character of Dr. George Nicholson, who “came a stranger into Annapolis, in Maryland, about two years ago . . . and has uniformly as far as we have ever understood, expressed himself friendly to the cause of American liberty.” 1 MS not found; abstracted from Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 1:155. 'Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:907. The New York Committee of Safety’s letter of September 15, inquiring about Nicholson’s character in order to evaluate intelli gence he had recently provided them, is in ibid., p. 897.
