September 24, 1775 51 and Cloaths enough, and proclaim Freedom to all the Negroes who would join his Camp, 20,000 Negroes would join it from the two Provinces in a fortnight. The Negroes have a wonderfull Art of com municating Intelligence among themselves. It will run severall hundreds of Miles in a Week or Fortnight. They say, their only Security is this, that all the Kings Friends and Tools of Government have large Plantations and Property in Ne groes. So that the Slaves of the Tories would be lost as well as those of the Whiggs. I had nearly forgot a Conversation with Dr. Coombe concerning assassination, Henry 4., Sully, Buckingham &c. &c. Coombe has read Sullys Memoirs with great Attention. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:181-83. ’Collins had been to Massachusetts. See John Adams to Abigail Adams, July 4, 1775, note. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane Sunday Sepr. [24, 1775] This was to have gone by Mr Bird of Virginia but he set out with out my knowledge of the Time. The Weather is very cool here for this Season, therefore if you determine on coming down the Time fixed above will be a good one though by the Way I see no End to Our Business, & it is as extensive as endless. How ran Elections? Though personally I do not feel myself Inter ested however agreeable to one of my Sensibility the suffrages of ones Countrymen are, yet one great Object swallows up like Aarons Rod all the Lesser. Liberty, or Death is before Us, & I can conceive of No Alternative, if the former it will take a long Time to obtain, & afterwards settle it, on a permanent Basis. If the Latter (as I trust no American patriot will so desert himself as to prefer a short existence in Slavery to it) why then, it will but Shorten a Life of Care and Anxiety. We expect intelligence from G Brittain every hour. I am impatient for it, not that I think it will alter our Measures, for I am very confident as to the Complexion of it before it arrives but that the least & every Shadow of an excuse, for not pursuing the most vigorous Measures may be removed from the really Timid, & those pretendedly so. You must not expect Long Letters from Me, as I am more taken up, than when here last Summer and among other Things, the Settlement of Our Con tinental Expences & Charges of the Warr has fell to the Lot of a Comme. of which I am one. I have therefore No Time of my own. If I had it Should be yours & my Freinds, so excuse Me to Mr. Hosmer &c. Adieu. [P.S.] Have You heard anything of Your missing Lettr?
