September 26, 1775 61 reimbursed by the United Colonies. 3 It has ever appeared to me a Thing of much Importance, that We should be furnished with these Accounts as soon as possible. From present appearances, our session will not be long, and if We should not be furnished with the Necessary Papers, very soon, We shall not be able to obtain any Reimburse ment this Fall; and the next Spring We may be involved in so many Dangers, as well as new Expences as to render our Chance for ob taining Justice, more precarious. You know that your Delegates have been here, almost the whole Time since the Commencement of Hos tilities, and therefore can say nothing of their own knowledge con cerning your Exertions or Expences, but must depend altogether upon Information from the General Court. This is really a Strong Reason for a Change in the Delegation. We have been absent so long from our native Country as to be a Kind of Aliens and Strangers there. If it is good Policy to reelect one of the old Delegates, because he is personally knowing to what has passed here, it is equally good Policy to elect some new ones, because they are Witnesses of what has passed with you. For my own Part, as my political Existence terminates with the Year, I Sincerely wish to be exempt in the next Election. I long to be a little with you in the Gen eral Court, that I may see and hear, and feel with my Countrymen, and I ardently wish to be a little with my Family, and to attend a lit tle to my private Affairs. To be frank and candid to a Friend, I be gin to feel for my Family. To leave all the Burthen of my private Cares, at a Time when my affairs are in so much Perplexity, to an excellent Partner, gives me Pain for her. To leave the Education of a young Family, entirely to her, altho I know not where it could be better lodged, gives me much Concern for her and them. I have very little Property, you very well know, which I have not earned myself, by an obstinate Industry, in opposition to the Malice of a very infirm Constitution, in Conjunction with the more perni cious Malice of Ministerial and gubernatorial Enemies. Of the little Acquisitions I have made, five hundred Pounds Sterling is sunk in Boston in a Real Estate, four hundred sterling more is compleatly annihilated in a Library that is now wholly useless to me and mine, and at least four hundred sterling more, is wholly lost to me, in Notes & Bonds not one farthing of the Principal or Interest of which, can I obtain, and the Signers are dying, breaking, flying every day. It is not compleatly two years since my Business has been totally ruined by the public Confusions. I might modestly estimate the Prof its of my Business before this Period at three hundred sterling a Year, perhaps more. I think therefore I may fairly estimate myself a sufferer immediately, to the amount of two Thousand Pounds ster ling. I have purchased Lands, which these Causes have prevented me from paying for, and the Interest is running on without a Possibility
