62 September 26, 1775 of my paying it, and I am obliged to hire Labour yearly upon my Farm to no Small amount. In the mean Time, all that has been granted me by the general Court for the sessions of this Congress last Fall and this Spring has not defrayed my necessary Expences, however Strange it may appear. The Conclusion from all this is, that I am rushing rapidly into Per plexities and Distresses in my private affairs from which I can never extricate myself. By retreating from public Life, in some Measure I might preserve myself and Family from a Ruin, which without it will be inevitable. I am willing to sink with my Country, but it ought not to be insisted on that I Should Sink myself without any Prospect of contributing by that Means to make it Swim. I have taken my Trick at Helm, when it was not easy to get Navigators who would run the Risque of the Storm. At present the Course is plain whatever the Weather may be, and the prospect of that is much better than it was when I was called to assist in steering the ship. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 In a letter of September 4, 1775, Mercy Otis Warren had chided Adams for insinuating in his letter of August 26 that war and politics were “beyond the line of my sex.” Warren-Adams Letters, 1:104-5, 106-7. 2 Portia was a pseudonym for Abigail Adams, as Marcia was for Mercy Otis Warren. 3 On December 4, 1775, Congress resolved that “the sum of 443,333 1/3 Dollars be paid to the Colony of Massachusetts” in partial payment of that province’s account. JCC, 3:403. John Adams to Mercy Warren Madam Philadelphia Septr. 26. 1775 Your Favour, by my Friend Collins, never reached me till this Evening. At Newport, concluding to go by Water, he put it into the Post Office, least it Should meet with a Fate as unfortunate as Some others. I call them unfortunate after the manner of Men for, altho they went into Hands which were never thought of by the Writer, and notwithstanding all the unmeaning Noise that has been made about them, they have done a great deal of good. Providence intend ed them for Instruments to promote valuable Purposes, altho the Writer of them, thought so little of them that he never could have rec ollected one Word in them, if they had been lost. The most that I care about them, is the indecent Exposure of the Name of a Lady, who cannot be put to Pain, without giving me Uneasiness by Sympathy. I boasted, Madam, of my Happiness, in my last to you, because I know you could excuse the appearance of Vanity, and because I knew very well that the Person who So deservedly holds the first
