September 26, 1775 65 fleers of different Colonies, and the Reduction of those Regiments which cannot be Compleated to their full Establishments may Create great Jealousies and Uneasiness, the Congress are of Opinion that at present no Step should be taken therein, as the New Modelling the whole is so soon Expected, when those inconveniencies may be Rem edied without Danger. The Congress desire you will give them your Opinion, whether the Pay of the Private Men, which is consider’d as very high, may not be Reduc’d, and how much. Agreeable to the order of Congress I inclose you Copy of a Letter from General Schuyler, with sundry papers Inclos’d. 2 Application having been made to Congress for the Discharge of Coll John Fenton, at present Confin’d at Hartford they pass’d a Res olution that he be allow’d to proceed to New York, and from thence to London upon his giving his Parole not to Take up Arms against the Continent during the present Contest. 3 It is Determin’d by Congress that you Issue a Commission to Mr Gridley as Colonell only, and to Suspend the appointment of a Briga dier General for the present. They Recommend to you to Grant Commissions to Messrs. Box, Scammell & Samuel Brewer as Brigade Majors. 4 The Memorial from Mr. Tudor the Judge Advocate was laid be fore Congress, and upon Consideration it was Resolved that he be al low’d & paid Fifty Dollars per Month for himself & Clerk from the Time of his Appointment, 8c I Transmitt him by this Express his Commission and the Resolution of Congress. Some Difficulty having arisen in the Settlement of the Accotts. of the severall Rifle Companies as to Supplies of Money 8cc particularly with Respect to Coll. Thompson, and the Congress having on the 29th July last Advanc’d to Colonell Thompson Five Thousand Dol lars for the Service of his Battalion, I am directed to Desire you will order Coll Thompson to Exhibit to you an Accott. of the Expendi ture of the said Five Thousand Dollars, which you will please to Transmitt to me to be laid before Congress, by which the severall Accotts. may easily be Accomodated. I have nothing further in Charge to Communicate. You will please to Return Fessenden as soon as you conveniently can. I have the honour to be with great Respect 8c Esteem, Sir Your most Obedt huml Servt. John Hancock President [P.S.] I have Sent you Eleven Bundles contg 550 Commissions. RC (DLC) . On the authorship of this letter, see John Adams’ Notes of Debates, September 25, 1775, note 2. 1 Washington’s responses to these inquiries are in his letters and enclosures to Hancock of October 5 and 12. PCC, item 152, 1:181-240; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:956-64, 1037-49.
