66 September 26, 1775 3 Hancock is referring here to Schuyler’s letter to him of September 8 and accompanying enclosures. Ibid., pp. 669-72. 3 See ]CC, 2:255. 4 See JCC, 2:256; and 3:257. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia 26th Septr. 1775 Two days ago I arrived here from Virginia, which the late short adjournment just allowed me time to visit and return from. I brought two letters from thence for you which come with this. Having some business with Colo. Mason, I travelled that road and having sent to your Lady to know if she had any commands this way, had the plea sure to learn that all were well at Mount Vernon. As I suppose it will be agreable to you to know what is passing in Virginia, I have in closed you the proceedings of our last Convention, with two of Pur dies Gazettes. I am greatly obliged to you for your favor of August the 29th, 1 and you may be assured I shall pay great attention to it. When I mentioned securing the entrance of the harbour of Boston, it was more in the way of wishing it could be done, than as conceiving it very practicable. However the reasons you assign are most conclu sive against the attempt. I assure you, that so far as I can judge from the conversation of Men, instead of their being any who think you have not done enough, the wonder seems to be that you have done so much. I believe there is not a Man of common sense and who is void of prejudice, in the world, but greatly approves the discipline you have introduced into the Camp; since reason and experience join in proving, that without discipline Armies are fit only for the contempt and slaughter of their Enemies. Your labors are no doubt great both of mind and body, but if the praise of the present and future times can be any compensation you will have a plentiful portion of that. Of one thing you may certainly rest assured that the Congress will do every thing in their power to make your most weighty business easy to you. I think you could not possibly have appointed a better Man to his present Office than Mr. Mifflin. He is a singular Man, and you certainly will meet with the applause and support of all good men by promoting and countenancing real Merit and public virtue, in oppo sition to all private interests, and partial affection. You will see in the proceedings of our Convention, that they have agreed to raise the pay of our Rifle Officers & Meh to the Virginia standard. It may per haps encourage them to be told this. We have no late accounts from England, but from what we have had that can be relied on, it seems almost certain, that our Enemies there must shortly meet with a total over throw. The entire failure of
