September 26, 1775 67 all their schemes, and the rising spirit of the people strongly ex pressed by the remonstrance of the Livery of London to the King, clearly denote this. The Ministry had their sole reliance on the im possibility of the Americans finding money to support an army, on the great aid their cause would receive from Canada, and consequent triumph of their forces over the liberties and rights of America. The reverse of all this has happened, and very soon now, our Commercial resistance will begin sorely to distress the people at large. The Minis terial recruiting business in England has entirely failed them, the Ship builders in the royal yards have mutinied, and now they are driven as to their last resort to seek for Soldiers in the Highlands of Scotland. But it seems the greatest willingness of the people there cannot supply more than one or two Thousand men, A number rath er calculated to increase their disgrace, than to give success to their cause. I beg your pardon for engaging your attention so long, and assure you that I am with unfeigned esteem dear Sir Your affectionate friend and Countryman Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 3:450-54. Richard Smith’s Diary [September 26, 1775] Tuesday 26 Septr. Comee brought in a Letter to Gen Washington, 1 in the Course of it E Rutledge moved that the Gen. shall discharge all the Negroes as well Slaves as Freemen in his Army. He (Rutledge) was strongly supported by many of the South ern Delegates but so powerfully opposed that he lost the Point. 2 The Question of the Lines between Penna. & Virginia agitated but Noth ing determined. 3 The Letters between Washington & Gage ordered to be published, 4 then the Journal was read in Order for Publication and some Parts of it ordered not to be printed as improper for Public Inspection particularly all that was there about fortifying the Passes on Hudsons River 8c the Directions to the New Yorkers to arm them selves 8cc. MS (DLC) . 1 See John Hancock’s letter to Washington, this date. 2 Although small numbers of blacks had served in the provincial forces of all the New England colonies before the establishment of the Continental Army in June 1775, and although Congress had placed no racial restrictions on military service, as early as July 10, 1775, Adjutant-General Horatio Gates ordered continental officers not to enlist blacks. In spite of Congress’ rejection of Rutledge’s motion on
