September 29, 1775 79 John Jay to Sarah Jay My dear Sally Ph. 29 Septr. 1775 My last to you was by Mr. Graham which I hope you have reed. It would give me Pleasure to have an opportunity of acknowledging the Receipt of one from you. I sometimes fear you are indisposed and that your Silence proceeds from a Desire of concealing it. Your Papa is hearty & well. 1 The Congress spent Yesterday in Festivity. The Com[mitte]e of Safety were so polite as to invite them to make a little voyage in their Gondolas as far as the Fort which is about 12 Miles from the City. Each Galley had its Company 8c each Company entertained with Variety of musick 8cc! 8cc! We proceeded six or Eight Miles down the River when the Tide being spent 8c the wind unfavorable We tacked about 8c with a fine Breese returned, passed the City 8c landed six miles above the Town at a pretty little Place called Paris Villa. It appears to have been the Property of a Gentleman of some Taste—a Garden, a close walk, a Summer House 8cc. much out of order 8c partly in Ruins. I wished you 8c a few select friends had been with me. This Idea tho amidst much noise and mirth, made me much alone. Adieu my beloved. I am most sincerely yours John Jay RC (NNC) . 1 William Livingston. Richard Smith’s Diary [September 29, 1775] Friday 29. Letters from Gen. Washington with a Return of his Army, about 19,000 effective Men who are to be disbanded in Deer, by the Terms of Inlistment, he prays Directions how to keep or raise an Army. Expenses run very high, great Want of Powder 8c Money. 1 Chief Part of the Morn’g. was spent on a Motion to send a Comee. of the Congress to the Army to take proper Measures for the Winter Campaign, it passed in the Affirmative. Some Powder said to be just arrived in Delaware, our Comee. were desired to purchase it. Above 80 of our Men have deserted to Gen. Gage in the Course of this Campaign accordg to Gen Washns. Dispatches. MS (DLC). 1 Washington’s letter to Hancock of September 21, together with enclosures, is in PCC, item 152, 1:119-44; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:760-71.
