September 1775 87 that Relates to Saltpeter as quick as posable. Direct My Letters to the Care of William Will in the Corner of Second and Arch Streets. If You Deliver it to Henry Will, puteror [pewterer] in N York, he will Send it As he Very frequently Coresponds with his Brother. I am gentlemen your Humble Servant Henry Wisner RC (N). Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:85. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 'See Henry Wisner to John Haring and John McKesson, September 28, 1775. 2 On September 27 the Pennsylvania Assembly received an address signed by privates from 30 provincial militia companies, which explained their refusal to accept the articles of association adopted by the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:821-22. John Zubly’s Diary [September 30, 1775] Saturday, 30. Frost & very cold. Dispatched Packet to Mr. Ten nent with Letters 1 to Committee at Savannah. MS (GHi) . 1 Not found. Virginia Delegate to Unknown [September ? 1775] 1 We have hopes here of an accommodation with Great Britain, not withstanding the unfavourable answer his majesty has given the city of London, and the order to governour Tryon for the men of war to beat down the towns if we are not quiet. The ministry themselves agree that it must be made up, and will, in all probability take hold of the offer made them by the congress in their petition. Orders are sent, it seems, to Boston, to treat the people with lenity, and to suffer them to remove with their effects. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Pinkney) , October 12, 1775. Printed under the heading: “Extract of a letter, to a gentleman in this city, from one of the delegates from this colony to the congress.” 'This letter was probably written after the delegates had learned in mid-Sep tember of the king’s response to the petition of the city of London but before the beginning of October when they became more pessimistic over prospects for a peaceful accommodation with Britain as a result of accounts recently received from correspondents in London. See, for example, Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, September 15, and Samuel Adams to James Warren, October 3, 1775.
