October 1, 1775 89 “God helps them, who help them selves, and if We obtain the divine Aid by our own Virtue, Fortitude and Perseverance, We may be sure of Relief.” It may amuse you to hear a Story. A few days ago, in Company with Dr. Zubly, somebody said, there was nobody on our side but the Almighty. The Dr. who is a Native of Switzerland, and speaks but broken English, quickly replied “Dat is enough. Dat is enough,” and turning to me, says he, it puts me in mind of a fellow who once said, The Catholicks have on their side the Pope, and the K. of France and the K. of Spain, and the K. of Sardinia, and the K. of Poland and the Emperor of Germany &c. &c. &c. But as to them poor Devils the Protestants, they have nothing on their side but God Almighty. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:289-91. 1 In her two letters Abigail had described the ravages of a "Distemper” that was sweeping through the Adams family and the neighborhood of Braintree. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:276-80. 2 A reference to the capture and publication of Adams’ letters of July 24, 1775, to Abigail and James Warren. For other optimistic assessments of the effect of their publication, see Adams’ letters to Abigail and to James Warren, October 2, 1775. John Adams to William Tudor Dr Sir Philadelphia Octr. 1. 1775 I have at last the Pleasure to mention to you what I Suppose Mr H[ancock] has informed you of before, vizt that the Pay of the Judge Advocate is raised to fifty dollars per Month for himself and his Clerk, and this is to be allowed from the day he entered upon the service. 1 There was an Expresion in your Representation to the General which alarmed me much, and put me to some Pain lest it should ex cite a Disgust. 2 It was this “The Congress as I have been informed were wholly unacquainted with the Duties of a Judge Advocate, es pecially in the continental Army.” If this had been true, yet it was in decent to tell them of it, because they ought to be presumed to know all the Duties of this officer, but most especially in their own Army. The Construction that I put upon it, was that the Congress had never been made Acquainted with the orders of the General to the Judge to attend every general Court Martial, which made the Duty in the American Army, essentially greater than in any other. By this Interpretation, satisfaction seemed to be given and by the favour able Representation of the General, together with the friendly Notice of General Gates to Some Members who had been at the Camp, this Matter was at last well understood, and Justice was done. I am very Sorry to learn, that you have been Sick, but rejoice to
