90 October 1, 1775 hear you are better. I have this Morning received from my dear Mrs Adams, two Letters which have put all my Philosophy to the Proof. Never Since I had a Family was it in such Distress, altho it has often seen melancholly Scenes. I tremble for fear my Wifes Health should receive an irreparable Injury from the Anxieties, and Fatigues, which I know she will expose herself to, for the relief of her Family in their present Sick Condition. I fear too the Contagion of such an Hospital of an House. Whether to return I know not. We expect every Hour, momentous Intelligence from England, and from Schuyler and from Washington. And altho, my Presence here is not of any great Conse quence, yet some of my Constituents may possibly think it of more than it is, and be uneasy, if I should be absent. At least, if I am here, and any thing goes differently from my Wishes, I shall have the Sat isfaction to reflect that I have done all I could however little it might be. Yet if I Stay here, I shall not be happy, till I know more from Braintree. Perhaps I may receive another Letter in a day or two. My Respects to your Father and Mother, and all Friends. Pray write me if you are well enough. I am, sir, your Friend. John Adams RC (MHi). 1 Congress had taken this action on September 21. JCC, 3:257. “Tudor’s letter to Washington, dated August 23, 1775, which Washington en closed in his August 31 letter to John Hancock, is in PCC, item 152, 1:99-101; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:245. John Adams to James Warren Dear sir Philadelphia Octr. 1. 1775 This Morning I received your kind Favours of the 11th and 19th Ult.—with the Inclosures. Drapers Paper is a great Curiosity and you will oblige me by sending it as often as possible. The foreign News you mention, is all a Delusion my Friend. 1 You may depend upon it, every Measure is preparing by the Ministry to destroy us if they can, and that a Sottish Nation is Supporting them. Heaven helps those who help themselves, and I am happy to find a Disposition so rapidly growing in America to exert itself. The Letters, by your Packett from my Family, have given me Seri ous Concern indeed. I am much at a Loss what Course to take. I have thoughts on returning home—I fear my dear Mrs Adams s Health will sink under the Burthen of Care that is upon her. I might well enough be Spared from this Place, where my Presence is of no Consequence, and my Family might derive some Advantage from my being there, and I might have an opportunity of attending a Confer ence between a Comtee. of this Congress and the Council of Mass, where perhaps I might be of more Service than I can here. However
