October 1, 1775 91 I am not determined—My Friend, your secretary 2 is very much averse to my going. I dont know what to do. The Comtee, who are going to the Camp, are Dr Franklin Mr Lynch and Coll Harrison, who I hope will be received with Friend ship and Politeness—by all our Friends. I assure you, Sir, there is a serious Spirit here—Such a Spirit as I have not known before. The Committee by whom this Letter will go are determined Amer icans. I fear that two of them, I mean Mr L. 8c H. may have received some unfavourable Impressions from Misrepresentations, concerning our Province, but these will be easily removed, by what they will see and hear, I hope. I wish that every Civility may be shewn them, which their Fortunes, Characters and Stations demand. Our News from England, is, Troops from England, Scotland, Ire land, and Hanover—Poor old Britania! I am, your Friend John Adams RC (MHi). 1 See Warren-Adams Letters, 1:108. 2 That is Samuel Adams. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear [October 1, 1775] 1 Yours of the 24th Ulto. received yesterday. I thank you for wel coming Me to the Lovely City of Philadelphia, but I hardly know a place, but I should be happier in, save among my distressed sick Neighbors at Wethersfeild. The sight of the Eye affects even the hardest heart, mine is too easily affected, & public miseries are surely enough for one thinking feeling mind at a Time. Of these the pros pect, the Apprehension is ever before Me, not only on my heart, but as I may say in my hand continually. My sincerest condolance awaits however, all the unfortunate, those in Wethersfeild in particular, whose remembrance of Me, so repeatedly in my absence, will ever render them dear to Me, while I have sense, or recollection left. Mr. May’s loss must be a cutting one, as he is fond of his Children, 8c I think had great reason to be fond of this. But I often say to myself, Blessed are the Dead, if as Hamlet says, in that same Sleep of theirs, there were no Dream. You will think Me Melancholy, and you are not much out of the way. The Soul distressing Uncertainty in which We are, respecting Our Northern Friends, with the weight, and fa tigue of Business, is almost Too much. I will shake it off for a more agreeable Subject your proposed Journey. The Col. proposed, for Brown, to bring you as farr as New York, where one of Us would
