98 October 2, 1775 on Connecticutt & New York. But of this you will be more particu larly advised by the Gentn. Viz Doctr Franklin Mr Lynch & Coll Harrison who are appointed a Comtee to attend the Genii at Cam bridge and other G [eneral] Officers he shall think proper on many Important Matters. Govr Trumbull & Depty Govr Cook & the presi dent of New Hampshire Convention are desired to be with them in Consultation. The Matter of providing the Army no doubt will be part of their deliberations. By the last accounts from England there appears no prospect of Concilliatory measures—but every thing looks rather hostile. We ought therefore to do the best & prepare for the worst. I want to hear how matters are like to goe with respect to my son, you wrote me there was some grumbling. 1 Indeed in this day I am Sensible I can take no one Step but I must meet with some plague & Trouble. Sometimes I think I have rather more than my share but I’ll Indeavor to put on patience and Solace my self with a Consciousness that I am steadily Indeavouring to serve my Country to the best of my power. I had a hint in a letter that he was about re turning home. You will Advise him I dare say to what you think best, consulting other Friends. Respects to Genii Putnam &c &c & am yours Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Majr Bayard from this City a Gentn of an Amiable Carracter is on a Visit to the Army. Your Notice &: Civilitys to him will be most agreable. He may know I mentiond him in my letter as I In- formd him I had. RC (Ct). 1 By general order of October 7, General Washington recognized Thomas Dyer’s Connecticut commission as captain in the Thirty-fourth Regiment of Foot. Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 4:20. New Hampshire Delegates to Matthew Thornton Sr. Philad 2d Octobr. 1775 Agreable to your desire, that we should write, as often as may be, have taken this early opportunity, tho’ little or nothing to Communi cate. Before this Comes to hand, doubtless, you’ll Receive [a] letter from our President desire’g your Attendance at head Quarters, to Consult with a Committee from this Congress, Relative to the Army. 1 Doctr. Franklin, Mr. Lynch and Colonal Harrison are the Committee. We humbly beg leave here to Suggest whether it would not be [a] good oppertunity to mention the Convu[lse]d state of our Colony and the absolute Necessaty of Govermt. and also to forward by them
