October 2, 1775 99 a Petition from our Convention, to take government. We have Con sulted many of the members on the Matter and as Soon as Colonal Bartlet is able to Attend the house (which will be in a few days, as he’s almost well of the Small pox) shall Motion for leave to take the same government as Massachusetts Bay. 2 You’ll also give us leave to urge the forwarding of our Acct. Against the Continent, immediately, otherwise, there may not be money in the Continential Treasury as great Sums are dayly Drawing from thence; the Consequence of which will be, shall be obliged to wait for another emition. There has nothing been Transacted in Congress as yet that we are at Liberty to Communicate. The Journals are not yet Printed, tho’ ready for the press, but will be soon. 3 You’ll give us leave to Repeat our Desire that our Convention, or Committee of Safety will forward a Petition for government, seting forth the absolute Necessaty of it, the impossability of Taxg. without which is a thing that must be done, as it would Ruine us to be emit ting paper on every Occasion. You’ll pardon us throwg out these hints. We are sr. your most [....] Josiah Bartlett John Langdon RC (Nh-Ar) . Written by Langdon and signed by Bartlett and Langdon. 1 John Hancock to the New Hampshire Convention, September 30, 1775. 3 Bartlett and Langdon put this question before Congress on October 18, and Congress appointed a committee to consider the issue on October 26, leading to the adoption on November 3 of a resolve “that it be recommended to the provincial Convention of New Hampshire, to call a full and free representation of the people, and that the representatives, if they think it necessary, establish such a form of government, as, in their judgment, will best produce the happiness of the people, and most effectually secure peace and good order in the province, during the continuance of the present dispute between G[reat] Britain and the colonies.” JCC, 3:298, 307, 317, 319. New Hampshire's subsequent action in establishing a government is discussed in Jere R. Daniell, Experiment in Republicanism, New Hampshire Politics and the American Revolution, 1741-1794 (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1970) , pp. 108-12. ’Congress had directed that the journals be printed by order of September 27, although they did not actually appear until December. JCC, 3:264, 514. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [October 2, 1775] Fair. Warm. Congress Sett at Lodge Hall, the State House being taken up by the Elections. 1 MS (MHi) .
