108 October 4, 1775 Willing. The Gents, favorite Plan is to induce foreigners to come here. Shall We act like the Dog in the Manger, not suffer N.Y. and the lower Counties and N. Carolina to export because We cant. We may get Salt and Ammunition by those Ports. Cant be for inviting foreigners to become our Carriers. Carriage is an amazing Revenue. Holland and England have derived their maritime Power from their Carriage. The Circulation of our Paper will stop, and [lose?] its Credit without Trade. 7 Millions of Dollars have been struck by the Continent and by the separate Colonies. Lee. The End of Administration will be answered by the Gentns. Plan. Jealousies and Dissensions will arise and Disunion and Divi sion. We shall become a Rope of Sand. Zubly. The Q. should be whether the Export should be kept or not. Chace. I am for adhering to the Association and think that We ought not to determine these Questions this day. Differ from R. Liv ingston, [who holds that] our Exports are to be relaxed except as to Tobacco and Lumber. This will produce a Disunion of the Colonies. The Advantage of cultivating Tobacco is very great. The Planters would complain. Their Negro females would be useless without rais ing tobacco. That Country must grow rich that Exports more than they import. There ought not to be a partial Export to Great Britain. We affect the Revenue and the Remittance, by stopping our Exports. We have given a deadly Blow to B. and Ireland, by our Non Export. Their People must murmur, must starve. The Nation must have become Bankrupt before this day if We had ceased Exports at first. I look upon B., I. and W.I. as our Enemies, and would not trade with them, while at War. We cant support the War and our Taxes, without Trade. Emis sions of Paper cannot continue. I dread an Emission for another Campaign. We cant stand it without Trade. I cant agree that N.Y., the lower Counties and N. Carolina, should carry on Trade. Upon giving a Bond, and making Oath, they may export. I am vs. these Colonies trading according to the restraining Act. It will produce Division. A few Weeks will put us all on a foot ing. N. York &c. are now all in Rebellion as the Ministry call it, as much as Mass. Bay. We must trade with foreign Nations, at the Risque indeed. But We may export our Tobacco to France, Spain or any other foreign Na tion. If We treat with foreign Nations, We should send to them as well as they to Us. What Nation or Countries shall We trade with. Shall We go to there Ports and pay duties, and let them come here and pay none. To say you will trade with all the World, deserves Consideration.
