October 4, 1775 109 I have not absolutely discarded every Glimpse of a Hope of Rec onciliation. Our Prospect is gloomy. I cant agree, that We shall not export our own Produce. We must treat with foreign Nations upon Trade. They must protect and support Us with their Fleets. When you once offer your Trade to foreign Nations, away with all Hopes of Reconciliation. E. Rutledge. Differs with all who think the Non Exportation should be broke, or that any Trade at all should be carried on. When a Commodity is out of Port, the Master may carry it where he pleases. My Colony will receive your Determination upon a general Non Export. The People will not be restless. Proposes a general Non Ex port, untill next Congress. Our People will go into Manufactures, which is a Source of Rich es to a Country. We can take our Men from Agriculture, and employ them in Manufactures. Agriculture and Manufactures cannot be lost. Trade is precarious. R. R. Livingston. Not convinced by any Argument. Thinks the ex ception of Tobacco and Lumber, would not produce Disunion. The Colonies affected can see the Principles, and their Virtue is such that they would not be disunited. The Americans are their own Carriers now, chiefly. A few British Ships will be out of Employ. I am vs. exporting Lumber. I grant that if We trade with other Na tions, some of our Vessells will be seized and some taken. Carolina is cultivated by rich Planters—not so in the northern Colonies. The Planters can bear a Loss and see the Reason of it. The northern Col onies cant bear it. Not in our Power to draw People from the Plough to Manufactur ers. We cant make Contracts for Powder, without opening our Ports. I am for exporting where B. will allow Us, to Britain itself. If We shut up our Ports, We drive our Sailors to Britain. The Army will be sup plied, in all Events. Lee makes a Motion for 2 Resolutions. The Trade of Virginia and Maryland may be stopped by a very small naval Force. N. Carolina is badly off. The Northern Colonies are more fortunate. The Force of G.B. on the Water being exceedingly great, that of America, almost nothing—they may prevent allmost all our Trade, in our own Bottoms. G.B. may exert every Nerve next Year, to send 15, 20, or even 30,000 Men to come here. The Provisions of America are become necessary to several Na tions. France is in Distress for them. Tumults and Attempts to de stroy the Grain in the Year [Ear]. England has turned Arable into
