October 5, 1775 113 portion to Numbers to be equal at least if not Superiour to any other Colony. I must confess I had another View in giving you this Trouble which was to introduce to your Attention, Dr Franklin Mr Lynch and Coll Harrison, a Committee from this Congress to consult with the General and with the New England Colonies, concerning a Plan for future Armies. Mr Lynch is from S. Carolina, Coll Harrison from Virginia, both Gentn. of great Fortune, and respectable Characters, Men of Abilities and very Staunch Americans. Dr Franklyn needs no words of mine. 2 I am, sir, with great Respect, Your very humb serv ant John Adams RC (MHi). 1 William Heath (1737-1814), Roxbury, Mass., farmer, representative to the Massachusetts General Court and provincial congress, and a major general in the state militia, had been appointed a brigadier general of the Continental Army in June 1775. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography. ’John Adams wrote a similar letter this day to Gen. John Thomas. “I presume to give you the trouble of this letter, for the sake of asking your attention to three gentlemen, a Committee of this Congress, who will have a desire to visit you as well as an inclination to see your lines at Roxbury. These gentlemen are Dr. Franklyn, Mr. Lynch of S. Carolina and Coll. Harrison of Virginia. . . . From England we hear of nothing but ministerial ill-will, desperation, and preparations for revenge. With the blessing of heaven, however, upon our endeavours I humbly hope and trust we shall, resist them with success. . . . Certain prejudices are propagated here by a few ill-affected persons in the City, that the Massachusetts forces contain a great number of old men, boys and negroes, more in proportion than the troops of the other Colonies.” Extract in Parke-Bernet Galleries Catalog, no. 863 (April 21, 1947), pp. 1-2. James Duane’s Notes of Debates [October 5? 1775] 1 Zubel’s [Zubly’s] argument. Custom Houses ought to be shut. Because it will put all the Colonies on a footing. Inconveniences. 1st. If shut up Man of War will be our Custom house officer. 2d. No ship can be entered. 3d. All must be subject to seizure and confiscation. 4th. What will be the state of trade between the present time and the period fixed by the Resolutions? 5th. Between the period fixed and time of foreigner’s arrival will take further time. 6th. When they arrive they are subject to seizure. 7th. They will then sell dear and buy cheap.
