114 October 5, 1775 8. If we must trade with foreigners, it will be certain—nor quit costs—precarious pernicious. 9. It is in nature of a threat by which we have gained nothing hitherto. Lee for preparation. 1. If exempted Colonies Trade as usual—others will be discontent ¬ ed, jealous— Ruin—must all be in the same situation. 1st. Decisive offense by opening ports. 2d. If treaty fails no consequence. 3th. Agent could not have answered—not knows sense of Cong. 4th. Might obtain assistance by sea. 5th. Necessity of winter supply in Virginia. Tr (NN) . 1 John Adams’ Notes of Debates for October 5 indicate that the remarks re corded here by Duane were probably made by Zubly and Lee on this date. John Hancock to Nicholas Cooke Philada. Octr. 5. 1775. Sir The Congress having received certain intelligence of the sailing of two north Country built Brigs of no force from England on the 11 of August last loaded with 6000 stand of Arms and a large quantity of powder & other stores for Quebec without a convoy: and it being of importance if possible to intercept them, I am directed by Congress to desire you 1 with all possible expedition to dispatch the armed ves sels of the Colony of Rhode Island on this service that the vessels you dispatch be supplied with a sufficient number of men, stores &c and particularly with oars: That you give the commander or com manders such instructions as are necessary as also proper encourage ment to the marines & seamen that shall be sent on this enterprize, which instructions &c are to be delivered to the commander or com manders sealed up with orders not to open the same until out of sight of land on account of secresy. 2 As there is also advice that a large quantity of Brass ordinance military stores & provisions are sending out to Boston, you are to give orders to seize all transports laden with ammunition cloathing or other stores for the use of the Ministerial Army or Navy in America; and that the said vessels with their cargoes when taken be secured in the most convenient places for the use of the Continent. For the encouragement of the men employed in this service I am ordered to inform you that the Congress have resolved that the Mas ter, Officers and Seamen shall be entitled to one half of the value of
