October 5, 1775 115 the prizes by them taken, the wages they receive from the Colony notwithstanding. 3 The ships or vessels of war are to be on the Continental risque & pay during their being thus employed. On this subject I have wrote to General Washington & desired him to dispatch one or more vessels from the Massachusetts Bay on this Service. I have the honour to be, Sir Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt. RC (MH) . Written by Charles Thomson and signed by Hancock. ’Nicholas Cooke (d. 1782), Providence merchant, was at this time deputy governor of Rhode Island. Upon the ouster from office of loyalist Governor Joseph Wanton by the Rhode Island Assembly in October 1775, Cooke was elected to succeed him and continued to serve in this capacity through 1777. Matt B. Jones, ed., “Revolutionary Correspondence of Governor Nicholas Cooke, 1775-1781,” Pro ceedings of the American Antiquarian Society, new ser. 36 (1926) : 231-32. “Cooke was unable to comply with Congress’ request for assistance because one of the two armed vessels Rhode Island then had was on a return voyage to the province from Bermuda, while the other was unfit for sea duty. See Cooke’s letters of October 10 to Washington and to the Rhode Island delegates. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1007; and Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg), pp. 98-99. Both British ships subsequently eluded American efforts to intercept them, and made their way safely to Quebec. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 4:23, 33-34, 152. ’See JCC, 3:279. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council Gentlemen Philadelphia Octor. 5. 1775 It having been Represented to the Congress that you have in the Employ of the Colony of Massachusetts Bay Two Arm’d Vessells, and a particular Service being Recommended to General Washing ton, the Prosecution of which will require those Vessells, I am direct ed by the Congress to inform you that General Washington is In structed to make application to you for those Vessells; and I am particularly Authorized to desire you will put said Vessells for this Service under the General’s Command &: Direction, and that you fur nish him instantly with every Necessary in your power at the Expence of the Continent. 1 And in case those arm’d Vessells cannot be Employ’d in this Service, you are earnestly requested to afford your utmost assistance in every matter that the General may have Occasion to apply to you upon in the prosecution of the publick service. I have the Honour to be with Esteem Gentlemen Your most Obt. Hble Servt. John Hancock Prest.
