130 October 6, 1775 going at large may endanger such Colonies or the Liber [t]y of America. (This to be transmitted.) Comee. for Importation of Pow[de]r to export agreable to the continental Association as much Provisions or other Produce of these Colonies as they shall judge ex pedient for the Purchase of Arms & Ammunition. A Comee. appoint ed to consider of the Fortifications ordered to be erected on Hudsons River. Farther Report of the Comee. for concerting a Plan for inter cepting certain [vesseZ.t] read. Ordered that the Congress 1 resolved into a Comee. of the whole to take into their Consideration the State of the Trade. Consideration of the Instructions to the Delegates of Rhod Isd. put off to tomorrow. MS (RHi) . 1 Ward inserted the preceding four words above the line after he had originally completed the sentence but subsequently neglected to change "resolved” from the past tense. John Adams’ Notes of Debates Octr. 7. [1775] Chase. It is the maddest Idea in the World, to think of building an American Fleet. 1 Its Latitude is wonderfull. We should mortgage the whole Continent. Recollect the Intelligence on your Table—defend N. York—fortify upon Hudsons River. We should provide for gaining Intelligence—two swift sailing Ves sells. Dyer. The Affair of Powder from N. York should be referr’d to the Committee. Hopkins. No Objection to putting off the Instruction from Rhode Island, provided it is to a future day. 2 Paine. Seconds Chace’s Motion, that it be put off to a future day Sine die. Chace. The Gentleman from Maryland never made such a Mo tion. I never used the Copulative. The Gentleman is very sarcastic, and thinks himself very sensible. Zubly. If the Plans of some Gentlemen are to take Place, an American Fleet must be a Part of it—extravagant as it is. Randolph moves that all the orders of the day should be read ev ery Morning. Deane. I wish it may be seriously debated. I dont think it roman tic, at all. J. Rutledge. Move that some Gentn. be appointed to prepare a Plan and Estimate of an American Fleet. Zubly seconds the Motion.
