132 October 7, 1775 Dyer thinks they ought to have the usual allowance for Work. S. Adams. Understands that the Works at Cambridge was done without any Allowance, but that G [eneral] W[ashington] has or dered that for future works they be allowed half a Pistareen a day. Langdon would not have the order to Wooster, but to Schuyler for he would not run any risque of the northern Expedition. Rutledge thinks Schuyler cant want them. He waited only for Boats to send 500 Men more. Sherman. Would it not be well to inform Schuyler of our endeav ours to take the Transports and desire him to acquaint Coll. Arnold of it. Rutledge. He may cooperate with Arnold in taking the Transports. I hope he is in Possession of Montreal before now. Deane. I wish that whatever Money is collected, may be sent along to Schuyler. E. Rutledge. We have been represented as beggarly fellows, and the first Impressions are the strongest. If We eat their Provisions and dont pay, it will make a bad Impression. Ross. Produces a Resolve of the Assembly of Pensylvania that their Delegates lay the Connecticutt Intrusion before Congress, that something may be done to quiet the Minds. 6 J. Rutledge moves that the Papers be referr’d to the Delegates of the two Colonies. Willing. Thinks them Parties and that they must have an Umpire. Sherman. Thinks they may agree on a temporary Line. Lee. Moves that Parliamentary or ministerial Post may be stopp’d, as a constitutional Post is now established from N.H. to G. 7 Langdon 2d[s] the Motion. Willing. Thinks it is interfering with that Line of Conduct which we have hitherto prescribed to ourselves—it is going back beyond the Year 1763. Lee. When the Ministry are mutilating our Correspondence in England, and our Enemies here are corresponding for our ruin, shall We not stop the ministerial Post. Willing. Looks upon this to be one of the offensive Measures which are improper at this Time—it will be time enough to throw this aside when the Time comes that we shall throw every Thing aside—at present We dont know but there may be a Negociation. Dyer. We have already superceeded the Act of Parliament effec tually. Deane is for a Recommendation to the People to write by the con stitutional Post, not forbid a Man to ride. S. Adams thinks it a defensive Measure, and advising People not
