October 7, 1775 133 to write by it, looks too cunning for me. I am for stopping the Corre spondence of our Enemies. Langdon. Administration are taking every Method to come at our Intentions, why should not we prevent it. Duane. I shall vote vs. it. It may be true that We are come to the Time when We are to lay aside all. I think there should be a full Representation of the Colonies. N.C. should be here. Deane 2d [s] the Motion for postponing it. Zubly. The Necessity of this Measure does not appear to me. If We have gone beyond the Line of 1763 and of defence without ap parent Necessity it was wrong, if with Necessity right. I look upon the Invasion of Canada a very different Thing. I have a Right to de fend myself vs. Persons who come vs. me, let em come from whence they will. We in G. have gain[ed] Intelligence by the K’s Post that We could not have got any other Way. Some Gentlemen think all Merit lies in violent and unnecessary Measures. S. Adams. The Gentlemans Argument would prove that We should let the Post go into Boston. Moreton. Would not this stop the Packett. Would it not be or dered to Boston. Does the Packett bring any Intelligence to Us that is of Use? Lee. No Intelligence comes to Us, but constant Intelligence to our Enemies. Stone. Thinks it an innocent Motion, but is for postponing it, be cause he is not at present clear. He thinks that the setting up a new Post has already put down the old one. Paine. My opinion was that the Ministerial Post will die a natural death. It has been under a Languishment a great while. It would be Cowardice to issue a Decree to kill that which is dying. It brought but one Letter last time, and was obliged to retail Newspapers, to bear its Expences. I am very loath to say that this Post shall not pass. Lee. Is there not a Doctor Ld. North who can keep this Creature alive. R. R. Livingstone. I don’t think that Tory Letters are sent by the Royal Post. I consider it rather as a Convenience than otherwise. We hear 5 times a Week from N.Y. The Letters upon our Table advise us to adopt every conciliatory Measure, that we may secure the Affections of the People of Eng land. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:198-202. 1 Although these debates of October 7 represent the earliest formal discussion of the proposal to create an American navy, an issue in which he was greatly interested, Adams did not record his own views in these notes of debates. But in a letter to James Warren this day he outlined his plans to open the ports of America and establish a naval defense, and years later, when writing his auto- 243-053 0 - 77 - 11
