134 October 7, 1775 biography, he reviewed in detail the growth of Congress’ interest in naval affairs during October and November 1775. See John Adams to James Warren, October 7, 1775; and Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:342-50. 2 For the text of the Rhode Island proposal for an American fleet, see JCC, 3:274. 3 Congress this day “deferred” consideration of the subject until October 16 and subsequently postponed further debate until December 11. JCC, 3:281, 420. ‘The committee’s report, as adopted, is in JCC, 3:281-82. 5 See JCC, 3:282-83. “See JCC, 3:283. For further explication of the Wyoming Valley controversy, see Silas Deane to Thomas Mumford, October 15, 1775. 7 The journals do not record a separate discussion on this subject this day. JCC, 3:281-83. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dear Philadelphia Octr. 7th. 1775 Yesterday, by the Post, I received yours of Septr. 25th., and it re newed a Grief and Anxiety, that was before almost removed from my Mind. Two days before I had the Pleasure of a very valuable Letter from Coll. Quincy, in which he kindly informed me that you and Our Family were so much better that you and my dear Nabby, had made a Visit at his House: and Mr. Williams, who brought the Letter acquainted me that he had been to Braintree after the Date of it, that you was in good Spirits, that Tommy was so much better as to be playing abroad, and that he hoped Patty was not dangerous: you will easily believe that this Information gave me great Pleasure and fine Spirits: It really relieved me from a heavy Load: But your last Letter has revived my Concern. I will still hope however that your excellent Mother will yet be spared for a Blessing to her Family and an Example to the World. 1 1 build my Hopes of her Recovery, upon the Advantage of a Constitution which has hitherto sustained so many Attacks and upon a long Course of exact Temperance which I hope has deprived the Distemper of its most dangerous food and Fuel. However, our Lives are not in our own Power. It is our Duty to submit. “The Ways of Heaven are dark and intricate.” Its designs are often inscrutable, But are always wise and just and good. It was long before I had the least Intimation of the Distress of the Family, and I fear, that your not receiving so many Letters from me as usual may have been one Cause of Infelicity to you. Really, my dear, I have been more cautious than I used to be. It is not easy to know whom to trust, in these times, and if a Letter from any Person in the situation I am in, can be laid hold of, there are so many Lies made and told about it, so many false Copies taken and dispersed, and so many false Constructions put, that one ought to be cautious. The Situation of Things, is so alarming, that it is our Duty to pre-
