October 7, 1775 135 pare our Minds and Hearts for every Event, even the Worst. From my earliest Entrance into Life, I have been engaged in the public Cause of America: and from first to last I have had upon my Mind, a strong Impression, that Things would be wrought up to their pre sent Crisis. I saw from the Beginning that the Controversy was of such a Nature that it never would be settled, and every day convinces me more and more. This has been the source of all the Disquietude of my Life. It has lain down and rose up with me these twelve Years. The Thought that we might be driven to the sad Necessity of break ing our Connection with G.B. exclusive of the Carnage and Destruc tion which it was easy to see must attend the separation, always gave me a great deal of Grief. And even now, I would chearfully retire from public life forever, renounce all Chance for Profits or Honours from the public, nay I would chearfully contribute my little Property to obtain Peace and Liberty. But all these must go and my Life too before I can surrender the Right of my Country to a free Constitu tion. I dare not consent to it. I should be the most miserable of Mor tals ever after, whatever Honours or Emoluments might surround me. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:294-96. 1 Elizabeth Quincy Smith died on October 1. Ibid, pp. 293-94. John Adams to James Warren Dr sir Philadelphia Octr. 7th. 1775 The Debates, and Deliberations in Congress are impenetrable Se crets: but the Conversations in the City, and the Chatt of the Coffee house, are free, and open. Indeed I wish We were at Liberty to write freely and Speak openly upon every Subject, for their is frequently as much Knowledge derived from Conversations and Correspondence, as from Solemn public Debates. A more intricate and complicated Subject never came into any Mans thoughts, than the Trade of America. 1 The Questions that arise, when one thinks of it, are very numerous. If The Thirteen united Colonies Should immediately Surcease all Trade with every Part of the World, what would be the Conse quence? In what manner, and to what degree, and how Soon, would it affect, the other Parts of the World? How would it affect G. B., Ireland, the English West India Islands, the French, the Dutch, the Danish, the Spanish West India Islands? How would it affect the Spanish Empire on the Continent? How would it affect the Brazills and Portuguese Settlements in America? If it is certain that it would distress Multitudes in these Countries, does it therefore follow that it
