October 7, 1775 139 to be here just at this Time. You have Wrote Me but Two Letters since I left home. Love to all. I am yours S D RC (CtHi) . John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philadelphia Octr. 7th 1775 By Intelligence received from England and laid before the Con gress on the 5th Instant, 1 we are well assured that two North Coun try Briggs were dispatched from England to Quebec on the 11th of August with a very large Quantity of Arms, Ammunition and Cloath- ing. If you should be happy enough to possess yourself of Mon treal, it is the earnest Desire of the Congress, that you take Measures if those Vessels should arrive, to seize them and secure their Cargoes for the Use of the Continent. It is also the Desire of the Congress that you secure for the same purpose all Military Stores belonging to the King. I am also to inform you that we have Intelligence that Administra tion are obstinately determined to pursue every Measure in their power to subjugate the Colonies, and in Order to execute their pur pose, they have determined to send over five more Regiments viz: 17th, 27th, 28th, 46th & 55th to New York. Their plan is that these Troops “with the assistance of Governor Tryon, who is much relied [on] for the purpose to get immediate possession of New York and Albany—to fill both these Cities with very strong Garrisons—to declare all Rebels, who do not join the King’s Forces—to command the Hudson and East Rivers, with a Number of small Men of War and Cutters stationed in different parts of it so as wholly to cut off all Communication by Water be tween New York & the provinces to the Northward of it, and be tween New York and Albany except for the King’s Service 8c to pre vent also all Communication between the City of New York and the provinces of Jersey Pennsylvania and those to the Southward of them. By these Means Adm n and their Friends fancy that they shall soon either starve out or retake the Garrisons of Ticonderoga 8c Crown Point and open and maintain a safe Intercourse and Corre spondence between Quebec Albany and New York 8c thereby afford the fairest Opportunity to their Soldiery and Canadians in Conjunc tion with the Indians to be procured by G[uy] J[ohnson] to make continual Irruptions into New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Con necticut and so distract and divide the provincial Forces as to render it easy for the British Army at Boston to defeat them, break the Spir it of the Massachusetts people, depopulate their Country and compel
