140 October 7, 1775 an absolute Subjection to Great Britain. Another good Effect to be deduced from this extensive plan as Government apprehend is that as New York, will by this Method be prevented from supplying the Mas sachusetts army near Boston with Flour fee as they have heretofore done through the Medium of Connecticut: and the New Jersey and Pennsylvania people will not be able to transport provisions across the Country: and as the Colony of Connecticut does not raise Corn sufficient for the Supply of herself fe the Massachusetts Bay, the In habitants and Troops of this province must inevitably of Course by [he] in a short Time destroyed by Diseases fe Famine, and to this Train of Facts let me add, That in Consequence of Genl. Gage’s de sire brought by Capt. Chadd one hundred flat Bottomed Boats are at present building at Deptford &c in Order to be sent immediately to America. But for what particidar purpose I have not yet been able to learn. Many American Gentlemen have however been lately asked by a Lord high in the American Department, what sized vessels can go loaded from hence to Albany? What is the Depth of Water at the Overslaw. I think that is the Name of the shallowest place in the North River? Whether the ship belonging to Albany in the London Trade is always obliged to unload part of her Cargo before she can get to Albany and what proportion of it? Whether if Batteries were erected at tbe Highlands, tlrey would not prevent Vessels from going up and down the North River? and where it would be the best place on that River to hinder the New Jersey people fee. from sending Flour fee. in the Winter through Connecticut to the Massachusetts Army. These are the proposed Operations to the Northward.” I hope the Success of the Enterprize you are engaged [zn] and the happy Change in the Disposition of the Canadians fe Indians will dis appoint and defeat the infernal purposes of administration. Your Letters of the 25th & 28th Ult. have been laid before the Congress. 2 Measures are taking to collect a Quantity of Gold and Silver, which when collected will be sent to you by the safest & speediest Conveyance, when I shall again address you. I am with great Esteem Sir Your very humble Servant John Hancock President Tr (NN) . 1 On the nature of this "Intelligence," and for the provenance of that section of this letter enclosed in quotation marks, see Hancock to George Washington, October 5, 1775, 2d letter, note 1. ’Schuyler’s letters to Hancock of September 25 and 28, together with accompa nying enclosures, are in PCC, item 153, 1:166-79; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:796-98, 826-27.
