146 October 9, 1775 light Horse of this City what Silver and Gold can be collected in the Time, least you should be in Want; and I have accordingly sent you six Thousand three Hundred and sixty four Pounds Philada. Cur rency. A further Sum will be forwarded you by the Express that carries you the Resolutions of Congress on the various Parts of your Letters, which will be dispatched in a few Days. I have Nothing further in Charge from Congress to communicate. I hope your next will give us the pleasing Account of the Restoration of your Health. 4 That you may have the full Enjoyment of that Bless ing, and that Success may crown your Expedition is the Wish of, Sir, your most obedt. hble Servt. J.H. Prest. [P.S.] You will please to acknowledge the Receipt of the Money. Enclosed is the Invo. of the Money. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . 1 Not found but perhaps the same intelligence from England discussed in Hancock to George Washington, October 5, 1775, 2d letter, note 2. ’See JCC, 2:249-50. ’See JCC, 3:284-85. ‘ Richard Henry Lee also wrote to Schuyler this day, expressing his concern for the general’s health, stressing the importance of securing Canada, and informing him of large stores of ammunition and clothing coming to Quebec from London. Typescript summary of Richard Henry Lee to Schuyler, October 9, 1775, Schuyler Papers, NN. John Hancock to David Wooster Sir, Philada. Octr. 19th [i.e. 9th] 1775 1 General Schuyler having by Letter informed the Congress that he believed he should have no Occasion to employ the Troops under your Command, I am desired by the Congress to direct that you im mediately proceed with the Troops under your Command to the Bat teries erecting on the Highlands in North River, and there leave as many of your Troops, as in the opinion of the Conductor will be nec essary for expediting the Completion of the Works there, and that you repair with the Remainder of the Troops to New York, and there continue until further Orders from the Congress. 2 But in Case you should have any Orders from Genl. Schuyler, previous to the Receipt of this, to join the Army under his Command, or in any Way to be aiding to his Expedition, you are wholly to conform yourself to his Directions, the above Orders of Congress notwithstanding. I am &c J H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) .
