152 October 9, 1775 Sailed out of this port for London, in Which Mr. Carter was going passenger. A few days before she Sailed, Young Dewees, son of the Sheriff went to pay Doctr. Kearsly Some Money and Comeing Sud denly in to his Room found him and Carter together, with a bundle of Papers before them, which they Hussel’d up in Seeming Confu sion. This, with Kearsly’s Tory Carrictor gave Dewees Suspition, and he Accordingly informed a few of the Committee Who kept the matter Secret, Let the Ship Sail, and the passengers go down to Ches ter by Land to go on Board. On Thursday Evening Which was the day the passengers Went, A Small party was Sent down to Chester. They Stayed there that night in Cogg [incognito] and see the passen gers go on board next Morning. They then imediately pushed on board, Seized and Examined Mr. Carter who in a Little time told them that there were Several Letters from Doctr. Kearsly & Mr. Brooks, And one from Mr. Snowden, That he had the Charge of them, and was Concerned with them in the plan they had Concerted, But that the Letters were then in the Custody of a woman down in the Cabin, And that She had them Concealed in a pocket Sewed to the inside of her Shift-Tail, Where in fact they Soon after found them and Came back to Town (leaving Carter as they had promised Upon his Making a discovery of the Whole Matter on a Oath before Mr. Grayham at Chester) and then Seized the Authors. The Letters were to Lord Dartmouth and other Ministers of State, But under Cover to Misses McCawley. The Substance and design was pressing their Sending to Philadelphia five thousand Regulars, on Which Condition they would Engage five thousand more here to Join them, provided the Royal Standard Should be also Sent in, and Kearsly appointed to bear it, for that Great numbers of those who now wear Cockades & Uniform were hearty in the Ministerial Cause. That the Rest were a pack of Cowards for that he (Kearsly) had made above five thou sand of them Run By Snapping a Single Pistol at them &c fee. They had with them for the use of the Ministry one of Joshua Fishers plans of Delaware Bay & River, whereon they had described the place Where the Chevaux Defreise’s were fixed. Besides these and Many more Villinous Contrivances, they were takeing home the out-lines for a print to be Struck off in London, Shewing Kearsly’s late Exhibition in the Cart, going through the Streets of Philadelphia with the Mob, many of Whom he undertakes particularly to discribe, to wit, Bradford fee. fee. many of whom were actually not there, and how he every now and then by Snapping his Pistol made them Run fee. His abuse of the Congress, Committees fee. (in his letters) is in tolerable, Such as Rebels, Villians &c. Alter the Committee of Safety had Examined them and the Contents of the Letters, they Sent a Pi lot Boat down the River to overtake the Ship, to bring up Carter, and to Search the Box of Letters and to bring all of them that they Sup-
