October 9, 1775 153 posed to be from, or to Suspicious persons. This Boat Returned Sun day afternoon, brought Carter and put him in Goal, and also brought a Number of Letters belonging to and wrote by other persons. The Committee of Safety has been Setting on these affairs all this day. But I have been so Closely Confined to Congress to day, that I don’t yet know what they have done—or What others are accused. It is now near Eight at night and Mr. John David the bearer of this Sets out tomorrow Morning, therefore Shall only Tell you that I am Tolerable well and disire my love to our families, and Conclude Yrs. 8cc. Caesar Rodney P.S. I am grieved much for my Plow-horses which you say are Dead —But must bear it as well as I Can. RC (DeHi). 1 Thomas Rodney was elected a representative to the House of Assembly for the Three Lower Counties. Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 66n. a Dr. John Kearsley, James Brooks, Leonard Snowden, and Christopher Carter were arrested by the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety for conducting correspond ence with British officials inimical to American liberties. On October 10, some of their captured papers were turned over to John Dickinson “for the perusal of the Continental Congress.” Dickinson reported October 14 that the issue had been placed before Congress, which “declined making any particular order respecting them” and referred the committee of safety to a congressional resolve of October 6, a decision the committee of safety interpreted as a call to continue the confine ment of Kearsley and Brooks. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1814—29, passim; and JCC, 3:280. Secret Committee Contract Philadelphia. Committee Chamber October 9th. 1775. Be it rembered that it is agreed by & between the following per sons to wit Philip Livingston, John Alsop and Francis Lewis of the city of New York, merchants, 1 and Samuel Ward, John Langdon, Si las Deane, Thomas Willing & Thomas M’Kean Esquires a Quorum of the Committee of Secrecy appointed by the Honble Continental Congress for the Thirteen United Colonies of North America that a voyage or voyages shall be forthwith undertaken for the speedy pro curing fifty tonns of powder twelve brass six pounds cannon a thou sand stand of good soldiers muskets & bayonets and two thousand good double-bridled gun-locks and in case all the powder men tioned cannot be obtained then as much salt-petre 8c sulphur as will make the quantity that may be deficient—that the vessel or vessels shall be chartered for the use of the continental Colonies afsd. and a skilful 8c prudent supercargo or supercargoes employed by the said Philip Livingston, John Alsop 8c Francis Lewis at the expence of the
