158 October 10, 1775 I long to hear concerning our Friends in Boston. My Friends can not be too particular. I want to know the Condition of every Individ ual. I want to know also every Event however minute which Turns up in our Camp or Lines. We have most formidable Descriptions of Gages Fortifications in Boston. Ninety Pieces of Brass Field Pieces from four to Eight Pounders have certainly been cast in the Tower for America, and Carriages, Wheelbarrows, Flat bottomed Boats &c I am &c RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear sir Philada Octob 10 1775 Since my last, I have receivd Intelligence from London, that the British Ministry after having receivd the Advice of the Engagement on Bunkers Hill held various Councils on American Affairs and had resolvd to persevere in their Attempts to enslave us. 50 or 60 brass field pieces 6 & 9 pounders four thousand Stands of small arms with ammunition had been shipd from the Tower of London for Quebeck to arm the Canadians—five Regiments from Ireland viz 17th, 27th, 28th, 46th & 55th were orderd to Boston—4 Companies of the Train of Artillery are to go with the Ordnance &: Stores to Quebeck. Sever al Ships of War were also orderd to America. What was intended for Quebeck were to sail in a fortnight from the Date of the Letter which was the 8th of August. The Regiments from Ireland were intended to be at Boston in October. The Parliamt was to meet in Octr and so soon, that a Sanction might be given as early as possible to the Meas ures that have been taken as well as others to be adopted. General Gage had been appointed Governor General of all North America but afterwards it was concluded that Leave should be given him to return home. This was to make Room for Genl Amherst who is to take the Command in the Spring with a promise of 20,000 Men— 2000 Highlanders 3000 Irish Roman Catholicks and the rest, if they cannot be raisd in England, to consist of Hannoverians Hessians & other Germans. The Plan said to have been laid before Ministry last Spring which was to divide the Troops then sent out, a part of them to go to New York is now to be followed. General Gages Necessity then oblige! him to alter that plan and to collect all his Troops togeth er at Boston. Govr Carleton had orders to enter upon the New Eng land Frontiers with the Canadians, and Tryon with the Forces at New York was to meet and cooperate with him. This it is said was the Design of his return to his Governmt. The Idea is not yet given up, and to facilitate the plan a Number of flat bottomd boats were to
