166 October 12, 1775 A Republican Government is little better than Government of Devils. I have been acquainted with it from 6 Years old. We must regulate our Trade so as that a Reconciliation be ob tained or We enable [d] to carry on the War. Cant say, but I do hope for a Reconciliation, and that this Winter may bring it. I may enjoy my Hopes for Reconciliation, others may enjoy theirs that none will take Place. A Vessell will not go, without Sails or Oars. Wisdom is better than Weapons of War. We dont mean to oppose G.B. merely for Diver sion. If it is necessary that We make War, and that we have the Means of it, This Continent ought to know what it is about. The Na tion dont. We ought to know what they mean to be about. We ought to have Intelligence of the Designs. K. of Prussia and Count Daune march’d and counter march’d untill they could not impose upon Each other any more. Every Thing We want for the War are Powder and Shot. 2d Thing necessary that We have Arms and Ammunition. 3. We must have Money. The Cont[inent’]s Credit must be sup ported. We must keep up a Notion that this Paper is good for Some thing. It has not yet a general Circulation. The Mississippi Scheme in France and the South Sea Scheme in England were written for our Learning. An hundred Million fell in one day. 20 Men of War may block up the Harbour of N. York, Del [aw] are River, Cheasapeak Bay, the Carolinas and Georgia. Whether We can raise a Navy is an important Question. We may have a Navy—and to carry on the War We must have a Navy. Can We do this without Trade? Can we gain Intelligence without Trade. Can We get Powder without Trade? Every Vessell you send out is thrown away. N. England where the War is may live without Trade. Money circulates there—they may live. Without Trade our People must starve. We cannot live. We cannot feed or cloath our People. My Resolution was that I would do and suffer any Thing rather than not be free. But I resolved not to do impossible Things. If We must trade, We must trade with Somebody, and with Some body that will trade with us, either with foreigners or G.B. If with foreigners, We must either go to them or they must come to us. We cant go to them if our Harbours are shut up. I look upon the Trade with foreigners as impracticable. St. Lawrence being open is a Sup position. N. England People last War went to C[ape] Francois. Spaniards are too lazy to come to Us. If We cant trade with foreigners we must trade with G. Britain. Is it practicable. Will it quit cost. Will it do more hurt than good. This is breaking our Association. Our People will think We are giving Way and giving all up. They will say one mischivous Man has over-
