October 12, 1775 167 set the whole Navigation. I speak from Principle. It has been said here that the Association was made in terrorem. Gadsden. 2ds. Lees Motion, and affirms that We can carry on Trade from one End of the Continent to the other. Deane. Custom house Officers discharged! Were they ever in our Pay, in our service. Let em stand where they are. Let this Congress establish what Offices they please. Let the others die. I think that all the Colonies ought to be upon a footing. We must have Trade. I think We ought to apply abroad. We must have Powder and Goods. We cant keep our People easy without. Lee. The Gentleman agrees that all ought to be upon a Footing. Let him shew how this can be done without shutting the Custom houses. Jay. This should be the last Business We undertake. It is like cut ting the Foot to the shoe, not making a shoe for the Foot. Let Us es tablish a System first. I think We ought to consider the whole, before We come to any Resolutions. Now Gentlemen have their Doubts whether the N. Ex portation was a good Measure. I was last Year, clear vs. it. Because the Enemy have burn’d Charlestown, would Gentlemen have Us burn N. York? Let us lay every Burden as equal on all the Shoulders that We can. If Prov[idence] or Ministry inflict Misfortunes on one, shall We inflict the same on all? I have one Arm sore—why should not the other Arm be made sore too? But Jealousies will arise. Are these reasonable? Is it politick? We are to consult the general Good of all America. Are We to do hurt to remove unreasonable Jealous ies. Because Ministry have imposed hardships on one, shall We im pose the same on all. It is not from affection to N. York, that I speak. If a Man has lost his Teeth on one side of his Jaws, shall he pull out the Teeth from the other that both sides may be upon a Footing? Is it not realizing the Quarrell of the Belly and the Mem bers? The other Colonies may avail themselves of the Custom houses in the exempted Colonies. Lee. All must bear a proportional share of the Continental Exp ence. Will the exempted Colonies take upon themselves the whole Expence. V. pays a sixth Part, the lower Counties an 80th—yet low er Counties may trade, V. not. The Gentleman exercised an Abund ance of Wit to shew the Unreasonableness of Jealousies. If this min isterial Bait is swallowed by America another will be thrown out. Jay. Why should not N.Y. make Money, and N. Jersey not. One Colony can cloath them. McKean. I have 4 Reasons for putting the favoured Colonies upon a footing with the rest. 1st. is to disappoint the Ministry. Their design was insidious. 2. I would not have it believed by Ministry or other Colonies that those Colonies had less Virtue than others. 3. I have a
