176 October 13, 1775 ought not to let our Caution degenerate into groundless Jealousy. There is a Medium between Credulity on one hand and a base suspi cious Temper on the other from which We need not be induced to deviate, even in such Times as these, and by such Examples as the Drs. The Nature of the Conspiracy and the Duration and Extent of it Seem as yet in much obscurity. I hope Time, and Care will bring the whole Truth to light that exact and impartial Justice may be done, if that is possible. Before this Reaches you, a Comtee. from Congress will tell you News from hence. I wish, sir that I could write freely to you concern ing our Proceedings. But you know the obligations I am under to be upon the Reserve: and the danger there would be as I know not the Carrier of this Letter, if I was at perfect Liberty. But this I must Say, that I See no danger of our “displaying Timidity.” This Congress is more united, and more determined, than ever. And, if the petrified Tyrants would but send us their Ultimatum, which is expected Soon, 3 you would see Us, in Earnest. As to confiscating Estates, 4 that is but a small Part of what will be done when We are engaging seriously. You began upon a Subject, towards the Close of your Letter of in finite Importance; I read with avidity your Thoughts and was much chagrin’d that you gave me so few of them. The Intricacy and Multi plicity of the Questions involved in it, require more extensive Knowl edge and a larger Mind than mine to determine them with Precision. There is so much Uncertainty too, that I believe no Man is capable of deciding with Precision; but it must be left to Time, Accident and Experience, to begin and improve the Plan of our Trade. If We shoidd invite “all the Maritime Powers of the World into our Ports,” would any one of them come? At least, untill they should be convinced that We were able, and determined to fight it out with G. B. to the last? Are they yet convinced of this, or will they be very soon? Besides, if they should, Would it be Sound Policy in Us to ad mit them? Would it not be sounder to confine the Benefit and the Bargain to one or a few? Is it not wiser to send our own Ships to all maritime Powers, and admit private adventurers from foreign Nations, if by any Means We can defend them against Cutters and Cruizers, or teach them to elude them. I have upon this Subject a System of my own but am not bigot ed to it, nor to any other. You will oblige me vastly by your Senti ments at large. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Recipient identified from Lee’s October 5 letter to Adams, which contains two phrases quoted by Adams. Charles Lee to John Adams, October 5, 1775, Adams, Works (Adams) , 2:414-15n. 1 In his famous July 24 letter to James Warren, which was captured and
