October 13, 1775 179 more than one Effingham to be found in Britain. I have thought there was more of the true principle of Honor in the British Army, than among any other publick Class. If this be a Truth it is a melancholly one, for it is greatly to be apprehended that there is not Virtue enough in the Nation to save it. We know by long Experience that there is not Virtue enough there to save America. Why then should America expect it from Britain. This fond Hope of a Change from violent to lenient Measures in Britain is the Rock which endangers the Shipwreck of America. This Instant is arrivd an authentick Account of Dr Churchs Affair and a Copy of the Letter he had intended to send into Boston. To me it appears to be a very unintelligible Letter—I have not indeed thor oughly examind it—I have only heard it read. I do not recollect that it in any measure was calculated to expose the Weakness of our Army, which a Traitor would gladly have seizd the opportunity of doing, especially as he might have done it at that time with great Truth. The Union of Individual Colonies & of the Continental Con gress, and their firmness and Resolution are picturd in high Colours; he informs of the Arrival of large Quantities of Gun powder at a time when he knew there was the greatest Scarcity, and was sollicking his Friends here to take every Method for providing as he expressed it that “unum necessarium.” Other parts of his Letter wear a different Complection, such as his mentioning the Defeat of our Army at Bunkers Hill as “lucky,” his attempting three times in vain to send in his Letter, the messenger in the third Attempt being taken up (which I do not recollect to have heard before) and the Manner in which this Letter was conceald. But I will quit this disagreable Subject and conclude with assuring you that I am very affectionately, yours SA RC (MHi) . Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 13, 1775] 13th. Resolved into a Com[mitte]e of the whole & resumed the Consideration of Trade &c. Mr. Ward reported that &c. A Letter from Genl. Washington with Papers relative to Dr. Church &C. 1 Re solved that a swift sailg. [veytef] to carry 10 car [riage] Guns 8c a proportionable Number of Swivels with 80 men to be filled with all possible dispatch to cruize three months eastward for intercepting such Transports laden with warlike Stores 8c other Supplies for our Ene[mie]s 8c. such other Purposes as the Cong[res]s may direct. A Com[mitte]e appointed to estimate the Expence 8c report a proper
