184 October 16, 1775 Total Amt, for fitting out on a Cruise of Three Months a Fleet of Ten Sail (Viz) 4 of 36 Gunns each 2 of 24 Gunns each 2 of 18 Gunns each & 2 of 14 Gunns each 10 The Sailors wages are set at Five Dollars each, in Addition to which I propose that one third the Value of all prizes taken be shared between the Officers and Seamen. The Enemy have not a Naval force Now on this Coast equall to the foregoing, if the Asia, Somerset, & Boyne be put out of the Question. These Three Shipps are ordered home and Forty Gunn Shipps and downward are to be employed on the American Station for the future. It is evident if they cruize in a Fleet they will not be formidable to Trade, and if single they will be liable to be attacked by an equall if not Superior force of the Continental fleet. Connecticut has fitted out Two & Rhode Island Two, these joining with the Two from the Massachusetts and those which other Colo nies & Individuals will fix for the Sea will go near, to form a Naval force equall if not Superior to what the Ministry will think of sending to America the Next season for they dream as little of Our meeting them, on the Sea as of Our invading Canada, and though their Naval power, & resources be ever so great in Brittain, they must inevitably be defeated the Next Campaign in America if We get early to Sea, these Shipps, and with them surprize, & intercept their Transports, or any considerable part of them, this effected, the distance between Us & Europe will put it out of their power to recover the blow, untill the season is over. What will be the Loss to the Continent if these vessels should be so unfortunate as to make no prizes? I answer the Three Mo. Wages and provisions will Amount To nearest one Third of the Gross Sum or sixty Thousand Dollars, and the ware ir Tare will make up Ninety or one half which is a large Computation—but if by means of this Force the Coastwise Trade only is protected to say Nothing of secur ing the introduction of Ammunition &c under their protection. The Freight of Flour only to the Army will amount To a great part of the Sum, as every Barrel which they consume at present pays at least 12 Dollar Transportation more than if carried by Water. 40,000 Barrels transported will save Sixty Thousand out of the Nine ty Thousand Dollars And other Articles will doubtless Amount to as much more. It is a fact that more than 40,000 Bls. of Flour have been consumed the present Season. But the probability of Captures is much, in favor of the adventure.
