October 16, 1775 191 Estimate of the Expence of a Naval Armament sufficient to Cope with the Cruisers, on this Coast. 9 This I shall lay before them this Day, and am of your Opinion, That N. London harbor is well situat ed for the rendevous of an American Navy, & my Freind, is it not worth while for N. London to labor to obtain the advantages of such a Collection of Navigation spending their Money there? I think it prudent, &: adviseable, therefore for you or some other to come in stantly down here, by which, You may undoubtedly procure, an ad vantageous employment for your Navigation. As to the Assembly choosing New Delegates, the Congress will not interfere, either in the Mode, or Time, agreeable to any Colony. I think however, it would be best, for the Assembly, to make a New Election, or at least To re elect their Delegates annually. As to myself, I know not how I stand in their estimation, but make this my rule, to serve them chearfully, to the best of my Abilities, when called upon, and with equall Chear- fullness to give place to better Men. 10 By what I have said above you will See I have no idle Time. My Compts. to all Freinds in As sembly—particularly to Mr. Hosmer, I wish he was here, 8c if You make a new choice he must be one. I have wrote to him a long Let ter, and Several Short ones without any Answer. How does his Lead Works go on? I am Sir Your most Obedt. 8c very Huml. Servt. Silas Deane P.S. Where is the Maccaroni, 8c how have you Succeeded, in procur ing a most Necessary Article? Will it not be prudent, to Arm one half the Militia, with pikes of handles of about Ten feet in length, the heads Three square, with sharp stripps of Iron running down about One feet on the handle from the head to prevent The Enemy laying hold with their hands in the Action. Will a Battery, on Winthropps Neck, another on Mamecock, 8c a few Gunns on the heights on the [eastern] Shore secure that Harbor? How farr up the Nor[wich Ri] ver is their Sufficient Depth of Water for a [twenty] Gunnshipp? RC (NN) . Addressed: "To Thomas Mumford Esqr. of New London Now at the Genl. Assembly, New Haven.” 1 Deane dated this letter "Octo. 15th," but he also recorded in his diary: "Monday 15th at Congress." CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 96A. Since he often misdated documents by one day and since he indicated in this letter that he intended to present a report to Congress "this day,” Deane probably wrote this letter on Monday, October 16, rather than Sunday the 15th. “See Connecticut Delegates to Zebulon Butler et al., August 2, 1775. “See Deane to Zebulon Butler, July 24, 1775. * See Eliphalet Dyer to Zebulon Butler, October 1, 1775. 5 Unable to reach an agreement, the Connecticut and Pennsylvania delegates re- <]uested on October 14 that a new committee be chosen from among the delegates of the other colonies. The resulting committee, appointed October 17, deliberated periodically until December 20, when in accordance with their report Congress
