October 18, 1775 199 be defeated by sickness. Our accts, hitherto have been pritty favoura ble except that the folly of Allen urged him to expose himself with a handful of men before Montreal where he was taken &: his party de feated with small loss. Tell John that his friend James Livingston is very active & gaining great honour by the assistance he lends us in Can ada where he displays great bravery, & conduct. I sent by Mr. Allen a Letter to Genl Gates which I hope John reed, before he set out for Boston, if he is gone. If not I shall expect to be favour’d with his company to the manor. Present my Love to Mrs. Stevens 8c comps, to other friends at the valley 8c believe me to be Your Dutiful Son Robt R Livingston RC (NjHi) . Addressed “To The Hon. John Stevens Esqr., Valley Lebanon.” Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 17, 1775] 17th. A Comee. appointed to consider 8c Report what is fit to be done in the disputes between Pennsylvania & Connecticut. 1 Some Accts, allowed. Letter from Govr. Cooke read. 2 Dr. Morgan chosen Director Genl, of the hospital in the Room of Dr. Church. President desired to write to the Convention of New York to desire that all the Sulphur in the City be removed to a place of Safety. MS (RHi) . 1 See Connecticut Delegates’ Proposed Resolution, October 17? 1775, note. ’This letter, dated October 9, has not been found. JCC, 3:297. John Adams to James Warren Octr. 18. 1775 Dr Sir The Letter of Dr [Church] is the oddest Thing imaginable. There are so many Lies in it, calculated to give the Enemy an high Idea of our Power and Importance, as well as so many Truths tending to do us good that one knows not how to think him treacherous. Yet there are several Strokes, which cannot be accounted for at least by me, without the Supposition of Iniquity. In Short I endeavour to Suspend my Judgment. Dont let us abandon him for a Traitor without certain Evidence. But there is not So much Deliberation in many others, or so much Compassion. The Congress declined entering into any Discussion of the Evi dence, or any Determination concerning his Guilt, or the Nature of
