October 19, 1775 203 RC (MHi). ’William Cooper (1721-1809), Boston town clerk, secretary of the Massachusetts Committee of Safety, and a member of the provincial assembly, was elected speaker pro tempore of the House of Representatives on September 29, 1775. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1433, 1446. In his December 5 response to Adams, Cooper informed him that “a Committee of both Houses of which I am one has been appointed in consequence of the Committee of Congresses letter being laid before them, and a circular letter is to be forwarded to the Selectmen & Committees of Correspondence in the several towns where hostilities have been committed, that we may be able to furnish your Committee with a collected account of the damages sustained in those towns.” Adams Papers, MHi. ’Mordecai Gist (1742/43-92), Baltimore merchant and captain of the Baltimore Independent Company. By 1779 he had become a brigadier general in the Conti nental Army. DAB. John Adams to Joseph Palmer Dr Sir Octr. 19. 1775 Before I left Watertown a Committee of both Houses was appoint ed to enquire after Virgin lead and leaden ore, and the Methods of making Salt, who were to transmit their Discoveries to me. Another Committee was appointed, to correspond with your Delegates, here and communicate to them the earliest Intelligence of all Things nec essary for us to know. We have never received a letter from Either of those Committees, but are in constant Hope and hourly Expectation of Letters from both. There is another Thing of great Importance, which I earnestly wish may be furnished us, if practicable immediately, I mean Some accounts and Vouchers or at least Some Representation of the Ex penses which our Province has subjected itself to in the common Cause, that We may endeavour to obtain a Reimbursement, before the Continental Treasury shall be exhausted, which I fear will be Sooner than any one can imagine. Congress has appointed a Comtee to collect a Narration of the Violences and Depredations, the Rapine and Plunder of the Army and Navy, with affidavits to support it, for the Information of this Generation and all Posterity. This Comtee. will write to your general Court and to you particularly very soon requesting your assistance. Pray send me by the first Post Copy of the account of the Charles town Battle, which was sent to England by the Comtee. of Safety. 1 I forgot to bring it with me and have wanted it very much. We are in hourly Expectation of being overwhelmed all at once, with Floods of Intelligence from England, Quebec, St. Johns, Cam bridge, and twenty other Places. But at present it is as dead as Mid night.
