204 October 19, 1775 A Transport is ashore at Egg Harbour, with Soldiers. They have drowned their Powder and Arms as the Mohacks did The Tea. My Compliments to the Family & all Friends. Yours RC (M-Ar) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Tr (DLC) . RC incomplete; first three paragraphs supplied from Tr. 1 Joseph Palmer soon sent Adams a copy of the "Account of the Battle of Charlestown” and reported in detail the activities of the provincial committee on lead. Joseph Palmer to John Adams, October 31, and November 11, 1775, Adams Papers, MHi. John Adams to James Warren My dear sir Octr. 19. 1775 It was the latter End of August that I left you. All September has run away, and 19 days in Octr.—and We have had no regular Intelli gence from Watertown or Cambridge. Your Goodness I acknowl edge. But there was a Committee of both Houses appointed, to corre spond with your Delegates; and We were to be informed of every Thing that occurr’d in Boston, Cambridge, Roxbury, Watertown &c especially of every Thing which passed in Either House. But have never received a single Letter not even a Scratch of a Pen from this Comtee. or any Member of it, unless you are one, which I dont know that you are. Should be glad to hear if this Committee is all defunct or not. I have, in almost every Letter I have written, to any of my Friends, entreated that We might have accounts and Vouchers Sent us, that We might obtain a Reimbursement of Some Part at least of the inordinate Expence that has fallen upon Us—But have received No Answer from any one, concerning it. I wish to be informed, how ever, what the Difficulty is, that lies in the way, if We cannot have the Accounts &c. The Continental Money goes away so fast, that I greatly fear We shall have none left in the Treasury, before We get the Proper Evidence and Information to obtain a Reimbursement for our Province. 1 Dollars go but little Way in Maintaining Armies— Very costly Commodities indeed. The Expence already accrued will astonish Us all, I fear. Congress has appointed a Comtee., Deane, Wythe & your servant, to collect a Narration of Hostilities, and Evidence to prove it—to as certain the Number and Value of the Buildings destroyed, Vessells captivated, and Cattle plundered &c every where. I hope We shall tell a true Story, and then I am sure it will be an affecting one. We shall not omit their Butcheries nor their Robberies nor their Piracies. But We shall want Assistance from every Quarter. I want the Distresses of Boston painted by Dr Coopers Pencil—every Thing must be Sup-
