October 19, 1775 205 ported by Affidavits. This will be an usefull Work for the Informa tion of all the Colonies of what has passed in Some—for the Infor mation of our Friends in England—and in all Europe, and all Posterity. Besides it may pave the Way to obtain Retribution and Compensation, but this had better not be talked of at present. The Committee will write to the Assemblies, and to private Gentn. No Pains or Expence will be Spared. I hope to render the Execution of this Commission compleat. It concerns our Province very much. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Although the committee to prepare the Massachusetts accounts was instructed on September 30 to draw up a letter for the Continental Congress, four weeks elapsed before the letter was sent. See Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1446; and Perez Morton to the Continental Congress, October 25, 1775, PCC, item 65, fols. 59-67. John Adams to James Warren Dr Sir Octr. 19th. 1775 What Think you of an American Fleet? 1 I dont Mean 100 ships of the Line, by a Fleet, but I Suppose this Term may be applied to any naval Force consisting of several Vessells, tho the Number, the Weight of Metal, or the Quantity of Tonnage may be small. The Expence would be very great—true. But the Expence might be born and perhaps the Profits and Benefits to be obtained by it, would be a Compensation. A naval Force might be created, which would do something. It would destroy Single Cutters and Cruisers— it might destroy small Corvets or Fleets of these like Wallaces at R. Island and Ld Dunmores at Virginia—it might oblige our Enemies to sail in Fleets—for two or three Vessells of 36 and twenty Guns, well armed and manned might attack and carry a 64 or a 70 or a 50 Gun Ship. But, there is a great objection to this. All the Trade of Pensylvania, the Lower Counties, a great Part of Maryland and N. Jersey Sails in between the Capes of Delaware Bay—and if a strong Fleet should be posted in that Bay, Superior to our Fleet it might obstruct all the Trade of this River. Further the Trade of Virginia and the rest of Maryland floats into Cheasapeak Bay between the Capes of Henry and Charles where a Fleet might Stop all. Besides Virginia and Mary land have no Navigation of their own nor any Carpenters to build ships. Their whole Trade is carried on in British Bottoms by British, most of it by North British Merchants. These Circumstances distinguish them quite from New England, where the Inlets are innumerable and the Navigation all their own. They agree that a Fleet would protect &: secure the Trade of New England but deny that it would that of the Southern Colonies.
