206 October 19, 1775 Will it not be difficult to perswade them then to be at the Expence of building a Fleet, merely for N. England. We are Speculating now about Things at a Distance. Should We be driven to a War at all Points, a Fleet a public Fleet as well as privateers might make prey enough of the Trade of our Enemies to make it worth while. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 On October 3, 1775, the Rhode Island delegates had laid before Congress their instructions from the Rhode Island Assembly containing a proposed resolution calling for the creation of an American fleet. Although debate on the issue began October 7, Congress subsequently repeatedly deferred action on the Rhode Island request, and eventually it became merged with proposals to arm vessels for intercepting Canadian supply ships. JCC, 3:274-75, 277, 293-94, 297, 311-12. See also John Adams’ Notes of Debates, October 7 and 30; Naval Committee to Silas Deane, November 7; and Samuel Ward to Henry Ward, November 16 and December 14, 1775. John Adams to James Warren Dr sir Octr. 19. 1775 I want to be with you, Tete a Tete, to canvass, and discuss the complicated subject of Trade. I Say nothing of private Consultations or public Debates, upon this important Head. When I write you Letters you must expect nothing from me but unconnected Scraps and broken Hints. Continual Successions of Company allow me Time only to Scrawl a Page of Paper, without Thought. Shall We hush the Trade of the whole Continent and not permit a Vessell to go out of our Harbours except from one Colony to anoth er? How long will or can our People bear this? I Say they can bear it forever. If Parliament should build a Wall of Brass, at low Water Mark, We might live and be happy. We must change our Habits, our Prejudices, our Palates, our Taste in Dress, Furniture, Equipage, Ar chitecture &c. But We can live and be happy. But the Question is whether our People have Virtue enough to be mere Husbandmen, Mechanicks & Soldiers? That they have not Virtue enough to bear it always, I take for granted. How long then will their Virtue last? till next Spring? If We Stop all Trade, G. B., I. and W. I. will not be furnished with any Thing. Shall We then give Permission for our Vessells to go to foreign Nations, if they can escape the Men of War? Can they escape the Men of War? How many will escape in Proportion? If any Escape, will they not venture to Britain, Ireland, and W. I. in defyance of our Association? If they do not, will not the British Dominions furnish
