October 19, 1775 207 themselves with our Produce from foreign Ports, and thereby avoid that Distress, which We expect will overtake them? Will not the W. I. Islands especially, who cannot exist without our Provisions for 6 Months, unless Glov [er and?] Walker were ignorant. If We should invite other maritime Powers, or private Adventurers from foreign Nations to come here, Will they venture? They run the risque of escaping Men of War, and the Dangers of an unknown Coast. Maps and Charts may give Strangers a confused Idea of the Geography of our Country and of the Principal Inlets of Harbours, Rivers, Creeks, Coves, Islands &c but without skillfull Pilots, the danger of Shipwreck will be 10 to one. This vast object is never out of my Mind. Help me to grapple it. 1 The W. I., Barbadoes particularly, begin We are told here, by a late Vessell to be terrified out of their wits. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Warren subsequently expressed sympathy for Adams’ wish for an almost total stoppage of American trade but reluctantly conceded that “the temper and genius of the people, [and] the long habits they have been used to,” would require Congress to allow such trade “as will not endanger the success of your [Congress'] commercial measures.” James Warren to John Adams, November 5, 1775. Warren- Adams Leiters, 1:176-77. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear sir Philade Octob 19 1775 This Letter will be deliverd to you by Capt Gist, 1 a gentleman who I am well informd is meritorious in his endeavors with others in the Colony of Maryland to inspire the Inhabitants there with Mili tary Virtue. You will excuse the Freedom I take in recommending him to your Notice. It is for the Sake of my Country. Our Affairs are at this Moment in a critical Situation. I am impa tient to hear from Schuyler and Arnold. By Accounts receivd last Evening from Quebeck, the Lt Governor of that Colony (Carleton being absent) had raisd a Number of Companies of Canadians to de fend the Country. There was however no Expectation of an Expedi tion to Quebeck at that time viz the 28th September. “Tis not in Mortals to command Success.” If we fail we may yet console our selves, in reflecting that we have done all that was in our power to save our Country—voluisse sat est. I am in haste Yours af fectionately S A RC (MHi). 1 See John Adams to William Cooper, this date, note 1.
