208 October 19, 1775 Committee on Hostilities to Nathaniel Woodhull Sir, Philadelphia, 19 Oct. 1775. The continental congress having been pleased to appoint us a com mittee for collecting an account of the hostilities committed by the ministerial troops and navy in America since last March, with proper evidence of the truth of the facts related, the number and value of the buildings destroyed, and of the vessels inward and outward bound seised by them as nearly as can be ascertained, and also the stock taken by them from different parts of the continent, as you may see by the resolve inclosed; we entreat the assistance of the con vention of your colony in this business, that we may be enabled to perform what is required of us in the manner and with the expedition the congress expects; and, to that end, that you will be pleased to fur nish us with the necessary materials, sending to us clear distinct full and circumstantial details of the hostile and destructive acts, and the cap tures or seisures and depredations, in your colony, and accurate esti mates of the loss and damage, with the solemn examinations of wit nesses, and other papers and documents officially authenticated. 1 We are, Sir, Your obedient humble servants, Silas Deane John Adams George Wythe RC (OCIWHi) . Written by Wythe and signed by Adams, Deane, and Wythe. Addressed: "The Honoble. Nathaniel Woodhull Esqr., President, & the Conven tion, New York.” 1 Congress appointed this committee on October 18 and on the 26th ordered "that the resolution of 18 Inst, respecting the obtaining a well authenticated account of the Hostilities committed by the ministerial troops and navy, be published in the news papers.” JCC, 3:298-99, 307. The committee sent a similar letter this day to the New Hampshire Committee of Safety and apparently wrote other provincial governing bodies and prominent individuals, but after this early flurry the committee’s activities lapsed. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1105; and Commit tee on Hostilities to James Warren, October 24, 1775. Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., responded for Connecticut on March 25, 1776. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:149-65. John Adams received several replies from Massachusetts. Joseph Palmer to John Adams, October 31, and November 11; Samuel Cooper to John Adams, November 6; and Elbridge Gerry to John Adams, November 11, 1775, all in the Adams Papers, MHi. See also John Adams to James Warren, October 18, 1775, and his letters to Abigail Adams, William Cooper, and Joseph Palmer, this date.
