212 October 20, 1775 from importing unnecessary Articles, and from exporting live Stock, except Horses. Gadsden. If we give one leave when there is 100 who have an ecpial Right, it will occasion Jealousy. Let each Colony export to the Amount of so many thousand Pounds, and no more. Chase. We have Letters, from Guadaloupe, Martinique and the Havanna that they will supply us with Powder for Tobacco. Gadsden. France and Spain would be glad to see G.B. despotic in America. Our being in a better State than their Colonies, occasions complaints among them, Insurrections and Rebellions, but these Powers would be glad We were an independent State. Chase. The Proposition is for exporting for a special Purpose, im porting Powder. I would not permit our Cash to go for Rum. Live Stock is an inconsiderable Part of our Cargoes. I dont wish to intermix any Thing in this debate. I would restrain the Merchant from importing any Thing but Powder &c. Molasses was an Article of importance in the Trade of the North ern Colonies. But now they cant carry on the African Trade, and the Rum is pernicious. If you give a Latitude for any Thing but Arms and Ammunition, We shant agree what Articles are necessary and what unnecessary. Each Colony should carry on this Trade, not indi viduals. I would not limit the Quantity of Ammunition to be import ed by each Colony. An 100 Ton a Colony would supply the W. Indies mediately and the Army and Navy. 20 Ton would be a consider able Adventure for a Colony. Debts are due from the BJritish] W. India Islands to the Inhabitants of these Colonies. I am not for per mitting Vessells to go in Ballast and fetch Cash. I wish to import Cash from every Place as much as possible. Deane. It cannot be done with secrecy or dispatch. I rather think it would be as well to leave it to Traders. Zubly. It is of great Weight that there be no favourites. Dyer. There will be such continual Applications to the Assemblies, by their Friends among the Traders, it will open a compleat Exporta tion. It would compleatly supply the W. Indies. Jay. We have more to expect from the Enterprise, Activity and In dustry of private Adventurers, than from the Lukewarmness of As semblies. We want French Woolens, Dutch Worsteds, Duck for Tents, German Steel, &c. Public Virtue is not so active as private Love of Gain. Shall We shutt the Door vs. private Enterprise. Lee. The Gentleman may move for those Things as Exceptions to the general Rule. Randolph. We are making Laws contradictory in Terms. We say nobody shall export and yet Somebody shall. Against all Rule. Lee. It is a common Rule in making Laws, to make a Rule and then make a Proviso for special Cases.
