October 20, 1775 213 Dyer. The Rule and the Proviso are passed at once in the same Act, ’tho. If I give my Voice for an Unconditional Proposition, what security have I that the Condition or Proviso will be added after wards. The greatest Impropriety, in the World. Chase. Both Sides are right, and it arises from this, that one Prop osition is to be made public the other kept secret. We have very little Confidence in each other. Zubly. If half the Law is to be public and the other half secret, will not half the People be governed by one half and the other half by the other. Will they not clash? Jay. Least your Produce falls into the Hands of your Enemies, you publish a Law that none go from the Continent. Yet to get Powder, We keep a secret Law that Produce may be exported. Then comes the Wrangles among the People. A Vessell is seen loading. A fellow runs to the Committee. Lee. The Inconvenience may arise in some Measure, but will not the People be quieted, by the Authority of the Conventions. If We give public Notice, our Enemies will be more active to intercept Us. On the Contrary the People may be quieted by the Committees of Safety. Wythe. The only Persons who can be affected by this Resolution are those, whom on the other side the Water will be called Smug glers. Consider the danger these Smugglers will run—lyable to sei zure by C. House officers, by Men of War at Sea, and by Custom house officers in the Port they go to. What can they bring. Cash, Powder, or foreign Manufactures. Cant see the least Reason for re straining our Trade, as little can be carried on. My Opinion is We had better open our Trade altogether. It has long been my Opinion, and I have heard no Arguments vs. it. Zubly. We cant do without Trade. To be, or not to be is too tri fling a Question for many Gentlemen. All that Wise Men can do among many Difficulties, is to choose the least. Stone. Cannot agree to the Proposition made by the gentleman from Maryland. Not for binding the People closer, than they are bound already. The Proposition is the same with that which was made that our Vessells should be stopp’d and foreigners invited to come here for our Produce and protect their own Trade. This appears to be a destructive System. It was a laborious Task to get America into a general Non Expor tation to G.B., L, and W. Indies. Shall We now combine with Britain, to distress our People in their Trade, more than by the Association. People have look’d up to this, and are unwilling to go further. The restraining Bill a most cruel, un just, unconstitutional Act: Yet We are going to greater Cruelties than they. We are all to be in the same Circumstances of Poverty and Dis- 248-053 0 - 77 - 16
