220 October 20, 1775 Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 20, 1775] 20th. Letter to Genl. Washington relative to Capt. McPharson read & approved, 1 three hundred Dollars orderd to be advanced to him. Resolved into a Comee. of the whole. Mr. Ward reported that the Comee had taken into Consideration the matter referrd to them but having come to no Resolutions desired Leave to sett to morrow which was granted. 2 MS (RHi) . 1 Hancock’s letter to Washington of this date is in JCC, 3:301. 2 The "matter referred to them" was the state of American trade. JCC, 3:301-2. John Adams’ Notes of Debates Octr. 21. [1775] Zubly. 1 We cant do without Powder, Intelligence, Druggs. Georgia must have an Indian War, if they cant supply the Indians. The Creeks and Cherrokees are in our Province. We must have Indian Trade. Four Millions have been spent in 6 Months. We have been successfull. But We have gain’d little. All the Power of G.B. it is true, has gained very little. N. England has been at great Expence, so has N. York. Pensylvania has spent hundred thousand Pounds of their Money to fortify their River. Virginia as much. N. Carolina a great deal. S. Carolina have issued a Million. 18 Millions of Dollars is an enormous Sum of Money. Whenever your Money fails, you fail too. We are to pay Six Millions, now, 12 Millions more presently, and have no Trade. I woidd bear the Char acter of a Madman, or that of an Emissary of Lord North, rather than believe it possible to pay 18 Millions of Dollars without Trade. Can We make bricks without Straw? We can live upon Acorns, but will We? Wythe. The Rule that the Question should be put upon the last Motion that is made and seconded—this is productive of great Con fusion in our Debates—6 or 7 Motions at once. Commerce, whether we consider it, in an Economical, a moral, or political Light appears to be a great Good. Civility and Charity, as well as Knowledge are promoted by it. The Auri Sacra Fames is a fine Subject for Philosophers and Orators to display themselves upon. But the abuse of a Thing is not an Argument vs. it. If the Gentleman was possessed of Philosophers Stone or Fortunatus’s Cap, would he not oblige the Continent with the Use of it.
