October 21, 1775 223 Port of their Destination. The same force, that would assist the East ern Colonies, would be of little service to us in summer Time. It must be a small, narrow and limited Trade. The best Instrument We have is our Opposition by Commerce. If We taken into Consideration G.B. in all her Glory—Commons voted 18.18.20 milions 2 last War, 80,000 seamen, from her Trade alone. Her strength is all Artificial—from her Trade alone. Imports from G.B. to the united Colonies are 3 Millions per an num—15 Millions to all the World—l/5th. 3/4 is british Manufac tures. A Thousand british Vessells are employed in American Trade. 12 Thousand Sailors—all out of employ. What a Stroke! I dont take into view I [reland] or W. Indies. Colonies generally indebted about one years Importation. The Revenue of Tobacco alone half a Million, if paid. N forth] Britain enter less than the Quantity and dont pay what they ought. It em ploys a great Number of Manufacturers. Reexported abroad is a Mil lion. It is more. 80,000 Hdds are reexported and pays British Debts. The Reexport employs Ships, Sailors, Freight, Commissions, Insur ance. Ireland. The flaxseed 40,000£ st. Linen brought 2,150000£ from I. to England. Yard 200,000. Ireland can raise some flaxseed, but not much. W. Indies. Glover, Burk, and other Authors. They depend for In dian Corn and Provisions, and Lumber, and they depend upon Us for a great Part of the Consumption of their Produce. Indian Corn and Fish are not to be had but from the Colonies, except Pilchards and Herrings. Jamaica can best provide for her Wants, but not en tirely. Ireland can send em Beef and Butter but no Grain. B. can send em Wheat, Oats not Corn, without which they cannot do. Stop Rum and Sugar, how do you affect the Revenue and the Trade? They must relax the Navigation Act to enable foreign Nations to supply the W. Indies. This is dangerous as it would force open a Trade between foreigners and them. Britain can never support a War with Us, at the Loss of such a valuable Trade. Affrican Trade dependent upon the W. India Trade.—700,000jT. 25,000 Hdds. of Sugar are imported directly into these Colonies and as much more, from Britain, manufactured. Jamaica alone takes 150,000£ st. of our Produce. National Debt 140,0000, 3 ten Millions the Peace Establishment. 20 Million the whole Current Cash of the Nation. Blackstone. I nev er read any Body that better understood the subject. For the State of the Revenue, He calculates the Taxes of Ireland and England.
