October 23, 1775 231 The Man who violates private Faith, cancells solemn Obligations, whom neither Honour nor Conscience holds, shall never be knowing ly trusted by me. Had I known, when I first voted for a Director of an Hospital, what I heard afterwards when I was down, I would not have voted as I did. Open barefaced Immorality ought not to be so countenanced. Tho I think, a Fatality attends us in some Instances, yet a divine Protection and favour is visible in others, and let us be chearfull whatever happens. Chearfullness is not a sin in any Times. I am afraid to hear again almost least some other should be sick in the House. Yet I hope better, and that you will reassume your wont ed Chearfullness and write again upon News and Politics. Send your Letters to Warren for Conveyance. I wont trust any other. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:311-12. 1 Adams is alluding to Benjamin Church. See Adams to Abigail Adams, October 10, 1775, note. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Octr. 23. 1775 Yours of the 12th instant came to Hand Yesterday. Thank you and your good Lady, for your kind Condolance, on the Loss of an excellent Mother, 1 a Loss which is and ought to be more particularly affecting because there is Reason to fear that her kind Exertions for the Relief my Family when in great Distress contributed to her Cata strophe. I dread to hear further from my Family least a pestilential Infection should have seized Some other Branch of it—But will hope for better Things. I dont Think you negligent, my Friend, having had too much Ex perience of your Care & attention. I only thought it my Duty to omit no opportunity to press for accounts &c. I wish my other Friends were as little chargeable with Negligence as you. I want to know a Thousand Things. What are the Prices of Euro pean and West India Goods. How the Non Exportation is observed. How the Prices of Provisions. Whether there is any Prospect of keep ing any Trade alive and what. You will receive a Letter from a Comtee, 2 whose Business it is to prepare a compleat Narration of the War—at least of the Murders, Robberies, Piracies, Treasons, Felonies, Villanies &c of the Army and Navy. Mr Wythe who is one, is a Virginian, a Lawyer of high Rank at the Bar, a great Schollar, a most indefatigable Man and a staunch Virginian, to all appearance. You will observe the Vote limits Us to last March. This was done without design & I dont intend to be so limited and therefore I hope
