236 October 23, 1775 half Pay which he renounced by entering into the American Army ought to be compensated to him. 14 15. Artillery of different kinds will be wanted, how is it to be got &: where? Agreed That what can be spared from New York &: Crown Point be procured. 16 16. Engineers are also much wanted where can they be got. Agreed to recommend to the Congress Henry Knox Esqr. & Lieut Col. Puttnam who have Skill in this Branch, as Assistant Engineers with suitable Pay, & Rank as Lieut. Colonels, The present Pay of As sistant Engineers being deemed too small. 17. Several Indian Chiefs of the St. Francis, Penobscot, Stock- bridge & St. John’s Tribes have been to offer their Services & told they would be called for when wanted & dismiss’d with Presents. Ought they to be called if a Necessity for them should appear, & is the giving them Presents proper? Agreed That these Indians or others may be called on in Case of real Necessity, & that the giving them Presents is both suitable & proper? 18 18. Would it not be adviseable to have Expresses posted along the Roads at different Distances (Persons of Character) for the Purpose of conveying early & frequent Intelligence? Agreed that such a Regulation is highly necessary, but that the Mode of carrying it into Execution be left to the Congress. 17 19. Lead & Flints are much wanted where Sc in what Quantities can they be had? Agreed. That as much Lead as can be spared from the Northern Department & is wanted here should be sent down from Ticonderoga & all other Supplies of these Articles attended to. 18 20. Several issuing Commissaries &: Clerks are necessarily em ployed under the Commissary General, For which no Provision is made. Several Assistant Quarter Masters are also employed in order to discharge that Duty. A Clerk is & allways has been necessary to assist in the Office of the Adjutant Genl. What Pay should be al lowed them? The Commissary being sick & unable to explain the Duty of these Commissaries, Clerks &c Agreed that he draw up a Memorial to the Congress stating the Ranks, Duties &c. of the several Officers under him, that the Quarter Master General do the same to enable the Congress to fix the Proportion of Pay to be allowed them. That these Memorials be first shewn to the General &: by him Transmitted to the Congress. 21. Six Vessels (armed) are now fitted out & fitting upon the best Terms to intercept the Enemys Supplies will this be agreeable to the Congress?
