October 23, 1775 237 Agreed that the Committee approve of the Scheme & will recom mend it to the Congress. 19 October 24th. 1775 The Committee proceeded in their Conference on the Generals Queries, viz 1. When the Army receives such Supplies of Powder as to be ena bled to spare some to the Country how & upon what Terms is it to be done? Agreed. That it be sold to them at a reasonable Price. 20 2d. Tents, if the Army should have Occasion to take the Field, will be indispensably necessary for the Officers & Men, how are they to be provided & are the Officers to be allowed any? Agreed. That it be recommended to the Honl. Congress to pay an early Attention to this Article & if the Pay of the Officers is not con siderably increased that Tents be allowed them. The General informed the Committee that he had given particular Orders that all the Tents now in Use should be carefully pack’d up in proper Places during the Winter. The Council of War lately held having in Consequence of an Inti mation from the Congress deliberated on the Expediency of an At tack upon Boston & determined that at present it was not practicable. The General wishes to know how far it may be deemed proper & ad viseable to avail himself of the Season to destroy the Troops who propose to winter at Boston by a Bombardment when the Harbour is block’d up, or in other Words whether the Loss of the Town & the Property therein are to be so considered as that an Attack upon the Troops there should be avoided when it evidently appears the Town must of Consequence be destroyed. The Committee were of Opinion this is a Matter of too Much Im portance to be determined by them, therefore ref [er] it to the Con gress. The General now requested that the Committee would represent to the Congress the Necessity of having Money constantly & regularly sent, & that some Regulation upon this Head should be made as soon as possible. Also That the Congress would be pleased to establish or recom mend it to the Legislature of this Province to establish some Court for the Tryal & Condemnation of Vessels taken from the Enemy, so that they may be distinguished from those of a different Character & all Abuses prevented as much as possible. MS (DNA:PCC, item 33) . In the hand of Joseph Reed and endorsed by Reed: "A true Copy of the Minutes of the Conference held by the Delegates from the Continental Congress with General Washington. Jos. Reed, Secy. Head Quarters, Cambridge Octr. 24, 1775.”
