October 23, 1775 239 before, What has delayed its passage here I cannot say. I wrote you the beginning of this month but have not as yet been favoured with an Answer. Wish our Freinds would write us more frequently. I am obliged to you for the Enquiry you made at Dedham for a House for me, should be glad to Govern my self by the Opinion of the County as to the place of Holding the Probate, provided at this difficult time I can be accomodated with such a place as will be agre- able to them. 1 If I had been so happy as to have seen you before I left Watertown, I doubt whether it would have been proper for me to have signed any blank Letters of Administration or Letters of Guard ianship, before I had my Commission & more than a month before by law I could have entered upon the discharge of the office I was appointed to, for, if you will recollect, you will find that, by the Law that was made by the General Court upon this Occasion, none of the new appointments were to take place till after the 20 of September last. This matter I considered before I left Watertown or else should certainly have seen you previous to my departure and have Signed the Papers you mention, which I am sensible, could it have been done with any Propriety, would have been for the ease of the Coun ty. I am most Surprized that any Persons among us should just now think of dividing the County, especially at this very critical time when we have so many other matters of the greatest magnitude to Engage our Attention; such a thing was never attempted in any other County without first notifying every Town in the County of such an Intention. Can the Inhabitants of Boston (the Shire Town whose In terest it so nearly affects) in their present distressed dispersed State attend to a Question of such Moment, Certainly not, & will the In habitants of the other Towns in the County take the advantage of this their distress? or if they would, will the General Court attend to them at such a time? Certainly not. Whenever a Bill for determining What offices are incompatable with each other shall be brought into the House, I hope it will be considered with great attention and due de liberation. There are many difficulties attending such a Measure which at first View may not be thought of. I hope we shall not run from one Extream to another. I sincerely wish the Court may be di rected to such a Conduct as may tend Effectually to Strengthen our happy Constitution & be for the lasting benefit of the Government. I am Glad to find General Washington is fitting out some Vessells of War, this is a Necessary Measure as our Enemies are dayly pirat ing our Vessells. I have frequently Urged it here. As to the Establish ment of Courts of Admiralty, that will come on of Course, but it will not do to urge it here at present. I cannot as yet form any judgment When I shall be able to return, many Interesting and important Matters demand my attention &
