October 23, 1775 241 the Field as long as is necessary for the Capture of St John’s, which I agree with you cannot be supplied in the manner the Canadian Pris oners represent. I hoped before this to have had some Subject for a Letter; but we have no News from England but what the Prints furnish, and the whole amounts to no more than Surmise and Conjecture. If Adminis trations was disposed to Peace, I think they woud come to no Con clusion without the advice of Parliament, in Support of whose usurped Authority this cruel and unnatural war has been prosecuted. I therefore expect nothing decisive till their next Sessions. In the meantime I hope the winter will put a Stop to the Ravages of the King’s Ships which are employed in carrying on a pitiful predatory war against defenceless Towns and Coasts, disgraceful to the British Fleet. As to the Army they are confined in narrow Limits and kept in a State of Inaction by a Superior Power; so that no danger is to be apprehended from them without a very great Reinforcement. Upon the whole the Aspect of American Affairs is as favourable as we had any Reason to expect, tho we must all deplore the precious Blood which has been shed by Englishmen and Countrymen during this horrid Conflict. I am still undetermined how to dispose of my Family this winter. Over myself I fear I shall have little Command. My dearest Polly seems desirous that we should fix in New York for the Improvement of our Children. But that unhappy City is in too much danger and Confusion to Justify such a Measure, at least it so appears to me. At all Events I shall endeavour to be with my Family in a few weeks for I grow very impatient under such tedious Seperations. Some certain Account from England (which we have Reason daily to expect) of the probable Fate of our Petition will determine my Conduct. Adieu my dear and honourd Sir. Present my dutiful Regards to Mamma and every branch of the Family and believe ever Your Af fectionate & dutiful Son & very obedient Servant Jas Duane RC (NHpR: Livingston-Redmond Collection deposit) . Virginia Delegates to the Williamsburg Committee of Safety Gentlemen Philadelphia 23d Octr. 1775 Among General Washington’s last inclosures to Congress, was the deposition, a copy of which is now sent for your information. 1 Com paring this with the last intelligence we had the honor of sending you, Lord Dunmores inimical system against Virginia seems to be pretty
