242 October 23, 1775 fully explained. To frustrate this part of his Lordships plan, will it not be highly expedient to intercept Majr. Connelly Sc his papers in his passage thro the Indian Country, or to have him arrested whilst in his Winter quarters? It is not improbable but that this may be effect ed, by offering reward to Men of proper spirit, enterprize, and knowledge of the Country & Indian nations thro which this wicked Agent proposes to pass. We submit to you Gentlemen the prudence of sending a copy of this deposition to the Committee of Safety in N. C., with a request that they will detach a few Runners on this useful errand. We expect the same application will be made to S.C. & G. by their Delegates in Congress. FC (MH) . Unsigned draft in the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 Undoubtedly William Cowley’s affidavit, describing John Connolly’s plan to organize the western Indians and the French in the Illinois country for a spring invasion of Virginia, which was enclosed in Washington’s letter to Congress of October 12. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1037-39, 1047-48. See also Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter, October 21, 1775. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 23, 1775] 23rd. Resolved to attend the funeral with a mourning crape round the left Arm, to be continued a month. 1 Mr. Middleton, Mr. Hopkins & Mr. Chase appointed to superintend the funeral & to request Mr. Duchee to preach a funeral discourse. New appointment of the Del egs. of the lower Counties, their credentials presented & approved. MS (RHi). 1 Robert Treat Paine’s diary for this date reads: “Fair. I went to Congress. They Adjd. on Acct, of the death of Mr. Randolph.” MHi. John Zubly wrote in his: "Peyton Randolph Esq. having suddenly died yesterday Congress adjourned. Went to see Mr. Schlatter.” GHi. John Adams to James Warren Octr. 24. 1775 Dear Sir When it is said that it is the Prerogative of omniscience to Search Hearts, I Suppose it is meant that no human Sagacity can penetrate at all Times into Mens Bosoms and discover with precise Certainty the secrets there: and in this Sense it is certainly true. But there is a Sense in which Men may be said to be possessed of a Faculty of Searching Hearts too. There is a Discernment competent to Mortals by which they can penetrate into the Minds of Men and
