246 October 24, 1775 This Letter should have gone by last Post, but was left by Acci dent. You may publish the Part of it that is mark’d mentioning no Name. 1 We have just receiv’d Alarm of the burning of Falmouth Casco Bay; and are assur’d that Orders are come over to burn, ravish and destroy all the Sea Coast; such is the Government of the best of Princes! If the People of Philadelphia, to be more at their Ease in defending the City should think fit to remove their Families, and some of their Goods, do you after taking Care of Sally and the Chil dren, remember to secure my Account Books and Writings which are in the Glass Desk and two Trunks in my Library. I hope too that the Library may be Sav’d; but we must run all Risques, that being to[o] bulky to be remov’d. RC (RBrHi). A continuation of Franklin to Richard Bache, October 19, 1775. 1 It cannot now be determined what portion of the letter Franklin marked for publication. Thomas Jefferson to Francis Eppes Dear Sir Philadelphia, Oct. 24, 1775. Since my last, we have nothing new from England or from the camps at either Cambridge or St. John’s. Our eyes are turned to the latter place with no little anxiety, the weather having been uncom monly bad for troops in that quarter, exposed to the inclemencies of the sky without any protection. Carleton is retired to Quebec, and though it does not appear he has any intimation of Arnold’s expedi tion, yet we hear he has embodied 1,100 men to be on his guard. A small vessel was the other day cast away on the Jersey shore (she was one of the transports which had some time ago brought over troops to Boston), on board of which were a captain, with his subor dinate officers and marines, amounting to 23 in all, and also a Dun can Campbell, who was going to recruit men at New York for Gen eral Gage, he having some time before undertaken the same business in the same place, and actually carried off 60 men. The marines and their officers were all taken immediately, except their captain and the recruiting gentleman; these pushed off in a little boat, and coasted it to Long Island, where they got on board a sloop which was to have sailed in an hour, when the party sent after them came upon them. They were brought to this city this morning, the marines having been here some time. 1 Our good old Speaker died the night before last. For the particulars of that melancholy event I must refer you to Pat ty. My affections attend Mrs. Eppes. Adieu. Th. Jefferson MS not found; reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:248-49.
