248 October 24, 1775 selves under Protection of the Men of War; every thing of Impor tance done at the Assembly you will naturally communicate, & the Proceedings at the Conference at Cambridge with your Sentiments upon such measures as you think best for us to pursue in Congress I shall be glad of. With Regard to the Voyage proposed by the Depy. Govr. I have wrote to his Honor twice by Order of the Secret Comee. of which I am Chairman and every thing necessary upon our Part is ready & I hope the Voyage is undertaken before this time. 3 I have seen the Examinations of Capt. Campbell, his Lieut. & some Marines, the Privates swear or at least say but I think swear that the Capt & officers promised them 200 Acres of good cultivated Land each out of the forfeited Estates, Campbell denies this. His Instru [ction] s from Genl. Gage which I have also seen amongst oth er Things direct him to encourage the Scotch & other Nations to en ter into the Kings Service; the Regiment to which he belongs is 72d now raising called the royal fensible Americans; proper Regard to all Friends Yours most affectionately Sam Ward RC (RHi) . ’On October 17 Congress read an October 9 letter from Rhode Island Deputy Governor Nicholas Cooke which apparently is no longer extant. JCC, 3:297. ’This day Robert Treat Paine recorded in his diary: "Fair Cool. Rode to German Town. P.M. the funeral Peyton Randolf Esqr. attended in the most respectable Manner & a Sermon preached at Christs Church by Mr. Duche.” MHi. ’See Ward to Nicholas Cooke, October 5, 1775, note. John Zubly’s Diary [October 24, 1775] Tuesday, 24. Bought a horse. Attended the funeral of Mr. Ran dolph. Mr. Duche preachd. Col. 4:5. Wrote to Mr. Caldwell. A Sep aration from the Parent state I wd. dread as one of the greatest evils & should it ever be proposed [wt/Z] write pray & fight against it. Some good Men may desire it but good Men do not always Know what they are about. I have more than a little thought on this Matter, & being borned & bred in a Commonwealth should not be unac quainted with republican Govt, but wish never to see the day when the Issue whether we ought to Separate Shd be agitated. Hints of this Kind arm our friends & Enemies in G. B. against us & are pernicious in the highest degree. I would rather enlarge than retract my Vote. There is a lack of Confidence in America which allarms me. We are too haughty to look unto God & all our publick papers rather talk of presenting Law to a Conquered people than defending ourselves un-
