October 25, 1775 253 John Hancock to the New Jersey Convention Gentlemen, Philada. Octr. 25. 1775 The Congress having taken into Consideration your Letters of the 13 &: 14 Inst. 1 have directed me to inform you, that they are of Opinion, the Public Service makes it necessary that the Jersey Battal ions be levied with all possible Expedition: but as the Congress are waiting the Return of their Committee from Camp in Order to estab lish permanent Regulations for all the continental Forces, they for the present incline to suspend a Determination on the Question about the Appointment of Regimental Field Officers. 2 The public Exigencies will not admit of Loans from the Continen tal Treasury to any Colonies. The Congress however hope that this will not disable you from supplying yourselves with Arms & Ammu nition, in doing which it is not doubted, you will fall upon such Means, as will be most for the Ease and Safety of the Colony without hazarding the Emission of Paper Currency. From some Expressions in your Letter of the 14th Inst the Con gress apprehend it is the Intention of your Convention to take into Constant Pay 4000 Minute Men. But as this will be a very heavy Expence, and more, it is apprehended, than any one Colony can af ford, we hope you will well weigh &: consider such a Measure before you adopt it. With Respect to Provisions for Minute Men, the Con gress have made none; conceiving that the several Colonies will make proper Provisions for them where necessary, or when they are called into actual Service, except when they are taken into the Continental Service, in which Case they will be entitled to the same Pay, as other Continen [t] al Troops. I am &c J H Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . Written by a committee of Congress and sent over Hancock's signature. JCC, 3:295, 304—5. 1 For these letters, see PCC, item 68, fols. 15-19; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1050-51. 3 Congress added this paragraph to the letter after the committee’s draft was read and debated. JCC, 3:305. For Congress’ final action on the appointment of field officers for the New Jersey battalions, see William Livingston to William Alexander, November 8, 1775. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Committee Chamber Octr. 25th. 1775 Philadelphia At a meeting of the Committee, present. Sami. Ward, John Lang- don, Silas Deane, John Alsop, &: Thos. McKean Esqrs. a Quorum of^_,. sd. Committee. A Contract enterd into between Alexander Gillon 1 of Charles-
