October 26, 1775 257 John Hancock to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen Philada. 26th Octo. 1775. A transport with two Officers & a number of marines having been cast away on the coast of New Jersey near Brigantine Beech, the cap tain, Officers & a number of the men were taken prisoners & brought to this place, where they have been examined by the Committee of Safety of this province. By order of the Congress I inclose you a copy of their examination, by which you will see the dangerous practices the officers have been engaged in, & it is not doubted but you will take effectual measures to put a stop to them. 1 It is intimated that there is one Grant in Dutchess County now employed in raising recruits. The Congress expect you will inquire into this matter & if possible secure the said Grant. 2 It being represented to the Congress that a large quantity of blan kets & shirts remain in the King’s stores in New York, the Congress came to the following Resolution: “That it be recommended to the Convention of New York immediately to take possession of the said blankets & shirts & forward so many of them as may be necessary, to General Schuyler for the use of the army under his Command.” 3 I am Gentlemen Your most Obedt. Servt. John Hancock, Presidt. RC (N) . Written by Charles Thomson and signed by Hancock. Journals of N. T. Prov. Cong., 2:5. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 The “dangerous practices” in question were the efforts of Capt. Duncan Campbell and one Lieutenant Symes to recruit volunteers in New York for Lt. Col. Allan Maclean’s battalion of provincials in the British army, on which see JCC, 3:305-6; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1311-14. 3 On this point, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1322-23. • A band of New Yorkers had seized some royal stores on October 9, but the next day the Provincial Congress, fearing that the seizure would lead to the naval bombardment of New York City, ordered the goods returned. Fear of British retaliation was still strong when news of this resolve of Congress reached New York, and consequently the Provincial Congress refused to carry it out. Ibid., pp. 1322-23; and William H. W. Sabine, ed., Historical Memoirs from 16 March 1763 to 9 July 1776 of William Smith . . . (New York: Colburn & Tegg, 1956), pp. 241-42. John Jay to Sarah Jay My dear Sally Ph. 26 Octr 1775 I am much obliged to you for your kind Letter by this Stage. The Bundle came safe to Hand, and Claas says he thanks you for it. I was in Hopes you had received some of my Letters at the Time
