October 29, 1775 277 Youth, supporting Coiledges at the public Expence and obliging Towns to maintain Grammar schools, is not equalled and never was in any Part of the World. 4. The Division of our Territory, that is our Counties into Town ships, empowering Towns to assemble, choose officers, make Laws, mend roads, and twenty other Things, gives every Man an opportuni ty of shewing and improving that Education which he received at Coiledge or at school, and makes Knowledge and Dexterity at public Business common. 5. Our Laws for the Distribution of Intestate Estates occasions a frequent Division of landed Property and prevents Monopolies, of Land. But in opposition to these We have laboured under many Disad vantages. The exorbitant Prerogatives of our Governors &c. which would have overborn our Liberties, if it had not been opposed by the five preceding Particulars. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:318-19. Samuel Adams to Elbridge Gerry My dear Sir Philadelphia Octob 29 1775 I wrote to you a few days ago by young Mr Brown and then duly acknowledgd your Letter of the 9th Instant. You tell me that a Committee of both Houses of Assembly is ap pointed to bring in a Militia Bill. 1 I am of your Opinion that this Matter requires great Attention and I wish with you to see our Mili tia formd not only into Battallions but also Brigades. But should we not be cautious of putting them under the Direction of the Generals of the Continent, at least until such a Legislative shall be established in America as every Colony shall consent to. The Continental Army is at present very properly under the Direc tion of the Continental Congress. Possibly if ever such a Legislative should be formd, it may be proper that the whole Military Power of every Colony should be under its absolute Direction. Be that as it may, will it not, till then, be prudent, that the Militia of each Colony should be under the Direction of its own Legislative which is and ought to be the sovereign uncontroulable Power within its own Limits or Territory. I hope our Militia will be always prepard to aid the Forces of the Continent in this righteous Opposition to Tyranny. But it is your natural Strength which ought to be under your own Direc tion & employd for your own Safety. It is a Misfortune to a Colony to become the Seat of War. It is always dangerous to the Liberties of 248-053 0 - 77 - 20
