November 3, 1775 293 they Recommend such a form, as shall be agreable to a free Repre sentation of the People, in short Such a government as shall be most Agreable to the Province. The Arguments on this Matter (being the first of the Kind as we had no Charter) were Truely Ciceronial, the eminent Speakers did honour to themselves and the Continent; Car ried by a very great Majority. 1 The Power is ample and full, even to the Choice of governor, if the Colony should think it Necessary but that, we humbly Conceive worthy of Consideration. You’ll See that the government is Limited to the Present Contest to ease the minds of Some few persons, who were fearful of Independance, we tho’t it Advisable not to oppose that part too much, for once we had taken, any Sort of government, nothing but Negotiation with Great Britain can Alter it. We would here beg leave to Suggest whether a government Some what Similar to the Massachusetts would not be best—a free Repre sentation of the Province tho’ not too many as they may be increased at any Time, but it would be hard to Diminish; those Representatives to Chose a Council, of proper number; Say 15; these two Branches to Act in all Cases whatever and not to Proceed so far as govenor at Present, tho’ the Door may be left open for that purpose. We throw out these hints with great Submission to the Honbl. Convention. We think [zee] can say (without boasting) [we] have done our duty in this matter, by paying constant Attention, for a long time, not only in the House but in Private Conversation with Members, to clear up any doubts they might have on this head. We can’t help Re- joiceg to see this as a ground work of our government, and hope by the Blessing of Divine Providence, never to Return to our former Despotick State. Inclosed is also Resolves Respectg. Trade which we had orders to Transmitt. 2 We have Also the Pleasure to inform you that an express has Just Arrived from St. John’s, with Advice that our men has taken the for tress at Chamble, 3 and have Sent the Standard Coulours of the Sev enth Regiment to this Congress, took Six Tons of Powder, and many Valuable Stores, abt. 100 Prisoners, hope to have Possession of St. John’s Soon. Mr. Langdon Expects to Set out in five days for Cana da, being one of a Committee for that Place. 4 We are your most obt. Servt John Langdon Josiah Bartlett [P.S.] The Sooner government is Set abt. the Better. RC (Nh-Ar) . Written by Langdon and signed by Bartlett and Langdon. 1 For the action of Congress, see JCC, 3:319. John Adams later recorded a lengthy account of the debates on this issue in his autobiography. Adams, Diary 248-053 O - 77 - 21
