300 November 4, 1775 though not always apparently, are in Reality so nearly connected, of how much Importance, how necessary is it, that the utmost pains be taken by the Publick to have the Principles of Virtue early inculcated on the Minds even of children, and the moral Sense universally kept alive, and that the wise Institutions of our Ancestors for those great Purposes be encouraged by the Government for no People will tame ly surrender their Liberties, nor can they easily be subdued, where Knowledge is diffusd and Virtue preservd. On the Contrary, when People are universally ignorant & debauchd in their Manners, they will sink under their own Weight, without the Aid of foreign Invad ers. There are other things which, I humbly conceive, require the most serious Consideration of the Legislative. We have heretofore com- plaind, and I think justly, that bad Men have too often found their Way into places of publick Trust. “Nothing is more essential to the Establishment of Manners in a State, than that all Persons employd in Places of Power and Trust by Men of exemplary Characters. The Publick cannot be too curious concerning the Character of publick Men.” We have also complaind, that a Plurality of Places incompati ble with each other have sometimes been vested in one Person. If under the former Administration there was no Danger to be appre hended from vesting the different Powers of Government in the same Persons, why did the Patriots so loudly protest against it? If Danger is always to be apprehended from it, Should we not by continuing the Practice, too much imitate the degenerate Romans, who upon the Fall of Julius set up Augustus. They changd indeed their Masters, and when they had destroyd the Tyrant sufferd the Tyranny to con tinue. Tell me how a Judge of Probate can consistently sit at the Council Board and joyn in a Decision there upon an Appeal from his own Judgment. Perhaps, being personally interested in another Ap pointment, I may view it with a partial Eye. 8 But you may well re member that the Secretary of the Colony declind taking a Seat at the Council Board, to which he had been elected prior to his Appoint ment, until, in the House of Representatives he had publickly re quested their Opinion of the Propriety of it, and there heard it ex plicitly declared by an eminent and truly patriotick Member as his opinion, that as the Place was not then as it formerly had been, the Gift of the Crown but of the People, there was no Impropriety in his holding it. The rest of the Members were silent. Major H y [Jo seph Hawley] has as much of the Stern Virtue and Spirit of a Roman Censor as any Gentleman I ever conversd with. The Appointment of the Secretary and his Election to a Seat at the Board were both made in the Time of his Absense from the Colony, and without the Solicitation of any of his Friends that he knew of— most assuredly without his own. As he is resolved never wittingly to
