November 4, 1775 301 disgrace himself or his Country, he still employs his Mind on the Subject, and wishes for your candid and impartial Sentiments. I fear I have trespassd on your Leisure, and conclude with assur ing you that I am with sincere Regards to Mrs Warren Your very af fectionate Friend 7 S A RC (MHi) . FC (NN) . ‘Congress passed several resolves on November 4 based on the report of the Committee of Conference. JCC, 3:321-25. J These measures were adopted on November 4. JCC, 3:325-26. • JCC, 3:319, 326-27. ‘After "except for” in the draft of this letter Adams wrote "the Importation of Arms and Ammunition.” ‘The next 11 lines of the RC have been inked out, apparently by Warren. The excised material, almost totally unreadable, is not in Adams’ draft. ’ Samuel Adams was both secretary and member of the Massachusetts Council. See Samuel Adams to Elbridge Gerry, October 29, 1775, note. See also Thomas Cushing to William Cooper, October 23, 1775. ’For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Warren, November 7, 1775. Rhode Island Delegates to Nicholas Cooke Sir: Phila 4 Nov 1775. We deferred an answer to your Honor’s last letter hoping to have obtained the Resolves of Congress upon the Interesting Subjects con tained in it. 1 We laid it before Congress. Business has since been very pressing, but we shall embrace the first favorable opportunity of obtaining the proper Resolves and shall transmit them as soon as possible. We have no news from England since the arrival of the Ship which brought the Proclamation] for suppressing Rebellion and Sedition. We have the pleasure to assure you Sir that this has a most happy Ef fect upon the affairs of America. Gentlemen no longer expect a Re dress of Grievances from Petition, etc. They now speak, out plainly and cheerfully enter into the most liberal spirited and decisive meas ures. We congratulate you Sir upon the happy Reduction of Fort Chamblee. The Paper containing the Articles of Capitulation, List of Stores, etc., we have enclosed. There is no doubt but we have posses sion of St. John’s before this time The Congress has taken into consideration the state of the trade of the United Colonies. We enclose you an Extract of their proceed ings. 2 We are sensible of the vast Importance of Trade to our Colony but when we consider the invaluable privileges for which we are contending, We are sure that the Virtue of our Constituents will with pleasure sacrifice a temporary Commerce to the salvation of their Country.
