November 6, 1775 309 November 7, 1775, note 1. The committee’s letter to Hopkins of November 5 has not been found. “Esek Hopkins (1718-1802), Rhode Island sea captain and privateer in the French and Indian War, was offered command of the fledgling Continental Navy on November 5 by the Naval Committee, of which his brother, Stephen, was a member and sometime chairman. Congress granted his commission as commander in chief on December 22, 1775, an office he held until March 1777, when he was relieved of it for unsatisfactory performance of duties. DAB; and JCC, 3:443, 7:204. John Langdon to Ammi Ruhamah Cutter Dear Sr. Philad. 6th Nov. 1775 Your kind favor of 22d Octob is now before me, 1 am much Obliged for your Friendly hint Respectg my ship, as I’ve been at a loss for some time, whether to Trust the money in London, tho’ my Brother will be on the Spot who will take all proper Steps; 2 as it hap pens I owe them no money, but most heartily wish I had twenty thousand of theirs, in my hands, it all should go most freely for the good of Lux. The more than Savage Cruelty of that haughty Scotchman Mow- att, Shocks every Idea, none but his Abandon[ed] Masters could have tho’t of such wanton Cruelty. No, not even the grand enemy to mankind, with all his band of infernal Spirits, as described by Milton could have been more Cruel. Heaven Grant, if He should Arrive at Portsmouth, that one of our thirty two pounders Winged with fate, may hurl him head long to the place he Deserves. Am much obliged for your being so Particular in your letter. Shall send the Copy of Mowatt’s Letter with Extracts from yours, to the press; have shewn them to most of the Congress, who are greatly pleased with the Conduct of New Hampshire, as they have been for some time much Concern’d for our fate. We take every opportunity to lay our Spirited Advices before the Congress which gives wait [weight] to the Colony, which I may say Stands as fair, with the Con gress as any on the Continent. I have no Doubt of the True Spirit of my fellow Country men, and Citizens, and that their heads will be Cover’d in the day of Battle, and the more so when I see, with plea sure men of Sense and influence give their assistance. In short I’ve no other Idea, but to Come off Victorious "for thrice is he Armed who has his q[u]arrell Just and he’s but Naked tho locked up in Steel whose Concience with Injustice is Corrupted.” The Colonies Seem more and more united and Determined to make a vigorous Defence. Have the Pleasure to inform you that, have obtaind, after paying Close Attention, a Resolution of Congress to take Some Sort of Gov ernment, Duri[n]g these Disputes, which I’ve inclosed to our 248-053 0-77-22
