310 November 6, 1775 Convention. 3 Also that we have the Rigimental Coulours of the Sev enth Regiment hung up in Congress which was Taken at Chamble which place was taken by our Troops, with all Six Tons of Powder, Provisions, arms in Considerable quantity. I have the Honour of being Appointed one of a Committee to go to Canada, 4 to Regulate some matters there but as the Season is so far Advanced had some hope to get off but fear shall not. Expect to set off in few days. My kind Respects to your Family and all Friends and Beleive to be with great Respect Your Friend and Hbl. Servt. Jno. Langdon RC (PHi). 1 Ammi Ruhamah Cutter (1735-1819), Portsmouth, N. H., physician and justice of the peace, former minor merchant and large landowner, had been a political intimate of Gov. John Wentworth. He later served as physician general of the eastern department, 1777-78. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 13:220-25. ’Woodbury Langdon (1738?—1805), prominent Portsmouth merchant and mem ber of the provincial assembly, 1774-75, had sailed for London on September 9, 1775. After two years of largely mysterious activity in both London and France (where he apparently aided brother John’s commercial connection with Silas Deane) , he returned to New York, where he was confined at the urging of Gov. John Wentworth. He escaped in late December, 1777, reestablished himself in New Hampshire, and eventually represented that province in Congress in 1779. DAB; and Lawrence S. Mayo, John Langdon of New Hampshire (Concord, N. H.: Rumford Press, 1937), pp. 88-89, 155-68. •See New Hampshire Delegates to Matthew Thornton, November 3, 1775. * See ibid., note 4. Robert Treat Paine to William Whiting Sr Philada. Novr. 6th. 1775 I reed. yr. letter of Octr. 6th in which you give me an Account of your progress in making Salt-petre. 1 I hope before this time you have had a good Account of working up the Meeting House Earth at G. Barrington; it is to little purpose that we make Experiments if we do not carry it to large practice; we want great quantitys of Salt petre, & not barely to know that we are able to make it, shot we have known a long time, &: I think we are wholly inexcusable if do not turn out very large quantitys of Salt petre by the Spring of the Year. We have Specimens of exceeding fine Petre brought us here from many parts of this Colony, New Jersey & other places &: nothing is clearer than that numbers of People in different places are able to make it. The grand Matter is to propagate the making it in large Quantitys. I was in great expectation that the Resolves of the Con gress on this Subject would have produced good Effects in the To bacco Colonies, but on Enquiry I find that the Convention of Virgin ia did not take any steps to carry it into Execution (having many
