November 6, 1775 311 Matters before them). Maryland voted a Sum of money but appoint ed no operators. The Congress very justly alarmed at the astonishing inattention of the Colonies to this most essential Matter, have Ap pointed Another Comittee to devise Ways & Means to promote this Manufacture. 2 I have the honour to be one of this Cmttee, 8c great pains have we taken about it, we have not yet determined how, but we have under Consideration to send certain Germans who are here, 8c who have given Specimens of their skill, into the Tobacco Colonies to carry on the manufacture there. The great Works of this City have made no Salt petre valuable, the House of Assembly of this Colony have the matter under Consideration. I hope Something Great will be done in New England—8c this Sr. brings me to what I have principally in veiw in writing Vizt. there Laying a foundation for a great quantity of Salt petre next Spring. There are two matters to be attended to forthwith, the first is to Search out & work up all the impregnated Materials that are now on hand or to be found 8c At the Same time to provide mix 8c duly dis pose suitable materials for impregnation in as large quantitys as pos sible. I hope this matter is not neglected—immediate Care must be taken—sheds must be prepared over dry Land 8c the Materials must not be put very thick if made in Beds under Sheds, for if they are thick or deep the Air will not impregnate it through. It is generally thought best that the Stuff should be made into Walls or fences as they call them, some such are made in this city 8c they talk much of making many here. An easy method of making these fences is this. Let the Stuff be properly mixed 8: Cut Straw Be mixed with it to make it stick together, then let your Walls be made about 15 or 18 inches at bottom, abt. 5 feet high 8c tapering to the top to about 4 or 5 inches thick in Order to make it Stand while forming let peices ol Joyce or Poles be cut of a Suitable length 8c set in this Manner with the ends on the Ground 8c little Stakes Stuck against the ends into the Ground. A number of Such pairs of Joyce must be set at convenient distance ranging as you intend the Wall shall go, rough boards are to be put on the inside of these Joyce frames so that when the dirt is put between them it may be kept up 8c so as you raise your Dirt you put more boards till you get to the Top, ramming the Dirt as you go along Sufficient to keep it from falling 8c yet not so hard as to prevent the Air from entering. These Walls should be covered with boards or straw so as to prevent the Rains from washing the sides. The Germans I have consulted on this Matter are of Opinion that if proper Materials are now put up in a judicious manner they will be so impregnated in 6 months as to yeild largely. Therefore at all events Materials must be forwith provided in as large a manner as possible. Sr. it [is] my opinion that unless we exert our selves in this Mat-
