312 November 6, 1775 ter & have some tollerable Success it is very uncertain whether every thing else we can do will Avail as much, & if we are successful in this matter in my Opinion every thing else favourable will come of Course. I hope you Correspond with yr. Brethren of the Salt petre Cmttee & also with other well disposed Active Salt petre Makers in any place that you know of, spurring them on to lay up proper materials in a proper manner. Pray shew this to Major Hawley, Mr. Gerry & other persons who are desirous to promote this matter. Give my Regards to all Friends. The Express is waiting Sc I must Subscribe yr. friend & hble Serf. R T Paine RC (MHi) . ’William Whiting (1730-92), Great Barrington, Mass., physician and represent ative to the Provincial Congress, 1774-76, was a member of a legislative committee named in mid-1775 to seek practical methods of making saltpetre. Charles J. Taylor, History of Great Barrington, Massachusetts (Great Barrington: Clark W. Bryan & Co., 1882) , pp. 273-75; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:1460, 1462. Whiting’s letter to Paine, dated October 6, 1775, is at MHi. 3 Paine, Charles Humphreys, and George Wythe were appointed to the "salt petre committee” on October 29. JCC, 3:310-11. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Ingersoll Sir Philadelphia Novr. 6th. 1775 I received Your letter of the 30th of October. Would request you 1 to use your best discretion on my behalf in Securing and recovering the money due on the Several notes which I put into Your hands, and You may rest Assured that You Shall not Suffer by any loss which may happen, and I will See that Justice be done the Assignee So far as is in my power. I dont know when I can come home, or have opportunity to attend to my own private affairs. There has been Several Addresses to General Gage from Some persons in Boston, on his leaving that place, lately published here. John Simson is a subscriber of one of them, wherein is this remark able paragraph: viz, “We cannot forbear to express our Sentiments, that could a restoration to quiet and good Order have been effected in this Province by the influence of personal character, a gentleman of Your Excellency’s Established reputation for Candour 8c Justice, for moderation, and an obliging disposition, invested at the Same time with the Supreme Military Authority, could not have failed to have Secured it.” General Gage’s treatment of the Unhappy Suffer ers in Boston will Evidence how well he deserved this Character! If the aforesaid Subscriber is your client, you would do well to consider
