November 7, 1775 315 Thomas Jefferson to Francis Eppes Dear Sir Philadelphia Nov. 7. 1775 We have no late intelligence here except of the surrender of Chambly, with 90. prisoners of war, 6 1/2 tons of powder, 150 stands of arms and some other small matters. The acquisition of this powder we hope has before this made us masters of St. John’s, on which Montreal and the upper parts of St. Laurence will of course be ours. The fate of Arnold’s expedition we know not as yet. We have had some disagreeable accounts of internal commotions in South Carolina. I have never received the scrip of a pen from any mortal in Vir ginia since I left it, nor been able by any enquiries I could make to hear of my family. I had hoped that when Mrs. Byrd came I should have heard something of them, but she could tell me nothing about them. The suspense under which I am is too terrible to be endured. If any thing has happened, for god’s sake let me know it. My best affections to Mrs. Eppes. Adieu. RC (ViU: Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation deposit). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) , 1:252. Naval Committee to Silas Deane To Silas Deane Esqr. Philadelphia November the 7th 1775 You are desired to repair immediately to the City of New York, and there purchase a Ship suitable for carrying 20 nine pounders upon one deck, if such a Ship can there be found. Also a Sloop, suit able to carry ten guns, which we wotdd choose should be Bermudian built if such a one can be had. If you succeed in purchasing both, or either of these Vessels, you will use all possible expedition to procure them to be armed and equipped for the Sea. For this purpose you will apply to, and employ such persons as can carry this business into the most speedy execution. Should there be danger in fitting these Vessels at New York from the Kings ships, you may then send the Vessels eastward thro the Sound to New London or Norwich in order to be armed and fitted. Should this be the case you will repair imme diately to the place where the Ships are to be fitted, and there use ev ery means in your power to procure this to be done with the utmost expedition. For the Colony of Connecticut you are to procure pow der for both these Vessels, and such other Military Stores as can there be had. You will procure the Cannon and other Stores at New York or any other place where it can be done in the best and most expeditious manner. You will also procure Officers and Men suitable
