November 9, 1775 323 which they were taught to believe would soon happen. We are in daily expectation of further intelligence from England, several vessels being expected here; the last ships that have arrived brought the king’s proclamation. You will see it in the newspapers; it is remark able those ships brought very few letters from private persons—it would seem as if the proclamation had deterred our friends from writing on the subject of politics. My best compliments to the ladies, and believe me to be, with much esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obedi ent humble servant, Joseph Hewes MS not found; reprinted from Griffith J. McRee, Life and Correspondence of James Iredell, One of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, 2 vols. (New York: D. Appleton and Co., 1857-58), 1:265-66. 1 Hewes’ letter to Washington has not been found, and there are no extant letters from Washington to Hewes before 1779. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philadelphia 9th Nov. 1775 It is now I imagine near three Weeks since your Provincial Coun cil broke up and I take it for granted you have sent an express with the account of your deliberations to your Delegates] here. We ex pect it dayly and are Anxious for its Arival. 1 I hope you have fallen on some method to furnish your Soldiers with Arms and Amunition, those Articles are very scarse throughout all the Colonies. 2 I find on enquiry that neither can be got here, all the Gunsmiths in this Prov ince are engaged and cannot make Arms near so fast as they are wanted. Powder is also very Scarse notwithstanding every effort seems to have been exerted both to make and import. The Congress exert every Nerve to put the Colonies into a proper state of defence, four Regiments are ordered to be raised on Continental Pay for the defence of South Carolina and Georgia. 3 It is expected the two Regi ments with you will be continued and kept up the same as other parts of the Army. One Regiment is now raising in this Province and Two in New Jersey on the same establishment. Twenty thousand Men are to be kept up near Boston and Five thousand on the Lakes, Canada &c, The whole Army to be enlisted to the 31st of December 1776 unless discharged sooner by Order of Congress. The Pay of the Cap tains, Lieutenants and Ensigns is increased, they are now allowed as follows, a Captain 26 2/3 Dollars, a Lieutenant 18 Dollars, an En sign 13 1/3 Dollars per Calendar month. The Rations allowed the Soldiers thro’ the whole Army you have as follows, One pound of Beef or 3/4 lb of Pork, or 1 lb of Salt Fish per day each Man.
