324 November 9, 1775 1 lb of bread or Flour. 3 pints of Peas or Beans per Week or Vegetables in proportion, rating Peas or Beans at 6/ per Bushel. 1 pint of milk per man per day or at the rate of 1/72 of a Dollar per pint. 1 /2 pint of Rice, or one pint of Indian meal per man per week. One quart of Spruce Beer or Cyder per man, or 9 gallons of Mo lasses per Company of 100 Men per week. 3 lb. of Candles to 100 men per week for guards. 24 lb of Soft Soap or 8 lb. hard Soap for 100 men per Week. 4 I doubt not you will find it Necessary to come into a new agreement with your Commissaries, for it will be but Just and right to give your Soldiers the same allowance that is given to those in other places. It is also recommended that all the Soldiers be put into some Uniform, that the Public purchase the Cloth and have it made up and that it be discounted out of each Mans Pay, at the rate of 10/ per month. The Soldiers near Boston we are told are well pleased with this regula tion. Several other matters which together with some Ships and Vessels that are fitting out at the Charge of the Continent will enhance our expences amazingly, by which you may Judge we have but little ex pectation of a reconciliation. I can assure you from all the accounts we have yet received from England we have Scarsely a dawn of hope that it will take place. Mr. Middleton and Mr. Rutledge two of the Delegates for South Carolina set out for that Province on Sunday last. They intended thro’ Halifax and carried a Letter for you from the President inclos ing a resolution respecting Trade. I have enclosed some News papers in A Letter to Mr. Smith, to them you must look for News. I hope all your Family are in good health, my Complements to them, you and they have always the best wishes of Dear Sir your mo. Obedt. hume. Servant Joseph Hewes [P.S.] Nov. 10th. Since writing the above, a Ship Arived from Lon don and brings papers to 12th Septemr. No answer is to be given to the Petition of the Congress as the King did not receive it on the Throne, Parliament prorogued to the 26th Octo. RC (Nc-Ar) . 1 Johnston had already written separate letters to Hewes and to the North Carolina delegates on November 5. Clark, Naval Documents, 2:898-99. a On this point, see Hewes to Johnston, November 26, 1775. “Congress resolved on November 4 to maintain "at the continental expense’ three battalions for the defense of South Carolina and one for that of Georgia. JCC, 3:325. This action was probably prompted by the request of the South Carolina Council of Safety, in their September 18 letter to the South Carolina
