November 9, 1775 325 delegates, for "an Army of Observation & General Officers to Command all our forces, at the general charge of the Colonies.” South Carolina Historical and Genealogical Magazine 1 (October 1900) : 285-90. Having been informed that Congress had "granted 1000 Men to North Carolina,” the council asserted that South Carolina’s weaker position required even greater defensive measures, "with out which Carolina & Georgia will be involved in such difficulties as may & probably will greatly injure the common Interests of America.” 4 Congress adopted the preceding regulations about the pay and rations of the Continental Army on November 4. JCC, 3:322. New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen— Philad. 9th Novemr. 1775. The Congress have taken the resolution to appoint a commander of the fortress in the Highlands, with the rank of colonel, and Wednesday is fixed for that purpose. As it must be of moment that this command should be vested in a person of abilities, and in whom the inhabitants place confidence, we wish you would name three or four gentlemen who are competent for the trust, and we shall endea vour to get one of them preferred. You will however be pleased to observe that as these works are erected at a Continental expense, the Congress claim an absolute right to appoint the officers. 1 We have the honour to be. With the greatest respect, gentlemen, Your most obedient humble servants, 2 Jas. Duane, Robt. R. Livingston, Junr. MS not found; reprinted from Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:107. 1 On the appointment of a commander for the fortifications in the Highlands, see New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Convention, January 5, 1776, note 1. ’Governor Tryon of New York somehow obtained an FC of this letter (contain ing some minor variations from the present text) , written by James Duane and directed to Abraham Yates, then president of the New York Provincial Congress. On the verso of this FC is the following note in an unidentified hand: “The [. . .] Batterys in the hi[gh] lanjdjs is to be Strongly fortifyed with all expedition [. . .] on each Side of the River, as I hord [heard] them Say this Day. The above Letter is Yates’s own writing.” James Brattle, a former servant of Tryon’s who was employed as Duane’s valet at the time of this letter, occasionally sent the governor intelligence reports about the proceedings of Congress, including some of Duane’s own correspondence. But since this document is clearly in Duane's hand it is unlikely that Brattle would have forwarded it to Tryon with a covering note ascribing it to Yates, unless perhaps a third person was a party to Brattle s activities, and added a hastily written endorsement with an attribution prompted by the appearance of Yates’ name on the document. In any event, Tryon forwarded 248-053 0 -77-23
