November 13, 1775 335 parent State so that all prospect of procuring an accomodation by constitutional Measures seemeth to be nearly at an end. The peculiar Circumstances of my family hath prevented me from attending the Congress for Sometime past and the same Still continu ing renders it uncertain when I shall be able to attend. This and other reasons needless to be mentioned induces me earnestly to desire and request that the Honourable House will now be pleased to appoint another to attend the Continental Congress in my Stead. 1 I am Gen tlemen your most Obliged 8c most Obedient hum servt John DeHart RC (NjMoHP). 1 About this time James Kinsey also sought permission from the New Jersey Assembly to resign his seat in Congress. DeHart and Kinsey both insisted to the assembly that they wanted to leave Congress only because their service there had become a source of great personal inconvenience to them, but Gov. William Franklin of New Jersey dismissed this explanation and asserted that their resigna tions were "generally attributed to Apprehension of Danger.” Whatever the truth of the matter, the assembly accepted their resignations on November 22 and on the same day authorized any two of New Jersey’s three remaining delegates to repre sent the province in Congress. However, after taking into consideration the diffi culties that might arise from requiring the presence of two delegates in Philadel phia, the assembly decided on November 30 to allow any one of them to constitute a quorum in Congress. DeHart was reelected to Congress in February 1776, but in June 1776, in the midst of debates on independence, he again resigned "on account of the situation of his family and affairs.” JCC, 3:396-97; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1852-53, 1860, 4:1592, 6:1618; and N. ]. Archives, 10:680-81. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novemr 13th 1775 I must beg leave at the beginning of this letter to apologise for any incorrectness as I write in great haste. Indeed the hurry of business is such here with many of us, that we have little time for the ordinary offices of life. You may be assured that I will do Colo. Read [Reed] all the service that I can in the way you desire. 1 We have a Ship here in 6 weeks from London, that brought the original letter of which the in closed is a copy. 2 Tis from a well informed, sensible friend, and may be relyed on. All the other letters from London join in confirming it to be the fixt determination of K and Court to leave undone nothing that they can do, to compel implicit obedience in America. One very sensible letter that I have seen, mentions that Gen. Amherst had rec ommended (8c ’twas said it would be executed) to remove the Army this winter from Boston to Long Island, in order to get amply sup plied by ravaging N. Jersey, N. York, and Rhode Island. Should this
