November 13, 1775 337 RC (DLC) . 1 Washington had requested Lee's aid in obtaining postponements of legal cases in Philadelphia involving Joseph Reed, the general’s secretary. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:52. See also Thomas Lynch to Washington, this date. “Dated "Septr. 4th 1775," this letter reports British plans to augment their military forces in America and comments on the king’s proclamation against the American rebellion and his refusal to receive the petition of the united colonies. Washington Papers, DLC. “This account of the action at Hampton, Va., October 26-27, is from the Virginia Gazette (Dixon and Hunter) , October 28, 1775. ‘See JCC, 3:352. “See Francis L. Lee to Landon Carter, October 21, and Virginia Delegates to the Williamsburg Committee of Safety, October 23, 1775. Thomas Lynch to George Washington My dear Sir Phila Nov 13. 1775 In consequence of your Favr. By Colo Read [Reed] I applied to the Chief Justice who tells me the Supreme Courts were lately held and that it will be some time before their Term will return, 1 that he knows of no Capital Suit now depending and that it [is] very easy for Colo Read to manage matters so as not to let that prevent his Re turn to you. I am sure Mr Chew is so heartily disposed to oblige you and to serve the Cause, that nothing in his Power will be wanting. I fear however that you will be sometime in want of your Secretary, as I did not find him in hast to return when I mentioned to him what is just now related. He doubtless has many private affairs to transact. The Loss must be greatly increased by Mr Randolphs absence who I hear came to Town last Night. I am happy to inform you that Congress has agreed to every Rec ommendation of the Committee and have gone beyond it in allowing the additional pay to the officers. 2 I rejoice at this but cant think with Patience that pityfull wretches who stood cavilling with you when entreated to serve the next Campaign shoud reap the Benefit of this addition. They will now be ready enough but hope you will be able to refuse them with the Contempt they deserve and to find better in their Rooms. Coud not some of the Gentlemen at Camp inlist the New England Men who have been perswaded to leave you, Frazier told me he coud. It woud be a Capital Point to convince the World that it is not necessary to have bad Officers of that Country in order to raise Men there. I can scarce bear their Tyranny. I have a Letter from undoubted authority that assures me, that the Destruction of the Parliamentary Army in America will certainly produce Peace and by another that the Seizing Quebec will produce the same Effect. I have no doubt America stands now indebted to
