338 November 13, 1775 her General for the One & will before the Return of Spring for the other. Mistake me not, I have not altered my mind a jot since I left you. I mean not to anticipate your Determinations, but only to ap prove your Design to hover like an Eagle over your Prey, always ready to Pounce [on] it when the proper Time comes; I have not forgot your Proposition relative to that City; I try to pave the way for it, and wait for the Season as you do. 3 No appearance of Peace unless produced by necessity on the part of the Enemy, every human feeling seems to have forsaken them. Fear and Interest only are listened to. We hear Seven Tonns of Powder are arrived at Rhode Island & as many at Portsmouth, I hope tis true as it will possess us of advanta- gious grounds 8c begin the Enemys Destruction. It is suspected in England Howes Army will give you the slip [and] land at Long Is land; which God of his infinite mercy grant. We wait with impatience to hear of the total reduction of Canada. Your Virginians we hear have drubbed L[ord] D[unmore], killed 8c took 50 Men and sank one of his Vessells. May all such Vil- ains so perish. A Mr. Richd. Hare, Brother to the Porter Brewer, sailed in the Transport for Quebec. As you have or must take him let me recom mend him to your Civilities while with you, and to send him to his Friends here. His Brother boards Miss Willing on them. The Articles of War has all the amendments as reported. 4 You will inforce them. You will not now suffer your Officers to sweep the Parade the Skirts of their Coats or bottoms of their Trowsers, to cheat or to mess with their Men, to skulk in battle or sneak in Quarters. In short being now paid they must do their Duty & look as well as act like Gentlemen. Do not bate them an Ace, my Dear Gen eral, but depend on every Support of your Friends here. I have strove to keep two Battallions now raising in the Jerseys and one here quite disengaged that they may be ready on a call to join you, shoud those you have desert you. I have not been quite unsuccesful. 5 The Winter is our own, Boston will not during that season be rein forced; at least we have reason to think so. I want the Return I desired from Gates exceedingly. Complts to him, Lee, Putnam, Mifflin 8cc. ’Tis so dark I cant read this Letter over or I woud save you the trouble of decyphering it. Dear Sir your most Obedt. Serv Tho Lynch [P.S.] Ought not that Spirit of Independance and of Seperation from all other authority, which appeared in the case of Capt. Dyer to [be?] abolished. Will it be right to keep your Negroes for wood cut ters?
