340 November 13, 1775 MS (MWA) . In the hand of Roger Sherman, and endorsed by Sherman: "James Dean’s Information.” 1 Deane undoubtedly brought these damaging allegations about Commissary Livingston to Sherman’s attention because of Sherman’s appointment on November 2 to a committee to obtain clothing for General Schuyler’s army, but no evidence has been found to indicate that Sherman took any action in response to them. ]CC, 3:317-18. For an account of Livingston’s activities as commissary, emphasizing inefficiency rather than corruption in the northern department, see Victor L. Johnson, The Administration of the American Commissariat during the Revolu tionary War (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania, 1941), pp. 111-24. See also Samuel Adams to Joseph Trumbull, August 3, 1776. Samuel Ward to Catharine Greene My clearest Daughter Philadelphia 13 Novr. 1775 I have the Pleasure of your Letter by Dr. Franklin and am thank full that you & your Family are well. 1 Your first Letter I reed, soon after it was wrote and answered it by the first Opportunity, whether I wrote by Post or a private Hand I cannot remember, But tho it may be unseasonable with Regard to the Advice you asked I promise My self it will not be unwelcome whenever it arrives. I should often write to You but I am often engaged in Committes Morning & Evening that my Time is so taken up that I cannot indulge myself the Plea sure of writing to you & my other Children so often as I wish. Mr. Greene gave me some Encouragement that he would write to me, a good long Letter would be very acceptable and I shall probably stay here long enough to give you both Opportunities of writing to me. Some Gentlemen think We may at Christmas adjourn until Spring, others think We must sett the whole Winter, affairs grow every Day more serious. May divine Wisdom direct all our Measures. By the last Ships We have Letters of 9th 8c 10th Sepr. They all agree in this that the Administration is determined to push their Measures at all Events. One Letter says the King in a Conference which he lately had with a Person of Rank told him that he was unal terably determined let the Consequence be what it would to reduce the Colonies to absolute Obedience. For this Purpose 50 sail of Men of War 8c 20000 land Forces are to be sent over in the Spring, our maritime Towns to be destroyed 8c all Commerce interdicted. In one Word those Wicked Madmen are calling not upon Heaven but upon every other Power to assist them in destroying Us. There is now and then a timid Wretch who is frightend with these terrible Denuncia tions of Vengeance but I have the vast Pleasure to see that instead of intimidating they highly animate, instead of dividing they most strongly unite the People in general and the Congress in particular. We are now all or very nearly all of one Mind, the only Question is
