November 13, 1775 341 how We shall best defend all Parts of the Continent & most effectual ly distress and annoy our Enemies. Many very important Plans are under Consideration, others will be taken into consideration very soon and from the Spirit with which Measures are now planned & pursued I have no Doubt but by the divine Blessing We shall be able to reduce our Enemies to Reason and establish the Rights and Liber ties of this Country upon an equitable advantageous & permanent Basis. What Fortifications you have at Greenwich I dont know but I wish if they are not sufficient to defend 2 the Town that the People would immediately erect such Works as will defend it against the most sav age Enemies for such under the sacred name of Christians the once glorious Name of Englishmen 8c the endearing Appellation of Breth ren We have now to fight. Many Measures are taken by Congress to get a sufficient Quantity of Powder but I fear some of them may fail. The Want of that Article alone may ruin Us; every Measure there fore ought to be taken to obtain it. I hope Mr. Greene 8c the Com- [pan] y may be able in the Course of this Winter to serve the Country in this important Matter without Injury to their private Fortunes. The General Assembly is authorized by Congress to send out Vessels loaded with any produce except horned Cattle, Sheep, hogs & poultry to the foreign West Indies for Powder. If the Comp [an] y has a swift small Vessel I doubt not but the Depy. Govr. would employ them, or if they have Cash or good Bills they may send on their own Acct, for Powder, they cant export produce unless on the Colonys Acct. I wish Mr. Greene may acquaint your Uncle Greene & the People of Greenwich that every Expectation of an Accommodation is entire ly over that our only Safety is under God in a brave Defence of our Lives & Property that they may take every possible Measure for their Defence. Happily We have this Winter to prepare in, the Prize for which We are contending is every thing dear to human Nature, no Time is to be lost, may Heaven direct 8c prosper us all. My affectionate Regards to Mr. Greene, to your Uncles Greene & Hubbart, to your Aunt 8c all their Families 8c all your Bros, and Fam- ilys. I am My dearest Child Your very affece. Parent. Sam Ward P.S. The few Lines added by Nany gave me the highest Pleasure. May Heaven grant her again the wise Prayer of Horace “a sound Mind 8c a sound Body that She may enjoy herself 8c continue a Bless ing to Us all.” We have late News from Arnold. He was at Point Levy opposite to Quebec with his detachment all well, the French had been very helpful, Genl. Carleton 8c Guy Johnston at Montreal that I hope Arnold has met little or no Resistance. I expected to hear St. Johns was taken before now. 3 248-053 0-77-24
