346 November 14, 1775 The Terms most suitable to The Committee are, for you to take up the Vessels, and load them, on Commissions, at risque of the Conti nent. Your Neighbor contracted in this way, 3 and though I have not the strongest Faith in him, yet I should have appeared singular, had I refused him the Chance, which others obtained, & Mr Alsop was in his favor in the Committee. No Time is to be lost in this Affair. I shall compleat The Business I came here upon, 4 in Two Days more, &: then return to Philadelphia. Is there a single Deck’d Vessel in your Neighborhood which will carry Sixteen Gunns? If there is write Me. Can you contract for a Shipp that shall Carry Thirty Nine-pounders to be off the Stocks in March next? This hint will enable you to judge of my Business here, and that you may possibly be of Service to yourself, & Country by coming down to Philadelphia. I am my Dear sir Yours Silas Deane RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1978). ’Mumford’s letter to Deane of October 19, 1775, is in Collections of the Connecticut Historical Society 23 (1930): 11-12. ’For the Secret Committee’s contract with Mumford, see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, November 28, 1775. •A reference doubtlessly to the Secret Committee’s contract with Nathaniel Shaw, Jr., November 8, 1775. ‘See Naval Committee to Deane, November 7, 1775. Thomas Lynch to Richard Montgomery Sir Phila Novr. 14 [1775] I shoud not break in upon the many weighty Considerations that must always employ your Mind but to request your good offices for a Mr. Richd Hare, who embarked for Quebec in the Transport, we so eagerly wish to meet with. Shoud he come into your hands, be good enough to help him forward to his Friends at this Place, with as many Conveniences as may be. Mr. Livingston will carry you all the News, except perhaps the opinion of our Friends in England, that the total reduction of Canada this Winter must certainly produce Peace in the Spring. Ld Dunmore is said to have got a Beating 8c to have lost one Ship 8c 50 men, by the Virginian[s]. I wish you success, only in proportion to your Merit. I desire no more 8c will be contented with no Less for then Canada all Canada is ours. Sir your most Obedt Servt Tho Lynch RC (PRO: C.O. 5, 1107). Addressed: “To The honble Brigadier General Richd. Montgomery at St. Johns in Canada.” Lynch’s letter was intercepted by the British and enclosed by Gov. William Tryon of New York in a letter to Lord Dartmouth of December 7, 1775.
