348 November 15, 1775 Let the Governor, Council, and House be each a distinct and inde pendant Branch of the Legislature, and have a Negative on all Laws. Let the Lt. Governor, Secretary, Treasurer, Commissary, Attorney General and Solicitor General, be chosen annually, by joint Ballott of both Houses. Let the Governor with Seven Councillors be a Quorum. Let all officers and Magistrates, civil and military, be nominated and appointed by the Governor, by and with the Advice and Consent of his Council. Let no officer be appointed but at a General Council, and let No tice be given to all the Councillors, Seven days at least before a Gen eral Council. Let the Judges, at least of the Supreme Court, be incapacitated by Law from holding any share of the Legislative or Executive Power, Let their Commissions be during good Behaviour, and their Salaries ascertained and established by Law. Let the Governor have the Command of the Army, the Militia, Forts &c. Let the Colony have a Seal and affix it to all Commissions. In this Way a Single Month is Sufficient without the least Convul sion or even Animosity to accomplish a total Revolution in the Gov ernment of a Colony. If it is thought more beneficial a Law may be made by this new Legislature leaving to the People at large the Priviledge of choosing their Governor, and Councillors annually, as soon as affairs get into a more quiet Course. In Adopting a Plan, in some Respects Similar to this, human Na ture would appear in its proper Glory asserting its own moral Digni ty, pulling down Tyrannies, at a single Exertion and erecting Such new Fabricks, as it thinks best calculated to promote its Happiness. As you was the last Evening polite enough to ask me for this Mod el, if such a Trifle will be of any service to you, or any gratification of Curiosity, here you have it, from, sir your Friend and humble servant John Adams RC (ViU). 1 This “Sketch” may have been the origin of Adams’ later pamphlet, apparently published at Lee’s request, Thoughts on Government: Applicable to the Present State of the American Colonies (Philadelphia: John Dunlap, 1776) , which was originally drafted in the form of letters to William Hooper, John Penn, Jonathan D. Sergeant, and George Wythe. See Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:331-32n; Ad ams, Works (Adams) , 4:185-93; John Adams to John Penn, March 19-27? 1776; and John Adams to James Warren, April 20, 1776.
