November 16, 1775 351 the Reason for not proceeding with the Regiment to the Satisfaction of the most Scrupulous. After informing you of the fact advice must be superfluous as you must immediately see the propriety of getting General Schuyler at a convenient time to report to the Congress the motives of your remaining in Convention instead of taking the Field. I woud not wish this to be done by way of Excuse but in the ordinary Course of Business when the Returns are forwarded. 1 I am Sir your very huml Sert Jas Duane RC (NHi). 1 McDougall, then a colonel in the First New York Regiment, had not joined his troops in the invasion of Canada because John Jay and Philip Schuyler had convinced him that his attendance at the New York Provincial Congress was more important to the revolutionary cause than his presence on the battlefield. Roger J. Champagne, "New York’s Radicals and the Coming of Independence," Journal of American History 51 (June 1964) : 33-34. Stephen Hopkins to Ruth Hopkins Beloved Ruth Philadelphia Novr. 15. 1775 This only serves to enclose you an Order on the General Treasurer for Eighty Pounds that was granted me by the Assembly in August last. You will receive this Money for the purchasing of Beef, Pork, Butter, Cheese, Hay, Wood and every other Necessary for the Fami ly. I am in very good Health as your Mother also is wishing we might return to you. When that will be Heaven only Knows. 1 Step Hopkins RC (PHi). 1 Earlier this day Hopkins had written a letter of condolence to Ruth on the occasion of the disappearance at sea of her husband, Hopkins’ youngest son, George. "Long Ago Should I have Wrote You,” Hopkins began, “had I known how to Write, or what to Say: A feeling Father Mourning for the loss of a hopeful Son, how Can I write Comfortably to a beloved Daughter deprived of a tender Hus band.” NjHi. Samuel Adams to James Bowdoin, Sr. Sir, Philadel. Nove 16 1775 I embrace this opportunity of writing to you by your Son, whose unexpected Arrival from London the last Week gave me much Plea sure. He seems in a great Degree to have recoverd his Health, and I dare say it will be still more satisfactory to you to find, that he is warmly attachd to the Rights of his Country and of Mankind. Give me Leave to congratulate you, and also to express to you the Joy I
