352 November 16, 1775 feel on another Occasion; which is, that your own Health is so far restord to you, as to enable you again, and at so important a Crisis, to aid our Country with your Council. For my own part, I had even buried you, though I had not forgot you. I thank God who has disap pointed our Fears; and it is my ardent Prayer that your Health may be perfectly restord and your eminent Usefulness long continued. We live my dear Sir, in an important Age—An Age in which we are called to struggle hard in Support of the publick Liberty. The Con flict, I am satisfied, will the next Spring be more severe than ever. The Petition of Congress has been treated with insolent Contempt. I cannot conceive that there is any room to hope from the virtuous Efforts of the People of Britain. They seem to be generally unprinci pled and fitted for the Yoke of arbitrary Power. The opposition of the few is feeble and languid—while the Tyrant is flushd with Expec tations from his Fleets and Armies, and has, I am told, explicitly de clared, that, “Let the Consequences be what they may, it is his unal terable Determination, to compel the Colonists to absolute Obedience.’’ The Plan of the British Court, as I was well informed the last Win ter, was to take Possession of New York, make themselves masters of Hudsons River and the Lakes, cut off all Communication between the Northern and Southern Colonies, and employ the Canadians upon whom they greatly relyd, in distressing the Frontiers of New England. Providence has smiled upon our Northern Expedition. Al ready St Johns is reducd, and if we gain the Possession of all Canada this Winter, of which there is a fair Prospect, Their Design, so far as it respects this Part of their Plan, will be totally frustrated. I will not further trespass upon your Time. If you can find Leisure, a Letter from you will exceedingly oblige me, for you may believe me when I assure you that I am with the greatest Esteem, your Friend, and very humble Servant, S A RC (MHi) . Samuel Chase to John Adams My Dear Sir. Baltimore Town. Nov. 16th. 1775 I am well assured that a Supply of Powder is arrived at Statia, so writes Captain Waters on 10th October. A Dutch Vessell bound to Surrinam has contracted with a Captain of this place for twenty five Tons, if he comes for it by Xmas. I have seen several of the principal Gentn. here. 1 They are wish ing for the Destruction of Lord Dunmore and his fleet. Inclosed You
