November 16, 1775 355 Dyre & others observed afterwards to me that We had sett them all a noble Example. I hope Mr. Cooke is in the Chair before this Time, present my most affectionate & respectful Congratulations upon the Occasion. I hope some Gentleman who is a zealous Friend to the Liberties of his Country and who hath Sense & Spirit enough to see and pursue her true Interests at all Hazards supplies his Place. I could have wished that the Colony instead of another Emission had directed Us to apply to Congress for the Sum wanted though the Accts, were not ready. 2 Connecticut did so 8c obtained it and We should without Doubt have been allowed what We wanted. I fear too great a Flood of Bills may affect their Credit and of all things We should be most careful to keep up the Credit of our Money. While that is done We can raise any Supplies for the common Defence, without it We should be vastly embarrassed. The Gentn. who may attend with the Accts, of the Comee. of Safety I shall be most heartily glad to see and they may spend their Time here very agreably but I must confess I can have no Idea of the Accts being so intricate as to make it absolutely necessary that they should at this advanced Season take so much Trouble but it will an swer this good End if there should be any Money in the Treasury to pay us with they can take it home with them perhaps in a cheaper Manner than We could find it. The Treasury is almost empty but an other Emission will be made soon. I most cordially congratulate You upon the happy Reduction of St. Johns, the Papers give you most of the particulars. Genl. Mont gomeries Letter says that he was immediately setting out for Mon treal and mentioning the Repulse of Carleton he adds that He be- leives it to be his last Effort (No News of Arnold). A Committee with Powers nearly similar to those given the Comee. which was at Cambridge is sett out for Ticonderoga 8: Canada, the Gentn. are Mr. Langdon, Mr. Robt. R Livingston 8c Mr. Paine. They have some In structions relative to the particular Situation of the Canadians besides those concerning the Troops. Mr. Hopkins & Lady are very well. I have seen many Letters from England since my last; they all agree in the Acc[oun]ts I then gave you. In a Conference which the King had with a Person from Ameri ca He told him that he was unalterably determined let the Conse quence be what it would to compel the Colonies to absolute Obedi ence. Thank God his Power does not equal his Obstinacy 8c Pride. Our Instructions for an American Fleet has been long upon the Ta ble; when it was first presented it was looked upon as perfectly chi merical, but Gentn. now consider it in a very different Light. It is this Day to be taken into Consideration 8c I have great Hopes of carrying. Dr. Franklin, Colo. Lee, the two Adams 8c many others will
