356 November 16, 1775 support it; if it succeeds I shall remember your Idea of our building two of the Ships; Duty calls Me away. Proper Regards to all. Your most affece. Bror. Sam Ward RC (RHi). 1 Henry Ward’s letter of November 7 has not been found, but the proceedings of the Rhode Island Assembly for the session of October 31, which were apparently described in his letter, are in John R. Bartlett, ed., Records of the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in New England, 10 vols. (Providence: A. Crawford Greene, 1856-65) , 7:375-408. “The Rhode Island Assembly had resolved "that £20,000, lawful money bills, be immediately printed,” to help pay off the province’s public debt. Ibid., p. 389. John Hancock to Walter Livingston Sir, Philada. Novr. 17th. 1775 The Congress having resolved that the Prisoners taken at Chambly and St. Johns be sent to the Towns of Reading, Lancaster & York in the Colony of Pennsylvania; and having issued Orders to the Officer who has the Charge of conducting them to march them by the near est Road to the Town of Reading in said Colony, and to apply to you for Provisions for Subsistance on their March, I am directed to order you to supply them agreeably to the Rations given to the Continental Army. 1 I am further to direct you, if the Prisoners agree to it, to send the Women, Children and Baggage by Water to Amboy, from thence to be sent across to Borden-Town, and from thence by Water to Phila da.; from which last Place they will be sent to join the Garrison in the Towns allotted them—this being judged, the safest, cheapest, and most commodious Way of conveying them. Should the Express not meet the Party with the Prisoners, please to take the Letter, and deliver it to the Commanding Officer, on his Arrival with the Prisoners at Albany. 2 I am &c J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . Addressed: "To Walter Livingston Esqr. Deputy Com[missary] General.” 1 Hancock wrote this day to the officer in charge of the British prisoners who surrendered to American forces at Chambly and St. Johns, directing him "to march the Prisoners under your Command by the nearest Way to Reading in the Colony [of Pennsylvania]; and for their Subsistance on their March, you are to apply to the Commissary General." Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1588; and JCC, 3:358. ’ Hancock also sent a letter this day to the Committee of Safety at Trenton, the destination of the British commissioned officers taken at Chambly, enclosing a congressional resolve of this date directing that these officers "be put on their parole of honour" to remain in the vicinity of Trenton and to "carry on no
