360 November 18, 1775 most true. But I hope that Preferment will follow Merit, after our Affairs get into a more settled Course. Remember me to all. When you said that Kissing goes by Favour, you did not explain the Particulars I wish you had. But all Censure and Clamour at this Time must be avoided and discountenanced as much as possible. I should be glad to be informed, whether the Appointment of me, that you speak of, appears to be to the satisfaction of the People or not. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:327-28. 1 Congress did not meet on November 18, the only Saturday it failed to sit while in session before February 3, 1776. JCC, 3:359. No explanation accompanied this decision—and Adams' letter to Abigail, which is silent on the point, is the only document found that was written by a delegate on this date—but see Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney, November 27, 1775, note 1. a Dr. Benjamin Church's apostasy stimulated Adams to several discussions on this subject. “Adams accepted an appointment as chief justice of the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature a few days later, but never took his seat on the bench. He resigned the post early in 1777. See Adams to Perez Morton, November 24, 1775; and Adams, Works (Adams) , 3:23-25. Adams’ fears that his appointment might arouse jealousies among more senior members of the bar proved to be well founded. See Robert Treat Paine to Joseph Palmer, January 1, 1776. Francis Lewis to John Alsop Dr Sir Phila. 19 Novemr. 1775 I have been favored with both your Letters of 15th 8c 17th Inst. 1 From the little encouragemt given me in your former relative to your procuring the necessary supplys for the Northen Army, induesed me to exert my faculties for procuring all I could here and consequently encreased the orders but your last letter informs me that you have engaged a large quantity at New York both which will I fear greatly exceed the quantity order [ed] by Congress. Therefore I think it would be advisable not to forward more to Albany than wd (with what I have sent from hence, engaged 8c sent from New York) com- pleat the order of Congress for that department; at foot you have a list of what I sent from New York, what have sent from hence and what more is to be sent from hence. As a member of the Committe for the Army supplys at Cam bridge, we have directions for several articles to be there, so that such arti[c]les as appears more in quantity engaged than is ordered for the Northen Army, may be apply’d to the Cambridge supply. In deed the two Jersey Battalions will be glad to take any overpluss that
