362 November 19, 1775 Thomas Lynch to Ralph Izard Dear Sir: November 19, 1775. Having much to say to you, I begin, before I certainly know how this is to reach you. 1 I had your favor by a young gentleman whom I shall take every opportunity to endeavor at least to serve. I think it is abundantly his due. You have had accounts of the battle at Bunker’s Hill; the loss on the part of the Regulars, is near the truth; on the other, greatly exaggerated [. . . .] 2 You wonder, with many others, that an Army so superior as ours, have not recovered Boston—and demolished the little Army of Reb els therein. You know, Boston. Recollect my friend that it is sur rounded by the sea, except a very narrow causeway—that the enemy is master of the sea—that this only entrance by land is fortified to the utmost extent of art—work within work—defended by Cannon, and rendered impassable by deep diches—that the whole city is com manded by two steep, and high hills, each of which is fortified on the ascent, and a little Citadel at the top, with guns that reach every where. Recollect that thirty-two Battalions of choice British Troops, (or half her Army) occupy those works—that this Army has every advantage that Arms, Artillery, and plenty of ammunition can give. Add their being under the best Officers Britain can boast—and add, that our men are young Soldiers, and want that steadiness necessary to the attack of Trenches with bare Musketry—which long discipline alone can give. Consider that the business of the Enemy is to subdue America, and while they are imprisoned in Boston, their errand stands still—that they are every day perishing by disease, want, and desertion—all which must increase as winter cuts off their resources by sea—and I mistake if you will not own, that our Generals act wisely in not risking a repulse, or loosing a number of brave men in obtaining that—which a little time must give them, without loss, and make total and conclusive when it happens. Should Howe, be driven to his ships in summer, he will easily land in some other part, and begin new trouble. Ice prevents all this. Be assured, that our strength at Boston, by means of Fortifications, is such as leaves no doubt of our security. I wish the strength of Howe’s Army, joined to all that we are threatened with next year, were to try an attack there—and that the fate of the War depended on the event. I should think fifty thousand men would inevitably be defeated in such an attempt. I have been lately at Cambridge, and speak from what I have seen. I have also, very lately, been at our Camp on the Lakes.
