November 21, 1775 367 improve circumstances so as to bring the Canadians into our Union. We have accounts of Arnold as late as Octob. 13. All well and in fine spirits. We cannot help hoping him in possession of Quebec as we know Carleton to be absent in the neighborhood of Montreal. Our armed vessels to the northward have taken some of the ships coming with provisions from Ireland to Boston. By the intercepted letters we have a confirmation that they will have an army of four or five and twenty thousand there by the spring. But they will be raw leagues. 3000. are lately arrived there. I have written to Patty a proposition to keep yourselves at a distance from the alarms of Ld. Dunmore. To her therefore for want of time I must refer you and shall hope to meet you as proposed. I am Dr. Sir with my best affections to Mrs. Eppes Your friend & servt., Th: Jefferson Reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:264. Francis Lewis to John Alsop Dr Sir Phila. 21 Novemr. 1775 I wrote you Yesterday per Express to which reffer you. Last night (and not before) I obtained an Account of the Cost of such Articles as our Agent here bought up for the use of the Northen Army, of which is an Inclosed Copy which I must desire you would forward with the utmost expedition possible to the Commissary at Albany. The Inclosed Invoice is very incorrect but time will not permit me to new modle it. You’l please to write Mr Walter Livingston. The inclosed points out the quantity & first cost of the several Articles and that it behoves him to have them carefully examined by the Invoice and the more so as this very Agent of ours (Aeroyd) has been deficient 6 p[iece]s of Coating in a parcell of Woolens sent to Cambridge as appears by the Quater Masr. General’s return to the Committee. You’l also advise Mr Livingston after examining the several Articles that he make a return thereof to our Committee, and that in supplying the Troops he add to the first cost a sufficiency to reimburse Congress for the cost, Commissns. & all other incident charges. You’l also observe that the persons charge whom we imploy’d is not yet assertained. Pray let me know as soon as possible the quantity and amount of the Cloathing engaged by you, and those Articles that (from both places) appear to be more than the quantity limitted for the North ward, I think should be retained for the Troops at Cambridge. I am Dr. Sir. Your very Humbl Servt Frans Lewis [P-S.] We have no news here. RC (NHi) .
