368 November 21, 1775 Robert Morris and John Dickinson to Oswell Eve Sir Philada. Novr. 21st 1775 I am requested by some Honorable Members of the Congress to recommend the bearer hereof Mr. Paul Revere to you. 1 He is just arrived from New England where it is discovered they can manufac ture a good deal of Salt Petre in Consequence of which they desire to Erect a Powder Mill & Mr. Revere has been pitched upon to gain in struction 8c Knowledge in this branch. A Powder Mill in New Eng land cannot in the least degree affect your Manufacture nor be of any disadvantage to you. Therefore these Gentn & myself hope You will Chearfully 8c from Public Spirited Motives give Mr. Revere such information as will inable him to Conduct the bussiness on his return home. I shall be glad of any opportunity to approve myself. Sir Your very Obed Servt. Robt Morris P.S. Mr. Revere will desire to see the Construction of your Mill 8c I hope you will gratify him in that point. Sir, 2 I heartily join with Mr. Morris in his Request; and am with great Respect, Your very hble Servt. John Dickinson RC (MHi) . In the hand of Robert Morris. 1 Oswell Eve, former sea captain and Philadelphia merchant who had returned to Pennsylvania in 1773 after five years residence in the West Indies, operated a powder mill at Frankford. PMHB 5 (1881): 19-20. “This and the remainder of the document is in Dickinson’s hand. Robert Treat Paine to Philip Schuyler Dear Sr Albany Novr. 21st. 1775 This day I arrived here in Company with Mr. Langdon who to gether with Mr. Robert R. Livingstone are a Committee from the Congress to repair to you 8c Consult divers matters me[n]tioned in your Letters to the Congress. 1 Mr. Livingstone is not arrived here, but proposed to join to morrow night, after which we shall make all dispatch possible. Mean while We thought it proper to inform you thus far by this Express, who goes so soon to morrow that we have not time to enlarge. We have brought with us blank Commissions for the New Army to be raised. We congratulate you on the Success of our Army 8c hoping the res toration of your health I am your most Obedient hble Servt. Rob Treat Paine
