November 21, 1775 369 RC (MH) . 1 Paine noted in his diary for this day: “Rode 8m to Miller’s & Breakfasted. Thence to Albany 12m. The rode very rutty, much [. . .] & hard frozen & considerable snow & Ice. Arrived at 1 o Clock. Went to Widow Vernon Tavern but the officers & soldiers that were taken at St. John’s being in Town we could not be entertained there. We dind there & I went to Mr. John [Guys?] [...]& lodged. This Evening Capt. Livingston arrivd here from Montreal & brought news that it was taken by our Troops. Wrote general Schuyler by an Express going to him from General Washington that we were on our way to visit him." MHi. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Bror. Philadelphia 21st Novr. 1775 Yesterday We had a Number of Letters (taken on Board the Transport from Ireland) to the officers in Boston read in Congress. The Writers of some of them freely condemn our Enemies, assure their correspondents that the People at large heartily wish Us Success & some even say that it is Time for Ireland to follow our Example. There is great Reluctance to the Service; additional Bounties are giv en by the leading roman Catholics. Other Letters say that the People of both England & Ireland in general are against Us, that many who have supported our Interest until the Proclamation came out have now changed Sides, but tho’ these Letters vary in that Respect They all agree that the King is determined let the Consequence be what it will to reduce us to Submission. I am vastly pleased to find that our Friends in England give us such good Intelligence. The five Regi ments which I lately wrote You might be expected this Fall came out with this Transport & are chiefly or by this time wholly arrived 8c that the 20000 men are to come in the Spring 8c the Men of War is con firmed in these Letters. If We can but get Arms and Ammunition I have no Doubt but We shall give a good Acct, of them and I think We have a good Prospect. Many Vessels are out on the Merchts. Acct, some on the several Colonies and others on Acct, of the Conti nent and great Encouragement hath been given 8c a Person well ac quainted in Germany with the manufacture of Salt Petre is employed by Congress to go down immediately to Virginia 8c sett up very ex tensive Works but as every possable method will be made us[e] of for interupting these Supplies I hope the Merchts in Providence have or will immediately take the most speedy 8c effectual Methods for obtaining large Supplies. I think they ought to import Lead by all Means for allowing We succeed in getting it out of the Conn [ecticu] t Mines which is by no Means absolutely certain yet, the land Carriage would cost almost as much as the lead would abroad. Arms also will be wanted for We must undoubtedly encrease our Army very con siderably. Happily for America the Congress will chearfully adopt
