November 23, 1775 373 us in our present relation to each other, and to abate the rigors of war by every good office common to brethren and fellow subjects. Be pleased sir to present my compliments to the other government [New Jersey] and with them be persuaded that I will at all times readily adopt and promote any measures which may be agreeable to you and not inconsistent with the interests of the colony.” MS not found; abstracted from extract in Kenneth W. Rendell Catalog, no. 92 (1974), pp. 27-28. 1 Maj. Joseph Stopford, commander of the detachment of the Seventh Regiment of Foot, or Royal Fusiliers, which had surrendered at Chambly on October 17, was at this time on parole in Trenton. A List of the General and Field-Officers, As they Rank in the Army; of the several Regiments of Horse, Dragoons, and Foot, on the British and Irish Establishments (London: J. Millan, 1775) , p. 61; and Jay to Ibbetson Hamar, this date, note 1. John Adams to James Otis, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Novr. 23. 1775 I had the Honour of your Letter of Novr. the Eleventh, 1 by Ex press, and am very Sorry to learn that any Difference of Sentiment has arisen between the two Honourable Houses, respecting the Mili tia Bill, as it is so necessary at this critical Moment, for the public Service. 2 If I was of opinion that any Resolution of the Congress now in Force was against the Claim of the Honourable House, as the Hon ourable Board have proposed that We shall lay the Question before Congress I should think it my Duty to do it; But it appears to me that Supposing the two Resolutions to clash, the last ought to be con sidered as binding, and as, by this, it is left in the “Discretion of the Assembly either to adopt the foregoing Resolutions, in the whole or in Part, or to continue their former, as they on Consideration of all Circumstances shall think fit,” I think it plain, that the Honourable Board may comply with the Desire of the Honourable House if, in their Discretion they think fit. I am the more confirmed in the opinion, that it is unnecessary to lay this Matter before Congress, as they have lately advised the Colo nies of New Hampshire, and one more, if they think it necessary, to establish such Forms of Government, as they shall judge best calcu lated to promote the Happiness of the People. Besides the Congress are so pressed with Business, and engaged upon Questions of greater Moment that I should be unwilling, unless in a Case of absolute Necessity to interrupt them by a Question of this Kind, not to mention that I-would not wish to make known so 248-053 0 - 77 - 26
