November 23, 1775 379 Arms & remain with the greatest Respect your & their most Obedient humble Servants Robt R Livingston Junr Rob Treat Paine John Langdon P.S. We purpose to set out to morrow for Ticonderoga. RC (DNA: PCC, item 78, vol. 14) . Written by Paine and signed by Livingston, Lang don, and Paine. 1 Paine had made this notation on his visit to the incomplete fort at West Point. “Went to Breakfast with George Clinton Esqr. at his Seat 1/2 a mile off. Thence went in a Barge belonging to the post down to the Fort on the Highlands 7 a.m. Cold fair day, Wind NE. Viewed the Fort & Scituations & P.M. returned & was set on shore on the East side of the River & lodged at Carpenters. Very Cold coming up high wind & ice made on Oars.” Robert Treat Paine’s diary, November 17, 1775, MHi. John Hancock to John Hulbert Sir, Philada. Novr. 23d 1775 After you have stationed the Men under your Command in the Fort in the Highlands on Hudson’s River, and given the necessary Directions to your inferiour officers, you have the Leave of Congress, agreeably to your Application to be absent from your Post fourteen Days, 1 at the Expiration of which Time, you are to return to your Duty in the Forts on Hudson’s River. I am Sir Sec J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A) . *This may have been a slip of the pen by the clerk who maintained Hancock’s letterbook since Congress had granted Hulbert only 10 days leave. JCC, 3:364. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Bror. Philadela. 23d Novr. 1775 I promised myself a Letter from You by last Post & a particular Acct, of the Proceedings of the Assembly but am sadly disappointed. Dont fail another Post whilest I am here if it be possible to avoid it, Should you ever be from all your Connections Months together youl know the Pleasure of receiving Letters from them. If Gentlemen have not already sett out for this City with the Accts of the Comee. of Safety I should advise their deferring the Journey a little while as there is no Money in the Treasury. Orders are given for making Paper for another Emission which I think will be about
