388 November 25, 1775 have done myself the Honour to write these sentiments to the Board, who were pleased to write to us upon the occasion. Am obliged to you for your Account of the state of Things in Boston, I am ever anxious about our Friends who remain there and nothing is ever more acceptable to me than to learn what passes there. The Inactivity of the two Armies, is not very agreable to me. Fa bius’s Cunctando was wise and brave. But if I had submitted to it in his situation, it would have been a cruel Mortification to me. Zeal and Fire and Activity and Enterprize Strike my Imagination too much. I am obliged to be constantly on my Guard—yet the Heat within will burst forth at Times. The Characters drawn in your last entertained me very agreably. They were taken off, by a nice & penetrating Eye. I hope you will fa vour me with more of these Characters. I wish I could draw a Num ber of Characters for your Inspection. I should perhaps daub on the Paint too thick—but the Features would be very strong. The General is amiable and Accomplished and judicious and cool; You will soon know the Person and Character of his Lady. 2 I hope She has as much Ambition, for her Husbands Glory, as Portia & Marcia have, and then the Lord have Mercy on the Souls of Howe and Burgoyne & all the Troops in Boston. FC (MHi) . 1 Adams had written a brief note to Mrs. Warren on October 31 acknowledging the receipt of her letter of October 12-14, 1775, but adding little more than a conventional wish for her well-being. MHi. ’Martha Washington had arrived in Philadelphia on November 21, where her presence touched off a commotion over the propriety of a ball scheduled in her honor for November 24. Although political leaders in the city convinced Mrs. Washington not to attend because it “would be very disagreeable at this melan choly time,” at least one delegate registered his dissatisfaction with the decision. “Col. Harrison came to rebuke Samuel Adams for using his influence for the stopping of this entertainment, which he declared was legal, just and laudable.” Christopher Marshall, Extracts from the Diary of Christopher Marshall, Kept in Philadelphia and Lancaster during the American Revolution, 1114—1181, ed. Wil liam Duane (Albany: Joel Munsell, 1877), pp. 51-53. Francis Lewis to John Alsop Sir Phila. 25 Novmr. 1775 I wrote you by Express, Mr Levy &c. to which am without an an swer. I now inclose you two receipts for two Waggon Loads of Cloath- ing who went off from hence for Dobb’s Ferry the 23 & 24 Inst. These are for Genl. Schuylers Army. In the first of these Waggons I sent Four Bales directed for Colo. Mifflin and ordered the Waggoner to leave them with Mr. Jona. Hampton at Eliza. Town with a letter
