November 25, 1775 389 directed to him as Chairman of their Committee requesting them to forward those Bales to you & you’l please apply to have them for warded via Norwich for Cambridge. You have also inclosed two Invoices of the Goods bought & sent from this place for Genl. Schuylers Army Amountg to £5279.2.6 Pensila. Currency or Dollars 14077 2/3ds. on which we have broker [a] g[e] & Waggon hire yet to pay. Shall endeavor to send you 3 or 4000 Dollars by first convenient if have so much remaining. Pray get the Convention or whom else to send a trusty person to receive these two Waggons load of Clothg a[t] Dobb’s Ferry and that a sloop be immediate let [and] sent to convey them to Albany. I think it would not be adviseable to Send any more cloathing &c to the Northward, but that what you have now engaged be sent to the Army at Cambridge as that orders is not Compleated espectialy in the Article of Buckskin Breeches. We have nothing new here, busi ness goes on heavily for want of more members attending. Mr. P. Livingston confined to his Room for several days with a Cold. I am Dr Sir Your very Humble Servt. Frans. Lewis P.S. It will be necessary to forward these Invoices with the Goods to Mr. Walter Livingston. With the Invoices is annexed the different Packages. RC (NHi). Edward Rutledge to Thomas Bee My dear Bee. Novr. 25 1775 I should have done myself the Pleasure of writing you by Return of the-Express but was so ill at that time, that I found it impossible. I am now much better, tho’ still greatly distressed with a Cough which I see no Prospect of getting rid of until I lead my Course to a warmer and better Climate. So much for myself. Letters from Genl. Washing ton a few days since inform us of the arrival of Troops from Ireland, the Number is not known but it is guess’d at 2000, or 2500. It is the opinion of himself & officers that Howe will soon attack him. I wish he may; if our people behave like Men, success will, nay must attend us. Some time last Summer, the officers at Boston fitted out a large Schooner from that place & dispatched her to Ireland for a Supply of Tongues, Wine &c. On her Return a few Days ago, she was intercept ed by one of our armed Vessels in Continental pay, and brought into Harbour with all her Grog &: an abundance of Letters from Gentn. in Ireland to their Friends in Boston. These Letters were open’d & 248-053 0 - 77 - 27
