390 November 25, 1775 have afforded much Amusement & some Intelligence. We find by them that Administration are determined at all Events to attempt the Reduction of America, that Boston will be made strong by 22 or 25000 Men in the Course of this Winter & the Spring—that Lord Kinmare has added to the King’s Bounty that of 10/6 per Man for all who shall inlist under Major Roche—that the City of Corke has followed the Example but more extensively, that Lord Bellamount has the Direction of the Recruiting parties in that part of the King dom—that the Roman Catholic Priests have been applied to to stim ulate their Flocks against us, which they have promised to do, if the Regiments to be raised be officer’d by Gentn. of their religious p[ers]uasion—in short that all the Powers of Hell are to be let loose upon us. On the other Hand, Intelligence by the same Conveyance inform us that all the Whigs in the Kingdom a very few Excepted are warmly interested in our Cause, that the common people are not less well affected, that several Towns have resolved not to permit any of ficers to recruit amongst them, & have destroyed the Drums of those who have been hardy enough to attempt it, & that the Dislike to the Service is so great & so general that those employed therein meet with little or no Success. So much for Irish Politics. You Will no Doubt ’eer this reaches you hear of our having taken Chamblee & St. John’s. We should have wrote to the Commee upon the Subject, but waited for more particulars. We have received no farther Accounts from that Quart er; but are in daily Expectation of hearing of the Fall of Montreal & Quebec. In the last of those places I am told there is great Abund ance of what we want very much—powder & military Stores. I have that Expedition much at Heart I must confess, for I really think & have thought for a long Time, that America will be saved in Canada. It may put Reconciliation at a greater Distance ’tis true, as his Maj esty will find just difficulty to persuade himself to part with arbitrary power tho’ it were established but in an Acre of Ground; however it will make the Cure radical whenever it is effected, & really we have lived in so unsettled a Condition for such a length of Time that I would now wish to fight it fairly out & either establish a Connection consistent with the Principles of Liberty & placed upon a permanent Basis, or have nothing more to do with them. The latter I think most likely to be the case. The Distruction of our Towns in the wanton Manner in which it has been affected, a mode of Warfare (as I have already expressed it) totally exploded amongst civilized Nations, give us little Reason to think that they will attempt to make Peace. Indeed if it is not soon set about, it will be all in Vain even to wish for it here after. The Minds of People will be so warmed by the Acts of Cruel ty hitherto exercised & daily committing against them that they will not wish for a Connection with Men of such savage Disposition.
