November 27, 1775 399 Naval Committee to Dudley Saltonstall Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 27th. 1775 The Congress are now preparing two Ships and two Brigantines to be fitted out as soon as possible to cruise against our common enemy. They have thought of you as a proper person to take the command of one of those ships as Captain. 1 If you enter into this service, which we take to be the service of your country, You will give us the earliest information and repair to Philadelphia as soon as your af fairs will possibly admit and bring with you as many officers and sea men as you can procure at New London and between that place and Philadelphia. Those who may not be able to come with you, leave proper persons to encourage and conduct along after you. If money should be necessary for the performance of this service you may draw on Mr Eleazer Miller, Merchant in New York who has money in his hands for that purpose. In a day or two after you receive this, you will receive by the Messr. Mumfords the Conditions and encouragement offered to the Seamen. We are Sir Your humble servants, Signed by Order of Comme. Step Hopkins Silas Deane John Adams Christ. Gadsden Joseph Hewes RC (MdAN). Written in a clerical hand and signed by Adams, Deane, Gadsden, Hewes, and Hopkins. 1 Dudley Saltonstall (1738-96), privateersman in the French and Indian War and subsequently commander of merchant vessels, was offered this commission by the Naval Committee at the instance of his brother-in-law, Silas Deane. Saltonstall accepted the committee’s offer on December 7 and became commander of the Alfred, the flagship of Esek Hopkins’ tiny fleet. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:350; Clark, Naval Documents, 2:1324; and DAB. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Nov. 27th. 1775. 1 Warns his brother to “give Strick orders to your people” to be careful of the chevaux-de-frise in the Delaware River. Reports that Mrs. Washington, Mrs. Gates, Mrs. Lewis, and “Collo. Custis &: his Lady ... all of Virginia set out from here this morning for the Camp at Cambridge” amid great pomp. “We have certain intelligence that there are 2500 or at least 2000 troops landed at Boston from Ireland, and it is thought by many that, with this reinforcement they will make a push to get out by attacking our lines
