404 November 29, 1775 since we parted, & have not been able to hear any thing of your af fairs. While the present distractions continue you will not expect I dare say to receive much in the remittance way, however I have writ ten to Esqr. Lee to push your principal creditors, & remit what he can get from them. I have paid Doctor Fauntleroys acct here, for which I have drawn on Mr. Lee. As the difference between the Min istry & America is not likely soon to be settled, I suppose the price of tobo. will be high in London this winter, by which means you will make a saving voyage. If you can find an opportunity, shall be glad to receive acct, sales & acct, current. Is it high treason to correspond upon mercantile business? 1 Poor old England how is it degraded! You will see the news in the public papers. Mrs. Lee joins me in wishing you & our friends on Tower Hill, health &: happiness. 2 Francis Light. Lee RC (ViHi) . 1 An allusion to the king’s proclamation of August 23, 1775, forbidding corre spondence with those in rebellion in North America. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:240-41. a For the continuation of this letter, see Lee to a Friend in London, December 11, 1775. Richard Henry Lee to Catherine Macaulay Dear Madam, Philadelphia 29th Novr 1775 As a good Christian properly attached to your native Country, I am sure you must be pleased to hear that North America is not fall en, nor likely to fall down before the Images that the King hath set up. After more than ten years abuse and injury on one side, of mod est representation on the other; Administration at length determine to try if the sword cannot affect, what threatening Acts of Parliament had in vain attempted; that is, the ruin of the just rights and liberty of this great Continent. Lexington, Concord, and Bunkers Hill opened the tragic scene; and clearly proved to the whole world that N. America had no reliance but on its own virtue in Arms. The bat tle of Bunkers Hill, tho followed by strong reenforcements, has not enlarged the prison of the Ministerial Army many paces. After the clearest proofs that the Quebec Act was going to be carried into ef fect by marching an Army of Canadians &c. into these Colonies, and when every attempt had been made to bring the Savages on the de fenceless women and Children along our extensive frontiers; it be came high time, on principles of self preservation, to avert the meditated [Evi] 1. The war was therefore sent into their own Country having first, by proper Agents and Memorials, explained to the Inhabit-
