November 30, 1775 411 silent, but rewarded Mr. Deane, and advanced Mr. Carmichael to an office of high trust.” Committee to the Northward Minutes of Proceedings 30 Nov. 1775 Minutes of a Conference with Genl. Schuyler 1 The opinion 3000 Troops necessary in Canada for the spring that those who may remain this winter be sufficient till spring. About 200 of the New England Troops have reinlisted. About 1000 of New York in Canada what number will reinlist un known. Coll. Easton & Coll. Beadle are still in Canada but on their way home. Warner with the Green Mountain boys returned. Livingston, Arnold has carried in about 600 men. That 4 companies will be necessary at the two Posts of Ticondero ga & Fort George. Genl. Schuylers Opinion that at least 3000 men shd be in Canada before the Ice breaks up. That there are about 1900 there now in cluding Arnolds, many of whom he imagines will relieve. That 2 regiments be immediately raised including 4 Comps, that are now recruiting 8c the Officers sent to recruit in whatever province the Congress may direct. Directions with respect to provisions already given we having a sufficientcy till spring in Canada. That resolutions with respect to the bounty already executed. That the fortifications at Ticonderoga be repaired but that some not be done this winter. Tho if men could be procured the timber might be prepared at a much cheaper rate than in the spring. That a communication shd be opened between Johansburgh 8c Fort Ann by which means the fortress may be most easily reinforced 8: supplied. That no Fortress need be erected at Crown Point. That few arms can be procured in the way that is proposed. Those that were in the hands of the New York Troops belong to that prov ince. When they are stoped credit must be given. Canadian Regiment already set on foot. Tun of powder to be sent down tomorrow. Cannon cannot be moved till the lake is froze. That Genl. Montgomerry from the 1st Letter of the Congress 8c the necessity of the case was induced to reinlist the Troops. What ar rangement he has made of the forces is unknown to us. That Genl. Schuyler has wrote to him to transmitt it as soon as possible.
