412 November 30, 1775 That Genl, has already ordered the officers who do not chuse to reinlist to return their [names?]. To mention Capt. Lamb. Beding—Barrack Master—regimental paymaster—Conductor of At- tillery. MS (N) . In the hand of Robert R. Livingston, Jr. 1 The Committee to the Northward (Livingston, Langdon, and Paine), drawing upon information obtained from several on-site inspections and discussions such as this one with General Schuyler, submitted a report to Congress on December 23. JCC, 3:446-52. On January 8-9, 1776, Congress adopted several resolutions based on that report and the recommendations of another committee appointed to respond to Schuyler’s letters. JCC, 3:424, 436, 455, 456, 459, 4:38-40, 43-45. See also John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, November 10, 1775, note 2. Committee to the Northward to Richard Montgomery Sir Ticonderoga 30th Novr. 1775 The Congress having done us the honour to Appoint us as a Com mittee to Confer with the General and yourself on the measures Nec essary to be taken for the reinlistment of the Army, as also to Concil iate the affections of the Canadians and to remove as far as in us lay every Objection that the good people of that Province might have to a Union with the thirteen Colonies, who are Strugling in the Glorious Cause of freedom, We arrived here a few days Since in prosecution of that design; but are extreamly happy to find that General Schuyler and yourself have in a Great measure by your prudence and foresight anticipated our business, and renderd a Journey into Canada in some measure unnecessary at present which indeed we rather decline on Account of the Advanced season of the year and the improbability of your being able to lend us any assistance, while the enemies of the Natural Rights of man continue their hostilities against our fellow Subjects in that Province, and Confine your Attention to those Mili tary opperations which are Necessary to procure their Relief. We cannot help however expressing the ardent wishes of the Con gress that you would Cherish the first dawnings of liberty among a people, who have early testified their sense of its Value if we may be Admitted to Judge from the Assistance they afforded you in repel ling its enemies. That you would assure them that the Honble. the Congress have thro us declared that they hold their Rights as dear as their own, and that on their Uniting with them they will exert their utmost endeavours to procure, for them and their posterity the bless ing of a free government and that Security to their property and per sons which is derived from the British Constitution—that they hold Sacred the rights of Conscience, and will never disturb them in the free enjoyment of their Religion. 1
