November 30, 1775 413 The Honb. Congress Recommend it to you to use your utmost en deavours to procure a free meeting of the people in their several Par ishes, out of whom to Chuse a Provincial Convention who will form such Rules and regulations as the present exigencies may render Necessary for their Province. From this body they hope that dela- gates will be chosen to meet and Cooperate with them in such meas ures as they shall think Necessary for their mutual Security against the unjust Violences of an arbitrary ministry. If the unsettled state of the Province should Prevent a free and full Representation of the whole Colony, yet the Honb. the Congress will Acquiess in the Choice of Such Towns, Parishes and districts, as may think it proper to send deputies—or if previous to their meeting in Congress they should have any Difficulties which it is out of your power to remove, a Committee of Congress will at any time when the Communication is more open be ready to meet and Confer with them on the Subject at Albany, Montreal, or any other place, which they May think prop er to appoint. We need not mention to you the propriety of punishing in the Severest manner any of our Troops, who should so far forget the duty that they owe to us and our worthy Allies, as to offer the least injury either to their property or Persons. We know not your Arrangement of the Army, but Presume you have not in the distribu tion of Commissions over looked the Merrit of those who deserve well of their Country, nor Sufferd them to be Advanced who have merrited its Censure. General Schuyler has inclosed our last instructions which will shew you the Design of the Congress with Respect to Quebeck but which from your letter we find you have already in some measure Antici pated. He also gives you our Sense with Respect to the Clothing and bounty to the Troops, in the management of which we must rely upon your prudence and doubt not that the Congress will make good any engagements to which you may have found it Necessary to enter. The other Subjects of our Conference with the General, some of which are mentioned to you in his letter and others wanting the Sanc tion of Congress we think it unnecessary at present to trouble you with. The post being just abt to Depart we cannot enlarge. If any other opportunity should offer, we may write you again before we leave this. We Congratulate you upon the happy Success of our Arms and hope shortly to hear that your prosperous endeavours has left no footing to our enemies in that Country from which they hoped to draw the most effectual supplies. We Remain with the greatest Respect Your most Hbl Servts Rob. R. Livingston Rob. T. Paine Jno Langdon
