December 2, 1775 421 power to lay before you a compleat Journal of our proceedings of the last Congress, as also of the present, this I think necessary, as it will be much better to take up our proceedings in one View than by de tached pieces, and it will never do to harrass our people by calling them too often to meet in Convention. However these matters must rest on your own Judgement and dis cretion. I wish I could inform you when we shall adjourn, some say about Christmas, others, not till Spring. I am inclined to think with the former; for we grow tired, indolent, Captious, Jealous and want a recess. These only discover themselves now and then, in general we are pretty unanimous and friendly. No plan of Seperation has been offered, the Colonies will never agree to any till drove to it by dire necessity. I wish the time may not come too soon. I fear it will be the case if the British Ministry pursue their present diabolical Schemes. I am weary of politicks and wish I could retire to my former private Station (to speak in the language of J[osiah] Child) a pence and farthings Man. My Compliments to your [family?] and be assured that I am with great esteem Dear Sir your most obedt huml Servt Joseph Hewes P.S. The bearer, Wm Chew who is sent express to receive from you Sixty dollars which you [....] to N. Carolina, if he does not find you at Edenton he is to have 6 pence per Mile, and all [. . .] paid for any distance that he may go out of to find you after he gets to Edenton. RC (NN) . Tr (DLC) . Burnett, Letters, 1:266-67. RC fragmentary; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Not found. John Hancock to the Commander of the Pennsylvania Battalion Sir Congress Chamber Deer. 2d. 1775. I am directed by Congress to order you immediately to send, keep, and continue, until further Orders, such and so large a Guard of the Batallion under your Command, as you shall think proper, for guard ing and secure keeping the Vessels and Stores on the Wharves of Messrs. Willing & Morris, and Mr. Cuthbert in the City of Philada. 1 I am &c J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To the Officer commanding the Batallion raised in Pennsylvania.” 248-053 O - TT - 29
