December 2, 1775 425 able political Capacity that I have left nothing to say to you as a pri vate Gentleman. I cannot however so far forget you as a friend, as not to assure you that I hold you in the most affectionate Remem brance. From newspapers & private Letters we are assured that next Sum mer will be a bloody one. The Sovereign has declared (we hear) that he will pawn the Jewels of his Crown or humble America. Indians, Negroes, Russians, Hanoverians & Hessians are talked of as the In struments to accomplish this blessed purpose. But under God, If we have virtue We may be free. Let every man say he will be free and act as if he wished it & We may defy the threats of the minister. I beg leave to recommend to your particular Care a packet for Geo & Thos Hooper. Pray forward it by a safe and expeditious Oppty. Remember me in the most respectful manner to your Lady & Sis ters. Tell my good friend Iredell that I have exhausted all I have to say in the Letter w[ritte]n to the Council & must refer him to that Newspapers for politicks. I kiss his Hand. Mr Jones, Charlton & Smith have my best Wishes. Adieu, Believe me to be Yours truly Wm Hooper RC (DLC). Francis Lightfoot Lee to Robert W. Carter Dear Sir, [December 2, 1775] We have had nothing new since the reduction of Montreal, which I suppose you must have heard of. It is supposed Arnold must be in possession of Quebec by this time. If he shou’d be too weak to effect it Montgomerie will join him from Montreal. At all events we have got the most valuable part of Canada, as it cuts off all communica tion with the Indians, & prevents inroads on our fronteers. It wou’d give me infinite pleasure, if our affairs to the Southward wore as fa vorable an Aspect; it will require very vigorous efforts, to put a stop to the proceedings of Lord Dunmore. We are extremely alarm’d by an express from the Comtee. of Northhampton County to Congress 1 informing that he has issued a Proclamation, declaring military Law in Virga. & offering freedom to all servants & slaves, who shall repair to the King’s standard which he has erected; that the inhabitants of Norfolk & Princess Ann Counties have taken an Oath to oppose, to the last drop of their blood, any of their countrymen who shall come in arms into their Counties. The Comtee. asks for assistance, being apprehensive that their people from their exposed situation, & the number of their slaves, will thro fear be induced to follow the example
