December 3, 1775 431 the Year is out, for what I know. Affairs are in a critical state and important Steps are now taking every day, so that I could not recon cile it to my own Mind to be absent from this Place at present. Nothing is expected from the Commissioners, yet We are waiting for them, in some Respects. The Tories, and Timids pretend to ex pect great Things from them. But the Generality expect nothing but more Insults and Affronts. Privateering is licensed and the Ports are wide open. As soon as the Resolves are printed, which will be tomor row, I’le send them. I have had a long Conversation with He seems to be in a better Temper, and I live on Terms of Decency and Civility with him and he with me. And I am determined to live so. Have lived in more Decency with him and another, since my last Return than ever, at least than since last August when the sin of Precedence was com mitted. Theres the Rub. But what cant be cured must be endured. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:331-33. 1 Although this letter has been published twice essentially as it appears here (in Family Correspondence and in Charles Francis Adams, ed., Familiar Letters of John Adams and His Wife Abigail Adams, pp. 126-28) , the portion in brackets is not part of the original manuscript but was simply attached to the December 3 letter by Charles Francis while preparing the Familiar Letters. It appears that this section is the final page of a missing letter Adams wrote on April 6, 1776. Thus, Abigail’s letter to John of March 16, 1776, containing an inquiry about "the Expectation of com missioners,” is endorsed “answed April 6th. 1776.” See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:359-60. Furthermore, several passages from these concluding para graphs support an April rather than a December date. On December 8 Adams asked leave to return home, a fact difficult to square with his assertion that he had “no Thoughts” of returning; Congress did not license privateering and open the ports until March 23 and April 6, 1776, respectively; and the person with whom Adams had recently conversed but whose name he left blank was undoubtedly Robert Treat Paine, who was not in Philadelphia in December 1775. John Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 3. 1775 I have only Time to acquaint you that Congress have ordered the arrears of Pay to be discharged to the Soldiers and one Months Ad vance Pay to be made, No Bounty nor any Allowance for Lunar Months. 1 I have a Thousand Things to say—But no Time. Our Army must be reconciled to these Terms, or We shall be ruined for what I know. The Expences accumulating upon the Continent are so vast and boundless that We shall be bankrupt if not frugal. I lately had an opportunity, suddenly, of mentioning two very de serving officers, Thomas Crafts Junior who now lives at Leominster and George Trot who lives at Braintree to be, the first a Lt Coll the
