432 December 3, 1775 second a Major of the Regiment of Artillery under Coll Knox. These are young Men under forty, excellent officers, very modest, civil, Sensible, and of prodigious Merit as well as Suffering in the Ameri can Cause. If they are neglected I shall be very mad, and kick and bounce like fury. Congress have ordered their Names to be sent to the General, and if he thinks they can be promoted without giving Disgust and making Uneasiness in the Regiment, to give them Commissions. 2 Gen. Washington knows neither of them. They have too much Merit & Modesty to thrust themselves forward and solicit, as has been the Manner of too many. But they are excellent officers, and have done great Things both in the political and military Way. In short vast Injustice will be done if they are not provided for. Sev eral Captains in the Artillery Regiment were privates under these officers in Paddocks Company. Captain Crafts who is I believe the first Captain, is a younger Brother to Thomas. I believe that Bur- beck, Mason, Foster &c would have no objection. The Merit of these Men from the Year 1764 to this day, has been very great tho not known to every Body. My Conscience tells me they ought to be promoted. They have more Merit between you and me than half the Generals in the Army. RC (MHi) . In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Congress reached these decisions on November 30, December 1, and 2. JCC, 3:393-94, 400. ’On December 2 Congress had resolved that Thomas Crafts, Jr., and George Trott be appointed to a new regiment of artillery, if Washington "shall judge them proper, and . . . the appointment of them will occasion no disturbance and disgust in the regiment.” JCC, 3:399. Ultimately Crafts served as colonel of a Massachusetts artillery regiment, 1776-78, while Trott declined a commission as major in the same regiment. Massachusetts, Secretary of the Commonwealth, Massachusetts Soldiers and Sailors of the Revolutionary War, 17 vols. (Boston: Wright & Potter Printing Co., 1896-1908) , 4:67, 16:64-65. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Bror. Philadela. 3rd Deer. 1775 When I wrote you yesterday I was not so well acquainted with the affairs of Virginia as I am now. Last Evening a Comee. (of which I am a member) appointed to take into Consideration the State of that Colony &c met. We had all the Virginia Delegates with Us and the Letters from the Comee. of Northhampton County with the Pro- clamn. & new Oath of Allegiance &: an Association of Lord Dun mores planning before us. From the whole it appears to me that Nor folk & Princess Anne Counties lying on the South Side of Chesapeak Bay & forming the Northeast part of that Colony on the Southside of the Bay have been so far debauched & intimidated by Lord Dunmore
