December 3, 1775 433 who has been vastly active & politic that they have not been able to check his Operations. Having full Scope He hath exerted every influ ence derived from Authority, Coercion, Flattery & Corruption, hath offered Freedom to all indented Servants & Negroes who would join him & in this Way hath got about 1200 Men with him, is about to open Trade to the interdicted Ports, and has greatly alarmed the oth er Counties on that Bay. The Committee of Northhampton County lying on the other side of Chesapeak Bay & being unconnected with the rest of the Colony has wrote to the Congress for Aid. They assure Us that the People are well disposed but have neither Arms nor Am munition and being two or three hundred miles remote from that Part of the Colony which can give them assistance they are afraid that Lord Dunmore will be able to force great numbers in that And the adjoining County of Awcomack into his Service & get large Quantities (half a million of Bushs.) of Wheat for Exportation to our Enemies. When the Situation of these Counties is considered the Character of the Colony ought no more to be affected by what is past there than that of our Colony should be by the imprudent Con duct of some People in Newport, indeed by all Accts, which I can get there is not half the Number of Tories in Proportion to their Num bers that We had last Spring, and that those People are Men of true Courage their whole History evinces. The Comee. has not yet report ed but concludes to recommend a sufficient Force to be sent into those two Counties to protect our Friends & cover our Association until measures can be taken for effectually reducing Ld. Dunmore Sc his associates. I enclose you a Curiosity a Jamaica Gentn. who was in London gave my worthy Friend lately from thence a Copy from which I took this, the whole is finely done 8c the last Line I think ought to be the motto of every American. I have this Moment reed the Favors of Messrs. Nichs. & Jno. Brown addressed to Us jointly. 1 The Sentiments do great Honor to the Authors, they recommend Matters of vast Importance, make my most respectful Compliments And let them know that as soon as Mr. Hopkins 8c I can confer upon them We shall with great Pleasure ac knowledge their Favors in a particular manner. It is very unhappy that We lodge apart. We are both much upon Comees. and our Time is so taken up that We have no Opportunities scarcely of consulting each other. This Day I shall enjoy myself highly. Next to the Pleasure of being at home is that of seeing our Friends when abroad; Govr. Hopkins, his Bror. 8c Son, the Comee. for Accts 2 8c Capt. Whipple all do me the Favor to dine with Me; never did I expect the Pleasure of seeing so many of my Countrymen on this Side Rhode Island. I shall be happy if the afternoon proves as agreable to them as I am sure it
