450 December 6, 1775 will convert them into enemies, in which case with the assistance of Carleton we may be easily cut off. But the people that compose our army think so much for themselves that no general dare oppose their sentiments if he was so inclined. You can not conceive the trouble our generals have had, petition, mutinies 8c request to know the rea son of every maneuvre without a power to suspend or punish the of fenders, the strongest proof of which is that Montgomerry was under a necessity to reinstate Mott in order to quiet his men. Lamb is a good officer but so extremely turbulent that he excites infinite mis chief in the army. A few days ago he promoted a petition & re monstrance upon the subject of some indulgence that was shewn to one or two officers who had families in Canada 8c were permitted to visit them on their parol [e]. It was couc[he]d in such terms that Montgomerry immediately resigned the command but on their mak ing a proper appology reassumed it. You can form no judgment of the impositions on the publick by the Officers & troops of the New England Colonies—I speak this in confidence & without prejudice. A great number of troops have been raised but when ordered upon duty tho they had reed, pay the whole season for doing nothing they dwindled down to a handful whole companies falling sick at once & yet full muster rolls being returned. You ask why this is not punished! The Offenders form the court martial & tho it may seem incredible yet mutiny, disarming the Gen tries, 8c endeavouring to resque Offenders from the guard is punished only by a fine of 6/. Many of our own Officers are little better. How ever I am pleased to find that our troops have continued in Canada 8c have on all occasions behaved with spirit if we except the regiment raised in New York, who together with Waterburies regt, ran away at the first landing of which you have had an account. The rest of our Troops were not there accept [except] one or two companies who behaved well. Contrive if possible to introduce Gent, into the army. Genl. Prescot is now here, he is the author of all the cruelties agt. Walker 8c Allen in Canada, a man demented so low as to break the windows of the Barracks with his own cane. Montgomerry resented his conduct so highly as to refuse to see him or any of the Officers of his party. The Officers taken at St Johns we hear are gone with their men, notwithstanding an express direction to Capt. Mott of Connect icut who had the charge of them to separate them. This shd. by all means be done as they have it in idea to keep up the regiment which it would be very absurd to permit. You judging from the climate of Philadelphia may wonder we did not proceed to Canada but if I had been so inclined We should have met with many obstructions, besides that Canada is not yet in a state to negotiate, especially as we could derive no assistance from Montgomerry who was going down to Quebeck.
