December 7, 1775 451 But my strongest objection was that your Committee is by no means adapted to the manners of the people with whom they are to deal & I am persuaded would not greatly raise the reputation of the congress, nor answer any good purpose among that polished people. You brought us into this scrape, pray get us out, chuse men who have the address to conciliate the affections of their fellow mortals, & send them up in February. I will accompany them in my private ca pacity, as I wish to make the jaunt. If it lays in your way to serve Harry I know you will do it. Let me hear from you soon. The Express waits. Present my Comps, to Duane & [. . .]; they both owe me a letter. Farewell, Yrs Most Affly Robt R Livingston junr RC (NNC). Silas Deane to John Trumbull Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 7th 1775 I wrote you a long Lettr. from N. York 14th inst. 1 to which have received No answer. This gives Me some little Uneasiness as I ex press’d my Tho’ts with the Freedom used between Freinds and though the World might without prejudice to Me, or mine, see every Word, yet having fell on suspicious Times I wish my Letters may go only to Those I wish to See 2 RC (MiD-B) . Addressed: “To John Trumbull Esqr., Attorney at Law, New Haven.” 1 Perhaps in response to Trumbull’s letter of October 20. NYHS Collections 19 (1886) : 86-90. Deane had been in New York on November 14 but returned to Philadelphia on November 21. See Deane to Thomas Mumford, November 14, and to Samuel Webb, November 22. 1775. 3 Remainder of MS missing. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir Philadelpa. Thursday Deer. 7th 1775 On Wednesday week last I Reed your letter by Mr Sparron, but not till after the Post left town, and Yesterday Reed your second by Mr. Shee. I am Extreemly Sorry that Betsey has been and Continued to bee so ill when you last wrote. God grant Shee may get better. I hope Shee Will, But Shall be impatient till I hear that Shee has. I went to See Missrs Vining the other day for the first time Since I Came up, and Shee let me know that in Consequence of her having heard that you intended to Come up for her, She had Sent all her things to Ap-
