454 December 8, 1775 3 For the proceedings of the Maryland Convention, which continued in session until January 18, 1776, but refused to follow Chase’s advice and instead explicitly instructed the Maryland delegates to oppose measures that might lead to inde pendence, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:711-72, especially 738-40. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Sir, Philada Deer 8 1775 On the second Inst. I forwarded to you by Order the Resolutions of the Congress, directing such Soldiers as will reinlist to be paid their Wages for the Months of October, Novr. and December, and moreover one Month’s pay in Advance; and desiring you to exert your utmost Endeavours to promote the recruiting Service in the Army, as well as in your particular Colony. By Letters since that from the General, the Congress are informed that from the 19th to the 28th of Novr. not more than 2540 reinlist ed, and that only 966 had reinlisted before that Time. The Situation of the Genl, and Army is the more alarming, as Genl. Howe is well apprized of this Matter, and will, no doubt, on the first favourable opportunity, avail himself of the information. I need not inform you what Pain the Congress feels at this Want of Public Spirit and Back wardness in the Soldiers to reinlist: nor need I paint to you the dreadful Consequences that must ensue, should the Lines be aban doned, and the General deserted at a critical Moment. I am therefore desired to forward to you the enclosed Resolution of Congress 1 and to request you to exert yourselves in Defence of our Common Liber ties by affording the Genl, all the Aid in your Power, and to comply with his Request for the Assistance of the Militia, whenever he may find it necessary to apply for it. I have the Honor &c. J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). In the hand of Charles Thomson, and addressed: “To the Council of Massachusetts Bay, President of the Convention of New Hampshire, and governor of Rhode Island 8c Connecticut.” 1 The resolution in question, which was adopted by Congress on December 7, clarified a resolution of November 4 empowering Washington to call out New England militiamen under certain circumstances. JCC, 3:324, 414. John Hancock to the Frederick County Committee of Inspection Gentlemen, Philada. Deer. 8th 1775 Your Letter of the 24th of Novr. last being reed, was laid before
