December 8, 1775 455 Congress; and I am directed to inform you, that the Congress highly approve your Conduct and Vigilance in seizing Cameron, Smith and Conally. 1 I do myself the Pleasure of enclosing you a Resolution of Congress respecting the Place of their Confinement, and I am directed to de sire you in Pursuance of said Resolution to send the Prisoners under Guard to Philada. 2 I am Gentlemen &c J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 On December 1 Congress had received the November 24 letter from the Frederick County Committee, together with enclosures outlining the plot of John Connolly and his associates to rally the backcountry to the British cause. JCC, 3:394; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:1660-62. a See JCC, 3:415. John Hancock to George Washington Philada. Deer. 8. 1775 Sir, This will be delivered to you by Mr Jonathan [Bayard] Smith a gentlemen of this city who with two others is charged with 500,000 dollars for the use of the army under your command. 1 I have the honor to be Sir Your obedient humble Servt John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] I shall Dispatch an Express this Day to you by order of Con gress in Consequence of your Letter of 28th ulto. RC (DLC) . Written by Charles Thomson and signed by Hancock. 'See JCC, 3:394. This day Hancock also wrote a letter of recommendation "to the Committees of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, and Massa chusetts Bay,”, requesting them to provide “fresh Horses or any other Assistance” to Smith and his traveling companions. DLC, Jonathan B. Smith Papers. John Hancock to George Washington Philada December 8. 1775 Sir, Your letter of the 28 of November by Captn Blewer being re ceived was immediately laid before Congress. 1 By my letter of the 2d instant, which I hope you will in due time receive, you will perceive the Congress have in a great measure prevented 2 your wishes, having written to New York and given or ders to General Schuyler to supply you with and forward with all possible expedition what cannon can be spared. They have also di rected Genl. Schuyler to make diligent search for lead, and retaining
