December 9, 1775 465 Friends the Judge and Colonel and their Ladies and believe me to be, Dr Cornelius, Your Affectionate brother, Jas. Duane. MS not found; reprinted from Southern History Association Publications 7 (1903) : 176-77. 1 Cornelius Duane (1736-81), an unsuccessful New York merchant, was one of Duane’s younger brothers. Edward P. Alexander, A Revolutionary Conservative. James Duane of New York (New York: Columbia University Press, 1938), pp. 10, 13, 42. Benjamin Franklin to Charles William Frederic Dumas Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 9 December, 1775. I received your several favors, of May 18th, June 30th, and July 8th, by Messrs. Vaillant and Pochard; 1 whom if I could serve upon your recommendation, it would give me great pleasure. Their total want of English is at present an obstruction to their getting any em ployment among us; but I hope they will soon obtain some knowl edge of it. This is a good country for artificers or farmers; but gentle men of mere science in les belles lettres cannot so easily subsist here, there being little demand for their assistance among an industrious people, who, as yet, have not much leisure for studies of that kind. I am much obliged by the kind present you have made us of your edition of Vattel. It came to us in good season, when the circum stances of a rising state make it necessary frequently to consult the law of nations. Accordingly that copy, which I kept, (after depositing one in our own public library here, and sending the other to the Col lege of Massachusetts Bay, as you directed,) has been continually in the hands of the members of our Congress, now sitting, who are much pleased with your notes and preface, and have entertained a high and just esteem for their author. Your manuscript “Idee sur le Gouvernement et la Royaute” is also well relished, and may, in time, have its effect. I thank you, likewise, for the other smaller pieces, which accompanied Vattel. “Le court Expose de ce qui s’est passe entre la Cour Britannique et les Colonies,” ire. being a very concise and clear statement of facts, will be reprinted here for the use of our new friends in Canada. The translations of the proceedings of our Congress are very acceptable. I send you herewith what of them has been farther published here, together with a few newspapers, con taining accounts of some of the successes Providence has favored us with. We are threatened from England with a very powerful force, to come next year against us. 2 We are making all the provision in our power here to oppose that force, and we hope we shall be able to de fend ourselves. But, as the events of war are always uncertain, possi-
