December 10, 1775 473 the hand of god is upon them. Our last intelligence from Arnold to be relied on is by letter from him: he was then at Point Levy oppo site Quebec and had a great number of Cannoes ready to cross the river. The Canadians received him with cordiality and the regular force in Quebec was too inconsiderable to give him any inquietude. A later report makes him in possession of Quebec, but this is not au thenticated. Montgomery had proceeded in quest of Carleton and his small fleet of 11. pickeroons then on Lake St. Francis. He had got below him and had batteries so planted as to prevent his passing. It is thought he cannot escape their vigilance. I hope Ld. Chatham may live till the fortune of war puts his son into our hands, and enables us by returning him safe to his father, to pay a debt of gratitude. I wish you would get into Convention and come here. Think of it. Accom plish it. Adieu. [P.S.] The Congress have promoted Brigadier Genl. Montgomery to be a Major General, and on being assured that Arnold is in posses sion of Quebec it is probable he will be made a Brigadier General, one of those offices being vacant by Montgomery’s promotion. 2 This march of Arnold’s is equal to Xenophon’s retreat. Be so good as to enquire for the box of books you lodged for me at Nelson’s and get them to a place of safety. Perhaps some opportunity may offer of sending it to Richmond. RC (MWA). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:270-71. An extract of this letter was printed in the Virginia Gazette (Pinkney) , December 23, 1775. 1 See Washington to John Hancock, November 30, 1775. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:132. ’Congress promoted Montgomery to the rank of major general on December 9, 1775, and Arnold to that of brigadier general on January 10, 1776. JCC, 3:418, 4:47. Francis Lewis to John Alsop Dr Sir Phila. 10 Decemr. 1775 I this moment received your favor by the Post and am sorry to find the ordering the Clothg from Albany to Cambridge delayed es- pecialy as it [wt7/] at this season of the Year be of no use to the troops in Canada, and those at Cambridge may be in great want of them. Pray do all you can to expedite the forwarding them to Col. Mifflin. The inclosed letter please to forward seal’d. This being Sun day cannot send copy of the Congress’s resolve; 1 be assured it is on the Minuts. I have the money to send you for the Clothing but have not yet an opportunity of sending it. Congress has resolved to raise four more Battalions in this
