474 December 10, 1775 Colonie, 2 and purpose sitting all Winter, so hope youl soon be here to relieve your Collegue on duty. Mr [Philip] Livingston joins me in requesting you would load an other Vessell on our Contract with Congress. 3 We shall be [by] next post write you jointly on that head, in the Intrim I am, Sir yr. very Humbl Servt. Frans. Lewis P.S. Am glad to find our Convention has at last made a House; can not you get them to fix our pay. 4 RC (NHi). ‘That is, Congress’ resolve of December 5 stating that since General Schuyler’s army probably would be able to obtain clothing at Montreal, all clothing hitherto purchased for this force and sent to Albany should be forwarded instead to Quarter Master General Mifflin for the use of Washington’s army outside Boston. JCC, 3:407-8. “See JCC, 3:418. ’See Secret Committee Contract, October 9, 1775. ‘For attending Congress during 1775, Lewis eventually submitted an account for the following periods of service. "May 7th Sett out for Phila. & returned the 5th August” (89 days @ 32s per diem) ; "Sepr. 10 Sett out for Phila & returned the 11 October” (32 days @ 32s per diem); and “Novr. 1st arrived at Phila. & return’d to New York 31 Deer.” (61 days @ 32s per diem). Francis Lewis account, receipted January 27, 1776, Philip D. Sang deposit, NjR. Francis Lightfoot Lee to a Friend in London Deer. 11. 1775 From the little inquiry that has been made concerning your friends Land, upon Susquehanna, in Maryland, It appears to me, that he has a right to that & much more, if he can prove himself the lawfull heir to the person of his Name who died in Maryland. The Gentleman in Maryland is still upon the enquiry, when it is finished you shall know the result. The Gentleman who brings this will have all our public papers; by which you will see our great success this year, against your infamous ministry. The Associations & Committees of correspondence give us some hopes, that your Hill will soon be graced with their heads. It is my opinion that if the war continues another year, G. Britain & the Colonies are disunited for ever. Our troops now in pay & order’d to be raised amount to 35,000 &: will be 8 or 10,000 more in the spring. We have now 10 Ships of war from 10 to 30 Guns in Continental pay, & are determined to exert the whole force of the Continent this winter to fit out as many large Ships as possible against next summer. There are many small Ships belonging to the different Colonies, & private persons to cruise upon the Ministerial transports; and many
