December 12, 1775 475 others getting ready. Ld. Bute will soon make America a great Naval power. The Lee, Capt. Manly, took the other day a store ship called the Nancy, loaded with Musketts, artillery & other stores to a great amount. We thank the Ministry [for] the supply. All Canada is ours. Yr. ever. Francis Light. Lee RC (ViHi) . A continuation of Lee to a Friend in London, November 29, 1775. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings C[ommittee] C[hamber] Deer. 11. 1775. At a meeting of the Com[mittee] of S [ecrecy] present Sami Ward, Francis Lewis, Tho. McKean, Silas Deane 8c Josiah Bartlett. A Contract was enterd into between Eseck Hopkins of the Colony of Rhode Island Esqr. 8c the sd. Committee. 1 That a voyage be immediately undertaken for the speedy procurg. v of thirteen tons good gun powder but if the Gunpowdr. cannot be had as much Saltpetre with a proportion of Sulphur equal to 15 lb to every hundd. weight of Salt petre as will make that quantity of Gun powder, but if neither gunpowder nor salt petre 8c sulphur can be had, then as many stand of good Arms as the Cargoe hereinafter mentiond will purchase. MS (MH) . 1 Esek Hopkins also received an advance of $6,000 on this contract. Secret Committee Account, September 27, 1775-August 26, 1776. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Arthur Lee Sir, Philade. Dec. 12, 1775 By this Conveyance we have the Pleasure of transmitting to you sundry printed Papers, that Such of them as you think proper may be immediately published in England. We have written on the Subject of American Affairs to Monsieur C.G.F. Dumas, who resides at the Hague. 1 We recommend it to you to correspond with him, and to send through his Hands any Letters to us which you cannot send more directly. He will transmit them via St. Eustatia. When you write to him direct your Letter thus, A Mons. Monsr. C. G. F. Dumas cher Made. Ie Ve. Loder, a la Hague: and put it under Cover directed to Mr. A. Stuckey Merchant at Rotterdam. Mr. Story may be trusted with any Dispatches you think proper to send us. You will be so kind as to aid and advise him.
