476 December 12, 1775 It would be agreable to Congress to know the Disposition of For eign Powers towards us, and we hope this Object will engage your Attention. We need not hint that great Circumspection and impene trable Secrecy are necessary. The Congress rely on your Zeal and Abilities to serve them and will readily compensate you for whatever Trouble and Expence a Compliance with their Desires may occasion. We remit you for the present Two Hundred Pounds Sterling. Whenever you think the Importance of your Dispatches may re quire it, we desire you to send an Express-Boat with them from England, for which Service your Agreement with the Owner there shall be fulfilled by us here. We can now only add that we continue firm in our Resolutions to defend ourselves, notwithstanding the big Threats of the Ministry. We have just taken one of their Ordnance Store Ships, in which are abundance of Carcasses & Bombs intended for burning our Towns. With great Esteem, we are Sir, Your most obedt humble Servants B Franklin Committee of John Dickinson - John Jay Correspondence RC (MeHi) . Written by Franklin and signed by Franklin, Dickinson, and Jay. 1 See Benjamin Franklin to Charles William Frederic Dumas, December 9, 1775. Connecticut Delegates’ Memorial to Congress [December 12? 1775] The Delegates for the Colony of Connecticut have received the following information which they pray may be inquired into, viz: That certain persons having formed an Association for the pur pose of seizing on, 8c removing by force of Arms the people settled on the river Susquehannah, under the Government, 8c protection of sd. Colony of Connecticut, have in pursuance of such designs, raised a Large Sum of Money and with the same employed Agents to inlist Men. 1 That they have also collected, a great Number of Blankets, Shoes, Firelocks, with a quantity of Powder 8c ball, 8c other military Stores in this City and conveyed the same to their Agents in this Country who have therewith cloathed, 8c Armed the Men, they have raised, for sd. hostile purpose. That to induce Men to engage, they have by sd. Agents been promised the plunder of the Inhabitants, they should in this manner seize on 8c remove, over 8c above exorbi tant Wages given them. That by artful, 8c wicked Means, the late res olution of Congress, 2 respectg said Inhabitants, which the honorable Presidt. sent forward, for the purpose of preventing hostilities, has
