December 12, 1775 479 at Spain and then proceed to Saltitudas for a load of Salt. 1 I fear this will not do as you run a great risk of being seized by English men of War among the Salt Islands. I cannot think the profits on the Wine will be equal to the risk, I would rather you should take a Load of Salt and instead of Wine get as much Powder and good Muskets as possible and proceed directly home. Endeavour to make the land to the Northward of Cape Hatteras, get a pilot of, and if any Kings Ship or Cutter should be at Occacock you must land your Powder & Muskets on the Banks and get them sent up to Edenton by small Craft, or you may probably be able to get the Brigg in at New Inlet between Hatteras & Roanoke Inlet. If so you may also send the salt up in small Craft advising Mr Smith of your Arival by a boat sent on purpose, or if you cannot do this, nor get into Ocacock for Kings Cutters I would have you proceed directly for this place. There is not one Kings Vessel in this River nor has there been one for some time past nor any expected ’till April or May next, if then, and you have nothing to fear from the Custom House officers; they dare not look out. If you can get any kind of freight for this place take it, if you cannot get Powder and Muskets you may take Wine and proceed to St. Eustatia or any Dutch or Foreign Port and endeavour to sell the Wine and buy Powder & Muskets. This you may do either with a Load of Salt or without, if you go without Salt reserve as much mon ey as will purchase a Load but be very carefull not to go to any place to purchase Salt where you will be likely to fall in with any of the kings Ships, if you do not return directly from Spain to Carolina you must be very carefull to write to Mr. Backie to get proper Insurance. Be particular in informing him where you intend to go that he may make Insurance Accordingly. I think this will be the Safest Port on the Continent to come too. After you Arive in Spain write by every opportunity you can possibly get to my Brother Josiah Hewes of this City Merchant, inform him of every step you intend to take, advise with Messrs. Duff & Welch on all these Matters and do the best you can for our Interest. If the Brigg can be sold for a good price let her go, if not do the best you can; if you take in both Salt & Wine and cannot do better, that is cannot get into Carolina with Safety, I think you may get in here without much risque, pray dont fail to write by every opportunity. Powder, Salt Petre, Muskets, good Cannon say nine 8c Six Pounders I believe will Answer if well bought. At any rate Powder 8c Muskets cannot fail. I am Sir Your very hum Servt Joseph Hewes RC (MdBJ-G). 1 Emperor Mosely was captain of the brig Joseph, a vessel owned by Hewes. Clark, Naval Documents, 2:396.
