480 December 12, 1775 Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter My dear Colonel, Philadelphia Deer. 12th 1775 Before you receive this, Mr. Colston will have given you all the news of this place when he left it, since which one of our little men of war, called the Lee, capt. Manly, has taken a Store ship, loaded with 2000 stand of arms, a great deal of artillery, 30 tons of shot, a quan tity of shells & shott for the bombs R: Cannon; and a very great quan tity of all kinds of Artillery stores, to the amount of 20,000 £ Str., as tis tho’t. We make no doubt but Quebec R: Carleton with his pow der are in our possession by this time. If we are supply’d with powder from that or any other quarter this winter we shall certainly make Boston too hot for Howe, as the Ministry has kindly supplied us plentifully with Artillery. These successes to the Northward, and the former reputation of Virga, make the present proceedings with you appear in a very odd light. The real friends of liberty are under great concern, & your delegates are mortified with the sneers & reflections of the lukewarm but that is trifling to the uneasiness we suffer, from the apprehension of the consequences that may follow from Ld. Dunmore’s being allow’d to get to such a head. 1 It does not appear to me that Woodford’s force is sufficient to ef fect any thing decisive. In my opinion, our safety depends upon an immediate, & effectual stop being put to that infernal Demon, &: his tory associates at Norfolk. The Congress are giving the greatest at tention to a Navy, Re I hope we shall have ships enough by the spring to oblige the Ministerial fleet to consult their safety by keeping close together, & of course will not be able to do us much injury. I am sur prised at not receiving Letters from my friends in Richmond by the Constl. post. The Postmaster assures me there is a post established from Fredericksburg to Portroyal, Hobb’s Hole, &: Urbanna; And the County Comtees were to direct where the offices shou’d be kept. I wish it was inquired into & the obstruction mentioned; that they may be removed, if in the Postmaster’s power. I hope the County chose a Comtee to your liking, &: that every thing is quiet. Is it not necessary that the Convention shoud establish some kind of Government as Ld. D. by his proclamation has utterly demolished the whole civil Gov ernment. I believe the Congress will adjourn before Christmas, but whether long enough to allow me to see Virga, is uncertain. In the mean time my best wishes attend my friends in Richmond. I am Dear Col. yr. afft. hble Sevt. Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (ViHi). 1 For Congress' response to the threat to Virginia posed by Dunmore’s opera tions, see JCC, 3:403-4; and Francis Lightfoot Lee to Robert W. Carter, December 2, 1775, note 1.
