December 12, 1775 481 Samuel Ward to Henry Ward Dear Bror. Philadelphia 12th Deer. 1775 I am obliged to You for the many very important Hints in your last and hope You will never omit your Sentiments upon every interesting Occasion. The Contest between the two Countries involves a Ques tion of no less magnitude than the Happiness or Misery of Millions & when We extend our Views to future Ages We may say Millions of Millions. Our Views therefore ought to be extensive, our Plans great & our Exertions adequate to the immense Object before Us and such I doubt not will be the Conduct of Congress. Our Accts, have been presented. There were several large Articles in them which had never been before Us in any Accts, already liqui dated. The Comee. of Claims desired the Direction of Congress upon these, Who allowed the Expenses of moving the Stock and the Amount of the Cannon but as the Riflemen 8c other Soldiers raised in the middle & southern Colonies found their own Arms and were al lowed no Bounty The Congress would not pay those two Charges. We hope however when the Difficulty of raising men without a Bounty is better understood and the Accts, from the other Colonies are also be fore us to obtain a Reversion of this Opinion. Upon a Consultation We all thought best to defer any further Examination of the Accts, until the general Assembly is acquainted with this Resolve & all the N[ew] E[nglan]d Accts, can come under Examination together. We shall move for a Grant to the Colony for a Sum about adequate to the Ball[anc]e as it now stands and as the new Money ordered is now printing We hope to get it for the Comee. in a Week or ten Days. When you have read the enclosed, seal and deliver it. An objection was made in the Comee. of Secresy that as Mr. Hopkins was going to Sea the Continent would not be safe with his Security. Justice to the Continent, the honor of the Colony & my own Character require me to ask their Obligation and as I had no Motive in this Matter but a Desire of serving them I doubt but they will readily give it. You will take it & deposit it in your office until my Return or a safe Convey ance here presents. Mr. Nicho. Brown mentions 800 Boxes spermaceti Candles which he would send upon Permission for Powder. 1 If they could do in any foreign Port of Europe & he would export them on Acct, of the unit ed Colonies upon the same Com [missio] ns allowed Clarke & Night ingale & the same Freight that we give others I could serve him & wish to know as soon as possible for our Contracts for Powders are near compleated & People are every Day offering to take up the Re mainder 8c I keep it open on Purpose to serve the Com [pan] y 8c ac commodate that Part of the Country with Arms 8c Ammunition. 2 We should want a great Part of this Cargoe in good small Arms. I would
