484 December 13, 1775 mee. was now nominated to prepare the Business of the other Comee. Debates whether a Comee. of One out of each Colony shall be ap pointed to take Care of Naval Affairs in the Nature of a Board of Admiralty postponed. Col. Lee moved to raise the Wages of able Sea men in the Armament now fittng out, from 50/ Penna. Cury. which had been before fixed by Congress, to £3 per month and this was carried by Vote. Ablebodied Landmen remained as before at 50/per month. The Order for this day was to consider of giving Gen Wash ington Directions to storm Boston but various other Matters interven ing it was put off till Tomorrow. McKean informed the Congress that many Persons in Pennsa., Maryland and Jersey sell Tea and drink Tea upon a Report that Congress has granted Leave so to do &: he doubted Whether the Committees had Power to restrain them. A Day was fixed for considering the Matter. (In April 1776 the Congress gave Leave to sell & use what Tea was in the Country, forbidding any further Importation of it.) 1 Mr Crane went Home, Livingston and myself remain, Kinsey & De Hart have lately resigned. 2 MS (DLC). 'See JCC, 4:277-78. ’See John DeHart to the New Jersey Assembly, November 13, 1775. Samuel Ward to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir Philadelphia 13th Deer. 1775 I was astonished to find by a Letter from Mr. Mumford that You was shipping live Cattle on Acct, of the united Colonies. There is an express Resolve of Congress that no horned Cattle, Sheep, Hogs, or Poultry should be exported and it must be owing to the great Haste in which your Permit was made out that it was not expressly inserted. You was informed however of the Purport of it by Mr. Deane as he recollects & I think by me. You will therefore if the Vessels have not sailed instantly stop the Exportation of any live Stock mentioned above. The Necessity of the strictest Compliance with every Resolve of Congress you are well sensible of; I doubt not therefore your im mediate Compliance as you value the Interest of your Country. 1 I am Sir Your most hbe Servt. Sam Ward P.S. Be good enough to send me by next Post a Copy of the Permit. RC (CtNlHi) . Addressed: “On the Service of the united Colonies. To Mr. Nathan iel Shaw Jr., Mercht., New London.” 1 Shaw, who had been granted a contract to obtain gunpowder by the Secret Committee on November 8, ignored, this warning from Ward, who undoubtedly issued it in his capacity as chairman of the committee, and continued to export
