486 December 14, 1775 port of Europe & there purchase at the cheapest rate that they can, a quantity of Duck or Sail Cloth to the value of three thousand pounds sterg. or failing to obtain so much value in that article, they are to procure as much thereof as they can & invest the remaining Sum in any of the following Articles—Gunpowder, Saltpetre, vitry, Ticklin- burgs, gunlocks, soldiers muskets, or coals fit for Smith’s use. As by sd. Contract fee Reg[ister] fol. 26. 2 MS (MH). ’This contract was apparently made in response to the resolve of Congress of December 13 instructing the Secret Committee to procure canvas and powder for the vessels being fitted for naval duty. JCC, 3:426. a A footnote keyed to this concluding sentence reads: "They reed, the same day 14000 dolparp on Acct.” Richard Smith’s Diary Thursday 14 Deer. [1775] Agreed to read the Minutes for the first Half Hour every Morning & also the proceeding Day’s Transactions, accordingly the Journal was begun from the 5th. of Septr. last being the Time of Meeting af ter the last Adjornmt. Ordered that the Votes be sent to the Press as fast as they are revised. Several Matters were marked to be omitted as improper for Public Inspection. Much of the Day was spent upon an Answer to that Part of Gen. Washns. Letters requesting Directions what to do with the Ships & Cargoes lately taken by our armed Ves sels which was at length referred after learned Debates & Authorities from Vattel &C. 1 Much Altercation Whether a former Resolution of Congress had passed agt. confiscating the Ships taken in Carrying Military Stores or Goods to Boston, the Colonies on Vote were equal ly divided upon it, however it was agreed that the Cargoes should be forfeited & that such Matters ought to be tryed in the Admiralty Court and by the Course of the Law of Nations not of the Municipal Law. The President (Hancock) applied to the Congress to release Lieut. Hay taken in Canada & now in Philada. he offering his Parole of Honor to go Home to Scotland, resign his Commission and never serve against America. Lynch, Lee &: others for it who were opposed by Nelson and several more, the Question passed in the Affirmative. The Journal of the Indian Treaty lately held by our Commissioners at Pittsburg lies before Congress &: is not yet examined. A member from each Colony (Crane for New Jersey, tho now absent) chosen by Bal lot to procure or cause to be built and fitted out the 13 Ships of War yesterday ordered. Gadsden moved that the Congress should pur chase a handsome Time Piece &: set it up in the Assembly Room in
