December 19, 1775 495 Thomas Cushing to Robert Treat Paine Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer 19 1775 I am glad to hear you are Well. I perceive by your Letter to Mr Hancock you are in doubt whether to return to Philadelphia or pro ceed directly home from Albany, for your Government. I would In form you that the General Court have Continued our Delegation un till the 31 of Jany next & as affairs are Circumstanced I suppose they will still prolong it. 1 Your presence here is needed especially as you can well Inform us as to the state of our affairs in Canada & Mr John Adams is gone home, the circumstances of his family requiring it. There has been no opportunity to convey your Trunk into our Prov ince as yet, as the waggon by which it was designed to go never went. Hope shall have the pleasure of seeing you soon, in the mean time re main with respect yr Friend & humbl Servt. Thomas Cushing [P.S.] Mr Hancock Send his Compliments. RC (MHi). 1 The November 10 resolve of the Massachusetts General Court extending the commissions of the delegates was read in Congress on December 4, and is printed in JCC, 3:405. John Jay to Robert R. Livingston, Jr. Dear Robert Philad. 19 [December] 1775 How it came to pass I know not, but so the fact is, that neither of your Letters to me came to Hand till the Day before Yesterday, when they were delivered to the President by Gen. Schuylers last Express. Mr. Duane just now accidentally told me that your Brother was about to leave this Town, and I am now retired to the Lobby, in a Hurry to say a line or two to you. I confess I was a little hurt at not being favored with a Line from you, especially as your writing to others convinced me that it was in your Power. The Matter is now explained I have only to regret the accident by which the Letter was detained. I most sincerely console with you on the Loss of your good father & my good friend. The many Instances of Friendship & Attention reed, from him & the family will always command my Gratitude 8c in terest me in every Thing that concerns them. Something hangs about Harry 1 that I dont understand 8c probably never shall unless you 8c I should hereafter confer upon the Subject. On hearing of his being in town I took Ph. Livingston with [me] 8c went to his Lodgings to pay him a Visit Intending unless pre-engaged to take him home to dine with me. I asked him whether he dined out
