December 20, 1775 499 Loss. To dwell upon this painful Subject will administer Consolation to neither of Us. Let us however fortify ourselves against immedeiate Grief by contemplating his Virtues and by a firm assurance that res cued from the Vexations and Calamities of a Jarring world he is translated to the Manshions of eternal Rest and Happiness. This is the sure Reward of a Life directed by a Reverence for the Supreme Being, by a Love of Justice, by Patriotism, and Philanthropy: Quali ties for which our amiable Friend was conspicuous! Let us follow his fair Example, and adorn our minds with the same Graces, and after a few more Struggles with the Follies, the Misfortunes and the Sorrows of this transient Scene, we shall meet again never to be disturbed or seperated. Accept my Thanks for your obliging favour from Albany. Your Brother had already communicated Genl. Montgomerie’s Successes which will raise his military Character to an exalted Degree of Eminence. 1 I hope tho’ I have had little of Capt. Livingston’s Com pany, owing to Constant Attendance on the Congress, yet I have con tributed to his spending the time agreeably here by introducing and mentioning him to my Friends. The Gentlemen you particularize in the Close of your Letter were all pleased with that mark of your Re gard and Attention, and I am confident they hold you in high Estima tion. Nothing worthy of particular animadv. has passed in Congress since your departure. The Virginians are distressed by Lord Dumore at the head of a few despicable white people and Slaves. They cry aloud for the Aid of Congress. Nothing less than Six battalions are talked of; nay reported by a Committee, for their Defence! Four Bat talions are ordered to be raised in Pensylv., One in the lower Coun ties. New York I suppose will not be forgotten. In short it is probable that by the spring there will be exclusive of our Province a Southern Army of 16 Battalions besides minute men and militia. I think I may venture to guess that we shall have a Recess about Christmas. I long for it impatiently and hope soon afterwards to pay you a Visit. Present my Affectionate Regard to both Mrs. Livingston and Mrs. Montgomerie and the young Ladies; and believe that I am with the highest Regard Dear Sir, Your most Affectionate & most Obed huml servant Jas. Duane RC (NHpR: Livingston-Redmond Collection deposit) . 'See John Jay to Robert R. Livingston, Jr., December 19, 1775, note.
