502 December 21, 1775 four Pensylvania, one Maryland. I hope you have Reed mine enclos ing the vote of Congress Concerning our Civil government tho I [have] Reed no account of it. In my last I informed you that the Con gress had voted our Colony forty thousand Dollars in part of our De mand till [the] account Can be Setled. The money is yet not ready to be Sent. I am Gentm your friend and Humble Servt Josiah Bartlett P.S. I have sent a printed Copy of the Journals of last session of Con gress. FC (NhD) . Endorsed by Bartlett: "This was Wrote to [be] sent to the Comtte before Mr. Langdons arrival from Tyconderoga. On his return before Sending off the letter at his request I appointed him to build the Ship and he returned home for that purpose.” From Bartlett’s endorsement and from the appearance of a large "X” across the face of the document, it seems that this letter was not sent. 1 Congress approved the construction of these ships on December 13, and the following day Bartlett was appointed a member of the committee “for fitting out armed vessels.” JCC, 3:425-28. John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress [December 21-22? 1775] 1 Questionable shape. Roman sentence in best Times. Themistocles 8c Aristides. Sextus, Pompey & Menas. Philip 2d & Lewis 14th. Eternal Rules of Justice & Equity. Thucidides, Every Thing just that was use ful, every thing honorable that was Profitable. Liberty 8c Life may be obtain’d at too dear a Price. Doubts even if certain the Liberty of America depended on the Act, but Event uncertain. May dislodge them to take Post somewhere else. The Destruction of many of our Friends, Women 8c Children certain. Garrison will seize safest Places. 2 (Question does not properly belong to Us. It is a Point of General ship. Their authority sufficient.') 365 Miles distant. In the Room. Ni neveh. Injure our Reputation in America. Fatal Consequences. Peo ple confined there by our Order (see p. 51.) (We should leave the Point as it is. Determines Nothing.) Jehovah. Girah. The Liberty of America depends not on such a Massacre. Instance of Henry 4th at Siege of Paris. Providence favors Humanity. When We overlook his Laws, The Conclusion not equal to our Expecta tions. Observe his Laws—8c trust to his Goodness. “The skilfulness of the Pilot avails but little, if the Gale of Divine Favor, which governs human Affairs with eternal Providence, does not help to bring our Actions to their desired Port.” Davila. 3 War dreadful enough in itself.
