506 December 21, 1775 I therefore most heartily recommend to the good people of this Continent to enter into these necessary businesses with spirit, being well assured that a greater quantity may, with ease, be made than will be needed for our consumption, even admitting the times to be worse than the threats of the British administration would lead us to expect. Any person inclining to build a powder mill will be shewn a plan, with directions for the constructions of all its parts and utensils, by applying to their very humble servant, 3 Henry Wisner MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Evening Post, December 21, 1775. 1 Benjamin Towne (d. 1793), printer of the Pennsylvania Evening Post, was noteworthy for the mutability of his political allegiances in the revolutionary era, supporting the American patriot cause until the British occupied Philadelphia, adopting a loyalist position during the British occupation, and returning to the American side after the British evacuated the city. DAB. 2 Thomas Young had published an essay on the manufacture of saltpetre in the December 7, 1775, issue of the Pennsylvania Evening Post and had arranged for Towne to print in the December 5 issue some notes on the production of nitre which he had "received from Mr. Jacob Rubsamen, a gentlemen of very liberal education, observation, and experience, some years since from Hesse in Germany.” Pennsylvania Evening Post, December 5, 7, 1775. • Samuel Adams sent a copy of Wisner’s plan of a powder mill with a short covering letter to Paul Revere. Samuel Adams to Paul Revere, December 23, 177[5], MHi; letter damaged but printed in Elbridge H. Goss, The Life of Colo nel Paul Revere, 2 vols. (Boston: Joseph G. Cuppies, 1891), 2:405. Samuel Adams to John Adams My dear Sir Philade Deer. 22 1775 My Concern for your Welfare indued me carefully to watch the Weather till I conjectured you had got to the End of your Journey, and I have the Pleasure of believing it has been more agreable than one might have expected at this Season. I hope you found Mrs Ad ams and Family in a confirmd State of Health. I will not envy you, but I earnestly wish to enjoy, at least for a few Weeks, domestick Re tirement and Happiness. I dare not however, urge an Adjournment of the Congress. It would indeed be beneficial to the Members & the publick on many Considerations, but our Affairs are now at so criti cal a Conjuncture that a Seperation might be dangerous. Since you left us, our Colony has sometimes been divided, on Questions that appeard to me to be important. Mr C[ushing] has no doubt a Right to speak his opinion whenever he can form one; and you must agree with him, that it was highly reasonable, the Consider ation of such Letters as you have often heard read, which had been assignd for the Day, should, merely for the Sake of order, have the Preference to so trifling Business as the raising an American Navy. I
