December 22, 1775 507 know it give you great Pleasure to be informd that the Congress have orderd the Building of thirteen Ships of War viz five of 32 Guns, five of 28 and three of 24. 1 I own I wishd for double or treble the Num ber, but I am taught the Rule of Prudence, to let the fruit hang till it is ripe, otherwise those Fermentations and morbid Acrimonies might be producd in the political, which the like Error is said to pro duce in the natural Body. Our Colony is to build two of these Ships. We may want Duck. I have been told that this Article is manufacturd in the Counties of Hampshire & Berkshire. You may think this worth your Enquiry. Our Fleet, which has been preparing here will be ready to put to Sea in two or three days, and it is left to the Board of Admiralty to order its Destination. May Heaven succeed the Undertaking. Hopkins is appointed Commander in Chiefe. I dare promise that he will on all occasions distinguish his Bravery, as he always has, and do honor to the American Flag. General Schuyler is at Albany. By a Letter from him of the 14th Instt. 2 we are informd that there had been a Meeting of Indians in that place, who deliverd to him a Speech, “in which they related the Substance of a Conference Coll Johnson had with them the last Sum mer, concluding with that at Montreal, where he deliverd to each of the Canadian Tribes a War belt and the Hatchet which they accepted; after which they were invited to feast on a Bostonian and drink his Blood, an ox being roasted for the purpose and a pipe of Wine given to drink. The War Song was also sung. One of the Chiefs of the Six Nations who attended that Conference, accepted of a very large black War belt with an Hatchet depicturd on it, but would neither eat nor drink nor sing the War Song. This famous Belt they have deliverd up, and there is now full Proof that the ministerial Servants have attempt ed to engage the Indians against us.” This is copied from the Gener als Letter. You will know what I mean when I mention to you the Report of the Committee of Conference. This has been considerd and deter mind agreable to your Mind & mine. Mr H[ancock] agreed with me in opinion, and I think, in expressing his Sentiments he honord him self. I dare not be more explicit on this Subject. It is sufficient that you understand me. I have more to say to you but for Want of Leisure I must postpone it to another opportunity. Inclosd you have a Number of Letters which came to my hand directed to you. Had you been here I should possibly have had the Benefit of perusing them. I suffer in many Re spects by your Absense. Pray present my due Regards to all Friends—particularly Coll Warren, and tell him I will write to him soon. Your affectionate Friend
