510 December 22, 1775 uents will keep me whole. The allowance they have agreed upon will, if I retrench a little, about do that. It must be obvious that keeping much Company, is necessary to obtain a personal Influence with the members, and that the Colony is interested in their Delegates possessing such Influence. Should we ever converse upon this Subject I will mention some important In stances of its Use. I am glad you think of reducing our Number. Five is certainly suffi cient—3 of them to be a Quorum. 2 Your Conduct relative to Sear’s Expedition so far as it respects Connecticut is certainly proper—but I suspect this will be the first In stance of censuring the Followers without reprehending the Leaders. It is time that your Government should acquire a firmer Tone. Tomorrow I shall go to Elizabeth Town for a Week—and shall de vote the first Leizure Hour I have to telling you twenty things about which want of time compels me now to be silent. Mr. Duane complains to me that you have taken no notice of a Letter he wrote you some time ago. He says it was friendly & expect ed you would treat it as such. It respected some Observations made on your Detention from the Army, & his Remarks on that Subject: which were just. Coll. Morris was very useful at the Indian Treaty & had he not, by being accidentally at Pittsburgh, given the Congress an opportunity of supplying Dr. Franklins absence, by appointing him Com [missione] r pro Tempore, there is Reason to believe our affairs in that Quarter might have suffered. As to Arms. I think you should take Care how you strip yourselves to cover your Neighbours Nakedness—neighbours too who have no Reason to expect. It is Time that you should look to your own Ne cessities. New York never stood better with Congress than now. Your Alacrity in raising & arming your Troops last Summer &c. is com pared with the Tediousness &: slow moving of others. Some Powder has arrived here, but the Fleet will consume it. More has arrived to the Eastward & the Camp will take that. For the future remember that Charity should begin at Home. God bless you. Yours &c. John Jay [P.S.] The Congress I am persuaded will not make the Loan you ask. 3 RC (NHi) . 1 On December 4 Governor Tryon had published a letter to the inhabitants of New York, asking them to express “in a constitutional manner” their sense of the February 20, 1775, parliamentary resolution on conciliation. In response, the New York Provincial Congress, after much debate and amendment, approved a series of resolves on December 14, declaring among other things “that nothing of a salutary nature can be expected from a separate declaration of the sense of this Colony on
