December 22, 1775 511 the Resolution of the House of Commons of the 20th February last.” Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:173-74, 394-95, 406-13; and JCC, 2:61-63. ’See New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress, October 16, 1775, note. ’The New York Provincial Congress had asked the New York delegates, in a letter of December 9, to procure a loan of £45,000 from Congress, but on December 23 Congress turned down this request, as Jay predicted. JCC, 3:452; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:397. William Livingston to William Maxwell? Dr Sir Philadelphia 22 Dec. 1775 In Answer to yours of the 18 Instant (since which I have sent the Commissions by Mr Spencer) It can’t be expected the Congress will advance the Sum you 1 mention, under the notion of deducting it out of the Men’s wages, because the men may die or desert before it is due. The Blankets the men are to find themselves, 8c if they cannot purchase them I think the Committee should do it. However if Mr. Lowrie who is appointed Commissary was to state to the Congress the Situation of the Battalions, & what articles they are in want of & apply for an advance of Cash, I doubt not he would be attended to. I sup pose the same with respect to the Committee, tho’ the Commissary must be presumed to be best acquainted with the matter. I am greatly surprized the Assembly did not on Mr Kinsey’s & Mr De Hart’s Resignation supply their Places by the Appointment of two other Delegates. ‘Tis true they have given the Right of Representation to either of their Members. This is proper enough because it may un fortunately happen that only one might be able to attend. But surely it wou’d not be proper that only one should attend. Admitting then that two attend, who does not see that they may frequently happen to differ in opinion, & then no vote can be given. If to prevent that In convenience, all three attend, I leave it to any man to judge of the runinous Consequences to a Man’s family to give such constant 8c perpetual Attendance. I can assure you that nothing but my Devotion to the Public, has kept [me] here this long, whereas if we consisted of five as before, we could always have three at the Congress 8c take turns to see our families, 8c if only three attended the Expence would be the same. I scorn to quit my Colours thro’ Impatience or Discour agement, but I think it reasonable that the Burden should be divided. I do not mean to blame Friend Crane for his last homeward-bound Voyage, because he fairly offered it to me as being my Turn; but as I knew that his Affairs from his Representation, suffered more by his Absence than mine did by my continuing abroad, I consented. I shall have no objection to giving Dr Harris my Interest for Sur geon in a future Battalion, if he can give me any proof of his skill in
