December 23, 1775 513 dition of the 2 Battalions in Jersey & complains of the Increase of Toryism. 1 The House again in Grand Comee. on the Boston Affair 8c after much canvassing 8c sundry Propositions offered, the Vote passed for directing Gen. Washn. to destroy the Army 8c Navy at Boston in any Way He 8c a Council of War shall think best, even if the Town must be burnt, 7 Colonies to 2, one not fully represented 8c our Colony di vided, Wm. Livingston being agt. the Resolution & myself for it. Mr. Hancock spoke heartily for this Measure. Esek Hopkins Esqr. of Rhode Island (the same that commanded their Forces in Quality of Brig. General) appointed Commander in Chief of the American Fleet, he is to sail with the Ships of War now fitting out in the Port of Philadelphia and his Pay was voted to be 125 Dollars per Month 6 Colonies to 4, the latter thought the Pay too high. The Captains, Lieuts. 8c Warrant Officers as appointed by our Comee. for Naval Affairs were ordered to be Commissioned, the Question was put Whether any Allowance shall be made to the Ad miral for Table Expences 8c negatived by a large Majority. Mr. Hop kins had very generously offered to serve without any Pay. Col. Lee 8c others gave Him a high Character. A Comee. chosen to confer with the Indians now at the State House. Gen Schuylers Letters finished. Col Harrison the Delegate’s Expences ordered to be paid for going lately to Maryland to promote the Equipment of some Frigates there. Motion by Gadsden to publish that Part of Gen Schuylers Letters where the Indians say that Guy Johnson invited them to take up the Hatchet against the Colonists 8c that he roasted an Ox and gave them a Pipe of Wine asking them to feast on the Flesh 8c Blood of a New England Man—was deferred. 2 Part of Conollys Letters was ordered to put in the News Papers. MS (DLC). ‘See JCC, 3:443. Alexander’s letter has not been found. a On December 23 Congress ordered the publication of a paragraph of Schuyler’s letter to Hancock of December 14 reporting Guy Johnson’s efforts to stir up the Iroquois against the Americans. JCC, 3:456; and Am. Archives, 4th ser., 4.260-61. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Gentlemen Congress Chamber 23d Deer. 1775 I have now only time to inform you that in consequence of your Accounts being laid before Congress, they ordered the Money out of the new Emission which will be ready in three days when it shall be forwarded to you in the cheapest and most expeditious manner. 1 I have the Honor to be with Esteem, Gentlemen Your most obedi ent Servant J°h n Hancock
