514 December 23, 1775 Tr (M-Ar) . 1 See Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly, December 2, 1775, note 2. John Jay to Sarah Jay My dear Wife Philad. 23 Deer. 1775 I have now the Pleasure of informing you that the New York Con vention has at Length made some Provision for their Delegates vizt. 4 Dollars per Day for their Attendance on the last, and this Congress, so that I shall not be so great a Sufferer as I once apprehended. The Allowance indeed does by no means equal the Loss I have sustained by the appointment, but the Convention I suppose consider the Hon or as an Equivalent for the Residue. The Congress this Day refused to give me Leave of absence for next Week. There are but five New York Delegates here, Coll. Mor ris & Mr Lewis being absent, so that should either of us leave the town, the Province would be unrepresented. 1 We expect however soon to adjourn, and your Papa 2 has engaged Mr. Hooper to accom pany him to Elizabeth town, where 1 hope we shall soon be all very happy. My Horses were new shod, Wheels greased, Cloaths put up and every thing ready to set off early in the Morning, when on going to Congress this Morning all my pleasing Expectations of seeing you on Christmas Day were disappointed. Dont you pity me my Dear Sal ly? It is however some Consolation that should the Congress not ad journ in less than ten Days, I am determined to stay with you till and depend upon it nothing but actual Imprisonment will be able to keep me from you. At present I find the objections of the Congress so reasonable, that I am sure you would blame me, were [7] to attempt leaving them without Permission. I must endeavour to resign my self to my fate, and am sure you have too much good Sence and too much Regard for to permit the Disappointment to occasion unavailing anxi ety. Tomorrow or on Tuesday next the Congress will I believe deter mine the Time of Adjournmt. so that it is probable I shall have the Happiness of wishing you a happy New Year. Adieu my beloved. I am most sincerely Your afft. John Jay P.S. I have reed, a Letter from Rye of an old Date. They were as well as usual. I dined with your Papa toDay. He was very well. Once more let me intreat you to be chearful & keep up your Spirits. I know by my own Feelings that these kind of Disappointmts. are disagreable but when I reflect how much more happy we are than thousands of our Fellow Mortals my Uneasiness is lost in Gratitude.
