December 23, 1775 517 your arrival in town, but as the weather is now set in to be very cold, I hardly expect to see you here before I set out for Kent which (if nothing more than I now expect prevents) will be on Sunday-week, The day before New-Years day. The weather is like to continue so cold that I shall travel slow 8c therefore do not expect to be at Dover before Tuesday or Wednesday following. I sent by Betts Veshell a small box of fine cut Tobacco which I recollect not to have men tioned in my letter & have since put on board of Palmer sewed up in a Bag, one gallon of garden pease 8c beg you will have these things taken care of. I did not Know whether we were in want of the last ar ticle or not but sent them down for fear we should, as has frequently been the case. The intelligence of our having got possession of Quebec, it seems is not true. Lord Stirling who sent us the Express is too credulous. Since then, we have letters both from Arnold 8c from Montgomery. Arnold says he is before Quebec 8c Montgom[er]y marched the 25th of Nov. to his assistance, so that I do not doubt we shall have a good account of that place in a little time. I am glad to hear that Betsey is like to get well & desire to be remembered to her 8c to all the rest of my friends. I am yours 8cc. Cesar Rodney Tr (DLC) . 1 On December 9 Congress had authorized the raising of one battalion in the lower counties. JCC, 3:418. Richard Smith’s Diary Saturday Deer. 23. [1775] The Journal read 8c some Parts marked not to be printed. Letter from Ld. Stirling praying to be furnished with Powder 8c Six Field Pieces to defend some vessels that have taken Shelter on the Coasts of Bergen 8c Essex, he has seized some Tories. 1 Langdon reported the Proceedgs of Himself 8c his Two Colleagues who have been sent by Congress to Ticonderoga, which were read 8c referred. 2 Their Ex- pences reported by the Comee. of Claims and Payment ordered. This Comee. reported other Accounts which were allowed. Dyer read an Act of the Connecticut] Legislature just passed, forbidding more Settlers to go on the Wyoming Lands on certain Conditions till fur ther Order of that Assembly, Jay moved that it be recommended to Connecticut] to extend the Time till further Order of this Congress, his Motion was carried 4 Colonies to 3 8c the rest either divided or absent. The Delegates of Connecticut wanted to set aside this Vote because it was not carried by a Majority of the Colonies present, sed non allocavit. Duane gave in a Sett of Resolves for Sinking the last 3 248-053 0 - 77 - 35
