December 25, 1775 519 and a fixed Resolution never to part with it but with their last Breath. You are kind in making the best Apology you can for your little Brothers, but they have behaved ill. I have been from home near four months &: have had only one Letter from Ray, charge them all to write immediately. I wish Betsy could write. Cant She be learnt this Winter, a Letter from her would give me much Pleasure. I hope she behaves well. I wish the News of Arnolds taking of Quebec which your Uncle wrote You was true but unhappily one quarter of his Men returned to Cambridge; the rest suffered terribly by fatigue and fam ine, their Arms & Powder were so damaged & exhausted & the Num ber of effective men so small 550 only that they were obliged to re tire from the City & send to Genl. Montgomery for a Reinforcement. He is gone himself with all his Forces that I hope we shall soon have it. In the mean Time prepare your Mind to part with dear Bror. Heaven only knows where or how he is, if he behaved well he is safe either in Canada or the Mansions of eternal Bliss & I cant doubt it. Arnold’s March is considered here as the greatest Action done this War. Some say it equals Xenophons Retreat from Persia, others that nothing greater has been done since the Days of Alexander. I had a Letter from your Uncle Ward last Post, General Washing tons Difficulties I hope will be removed. If I can get Time to buy some handkers. I will & Pins also. The Poem you desired Polly to write for [me] will send by first Opportunity. Mrs. Li[. . .] Acct, cannot be setled until my Return; pay her twenty Dollars if She wants them. The Papers inclosed to your Sisters will give you all the News save that Esek Hopkins is made Commander in chief 1 RC (RHi). 1 Except for some marginalia pertaining to his personal clothing, remainder of MS missing. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett Philadelphia Decembr 25th 1775 My Dear 10 of the Clock in the Evening I this moment Receive! yours of the 7th Instant and with pleasure hear you & the family are well. But am Sorry to inform you that I Cannot return to you at present. So much Business lays before the Congress; I fear it wont rise for Some time. When it Does rise, one Delegate from Each Colony must tarry to transact the Publick Busi ness in the recess, So that I think I Shall not be able to return till to wards Spring. 1 Capt Langdon is returned here from Ticonderoga, and I Expect he
