520 December 25, 1775 will return to Pourtsmouth in a few Days and George will return with him. I will Endeavor to Send by him the things you mention in your letter and by George Shall write you more fully. I am Extremely Sorry for the Disappointment we both have in my not returning So Soon as I Expected 8c gave you reason to Expect, But I hope all will turn out for the best. Who Knows but that if I had Set out [in] this very Severe weather it might have been the means of my Death and So hinder my being Ever able to See you; in Short I Desingn to make my Self as Easy as possible and hope you will Do the Same and make your life as Comfortable as you Can. I intend to Send you Some mony by George and hope you will lay it out for what you want. I am in good health but very tender, by being Confined here for above 3 months with but little Exercise. This Day being Christmas the Congress Did not Set, So I had an oppertun- ity to ride about 6 or 7 miles out of town in a Sley, but yesterday and the Day before we had a Severe Cold Storm of Snow which is now about Six inches Deep. Desire Capt Calef to look me out a good faithful Steady hand 8c hire him for me for 9 months or a year to assist in my farming Business. I am Determined to return as Soon as I Can with propriety. Give my Kind regards to Capt Calef, Col Grely, Leut Pearson and all friends. I remain yours 8cc Josiah Bartlett [P.S.] I had rather Capt Calef Should give Something Extraordinary than not have a good hand. Ebenr. Hills has the Small pox by innoc- ulation pretty favorable as his Doctr tells me. J B RC (NhHi). 1 For the “instructions for the Committee who are to sit during the recess of Congress," adopted on December 15, see JCC, 3:430-31. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada. Deer 26 1775 I have receivd your obliging Letter of the 5th Instant by Fessen den, for which I am very thankful to you. 1 The present form of our Government, you tell me, is not considerd as permanent. 2 This af fords the strongest Motive to improve the Advantages of it, while it continues. May not Laws be made and Regulations establishd, under this Government, the salutary Effects 6f which the People shall be so convincd of from their own Experience, as never hereafter to suffer them to be repeald or alterd. But what other Change is expected? Certainly the People do not already hanker after the Onions and the Garlick! They cannot have so soon forgot the Tyranny of their late Governors, who, being dependent upon, and the mere Creatures of a
