526 December 27, 1775 23, 1775; and Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, November 24 and 29, 1775. Warren’s “last Letter” was that of December 5, 1775. Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Philadelphia Deer. 27th. 1775 I received a Lettr. dated the 19th from one Simeon Deane who is troubled with the Rheumatism, or Gout, at the bottom of which are these Words, “Mrs. Deane says she would write You but not having reed, any Lettrs. lately, She thinks proper to wait.” As I can hardly Credit the Story, must leave it with you to inquire into the Truth of it. I have indeed been favored with Two Letters from You since You left Us, 8c have returned Five in paymt. Mr. Sherman is returned but brings No News from Our assembly. Our Term is up, Saturday Next, but I shall hardly set out for home untill sometime the Middle of Jan uary if so soon, as Our Fleet is got stopp’d by the Ice. Your Brother Dudley came here last Saturday & lodges with Me for the present, when he will be able to sail depends on the weather. 1 I wrote you per Capt Phelps 8c sent the Silk but have no Answer as yet. I had no Time to write by Mr Adams or should have sent one Line. My Com- plimts. to all Freinds & Love to Jesse & Family. I am my Dear Your’s Affectionately Silas Deane RC (CtHi) . 1 Dudley Saltonstall had recently been appointed captain of the Alfred, flagship of the Continental fleet. JCC, 3:443. Benjamin Franklin to Philip Mazzei Dear Sir, Philada. Dec. 27. 1775 1 It was with great Pleasure I learnt from Mr Jefferson, that you were settled in America, 2 and from the Letter you favour’d me with, that you like the Country, and have reason to expect Success in your laudable and meritorious Endeavours to introduce new Products. I heartily wish you all the Success you can desire, in that, and in every other Undertaking that may conduce to your comfortable Establish ment in your present Situation. I know not how it has happened that you did not receive an An swer to your Letter from the Secretaries of our Society. I suppose they must have written, 8c that it has miscarried. If you have not yet sent the Books which the Academy of Turin have done us the Hon our to present us with, we must, I fear, wait for more quiet Times be-
