532 December 27, 1775 doubt not but you will direct your whole Attention to his important Juncture. Remember Me to all Friends. I am most affectionately yours Sam Ward [P.S.] Lord Dunmore you will see by the Papers has been defeated & obliged to fly on board his Ships; six Battalions will be raised in that Colony soon & I hope we shall arm all Parts of the Continent soon. RC (RHi) . 1 See Ward to Henry Ward, October 15, 1775, note. 3 Ward’s letters to Nathanael Greene have not been found, but for further indications of their tenor see Greene's letters to Ward of December 31 in Ward. Correspondence (Knollenbcrg) , pp. 152-57. John Hancock to George Clymer and Michael Hillegas Congress Chamber, December 28, 1775. Requests Continental Treasurers Clymer and Hillegas to pay the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety $8,000 “for the use of the Battalion of Continental Troops in this city.” 1 MS not found; abstracted from dm. drchives, 4th sei . 4:504-5. 1 See JCC, 3:463. Thomas Lynch to Thomas Lynch, Jr. Dear Tom » Deer. 28 [1775] f wrote you a long Letter lately by a Vessel bound to Georgia and another to Mr. Neyle, 1 since which the River has been frozen so as to prevent any Vessells getting out. 1 have sat down to repeat a part of my Letter on the Subject of Salt Petre. A Gentleman here makes from 3 to 4 1/2 l[bs.] every day from less than 2 bushells of earth taken from the Surface, under any old Building. It seems, from his Experiments, that Stables or Cellars are too full of Marine Salts, and that pure Earth, loamy or Clayey which is placed so as to receive the Air, is most useful for this work, as he makes ten times as much as any body who tries the other materials. He fills his two Kegs with Earth every Morning and pours on soft warm Water, filling it up till the water Stands an Inch above the Earth, letting it remain 2 hours, then draw it off like lees of Ashes (returning the foul). The clear is directly put into a Common Brass Kettle and hung over the Kitchen Fire to boil, the Keggs of Earth again filled with Water, which is to be drawn off and boiled as be fore. When 2/3 is boiled away, both Boiling are poured on a Bit of
