December 28, 1775 533 wood ashes placed on some straw in order to filter and clarify; when drawn out clear it is to be boiled again till it is so thick, as when dropped on the blade of a Knife it will stick when the Knife stands edgeways; tis then to be taken off immediately and poured into an other Keg with a Cock 2 Inches from the bottom, where the Sea Salt and any other impurity Settles to the bottom and the Liquor contain ing the Salt Petre is to be poured of[f] thro’ the Cock into dishes & plates to Christallize and set into the coolest plates. This must be done before the Liquor is cold, as the Salt Petre shoots as soon as ’tis cold. Colo. Horrys, Dani Hor[r]ys at Wambaw, our old Place at Santee are exactly of the same soil & under their Piazzas, Negro Houses, & Barns thousands may be got. It is needless to say how ma terial it is to be had among ourselves. The Bond sent by Mr. Brewton is said to have been paid to the Person to whom it was first given, so there can be no expectation from it. We have no material News, but daily expect some of most impor tant Nature. Cold horrid Weather and a most dismal Christmas. We are all well and desire our love to you all. Your most affectionate Father Tho Lynch RC (PHi) . 1 Neither of these letters has been found. Richard Smith’s Diary [December 28, 1775] Thursday 28. 1 The Journals read & one Passage ordered for Omis sion. Report of Accounts from the Comee. of Claims allowed. One of them was for maintaining some Prisoners in Goal, Harrison moved to enlarge them. Vote Whether the Virginian 6 Battalions shall have 37/6 or 50/ per month our Curr[enc]y was carried for the latter if their Convention cannot raise Men cheaper, 3 Colonies only in the Negative, then a Motion was made by the Virginians that the 6 Bat- tals. shall be altered to 8. Sed non Allocatur. There was a considera ble Controversy on the main Question Whether the 6 Batts, shall be raised, it was carried in the Affirmative. Then a Motion was made by Wilson supported by McKean, Wm. Livingston &: others that the Middle Colony Troops shall have the same Pay, after some Time spent therein it was postponed. Some Talk about dispatching Bulls Regiment to Virginia. Montgomery some Weeks ago was created a Major General. 2 8000 Dollars advanced to the Comee. of Safety of Penna, towards Payment of Bulls Battalion. £5 advanced to the In-
