December 29, 1775 535 New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress, October 16; Francis Lewis to John Alsop, November 19; and John Jay to Sarah Jay, December 23, 1775; and JCC, 3:396-97. In response to the inconveniences resulting from their inability to maintain a legal representation in Congress, nine states voted during the ensuing months to reduce their requirements for a quorum. Thus by late 1776 only four states still specified more than a single delegate to cast their state’s vote in Congress; and as New York and Virginia reduced their requirement from five to three and from four to three respectively, only Pennsylvania (four delegates) and nearby Maryland (three delegates) , with easy access to the seat of Congress, appear to have believed they could continue to ignore such difficulties. See JCC, 4:14, 57, 122, 305, 354, 377,5:712,6:1000. Richard Smith’s Diary Friday 29 Deer. [1775] Journal read & one or Two passages ordered to be omitted in Pub lication. A Petitn. from Simeon Sellick committed to myself, Col. Floyd & Francis Lightfoot Lee Esqr. 1 The House went into Grand Committee, Gov. Ward in the Chair, when it was agreed after much Debate to allow Virginia, Maryland and North Carolina to import as much Salt as their several Conventions or Committees of Safety think necessary from any foreign Country, &: to export Produce therefor. Debates upon opening our Ports to foreign Countries after the 1st of March next, within the Terms of our Association, adjorned. A Rec ommendation to the several Assemblies 8c Conventions to encorage the Manufacture of Salt, was offered by Dr. Franklin, agreed to & or dered to be published. R. Morris informed that a person offers to es tablish Salt Works on the Jersey Coast if the Congress will lend him £200. Mr. Morris & Lynch were desired to inquire more particularly into it. McKean gave Information that a Quantity of Arms, Ammuni tion & Cannon is buryed near Sir John Johnsons House with his Priv ity & that some Scotch and other Tories are there enlisted by the Ene my, a Corhee. of 3 was appointed to examine the Two Men who brought the report to McKean & to ascertain the Fact as far as they can. Leave granted for a Lieut, a Prisoner, to come to Philada. for 2 Weeks. Andrew Allen presented a Petition from a Number of the In habitants of Northampton & other back Parts of Pennsylvania inti mating that they will not obey the Recommendations of Congress in the Wyoming Affair, this Petition gave much Offence and was or dered to lie on the Table. 2 An Application from the Virginia Con vention praying Means may be used for the Release of 3 Gentlemen, one of them a Delegate in that Convention named Robinson, lately seized by Lord Dunmore, left for Consideration. (The brave Capt. Manly retook & released these Gentn. on their Voyage to Gen. Howe at Boston.) 3
