December 30, 1775 537 Benjamin Harrison to Robert Carter Nicholas Dr Sir Phida. Dccr. 30th. 1775. I Reed, your Favor 1 by Express inclosing Bills of Exchg. for five hundred Pounds Sterg. which we have agreed to divid amongst us that are left after Deducting the amount of the Paper &c. sent by Capt Innis, and what you have now order’d, and £17.5.0 this Cury. ad vanced to Singleton. The poor Fellow lost his Horse which made this necessary. We shall also pay fifty Pounds Virga Currency for Mr Jef ferson and take up his order on you to Willing & Morris; the Bills are Sold at seventy two and a half per Cent. The Express was Ready to set off yesterday but geting a Letter from the Cen. Inclosing a Num ber of intercepted Letters from L. Dunmore and both the Carolinas we thought it better to detain him a Day that we might send to the Com[mitte]e of Safety Extracts of such as were interesting, which we have done and refer you to them for a Sight of them. 2 I had a private Letter from Camp by which I think it is certain that Robinson, Ma thews and Deane were taken in the Vessel. We have no News from Canada but expect an Express every Day with the good Tidings of our being in possession of Quebec. I am Dr Sir Your affet Servt Benj Harrison P.S. We have agreed for 25 Ream of Paper to be Deliver’d in 16 Days which shall be immediately sent to you. The other ten will not be ready in some time longer. We think it best to send what we can get soon that you may not shut up shop. 3 RC (PHC). 1 See Robert Carter Nicholas to the Virginia delegates in Congress, December 12, 1775. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:271. See also his letters of November 10 and 25, 1775, ibid., pp. 254-56, 266-68. Nicholas (1728-80) , prominent Williamsburg lawyer and member of the House of Burgesses, was the treasurer of Virginia. DAB. “See Richard Smith’s Diary, this date. ■’See also Harrison's letters to Nicholas of January 17 and February 13. 1776. Richard Smith’s Diary Saturday 30 Deer. [1775] A Letter from Gen. Washn. with a packet of Letters just taken by Capt. Manley in a Vessel sent with Provisions from Lord Dunmore to Gen Howe (the same Vessel mentioned in the last page) these Let ters were from Ld. Dunmore, one Midcaster, said to be the Kings Natural Brother, Hon. John Stuart & many more Persons in the Southern Colonies. 1 One Col. Kirkland of S. Carolina was taken in this Vessel. The Letters took up most of the Day in the Perusal, the S
