December 31, 1775 539 I think with You that our Declaration of Retaliation was very proper but that we may go further & believe We shall. Genl. Wash ington has sent a very spirited Message to Genl. Howe relative to Colo. Allen taken at Montreal; as I recollect his Words are “Whatev er may be his Treatment, whatever his Fate, such exactly shall be that of Brigadier General Preston whom We now have in our Power.” 1 The Virginians have at length done bravely. They have defeated Lord Dunmore, killed & taken 62 Grenadiers, their Capn. one of them, and several other privates & forced him to fly on board his Ships. The Congress has taken proper measures for the Defence of the Colony which will soon be carried into Execution. I am clear with you that our Salvation depends upon effectually supporting the Dignity, Importance 8c decisive Authority of Congress. How far increasing their Number would answer that Salutary Purpose I have not time to consider at present, our Number is now sixty five, seldom fifty are present, often less than forty. May not the additional Number you propose support by their Influence in their several Colo nies the Autho[rit]y of Congress more effectually in Person upon the Spot than when abroad by Letters, surely they may as Difficulties 8c Disorders arise apply proper Remedies and crush those things per haps in embrio which in time would become very troublesome and dangerous. The Plan of Union I agree ought to be setled this Winter but the Terms you propose I dont like. You say Representation ought to be as equal as possible. Agreed, but what is to be represented—not the Individuals of a particular Community but several States, Colonies or Bodies corporate. All Writers agree that a Nation is to be considered as one Person, one moral accountable Person having a Will of its own 8cc. Your Proposition allows to the larger Colonies several Wills & to the smaller not one, that is not one entire or compleat Will, 8c thereby makes the smaller wholly dependent on the larger; but You say Jus tice requires that the larger Colonies having a great number of Inhab itants 8c a greater Share of Property should have a proportionably greater Share of Representation. Let us see how the Doctrine will ap ply to individuals. One Man hath a numerous Family 8c is possessed of a large Estate, another has only a small Family 8c a little Estate. Is not the Life, the Family, Liberty 8c Property of the poor man being his all of as much Importance to and as dear to him as the larger all of the rich Man. Most clearly they are, surely then he may be equally intrusted with the Care of that all, and Justice cannot require that he should be deprived of any Part of the Means of self Preservation that they may be transferee! to another and yet if you allow to one of them a single Voice, to the other two or three Voices, You certainly (sel fish as people in general are) deprive one of the Means of Self Pres ervation or defence and put him wholly in the Power of the other. Do
