Illustrations View of Philadelphia endpapers “An East Prospect of the City of Philadelphia; taken by George Heap from the Jersey Shore, under the Direction of Nicholas Scull Surveyor General of the Province of Pennsylvania.” This detail is from an engraving by Thomas Jeffreys based on an etching of the city pub lished in Thomas Jeffreys, A General Topography of North America and the West Indies. Being a Collection of All the Maps, Charts, Plans, and Particular Surveys, Thal Have Been Published of That part of the World, Either in Europe or America (London: R. Sayer, 1768). Number of Continental officers, noncommissioned officers, and pri vates, with their “Pay & Emoluments Per Year,” August 1782 16 The growing imbalance between the number of Continental offi cers and privates and the high cost of paying and subsisting the army led Congress on July 11, 1782, to direct the secretary at war to suspend the issuance of Continental commissions without prior approval. As John Taylor Gilman explained to Josiah Bartlett in a letter of July 9, “Figure to your self Sir the pay and Subsistance of at Least Thirty Field Officers, Eighty Captains & 160 subalterns besides a Number of Gen eral & Staff Officers (all belonging to one State) who have not private Soldiers Enough to give each Officer a Servant.” And to dramatize his concern, Gilman prepared this list showing the strength of the Conti nental units of each state and the cost of their “Pay & Emoluments Per Year,” which he sent to Bartlett on August 5. Letter from John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett, August 5, 1782, Bartlett Papers, Dartmouth College Library. David Howell 266 Howell (1747-1824) was born in New Jersey and graduated from the College at Princeton in 1766 but was invited by Pres. James Man ning to Rhode Island College, where he took the degree of A.M. and was appointed professor of mathematics and natural philosophy in 1769. He was also admitted to the Rhode Island bar at about the same time and subsequently embarked upon a successful law practice that led to appointments as justice of the peace in 1779, to the court of common pleas in 1780, to the state supreme court in 1786-87, and as Rhode Island attorney general in 1789. From 1782 to 1785 Howell served as a delegate to Congress, where he became the principal xxvi
