Illustrations xxvii opponent of the proposed Continental impost, setting himself adamantly against the nationalist proclivities of his predecessors Ezekiel Cornell and James M. Varnum. He consequently became embroiled in controversy with the principal nationalists in Congress, denouncing as exaggerations reports of the decline of Continental credit abroad, and leaking information to the press to support his position in violation of congressional secrecy rules. He prevailed, however, against intense pressures, and rallied the unanimous sup port of the Rhode Island Assembly against the impost, thereby doom ing the plan and ultimately forcing nationalists to bolder visions of centralized power. Howell served the last 12 years of his life on the United States District Court for Rhode Island in Providence. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54681). John Taylor Gilman 300 Gilman (1753-1828) undoubtedly inherited a predilection for financial affairs from his father, Nicholas, a New Hampshire ship builder, merchant, and state treasurer, a position John succeeded to himself upon his father’s death in 1783. He served in the New Hamp shire legislature in 1779-81, represented the state at the Hartford eco nomic convention of 1780, and was a delegate to Congress in 1782-83. Arriving in Philadelphia in the midst of a fiscal crisis, Gilman worked in behalf of a number of measures for restoring Continental credit by supporting the impost amendment, Robert Morris’ Bank of North America, various revenue measures for funding interest pay ments on loan office certificates, and reducing the size of the Conti nental Army. He also showed concern for the plight of supernumer ary officers created by the reorganization of the New Hampshire Line, backed the claims of the New Hampshire towns on the west bank of the Connecticut River, and worked for settlement of New Hamp shire’s Continental accounts, which he later became more directly involved in himself as a commissioner for settling state accounts with the United States in 1788-91. His fourteen years as Federalist gover nor of New Hampshire, 1794—1805 and 1813—16, stand as the state s record for service in that office. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54674). Elias Boudinot Boudinot (1740-1821), a conservative New Jersey lawyer, was active in the movement against the coercive policies of the North ministry and Gov. William Franklin, but also advocated caution in the rush to independence. He stepped onto the Continental stage when he was appointed commissary general of prisoners in June 1777, and he rep-
