XXX Illustrations July 1783, a period of intense concern over Continental finances. Although Rhode Island had strongly supported Continental policies during much of the war, Arnold and his colleague David Howell set themselves against the nationalist policies of their predecessors Ezekiel Cornell, William Ellery, and James M. Varnum, especially in opposing half pay to Continental Army officers and granting Congress authority to levy a Continental impost. Arnold frequently found him self under fire from congressional colleagues for opposing the impost, and early in 1783 he was accused of leaking a warning to two Vermont activists facing arrest for correspondence with the British. Arnold defended himself against the charge but was unable to produce the evidence that he declared would clear him; and his heavy involvement in the development of a 3,900-acre Vermont tract granted to him by Gov. Thomas Chittenden and his move to St. Johnsbury, Vt., in 1787 underscored the strength of his commitment to promoting Vermont interests. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54661). John Lewis Gervais 666 A wealthy South Carolina merchant-planter, Gervais (1741?-98) was born and educated in Germany, but his mercantile interests early took him to England and to South Carolina, where he became a partner of Henry Laurens in a project to bring German immigrants to the Ninety Six District, his residence for a number of years before he settled in Charleston. He supported the American Revolution from its begin ning, becoming a member successively of the Council of Safety, the Provincial Congress, the General Assembly, and the South Carolina Senate. In 1775 Gervais was also designated quartermaster to two South Carolina regiments, and in 1778 he was appointed both deputy paymaster general of the Continental Army in the southern depart ment and deputy postmaster general. A delegate to Congress in 1782-83, Gervais worked particularly to prevent the premature with drawal of Continental troops from the southern department, and to ensure observation of the peace treaty provision prohibiting the “car rying away” of slaves and other American property at the British evacu ation of Charleston and New York. Engraving by Albert Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54673).
