4 August 2, 1782 patches from Mr Adams & appealed to a letter written in his favour by Mr Adams, Congress related only simple facts; namely that the subject of the letters with which he was entrusted & those which Mr Adams sent at the same time by another conveyance evinced that he had not the full confidence of the minister & that Mr Adams Letter did not account for his past conduct and explain his future views. He appealed to the records of Congress and to the letter just read whether these were not facts truly stated. Mr T’s conduct was at least mysterious. Congress acted properly. He was against granting him a copy of the letter, but had no objection to sending it to the Executive of Massachusetts. An adjournment was called for and no question taken. 3 MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 80-81. 1 For the evolution and adoption of these resolves, see JCC, 22:425-27; and Samuel Osgood to Henry Knox, September 17, 1782. 2 This John Adams letter to Congress, which was originally read November 12, 1781, is in PCC, item 84, 3:366-69. 3 No record of this debate is found in the journals, but for Congress’ previous con cern over John Temple’s return to America, see John Hanson to John Hancock, March 1, 1782. For James Madison’s role in this debate, see also Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:3-5. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates August 2. [1782] A Letter from M r Jay was read containing an account of his negotia tions with the Spanish ministry from Oct. 3 1781 to April 28 1782, the date of the letter; 1 the delay, chicane & slight he met with and particu larly his embarrassments on account of the bills drawn on him and the necessity he was at last under of protesting some of the bills for want of money. As soon as the letter was read— M r Rutledge moved that a Com tl be appointed to revise the instruc tions given to M r Jay and report what alterations & additions if any should be made. This was seconded from every quarter of the house & a Corn 11 of five were chosen. M r Lowell then moved that the Letter of M r Jay of the 28 th April and the instructions given to the ministers for negotiating a peace should be referred to the same Committee. M r Madison called for a division. He approved the committing the letter but objected against the other part of the motion. It was a deli cate subject and ought to be handled with caution & circumspection. The introducing it at this time would give ground to suspect that there was something in the letter which gave rise to it. That the Letter
