August 3, 1782 5 contained new proof of the friendship of France. That if at the moment we were about to revise and alter the instructions respecting Spain a step was taken which might shew our want of confidence in France and give offence to that Court it might endanger our affairs. 2 M r Lee had no objection against dividing the question but could not be easy nor think himself justified to his constituents until he brought forward the subject contained in the other part. He did not approve the present mode of bringing it on, it was too indirect. He had made a motion which was before the house on which he was determined to call the yeas & nays. He then inveighed against the instructions of the 15 June, 1781, as derogatory to the honor, dignity and independence of the United States, contrary to the treaties made with France & which must expose us to the contempt of our allies and all the nations of Europe. M r Lowell thought this the most delicate way of introducing the subject & which he hoped would have met the sentiments of every member as well those who were in favour of as those who were against the instructions. That the subject must be debated, that the motion for referring them to a Committee with other matters did not involve the approbation or disapprobation of them by Congress & could give no offence. The Com u might think it proper to adhere to them & make no report or if they judged it proper to make any alteration they would have time to deliberate on the mode and manner. Several other members spoke. On a division the question for com mitting the letter passed in the affirmative & the other part of the motion was put off by adjournment. MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 81-83. 1 For this lengthy letter and its reading in Congress this day, see PCC, item 89, fols. 379—440; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:738-65; and JCC, 22:427-28. See also Jay, Papers (Morris), 2:96-98. 2 See also Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:14-16. David Howell to Welcome Arnold Dear Sir, Philadelphia 3 August 1782. Your kind Letter to Mr Webster,! [ f ln d, has induced him to think favourably of me as your Friend; I have been sundry times at his house, occasionally have dined with him & experienced every civility from him. I should no doubt have contracted a greater intimacy with him, entertaining a great opinion of his understanding & harmonizing with him in many points; but, Sir, he is the greatest stickler for the 5 per Cent I ever yet saw. And, no doubt, he will tell you that I am as
