6 August 3, 1782 much against it. I have avoided entring into the argument fully even with him; and on many occasions declined it totally after simply giving my opinion, for I found it as vain for me to oppose the torrent here, as it was for General Varnum on Town-meeting day, when I saw him engaged in a circle, of which you made one, as you must remember in the Parade—And in both cases it would be as ineffectual for either of as it would be to oppose Pawtucket-falls. The public creditors, this way, rule the roost; and the common people have less & less to do in government after you pass the North-river till you get to Florida, which our wise men have given to the ungrateful Spaniard— And where Tyrany is compleat. A wealthy farmer, and a good Whig, in the Jersies, could not tell me whether the people in the respective Coun ties choose their delegates in Congress as they do the members of their general Assembly & Council; or, whether they were chosen by the joint voice of both Houses: 2 In short, as you go Southward, Gov ernment verges towards Aristocracy. In New-England alone have we pure & unmixed Democracy & in Rhode Island & P[rovidence] P[lan- tation]s is it in its Perfection. I hope it may be long preserved. Should our little State have the credit of preventing the 5 per Cent from tak ing effect it would be to us an additional gem. I find a field sufficiently extensive for the exertion of every faculty I possess, nay more if I had them; Business to me entirely new daily arises, and such a variety of objects are presented that I am ready to admire what I have been doing all my days not to have turned my attention to them heretofore. But the truth is—the course of my Stud ies & thoughts has heretofore been confined to books, Systems & Speculations; I am now concerned with life itself. I think I shall not be of the Service I expected to be to the State soon; I have much to learn—I am about it; I loose no time. The establishment of funds to discharge, at least the interest of the national debt; and thereby, the revival of national credit, are the great objects before us at present. Fighting has grown out of fashion—little more of that is to be expected in this Country—but when we shall have peace God only knows; although there are appearances of it, and they seem to encrease & brighten; it may however be distant. The back-lands are a subject of conversation & which has been lately before Congress. There are two different opinions respecting them in Congress: six States are for acting upon them now, &, I think three against it, & two divided, one of which is ours. 3 Pray give me your opinion, or does it accord with our late instructions on that head? We expected the States who hold up extravagant claims to the west ward, might have been prevailed upon to have made liberal cessions to the Ud. Ss. after the example of New-York &, Connecticutt; but after the war is at an end and those lands shall have become more valuable, will they not prosecute their claims with more vigour? Now is
