August 3, 1782 7 the time to settle this matter, lest, after the war fresh flames should be rekindled in a dispute, which will then be considered of more conse quence. I am not for selling the lands, but should the Ud. Ss. hold such a vast territory by cessions from the respective States, it would certainly give them credit to the amount of their value, and would in time contribute to the discharge of our national debt. The States are extending their Settlements & claims daily. The lands will more & more be taken up by individuals & their claims will increase & gather strength and eventually defeat any future advantage to the Continent at large. Requesting you to make my best respects acceptable to Mrs Arnold, your Brother Thomas & all Friends, I am, Sir, with every Sentiment of esteem Your Friend & hble Servt, David Howell. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: “Welcome Arnold Esqr. Providence.” 1 Pelatiah Webster, a Connecticut bom merchant in Philadelphia and a frequent con tributor to the public prints of essays on political economy. See these Letters, 1:63-64, 13:386-87, 14:25, 362. He was at this time representing the “deranged” officers of the Connecticut line who were seeking congressional funding for the half-pay plan adopted October 21, 1780. Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 5:519-20, 522-24. 2 New Jersey’s delegates were chosen by vote of the state’s general assembly and coun cil “in joint meeting.”JCC, 23:711. 3 The committee appointed to report “effectual means of supporting the credit of the United States” had recommended that Congress decide upon the land cessions from Connecticut, New York, and Virginia as a preliminary to drawing upon western lands for revenue, but a motion to assign a date for taking the report into consideration failed on July 31 by a vote of six ayes and two noes, with Rhode Island and North Carolina divided and Delaware, Maryland, and New Hampshire unrepresented. See JCC, 22:423-24. David Howell to Nicholas Brown Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia 3 August 1782. Had leisure permitted me to follow the dictates of inclination, and could I have been so vain as to have imagined that a line from me would have contributed either to your instruction or amusement, I should not have remained so long silent. The favours received from yourself and kind family, justly entitle you to rank, were that desirable, among the foremost of my friends & give you the most perfect claim to my best services. Although I have written several Letters to those whom I used to esteeme my friends in Providence, I have received but few answers. I have written twice to your Brother John & three times to Governor Bowen, 2 but received no answer. What I have done to be thus deserted by my friends I am yet to learn; pleasanter would it be to return to my former retirement, where I was perfectly contented to
