8 August 3, 1782 remain, than to have been brought out on the public Theatre at the expence of the loss of all my friends. Through divine goodness & a strict regimen of diet I have enjoyed a perfect State of health, excepting a cold for a few days past, ever since I left home. Even my old complaint in my throat is so removed as to give me no inconvenience. Mr Ustic, as you must, no doubt have heard has arrived safe with his family in this City; he was well received, & as far as I can learn, is gen erally approved of & esteemed. But I have little intercourse with the people in the City, finding enough to do in the line of my immediate duty—To discharge which with advantage will require no small addi tional knowledge. Mr Hewes is perfectly friendly, has invited me to his Lodging. Mr James Pemberton has shewn me the same respect, but I have not yet waited on them. Providing funds to discharge at least the intrest of our national debt, & thereby reviving public credit is now the object of pursuit, & subject of much deliberation both in Congress & among our City politicians, to participate in whose deliberations I sometimes stop a moment at the Coffee-house. By examining the journals of Congress, in the hands of Governor Bowen you will observe what has been done about the back lands; I wish for your opinion on the Subject after you shall have obtained knowledge of what has been done in regard to them. Much is said about a peace, the papers will inform you of all public intelligence here; You know we have commissioners in Europe with full powers to negotiate. Britain wants a peace but I fear is not hum bled sufficiently to accept such terms as will be offered. Matters go as well in Holland as they do ill [in] Spain. Little is to be expected speedily from the Court of Madrid, according to the latest intelligence from our Minister there 28 April last: But a late private letter gives us hopes notwithstanding that the haughty Spaniard will open his eyes to his Intrest. The Summer has been cool & dry. I hear not but it is as healthy here as usual. Dr Binney is very friendly—his family well. I shall soon take lodgings with other Delegates at a Boarding-house; I find an inconvenience in being so much alone. Please to give my best regards to Mrs Brown, my old & good friend, to your mother, Mrs Van Derlight & all friends; & believe me to be your Friend, D. Howell. RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). Addressed: “Nicholas Brown Esqr., Providence.” 1 Nicholas Brown, a Providence merchant, has been identified in these Letters, 2:434n.l. 2 These letters have not been found.
