August 3, 1782 9 David Howell to Silas Talbot Sir, Philadelphia 3 August 1782. Yours of 13 Ulto. is now before me. You request me to get your accounts settled, or, at least to write you before the Assembly sits. On the receipt of your account, without Loss of time, I carried it to the Pay-master Generals; got his certificates and carried it, together with your account to the Comptroller, who sent it the same day to the Auditors. I called on him several times—he proposed his objections— I examined the resolves of Congress & consulted with General Cor nel—but the result as I wrote you, last month, was unfavourable to you. 1 The resolve for depreciation, as he says, does not include your case—your pay & emoluments as a Land-officer ceasing on your naval appointment in Sept. 1779 (If I do not mistake the date). The Auditor can only allow you nominal pay, and wisheth to be informed of the beginning and duration of your actual service in the Navy. I have written you this lest the other Letter above referred to Should not get safe to your hands. Whatever your commands may be, on this head in future I shall attend to, & execute them with pleasure. Regretting that I am no more successful in this application in your behalf, I am, Sir, your Friend & hble Servt, David Howell P.S. Best regards to friends. RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1439). Addressed: “Lieut. Col. SilasTalbot, Providence.” 1 See Howell to Talbot, July 17, 1782. Jonathan Jackson to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Phila 3d Augst 1782 I’ve not been unmindfull of my promise to you, to write you from this place after my Arrival—but really having had nothing worth your notice, I have considered it as no breach of Promise to omit troubling you with my impertinent Scrawls—your quondam Friends here have asked me how you do, & many have enquired if you are not coming on—how do Affairs stand with respect to you at home? has there been any further progress in taking up your Memorial or Remonstrance? I wish that it was settled & that I could see you here before I go. If you do come, let it be as early in the Fall as possible—for I think that I shall return in Novr. Is not Mr Sumner coming soon? 1 Mr. Osgood threatens leaving us before Novr and I am sure in addition to the State’s being unrepresented if I am left alone, I shall be but a poor Support to its Interests, for want of a more thorough knowledge of their internal Politics, having been out of that Line these several
