18 August 5, 1782 this will be the Case but to me it appears probable. I am Sensible that New Hamp, can bring this into the account against the United States, but from present appearances I am Inclined to think a very Consider able Period of time will Elapse before those Settlements are made. I am aware that some settlements have been already made in the State with officers &c. but perhaps the proportion when Compared with those which are Unsettled, is small. I would not wish this to the Injury of the N.H. Line, but it appears by Lt. Blanchard’s representation, that it would be much more agreeable to them, to have the settlement made here as they could then have their Subsistence Money Settled at the Same time. I have the Honour to be, Your most Obedt Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Undoubtedly the May 28 resolution of the Virginia General Assembly refusing “to authorize Congress to alter the mode appointed by the Confederation, for apportion ing the quotas of the respective states.” See JCC, 22:413; PCC, item 75, fols. 363—65; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:56n.6. Benjamin Huntington to Anne Huntington Dear Mrs. Huntington 1 Philadelphia August 5th 1782 The Pleasure of Writing to my faithful Partner is great but that of Receiving a Line from you is greater. It brings Tidings from my best Friend on Earth. By it I learn the State of the Dear Family for whose Happiness, Honor & Interest my deepest Concerns are employed. If a Temporary Absence from such a Friend is Painful, how unsupportable must a finale Separation be? But not to Anticipate Sorrows we ought to Reflect that our Present Enjoyments are the Gifts of Heaven to Pro mote our Happiness in this Imperfect State and that without them our Lives would be insipid. But the Hopes of a Blessed Immortality Rest ing on a firm Foundation of Purchase laid in Matchless Wisdom & Benevolence and Confirmed by the omnipotence of him whose Designs Cannot be Defeated, afford solid Consolation to the Mind even whilst we are driven in the Midst of Boisterous Events down the Troubled Torrent of Time. When we Consider that all our Infirmities, Sufferings, Pains, Bereavements & Mournings are designed by Heaven to bring us to that Pure Meekness of Spirit in which alone we Can Par take of Immortal Joy, the most Ponderous Distresses in this World become Welcome Corrections from the Hand of our almighty Parent. This Rapsody of thought’s Occured on Sitting Down to Write & upon Turning my Thoughts towards home. I am in Good Health and as happy as I Can be at so Great a Distance from my most Agreeable
