August 5, 1782 19 Connections. The Inclosed Paper Contains the News of the Day. Mr Chapman brings this and Can Informe you whither I appear to be as Fat as Ever. I Confess I Pitty the Horse that Brings home the heavy Load! The Speculators Exhibit Long Faces on the Arrival of two or three Ships from Europe Laden with Dry Goods which has put at least a Temporary Stop to their Sale of Goods at Extortionnous Prices. The Man who Deals Justly, Loves Mercy & Walks Humbly is of all Flesh the Most unsuitable Person to Manage a Trade in the Present Times. I am told a Law has Passed in Connecticut Exempting Such Persons as Refuse to Purchase British Goods for a Certain Time, from Part of their Taxes. I wish you to Look at that Law & take the Benefit of it if possible, but Dont Subject yourself to any Inconveniences for a Trifle or if a Compliance with that Law should Involve you in any Thing low or out of Character, I wish you to have no Concern with it. My Duty to my Mother and Love to the Children Each one in Par ticular. I wish Gurdon would Write Line or two as well as he Can and send by Mr Brown. The Boys here Dont write like him. My Regards to Capt Abel, Mr Witmore &c. This From your Benj Huntington RC (CtHi: Benjamin Huntington Papers). 1 Huntington had been married to Anne Huntington (1740-90), a second cousin, since 1765. See The Huntington Letters, ed. William D. McCracken (New York: Appleton Press, 1897), pp. 6, 13, 105. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Phla. Aug. 5th. 1782 (Frank 1 has arrived) 2 with (a long letter from Jay) 3 being a (sequel of), the (insulting) de(lays) d(isappointments) and (tergi)ver(sations which form) the (history of) his (mission). To make our (mortificati)on (complete he) was (finally suffered) to (protest t)he (bills) of Congress, (tho t|he (amount did) not (exceed twenty) five thousand (ster—g). The (blame of this seemed) justly to (fall) in (part on France) who probably meant to make that (display of her importance) to the {U. S). This circumstance with some other (passages) in (Jays letter) which cannot be here recited, were (fresh leaven to) the an{tigallic ferment) and (revived the motion) lately mentioned to you. 4 It (was again susp)end(ed by) an (adjournment) but will be (renewed and pressed) to a (decision). From the {present temper) of (Congress) I infer that the (decision) if not (reversive) of the (power given to France) in the (nego tiation of peace) will (denote such) a degree of (discontent and distrust as) will greatly (impair the confidence) on the (side of our ally) and
