20 August 5, 1782 may (if discovered inspirel the (enemy with new hopes) from a (pro traction of the war). It is very probable that this {affair will) eventually be (adjusted on) some (middle ground). The (venom against France) will not be (assuaged) withfout some) such (expedient). We are still without official information both from Mr. Adams, rela tive to the negociations with the States General, & from Doer. Franklin relative to advances made by the British Ct. at Versailles towards a general negociation. That such advances have been made may be inferred not only from private reports, but from repeated paragraphs in European papers. Whether they be sincere or insidious may be another question. Augst. 6th. A letter of the 14th of May has come to hand from Mr. (Jay) in which he says that he is (called to Paris by doctor Franklin). 5 This (call can only be in his) capacity of (minister for peace) and in consequence of a (prospect if not commencement of negotiations). He says nothing on the subject himself, but refers to (intelligence) which he takes for granted would previously (arrive) from (Paris). He congratulates Mr. Liv(ingston on the acknowlegement) of our (inde pendence) by the (United Provinces). This is the first official evidence of that event. The Committee as a member of which you prepared a certain report was yesterday (augmented to five and filled up). The present composition (of it promises a speedy and favorable report). 6 The (mid dle states are) rendered apparently very (ductile) by (their fears) of a (coalition between the eastern and southern in a change) of (the instructions for peace). Mr. (Montgomery) has given (notice to Congress) of his {intention to call for the report) on the (case of Vermont and to) lay before them such {information as he has acquired). 7 The French squadron which lately appeared off the Capes of Chese- peak are now off those of Delaware. The Ultimate destination of it is only a subject of conjecture. There is I believe {no reason to expect more than en passant advantages from it). In several of my late letters both to you & Mr. Ambler I have, inti mated the necessity of some {pecuniary remittances) and asked your friendly attention to that subject. Will you give me leave to repeat this request? Mr. Jones’s letter by yesterday’s post 8 informs me of his purpose of visiting Philada. forthwith. Besides the pleasure I take in gratifying you with every interesting communication I must own that some of the particulars mentioned above are meant to hasten if possible a like purpose in yourself. You will be able to distinguish the paragraphs in which each cypher is used without my specification of them.
