26 August 6,1782 sure of the public so much in his power. Our funds in France are in hands equally rapacious & less responsible. This ravenous spirit prompted Dr. F. to do what amounts to an absolute robbery. It is this. Col. Laurens had obtaind a million & a half of Livres from the french Court, to bring over hither for the support of our credit. It was deposited in Specie at Amsterdam & by the order of Col. Laurens to be brought by Major Jackson in the S. Carolina. When Col. L. had saild, Dr. F. by threats & orders prevails on Major Jackson to give up the money, & has it remitted to him at a loss to the U.S. of 19500 livres, besides the disappointment & embarrassment of our Finances here. This transaction will I have no doubt pass also unpunishd & uncensurd. Your friends in Virginia were well when I left them, & remember you with affection. My respects to Mrs. Adams & rememberances to Genl. Ward & all our friends, Farewell. RC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Arthur Lee, though not signed. 1 See Committee on the Department of Finance to Robert ,Morris, July 19, 1782, note 1. 2 That is, John Swanwick, cashier of the department of finance. Thomas McKean to Samuel Adams Dear Sir, Philadelphia. August 6th. 1782. Perpetual employment in public business, some attention to my pri vate concerns, sickness & death in my family (for I have lost a promis ing daughter of ten years old) 1 have prevented my answering my friends letters for some time past. My neglect of you, I confess, is almost unpardonable, and I must rely on your goodness more than any thing I can urge for forgiveness; but why need I appologize to a friend, who, I know, has already excused me. Major Brown is well settled in Lancaster; my brother Judges & myself were present at the opening his Academy, for so it is stiled: he owes much to your recommendation, and gives general satisfaction. Your introduction of Mr. Jackson to me lays me under a particular obligation; I respect his character, and am much pleased with him as a member of Congress. The subject you mention in your favor of the 19th September last 2 is now likely to be taken into full consideration, I mean an American Navy: It is very much the conversation out of doors, and appears to be popular. The great losses lately sustained by the merchants from the too numerous captures by the enemy, engages the whole mercantile interest in the measure; in short, every thing seems not only to invite
