August 6, 1782 27 but to demand an immediate attempt to establish one. Money alone appears to be wanting to make a beginning. The acknowledgement of our Independence by the Dutch affords a dawn of hope respecting that matter. There is a large Committee appointed to devise ways for the re-establishment of national credit, and for the procuring money on Loan, of which I am a member.^ If we can obtain an undisputed title to the Western lands, that belonged to the Crown of Great Britain, and have been conquered by the blood & treasure of the United States, as a fund to borrow upon; and can by a land and poll tax, or otherwise, obtain sufficient sums for the payment of the inter est until one year after a peace, or until these lands can be sold for the purpose of discharging the principal, I am not without hopes of get ting as much money in the United Provinces of the Netherlands and amongst ourselves, as would answer our present purposes and build a dozen ships of war such as the Carolina; which construction would render the British frigates in a great degree useless in this country from the inferiority in strength, and be the cheapest with respect to both men and money. The Superintendant of Finance is very well inclined to these proceedings and will contribute all in his power to their furtherance. The arrival of the French Fleet, of thirteen ships of the line and three frigates, in the Chesepeake, where they staid a few days, and now at the capes of Delaware, where they purpose to continue five or six days, has afforded an opportunity to our merchants of getting out their vessels with safety, and fully proves the utility and necessity of a Navy; for the Enemy have all fled to New York and elsewhere, so that a cruizer is not to be seen. The indifference of the Spanish court to our credit & interest has been fully manifested to Mr. Jay in March last, by suffering a protest of several Bills drawn on him, tho’ the whole did not exceed £20,000 sterling. Our good Allies immediately furnished Doctor Franklin with six million of livres for this, or any other purpose we might apply them to. The capitulations of West Florida, Providence 4 &c., their late treatment of American vessels at the Havannah, their haughtiness and some lesser circumstances induced me heretofore to doubt of the pol icy of the Spaniards, but this last affair settles my opinion: I am apt to think, even their present Ministers may live to repent of their behavior towards us. The British nation appear to be prepared for a peace, and their new Ministry seem wisely to lay hold of the opportunity, afforded them by the success of Rodney in the West-Indies, to accelerate it: It is more than probable that Commissioners are now met on this great business. If preliminaries are not soon adjusted, Gibralter and the late conquests in the East-Indies may change Masters. Congress is at present composed of virtuous men, and were it not
