28 August 6,1782 James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear s, r Philada. 6th Aug. 1782. I shall pay due attention to the request contained in your favor of the 29th 1 relative to the slave of your nephew. Should I however be so fortunate as to recover him, the price of slaves here leaves no hope that a purchaser will be found on the terms demanded. We have had several arrivals since my last but are still without offi cial letters. The European papers, as you will see by the transcripts in the inclosed, teem with paragraphs relative to pacific negociations. The language & conduct of the New Administration of G. B. do by no means discountenance the supposition that they are more solicitous for peace than their predecessors, and less scrupulous as to the punc tilio of national honor. But the insidious policy which has so long directed the British Councils, should always restrain our hopes of peace from circumscribing our preparations for War. We expect every moment dispatches from our foreign Ministers which will elucidate the publications of the Gazettes. The French Squadron which lately appeared off the capes of Chesa- peak are now off the Capes of Delaware. I can say nothing as to its ulti mate destination. Our trade I hope will at least receive some transient advantages from its visit to the American Coast. for some diversity of opinions respecting the Fisheries and Western Lands there would be more harmony in that Body then I have hereto fore observed. This will be an important year. May God direct and overrule all our counsels to the establishing an honorable and lasting peace, and to the happiness of the United States in particular and Mankind in general. My expressions respecting the Spaniards would have been more guarded, but that this goes by Mr. Lowell, and [will] therefore get safe to hand. T I am afraid I shall tire you in telling you what you know as well as 1 do, and shall therefore subscribe myself what, with great truth and sin cerity I am Dear Sir, Your affectionate friend & most obedient ser vant, Tho M:Kean RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 That is, Mary McKean. 2 Adams’ September 19, 1781, letter to McKean is in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4 ^This^committee, to which McKean had been appointed on July 22, had submitted a report on July 31. See JCC, 22:407-8, 423. . 4 That is New Providence—a reference to the capitulation of the Bahamas to the Spanish May 8, 1782. Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), p. 299.
