August 6, 1782 29 I am Dr Sir with much regard Yr. frd & Sevt. J. Madison Jr. PS. Upon recollection, it will be impossible to dispose of the Slave in this State, there being a legal prohibition agst. it. Even his coming into will operate as a manumission, unless the case of runaways be provided for which I believe is the fact. I will enquire more accurately into [the] matter. RC (Margaret T. Pendleton, Wytheville, Va„ 1974). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson) 5 27 । Ibid., 4:442-43. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates August 6. [1782] The delegates for Pennsylvania yesterday informed Congress that the commander of the French fleet, which was now off the Capes of Delaware, had sent up a message that if the ships in the harbor were ready to put to sea he would afford them a convoy from the Coast; that the merchants & the State desirous of improving this opportunity were willing to make an attempt on Bermuda if the French admiral could send with them some frigates, and therefore they moved that a Corn' 1 might be appointed to confer with the minister of France on the subject. 1 This was refused but it was intimated to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs that he should confer with the minister & report. In consequence of this the Secretary for Foreign Affairs this morning reported “that he had conferred with the minister of France on the expediency & practicability of making an attempt on the island of Bermuda—that he had related to him what he had learned with respect to the present strength of the island & the security the posses sion of it would give to our commerce and that of France, & desired to know whether the Marquis De Vaudreuil had any orders that would prevent his undertaking this expedition or any object with which it would interfere. “That the minister replied that the operations of the fleet or the propriety of detaching any part of it must in some measure depend on the motions of the enemy—that he did not know that the marquis had any orders that would interfere with the plan mentioned—that he knew he had several objects advantageous to the United States, the execution of which he would concert with General Washington. The minister wished that this plan might be concerted with him, that if it should appear more advantageous than others which the Marquis had in contemplation he might take measures to carry it into effect. He observed farther that as this conquest would be on account of the U. S. it would be necessary to furnish it with an American garrison.
