30 August 6,1782 “That he (the SecT for Foreign Affairs) desired to know whether troops might not be spared from those on board the fleet to perform this service for the U. S. in case they should find it inconvenient to send a part of their own army. ‘That the minister replied that the whole land force in the fleet was too Inconsiderable to admit of a reduction, that they were designated to act as marines & for the security of the fleet in case they took a post to refital, that he concluded with wishing that the desire of Congress on this subject should be referred to the general, who upon confer ring with the Marquis de Vaudreuil would be best able to judge of the expediency.” 2 This report being read, M r Bland moved that the conference with the minister of France reported by the Secretary for Foreign Affairs be referred to the Commander in chief to take order if he thinks the measure alluded to expedient & not interfering with other operations of greater importance that have been concerted or may be effected. This brought on a debate. M r Lee was against referring it in the first instance to the Gen rl; it was one of those cases mentioned in the treaty which required a previ ous Convention to settle the compensation. If it was undertaken with out such a convention the French might conquer it for themselves or demand such a compensation that could not be granted. That the General could not settle the compensation, because it must be in money and the General had no right to appropriate money. M r Duane was against referring the report to the General because it would hold up the object in too strong a point of view. When the matter was first introduced it was only mentioned as an object that might be adopted in case the fleet was going off the coast, either oh their return to Europe or the West Indies. In this light he would have no objection against referring it to the General. That if the fleets staid any time on the coast there were other objects of far greater importance, such as the attack of N. York. He was therefore for com mitting it that it might be represented in the light in which it was first introduced. M r Jackson was of the same opinion, thought there were several other objects which required greater attention mentioned— an attempt on Halifax or the reduction of Penobscot. He was for committing. M r Rutledge thought that the motion was well guarded. He had no objection against accompanying the reference with a letter to explain the views of Congress, but was against committing. M r Clark was against committing and against referring unless the words “to take order” were expunged and the words “to report” were inserted. Several others spoke on the occasion. At length the question for commitment was put and passed in the negative.
