38 August 7, 1782 He is in Opinion that neither the Consul, nor the Commodore have any Right to interfere in this Matter: And he appears to be well satisfied with the Proceedings hitherto made, by the Authority of Mas sachusetts against those Frenchmen. We have the Honor to be with Sentiments of the greatest Respect, your Excellency’s, most obedient and most humble Servants, Samuel Osgood Jona. Jackson RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Osgood and signed by Osgood and Jackson. 1 Not identified; but for further information on some of the incidents involving com plaints against disorderly French sailors in Boston, see the consular reports of Phillipe- Andre de Letombe in Archives Nationales: Affaires Etrangeres Serie BI: Correspon- dance Consulaire, 209:55-197. Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Phila. August 7th, 1782. We have reed, no Information respecting the negociation for peace, Said to be Carrying on in Paris, but through the Channel of British papers. Great tumults have taken place in New York among the Tory & refugees in Consequence of the advices from England & the measures taken by Sir Guy Carlton in respect to them. The garrison from Savanna have arrived at New York; unfortunately for us they had not been intercepted by the French Fleet, which they very narrowly escaped. Some additional Instructions relative to the Terms of peace are preparing by Congress to be Sent to our ministers in Europe. A flag Ship arrived this week loaded with prisoners from England, having on Board 216 who are Set ashore & permitted to go without any parole; another is hourly Expected; this measure is in Conse quence of an agreement made by Doctr Franklin to have them exchanged. 1 The enclosed papers will give your Excellency the news. Col. Dyer & Mr Huntington are well, as also is Mrs Trumbull. The Sci- tuation of my family makes it necessary I should return home, & as the State will be represented, I expect to Set out next week. With every Sentiment of respect & Esteem, I have the honor to be, your Excel lency’s Most obedt & most humble Servt. Jesse Root. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 For the arrival in America of prisoners recently released in England in accordance with an agreement reached between Benjamin Franklin and the Earl of Shelburne, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:175—76n.2; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:539, 547, 554, 562, 565. See also Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 28, 1782.
