August 7, 1782 39 Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Wednesday, August 7th. [1782] M r Rutledge moved for an addition to the instructions which passed yesterday 1 which was agreed to and the instructions as amended and finally agreed to are as follows: “Resolved, That the minister plenipotentiary at the Court of Spain be instructed to forbear making any overtures to that court or entering into any stipulations in consequence of overtures which he has made, and in case any propositions be made to him by the said Court for a treaty with the U. S. to decline acceding to the same until he shall have transmitted them to Congress for their approbation; unless the treaty proposed be of such a tenor as to render his accession thereto necessary to the fulfilment of the stipulation on the part of the U. S. contained in the separate and secret article of their treaty with his most Christian majesty. “That M r Jay be at liberty to leave Spain and to go into any other part of Europe when ever the state of his health may require it.” 2 The Com u for retrenching the expenditures of the United States in the several departments having reported a plan for arranging the army, 3 in which it was proposed the troops of each state should be formed into complete battalions of not less than 500 rank & file by draughting the junior into the senior regiments, that no more officers be retained than what were necessary to command the regiments and that the supernumerary officers should retire on half pay until called into service or be employed in the staff department. When the para graph respecting the retiring officers was under debate, M r Montgomery thought if the officers were liable to be called into service they ought to be allowed their full pay, as they could not enter into business or make solid arrangements for their future support and subsistance. M r Clark thought that the burthen of the half pay should be thrown upon the states which were deficient in their number of men & pre pared an amendment to that purpose. The amendment appearing in the light of a substitute was not admitted whereupon he moved and was seconded by M r Root to strike out the whole paragraph. M r Root was of opinion that according to the Articles of Confeder ation Congress ought to fix the number of troops necessary, assign to the States their respective quotas & call upon them to furnish those quotas, and that each State would be obliged to furnish its troops with the proper number of officers or would be answerable for the deficiency. M r Dyer. Of all the evils attending this war that of the half pay was never foreseen or thought of by the States. Having spoken for some time against a half pay establishment, he then undertook to obviate M r Montgomery’s objections and to shew that it was just and reason-
