44 August 8, 1782 reasons I shall be against touching the instructions given. But if any member thinks that anything farther can be done to secure to the United States the several objects claimed by them, I shall have no objections to that, it being well understood that no encroachment is to be made on the instructions given, but they are to remain in their full force. I shall therefore move that the motion before the house be postponed, and if that is carried I shall then move— That a Com“ be appointed to take into consideration and report to Congress the most advisable means of securing to the United States the several objects claimed by them and not included in their ultima tum for peace of the 15 th day of June 1781. 3 I now move that the consideration of the motion before the house be postponed. M r Witherspoon seconded the motion. Said that if he had been ag st the instructions at the time they passed, he would now from circum stances be against altering them. But he would remind gentlemen that the passing the instructions of the 15 June 1781, against which excep tions were now taken, was only the least of two evils which Congress were reduced to a choice of. A difference in sentiment had arisen between the Count de Vergennes & M r Adams respecting the use the latter thought he ought to make of the discretionary powers with w< h he was intrusted. This dispute was maintained by M r Adams with a per tinacity that gave just offence more especially as it must be allowed & Congress were sensible he was wrong. Besides this M r Adams entered into another dispute with Count de Vergennes on a subject which had no immediate connection with his mission. These disputes had given such offence that Congress were under the necessity either of recall ing him or passing the instructions. They chose the latter as the least injurious to their national dignity. He was satisfied at the time & is still satisfied that it did not lessen our security. The Court of France by her treaties with us was bound only to maintain our independence abso lute and unlimited as well in matters of government as commerce. These being secured she had a right to judge whether she would con tinue the war for other objects claimed by us, in the same manner as we had to judge whether we would continue the war on her account for objects not contained in the treaty. Our ministers were not restrained from urging everything they thought proper to obtain what we wished or desired. They could contend to the last and if obliged to submit they could enter their protest. Could they have done more if left quite at liberty? Congress adopted the only thing in their power to secure the rights of all the States. They added more members to M r Adams and those from different parts of the continent. This removed every suspicion or fear that the interest of one part would be sacri ficed to secure that of another. He then touched upon the jealousy which a change in our instructions w d excite, the opinion that would
