August 8, 1782 45 be formed of our instability & possibly of our ambition. G. B. had taken great pains to impress the Courts in Europe with an opinion that we aim at conquest. France had even imbibed some suspicion of that sort & therefore her former minister had in a free conference with Congress urged the necessity of moderation. He concluded with observing that as the confidence placed in France was a mere compli ment and not a giving up any real security, he should be against with drawing it and should therefor vote for postponing. 4 M r Rutledge said it was true France was bound to maintain the inde pendence of the States but he wanted to know what were the States. He did not enter into the war for himself or for those inhabiting the lands on the waters falling into the Atlantic, but for posterity; for those who would hereafter inhabit the country beyond the mountains to the extent formerly claimed by the crown of Great Britain as belonging to these thirteen States. He would continue the war forever rather than be circumscribed in narrower bounds. He should there fore be against postponing. The question being put passed in the affirmative. M r Madison then proposed his resolution and was seconded by M r Witherspoon. M r Rutledge resumed the debate; he was against the motion as explained. It is absolutely to ascertain our boundaries & define our other claims. He understood that the minister of France in a confer ence with the Com 11 who brought in the instructions of June 1780 had pressed them to fix the claims of the U. S. They ought to have done it; as they did not then do it it ought to be done now. They had no busi ness to suppose we had disputed boundaries. There were other matters that might come on the carpet in a negotiation for peace. We had with drawn the instructions and powers formerly given respecting a treaty of commerce with G. B.; we should say something on that matter. He therefore would propose to postpone the present motion & if that was carried he would move— That a Corn 11 be appointed to revise the instructions to the minis ters plenipotentiary of the U. S. for negotiating and concluding a treaty of peace with G. B. & to consider & report if any and what instructions should be given to them respecting such treaty & for negotiating a treaty of commerce with G. B. The motion for postpon ing being seconded by M r Dyer. Mr Witherspoon seemed to admit that the minister had desired the Com 11 to fix their boundaries; that it could not be done so as to make it an ultimatum to the satisfaction of all the States. He observed that the happiness of the people on this side of the Alleghany Mountains was a sufficient object to induce them to enter into the war; that some of the States had their boundaries fixed and determined; that the State he had the honor to represent was one of them; that it had not entered
