48 August 9, 1782 Indicate more Sincerity than I have yet observed from that Govt. I must Conclude and am Dr. Sr. &c. &c. 2 [P.S.] There are a very Considerable number to the Amt. of 20 or 30 of the Mail Robbers taken up & secured. I believe they will be hanged. 3 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). In Bland’s hand, though not signed. 1 See Arthur Lee to John Adams, August 7, 1782, note 2. 2 Bland also wrote the following brief letter to Benjamin Franklin in Paris two days later: “At the request of Mr. James Hunter a Mercht. of Virginia—I have the honor to transmit to your Excelly. the enclosed addressed to you, and containing a letter from his Lady to a Lady in Paris, which he wishes to have a safe Conveyance through your Excellencys Hands.” Franklin Papers, PU. s The Pennsylvania Journal of August 7 had reported the capture of a large number of thieves and “Mail Robbers” operating in northeastern Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York. See also Pa. Archives, 1st ser., 9:596-606, 608-17, 628, 634; and Pa. Council Minutes, 13:342-44, 349, 372-73. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Philada. Augst. Ninth 1782. Extract of a letter from Carlton & Digby to Gen Washington, Aug. 2. 1 “We are acquainted Sir by Authority that negociations for a general peace have already commenced at Paris & that Mr. Grenville is invested with full powers to treat with all parties at war, & is now at Paris in execution of his Commission. And we are likewise Sir further made acquainted, that his Majesty in order to remove all obstacles to that peace which he so ardently wishes to restore, has commanded his Ministers to direct Mr. Grenville, that the Independency of the thir teen Provinces should be proposed by him in the first instance, instead of making it a condition of a General Treaty; however not without the highest confidence that the Loyalists shall be restored to their possessions, or a full compensation made them for whatever con fiscations may have taken place.” This is followed by information that transports are preparing to convey all American prisoners in England to the U. S. and a proposi tion for a general exchange in which Seamen are to be placed agst. Seamen as far as they will go, & the balance in favr. of G. B. to be redeemed by land prisoners, the former to be free—the latter not to serve in war agst. the 13 Provinces for one year. An embarcation tak ing place at N. Y. either for Charleston, either to reinforce that Garri son or replace it. 2 The preceding letter was published in N. York at the same time that it was sent to Genl Washington. 3 I commit this intelligence to your dis-
