August 9, 1782 49 cretion; making no other remark than that it clearly calls for our watchfulness at the same time that it flatter [s ou]r expectations. J. Madison. [P.S.] The departure of the Express does not leave me [time to] put this into a more decent form. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:40-41. 1 See Arthur Lee to John Adams, August 7, 1782, note 2. 2 This information actually came from Washington’s August 5 dispatch, for which see ibid. 3 Carleton and Digby’s letter was published in the August 6 issue ofjames Rivington's Royal Gazette. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Friday, Augst 9. [1782] This day a letter was rec d from Gen 1 Washington enclosing a copy of a letter to him from Guy Carleton & R. Digby dated New York, August 2, 1 & in which they acquaint him “that negotiations for a gen eral peace have already commenced at Paris & that M r Grenville is invested with full powers to treat with all the parties at war & is now at Paris in the execution of his commission,” that the ministers of G. B. are commanded “to direct M r Grenville that the independency of the thirteen provinces should be proposed by him in the first instance instead of making it a condition of a general treaty, however not with out the highest confidence that the loyalists shall be restored to their possessions or a full compensation made them for what ever confisca tions may have taken place,” that M r Laurens has been enlarged and discharged from all engagements without any condition whatever, after which he declared of his own accord that he considered Lord Cornwallis as freed from the parole. “Upon this point they desire his excellency’s sentiments or those of Congress.” That transports have been prepared in England for conveying all the American prisoners to this Country to be exchanged here, “that they are directed to urge the most speedy exchange.” They conclude with renewing the propo sition that all exchanges of men of the same description being exchanged sailor & soldier be exchanged man for man against each other, with this condition annexed, that our sailors shall be at liberty to serve the moment they are exchanged & that the soldiers so received by them shall not serve in or against the thirteen provinces for one year. Advice being received at the same time that this letter as soon as written was communicated to the inhabitants of N. York and printed in hand bills & Congress having received no advices from their ministers abroad of what was passing in Europe, it was judged
