52 August 10, 1782 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Root, and signed by Root, Dyer, and Huntington. 1 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 7, 1782, note 3. 2 See Connecticut Delegates to the Pennsylvania Agents, July 25, 1782. 3 See JCC, 22:418, 423, 24:43; and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 30, and August 7, 1782, note 4. 4 That is, the August 10 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Augs. 8th [i.e. 10] 1782. 1 I did my Self the Honor to write you by Mr. Lowell the 5th Instt. By Letters from his Excellency Genl. Washington receiv’d yesterday, are informed, that Sr. Guy Carleton has informed him that he with admiral Digby are appointed Commissrs. for making peace, this Com mission was receiv’d by a late Packett, it is probable a few Days will give further Information in this business. 2 This goes by Capt. Young, to Boston, who is Just Setting out—have not time to add, but that I have the Honour to be, Your most Obedt. servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). I Although Gilman clearly wrote “Augst. 8th,” this letter was almost certainly written on August 10—the day after Washington’s August 5 letter enclosing Sir Guy Carleton’s August 2 letter was read in Congress, as reported by Gilman in this letter. See Arthur Lee to John Adams, August 7, note 2. 2 See Gilman to Weare, August 15, 1782. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doct. Philadelphia Augt. 10th. 1782, 10 oClock at night Colo Wood delivered me your letter with the Buckles & Cash. We are amused here with peace, the foundation you will See in the inclosed paper. 1 Your good Sense will not Suffer you to rely much upon it. The British may be Sincere in what is given out but I Confess I Cant help Suspecting that it is Calculated to deceive however if the Opinion Should generaly prevail Among the people that peace is near at hand, it will be an Excellent opportunity of recruiting the Army during the War so that what they may have intended as An Injury may turn out to our Advantage. We must have patience a little time will dis cover their real intentions. I thank you for the little Sums of money you have from time to time Sent me, they have been of great Service. I would not have you Send me anymore. I am now in blast and expect my allowance will be paid monthly in future. I have reed the order on Mr. Palmer. Wish I could give you a lift, in paying for your house—
