August 10,1782 53 many purchasers of the Confiscated property are afraid from the diffi culty a raising money will have reason to repent. Should Executions take place great losses must be Sustained. Your neighbour I am afraid will be among the Sufferers. Crops of Corn you say will be very Short. Would it not be best to Stop Selling any more of my old Corn? Please to tell Taney to endeavour to Settle with all his Customers & receive payment before I return which I hope on God will be the middle of November at furthest. A Considerable detachment of Troops is making at New York intended it is said for Charles Town either to reinforce that Garrison or to relieve it. My best wishes Attend you and the Children. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). In Hanson’s hand, though not signed. 1 The August 2 conciliatory letter of Gen. Guy Carleton and Adm. Robert Digby to Washington, which the latter had enclosed with his August 5 letter to Congress, was printed in this day’s Pennsylvania Packet. David Howell to John Brown Sir, 1 Philadelphia 10 Angst. 1782 Since I wrote you 2 a report has been made from the Office of Finance, of requisitions for the Year 1783, which has been referred to a Committee. 3 As one of this Committee shall endeavour to Push for ward the Building a Navy, & request Your Advice on that Head. The estimate Accompanying it Amounts to Eleven Millions, but two mil lions are deducted on the Presumtion that Certain plans of Oecon- omy in contemplation will be Carryed into effect. Nine millions are the lowest that Can be required in the Opinion of the Superintandant of Finance, of which two millions & half (I wrote two millions only by mistake to Coll. Nightingle) 4 Are Allotted to the Marine Department. It is proposed to bestow particular Attention to the Marine & with all Convenient Speed to put it on a respectable footing. I wrote you in my last something About half pay. I have Since enquired into it more fully: in the estimate for the Currant Year 110,000 Dollars are allowed for half pay to Officers already deranged, or retired. Besides which there are Several Years arrearages due, & Annuetys granted to foreigners & to disabled Soldiers & Officers & the whole Corps of Invalleds a dead weight in Addition, & perhaps Juste enough, to a very Considerable Amount. By a resolve passed Since I came in which my Colleague & I were divided About 23/40 of Our Officrs are permitted to retire on half Pay during life, which will Amount for the ensuing Year of 1783, to 240,000 Dollars. 5 Hence the half pay list only for the Year 1783 will Amount to the enormous Sum of 350,000 Dollars. You may now Judge whither in my last I did not rightly conjecture That it would exceed the Net proceeds of the 5 Per Cent revenue.
