60 August 13, 1782 report has been (repeated} by the {committee} but a second experi ment has not been {made in Congress}.® Several of the middle {states seem to be facing about. Maryland} however preserves its wonted {jeal ousy and obstinacy}. In compiling the evidence of our title, I suppose you will of course be furnished with all Mr. Jefferson’s lights. 7 I have lately seen a fact stated by him w[h]ich s[he]ws clearly the ideas entertained in Virga, with respect to her territorial limits subsequent to the resumption of the Charter. In convention between Commissioners on the part of the Commonwealth of England & of the Grand Assembly of Virga, in 1651, by which the latter submit to the new Govt, it is stipulated that Virga, shall enjoy the antient bounds & limits granted by the Charters of the former Kings & that a new Charter shall be [sought?] from the Parliament agst. any that shall have intrenched [up] on the rights thereof. I forgot to mention to you by the last post that as Congress have adopted a scheme of settling the Accts, of the several Departments and of the Hospital among the rest by an itinerant Commissr. spe cially appointed for each, the Accts, of your friend Dr. Carter can not be audited here, and must be sent back to him. We have no very recent intelligence from the French Squadron. They are probably bearing towards Boston whither it is the current opinion that they are destined. It does not appear that they have as yet made any prizes, except a recapture of a Frigate which had Struck to the Sta. Margarita, a British-Spanish Ship of superior force. You will observe that I venture more tha[n ...] with respect to uncyphered comm [uni] cations. To this I am led not only by a scarcity of time, but by the diminution of the danger occasioned by the appre hension of 13 or 14 of the gang of Mail robbers who are now in the gaol of this City. 8 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:49-50. 1 See ibid., pp. 16-17n.3. 2 That is, William Blake (1739-1803) of “Newington.” s South Carolina delegates John Lewis Gervais, Ralph Izard, Arthur Middleton, David Ramsay, and John Rutledge. . . . 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in the official Virginia cipher 5 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 8, 1782; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:33-36, 53-55. For “your report,” see ibid., p. 22n.l3, and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 16, 1782, note 2. , 6 For the vote that “negatived” scheduling debate on the grand committee s July 31 report on the Connecticut, New York, and Virginia cessions of western claims, see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 31, 1782, note 3. There is no mention in the journals when the report was “repeated.” 7 See Madison to Randolph, March 18, 1782, note 6. s See Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker, August 9, 1782, note 3.
