August 13,1782 61 Edward Telfair to Samuel Stiles Dear sir. 1 Philadelphia 13th Augt. 1782. I am duely favored with your Letter from Portsmouth, enclosing one to Mrs. Stiles, which to my great mortification did not go in the Flag. Notwithstanding it Came to my hands the day before her depar ture, and when I went to the wharf, she had Sailed some hours with a fair wind, so that the opportunity was lost. I went on board of her some days before the receipt of your Letter to enquire after Mrs. Stiles & family, and from a Young man on board, I was informed they were all well about a month ago. I told him you were well and in Virginia, and gave a direction and requested the Cap tain to call on me, and that I would write Mrs. Stiles, which made me conjecture I should not loose the opportunity. From every information we have the best reason to conclude, that a Negociation for peace is now on foot at Paris, and from every appear ance, there is reason to conclude it will take place—insomuch am I satisfied in this measure as to hazard an opinion, that the chance is against your building a Vessel constructed for the present commerce if you have not gone to far, or can make a saving Sale, in my Judg ment, it would be adviseable, at this conjucture. I have wrote Mr Pringle 2 to deliver to you at Baltimore one ton of Bar Iron. Pray, let me hear from you. I hope soon to be relieved by some new hands coming on when I must think of doing something. I remain Dr. Stiles, Your very Obt. St. Edwd. Telfair RC (NcU: Mackay-Stiles Papers). 1 Samuel Stiles (1737?-1808), a Bermuda native, was a Georgia merchant and ship owner, who had previously been captured by the British while importing military sup plies. 2 Telfair’s letter to Mark Pringle has not been found. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sr. Philadelphia Augt. 13th 1782 We have been honord with your Excelly’s of the 1st Augt. 1782. 1 We have taken the liberty of conversing with the Secy, at War on that part of your letter, concerning the Works at York Town. That Gentn. expressd his surprise at the misinformation, you must have receivd of his Conduct in the affair—and with a wish to undeceive you has favord us with a Copy of the instructions, he gave concerning the Works together with a letter addressd to us on the Subject, both which, we have the honor of enclosing to your Excelly. 2 No Material event has taken place Since we had the Honor of writ ing to your Excelly. by Express, when we informd you of a letter
