64 August 14, 1782 John Hanson to Philip Thomas DearDoct. Philadelphia Augt. 14th 1782 Yours of the 4th is Come to hand. I wrote you on Saturday last which went by a man going to Frederick. I did not write by the last post as Colo Wood was to Set out from hence for Frederick in two or three days. Two flags are arived here and two it is said is gone to Boston from England with American prisoners, to the amount of about 1200 to be Exchanged. 1 I am Still afraid that the designs of the Enemy in acknowledging our Independance by their minister for negotiating a peace at Paris are delusory. The manner in which it has been communicated to Congress with other Circumstances induce that opinion. I hope my Countrymen will be too wise to depend much upon it. Time will discover their real intentions. I inclose you the papers. I Congratulate you on the evacuation of Savannah, a prelude perhaps to the Enemys abandoning Charles Town also. When the Enemy withdraw their forces from the Continent I Shall believe they are in Earnest about peace but not till then. We are well. God bless you & the Children. [P.S.] 1 pair Silk Stockings & 1 yd. Cambrick by Colo Wood, which should have gone by the former opportunity. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). In Hanson's hand, though not signed. 1 See Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, August 7, 1782, note. North Carolina Delegates to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, Philadelphia, August 14, 1782 1 We observe with the utmost satisfaction, that the General Assem blies of almost every State in the union, have been pleased to assure you, and through you to assure his Most Christian Majesty, of the sin cere pleasure they have received from the birth of an heir to the Crown of France. The General Assembly of North-Carolina, are among the few who have not addressed you on this auspicious occasion; but they would be wounded by the most transient suspicion, that such delay had arisen from the want of gratitude or affection for his Most Christian Majesty. It was their misfortune, that during their last session, in April, they had received no official information of the birth of a Dauphin, where fore they could take no public notice of that fortunate event; but fame had circulated the intelligence—it was universally believed; and we beg leave to assure you from our own knowledge, for we attended dur-
