August 14, 1782 65 ing the whole sitting of the Assembly, that the pleasing report of the birth of an heir to the Crown of France, was received with the most cordial pleasure by the citizens of North-Carolina; it filled every coun tenance with joy, and every heart with gladness: Every man found him self personally concerned in an event which contributes so much to the happiness of a people they esteem, and a Monarch they will con stantly revere. We request you would do us the justice to believe, that the citizens of NorthJCarolina will not fail to pray, that the Supreme Ruler of the Universe may prosper and preserve the Dauphin and his royal par ents; for we are fully convinced, that under God we are indebted for our early deliverance, the preservation of our liberties and establish ment of our independence, to the generous interposition of his Most Christian Majesty, and the persevering valour of the French nation. We have the honor to be, With the utmost consideration and esteem, Your most obedient, and very humble servants. Hugh Williamson, William Blount, Delegates in Congress from the State of North-Carolina. Reprinted from The Pennsylvania Gazette, August 21, 1782. 1 Although a French transcript of this document in the Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, Supplement, vol. 22, bears the heading “Presentee le 8. Aout, 1782,” it is clear that the delegates presented this address to the French minister this day. See North Carolina Delegates to Martin, August 18, 1782, note 2, and January 25, 1783. For Congress' earlier recognition of the birth of the dauphin, see Charles Thomson to Robert R. Livingston, May 10, 1782. John Rutledge to Horatio Gates Dear General, Philadelphia August 14, 1782 The resolution of Congress directing that an enquiry should be made into your conduct in the Campaign of 1780, has this day been repealed by a vote of every state present (ten). 1 The evidence before the committee which gave such unanimity to the vote, came from men the most honorable and the most capable of judging, Gen. I. Huger, Gen. Stevens, Major T. Pinckney, and Col. Marion, &c. 2 The first, third and fourth of these gentlemen shewed, that the movement made by you on Camden, was made on information given by them of the weak condition of that post, the certainty with which (had it not been unexpectedly reinforced) it would have been taken, and the important consequences that would have followed to the army and the state, from the capture thereof. And further, that the movement was not only a proper one under the view already taken, but indis-
