66 August 14,1782 pensable to the safety of Gen. Caswell and the North Carolina militia, who had by some misdirection, or want of judgment, placed them selves in your front and in a position most perilous. Of your order, march, and battle, and your personal bearing in the action and endeavors to rally the flying militia, they speak in terms the most favorable, and lastly, that when the heads of the two armies met in the night, and a prisoner gave information that Cornwallis was present with a large regular force, you called a Council of War and submitted the ques tion, whether thus advised, it would be proper to retreat? When nei ther Baron de Kalb, General Smallwood, General Caswell, General Guest, or General Stevens advised to the measure, and that the latter, considered and declared, the capture and information of the prison ers as a ruse of Rawdon to escape an attack. To this statement, I have but to add, that from the beginning of your suspension to the present day, no charges against you have been exhibited, nor has any person appeared as prosecutor or witness, either to Congress, to General Washington, or to General Greene. Wishing you health and happiness I am &c. J. Rutledge. Tr (NN: Bancroft Collection). 1 Although several motions for rescinding the resolution of October 5, 1780, had been defeated in 1781-82, Gates appealed to Congress once again on August 5 for “that Justice which I expect from their Equity” and his case was assigned to a committee, con sisting of Ezekiel Cornell, Arthur Lee, and John Rutledge, which reported in Gates’ favor on August 9 and again this day. See JCC, 23:465-66; and PCC, item 19, 2:403—4, item 154, 2:369-70, item 186, fol. 47. In a letter to Congress of August 24, Gates vowed to remove by his future conduct “every unfavourable Impression given of me for Two Years past, by Enemies of every kind," and announced his intention of “going to Vir ginia, where I shall prepare for taking the Field, as the Commander in Chief shall direct.” On August 27 Washington ordered Gates to join the main army at Newburgh. See PCC, item 154, 2:365-68; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:68, 84-85. 2 That is, Brig. Gen. Isaac Huger, Maj. Gen. Edward Stevens, Maj. Thomas Pinckney, and Col. Francis Marion. John Witherspoon to William Livingston Sir Philadelphia Aug. 14. 1782. I sent you by Col. Hooper a short & general Acct of Sir Guy Carlton & Admiral Digbys letter to Genl Washington though with little Doubt that you would know the whole before that Time. Inclosed is the News Paper of this Day with the Resolves of Congress upon that Subject. I have lately pushed with great Earnestness to bring on the Matter of the back Lands in which our State are so much interested & in which I believe your Excellencies Opinion very strongly concurs. We have succeded so far as to have the Matter twice recommended by the
