August 15,1782 67 Grand Committee to Congress. On the first Report of having it taken up there are 6 for it, 2 against it 2 divided so that it was only put off by the Rule of the House which requires 7 States to agree on every Ques tion. 1 From this you will perceive that we may easily have it brought on in Congress, but we have put it off till Maryland shall be represented which we expect soon. I shall be desirous to know your Excellencies Opinion whether we should agree to accept of the Cessions of N. York, Connecticut and Virginia in the mean Time provided that we can rid ourselves of the unreasonable Conditions annexed to the Ces sion of Virginia & keep the Door open to call for further Cessions from the other Southern Colonies—or if we should insist upon the Right of Congress to fix the western bounds of every State. The Rea son why I have proposed this Question is that I think the first of these might be carried but I have much Doubt of the other being carried through. Though I have some Expectation of seeing your Excellency next Week at Examination yet as this is uncertain I should be glad to hear from you on the above Subject. There is not the least Certainty in the many Articles of News from the English Papers. I am Sir Your Excellencys most obedt, humble Servant Jno Witherspoon RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 For the rejection of Witherspoon's motion to schedule debate on “the cessions of Connecticut, New York, and Virginia,” see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 31, 1782, note 3. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. 15th Augst. 1782. In my Letter of the 8th Instt. I Mentioned that Sr. Guy Carleton had Informed Genl. Washington that Adml. Digby, with himself were Appointed Commissrs. for making peace, & that the Commission was receiv’d by a late Packett. It now appears that, that Letter was Misunderstood. It was from this Expression that they had received Information as Commissrs. for mak ing peace &c. I Inclose you a Paper In which you will see Copy of their late Letter to Genl. Washington, with the Resolutions of Congress Annexed, have not any Information respecting this business, more than is Contained in the News-papers. The latest accounts from any of our Ministers in Europe was of the 28th of April. It is somewhat Extraordinary that there is not later Accounts from any of them. Our Prisoners are
