70 August 16, 1782 deserve a place in their Gazette. This will be Committed to the Care of our worthy W Livingston, and I trust it will get safe to your Hands, tho’ not soon enough to give you the first Intelligence of late Events which are the Subject of general Speculation. You will see in the papers the interesting Letter from Sir Guy Car leton and Admiral Digbey as Commissioners of Peace to General Washington. You will see too the Opinion of Congress on that Com munication, and that they have received no Intelligence touching Propositions for peace from any of their ministers. We know indeed that some negociation is commenced at Paris: because we have certain Information that Mr Jay has repaired thither from Madrid. The peo ple of England collectively, we are well assured, are heartily weary of the American War which they look upon as a Scourge and a Curse. The present Ministry, at least a Majority of them, we know were vio lently opposed to this war before they got into office. We know that they have used every Argument since they assumed the Administra tion, to impress on the Nation an Apprehension of Danger, and a deplorable Idea of their Finances and Prospects. We are told that Lord Stair has presented an Estimate by which it is demonstrated that their peace Establishment will amount to 13,000,000 Sterling yearly: And that lands have actually fallen from 30 to 20 years purchase. But after all these Circumstances are considered they do by no means Justify a Relaxation of our Efforts to compell the Enemy to quit the Country. While they retain their present Posts and are in force, we are bound to push our Operations with the utmost Vigour. It is singular that even by the latest Debates of Parliament the Idea is not lost that America may be induced to accept an Irish instead of an absolute Independance; and some are of Opinion that the former is the Independance which their plenipo. Mr. Grenville is authorized to propose. It woud be astonishing indeed if, after all their Experience, they shoud attempt so vain and absurd a Delusion; which coud only expose them to Odium, and increase the Breach which they pretend to be Solicitous to repair. You will readily conceive of our Solicitude to hear from our own Ministers which will alone enable us to clear up all doubts; and to form Conclusions on Just Grounds. In the mean time I congratulate you on the Evacuation of Georgia. By the last Accounts, the Enemy had retired to Tibee a small Island in the Neighbourhood of Savannah. I am of opinion they will not long retain their post in Charles Town: it ceases to be an Object unless they maintain constantly a naval Superiority in the American Seas. There are other Reasons, tho’ not conclusive, which Justify this Expectation. You have been informed of a small provision made for Col. Ja. Liv ingston shortly after my arrival here. 1 It is all I coud at present pro cure for him. Present my Compliments to him & let him know that I
