72 August 16,1782 their Fidelity and encourage their Zeal and Exertions against the com mon Enemy. If any thing further can be done it ought not to be neglected. To support our Fellow Citizens on that exposd Frontier is a first Duty. I find that you still labour under Infirmities which requires an uncommon degree of Patience and Fortitude to sustain. These happily for your Friends are Virtues which distinguish your Character. You have my earnest wishes that your Health may be restored and your useful Life prolonged for the Consolation of your Family and the service of your Country. I cannot part with the pleasing Idea that we shall yet spend many happy Hours in Social Enjoyments and mutual good offices; and talk over the Dangers we have encountered in the Retreats which we have contemplated with so much Satisfaction. When our Country is possessed of all the Blessings of peace and Safety, may we not hope that there will be a portion of Happiness reserved for her virtuous Citizens who have stood foremost in the Hour of Danger and drank freely of the Cup of Distress and Anxiety! I will indulge the Thought! Adieu my dear Friend; and believe me to be with unabated Regard and Affection, Your most obedient, humble Servant J as - Duane [P.S.] The Governour writes me that Mr. Lhommedieu will speedily relieve Genl Scott. Col. Hamilton will be prepared to set out in the Fall to give me a Requiem. 5 I shall with great pleasure present him to Congress & the Circle of my Friends & leave nothing unattempted to make him happy in himself & [. . .]able to the Community as far as will depend on the most favorable Impressions of his Virtues & Capacity. RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 Congress had resolved on June 24 that James Livingston “be permitted to draw from the contractors at Albany daily, five rations of provisions for the support of himself and family.”JCC, 22:345. 2 Alexander Hamilton was a member of the new delegation (with Duane, William Floyd, Ezra L’Hommedieu, and John Morin Scott), appointed by the New York legisla ture on July 22 to represent the state in Congress “for one year, from the first Monday in November, 1782.”JCC, 23:750-51. ■’The July 21 and 22 fiscal resolutions of the New York legislature enclosed in Gov. George Clinton’s August 4 letter to Congress were read and referred to the grand com mittee on the public credit this day. See PCC, item 59, 2:219-23, item 78, 6:139—42, item 186, fol. 38; and PCC, Miscellaneous Papers, M332, reel 5, fols. 723-26. For the legislature’s resolutions to “strengthen the general Government,” see Ezra L’Homme dieu to George Clinton, September 11, 1782, note 2. 4 Duane may be alluding here to Congress’ August 20 resolution on clothing “the Indians in our interests” (JCC, 23:525), in which case he could not have concluded this letter before the 20th, the day he also wrote to Gov. George Clinton by Walter Livingston. 5 Ezra L’Hommedieu resumed his seat in Congress on August 28; Alexander Hamil ton assumed his on November 25. Duane and L’Hommedieu then obtained leave of absence on November 27. See JCC, 23:533, 750, 755.
