August 20, 1782 85 ments was that if our Claims could not be supported on the former ground they were to be relinquished & given up. M r Lee replied that the amendment was to take away an argument which our Ministers might use to their own advantage an argument which was groundless and fallacious; he called upon any gentleman to shew what foundation there was for it. None had attempted this. The reason was because it was not in their power. The Ministers ought to rely on solid argument This was to be found only in the titles of the States. If they were confined to these they would urge them with force, and he had no doubt they would prevail. M r Witherspoon said if there was any doubt that our Ministers would be unfaithful, let them be changed. If M r Franklin, whom the gentle man alluded to, was interested, let him move for his recal, he would second him. The facts and observations, as they now stood, required that the Ministers should in the first place urge the titles of the several States, if these prevailed the end was obtained, and the argument in question would not be brought forward. But if arguments drawn from old Charters, Charters granted at a time when the extent and limits of this country were without Charters and Titles interfering one with another whose limits were so extravagant that it was thought proper to curtail them in a former treaty, if arguments from this source should be found to have no weight with the mediating powers & other powers in Europe, and this he believed would be the case, would any Gentle man wish to preclude our ministers from using an argument which would have weight, an argument drawn from general security, the force of which had been admitted in former treaties, and would be admitted by every disinterested power of Europe. The several States were known to the powers of Europe only as one nation under the stile and title of the United States. This nation was known to be settled along the Coasts to a certain extent; if any European power was admit ted to establish colonies or settlements behind them, what security could they have for the enjoyment of peace? What a source of future wars! Was not this the principal argument urged by G. B. against France at the breaking out of the last war? Whether the uncultivated wilderness on the frontiers should belong to one state or another was a matter of little concern to the European powers. The only argument that would weigh with them was whether it was necessary for the secu rity of the United States that other nations should be excluded from that country, and particularly G. B., the enemy of these States. He should therefore be against the amendment. Sundry other gentlemen spoke and the amendment being insisted on and notice given by M r Bland that he meant to call the yeas and nays, which would bring the whole of the facts and observations upon the journals, by which means Congress would be under the necessity either of resisting the whole or of amending & making them an act of
