86 August 20, 1782 Congress, so that they would go as instructions and not merely as information, which was the thing intended; a motion was therefore made that the report be committed. And the motion for commitment being seconded, and having by the rules of the house a preference, was put and carried in the affirmative. The Com« chosen were M r Rutledge, M r Duane, M r Witherspoon, M r Howell & M r . 3 MS not found; reprinted from NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 142-45. 1 See Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 16, note 3. 2 The passages cited are found at NYHS Collections, 11 (1879): 138-39; and JCC, 23:516-17. 3 That is, (Joseph] Montgomery, in Thomson’s “Committee Book,” PCC, item 186, fol. 50. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison g r Philadelphia Augt. [20?] 1 1782 We have been duely bond, with your Excellys of the 8th Inst. 2 Since our last such a dearth of Intelligence has prevaild that not one Cir cumstance worth relating has reachd this place or Congress from Europe or elsewhere. We have only to Inform your Excellency that among the Prisoners arrived at this Place from Mill & Fortune Prisons in England (from whence all the American Marine Prisoners have been sent to America) 3 were about forty belonging to our State who have applied to us for relief. Yr. Excellency well knows that no provi sion has been put into our power for such purposes—which are very frequently occurring—notwithstanding we have frequently urged the Policy and necessity of it. On this occasion, both policy & Humanity have dictated to us—to endeavor to procure by a draught on the trea sury of Virginia to the amount of about thirty Pounds Pensylvania Cur rency, which we hope will be honord, and for which we hope we shall stand exculpated—when tis considerd that inattention to this usefull body of men in their distress might deprive the commerce of the State of their Services—of which it at present stands so much in need. We have the Honr. to be most respectfully, Yr. Ecellys. Most obedt. Servts. Theok. Bland Jr. J Madison Jr A Lee. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:67. > The content of the letter, the delegates’ habit of preparing their official dispatches on post day (Tuesday), and the existence of letters to the governor for August 6, 13, and 27 makes the 20th the most obvious date for this letter. 2 See ibid., p. 37.
