August 21,1782 87 According to the Pennsylvania Packet for August 15 and 27, and September 3 and 5 and the Pennsylvania Journal for August 21, two flags had brought about 330 naval pris^ oners to Philadelphia from Mill Prison in Plymouth, and Forton Prison at Portsmouth, England, and another three ships had taken 700 more prisoners to Boston. On August ° f ‘ he Week re P° rted favorably on a memorial from the prisoners in Philadelphia, and Congress directed the Secretary at War to arrange with the Pennsylva nia Executive Council to have them lodged at the Philadelphia barracks and ordered the Agent of Marine to supply them with rations. See JCC, 23:469; and PCC, item 32 f±J 8 '^ ltem 186, foL 49 ’ See also J esse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, August 7 1782, note. ° John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir Philada. Augst. 21st. 1782. This is Just to acknowledge the receipt of the Letter you did me the Honour to write on the 3d Instt. and to inform you that I have noth ing to give you in return but a News-paper. While a Variety of Reports respecting matters of great Importance are Circulating we are Intirely destitute of Authentic Information, the last accounts from any of our Commissrs. in Europe was of the 28th April. 1 I am much Obliged to you for your Letters and the Inclosures & Shall be glad to hear from you frequently, I Shall write you as soon as I have any thing worth Communicating. I am with much Esteem, Your most Obedt. servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. If my old Colleague Mr. Robinson has not forgot me, (as I Sup pose by this time he has got a New Colleague) I Should be glad to hear from him. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Gilman apparently had forgotten John Jay’s May 14 letter which had been read in Congress on August 6. See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, August 5, 1782, note 5. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir - Philada. Augst. 21st. 1782. The Letter you did me the Honour to write on the 6th Instt. I received by Post the 19th (with the Inclosures), Permit me to Assure you Sir that I have a gratefull Sense of these favours. We are now in the same State of Uncertainty, respecting Affairs in Europe, as when I wrote you last, which was by Mr. Storer the 15th Instt. Have no Intelligence from our Commissioners there, for several
