88 August 21,1782 Months past, are in Anxious Expectation of what may be the Issue of the present Situation of Political Affairs. Believe the Enemy from Savannah have Arrived at New-York; it is generally Credited, that a large Number of Transports have lately Arrived there from Europe and it is said they have brought some few German & British recruits, it is reported that a British Fleet of Thirty sail of the Line under the Command of Admiral Pigot are now on this Coast, some say to carry off the Garrisons of New-York &c. and others, for other purpose, but all is Conjecture; I hope soon to be able to give you some Authentic Information on these Subjects. 1 shall be out of Money in a few Days, I do not know that I could sell a Bill if I was to Draw one on the State, and am very unwilling to make [he Experiment as I think it would be Injurious to the state, suppose, as hard Money is scarce in New Hampshire, that Bank Bills might be more Easily obtained there than Money. I should be glad to have some Bills sent me as soon as possible after you receive this, as I shall probably be out of Money before your Letters will reach me. I Shall not Attempt to draw any Bills on the State untill I hear from you, If I can possibly avoid it. I Inclose you a paper of this day, and have the Honour to be with much Respect, Your Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doctr. Philadelphia Augt 21 st 1782 I am favoured with yours of the 10th inclosing one from Lieut. Evans. 1 You will inform Mr Evans that nothing Can at present be done respecting his pay there is no doubt but he will get his money but the State of our Finances will not admit of Speedy payment. Am much pleased to hear you are all well. We Shall I hope be at home about the middle of November. Becky I hope will then be at home. We Shall want much to see her. You Alarm me about my Short Crop of Corn. Pray Sell no more grain or any thing Eatable. No further information respecting peace. We have had no intelligence from either of our Ministers abroad for upwards of four months which at a time so Criti cal is very distressing. We are in Anxious expectation of hearing from them, on whose information it is probable some Judgment may be formed as to the Issue of the negotiation. I hope for the best but I cant help Suspecting the designs of our Rascally Enemy, which may be to Effect by deceit, and Acts of Kindness, what they could not Accom plish by force. The french fleet it is Supposed is gone to Boston. Every thing remains quiet to the north ward—great Confusion in New York
