August 23, 1782 91 David Howell to Welcome Arnold Dear Sir, Philadelphia 23 Aug. 1782. I will suppose you have either never received, or had no leisure to answer my two former Letter s> & on this footing undertake to write you a third. You will no doubt be anxious to hear something about peace. It is the general wish, & I may add that of Congress too, while at the same time a manly firmness in persevering in our just claims and in our mil itary operation so necessary to vindicate them will mark their charac ter in this as well as in all former stages of the contest. Nothing has yet transpired officially about the negotiation on foot. Private Letter from Paris June 28 mentions that Plenipotentiaries from the belligerent powers were in close consultation at Paris & it was expected that a general pacification would take place. I need not assure you of my disposition for peace on good terms. A reduction of the Salaries of our forreign Ministers is in Contem plation & has been agitated in Congress this day. They have at present the enormous Sum of £2500 Sterlg per Annum. You will soon be informed of your appointment as one of the Seven judges to determine the long subsisting controversy betwixt Connecti cut & Pennsylvania respecting the Lands on the Susquehanna: The Court are Mr Whipple of N.H., Mr Welcome Arnold of R.L & P.P., Messieurs Brearley & Houston of N. Jersey, Messieurs Jones & Griffin of Virginia & a Mr Nelson. 2 All the judges were appointed by the mutual choice & agreement of the parties by their Commissioners. I hope you will not decline serving, as you will thereby not only dis oblige the parties who have chosen you but your Friends who under took to recommend you. It is a very high trust. It will at least make you known in the World. The allowance will be ten dols per day in full. At the moment of my writing this Letter you are as I suppose at So. Kingston deliberating about 5 per Cent. I hope you will not adopt it. You will thereby raise money for some States who will not raise any for you nor even for themselves. It is in contemplation to order a Conti. Tax of 1,200,000 Dols, to pay the intrest of the funded debts for 1783. This will be constitutional and in my opinion much better than the Impost; but should that be adopted, this will probably be laid aside. We wait the result of your present deliberations with impatience. Georgia has not yet agreed to the Impost. Please to write me fully the doings of the Legislature & the Senti ments of the people.
