August 27,1782 93 Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dr. Tucker Phila. Augt. 27th 1782 I have Just time to acknowledge the Rect. of your Postscript with the letter Enclosed. I am sorry in hearing from you that my fathers health is so bad—& am extremely destressd that he has never written me a line in answer to the numerous letters I have written to him. The circumstances you mention with respect to the Tobo. is what chiefly induces me to write to you by this post. I am not Surprized that Ross offers at length 22/6 per Ct. when the Superintendt. of finance gives for Tobo. deliverable in Virginia 25/. I shall accordingly dispose of the Qy. you say is wanting for present emergencies but no more being still of opinion that the Residue will quadruply pay for keeping or if I can get for it what I think it is worth may perhaps Sell the whole here. I hope you will advertize Fanny of this and tell her my opinion is that no Tobo. shd. be sold at present more than what is absolutely necessary—untill she hears further from me, as I can form the best Judgment of the time when it will be proper to sell it—and that I think it wd. be much preferable to let me get 25/ Shilling Va. Curry, here than 22/6 there. God Bless you & believe me to be, Yrs affecty. Theok. Bland RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sir Philadelphia Augt 27th 1782 Capt Heron 1 proposes to Settle with you Agreeable to the inclosed State, as I am unacquainted with the price of wheat at the Head of Elk and with the Custom respecting the allowance for deficiency of Weight, have wrote to Colo Hollingsworth for information and Shall do nothing till I hear from him. Mr. Heron insists that the price to be Allowed for the wheat was to be the market price at the time of deliv ery, And that the ballance of the money was not to be paid till Six or Seven weeks after the delivery of the last parcel but if you will take an order on Mr Rutland you Shall have one immediately on the full quantity of wheat being delivered. I wish to have your further Instruc tions by the next Post. Am obliged to the intendant for the attention to the Delegates. Since he has put our Supplys into the hands of Colo. Hollingsworth we have received our Allowances pretty regularly & whenever I may have Occasion to Call for the four hundred pounds of mine which your Excellency have been obliged to make use and to
