94 August 27,1782 which you were extreamly welcome, I hope you will be put to no inconveniency in paying it. It is time to attend Congress and therefore Conclude by assureing you that I am upon all Occasions, your Excel- lencys most humble sevt, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 Not identified. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. Aug. 27th. 1782. Your favor of the 16th 1 came duly to hand yesterday. The hints which it gives with regard to merchandizes imported in returning flags, and the intrusion of obnoxious aliens through other States, merit attention. The latter subject has on several occasions been men tioned in Congress, but I believe no Committee has ever reported a remedy for the abuse. A uniform rule of naturalization ought certainly to be recommended to the States. Their individual Authority seems if properly exerted, to be competent to the case of their own Citizens. The report touching the unpopularity of (General G} 2 was perfectly new to me. It may nevertheless be true. The letter reed, yesterday from the Govr. 3 is silent as to the appointment of Commissrs. to treat with the Southern Indians. We are still left without information concerning negociations in Europe. So long a silence of our Ministers at so interesting a crisis grows equally distressing & inexplicible. The French fleet has gone into Boston Harbor. The arrival of a British fleet on this coast is reported but disbelieved by many. The French Army is on its way Northward from Baltimore. It is to proceed in five divisions; the 1st of which is to be here about Friday next. Congress red. yesterday a letter from Genl Washington enclosing one to him from Carlton with the proceedings of the Ct. Martial in the case of Lippencut. 4 It appears that this Culprit did not deny the fact charged upon him but undertook to justify it as a necessary retali ation, and as warranted by verbal orders from the Board of Refugees. The Ct. decided this warrant to be insufficient, but acquitted him on the pretext that no malicious intention appeared. Carlton explicitly acknowledges & reprobates the crime, & promises to pursue it in other modes; complaining at the same time of irregularity in the step taken by Genl W. of selecting & devoting to execution an innocent & even a capitulant officer, before satisfaction had been formally demanded & refused. Genl. W. seems to (lean to the side of compas sion) but {asks the direction of Congress). What that will be may per haps be communicated in my next.
