August 27, 1782 95 The consideration of your territorial (report has been resumed). The expedient which was meant to conciliate both sides proved, as often happens, a means of widening the breach. The Jealousies announced on the side mentioned in my last, were answered with reciprocal jealousies from the other, & the {report) between the two was falling to the ground when a committment as a lesser evil was pro posed & agreed to. Mr. Jones & his family arrived on Sunday at Germantown without halting in this City. Himself, his lady & little son were all extremely sick during the whole journey. Mrs. Jones is still very much indis posed, & Mr. Jones considerably so. They do not propose to come into the City till the salubrity of Germantown shall have enabled them to encounter its noise & polluted atmosphere. 5 I cannot in any way make you more sensible of the importance of your kind attention to pecuniary remittances for me than by informing you that I have for some time past been a pensioner on the favor of H. S. 6 Will not the Agent of Mr. Morris 7 give a draught payable to me for notes payable to the bearer? Or may not the Notes be so endorsed as in case of accident to prevent payment to another? In either of these cases a remittance of notes (if they can be procured for me), by the post will be safe. But my present situation renders such a conveyance preferable to delay, even if neither of the foregoing expedients be practicable. Shew this paragraph to Mr. Ambler 8 if you please. As I do not find that any of my letters in which Mr. L s Cypher was used, have miscarried, I inclose you a Key exactly copied from mine. 9 If it arrives safe, and unlocks the past letters, it may be of future use. You w[ill] observe & inform me whether the seal of [this letter?] obviates all suspicion of its having been opened. Mr. H. & Mr. T. 10 present their very affecte. regard to Mrs. Ran dolph & yourself. The arrival of every post is succeded by immediate & anxious inquiries concerning the number of your little family to which I hope Mrs. R. is by this time able to furnish a satisfactory answer. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson). 5:86-88. 1 Ibid., pp. 58-60. 2 That is, Nathanael Greene. Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in the official Virginia cipher. 3 See ibid., pp. 57-58. 4 See Ralph Izard to Arthur Middleton, August 26, 1782. 5 Joseph Jones resumed his seat in Congress on September 5. See JCC, 23:547. 6 That is, “Haym Salomon a Jew Broker” written above line, undoubtedly at a much later date. 7 Daniel Clark. s Jacquelin Ambler, Virginia’s treasurer. 9 This key to James Lovell’s cipher has not been found. 10 Probably Samuel House and Nicholas Trist.
