96 August 27, 1782 Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Tuesday, August 27th [1782] The Com“ of the week, viz.: M r Gilman, M r Clark & M r Huntington having rec d a petition signed by a number of inhabitants of a tract of Country called Kentuckey reported that it should be read & filed. 1 The reading was first called for, and the purport of the petition was to state that the petitioners had, at the risk of their lives, settled a tract of country westward of the Allegheny Mountains on the waters falling into the Ohio, that the State of Virginia had lately granted large tracts of land within that district without any condition of settlements, that she had undertaken to form them into Counties and claimed jurisdic tion there, that being removed above 800 miles from the seat of Gov ernment, it could not be exercised with justice & energy; that they were in danger of losing their rights, if they must go to Richmond where the Supreme Court sat & there contend with the last Grantees; that they have taken an Oath of Allegiance & considered themselves subjects of the United States & not of Virginia, that the Charter under which Virginia claimed that Country, had been disolved; that in conse quence of the dissolution the Country belonged to the Crown of G. Britain & that by the revolution the rights of the Crown was devolved on the United States, and therefore praying Congress to erect them into a separate and independent State and admit them into the fed eral Union. M r Lee was surprized that the Com n had not explained in their report the nature of the petition, as they ought to have done, as that might have prevented its being read. The countenancing such peti tions was an insult to the State of Virginia. 2 As the petition had been read, the only thing now to be done was to refer it to the State of Vir ginia. The petitioners were subjects of that State, if they suffered grievances they should apply to the legislature of that State for redress, and not to Congress. What right had Congress to interfere? that the rights of the Crown devolved upon Congress was a ground less, an extravagant & idle supposition. Could they devolve on Congress before it had an existence? Congress derived its power from the Confederation, it had no right but what the Confederation gave it. The United States individually were in existence before Congress was. They were sovereign free and independent & retained all the rights of sovereign free and independent states, except what they voluntarily gave to Congress by the Confederation. That the rights of the Crown to the vacant Lands within the bounds of any state could not devolve upon Congress but on the individual state within the bounds of which the lands lay. M r Madison supported the propriety of referring the paper to the legislature of Virginia. The State he said had already taken measures
