98 August 27, 1782 Britain with regard to her former Colonies, & must bring on another revolution, which will be attended with convulsions & break, the peace of the union. If he is rightly informed, that plan is already in part adopted and is one of the grievances complained of by the people and the foundation of the present petition. He is apt to be jealous, but he thinks it right to be jealous in such a case as this. He wishes for full information. M r Howell observed that the right to the western Country was vested in the Crown of Great B. That by the proclamation of 1763 the King had prohibited his Governors from granting lands beyond the heads of the waters falling into the Atlantic; that by that proclamation reserved to himself the right of pre-emption; that the Crown of England claimed and had always exercised the right of setting off new govern ments—that both these rights devolved on the United States. Congress had acted upon the former when they passed the resolution recommending it to the states who claimed the western Country, not to make any grants of unappropriated lands. See Oct. 30, 1779, 3 in opposition to which the State of Virginia made grants of which the present petitioners now complain and the 11th Article of the Confed eration provides for the exercise of the latter right by the words “no Colony shall be admitted into the union until such admission be agreed to by nine States.” This is not to be confined to Colonies then or now in existence, but extends to any future Colony that may at any time be established or formed. M r Witherspoon began by observing that one of the gentlemen from Virginia said it could not enter into the thoughts of any man that the rights of the Crown devolved on the United States. He sup posed he intended that only as a figure in rhetorick, not as an asser tion that would be admitted. It certainly could enter into the thoughts of men and had actually entered into his thoughts, and it had entered the thoughts of the petitioners and into the thoughts of very many sensible men at the beginning of the present Controversy. The west ern uncultivated and unappropiated lands belonging to the Crown were considered and spoken of early in the controversy as fund for discharging the debts that might be contracted in the war by the U. S. It would appear a strange whim if a sentiment which occupied and engrossed the minds not only of speculative, but of illiterate men and of the bulk of the inhabitants of many of the States had not some solid foundation to rest on. For his part he thought it founded on truth, on justice, on the nature of things, and was warranted by the Laws of Society. This controversy was begun and the war was carried on by the united and joint efforts of the thirteen States. By their joint exertions and not by those of any one State the dominion of Great Britain was broken, and consequently the rights claimed and exercised by the crown devolved on all, and not any individual State. Why should one
