August 28, 1782 101 to the superintendent of finance who issued his report on September 7. See PCC, item 75, 2:371-72, item 185, 3:39, item 186, fol. 51; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:335-37. Morris proposed instead that the currency be received and destroyed by the commis sioners he had appointed to settle state and individual accounts and, in a far-reaching departure, recommended that states redeeming more than their quotas of old money be credited for the excess in specie at 40 to 1, thus favoring states like Massachusetts that held a surplus. For Congress’ rejection of Morris’ proposal to permit redemptions in excess of state quotas and Massachusetts’ effort to salvage the superintendent’s rec ommendation, see Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, September 19-25, note 10; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 26, 1782. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, August 20, 1782, note 3. James Duane to Alexander McDougall Dear Sir Philadelphia 28th Aug 1782 I received your favour of the 16th Instant with great Pleasure. Be assured that it requird no Representations or Arguments to engage my Efforts for the most speedy Decision on your Case. 1 I was suffi ciently awake to your personal feelings in such a painful State of sus- pence, and anxious, on publick Considerations, for your Resumption of Command. Nor was there in fact any delay but what was required for a deliberate Review of the proceedings of the Court martial. You know the Event. We saw you with pleasure rescued, by the Sentence of your Peers, from every Imputation which, in the remotest degree, coud reflect on your Honour or your Integrity. The single charge of which you are not acquitted Taxes yOur Prudence only; and not in Con duct, or with Regard to the publick, but in words respecting an Individ ual, and utterd in a social Hour! I refer you to General Scott for any particulars respecting the Ratification of the Sentence which you may be curious to know. With Truth, Sir, I can affirm that the high Estima tion in which your Zeal, your Merits and your Services had placed you remains unimpaired. I have been so long habituated to disappointment from the Profes sions, and the extreme Folly, of our Enemy, that I form Conclusions with respect to their Measures and that Sincerely with the utmost Cau tion. Pardon me then for confessing that you take greatly the Lead of me in Expectations of a sudden peace. I reserve my Judgement of this most desireable Event till we obtain Information of the state of Euro pean politics from our Ministers. It is a painful Reflection that we have no Intelligence from any of them for a most tedious period: Not even an official account of the Recognition of our Independence by the Dutch tho’ it must have happend so long ago as April. And yet, my dear Sir, I will not renounce the Hope of embracing you before the next Spring in our beloved Capital, and of felicitating with you on the Success of our Anxious Labours for the Indepen dence & Happiness of the United States. I am with the greatest Respect and personal Esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obedient & very huml Sert. Jas. Duane
