102 August 28, 1782 RC (NHi: McDougall Papers). 1 For the reading and approval of General McDougall’s court-martial sentence by Congress on August 15, see JCC, 23:468; and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 9, 1782. For McDougall’s court martial on seven counts of “conduct unmilitary and unbecoming an officer,” and modest reprimand for conviction on the seventh charge for having denounced Gen. William Heath as “a Knave,” see Washington, Writ ings (Fitzpatrick), 25:76-84; and Roger J. Champagne, Alexander McDougall and the Amer ican Revolution in New York (Schenectady, N.Y.: Union College Press, 1975), pp. 175-79. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Augst. 28th. 1782. I received your favour of the 14th Instt. (Inclosing a Letter from Mrs. Gilman) by Post the 26th. I wrote you the 21st Instt. since which have not any Intelligence either from Europe, or respecting the sev eral Reports mentioned in that Letter, cannot account for our being so long destitute of Intelligence from Europe. I have made Enquiry Respecting the Balsam mentioned in your Letter of the 6th. It is in such bottles as I think would not answer to send by the Post, I shall send it you by the first safe Opporty. I can find. I have received a Let ter from Genl. Bellows respecting Wages &c. due to One Capt. Holmes. Inclosed is an Answer thereto, 1 have not any thing to Com municate, worthy of your Attention. I Inclose a Paper of this Day and have the Honour to be, with much Respect, Your Obedt. servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. In my Letter of the 21st Instt. I wrote for some Money or Bills to be Sent me, hope it will be done before this reaches you; of the 500 Dollars which I received of the State, I brought away with me when I Left home 450 Dollars (although I had Expended several Hundred Dollars to prepare mySelf for the Journey) and I am now almost Desti tute of Money. J. T. G. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Not found. John Hanson to William Whipple and Others Sir 1 (Circular) Philadelphia August 28th. 1782 A dispute having long subsisted between the States of Pensylvania & Connecticut respecting lands claimed by them respectively, an appeal was made to Congress for settling the dispute agreeably to the ninth article of the Confederation, and the said States appearing by their lawful Agents were directed according to the tenor of the Confedera-
