August 28,1782 103 tion to appoint by joint consent Commissioners or Judges to consti tute a Court for hearing and determining the matter in question. In consequence of this direction they met and have appointed the hon- ble. W. Whipple Esqr. of New Hampshire, the Honble. Welcome Arnold Esqr. of Rhode Island, the Honorable David Brearly and William Churchill Houston Esqrs. of New Jersey, the Honble. Cyrus Griffin, Joseph Jones, and Thomas Neilson Esqrs. ofVirginia to consti tute a Court for hearing & determining the matter in question between the said States. 2 I have it in charge to inform you of this appointment and that you are to meet at Trenton in the State of New Jersey on Tuesday the 12th. day of November next. A Commission is making out and will be ready to be delivered at the time & place above mentioned. As the peace of two States and consequently of the whole Union depends upon an amicable settlement of this dispute, I trust you will view your appointment in so important a light, that it will be unnecessary, to use arguments to induce you to undertake the business and to meet punc tually at the time & place appointed. I have the honor to be with Sentiments of esteem & regard Sir, Your most obedient & very humble Servt. John Hanson Presidt. RC (Capt.J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). Addressed: “Honorable William Whip ple Esqr., New Hampshire.” LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 In the LB the following note follows this letter: “The same verbatim, To the Honor able Welcome Arnold, Esq. of Rhode-Island, The Honorable David Brearley and William Churchill Houston, Esquires, of New-Jersey, The Honorable Cyrus Griffin, Joseph Jones and Thomas Neilson, Esquires, ofVirginia, severally.” 2 For this August 23 order of Congress, see JCC, 23:461, 466-68, 528-29. For the con text of this action, see Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, June 5 and July 1, 1782; and Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:119-29. David Howell to Silas Talbot Dear Sir, Philada. 28 Aug. 1782. I waited on Gen. Gates at his lodgings at the time he proposed for the purpose I wrote you 1 but he was gone into the Country—and I have not seen him since to obtain his opinion. The papers you sent me have been in the Auditors hands several days; he informs me that he does not thereby deem himself autho rised to settle your accounts for the whole of the time as a Land-offi cer; but thinks your case so peculiarly situated as to well justify a par ticular application to Congress. This I will make for you, if you will sign & send to me a Petition; or, should you, as you hint in your last letter, come “in person ” I will assist you all in my power. Waiting advice I am, Sir, yours, &c. David Howell.
