112 August ? 1782 When Application was made to France that Court proceded with the utmost Caution. It was easy however from the whole Intercourse to perceive two things (1) That both The Court & Nation of France were very desirous that we should be supported & succeed (2) That at the same Time they were exceedingly doubtful whether it was safe for them to involve themselves much with us or openly to take our Part. This Backwardness arose plainly from two different Causes which seemed to have almost equal Influence (1) Jealousy of us least we should not adhere to our Resolutions but draw back & make Peace with England (2) A necessary Fear of the Power of England and par ticular its Naval Force. They have hardly even yet been wholly free of either of these apprehensions. The Affairs of the United States were never in a more critical situa tion than in December 1776 when Congress went to Baltimore—there never was a greater need for or greater Anxiety to obtain foreign Aid. The Number that attended Congress then was small but their Mea sures were decided & I believe judicious. I do not remember one Word of Despondency to have fallen from any Member or the most distant hint of a Desire to draw back & make submission to England. But the Means of persuading France to [in] terpose effectually was the great Subject of Deliberation & Discussion. At that Time there was a Letter or Letters mentioned from a P[er]son in France which intimated that we should make Propositions to France to induce them to support us in an effectual Manner & since this Sentiment was Spoke of coming from that Quarter that if we could put France in the Place of England they would certainly protect us. This came from no official Persons nor was directed to any official Body nor had we any Reason to suppose that it was done at the Sug gestion of the Court of France. I do not believe it was. The Proposi tion was not worthy of being taken into Consideration. There were however several Persons in Congress who reasoned in this Manner. It is plain we cannot be supported without foreign Aid. There is no Place to which we can apply with Probability of Success but France. We know she is disposed to assist us but We have been given no Sufficient Inducement to that Power to interpose. We have offered nothing to France but what we have offered to every ot her Nation. The Proposals mentioned were to offer France an exclusive Trade with the united States for a limited Time—or to offer them an exclusive Trade in some particular Articles—or to offer them a Distinction from other Nations in form of Freedom from Imposts &c. After a very deliberate & accurate Discussion it was the Opinion of a very considerable Majority of Congress to make no such Proposals. That they were contrary to the very Spirit of our undertaking—that if we were to be independent we could be independent of all the World—That to separate the united States from England was an
