114 August ?1782 in the West Indies had happened two years sooner than it did its Effects would have been perhaps fatal to us. From this state of Things & all that followed I am convinced that nothing could be more false than the Supposition of some Persons that France wanted the War to continue for the Purposes of Ambition & the greater Humiliation of her Enemy. On the Contrary France always discovered a Desire to have the War terminated & listened to any Proposal for this Purpose perhaps prompted or suggested the Offers of Mediation from Spain, the Emperor & Russia. This was the natural Consequence of the two Causes above assigned for her slow ness & Caution in entering upon the War. Mr John Adams was chosen for the Purpose & the Commission for negotiating a Peace with great Britain was given to him alone. The Instructions at first sent to him contained a Description of our Claims as to Territory & made the following particulars essentially necessary to our making Peace. The Extension of our Bounds to the 45 Degree of Latitude North & to the Mississippi westward—The right of fishing on the Banks of Newfoundland—And a free Navigation of the Missis sippi to the Mouth. When Mr Adams was in France he thought it best to intimate to the Court of England as from himself that he had a Commission for nego tiating Peace. The Court of France was of Opinion that that Time was not proper that things were not sufficiently ripe for it & that no such separate Intimation should be made & that it might encourage Eng land in the Expectation of Engaging in a separate Treaty with America & dividing the Allies, a thing which they earnestly desired & made repeated attempts to accomplish. In a Correspondence between Mr Adams & the D. de Vergennes on this subject & also on the Subject of the Act of Congress of the 18th of March 80—estimating the conti nental Money at 40 for 1, Mr Adams maintained his Opinions with a Tenaciousness which gave great Offence to the Court of France & indeed such was the Manner of his writing upon these Subjects that he was finally forbid to continue it by an express order de par le roi. In the year 1781 Congress entered upon the Reconsideration of the Instructions 3 formerly sent to Mr Adams particularly the making essential Conditions of the extensive boundary, of the fishing on New foundland & the free Navigation of the Mississippi. The last of these we heard from our Ministers was very disagreeable to the Court of Spain another viz the fishery not very agreeable to the Court of France who had not this Right by Treaty themselves, & the other We had Rea son to suspect that the English might be very tenacious upon nor did we know what might be the Sentiments of the Mediating Powers or the P[owers] of Europe in general as to our Right or the Expediency of our having such extensive Dominions. It was also to be considered that as none of these particulars was specified in the Alliance with
