August ? 1782 115 France the Question was necessarily reduced to this Form whether though France should not support us in these Claims we would con tinue the War ourselves unless they were granted. In this Situation after much & long discussion it was at last resolved as to all the three to depart from making them absolute & essential Conditions least at our Distance it should be a Bar to an otherwise honorable Peace. The Spirit therefore of the final Instructions was that the former should still serve to shew what we wished & thought we ought to Obtain but from a Desire of Peace we left it to our Minis ters in Conjunction with our Allies to do what Circumstances should discover to be wisest upon the whole. When these Matters were trans acting the Minister of France often intimated both to Committees in Conference with him & to particular Members of Congress that it would be highly agreeable to his Court that Congress should leave nothing as general or undetermined but say expressly upon every par ticular what they would & what they would not yield. It could not eas ily be known with Certainty whether this arose chiefly or only from their Jealousy of Mr Adams or whether they preferred upon the whole that as little should be left discretionary as possible least blame should be laid upon themselves. It was however my plan that this could not be complied with. To have been specific upon every Point & to have brought the States gen erally to agree upon them as to what might & what could not be given up would have required much more Time than could be allowed by the State of Affairs & probably it never could have been or with Cor diality & Unanimity at all. Besides these are some of the particulars that it was clearly impossible to be absolute & explicit upon for exam ple as to Boundary. How could it be said that it is the Interest of the United States to contract their Boundaries to the westward 100 miles in order to have other Points secured but no Necessity or Advantage as sufficient to make them come in 200 miles. How could the Congress judge of the Sentiments of the Public upon such Matters so as to be peremptory & to make a Demand at the Risk of our Indepen dence or our very Existance. Therefore it was without much Difficulty agreed to continue the Instructions in the general & discretionary Form. When the Instructions were therefore agreed upon Communica tions were made of them to the Minister of France & the Directions were given in the same Manner as always had been done to our Minis ter to make the most free & candid Communications of all his Pro ceedings to the Court of France & to avail himself of the assistance, friendship & Influence of that Court in all his Transactions. Then a Difficulty arose which was trying indeed, it appeared that this was not sufficient in the present Instance. The Minister read to the Commit tee the Letters of the D de Vergennes upon the Subject of Mr Adams
