116 August ?1782 complaining of him in the Strongest Terms & expressing their fears of the negotiations being marred by his Stiffness & Tenaciousness of Temper. It was natural to suppose & probably was supposed by the Members of the Committee that the Minister wished Congress would take that Commission from Mr Adams & give it to some other though no such thing was read to the Committee from D. de Vergennes let ters nor proposed by the Minister himself. When this Matter was reported to Congress a very serious Delibera tion was taken upon it. What Mr Adams had done by which he had incurred the Displeasure of the Ministers of the King of France had been undoubtedly from his Zeal & Attachment to the Interest & honor of the united States. His Ability & his unshaken Fidelity was well known. In such a Case to displace a Minister merely because he had given umbrage to some at the Court where he resided by an excess of well Meant Zeal seemed to be a most pernicious Example & probably would have the worst Effects upon succeeding ministers & therefore ought not to be done. The Writer of this Memorial of Facts in particular was clearly of Opinion that Mr Adams judged wrong in both the Points which he contested in his Correspondence with the D. de Vergennes the Reasons for which need not now be mentioned. Yet he was as clearly of Opinion to sacrifice a Minister of unquestionable Integrity ought not on any Acct to be submitted to merely because he had more Zeal than good Manners & therefore it was proposed that a Clause should be added to the Instructions to this purpose and that he should do nothing without the Consent & approbation of the Court of prance. Another Committee was appointed to confer with the Minister & made this Communication. But in Conference this also was in his Opinion insufficient. He repeated the Fears they had of Difficulties with Mr Adams & insisted that by this New Clause he was only bound negatively that he could not indeed do any Thing without the Con sent of the Court of France but he might obstruct every Measure & unless he were perfectly satisfied effectually prevent any Thing being done. When this was repeated to Congress the Matter appeared exceed ingly delicate & difficult. It was discussed at great Length. All the Objections against removing Mr Adams remained in their full force. But on the other it appeared humiliating at least if not dangerous to deliver ourselves up entirely to the Court of France. However after full Deliberation it was agreed by the Majority in Congress to add to the Instruction that he should be ultimately guided by the Opinion & fudg- ment of the Court of France. As This particular Resolution appeared so dubious to several Wor thy Members of Congress & there were so many Attempts to recon-
