September 1, 1782 119 Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Septr 1st 1782 We had the honor of your Excellcy favr by Brown with the bundle of papers which have not had time thoroughly to peruse. Browns suden & unexpected Departure this day prevents my giving that Answer & Intelligence which Duty required, I had while in Congress Sketchd out 2 or 3 letters for Coll. Williams, Esqr Wales, & Doctr. Gray 1 & in each just touched on some Subjects which designed this afternoon to have enlarged & rather farther elucidated to your Excel lency but this Moment after 4 oClock just returnd from Congress Brown Says he cannot wait a minute longer, therefore have only to ask pardon for being oblidgd to referr your Excellency to those letters which they will shew you, for a few Intimations which undigested are scattered in those letters 2 & shall take the earliest oppertunity to give your Excellency some further Information on our publick matters & for which I hope shall be better prepared as at present they lye unde cided in Congress. 3 Am with the most sincere respect, Your Excellcys Obedt Hie Servt. Elipht Dyer RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 These letters for William Williams, Nathaniel Wales, and Samuel Grav have not been found. 2 Governor Trumbull reported in his September 23 reply to Dyer that Samuel Gray had “sent me an Extract of what you mention to him, relative to the case between this State, and that of Pennsylvania.” Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:123. 3 See Dyer to Trumbull, September 25, 1782. John Hanson to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Sept. 1st 1782 Your Excellencys letter of the 28th ult inclosing an Extract of a Let ter from Sir Guy Carleton I received last Evening. Tomorrow Morning 1 they shall be laid before Congress and as soon as they decide on the Several matters you have been pleased to recommend to their Consideration their Resolutions thereon Shall be immediately transmitted. 2 I have the honor to be with the highest respect and regard, Your Excellencys, most obedt & very humble Servt John Hanson RC (DLC: Washington Papers).
