130 September 9, 1782 Promise of half Pay for Life which was made the 21st of October 1780 has occasioned considerable Difficulty. It has obstructed the reducing of the Officers of the Army—because those who were opposed to half Pay, would not on that Condition Vote for a Reduction, & those that were for it, would not agree but upon that Condition. But how can the Legislature of Massachusetts take up the Matter? Will the State undertake to make a Compromise for the half Pay? There could be no Objection to this, if the State could do it with Safety & give no Offence to several States in the Union. But as it is altogether a national Matter, if the State should enter into any such Agreement without the Consent & Approbation of Congress; you are sensible from what you heard observed, when the Memorial from the Connecticut Officers was under Consideration, that some of the States will not agree to excuse any State in Requisitions for half Pay, notwi [th] standing it may have made a Compromise with its own Officers. If half Pay for Life is agreeable to the State, they can instruct their Delegates in Congress to be in Favor of it. But without such an Instruction, I beleive they will conclude that they are acting con formable to the Sentiments of the State, in opposing it. I have no doubt at present, But it will be finally referred to the several States to do in this Matter as Wisdom & Justice may direct. But whenever this is made a serious Question in Congress it will be warmly opposed; because some of the States are exceedingly in Favor of half Pay and will do all they can to make the discharging of it a national Matter, from a Supposition, that it will have a Tendency to cement the Union or, (which I think is more probable) from an uncertainty, whether, if it is referred, their own Legislatures will think it reasonable to give half Pay for Life to their Officers indiscriminately. The Arguments in Support of half Pay for Life must be drawn from the Sufferings & hard Services of the Officers—The Sacrifice they have made in their private Fortunes—And the Injury done to their Constitutions—That their Mode of Life in the Army has disqualified them for any other Employ. In Opposition to these Arguments, it will be said that no Country ever gave half Pay for Life, which did not maintain a standing Army— That in the American Army, as the Promise stands at present, it will be an exceeding unequal Reward. Our Officers are very numerous, & many of them have not per formed nine Months actual Service. That in the Distribution of Rewards, equal Justice ought to be a gov erning Principle—But many of our old & best Officers will receive a much less Reward, than younger Officers. I need not endeavor to prove this, by Doctr. Halley’s Calculations to ascertain the Value of Annuities. What Reason then can be given, why an Officer that left a Family which depended upon him for Support & Protection, & hazarded his
