134 September 9, 1782 dency to Support the Plan which Genl. Lincoln was about submitting to Congress. And I am perswaded that sooner or later the whole Mat ter will be referred, & recommended to the several States to do as their Wisdom may direct. 3 I must request you to excuse so long a Let ter upon a single Subject. I am, Dear Sir, with great Esteem, Your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 For the petition of the “deranged" Connecticut officers, which had been referred to the superintendent of finance on July 19, 1782, see Charles Thomson s Notes of Debates, July 30, 1782, note 2. 2 JCC, 18:893-97, 959-61. 3 Osgood later learned that this letter had been used to help ensure Massachusetts’ rejection of a petition of the state’s officers for half pay. Finding himself under “no small Degree of Anxiety” as a result, he was subsequently moved to defend and explain himself, for which see Osgood to Henry Knox, December 4, 1782. John Witherspoon’s Speech in Congress Mr President, [September 9, 1782] 1 I must entreat the attention of the house, while I endeavour to state this subject with as much brevity and perspicuity as I am master of. It is not easy to forbear mentioning, yet I shall but barely mention, the distressed and unhappy situation of many of the persons concerned in the public loans. I shall also pass by their characters, as whigs and friends to the American cause. I shall pass by the services which many of them have rendered, in their persons, by their friends, by their purses, and by their prayers. These are affecting considerations, which ought not, and which I am confident will not fail, to have their weight with every member of this house. Let us then, leave these topics alto gether, and let us confine ourselves to the duty and interest of the United States in their present situation, when the care of their affairs is committed to us who are here assembled. Public credit is of the utmost moment to a state which expects to support itself, at any time; but it is all in all in a time of war. The want of it defeats the wisest measures, and renders every department torpid and motionless. It cannot be denied, that by many unhappy, if not unwise measures, public credit among us has been reduced to the low est ebb, first by a monstrous and unheard of emission of paper money; next by an act of bankruptcy, reducing it to six pence in the pound; then by a table of depreciation. 2 There remained but one thing which preserved us some degree of respectability, that the promises made to lenders of money before a certain period, had been kept for three years; but now as the last and finishing stroke, this also is broken to pieces, and given to the winds.
