September 9, 1782 135 Let not gentlemen cry out as before, why distinguish these people from other public creditors? I do not distinguish them by asking pay ment for them alone; but I distinguish them, because their circum stances and disappointment give a new and disgraceful stroke to the credit of the United States. I distinguish them, because I hope that their sufferings and complaints may induce us to take some step towards the payment of all. Strange it is to the last degree, that this comparison should seem to set gentlemen’s minds at ease—because great injury has been done to one class, therefore the same may and ought to be done to another. In this way it would be very easy to rid ourselves of both, and to say, why all this noise about loan-office cer tificates? have not all the receivers of continental bills suffered as much or more than they, and had the immense sum of two hundred millions sunk in their hands? If this would be a good answer in one cafe, it certainly would in the other. Now is it proper or safe in our present situation, to refuse all kind of payment to the public creditors in this country, so numerous and so variously circumstanced? Let us examine it a little. We are now endeavouring to borrow, and have the hope of borrow ing money in Europe. Is this the way to succeed? Is it not possible, is it not highly probable, that our treatment of our creditors here, will soon be known there? Nay, are not some of our creditors interested in this very measure, residing there? Must not this repeated insolvency, neglect and even contempt of public creditors, prevent people from lending us in Europe? I am sorry to say it, but in truth I do believe that it is their ignorance of our situation and past conduct, that alone will make them trust us. I confess, that if I were at Amsterdam just now and had plenty of money, I would give what I thought proper to the United States, but would lend them none. It is to be hoped, that in time truth and justice will so far prevail, that our posterity will fee the necessity of doing their duty; but at pres ent we seem but little disposed to it. By making some payment to the public creditors immediately, and prosecuting the measures already begun for further security, we should obtain a dignity and weight abroad, that would procure money wherever it could be found. Let us next consider the effect upon our credit at home. It has ever been my opinion, that if our security were good, and our credit entire, so that obligations by the public would be turned into money at any time, at par or at little less, we should find no inconsiderable number of lenders. Every thing of this kind proceeds upon such cer tain principles as never to fail in any instance of having their effect. From the general disposition, that prevails in this new country, real estate is less esteemed, and money at interest more, that is to say comparatively speaking, than in the old. Now, whatever success we may have in Europe, I am persuaded we should still need, or at least be much the better of loans at home, which are in their nature
