September 9, 1782 137 indignation. They really are already sore; their minds will be rankled more than ever. They are looking with an evil eye upon some new men coming into play, and thinking themselves unjustly and ungrate fully used. I believe they are not so much without principle, as to turn their backs upon the public cause; but a spirit of faction and general discontent, upon such plausible grounds, may do it essential injury. They may combine to refuse their taxes; and if any such unhappy asso ciation should be formed, it would spread; and many from a blind attachment to their own interest, would pretend to be upon the same footing, though they have no concern in the matter: and if this dispo sition should become general, it would put an entire stop to all our proceedings. This discouraging prospect is not merely founded on conjecture. I have been told that there have already been meetings for entering into concert for refusing to pay taxes. Is it possible we can, in our circumstances, more profitably employ the sum mentioned in the motion, than in giving satisfaction to a deserving body of men, and in preventing evils of so alarming a nature. It is possible, Sir, that some are comforting themselves with their own sincerity and good intentions; that they ultimately resolve to pay all honourably; that they have taken, and are taking measures to pre pare for it. A sum of money is called for on purpose to pay the inter est of the public debts; and the five per cent, impost is appropriated to the same purpose. But, Sir, it will take a considerable time before the most speedy of these measures can bring money into the treasury; and in the mean time the late step of refusing to draw bills, has given such a stroke to loan-office certificates, that their value is fallen to a very trifle—the spirits of the people are broken—a gentleman told me the other day, I see the loan-office certificates are gone, as well as all the rest of the money. The inevitable consequence will be, that hard and irresistible necessity, or incredulity and ill humour, will make them part with them for a mere nothing; and then the greatest part of them by far will really be in the hands of speculators. When this is notoriously the case, I shall not be at all surprised to find that somebody will propose a new scale of depreciation, and say to the holders, you shall have them for what they were worth and generally sold at, at such a time. Past experience justifies this expectation, and no declaration we can make to the contrary, will be stronger than that of Congress in the year 1779, that they would redeem the money, 3 and that it was a vile and slanderous assertion, that they would suffer it to sink in people’s hands. I know particular persons also, who by believing this declaration, lost their all. Now, if this shall be the case again, public faith will be once more trodden under foot; and the few remaining original holders of certificates will loose them entirely, being taken in connection with those who purchased them at an under value.
