142 September 10, 1782 Osgood, John Rutledge, and James Madison) to whom he suggested giving the America to France to replace the lost Magnifique. Congress quickly concurred with the commit tee’s favorable report and the presentation was made to the chevalier de La Luzerne on September 4. See JCC, 23:543; PCC, item 28, fols. 233-34; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:302n.2, 303-4, 306. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, September 3, 1782, note 4. 3 See John Witherspoon’s Draft Resolves, September 6, 1782. 4 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:78n.l2. 5 Ibid., p. 95. 6 Ibid., pp. 91-92. 2 Neither Madison’s accounts nor the “scale of Depreciation” for Pennsylvania have been found, but see Madison to Virginia Auditors, August 20, 1782. David Ramsay to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir, Philada. Septr. 10th 1782 Your favor of the 14th of August came safe to hand on the sixth of September, for which I am much obliged to you. The prospect of an evacuation of Charlestown had reached us sev eral days before by the way of New-York. Prior to that we had sent in to Sir Guy Carleton the names of 429 persons to take the benefit of the flags which he had on a former occasion agreed to grant. 1 They are now in high spirits & determined to return as soon as possible. The evacuation of Charlestown will not terminate the troubles of the people of Carolina. I forsee much to be done & more to be suffered before the country will be completely organized in every depart ment. Now is the time for a spirit of moderation & sound policy to manifest itself. I very much fear the madness & unforgiving temper of some whigs. To reconcile, to unite, or as the chymists say, to amal gamate the people into one homogeneous body would be a divine work. I feel myse[l]f happy that my tour of duty lies in a distant part of America. This will be handed you by an express who carries to you a resolution of Congress countermanding your orders to repair to head quarters; 2 this resolution would not have been carried at any other season; but, it was said on all hands your army would be useless here till next Spring, & that you might as well remain in Carolina till February. I am there fore well pleased that the enemy did not evacuate as early as was at first expected. If you think proper to undertake the reduction of Augustine, the resolution is expressly worded in such a manner as to leave it fully in your power. It is certain that the Southern states would be greatly releived by a successful expedition into E. Florida. The people of that province will receive such a powerful reinforcement of refugees all insti gated by a spirit of revenge, & a wish to repair their broken fortunes, that Carolina & Georgia (when left without an army) would probably
