144 September 10, 1782 necessary Step for establishing the Tranquillity & Safety of the South ern States. 1 Congress have determind upon a Demand of 1,200,000 Dollars from the States, (to be raisd immediately by such Taxes as may be judged by the States proper & effectual,) for paying the Interest due on L.O. Certicates & other publick Debts when liquidated. The Resolves are ordered to be forwarded by the S. I. Finance together with a Copy of the Estimate of the domestic Debt—There being no fund in Europe for payment of the Interest due on L. Off. Certificates since 1st March last, The S. I. Finance was, by a Resolve yesterday, directed to order the Commissioners of the L. Offices in the several States to Issue no more Bills of Exchange for Interest which hath or may become due since that date. 2 In Consequence of the Loss of the Magnifique in Boston Harbour, Congress, to express their Sense of the generous Exertions of his most Ch. Majesty have directed the Agent of Marine to make a Tender of the America the 74 Gun Ship now in New Hamp to Monsr. de la Luzerne for the Service of his Majesty, which has been accepted. The British Genl. & Adml. have agreed to nominate Commissioners for settling a General Cartel, but from Circumstances we have no Expectation of it’s taking place soon. The Trial of Lippincut has been forwarded by Genl. Carleton to Genl. Washington, who transmitted it to Congress where the matter lies Committed. Nothing of moment has occurred since our last by Mrs. Mathews; we still remain without any Official Intelligence respecting our Affairs in Europe, nor have we any News of Importance except what may be containd in the papers inclos’d. 3 We have the Honour to be, Yr Excellency’s &ca. P.S. We inclose your Excellency a Copy of Genl. Washington’s Letter to us, and also the Copy he sent to us of his Letter of the 18th March last to Genl. Greene. A Letter reed, from the Genl, two Days ago men tions his having had Intelligence from New York of the sailing of Five Transports some days before under Convoy of the Warwick, having on board 1500 of the foreign Troops said to be bound toHallifax. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. Endorsed: “By Hey ward Septr. 18th. 1782.” 1 See South Carolina Delegates to Washington, August 17, 1782. 2 See JCC, 23:545-47, 553-55; and John Witherspoon’s Speech in Congress, Septem ber 9, 1782. 3 Among the “papers inclos’d” was a copy of Robert Morris’ June 18 letter to Theodorick Bland who had chaired a committee, of which David Ramsay was a mem ber, that had been instructed to explore “the practicability and means of procuring sup plies for the southern army by contracts.” See JCC, 22:244, 342; and Morris, Papers (Fer guson), 5:432-34.
