146 September 11, 1782 i See ibid., pp. 74-75,90. . _ 2 Harrison had obviously misunderstood the delegates explanation of the August 2 Carleton-Digby letter which the delegates had quoted in their letters of August 9 and 13. ’ Accordingly Madison obtained congressional approval this day for a motion direct ing die secretary for foreign affairs to obtain and transmit to the commissioners in Pans “authentic returns of slaves and other property which have been carried off or destroyed in the course of the war by the enemy.” See JCC, 23:562-63; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:111-13. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw gj r Philadelphia Septr 11th 1782 Yours of Augt. 1782 inclosing Mr Attmores respecting the Brig Sally, Barry Hartwell Capt, Captured by Capt Champlin is just now come to hand have not had a moments time to look into the affair 1 or to enquire of Mr Wright Stanly who you Inform is Mercht. in this City and Agent for the Crew & the owners. I shall Immediately Attend to it & by the next post Advise you what can be done in the affair, but believe there is no Danger of the Courts sending their Marshal to New London to seize the Estate of your late Deceased brother or any of the owners; if there was an appeal from the Court at New Bern no doubt there was bonds given there to refund in Case that Judgement should be reversed or their remedy must be against the Marshal of that Court. I remember your brother formerly in his life time often men tioned this affair to me & of Mr Mifflins making application to him to refund the Vessell but never knew what was finally done in the affair. I will Consult & apply to the Register & know how the Matter stands but if you are possessed of all the papers which you say were sent to your brother they may be Needfull & perhaps you had better send them when you send the service & return of the Petition &c I sent you by Coll Root to be served on Coll Stanton on your other Affair. I wrote you by Coll Root who left this City to return home about a fortnight agoe 2 I gave him special Charge of those papers to send them to you as soon as he arrived at Hartford that you might procure Notice to be given to Coll Stanton to appear before the Court of Appeals at this place the 1st of Octobr Next at which time I have with much trouble prevailed on that Court to sit to hear & Determine your Petition for a New Trial in that Cause. I hope Coll Root has not faild to forward you those papers, tho least any Misfortune should happen have ordered Notice to be given to his Attorney here. I expect Brown, Govr Trum bull express to return here the latter end of this month by whom you may have opportunity to send them. Am Sr with sincere regards, Yr Hie Servt, Ehpht. Dyer RC (CtNIHi: Shaw Papers). Addressed: “Thomas Shaw, Mercht, In New London, Con- necticut.”
