September 11, 1782 147 1 For the case of the brig Sally, see these I slim, 7:425-26n.l, 16:26. 2 See Dyer to Shaw, August 23, 1782. John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir Philada. Septr. 11th. 1782 Your obliging Letter of the 17th Ulto. I received the 2d. Instt. I observe your Sentiments respecting peace, and those of our Friend. I have been so much of an Unbeliever in this matter, that I can scarcely expect my sentiments to have Weight, Yet I am sure your acquain tance with me is such that you will not think I have any Aversion to an Honorable peace, but on the Contrary that I Should rejoice most Sin cerely at such an Event, and my greatest anxiety is that the prospect appears to me so distant. You will see by the News-Papers accounts of the late Change in the British Ministry—what will be the Consequence time must Determine. I am Still of Opinion that the Enemy have Hopes of making a Seper- ate Peace with us, but if this is the Case they must be Disappointed. Our Independence and the Alliance with France must go Hand in Hand. Believe it may be depended on that abt. 1500 Troops have lately sailed from New-York, said to be for Hallifax, what their next destina tion may be I cannot Say, perhaps a Plundering Expedition. A Resolution has lately passed respecting Interest on Loan Office Certificates which suppose you will see by the time this reaches you. 1 Genl. Washington has removed Head-Quarters to Verplanks Point. The French Army from the Southward Marched through this City a few Days Since are now in the Jerseys. Twelve States are now repre sented in Congress. 2 It was Expected that Rhode Island would have passed the Impost Act but their Assembly broke up a few Days Since without doing it. Nothing done, or likely to be done respecting Vermont affairs, or the Western Lands. It is so long since we had any accounts from our Ministers in Europe that whether they are Dead or living I cannot Say. I have wrote in several of my Letters respect’g Money; I hope it will not be many Days before I receive some. I Shall be glad to hear from you fre quently. Please to make my Compliments to my Friends with you, and believe to be, with much Esteem, Your most Hum. Sent. John Taylor Gilman RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 See JCC, 23:553—55; and John Witherspoon’s Speech, September 9, 1782. 2 That is, except for New Hampshire. Gilman was the only New Hampshire delegate attending until Phillips White arrived November 4. JCC, 23:562, 707.
