148 September 11, 1782 John Taylor Gilman to John Langdon Si r> Philadelphia Sept llth 1782. Your favor of the 19th ulto I rec’d per post the 2d inst. I enclose you a paper of this day, by which you will see the accounts of a late change in the British Administration, and the King’s Proclamation. It appears at present that they are much elated at their Success in the West Indies and the accomodation of their affairs in Ireland. What their present intentions are, time must determine; have no authentic information from Europe for a long time; hope we shall Soon have Some accounts, which will unfold their present plans. I believe it may be depended on that 1500 of the enemy’s troops Sailed from New York a few days past, said to be bound to Halifax, but perhaps they are on a plundering expedition. I should not be much surprised at hearing of their having made a visit in your quarter. Whatever they may do on shore, I imagine they will make great exer tions to distress our Trade. General Washington has lately moved most of his Army. Head Quarters is at Verplanck’s Point. The French troops marched through this City some days since—are now in the Jerseys. Have not to add but that I am your most hble. servt. John Taylor Gilman Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare gi r Philada. Septr. llth. 1782. I Should have wrote you by last Post, but was then informed that I Should have an Opporty by a private Conveyance within One or Two Days, but was Disappointed. The Letter you did me the Honour to write on the 20th Ulto. I receiv’d the 2d Instt. I Inclose you Copy of a Resolution of Congress respecting the Ship America. I Likewise Inclose a Paper of this day by which you will be informed of the late Change in the British Ministry. It appears at present that they are much Elated with their success in the West-Indies & the accommodation of their affairs with Ireland. What their present Intentions are time must Determine. By Letters from Genl. Greene of the 13th Ulto. are Informed that he Expects the Enemy will Evacuate Charlestown about the beginning of October. I Shall write you again as soon as I have any thing worthy of your Attention.
