September 11,1782 149 I have the Honor to be, With due Respect, your most Hum Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Since finishing my Letter dispatches have been receiv’d from Mr. Adams. The accounts from Holland are very agreeable & in some par ticulars (which I am not at liberty to mention) Exceed Expectation 1 — have not time to add as the Mail is Just Closing. JT.G RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 For Adams’ letters, see Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, September 13, note 1. The accounts which Gilman found to “Exceed Expectation” undoubtedly concerned the progress Adams had reported in negotiating a loan in Holland of 5 million guilders. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Philadelphia, Sept. 11, 1782. A Ship arrived here last Evening from Holland, which Place she left the 28th of July: she is loaded with Goods on Account of the United States to the amount of Thirty Thousand Pounds Sterling. Letters by this Ship confirm the Report of the Capture of the great est Part of the Quebec Fleet. We have no Particulars of the Negotiations of a Peace so much talked of. Mr. Adams is still in Holland. Mr. Jay is in France. It is sup posed that the late Change in the British Ministry, will for some Time prevent a general Peace, as the present Ministry are much averse to the American Independance. Congress have for some Time been employed in devising Modes for establishing Funds in the different States on General Principles, for the Payment of Interest on Moneys which now on or hereafter may be loaned: a Land Tax is talked of, and also a Poll Tax, but as all the states must agree, when we consider, that the 5 pr Cent act is not yet complied with, I have not much reason to expect the several States will readily adopt this, if it should be recommended; it is agreed for the present to raise 1,200,000 for the Payment of Interest of Money loaned and for the Interest of debts due from the United States; the Inhabitants of each state to be paid their Interest out of the Monies to be raised in the State to which such Inhabitant shall belong or when the Money was loaned. The Quotas of the States as agreed on are dif ferent from the last Quota in respect to each other. Connecticut is 133,200; New York 54,000; New Jersey 66,000.' The Resolutions of our Legislature recommending the Con vention, 2 will not I believe have the Effect that many Gentlemen expected, as but very few States seem disposed to grant further Powers
