September 17, 1782 161 Endeavour by their Emissaries to make a Seperate Peace with us, but this is Conjecture, for my Own part I am at a loss to know whether their withdrawing their Troops with those Views would be of any advantage to us; but if they should meet with any Considerable Loss in the Naval Way before the Close of the Year, they may be Lead to think Seriously of a Genl. Peace the Coming Winter. You have undoubtedly seen the Resolutions for Reducing Officers in our Army, and those other Resolutions respecting Interest on Loan Office Certificates. Congress have agreed to call on the several States for 1,200,000 Dol lars to pay the Interest of Domestic Debts, the plan is not yet Com- pleated but it is Intended that Bills be Drawn on the Several States for their proportions of this sum and that the Holders of public securities within Each State shall be Intitled to payment out of the Monies raised in such State before any others are paid, perhaps this Tax will not be agreeable to the Ideas of some, but what can be done better; the Resolution to prevent Drawing Bills was absolutely Necessary at the time it passed, as we did not then know of any funds on which we had a Right to Draw, and it is in my Opinion Ill policy to pay the Inter est of Domestic Debts by foreign Loans. I Suppose you have the Reso lutions of N. York (passed some time Since) with respect to Holding a Convention for the purpose of Considering the Articles of Confedera tion &c.3 That those Articles are Deficient and Imperfect in some degree must be allowed, but the Query is whether their is any, the least probability that a Convention would make any material alter ations for the better, which would probably be agreed to by the Sev eral States; I Suppose Our Legislature will be adjourned before this Reaches you, I Should Imagine that they have not come to any deter mination on this matter. 4 You will observe by the Resolutions for Reducing the Officers &c. that they are to retire agreeably to former Resolutions which gave Half pay, perhaps this will not be agreeable to our Legislature, but their was no other alternative, they would have been Continued drawing whole Pay, Subsistance &c. if this had not been done—the saving which will be made by this Reduction is Calcu lated at about 700,000 Dollars Per Annum. 5 In Two of my Letters to the Honble. the President of the State I wrote respecting Depreciation &c. due to the army for the years 1780 & 81. 6 I have not had any thing in Answer therefore Conclude my Suggestions on that Subject were not agreeable, but as I then thought, and Still think it to be an affair worthy the Serious attention of the State, I considered it as my Duty to mention it. In a Letter from Portsmouth of the 31st Ulto. which I Receiv’d Per last Post is a Paragraph to this purport after mentioning the time at which the Genl. Court was to meet my Honble. Correspondant adds “I hope we Shall then Send you a Colleague provided we can find a
