162 September 17, 1782 proper One but as disagreeable as your Situation is at present I Should think it would be more so to have a Colleague to divide with.” I Should not have taken so particular Notice of this Paragraph but I have had several other Letters from different Persons in which are Expressions somewhat to the Same purport; I am not Sensible of any particular Circumstance between me & either of the Gentlemen now in the Delegation, or between me & any One who I think is likely to be appointed that would probably Occasion Division of Sentiment in public affairs; but if it should be most agreeable that Two Delegates should Immediately come on, I hope no Sentiment of Delicacy or any other Consideration as it may personally respect me will prevent them for a Day, for Should Two Delegates arrive here before the time for which I was appointed Expires, I Shall be happy to See the State have a Vote here & Shall Immediately Retire with more pleasure than I came on. The general Tenor of my Letters will Evince with what Unre servedness I write you, but I Should be happy to give you, & through you any other Friends, more particular information on the Subject of our public affairs if the Conveyance was Safe. The Division & Dis traction in the Councils of our Enemy, the wretched State of their Finances, together with the United Efforts of those who are now Opposing them, will I hope Compel them to think Seriously of a general Peace before another Campaign, the war has now been car ried on for more than Seven Years & they can furnish themselves with Seventy times Seven Reasons if so many are necessary to Con vince their Cruel Obstinacy that they never can obtain their first object, Viz our Dependance on them. That Peace may be Speedily Established on an Honourable & permanent Basis, from which may flow Happiness to Society & much Felicity to Individuals, is the most Ardent wish of One who though he has Contributed but little to the Common Cause of his Country, yet has the happiness on the most Serious Reflection to Consider that his Mite has been always ready at his Country’s call. I am with Sincere Esteem, Your Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Please to make my Compliments to my Friends with you, I need not repeat my desires to have Letters from you frequently, hope in your next you will write me freely & fully. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See Gilman to Meshech Weare, September 11, 1782, note. 2 For the report of the congressional investigation into this “Vile Mismanagement” of the delivery of supplies from Holland, see JCC, 23:700-705. s See Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton, September 11, 1782, note 2. 4 The journals of the New Hampshire assembly for 1782 contain no mention of “any determination” on proposals for strengthening the Articles of Confederation. N.H. State Papers, 8:921-63. 5 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 7, 1782. B See Gilman to Weare, July 17 and August 5, 1782.
