September 17, 1782 163 Arthur Middleton to Edward Rutledge My dear Rutledge Philadelphia Sepr. 17th. 1782. By my friend Heyward I embrace an Opportunity of acknowledging the receipt of your favour by Mr Sansum, with many Thanks for the good Intelligence contained therein, & not without hopes that the flattering prospect of an Evacuation will have taken full Effect before this reaches you. We are sanguine here in these Expectations but &c. Having inclosed the Papers to the Governour, I have not a single Arti cle of News left for you, but as you are in the Cabinet, & of the family, I conclude you will have your full Share of the Feast, tho’ It may be as homely as that of Esop. I must however Congratulate you upon the Belgic Declaration; 1 who would have thought a Dutchman capable of any thing so magnanimous when there is little to be got by it except in Speculation. But remember a Frenchman was behind him with his Sword drawn—not but I suppose he might have done it without a Stim ulus—slow & sure—I hope will be verified as the Buttermilk begins to work, we may, should the war continue, soon expect to see the Days of Van Tromp & De Ruyter renew’d. The allied states now amount to Twenty, God grant an Encrease of them, but not one more in America at least for a Century. The Alterations in the British Cabinet may perhaps retard the advances towards a general Pacification, But I flatter myself their pre sent Delirium will soon have a Crisis, & they will once more come to their Sober Senses; one thing to me is next to certain, which is, that unless they close very soon & be content to pocket their Losses & their Infamy, the Price of wickedness, a Carte blanche will be the Conse quence, & that once more formidable & glorious People be sunk to the lowest pitch of weakness & Contempt; were I to turn Prophet I should not think much of hazarding a Prediction of the National Bankruptcy, the absolute separation of Ireland, (probably that of Scot land), & to crown the whole the Expulsion of the present Evil race of Geese Drivers, 2 & all the Curses attendant upon those Wars vulgarly called civil which lead to & are consequent of an entire revolution in governments. I am serious & write from reflexion. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 That is, the States General’s recognition of the independence of the United States by the United Provinces of the Netherlands. 2 The House of Hanover. Samuel Osgood to Henry Knox Dear Sir Philad. 17 September 1782. It will not appear strange to you that I have taken up my pen to
