September 17, 1782 165 think it is clearly otherwise—perhaps no one Office in the Army has been so uniformly the same as to pay and Emoluments as that of the Adjutant Generals. It has always had annexed to it the pay and emolu ments of a Brigadier General. The first Officer that filled it had the rank of a Brigadier General—the subsequent ones till the present had the pay and emoluments without the rank 3 —therefore from former precedents no argument can be raised in support of additional pay. It has been suggested that Colonel Scammell the late Adjutant General quitted the Office because the pay and emoluments would not sup port him. But from my intimate acquaintance with him I have good reason to believe he quitted the office from a very different reason. It seems to be advanced that the quantum of Promotion in the Officer that fills that Office shall alone govern the quantum of reward without having any regard to Services. I do not recollect ever before to have heard this advanced as a Rule for adjusting Rewards. But otherwise that similar Services generally entitle to similar rewards. With respect to this office I persuade myself Congress adopted the last rule and that let an Officer of which ever of the Grades it is confined to fill the Office his necessary and unavoidable expences would be great as those of any other Grade. Is the Opinion founded in Justice that if a Brigadier General fills the Office and has no additional pay then a Lieutenant Colonel in the same Office ought not to have any? I think the plain and natural construction of the resolution of Congress is that the pay and emoluments of a Brigadier General are a sufficient reward to induce the most confidential and best qualified Officers to undertake it except Major Generals for no one can sup pose that Congress expected they would reduce their own pay by accepting the Office—and the experience of six or seven Years would naturally impress them with this Sentiment that notwithstanding a Brigadier General filled the Office with Approbation and esteem at present yet if it should be our Misfortune to have him removed there from on any account Congress had no certain reason to conclude that all the military Geniuses best qualified for that Office were confined to the Grade of Brigadier Generals but on the Contrary that it might be possible that from three lower Grades a person might be found better qualified in every respect to execute the duties of that Office than Brigadier Generals. The opinion may have been a presumptuous one—But I believe it was really so. As to rewarding the services of this Office with Military promotion I believe very few Officers in the Army would be willing to consent to it. It would be attended with so many apparent ill consequences to the peace of the Army that no Argu ments need to be adduced in refutation thereof. That the pay and emoluments annexed to the Office are as great considering the duties as those annexed to a Brigadier General I will not presume to determine. I can easily conceive that the Office is
