166 September 17, 1782 highly confidential and of the utmost consequence to the peace and safety of the Army—the more so the more honorable. But I can easily conceive when a Brigadier General has no Brigade, when he can have no command in the Army unless in that Office rather than be idle and eat the bread of an impoverished and reduced Country without rendering any Services therefor, That duty as well as inclination would strongly urge him to accept of such an Office with the pay and Emoluments that have invariably been annexed to it. Surely General Hand will not presume to think that he is the only per son that has filled that Office with general esteem and approbation— he will not surely pretend that his duties are more numerous and mul tiplied than those of his predecessors or that his expences are necessarily greater. If my information is good his duties are not so great and consequently I cannot conceive that his expences are neces sarily greater so that I humbly conceive that Congress rather discov ered a liberal than a contracted and penurious disposition—There fore the policy of it stands upon the broad bottom of generous principles. Neither can there be a charge of inattention. Surely the subject was very carefully and very fully examined. It was not hastily adopted—it was several months under consideration and after much conversation on it by the Committee they unanimously agreed. The only objections in Congress against it were that the pay and emolu ments were too great. I think from this candid explanation every charge of inattention will be removed. How far it is destitute of respect or any thing else I will not determine—because if the Subject was carefully attended to, if it is founded on liberal principles which in my opinion is clearly the case, I have nothing to do with respect or deference in a public capacity farther than directed by my own Judg ment which I hope will ever be free and unconstrained. Thus Sir I have freely opened to you my Sentiments on a subject which I find has been the cause of very severe strictures. If I am wrong in my opinion, I hope to feel the weight of a rational conviction which I must acknowledge I do not at present. 4 Forgive me dear Sir for hav ing troubled you thus much and believe me to be with sentiments of the greatest esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obed. Servant Samuel Osgood RC (MHi: Henry Knox Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by Osgood. 1 Osgood had played an important role in preparing the August 1 “plan for regulat ing the department of the adjutant general.” The report adopted by Congress is in Osgood’s hand. See JCC, 22:425-27; PCC, item 21, fols. 279-82; and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 1, 1782. 2 That is, Brig. Gen. Edward Hand, who was reappointed as adjutant general under the new system on December 31. JCC, 23:733, 837. 3 Brig. Gen. Horatio Gates, and Cols. Joseph Reed, Timothy Pickering, and Alexan der Scammell had preceded Hand as adjutant general. 4 See also Osgood to Knox, December 4, 1782.
