September 17, 1782 167 South Carolina Delegates to John Mathews Sir September 17th. 1782 For fear of Delay or Miscarriage, We have thought it necessary to forward to your Excellency by Mr. Heyward the above Duplicate of our Letter sent some days ago by an Officer going to New London in Virginia, thence to be dispatched to you by Express. 1 By a Ship from Amsterdam, loaded with Cloathing &ca. to the Amt. of £22,000 Sterlg. for the United States, which arrived here some Days ago, We had the Satisfaction of receiving Official Intelligence from Mr. Adams, of the Acknowledgments of our Independence by the States General of the United Provinces, on the 19th of April, and of his Consequent Admission as Minister of the U States. Mr. Adams’s latest Date is of the 5th July, he was then at the Hague, & does not expressly mention an Intention of visiting Paris, nor have we any authentick Account of the then State of the Negotiations for a Peace; it is not improbable but Rodney’s Victory in the W Indies, together with the Death of the Marquiss of Rockingham & the Change in the British Ministry may occasion some procrastination in the Settlement of Preliminaries, Tho’ we are hopefull the success of the French in the East Indies, which we are willing & have reason to credit, will fully compensate for their Losses under Mr. DeGrasse’s Misfortune. Mr. A. has opend a Loan in Holland for 5 millions of Guilders, which is likely to succeed. Two French Frigates with a Convoy for this Port were some Days since chased into the Capes by some british Ships of force. One of them, a new Ship of 44 Guns (L’Aigle) commanded by Monsr. de la Touche, having money on board for the use of the French Army, being without a Pilot, was unfortunately run aground on the Shears; the money & Dispatches were sent on Shore, but from Accts, reed, we are apprehensive the Officers & Crew are made Prisoners—the Ship having been scuttled will be entirely lost. A Ship loaded on Acct, of the continent is said to have arrived at an Eastern Port. We have various reports from New York, some of which give us hopes of an intended Evacuation. We are anxious to hear of that of CTown, & wish to have it confirmed by Captn. Joiner whom we daily look for; The Carolina is moved down the river, & apparently will soon have a Crew. The Commodore will, we doubt not, acquaint you with particulars respecting her. We have inclosed the NewsPapers, and have nothing farther to add than that We are, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servants. FC (ScHi: Middleton Papers). In the hand of Arthur Middleton. 1 Enclosure not found, but for the FC of the duplicate letter sent "By Heyward Septr. 18th. 1782,” see South Carolina Delegates to iMathews, September 10, 1782.
