September 19, 1782 173 the belligerent powers separately; but it was rejected with disdain. Our Independance was then proposed and the ardour of the British for peace, by their advances appeared unquestionable: But unfortunately for us, news of Rodneys Success in the W. Indies arrives, the Marquis of Rockingham dies, the Shelburn party prevails, good men resign, the Cabinet is divided, & a manifest tergiversation on the part of the British leaves little hopes from the negotiation till the event of this campaign shall decide upon the pretensions of the parties. Next win ter may give us peace. Ld. Shelburn & the old Ministry would fain patch up a peace by allowing us the same kind of Independance granted to Ireland, so lit tle do they yet know the Spirit of America. Dr. Franklin says the King hates us most cordially, and has not given up the Idea of keeping us yet somehow, or another under him; this no doubt is his view in placing Ld. Shelburn at the head of the Treasury, who is, notwithstanding his Jesuitical Speech, our inveterate enemy. Emissaries are to be sent out to this Country to sound the minds of the people and induce them by any means to return to some kind of a dependance on Britain. With this view English goods will be sent over, and perhaps the Post of New York kept more with a view to promote trade than to carry on military operations against us, yet some think it will be evacuated. It is the fixed determination of France, Spain & Holland not to make a Separate peace; they are fully convinced that their only safety against the insolent power of Britain lies in their Union. I hope none will be so deluded in this Country as to think there can be any safety to us in any dependance on Britain. Should we renounce our alliance with France, such an instance of perfidy would render us forever inca pable of forming such an one with any other power, & of course sub ject us entirely to the arbitrary will of Britain. Heaven forbid that this should be the fatal & disgraceful issue of a seven years war! You may rely upon it the Powers in Europe will not desert us, our intrest is too intimately blended with theirs. Our trade is courted by every commercial State. All that is wanting on our part is Prudence & Perseverance. I hope the Seat of the war will no longer remain here, let the issue of the present negotiation be as it may. It is a great object with us at present to restore public credit & give value to the promises we have made, or may make. Loans will then enable us to transmit our debt to posterity without inconvenience, to be paid when the Inhabi tants of this Country as well as its wealth shall be double & perhaps treble what they are at present. To this end it is essential that the intrest at least of our public debt be paid. This was the object of the Impost; you will see a tax of 1,200,000 Dols ordered for this purpose. This is a Substitute for the Impost & I hope we shall now hear no more about it. Our quota is reduced from the last, of Nov. 1781, about 1/9 but is yet too high. On this head I refer you to a late Letter to Gov. Bowen. 1
