September 19, 1782 175 more power to Congress. These resolves have been transmitted to Congress as well as to the Executives of all the States. They have been referred to a Committee, of which I was one, I opposed them tooth & nail & I believe none will have the hardiness to move in Congress for any thing more to be done about them. No future confederation will ever give equal Liberty to the people, or equal power to the Small States. It is boldly said that the affair of the Imposts being stopped by the petty State of R.I. fully shew that such little States have too much power. A great character in Connecticut queries to his friend in Congress whether it will not be necessary to impose a duty of 10 per Cent, on all goods brought out of R.I. By this you may see they well know that the Confederation empowers them to lay duties on goods as they pass our lines, either way. Let us stand fast in the Liberty wherewith we are made free. No alteration, rely on it, will be made in our favour. D.H. RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). 1 Not found; but see Howell to John Brown, September 10, 1782. 2 Not found. 3 Jonathan Arnold began attending Congress on October 10, 1782. JCC, 23:642. 4 Probably Rev. Thomas Ustick. 5 See Howell to John Brown, August 10 and September 10, 1782. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir. Philaa. Sepr. 25th [i.e., 19-25] 1782 1 I had the Pleasure of addressing you by the last Post. 2 I observed, that the Comee. for the foreign Department, of which you were one, had reported. 3 Their Report mentions the Number of Letters he has wrote to Doer. F , Mr. A , Mr. J , Mr. D , &ca; 4 The Files of Papers he has in his Office; the Boxes in which they are placed; The Books in which the Letters are entered &ca &ca &ca. Upon the whole, the Comee. approve of his Conduct, Attention & Punctuality—or in Words tantamount thereto. The Approbation of Congress was not call’d for, to the Report. But this with the Reports on the other Departments, are to be fil’d only, & not entered on the Journals. Complete & substantial Evidence of his Impartiality—And all is well. I told you whilst here, that I had my Antipathies. I cannot conquer them; & Heaven forbid that I should. Matters are all going exceeding well in Europe; Doctr. Franklin & Mr. Jay appear to be very happy at Passy. The latter, in explicit Terms, commends the former, as an able and prudent minister. His Abilities, he says, exceed any Man’s of his Age, that he ever saw 5 —agreed. We
