September 19, 1782 177 think, constitutes some Part of modern genuine Galvanism. They see but it is thro’ an obscure Glass, which removes the Object to a great Distance. They think it is not Time to adjust this Matter—the Reason why—I apprehend is, that as they have not got their Proportion, if any Thing should be done for us, it may prevent their obtaining it for nothing. I cannot suppose that (in your Profession particularly) you have lived to this Time, & never met with one Man, or one hundred, whom you could seemingly convince as to their Understandings, & yet not influence their Faculty of Volition. It will not be an agreeable Mat ter I am sure to the Legislature of Masstts. to take up the Subject with out the Provision of Congress. But if this Provision cannot be obtained—Necessity undoubtedly will oblige you to do it. I have heretofore observed that Masstts. is deficient probably several Millions of Dollrs. on the old Requisitions. You can therefore clearly provide for that Deficiency—and as to the Remainder, if you should do a Work of Supererogation; It will be much less censurable than Works of Derogation. When Congress, in early Times, recommended to the States to make continental money a Tender, V a 11 made it a Ten der to discharge Interest only. When Congress recommended to the States to revise the Laws which was as much as to say, repeal the Ten der Laws, V made then, the old Money a Tender, Paper Dollr. for hard Dollr. When Congress recommended to the same State to shut up her Land Office, with Respect to Lands beyond the Alleghany Mountains, she immediately laid out three Counties in that Country, & opened her Land Office. When Congress recommended to the State of V in the most pressing Manner, to raise her Quota of Troops, the Situation of the Enemy rendering it of the utmost Impor tance—her Legislature sit Ten Weeks, with the Recommendation before them, & no Notice was taken of it. Their whole Time was taken up about back Lands. These I call Works of Derogation. There is one Matter relative to that State, which I think is a Curiosity. Not long since they have had a Paper Currency circulating by their own Acts, one Dollar of which would discharge a Debt of forty hard Dollrs. Their old Money they continued a Tender, after the new forty for one Money, was issued; which last, was not made a Tender, so that one Dollr. of it was forty Times better than a hard Dollr. I have the Infor mation, in all these particulars, from such Authority that I cannot doubt of their being Facts. Thus far had I proceeded in my long Story, when I was agreeably disappointed by the Arrival of Mr. Tracy, & the Rect. of your Favor of the 9th of September. I can assure you that the Observation upon Genl. Lincoln, was very far from displeasing him. We enjoyed the Humor of it: It pleased me the more because it gives me an Opportu nity to rally him. It is the 20th of Sepr. 12 Our Debates this Day in Congress, have been acciden-
