182 September 19, 1782 11 Virginia. 12 It seems clear that Osgood composed the portion of his letter preceding this para graph on September 19. 13 For this motion concerning Laurens by James Madison, see the following entry. 1 4 Arthur Lee. 15 For Robert Morris’ investigation of Alexander Gillon pursuant to “fresh Com plaints” provided by Benjamin Franklin, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:393-94, 396-97. 16 William Jackson, assistant secretary at war, had been secretary to John Laurens, spe cial envoy to France in 1781, and a party to some of the agreements reached with Com modore Alexander Gillon for the shipment of Continental supplies to America. Ibid., p. 397. 1’ When Osgood resumed his writing at this point can only be conjectured. He may have composed the remainder of the letter at a single sitting on September 25, the day he completed it, but the dashes penned across the following page suggest that there may also have been another interruption at that point. is These votes were cast by Williamson for North Carolina; Rutledge, Ramsay, Izard, Gervais, and Middle ton for South Carolina; and Jones and Few for Georgia. JCC, 23:593. 19 That is, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Maryland. Ibid. 20 Not identified. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates September 19th. [1782] The house having under consideration the report of a Committee respecting the Commissioners or allowance to be granted to the late Jos. Trumbull, Comn Gen' for his services. 1 Mr Madison arose and informed the house that since the passing the resolutions of the 17th, 2 he had come to the knowledge of a fact, which he wished to lay before Congress and on which he meant to ground a motion; and as it did not admit of delay, the vessel that would carry those resolutions being on the point of sailing he wished the present business might be postponed and accordingly made a motion to that effect. This being agreed to, he then proceeded to inform Congress that he had a great respect for the character of M r Laurens and entertained a high opinion of his abilities and integrity, and had therefore given his hearty concurrence and assent to the res olutions which passed on the 17th. But that since that time he had come to the knowledge of some matters, which induced him to think it would not be proper, at least, for the present, to forward those reso lutions or so much of them as respected M r Laurens. He would now state those matters to Congress, that they might judge. He had, he said, in his hand a pamphlet printed in London entitled “Parliamen tary Register,” and containing an account of the debates in the House of Commons from the month of Nov. 1781, to the latter end ofjan% 1782, among which were debates on a petition to that house from H. Laurens, a prisoner in the Tower, and that the petition was printed at
