184 September 19, 1782 sell, and who would ruin the character of any man for five shillings. That for his part he did not believe the petition was genuine. That it was altogether incredible that ever M r Laurens wrote or signed such a petition. That it was known M r Laurens was a man of sense, of firm ness & of integrity. That the petition which had been read was mean in sentiment and diction, and altogether unworthy a man of sense, that it was wrote in so humiliating a stile that to suppose M r L. to be the author of it would be to suppose him devoid of all understanding. M r Dyer said he could not believe it to be true. If M r L. had ever written or signed such a petition he would certainly have taken notice of it in his letter; he would have palliated and excused the action. He would have said that in an unguarded hour when under the pressure of sufferings and reduced by sickness he was prevailed upon to set his hand to such a paper, which he is now sorry for. Nothing of this appears in his letter; no mention is made of such a paper. He cannot think it therefore genuine. M r Jackson is of the same opinion. If he thought it genuine, he would be not for suspending but for recalling him, and passing a severe censure upon him. M r Noble Wimberley Jones believes it is not genuine, thinks it would be cruel to pass a censure, which this w d be, upon a man of such a known and established character as M r Laurens, even if he did write it, it was not to be wondered at, considering how he was neglected and what he suffered. He should not be condemned unheard. M r Bland spoke against the motion, vilified the publication, said that if notice was taken of such publications no man’s character would be safe; it would be easy for our enemies to publish such things of any man and to raise dissentions among us. M r Clymer always understood that the Parliamentary Register was a paper of considerable authority. The first publisher, Almon, was noted for his attachment to the American cause. He supposed the present publisher, who succeeded him, was actuated by the same prin ciples. It is not to be supposed that he would ruin the character & rep utation of his pamphlet by publishing a falsehood which could be so easily detected. M r Lee never heard that the “Parliamentary Register” was a paper of any authority. He wished the gentleman had shewn what authority it had. He knew it was an anti-ministerial publication, and supported by the minority for party purposes. M r Madison spoke again, professed the purity of his motives and his regard for M r Laurens’ character; urged the probability of the petition being genuine, and his readiness to make every allowance and excuse for M r L’s situation, but still persisted in the opinion that the dignity, honor, and interest of the U. S. required that Congress should agree to the motion.
