September 19, 1782 185 The question being eagerly called for by those who were opposed to the motion, M r Wright said it was a matter that required deliberation; it was not to be descided in so hasty a manner; that for his part he was deter mined to have the yeas and nays on the question when put, and he wished to have some farther time to consider the motion, and there fore moved to adjourn, which was seconded and agreed to. The petition is as follows: “The Right Hon b,e Charles Wolfran Cornwall, speaker of the hon- bIr the House of Commons. ‘The representation and prayer of Henry Laurens, a native of South Carolina, some time recognized by the British Com missioners in America by the stile and title of his excellency Henry Laurens, President of Congress, now a close prisoner in the Tower of London, most respectfully sheweth: “That your representer, for many years at the peril of his life 5 and fortune, ardently laboured to preserve and strengthen the ancient friendship between Great Britain & the Colonies & that in no instance he ever excited on either side the dissentions which separated them. “That the commencement of the present war was a subject of great grief to him, in as much as he foresaw and foretold, in letters now extant, the distresses which both countries experience at this day. “That in the rise and progress of the war he extended every act of kindness in his power to persons called Loyalists & Quietists, as well as to British prisoners of war, very ample proofs of which he can pro duce. “That he was captured on the American Coast, first landed upon American ground, where he saw exchange of British and American prisoners in a course of negotiation, and such an exchange and enlargement upon parole are mutually and daily practiced in America. “That he was committed to the Tower on the 6 lh of October, 1780, being then dangerously ill; that in the mean time he had in many respects, particularly being deprived with very little exception of the visits and consolations of his children and other relations and friends, suffered under a degree of rigor almost if not altogether unexampled in modern British history. “That from long confinement, and the want of proper exercise, and other obvious causes, his bodily health is greatly impaired, and that he is now in a languishing state, and therefore your representer humbly prays your honors will condescend to take his case into consideration, and under proper conditions and restrictions grant him enlargement or such other relief as to the wisdom and benignity of your honours shall seem fitting. Henry Laurens. “Tower of London, Dec. 1st 1781.”
