September 20, 1782 191 among us. Things had been published in English papers and pam phlets unfavorable to the character of some who were now members of Congress But Congress did not think them worthy of notice, and he did not see why they should take any notice of this. M r M c Kean went into a large encomium on M r L. He saw nothing criminal in the petition, nothing that affected the heart. He was inclined to believe it might be genuine. He had always considered the Parliamentary Register as a publication worthy of credit. He knew the original author was a friend to America, and that the paper was begun and undertaken at the instance of forty gentlemen opposed to the British Ministry and friends to America, and who supported it by annual subscriptions. He supposed it was still conducted under the same influence, and that it stated facts truly. But from his knowledge of M r L. and of the high opinion he had of his integrity and abilities he thought him worthy of trust and who would be very useful in the negotiation for peace, and therefore must vote against the motion. M r Williamson and M r Lee both spoke against the publication. M r Rutledge animadverted with great warmth on M r Clark’s obser vation, “that M r L. may have entered into engagement with the British Ministry,” and in a very loud tone of voice asked, does the member know he has entered into such engagements? If he does, let him pro duce his proofs. He does not understand this mode of [illegi ble] character by surmises. The character of persons in high offices of trust and confidence, and especially of public ministers ought to be sacred and not trifled with in that manner. The gentleman said he did not think there was a member on the floor who doubted the genuine ness of the petition. He did not understand such expressions. For his part he very much doubted—nay, he believed it was not genuine, and several others were of the same opinion. M r Lee and M r Dyer again spoke in favor of M r L. M r Jackson thought if the motion passed that it ought to have a preamble, and therefore he moved to affix a preamble stating that Whereas, that it appears M r L. presented such a petition. This brought on a new debate, or rather a conversation, & it being intimated that if the preamble was insisted on the yeas and nays would be called on the question, the preamble was withdrawn. At length the question was called, and the yeas & nays being required by M r Wright on the ques tion to agree to the motion. New Hampshire, Mr. Gilman, Massachusetts, Mr. Osgood, Mr. Jackson, Rhode Island, Mr. Howell, Ay. ) X No. 1 No. f No. Ay. | X
