194 September 21, 1782 James Duane to John Morin Scott Dear General Philadel. 21 st Sept r 1782. Tho’ I have scarcely time, I feel too sensibly your polite attention to be excused from acknowledging the Receipt of your favor of the 1 st Instant by Major Story. I have given this young Gentleman the best advice in my power, and if Mr. Morris inclines, to employ him, will go as far in his Commendation as your Letter, and the acquaintance I have with him, can justify. 1 I am obliged to you for your account of Week’s adventure. It hap pened too near home not to be interesting; and yet whatever may be the appearance from the passivity of the British and the Despair of the Tories; I do not think peace; no not even the evacuation of our native City, so near as is generally apprehended. The naval success of the enemy have hardened the Heart of the British Pharaoh and rekindled his expiring wishes for our subjugation. The Treaty at Paris goes on feebly and all eyes are fixed on the military Operations which will give a Complection to its further Progress at the close of the Campaign and not sooner. But I need not enlarge. Mr. Secretary Livingston has obtained permission to attend for a few weeks on his private Affairs in our State. He will open the Budget and gratify your Curiosity in all points, and I wish you to see him. Barclay has brought us an account of Allens exploit in Cumberland. On Monday we shall introduce the subject under great advantages from this fresh Insult on Congress and aggression on our State. 2 I observe all your Kindness respecting my late ill luck. I shoud not be satisfied with myself if I suspected your James unjustly, and I almost repent at what I hinted; but believe me it was the general opinion from his loose character. No man can more sincerely deprecate the vice of Suspicion than I do. It is too much the reverse of the first of all virtues, Charity, to be pardonable. This family of both sexes commission me to present to you their respectfull Compliments. Be pleased to make mine to your good Lady & Children and to be assured that I am with very great regard—Dear General, Your affect. & most obed. humb. serv. Jas. Duane. MS not found; reprinted from Historical Magazine and Holes and Queries, 2nd ser. 5 (Jan uary 1869): 255. I For Maj. John Story's application to Robert Morris for employment, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:393, 395. See also ibid., 2:59n.6. 2 See the preceding entry, note 1.
