September 21, 1782 195 New York Delegates to George Clinton S’r, Philadelphia Septr. 21, 1782. We have been honoured with your Dispatches of the 16th Instant relative to the violent Outrages committed by Ethan Allen and others on the peaceable Inhabitants of our State residing on the New Hamp shire Grants. 1 Congress having adjorned on Fryday until Munday, we have had no oppertunity, with any kind of Propriety, to lay the Infor mation before them, but shall do it before any other Business is taken up on Munday Morning. As in all Probability the Papers will be com mitted and it may be some Days before any thing finally is determined on, we thought it unnecessary to Detain Barckley, especially as he is anxious to return as soon as possible. This New and unexpected Violence, offered, in direct Opposition to the Recommendations of Congress, to those peaceable Citizens who have always strictly adhered to the same, and the dangerous Con sequences which may ensue from such evil Examples, will we trust induce Congress immediately to interpose and exert their Authority for the Releif, and Protection of those unhappy People, our Fellow Citizens, now made Prisoners by a lawless Power. Your Excellencey may rest Assured that we shall exert ourselves to the utmost for their Releif, and that Measures may be Adopted for the future Protection of the Adherents to our State who reside in that Dis trict of Country. There are not so many States at present in favour of the Indepen- denc of Vermont as there were last Year and altho a Majority of the States present are opposed to it, yet it is very doubtful if any Decision can now be obtained on the controversy submitted to Congress con formable to their Act of the [24th] of Sept. 1779. We shall however attempt it, if we can find there is the least probability of Success. Our Act of the Legislature for quieting the minds of the Inhabitants in the Northeastern Parts of the State 2 has had a good Effect, and we have reason to beleive if the Disputes about the Cessions of the back Lands belonging or claimed by the southern States are settled, few or none of the States in the union will interest themselves in favour of the Vermont Independence. We shall give your Excellency the earliest Intelligence of any Deter mination Congress shall make on the Communications we have been honoured with. We have nothing new since the Secretary of foreign Affairs left this Place. He will give you a more particular Information of our Intelli gence from Europe than we are able to do by writing.
