September 24, 1782 197 The paper will give you some particulars of the loss of the Eagle a French Frigate in this bay: She was Commanded by Captn Le Touche who had a Commission from his King for the protection of our Trade. This Vessell carried 28 24-pounders besides 12 of a lesser weight— quite new, had on board a crew & everything compleat for the Cuadaloupe now at Baltimore which was to compose part of la Touch’s Squadron. Mr Marbois tells me that two hundred thousand livers were lost. The Enemy have got the Eagle off & I suppose into New York by this time. Several persons of distinction came over in her, they got on shore among them one or two stiled princes. Our dis patches were not later than the 29th of June. Mr Granville was then at Paris. The death of Lord Rockingham and the alteration in the Min istry in the beginning of July will probably retard the negotiations, if not brake them up. I think we may not expect peace very speedily. Is it possible to obtain abt £150 of my order from the Treasury? I am in very great want of it: please to let me know if any thing can be done. Please to present my Compt. to yr Lady. I am my Dear Sir with great regard & esteem, your affectionate humble servt, Dani. Carroll RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 For Robert Morris’ August 8 letter to Carroll, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:153-54. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir Philadelphia Sept 24th 1782 I am honored with your Excellencys letter of the 20th And Agree able to direction inclose the papers you mention. I hope you will have it in your power to Settle the matter at Annapolis upon much better terms than I believe it would ever be Settled here. The remainder of the wheat Mr. Heron Says he has received. The Capture of the Eagle is unfortunate to us as well as the french. She with five other frigates were intended for the protection of our trade, the loss of which is severely felt here and in a very Considerable degree Effects the State of our Finances. The little demand for pro duce occasioned by the want of trade renders the payment of Taxs very difficult, and to which the very great deficiency in the payment of the Sum last required by Congress, may in a great measure be attributed. Not more than one Eightieth part has yet been received, from which you may Judge of the State of the Continental Treasury. No official letters from France later than the 29th June and they Con tain nothing very Material. No mention is maid of the negociation. I inclose you the last paper And have the honor to be with the greatest esteem, Your Excellency’s most humble Servt, J.H. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988).
