September 24, 1782 199 trade. The loss of which is Severely felt and in a very Considerable degree Effects the State of our Finances. The little demand for pro duce Occasioned by the want of trade renders the payment of Tax’s very difficult, and to which the very great deficiency in the payment of the sum last required by Congress may in a great measure be attributed. Not more than one Eightieth part has yet been received from which you may Judge of the State of the Continental Treasury. Inclosed you have this days paper. We are well Caty remarkably so and join in love to you and the Children. No official letters from France later than the 20th June And they Contain nothing material. No mention is made as to the progress of the negociation. I am very affectionately, Yrs. J H 2 RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). 1 Not found. 2 Hanson also wrote another letter to Thomas this date, for which see the preceding entry, note 3. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Sepr. 24th. 1782. I am very glad to find that the recovery of Mr. Pendleton’s slave hath at length been accomplished. I shall immediately relieve Col. Jameson from the task I had consigned to him. 1 The sum of the intelligence reed, by the French frigates is that Mr. Grenvilles visit & propositions looked for a while very auspicious, but that the hopes inspired by the naval success of the English in the W. Indies had reversed the prospect; and it was expected that tergiver sations on the part of the Ct. of London would spin out the negocia- tions till the chances of the campaign should be tried. Whilst Shel burne guides the helm, nothing but some dreadful calamity, or some national commotion, or the fear of one or other of them, can secure us peace. His obstinacy of temper & notorious aversion to our inde pendence, abetted by the same sentiments in the King, will protract the war as long as means & pretexts can be found for it. The Frigate which my last informed you had been run aground in this Bay has been got off by the Enemy & carried to N. York. 2 Among other articles of Prize, nearly 50,000 Dollars fell into the hands of the Captors. Our generous Ally has given us a fresh token of friendship by remit ting to us all the interest due or which wd. accrue during the war on the advances he has made to us; together with the expence of the loan obtained for us last year in Holland. He has also agreed to accept the
