206 September 25, 1782 the Office, the Judgment of reversal I find to be at the same time with the other respecting Coll Stanton the Judgment counts on an Appeal Notice & no appearance of the Appellee to defend therefore reverse as to the Vessel, you mention the papers or files were sent you by mis take they will shew whether there was an appeal taken & whether Notice was given. I have also applyd to Mr. Stanley who informs me that no appeal was taken that he knows of & believes there was None & that the Cause was most Clear not only to Condemn the Cargoe but Vessel. As I wrote you before I dont see how they can carry their Judg ment into Execution against the Estate of Capt Shaw, but if any rem edy it must be Against the Marshal (whoever he was) in Nth Carolina but if they should recover of him you might possibly meet with Trou ble afterwards but as none of the papers can be found We cannot at present preferr a petition for a New Trial in that Cause. The hour for post to depart is just at hand which oblidges me to write in Utmost haste & perhaps in correct as I cannot revise. Am with sincere Esteem, Yr Hie Servt, Elipht Dyer RC (CtY: Shaw Papers). 1 For Shaw’s admiralty appeal, see Dyer to Shaw, July 22, August 23, and September 11, 1782. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Si r Philadelphia Septr 25th 1782 Mr. Brown went of so sudden that I omitted complying with your request in sending back the Copy of the Deed from the Indians to the Susqh. Company & having now an oppertunity by Mr Pumroy I send it by him. I rather Suspect we shall not have a Quorum that is the Num ber of 5 of the Judges Agreed upon to hear & determine our Cause with Pensylvania, who will meet at Trenton at the time Appointed. 1 Govr Rutlidge now a Member of Congress was one we Agreed upon at first & on whom we much relied absolutely refused. Mr Jones of Vir ginia was afterwords Agreed to in his room. Mr Jones has since Arrived in this Town as delegate & absolutely refuses to Attend at Trenton & says he must return to Virginia to attend their Assembly before that time. Genii Nelson of Virginia is one Agreed to, the Gen tn here from Virginia give it as their opinion that he will not be Induced to come on any Account, & that their Assembly being to sit about that time will also prevent him. The 2 Gentn. Agreed upon in the Jerseys will doubtless attend as they are on the spot, they were it is true agreed to, but it was with a View that the Gentn from Virginia attended, Whom we lookd upon as a Counter ballance to those in the Jerseys, tho as to them we are informd they are Gentn of knowledge,
