September 25, 1782 207 Integrity & Impartiality—but one or both may possibly have some Bias. Judge Griffin as he now lives in this City will doubtless attend as he has not refused; he belongs to Virginia, is a Gentn of good under standing, of great Integrity & Candor but if Genii Nelson should not attend and either Genii Whipple or Mr Arnold should fail which is suspected, there will not be to the Number of 5. You are sensible it is not in my power to agree to any other, & whither it will be best I can not determine. I am sensible it would put the State to a great Expence to have the Gentn. proposed to come to Trenton to Assist on the Trial if the Judges should fail to attend, beside Coll Root seemd to be doubtfull whether he could come & by what I hear it is Uncertain as to Doctr Johnson. Mr. Huntington seems to think he cannot tarry so late in the fall. If Judge Huntington & Mr Ellsworth one or both should set out seasonably to take their place in Congress they one or both might be appointed agents with me in the Cause. I think it would by no means be out of Carracter forjudge Huntington to undertake with me in the Cause, both belonging to the State in simular situa tions there, & the Magnitude of the Cause will fullyjustifye us. I would not be understood to Wish Doctr Johnson or Coll Root to be super seeded, but this I propose if they should refuse to attend & as it would save expence to the State, or if Mr Huntington present could be per suaded to tarry he would no doubt be Very acceptable. There is a Mr. Beaudinot of the Jerseys, now, and for sometime a member of Congress from that state is well known to the Gentn. who have attended Congress from Connecticut. I entertain a Very good opinion of him and Esteem him an Able Lawyer & Councellor a Gentn of good reputation. I should think it not Amiss but of real policy to employe him in our Cause. He is of an Establishd reputation in the Jerseys believe he has allways entertained a favourable Opinion of our Cause. 2 of our Judges are from the Jerseys the Cause may be adjournd more than once before decision, he will be on the spot. I only hint these Matters & Submit it to Consideration; expence I know is to be regarded, especially in our low Estate but we must find money or our Cause must fall. I find that is the Dificulty with most Gentn. I am Compelld to tarry, tho only sent here on a pinch I meant to have been at loose to have left Congress when I pleased but soon found my self Confined or to have left the State without representation which I never yet Esteemd my self at Liberty to do, when I had accepted the trust, but my Cash is near expended. I cannot stay with reputation Nor can I get home. I must tarry till after the 12th of Novembr perhaps a fortnight longer which fear will bring me into a difficult season to tra vail. My time will be expired at Congress about the 1st of Novr. If I could obtain what the State owes or in part for past services for Assem bly & Supr Court Debentures, attending Council of Safety &c I would not ask the State but would Spend my own money, but some I must have soon, hope it may be provided in Mr Morris’ bills procurred
