210 September 25, 1782 RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). • New Hampshire’s share of the $1,200,000 recently requisitioned for 1783 “for the discharge of Interest on Our Domestic Debts” was $48,000 or four percent; the state s share of the Continental requisition of $8 million for 1782 had been $373,598 or 4.7%. See JCC, 21:1090, 23:564. 2 See James Duane to George Clinton, and New York Delegates to Clinton, Septem ber 21, 1782. 3 See Gilman to Weare, September 18, note 1, and 2d letter of October 2, 1782. David Howell to the State of Rhode Island [September 25? 1782]' P.S. Since Genl. Cornell has Abdicated his Seat in Congress & since writing the above the Committee aforesd. on Back-Lands have reported a Sett of Resolves on that Subject in favor of our Claims but on the Question to agree to their Report Six States only were in favor of it, and it was lost for want of a Seventh.2 This Loss may be to us Irreparable. So Necessary is it for the State to have Constant Represen tation in Congress. N.B. By Art. 5. Confederation “Nor shall any person being a Delegate be Capable of holding any Office under the United States for which he or any other for his Benefit receive any Salary, fees or Emoluments of any kind. ” By a Resolve of Congress May 7th. 1782 “Resolved that the SuperInten dant of Finance be and hereby is Authorized to appoint an Inspector for the Main & another for the southern Army to take care that the Contracts for Sup plying Rations be duly Executed by the Contractors, &c. ” “That the Pay to each Inspector be One Hundred & Sixty Six Dollars & two thirds of a Dollar per month in full of all allowances. ’’This amounts to the round sum of two thousand dollars per annum. Genl. Cornell will not deny that he was nominated to one of those places immediately on the passing the above resolve if not before, and has had the business in contemplation from that time till he entered on it. He cannot deny that he, as a member of Congress, created the place, ascertained the salary & placed it in the gift of one of the Servants of Congress. That he afterwards while a delegate of the State of R.I. &c, and of course representing its sovereignty, in contravention of the 5th article of Confedn. accepted that place of that servant—abdicated his seat in Congress—and left the State unrepresented. I have related facts, upon them I rely. I should illy discharge the duties I owe my constituents should I restrain the truth for fear of giv ing offence. I know not that fear neither does it become my station. 3 D.H.
