October 1, 1782 217 can system. Except that of N.Y. where one of the ays was from policy given against the motion of which he was probably the prompter. 1 However they have at last fed the one man’s pride, vanity & all arro gating disposition by putting him sole in the Commission for negoci- ating with Sweden, which woud not have been done had he not writ ten that it was the particular desire of the King of Sweden communicated to him by the Ambassador of that Court at Versailles, that he might be the person. It was an omission, for which I am blameable, not to have inserted this in the Commission, that if a fic tion or a mere compliment, & I suspect it was one or the other, the falsity or the vanity of it might have appeard. The words of his Letter are these—“The Ambassador from Sweden to this Court applied to me lately to know if I had Powers that woud authorise my making a treaty with his master in behalf of the U.S. Recollecting a general one that was formerly given to me with the other Commissioners I answered in the affirmative. He seemd much pleased 8c said the King had directed him to ask the question, 8c had charged him to tell me, that he had so great an esteem for me, that it woud be a particular sat isfaction to him to have such a transaction with me. I have perhaps some vanity in repeating this; but I think too, that it is right the Congress shoud know it, & judge if any use can be made of the repu tation of a Citizen for the public Service.” 2 It is with sorrow, I inform you of the death of young Col. Laurens, 3 who was killd lately in a skirmish with the British near Charles-town. He is as much a public as a private loss; 8c I am much afraid it will be an accumulation of misfortune on his most worthy Father too great for him to bear. The Enemy have revokd the order for the evacuation of Augustine; but all their motions tend to that of N. York 8c Charles-town. They are to strengthen the garrison of Quebec, recal their indian parties from our frontiers, 8c bend all their force against the french 8c Spanish Islands. How far we can in prudence pursue them thither with our land forces, is not yet the subject of discussion. Remember me to Mr Laurens if in Europe, 8c to Mr. Dana when you write to him. Farewell Octr. 5th. Congress have resolvd not to conclude any Peace but in confidence 8c concurrance with our Allies 8c to prosecute the war, till a peace satisfactory to all can be obtaind. All preparations for Negoci- ation are to be referrd to the Commissioners in Europe. 4 Genl. Lee died here a few days since 8c was buried with great honor. 5 RC (MHi: Adams Papers). In Lee’s hand, though not signed. 1 On September 20 Congress had refused to overturn its resolve of the 17th rejecting Henry Laurens’ resignation as a peace commissioner, for which see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, September 19 and 20; Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, September 19-25, note 17; andjames Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 24, 1782, notes
