218 October 1, 1782 4-6 In this cryptic reference to the New York vote, Lee was apparently suggesting that James Duane would have preferred to vote for Madison’s motion, but voted against it “from policy" because "he was probably the prompter ” . 2 Benjamin Franklin had reported this request of the Swedish king in a June 25 lette to Secretary Robert R. Livingston, and on September 28 Congress adopted a commis sion and instructions for Franklin as sole commissioner to negotiate a treaty of amity and commerce with Sweden. See PCC, item 82, 2:164-72; Wharton, Diplomat Correspon dence 5:510-13; andJCC, 23:592, 610-24. 3 For the death of John Laurens, Henry Uurens’ eldest son, who was killed August 27, 1782, in a skirmish with a foraging party in South Carolina, see Elias Boudmot to Lewis Pintard, October 2, 1782, postscript. 4 For the resolves Congress adopted on October 3 and 4 to reassure the French court that the United States intended to continue to adhere to the terms of the alliance, see James Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 24, note 2; and Arthur Middleton Memorandum, September 24-October 4, 1782. . , , , Lee had been preoccupied throughout the summer with what he perceived to be the inordinate role of the French in the peace negotiations. See for example, Lee to James Warren August ? 1782, note 1. Further evidence may be found in the following undated notes (in the Lee Papers, MH-H), which Lee later titled Proposals of the french Minister to Congress. M. de la Luzerne, 1782.” Apparently drafted in Congress on September 24 or shortly thereafter, they were taken from the conference commit tee’s report of its September 23 meeting with La Luzerne, for which see JCC, 23’597-603. “That the U.S will not be contented with a separate peace—but wall continue the war till their allies shall have concluded their own peace, wch. will shew G.B. that their Inde pendence will not satisfy' them but that they will pursue the bntish troops wherever they C3 “6th page. That the U.S., will not be satisfyd with the acknolegement of their Inde pendency: but will continue the war in all ways in their power till their Allies are satisfy & if the british troops are removd from the U.S. they will pursue them wherever they Ca “D b emands of France. To treat generally. 2d. To make the treaty of Paris the basis of the negotn. with alterations as to Africa, India, the Fishery, & commercial regulations in Europe, accordng. to equity & the [degrees?] of the negociatg. Powers “Full Powers sent on this to Mr. G. [Thomas Grenville] to declare the Independancy previously & then to treat on the Conditions proposed above. P Lee had obtained a leave of absence on October 4 and apparently left Philadelphia shortlv after writing this October 5 postscript to Adams. JCC, 23:639. •> Gen Charles Lee, who had been dismissed from the Continental Army in 1780 b who had recently abandoned the seclusion of his Virginia estate to live in Philadelphia, died on October 2 and was buried in Christ Church graveyard. See these Letters, 14.344, and DAB. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dr Philada. Ocr. 1. 1782. We have red. no addition since my last to the intelligence from Europe: except an anecdote mentioned in a letter from the Marquis de la Fayette, which exemplifies the tergiversation of Mr. Grenville. On his interview with the Ct. de Vergennes he said that the uncondi tional acknowledgment of American Independence was a preliminary point to which the King had agreed. The Ct. de Vergennes in order to
