October 1,1782 219 proceed with certainty & precision wrote down this declaration & requested Mr. G. to put his name to it. The latter immediately deserted his position & refused to abide by any thing more than that the King was disposed to grant the Independence of America. It is said with great confidence that a fleet is gone from N. Y. to Charlestown to remove the Garrison, & the evacuation of the former place continues to be a subject of conjecture & conversation. Some naval preparations at N. Y. are thought to indicate a projected expedi tion agst. the French Ships at Boston or Portsmouth. Genl W. has sent to Congress intelligence red. from Canada of the following tenor: 1 “that despaches have arrived informing the Govr. that a reinforcemt. of 3 or 4000 troops may be expected from Europe & 1500 foreign troops from N. York—that the upper Country will be strengthened by a reinforcement of its posts—& the fortifications of the lower put into the most defensible state, that it was in contempla tion of the Cabinet to point the whole force of the Nation agst. the French & Spanish settlements in the W. Indies, that indian incursions are no longer to be permitted into our Frontiers—that Cambell had given notice of this to the Indians, assigning as the motive, that the compassion of the King to his American subjects had been excited by their professions of sorrow for what they had done. A Seneca Sachem replied that the American & French had beat the English, that the lat ter cd. no longer carry on the war—that the Indians knew it well & must now be sacrificed or submit to the Americans—that it was time to attend to their own concerns & listen no more to his lies. Ample presents, the salve always applied to Indian discontents were adminis tered, but the Indians went home little satisfied with their condition.” The Genl, thinks this intelligence bears strong marks of authenticity. In haste adieu RC (NN). Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:177-78. 1 See John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee, this date, note. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. Ocr. 1. 1782. Your Excellency’s favor of the 20th. of Sepr. was reed, yesterday. 1 Whatever curiosity or wonder might be excited by the letter in the post office addressed to you from Sr. G. Carlton with an endorsement by the Commander in chief, we cannot suppose that they had any other object than the views of the Writer, or that they included the slightest jealousy of your Excellencys patriotism. 2 The paper No. 1 herewith inclosed is a copy intelligence transmit ted to Congress by Genl Washington, and leaves us nothing to add
