220 October 1, 1782 under that head. No. 2 is an extract from the proceedings of Congress which may throw some light on the probable event of the territorial cessions. 3 The situation to which we are reduced by the impossibility of nego- ciating bills on Virginia obliges us to renew our intreaties that some effectual & speedy steps may be taken for adequate remittances to us. It is unnecessary We are persuaded to multiply words on this subject to your Excellency who will so readily conceive the cruel distress which must attend a disappointment, and who is so much disposed to obviate it. We have the honor to be Yr. Excelly’s Obt. & hble servts. J. Madison Jr. Jos. Jones. A. Lee RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Jones, and Lee. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:176. 1 See ibid., pp. 147-48. 2 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 30, 1782, note 1. 3 For the enclosed intelligence from Washington and September 25 committee report on western land cessions, see John Hanson to Thomas Sim I.ee, this date, note; and JCC, 23:604-6. Both are in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir Philadelphia Octr. 2d 1782 Yours of the 28t Ultimo was delivered by Martin, but have nothing in return to give you in the News way—excepting some Intelligence from Canada, that is not yet Public. [Gen] Heldiman has news of a designed reinforcement of 3 or 4000 Men from England & 1500 Hes sians from New York. That all the Posts in the upper Country & in Canada are to be reinforced—as the whole british Force is to operate agt the French & Spanish Settlements in the West Indies—all the Indian War is to be entirely stopped. On this Occasion the Indians to the amount of 4 or 500 were called together by Coll. Campbell their Agent, & told that they must not go to war agt the Americans any more, as the King had taken Compassion on his American Subjects who had expressed their Sorrow for what they had done. The Seneca Chief replied that the Americans had beat the English and the latter could no longer carry on the war and that the Indians knew it well and must now be sacrificed or submit to the Americans, that it was Time to attend to their own Concerns and listen no longer to their Lies!! They went away greatly disatisfied, and seem desirous of Peace
