Octobers, 1782 221 with us. I take it for granted that Charles Town will be evacuated, but greatly doubt it as to New York. Our Bay is again blocked up, but all our European News is very favourable. I am sorry to say our friend Mr F. is very backward in paying his Bal lance. His is ungenerous Usage, considering how long he has had the money. I shall press old Cto. to accomplish Payment. I send you in Gold £32.2.0 which together with the Lands at £5.8.0 makes the full of your last Quarter-rent. My kind Love to Mrs. P., Patty & Johnny. 1 Am My D [r Sir], Yours most Affectly E Boudinot [P.S.] Wednesday 4 oClock—We have news from Genl Greene of the 29 Augt. 2 The Enemy were embarquing their heavy Artillery. Genl Lesslie had the Impudence to send out & demand Provision sufficient for their Voyage as payment for it. This was refused and he sent out a foraging Party, which was drove in with the Loss of the brave Coll. Laurens Son of the late President, which will be most sensibly felt in that Country. The Papers of this Day are nothing but Scurrility abt Elections & not worth sending. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 Boudinot also wrote a letter this date to his daughter Susan, filled with fatherly advice and concluding: “There is nothing new here in the gay World. The Commercial Misfortunes of this Capital, moderates the Extravagance of the City greatly. There are a great number of the French Nobility here, but they also reed a check by the Loss of all their finery in the Frigate that was taken at the Capes.” Stimpson-Boudinot Papers, NjP; and Boudinot, Life and Letters, 1:253-54. 2 Gen. Nathanael Greene’s August 29 letter enclosing an August 27 report of Gen. Mordecai Gist was read in Congress this day and is in PCC, item 155, 2:527-29, 531-34. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir Philadelphia Octobr 2nd 1782 After Continued care & almost daily Application I have at length Succeeded to your Wishes. 1 Have procured Mr Paca to come from Mary-land the Court was appointed to be held yesterday. We appeared but Mr Lewis who had been Coll Stantons Attorney in the former Trial sent word that he was then unwell and could not Attend. I Informd the Court of the Necessity of a hearing, that we might give Notice to the Court in Rhodisland before Judgment should be given on the bond on which the Court was adjourned to this Morning at which time Mr. Paca one of the Judges was taken Very ill a considerable Strong feaver confind in bed but as he found the cause so Urgent he Consented the Court should be held in his Chamber where we attended and was heard on the Petition & the
