October 2,1782 223 John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Octr. 2d. 1782. I am Honored with your’s of the 14th Ulto. in which is Inclosed a Vote of the Honble. the Legislature appointing me a Delegate for the Term of One Year from that time. 1 Permit me to Assure you Sir, and through you the Legislature of the State that I have a gratefull Sense of the Honor done me by this repeated mark of their Confidence. I am Likewise informed that the Honble. Phillips White Esqr. is appointed a Delegate, Hope he will soon be here as the State has been too long Unrepresented. I cannot now inform you how long I can remain here, but if Mr. White should come on soon I Shall not leave the State unrepresented, without giving them timely Notice. I Informed you in my last that I was Intirely destitute of Money, a Mr. Swanwick of this place called on me and informed that the Honble. John Langdon Esquire had directed him to pay me a Ballance of Money which he had in his Hands, and to take my Bill on the State for the Same; I have received it & Drawn a Bill on you for the Amount being Seventy five Dollars & 51/90 this will give me relief for a few Days. By recent accounts it appears very probable the Enemy Intend to keep a very Considerable force in Canada. The last accounts from New York leave the matter doubtfull whether they will Evacuate that place this fall, but think it is most probable it will be Evacuated. Have no late accounts from Charlestown. Our last Accounts from our Com- missrs. in Europe leave the matter of Negociations altogether in a State of Uncertainty, the progress of the preparatory Steps was very Slow. The present British Ministry are much divided in their Senti ments respecting American Affairs. The Conduct of the United Provinces is a great matter in our favour, believe most of the Powers of Europe now look on us as an Independent Nation. Great-Britain must come to it, though the full acknowledgment of our Independence and a general Peace under present Circumstances will be a bitter Pill to them. I have the Honor to be, with due Respect, Your most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See N.H. State Papers, 8:950. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir Philada. Octr. 2d. 1782. I now Send you Twelve Setts of Commissions which I received from
