224 October 2, 1782 the Secretary of Congress. I am favoured with an Opporty of a private Conveyance to Boston, hope they will soon reach you. 1 Sending them by Post is in some Degree unsafe, but in Addition to that when large Bundles are Franked, I believe they frequently meet with Delay. I am Sensible that you have had much less advantage from Such Franks than many other Persons, as you have had Considerable Sums to pay for Postage. I Shall be happy in Sending you any papers which you may want during my Stay here. I need not Mention to you that I Shall be highly pleased to have Judge White for a Colleague, my Opinion of his Integrity & firm Attachment to our Common Cause is well known; I only have to wish that he may be as well Satisfied on that Head as I am, and that we may be well United in our Sentiments respecting public affairs, while we are together. I Hope he will be here soon, but (if he cannot come sooner) hope he will not fail of being here by the first Monday in November; by the Articles of Confederation a New Congress then Meet, a New President is Chosen & some other matters Transacted which I Should be much pleased to have a Voice in, and it is well for every Member who Expects to Spend any Considerable time in Congress to be here at that time. My Letter to you of the 25th Ulto. will Evince how Necessary money is here, hope Judge White will bring me a Considerable Sum. Bank Bills are always paid on Sight, but if those cannot be Obtained & other Notes are Sent me, hope they will be Such as are now due. I find by my Copies of Letters that the number which I have wrote to you is something large, but that the Contents is very Small, which almost dis courages me from Attempting to write so frequently, but I Shall Con tinue my Letters untill Judge White Arrives and then, after he has wrote you as many Letters as I have I will take turns with him. I cannot conclude without adding another wish that he may be here soon. I need not acquaint you that this Letter is not Intended for the perusal of the Legislature. Please to make my Compliments to my Friends with you. I Inclose you a News Paper, and have the Honor to be with the most perfect Consideration, Your Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Gilman to Weare, September 25, note 3. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear Doctr Philadelphia Octo 2d 1782 I received a letter from A. by the last post, he presses my returning by way of Annapolis, which, with the pleasure I should have in being with you there, are very great inducements to take that rout, but I am
