230 October 5, 1782 RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). I Washington informed Witherspoon in an October 8 response that the question of a "partial Exchange” had been submitted to Congress. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:245-46. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr. Pha. Oct. 5th. 1782. I do myself the pleasure of inclosing the paper of the day; you will See an article from Brussells dated the 29th of July—it is taken from a Letter to Mr Arthur Lee from Mr E. Jennings. 1 I see no prospect of a speedy peace. I believe the British will bend their force this fall & winter agt the French West Indies; whether their whole force from the United States is very doubtfull; N York is too convenient a port to annoy our Trade from to quit it, & yet to retain it with a sufft. force for its security might frustrate their other views. I inclose a copy of a late act of Congress respecting the pay of the army—tho’ I Suppose you will receive it Soon officially. 2 I mentiond what you desird to the President, he has or will give you an answer himself. Pray who do you expect will be your Successor? I sincerely wish you & yours all manner of happiness, & am My Dear Sr. with great esteem, Yr very affectionate & Obt Serv Dani Carroll P.S. is it possible to obtain the money I mentiond. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 The brief extract from Edmund Jenings’ letter to which Carroll refers, printed in this day’s issue of the Pennsylvania Packet under the heading “Extract of a letter from Brussels,” reads: “I cannot think that Lord Shelburne can continue in place, there is certainly a gen eral distrust of him. “The English affairs in India are in the utmost Confusion, in consequence of which the stocks fall.” 2 The enclosed October 1 resolves, designed to prevent the states from paying their Continental troops directly and withholding their quotas from Congress, were enclosed with Superintendent Robert Morris’ circular letter to the states of this date. See JCC, 23:631; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:444-45, 496-97. Arthur Lee to Robert Morris Sir Philadelphia 5th October 1782 My Nephew Ludwell Lee will have the Honor of presenting you this. He is exceedingly pressed for money to Pay his entrance with a
