October 8, 1782 233 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My very dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 8th. 1782 It is not an uncommon Thing, that the last should be first, and the first last. This was the Case with your two last Letters. The one by Mr. C served principally to lead me to the use of the Cover of your last, as you had reed the Cash which I hope was right. We have great reason to expect the Evacuation of Charles Town, but as to New York, it certainly depends on Orders by the next Packett. We have been amused here these several Days with a report from New York that Rodney with the Jamaica Fleet are all taken and that Gibralter has Capitulated, but all this wants Confirmation. Will enclose the Papers. I sent you one loose, last Post tho’ it was not worth reading. As to your secret Instructions I fear nothing can be expected, as there are so many Harpies laying in wait on all sides. I have not given your Letter to Mr. M 1 tho’ I have been on the Eve of it several Times—shall not do it at present. Our Ambassador 2 has been engaged in a Duel, or I might say two and has had a caning in the Bargain, but has come off thro’ them all with great honor, to the no small Credit of the Family. However the particulars are not worth telling. He has retired for the winter to his Seat at Borden Town, where he is over Head & Ears as he was elsewhere. But poor Mr. R— — his Sister is in truly deplorable Circumstances. She lays in Bed totally helpless, having both her feet quite useless. Along side of her, an only Daughter, her principal dependance in point of assistance, laying unable to Stir from some defect in the spinal Marrow of her Back, and whose only hope is in a speedy Death—without money— without Connections & without Hope. Some humane Gentn. have taken her two Sons, and put them to School. My Heart bleeds for her, while He on whom she has a right to depend, is sunk in an unmanly Gloom. Pray forward the Enclosed as soon as possible. I enclose a Letter from Holland. Mr. F. has not paid the money. I am very uneasy. I wish you to write me, that Mr R. has informed you of it, and urge me to see it paid. My Love to Miss Pintard and tell her that [?/] is not comon for hon orable Members to be so much like little Girls, as to peep into or open Letters committed to their Care—but that sometimes uncles see Let ters after they are opened properly—and therefore little Misses should be very careful of their Spelling, especially those who have been to boarding School in a City.
