234 Octobers, 1782 Love to Mrs. P. & Patty Am D Sir, Yours most Afftly, Bdt. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 That is, Robert Morris. 2 Not identified. Daniel Carroll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Dear Sir, Pha. Oct. 8th. 1782 On casting up my affairs here, I Find I shall be under very great difi- culties, unless I can receive a part of the Ballance due me for last year, the order I recivd from the Govr & Council amounts to £497.18.4 Specie: I am therefore indued to apply to you for some assistance, in hopes you can let me have about £200 of the Ballance. If the money cannot be drawn immediately, an order from you payable in two months wou’d probably relieve me. I rest assurd you will do every thing in your power & beg to hear from you. Our family consist of Wright, Hamersly, Duane, Home de Dieu, Madison, Izzard & myself. Your report on the Cession has not yet been taken up 1 —a vote was lately taken on some general propositions on that Subject, & lost Six States being only in favor of them. 2 Rhode Island, New Hampshire & Delaware were unrepresented; it is now intended to bring on the question on the Cession of N. York, as Soon as there are Seven States on the floor for it. R. Island is now represented, Delaware we expect in a day [or] two, & New Hampshire next week; there will be Seven States without the last, if the Delegates from Connecticut do not change their mind. The New York Cession being accepted, 3 it is prob able the States from the Northward of Patowmack will be united on the future questions relative to the Wn. Territory. I am Dear Sr. with esteem, Yr. Mo. Obt Servt. Dani Carroll RC (MdAA: Red Books). Addressed: “The Honble Dani of St Ths. Jenifer, Intendant of the revenues of the State of Maryland, Annapolis. 1 Although Jenifer had not attended Congress since the previous November, he had been a member of the committee to which the “Cessions of lands by the States of Vir ginia, New York, and Connecticut” had been referred on October 2, 1781. See JCC, 21:1032,22:184,223. 2 Undoubtedly the September 25 vote on the propositions offered by John Wither spoon on September 6, for which see JCC, 23:604-6; and Witherspoon’s Draft Resolves, September 6, 1782. s For the acceptance of New York’s cession on October 29, see James Duane to George Clinton, October 30, 1782, note 1.
