Octobers, 1782 235 Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sr, Pha. Octr. 8th. 1782 I return you many thanks for your favour of the 30th Uko. & have by this opportunity wrote to the Intendant; If he does not relieve me, & the Council shoud Continue of the same opinion, I shall be under very disagreable Circumstances. You may probably know the result from the Maj. himself. I have wrote to Col. Stone on the Subject of yours of the 3d, I beg leave to refer to it. Col. Stone’s merit is well known to several members of Congress, & when the business of the 5 per Cent is taken up will I have no doubt be attended to if he shou’d Continue [in the] same mind after what I have wrote to him. 1 Please present my comps to Mrs Lee. I am Dr Sr. sincerely & affec tionately, yrs, Dani Carroll RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 Lee had apparently recommended the appointment of Thomas Stone as Maryland collector of the 5 per cent impost, which was also the subject of the following brief October 7 letter from Superintendent Robert Morris to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. “I have already informed our mutual Friend Thomas Stone Esqr. that the Appointment of the Collectors of 5 per Cent Impost remains in Congress and that I apprehend your Delegates will be called upon to Nominate. It will always afford me pleasure to render Service to Gentlemen of such worthy Character as Colo. Stone.” Morris, Papers (Fergu son), 6:523. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Philada. Octor 8th 1782 We have to apologize for not writing by Mr Brown when he went last from this Place that he went out of Town sooner than was expected & no Letter was Prepared. The Journals of Congress since May last are not Printed. As soon as Done they will be forwarded as usual. Congress have at Length directed the same Commissioners who are appointed to settle the Accounts of the several States with the Conti nent, to Receive, Count and Destroy the Continental Bills Collected in the several States. 1 The Estimates of Expence for the Service of the Year 1783 are Still in Agitation and will soon be Compleated. Two Millions and Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars will be Requested of the States in Such Proportion as Congress shall determine, and will doubtless be in the Same Proportion as was lately assigned in the Requisition of twelve
