236 October 8, 1782 Hundred Thousand Dollars for Payment of the Interest of bor[ro]wed Monies, which is in our Opinion too high on our State. The amout to be Raised by the States will be 4,000,000. 2 It is uncertain whether the Judges appointed to Try the Cause between Connecticut and Pensylvania will meet; as no answer is yet Reed from the Gentlemen at a Distance, a few Days Time will Deter mine it but we must be Ready at all Events on our Part. The Talks about Peace Subsides and all Overtures on that Subject on the Part of Great Britain appear to be Insidious. Congress have Resolved not to Listen to any Proposals of a Separate Peace or Truce but will strictly Adhere to their Alliance with France, whose Court are greatly Please to see the Same Done by each Particular State. The Ordinance for Regulating the General Post Office has been Considered and Lies for a third Reading. 3 A Loan of five Millions of Guilders is Negociating in Holland, one Million of which was Raised in July last and Subscriptions going on slowly. The Cessions of the Western Lands as made to the United States by Connecticut, New York and Virginia are not in Terms agreeable to a Majority in Congress. The States Southward of Maryland are Very Fond of their western Charter-Territories and the States which have no such Territory Challenge an Equitable Share in those Lands and Chuse to Receive an Unconditional Cession without any Reserve. The State of Rhode Island still neglects to grant the Duty of five Per Cent on Importations &c by which the whole Measure is Impeeded. Thus Every State may in her Turn lay her Fatal Liberum Veto upon the Doings of all the Rest in the Most Essential Concerns of General Finance. Every Member of the Diet of Poland enjoyed the same Lib erty untill they became an easy Prey to their Neighbours. The King of Sweeden has by his Ambassader at Paris Proposed a Treaty of Amity & Commerce with the United States of America and desires it may be Remembered that he is the first King Who Unsolicited made us such an Offer. His Sweedish Majesty Expresses himself in flat tering Terms upon the Satisfaction he Should have in Negociating this Business with Dr Franklin. A Commision & Instructions for that Purpose are gone to our Ministers in Europe. As our expected Term in Congress is nearly Expired we hope some Gentlemen will come on and take their Seats by the first Monday of Novr next at which Time the State will be otherwise Unrepresented. 4 We are with the greatest Respect Your Excellencys most H[ble] Sevts. Elipht D[yer] Benj Hunting[ton] RC (Ct: Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., Papers). Written by Huntington and signed by Hunt ington and Dyer. 1JCC, 23:590-91. 2 See Dyer to Trumbull, October 19, 1782, notes 4 and 5.
