October 8, 1782 237 s The ordinance for administering the post office had been read for a second time on October 2 and was adopted by Congress on October 18. JCC, 23:632, 669-79. 4 Oliver Ellsworth and Oliver Wolcott did not arrive to take their seats in Congress until December 20. However, as Dyer’s credentials were being extended by the Con necticut Assembly at this very moment, the state was not left unrepresented when the new Congress convened on November 4, although it was a few days later when Hunt ington returned home and Dyer departed for the Connecticut-Pennsylvania trial at Trenton. See JCC, 23:707-8, 714, 717, 822-23; and Dyer to Trumbull, November 8, 1782. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee My Dear sir, Philadelphia October 8th 1782 I am honored with your Excellencys two letters of the 3d and 4th instant. It would give me pleasure at all times to be serviceable to any Gentleman honored with your Excellencys recommendation, and more especially when it is in favour of one for whom (as in the pre sent instance) I have a personal esteem & regard. But I must inform your Excellency that untill all the states have passed similar Laws granting the 5 Per Cent Duty, no Commissioners Can be appointed. Hitherto the State of Rhode Island has refused or delayed to Adopt the measure and before it is probable any thing will be done, my time in Congress will have Expired. I have bespoke a hat, price Six pounds, it shall be Sent to your Excellency by the first Opportunity. No news in Town worth Commu nicating, nor any intelligence from our ministers abroad since my last. Inclosed is this days paper, and have the honor to be with esteem and regard, Dear Sir, Your Excellencys most humble Servt, J.H. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). Joseph Jones to Edmund Pendleton Dr. Sr. Phila. 8th Octr. 1782 I had written you a long letter the last week but Madison insisting it was his turn and that he had done the same and been full on the sev eral matters contained in mine I the more readily suppressed it as it wod. throw our correspondence into the regular channel. We have the last week no European intelligence of consequence. Our Col league Mr. Lee received a Letter from Mr Jennings at Brussells dated the 29th ofjuly the latest account I have heard which says the negocia- tions were not suspended—that it was apprehended Ld. Shelbourne wod. not continue long in Administration as he was universally dis trusted. But I fear he has so much the confidence and Sentiments of
