242 October 9, 1782 ever informed you of the State of Vermont Business at that time. 1 Since, Mr. Phelps has arrived and I believe his Eloquence will be well employed. He has opportunities; his singularity draws attention, and he overflows in the plenitude of his Communicative Powers. He is, how ever, terribly distressed; without Cloaths fit for the season: without money or Credit to pay for his board: and leaning on the scanty support which the exhausted purses of your Delegates can afford. What is to be done for him? I hope your Excellency may be able to remit the supply for which 1 took the Liberty to write; otherwise I must hasten home. It is my wish to wait for Relief as I suppose Col. Hamilton & Col. Floyd will be here pretty early in the ensuing month—but propriety must yield to necessity. Capt. Rutgers delivered me a kind message from your Excel lency which I understood; but how can I think of disposing of your property at less than you value it, for my Accommodation? We have no news of a late date from Europe. The Combind and British Fleets were left by the last Accounts on the English Coasts in a Situation which may produce an Important Conflict. In my opinion, however, neither side will wish to hazard an Engagement on which so much depends. There is no doubt but the British are inferior to the combined powers in numbers; but they think they have an advantage in this Admiral Don Cordova, the Spanish Admiral, who commands the Expedition. I am sorry to hear of my Friend Benson’s illness. If my good wishes prevail he will speedily recover. Accept the Colection of papers which I now transmit for your Amusement. They contain all the news. As soon as I can write to the purpose on the Vermont business I shall not fail. 2 In the meantime it would produce little advantage on so beaten a subject to trouble your Excellency with Conjectures. Be pleased to present my respectful Compliments to your Lady; and to believe that I am with inviolable Regard & Esteem, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s affectionate & most obedt. humble Servt. Jas. Duane. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:43-45. 1 See L'Hommedieu to Clinton, this date. See also Duane to Clinton, and New York Delegates to Clinton, September 21, 1782. 2 See Duane to Clinton, October 23, 30, and November 15, 1782. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare gi r Philada. Octr. 9. 1782. I wrote you Two Letters on the 2d Instt. which Hope you will timely receive; I have not a Single Article of Intelligence to give you, more than is Contained in the News-Paper which I Inclose. Collo. Laurens
