244 October 9, 1782 I am glad you have accepted the very Honorable appointment to which you refer. 3 The States, who have chosen you are both very happy in the choice & have full confidence in your judgment & incor ruptible Integrity. I am &c. David Howell RC (PHi: Jenkins Collection). Addressed: “The Hon’ble Welcome Arnold Esqr., Provi dence.” > Not found; but see Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, October 15, 1782. 2 For Rhode Island’s “Categorical answer” rejecting the Continental impost, see How ell to Arnold, November 17, 1782, note 1. 3 That is, as one of the commissioners to resolve the Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, for which see John Hanson to William Whipple et al.. August 28, 1782. David Howell to Theodore Foster Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia 9 Octob. 1782. Your very obliging & complimentary Letter 21 Ult. came duly to hand by our friend Dr Arnold 5th Inst. & is now before me. The apolo gies you make about writing to me were perfectly needless. No body writes more freely to a friend than I do, or perhaps requires more can dour & indulgeance—“Hane veniam damus, petimusque vidssim. ” 2 I can scarcely excuse you for not writing me before; I expected it. I had writ ten you one Letter, which I did not send for several reasons. If you, who are at home duly considered the great intrest you have in the Conduct of your Servants abroad you would take more pains to give them necessary information & useful hints from time to time as well as to enquire strictly into their Conduct. I wish my Constituents to know every Sentiment I have advanced & every vote I have given; If I have been wrong I may then be convinced of it & put right; If I have been right I shall receive that approbation from the good & virtuous which every honest Servant of the public is entitled to—This is the reward I covet, this is the object of my wishes & while I pursue the good of my Country I am sure to obtain it in Spite of envy itself. For many particulars about revenue, taxes, powers of Congress &c. I refer you to my Letter to his Excellency Gov. Greene of Sept, last. 3 I hope you will read it over & take some pains to see that it is not misin terpreted. It was written in great haste. As the Genl. Assembly will set in Providence & Congress are about to require of them a final & cate gorical answer in regard to the Impost I hope every exertion will be made on the occasion by the friends of Liberty & a free trade. I want much to be there but it is impossible; should it be adopted I shall no longer consider myself as the Representative of a Sovereign & free State but wish to be recalled to sink again into retirement on my little farm where I have spent the pleasantest part of my days; But I cannot
