October 9, 1782 247 I beg your Excellency to rest assured that I shall do everything in my Power [to obtain a ?] Decision of Congress in favour of our unhappy fellow Citizens on the New Hampshire Grants and am with great Regard and Esteem, Your Excellencys most obedient and very Humble Servt, Ezra L’Hommedieu Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:41-43. 1 See James Duane to Clinton, and New York Delegates to Clinton, September 21, 1782. 2 But for Congress’ acceptance of New York’s cession, see Duane to Clinton, October 30, 1782. Ezra L’Hommedieu to John Tayler Dear Sir. Philadelphia October 9. 1782. I conclude you are so busily imployed in fixing up old Vessels and procuring Boards & other Articles for the New York Market in Expecta tion of a sudden Evacuation of the Port that you have had little or no Time to write to your Friends. I expected to have heard from you before this Time when I saw you last; I should be glad to know what suc cess you have had in purchasing Vacant Lands upon the Plan we agreed on at Albany, and whether you have got an Apprisal of the confiscated Lands for which you made a Deposit of Certificates. I am now more induced to believe than ever I have been, that no restitution will ever be made of Tory Property confiscated or sold. The Ministers from these States, as also the Court of France, have been so well informed of the insuperable Obsticles and of the want of Power in Congress & of the Impractibility of their inforcing in the several States any such Measures, that I have no Expectation that such an Article will ever be agreed to, and if it should be, it never will be complied with by the different States. I expect at my return home to be possessed of some money which I should be glad to lay out either in Vacant or confiscated Lands if there should be any Advantageous Purchases to be made. We have no late authentic News from Europe, by the last Accounts it was not expected a Peace would suddenly take Place, the present british ministry still entertaining the delusive Hopes of making a seperate Peace with these States. Some are of Opinion The Enemy will leave New York as well as Charles Town this Fall in order more effectually to opperate against the french in the West Indies the next winter. Be so good as to let me hear from you as soon as you may find it convenient to write. With respectfull Compliments to Mrs. Taylor, I am Dear Sir, your most Obedt Servt, Ezra L’Hommedieu RC (N: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: ‘John Taylor Esquire Albany."
