October 15, 1782 261 {cloathing ordered) from (Holland in Gillons ship) by (Col. Laurens). The report on the subject which was (drawn by Bland) was {one of the most signal monuments) which (party zeal has produced). By (mutilat ing and discolouring) facts in the {most shameless manner) it {loaded Franklin) with the whole (guilt and) proposed finally a {severe repre hension of) him. This {unfair) hostility did {not meet with) the {expected) countenance {of Congress). After being considerably {exposed a recommitment took place) with {an addition to the com mittee). 6 The States which {covet the backlands) 7 are by no means satisfied with the present {prospect of being gratified). It is in {contemplation} I am told (to renew the attempt) for a fresh {recommendation) on this subject. Unless a (clause excluding the companies be annexed Vir ginia) will of course {oppose the measure). I am (not sanguine how ever) that the (opposition) will be {effectual). There are not {a few members) and some of them too not the least {respectable) who altho’ unfriendly to {the companies dislike) such a {condition as being unnecessary to Virginia and dishonorable to Congress). I am just informed that an Express which came yesterday evening to the Minister of France from Boston reports with certainty that a Vessel had arrived there after a short passage from Amsterdam. Whether the Express brought dispatches for Congress is not said. The Minister of Fr. is informed by his Correspondt. at Boston, that the Combined fleets had proceeded from the Channel towards Gibralter, that the fall of this Garrison was strongly expected, that the British fleet had returned into Port, that the French Trade from the W. Indies had arrived safe, and that the French affairs in the East Indies were in gen eral in a very favorable posture. These are all the particulars which I have been able to provide for this post. If any dispatches have come for Congress, the next mail will be more satisfactory. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:199-200. 1 For the “offensive paragraph” in an Arthur Lee letter to Mann Page, see ibid., pp. 183-84, 338-39. 2 See the preceding entry, note 5. 3 At this point in the manuscript Madison copied a nearly identical “extract of a letter from Sr. G. Carlton to Genl Washington dated N.Y. Sepr. 12. 1782,” which he sent to Pendleton, this date. 4 For speculation on the nature of Dr. James McClurg’s “reconnoitreing,” see Madi son, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:20In.5. 6 Words printed in braces in this paragraph were written by Madison in a James Lovell cipher. 6 On July 12 Congress had instructed a committee chaired by Theodorick Bland to review the financial arrangements made by Lt. Col. John Laurens during his mission to France and “to make strict enquiry into the causes of detention of the money, goods &c.” Bland’s committee reported on September 26, but its report was recommitted October 11 when Madison and Daniel Carroll were added. Upon reconsideration on November 1 Congress dismissed those parts respecting Commodore Alexander Gillon
