262 October 15, 1782 and referred “several papers mentioned therein” to Robert Morris. See JCC, 22:384, 23:700-706; and PCC, item 19, 3:449-55, item 186, fol. 62. For the background and dis position of this case, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:112nn.5 and 6, 407-10, 5:201n.7; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:396-97n. 7 Words printed in braces in this paragraph were written by Madison in the official Virginia cipher. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 15th. 1782. On this all important Occasion we cannot be silent; A moment remains before the post sets off the Last which can Arrive at Provi dence before October sessions of Assembly. The object of a Seven years war has been to preserve the Liberties of this Country, and not to assume, into our own hands the power of governing tyrannically. It has been on our part a contest for freedom not for Power; This has been the prize for which we have so nobly contended. This, the goal for which our course, so unremittingly pur sued has been directed. This the sacred palladium of all our hopes. We know your early, continued, and persevering Zeal in your Coun try’s cause, We cannot doubt your firmness. To quicken your memory, awaken your feelings and to fix your attention is the object of this Letter. Congress have demanded of you an immediate answer in regard to the Impost, 1 should it be brought on whilst the least doubt remains in regard to its propriety, it will be safer to reject it. It can afterwards be adopted should evidence finally preponderate in its favour, but should it once be adopted—the fatal dye is cast—it is to us irrevocable. Let no man therefore vote in its favor with a single remaining doubt. For this advice we have a great Authority—“He that doubteth is damned if he eat. ” 2 It applies in this case precisely. A perpetual grant is demanded of you. We say Perpetual—for that it will eventually be such is as clear as the Meridian sun. It is to be granted to Congress, until all their debts are paid. They have power to contract as many debts as they please, and are not to account with you for their Conduct. Will not Half Pay, Pensions and other Pretexts, per petually involve you deeper & deeper in Debt, and render it still more necessary to continue this grant, to perpetuity than it is to make it in the first Instance. Consult the voice of Nature, consult the Histories of Mankind—nay consult your own experience and give an answer, and let that answer govern your vote on this Occasion. This being the case permit us, Sir, to demand of you—What right you have to make a perpetual grant of money? Will not succeeding Assemblies discover that you have invaded their rights? Will not pos terity complain that you have given away their Money, which on every principle of the present revolution they would be entituled to do
