October 15, 1782 265 bear immediately on the Towns, and the Towns in all on the Individu als, the broad basis of Power, which reared, and supports the whole fabric. The impost would break in upon this beautiful proportion, and empower Congress by their Own Officers, to bear with their own weight directly on Individuals. This would disturb the general Har mony, derange the elegant proportion and endanger the welfare of the whole building. The Continental Treasury is to be supplied from the several States agreable to Article 8th, by successive requisitions. When a new requisi tion is made, the purposes for which it is to be Appropriated, are to be pointed out to you—and it is to be accompanied with particular Esti mates. You are at the same time to be informed what has been done, with your last Quota, and on a full consideration of the representa tions so made to you, you are to grant your money like freemen, from time to time. Bound only, as a sovereign & Independent State, by your sentiments of Justice, of Virtue and by your Sacred Honor. This is the voice of the Confederation. We shall not on this Occasion repeat the well known objections against the measure, That it would instead of lessening increase the public burthens of the Country, by the additional expence of numer ous Tribes of Officers, concerned in the Revenue. That Congress are not to account for the Amount or Expenditures of it—That it would draw a larger proportion of the public debt from us, as a Commercial State and as Consuming in Consequence a larger proportion of Imposts, than any other State—That it would not be equal between Individuals, bearing harder on the poor & labourious, who are the strength of a State, Upon those who have large families, and add to the Strenth of the State by increasing its Subjects—That it would require a Military, force to execute it, and bring in Standing Armies— That our Coasts must be lined with Cutters, Guarda Costas, Gallies &c to prevent running goods—That it would multiply Oaths & bring on depravity of Manners &c &c—That a proportionate share of the back Lands, is unjustly withheld from us—& finally that the Measure would not under all these Embarrassments, be productive of, or afford, any considerable revenue. These Objections are not only well founded but so notorious, we shall not dwell on them, but conclude by Observing that a measure against which so many objections lie, and with so much weight, and which when once adopted cannot be revoked—Ought not to be adopted at all. To adopt it partially and on Condition, as some States have done would discover an Aversion to the measure mixed with fear of declaring real Sentiments. It is a Measure which must be adopted entire or not at all. We cannot doubt but the measure will be postponed, or finally rejected by a large Majority—of the Virtuous & patriotic Legislature of Our State, which has from its first Settlement preserved its Liberties
