270 October 16, 1782 our Importunity we had not been able to get a Report from the Com mittee on the Vermont Business. 1 Delays have since been made. The Committee moved for an Addition of Members, as Mr. Middleton was about leaving the City and could not attend; Mr. Caroll, Doctor With erspoon and Colo. Dyer were chosen and a Report was brought in and read this morning, a Copy of which is inclosed; 2 and altho it is far from giving that immediate Releif and Protection to the Sufferers which I had reason to beleive was agreable to the sentiments of the first Committee, yet considering the Complection of the Present, at lea[s]t the majority, who have been advocates for the Vermont Inde pendence, we could not expect much more. They say ’tis in vain to keep the Peace of that Country, till the great Question is determined respecting their Claims, which Determination ought to be immedi ately made, but I fear under this Colour of Tactics the Decision will from Time to Time be postponed, and the unhappy Sufferers in Cum berland left to the mercy of their Enemies. I hope my fears are groundless, and that a speedy Decision of the Controversy, agreable to the Resolutions of the 24th of Sept. 1779 will take place. I am under no apprehensions at present that a Vote of Nine States could be obtained in favour of the Vermont Claims of Independence, even if it could be supposed that Nine States had a Right by the Confederation to make a New State in the Present Case; Yet it is doubtful, whether Seven States will join in opposing that Claim and desiding agreable to the aforesaid Resolutions, which I think is the only consistant Princi ple Congress can act upon at Present. I shall do myself the Honour of communicating to your Excellency by the first Conveyance the Progress that is made in this Business, and am with the utmost Respect Your Excellencys Most Obedient and very Humble Servt Ezra LHommedieu P. S. we have no News except what is contained in the News Papers herewith inclosed. Reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 6:509-10, from a document in the New York State Library before the Albany fire of 1911. 1 See L’Hommedieu to Clinton, October 9, 1782. 2 See Duane to Clinton, September 21, 1782, note 1. As the enclosed report was sub mitted on October 15, L’Hommedieu may have drafted this letter on the 15th and recopied it October 16. David Ramsay to John Eliot My dear Sir, Philada. October 17th 1782 I return you many thanks for your favor of Septr. 29th with the inclosed oration. I am particularly obliged to you for your anxiety to furnish me with a copy of Doctor Warren’s but, I have the pleasure to inform you, that this came in the first collection you were so polite as
