October 18,1782 271 to send me. I agree with you that it is the best in the whole sett. I have not received the one pronounced in 1781 by Mr Dawes. 1 Our Carolina exiles are in daily expectation of flags to return them home by water. I have not forgot your compliments to our common friend Mr Smith, nor to Miss Polly who seems to have engrossed a share of your attention. While the report of the burning of Charlestown was prevalent, they were deeply affected, but later accounts have not only contradicted that; but give us good reason to beleive that the enemy have already, or very soon will evacuate that state. Even though this event was certain, I should continue in Philada till next spring. I mention this as I suspect that you were apprehensive of my having returned to Charlestown. Whether there or here, I shall always feel a particular pleasure in corresponding with a friend whom I so highly value as I do Mr Elliott. We have been alarmed for several weeks past with an apprehension of a drought to such a degree as to threaten a famine. This extends, as I am informed all the way from Massachusetts to North Carolina. Corn is very generally destroyed. Thank God the last night & this day have been distinguished with refreshing showers. It has often been observed that war is succeeded by famine. I wish that this may not be our case. The farmers here have lost their second crop of hay in con sequence of which horsekeeping is very high. I flatter myself that the ensuing winter will produce peace. A seven years war is long enough. This present war has already lasted as long as either of the two last wars between France & England. If it had not been for the unlucky defeat of the 12th of April I beleive that we would now have been in possession of peace. The longer it is delayed I hope we will be better prepared for it, & more disposed to relish its blessings. One revolu tion in a life time is fully sufficient. For my part, I never wish to be concerned in a second one, & shall be very happy to pass the remain der of my days in the languid indifference of private life, peace & tranquility. That I may enjoy this kind of happiness in its highest per fection I long for that state which you so feelingly describe as replete with bliss; but, how long I must first wait is to myself unknown. With the greatest regard & esteem, I am your affectionate friend & very h sert, David Ramsay RC (MHi: Andrew-Eliot Papers). Addressed: “Revd. John Elliott, Boston. Free, David Ramsay." 1 For the orations that Eliot sent to Ramsay, see Ramsay to Eliot, July 17, 1782, note 2. David Howell to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir. Philadelphia 18 Octob 1782 Your acceptable favor of the 1st Ult. came duly to hand and is now before me. The friendly manner in which you are pleased to recollect
