274 October 18,1782 takers in full for procuring the money of the lenders, the principal is to remain fixed 10 years; then to be paid in five equal, yearly pay ments One per Cent, on the intrest for receiving & paying it out yearly. More than one million was filled last June & there was a good prospect of its being filled by our last advice. Congress have resolved to make application for four million Dollars in addition. But perhaps I am relating things well known. You will be informed of the result of the late meeting of Commis sioners for establishing a general Cartel—no other will be consented to. By the resolve of Congress 4 you will see they have endeavored to guard the people against the insidious views of the Enemy. My official Letters to the State will discover that I never yet conceived the British Cabinet sincerely disposed to establish peace on honorable terms. Their necessities crouded hard before Rodneys affair in the W. Indies. Thos Fitzherbert has a Commission to treat with France, &c. & with all other princes & States concerned, without naming the U. States, & the negotiation is still protracted, his Mulish Majesty has not yielded to our Independance. Next winter effectual negotiations may take place. You will observe that distrust is the mother of Security. You think we have had too much of this at home & too little abroad. A virtuous jealousy even over our own rulers is proper; when it rises too high it is injuri ous; where it is extinct, liberty expires. In this, as in most things there is a medium, and happy are that people who discover it- As to our ene mies, we have every thing to fear from their arts, & their intrigue; but nothing from their arms at present. Our foreign alliances, which may soon be more numerous, secure to us, under the blessing of heaven, a safe & honorable peace. When no more Laurels shall remain to be won in the South, 1 shall be one of the many, who will bid you a cordial welcome to your native place. , _ „ I must pray you to present my particular regards to Deputy Govr Hudson, my old college mate 5—and, others, if such there may be within your present circle, to whom I am known And to believe me to be with every Sentiment of esteeme, Dear Sir, Your sincere Friend. David Howell N.B. You will excuse incorrectness. I hate copying & this letter is too long. P.S. President Manning is now in this City—Dr. Arnold & myself attended his Lecture last Evening. He informs that the Institution under his Care is to be revived. 6 The house building repaired & a teacher procured. Several young gentlemen have entred this fall. I earnestly wish to see learning throughout the U. States asume its for mer appearance. There is a close connection betwixt Learning & free dom; this is established by the best writers as you well know. I hope
