October 18, 1782 275 your little Son makes good progress where he is at present; Dr. With erspoon, who lodges at the same house with me, informed me a few days ago that he was well, & I have reason to think, from the Drs Con versation that great attention is paid to him in the family. D.H. RC (RNHi: Revolution Collection). 1 Not identified. 2 See Bartlett, Records of R.I., 9:541-43, where the missing name is “Christopher Lip- pitt,” but “West” does not appear in the list of brigadiers. 3 That Howell was not entirely candid on this point is suggested by the fact that he had “twice before . . . sought election to Congress” (in 1778 and 1781), and that he was well aware that his campaign against Varnum and the impost amendment had greatly increased his popularity in Rhode Island. See Irwin H. Polishook, Rhode Island and the Union, 1774-1795 (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press, 1969), pp. 69, 73. 4 Howell was probably referring to the congressional resolve of October 4 that urged states “to be vigilant and active in detecting and seizing all British Emissaries and spies ” JCC, 23:639. 5 That is, Richard Hutson, deputy governor of South Carolina. 6 That is, Rhode Island College, later Brown University. Thomas Smith to the Pennsylvania Council Gentlemen Octr. 18 th. 1782. By a resolution which is just now passed, General Washington is at liberty to continue or abandon the Post at Wioming, as he shall judge most for the public good, the former resolution on that subject notwithstanding—indeed the former resolution was optional in the General. But from his Letter on this subject, I have good reason to believe that the Continental Troops will be withdrawn, unless a repre sentation is made to the General of the apparently pernicious conse quences of such a measure. 1 I objected to any new resolution being pass’d at present 1. Because it was not necessary, the former resolution leaving the matter in the discretion of the general. 2dly. Because Harmony subsisted at present between the two con tending States of Pennsylvania & Connecticut, which had not been interruptd since those Troops were Stationd there; But if they were withdrawn, either the one Party or the other might get the exclusive Possession of the Post, and then it would be easy for the Party in Pos session to raise obstacles to the decision of the dispute, & procrasti nate it to a dangerous length, and I ventured to predict that this would be done or at least attempted, and even should it be decided notwithstanding all attempts which might be made to prevent a deter mination and that determination should be against the Party in Pos session, I dreaded the Consiquences. 3dly. That this Post was the Keystone of protection to a great extent
