276 October 18,1782 of the frontiers of Pennsylvania, and I was so unfortunate as to be decidedly of an opinion directly the reverse of that of the general, respecting the peaceable disposition of the Indians—and may Heaven grant that the event may prove my want of judgment on this point! and that countermanding the Expeditions may be followed by salutary effects! I give Council this information in order that, if they are of opinion there is any weight in my sentiments, they may make such representa tions to the General as they shall judge the good of the State may require. 2 There is perhaps a necessity for removing the Troops there at Present, if they are so undisciplind & their conduct so irregular & unmilitary as represented; but that operates only as a reason for their being replaced by others 8c not for evacuating the Post. The Council, will, I hope excuse my offensiveness on this occasion and ascribe it to my anxiety for the Peace of the frontiers. I am Gentlemen, your very humble Servant, Thomas Smith 3 RC (PHi: Provincial Delegates Collection). 1 For Congress’ October 18 resolve authorizing the withdrawal of the Continental gar rison at Wyoming, which had been suggested by Washington in an October 14 letter to Benjamin Lincoln that was referred to Congress on the 16th, see JCC, 23:665; PCC, item 149, 2:57-60; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:257. For “the former resolution on that subject,” see these letters, 16:444, 450, 460, 480. 2 For the Pennsylvania Council’s October 19 letter to Washington asking that he not withdraw the Wyoming garrison “until the determination of Congress is known,” and Washington’s October 26 response explaining that he had only suggested removing the troops “for the sake of discipline” and would never remove them “without [Congress’] express direction,” see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 9:653-54; and Washington, Writings (Fitz- patrick), 25:301-2. 3 Smith’s attendance as a delegate is difficult to document, and appears to be very intermittent from the journals. Burnett, letters, 6:1. But his accounts for the quarters April 21 to July 20, and July 21 to November 12, 1782 (when a new Pennsylvania delega tion was elected), explicitly assert that he was absent only three days during the entire period. Thomas Smith Accounts, Gratz Collection, PHi. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. gj r Philadelphia, Octob. 19th, 1782. Since our last by Brown letters have been received, 8c by other intel ligence we are informed, that five of the Judges or Commissioners agreed upon to hear and Determine the great cause between Con necticut 8c Pensylvania have accepted their Trust, and propose meet ing at the time and place appointed, viz., Genl Whipple from New Hampshire, Mr Welcome Arnold of Rhodisland, Judge Brairly 8c Mr Huston of New Jersey, & Judge Griffin of Virginia. We rather think it unfortunate for us that Govr Rutlidge of South Carolina, 8c Mr Jones
