October 21, 1782 283 RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Arnold and signed by Arnold and Howell. 1 The enclosures were undoubtedly resolves of October 18: (1) setting the states' quo tas of the $2 million requisitioned for 1783, and (2) requesting the states to require the payment of Continental taxes to Continental receivers appointed by the superintendent of finance. Rhode Island’s 1783 quota of $48,000 amounted to 1/41.75 of the total, whereas its quota for fiscal 1782 ($216,684 of $8 million) had been a 1/37. See JCC, 23:1090, 23:666,669. 2 Congress had called upon the states "to lay taxes for raising their quotas . .. sepa rate from those laid for their own particular use,” which were to be turned over by state collectors to Continental receivers. Arnold and Howell had attempted to delete the sec tion pertaining to the Continental receivers, especially their authority “to recover monies” from the state collectors. See JCC, 23:668-69. ’ See JCC, 23:660. David Howell to Nicholas Brown Dear Sir, Philada. 21 Octob 1782. I spent last Evening at Capt. Anthonys in Company with Mr. Man ning. I yesterday dined with the Minister of France & in my card of acceptance promissed to bring with me Cozen James, but he was pre viously engaged to dine with Col. Biddle. I shall however take some opportunity to introduce him to the Minister. However you seemed to scruple my excuse of want of leisure, I have of late, and indeed the whole of my time since I have been in this City been as busy as ever I was in my life. I have written a quire & half of paper in two weeks, besides attending Congress every day—Saturday & Sundays Excepted. By the enclosed paper you will see that the proceedings of our Commencement are noticed here. On the representation of the Legislature of New Jersey you will see that Congress secretly adhere to the 8th Art. Confederation so far as it justi fies Continental appropriation of money. 1 They as a body will part with no right, or priviledge vested in them by the Confederation; but on the contrary recommend it to the States to enlarge them. I more & more admire the wisdom that framed the Confederation, that sacred Palla dium of all our hopes. Long may it remain entire! From your sincere friend, David Howell. P.S. Please to remember me kindly to all Friends. Perhaps it would not be amiss to comment to the people on the enclosed resolution— should you receive this before the Assembly rises. RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). Addressed: “Nicholas Brown Esquire, Merct., Providence.” 1 Howell was referring to Congress’ rejection of a New Jersey petition to pay its troops directly and have that sum applied to its Continental tax quota. See Abraham Clark to John Mehelm, September 26, 1782, note.
