284 October 22,1782 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 22d. 1782 Your Letter to Mr R. was safely delivered but Bills are plenty at 6/ Cash, so that it will not do to draw at present. As to Butter there can none be had here under 2/4 & 2/6. Flour (comon) is at 20/ but expected to fall as soon as the Mills can grind. I am surprized at your supposing a doubt about my return this Fall, if my Health is spared. I am decided on my not attending in Congress this winter unless something very unexpected & extraordinary relating to Peace should turn up. If this should be the Case and I should be delayed in the Spring, you know I shall be in great want of a Gardner, especially as I expect to put the Garden at E Town in order, and therefore readily take you at your Word, and engage you as early in the Spring as possible, and hope you would not look out for Employ elsewhere. Capt. Cunningham is not arrived, when he does, shall inform you. We received advices from Mr Adams as late as the 18th Augt. 1 All I can say of the news, is that we have a Copy of a Commission from the Court of Brittain, appointing Allen Fitzherbert Esqr. Minister plenipo to repair to the Court of his good Brother the French King and there to meet the Commissarys, Comrs. or Plenipo’s 2 of their high mighti nesses the States General and of any other King, Power or States whosoever engaged in the present war and with them to agree &c on Terms of Peace. Mr. Fitzherbert arrived in Paris and opened the nego tiation the 8th Augt. The English I believe have had a trimming in the East Indies and the Siege of Gibralter is determined on in Earnest. The Combined Fleets have gone to Cadiz for that Purpose, but as they are but five or Six Ships superior to the English, I take it for granted that the Garrison will be relieved. No Packett yet arrived at New York—very little News transpires at present from that City. There will be no necessity for any order for the Hay, Mr Richey will deliver you what you want, only give him a rect for it that he may charge it to me. I enclose the Paper of the Day. Mrs. Boudinot has a different one. 3 Love to all your Fireside. I am my Dr. Sir, Your’s most Afftly, Bdt. [P.S.] Mr. Morris says your Instructions &c &c are all ready. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). ■John Adams’ August 18 letter to Robert R. Livingston, enclosing a copy of Alleyne Fitzherbert’s commission as British peace commissioner was read in Congress on Octo ber 17 and referred to committee. See David Howell to John Carter, October 16, 1782, note 2.
