October 22, 1782 285 2 A very free translation of “Commissarium, Procuratorum & Plenipotentiarium.” See PCC, item 93, 2:183. s This day Boudinot also wrote an affectionate letter to his wife, explaining the plea sure he received from her letters, his eagerness to return to their “beloved Cottage,” and his attempts to purchase various household articles. Stimson-Boudinot Papers, NjP. Daniel Carroll to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sr., Pha. Oct. 22d. 1782 I have receivd your favor by Post and shall attend to the contents. Expecting that you had wrote to the President about Ware, I have not calld on him since my return, but shall this day. The Intendant gives me no hopes of receiving a Shilling from him for the last years Balla[nce]—which lays me under very great dificul- ties. I wish to Attend part of the next sessions. Even Supposing I shoud be continued in the Delegation to Congress—without some assistance I do not know how I shall move from hence. The Delegates inclose the Commission from the British King to Mr Fitzherbert—please to let Mr Carroll have a copy; he will probably translate it. I must refer you to the papers for what intelligence there is. Present me to yr. Lady—with great esteem & regard, I am Dr Sr, Your Aff. & Ob. Ser. Dani Carroll RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1988). 1 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, this date, note 1. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Ocr. 22d. 1782. The address of your favor of the 14th instant to me 1 coincides with the order which Mr. Jones & myself had settled. It would have been the more inconvenient too for him to have had his turn this week, as the dregs of his late indisposition are working themselves off to his no small disturbance. His lady seems now to be pretty well restored. The Vessel, whose arrival at Boston was I suppose mentioned last week by Mr. Jones, brought Congress a letter from Mr. Adams dated Hague Aug. 18th. Inclosed in it was a copy of a Plenipotentiary Com mission issued July 24 to Mr. Fitzherbert who succeeds Mr. Grenville. This Gentleman has been for some time the British Minister at Brus sels, and possesses I understand no talents for the management of serious & intricate negociations. His commission like the late act of Parliament is a child of Shelburne’s policy and will suit any events
