292 October 22, 1782 Connecticut, which has a very extraordinary claim to some western Lands, also New York & Virginia have made Cessions to the United States of part of their claims, but they have not yet ceded all that is required, nor are the Terms, especially those of Virginia acceptable to Congress. If North Carolina should be induced to give up any part of her western Territory, we presume she will presume at least require the following preliminaries. 1st. That the whole expence of our Indian expeditions shall pass to acct, in our quota of the Continental expences. 2d. That an actual valuation shall be made of all lands & their improvements claimed by any State before the Cessions shall be confirmed. 3d. That the sundry accounts of every state shall be liqui dated & its claims fully established, that so their several Quota’s may be fixed of the debt already contracted or to be contracted. 4th. That the Lands thus ceded shall be Disposed of to the best advantage by the consent of at least nine States for payment of Public Debts. 5. That if any seperate State should ever be erected on any of those lands, part of the Public Debt shall be transfered to such State according to the value of the land it contains. It may be infered from these hints that we suspect that some of the States may prove an overmatch for ours in the art of rendering accounts. Craft is on some occasions an over match for honesty; & we confess that when we observe the studied caution with which some of the States seem to elude any attempts to fix a foederal quota; when we observe the manner in which some of them have laid Continental money and are now claiming to pay it in at 40 for one, as part of their quota; and when we attend to the Steps that have been attempted, of less consequence, but in the same spirit, we are induced to think that caution is necessary; and our State will certainly require that other People should be honest if they are generous. In a word as it is certain that the subject of vacant Lands will be resumed by Congress and it is more than probable that our State with some others, will be required to make cessions of part of its vacant territory, we have thought it our duty to mention the progress of the debate and to propose such con siderations as seem to merit any attention on the adverse side of the question. We shall ever maintain the indisputable claim of our State to those Lands, against any pretensions or claims whatever; but if the state from motives of Peace or profit should be disposed to relinquish any part of her claims, it will not be infered that our opposition had been groundless. On the General subject of supplies we need hardly inform you that our Army is extremely clamorous; we cannot pay them, we can hardly feed them. There is no money in the Treasury and we are obliged to draw upon the foreign Loans before they are perfected. We know that our State will not be able to raise the quota that is assigned to her for the year 1783, but we are confident she will do all in her power. We have attempted to fix her quota as low as possible & from a Paper we
