October 23, 1782 295 No. 4 is a Memorial from Simon Nathan. 4 The Executive office will supply all the necessary information touching the subject of it, and will enable your Excellency & the Council to decide on the answer which Justice & the honor of the State may dictate. We only beg that it may be transmitted to us as early as convenient. We have the honor to be with the highest esteem Yr. obt. & humble svts. Jos. Jones J. Madison Jr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Madison and signed by Madison and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:207-8. 1 Not found. 2 See Madison to Edmund Randolph, this date, note 1. 3 Not found, but perhaps the resolutions of October 16 and 18, setting the total req uisition and the states’ quotas for 1783, which Robert Morris sent to Harrison on the 23rd. SeeJCC, 23:658-60, 665-69; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 6:648—49. 4 For Nathan's October 17 memorial to the Virginia delegates and the state’s response to his claims, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:202-3, 228-30. Elias Boudinot to William Livingston Dear Sir Philadelphia Octr. 23d 1782 I have long been of opinion that in all great Questions, which are agitated in Congress, especially relating to domestic Concerns, the Delegates from each State should consult their respective Con stituents, when it may easily be done, at least as to general Principles. The Legislature being now met, I must beg leave, through your Excel lency, to state to them the leading Facts of a very important and inter esting Question now under the Consideration of Congress, and which is set down for determination on Wednesday next; on which I hope for the Legislatures Instructions; on such general Principles as will necessarily lead to the final determination. The dispute I refer to, is that of the People on the New Hampshire Grants, calling themselves the State of Vermont. When I took my Seat in Congress, I found this Controversy on the Table of Congress, having been submitted to their determination previous to the Confederation, by the States of New Hampshire & New York, and the People stiling themselves as the State of Vermont, on the principles of the Confederation then in an incom plete, unfinished State. A Hearing was thereupon had before Congress, when the States of New Hampshire & New York produced many Documents in support of their different Claims (Massachusets one of the claiming States, not attending but agreeing to relinquish their Right, provided the districk was made an independant State) the first founded on this Territory being within their Purchase under the Plymouth Company, & long possessed by them—the second adding to a continual Claim the determination of the King in Council in the
