October 23, 1782 297 mine, any part of a former Colony (who have separated from the same, at the begining of the revolution, and are in the actual Exercise of an independant Sovereignty de facto) to be independant de Jure and receive them into the union as a fourteenth State? 2d. Can Congress as sovereign Guardians of the United States, when they conceive the general Safety of the common Cause shall require it, recieve into the Union as a separate State, any Territory & People in the actual Possession of Sovereignty & Independance de facto, without examining into & determining the Right & Title of such People de Jure? 3d. In the present State & Circumstances of the People styling themselves the State of Vermont, ought Congress to recieve them into the Union, as an independant State agreeable to the resolves of 7th & 20th Augt 1781? 4th. In Case Congress shall refuse to recieve them (as is most likely) ought the Delegates of New Jersey to agree to the sending the Continental Army or a sufficient part thereof, in the sd. Territory, to subdue the Inhabitants to the obedience & Subjection of the State or States that claim their Allegiance? In the past Altercations on these Subjects, your Delegates have gen erally considered the Congress as sovereign Guardians of the whole Union, and that they ought to prefer the general Good, to every pri vate Interest of a particular State. That the shedding the Blood of our Citizens, and all civill war among ourselves, at so critical a period, should be strenuously avoided. That a sovereignty & Independance de facto, was a sufficient reason under these Circumstances for Congress to admit into the Union, without examining into the Right de Jure, agreeable to the strong reasoning of his most Christian Majesty, in his Answer to the Justificative Memorial of the King of Great Brittain, sent herewith. If your delegates have acted contrary to the Opinion of their Con stituents, they wish to be set right, while it is in their Power to prevent any evill Consequences arising from it. We have reason to believe, that the Matter will certainly be brought on, on Wednesday next. I have two Reasons for pressing the Sentiments of the Legislature on this Subject. 1st. It has been asserted, that we have been acting con trary to the Opinion of our State. 2dly. I claim 1000 acres of Land in this Territory under the Titles of New Hampshire &’ New York both, and altho I consider them as of but very trifling Value, yet it may here after be objected, that I was influenced by considerations, which I hope ever to despise. Your Excellency by laying this Letter before the Legislature, and communicating their Sentiments will much oblige me. 1 I have also another Matter relative to the Interest of the State, to lay before the Legislature, that I think worthy their Notice. The united States are looking forward to the calling in the Quota’s of the States,
