298 October 23, 1782 of the Continental money. An Alarm has gone forth, that the State of Massachusets has in their Treasury so large a Portion of this Paper, that some of the defeciency States will be obliged to purchase of her at a high rate. I have lately discovered that Connecticut has sent an Express Messenger to Virginia & purchased a Sum equal to her defi ciency, at a very low Rate indeed. If our State has not made up her Quota, it would certainly be a prudent Step to appoint some Person to purchase the Sum wanting with out delay. It can be now had in Vir ginia, at 5 or 600 for one. It is my Duty to make this Communication, the Legislature will make such use of it, as they may think convenient. I have the Honor to be with great respect & Esteem, Your Excel lency’s Most Obedt. Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot [P.S.] This Letter was to go by Mr. Condit, but he left Town without acquainting me with it. 2 RC (NjP: Boudinot Papers). 1 In response to Boudinot’s letter, the New Jersey legislature instructed its congres sional delegates to support independence for Vermont provided the state’s officials complied with the conditions set forth by Congress on August 7 and 20, 1781. Journal of the Legislative Council of New Jersey, October 28-30, November 1, 1782, pp. 7-11. DLC(ESR). 2 Boudinot subsequently enclosed this letter with his October 24 letter to John Coven- hoven. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philada. 23d Octob’r 1782. I am apprehensive your Excellency’s Patience has suffered a severe Trial by our Silence on the Subject of the Grants. Nothing is done of moment to this Hour, but I must admit that the prospect seems fair for a Decision favorable to our Wishes. There is however always some thing in our Way. . . . P. S. Mr. L’hommedieu makes up the news papers for your Excel lency; and will send you Copy of a late Resolution of Congress which touches the Grants in a tender point. . . . P S I wrote the preceeding before I went to Congress; while on the Floor we were honord with your Excellency’s dispatches of the 14 and 15 Instant by Mr. Osburn and the several Enclosures were communi cated without Loss of time to Congress. 1 They came seasonably and will be of use. . . . Reprinted from Burnett, letters, 6:521, from a document located in the New York State Library before the Albany fire of 1911. > For the October 14 and 15 depositions of William Shattuck and Henry Evans con cerning Shattuck’s seizure by Vermont officials, which Clinton had enclosed with these
