October 23, 1782 309 made in their Declarations here, respecting the Acknowledgment of our Independence, and We have pretty good Information, That some of the Ministry still flatter the King with the hope of recovering his Sovereignty over the United States, on the same Terms, as are now making with Ireland. The above Acknowledgments, I learn from indis putable Authority was made by Mr. Grenville in these Words. That the King of England being disposed to acknowledge, and declare directly the Inde pendance of America, It would be no longer a conditional Article of the Treaty. Satisfaction was expressed, That the King of Great Britain was in a Dis position to treat with all the belligerant Powers, and that He intended to make a direct acknowledgement of the Independance of the United States of America, and that this power would no longer be a conditional Article of a gen eral Pacification. The proceeding Advices extend to the first of July. None have been received, since Lord Shelburne has been appointed Prime Minister of England except the suceeding Article. Yesterday a Letter was delivered Congress from their Minister plenipotentiary at the Hague, dated the 18th of August, 6 informing, That Mr. Fitzherbert, lately a British Minister at Brussels, was appointed, July the 24th, in the Room of Mr. Grenville, Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of Versailes, To treat of Peace with the King of France and all the belligerant Powers, and states. Doctor Franklin has advised Congress, That the Ambassador from Sweden at the Court of Versailes had applied to Him to know, if He had Powers, that would authorise Him to make a Treaty with his Master, in behalf of the United States. The Doctor recollecting a general Power, that was formerly given to Him, and the other Commissioners, answered in the Affirmative. The Ambassador seemed much pleased, and said, The King had directed Him to ask the Question, and had charged Him to tell the Doctor, That He had so great an Esteem for Him, That it would be a particular satisfaction to his Majesty to have such a Transaction with Him. The Ambassador added, That He hoped it would be rememberd Sweden was the first Power in Europe, which had voluntarily offered it’s Friendship to the United States without being solicited. Proper and full Powers were dispatched to the Doctor relative to this Business, The eleventh of this Month. As our Minister at the Court of Versailes earnestly recommends that the above Com munication may for obvious Reasons be kept secret. I flatter myself, That the honorable House will admit, & adopt the propriety of the Recommendation. Congress have lately received additional, and the most undoubted Testimonys of the Friendship and firm Attachment of our illustrious Ally to the United States, not only in his decissive answer to the Court of Great Britain respecting a seperate Peace, but in his Majesty’s benevolent Consideration of our Situation with Respect to pecuniary Affairs. He has very Kindly dispensed with our Obligation to pay Interest on the national Debt due to this Prince, up
