310 October 23, 1782 to the Date of the last Dispatch to his Minister here (The 25th of June)—But has also exonerated Us from all Expences (above five hundred Thousand Livres) accruing upon negociating the Loan of Ten Millions of Livres in Holland last year, and for the payment of which, He became Guaranty for the United States. Besides these most friendly Exemptions, his Majesty has directed the Sum of Six Millions of Livres to be at the Disposition and Service of Congress. Under cover you have Sir the printed Journals, continued from the Date of the last, which I had the Honor of transmitting to the former Council, down to the twentieth of August, and the Resolutions of Congress marked No. 1, with Regard to the Supplies for next Year, and No. 2, The Demand from the States, of One Million and Two hundred Thousand Dollars for the payment of Interest to some of the publick Creditors, as is more particularly explained in the Resolve last mentioned. Six Millions of Dollars is in the Opinion of the several Departments of Congress too small a sum for the various Expences of next year, But Congress has only made a Requisition of two Millions of Dollars from all the States. This They have done from a Hope, That They shall be able to borrow the rest in Europe. For this purpose They have resolved, That a Sum not exceeding four Millions of Dol lars, exclusive of the Money, which Mr. John Adams may obtain by the Loan now negotiating in Holland be borrowed in Europe on the Faith of the United States of America, and applied towards defraying the Expences which shall be incurred, and of those which during the pre sent War, have been incurred, for carrying on the War. And that the Superintendant of Finance and the Secretary of Foreign Affairs take Order for carrying the above Resolution into Effect, transmitting the same without Delay to the Ministers plenipotentiary of the United States at the Court of Versailes, and at the Hague. Maryland and the smaller States have several Times attempted to bring the Object of the Western Lands to a Decission, But They have failed hitherto for Want of New Hampshire being present, and Con necticut not chusing to become a Party in the Dispute, pending the Adjustment of Preliminarys for establ[ish]ing a Court (agreable to the articles of Confederation) finaly to settle the Claim, it makes upon Pennsylvania. This is now done, and We have Reason to be assured, That the Delegates of Connecticut will unite with Us and the Rest of the smaller States in voting to take up the Report of the Committee upon the Western Lands, and accepting the Cession of New York. If the Honorable House will be pleased to recur to my Letter of the Tenth of June, They will see what Effect the acceptance of the Cession of New York will have upon the unwarrantable Claim of Virginia. It is proposed to move in this important Matter in the Course of next Week, and be assured Sir, I will not fail to keep the House informed of the progress of our proceedings. I have now only to add, That I
