October 23, 1782 311 pray you will be so kind as to present my respectful Duty to the honor able Council, and to believe that I am with great Regard, Sir, your most Obedient, and most humble Servant, Sami. Wharton [P.S.] The papers mentioned in page 9, I was not able to procure two setts of; But I have sent the Resolves to the Honorable House of Assembly, certified by the Deputy of Congress. 7 RC (De-Ar: Legislative Papers). Addressed: “Honorable The Speaker of the Council of the State of Delaware,’’John Cook. 1 Wharton also sent a copy of this letter to Simon Kollock, speaker of the Delaware assembly. 2 Wharton wrote “Assembly” in the copy addressed to Kollock. 3 Wharton was probably citing the marquis de Lafayette’s June 25 letter to Robert R. Livingston, which is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 5:43-47. 4 Probably Benjamin Franklin, whose letters to Livingston of June 25 and 29 contain information reported here. See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:510-13, 533-35. 5 Wharton noted at the bottom of the page: “This Bill has since been enacted into a Law.” 6 John Adams’ August 18 letter to Livingston had been read in Congress on October 17, but a related resolution on the alliance with the United Provinces was passed on October 22. See JCC, 23:682; and David Howell to John Carter, October 16, 1782, note 2. 7 That is, “No. 1, with Regard to the Supplies for next Year, and No. 2, The Demand from the States, of One Million and Two hundred Thousand Dollars. . . .’’ See JCC, 23:564, 665-66. John Witherspoon to Nathanael Greene Sir Philadelphia Oct 23. 1782 Your Favour of the 28th of August reached me about ten Days ago & having only learned last Night that an Express sets out this Morn ing at 10 oClock for the Southward I embrace the Opportunity of writing though it cannot be at great Length. I hope you have before this Time received a Letter from me by Dr Brownson 1 though Expe rience tells us that Letters by private Conveyances are very precari ous. I am not certain to what you refer when you say you have read my Plan for Education 2 having published several different Occa sional Essays on that Subject but your Approbation of it is very agree able. Having had Reason to bless God for a very excellent & well conducted Education my self I have from my youth up given particu lar Attention to the Theory of Instruction & Government in general & particularly family Government. I have observed in passing through Life that it is not easy for any Person to attain to higher or nobler Principles or a finer Turn of mind and Manners than is to be formed in the family or among the Persons with whom he is cheifly conversant. The Instruction of Masters is occasional & temporary— Daily Intercourse is perpetual and uniform & therefore its Influence
