312 October 23, 1782 although insensible is great and lasting. I have also said often that as it is credible to think what the Earth would produce if it were always put in Condition to profit, (so to speak) by every Hour of Vegetation even in the Coldest Climates so it is incredible what early Advances a Child would make if no Opportunity of enlarging the Mind were lost. I not only agree with you that your Son is of an excellent Capacity but I think he has more Things about him that render him fit for profiting upon my System than almost any Boy I ever saw. He is exceedingly lively & active, full of Ambition, remarkably affectionate & familiar, inquisitive & talkative so that those who un[der]take the Pains to answer his Questions and gratify his Curiosity may easily com municate all the Information which his years render him fit for receiv ing. He is also of a very gentle & tractable Nature so as to be very easy to all that are about him. Finding by your Letter that what I mentioned to Mr Pettit at first is perfectly agreeable to you, I will do my best to answer your Views & laying the Foundation in Piety & Morality shall take all possible Pains to give him every other Accomplishment as he advances in years. At present my Brother in law teaches him and my grandson a little younger than he to read english & I believe all the Family will care fully observe such Directions on the Subject as 1 shall give them from Time to Time. Mrs Green & you may be assured that he is at present perfectly well & very happy in his Situation. I left home on Monday last & expect to return the End of next Week for altogether. Your leaving it to me to settle the Terms is very generous and I shall after conversing with Mr Pettit write you on that subject particularly in the next Letter. Your Remarks on the State of public Affairs are very just & you could not please me more than by Caution in not writing freely on such Subjects. We have had great Reason to see the Folly of some of our Friends in that Way. The Fate of Letters is very uncertain. Things seem to be at a Stand in Europe till the New english Ministry fix their Plan. The Negotiation however is not broken off. What you see in the News Papers of Allen Fitzherbert Esqr being the english Plenipoten tiary I believe is true as also that the Dutch are likely to enter into a commercial Treaty with the united States. With my best Respects to Mrs Greene I have the Honour to be, Sir your most obedt humble Servt, Jno Witherspoon RC (NjHi: Bamberger Autograph Collection). • Probably Witherspoon’s August 19 letter to Greene, which discusses the education of the general’s son, George Washington Greene, in much the same terms as in this let ter. The letter is not reproduced in these Letters, but is located in the bMS Am 1649.3 collection at MH-H. 2 Probably, Witherspoon’s “letters on Education," which first appeared in the Penn sylvania Magazine in 1775-76. See Varnum Lansing Collins, President Witherspoon: A Biog raphy, 2 vols. (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1925), 2:249-50.
