318 October 29, 1782 and the last Week Congress Assigned the 30th Instt. further to Con sider of, and determine this matter. Several Persons are now here who say they have been Robbed of their property, and that their persons are banished, by the authority of Vermont, in Consequence of their adherence to the Government of New York. 2 Without doubt you have full Information of those Transactions so that I need not be particu lar. The present Situation of these matters seem to require that a Final Determination should now be made, but their are many Obstacles in the way. Various Resolutions on this Subject have been passed at dif ferent Periods, and at present their seems to be much division of Sen timent respecting the matter. What will be Concluded on, or when a Final Determination will take place I cannot say, but should be glad that the Honble the Legislature would give such Instructions respect ing the matter, as to them Shall seem meet. I Suppose the Tax of Two Million Dollars is forwarded you by the Superintendant of Finance. 3 You will see that the Quota Assigned to New Hampshire is in the same proportion as that of the late Tax of 1,200,000 Dollars, for payment of Interest; This proportion is not so high as that of the last Year to the Eight Million Dollars, but it is my fixed Opinion, that it is much more than it ought to be. Have no late Authentic accounts from Europe. A Packett from Fal mouth has lately Arrived at New-York, do not know what Instructions the Commander there may have received but from the Newspaper Accounts It would seem that they are Determined to prosecute the War; whatever their Ideas may be, it is Incumbent on us to be pre pared for the Worst. Have no late accounts from Charlestown; whether New-York will be Evacuated this Fall is altogether uncertain, believe they are tolerably well prepared to Stay, or to Embark on Short Notice. The Ministry of Great Britain are Changed so frequently, and their Sentiments so Var ious respecting American affairs that it is Impossible to Determine what will take place next; the present session of their Parliament, as it respects American Affairs, is Considered as a very Important One. Late accounts from New-York (though not Authentic) Say, that Immediately on the Arrival of the Falmouth Packett, a Frigate was dis patched to Charlestown and that, that place is not to be Evacuated at present. I have for some time past been Daily Expecting the Arrival of Judge White, but am hitherto Disappointed. I Inclose you a News Paper of this day and have the Honor to be, Your most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 See Gilman to Weare, September 25, 1782, note 2. 2 See James Duane to George Clinton, October 23, 1782, note. 3 For Robert Morris’ October 23 circular letter to the states, see Morris, Papers (Fergu son), 6:648—49.
