October 29, 1782 319 John Hanson to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, 29th October 1782. I have the honor to acknowlege the receipt of your Excellency’s two favors of the 25th with the letters inclosed, which will be submitted to the consideration of Congress at their meeting this morning. 1 Our attention seems to be principally directed to Europe and the Indies for intelligence; but none more recent than that transmitted by your Excellency has yet reached us. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excellency’s Obedt. & very humb. Servt. John Hanson RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Hanson. 1 Washington’s two October 25 letters, the one reporting recent naval intelligence, the other enclosing letters from the comte de Vergennes and from the mother of Capt. Charles Asgill containing “a very pathetic and affectionate Interposition in favor of the Life of Capt Asgill,” are in PCC, item 152, 11:1-14; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 25:295—96. The letters from Vergennes and Mrs. Asgill pleading for the captain’s life were referred this day to the committee previously appointed to report on Washington’s August 19, 1782, letter on the Joshua Huddy-Richard Lippincott affair, and became the basis for the committee’s recommendation, adopted by Congress on November 7, that Washington be directed “to set Captain Asgill at liberty.” See JCC, 23:691, 695n, 715; PCC, item 19, 1:183—84, item 186, fol. 64; and Ralph Izard to Arthur Middleton, August 26, 1782, note. For congressional concern that freeing Asgill might be interpreted as a sign of weakness and lack of resolve to retaliate against similar enemy acts “of cruelty or violence contrary to the laws or usage of war," see also JCC, 23:716-20. Little information on the congressional debates over Asgill’s fate is found in the jour nals, but from the following extract from the “reminiscences” of Elias Boudinot, a mem ber of the committee appointed on October 28 to report on the subject, it is clear that they were long and spirited. “Congress took the Matter under full Consideration, during which Genl Sir Guy Carl ton arrived at New York with the title of Commander in Chief & the preliminary Articles of Peace were announced. Genl Washington then wrote to Congress that he had first proposed the Retaliation on Capt. Asgill as an Act of Mercy on the Whole, to put a Stop to the Enemy destroying the Lives of our Citizens in the Future as they had done in Times past—That he had determined to carry it into Execution, not being satisfied with the Result of the Court-martial—But that unexpectedly the preliminary Articles of Peace had wholly changed the Ground—The Execution of an innocent Person ought to have an Object in view to prevent the unnecessary shedding of Blood—That the Exam ple now could not have any Effect as there would be nothing for it to operate upon &c. &c. That therefore he should stay the Execution of Capt. Asgill without an express Order from Congress to the Contrary. “A very large Majority of Congress were determined on his Execution, and a Motion was made for a Resolution positively ordering the immediate Execution. Mr. Duane & myself considering the Reasons assigned by the Commander in Chief conclusive, made all the Opposition in our Power. “We urged every Argument that the Peculiarity of the Case suggested, and spent three Days in warm Debate, during which more ill Blood appeared in the House, than I had seen. Near the close of the third Day, when every Argument was exhausted, without any appearance of Success, the Matter was brought to a Close, by the Question being ordered to be taken. I again rose and told the House, that in so important a Case,
