322 October 29,1782 last than what has transpired from the packet lately arrived at N. York and is published in the inclosed Gazette. Some intelligence has been reed, from the Frontiers of N. Y. which revive the apprehension of further inroads from Canada and of a cooperation on the part of the Vermonteers. The tenor of Carlton’s letter to Genl Washington on this subject and other circumstances render this article at least extremely doubtful. The British fleet at N. Y. has been busy in preparing for sea and will probably soon depart from that Station. The W. Indies most naturally occur as the object of its destination. It is said their preparations have been much expedited by the most direct & undisguised (supplies from the people of New Jersey). 1 Congress have been occupied for several days past with the case of (Lippencut referred to them) by (General Washington). 2 On one side it was urged that the disavowal and promises by the (British comman der) the (abolition of the) obnoxious (board of refugees) and the gen eral (change of circumstances) rendered (retaliation unnecessary (and in)expedient. On the other side it was contended that a (departure from the resolution) so (solemnly) adopted and (repeated) by (General Washington and) with equal (solemnity ratified by Congress) would be an (indelible blot on our) character, that after the confessions on (the part of the enemy of the deed) complained (of a) greater (inflexibility on our part) would be {looked for), that after such confessions too (the enemy) would never suffer the {innocent to perish) if {we persisted in demanding the guilty) and finally that if they should suffer it, (the blood) would (be on their heads not on ours). No definitive (resolu tion has yet passed on the subject). All the {intermediate steps) have been very properly entered {on the secret journal). General Lincoln has just returned from the army. He has not yet made report to Congress. 3 He says I understand that his visit has had a very {salutary operation but) that some {pay must be found for the army). Where it is to be {found God knows). The State of the public (finances) has already (compelled the superintendant to) give a dis charge to the former contractors, and to accept of a new contract by which (thirty) Per Ct. is added to the price of a ration in consideration of credit for (three months). He has on this occasion written a press ing exhortation to the States, which I suppose is accessible to you. Mr. (Carrol) moved yesterday a (resolution for accepting the) territo rial cession {of New York). It stands the order for to day. 4 I regret much on this occasion the {absence of Mr Jones). Mr. Jones’s relapse was more severe than my last supposed. He has been since confined to his room & chiefly to his bed, and will remain a prisoner for some time. His disorder however is in a favorable train, and at present rather troublesome than dangerous. Col. Bland returned a few days ago from his excursion to Bethlehem, which has
