328 October 30, 1782 Notice for Trial in the cause vs Stanton will arrive in season at least by the 8th of Novembr the day Assigned & for which have Engaged Judge Paca to come up from Maryland. Since my last* to you have received a New appointment from the Assembly as Delegate in Congress for the Year Ensuing which will Oblidge my tarrying here this Winter tho’ on many Accounts with much reluctance, I find all my Wages if I was ever to receive them would not pay for extraordi nary Expences in Cloathing & otherwise at this place. I have never received my Wages for part of the 2 last years I was here before, nor on my Superior Court and Assembly Debentures for about 2 Years last past when in the State, which in fact straitens me for money, there will be fees to pay in the office to the Register &c tho I know not at pre sent how much. If you had any body in this City to draw upon to sup ply me with £20 or £30 it would be a favour. Mr Huntington will set out for home before the Trial comes on. I mean to Assist all in my power in the cause & hope to be able by my Next to give you a favourable Account of the Issue. Am Yr Hie Servt, Elipht Dyer RC (CtY: Shaw Papers). 1 See Dyer to Shaw, October 2, 1782. David Howell to Nicholas Brown Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octob 30 1782. Your very acceptable favour of 15 Inst, came duly to hand per Post, the enclosures as well as contents were agreeable. I am happy to find that abler pens have at length enlisted in so good a cause. The opposi tion to the Impost, I am convinced, gains ground in Congress as well as in this City. I have taken great pains to explain the principles of Liberty & to shew how the Confederation will secure it to us, & I can assure you that great Charter of our Liberties is lately more frequently quoted & growing into that sacred veneration to which it is entitled. When I first came here, Genl. Cornell called it a rope of Sand & I found he had catched the expression from others. The States are not to be held together by the strength of penal laws & coercion, but by their mutual intrest—And if a wise & just policy is adopted it will continue in future the intrest of the States to remain confederated as much as it now is, or has been. Every measure which tends to greive one member of the Union, tends to a Dissolution; for nature teaches to seek redress: And Self preservation, among Laws, is Lord paramount. I did not mean to give it as my opinion that no more would be done to inforce the Impost; far otherwise, my Letters will shew the pains I have taken to counteract such efforts. But the tax of 1,200,000 was framed & urged by those, who had little, or no remaining hopes from
