October 30, 1782 329 an Impost, while the others consented to the measure. This I con ceived at least a confessed judgment in all that the impost was a fund of remote consideration & from which no present hopes could be entertained. Since the recommendation, or rather demand of an immediate & definitive answer of our State in regard to the Impost a motion was made in Congress to appoint a Committee to draw up a spirited address to our State on the Subject & it was suggested that the Dele gates ought also to write in favour of a measure so necessary, or they would be chargeable with the consequences. The loss in Mr. Morris’s Contracts for want of mony was also laid at our Door. This all together raised me to a pitch. “Mr. President, The measure now proposed is indeed very extraordinary. You have recommended the Impost; Your Financier has written frequently & largely to the State on the Subject; you have sent to the State a Deputation of two respectable members of this house to referee the measure, to which embassy you have not yet reed an answer. But three days ago you passed a resolve requiring an immediate & definitive answer on this head; Unless the present mea sure is calculated for downright coercion, or to overawe & terrify the lit tle State of Rhode Island to adopt the impost against their intrest & judgment I am at a loss for its object. “I hope, Sir, that the State I have the honor to represent, tho the least in the Union & the last to decide upon this Question, will do it with the same deliberation & independance of Spirit, uninfluenced by the determination of the others, as the largest State in the Union and the first which adopted the measure had a right to. Every State, Sir, is equally Sovereign & independant. Every State has an equal right to the advan tages of the Confederation & to be bound only by their own consent. I hope we shall never sacrifice the essential object of the war as a means of supporting it. This would rather have a contrary tendancy. We have drawn our Swords in defence of a good Constitution & for the priv- iledge of being governed by laws of our own making. While you con tinue to the people these objects they will support you to the last penny in their purse & the last drop of their blood. Infringe their rights, invade the Confederation, & you can no longer assure yourself of the peoples support. I hold in my hand, Sir, a reciept of taxes from the little State I have the Honour to represent for the Month of Septr. to the amount of upwards of 4,000 Dollars which I beg leave to read.— This may be thought a small Sum; but examine the treasury, you will find the State has paid more than five times its avarage proportion of the monies reed. Had all the States in the Union paid in propor tion Mr. Morris’s loss would not have happened. His calculations were made on the tax of 8 millions constitutionally required & not on an imaginary impost. Who then is accountable for that loss? “Gentlemen would indirectly blame us for not enforcing the Impost by letters to our State. Every necessary information has been laid
