332 October 30, 1782 the Rect. of a Letter Yesterday via New York from the Count de Ver gennes would probably remove them. The Mother of the unfortunate Asgill, with the utmost maternal Tenderness, addressd the Count in Behalf of her Son. He as a private Man, writes, with the Approbation of the King, & much more, even that of the Queen. Tho the Letter does not demand the Liberation of Asgill absolutely—I think it is not much short of it. It is now before a Committee—had not this Letter been reed, there were a thousand Chances to one in Favor of Asgill—now, if we liberate him, we in a Measure loose the Honors of a merciful Dispo sition. I could have wished to have had the Act noble & conspicuous on our Part, as flowing spontaneously from our own Tenderness..Yesterday on a Motion of the Delegates of Maryland the Cession of New York was taken up & after lengthy Debate the Yeas & Nays were taken upon the Question & seven States were in Favor of accepting that Cession, it is entered in the affirmative. But a Question arises, are seven States competent, by the Confederation, to such Acceptation. It is affirmed by some & denied by others. You will find in the Journals for 81 & 82 Page 334 the following Resolution of New York “That it is the Sense of this Legislature, that Congress have not any Authority by the Articles of Confederation in any Wise, to intermeddle with the for mer territorial Extent of Jurisdiction or Property of either of these united States except in Cases of Disputes concerning the same between two or more States in the Union, nor to admit into the Union, even any british Colony except Canada without the Consent of nine States, nor any other State whatsoever, nor above all to create a new State by dismembring one of the thirteen united States without their universal Consent.” 2 Taking for granted that the Vote of Yesterday was carried in the affirmative—what can Congress do with the Territory? Can they upon the Principles of the Confederation erect & take into the Union a new State? Does the Confederation empower Congress to accept of any Thing that looks like a Fund, independent of the united States? Does it authorize & empower Congress to grant a patent or Charter with Powers of Jurisdiction? Can Congress in any Manner whatever become the Fountain of such Power? If not, what will become of the said Terri tory? I think many Difficulties will inevitably occur in the Management of this congressional Territory. Indeed, at present, I believe no Friend to these States dare show his Head within a hundred miles of the Country. It is possessed by Indians & some Britons. What a well founded Prospect does this Tract of Country afford the United States for discharging all their Debts? Mr. Jackson will see you probably as soon as this will arrive. Two Days he has been detained by Rain—I don’t urge that a Colleague may be forwarded because I must conclude there is one already upon the Road. Permit me to add, that with the greatest Truth & Sincerity, I am, Dear Sir, your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood
