October 31, 1782 333 [P.S.] Yesterday a Note from the Minister of France w[as] handed to Congress, setting forth that immense Quantities of Provisions went in, to the Enemy from New Jersey. 3 I beleive it is too true: it is said they Pay for it in Cash only & give for Beef 2/6 Currency per lb. The above Note will be forwarded to our Governor next Post. The Minister I apprehend supposes that those Provisions will enable the british to operate against our Allies more powerfully in the West Indies. Dyer says such Propects of Gain will carry them thro’ Hell Gate—to obtain it. I am rather in Opinion that it cannot be prevented. Capital Laws will not be executed—And others will be evaded. RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 Not found. 2 For this November 19, 1781, resolution of the New York Assembly, entered in the proceedings of Congress for April 4, 1782, see JCC, 22:172. Osgood is quoting from the David C. Claypoole edition of the Journals, for which see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 17,767. 3 See Elias Boudinot to William Livingston, this date. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir Philadelphia Octobr 31st 1782 I have for a month or two past began I believe not less than 5 or 6 letters to you, with an expectation the Affair of your late brothers 1 Account would be brot to a Close & to have finishd by letter with that Information but by expectations have been as repeated frustrated & I had to thro my letters in the fire. The First Comtee reported that it was their opinion, that the monies expended, tho all before the Scale of Depreciation should be reduced to its real Value according to a Scale of Depreciation fixd by this State which began Depreciation in Jany 1777 & brot it to 2 for one before Septr 1777, which would reduce the sum & Consequently the Commiss about one quarter & even that was opposed. Congress recommitted it to the same Comtee to advise with the Financier and after about a month they reported again a Gross sum Viz about 29,000 dolls to be due which would be about the same sum as it would amount to by their first report, and that was opposd again, & again Committed to the same Comtee but one of them being Absent they added Another Gentn from North Carolina, a proper representative of Mr Burk who formerly made the opposition. When the Commissions was first Granted, the 2 others Who had had their report so often rejected would not concern them selves but little about the Affair but left it much to Doctr Williamson who had made the most opposition in Congress, and Notwithstanding all my Urging & pressing the Matter he kept the papers I believe about six Weeks before I could get the report in Again. By the way in the last Commitment Congress threw up the Commissions wholly &
