354 November 5, 1782 Reprinted from Burnett, letters, 6:532, “Copied from the original, then in the posses sion of Mr. Stan.V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 Not found. 2 In their brief weekly letter of November 12, Bland and Madison acknowledged Har rison’s letter of the 2d and reported that “Since our last nothing of Material] Conse quence has happend, nor has any news of Importance arrived from Europe that is well Authenticated. The Enclosed News Paper contains all the Intelligence of every kind.” Brian Riba Auctions, July 13, 1991, item 177. Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love, Philadelphia Novr. 6th. 1782 I have wrote you in the hurry & Confusion of the Times, twice since Monday Morning. I therefore need not repeat the important Transac tions of that Day. Suffice it to say, that every day will appear a Week till you arrive here. The Office I now fill—your Friends—the Season of the Year—and what, I hope will have its weight, your affectionate Hus band—all—all require You to make no delay. I am conscious this is a heavy Task, and how you are to execute it, I know not. God only knows, who can & will help you. In the first Place you must plan the state of your Family during the winter. I think it will be absolutely necessary, for Mr. Remsen to stay in the Office if possible. As to Dickey I scarcely know what is best, but on the whole I think he had best be with his uncle Elisha, as I fear this Town would be ruinous to his Studies—however this must be the Subject of Consideration. Phillis if not Lena too must be brought along, or if Prince can wait on Tea Table perhaps he might do instead of Lena. Every Thing must be sold that you can spare. If you make a Vendue (which I hope will not be necessary) you must give 6 Months Credit for the unsaleable articles, provided Security is given, otherwise the money to be paid down. I mean to keep the small Steers & the youngest Colt. Give directions to Baird to saw the Logs, into weather Boards—Inch Boards and a few Plank & Joice, as the Timber will Suit—and Josey must hale 1 them as fast as Sawed. Josey must get as many more Logs in the winter as he can—and must go to School as often as possible. I wish Mr. Pintard could manage it so as to go into the House. You must bring your Plate, best Linnen—particular convenien- cies & Family Books with you—dont forget the political Essays & four Volumes of Treaties. I shall want all my Books of Acct—my Will &c. You must muster all the money you can. There is a Bond from a Man in Mendum assigned to me by Mr Conklin, try to get as much on it as pos sible—and also call on both of the Mr. Conklins who owe for the Planta tions and get what you can of them. You must put the Care of my Swamp Lands near home, into the Hands of Mr Southerd, and those over by Long Hill to Mr Ludlow— and Mr Sayres will take Care of those near him. As to your coming here, my present Plan is for you to load the Waggon which Josey will drive and you & Sukey to come to Prince-
