November 6,1782 357 some points being singular, in regard to the Impost, half-pay, &c. The business being entirely new—The Members of Congress generally unknown to me. My Colleague 1 opposed to me in important objects, added to other embarrassments too well known to be mentioned, I found it difficult at all times to possess myself in the manner I could have desired. Since Dr. Arnolds arrival & the fine air of Octobr & Nov. I have been well in health & cheerful as usual. I doubt not the Assembly will have rejected the Impost before you will receive this. Half-pay is struck out of the estimate for 1783. The officers I expect will be referred to their several States for gratuities or impositions in lieu thereof. Congress have accepted the cession of claims to Western Territory made by New York a few days ago, & those of Connecticutt & Virginia will be accepted also when they shall have been disencumbred of cer tain exceptionable conditions. So that there is a good prospect of car rying the most material points I have been labouring after. The Independance of Vermont is the only object that cannot be started. It meets with every opppsition you can imagine. You must have heard that the intended expeditions set on foot by this State against the Indians at Sandusky & Genesee are laid aside. I opposed them in Congress as believing that the Massacreing of the Moravian Indians 2 lead on to the outrages suffered by our Frontiers. Your humanity will lead you to enquire about the facts of Asgill the intended victim to attone for the death of Huddy. His parents have written a most affecting letter to the French Court requesting their intercession in favour of their Son. Count De Vergennes in conse quence of it has in his private capacity & not as Minister sent a Letter to Congress interceeding for the life of that unfortunate young offi cer. He mentions that the King & Queen of France are greatly affected at the expected fate of the victim—that they wished their feel ings on the occasion to be known on this side of the water and that should it be consistent with the national honor of this Country his release would be a very grateful event to their Majesties. The Count adds that as Asgill is a Prisoner of York Town, he hopes it will be remembred on this occasion that the laurels of that day were acquired by the joint arms of France & America & that his Intercession may receive some weight from that Consideration. Sir Guy Carleton had ordered a Court-martial on Leppincut, who acquitted him; these proceedings had been sent out to Genl. Washing ton & enclosed by him in a Letter to Congress. This Letter with all the paper in the case had been referred to a Committee which had made a report in the case & that report had been under consideration in Congress & warmly debated before the arrival of the Letter of Count De Vergennes. The report of the Committee would have taken Asgills life, but it met with opposition. I moved to have that part of the report struck
