358 November 6, 1782 out which would affect his life; I was seconded by Mr L’homedieu from N. York. A vote was taken & it was struck out, whereupon the report was recommitted. In this Stage the Intercession from the French Count found the business. The Counts Letter with that of Asgills parent to him are referred to the same Committee and they set this day on the business. I hope & {expect} [don’t] doubt but their report will be such as to save the life of the Innocent. 3 I believe, in some possible cases retaliation may be just; but I think the present after what has taken place would rather have the appearance of per petuating the barbarities of war than of restraining them. I see your Friends Pemberton, Wall, Benezet, &c. sometimes. I fre quently attend the 6 O’Clock Evening meeting in Market Street. I have enclosed you a fragment of a piece written by a disowned Quaker—the other part is not by me. In the enclosed News paper you will observe the noble Sentiments of President Dickinson in regard to personal Liberty* He is chosen a member of the Supreme Executive Council in this State; and it is expected will be chosen President of this State tomorrow; there is about to be a change of men & measure I am told in this State. You will excuse bad writing thro’ haste. David Howell. [P.S.] I [have bee]n to speak to Dr. Borden about the old house but [have] reed no answer. RC (RHi: Moses Brown Papers). Addressed: “Mr. Moses Brown, Providence.” 1 That is, Ezekiel Cornell. 2 See Charles Thomson to William Moore, April 9, 1782. 3 For the final decision on November 7 to free Capt. Charles Asgill, see John Hanson to Washington, October 29, 1782, note. 4 The concluding paragraphs of Pres. John Dickinson’s October 29 address to the Delaware Assembly, which was printed in this day’s issue of the Pennsylvania Journal, contain the following “noble Sentiments.” ‘The laws require very considerable amendments to be made, for preventing substan tial justice being defeated or delayed by unnecesary and injurious forms; for ascertain ing with precision the statutes prior to the revolution that are to be regarded as parts of our jurisprudence; for securing the inestimable benefits of the writ of Habeas Corpus; and for fixing the trial by jury on such a solid basis, as will guard as much as possible against its being shaken by the dreadful efforts of party rage, if that blind and destruc tive power, from which we are now so happily free, should in times to come attempt to pull down the pillars of our courts, for supporting which the precious blood of our brave fellow citizens has been so nobly offered and liberally poured out. Regulations of this sort will be among the best inheritances we can leave to our posterity. “Another amendment humanity compels me to propose: That persons manumitting healthy slaves, not advanced in years, should not be obliged to give security for their maintenance, and that slaves should not be sent upon sale, or otherwise, to places dis tant from their usual residence, by which means affectionate and near relations are cru elly separated from one another, and the remainder of their lives extremely embittered. The Legislatures of the several neighbouring states, moved by a deep sense of the divine favours to them in this contest for their own freedom, and by an enlightened commiser ation, have lately passed laws for alleviating the afflictions of this helpless, and too often abused part of their fellow creatures. I entertain the warmest hopes, that the Legislature of this state will emulate the most generous and wise examples of this kind.”
