November 10, 1782 369 Samuel Wharton to George Read Dear Sir, Philadelphia, November 10th, 1782. By Mr. Grantham I send you a bundle of newspapers, besides what is contained in this letter. By those of the later date you will perceive the alarm sounded, through these vehicles of abuse, against our old friend. But, to the keen mortification of the opposing party, he was elected President and General Ewing Vice-President, a worthy and intimate friend of Mr. Dickinson, versus General Potter. 1 I never have known so general a joy diffused among all ranks of the people as was exhibited on this choice of our early associate. The procession from the State [House] to the Court-house was very numerous and respectable, and there the people manifested their felicity by affectionate and repeated acclamations. The gentlemen who opposed Mr. Dickinson are low-spir ited, and are afraid something effectual will be done to establish his reputation and that of the present Asssembly. Your former neighbor was deep in the politics [of this opposition], but has a certain versatility about him that accommodates [him] to the powers in being. He asked your other old friend to accompany him, after the procession was over, to Mr. D ’s, for the purpose of congratulating him [on his elec tion], etc.; and crowds of other citizens are daily doing the same. What will be done by the State of Delaware in respect of their President I am ignorant of, but he tells me we shall see in the next newspapers what he said to the Assembly here in relation to this matter. Congress has ordered Captain Asgill to be liberated. This was done in consequence of letters from General Washington, by which it was obvious this was his wish, and from a letter he received from Count de Vergennes, expressing an earnest desire from the king and queen of France, who had been prevailed upon to intercede in behalf of Cap tain Asgill. The mother of this gentleman wrote to the Count de Vergennes one of the most pathetic letters I ever read. Although Congress has freed Asgill from his confinement, yet they have instructed the com mander-in-chief to inform Sir Guy Carlton, in the most pointed terms, that they rely upon his promise of making strict inquisition after the murderer of Captain Huddy; and, in order to prevent all further appli cations to them from any persons, they have resolved that, in case the enemy shall commit any actions contrary to the law of nations, the commander-in-chief, or the general who may command in the South ern department, after retribution has been demanded by them or either of them, and justice refused or delayed beyond the time limited in their requisition, shall have authority to execute retaliation. This will make the enemy very cautious in their future proceedings, and there will not be reliance, as heretofore, upon the various opinions of a large deliberative body.
