370 November 10, 1782 No news from Europe, since I wrote you last, except what you will find in the within papers, under the New York head, upon which we place no dependence. The siege of Gibraltar, and the expected con flict between the British and combined fleets, engrosses all our atten tion; if the event should be favorable to the two branches of the House of Bourbon, or the English should be much worsted in the East Indies, a general pacification will most probably take place next spring or summer. Count Rochambeau’s army (I mention this in con fidence, not to be repeated) will, we have reason to think, embark for the West Indies. As to South Carolina we can say nothing, as Congress has received no late letters from thence; but it is alleged that part of the garrison of Charleston has embarked, etc.—see the last newspa per. I have not yet received the law you wrote for; President Boudinot has again written to the printer for it. I wait for the index of 1779, which is not yet finished, otherwise I would send you a complete set of the Journals of Congress. Will you wait for the index, or shall I despatch the Journals without it? You can exchange the volume of 1779 for one, when it is printed, with the index. Mrs. Wharton is get ting better; she and my children join me in affectionate regards to Mrs. Read, yourself, and children. Adieu. Yours, very sincerely, S. Wharton. MS not found; reprinted from William T. Read, Life and Correspondence of George Read (Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1870), pp. 369-71. 1 For John Dickinson’s election as president of Pennsylvania on November 7, see Pa. Council Minutes, 13:413-16; and Milton E. Flower, John Dickinson. Conservative Revolution ary (Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1983), pp. 209-11. See also Wharton to John Dickinson, February 17, 1782, note 2. Charles Thomson to Robert Morris Sir, Nov. 11.1782 Charles Morse one of the clerks in My Office died yesterday and has left a widow advanced in years & very infirm, in low circumstances. He has been a considerable time in the Office and was very assiduous & attentive. At the time when Salaries were paid in Continental currency and the clerks in the several Offices were allowed to Sign bills of credit to augment their pay he devoted his whole time to the business of the Office, for which he expected some extra allowance. If you should concur in sentiment I could wish his widow might be allowed the quarter’s wages which would have been due at the end of next month. His last illness has involved expence above his circumstances & his past services merit some reward above his pay. 1 I shall be glad of your answer to this, and am, with respect, Sr, Yr Obedt humble Servt Cha Thomson
