November 12,1782 371 FC (DNA: PCC, item 49). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 According to his official diary, Morris immediately told Thomson that he approved of making this payment to Morse’s widow but that Thomson “must obtain Consent of Congress," which he did the following day. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:41-42n.6, 66; and JCC, 23:723n.l. The same day Congress also decided simply to postpone action on memorials from George Bond, the deputy secretary of Congress, and “the clerks on the civil list” for an increase in their salaries. JCC, 23:722. James Duane to Robert Morris 12 Novem. 1782 Mr Duane presents his Compliments to the honorable Superinten dant of Finance, and acquaints him that the Committee on his office will make him a Visit to Morrow morning. The Dispatch of business is become necessary as the Committee will soon be dissolved now being reduced to three members. 1 They wish the Superintendant may have time to furnish them with the Account they before requested, and such materials as are neces sary to place the Business of the office in a fair & full point of View. 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 142). In the hand ofjames Duane. 1 That is, Duane, Thomas McKean, and Samuel Osgood, because the other two origi nal members of the committee appointed July 2 to oversee the office of finance, Abra ham Clark and Arthur Lee, had returned home. See Committee to Robert Morris, July 19; Committee Minutes, July 30, 1782; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:44—46. 2 For this “Account,” which was prepared by the register of the treasury Joseph Nourse, see ibid., pp. 62-63. Joseph Jones to Edmund Pendleton Dr. Sr. Phila. 12th Nov. 1782 My favor when it reaches you, which probably was left in Caroline, will be found to be the act of my friend Madison at my request, being then unable to fullfill my engagement. 1 I am now better tho’ not well, so well however as to entertain hopes of again taking my seat in Congress sometime this week. 2 I shall thank you for the decision of the Court on the great constitu tional question you mention, if which, and the adjournment of it from the Genl. Court into the Court of appeals, we were informed by Mr. Randolph. 3 The question is no doubt difficult and important, of which I cannot at this time so well judge, as after perusing the clause of the constitution, which I have not by me, but mean, so soon as I am able, to go out to look over. If my memory does not fail me the consti tution vests the power in the Delegates—the difficulty I suppose pro-
