372 November 12, 1782 ceeds from the subsequent Law being the act of the two Houses—was there any subsequent resolution of the Delegates independent of the appendage sending it to the Senate for concurrence? Will not a deter mination of the Court, upon a construction of the meaning of the Constitution, different from that assumed by the two branches of the legislature, exalt the judiciary above the legislative? Does not correc tions of abuses and violations of the constitution more properly belong to the people at large than to the Courts of Law? And are not Judges to do the Law, rather than refine upon constitutional principles? These, and other questions, delicate and perplexing, upon a cursory view of the subject, strike me, and no doubt have been learnedly investigated. The controversy must have excited the curiosity and attention of the public and the decision draw after it important consequences. We have been entertained for some time past by Mr. Rivington with the jargon of News you mention, which, together with a late letter of Sr. Guy Carltons to Genl. Washington on the subject of the proposed Cartel, couched in different language and conveying different Senti ments from what he lately held, seems to indicate a change of mea sures under the Shelbourne Administration more hostile to our claims than those adopted by Ld. Rockingham. Certain it is the King and Shelbourne are averse to the independence of America and from them we are not to expect it, but from necessity—whether that neces sity really exists, and they puff off their yet ample resources for prose cuting the war, with the view of obtaining better terms of peace a little time will discover—certain it is also that upon the departure of Mr. Grenville, Mr. Fitzherbert repaired to France with full powers to nego- ciate a peace with the united provinces of the Netherlands, and all princes and States concerned—under these words we conceive Amer ica to be comprehended, but it is said such was not the Idea of the King who granted the Commission. The language may serve the pur pose of manoeuvre & delay, the object, I think, of Great Britain, to see the events of the Campaign—when if nothing propitious to them turns up, and the parliament shall countenance the measure, peace with independence may be our portion—but good fortune no doubt will urge our proud Foe to a prosecution of the War rather than sub mit to what she deems ignoble terms of peace. Mr. Asgill, from the delay that has taken place in consequence of the correspondence between Genl. Washington & Genl. Clinton and after with Sr. Guy Carlton on his Case, and the submission of it by the Comd. in Chief to Congress for final decision, will escape the doom to which his lot had consigned him—Congress having lately directed the Genl, to release him, and to demand a compliance of Sr. Guy with his assurances, that every measure in his power shod, be employed to detect and bring to punishmt. the guilty, as by the inquiry instituted by them. Lippincut, the supposed offender, had been acquited of the charge—this busi-
