374 November 12, 1782 RC (Mr. Andrew Fiske, Shelter Island, N.Y., 1980). 1 “I am obliged to leave this place in a few Days,” L’Hommedieu wrote to David Stephens on November 10, “and am very sorry that I could not receive the Money on Capt Thompsons order, as it is much wanted by those that are concerned in the Priva teer. I have left the order with Colo William Floyd (who is a Member of Congress for the State of New York) who you may find by inquiring at Mrs Houses at the Corner of fifth Street in Markeet Street or you may send the money, if it will be more convenient to you to Colo Summers who will take a Receipt of Colo Floyd for you for whatever Sum you may pay. I beg you will pay it as soon as possible as the Accounts of the Privateer cannot be settled nor a Distribution made ’till this is received. If you do not pay it soon the owners may be obliged to send a Man on purpose from Connecticut to Egg Har bour, which will cost them half as much as the Debt. I have desired Colo Summers to give you every Assistance you may want in his receiving & paying the Money and taking Receipts, and least this Letter may not come soon to your Hands I have requested him to write to you and Urge the Necessity of the speedy payment of the Money. It is need less for me to say more on the Subject as I trust you will pay it in a very short Time. As soon as it is paid Colo Floyd will give a Bill for the Same Sum on Persons at Middletown in Connecticut which will be very convenient for the agents of the Privateer.” Andrew Fiske Collection. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday 12 Novr. [1782] 1 The reappointment of Mr. Jefferson as Minister Plenipo. for negoci- ating peace was agreed to unanimously and without a single adverse remark. 2 The act took place in consequence of its being suggested that the death of Mrs. J. had probably changed the sentiments of Mr. J. with regard to public life, & that all the reasons which led to his original appointment still existed and indeed had acquired additional force from the improbability that Mr. Laurens would actually assist in the negociation. “A motion was made by Mr. Rutlidge, declaring that when a matter was referred to any of the departments to take order, it was the sense & meaning of Congress that the same should be carried into execu tion.” 3 On this motion some argued that such reference amounted to an absolute injunction. Others insisted that it gave authority, but did not absolutely exclude discretion in the Executive Departments. The explanation which was finally acquiesced in as most rational & con formable to practice, was that it not only gave authority, but expressed the sense of Congress that the measure ought to be executed; leaving it so far however in the discretion of the Executive Department, as that in case it differeed in opinion from Congress it might suspend execution & state the objections to Congress that their final direction might be given. In the course of debate it was observed by 4 that the practice of referring matters to take order, especially where money was to be issued, was extremely exceptionable inasmuch as no entry of such proceedings was made on the Journals, but only noted
