November 12, 1782 377 Member of Congress to Unknown [November 12, 1782] 1 “Young Captain Asgill, some Time ago allotted as a Victim of Retali ation, to atone for the Murder of Captain Huddy, is liberated by Direction of Congress. No Reasons being assigned in this Resolve, the World are left to conjecture at the Motives which induced it. It appears undeniably true that Lippencut was the real Murderer, and that he had many Accomplices with him—some actually assisting in the Fact, others advising, directing and approving it. Subsequent to the Threat of Retaliation, several Things have taken Place to render its Execution less necessary in the Opinion of many. The British Com mander in Chief has reprobated the Fact in unequivocal Terms; he has instituted a formal Trial by Court-Martial, in which, after much Parade, Lippencut was acquitted. He has promised to pursue the Inquisition, so far as Justice will admit, to detect and deliver to Punish ment the Guilty. He has dissolved the infamous Board of Refugees, and declared it as his Intention, and that of his Court, to conduct the War on liberal and humane Principles; and his official Conduct has not yet belied this Profession. In Consequence of a well written and most moving Letter from the distressed Mother of Asgill, Count de Vergennes, in his private Character, has addressed our Commander in Chief on this Subject. 2 He paints in high Colours the Effects of this Letter on the Court of Versailles—the Youth and Innocence of the Victim—the Tears of the Mother—the Distraction of the Father, and the Ruin of the Family, have excited royal Compassion and Interces sion. The Count further adds, that it would not only be a most grate ful Thing to their Majesties to have Asgill restored to his inconsolable Parents and Friends, but they hope it will be considered on this Occa sion that he is a Capitulant of York-Town, and that the Laurels of that Day were acquired by the joint Arms of France and America. “How far these Considerations, or any others that may be suggested, will justify this Measure, must be submitted to the Decision of the civi lized World, and Posterity; I shall only observe, that as the chief End of Retaliation is to prevent a Repetition of Injuries, when that End is sub stantially obtained, forbearing to execute a Threat is a double Victory.” MS not found; reprinted from the Providence Gazette, December 7, 1782. 1 This document was printed under the following heading: “Providence, December 7. Extract of a letter from a Gentleman in Philadelphia, dated November 12” It seems clear from the details about Charles Asgill’s fate contained in it, that this letter could only have been written by a delegate to Congress, perhaps one of the Rhode Island delegates attending at this time, Jonathan Arnold or David Howell. Cf. David Howell to Moses Brown, November 6, 1782. 2 See John Hanson to Washington, October 29, 1782, note.
