378 November 13, 1782 Elias Boudinot to Hannah Boudinot My dearest Love. Philadelphia Novr. 13th. 1782. It is matter of real grief & sorrow to me that I should ever be the cause of a distressing or uneasy Hour to one who I esteem above all the Honors or Riches of this transitory Life. I feared greatly that the Change of Station would not be pleasing as I was sure the derange ment of my Affairs and the additional Labour cast on you, would be perplexing—but I remembered & doubt not but you will remember, that God has ever been the director of our Paths and the Guide of our Ways. It is not the first Time that he has led us in the Way which we knew not—and set our Feet in a strong Place. We have embarked in his Service, and it is our part to see that we do his Will and act with a single Eye to his Glory & all will be well. Your affectionate & tender Letter was reed, as usual with a hearty & earnest welcome. Mr Remsen had arrived here the Evening before, & returned this Morning. As to directions I cannot collect my Thoughts sufficiently to aid you—In general dispose of those Things that you can sell to advantage—especially the Waggon, Plough &c unless they may be wanted. Let the Boards be put under cover, and all the Logs at the Mill properly sawed & secured. The Hay had best be kept & Mr. Pintard to sell it towards the Spring, say Feby. I gave £12 per Ton here & 3 Dollars for Carting. Let the Stack in Mr. Southerds field be first used. As to Servants I have one good Negroe Man & can get another—but on serious Consideration, I think you had best bring Jude as a Chamber maid, on two Conditions—the first she must work very hard—the 2d she must get no more Children, tho I fear her Virtue here. On these Terms I could make out to charge so much for her service as to cloath her very well—say 7/6 per week. She must leave her Child with Mama. I think this would be much best, as Mr Pintard has a Wench—and Phillis will be better under her Mother than a Stranger. I will enclose a list of the general Furniture, which will direct you what to bring. The House is very indifferently fur nished, and the Finances are two low to get any more. I suppose the necessary Et cetera’s for first begining of the winter such as Wood, Hay, Wine &c will require at least 1500 Dollars. You had best bring one Suit of Curtains, or perhaps Susan must go without. The Horses I wish you could sell provided a tolerable Price could be got for them. The big Horse grows very old & I wish to be rid of him at the proper Price of £30. As to Mr. Remsen, he must either lodge in the Office & board with Mr Pintard, or take a number of Books & all the Papers to his lodging and have the Key of the office to go in occasionally, as you think best. I have referred him to you & he says he will do any Thing you are of opinion will Answer. There are no Broaches of any kind in the
