382 November 14, 1782 It is very late, and I can only add that I should have been very glad to have seen you. My kind Love to Mr. & Mrs Smith, Sister &ca. Am My Dr. Brother, Yours Afftly, Elias Boudinot [P.S.] Do ask Mr. Hunt, at what rate he could furnish me with 150 Bushles of good Oats—and also whether he knows of a pair of well broke large able Coach Horses—Bays 15'/2 Hands high, to be had rea sonably. I am looking out for a pair—let me know [. . .] Coll Coven- hoven, Sammy [....] RC (NjP: Stimson Boudinot Collection). 1 Approximately one-half page missing. 2 Not identified. ’ That is, Samuel Sterrett, who had been private secretary to President John Hanson and continued in the post under Boudinot. See PCC, item 142, 2:329-30. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday. 14 Novr. [1782] 1 The proceedings were confined to the report of the Committee on the case of Vermont entered on the Journal. 2 As it was notorious that Vermont had uniformly disregarded the Recommendation of Con gress of 1779, the report which ascribed the evils prevalent in that dis trict to a late act of N. Y. which violated that recommendation was generally admitted to be unjust & unfair. Mr. Howel was the only member who openly supported it. The Delegates from N. Y. denied the fact that any violation had been committed on the part of that State. The temper of Congress on this occasion as the yeas & nays shew was less favorable to Vermont than on any preceding one—the effect probably of the Cession of N. York. In the course of the debate Mr. Howel cited the case of Kentucky as somewhat parallel to that of Vermont, said that the late erection of a separate Court by Virga, for the former resembled the issuing of Commissions by N. Y. to the lat ter, 3 that the jurisdiction would probably be equally resisted & the same violences would follow as in Vermont. He was called to order by Mr. . 4 The President & the plurality of Congress supported & enforced the call. 5 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:273-74. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote: “Wednesday 13 Novr. no Congress." 2 See Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton, November 13, note 1; and James Duane to Clinton, November 15, 1782. 3 For the “case of Kentucky,” see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 27, 1782. 4 At a later date Madison inserted “Madison.” 5 For an interpretation of the rules of procedure on which Madison called David Howell “to order,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:275n.9.
