November 14, 1782 383 James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. Novr. 14th. 1782 By a line dropped for the post, tho’ perhaps too late to get into the mail, and by another by Dr. Tucker who soon followed, I informed you of the reappointment of Mr. Jefferson, 1 that the act passed unani mously & without even an unfavorable remark. Col. Bland by whom this goes, conveys an official notification from Mr. Livingston, under cover to Col. Monroe. As you will probably in consequence of it, if not before have an interview with Mr. Jefferson, no observations on the subject are necessary. I confide in his acceptance and flatter myself with the pleasure of soon seeing him in Philada. I inclose you the late papers which are very barren, but contain every thing which falls under the head of news. I am yr. affe. friend, J Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:275. 1 See Madison’s second letter to Randolph of November 12. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir. Philadelpa. Novr. 14th. 1782 Is it not the Duty of every sincere Friend to the State of Mas sachusetts, to examine with more Accuracy & Attention her territorial Interests, than has hitherto been done since the Commencement of the War? I apprehend we have a much fairer Opportunity now, to obtain a Just Decision of the Extent of our Country, than it was possi ble for us to have, whilst under the irresistable Controul of a Power that could say, thus far shall ye extend & no farther. Power & Policy dictated to Masstts. the most humiliating Submissions to unrighteous & arbitrary Decisions upon her Limits, Decisions destitute of every Principle of Justice, & if once admitted, would destroy every Idea of civil Society: for Compacts & Covenants the most solemnly entered into, would be vain & chimerical. Tho’ it may not admit of positive Proof, I think no rational Person can doubt, that for many years previ ous to the War, the Policy of Great Britain was, to curtail & lessen the Influence of Masstts. as much as possible: Two of the neighbouring Provinces were much better calculated to answer the Views of arbi trary Power, than chartred Governments. Masstts., Rhode Island & Connecticut, could alone, in the thirteen United States, be properly so called. The first, from her Extent of Territory must one Day become formidable of herself, unless she could be reduced to a Tenth Part of her indisputable Boundaries: for it is evident that we do not exercise Jurisdiction over more than a Tenth of the Territory con tained in the Indenture made by the Plymouth Company to Sir Henry
