384 November 14, 1782 Roswell & others, which never was pretended to be annull’d or vacated. I am influenced to write respecting Territory, because since my Attendance in Congress, very tedious & disagreeable have been the Debates respecting the Newhampshire Grants. 1 Very much Time has been lost to very little Purpose. We cannot make them independent in Congress. We cannot obtain a Vote to receive them into the Union. What, in this Case, must be done? Shall we suffer that Tract of Coun try to be an Asylum to all those, who choose to avoid the Burthen of supporting our Independence? Who, in this point of View, will Experi ence so great a Diminution of its Citizens as Masstts.? It is in my Opin ion greatly for our Interest that she should be independent or not immediately. Perhaps upon every Consideration, the last is most for our real Interest. For I cannot suppose Masstts. can wish for an Addi tion of a Number of small States in the Union. Upon the Principles of the present Confederation, they have a Share of Power much beyond what their Interest entitles them to: And I am perswaded that it was not possible to bring them to consent to proportion their Power by their Interest & Ability. The small States even now, watch the larger with a very Jealous Eye. And all of them unite in Favor of receiving more States into the Union. But I am more seriously impressd with the ill Policy of it on our Part, for many Reasons, than I have heretofore been. It is true that Nine States on the 20th of Augst. 1781 seemed to vote in Favor of the Independence of Vermont. 2 Whoever reads the Journals of Congress, will think that they were seriously in earnest about receiving them into the Union But Congress are much altered, & there must be a great Change, before Nine States can be obtain’d in their Favor. I begin to think there never will be, unless Vermont can make herself so formidable, as to become an Object of much higher Consideration than she seems to be at present. New York is using every conceivable Way to gain Ground in that Country. She protests solemnly as a State, against the Independence of Vermont; & denies the Power of Congress to make her so. Will Masstts. tamely suffer New York to establish civil & military government there, whilst Congress are in vain attempting to decide on a Question, which New York say is not submitted to them. Whilst the last are making as many Friends there as they can, you are rejecting them. This is in every View bad Policy, if the State mean to prosecute their Claim (in Case Vermont is not made independent) which I cannot doubt but they will do. You are not unacquainted with Charles Phelps or his Character at least: 3 he has been here several Weeks; & is one, among a Number of others, whose Property is confiscated & whom Vermont have banished from their State. Charles with two others formerly Inhabitants of Masstts. in a Petition to Congress, declared themselves to be Citizens of the State of New York. I was very well prepared to meet Charles from the Papers you had put into my Hands. I remonstrated to him, against his calling himself a Citizen of the State of New York; & told
