November 14, 1782 385 him that 1 had his own Arguments in his Hand writing, to prove that, that Part of Vermont, where he lived, was within the indisputable Boundaries of Masstts.—that I was very sorry to find that he persisted in acting inconsistently. It must weaken all his Applications—But as to hurting his Reputation or Credit, I did not suppose it would, for it was too notorious that for a long Course of years, he had been playing himself off upon Newhampshire, Masstts. & New York: that every Body acquainted with his Negociations, must consider him as destitute of every Principle of Consistency. He said he did not know what Papers of his Writing, I might have—But he had not altered his Sentiments as to Masstts. having a clear Right to about fifty Townships in the Coun try of Vermont. He said he could not submit to the arbitrary Govern ment of Vermont. Masstts. has refused to afford any Protection, she has rejected the People. But New York have not; They have a Claim, & are determined to defend it, & to succour all the People who will acknowledge themselves to be their Citizens. Where else, therefore, can I go but to New York. It is in vain for me to apply to Masstts. How ever inconsistent Charles may otherwise be, there is Weight in these Observations. They suggest to me that Masstts. ought to have adopted another Mode of Conduct with Respect to those People. If her Dele gates in Congress had favoured their Independence, the State should not have rejected the People: for their Disaffection & consequently different Attachment may be a weighty Argument against you, whilst it gives an Ascendancy to the New York Interest. The local Position of the Country favors Masstts. much more than New York. We can either protect or subdue them, which, in her present Situation, the other cannot do. New York make a great Noise about the Resolutions of Congress of the 24th of Sepr. 1779 & the 2d of June 1780. 4 The first of these Reso lutions, appears to me to be inconsistent with the Nature of civil Gov ernment: It contains a Recommendation both to the State of New York, & the People of Vermont to be peaceable: That neither exercise Jurisdiction over any, but such as chearfully submit to it. The Gover nor of New York has, within the six Months past, issued Commissions civil & military, without any Restrictions in those Commns. so that he has attempted to establish Government at large. The Legislative Power of Vermont knowing this, make a severe Law to imprison, conficate, & finally banish all such as deny their sovereign Authority. That Law has been executed with Rigor upon many Individuals. Charles was a Judge of an inferior Court under New York, the other two had military Com missions dated the 5th of last June. Whilst the East & West Wings, as they were call’d, continued united with Vermont, the very People now here supported it & would not have taken Commissions from any other State. But as soon as those Wings were cast off, these People cast off Vermont also; and knowing that New York, & no other State, would receive them, they resorted thither. But I believe there is no Doubt but they would have resorted to Masstts. as their Relations &
