386 November 14, 1782 Acquaintances are all there, if the State would have countenanced them in Vermont. Upon the Principles of the aforesd. Resolution, the People may, as often as they please, change from New York to Ver mont, & from Vermont to New York. If New York have not exceeded us in Policy, it is not for Want of any Care & Vigilance of theirs. They possess not only a great Fund of Intrigue, but it is accompanied with unremitted Zeal. New York whilst a royal Government, was moduled upon the Principles of Arbitrary, despotic Power. The Predominancy of british Interest in her Favor on this Account, was very apparent—& New York knew the Advantages of it well; which is a very plain Reason to me, why they appeared at first very cold, not to say opposed to seek ing a Redress of Grievances, by the last Appeal. The sensible Men were nearly all, deeply interested in unreasonably large Grants of Land; & tho Truth & Justice were against them, must have considered, that with Britain they could have obtained their Point, & an immense Territory—But with America confederated, her uncertain vague & encroaching Pretensions must be examined with an Eye of Reason, which they will not bear. They could therefore but conclude, that their Interest was closely connected with Britain, & the Moment they relaxed from that hold, the Principles of Tyranny & Injustice would favor them no longer. New York had set their Eye & nearly their Foot, upon a Territory which would have one Day of itself bid Defiance to powerful Nations—very little exposed by Sea, she is by Nature cacu- lated for the best Defence in the World. The Extent of Country which New York Claims, is vastly beyond what I had conceived—well might Doctr. Douglass in his Map published in the Year 1757 5 Color about one third of the Continent for New York. The Territory claimed con tains about one & Twenty Times as much Land, as the old Colonies of Masstts. & Plimouth in their present State. But New York have ceded to the united States all the Land westward of a Meridian Line to be drawn Twenty Miles Westward of Niagara Falls; confining themselves to a State that contains about Nine Times as much Land as the above mentioned Colonies. I am sorry to take up your Time by adding more to an unreasonably long Letter—But I have Just read several Passages in it to Genl. Lin coln. He charges me with being more of the Politician than he sus pected. I dont know what he meant to convey by the Word Politician. I am sensible, some Things I have wrote should be perfectly confiden tial—those I confide to you not as maturely digested Sentiments. I did not doubt but you would consider them as such. I think notwithstand ing the General’s Charge, his Sentiments do not differ greatly from mine—to your Candor I submit the whole to be Judged & dispos’d of as you may think proper. Since writing the above, I happened to take up a Paper which con tained Minutes, in a Hand writing well known. 6 They claim a Place
