390 November 15, 1782 James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 15th Novem’r 1782. 1 I had some Reason to hope that a decisive Act might before this have passed respecting the district of the Grants; but as not more than eight States are now represented, and I am under an indispens able necessity of returning home speedily, I despair of it. I trust so entirely to your Excellency’s Candour that I do not fear we shall be accused of Want of Zeal for our Jurisdiction, or respect for our offi cial Instructions: every thing on our part has been urged to produce a Determination: but this business, clogged by the heavy pressure of eastern Influence, has always moved heavily. A wish to procrastinate still prevails; even the most candid are apprehensive of the Conse quences of driving the Vermont Faction to despair and no Pains are spared by the interested to sound this Alarm and give it every possi ble Impression. There seems however no danger that many of the States will ever Vote for the Independance of Vermont. If Justice was out of the Question, there are political Obstacles of vast weight: and the favorable Change of our Circumstances entitle us to hope that we shall never again see the dangerous Crisis to which we were reduced when the p s 2 Resolutions of the 20th of August 1781 unhappily took place. In the mean time the unhappy Sufferers from the late cruel Out rage demand our Compassion and our protection. A Report highly injurious to the Rights and the Honour of our State, fabricated by a Mass, and R. I. Delegate, was this moment rejected by all the States present, Rh. I. only excepted and New Hampshire divided. 3 It has served to shew a clear alteration of Sentiment, with respect to Ver mont; and leaves an opening to introduce some Motion in favour of those our distressed and much injured Fellow Citizens: but noth ing which promises salutary Effects can be hazarded in so thin a Congress. . . . Be pleasd ... to hurry on Hamilton and Floyd my worthy Col leagues. Reprinted from Burnett, letters, 6:541-42, from a document located in the New York State Library before the Albany fire of 1911. 1 Duane probably drafted this letter on November 14, the date Congress rejected the Vermont report which Duane indicates occurred “this moment” and which is entered on the journals of the 14th. See JCC, 23:723-26; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 14. 2 Perhaps, “pernicious.” 3 See note 1.
