392 November 17, 1782 ing to me & will eventually redound to the credit of our State & I hope to the benefit of the whole Union. 1 That this important vote was passed after such a perfect under standing of the subject, with so much deliberation & with entire una nimity are circumstances which bid defiance to all future attempts from the advocates of that measure. I am sorry youd forgot to mention in yours the names of the Commit tee appointed to write a Letter to Congress on the Subject. Without knowing their names a suitable Letter cannot be written to them & after your next to me I fear it will be too late to address them. You will please to write them not to assign the withholding the Back Lands as a reason. That reason was better calculated to influence the State than to sat isfy Congress—And besides, New-York cession of claims has been accepted & that business got into a good train. I wish to receive the Instructions you mention as soon as possible, 2 my stay being short. 3 The Load of ill will jealousy & envy drawn on me, by the part I have taken in this affair has placed me in a very disagreable Situation. The approbation of the well informed & virtuous of my constituents in addition to that of my own Conscience has hitherto sustained me & is all I expect. Pray give my respects to those in your present circle, if any, to whom I have the Honor to be known; & believe me to be with singular esteeme, Dear Sir, your most obedient & very humble Servt, David Howell [P.S.] Dr Arnold’s respectful Comps. & good wishes attend you. 4 RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Addressed: “The Honble Welcome Arnold Esquire, Tren ton. To the Care of Honble Mr. Houston.” 1 Howell was referring to the vote in the lower house of the Rhode Island assembly unanimously rejecting the proposed five percent impost amendment (actually by 53 rather than 54 representatives), official notice of which reached Congress on December 12. See JCC, 23:788-90; and Staples, Rhode Island, p. 399. 2 For these delegate instructions from the Rhode Island Assembly, see Bartlett, R.I. Records, 9:612. 3 However, Howell’s departure was delayed when he was subsequently charged with vio lating Congress’ secrecy rules, undoubtedly in large part in retaliation for his role in mar shalling Rhode Island’s opposition to the impost amendment. See Howell to John Carter, October 16, note 2; and Jonathan Arnold to William Greene, December 18, 1782. 4 Postscript in the hand ofjonathan Arnold. David Howell to Theodore Foster Dear Sir, Philadelphia 17 Nov. 1782. Yours of 29 Ult. came duly to hand by Dr P. Bowen, last evening. I hope, Sir, your apprehensions about the approaches of Tyranys
