398 November 18, 1782 envious eye on the large States & wish to make us all of the Pigmy breed. The assembly of this State have just received accounts that the Inhabitants in General over the Allegany Mountain are disposed to declare themselves Independent. There is the utmost reason to believe that the People of Vermont & their abettors in the minor States are endeavouring to persuade the People in General on the Western Waters to revolt. A Petition was some time ago handed to Congress said to be from some People on the back of Virginia, pray ing to be erected into a State. 2 On enquiry there was much reason to believe that the Petition did not originate in the Western Country & it is doubted whether three of these People had ever seen it. Having mentioned those facts, I flatter myself that you will think with me That the utmost attention is required by our State to prevent if possible any bad impressions from being made on the Citizens of the State on the Western Waters. The Spirit of our Government is so moderate & the general disposition of the Western Inhabitants is so good that I am at least convinced that our subjects will be among the last who will run riot. As the State has shewn &, I am persuaded ever will shew the utmost Inclination to gratify their wishes & provide for the Regular administration of Justice among them. I have the honor to be, Hu Williamson Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See James Madison to Benjamin Harrison, November 15, 1782. 2 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, August 27, 1782, note 2. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. Novr. 19th. 1782. I find by your favor of the 8th that your occupation with the Courts has continued to be a bar to the completion of the Cypher. 1 It is very little missed however on my part as yet, the scantiness of intelligence being still unremoved. We have indeed reports without stint, but they are often most frequent when they have least foundation. Such of them as have the best title to notice, will be found in the newspapers. The proceedings of Congress for a week past have been equally unproductive of epistolary matter. For one half of the time we have failed in making a House, and the remaining half has been spent on minute objects. Col. Bland set out on friday last. 2 He carried with him an official notification to Mr. J n of his reappointment. I wrote to the latter, informing him of an excellent passage if he could be ready for it in about a month, but urging a previous visit to this place as indispens able. 3 Altho’ strictly speaking such a visit may not be essential, since the commission & instructions referred to in his appointment are at
