November 19, 1782 399 the place of his destination, yet, I wish him to be made sensible of the salutary information which may here be added to them. Col. Bland also carried to the Govr. an extract of a letter from Genl. Irwin at Fort Pitt, which displays in full colours the avidity of the Western people for the vacant lands & for separate Govts. 4 On this subject Richmond I suppose will afford better information. I take for granted that every material article of it, with the steps taken by the legislature with respect to Western affairs in general, will fall within your correspondence. The prospect derived from the impost of 5 Per Ct. seems to be pretty thoroughly blasted by a unanimous & final veto by the Assembly of Rhode Island. 5 This State by its Delegates (who fully represent the aversion of their Constituents to the impost) voted in Congress that 6 million of Dollars were necessary for the year 83, that 2 Million were as much as the States could raise & as ought to be required by Con gress, and that applications for loans in Europe ought to be relied on for the residue. 6 And yet they absolutely refuse the only fund which could be satisfactory to lenders. The indignation against this perverse sister is increased by her shameful delinquency in the constitutional requisitions. The Tribunal erected for the controversy between Connecticut & Pennsa. was I hear to be opened today. 7 The Judges who compose it are Mr. Whipple of N. Hamshire, Mr. Arnold of Rhode Island, the Chief Justice & another gentlemn. of N. Jersey & Mr. C. Griffin of Virga. Mr. Rutledge, Mr. Jones & Genl Nelson have declined the ser vice. On the part of Penna, appear Mr. Wilson, Mr Reed, Mr. Brad ford & Mr. Sergeant. Mr. Osburne assists in the capacity of Solicitor. On the part of Connecticut are deputed Mr. Dyer, Mr. Root, & Doer. Sami. Johnson. The first & the last I am told are on the spot. It is sup posed that the first object of Cont. will be to adjourn the cause to a distant day on the plea that many of their essential documents are beyond the Atlantic. In a national view it is not perhaps advisable to invalidate the title of this State however defective it may be, untill a more important controversy is terminated. I will make the earliest communication of the issue of this trial. You will not forget a like promise which your letter makes with respect [to] the case lately decided by the Court of Appeals. 8 Mr. Jones ventured yesterday for the first time since his relapse, into Congress. The Representation of Virga, untill a reinforcement arrives will be precarious. Can you give me no encouragement on this occa sion from your own purposes? RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:288-90. 1 See ibid., pp. 262-64. 2 That is, Theodorick Bland left Philadelphia November 15. 3 Madison’s letter to Thomas Jefferson has not been found, but for Jefferson’s “reap pointment” see Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 12, note 2.
