400 November 19,1782 4 See Madison to Benjamin Harrison, November 15, note 1. s See David Howell to Welcome Arnold, November 17, note 1. 6 The October 16 vote on the requisition for 1783 was not recorded in the journals, but for the positions on state quotas taken by Rhode Island delegates David Howell and Jonathan Arnold on October 18, see JCC, 23:658—60, 665—69. 7 The court of commissioners appointed by Congress in August to meet at Trenton, N.J., on November 12 to hear evidence in the Connecticut-Pennsylvania land dispute had delayed their proceedings for a week until a sufficient number of the principals involved had gathered. See John Hanson to William Whipple and Others, August 28; Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, September 25 and October 19; Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:144-247; Robert J. Taylor, “Trial at Trenton,” WMQ 26 (Oct. 1969): 524-47; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:74-87. 8 SeejosephJones to Edmund Pendleton, November 12, note 3. Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 19th. 1782 The pretended territorial Limits & Boundaries of the several States will be a Source of no small Difficulty & Dispute. The constant Object of the small States will be, to lessen the Extent of the great ones. Will any then in the small States be disinterested Judges in Case they should be appointed conformably to the Confederation, to sit in Judg ment upon the Limits of a large State? Should, for Instance, Masstts. claim a great Part of the Territory of Country, that N. York has ceded to the confederated States, which Cession Congress or seven States say is accepted; how can she obtain a fair Decision? Not only New York, but all the States, who were in favor of that Acceptance, will be against us, from interested Motives. I see but one Way whereby Masstts. can bring back the States to an Equilibrium: which is for Masstts. to cede all the Land between their North & South Boundaries, Beginning Westward at the Missisippi & extending Eastward about Two hundred Miles farther than the Cession of N. York. This would leave a very large Extent of Territory to N. York & would probably be an effectual Plan to oust them, as it would be a strong Lure to the small States. It would be difficult for them with all their Policy to combat Interest. But would this be a political Measure for Masstts.? If the Chance is against her gaining Ground in that Country, it would be unwise to be at any Expence about it. But if, notwithstanding, she could throw a large Tract of Territory into the Hands of the United States to be appropriated for the Discharge of the public Debt: The Question then with Masstts. must turn upon two Considerations first, What Probabil ity there is, that such a Fund will be productive—& secondly, whether Policy points out any Necessity of restricting New York within smaller Limits. I think it is not to be questioned, but N. York will immediately Pro ceed to locate the Lands now contained in their assumed Boundaries, which will not be in Favor of Masstts.
