November 19,1782 401 It is well known that Maryland refused to confederate for several years, because that she had no Security that she should enjoy her due Proportion of the vacant Lands within the united States. Congress to obviate this Difficulty, earnestly recommended to the several States having or claiming vacant Lands, to make liberal Cessions to the united States. Virginia, N. York & Connecticut made Cessions. New York Cession was signed & executed by the Delegates of that State in Congress, the same Day that the Delegates of Maryland signed the Confederation—but was not accepted by Congress, till last October. Then a Question arose whether Congress could by the Confederation accept of the Cession of any State. Upon this, one of the Maryland Delegates 1 made the following Observations to me. Maryland refused to confederate, till Congress recommended as above, upon the Strength or expected Success of that Recommendation, she confederated, & took the Risque of the States making Cessions upon herself. If they had made none, she would not have been released from her Obligation. But if Cessions are made, & Congress determine that they have no Power to accept of them—Maryland is not then bound by the Confederation—for Congress know what their Objections were against confederating, (those Objections are now in the Secretary’s Office) & took proper Measures to remove them. But if they will not carry those Measures thro, Maryland is not to be bound by what she has done. It was not intimated to me that Maryland would withdraw in Case Congress should reject the Idea of Cessions, but only that they would have a clear Right so to do. I am not so clear in the Matter myself. I am, dear Sir, Your most obedient Servant, Samuel Osgood RC (DLC: Osgood Papers). 1 Not identified; but the Maryland delegates attending Congress when the New York cession was accepted were Daniel Carroll, John Hanson, William Hemsley, and Turbutt Wright. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. Novr. 19th. 1782. We had the honor yesterday of your Excellency’s letter of the 8th inst. 1 on the several subjects of which we must postpone an answer untill the next mail. We are sorry to be obliged to repeat our inability to add any intelli gence relative to the negociations for peace. Various reports prevail of the surrender of Gibralter, but they amount to nothing more than a small degree of probability. The investiture of Jamaica is also reported, but rests on still more slender testimony. There seems to be
