402 November 19, 1782 every proof of the evacuation of Charlestown short of an official report of it. Col. Bland set out on friday last for Richmond. 2 To his information we beg leave to refer for a full state of all precedent circumstances. We have the honor to be with great esteem Yr. Excelly’s obt. & humble servts. Jos. Jones J Madison Jr 3 RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Written by Madison and signed by Madison and Jones. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:288. 1 See ibid., pp. 257-58. 2 That is Friday November 15. On his return home, Theodorick Bland sent the Vir ginia Board of Auditors on December 7 “a scale of the Actual State of depreciation as it took place in Philadelphia during the Currency of Paper Money,” with a request that the Virginia delegates’ accounts “be settled as soon as possible by the Monthly average of the enclosed Scales,” and allowing them “48/ Specie per diem” in consequence of an act of the Virginia Assembly at their last session. Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 3 According to a copy of the “Rules for conducting Business in the United States in Congress Assembled” maintained by Elias Boudinot covering the period May 4, 1781, to May 15, 1783, Congress this day adopted the following additional rule which is not recorded in the journals. “Resolved That when a Proposition consists of a negatived Resolution & a negatived Amendment, such resolution is out of order.” Emmet Collection, no. 441, NN. For the congressional rules in force at this time, see JCC, 20:476—82, 22:75—76. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My Dr. Sir Philadelphia Novr. 20t 1782, 5 oClock PM I have been waiting with great Impatience for the Arrival of my Family, but am disappointed. I can only let you know that I am well, & cover the Papers if I mean to improve this Post. We have some tolera ble Foundation to believe that Gibraltar has surrendered, and that a large Reinforcement has arrived at Martinico. Kind Love to Mrs. P. & Johnny—also remember me to all Friends. Am My Dr. Sir, Yours Afftly. Elias Boudinot RC (MWA: Nathaniel Paine—Irving’s Life of Washington Collection). John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir, Philada. Novr. 20th. 1782. In my Letter of the 29th Ultimo I Informed you that the affairs of Vermont were then under Consideration, much has been said on this Subject but no Conclusion made—almost all agree that it is absolutely Necessary to make a final determination of the matter, but are at a loss to know what is best to be done.
