412 November 22, 1782 Franklin had taken in the measure; that finally the Marquis de la Fayette, who in consequence of the liberation of Cornwallis had undertaken an exchange of several officers of his family, would also participate in the mortification; that it was overrating far the impor tance of Cornwallis, to sacrifice all these considerations to the policy or gratification of prolonging his captivity. On the opposite side it was said that the British Govt, having treated Mr. L. as a Traytor not as a Prisoner of war, having refused to exchange him for Genl Burgoyne, and having declared by the British Genl at N. York that he had been freely discharged, neither Mr. L. nor Congress could be bound either in honor or justice to render an equivalent; and that policy absolutely required that so barbarous an instrumt. of war, and so odious an object to the people of the U. S. should be kept as long as possible in the chains of captivity; that as the latest advices rendered it probable that Mr. L. was on his return to America, the commission for peace would not be affected by any mark of disapprobation which might fall on his conduct; that no injury could accrue to Doer. Franklin, because he had guarded his act by an express reservation for the confirmation or disallowance of Congress; that the case was the same with the Marquis de la Fayette; that the dec laration agst. partial exchanges 6 untill a Cartel on national principles sd. be established wd. not admit even an exchange antecedt. thereto. These considerations were no doubt with some the sole motives to their respective votes. There were others however who at least blended with them, on one side, a personal attachment to Mr. L. and on the other, a dislike to his character, and a jealousy excited by his supposed predilection for G. B., by his intimacy with some of the new Ministry, by his frequent passing to & from G. B. by the eulogiums pronounced on him by Mr. Burke in the House of Commons, and by his memorial whilst in the Tower to the Parliamt. The last considera tion was the chief ground on which the motion had been made for suspending the resolution which requested his continuance in the Commission for peace. In this stage of the business a motion was made by Mr. Duane, 2ded. by Mr. Rutlidge to postpone the consideration of it; which being lost, a motion was made by Mr. Williamson to substitute a Reso lution declaring that as the B. Govt, had treated Mr. L. with so unwar rantable a rigor & even as a Traitor, and Cornwallis had rendered himself so execrable by his barbarities, Congress could not ratify his exchange. 7 An adjournment was called for in order to prevent a vote with so thin & divided a house. 8 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:302-3. 1 For Laurens’ May 30 letter, see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, September 16-17, 1782. 2 For this committee’s appointment and September 25 report, see JCC, 23:606-7; PCC, item 186, fols. 56, 58; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:163-66.
