November 23,1782 413 s The report was recommitted on September 26, reconsidered on November 21 and again recommitted. See PCC, item 186, fols. 59, 69. 4 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:301. 5 For this September 17 resolution and the September 20 motion for its suspension, see JCC, 23:584-85, 593; and Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, September 19 and 20, 1782. 6 For this October 16 “declaration,” see JCC, 23:661. 7 The motions of James Duane and Hugh Williamson are not mentioned in the jour nals for this day, but Williamson renewed his motion on November 25 when it was, according to Charles Thomson’s endorsement, “Got rid of by dividg the question.” See JCC, 23:753; PCC, item 19, 3:457-58; and Madison's Notes, November 25, note 4. 8 Following this entry Madison wrote, “No Congress till Monday Novr. 25.” Samuel Osgood to John Lowell Dear Sir. Philadelphia Novr. 23d. 1782 We have this Week had Debates in Congress upon two Subjects of great Importance; I flatter myself, that some of the Observations con tained in this Letter, will not be unacceptable. One, was the Necessity of a speedy Liquidation of the Accounts of the several States with the united States. The other was, respecting the Mode prescribed by the Confederation, to ascertain what proportion each State in the Union ought to bear in the Requisitions for Money. The Debates arose upon the Report of a Committee upon a Memorial of the Assembly of Penn sylvania, respecting Interest due on public Securities. To satisfy the State, the Committee observed, That Congress had taken Measures to obtain an Impost, That they had lately accepted the Cession of Land from New York—And as to the Liquidation & Adjustment of Accounts, they referred the State to the Act of Congress of the 20th of Feby. last. This Report was attacked from several Quarters, but from none so warmly as from South Carolina. Mr. Rutledge observed, that the first Thing taken Notice of, could afford no Satisfaction to the State; for we had not obtain’d the Impost; & if we had, the Amount of it must be appropriated to the Discharge of the Interest on the foreign Loans. Those Loans must be placed on safe Ground. Our Honor & future Interest will require it. As to an Impost, he lik’d it very well in this View. But what does it signify to be constantly talking about an Impost—& placing our whole Depen dence upon it? have not Rhode Island lately declared unanimously that they will not grant it? & consequently no State has granted it. As to the accepted Cession of Land, it was an idle chimerical Notion, to suppose that, that would afford any Hope or Satisfaction to our Credi tors. He had no Faith in it: It would prove to be nothing, but another South Sea, or Mississippi Scheme. Besides, what Right have those to the Land who made the Cession. It is my clear Opinion, that they have none at all. Why should we deceive ourselves, by hoping or expecting any Aid from it—surely we ought not.
