414 November 23, 1782 As to referring the Assembly to the Act of Congress of the 20th of Feby. they were already possess’d of it. But it will not to do to pass over this Matter so lightly. We must know the Reason why the Intention of that Act is frustrated. It is in vain to tell us that Commissioners cannot be obtained for fifteen hundred Dollars per Year to go to the several States & liquidate the Accounts. But if they cannot, (which I cannot suppose to be the Case) the Accounts must be adjusted & the Act must be made more effectual. This is the first Thing to be attended to. It is the general Complaint of a great Number of the States, that they have large Accounts against the Continent unadjusted. This Adjust ment is absolutely necessary, as we cannot provide Funds for our Debts, till we know the Amo. of them. The Obstructions therefore, must be examined into & removed immediately. The next Step is to ascertain the Proportions of the several States according to the 8th Article of the Confederation. Why is this only constitutional Mode of calling for Money delayed? It is true that some Part of some of the States, is in the Hands of the Enemy. But it is probable, that a Part of New York only, will be so in a short Time. But if it was otherwise, it is no Reason for our not pursuing the Mode pointed out to us. It is the only sure Ground on which we can stand. It is said not to be a good Mode. But will the States unanimously alter it? No they will not. What can Congress then do? Nothing but to pursue the Plan prescribed to them. When they have obtained a Valuation of the States, & the Amount of the Debts due to their own Citizens, they can call for the requisite Sums of Money with Authority. Here they stand on safe Ground And I have no doubt either of the Ability or Intention of the United States, to discharge all their Debts honestly. It is in vain to think to force the smallest State in the Union into Measures which they dislike. The Confederation has not given to Congress an Impost, Excise, or Pole Tax. Nor can they speak authoritatively on these Mat ters to the States. There will be many Difficulties undoubtedly in obtaining a Just Valuation of the States—and I am of Opinion, that a better & much easier Mode, would have been, to have made Numbers the governing Rule of Proportion, including Whites & Blacks; there is no good Reason why Blacks should not be included. But there is only one Way left us—& notwithstanding it is attended with Difficulties, I don’t conceive them insurmountable. We must make the Attempt, & I have no doubt we shall succeed, so far as to obtain a Valuation. It may not be a true one; perhaps this is impossible in the Nature of Things—But we must at all Events obtain the best we can. These Observations are so nearly conformable to my own Senti ments, that I thot it better to give you the Purport of Mr. R’s than my own. He appears to me very liberal & disinterested.
