November 23, 1782 415 The Report of the Committee was recommitted, in order to remove the Obstructions in the Way of a speedy Settlement of Accounts. A Committee was appointed to Report a Plan for taking a Valuation. Whilst this Matter was debating, I tho’t I discovered an Indifference in some of the Members towards a speedy Liquidation of Accounts. The first Part of the Motion was, to Report a more effectual Mode for the Settlement of Accounts. This was opposed & negatived. The other Part of the Motion, being a Direction to the Committee to Report a Plan for taking a Valuation. Mr. R. withdrew it. He said he wanted no Valuation, if there was to be no Adjustment of Accounts. This bro’t about an Accommodation. The first was recommitted; & the second was committed. I am on the last, & have been enquiring for the Laws of Massatts. to see our Valuation Acts but cannot find them. They know very little about such Acts this Way. I am induced to beleive that the 8th Art. of the Confederation is favourable to Masstts. provided we can obtain a Valuation as nearly Right, 1 as we have Reason to expect. A View of the Number of Square Miles in each State will enable you to form a Judgment upon the same Principles that I do. But whether the Rule is equal or unequal, is not the Question. It is the only Rule & we shall obtain no other, unless upon a fair Experiment it is clearly found to be altogether inadequate to our national Purposes. It is as preposterous, as vain & triffling, to be constantly exclaiming against the Confederation, because it has not vested Congress with a Power of Taxing & coercing &ca. Let us try it’s full Strength before we pass a hasty Judgment upon it. Altho the Pow ers are not competent to all Things—Time may discover such latent Powers in the Confederation, as may in vain be wished to be altered. I have taken considerable Pains to collect from the Maps, the Extent of the several States in the Union. I find the Claims of the united States make a Square of Eight hundred & forty two Miles on every Side. In this View, I think it is as near the Truth as can be expected. The Sum total of the following Number of Square Miles set against the sev eral States &ca will give a Territory of the above Dimentions. Square Miles New Hampshire 10,425 21 2 Old Colonies of Masstts. & Plymouth 8,750 as now limited Eastern Country 20,000 56 Rhode Island 2,700 5 Connecticut 5,100 10 New York 70,560 141 403 160 24 111 45
