422 November 26, 1782 in honor or justice, to render an equivalent, whilst policy strongly inculcated that so barbarous an instrument of war and so odious an object to the people of the U. S. should be held as long as possible in the chains of captivity; that as the latest advices rendered it probable that Mr. L. was at this time on his return to America, the dignity of the Commission for peace could not suffer from any mark of disap probation which might lie on his public conduct; that Doer. F.’s char acter was guarded against injury in the case by an express reservation in his act for the allowance or disapprobation of Congress; that the same might be said with respect to the Marquis de la Fayette; that the solemn declaration made by Congress agst. any partial exchanges untill a cartell should be established on national principles would not admit even of a ratification of an exchange antecedent to that declaration. These were the ostensible reasons for the opposite opinions on this question. We may well suppose however, that with some mem bers at least they were secretly corroberated, on one side by {personal attachment to} Mr. L. and on the other by a dislike {to his character and a distrust excited by circumstances) which I some time ago related to you. It is to be observed at the same time that several mem bers who admitted the force of this last consideration, were led by the arguments first stated, to oppose the opinion of those who urged it. The Question was at length suspended at the request of some new members who wished for further information. 10 There is some reason to believe that it will be followed by an attempt to {rescind the appointment). The obstinacy of Rhode Island in rejecting the Impost, is a subject of very general and {pointed crimination) not only among {the public creditors and their friends) who deem it equivalent to a {denial of jus tice) but among the most {enlightened patrons of the foederal inter ests) who pronounce it a {blow to our credit abroad) as well as {our future credit at home). And in truth who can combine this considera tion with the paltry {payments on the last requisition of Congress and not shudder at the prospect). This obstinacy on the part of R. I. is sup posed, on good grounds, to be much {cherished by the) limited man ner in which other {states have acceded to the impost) from which she infers a latent repugnance to the measure. Would it not then be pru dent (in Virginia to) revise and {enlarge her act of compliance}? If {her example} should prove {less efficatious} than might {be wished} it would at least {have a conciliating effect on other states and gain her general credit}. I see no possible objection; unless indeed, she wishes the {plan to be frustrated); in which case I can only give it as my firm opinion that a thorough knowledge of public affairs would speedily
