426 November 27, 1782 I have the honor to be, with Sentiments of the most sincere Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt & most Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 These letters, which were read in Congress on November 4, 8, and 25 respectively, are in PCC, item 152, 11:17-36. The first and last of these are also in Washington, Writ ings (Fitzpatrick), 25:307-8, 350-51. 2 The enclosed November 27 resolve directed Washington to apprehend Luke Knowl ton and Samuel Wells of the New Hampshire Grants because they were reported to have been “in a dangerous correspondence and intercourse with the enemy.” Their commu nication with the enemy, especially the royal attorney general of New York, William Smith, had been the subject of the deposition of Christopher Osgood of Providence, which was sent to Washington by the deputy governor of Rhode Island, and had been referred to committee with the injunction “To be kept secret.” Osgood’s deposition was also the catalyst for Congress' follow-up resolve of December 3 directing that the execu tives of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New York be furnished with a copy of “Osgood’s declaration, in order that they may have due information of the trea sonable practices with which some of their subjects are charged. See JCC, 23:756, 760-61; PCC, item 19, 3:397-99; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:352-53; and Boudinot’s letters of December 11 to Thomas Chittenden and to Washington. David Howell to Silas Talbot Dear Sir, Philadelphia 27 Nov. 1782. Yours of Nov. 4th is before me—Sd answered it sooner had your account been settled.' I send you a copy of the State of your account. Your certificate for the ballance 1340 53/90 Dollars bears intrest from the 19th Instant. I shall bring it with me on my return, which I expect will be in a few days. Enclosed I return you all the Letters & papers in your case. For Depreciation on your nominal pay you are to apply to the State agreeably to the resolve of Congress. Your accounts have been settled on similar principles with others no particular favour could be obtained in your case. Your case is hard but you have fortitude to bear it. Money is not to be had. I could wish to have served you in this, which to you is an affair of Consequence, in such a manner as to have better justified your long prepossession in my favour; what I could, I have done & hope it will give you Satisfaction. Please to present my regards to all friends & let them know I hope to see them soon. I am Dear Sir, your Friend & humble Servt, David Howell. RC (CtMyHi: Talbot Papers). Addressed: “Lieut. Colonel Silas Talbot, Providence.” i See Howell to Talbot, October 23, 1782, note.
