December 2, 1782 437 Hugh Williamson to James Iredell Dear Sir: Philadelphia, Dec. 2, 1782. Your favor of the 13th ultimo came to hand by this day’s post. The Secretary for Foreign Affairs had called on me some days ago to know what answer I had got on the subject of the memoir, 1 and, supposing that it had missed its passage, I had made out another copy which would have been sent on to-morrow. I had not recollected the circuit of courts. Of news, there is none in town, civil or military, foreign or domestic, since a foolish fellow, four months ago, blew out his brains, as a proof that he had none; or what is nearly the same thing, he killed himself, because a coquette proved to be nothing but a coquette. Since that event nobody has ever killed themselves for the amusement of the public, nor does this town produce any news! To say that balls and dances are frequent is saying little, for we have them every night. Should I say that such are the late improvements in lux ury, and the true style of living, that many of the citizens have found the means of spending more in one year than they make in two, you might be surprised, for “nemo dat quod non habet,” 2 but they con trive to spend what they have not. I hope the unsociable mode of mak ing entertainments where the face of a lady does not appear, will not reach our country. This body is torn to pieces with factions, not Whig and Tory, but Whig and better Whig. The Tory is a third party, and I think rather more numerous than either of the others. 1 become daily more in love with our own State, and should I become more in love with the ladies of our State, you would readily believe me, especially should I give you the description of a true city lady in full dress—head, hoop, and all, but I don’t love caricature; to draw after the life might obtain that name. Now that I have naturally mentioned women, pray, how is your fair kinswoman on the other side of the Sound? Is she almost half French, half American? for as the wife is half, often the better half of her hus band, I suppose the husband should be half of his wife. I wish I could think of this matter with a pulse perfectly regular. But a thousand things will happen not exactly as a lady could wish, and if we are not philosophers, we ought to be. I shall hardly hear whether dances or any other amusements held you in Edenton to pass the evenings, in fact I can hear of no domestic occurrences. Nobody has ever written me whether any vessel, prize, or merchant ship, has arrived at Eden ton for the last six weeks. Be assured that I am with the utmost esteem, Your obedient servant, H. Williamson.
