442 December 3, 1782 4 See Madison's Notes, November 14, 1782. 5 That is, September 24, 1779. 6 The motions made by Thomas McKean and Abraham Clark this day were recorded under the date December 5 by Secretary Thomson, who noted that the second motion was initiated by David Howell and seconded by Clark. See JCC, 23:765-67. 7 It is not clear why Daniel Carroll visited Trenton, but for William Whipple’s pres ence there, see Madison to Edmund Randolph, November 19, 1782, note 7. 8 That is, the third paragraph in Thomas McKean’s resolution proposing that Con gress compel Vermont to restore confiscated property if she refused to do so willingly. 9 See Madison’s Notes, November 27, note 4. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend Philada, Deer. 3d. 1782. Applications from the States of N. Hamshire & Massachusetts con cerning (the old paper) 1 of which they (hold a surplus) have called the attention of Congress once more to that subject. 2 The Superintendant on a Reference to him reported in (rigid adherence to his) maxims of (public faith) that credit should (be given for all surpluses at the rate of one for forty). This proposition was readily {negatived by Congress). Whereupon a motion was made by Mr. (Osgood) that {the states) should (be credit[ed]) according to the {current value at the time of redemption) which with one of the {letters from Massachusetts was ref- ered to a grand committee). The |commi| &c. {are unanimous) that {the burden of redeeming the old paper) as well as all other {public burdens) ought to be equitably apportioned on the States. On the {mode and the rate a diversity of ideas prevail). One expedient sug gested was to (call anew on the states to) sink (the money) and leave them (to level its) inequalities by) negociations (among themselves). This met with very little countenance. Another was to declare that as soon as the entire (sum should be taken up by the states from their) respective citizens Congress) would proceed to charge the several {surpluses on the) deficient {states at such rate as equity might pre scribe). The objections against this were that it gave no immediate sat isfaction to the (complaining states and) would prolong the internal (embarrassments of the states) which obstructed (the requisitions of Congress). Lastly it was (proposed to) authorise the Commissioners who are (to traverse [the] country) for another (purpose to take up the unredeemed (bills and) form them into a part {of the common debt) by (issuing to the) individuals (specie certificates at the rate of| ; and to apply the like rule to an (adjustment of disproportionate) redemptions (of the states). This expedient was upon the {whole least disrelished by the committee and is now under their) consideration. Its reasonableness, and its {fate both) will depend much on the scale by which as well the {redeem[ed] as the outstanding bills is to be val-
