December 3, 1782 443 uedj. 3 In all questions relative to this subject, the defect of informa tion under which we lie makes it difficult for us to deduce the general interest from a just & fair comparison of particular interests. To sup ply in some degree this defect with regard to Virginia I shall enclose to Mr. Ambler for his answers, a number of queries, of which I herein add a copy for you. 4 Some of the queries indeed have a greater refer ence to other subjects. If you can assist Mr. A. or can enlarge the plan by other queries I beg you to do it. If the sense of the {leading mem bers of the assembly) can be conveniently (gathered it| might {also be of use). A public {consultation) would {violate the secresy) which is judged necessary {to prevent a revival of Speculation and) which (led me to the use of the) cypher on this occasion. The Secy, of F. Affairs communicated to me a few days ago his determination speedily {to resign his office). He asked me in the course of conversation whether I thought Mr. (Jefferson) would {pre fer the vacancy to his foreign appointment). I answered him in the negative. He then asked whether I supposed he would {accept the) commission of (Jay at Madrid in case the latter) should prefer {the sec- retariship of foreign affairs and be) appointed to it. I told him I could not answer that question but doubted much whether {Congress) would {consent to part with the) services of {Mr. Jay as a negociator of peace). I wish you to mention this conversation to and acquaint me with the result. The want of a Cypher with him will be an apology for omitting a direct communication. Through your hands also it may be accompanied with explanations if requisite. I leave it to your self to decide how far it may be worth while to {feel the pulse of our friend Mclurg) with respect to the {vacancy in question). Mr. M s apprized me two evenings ago that a French {frigate will sail from this port in about three weeks and that it is probable) Ct. R— —u and the Chevr. Chatt x {will take their passage in her than in the frigate in the Chesapeak). 5 If the {river) should not {be threatened with ice the time of her sailing) may possibly {be procrastinated). Should this obstruction not take place {before the middle of January) there will {be some chance of another frigate at this port). These cir cumstances may {be very interesting to Mr. Jefferson and) I beg you to give him the earliest notice of them. If I could suppose that these and other considerations could leave any uncertainty, as to {his coming hither) in the first instance, I would press that point anew, being more & more convinced of its utility, not to say necessity, and finding that it is generally viewed in the same light. The merits of the Controversy are like to be brought under trial of the Court at Trenton, the Agents for Connecticut having been foiled in every plea for an adjournment. But I do not hear that any progress is made from which the issue can be presumed. 6 The Legislature of this State has just published for consideration a bill subjecting to the penalties of Treason all attempts for erecting an
