December 4, 1782 449 he can have no prospect in his application here. It hath long been the Custom, in the Eastern states especially, to exchange for their Citizens such as are not Strictly Speaking Continental Prisoners, by which I mean those not taken at a Continental expence, they even exchange those taken by Privateers under Continental Commissions, this hath long been their practice. I cannot say what their conduct is at present but suppose the same they have heretofore practised: in this View of the matter I should not hesitate were I in your Excellencys place to send into New York for Capt. Dehart one of the Prisoners in Jersey as he is one of our Citizens, and perhaps the only one a Marine Prisoner, and the Prisoners with you taken neither at Continental expence or by a Continental Commission, as I am informed. Most of the prisoners coming out on Parole are to stay it is said untill called for, any sent in for such would not exchange them, but be Creditted in the general Account for past Arrears. Mr. Deharts parole entitles him to a dis charge upon one’s being sent in for him and should he return to New York and wait till all Arrears are paid up, and those taken before him exchanged, it is pretty certain he must remain a prisoner till the end of the War: his only prospect of exchange rests with your Excellency, who I am persuaded will grant him every favour his case may entitle him to, any other than such I would not Ask or even wish for. I have the honour to be, with great respect, Sir, your Obedt. Hum ble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (NN: Livingston Papers). 1 Not identified. John Taylor Gilman to Meshech Weare Sir, Philada. Deer. 4th. 1782. I Enclose Copy of a Resolution respecting the promotion of Offi cers in the Line’s of the Several States. 1 I Suppose this Resolution has been transmitted you by the Secretary at War, but perhaps the propri ety and Necessity of the measure may not so readily appear to the Honble. the Legislature; to which I shall only Say that it was Unani mously adopted by Congress after the most mature Deliberation. I have no doubt but all the other States will promote their Officers agreeably to the Resolution and hope the State of New-Hampshire will promote their’s as they will be Essentially Injured with respect to Rank if that is not the Case. Have not a Single Article of News of any kind more than is Con tained in the Papers. I have the Honor to be, Your Most Obedt. Servt. John Taylor Gilman
