December 4, 1782 455 Richard Peters to Horatio Gates Dear Sir 4th Deer. 1782 I have been favour’d with your Letter enclosing one for the Baron to whose Abilities & Exertions I am happy to see you pay so deserved a Tribute. 1 Your Approbation will be of Service to him & must afford him particular Satisfaction, as you are a Judge of the Trade. When Mrs. Gates appears I will gladly pay my Compliments to her & deliver your Letter. Mr Morris has received your Letter & I think he told me he would answer it. I have just heard of the Post being about to depart & therefore I can only add that I am, with sincere Esteem, Your obed Servt, Richard Peters RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Gates’ letters to Peters and to Baron Steuben of November 22, 1782, are on reel 13 of the microfilm edition of the Horatio Gates Papers. Phillips White to Josiah Bartlett Sir Philadelphia Deer. 4 1782. Agreeable to your desire I now sit down to write your Honr. a few lines, but have nothing new of Consiquence. Mr. Gilman, wrote to the Honl. President, on the affair of Vermont, the Day before I arrived here, since which I gave a few hints respecting the same, 1 it appears that something should be done soon, it looks likely to me, that the final Desision will greatly depend on the inclination of New Hamp shire, & New York, for which reason it is highly necessary that we have instructions. If nothing was done on the subject the last session of the Genl. Court, I hope there will be something done, the begining of the next. The Deligates from N. York appear to be very earnest to have a final determination, the Members from said State at present are Mr. Floyd, and Mr. Hambleton, who we think are more cordial than some others have been &c. No official account from the southward, people are in doubt respecting the evacuation of Charleston. We hear that Murrimitism prevails among you, and that several wor thy members of the Genl. Court are converted, if so, doubtless they can give a reason of their hope. I remain with sincere respect Sir your Huml. Servt, P. White P.S. I would not have you think that I am covetous, by my sending only half a sheet, the reason of my doing it, is on account of a com plaint that the members incumber the mail, with large Letters, &c &c.
