460 December 6,1782 Elias Boudinot to George Read Si r> Philadelphia December 6. 1782 It gives me very particular satisfaction to have the honor of present ing you the commission of the United States in Congress assembled, whereby you are constituted one of the Judges of the court of appeals in all cases of capture on the water &C. 1 Your established character as a Gentleman, Lawyer and man of integrity leaves me no room to doubt but this appointment will do honor to Congress, produce the happiest consequences to the good Citizens of these States, and, I hope, real satisfaction to yourself, from the consciousness of serving your Country with fidelity. I have the honor to be &c. &c. E.B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For the election of Read and John Lowell to the court of appeals on December 5 (“one in the room of Mr. Paca, resigned, and one in the room of Mr. Hosmer, deceased”), see JCC, 23:746, 749, 758, 765, 797. See also James Madison’s Notes of Debates, November 7, note 3; and Boudinot to John Lowell, December 11, 1782. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday 6 Deer. [1782] An ordinance extending the privilege of Franking letters to the Heads of all the Departments was reported & taken up. 1 Various ideas were thrown out on the subject at large; some contending for the extension proposed, some for a partial adoption of it, some for a total abolition of the privilege as well in members of Congress as in others; some for a limitation of the privilege to a definite number or weight of letters. Those who contended for a total abolition, represented the privilege as productive of abuses, as reducing the profits so low as to prevent the extension of the establishment throughout the U.S. and as throwing the whole burden of the establishment on the mercantile inter course. On the other side it was contended that in Case of an abolition the Delegates, or their Constituents, would be taxed just in proportion to their distance from the seat of Congress; which was neither just nor politic, considering the many other disadvantages which were insepara ble from that distance; that as the correspondence of the Delegates was the principal channel through which a general knowledge of public affairs, was diffused, any abridgment of it would so far confine this advantage to the States within the neighbourhood of Congress: & that as the correspondence at present however voluminous did not exclude from the mail any private letters which wd. be subject to postage, and if postage was extended to the letters now franked the no. & size of them would be essentially reduced, the revenue was not affected in the man ner represented. The Ordinance was disagreed to & the subject recom-
